February 3, 1781 669 by Caution, tho’ containing general Truths. I lament, with the most Serious inquietude, the contents of this letter; but as they are dictated by the clearest conviction, you have my cordial approbation in making them Known, either to a Select circle, or the Legislature, as your discretion may direct. From the first period of the depreciation of the continental Currency, the Cords of Government were relaxed; and with the rapidity of the former, the latter has Kept pace. All expedients, such as fixing prices, making Tender Laws, laying Embargoes &c, instead of alleviating, naturally increased the Evil. Congress, in order to make one great Effort towards reducing the public Debt and restoring public Credit, on the 18th of March last made their Resolve for Sinking the old, & emitting new Bills. Their Intentions, I mean the intentions of the Majority, were undoubtedly good; But, if a plan can be judged of by its Effects, they could not have adopted one more fatal to the great Objects they had in Contemplation. Its operations have been various in the different States. Some accepted it readily; some with delay; And others not at all. The consequences were that there was no Money in the Treasury. Creditors grew uneasy; Credit was Stretched upon vague promises; without the possibility of a performance. The Army unpaid, as it has been for more than a year; unclothed & unfed; & therefore mutinous. The requisitions upon the States for Specific Supplies were owing to the want of money; & these supplies have been as uncertain as the Measure was impolitic, and unjust; as it would necessarily make Some States Lenders to others without the consent of the former. Indeed Sir, we have neither Money to pay the interest of our Debts, nor credit enough to contract new ones. We are destitute of every requisite for the ensuing Campaign, and have it not in our power to extricate ourselves from Such an alarming Situation, while we Know from the surest Information, that Great Britain is exerting every Nerve to make the most decisive Operations. Notwithstanding these really distressing Circumstances, the Country abounds with Resources. Every article of Provision is in the greatest Plenty; Dry Goods are by no means Scarce, and West India Produce is very cheap. Pennsylvania alone has more Grain & Flour this moment, exclusive of what would suffice the Inhabitants, than is Sufficient for an Army of Fifty thousand men the Term of a Year. Money is by no means Scarce. Its true, the fluctuating circumstances of the Paper Currency may have made its circulation unequal, but still it is in the Country: And if there is not a Sufficiency of Specie, there is Plate enough to make up every deficiency. Our Perplexities do not arise from Poverty or the want of Men, but from the absolute want of Government. It is a fact as demonstrable as any Proposition in Euclid, that where a Number of Sovereign, Independant States are mutually engaged in War, neither of them is adequate to any of its conclusive Purposes: Hence
