670 February 3, 1781 the necessity of a federal Union, by which the Wisdom, the Virtue, the Strength & Resources of the whole may be Conjointly centered & exerted. In this fundamental principle however we fail. For it is notorious that Congress have not the power of calling forth the Resources of the country. It is probable, I confess, that the Confederation will Soon be concluded; But then, we shall be just where we are now, in a perfect state of Imbecility. By the Act of Confederation Congress are not vested with the Powers requisite in Time of War. They are authorized to make War or Peace; but they are not competent to the means of Supporting Either. Suppose they call upon the States for money or supplies, and some of them neglect or refuse, as they invariably do, where is the Power of Compulsion? And without that it is evident, the best Measures may be frustrated. We have stumbled upon Expedients too long; We have too long trifled with Objects of the greatest Magnitude; We have trusted to Heaven for Success to our Arms, while we have neglected to improve the Means with which the God of Nature has blessed us. Among confederated States there must be a Supreme Controul, equally effective upon all. I am confident, from Observation, History and Reflection that the present War never will be carried on with Success, till Congress, or some other Body, are invested by the States with all the Powers necessary to command the Resources of the Country. Trade & Commerce, those great Sources of National Wealth, should undoubtedly be Subject to exact Regulation; but if each State should undertake the Matter Seperately, every Gentleman of common Understanding will readily perceive the Confusion & innumerable Frauds, relatively to each other & to Individuals, that must result. Congress therefore should be intrusted with this Power, & of laying Duties; by which the United States would derive a considerable Revenue. If they could once command a certain, permanent Revenue, National Credit would be restored, and large Sums could be borrowed on the faith of a Bank which might easily be established. Those modes only of drawing money into the National Treasury, which are least felt, & of conseqence most satisfactory to the People at large, should be adopted. Industry is the most obvious Source of Wealth; and indeed without its being generally encouraged, Commerce itself must cease; Taxes must cease and War must cease by terminating in Conquest. The fewer the Embarrassments therefore which are thrown upon the people the better. They should always have a Sure market for the produce of their Labour, and certain pay. To this end Embargoes should never be tolerated but upon the most pressing occasion; Such as at the Investiture of a Place, where the Siege may probably be turned into a Blockade. Of the necessity of which the General Congress, or the Commander in Chief upon the Spot should be the judge in Time of War. In Peace perhaps the Case might be different.
