February 3, 1781 671 Hence exportations of every Kind, excepting articles wherein there is a real scarcity should be encouraged. From Policy like this, we should find all discontents removed; The citizens would feel reiterated Spirit and Vigour, Wealth would be diffused in abundance, & the Means of Government rendered familiar & by no means burdensome. I will suppose for a moment that the Expenses of the current Year will amount to Twenty Millions of Dollars including the Arrearages of the armys pay & the Interest upon Loan Office Certificates & foreign Debts, exclusive of the expenses of each particular State for supporting its own Internal Police. Where is this sum to come from? The New Money, supposing it to be productive, which I don’t believe but in part, is equal to only half its nominal value in Specie. The Continent therefore would gain only five Millions of Dollars. Little is to be expected from Requisitions upon the States; For some collect their Taxes slowly, & some not at all. If we rely upon a Loan from France, we shall be deceived; For the Minister of France will reason in this way—France & the United States are jointly engaged in a War with Great Britain; It is necessary for the good of both the Allies that as Great Force as possible should be exerted against the common Enemy; but the quantity of this Force depends upon the Ways & Means of both Countries, and the manner in which they are applied; Now it is evident that with the same sum of money France can exert treble the Force that America can, under her present impolitic Systems; Therefore, the minister will very rationally conclude that to lend the United States Money will equally injure them & France. From whence then are we to obtain the fifteen millions? I acknowledge that such an immense Sum can not be collected in the course of a year. No Country is able to carry on War by Taxation, or any other mode of collecting Money from Individuals in an equal Ratio. But there is easy way of making Six millions represent Twenty, which turns ultimately into an internal Debt. That is, when a Bank is well formed, Notes may Issue to a large Amount; & when the Holders find that they can receive their real money by applying to the Bank they will soon give over the trouble of exchanging, as they become fully confident in the Security, and find paper of a light carriage. Whenever Paper represents Money, it is valued nearly in proportion to the Substance; but the misfortune of our paper has been, that it represented Retd Estate & all the articles of living without being funded upon any thing Substantial. It is well known that the real cash of Great Britain amounts to no more than Eight Millions Sterling; Yet their circulating medium in Notes, Inland Bills &c is immense. The same takes place in France, Holland & all the trading Nations. We certainly can effect the Same; But different councils will ever produce different Systems, and these Systems will of course destroy each other. Therefore the powers of revenue must be in one body throughout the Union. I hope Congress will Send
