672 February 3, 1781 to the States, in a very Short time, Some plan, by which they may be invested with proper Authority. But in this Idea I am exceedingly mortified, & indeed vexed to the last degree. A plan of revenue has been before them and dwelt upon nearly three weeks; & upon my honour they have made no greater progress than a man of Sense would have done in three Hours. But you will say the delays of deliberative Counsels are a Natural Sacrifice that civil Society must make to obtain an excellent political Form of Government; True; But our delays are infinitely greater than they need be. There are a certain number of Members who have been in Congress a long time, & think themselves possessed of all Knowledge. A question can’t be started however trivial but they make formal speeches, for fear the young members should misconceive the subject. And if the matter, as that just mentioned, should be of amazing consequence much the more time is thought necessary to properly enforce it. But if it requires immediate despatch, then great deliberation is essentially requisite. There are Some who make their ideas the standard of all Judgments; And if a particular Word in a Report should not exactly suit their mechanical genius’s a long Debate ensues. I assure you Sir, they often make me think of Neals History of the Puritans, 2 in which the Speeches made in the Long Parliament are recorded at Length. And I have not failed to tell them upon the Floor that their Fate will be Similar to that of the former, unless they pursue different modes & measures. In matters of this consequence, I mean while the Revenue is in Serious Question, the Duke de Sully tells us every moment taken up in Debate is lost; & possibly may never be recalled. A Titus could weep that he had lost a Day; but we, I am almost constrained to Say it, have lost years. I now come to the conclusion; If Congress are not speedily vested with adequate powers for commanding the means to carry on the War with Energy; and if they do not exert those properly, a few months will put an end to their Existence. What kind of Administration will Succeed, God alone Knows. I have one consolation however, that we shall not be conquered by Great Britain; The people wo’nt Suffer it, But our calamities may be inexpressibly augmented by such a change. While I continue here I shall Spare no pains of Body or Mind to serve my Country; but I am determined to acquit myself in the eyes of God & Man of any fatal consequences that may attend our Public Measures. I might write Governor Bowen & several other Gentlemen; but I can say no more to them than this Letter contains; and I believe you will be sufficiently fatigued in reading it. My best respects to all Friends. I am Sir, with every Sentiment of Esteem, your Very Obedient & most humble Servt. J M Varnum
