February 3, 1781 673 Tr (RHi: Wilkins Updike Papers). Addressed: “The Honble. John Innes Clark Esq., Providence, Rhode Island.” 1 John Innes Clark, a Providence, R.I. merchant, was an assistant in the upper house of the Rhode Island Assembly. Bartlett, Records of R.I., 9:58, 382. 2 Vamum was probably referring to Daniel Neal, The History of the Puritans ■ ■ ■ ; 4 vols. (London: 1747-52). John Witherspoon to William Livingston Sir Philadelphia Feb. 3. 1781 Your Excellencys favour of the 29 of January I receivd on the 31st & that Day had it read in Congress & referred to the Board of War whose Opinion upon it Which they did not return till this Day that I called for it You have enclosed. 1 I gave Yesterday to Mr Stevens our Treasurer a Copy of the Act of the Virginia Assembly ceding the Lands to the N.W. of the Ohio to be sent to you. The New York Delegates are furnished with Powers to Settle their western limits & Connecticut has made an Act with a Kind of Cession but more ambiguous than any of them. Probably when Mr Stevens returns he will carry you a Copy of this also. They are all referred to a Committee but it will be some Time before we can determine what Measures shall be taken in Consequence of them. Virginia has also departed from their Order to their Delegates to insist upon the free Navigation of the Missisippi in order to pave the Way for bringing Spain completely into that Alliance. No Step is yet taken in Consequence of this. We wait for Mr Jay’s next Letter. I have the Honour to be Your Excellencys most obedt hum, Jno Witherspoon P.S. Being apprehensive that my Letters to the North Country have not gone forward I have again written by what I suppose is a safe Conveyance. 2 RC (NN: William Livingston Papers). 1 The enclosed February 3 Board of War letter to Witherspoon explained that Lt. Col. William Klein had been separated from the Continental Army on June 21, 1779, and given “one year’s pay and subsistance, to enable him to return to Europe,” since the plan for raising a corps of German deserters had been abandoned. See JCC, 14:754-55, 19:103. 2 See the following entry. These “letters to the North Country” [i.e., Bennington, Vt.] have not been found, but they were probably letters of December 4 to Thomas Chittenden and Matthew Lyon, which the two Vermont leaders acknowledged in their responses of January 30 and March 13 which were intercepted and printed in the April 21, 1781, issue of James Rivington’s New York Royal Gazette. Livingston, who had been granted the 30,000 acre township of Royalton by New York in 1766, was seeking confirmation of his title from Vermont, a subject that Witherspoon had apparently pursued when on a congressional mission to the New Hampshire Grants in June 1779 (see these Letters, 13:102-3). In his January 30
