674 February 3, 1781 intercepted letter to Witherspoon, Governor Chittenden responded optimistically on the “solicitation in favor of Governor Livingston,” concluding with an expression of goodwill for Samuel J. Atlee, Witherspoon’s colleague on the 1779 Vermont mission. And in his March 13 response to Witherspoon, Lyon echoed Chittenden’s optimism over Livingston’s prospects, while advising Witherspoon against selling his own lands in Cavendish, Vt., as land prices were temporarily depressed. “I am very glad to find that you are in Congress,” Lyon also went on to explain, “and hope through your means (who know the situation and people of this country) that honourable body will be made to see and act what shall be most for the interest of America with regard to Vermont, before it be too late.” For Livingston’s and Witherspoon’s interests in Vermont lands, see also Witherspoon to Livingston, May 8 and 15, 1781. John Witherspoon to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir. Philadelphia Feb. 3, 1781. Having some Business of consequence to transact in the North Country & the Conveyance of Letters being at present so uncertain, I have taken the Liberty, on the Suggestion of a Friend of yours here, to request the favor of you to transmit the inclosed, 1 by the first safe Opportunity that occurs, to Bennington. I need send no News as your Delegates will doubtless acquaint you with every thing here worth communicating. Please to accept my Thanks for your great and vigorous exertions in the Common Cause, with which I have been long acquainted, & believe me to be, Sir, your Excellency’s most obedt. humble Servant, Jno. Witherspoon. Tr (DLC: Force Collection). 1 Not found. See the preceding entry, note two. Joseph Jones to Theodorick Bland Dr. Sr. 4th. Febry 1781 This being a leisure day Mr. Madison and myself were [out] when your Servant came wanting the remainder of the £22750 pensa. Currency intending in consequence of what you mentioned to us of your present wants to take out what wod. serve us till the next payment came round and send you the remainder. We have been as sparing as we well could that you might receive such a proportion of it as might ease you of those disagreeable applications you mention. The bundle now sent contains 17240 dols. which with what you had the other day will amount to thirty eight thousand two hundred and thirty three dollars for wch. you will please to give me a receipt also a duplicate that the original may when I have an opportunity be transmitted to the auditors office and my acct, credited for the Sum—
