February 6, 1781 681 The Revolt of the Pennsylvania line is at length finally terminated, about 1,200 remain in service but the whole are either discharged or furloughed for a short time, that their tumultuary disposition may subside, and some preventatives be applied to a future measure of that sort. The Jersey line followed their Example, but were nippd in the Bud of Revolt, a large detachment march against them, and they were instandy brought to unconditional Submission, their leaders hangd on the Spot, by their followers and a thorough contrition and return to duty was the immediate consequence. I hope mutiny has had its course and will now subside—but does not these events strongly impress on the minds of every well wisher to his Country that it is necessary the Citizens of America shd. turn their thoughts from Party animosity and Private gain to replenishing the Public Coffers with the Sinews of War and opposition. I can hardly here help repeating two lines of a severe Satire that has lately appeard agt. our Publick measures. “An army naked, and unpaid, The Public lean on foreign Aid.’’ No news Authentic from Europe, but that Portugal has acceeded to the armd Confederacy; England determined to push the War in America, spight of every other Consideration—its Minister has a Garbled House of Commons completely to his mind. Count Vergennes has had some communications with Mr. A. to whom he made advances, passing over Dr. F for an explanation of our Act of 40 for one (18 March last) in behalf as he said of the Subjects of his master trading to America. Mr. A. fully answered (but did not Satisfy) him in a Manly, firm and rational manner—the Arguments of the latter were so close and conclusive in vindication of the Justice and Judicious proceedings of the Councils of America that the former beat the Charrades, and returnd again to the Usual Channel of his Communication, not without some marks of displeasure at being so unexpectedly foild. This is all the European news; Congress have come to a resolution to demand of the States, power to lay Duties not exceeding 5 per Ct. on all foreign Imports, to raise a fund for a loan for carrying on the war, the necessity of which is apparent, and that it be general is not less so. Tis for this reason Congress desire to have the power vested in them, to avoid procrastination & partial impositions. Genl. Parsons has lately (25th ult) attacked the Enemies lines at N.Y., Burnt the Huts of Delaneys Corps, killd about 100, taken between fifty & Sixty Prisoners, destroyd their Bridges of Communication over Harlaem River, burnt their Magazines of forage, and taken two or three Hundred Cattle and Horses with the loss of about 13 killd and as many Wounded. I have the Honr. to be with my best respects to my Friend Yr Brother
