682 February 6,1781 Arthur who with yr Son is I expect by this time with you Yr. most obedt Sert, Theok. Bland [P.S. ]The above is a fact and may be relied on, as the report has been made to Congress by the Genl. 2 P.S. I have sent a full detail of a Plan of defense on the Principles mentiond within in a letter to Genl. Nelson 3 with a request that you wd Join yr forces for having it carried into Execution if it meets your approbation. RC (ViU: Lee Family Papers). 1 For Lee’s January 26 letter imploring Bland to “press every motive and strain every nerve, to procure an adequate naval aid” for the capture of the forces under Gen. Benedict Arnold, see Campbell, The Bland Papers, 2:57-58. 2 For “the report [concerning Parson’s New York attack] . . . made to Congress by the Genl.,” see Samuel Huntington’s first letter to Washington, February 9, 1781, note. 3 Not found. Thomas Burke to William Bingham Dr Sir [February 6? 1781] 1 I find upon making My observations that the Election of A Minister for foreign affairs will probably fall upon Mr. Madison from Virginia. He is a Young Gentleman of Industry and abilities, but I fear a litde deficient in the Experience Necessary for rendering immediate Service in that department. However his local Situation makes him more desireable to the Southern Gendemen, and every one to whom I have Spoken of you have expressed themselves handsomly, but objected to the chusing So many Officers in One State of the Union. This is the only objection, and in a New Jealous republic it is impossible to Surmount Such objections. I would not venture to Nominate you unless upon knowing My Opinion of your Success you may desire it. For tho it is my own wish that it might fall upon you yet I would not venture to make the experiment unless I had pretty clear ground to hope that you might be appointed. If you wish to be Nominated let me hear from you in the morning. I am D Sr, your obet Set, Tho Burke RC (PHi: Dreer Collection). 1 This letter was undoubtedly written after Burke had made inquiries concerning the feasibility of nominating Bingham for the office of secretary for foreign affairs but before Richard Law was placed in nomination on February 7. See Burke to Bingham, January 30, 1781. Burke anticipated that further nominations would be accepted on the 7th and therefore asked for Bingham’s response “in the morning.”
