February 6, 1781 683 Bickering in Congress, however, prevented the immediate election of a secretary and Robert R. Livingston was not chosen until August 10. Joseph Jones to Thomas Jefferson Dear Sr. Phila. 6th Febry 1781 We yesterday reed, information that General Parsons with a party of our Troops had passed over to Morrisana, attacked the Enemies Post there burnt ab. 40 barracks, a quantity of Forage and brot. off 52 prisoners. The bridge of Boats wch. the Enemy had over Harlem River was also destroyed. A late New York paper mentions the sailing of three Ships of the line of the French Squadron at R. Island and that part of Graves Fleet had put to Sea in pursuit of them. If this intelligence be true it is probable you have already or will soon hear of them in the Chesepeake. Mr. Dunlap informed me this morning he had not heard from Mr. Hays these five weeks and that every thing necessary for prosecuting the business under the latter upon his coming up with some Cash to bear the expence of transporting them to Virga, shod, be forwarded in a week after his arrival and that He was surprised Mr. Hays was not come and that he had been so long withot hearing from him. I mention this to your Excellency that if any thing on the part of the Executive is necessary to be done towards forwarding this matter it may be attended to and the Press got as soon to work as possible. 1 Respectfully I am Yr. Exlys. obed Servt. Jos. Jones P.S. Maryland has certainly acceeded to the Confederation. RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). 1 For the efforts of the Virginia government to establish a press in Richmond, see Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 3:579-80, 4:396, 431-32; the Virginia Delegates to Jefferson, February 20; and Jones to Virginia Auditors, March 16, 1781. James Lovell to Elbridge Gerry Dear Sir Philada. Feb 6. 1781 I have, this Post, reed your Favors of Janry. 9th, 23d, 24th wth. one for Miss Dalley & another for Major Ryan. You mention one for Mr. Lee as accompanying the first Date, but it was not inclosed. He is gone to Virginia. I shall send him a few Lines, 1 and will at the same Time relate this Circumstance. I think, however that he must have reed, the very Letter and written you an Answer. I have an Idea that I forwarded one, in such Season.
