February 8, 1781 687 Samuel Huntington to the States Sir, Circular. Philada. February 8. 1781 Your Excellency will receive enclosed, two important resolves of Congress of the 3d & 7th Instant Recommending to the several States, as indispensably necessary, that they vest a Power in Congress to levy, for the Use of the United States, a Duty of five per cent, ad Valorem at the Time & Place of Importation, upon all Goods, Wares & Merchandize of foreign Growth & Manufacture, which may be imported into any of the said States, from any foreign Port, Island or Plantation after the first Day of May 1781, except Arms &c as therein expressed. Also a like Duty on all Prizes & Prize Goods. 1 The Monies arising from the said Duties to be appropriated to the Discharge of the Principal & Interest of the Debts already contracted or which may be contracted on the Faith of the United States for supporting the present War; and the Duties continued until the said Debts are finally discharged. You will observe from the Tenor of the resolves, that if any one or more of the States immediately pass a Law vesting in Congress the Powers requested, it cannot take Effect or operate to any Purpose until all the States, that are not prevented by the Events of the War, shall have passed similar Laws. 2 That is, at present, all the States except South Carolina & Georgia, and when all the states have passed the necessary Laws, the Monies arising from the Duties are to be applied to their Benefit, exclusive of the remaining States unless such States shall pass similar Laws the first Session after the Events of the War will admit of the assembling their Legislatures, and Congress have not the least Doubt of their Compliance as soon as Circum stances shall put it in their Power. The Necessity of the Duties & Imposts being raised under one general & uniform Direction, is an Idea that will readily suggest itself. I am specially directed to urge the Necessity of immediately calling the Assembly, if not already convened, for the Purpose of vesting Congress with the Powers mentioned in the enclosed resolutions. Although it may be improbable any Person not particularly acquainted with the daily Business in Congress should have an adequate Conception of the Difficulties & Embarrassments that arise for Want of some certain & permanent Fund to support the national Credit and cement more effectually the common Interest of the United States; yet, I doubt not, the Wisdom, Knowledge & Penetration of the respective Legislatures will view those Embarrassments as very great. It ought to be remembred that Loans are not to be obtained without some certain & permanent Fund established at least to discharge the
