688 February 8, 1781 annual Interest punctually. That, in the present State of our Finnances the Army must be in a great Measure supported by the States separately, in a precarious Manner & perhaps very unequally: and a Train of Embarrassments, too tedious to need Enumeration, must ensue which have already been felt in a Degree & must greatly increase. I have only to add, that it will be of Importance to transmit to Congress the Acts that may be passed in Consequence of the enclosed resolves as soon as possible. I have the Honor to be &c &c, S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). 1 See JCC, 19:112-13. A motion for recommending “That the states be requested to pass laws enabling Congress to levy an impost” had been offered in Congress as early as March 18, 1780 (JCC, 16:261), and since October had been repeatedly mentioned as a possible solution to restoring Continental finances. For a discussion of congressional interest in the issue and the views of a number of delegates on such an augmentation of congressional power, see Edmund C. Burnett, The Continental Congress (New York: Macmillan Co., 1941), pp. 475-81. See also John Sullivan’s Committee Notes, November 7-23? 1780; and James Madison’s Motion, February 3, 1781. 2 For this February 7 resolve, designed to avoid the embarrassment of failing to obtain assent for this recommendation because states occupied by the enemy would be unable to convene their legislatures, see JCC, 19:124-25. James Lovell to Samuel Holten Dear Sir Feb. 8th, 1781 I have received your Favor of January 18th. and have delivered the one inclosed to Doctor Duffield. The Speech of the King of Engla’d to his Parliament and the narrative of Brigadier Morgan’s Success shall be inclosed for your Information. 1 At the latter you must rejoice with Fear. It was in itself the most compleat Action of this War: but I do not force [foresee?] adequate Consequences. Our Army there is no match for Cornwallis, and if he pushed suddenly he will ruin Genl. Greene, who from dire necessity has been obliged to conduct himself by Detachment one of which being ruined, the whole will probably be involved in the Fortune: But if he had the 6000 he wants he could not feed them together, as to the King of England’s Speech it may be construed for War or Peace, for, the only thing that can be gathered from it is that he thinks he had got a Parliament absolutely devoted to his Will. It is that which gives him more than Ordinary Satisfaction. Our Prospects as to Money do not brighten. You may be assured that 115 were yesterday given for 1 and this at a time when every Body complains of the Want of Old Bills. I think much of this Harm arises from the Tender Acts of this
