February 8, 1781 689 State. It is supposed that the next Publication of Exchange will be at 100 this is the story propagated as the foundation of demanding upwards of 100 for 1. But, why should I say any Thing on this Head. You well know the People here and their vile Practices. I am Affectionately Yours, J. L. Tr (DLC: Burnett Collection). Copied for Edmund C. Burnett, “from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan V. Henkels of Philadelphia.” 1 See William Floyd to George Clinton, this date, notes 1 and 4. Jesse Root to Oliver Ellsworth Dr Sir Philadelphia Feby 8th 1781 Your favour of 15th ulto. I reed, per last post. I am glad to hear that the Collecting & recruiting business goes on So well in Connecticut. Genl de Portail arrived in Town a day or two ago from the Southward but brings no News more than is in the paper. Virginia has made a Cession of their Claim lying Northwest of the Ohio to the united States with Some Savings. Maryland we are very Credibly Informed has acceeded to the Confederation. No official papers have yet come to hand but I beleive the fact is unquestionable. Congress have asked the States to empower them to lay duties & Imposts on imported articles to the amount of five per Cent. 1 The necessity of a revenue—the ease of raising a Small Sum in this way—& the utter impracticability of its being effected in any other manner must Strike every person with Conviction of the propriety of the measure. I dont think the rule proposed for laying on the duties is the best but it is the best Congress would do at present. I think the duties ought to be varied according to the nature & usefulness of the articles. Some articles will bear a very high duty while others will bear but little or none—but it is to be observed, that the duties of 5 per Cent will rise higher upon articles of luxury than others in proportion as they are dearer. Congress have been newly arranging their Executive departments, have established an office of Secretary for foreign affairs—a minister of finance who is to Superintend & order All matters of revenue & Expenditure—a Minister of war—& a minister of marine. 2 Genl Leslie has arrived to the Southward with about 2,500 Troops. The new bills get out but Slowly, labours under the disadvantages of State emissions & have various Credits which greatly embarrasses business. I Shall leave Congress about the Middle of April So as to get home by 1st of May at furthest. The President & Genl Woolcot design to go home about the Same time. The legal Exchange here is 75 but the real Exchange is 110—which produces this ill effect that every thing is raised that proportion in hard money. Please to give
