690 February 8, 1781 my Compliments to Mrs Ellsworth, with much Esteem & respect, your most Obedt., humble Servt., Jesse Root P.S. I Congratulate you on the Excellent Success of our arms to the Southward under Genl Morgan the particulars of which I enclose with the Kings Speech. RC (NN: Emmet Collection, no. 623). 1 See Samuel Huntington to the States, this date. 2 See William Floyd to George Clinton, this date, note 2. Jesse Root to Benjamin Huntington Dr Sir Pensylvania Feby 8th 1781 Your favour per Brown I was honoured with—am obliged to you for the Communication. Virginia has Ceeded to the united States -their Claim of territory lying northwest of the river Ohio with Some Savings—& Maryland has acceaded to the Confediration, Tho, the official acct., has not yet arrived to Congress. Congress have requested the States to envest Congress with a power of laying Imposts & duties on foreign goods &c imported into the States for raising a revenue—to the amount of five per Ct. The necessity & propriety of this must be obvious on a moments reflection. Congress have newly arranged their Executive departments, have established the following Offices— Superintendent of finance—Secretary for foreign affairs—at war—& Marine. Genl Parsons Successfull Expedition to Morrisania you have doubtless heard. The enclosed paper Contains an account of Some important Successes obtained by Genl Morgan over a detachment of the Enemy under Lt Colo. Tarlton at the Southward. With esteem & respect, your most obedt. humble Servt, Jesse Root RC (NRom: Bright Collection). Artemas Ward to Unknown Sir Philadelphia Feby. 8. 1781. Your favor of the twenty fifth came to hand by the last post; 1 I am much obliged to you for your information. I wish I could see the act you mention. You say the principles of it are Just and Righteous and that a few months practice upon it will restore our lost Credit. If it does that, it will be exceedingly fortunate for us that it was passed. Its being opposed by the three mighty men mentioned does not surprise me, for their conduct may be accounted for without any difficulty. Although the conduct of one of them in one certain
