February 9,1781 695 Abraham Clark to the Board of War Gentlemen, Philada. Febry. 9. 1781. A Number of Applications for a Jail keeper are referred to you to report upon; any report you make need not in my Opinion be confined to the Petitioners in Case you can find a person more Suitable. 1 I am just informed Mr. Byers would gladly Accept that employment and I cannot think of one more fit under every point of view & such an Appointment would extinguish his Contract. 2 I am, Gentlemen, your Obdt. Humble Servt. Abra. Clark RC (DNA: PCC, item 42). 1 With this letter, Clark enclosed the petitions of seven candidates seeking appointment as “keeper of the state prison in the room of R[obert] Jewell, deceased,” which were referred to the board of war by resolution of Congress this day. JCC, 19:133. In addition to the petitions for these candidates—Benjamin Armitage, Thomas Felten, Joseph Jewell, William Lawrence, Francis Proctor, Joseph Van Dyke, and Elijah Weed—others were submitted to the board during the next few days in behalf of John Harrison, Henry Murfits, George Nagel, John White, and Philip Will. See PCC, item 42, 4:229-77, 5:225-28. The petition of John White was also endorsed by delegates Samuel Huntington and Alexander McDougall; and Rhode Island delegate James Varnum wrote a brief letter of recommendation in behalf of Francis Proctor. Ibid., 4:232-33, 264-67. Elijah Weed was appointed to the post on February 26. JCC, 19:197. 2 Although James Byers failed to secure this appointment, Congress did release him from his contract as Continental cannon founder in August, which he had requested in a petition submitted to Congress on January 2. See JCC, 19:9, 21:902; and PCC, item 41, 1:323-25. Connecticut Delegates to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir, Philadelphia Feby 9th 1781 Your favour of the 18th ult with the inclosures we have been honour’d with, The States quota of Journals for the year 1778 are in Mr Shermans Chest at Mrs. Cheesmans. The vols. for 79 are not out of the press—the monthly Journals for Novr last we inclose to your Excellency—we Shall pay particular attention to the resolve of Assembly respecting the Journals—& forward them by the earliest Opportunity. Congress have Considered it to be indispensibly necessary, that they have Some established funds on which to depend, and among the ways & Means of effecting this, none appeared more natural, easy & equitable than Imposts & duties on articles imported into the Country—provided they are imposed by one rule & take effect at the Same time in all the States—and the avails are appropriated for
