Febrary 10, 1781 699 The cross roads where Lord Cornwallis detached Lieut. Colo. Tarleton to beat up Morgans quarters is near the head of Fishing Creek & about 20 miles west of Winsborrough. Grindels ford on Packelet where Genl. Morgan had encamped several days is about 30 miles distant, and a little to the west of south from the cross roads and about a mile below the junction of Lawsons fork with the north fork of Packelet. The Cowpens is about 15 miles from Grindels ford on the high lands between Packelet and Broad river at the sources of Bush Creek, of Packelet & Suck Creek, of Broad river and within 3 miles of the boundary line between No. and So Carolina. The Cowpens is about 25 miles distant and a little to the east of south from Kings Mountain. Wm. Sharpe [P.y ] From Genl. Greene’s head quarters to the Cowpens, at least 120 miles—So. Wt. direction. Genl. Morgans Camp near Cain Creek is about eight miles west of Kings Mountain. RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 This brief undated description of the Carolina backcountry was enclosed this day in President Huntington’s letter to Washington, for which see the preceding entry, note 2. For a continuation of this description and further intelligence about the area, see Sharpe to Washington, February 27, 1781. Samuel J. Atlee to George Washington Sir, Philada. Feby. 10th. 1781. Your Excellency will receive by this Opportunity, an Address from a Number of the Officers in behalf of themselves and others, captured in 76. 1 They are preparing a Remonstrance to the Assembly of this State at their present sitting, but wou’d wish your Excellencys countenance in the Measure. To you, Sir, as the Father of the Soldiery they look up, not doubting ample Redress from their Country, shou’d their Representation be back’d by your powerfull Influance. I cant help joining the Petitioners, being in the same Predicament with them, notwithstanding my Claim laid in to the Commissioners at White Plains for settling the Arrangement of the Army. The early period of the War, and the powerfull Armaments your Excellency had to contend with, must imphattically plead in favour of the Few who then composed your comparatively small Force. Numbers, less unfortunate, tho’ I trust not more deserving, have been provided for, whilst your unfortunate Sons, after nobly contending in the first Stage of the War, and suffering a long and
