February 10,1781 703 January 9, 23, and 24, with their numerous enclosures relating to the victory at the Cowpens, S.C., plus a letter from Gen. Daniel Morgan of January 20. They were read February 8 and referred to a committee of three, chaired by Thomas Burke, which received additional instructions the following day to consider “the state and condition of the southern army and ways and means of supplying their wants.” The committee reported on March 8 and the following day Congress commended Morgan and his officers and his troops for their conduct the preceding January 17, but took no action in regard to supplying the southern army. That responsibility had been assumed by a committee appointed February 13 that reported on the 20th. See JCC, 19:129-30, 133, 142, 176-79, 245, 246-48; PCC, item 155, 1:505-16, 533-48; and Samuel Huntington to Greene, February 20, note 1, and March 10, 1781. 2 Mathews is apparently referring to a letter, which has not been found, sent by the committee appointed to correspond with the commander of the southern department, of which he was a member. 3 See JCC, 19:137. 4 See Samuel Huntington to the States, February 8, 1781. James M. Varnum to Catharine Greene Madam, 1 Philadelphia 10th February 1781. Your very polite Letter, recognizing my Billet from E Greenwich, I had the Honor of receiving some days since, For which you will be pleased to accept my sincerest Acknowledgements. Inclosed, I have the Pleasure of transmitting the real Account of a most interesting & important Action in South Carolina. An Event so splendid, I think has not its Parellall in the Annals of the present War. While we feel our Hearts warmed with the most lively Emotions at the Success of a Measure, dictated by an Husband and a Friend, (for this Action was the necessary Consequence of a Predisposition in the Cantonments) we shall not, I trust, loose Sight of those Uis of Fortune, that ever attend the brightest Prospects, to snatch an illfated Hour, into wch. they may pour the Cup of Inquietude. I have just received a Letter from the General, 2 and am perfectly acquainted with his Situation. My unremitted Attention shall not be wanting to place him upon a more equal Footing with Lord Cornwallis; But from our Baseless Circumstance, I am morally certain he must retire before the Enemy for a Time. Expresses frequently go from hence to Genl. Greene’s Head Quarters. Any Letters you may be pleased to honor me with the Care of, shall be most religiously sent forward. This City abounds with agreable Circles, of wch. the fair Sex do honor to h[uman] Nature. I find myself respected with every kind of polite and friendly Attention, & feel all the Felicity than can be enjoyed seperate from domestic Endearments. I have the Honor of being, Madam, with the greatest Esteem, your most obedient devoted & humble Servt. J M Varnum
