704 February 10,1781 RC (MiU-C: Greene Papers, photostat). 1 Catharine Littlefield Greene (1755-1814), wife of Gen. Nathanael Greene and niece of Rhode Island governor William Greene, for whom see John F. and Janet A. Stegeman, Caty. A Biography of Catharine Littlefield Greene (Providence: Rhode Island Bicentennial Foundation, 1977). 2 That is, Nathanael Greene. Samuel J. Atlee to Joseph Reed Dr Sir, Philada. Feby. 11th. 1781. Every exersion in my Power has been employed in the important office Councill was pleased to intrust with me, 1 I flatter myself with full Satisfaction to that Honble Board. It will give me infinite pleasure to find any Gentlemen Council shall please to appoint as my Successor in office, shall perform the Duties with greatest Satisfaction to the Publick and to the Board for whence he derives his Powers. Since receiving your Excellency’s Letter I have been looking round for a person to execute that important office. I fear for it’s per formance. Col. Hubly I believe to be a Worthy Man and good Soldier. I have not sufficient Knowledge of him to judge whether he will be enable to rule so great and so divided a people as the County of Lancaster— he ought to be a person will known in the County, and of sufficient Interest there. 2 Mr Cunningham I presume is better acquainted with him than I am. I am Sir with great regard, Your very Hble Servt. Sam J Atlee 3 RC (InU-Li: Lafayette Collection). 1 That is, as the Lieutenant of Lancaster County, Pa. 2 For the Pennsylvania Council’s appointment on February 14 of Col. Adam Hubley “to be Lieutenant of the county of Lancaster, in the stead of Colonel Samuel J. Atlee,” See Pa. Council Minutes, 12:628. 3 Atlee also sent Reed the following letter on behalf of Lt. John H. Finley of the 5th Pennsylvania Regiment the following day. “I cannot possibly avoid interesting myself in Favour of a poor unfortunate person the son of a late worthy man—the late President Finley of New Jersey. “The young man was a Lieut in Col. McGaws Regt, and taken prisoner at Fort Washington, about 2 months since he was exchanged, he is now in a pitious situation having neither Friends, Cloathing or Cash. “I hardly knew him this morning when he waited upon me, I must therefore in behalf this distressed officer beg of Councill to inquire into his situation and provide him some immediate relief.” Provincial Delegates Collection, PHi. For the exchange of Finley in October 1780 and the concern of General Washington that he and a number of fellow prisoners be provided for until able to return home, see Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 20:291-92.
