710 February 13, 1781 We shall communicate your answer to the Baron d’Arendt, and if his claim against the State be supported by proper evidence shall take the best steps in our power to discharge it. 2 A Vessel just arrived from Cadiz has brought Congress two letters from Mr. Carmichael, from one of which dated Madrid Novr, 28th. 1780, the following is extracted: “From the best information I have been able to collect I am sorry to tell you, that the nation (British) will be able to borrow the sum demanded for the expenditures of 1781, which with the usual vote of credit at the end of the session will amount to 16 Millions Sterling at least. The scheme of the Ministry to effect this is not yet public but I am told it will be on Similar conditions to that of the present year. 92,000 men are voted for the marine, and I have reason to think a considerable reinforcement will be sent early to the Southward and that agreeable to a proposition of Sr. J. Amherst the Enemy means to occupy and fortify strongly a post near the Mouth of Chesapeak from which, with a strong Garrison & naval force, they hope to interrupt the navigation of the bay and by frequent incursions prevent the States of Maryland & Virginia from sending supplies of men &c &c. to the Carolinas. Among the troops mentioned to be embarked there are three regiments of Light Dragoons. Your servants nearer G. B. will however give you more accurate information. I am persuaded that our Ally will take early measures for defeating these designs. This latter information is derived indirectly from conversations with men in a situation to be well informed.” 3 Private letters by the same conveyance add that the blockade of Gibraltar was continued with great vigor, and that the Garrison began to be severely distressed. We have the honor to be with great respect & esteem, Yr. Excellys obt. & hume Servants, Jos. Jones James Madison Junr. Theok. Bland, Jr. RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). Written by Madison and signed by Madison, Bland, and Jones. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 2:308-9. 1 For Jefferson’s letter, which he concluded with a request for “Letters of Marque ... by the first Opportunity,” see ibid., pp. 2:298-99; »r Jefferson. Papers (Boyd), 4:456-57. This request was actually referred to Secretary Charles Thomson, who accordingly sent Jefferson the following response on February 19. “Enclosed you will receive twenty four blank Commissions with blank bonds and Instructions for private Armed vessels; You will please to give orders that the bonds when Executed be returned into this Office. When more are wanted they shall on the first notice be sent by, Sir, Your obedt. humble servt. Cha Thomson secy. Continental Congress Papers, Vi. 2 For the “claim” of baron d’Arendt, see Virginia Delegates to Jefferson, January 1, 1781, note 3. 3 Not identified.
