February 14, 1781 711 Virginia Delegates to Thomas Jefferson Sr. Philadelphia Feby. 13 1781 We are Just informd from Genl. Varnum a Member now in Congress from Rhode Island that he has receivd Certain Intelligence that the Culloden of 74 Guns is drove on Shore and all her Crew except 17 men Perishd—the London of 90 Guns is driven out to Sea dismasted and two other 64 Gun Men of War Were dismasted entirely and all their Guns thrown over board in the late Storm. Since writing the above We have procured the acct, from Genl. Varnum in his own hand, which We have the Honor to Enclose. 1 It is moreover added that on hearing the above the Enemy at N. York sent orders to Arnold to retreat from Virginia. 2 Heavenly Storm. We are Yr. Exclys Most obedt. Serts, Jos. Jones Theok. Bland RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). Written by Bland and signed by Bland and Jones. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 2:310. 1 Not found. 2 The rumor of orders for Arnold’s withdrawal from Virginia proved false. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia February 14. 1781 By Letters just come to hand from Mr. Carmichael at Madrid, I am informed that the Son of Count de Rochambeau is safe arrived in France. 1 Our last Reports from Virginia say that the British were fortifying at Portsmouth, that their Operations indicated a design to take Post there. How far Credit ought to be given to the Account contained in the Paper enclosed, that all the Shiping & Troops in the Chesapeake are ordered to leave the Bay & repair to New York, I am unable to determine; but ardently wish that Monsr des Touches might be in Circumstances to make them a Visit before they get out of the Bay. I have the Honor to be, with the highest respect, your Excellency’s most obedient & most humble Servant, Sam. Huntington RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 William Carmichael had reported this information in his December 19 letter to the Committee for Foreign Affairs, read in Congress on February 12, for which see Daniel Carroll to Thomas Sim Lee, February 13, note 2.
