714 February 15,1781 offensive in my letters, and not to the Letter to Congress which contained an affront to A member who tho not named was, neces sarily, known to the whole assembly and which existed long before I wrote any letter. If the Submission is refused on these Terms, I must entreat you to proceed in the business on the Original grounds. I am Dr Sr. yours. Tho Burke FC (NcU: Burke Papers). In the hand of Thomas Burke. 1 While undated, this letter to Dr. Shiell, who had agreed to act as Burke’s second in an affaire d’honneur with John Sullivan, was undoubtedly written sometime after the initial “conference which General Sulivan proposed” between Shiell and Sullivan’s second, Alexander McDougall, for which see Sullivan to McDougall, January 27, note 1; and McDougall to Shiell, February 7 and 19, 1781. 2 That is, Sullivan’s letter to John Hancock of September 27, 1777, for which see these Letters, 8:110n.l. 3 Undoubtedly former congressman James Wilson. Samuel Johnston to James Iredell Dear Sir: Philadelphia, 15th February, 1781. I had the pleasure of receiving yours of the 5th inst., last night. I wrote a line by an express to the Governor, which I hope you will receive. I have very little hope that this will reach you. By a vessel, which arrived last Sunday from Cadiz, we have letters as late as the 19th December. The fleets at that time, as well of France and Spain as Great Britain, were in port; the Dutch had acceded to the armed Neutrality, notwithstanding which, the British continued to take their ships, and it was thought would make some attempts on their settlements in the East Indies. Mr. Cumberland is still permitted to continue at the Court of Madrid—a very suspicious circumstance. There is great reason to apprehend that the British mean to fortify and support their station at Portsmouth, or some other in that neigh borhood, in order to shut up the navigation of the bay, and by making frequent incursions into the country, prevent the State of Virginia from sending aid to the Carolinas. Congress is every day engaged in a variety of matters, but under our present situation, it is probably best to say little as to the particulars. I hope to have some opportunity before long by which I may be more communicative. I have wrote a great number of letters to you and my other friends, particularly C. Johnson and R. Smith, which I fear have miscarried—having lately received a letter from Mr. Smith from Halifax, in which he complains of my not having wrote. I am now quite recovered, except a little remnant of my cold, which is attended with no other inconvenience, but that it makes me cautious of exposing myself. I am very happy to hear that my sister Iredell has quite recovered
