February 15,1781 715 her health. I was long under very serious apprehensions for her safety; I shall be very happy if we should all once more meet in health. Present my compliments to Mr. Johnson, and all my other friends; pray don’t forget Mr. Barker. My love to my sisters, Nelly and the children, and believe me with the most sincere esteem, My dear sir, Your affectionate brother, and obedient servant, Sam. Johnston. MS not found; reprinted from McRee, Iredell, 1:489-90. Alexander McDougall to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia, 15th Feby 1781. The times are So critical and the Subjects on which I shall have occation to write to your Excellency are So important, that I have determined to do it under the Signature of Marcus. 1 This will prevent many of the evil effects which have arisen to our Country from the miscarriage of Letters. My Compliments to your Lady. And Believe me to be, Sir, with great respect, your most Humble Servt. FC (CSmH). In the hand of Alexander McDougall, and endorsed: “by Genl Hand.” 1 In his March 31 acknowledgment of this letter Washington expressed pleasure at McDougall’s proposal to correspond “under the signature of Marcus,” but no such letters to him have been found. Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 21:400. John Mathews to George Washington My Dear sir, Philadelphia Feby. 15th. 1781. As I observed Genl. Greene had given you a full account of the victory obtained by Genl. Morgan. I did not trouble yr. Excy. with it. Nothing else of any importance has since occured. I should be extreamly obliged to you Sir, to inform me of the state of the business respecting the exchange of prisoners (particularly those at St. Augustine) by the first convenient opportunity. 1 I hope yr. Excy. will excuse my troubling you with this enquiry, especially when it is considered, that almost every near connexion I have, are now in the power of the enemy. I am my Dr sir, with the highest respect & most sincere Esteem & regard, yr. Obed. Servt. Jno. Mathews RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 For Washington’s discouraging February 26 reply, in which he explained that he had not even sought to open negotiations with Sir Henry Clinton for an exchange because he was “so totally unacquainted with the State of the southern prisoners,” see Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 21:303.
