716 February 15,1781 James M. Varnum to Horatio Gates Sir Philadelphia 15th Febry 1781 I have the honor of indosing your Letter, which came under Cover to me from Governor Bowen. It is a very just Observation of the Baron de Montesquieu, that in all democratical Governments the Manners controul the Laws. We find that Observation fully verified in the United States. The Manners are generally corrupt, & the Laws but feebly executed. In Times of War, the Deliberations of Senetorial, or republican Bodies, being influenced by a Variety of Objects, are seldom directed to energetic and decisive Operations. The Result is frequently Disap pointment or Disgrace. The public Checks upon the reserved licentiousness of the People are too weak to suppress their Clamors, and their Resentment is commonly satiated by transferring the Odium upon executive Officers. Misfortune is construed into Wickedness or Weakness and the shining Merrits of Years are inveloped in the illfated Events of an Hour. How ungenerous is the human Heart when under the Controul of tumultuous Passions! So reluctant are Mankind at the dignified Station of their own Existence, that they assume every kind of Allowance for their own Deviations, while they expect of others the Prescience and Omnipotence of Gods! You, my worthy Friend, have Occasion to realize these Reflections; And while many feel the greatest Inquietude at your present Situation, they expect, with increasing Satisfaction, your full Restitution to the Honor and Confidence of a Country, bound, by every Sentiment Of Gratitude and Affection, to hold you dear. Permit me Sir, to wish you every possible Felicity in your present domestic Retirement, and a speedy Accession of increasing military Fame! Be pleased to make my best Respects to your worthy Lady, & accept of the sincerest Acknowledgements of Sir, your most obedient Servant, & sincere Friend. J.M. Varnum RC (NHi: Gates Papers). Theodorick Bland to Charles Pettit Sr. Philada. Feby 16th 1781 I beg leave to inform you that a Motion was made by the Virginia Delegates to Authorize Col. Harrison—A Gent sent by that state for a Particular Purpose—to exchange about four thousand Dollars of Continental Money of that state, of the new Emissions at the treasury, which Congress readily assented to—But being informd
