February 16,1781 717 by a Member, that there was a large Sum of money in the Hands of the Qr. Mastr. Genl, now in this City—which was to be sent on to the Southern Army, where the Money above mentiond passes Currendy—the motion was withdrawn & the Sense of Congress was taken thereon and it was their opinion that Col. Harrison shd. Exchange, the Continental Money Issued on acct, of the State of Virginia to that Amount for like Bills Issued on acct, of this state. 1 Col. Harrison being in immediate want of money for the purpose of forwarding necessary articles of Military Stores &c. to that State I have no doubt of your Accommodating him with such as will answer his purpose in this City, in persuance to its being the Sense of Congress that you shd do so. I am with great regard, Sr., Yr Most obedt Sevt. Theok. Bland Delegate from the State of Virginia RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). 1 This action is not recorded in the journals. John Sullivan to the American Philosophical Society Gendemen, Philadelphia Feby. 16th. 1781 I have the Honor to present your Learned Society with a Fossil lately Discovered in a Mountain about Seventy Miles from Portsmouth in New Hampshire. The Mountain is exceeding Large & seems to be filled with Quarries of this Natural Concrete. 1 It has some Properties of Common Glass, and possesses others which render it in Some Respects Superior. It is equally Transparent, does not waste or Consume in Fire, receives any Color or Dye, and will not perceptably diminish in weight or Size by Frequent Attrition. But is, preferable on account of its not being Frangible, Dissoluble, or Friable. Though this Fossil has not been before Discovered in America it was Long Since known in other parts of the world; it Appears to have the same Qualities as the Lapis Specularis of the Ancients, and does not materially Differ either from the Venetian or Muscovite Talc. It has not the Reddish Color of the former, and is perhaps Exceeded in Whiteness by the Latter: but is in Transparency equal to either. It may be cut out in Large Stones and (Like those) be Easily Seperated into Thin Lamina which appear Smooth, Glossy, & Transparent. It answers the same Purpose of covering Pictures making Lanthoms
