718 February 16,1781 & window Lights, & though not Similar in all respects is (in my opinion) Substantially the Same. I do not Therefore, present it as a Concrete hitherto unknown, but to afford an opportunity for the Learned and Curious of your Society to Investigate the Causes of its Connections; & Examine into its usefulness, in the Mechanic Arts. Mr. Secretary Thomson will be so obliging as To Lay it before you and I perswade myself that through your Influence it will receive a place among the natural and useful Productions of America. I have the Honor to be with the Most Exalted Sentiments of Esteem and Respect Gentlemen, your most Obedt. and very Humble Servt, Jno. Sullivan RC (PPAmP: American Philosophical Society Archives). 1 That is, mica. For American interest in science at this time, see Brooke Hindle, The Pursuit of Science in Revolutionary America, 1735-1789 (Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 1956). Daniel Carroll to Thomas Sim Lee Dear sr., Philadelphia Feby. 17th. 1781 I have only to add to what I wrote your Excellency last, 1 that Mr. Carmichael mentions in his Letter, that the plan for fixing a Post in Chessapeak is said to have been suggested to the Ministry by Sr. Jeffry Amherst, & that 3 Regmts. of Horse are to be among the troops destind for America. A Committee of Congress, have under Con sideration the removal of the Convention Troops. 2 I hope soon to have it [tn] my power to inform you of the determination of Congress on that subject. It will give me pleasure to have an opportunity of Executing any commands of yours & your Lady, to whom I present my Comps. I am, with great esteem, your Excellencys Mo Obt Sert, Dani. Carroll RC (MdAA: Red Books). 1 See Carroll to Lee, February 13, 1781. 2 One of the proposals submitted by Benjamin Harrison to the committee appointed February 13 to consult with him, for which see JCC, 19:142, 193; Virginia Delegates to Thomas Jefferson, February 20; and Samuel Huntington to Jefferson, March 4, 1781. Samuel Huntington to John Hancock Sir, Philadelphia February 17. 1781 By the enclosed resolve of the 15th Instant your Excellency will be informed of the Sentiments of Congress respecting the eastern
