February 20,1781 727 Justice, but as Mr. Matlac is joined to Mr. Fell perhaps there may be neither denial nor Equivocation.” Your Suggestion is more pardonable “A curious motion the Product of some months Study in the Jerzies, ’ ’ The Mover had been some months there. The main arguments I used against it were the Indelicacy & Injustice of it as it regarded the Genl, who would either take a mortal Disgust at us for passing it or if he was as weak as the movers would be ruined by his Acceptance of such an uncouth and unproductive a Commission. Indeed, Sir, You are just in your Opinion of me. I have a great Regard for his Excellency But it does not show itself in all the Ways of some other Man for I can hear a pious Body say “We have had a wild Winter Thanks to God” without putting my addition of ‘‘and to Genl. Washington.” I did not find a Line for you from Carmichael, Adams or Dana. RC (NN: Gerry-Townsend Papers). 1 Probably the Miss Dally who with her sister, Mrs. Clark, had maintained a lodging house in Philadelphia at which Lovell, Gerry, and other New England delegates had lived in 1778. See these Letters, 10:344n.l and 11:334. Miss Dally may also be the mysterious “M D”, who was involved in currency speculation with Lovell and Gerry at this time, tor which see Lovell’s letters to Gerry of March 16, 20, and 27, 1781. 2 Gerry had already attempted to explain this misunderstanding in a February 7 letter to General Washington, which is printed in these Letters at Lovell to Gerry, November 20, 1780, note 3. James Lovell to John Jay Sir, Feb. 20. 1781 The Presidt. sends you Instructions passed in Congress the 15th. 1 Personally I am mortified that no Letters from you since that of Sepr. 16th, have reached us. We have not waited for the minute Information promised in yours of that date, nor have we reed, any notice of your Receipt of our Instructions of Oct 4th before we discuss anew the old Subject. There has been unfair Dealing with your Dispatches. 2 1 apprehend that we are allowed to see only Sentiments somewhat different from yours. Perhaps the inclosed memorandum may be some Clue to your Scrutiny. 3 Upon the 10th. of Jany. Congress resolved to establish an Office for foreign affairs which I hope will make yr. Station more easy & reputable. I wish most earnestly to have a Choice made of the Secretary to whom I may deliver all the Papers in my Possession connected with his Duty. I am, Sir, your Friend & humb Servt. James Lovell
