February 20, 1781 729 Troops are to be Sent to america Early in the Spring, 2000 on the 6th of Novr. were to embark in two or three weeks for Charlestown. By Capt Jones the Seige of Gibralter is Continued & it was Supposed in France that Count de Estang was gone to the West Indies. By letters Just reed from Govr Jefferson & Govr Nash a fleet of Ships have arrived in Cape fear river Supposed to be a reinforcement from Europe—probably the one above mentioned. 3 The Enemy build their hopes of Success on the deranged & Supposed exhausted State of our finances, if we disappoint them in this we Shall tottally defeat Their prospects & induce them to reasonable terms of peace. It behoves us therefore to exert ourselves with Spirit at this time, & I think it promises the most happy Consequences, which I never so feelingly realized as I seem to at present. By an Estimate that has been made of our national debt it doth not exceed 30,000,000 of dollars. 4 The Supplies Called for are all indispensible for the next Campaign—we must Stop drawing bills on Europe, for the present, the loss is too great to be born by any nation, being as 60 to 92. December Journals are not printed. I write in hast as I did not know of Mr. Meers going untill a few hours before he sets out. The President & Genl. Woolcot are well & present their Compliments to your Excellency. The Souther States are much distressed & exhausted—& much depends on the vigorous exertions of the Eastern States. With the highest Esteem & respect, your Excellencys most obedt, most humble Servt, Jesse Root P.S. The Pensylvania Line will be Ordered to the Southward. RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). 1 The interrogation of Capt. John Paul Jones was actually being conducted by the Board of Admiralty, to whom the “mistery” of “the delay of Sending over the Cloathing” from France had been referred by Congress on February 19. Jones’ arrival with a cargo of clothing had been anticipated for months, and when he reached Philadelphia in the Ariel without the long-awaited shipment, an inquiry was immediately called for, although Thomas Bee’s motion for an open-door examination of Jones before the full house was rejected by a vote of six to five. SeeJCC, 19:174-76. The board’s investigation consisted primarily of 47 written questions, apparendy drafted by Alexander McDougall, which were submitted to Jones on February 20 and to which he returned a 20-page list of answers on March 13. Just why McDougall, who was not a member of the Board of Admiralty, had a hand in the inquiry is not clear, although he was an experienced New York merchant and on February 27 would be elected to fill the newly created post of Secretary of Marine, which he eventually declined. McDougall’s draft of the questions for Jones is in the McDougall Papers, NHi; the list submitted to Jones and the captain’s answers are in PCC, item 37, fols. 377-99. Jones’ detailed answers to the board’s questions were apparendy satisfactory and quickly dispelled the “mistery” of why the clothing from France had been delayed. They also provided the foundation for the board’s March 28 report on the subject, leading not only to Jones’ exoneration but to a resolution of commendation adopted by Congress on April 14. See JCC, 19:316-20, 342n.2, 386, 390-91; Thomas
