730 February 20, 1781 Rodney’s Diary, April 14; and Samuel Huntington to Jones, April 19, 1781. 2 Root was commenting on Benjamin Franklin’s December 3, 1780, letter to President Huntington, which was one of several letters of Franklin and John Adams read in Congress this day. JCC, 19:174-75. 3 See the second letter of Samuel Huntington to George Washington, this date. ♦ For the estimate of “our national debt,” see JCC, 19:160-72; and James Duane’s Memoranda, January 2-3, 1781. Virginia Delegates to Thomas Jefferson Sr. Philadelphia Feby. [20?], 1 1781 Since our last 2 in which we informd Yr. Excy of the Arrival of Col. Harrison in this City, his Applications to Congress have been referd to a Special Committee—and the necessary Steps are taking to Answer the wishes and wants of the Southern States, and of our State in particular as far [ar] is practicable in the present Situation of affairs. We doubt not but that Gentn. will give you full Information of the Progress he has made in the Special Business for which he has been Sent. We are happy to Inform you of the Arrival of Capt. Paul Jones in the Ariel, from France. This event would have been a much more pleasing one had he brought the cloathing so long and anxiously expected—his Cargo is however by no means useless as it Consists of about thirty Ton of Powder. It is Conjectured that by this time Count D’Estaing is Arrived in the West Indies with twenty two sail of the Line—and we are in great Hopes before this reaches you that a Ship of the Line from the fleet of our Allies in Rhode Island and three frigates will be in our Bay in order to cooperate with our Troops, in taking Ample Vengeance on Mr. Arnold, for his treasons, perjuries, Robberies and depradations—accounts being received in this Town that they saild from Rhode Island immediately after the Storm & that Monsr. Destouches had taken effectual measures to Block up the Remaining Vessels of the Enemy in Gardners Bay. We have Sanguine hopes that this Expedition will not be fruitless, and that our Allies will find us in a Condition effectually to cooperate with them, as their aid will enable us to draw our whole force to a point. One of the frigates above mentiond will bring the Arms And Stores which were retaken in the Comite; which will perhaps not be an unseasonable aid. We have enclosed Yr. Excellency two New York Papers for your perusal containing Arnolds account of his Victories and Captures. Mr. Hays informed us this morning he should be ready to set out for Virginia with the printing material in abt. a week. 3 We are with great respect, Yr. Exceleys obed. Serts. Jos. Jones. James Madison Junr.
