February 21, 1781 733 passed in Congress in consequence of Col. Harrisons communi cations. You will also be informed of the arrival of Provost with a reinforcement to the Enemy in the South and of his progress since his arrival. Arnolds position at Portsmouth, Provost in North Carolina, and Cornwallis in South Carolina will I fear effectually obstruct the supplies from our State or so delay them as to render Greenes situation critical. If the French Ships from Rhode Island shall suceed in their enterprise in the Chesapeake the event will be propitious and produce the happiest effects. Our state will be thereby further aided by a supply of 1000 stand Arms and some Stores retaken in the Comit6 and sent forward in one of the French Frigates. The arrival of Provost and the great want of Arms in the Southern States it must be confessed presents a rather gloomy prospect and under this temper of mind you will receive a Letter reiterating what has I think been several times intimated, a desire that you will pay particular attention to the Southern department. 1 I wish we could but content ourselves with a communication of Facts and any reflections upon them for illustration leaving the combination and execution of the various operations of a Campaign to those whose business it is to project and execute them. P. Jones’s arrival gives us no releif in cloathing or Arms, a disappointment the more to be regretted as our wants increase yet we know not whom to blame. Jones will I expect unfold this dark and as yet mysterious business. I presume you must have been informed that Virga, has receded from her former instructions to her Delegates in Congress respecting the claim on her part to the free Navigation of the Mississippi wch. if approved by Congress will probably bring abt. an alliance with Spain and an acknowledgmt. of our Independence. No doubt this event if it takes place will give us more Credit in Europe but we pay dear for it. We are abt. appointing the Officers who are to be at the head of our great departments. Yesterday Mr. Morris witht. a vote agt. him (tho’ S A and his Colleague Genl. W. declined to ballot,) 2 was chosen Financier. I cannot say he will accept, but have some hopes he will. Our Finances want a Necker to arrange and reform them. Morris is I believe the best qualified of any our Country affords for the arduous undertaking. We shall in a day or two appoint the officers for the foreign affairs and the Marine. I wish we had Men in these offices as well qualified to execute them as Morris in the Treasury. Some however that are nominated if they can be chosen will do very well. We are under difficulties abt. the War office, least any person we could now put into it may answer so well as the present Commissrs. This may and I expect will postpone that appointment. With great esteem I am Dr. Sr., yr. aff. servt, Jos. Jones RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 See Samuel Huntington’s second letter to Washington, February 20, 1781.
