734 February 21, 1781 2 That is, Samuel Adams and Artemas Ward. For Robert Morris’ appointment as Superintendant of Finance, see Huntington to Morris, this date. James M. Varnum to William Greene Sir, Philadelphia 21st. February 1781. Your Excellency’s Letter of the 6th Instant I have been honord with. When the Requisition was made to the States to advance six Months Pay to the Troops, I foresaw the Act which the Legislature of Rhode Island has passed, & mentioned here, its probable Event, with the Reasons that would justify it, but a Discrimination could not be made with Propriety, altho’ I am fully persuaded Congress are well pleased with the Measure. 1 It is astonishing to consider the Energy of the small States, compared to the larger ones. If all the States had fully called forth their Resources, as one State has done, the War must have been finished long since. However, where everything dear and sacred is in Question, too much cannot be done by any. We are certainly informed that a Body of Troops from Great Britain or Ireland, have landed at Cape Fear No. Carolina, said to amount to upward of two Thousand, under Command of General Prevost. This Event is convincing that the Seat of War is transferred to the Southward. Our total Want of Money renders every Attempt to render the Southern or any other Department respectable, inefficacious. But very little of the four Tenths is brot in. None from our State. We have Good private Intelligence that Lt. Colo. Lee with his Legion & a Body of Militia, has surprised Georgetown So. Carolina, & Killed and taken nearly the whole Garrison, being about three hundred. We are informed in the same Way, that Lord Cornwallis made a large Detachment after the Defeat of Tarlton with a View of retaking the Prisoners &c. That Morgan, apprised of the Design, sent off the Prisoners & Baggages crossed a River & formed an Ambuscade. The British attempting to ford the Stream were unexpectedly embarrassed with an heavy Fire, which killed many and caused the Remainder to rejoin his Lordship. I believe these facts, but as they are not official, cannot be too positive. Recruiting goes on very well here; Nothing is wanting but Money, to get as many Soldiers as they please. Arnold is yet in Virginia, & braves the Ancient Dominion with about fifteen hundred Men. I hope a Detachment from Monsieur De Touches Squadron will change the Scene. Capt. Jones has arrivd from France in the Ariel, & brings no Important Dispatches; has Twenty Tuns of Powder, but no Clothing. A strange Fatality seems to attend that Article; I hope the Censure will soon be rightly placed, & that Vengeance may follow upon its Heels. Inquiries of this kind are difficult & where old
