740 February 25,1781 Hands ’till the Time the Debt was transferred to the State, & considered as so much advanced on Acct, of the new Delegation, with the Note subjoined in the Acct, settled with the Auditors; which left it in a point of view proper to be explained; & by which compleat Justice might be rendered both to the public & myself; by paying the Interest which the State might be charged with whilst the Money remained in my Hands, & by returning the just Value of the Sum received, if an Allowance for Depreciation under these Circumstances should be judged requisite; a point which I did not choose to determine, or, by paying the Money into the Hands of the Delegates, subject myself to any Censure for having availed myself of what might be supposed an Advantage to me. For I beleive it would not be difficult to satisfy every one concerned, that I could at any Period during that Time have commanded double the Sum necessary to discharge that Demand. I did expect that this Matter would have been inquired into, in the May Session following by a direct & open Charge; but I then met with one of a different Nature; and became well acquainted with the Mode in which this Enquiry was to be made. I have been silent; but determined to let the Gentleman who has played behind the Curtain, & who perhaps claims Merit from a Discovery, pursue his own Means for his own Ends. I wish only that he had been more speedy in this Business & that he had made his Charge openly, since he has been so long furnished with the Materials. I shall now submit, Sir, what I have written to the Consideration of the House of Delegates & to their Determination. 5 1 only beg leave to add what will one day inevitably appear—That I stood among the first in my own Country who defended the Rights of America; that I have been faithfully & attentively engaged in the Service of my Country, ever since the Commencement of the present Dispute with Britain; That my Zeal & Integrity in serving America have led me into Measures destructive of my private Interest; and my Confidence in the public faith hath subjected me to the Loss of severi thousand Pounds in Specie. Under all these Circumstances I must finally add, that having never solicited any Appointment whatever, or received any Emoluments equal to my Expences, I shall esteem myself happy whenever my Country shall be pleased to inform me that they have no further Occasion for my Services. I have the Honor to be with perfect Respect, Sir, Yr. most obedt. & most humble Servant, M. Smith RC (NjMoHP: Lloyd W. Smith Collection). Addressed: “The honorable the Speaker of the House of Delegates of Virginia.” 1 For the action that the House of Delegates had taken on “the Accounts of the Delegates to Congress,” see Cyrus Griffin to Thomas Jefferson, June 13, 1780, note 3.
