February 26, 1781 741 Smith, who had resigned his seat in Congress on December 13, 1779, because of anti-merchant legislation passed by the House of Delegates, had been re-elected in June 1780 and had made an effort in November to disengage himself from trade in order to attend Congress again. See these Letters, 14:226-27. Smith had been delayed en route to Congress by a disabled carriage but finally took his seat on February 20, 1781. See JCC, 19:176. For his February 4 letter to Thomas Jefferson from Fredericksburg, Va., which is in the Continental Congress Papers, Vi, see Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 4:524-25. 2 These accounts are in the Executive Papers, Vi. 3 That is, Richard Henry Lee, for whom see the sixth paragraph of this letter. Lee’s interest in Smith’s accounts are apparent. A copy of the committee report enclosed in the December 23 letter from the Speaker of the House of Delegates to Smith finding him “guilty of a misapp[rop]riation of the pub. money” followed by a copy of this letter of justification from Smith are in the Lee Family Papers, Vi. 4 The animosity between Smith and the Lee family was longstanding and Smith apparently directed these accusations toward Richard Henry and Francis Lightfoot Lee who served in Congress with Smith in 1778-79, and their connections in Philadelphia. 5 A committee of the House determined in December 1781 that Smith’s “conduct throughout the whole transaction has been fair and open and no intention has been manifested to injure the public.” The committee required only that Smith repay the sum advanced to him by the Virginia delegates when he left Congress in September 1779 and the interest due on that amount, both to be deducted from his current account as delegate to Congress. A copy of the committee’s December 15 report, in the hand of John Beckley, is in the Executive Papers, Vi. Samuel Huntington to Thomas Sim Lee Sir, Philadelphia February 26. 1781 Your Excellency will receive enclosed, the Extract of a resolve of the 23d Instant, requesting the State of Maryland to advance to Lt. Colonel Forrest, on Account of the United States, a Sum equal to Seven Years half pay of a Lieut. Colonel, in Lieu of the half pay he might otherwise have been entitled to during his natural Life. Upon the resignation of this Officer, Congress have thought proper, in Consideration of his past Services, & particular Misfortune of the Loss of a Limb in the public Service, to grant him the Benefits & Emoluments contained in the enclosed resolution. 1 I have the Honor to be, with perfect respect, your Excellency’s most obedt & very humble Servant, Sam. Huntington President RC (MdAA: Red Books). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 This resolution providing for the disabled Lt. Col. Uriah Forrest is 'mJCC, 19:189. Huntington also sent a copy of this resolve to Forrest with a brief cover letter of this date. PCC, item 15, fol. 242.
