744 February 26,1781 RC (MH-H: bMS Am 1583). Addressed: “Samuel Lyman Esquire, Hartford, Connecticut.” 1 This latest “News from the Southward” came in Gen. Nathanael Greene’s February 10 letter, which was read this day in Congress and is in PCC, item 155 1:561-62. JCC, 19:194. 2 Only Wolcott’s January 2, 1781, letter to Oliver Ellsworth has been found. Daniel Carroll to Thomas Sim Lee Dear Sir, Philadelphia Feby 27th. 1781 I wrote your Excellency a few lines by Capt. McClane—he left this place last Sunday; I then acknowledg’d the receipt of yours by Col Livingston; 1 particular attention shall be immediately payd to yr commands. I beg leave to refer you to the enclosd paper for intelligence respecting what Mr Hanson & myself wrote you yesterday by express. 2 Cornwallis continues a rapid progress thro’ North Carolina, his force from 2500 to 3000. Morgan, & the prisoners with him, escapd by a providential rain which swelled the waters just after he had pass’d the Catawba, this detaind the other some days. Morgan soon after joind General Green, & the prisoners had proceeded beyond danger, he had pickd up abt 100 More prisoners than what is mentiond in the Publishd acct of the Battle of the Cowpens. General Green was on the 10th at Guilford Court, his force not more than 1427 Regular infantry & 600 Militia, & Lees Legion which had joind him. The General was to retreat the next day, & is determind to avoid a general engagement, until he is in sufficient force to ensure Success, & I believe will not depend too much on Militia, notwithstanding the Battle of the Cowpens. Govr Jefferson says in a Letter of the 17th Inst that he was informd our Army had got on this Side of the Roanoke, & the Enemies was advancd to Staunton. This is on the Verge of Virginia. The Conventioners in Virginia, & the prisoners taken in Carolina are on their march to the Northward, [and] will probably be Stationd in Lancaster. I hope those in Frederick Town likewise—a Committee will report on that Subject to day, or to morrow. 3 I am with great esteem, yr. Excellencys Most Ob Servt. Dani. Carroll P.S. When I underscore with a line any words, I mean that I have some reason to desire my authority may not be quoted for them. You will find something worthy notice in the enclosd N Y. paper. RC (NN: Miscellaneous Folders). 1 Carroll is referring to his letters to Lee of February 20 and 24 respectively. 2 Letter not found. 3 Following the committee’s report on March 3, Congress ordered that the
