752 February 27,1781 Ld. Cornwallis or subdue the Traitor Arnold, to whichever object circumstances may direct his attention. Hays the Printer informs us it will be some days yet before he shall be ready to set out for Virga., that it will require he expects three Waggons to transport the printing materials and some money advanced the Waggoners before they depart—we shall give him what assistance we can to hasten him away. Col. Harrison desires his Compliments and says he wod. have written but as he leaves this City Tomorrow expects to be in Richmond as soon as the post. We are respectfully, Yr. Excely’s. obed Servts, Jos. Jones Theok. Bland Jr. [P. 5. ] Thursday is fixed for the Maryland Delegates to subscribe the Articles of Confederation. RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). Written by Bland and signed by Bland and Jones. 1 For Washington’s instructions of February 20 assigning Lafayette command of the Chesapeake expedition against Benedict Arnold, see Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 3:334-36. Samuel Adams to Caleb Davis Dear Sir, Philade Feb 28 1781 A Gendeman of the State of Pennsylvania is desirous of importing a small Quantity of Flax Seed from Massachusetts to put into his own Ground, (a Barril might be sufficient) and has engagd me to apply to a Friend in Boston to procure it. If you could send a Barril, by a Vessel that may sail soon for this place, you will much oblige him & me. He will satisfy you for the Expence. Direct your Letter to Henry Wynkoop Esqr of Bucks County, Pennsylvania, to the Care of any one of the Massachusetts Delegates who may then be here. I mention this, because I expect to be at Boston early in the Spring. You will excuse my giving you this Trouble and be assured that I am affectionately, your Friend, S Adams [P5. ] Be so good as to let Mrs A know that I am well. RC (MHi: Davis Papers). William Burnet to Samuel Huntington Sir, Philadelphia Feby. 28 1781 As I feel my self much aggrieved by the late Arrangement of the Medical Department, I take the Liberty of stating my Case to your
