THE   LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE 


OF 


RUFUS  KING 


VOLUME  II. 


1795-1799 


Of  this  Letter-press  Edition 
j 50  Copies  ha  ve  been  Printed  for  Sale 


No. L 


February,  iSpj 


Mrs.  Rufus  King 


From  a  painting  by   John    Trumbull,    1800 


THE   LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE 

OF 

RUFUS  KING 

COMPRISING  HIS   LETTERS,  PRIVATE  AND  OFFICIAL 

HIS   PUBLIC   DOCUMENTS   AND 

HIS    SPEECHES 


EDITED  BY  HIS  GRANDSON 

CHARLES    R.  KING,   M.D. 

FELLOW   OF  THE   COLLEGE   OF   PHYSICIANS,    PHILADELPHIA,    AND 

MEMBER   OF   THE   NEW    YORK    AND    PENNSYLVANIA 

HISTORICAL    SOCIETIES 

'  "  » '  O 

'     '  '     '    J    >      •>  »       .  ,. 

>      )  1  J  )    ,  ,   » 


)        )   ) 

>      '        <> 

: ,' "  ' '  -    • 
— '— ■ — •— i     *  > 


■>  o    »      , 


VOLUME  II. 
1795-1799 


• >    »  >  > ,  • 

1    >        >   »  s     >    , 


NEW  YORK 
G.  P.  PUTNAM'S   SONS 

®(j«  Knickerbocker  |3«ss 

i895 


COPYRIGHT,    1895 
BY 

CHARLES   R.    KING 


Ube  TRntcfcsrbocfeer  ipreaa,  Ifcew  IDorfc 


PREFACE  TO  THE  SECOND  VOLUME. 

The  period  embraced  in  this  second  volume  covers  the 
closing  years  of  the  senatorial  career  of  Mr.  King,  before 
his  transfer  to  the  position  of  Minister  Plenipotentiary  and 
Ambassador  to  the  Court  of  St.  James,  and  the  following 
three  years  in  that  capacity;  the  matter  in  the  third  volume 
extending  to  the  close  of  the  mission  in  1803. 

The  history  of  the  United  States  during  the  second  term 
of  Washington's  administration  is  full  of  events  which 
tested  the  adaptability  of  the  constitution  to  meet  the 
new  questions  both  domestic  and  foreign  which  neces- 
sarily arose  under  its  untried  provisions.  Happily  the 
general  policy,  which  has  received  the  name  of  federal, 
prevailed,  and  the  basis  of  .'govern  menl;  was  firmly  founded. 
Mr.  King  was  largely  instnraisnt&rVin  iramihg  and  sustain- 
ing these  measures  adopted,  as-  the: records  clearly  show; 
yet  it  is  much  to  be  regretted  that  taere  are  many  gaps  in 
his  private  papers,  the  filling  cfc  which  mig'ht  have  thrown 
strong  light  upon  the  interesting  questions  of  the  day.  All, 
however,  that  the  papers  in  the  possession  of  the  Editor 
contain  as  contemporary  history  is  here  presented. 

In  reference  to  the  correspondence  in  the  second  portion 
of  the  volume,  during  the  years  of  Mr.  King's  residence  in 
England,  it  is  proper  that  some  explanation  should  be  made. 
It  will  be  observed  that  many  letters,  which  have  already 
been  given  to  the  public  in  the  lives  of  some  of  the  distin- 
guished contemporaries  of  Mr.  King,  are  here  republished  in 
order  to  show  the  bearing  and  illustrate  the  meaning  of  the 
letters  now  first  presented.  Indeed  without  them  the  con- 
tinuity of  the  narrative  would  lack  much  of  interest.     In  all 


VI  PREFACE  TO  THE   SECOND   VOLUME. 


these  cases,  and  especially  in  the  letters  to  and  from  Hamil- 
ton, the  source  from  which  they  have  been  taken  is  noted, 
and  where  no  such  reference  is  made  the  originals  or  copies 
of  them  are  in  the  possession  of  the  Editor,  and  are  repro- 
duced verbatim,  except  where  relating  to  matters  of  no  in- 
terest to  the  public.  The  letters  of  Pickering,  Cabot, 
Troup,  Bingham,  and  many  others,  relative  to  the  domestic 
affairs  of  the  United  States  and  containing  their  estimate  of 
foreign  affairs,  are  very  full  and  served  to  keep  Mr.  King  in- 
formed of  the  current  opinion  and  business  of  the  country, 
helping  him  in  his  ministerial  work  and  receiving,  in  his 
answers,  the  effect  they  produced  upon  the  mind  of  one 
deeply  interested,  but  away  from  their  immediate  influence 
at  home. 

But  perhaps  not  less  interesting  is  his  official  correspond- 
ence with  the  British  Government,  and  with  his  personal 
friend  Timothy  Pickering,  both  in  the  latter's  private  capacity 
and  as  Secretary  of  State.  Pickering's  letters  are  contained 
in  a  separate  volume,  copied  from  the  official  dispatches,  of 
which  the  originals  are  probably  in  the  Archives  of  the 
Legation  in  jEflglartd';  \wMe''pJjScial  communications  from 
Mr.  King  «afr£  '.preservecl  m'pres's  copies  of  all  his  letters, 
which  are  all  in* 'his  qwVti  handwriting,  carefully  arranged  in 

five  large  folio  volumes' of  about  2000  pages  ;  his  letters  in 
fa  .   ...    •/•;••::    • 

cipher  deciphered..:  /Of'/pp-u^se:  this  correspondence,  which 

extends  over  seven'  years — to  the  end  of  the  next  volume, — 
could  not  all  be  reproduced  here.  Many  of  the  letters  re- 
late merely  to  current  matters  of  detail  and,  though  mak- 
ing part  of  the  history  of  official  acts,  are  not  essential  to 
their  elucidation.  Nor  is  there  given  an  unbroken  series  of 
letters  to  and  from  the  Secretary  of  State,  but  such  selec- 
tions from  them  as  would  show  the  contemporary  diploma- 
tic history  as  it  presented  itself  to  the  observation  of  the 
intelligent,  clear-headed,  and  careful  man,  who  had  the  in- 
terest of  his  country  always  at  heart  and  desired  to  gain  for 
it  every  advantage  that  his  position  could  enable  him  to 
obtain. 


PREFACE  TO  THE  SECOND   VOLUME.  vii 

Conscious  of  the  confidence  in  his  ability  and  integrity  of 
both  his  Goverment  at  home  and  of  the  King's  Ministers,  he 
met  the  various  questions  which,  under  the  daily  changing 
politics  of  Europe,  presented  the  necessity  of  prompt  de- 
cision, with  firmness  and  courteous  discussion,  but  always, 
when  possible  to  do  so,  under  the  special  instructions  given 
to  him.  Sometimes,  as  will  be  seen,  he  could  not  wait  for 
these,  because  of  the  difficulty  of  communicating  by  sailing 
vessels  with  his  Government  ;  but  in  no  case  did  his  action 
meet  with  disapprobation  at  home,  or  fail  to  obtain  the 
respectful  consideration  of  the  Government  to  which  he  was 
accredited. 

Several  Appendices  have  been  added  to  this  volume,  the 
first  of  which  contains,  as  will  be  seen,  a  number  of  letters 
from  Mr.  King,  during  the  first  years  of  his  public  life,  but 
which  came  into  the  Editor's  possession  after  the  publica- 
tion of  the  first  volume.  Others  are  reports  of  conferences 
with  Lord  Grenville,  one  in  particular  in  reference  to  the 
difficulties  which  arose  in  the  Commission  under  the  seventh 
article  of  the  Treaty  with  Great  Britain,  and  which  were 
satisfactorily  solved.  It  has  been  deemed  well  to  collect  in 
separate  and  consecutive  narratives  the  incidents  which  led 
to  the  action  of  Mr.  King  to  protest  against  the  avowed  pur- 
pose of  the  British  Government  to  allow  the  captured  chiefs 
of  the  rebellion  in  Ireland  to  emigrate  to  the  United  States, 
and  those  relative  to  the  proposed  plans,  by  which,  in  con- 
nection with  Miranda,  the  South  American  colonies  of 
Spain  were  to  be  revolutionized  and  made  independent  of 
the  mother  country — plans  that  depended  upon  a  co-opera- 
tion of  England  and  the  United  States,  but  which  were  not 
carried  out. 


CONTENTS  OF  VOL.  II. 


CHAPTER  I. 


PAGE 


Mr.  King's  Re-election  to  the  Senate — Settlement  of  the  System  of  public 
Credit — Mr.  Hamilton's  Retirement  and  R.  King's  Opinion  of  it — 
Hamilton's  earnest  Letter  relative  to  non-subscribing  Creditors — Mr. 
Jay's  Nomination  for  Governor  of  New  York    .....         I 

CHAPTER  II. 

Jay's  Treaty  received — The  Senate  called  to  consider  it — Mr.  King's 
Resolution  to  ratify  it — Ratification  with  Protest  against  Article  twelve 
recommended — "  Camillus  Letters  "  by  Hamilton  and  King — After 
much  Delay  the  President  signed  the  Treaty — Randolph's  Correspond- 
ence with  Fauchet,  the  French  Ambassador — His  Resignation  of 
Office  of  Secretary  of  State — The  President  suggests  Mr.  King  as  his 
Successor — He  declines — Letters  of  Hamilton,  King,  and  Randolph 
relative  to  the  Treaty — Delay  of  Ratification  caused  Dissatisfaction 
— Public  Meetings  opposed  to  it  ;  G.  Cabot  and  C.  Gore  relative  to 
these — R.  King's  Letter  announcing  Ratification  9 

CHAPTER  III. 

Fourth  Congress — President's  Speech — Mr.  King  reports  the  Senate's 
Answer — Debate  on  its  Terms — Mr.  Jay's  Resignation  of  Chief- 
Justiceship — Mr.  Rutledge's  Appointment  and  Rejection  by  the 
Senate — Mr.   Ellsworth's  Appointment     ......       33 

CHAPTER  IV. 

Treaty  with  Great  Britain  communicated  to  Congress — Opposition  in  the 
House  of  Representatives — Demand  made  upon  the  President  for 
Instructions  to  the  Minister  and  Correspondence — Refusal  of  the 
President  on  constitutional  Grounds  to  send  in  these  Papers — Corre- 
spondence showing  the  Temper  of  the  People  about  the  Treaty — 
Correspondence  relative  to  Patrick  Henry's  Nomination  for  the 
Presidency — Mr.  King's  Nomination  as   Minister  to  England — His 

Appointment 39 

ix 


CONTENTS. 


CHAPTER  V. 


PAGE 


Correspondence  relative  to  the  Treaty — Massachusetts  Politics — Opinion 
of  Hamilton  as  to  Washington's  Course  relative  to  the  Demand  made 
by  the  House  of  Representatives  for  the  Instructions  to  Mr.  Jay — Con- 
gratulations to  Mr.  King  on  his  Appointment — Some  Instructions  and 
his  Suggestions — Letters  from  W.  Smith  on  Affairs  of  S.  Carolina 
and  George  Cabot  on  those  of  Massachusetts     .         .         .         .         .53 

CHAPTER  VI. 

Mr.  King  having  been  appointed  Ambassador  to  England  starts  on  his 
Mission — Responsibilities  of  a  Minister  at  that  Time,  from  Difficulty 
of  communicating  with  his  Government — Often  obliged  to  act  at  once 
without  waiting  for  new  Instructions — Mr.  Jay's  Course  in  England 
left  good  Impressions  for  his  Successor,  which  Mr.  King  was  qualified 
and  took  pains  to  continue — His  Arrival  and  Settlement  in  London.       68 

CHAPTER  VII. 

Mr.  King  enters  upon  his  Duties  as  Ambassador — Presentation  to  the 
King — First  Interview  with  Lord  Grenville — Statement  by  Dr. 
Edwards  of  the  Condition  of  Affairs  in  France — Appointment  of 
Col.  Trumbull  as  the  fifth  Commissioner  under  seventh  Article  of  the 
Treaty — Mr.  Monroe's  Recall  from  France — Treaty  of  Peace  with 
Algiers — Count  de  la  Prade's  Pretensions  .....       76 

CHAPTER  VIII. 

French  Order  against  neutral  Vessels — Mr.  Monroe's  Statement  relative 
to  it — Complaints  against  British  Cruisers — Washington  declines  a 
Re-election — Mr.  Adet's  Reception  in  Boston — M.  de  Liancourt's 
Opinion  of  French  Designs  on  Neutrals  to  destroy  British  Power — 
R.  King's  Letter  to  Messrs.  Baring  relative  to  the  Funds  for  Barbary 
Purposes — To  Mr.  Bayard  relative  to  the  Costs  in  Cases  of  Claims 
decided  by  the  Admiralty  Courts — To  Mr.  Monroe,  Report  that  Genl. 
Pinckney  had  been  appointed  to  succeed  him  in  Paris — Letter  to 
Mr.  Pitcairn  relative  to  the  French  Debt — Negotiations  with  England 
at  a  Standstill — American  Affairs — Secretary  of  State  on  Impress- 
ments—Washington's Address — Letter  from  R.  King  to  him  on 
European  Affairs       .         .         .         .         .         .         .         .         .         .       89 

CHAPTER  IX. 

Correspondence  with  the  Secretary  of  State — Sailing  of  the  British 
Commissioners  under  the  Sixth  Article  of  the  Treaty  with  Great 
Britain — Mr.  Adet's  Publication  relative  to  the  French  Decree  on 
the  Commerce  of  Neutrals; — Mr,  Pickering's  Answer — R.  Troup  on 


CONTENTS.  XI 


PAGE 


the  coming  Election  of  President — Baron  Jacobi  about  General 
Steuben's  Property  and  Mr.  King's  Answer — Mr.  Bingham  sends 
Stuart's  Painting  of  Washington  to  Lord  Landsdowne — R.  King's 
letter  to  Lord  Grenville  about  Mr.  John  Maxwell,  an  impressed 
American  Citizen — Protest  against  Captain  Pigot's  Conduct — Letter 
to  Hamilton  on  Condition  of  England       ......     107 


CHAPTER  X., 

Correspondence  with  Lord  Grenville  relative  to  the  Conduct  of  the 
Consuls  of  the  U.  S.  in  granting  Certificates  to  Seamen — Also  as  to 
the  Detention  of  American  Seamen  on  British  Ships  of  War — Case 
of  the  Olive  Branch — Letters  from  Mr.  Goodhue  and  Mr.  Hamilton 
respecting  the  coming  Presidential  Election  in  the  U.  S.  and  Mr. 
Adet's  Communications — R.  King's  Letters  to  Mr.  Pinckney  in  Paris 
on  French  Affairs — Vindication  of  the  U.  S.  in  the  Conduct  towards 
France      .         .         .         .         .         .         .         .         .         .         .         .119 

CHAPTER  XL 

Dispatches  to  the  Secretary  of  State  relative  to  the  Arrest  in  the  Proceed- 
ings of  Commissioners  under  the  seventh  Article — R.  Troup  on  the 
Presidential  Election  and  American  Affairs — Treaty  of  Commerce 
with  Turkey — Delays  in  Admiralty  Courts  in  England — Law  of  the 
United  States  for  the  Protection  of  Seamen — R.  King  to  Col.  Ham- 
ilton ;  Estimate  of  Washington  in  England,  and  of  the  Fairness  of 
the  British  Government  in  Meeting  Questions  under  the  seventh  Article 
— Good  Feeling  in  England  towards  America  shown  in  a  Letter  of 
R.  King  to  Washington — Maryland  Bank  Stock — Question  of  Re- 
trocession of  Louisiana  to  France — Letters  giving  the  Result  of  the 
Presidential  Election — Suspension  of  specie  Payments  by  the  Bank 
of  England — Condition  of  that  Country — American  Merchants  ask 
for  British  Convoys  on  Account  of  French  Captures  .         .         .         .132 

CHAPTER  XII. 

Sedgwick's  Letter  on  the  presidential  Election  and  Inauguration — Cabot 
on  Relations  with  France — King  to  Dr.  Southgate— Private  Affairs 
— To  Hamilton  on  new  French  Arret — Affair  of  the  Olive  Branch — 
Wm.  Smith's  Letter  on  French  Depredations — Pinckney's  Dispatches 
relative  to  Conduct  of  the  French  causes  the  President  to  call  a 
special  Meeting  of  Congress — General  Statement  of  American  Affairs 
— Hamilton's  View  of  the  Duty  of  the  Country.         .         .         .         .156 


Xll  CONTENTS. 


CHAPTER  XIII. 

PAGE 

Opposition  to  France  growing  more  popular — Reliance  on  the  Firmness 
and  Prudence  of  the  President — England's  commercial  Policy  should 
be  a  conciliator}-  one — Jacobi  on  Negotiations  between  France  and 
Prussia — R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State — French  Captures — English 
Politics — The  Nation  tired  of  the  War — Austria  her  only  Ally — 
Question  of  Peace — France  refuses  to  acknowledge  Passports  granted 
by  American  Ministers — French  Depredations  in  the  West  Indies 
— R.  King  writes  to  the  Secretary  on  Carelessness  in  getting  Testi- 
mony in  Cases  of  Capture  by  Mr.  Bayard — Secretary  of  State 
relative  to  Convoys    ..........     169 

CHAPTER  XIV. 

French  Designs  as  affecting  the  U.  S. — Public  Temper  in  the  U.S.  im- 
proving in  Reference  to  these — Causes  of  the  Mutiny  in  the  British 
Fleets — Paid  Agents  of  the  U.  S.  cannot  demand  extra  Compensa- 
tion from  Awards  to  Claimants — General  Allen's  Claim  for  the 
Restoration  of  Arms  captured  and  detained  in  England — Kosciuszko 
thanks  Mr.  King  for  assisting  him  in  obtaining  a  Passage  to  America     180 

CHAPTER  XV. 

Mr.  Pickering's  Account  of  Spanish  Duplicity  about  southern  Bound- 
aries— Apprehends  France  means  to  regain  Louisiana — Arrest  of 
Major  McLane  and  others  for  alleged  treasonable  Practices  against 
Canada — Sedgwick  on  Relations  with  France — Gerry's  Appointment 
as  Commissioner  to  France — Washington  on  the  Political  Situation 
in  U.  S. — R.  King  to  Hamilton  on  French  Affairs — Impeachment  of 
Gov.  Blount — Mr.  Liston's  Letter — Bingham's  Letter  about  Stuart's 
Portrait  of  Washington  to  Marquis  of  Landsdowne — And  about  Gov. 
Blount — R.  King  to  Wm.  Hindman  .         .         .         .         .         .190 

CHAPTER  XVI. 

Maryland  Bank  Stock — Mr.  King  advises  no  partial  Regulations  relative 
to  the  Detention  of  Seamen — Provision  of  Money  to  meet  Obligations 
under  Treaty  with  Tunis— Sir  Joseph  Banks  asks  for  Passport  for  Mr. 
Masson  to  go  to  America  to  collect  Plants — Letter  of  R.  King  to 
M.  Talleyrand,  introducing  Col.  Trumbull  and  asking  his  friendly 
Influence  to  aid  in  removing  the  Troubles  between  France  and  the 
United  States — R.  King  to  the  Secretary  of  State — France  probably 
owns  Louisiana — Genl.  Allen's  Claim — T.  Pickering  on  Gov.  Blount's 
Conspiracy — R.  King  to  A.  Hamilton — Gloomy  Views  relative  to 
Affairs  in  Europe — Letters  from  G.  Cabot  and  Wm.  Hindman — 
R.  King  to  T.  Jefferson — S.  Williams  relative  to  Genl.   Lafayette.     202 


CONTENTS.  xi  11 


CHAPTER  XVII. 


PAGE 


Senator  Blount's  Expulsion  from  the  Senate — Mr.  Liston's  Conduct — R. 
King  declines  a  Dinner  offered  by  American  Merchants — Gen.  La- 
fayette— R.  King  to  the  Secretary  of  State,  thanking  him  for  regular 
Information  of  the  Affairs  of  the  U.  S.,  and  sending  to  him  an 
Account  of  European  Politics — Lafayette  and  French  Affairs — 
Disturbances  in  Ireland — Release  of  Lafayette,  and  his  Arrival  in 
Hamburg — Lafayette  to  R.  King 216 


CHAPTER  XVIII. 

Embassy  of  Messrs.  Pinckney,  Marshall,  and  Gerry  to  France — Blount's 
Conspiracy — Dr.  Romaine's  Connection  with  it — Portuguese  Treaty 
with  France — Cession  of  Louisiana  by  Spain  demanded  by  France 
— French  Duplicity  towards  America — R.  King  believes  the  People 
of  England  will  continue  to  Support  the  Government — Especially 
since  the  Failure  of  the  Negotiation  at  Lisle — Communication  to  Lord 
Grenville  relative  to  the  Trade  to  British  Territories  in  India — 
French  Orders  against  American  Commerce  in  the  West  Indies         .     233 


CHAPTER  XIX. 

Mr.  Hindman  on  Maryland  Politics — Mr.  King  and  Maryland  Bank 
Stock — Judge  Cambauld  in  St.  Domingo — Genl.  Washington  relative 
to  Lafayette's  Son — Count  Rumford — Chisholme,  Agent  of  Governor 
Blount  in  London — Statement  of  Facts  made — Correspondence  with 
Commissioners  in  Paris — Directory  propose  Peace  to  England — 
Declined — Mr.  King  to  the  Commissioners — The  United  States 
must  act  with  Decision — Fear  of  Mr.  Gerry  in  Letter  to  General 
Pinckney — Letter  to  Mr.  Gerry — From  General  Pinckney — No  Hope 
of  a  Treaty  with  France    .........     249 

CHAPTER  XX. 

Mr.  King  to  Secretary  of  State — France  in  the  Ascendant — England 
apathetic  but  preparing  against  Invasion — N.  E.  Boundary — St. 
Croix  River — Lord  Grenville  advises  of  new  French  Decrees — 
American  Masters  propose  to  arm  their  Ships — British  Government 
would  grant  Convoys — Mr.  King  to  Lord  Chancellor  relative  to 
Maryland  Bank  Stock — Continental  Affairs — N.  E.  Boundary,  an 
additional  Article  proposed — English  Depredations  on  Commerce  in 


XIV  CONTENTS. 


PAGE 


the  West  Indies — Mr.  King  to  Secretary  of  State — Affairs  on  the  Con- 
tinent— Envoys  in  Paris — England  has  no  Expectation  of  Peace — 
Miranda — Maryland  Bank  Stock — Mr.  Gerry — Mr.  King  to  R. 
Troup — To  the  Secretary  of  State  relative  to  Transfer  of  American 
Funds  by  Dutch  Lenders  to  France — Envoys  to  France  send  a 
Letter  to  the  Directory — Letter  from  General  Hamilton — Public 
Opinion  sounder  than  that  of  the  national  Representatives       .         .     268 

CHAPTER  XXI. 

Claims  of  English  Commissioners  under  seventh  Article  of  the  Treaty 
denied — Mr.  Cabot  on  growing  Discontent  against  French  Aggres- 
sions— Confidence  in  the  English  Action — Congress  should  protect 
our  Commerce — General  Pinckney  on  French  Demands — Mr.  King 
regrets  the  Stay  of  the  Envoys  in  Paris — Recall  of  the  Envoys — 
Indisposition  in  Congress  to  protect  Commerce — Fear  of  causing  War 
— Convoys  to  be  accepted,  and  Merchantmen  may  be  armed — Dis- 
patches to  Envoys  called  for — Mr.  Bingham  on  the  commercial 
Regulations  with  England — Mr.  King's  Letters  to  the  Envoys  in 
Paris — To  Secretary  of  State  on  Relations  of  Denmark  and  France — 
Rebellion  in  Ireland — General  Pinckney  announces  that  Mr.  Gerry 
will  stay  in  Paris       ..........     287 

CHAPTER  XXII. 

Mr.  Sedgwick's  View  of  American  Politics — The  President  acting  a 
noble  Part — His  Message  on  the  French  Mission — Instructions  to 
Envoys  and  their  Dispatches  called  for  and  sent  to  Congress — 
Effect  produced — Warlike  Measures  proposed — Letters  from  and 
to  the  Envoys  in  Paris — Mr.  King  to  Mr.  Gerry — Letters  from 
Messrs.  W.  Hindman,  Cabot,  and  Sedgwick — Public  Opinion  about 
French  Duplicity — American  Students  in  Edinburgh  to  Mr.  King 
— Mr.  King  to  Secretary  of  State  on  Mr.  Gerry's  Conduct — 
Ireland's  wretched  Condition — Martial  Law — To  Gen.  Hamilton  on 
European  Affairs — Maryland  Bank  Stock — Mr.  J.  A.  Smith's  Letter 
relative  to  Irish  Troubles — Messrs.  R.  Troup,  Bingham,  Lawrance, 
and  Cabot  show  Disgust  and  Resentment  against  France — Approv- 
ing warlike  Measures        .........     310 

CHAPTER  XXIII. 

Sir  Francis  d'lvernois  on  Fate  of  Switzerland — R.  King  to  Secretary  of 
State — Publication  of  Envoys'  Dispatches — France  will  not  declare 
War  ;  may  release  Vessels — Irish  Troubles — Emperor  of  Russia  will 
help   England — R.    King's  Dissatisfaction  with  English  diplomatic 


CONTENTS.  XV 


PAGE 


Ways — Letter  to  Genl.  Hamilton — Consul  Bosc  on  Slavery  in  S.  Caro- 
lina— West  India  trade  Orders — R.  Troup — Warlike  Tone  against 
France  in  the  United  States — Capture  of  Vessels  in  West  Indies — T. 
Pickering  on  the  Envoys — R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State — Irish 
Rebellion  and  probable  Emigration — Talleyrand's  Duplicity  with 
Envoys — R.  Troup — Warlike  Measures  against  France — John  Adams 
will  not  disgrace  the  Country — Recall  of  Mr.  Gerry — Sedgwick — 
Measures  adopted  not  strong  enough — American  Politics — Cabot 
believes  England  with  the  U.  S.  can  command  the  Ocean  .         .     335 

CHAPTER  XXIV. 

France  to  send  skilful  Intriguers  to  U.  S. — Bonaparte's  Fleet  from  Toulon 
may  meet  Nelson — Ireland's  Union  to  England  must  come — Ameri- 
can Consuls  should  give  Certificates  of  Residence — Conquest  of 
Malta — Miranda — Treaties  with  France  set  aside — U.  S.  must 
defend  themselves — Hostile  Measures  passed  by  Congress — Wash- 
ington appointed  Lieut.  Genl. — Troops  to  be  raised — Patriotic 
Addresses  to  the  President — Decatur  captures  French  Privateer — 
France  may  declare  War  against  the  U.  S. — Mr.  Murray  suggests 
England's  Interference  for  People  of  Holland — Copper  for  the  U.  S. 
— Members  of  French  National  Institute  to  be  sent  to  the  U.  S. — 
Republic  of  Blacks  in  St.  Domingo — T.  Pinckney  would  support 
the  Government — Irish  likely  to  emigrate — Should  have  Certificates 
of  Character — Washington  accepts  Command — R.  King  gratified  by 
Firmness  of  U.  S. — Its  Effect  in  England — Its  Government  and 
People  decided  ..........     356 

CHAPTER  XXV. 

King  to  R.  Troup — French  and  Irish  Affairs — Benedict  Arnold — To 
Secretary  of  State — French  Affairs — United  States  must  be  firm — 
Reports  of  Volney — Lord  Grenville  on  Relations  of  the  United 
States  with  France — Gerry's  Arrival  at  Spithead — King's  Failure  to 
see  him — Duverne  de  Praisle  sent  to  Philadelphia — His  Character — 
Dr.  Logan's  Arrival  at  Hamburg — King  to  W.  Vans  Murray — Nego- 
tiation between  England  and  Holland — Mr.  Derby  desires  to  import 
Saltpetre  from  E.  Indies  to  America — King  to  purchase  Muskets  and 
Cannon  for  the  United  States — King's  Admiration  of  the  Firmness 
of  the  Govt,  of  the  United  States  in  Relations  with  France — Con- 
versation with  Lord  Grenville  on  the  Effect  of  the  Rupture  of 
Treaties  with  France — Probability  of  Revolution  in  S.  America — 
European  Politics — To  S.  Williams  relative  to  Seizure  of  Nails  as 
Contraband — Cabot  on  European  Affairs — Also  on  the  Condition  of 
the  United  States  and  its  Firmness    .......     377 


xvi  CONTENTS. 


CHAPTER  XXVI. 


PAGE 


King  to  Secretary  of  State  relative  to  Negotiations  between  England  and 
Holland — To  Lord  Grenville  on  Talleyrand's  Proposals  to  Gerry 
and  Lord  Grenville's  Answer — Also  Application  for  the  Use  of  certain 
Cannon  given  by  George  II.  to  South  Carolina  and  then  in  Halifax — 
Yellow  Fever  in  Philadelphia — Apprehended  Difficulty  with  Com- 
missioners under  sixth  Article — Military  Appointments — Hamilton 
and  Knox — King  to  Secretary  of  State — French  Perfidy  and  Outrage 
^Also  his  Satisfaction  with  the  decided  Measures  against  France — 
State  of  Europe — Landing  of  French  Troops  in  Ireland — Ignorance 
of  the  Destination  of  French  Fleet  from  Toulon — On  the  Eve  of  a 
Recommencement  of  the  War  on  the  Continent — Irish  Rebellion — 
Dr.  Logan  in  Paris — King  complains  to  Lord  Grenville  of  Proceedings 
of  English  High  Court  of  Admiralty  in  the  Matter  of  Captures — Pick- 
ering's Opinion  of  Gerry — Correspondence  about  Muskets — King  to 
Hamilton — Military  Appointments — Pickering  on  the  same — King 
says  the  Conduct  of  the  President  and  of  America  wise  and  approved 
in  England — Circular  to  Consuls  as  to  Commissions  to  armed  American 
Vessels      ............     399 

CHAPTER  XXVII. 

King  to  Secy,  of  State  and  Hamilton  on  Opinions  in  France  looking  for  a 
Renewal  of  Negotiations— Bingham  reports  State  of  Feeling  in 
United  States  on  the  Publication  of  the  Dispatches — Pickering  gives 
an  Account  of  Gerry's  Arrival  in  England — Troup — Yellow  Fever  : 
its  Severity,  Causes,  and  Treatment — Military  Appointments — Burr 
— Political  Opinions — Contempt  for  Conduct  of  Talleyrand  and  Gerry 
— Failures  in  United  States — King — Nelson's  Victory — Supposed 
Purpose  of  Bonaparte  to  go  to  India — Condition  of  Affairs  on  the 
Continent — Lord  Grenville  on  European  Politics — Proposes  Arrange- 
ment as  to  Duties  on  Sugar — Cabot  draws  a  Picture  of  Affairs — Gerry 
has  seen  the  President ;  talks  prudently — Military  Appointments — 
King  to  Secy,  of  State — Dissatisfaction  with  High  Court  of  Admiralty 
— Correspondence  with  Lord  Portland  relative  to  the  Irish  Prisoners 
— To  Wolcott — Difficulty  in  purchasing  Arms — To  Secy,  of  State, 
in  Reference  to  the  Proposition  relative  to  Duties  on  Sugar — To  T. 
Pinckney — Approves  of  the  Abolition  of  Treaties  with  France — 
Gratified  with  the  Attitude  of  United  States 422 

CHAPTER  XXVIII. 

R.  King  to  Duke  of  Portland  on  the  third  Article  of  the  Treaty,  relative 
to  fishery  Privileges  on  Magdalen  Islands,  etc. — His  Answer — J. 
Adams  to  R.  King — Our  Country  unanimous  and  firm — R.  King  to 
Secretary   of   State — General   Affairs   in  Europe — Brest  Expedition 


CONTENTS.  XV11 


PAGE 

— Conference  with  Mr.  Pitt  relative  to  Sugar,  etc.,  and  on  commer- 
cial Regulations — Sir  James  Harriot  resigned — To  Secretary  of  State 
— On  the  Irish  state  Prisoners — Effect  of  Nelson's  Victory — To  Col. 
Pickering — Miranda  Expedition — To  A.  Hamilton  on  the  same — N. 
Webster  to  R.  King — Effect  of  Publication  of  Envoys'  Dispatches 
— Yellow  Fever — R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State — In  Case  of  War 
with  France  England  will  share  Muskets — Efforts  to  buy  them  in 
Hamburg,  etc. — French  Frigates  on  the  Coast  of  Ireland— Secretary 
of  State  to  R.  King — Talleyrand's  Declaration,  "  United  States 
merited  no  more  Consideration  than  Genoa  or  Geneva  " — R.  King  to 
Hamilton — Continental  and  English  Affairs — Lord  Grenville  on 
Affairs  of  Holland — R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State — Union  with  Ire- 
land will  be  proposed — Extension  of  Trade  in  the  Mediterranean 
suggested — Also  a  Treaty  with  Russia 446 

CHAPTER  XXIX. 

R.  Troup — Military  Appointments — Reception  of  Gerry  at  Boston — Dr. 
Losran — Marshall — St.  Croix  Commission  has  settled  the  Line — 
Commissioners  under  sixth  Article  make  Decision  in  Favor  of  Persons 
attainted  during  the  Revolution — Cabot — Elections — Knox  declines — 
Gerry  approves  the  national  Measures — Course  of  the  President  rela- 
tive to  him — R.  King  to  Secy,  of  State — French  Plans — Extravagant 
Arret  to  treat  as  Pirates  all  Natives  of  Countries,  Allies  of  France, 
found  on  Enemy's  Vessels — Lord  Grenville  on  this — England  threat- 
ens Retaliation — R.  King  presses  Claims  for  Maryland  Stock — Treaty 
between  England  and  Toussaint — To  and  from  J.  Jay  relative  to 
Supply  of  Arms — R.  King  to  Secy,  of  State — Conversation  with 
British  Ministers  on  the  Convention  with  Toussaint ;  its  great  Import- 
ance to  the  United  States — R.  King  to  T.  Pickering — May  call 
ourselves  united — France  looks  to  our  Divisions — Count  Rumford 
proposes  to  settle  in  America — R.  King  to  W.  Bingham — France  en- 
couraged by  our  Divisions,  etc. — Dangers  ahead  great — W.  Hind- 
man  to  R.  King — Federalism  increasing — General  Politics — W.  Bing- 
ham—  Irish  Prisoners  not  desirable — General  Politics — St.  Domingo 
— Indian  Medals — R.  King  to  H.  Dundas — Correspondence  relative 
to  Convention  with  St.  Domingo — ToGenl.  Pinckney — United  States 
should  take  the  Lead  in  what  affects  the  New  World         .         .  .     465 

CHAPTER    XXX. 

Jay  to  King — European  Affairs — Cabot,  Conversation  with  Liston — 
Praise  of  King — England's  Power  and  Policy — Hindman — Result  of 
the  Elections — Pickering  to  King — Alien   and  Sedition   Laws — Vir- 


xviii  CONTENTS. 


PAGE 

% 

ginia  and  Kentucky  call  for  their  Repeal — King  to  Secy,  of  State — 
Bonaparte  in  Egypt — Report  of  Assassination — To  Hamilton — State 
of  Europe — To  Secy,  of  State — France  declares  War  against  Naples 
— Neapolitan  Troops  defeated — Austria  had  made  Peace — To  the 
Duke  of  Portland — Restoration  of  an  Estate  confiscated  in  New- 
foundland demanded — To  Secy,  of  State — St.  Domingo — England 
and  United  States  should  act  in  Concert  should  it  become  indepen- 
dent— Conferences  with  Lord  Grenville  as  to  its  Influence  on  British 
West  Indies — His  Suggestion  of  a  joint  Corporation  for  Trade 
objected  to  as  inadmissible  under  the  Constitution  and  unadvisable 
for  our  Merchants — Might  each  make  Treaties  with  Toussaint,  etc. 
— G.  B.  desires  to  act  with  U.  S. — Secy,  of  State  to  King — Outrage 
of  Capt.  Loring — J.  Hale  to  King — Affairs  in  United  States     .         .     489 

CHAPTER  XXXI. 

King  to  Secretary  of  State — New  French  Decree  against  American  Com- 
merce— St.  Domingo — Affairs  on  the  Continent  and  Egypt — To  R. 
Troup — Situation  of  Americans  in  Paris  perilous — Sedgwick  to  King 
—  Congress  should  have  acted  firmly,  declared  War,  treated  Spain  as 
an  Ally  of  France,  and  seized  the  Mouth  of  the  Mississippi — Compo- 
sition of  the  Senate  not  improved  ;  of  House,  better — Virginia's 
Opposition  growing  worse — Surplus  of  Revenue — Conduct  of  Com- 
missioners under  sixth  Article  outrageous — Not  a  single  enlisting 
Order  for  the  Army  issued — King  to  Hamilton — St.  Domingo  and 
Miranda — Pickering's  Son  suggested  as  Secretary  to  King — King  to 
W.  Wickham — Miranda  to  Secretary  of  State — Mission  of  Colonel 
Maitland — President's  Speech  able — Admiralty  Decrees — Tobacco 
Ships  captured  by  the  French — Secretary  of  State  to  King — Outrage 
of  Captain  Loring — Captain  Phillips's  Conduct  pusillanimous — Troup 
— Summary  of  American  Affairs — King  to  the  President — Weakness 
of  continental  Governments — Firmness  of  England — Pride  in  the  in- 
creasing Attention  in  Europe  to  the  able  and  dignified  Administra- 
tion of  the  American  Government     .......     509 

CHAPTER  XXXII. 

King  to  Secretary  of  State — Neapolitans  beaten  in  every  Quarter — Union 
of  Great  Britain  and  Ireland  considered — To  General  Maitland — His 
Mission  should  be  no  Misunderstanding  between  England  and  United 
States — King  to  Lord  Grenville — Will  England  receive  the  Con- 
struction of  France  as  conclusive  on  the  Points  in  which  France  and 
United  States  disagree? — Shows  the  Wrong  of  such  a  Decision — 
Secretary  of  State  to  King — President  approves  his  Interposition  to 


CONTENTS.  XIX 


PAGE 

prevent  the  Emigration  of  the  Irish  Traitors  to  the  United  States — 
Difficulties  with  Commissioners  under  the  sixth  Article — Act  of  Con- 
gress against  French  Privateers — King  nominated  as  Commissioner 
to  make  a  commercial  Treaty  with  Russia — Cabot — Troubles  with 
the  Commissioners  under  6th  Article — Confidence  in  R.  King  to  act 
wisely — Secretary  of  State  to  King — Virginia  Resolutions  disapproved 
of — King  to  Dundas  on  the  East  India  Trade  and  his  Answer — To 
R.  Varick — Counterfeit  Notes — Cabot  to  King — Effect  of  Conduct  of 
France — Speculations  on  commercial  Relations — Affairs  in  the  United 
States — Truxton  captures  V Insurgente — Scarcity  of  Copper  prevents 
the  Sale  of  it  to  the  United  States     .......     528 

CHAPTER  XXXIII. 

Pickering  to  King — Proposed  Negotiation  with  France  regretted — King  to 
Pickering — On  current  Events — Cabot :  Nomination  of  Minister  to 
France  condemned — Secy,  of  State — St.  Domingo  will  be  indepen- 
dent— Insurrection  in  Pennsylvania  against  direct  Tax — President 
gone  to  Quincy — King  to  Lord  Grenville — Protest  against  Outrage 
on  the  Baltimore  by  Capt.  Loring — To  Count  Woronzow — Commer- 
cial Treaty  with  Russia — To  Lord  Grenville  demanding  a  sealed 
Package  addressed  to  him  and  detained  by  the  Court  of  Admiralty 
— To  Secy,  of  State — Conference  with  Lord  Grenville  relative  to 
Capt.  Loring — Also  one  relative  to  Contraband  of  War — Impress- 
ment of  Seamen  and  other  Points  in  Dispute — Count  Rumford  to 
King — Military  Suggestions — King  to  Secy,  of  State — Premature  in 
naming  a  Commissioner  to  Russia — Plans  of  Russia  and  England  to 
cut  off  the  Trade  of  Neutrals  with  France — Lafayette — Irish  Affairs 
— Joseph  Hale  to  King — Reflections  on  Mr.  Murray's  Appointment 
to  Holland — King  to  Troup — On  the  Prize  Courts  of  England — To 
Pickering — His  Son  as  Secretary — Recommends  C.  Gore  as  Minister 
to  Constantinople — To  J.  McHenry  relative  to  Count  Rumford — To 
O.  Wolcott  respecting  Arms  sent  to  the  United  States — To  Count 
Rumford  ............     548 

CHAPTER  XXXIV. 

King  to  Jay — Domestic  and  foreign  Affairs — Sedgwick — Nomination  of 
Murray — Virginia  and  Kentucky  Resolutions — Troubles  of  Commis- 
sion under  sixth  Article — King  to  Secretary  of  State — French  Move- 
ments— Louisiana — Blindness  which  prevents  a  general  Confederacy 
against  France — Lord  Grenville  and  King — On  Outrage  by  Capt. 
Loring — Blockade  of  the  Ports  of  Holland — King  to  Lord  Grenville, 
advising  recasting  eighteenth  Article  of  the  Treaty  of  Amity,  etc., 


XX  CONTENTS. 


PAGE 

to  obtain  more  Precision  of  Terms — Naval  Stores — To  Wm.  Smith 
— Mission  to  Russia  and  the  Porte — Count  Rumford — Hindman — 
Result  of  the  Elections — King  to  Secretary  of  State — Modifications  of 
French  Regulations  against  American  Commerce — French  military 
Operations  in  the  Tyrol — To  Jay — Muskets  bought  in  Hamburg  for 
New  York — Troup — Disgust  at  Murray's  Nomination — Insurrection 
in  Pennsylvania — King  to  Sir  Joseph  Banks — United  States  Mint 
and  Coins — To  Lord  Grenville — Specification  of  proposed  Alterations 
in  eighteenth  Article  .         .         .         .  .         .         .         .     578 

Appendix  I 601 

Appendix  II 616 

Appendix  III 620 

Appendix  IV 635 

Appendix  V 649 


THE   LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE   OF 

RUFUS    KING. 


CHAPTER  I. 

Mr.  King's  Re-election  to  the  Senate — Settlement  of  the  System  of  public 
Credit — Mr.  Hamilton's  Retirement  and  R.  King's  Opinion  of  it — 
Hamilton's  earnest  Letter  relative  to  non-subscribing  Creditors — Mr. 
Jay's  Nomination  for  Governor  of  New  York. 

The  term  for  which  Mr.  King  had  been  chosen  Senator  of 
the  United  States  from  New  York  would  expire  on  March 
4,  1795,  and  a  strong  effort  was  made  by  the  friends  of  Mr. 
Clinton  to  prevent  his  re-election.  Notwithstanding  this, 
he  was  on  January  27th  again  appointed  to  the  position  by 
a  "  majority  of  six  in  one  House  and  one  in  the  other." 

The  Congress  which  was  then  sitting  was  engaged  in  an 
earnest  endeavor  to  provide  for  the  gradual  redemption  of 
the  funded  debt,  in  accordance  with  the  general  system  of 
finance,  which  had  been  recommended  by  Alexander  Hamil- 
ton and  which  he  had  in  his  reports  sustained  by  most  cogent 
reasoning.  The  result  was  that  the  entire  management  of 
the  public  debt  was  vested  in  the  Commissioners  of  the 
Sinking  Fund,  with  an  appropriation,  in  addition  to  the  re- 
sources already  assigned,  of  the  proceeds  of  certain  tempo- 
rary taxes,  which  would  enable  them  to  pay  with  regularity 
the  accruing  interest  and  gradually  to  extinguish  the  princi- 
pal of  the  debt. 

VOL.  II. — I  T 


RUFUS  KING.  [1795 


In  the  original  plan  there  were  clauses  providing  for  the 
creditors  who  had  not  before  subscribed,  which,  in  the  House, 
were  stricken  out,  one  of  the  objections  to  it  being  that 
under  its  terms  the  non-subscribing  creditors  would  be  bet- 
ter off  than  those  who  had  availed  themselves  of  the  original 
arrangement.  Though  it  was  answered  that  this  would  not 
be  the  case,  and  other  reasons  were  given  why  the  clauses 
making  special  provisions  should  be  maintained,  it  was  de- 
cided to  strike  them  out.  Mr.  Hamilton,  who  had  resigned 
from  the  office  of  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  before  this  time, 
was  greatly  moved  by  this  action  and  expressed  his  disap- 
pointment in  his  letter  to  Mr.  King  of  February  21st. 

It  is  to  the  settlement  of  the  financial  affairs  of  the  gov- 
ernment and  thus  placing  the  public  credit  on  the  firmest 
foundation  that  Mr.  King  alludes  in  his  letter  to  Mr.  Gore 
of  February  14th  ;  a  letter  which  gives  his  opinion  of  the 
loss  the  country  had  sustained  by  the  retirement  of  a  "  great 
and  virtuous  minister  "  from  the  public  affairs  of  the  coun- 
try, and  of  his  hope  that  his  successor  (Mr.  Oliver  Wolcott) 
"  may  emulate  his  predecessor's  example."  * 


Egbert  Benson  to  R.  King,  Phila. 

"  Poughkeepsie,  Jany.  15th,  1795. 
".  .  .  The  27th  inst.  is  the  day  big  with  the  Fate.  Some  of 
the  Gentry  have  supposed  it  would  be  most  advisable  to  re-elect 
Schuyler,  otherwise  both  the  Senators  will  continue  to  be  from 
the  Southern  part  of  the  State.  You  may  suppose  they  do  not 
know  what  to  say,  and  that  they  have  not  determined  what  to 
do,  when  they  come  forward  with  such  stuff.     Mark  the  Expres- 

*  Hildreth  happily  says  {Hist,  of  United  States,  2dser.,  i.,  p.  538)  :  "  During 
his  [Hamilton's]  six  years  of  public  service  he  had  placed  the  fiscal  concerns  of  the 
United  States  on  a  solid  foundation — that,  indeed,  upon  which  they  have  ever 
since  rested.  The  investigations  into  his  conduct,  dictated  by  the  suspicions 
of  his  enemies,  had  resulted  altogether  to  his  advantage.  His  whole  scheme 
being  now  complete,  and  his  official  integrity  thoroughly  vindicated,  he  could 
safely  leave  to  the  administration  of  others  that  system  which  his  genius  had 
organized  " 


1795]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  3 

sion  of  the  Message,  '  alarming  aspect  of  public  affairs/  '  daring 
claims,'  '  children  of  the  opulent ' — what  a  delectable  Rascal  he 
is  !  Was  there  ever  such  cursed  nonsense  as  what  he  says  about 
our  System  of  Jurisprudence  being  implicitly  borrowed  &c.  ? " 


J.  O.  Hoffman  to  R.  King,  Phila. 

26th  Jany.,  1795. 

Our  opponents  spare  no  pains  to  defeat  the  success  of  your  re- 
appointment. They  have  at  length  partly  agreed  on  Mr.  Jones  ; 
but  at  a  meeting  this  evening,  for  the  purpose  of  counteracting 
their  measures,  he  declared  his  entire  disapprobation  of  the  plan. 
They  expected  something  from  the  change  of  the  Scene  ;  but  as 
yet  they  have  made  no  impression  and,  I  believe,  instead  of  losing 
we  daily  gain  ground. 

It  has  been  judged  prudent  to  postpone  all  arrangements  rela- 
tive to  Mr.  Jay,  untill  after  Tuesday.  A  visit  from  you  might 
after  that  time,  be  attended  with  the  most  salutary  effects.  Burr's 
friends  now  declare  that  Watts,  Gilbert  &  Van  Gaasbeck  are  in 
his  favor.  With  esteem  J.  O.  Hoffman. 


Rob.  Troup  to  R.  King,  Phila. 

27th  Jany.,   1795. 

Dear  Sir  : 

I  sincerely  congratulate  you  upon  your  re-election — by  a  ma- 
jority of  six — five  in  one  house  and  one  in  the  other.  Tillotson 
was  your  antagonist.     .     .     . 

Very  sincerely,  Rob.  Troup. 


C.  Gore  to  R.  King. 

Boston,  Jany.  29th,  1795. 
My  Dear  Friend  : 

On  Monday  a  vessel  arrived  at  Cape  Ann  from  Ramsgate  in 
England  ...  I  have  seen  a  letter  for  Mr.  Sears,  it  is 
from  Mr.  Dickason,  &  says  the  commercial  treaty  between 
the  U.  S.  and  G.  B.  is  signed  and  printed  in  the  Gazette.  Amer- 
ican   stocks   rose  in  consequence   of  this    event     .     .     .     Now 


RUFUS  KING.  [1795 


nothing  being  said  of  the  state  of  the  belligerent  powers  at  that 
time,  it  is  probable  their  situation  was  not  altered  materially  since 
our  last  advices. 

Yours  affectionately, 

C.  Gore. 


N.  Gorham  to  R.  King,  Phila. 

Boston,  Feby.  5,  1795. 
My  Dear  Sir  : 

I  most  sincerely  congratulate  you  upon  your  re-election  & 
I  can  assure  you  that  the  true  Federalists  think  it  a  very  happy 
circumstance  for  the  country.  I  am  very  much  afraid  we  shall 
not  be  able  to  get  Mr.  Dexter  elected  again.     .     .     . 

Your  friend,  Nath.  Gorham. 


C.  Gore  to  R.  King. 

Boston,  Feby.  9,  1795. 
My  Dear  Friend  : 

.  .  .  A  letter  from  the  Hague  and  published  this  day  in  the 
Orrery,  informs  that  La  Fayette  has  been  again  taken  and  recon- 
ducted to  prison.  This  news  we  fear  is  authentic.  It  is  said  the 
letter  is  from  Mr.  Adams. 

Affectionately  yours, 

C.  Gore. 


R.  King  to  C.  Gore. 

Phila.  Feb.  14th,  1795. 

The  Treaty  has  not  yet  arrived,  and  we  are  very  impatient  to 
receive  it  before  Congress  adjourns.  Hamilton's  last  Report 
exceeds  my  Frank  or  I  would  send  you  a  copy,  probably  however 
you  will  have  received  one — the  Resolutions  that  have  been 
brought  forward  in  pursuance  of  it,  have  been  adopted  with  some 
immaterial  variations  by  the  House  of  Representatives,  &  there  is 
a  fair  Prospect  that  the  Finances  will  be  arranged  conformable  to 
his  views. 


1795]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  5 

We  lose  a  Great  and  Virtuous  Minister  in  the  retirement  of  this 
Gentleman  ;  his  successor*  is  a  good  man — possesses  firmness, 
industry,  integrity,  and  sound  Talents  with  a  disposition  to  emu- 
late his  Predecessor's  Example. 

I  am  mortified  that  Dexter  has  not  succeeded  ;  should  he  from 
disgust  decline,  or  should  he  finally  fail  it  would,  believe  me,  be 
the  subject  of  serious  &  deep  regret  to  the  friends  of  the  Govern- 
ment, for  without  depreciating  the  talents  of  any  those  of  Mr. 
Dexter  class  him  among  the  men  of  the  very  first  order  of  Abilities 
in  our  Country. 

His  re-election  is  worthy  of  great  Effort,  the  want  of  which 
alone,  it  would  seem  to  me,  will  defeat  his  Choice. 

You  will  have  learnt  that  I  have  been  re-elected  ;  in  one  view 
I  am  gratified  ;  but  without  affectation  I  can  say  to  you,  that  lam 
wearied  with  this  kind  of  life,  which  has  nothing  new  to  afford 
me,  and  which  demands  of  me  sacrifices  that  I  become  daily 
more  and  more  unwilling  to  make. 

Pennsylvania  &  North  Carolina  have  yet  to  make  their  Sena- 
torial Elections,  the  former  will  probably  do  well,  &  there  is  no 
reason  to  despair  of  the  latter  ;  in  any  event  the  Senate  will  stand 
better  after  March  than  at  present. 

Farewell — Yrs  sincerely 

R.  King. 


A.  Hamilton  to  R.  King. 

Kingston,  Feb.  21,  1795. 
My  Dear  King  : 

The  unnecessary,  capricious  &  abominable  assassination  of  the 

National  honor  by  the  rejection  of  the  propositions  respecting  the 

unsubscribed  debt,  in  the  House  of  Representatives,  haunts  me 

every  step  I  take  and  afflicts  me  more  than  I  can  express.    To  see 

the  character  of  the  Government  &  the  Country  so  sported  with, 

exposed  to  so  indelible  a  blot,  puts  my  heart  to  the  Torture.    Am 

I  then  more  of  an  American  than  those  who  drew  their  first  breath 

on  American  Ground  ?     Or  what  is  it  that  thus  torments  me  at  a 

*  Oliver  Wolcott. 


RUFUS  KING.  [i795 


circumstance  so  calmly  viewed  by  almost  every  body  else  ?  Am 
I  a  fool — a  Romantic  Quixot — or  is  there  a  constitutional  defect 
in  the  American  mind  ?  Were  it  not  for  yourself  and  a  few  others, 
I  could  adopt  the  reveries  of  De  Paux  as  substantial  truths,  & 
would  say  with  him  that  there  is  something  in  our  climate  which 
belittles  every  animal,  human  or  brute. 

I  conjure  you,  my  friend,  make  a  vigorous  stand  for  the  honor 
of  your  country.  Rouse  all  the  energies  of  your  mind,  and  meas- 
ure swords  in  the  Senate  with  the  great  Slayer  of  public  faith,  the 
hacknied  Veteran  in  the  violation  of  public  engagements.  Pre- 
vent him  from  triumphing  a  second  time  over  the  prostrate 
Credit*  and  injured  interests  of  his  Country.  Unmask  his  false 
and  horrid  hypothesis.  Display  the  immense  difference  between 
an  able  statesman  and  the  Man  of  Subtilties.  Root  out  the  dis- 
tempered and  noisome  weed,  which  is  attempted  to  be  planted 
in  our  political  garden,  to  choak  and  wither  in  its  infancy  the  fair 
plant  of  public  credit. 

I  disclose  to  you  without  reserve  the  state  of  my  mind.  It  is 
discontented  &  gloomy  in  the  extreme.  I  consider  the  cause 
of  good  government  as  having  been  put  to  an  issue  &  the  Ver- 
dict against  it.  Introduce  I  pray  you  into  the  Senate,  when  the 
bill  comes  up,  the  clause  which  has  been  rejected,  freed  from  em- 
barrassments by  the  bills  of  credit  bearing  interest  on  the  nominal 
value.  Press  its  adoption  in  this  the  most  unexceptionable  shape  & 
let  the  yeas  &  nays  witness  the  result.  Among  other  reasons  for 
this  is  my  wish  that  the  true  friends  of  public  Credit  may  be  dis- 
tinguished from  its  enemies.  The  question  is  too  great  a  one  not 
to  undergo  a  thorough  examination  before  the  community.  It 
would  pain  me  not  to  be  able  to  distinguish.    Adieu. 

God  bless  you 

A.  Hamilton. 

Do  me  the  favour  to  revise  carefully  the  course  of  the  bill,  re- 
specting the  unsubscribed  Debt,  &  let  me  know  the  particulars.  I 
wish  to  be  able  to  judge  more  particularly  of  the  underplot  I 
suspect. 

*  Witness  the  40  for  1  scheme,  a  most  unskilful  measure  to  say  the  best 
of  it. 


1795]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  J 

A.  Hamilton  to  R.  King. 

N.  York,  Feby.  26,  1795. 
My  Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  received  your  letter  with  the  printed  Bills.  The  new 
clause  is  an  additional  bad  feature.  Yet  't  is  better  the  thing 
should  pass  as  it  is  than  not  at  all.  Every  thing  should  be  gained 
that  can  be. 

So  :  It  seems  that  under  the  present  administration  of  the  De- 
partment, Hillhouse  &  Goodhue  are  to  be  the  Ministers  in  the 
House  of  Representatives  and  Ellsworth  &  Strong  in  the  Sen- 
ate. Fine  work  we  shall  have.  But  I  swear  the  nation  shall  not 
be  dishonored  with  impunity. 

Yrs.  Affect' ly, 

A.  Hamilton. 


Peter  Van  Gaasbeck  to  Rufus  King. 

Kingston,  18th  March,  1795. 
My  Dear  Sir  : 

The  people  here  wish  farther  satisfaction  as  to 
Mr.  Jay's  Return.  Give  me  all  by  Billy  (Wm.  Marius  Green)  ;  as 
I  said  in  my  former  the  great  majority  of  the  Committee  who 
have  nominated  Mr.  Burr,  if  he  is  no  candidate,  will  unquestion- 
ably and  very  powerfully  support  Mr.  Jay — thus  as  it  is  very  prob- 
able that  Mr.  Burr  will  not  stand  a  Candidate,  every  elucidation 
respecting  Mr.  Jay's  Return  will  be  of  singular  advantage.    .    .    . 

Yr.  most  obedt.  Servt.  &  Sincere  Friend, 

Peter  Van  Gaasbeck. 


O.  Wolcott  to  R.  King. 

Phila.,  March  23rd,  1795. 
My  Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  rec'd  your  favour  of  the  19th  instant — on  enquiry  I  find 
Mr.  Blaney  has  left  town,  I  cannot  therefore  ascertain  the  truth  of 
the  declaration  attributed  to  him  :  the  following  circumstance 
however  proves  to  my  satisfaction,  that  the  declaration  it  made 
has  been  misunderstood  or  perverted  to  impress  a  wrong  idea. 


8  RUFUS  KING.  [1795 


On  the  19th  of  Nov.  Mr.  Jay  in  a  letter  requested  that  he  might 
have  the  earliest  advice  of  the  ratification;  that  he  might  be  enabled 
to  finish  whatever  might  be  expected  of  him  in  season  to  return  in  one 
of  the  first  spring  vessels.  At  the  same  time  he  suggested  that  if  his 
health  had  been  competent  to  a  winter  voyage  he  should  have  been  him- 
self the  bearer  of  the  Treaty. 

The  truth  doubtless  is,  that  Mr.  Jay  finding  his  health  unequal 
to  the  severities  of  a  voyage  in  winter,  concluded  to  tarry 
until  Spring,  and  of  course  might  reasonably  expect  the  ratifica- 
tion before  his  departure  from  England.  There  is  however  noth- 
ing in  his  Letters,  and  nothing  as  I  believe  on  good  grounds,  in 
any  Letters  which  have  been  written  from  this  Country  which 
can  countenance  an  opinion,  that  Mr.  Jay  will  wait  for  the  ratifi- 
cation— The  contrary  is  firmly  believed  here. 

I  am  with  perfect  respect 

Dear  Sir  your  obed.  serv., 

Oliver  Wolcott. 


CHAPTER  II. 

Jay's  Treaty  received — The  Senate  called  to  consider  it — Mr.  King's  Reso- 
lution to  ratify  it — Ratification  with  Protest  against  Article  twelve 
recommended — "  Camillus  Letters"  by  Hamilton  and  King — After  much 
Delay  the  President  signed  the  Treaty — Randolph's  Correspondence  with 
Fauchet,  the  French  Ambassador — His  Resignation  of  Office  of  Secretary 
of  State — The  President  suggests  Mr.  King  as  his  Successor — He  declines 
— Letters  of  Hamilton,  King,  and  Randolph  relative  to  the  Treaty — Delay 
of  Ratification  caused  Dissatisfaction — Public  Meetings  opposed  to  it  ; 
G.  Cabot  and  C.  Gore  relative  to  these — R.  King's  Letter  announcing 
Ratification. 

The  treaty  which  had  been  negotiated  by  Mr.  Jay  with 
Great  Britain  late  in  1794  was  received  by  the  Secretary  of 
State  on  March  7,  1795,  and  the  Senate  was  called  by  the 
President  to  meet  on  June  8th,  to  consider  masters  touching 
the  public  good.  They  accordingly  convened  on  that  day, 
and  the  President  laid  before  them  "  the  Treaty  and  other 
documents  connected  with  it,"  asking  them  "  to  decide 
whether  they  will  advise  and  consent  that  the  said  Treaty 
be  made." 

As  a  preliminary  step  the  Senate  passed  a  resolution  im- 
posing secrecy  upon  the  communication  until  further  order 
of  the  Senate.  An  ineffectual  effort  was  made  to  rescind 
this  resolution,  and  after  consideration  of  the  different 
articles  a  motion  was  made,  it  is  said  by  Mr.  King,  on  June 
17th  to  consent  and  advise  the  President  to  ratify  the  treaty 
"  on  condition  that  there  be  added  to  the  said  Treaty  an 
article  whereby  it  shall  be  agreed  to  suspend  the  operation 
of  so  much  of  the  twelfth  article  "  as  relates  to  trade  with  the 
West  Indies,  "  and  at  the  same  time  recommending  to  the 

9 


10  RUFUS  KING.  LI795 

President  to  proceed,  without  delay,  to  further  friendly 
negotiations"  on  the  subject  of  the  said  trade. 

Mr.  Burr,  on  the  22d,  moved  to  postpone  this  motion,  to 
adopt  a  series  of  resolutions  he  offered  to  effect  certain 
alterations  in  the  treaty  in  the  several  particulars  they  sug- 
gested. His  resolution  was  rejected  next  day  by  a  vote  of 
20  to  10,  and  on  the  24th,  after  an  attempt,  for  reasons 
given,  to  pass  a  resolution  to  refuse  consent,  that  portion 
of  the  original  proposition,  advising  the  ratification  of  the 
treaty,  was  passed  by  20  to  10,  and  the  other  portion, 
advising  a  renewal  of  negotiations,  by  an  unanimous  vote. 
Mr.  King  voted  in  both  cases  in  the  affirmative.  It  is  well 
known  that  he  made  an  earnest  plea  for  the  ratification  of 
the  treaty,  but  nothing  can  be  found  among  his  papers  to 
indicate  even  the  heads  of  the  speech.  His  views,  however, 
are  fully  presented  in  the  letters  of  Camillus  written  by  him. 

On  the  26th,  the  injunction  of  secrecy  was  rescinded,  with 
a  proviso,  however,  "  that  it  be  nevertheless  enjoined  upon 
the  Senators  not  to  authorize  or  allow  any  copy  of  the  said 
communications,  or  of  any  article  thereof.  ' 

The  President  delayed  for  some  time  appending  his  sig- 
nature to  the  treaty  as  explained  hereafter,  and  the  public 
became  very  anxious  to  know  the  particulars  of  the  docu- 
ment, whose  ratification  had  been  recommended.  In  conse- 
quence of  the  secrecy, 

"  statements  as  to  the  contents  had  begun  to  appear,  accompanied 
by  very  malignant  comments.  In  order  to  prevent  hasty  conclu- 
sions, founded  on  partial  views,  and  wishing  to  hear  the  opinions 
of  the  people,  Washington  directed  the  whole  treaty  to  be  pub- 
lished. But  in  this  he  had  been  anticipated.  On  the  same  day 
that  this  direction  was  given,  a  full  abstract  had  appeared  in  the 
Aurora,  followed,  a  few  days  after,  by  a  perfect  copy  furnished 
by  Mason  on  the  Senate  under  his  own  name."* 

In  the  Life  of  Alexander  Hamilton,  vi.,  p.  223,  occurs  the 
following  passage : 

*  Hildreth,  Hist,  of  U.  S.,  2d  ser. ,  i.,  546. 


1795]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  II 

"  To  remove  the  prejudice  this  procedure  [the  publication  of  the 
treaty  by  Mason]  excited,  it  was  falsely  charged  that  Rufus  King 
had  divulged  the  treaty  by  furnishing  Hamilton  with  a  copy.  The 
charge  was  repelled  by  the  Senator  from  New  York,  who  stated 
that  he  had  acted  strictly  within  the  limits  of  the  injunction  in 
having  permitted  a  copy  to  be  read  ;  but  that  no  copy  had  been 
given  ;  a  permission  which  had  been  freely  exercised  by  other 
members  of  the  Senate." 

Every  effort  was  made  by  the  enemies  of  the  treaty  to 
poison  the  public  mind  against  it.  The  newspapers  were 
filled  with  articles  to  show  how  shamefully  the  interests  of 
the  country  had  been  sacrificed  to  the  dictation  of  Great 
Britain  and  to  the  injury  of  France.  Among  those  who 
opposed  it  in  this  way  was  Brockholts  Livingston,  who  had 
been  most  conspicuous  in  the  public  meeting  in  New  York 
against  the  treaty.  In  certain  articles  signed  "  Decius  "  he 
attempted  to  show  how  injurious  the  treaty  would  be,  and 
how  disgraceful  to  the  country.  Mr.  R.  R.  Livingston,  as 
"  Cato,"  wrote  in  the  same  strain.  These  were  ably  an- 
swered by  Hamilton  in  a  series  of  papers,  signed  "  Camillus," 
papers  so  able  and  conclusive,  that  they  were  largely  instru- 
mental in  checking  the  dissatisfaction  which  existed,  and 
which  was  aggravated  by  the  delay  of  the  President  in  sign- 
ing the  treaty.  The  first  of  these  articles  was  issued  on  the 
22d  of  July,  "  four  days  after  the  public  meeting  where 
Hamilton  was  assailed  with  missiles." 

In  the  Life  of  Hamilton,  vi.,  p.  273,  we  find  these  para- 
graphs : 

"  The  discussion  of  the  first  ten  or  permanent  articles  occupied 
twenty-two  numbers  of  these  essays.  To  the  remaining  or  tem- 
porary articles  twelve  were  devoted.  The  general  views  enter- 
tained by  Hamilton  as  to  the  commercial  features  of  this  treaty 
have  been  seen  in  the  letter  *  addressed  by  him  to  the  President. 
That  letter  contains  the  outline  of  '  Camillus.' 

"  It  is  perceived  from  a  comparison  of  it  with  the  first  twenty- 
*  July  6,  Life  of  Hamilton,  vi.,  229. 


12  RUFUS  KING.  [1795 

two  numbers,  the  original  drafts  of  which  are  in  Hamilton's  auto- 
graph, that  they  were  exclusively  his.  Of  the  remaining  essays,  ten, 
Nos.  23  to  30,  both  included,  34  and  35,  were  from  another  pen, 
with  frequent  alterations,  interlineations  and  additions  by  Hamil- 
ton. The  residue  of  the  numbers,  being  six,  are  also  Hamilton's 
exclusively.  It  has  been  stated  that  his  letter  to  the  President  con- 
tained the  outline  of  these  numbers  on  the  commercial  features  of 
the  treaty,  but  it  should  be  observed  that  the  views  were  much  ex- 
tended in  the  '  Camillus  '  letters  ;  that,  when  the  objections  to  the 
treaty  are  admitted,  the  defensive  observations  as  to  Jay,  which  had 
been  previously  presented  by  him  to  the  President,  are  interlined 
in  Hamilton's  autograph,  and  that  great  anxiety  is  evinced  by 
him,  lest  the  positions  taken  should  mean  more  than  he  felt  was 
warranted  by  just  inductions.  As  he  had  urged  the  mission  of 
of  Jay,  he  felt  the  more  anxious  to  guard  him  from  censure." 

Mr.  J.  C.  Hamilton,  in  his  Works  of  Alexander  Hamilton, 
had  stated  in  a  note  to  the  No.  xxiii.  Camillus  letter,  that 
"  this  and  the  seven  succeeding  numbers  are  from  the  pen 
°f  Rufus  King,  excepting  parts  within  brackets,  which  are 
in  Hamilton's  hand. — Ed."  He  claims  here  that  xxxiv.  and 
xxxv.  were  written  by  Hamilton,  for  he  makes  no  note  about 
them.  It  so  happens  that  manuscript  copies  of  these  are 
in  the  present  editor's  possession. 

In  his  Life  of  Hamilton,  written  some  twenty  years  later  in 
vol.  vi.,  p.  273,  he  says  that  the  above  numbered  essays  and  in 
addition  "  34  and  35  are  from  another  pen  [without  mention- 
ing whose. — Ed.]  with  frequent  alterations,  interlineations 
and  additions  by  Hamilton."  It  may  be  mentioned,  that 
all  these  alterations,  etc.,  amount  to  about  two  or  three  pages 
in  one  hundred.* 

Though  in  the  Works,  Mr.  Hamilton  mentions  the  name 
of  Rufus  King  as  that  of  one  of  the  writers  of  these  letters, 

*  The  length  of  these  letters,  which  occupy  104  pages  of  the  Works  of 
Hamilton,  vol.  vii.,  pp.  378-468,  and  487-501,  has  decided  the  Editor  to  omit 
them  and  to  refer  those  who  desire  to  read  them  and  to  examine  the  able  and 
clear  presentation  of  the  points  discussed,  to  the  above  named  publication. — 
Ed, 


1795]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  1 3 

it  is  not  a  little  strange  that  he  should  have  forgotten  to  state 
in  the  Life,  even  in  a  note,  that  the  "  other  pen  "  was  Rufus 
King's,  the  warm,  confidential,  and  trusted  friend  of  his 
father  to  the  end  of  his  life.  Though  we  are  indebted  to 
Mr.  Hamilton  for  the  first  positive  published  evidence  that 
Mr.  King  was  the  co-laborer  in  writing  them,  we  find  in  a 
letter  of  John  Adams  to  his  wife  January  31,  1796,*  the 
following  statement  : 

"  I  have  a  secret  to  communicate  to  your  prudence.  The 
defence  by  Camillus  was  written  in  concert  between  Hamilton, 
King  and  Jay.  The  writings  on  the  first  ten  articles  of  the 
treaty  were  written  by  Hamilton  ;  the  rest  by  King  till  they  come 
to  the  question  of  the  constitutionality  of  the  treaty,  which  was 
discussed  by  Hamilton.  Jay  was  also  to  have  written  a  concluding 
peroration  ;  but  being  always  a  little  lazy  and  perhaps  concluding 
that  it  might  be  most  politic  to  keep  his  name  out  of  it,  and  perhaps 
finding  that  the  work  was  already  well  done,  he  neglected  it. 
This  I  have  from  King's  own  mouth.  It  is  to  pass,  however,  for 
Hamilton's.  All  three  consulted  together  upon  most,  if  not  all 
the  pieces." 

In  addition  to  these,  the  existence  of  manuscript  drafts 
of  several  of  the  letters  among  the  papers  of  Mr.  King,  and 
the  following  extract  from  a  letter  of  Mr.  King  himself  to 
Mr.  William  Coleman,  February,  18 17,  are  authoritative 
evidences  that  he  contributed  some  of  them  : 

"  Of  the  papers  under  the  signature  of  Camillus,  those  relative 
to  the  permanent,  or  ten  first  Articles  of  Mr.  Jay's  Treaty  were 
written  by  Hamilton,  those  relative  to  the  commercial  and  mari- 
time articles  were  written  by  me.  The  critical  examination  of 
these  articles,  in  relation  to  navigation  &  trade,  as  well  as  to  the 
Laws  and  Treaties  of  Nations,  has  been  of  great  advantage  to  me 
thro'  life.  Principles  were  established  and  Usages  and  Regula- 
tions discovered  relative  to  maritime  and  commercial  Law  which 
have  given  to  me  greater  confidence  in  acting  and  deciding  on 
these  intricate  matters  than  I  feel  on  almost  any  other  subject." 

*  Life  and  Works,  i.,  485,  pub.  1856. 


14  RUFUS  KING.  [1795 

A.  Hamilton  to  R.  King,  New  York. 

June  11,  1795. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  thank  you  for  your  letter  of  the  10th.  The  case  has  been 
with  me  as  with  you.  Reflection  has  not  mitigated  the  excep- 
tionable point.  Yet  it  will  be  to  be  lamented  if  no  mode  can  be 
devised  to  save  the  main  object  and  close  the  irritable  questions 
which  are  provided  for.  Every  thing  besides  an  absolute  and 
simple  ratification  will  put  something  in  jeopardy.  But,  while  on 
the  one  hand  I  think  it  advisable  to  hazard  as  little  as  possible, 
on  the  other  I  should  be  willing  to  hazard  something  and  unwil- 
ling to  see  a  very  objectionable  principle  put  into  activity. 

It  is  to  be  observed  that  no  time  is  fixed  for  the  ratification  of 
the  Treaty.  It  may  then  be  ratified  with  a  collateral  instruction 
to  make  a  declaration  that  the  U.  States  consider  the  article  in 
question  aggregately  taken  as  intended  by  the  King  of  G.  B.  as 
a  privilege  ;  that  they  conceive  it  for  their  interest  to  forbear  the 
exercise  of  that  privilege  with  the  condition  annexed  to  it,  till  an 
explanation  in  order  to  a  new  modification  of  it  shall  place  it  on 
a  more  acceptable  footing,  or  till  an  article  to  be  sent  to  our  Minis- 
ter, containing  that  modification,  shall  be  agreed  upon  between  him 
&  the  British  Court  as  a  part  of  the  Treaty  j  the  ratification  not  to 
be  exchanged  without  further  instruction  from  this  country  unless 
accepted  in  this  sense  &  with  this  qualification. 

This  course  appears  to  me  preferable  to  sending  back  the 
Treaty,  to  open  the  negotiation  anew,  because  it  may  save  time  on 
the  points  most  interesting  to  us,  &  I  do  not  see  that  if  the 
ratifications  be  exchanged  with  this  saving  there  can  be  any  doubt 
of  the  matter  operating  as  intended. 

Adieu,  Yrs.  Truly 
A.  Hamilton. 

A.  Hamilton  to  R.  King. 

My  Dear  Sir  : 

New  York,  June  20,  1795. 

A  considerable  alarm  has  been  spread  this  morning  by  a  report 
that  the  Treaty  has  been  disagreed  to.  I  have  assured  those  I 
have  seen  that  I  was  convinced  any  rumour  of  a  decision  must  be 


1795]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  1 5 

premature.  The  anxiety  however  about  the  result  is  extreme. 
The  common  opinion  among  men  of  business  of  all  descriptions 
is  that  a  disagreement  to  the  Treaty  would  greatly  shock  and 
stagnate  pecuniary  plans  and  operations  in  general.  This  is  not 
a  small  source  of  disquietude  ;  others  who  are  likely  to  be  affected 
in  that  sense  (and  among  these  myself)  look  forward  to  the  result 
with  great  solicitude  as  fixing  or  endangering  the  stability  of  our 
present  beneficial  and  desirable  situation. 

My  influence  in  seconding  the  wishes  of  our  friend  General 
Gunn  is,  I  fear,  overated.  Unwilling  to  raise  expectations,  which 
may  not  be  realized,  I  will  only  say,  that  it  will  give  me  real 
pleasure  to  be  able  to  promote  his  accommodation  or  advantage  ; 
as  my  opinion  entirely  coincides  with  yours.  In  the  mean  time,  I 
will,  as  far  as  circumstances  will  permit,  have  an  eye  to  the  affair. 

Yrs.  affectionately 

A.  Hamilton. 


Edm.  Randolph  to  R.  King. 

Philadelphia,  July  6,  1795. 
Dear  Sir  : 

My  indisposition  has  prevented  an  earlier  answer  to  your 
favour  of  the  1st  instant. 

Before  the  co-agency  of  Mr.  Bache  and  a  Senator  had  violated 
the  injunctions  of  secrecy,  I  was  impressed  with  your  ideas,  and 
caused  Brown  to  publish  a  memorandum,  that  on  Wednesday  the 
treaty  would  appear.  This  day  was  named,  because  I  could  not 
sooner  recover  the  only  copy  in  my  powers  which  I  had  put 
into  the  hands  of  Mr.  Adet,  upon  his  expressing  some  vague 
inquietudes. 

I  have  since  received  his  objections,  feeble  in  themselves,  and 
more  feebly  urged.  They  are  these  three  simple  things.  1.  that 
we  have  granted  to  G.  B.,  the  liberty  of  seizing  contraband  be- 
yond what  was  agreed  between  us  and  France.  2.  that  we  have 
annulled  the  17th  Article  of  the  French  treaty  ;  and  3  that  we 
have  incapacitated  ourselves  from  forming  a  new  commercial 
treaty  with  France  by  the  last  clause  of  the  25  th  article  in  that 
with  England.  An  answer  is  prepared,  which  is  satisfactory  to 
the  President. 


1 6  RUFUS  KING.  [1795 

The  8th  article  will  be  attended  to  the  moment  after  the  Presi- 
dent shall  give  his  final  instruction  on  the  treaty.     With  great 

respect 

Yr.  mo.  Ob  Servt. 

Edm.  Randolph. 


R.  King  to  C.  Gore. 

N.  York,  24  July,  1795. 

I  thank  you  for  your  letter  and  am  pleased  to  learn  that  a  coun- 
ter-current is  appearing  on  the  subject  of  the  treaty.  From  the 
Resentment  and  past  defeats  of  our  Jacobins,  it  was  natural  to 
expect  a  very  considerable  effort  on  this  occasion.  They  had 
concerted  their  plans,  &  by  manifesting  a  noisy  opposition  in  the 
large  Towns  at  the  same  Time,  they  expected  to  surprize  and 
gain  the  public  opinion.  Industry  and  arts  will  continue  to  be 
employed  for  this  purpose,  and  you  are  right  in  saying  that  the 
moment  demands  all  the  Patience  and  Firmness  of  virtuous  men 
to  bear  up  against  the  torrent. 

You  will  have  seen  the  progress  and  result  at  the  meeting  in  this 
City.  The  invitation  was  to  condemn,  the  Friends  of  order  were 
requested  to  attend  for  the  purpose  of  discussion,  but  the  noise 
and  confusion  which  prevailed,  precluded  all  Examination  and 
the  first  meeting  separated  without  any  regular  Decision  on  any 
subject.  The  meeting  that  succeeded  on  Monday  was  ex  parte, 
the  friends  of  a  fair  Discussion  having  declined  to  attend,  and 
the  Resolutions  which  they  adopted  it  is  said  were  similar  to  those 
of  Boston.  The  merchants  who  are  here  an  incorporated  Cham- 
ber, summoned  a  meeting  for  Tuesday  evening.  The  chamber 
was  unusually  full,  the  Treaty  was  the  subject,  which,  after  Dis- 
cusion,  they  approved  in  Resolutions  which  they  passed  by  a 
majority  of  6  to  1. 

It  is  much  to  be  regretted  that  Boston  gave  the  example  of  a 
Town  meeting  on  this  subject — had  they  remained  silent,  or  had 
the  schemes  of  Jarvis  &  others,  on  this  occasion,  as  heretofore, 
been  disappointed,  we  should  have  had  no  meeting  here,  and  the 
country  would  have  escaped  that  Fever  into  which  it  is  likely  to 


1795]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  I? 

be  thrown.  You  must  exert  yourselves  in  procuring  a  right  con- 
ception of  the  Treaty — if  understood,  it  will  not  be  disapproved. 
Will  not  your  merchants  take  any  step  to  counteract  the  Opinion 
that  Boston  has  been  unanimous  in  their  Condemnation — be  per- 
suaded that  tho'  the  thing  is  well  understood  with  you,  yet  a 
counter-act,  proceeding  from  your  merchants  would  have  a  very 
considerable  effect  in  this  and  other  quarters  of  the  Union. 

Farewell  yrs.  sincerely, 

R.  King. 


G.  Cabot  to  R.  King. 
Dear  Sir  :  Brookline,  25  July,  1795. 

Going  into  town  yesterday  for  the  first  time  since  my  return,  I 
met  your  letter  of  the  13th  *  &  was  greatly  rejoiced  to  find  that 
the  insanity  which  is  epidemic  in  this  quarter  is  less  prevalent  with 
you.  It  would  be  consolatory  to  believe  that  among  the  crew  of 
our  political  ship,  the  sound  would  always  be  sufficient  to  take 
care  of  the  sick.     But  I  have  not  this  desirable  faith. 

The  readiness  and  severity  with  which  the  Treaty  has  been  con- 
demned is  a  new  proof  that  our  government  cannot  rely  for  sup- 
port even  upon  good  men  in  cases  of  emergency  :  for  these  very 
generally  acquiesced  in  the  censure  without  any  examination  of 
the  subject.  It  is  true  that  they  are  now  mortified  at  their  in- 
discretion, &  many  of  them  will  have  the  magnanimity  to  retread 
their  steps  ;  but  pride  will  probably  prevent  others  from  acknowl- 
edging they  were  wrong. 

A  number  of  gentlemen  visited  me  soon  after  I  arrived  here 
and  were  easily  satisfied  that  the  ideas  circulated  respecting  the 
Treaty  were  very  incorrect.  But  they  all  united  with  me  in  senti- 
ment that  explanations  wou'd  be  fruitless  during  the  ferment 
which  was  extreme  and  universal — what  was  then  foreseen  has 
been  since  realized — men's  minds  had  gone  too  far  &  when  in- 
clined to  come  back  a  little  effort  has  been  successful  in  greatly 
accelerating  the  reverberation. 

With  a  view  to  ascertain  the  state  of  public  opinion  &  to  con- 

*  It  is  to  be  regretted  that  this  letter  to  Mr.  Cabot  cannot  be  recovered. 
—Ed. 

VOL.    II. — 2 


1 8  RUFUS  KING.  [1795 

tribute  my  mite  towards  forming  it  rightly  in  other  parts  of  the 
State,  I  attended  the  commencement  at  Cambridge  &  was  gratified 
to  perceive  that  sensible  and  virtuous  men  from  other  quarters 
resented  the  proceedings  of  Boston,  so  that,  if  I  were  to  judge 
from  the  evidence  of  that  day,  I  shou'd  pronounce  that  the  sober 
sense  of  Massachusetts  approves  the  Treaty. 

Since  that  time  a  piece  entitled  "  Candid  Remarks  on  the 
Treaty  "  has  been  republished  here  from  some  of  your  papers, 
the  effects  of  which  are  highly  beneficial.  Such  a  summary  de- 
fence was  well  adapted  to  the  moment,  but  I  hope  a  more  elabo- 
rate one  will  be  produced  at  New  York  &  handed  along  very  soon. 

Our  mercantile  men  have  learnt  something  more  of  our  rights 
and  the  rights  of  the  other  nations  than  they  knew  formerly,  but 
they  have  yet  to  learn  that  the  commerce  of  the  U.  S.  is  not 
such  as  wou'd  enable  us  to  dictate  the  terms  on  which  an  inter- 
course is  to  be  held  with  the  nations  of  Europe. 

Upon  examining  the  East  India  Article,  I  don't  see  that  our 

vessels  are  prohibited  the  Coasting   Trade   &    I    shou'd    imagine 

they  will  enjoy  it  as  usual  until  an  explicit  prohibition  shall  be 

declared  by  the  British.     The  more  I  have  examined  the  article 

the  better  it  has  appeared,  &  most  men  with  whom  I  converse 

seem  to  agree  that  it  is  good.     I  have  much  more  to  say,  but  my 

Potatoes  need  hoeing  &  must  not  be  neglected.     .     .     . 

Your  faithful  friend 

G.  Cabot. 


G.  Cabot  to  R.  King,  N.  York. 

Dear  Sir  :  Brookline,  July  27th,  1795. 

Your  favor  of  the  20th  did  not  come  to  hand  until  this  moment. 
It  was  not  wholly  unexpected  that  our  mob  shou'd  inflame  yours. 
All  Society  is  full  of  combustible  materials  &  a  flame  once  lighted 
easily  produces  a  general  conflagration.  It  cannot  be  sufficiently 
regretted  that  some  of  our  respectable  men  have  on  this  occasion 
joined  the  Jacobins  &  very  many  of  them  acquiesced  in  their 
measures.  They  now  see  the  pernicious  tendency  of  their  pro- 
ceedings &  a  good  portion  of  them  already  condemn  them. 

I  believe  it  adds  much  to  their  mortification  to  reflect  that  they 


1795]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  1 9 

listened  to  the  representations  and  observations  of  a  man  whose 
want  of  sense  has  been  thought  at  Boston  a  security  against  his 
influence.  After  all  no  sufficient  apology  is  offer'd  for  the  con- 
duct of  men  who  have  habitually  supported  order  and  now  have 
arranged  themselves  with  its  enemies.  Some  of  them  indeed  say 
that  they  were  deceived  by  the  accounts  brought  by  Mr.  Langdon, 
others  by  the  mutilated  abstract  published  which  totally  removed 
alienage,  and  many  confess  that  they  condemned  the  Treaty  with- 
out knowing  its  merits. 

You  will  perhaps  hold  me  responsible  for  these  excesses,  but  I 
decline  being  surety  against  the  folly  and  nonsense  of  any  men. 
If  I  had  thought  as  ill  of  the  citizens  of  Boston  as  their  conduct 
respecting  the  Treaty  wou'd  now  justify,  or  if  I  had  realised  that 
Mr.  L.  wou'd  furnish  sparks  to  inflame  them,  it  is  possible  that  a 
few  hours  conversation  with  some  of  them  on  the  evening  of  my 
arrival  might  have  retarded  the  rapidity  of  the  current,  tho'  I 
don't  think  it  cou'd  have  changed  its  course. 

In  justice  to  Dr.  Eustis  I  ought  to  mention,  as  from  his  friend, 
that  one  of  his  motives  for  sharing  in  the  agency  was  that  of  pre- 
venting greater  mischief.  This  is  laudable  and  sometimes  ex- 
pedient, but  the  services  of  our  friends,  when  accompanied  by 
improper  concessions  to  our  enemies  are  too  costly  to  be  profit- 
able. You  will  see  a  sharp  speech  of  Dexter's,  which  does  him 
credit  for  its  spirit  &  good  sense,  but  it  is  introduced  by  ad- 
mitting that  the  Treaty  is  "  not  so  good  as  he  hoped."  I  shall 
desire  him  to  point  out  some  of  those  good  things,  which  he  had 
a  right  to  hope  for,  presuming  that  his  hopes  &  even  desires  are 
regulated  by  reason. 

I  wish  you  wou'd  inform  me  by  return  of  post  whether  these 
popular  tumults  have  produced  any  embarrassment  to  the 
President,  &  whether  the  Treaty  with  its  accompaniments  is 
gone. 

Our  good  men  here  all  presume  that  the  President  is  too  firm 
to  be  shaken,  and  therefore  have  the  more  willingly  indulged 
themselves  in  supineness.  I  think,  however,  they  wou'd  rally  and 
make  a  respectable  effort  if  it  were  believed  to  be  indispensable. 
In  Salem  &  the  other  Seaports  they  are  pretty  steady,  &  in  the 
country  as  yet  I  have  not  heard  of  the  Treaty's  being  anywhere 


20  RUFUS  KING.  [1795 

unpopular,  &  every  day  furnishes  new  evidence   that   the   old 
friends  of  order  are  re-uniting  even  at  Boston. 

It  was  observed  here  that  your  Jacobins  were  prudent  to  en- 
deavour to  knock  out  Hamilton's  brains  to  reduce  him  to  an 
equality  with  themselves  ;  but  I  trembled  at  the  first  account 
which  was  related  of  that  adventure  &  offer'd  up  an  unfeigned 
prayer  for  his  safety.     I  mean  the  silent  prayer  of  an  affectionate 

heart.     .     .     .* 

Your  faithful  friend, 

G.  Cabot. 


G.  Cabot  to  R.  King,  N.  Y. 

My  Dear  Sir  :  Brookline,  Aug.  4,  1705. 

The  uncertainty  you  mention  respecting  the  ratification  of  the 
Treaty  by  the  President,  renews  my  anxiety  for  the  welfare  of  our 
Country.  Altho'  I  have  entertained  some  fears  that  the  business 
was  delayed,  yet  as  no  objections  from  the  President  had  ever 
come  to  my  knowledge,  my  hopes  greatly  preponderated.  I  shall 
seize  this  moment,  while  the  proceeding  of  the  President  is  un- 
known, to  suggest  to  the  Boston  merchants  the  propriety  of  a 
manly  declaration  of  their  sentiments,  but  altho'  I  have  reason  to 
believe  that  the  Treaty  is  now  generally  approved  by  them,  yet  so 
many  of  them  had  indiscreetly  censured  it,  that  it  is  doubtful  how 
far  they  will  incline  formally  to  express  their  present  opinions. 

*  The  allusions  in  these  letters  are  to  the  public  meetings  held  at  first  in 
Boston  to  denounce  the  treaty  and  to  endeavor  to  influence  the  President  to 
refuse  his  consent  to  the  ratification,  which  the  Senate  had  advised.  The  para- 
graph in  Mr.  Cabot's  letter  refers  to  a  meeting  called  in  New  York  by  the 
enemies  of  the  treaty  to  express  their  utter  abhorrence  of  it.  But  its  friends 
decided  to  attend  the  meeting  that  they  might  show  that  in  the  city  other  views, 
more  representative  of  its  sentiments,  were  held.  At  this  meeting,  Hamilton 
advised  an  adjournment,  rather  than  that  a  hasty  decision  should  be  made,  and 
the  meeting  became  so  disorderly  that  the  friends  of  the  treaty  withdrew,  but 
not  before  Hamilton  had  been  struck  in  the  head,  but  without  serious  injury, 
by  a  stone  thrown  from  the  excited  crowd.  In  Philadelphia,  Charleston, 
and  other  places  also,  meetings  were  held  in  which  violent  denunciations  of 
the  treaty  were  made  to  influence  the  action  of  the  President.  But  all 
were  ineffectual,  for  on  August  14th  the  President  after  careful  consideration 
signed  it. 


1795]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE,  21 

Pride  is  a  powerful  enemy  in  this  case  &  combined  with  the 
natural  reluctance  which  men  feel  at  combating  popular  prejudices, 
may  not  be  easily  overcome  ;  but  be  this  as  it  may,  you  may  be 
fully  assured  that  the  most  respectable  part  of  our  community 
have  become  the  advocates  of  the  Treaty  &  are  extending  the 
opinion  of  its  propriety  every  moment.  I  am  told  that  the  only 
article  which  is  now  unsatisfactory  'to  any  of  the  Federalists 
here  is  the  10th  ;  which  shows,  I  think,  that  they  are  hard  pressed 
by  their  friends.  Indeed  it  will  not  surprise  me  to  find  the  Sen- 
ate blamed  for  not  accepting  the  entire  instrument  by  some  men 
who  have  lately  censured  every  part.  Such  is  the  versatility  of 
opinion.  Although  we  have  neither  a  Curtius  nor  a  Camillus,  yet 
the  explanation  given  by  Gore  in  the  newspaper  &  those  circulated 
by  others  in  private  conversations  have  so  well  aided  the  investiga- 
tion of  individuals,  that  the  subject  is  pretty  well  understood  and 
its  friends  increased  in  a  corresponding  degree.  I  am  however 
very  glad  to  see  the  systematic  &  able  defence  setting  up  in  your 
city  &  shall  take  measures  to  extend  its  operation  in  this  quarter. 

I  have  too  much  respect  for  the  character  of  the  President  to 
believe  that  he  can  be  deterr'd  from  his  duty  by  the  clamor  or 
menaces  of  these  city-mobs,  but  still  I  agree  with  you,  that  their 
doings  shou'd  be  counteracted  by  the  good  people,  lest  it  shou'd 
be  imagined  that  all  are  alike  infected  with  the  rage  of  disorgani- 
zation. 

Your  sincere  friend, 

G.  Cabot. 


C.  Gore  to  R.  King. 

Boston,  7  August,  1795. 
My  Dear  Sir  : 

A  letter  from  Mr.  Cabot  to  Mr.  Higginson  the  day  before  yes- 
terday informs  that  it  is  uncertain,  whether  the  treaty  is  yet  rati- 
fied. A  few  days  past,  I  felt  satisfied  that  things  were  coming 
right,  that  reason  and  reflection  were  assuming  the  lead  and  that 
we  should  very  soon  have  a  just  idea  of  the  treaty,  and  return  to 
our  old  good  humor  with  the  government  and  with  each  other. 
The  signers  to  the  protest  amount  to  more  than  200,  and  include 


22  RUFUS  KING.  [*795 

almost  every  man  of  property  and  reputation  ;  and  a  great  many 
who  had  expressed  themselves  with  warmth  on  the  subject  of  the 
treaty — some  of  the  most  bitter  opponents, — had  given  up  clamor- 
ing, avoided  all  conversation  on  the  business  and  very  publickly 
declared  that  if  signed  by  the  President,  which  they  considered 
the  fact,  it  ought  to  be  submitted  to,  like  other  laws,  and  wou'd 
meet  their  cordial  support.  But  shou'd  it  be  generally  known 
that  the  instrument  is  not  yet  ratified,  that,  with  the  furious  heat 
of  Charlestown,  wou'd  bring  back  all  our  fire.  It  would  be  felt 
that  the  President  was  taking  part  with  a  mob  against  his  own 
government.  Our  opponents  wou'd  naturally  reason,  that  if  a 
little  tumult  produced  such  a  delay,  a  more  violent  opposition 
wou'd  be  completely  successful. 

A  chamber  of  commerce  is  called  to  meet  this  evening.  It  is 
expected  the  meeting  will  be  large  ;  and  the  resolutions  to  be  sub- 
mitted approve  in  positive  terms  of  the  treaty.  There  is  great 
reason  to  hope  they  will  be  adopted  with  unanimity.  Pains  are 
taking  to  induce  Salem  and  Newburyport  to  express  favorable 
sentiments  of  the  treaty.  Mr.  Cabot  is  at  the  latter  place,  and 
will  undoubtedly  take  every  step  to  promote  such  measures.  But 
after  all,  my  friend,  every  thing  depends  on  an  idea  that  the 
President  has  ratified  it,  and  no  measures  ought  to  be  left  un- 
essayed  to  have  the  ratification  compleat  and  dispatch'd  to 
Europe  immediately.  That  done,  and  publickly  known  to  have 
been  done,  would  place  us  again  in  quiet. 

Yours  affectionately, 

C.  Gore. 


C.  Gore  to  R.  King. 

Waltham,  14th  August,  1795. 
My  Dear  Sir  : 

The  paragraph  in  Webster's  paper  relative  to  the  state  of  the 
treaty  has  given  me  inexplicable  pain.  Whether  strictly  right 
according  to  the  rules  of  proceeding  in  such  cases  I  cannot  say  ; 
but  taking  it  on  ground  the  least  objectionable,  there  is  an  expence 
of  time  in  making  the  negotiation  prior  to  the  President's  signa- 
ture, that  may  in  itself  be  injurious.  Tho'  this  is  but  of  small 
consequence  compared  to  the  evils  that  result  from  the  continued 


1795]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  23 

and  increased  ferment  which  this  delay  produces.  The  evils  are 
incalculable,  unless  we  can  calculate  all  the  evils  of  a  compleat 
prostration  of  government,  and  of  the  unlimited  and  unrivalled 
power  of  the  most  malignant  and  licentious  faction.  The  friends 
of  government  are  disheartened  and  discouraged.  They  feel  the 
humiliation  of  continual  warfare  for  an  administration  which  sup- 
ports its  opponents  and  disgraces  its  friends.  This  is  the  obser- 
vation of  the  most  respectable  and  steady  advocates  of  order  in 
Boston. 

The  many  sober,  but  unreflecting,  men  who  first  joined  with  the 
opponents  were  endeavoring  to  return  to  their  old  friends  :  they 
had  been  ensnared  ;  they  saw  it,  but  many  had  not  magnanimity 
enough  to  declare  their  conviction,  without  some  good  apology. 
They  said  if  the  President  had  ratified  the  treaty,  there  was  an 
end  of  all  opposition  ;  and  you  may  be  assured,  that  their  zealous 
support  of  it  as  a  law  of  the  land,  would  in  some  degree  have 
compensated  for  their  former  error.  They  now  think,  as  the 
President  has  delay'd  to  ratify  it  (for  whatever  may  be  the  motive 
of  the  Executive,  it  will  be  attributed  either  to  dislike  of  the  in- 
strument, or  the  influence  of  the  opponents),  that  their  first  start 
was  right,  that  they  were  lucky  in  their  opposition,  and  will  now 
steadily  adhere  to  their  friends.  Of  all  the  critical  situations  in 
which  the  government  has  been  placed,  this  is  the  most  extreme. 
Prejudice  against  the  English,  love  for  the  French,  a  false  idea  of 
our  own  strength  and  of  that  of  Britain  ;  the  character  of  the  op- 
ponents in  Charlestown,  especially  if  Rutledge  is  appointed  Chief 
Justice,  together  with  the  conclusions  that  will  be  drawn  from  the 
President's  conduct,  will  require  more  strength  and  influence  to  op- 
pose, than  can  be  expected  from  the  few  firm  friends  to  order  which 
may  be  found  in  Massachusetts.  I  know  of  but  one  step  that  can 
arrest  this  mania,  that  affords  any  hope  of  supporting  the  govern- 
ment. An  address  from  the  President  to  the  people  of  the  United 
States,  stating  that  he  had  ratified  the  treaty,  or  done  what 
amounted  to  a  ratification,  provided  G.  B.  acceded  to  the  suspen- 
sion as  recommended  by  the  Senate.  This  would  allay  the  heat, 
unite  the  moderate  men  and  those  who  are  generally  neuters  till 
questions  are  decided,  and  it  would  afford  support  to  those  who 
fight  the  battles  of  the  government,  in  the  distant  parts  of  the 


24  RUFUS  KING.  [i795 

continent.  It  appears  to  me  that  this  alone  will  save  us  from  the 
most  distressing  convulsions.  The  events  of  Europe  may  hum- 
ble the  French  influence  here  ;  but  at  the  same  time,  they  would 
raise  the  pride  of  Britain,  and  if  our  Executive  shews  itself  oper- 
ated on  by  them,  it  is  not  unnatural  she  should  then  say,  you  have 
made  your  choice,  and  are  welcome  to  abide  by  it — we  will  remain 
as  we  are. 

Yours  affectionately, 

C.  Gore. 

Is  it  not  possible  for  Col.  Hamilton  and  yourself  to  induce  the 
President  to  adopt  some  measure  that  would  decidedly  express 
his  sentiments  in  favor  of  the  treaty  ?  Be  assured  that  in  New 
England  the  word  of  the  President  would  save  the  Govt.  ;  without 
it  you  may  despair. 

G.  Cabot  to  R.  King. 

Brookline,  Aug.  14,  1795. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Since  my  last  I  have  been  at  Newburyport,  where  the  mer- 
chants are  perfectly  well  united  and  have  by  this  time  probably 
made  a  formal  declaration  of  their  opinion.  I  understand  that  the 
only  point  on  which  they  differ'd  was  the  expediency  of  giv- 
ing to  the  negotiator  personal  praise,  &  this  was  omitted  entirely 
on  the  ground  of  avoiding  present  irritation. 

The  Boston  Chamber  of  Commerce  have  held  a  meeting  ;  the 
number  attending  was  as  usual  about  40  ;  they  were  of  the  most 
respectable  class,  &  with  only  a  single  dissentient  approbated  the 
Treaty  &  reprobated  the  attempts  everywhere  made  to  excite  dis- 
content and  tumult  among  the  People.  Their  proceedings,  as 
well  as  those  of  Newburyport,  are  to  be  transmitted  to  the  Presi- 
dent. At  Boston  the  members  of  the  Chamber  of  Commerce  who 
did  not  attend  are  to  be  invited  to  concur  in  writing  &  it  is  ex- 
pected that  J,  including  \%  of  the  real  respectability  will  concur. 

At  Salem  Mr.  Derby,  Gray  &  some  others  having  consulted,  de- 
clare it  to  be  their  opinion  that  \  of  their  town  wou'd  vote  to  leave 
the  business  where  the  Constitution  has  placed  it  ;  but  they  think 
it  not  best  to  make  any  movement, — because,  they  say,  as  no  op- 


1795]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  2$ 

position  has  been  made  among  them  they  ought  to  be  considered 
as  unanimously  favorable. 

After  all  where  is  the  boasted  advantage  of  a  representative 
system  over  the  turbulent  mobocracy  of  Athens,  if  the  resort  to 
popular  meetings  is  necessary  ?  Faction,  &  especially  the  Faction 
of  great  towns  always  the  most  powerful,  will  be  too  strong  for 
our  mild  &  feeble  government. 

The  newspapers  will  inform  you  of  the  arrival  of  a  vessel  from 
Rochelle  yesterday,  the  Captn.  of  which  informs  that  he  fell  in 
with  the  British  Fleet  of  14  sail  of  the  Line,  which  had  combated 
14  French  &  captured  three  :  the  action  was  off  Bellisle  &  the 
English  Capt.  told  our  informant  that  the  whole  French  fleet 
wou'd  have  been  taken  if  night  had  not  cover'd  them. 

Yours  truly, 

G.  Cabot. 

Mr.  Burr  arrived  in  Boston  the  day  before  yesterday  &  visited 
me  in  the  afternoon.  I  have  return'd  his  visit  but  did  not  find 
him  at  home.  He  told  me  he  had  scarcely  thought  10  minutes  on 
political  subjects  since  the  Senate  rose. 

The  letters  which  have  been  presented  show  the  great 
anxiety  and  even  alarm  consequent  upon  the  delay  of 
action  by  the  President,  and  the  open  expression  of  discon- 
tent and  disapproval  of  the  treaty  itself  by  those  who  were 
the  partisans  of  France  and  opponents  of  the  general 
course  of  the  administration.  The  President  had  gone  to 
Mount  Vernon,  and  gave  no  intimation  of  his  intention 
respecting  the  ratification  of  the  treaty,  as  advised  by  the 
Senate.  Even  his  trusted  friends  had  no  inkling  of  the 
course  he  would  adopt.  Moved  by  the  alarming  demonstra- 
tion, Washington  decided  to  return  to  Philadelphia,  but 
delaying  a  few  days,  his  departure  from  home  was  hastened 
by  a  summons  from  some  of  the  members  of  the  Cabinet 
in  consequence  of  a  most  unexpected  occurrence,  the  receipt 
of  a  despatch  No.  10,  October,  1794,  from  M.  Fauchet,  the 
French  Minister  to  his  government,  which  was  found  in  a 


26  RUFUS  KING,  [*795 

vessel  captured  by  a  British  cruiser,  and  communicated, 
through  Mr.  Hammond,  the  British  Minister,  to  whom  it 
had  been  transmitted  by  his  government,  to  Mr.  Wolcott. 

This  despatch  had  been  preceded  by  another  of  an  earlier 
date,  which  was  written  to  explain  the  disturbances  in 
Western  Pennsylvania,  and  gave  an  account  of  an  extra- 
ordinary interview  with  Mr.  Randolph,  who  considered  that 
11  a  civil  war  was  about  to  ravage  our  unhappy  country," 
which  could  only  be  averted  by  certain  men,  who  were 
without  means  to  accomplish  their  plans,  and  for  whom  he 
asked  the  Minister  to  "  lend  them  instantaneous  funds  to 
shelter  them  from  English  persecution."  The  second  de- 
spatch, giving  an  account  of  American  politics,  in  making 
which  Mr.  Randolph  certainly  assisted,  attributes  to  Hamil- 
ton the  enforcement  of  the  excise  tax,  "  to  mislead  the 
President  into  unpopular  courses  and  to  introduce  absolute 
power  under  pretext  of  giving  energy  to  the  govern- 
ment." It  is  not  necessary  to  enter  more  fully  upon  all 
that  was  said  in  this  remarkable  despatch,  further  than 
to  state  that  it  expressly  charged  Mr.  Randolph  with 
complicity  in  the  statement,  and  saying,  among  other 
things :  "  Thus,  with  some  thousands  of  dollars,  the  re- 
public could  have  decided  on  civil  war  or  peace  !  Thus  the 
consciences  of  the  pretended  patriots  of  America  already 
have  their  price  !  " 

Upon  Washington's  arrival  in  Philadelphia,  the  despatch 
was  shown  to  him,  and  a  Cabinet  meeting  was  held,  at  which 
the  members,  except  Randolph,  decided  upon  immediate 
ratification.  This  Washington  assented  to,  and  on  August 
14th  the  treaty  was  signed  by  him.  The  preparation  of 
certain  other  papers  was  completed  by  Randolph,  and  the 
copies  of  the  treaty  were  countersigned  by  him,  when 
Washington  "  presented  to  him,  in  presence  of  the  other 
Cabinet  officers,  the  original  intercepted  despatch,  with  a 
request  to  read  it,  and  to  make  such  explanations  as  he  might 
think  fit." 


1795]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  2 J 

Randolph,  after  reading  it,  endeavored  to  answer  the 
allegations,  denying  many  and  claiming  that  he  had  been 
misunderstood  and  that  his  statements  had  been  misinter- 
preted by  M.  Fauchet,  but  seeing  that  his  explanations 
were  not  satisfactory,  immediately  offered  his  resignation. 
This  was  repeated  in  writing  the  same  day,  with  the  re- 
quest that  the  publication  of  the  despatch  might  be  with- 
held until  he  could  prepare  fuller  explanations.  These 
were  published  shortly  afterwards,  but  did  not  relieve  his 
name  from  the  stigma  which  was  attached  to  it.  This 
delay  of  publication  of  the  reasons  for  his  resignation  gave 
rise  to  the  speculations  as  to  its  cause  in  some  of  the 
letters. 

Washington  was  much  embarrassed  in  finding  a  successor 
to  Mr.  Randolph,  which  fact  he  communicates  to  General 
Hamilton  in  a  letter  of  October  29th,*  telling  him  in  con- 
fidence that  he  had  offered  the  office  to  several,  whom  he 
named,  and  who  had  refused.     He  continues: 

"Would  Mr.  King  accept  it  ?  You  know  the  objection  I  have  had 
to  the  nomination,  to  office,  of  any  person  from  either  branch  of 
the  Legislature,  and  you  will  be  at  no  loss  to  perceive,  that  at  the 
present  crisis,  another  reason  might  be  adduced  against  this  ap- 
pointment. But  maugre  all  objections,  if  Mr.  King  would  accept, 
I  would  look  no  further.  Can  you  sound,  and  let  me  know  soon, 
his  sentiments  on  this  occasion  ?  If  he  should  feel  disposed  to 
listen  to  the  proposition,  tell  him  candidly,  all  that  I  have  done  in 
this  matter  ;  that  neither  he  nor  I  may  be  made  uneasy  thereafter 
from  the  discovery  of  it.  He  will,  I  am  confident,  perceive  the 
ground  upon  which  I  have  acted,  in  making  these  essays  ;  and 
will,  I  am  persuaded,  appreciate  my  motive.  If  he  should  decline 
also,  pray  learn  with  precision  from  him,  what  the  qualifications 
of  Mr.  Potts,  the  Senator,  are,  and  be  as  diffusive  as  you  can  with 
respect  to  others,  and  I  will  decide  on  nothing  until  I  hear  from 
you — pressing  as  the  case  is." 

*  Hamilton 's  Works,  vi.,  53. 


28  RUFUS  KING.  [1795 

A.  Hamilton  to    G.   Washington,  New  York. 

"  Nov.  5,  1795. 
"Sir: 

"  I  received  on  the  second  instant  your  two  letters  of  the  29th  of 
October,  with  the  inclosures.  An  answer  has  been  delayed,  to 
ascertain  the  disposition  of  Mr.  King,  who,  through  the  summer, 
has  resided  in  the  country,  and  is  only  occasionally  in  town.  I 
am  now  able  to  inform  you — he  would  not  accept.  Circumstances 
of  the  moment  conspire  with  the  disgust  which  a  virtuous  and  in- 
dependent mind  feels  at  placing  itself  en  but  to  the  foul  and 
venemous  shafts  of  calumny,  which  are  continually  shot  by  an 
odious  confederacy  against  virtue,  to  give  Mr.  King  a  decided 
disinclination  to  office. 

"  I  wish,  sir,  I  could  present  to  you  any  useful  ideas  as  a  substi- 
tute. But  the  embarrassment  is  extreme  as  to  the  Secretary 
of  State.     .     .     . 

"  I  have  conferred  with  Mr.  King  with  respect  to  Mr.  Potts  ;  we 
both  think  well  of  his  principles  and  consider  him  as  a  man  of 
good  sense.  But  he  is  of  a  cast  of  character  ill  suited  to  such 
an  appointment,  and  is  not  extensive  either  as  to  habits  or  infor- 
mation. It  is  also  a  serious  question,  whether  the  Senate  at  this 
time  ought  to  be  weakened.     .     .     ." 

After  suggesting  several  names,  and  commenting  on 
them,  he  says : 

"  In  fact  a  first-rate  character  is  not  attainable.  A  second-rate 
must  be  taken  with  good  dispositions  and  barely  decent  qualifi- 
cations. I  wish  I  could  throw  more  light.  'Tis  a  sad  omen  for 
the  government.     .     .     . 

Mr.  Pickering*  in  a  letter  to  Hamilton,  November  17th, 
a  letter  marked  perfectly  confidential,  after  speaking  of  the 
President's  having  offered  the  office  of  Secretary  of  State  to 
several  persons,  among  them  Mr.  King,  says : 

*  Hamilton 's  Works,  vol.  vi.,  p.  67. 


1795]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  29 

"  The  President  .  .  .  made  me  the  tender.  I  declined  it, 
as  not  possessing  the  talent  so  much  to  be  desired  in  a  Secretary 
of  State,  in  the  propriety  and  ability  of  whose  conduct  the  dignity 
as  well  as  the  interests  of  the  nation  were  so  materially  involved. 
On  various  grounds  the  President  urged  my  acceptance.  .  .  . 
I  promised  to  consider  of  it  ...  I  made  "  (he  says  after 
consultation  with  others)  "  the  President  the  following  declara- 
tion. That  I  wished  no  longer  to  keep  him  in  suspense,  and 
that  I  would  accept  the  office  of  Secretary  of  State.  ...  I 
would  continue  my  attention  to  both  Departments  (War  &  State), 
if  that  of  War  could  be  filled  to  his  satisfaction,  I  would  go  to 
the  Department  of  State  ;  if  a  character  well  adapted  to  the  latter 
should  present,  I  would  remain  where  I  was.  In  one  word,  to 
free  him  from  all  embarrassment,  I  would  serve  in  one  office  or 
the  other,  as  the  public  good  should  require.  The  President 
answered  '  That  is  very  liberal.'  " 


E.  Randolph  to  R.  King,  New  York. 

Philadelphia,  Aug.  16,  1795. 
Dear  Sir  : 

As  my  opinions  upon  the  treaty  itself  are  known  to  you  to  be  in 
favor  of  a  ratification,  so  I  think  it  necessary  to  request  you  to 
read  a  letter,*  which  I  have  this  day  written  to  Mr.  Jay  and  which 
he  will  show  you.  My  object  in  giving  you  this  trouble  is  to  pre- 
vent a  possible  supposition  that  I  have  receded  from  the  ground, 
which  I  still  hold  tenable  in  spite  of  the  objections  which  I  have 
seen  and  heard. 

With  great  respect  &  esteem,  &c, 

Edm.  Randolph. 

*  This  letter  does  not  appear  among  those  published  in  Mr.  Jay's  Life  or 
Correspondence,  but  there  is  an  answer  to  it  of  August  20th,  thanking  Mr. 
Randolph  "  for  the  interesting  information  detailed  in  it,"  and  making  no  other 
allusion  to  it. — Ed. 


30  RUFUS  KING.  [1795 

J.  Gunn  to  R.  King,  New  York. 

My  Dear  Friend  :  Philadelphia,  Aug.  22,  1795. 

Secretary  Randolph  has,  or  will  in  a  few  days, 
resign  his  office.  I  confess  my  regret  is  not  in  the  Extreme.  This 
man  has  treated  the  President  Infamously.  He  occasioned  delay 
and  then  gave  assurances  that  the  Treaty  was  not  signed ';  which 
invited  opposition  from  every  quarter. 

Yours  sincerely, 

James  Gunn. 

R.  King  to  C.  Gore. 

Augt.  25th,  1795. 

My  last  will  have  informed  you  that  the  president  had  executed 
what  depended  on  him  pursuant  to  the  advice  of  the  Senate,  to 
conclude  the  Treaty  with  England.  The  knowledge  of  this  Fact 
has  had  a  happy  effect  in  composing  the  public  mind. 

Mr.  Randolph  a  few  days  since  resigned  his  office  as  Secy  of 
State,  he  is  now  here  on  his  way  to  Rd.  Island.  He  does  not  ex- 
plain himself  in  relation  to  this  sudden  measure  ;  It  will  probably 
be  suggested,  that  he  has  gone  out  of  office  from  a  Dislike  of  the 
English  Treaty — this  will  be  wholly  incorrect.  Mr.  Randolph  ap- 
proved of  the  Treaty  in  toto  ;  and  he  yesterday  told  me,  he  saw 
no  reason  to  change,  or  alter,  his  opinion  on  that  subject. 

We  have  this  morning  been  afflicted  with  the  information  from 
Phil,  of  the  sudden  Death  on  Sunday  evening  of  the  Attorney 
General  Mr.  Bradford — this  is  a  serious  loss  to  the  Government. 

It  may  be  satisfactory  to  the  Vice  President  to  be  confirmed  in 

the  information,  that  the  completion  of    the    Business  relative 

to  the  treaty  with  England,  is  confided  to  his  son,  our  Resident 

at  the  Hague. 

Very  affectionately, 

R.  King. 


C.  Gore  to  R.  King. 

My  Dear  Sir  :  Boston,  Sept.  13,  1795. 

The  resignation  of  Mr.  Randolph  has  occasioned  many  conjec- 
tures, none  however  favorable  to  him.     Our  curiosity  is  on  tiptoe 


1795]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  3 1 

to  know  the  cause  ;  tho'  we  are  perfectly  satisfied  that  the  gov- 
ernment is  relieved  of  the  minister.  We  have  expected  every 
post  to  hear  yourself  announced  as  his  successor  ;  and  it  is  gen- 
erally agreed  that  such  is  the  critical  situation  of  our  affairs,  that 
you  wou'd  sacrifice  your  ease  for  your  country's  service.  If  we 
are  not  sound  and  able  in  the  executive,  our  chance  of  an  orderly 
government,  that  can  protect  the  liberties  of  the  citizens,  will  be 
desperate.  The  smallest  deviation  from  a  firm  and  steady  con- 
duct in  that  department,  or  an  inability  to  support  its  measures 
by  strong  and  conclusive  reasoning,  will  give  strength  to  our  dis- 
organizes, and  confirm  and  encrease  the  hold  they  now  have  on 
the  prejudices  and  passions  of  the  people.  So  far  as  I  can  learn 
the  temper  of  the  country  on  the  treaty,  it  is  right  ;  and  so  it  cer- 
tainly is  in  all  our  seaports,  Boston  excepted  ;  where  the  mob, 
doubtless  instigated  by  the  same  men,  who  occasion'd  the  town 
meeting  is  continually  attempting  to  burn  the  treaty,  Mr.  Jay's 
effigy,  and  to  do  other  acts  of  violence.  But  I  hope  and  trust  that 
such  conduct,  as  it  seems  to  expose  the  views  and  wickedness  of 
the  faction,  will  confirm  and  consolidate  the  friends  of  order  and 
government.  It  must  convince  the  most  timid  that  strength  and 
energy  is  necessary  to  secure  to  them  peace,  liberty  and  property, 
and  we  find  many  who  were  among  the  deluded  opposers  to  the 
ratification  of  the  treaty,  in  the  foremost  ranks  to  oppose  these 
sons  of  sedition. 

The  governor  (Samuel  Adams)  is  assailed  in  all  quarters  to 
adopt  efficient  measures  ;  but  he  has  evaded  and  will  evade  all 
requests  of  this  nature,  so  long  as  he  thinks  the  mob  aim  only  its 
vengeance  against  national  men  and  national  measures.  Indeed 
this  weak  old  man  is  one  of  the  loudest  bawlers  against  the  treaty, 
and  the  boldest  in  proposing  schemes  of  opposition  to  the  federal 
government.  It  is  said  a  plan,  that  has  been  attempted,  of  es- 
tablishing committees  of  correspondence  in  the  several  towns  of 
Massachusetts  to  gain  a  uniformity  in  the  proceedings  of  opposi- 
tion was  suggested  by  him,  and  the  fitness  and  expediency  of  the 
plan  supported  by  the  good  it  did  in  our  contest  with  Great 
Britain.  Thus  we  see  the  inveteracy  and  extent  of  opposition 
proposed  by  our  antis.  But  if  all  remains  right  and  sound  at  the 
head,  there  is  little  danger  of  contaminating  the  mass  of  Massa- 
chusetts at  present.     Tho'  the  most  fearful  apprehensions  are  to 


32  RUFUS  KING.  [1795 

be  entertained  in  case  of  any  adversity,  or  an  obligation  on  the 
part  of  government  to  do  anything  really  bearing  hard  on  the 
pleasures  or  quiet  of  the  citizens.     .     .     . 

Yours  sincerely, 

C.  Gore. 


Fisher  Ames  to  R.  King. 

Dedham,  Nov.  5,  1795. 

Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  I  despair  of  attending  Congress  at  the  opening  of  the 
session  [on  account  of  his  health — Ed.],  &  the  time  when  I  may 
is  both  remote  and  uncertain.  Great  reflection  and  care  ought 
to  precede  as  well  as  conduct  the  beginning  of  business  in  the 
house.  If  the  Democrats  would  agree  to  be  silent  on  the  Treaty 
in  the  answer  to  the  President's  speech,  would  it  be  eligible,  cer- 
tainly not  the  most  eligible.  I  hope  you  and  others  will  think 
beforehand  what  course  ought  to  be  taken. 

With  sincere  regard  &c. 

Fisher  Ames. 


C.  Gore  to  R.  King,  N.  Y. 

Boston,  19th  Nov.,  1795. 
My  Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  The  politics  of  our  country  are  really  good,  unless  I 
am  much  deceiv'd.  Every  information  from  the  interior  has  con- 
vinced me,  that  no  evil  is  to  be  apprehended  from  the  violent 
proceedings  of  the  Seaports.  The  outrages  of  this  town  have 
produced  a  belief  among  the  husbandmen,  that  very  different 
motives  than  a  regard  for  the  public  good  have  occasion'd  the 
opposition  to  the  Treaty. 

If  Great  Britain  shall  ratify  this  instrument  on  her  part,  and 
commissioners  are  appointed  to  determine  the  claims  of  Ameri- 
cans, I  shou'd  be  pleased  to  be  one  of  them.     .     .     . 

My  dear  friend,  very  truly  yours, 

C.  Gore. 


CHAPTER  III. 

Fourth  Congress — President's  Speech — Mr.  King  reports  the  Senate's  Answer 
— Debate  on  its  Terms — Mr.  Jay's  Resignation  of  Chief-Justiceship — Mr. 
Rutledge's  Appointment  and  Rejection  by  the  Senate — Mr.  Ellsworth's 
Appointment. 

The  Fourth  Congress  assembled  on  the  7th  December, 
1795,  and  the  President  met  the  two  Houses  in  the  chamber 
of  the  House  of  Representatives,  and  read  his  speech,  which, 
in  the  Senate,  was  referred  to  a  committee  of  Messrs.  King, 
Ellsworth,  and  Cabot.  The  speech  was  a  very  interesting 
summary  of  the  domestic  and  foreign  affairs  of  the  country, 
of  which  he  said  that  they  had  never  at  any  period,  more 
than  at  the  present,  afforded  "  so  just  cause  for  mutual  con- 
gratulation," and  "  for  profound  gratitude  to  the  Author  of 
all  Good  for  the  numerous  and  extraordinary  blessings  we 
enjoy."  Among  the  interesting  details  he  presented  was  the 
official  announcement  to  the  House  of  Representatives  of  his 
ratification  of  the  Treaty  of  Amity,  Commerce,  and  Naviga- 
tion with  Great  Britain,  with  the  advice  and  consent  of  the 
Senate,  with  a  condition  relative  to  part  of  one  article  ;  that 
the  result,  on  the  part  of  his  Britannic  Majesty  was  un- 
known ;  but  when  received,  would  without  delay  be  laid 
before  Congress. 

On  the  10th,  Mr.  King  reported  the  draft  of  an  address 
in  answer  to  the  President's  speech,  which  was  probably 
written  by  him,  and  is  here  presented  as  expressive  of 
his  views  on  the  matters  to  which  attention  had  been 
directed. 

VOL.   II. — 3  33 


34  RUFUS  KING.  [1795 

"  Sir  : 

"  It  is  with  peculiar  satisfaction  that  we  are  informed  by  your 
Speech  to  the  two  Houses  of  Congress,  that  the  long  and  expen- 
sive war  in  which  we  have  been  engaged  with  the  Indians  North- 
west of  the  Ohio  is  in  a  situation  to  be  finally  terminated  ;  and 
though  we  view  with  concern  the  danger  of  an  interruption  of  the 
peace  so  recently  confirmed  with  the  Creeks,  we  indulge  the  hope 
that  the  measures  you  have  adopted  to  prevent  the  same,  if  fol- 
lowed by  those  legislative  provisions  that  justice  and  humanity 
equally  demand,  will  succeed  in  laying  the  foundation  of  a  last- 
ing peace  with  the  Indian  tribes  on  the  Southern  as  well  as  on  the 
Western  frontiers. 

"  The  confirmation  of  our  Treaty  with  Morocco,  and  the  adjust- 
ment of  a  Treaty  of  Peace  with  Algiers,  in  consequence  of  which 
our  captive  fellow  citizens  shall  be  delivered  from  slavery,  are 
events  that  will  prove  no  less  interesting  to  the  public  humanity, 
than  they  will  be  important  in  extending  and  securing  the  navi- 
gation and  commerce  of  our  country. 

"  As  a  just  and  equitable  conclusion  of  our  depending  negotia- 
tions with  Spain,  will  essentially  advance  the  interests  of  both 
nations,  and  thereby  cherish  and  confirm  the  good  understanding 
and  friendship  which  we  have  at  all  times  desired  to  maintain, 
it  will  afford  us  real  pleasure  to  receive  an  early  confirmation  of 
our  expectations  on  this  subject. 

"  The  interesting  prospect  of  our  affairs,  with  regard  to  the 
foreign  Powers  between  whom  and  the  United  States  contro- 
versies have  subsisted,  is  not  more  satisfactory  than  the  review  of 
our  internal  situation  ;  if  from  the  former  we  derive  an  expecta- 
tion of  the  extinguishment  of  all  the  causes  of  external  discord, 
that  have  heretofore  endangered  our  tranquillity,  and  on  terms 
consistent  with  our  national  honor  and  safety,  in  the  latter  we 
discover  those  numerous  and  widespread  tokens  of  prosperity, 
which,  in  so  peculiar  a  manner,  distinguish  our  happy  country. 

"  Circumstances  thus  every  way  auspicious  demand  our  grati- 
tude, and  sincere  acknowledgments  to  Almighty  God,  and  require 
that  we  should  unite  our  efforts  in  imitation  of  your  enlightened, 
firm  and  persevering  example  to  establish  and  preserve  the  peace, 
freedom  and  prosperity  of  our  country. 

The  objects  which  you  have  recommended  to  the  notice  of 


<< 


1795]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  35 

the  Legislature,  will,  in  the  course  of  the  session,  receive  our 
careful  attention,  and  with  a  true  zeal  for  the  public  welfare,  we 
shall  cheerfully  co-operate  in  every  measure  that  shall  appear  to 
us  best  calculated  to  promote  the  same." 

By  a  resolution  adopted  the  day  before,  the  gallery  of  the 
Senate  chamber  was  permitted  to  be  opened,  and  in  conse- 
quence we  have,  in  the  Debates  of  Congress,  the  heads  of  a 
discussion  relative  to  the  fourth  and  fifth  paragraphs,  which 
Mr.  Mason  moved  to  strike  out,  as  he  considered  these  two 
clauses  would  precipitate  decisions  in  the  Senate,  that  "  the 
minority  could  not  be  expected  to  recede  from  the  opin- 
ions "  they  held  in  the  June  session,  and  "  could  not  there- 
fore join  in  the  indirect  self-approbation  which  the  majority 
appeared  to  wish  for,  and  which  was  most  certainly  involved 
in  the  two  clauses  which  he  should  hope  would  be  struck 
out."  If  his  motion  was  agreed  to,  the  remainder  of  the 
address  would,  in  his  opinion,  stand  unexceptionable.  He 
did  not  see,  for  his  part,  that  our  situation  was  every  way 
auspicious.  Notwithstanding  the  treaty,  our  trade  is  griev- 
ously molested. 

Mr.  King  remarked,  that  the  principal  features  observable 
in  the  answer  to  the  President's  address  were  to  keep  up 
that  harmony  of  intercourse  which  ought  to  subsist  between 
the  Legislature  and  the  President,  and  to  express  confidence 
in  the  undiminished  firmness  and  love  of  country  which 
always  characterize  our  chief  executive  magistrate.  He 
objected  to  striking  out  especially  the  first  clause,  because 
founded  on  undeniable  truth.  It  only  declares  that  our 
prospects,  as  to  our  external  relations,  are  not  more  satis- 
factory than  a  review  of  our  internal  situation  would  prove. 
Was  not  this  representation  true,  he  asked ;  could  it  be 
controverted  ?  This  clause,  he  contended,  contained  noth- 
ing reasonably  objectionable  ;  it  did  not  say  as  much  as  the 
second,  to  which  only  most  of  the  objections  of  the  member 
up  before  him  applied,  an  answer  to  which  he  should  defer, 
expecting  that  a  question  would  be  put  on  each  in  order. 


36  RUFUS  KING.  [i795 

The  clause,  he  said,  appeared  to  him  drawn  up  in  such 
terms  as  could  not  offend  the  nicest  feelings  of  the  mi- 
nority on  the  important  decision  in  June  ;  it  was  particu- 
larly circumspect  and  cautious.  If  liable  to  objection,  it  was 
in  not  going  as  far  as  the  truth  would  warrant. 

After  some  further  debate,  in  which  Messrs.  Mason,  But- 
ler, and  Tazewell  urged  the  striking  out  of  the  two  clauses, 
and  Messrs.  Ellsworth  and  Read,  of  South  Carolina,  sus- 
tained the  report,  it  was  adopted  by  a  vote  of  14  to  8. 


A.  Hamilton  to  R.  King.* 

Dec.  14,  1795. 
My  Dear  Sir  : 

An  extraordinary  press  of  occupation  has  delayed  an  answer  to 
your  letter  on  the  subject  of  Mr.  R.  ;  though  it  may  come  too  late 
I  comply  with  your  request  as  soon  as  I  can. 

The  subject  is  truly  a  perplexing  one  ;  my  mind  has  several 
times  fluctuated  ;  if  there  were  nothing  in  the  case  but  his  impru- 
dent sally  upon  a  certain  occasion,  I  should  think  the  reasons  for 
letting  him  pass  would  outweigh  those  for  opposing  his  passage. 
But  if  it  be  really  true  that  he  is  sottish  or  that  his  mind  is  other- 
wise deranged,  or  that  he  has  exposed  himself  by  improper  con- 
duct in  pecuniary  transactions,  the  byass  of  my  judgment  would 
be  to  negative  ;  and  as  to  the  fact  I  would  satisfy  myself  by  care- 
ful inquiry  of  persons  of  character,  who  may  have  had  an  oppor- 
tunity of  knowing. 

It  is  now,  and  in  certain  probable  events  will  still  more  be,  of 
infinite  consequence  that  the  judiciary  should  be  well  composed. 
Reflection  upon  this  in  its  various  aspects,  weighs  heavily  on  my 
mind  against  Mr.  R.,  upon  the  accounts  I  have  received  of  him 
and  balances  very  weighty  considerations  the  other  way. 

Yrs. 

A.  Hamilton. 

From  what  a  Mr.  Wadsworth  lately  in  Philadelphia  tells  me  of 
a  conversation  between  Burr,  Baldwin  &  Gallatin,  it  would  seem 

*  Hamiltoris  Wo7-ks. ,  vi. ,   76. 


17951  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  37 

that  the  two  last  Gentlemen  have  made  up  their  minds  to  consider 
the  Treaty,  if  ratified  by  G.  Britain,  as  co?iclusive  upon  the  H.  of 
Representatives.  I  thought  it  well  this  should  be  known  to  you,  if 
not  before  understood  from  any  other  quarter. 


R.  King  to  A.  Hamilton.* 

16th  December,  1795. 

I  send  you  Dunlap  of  this  morning.  In  it  you  have  foreign  in- 
telligence. Fenno,  Dunlap  and  others  have  erroneously  stated, 
that  Mr.  Warden  brought  the  ratification  of  Great  Britain.  No 
official  despatch  has  been  received.  Rutledge  was  negatived  yes- 
terday. From  present  appearances,  the  address  to  the  President, 
will  pass  without  a  debate.  The  draft  has  been,  by  agreement  in 
the  Committee  who  reported  it,  shaped  so  as  to  reserve  all  points 
intended  to  be  discussed  relative  to  the  treaty.  The  words 
underscored  f  in  the  inclosed  draft,  were  offered  in  the  committee 
by  Mr.  Madison,  who  agreed  to  concur  in  the  paragraph,  if  they 
were  added.     You  perceive  the  object. 

R.  King. 

Upon  the  resignation  of  Mr.  Jay  from  the  office  of  Chief 
Justice  of  the  Supreme  Court,  the  President  had  appointed 
John  Rutledge  of  South  Carolina  to  that  position.  His  letter 
of  appointment  reached  him  two  days  after,  at  a  public  meet- 
ing in  Charleston,  in  which  he  denounced  the  treaty  as 
"  totally  destitute  of  a  single  article  worthy  of  approval.  He 
even  went  so  far  as  to  reproach  Jay  with  stupidity,  if  not 
corruption,  in  having  signed  it."  J     It  is  to  this  fact  that 

*  Hamilton's  Works,  vi.,  p.  77. 

f  "  In  the  paragraph  which  declared  that  '  a  secure  foundation  will  be  laid 
for  accelerating,  maturing  and  establishing  the  prosperity  of  our  country  ;  if  by 
treaty  and  amicable  negotiation,  all  those  causes  of  external  discord,  which 
heretofore  menaced  our  tranquillity,  shall  be  extinguished  on  terms  compatible 
with  our  national  rights  and  honor,'  Madison  insisted,  as  a  condition  of  his 
concurrence,  that  the  words  should  be  added — '  and  with  our  Constitution  and 
great  commercial  interests.'  " — Hamilton's  Life,  by  J.  C.  H.,  vi.,  p.  326. 

\  Hildreth's  History  of  the  United  States,  2d  series,  i.,  551. 


38  RUFUS  KING.  [1795 

Hamilton  probably  alludes  in  his  letter  to  Rufus  King  of 
December  14th,  while  the  question  of  his  confirmation  as 
Chief  Justice  was  pending  in  the  Senate.  He  presided  over 
the  Court  during  one  term,  but  was  rejected  by  the  Senate, 
as  mentioned  by  Mr.  King  in  his  letter  of  December  16th. 
Mr.  Cushing  was  offered  the  position,  but  having  declined 
it,  Mr.  Ellsworth  was  appointed. 


R.  King  to  Dr.  Southgate. 

Philadelphia,  27th  Deer.,  1795. 
Dear  Southgate  : 

William  *  [R.  K.'s  brother]  I  am  informed   is 

a  member  of  the   General    Court,  &  I  am  sorry  for  it  unless 

his  Commercial  Pursuits  calling  him  to   Boston,  an  attendance 

there   will  not   be   detrimental  to  his  Business.     When  he  has 

toiled  as  long  as  I  have,  I  think  he  will  agree  with  me  that  it 

would  have  been  wiser  altogether  to  have  abstained  from  political 

Engagements.     .     .     . 

Always  sincerely  yours, 

Rufus  King. 

*  Afterwards  the  first  Governor  of  Maine. 


CHAPTER  IV. 

Treaty  with  Great  Britain  communicated  to  Congress — Opposition  in  the 
House  of  Representatives — Demand  made  upon  the  President  for  Instruc- 
tions to  the  Minister  and  Correspondence — Refusal  of  the  President  on 
constitutional  Grounds  to  send  in  these  Papers — Correspondence  showing 
the  Temper  of  the  People  about  the  Treaty — Correspondence  relative  to 
Patrick  Henry's  Nomination  for  the  Presidency — Mr.  King's  Nomination 
as  Minister  to  England — His  Appointment. 

On  March  i,  1796,  the  President,  having  first  proclaimed 
it  as  the  law  of  the  land,  communicated  to  Congress  the 
treaty  with  Great  Britain,  which  had  been  duly  ratified  in 
London.  This  was  the  signal  in  the  House  of  Representa- 
tives to  let  loose  the  pent  up  wrath  against  this  measure, 
which  had  only  been  restrained  until  official  notice  of  its 
ratification  should  be  received.  The  Message  was  referred 
to  the  Committee  of  the  Whole,  and  the  consideration  of  it 
was  begun  the  next  day  by  a  motion  from  Mr.  Edward  Liv- 
ingston :  "  That  the  President  of  the  United  States  be  re- 
quested to  lay  before  this  House  a  copy  of  the  instructions 
to  the  Minister  of  the  United  States,  who  negotiated  the 
Treaty  with  Great  Britain,  communicated  by  his  Message  of 
the  1st  of  March,  together  with  the  correspondence  and 
other  documents  relative  to  the  said  Treaty,"  which  he 
modified  a  few  days  later  by  the  addition  of  the  words, 
"  excepting  such  of  said  papers  as  any  existing  negotiation 
may  render  improper  to  be  disclosed." 

Upon  a  call  for  the  reasons  which  prompted  such  a  reso- 
lution, if,  for  instance,  it  was  to  lay  the  ground  for  an  im- 

39 


40  RUFUS  KING.  [1796 

^--  -'■■  "  '■     '  '  ■■-■■■----  ■  ■—  ■   ■  ■  ■  ■  ■  ■  ■  ■ ■  — — 

peachment  against  any  officer,  Mr.  Livingston  answered  in 
general 

"  that  the  House  were  the  guardians  of  their  country's  rights  ;  they 
are,  by  the  constitution,  the  accusing  organ  of  the  officers  em- 
ployed. That  the  information  called  for  they  ought  to  possess  as 
it  would  tend  to  elucidate  the  conduct  of  the  officers.  His  prin- 
cipal reason,  however,  .  .  .  was  a  firm  conviction  that  the 
House  were  vested  with  a  discretionary  power  of  carrying  the 
Treaty  into  effect,  or  refusing  their  sanction.  .  .  .  For  this 
purpose  the  papers  were  necessary,  and  the  House  had  a  right  to 
call  for  them." 

Other  reasons  were  put  forth  by  later  speakers,  and  chiefly 
by  Mr.  Gallatin,  especially  in  answer  to  the  argument  on  the 
other  side,  that  by  the  Constitution  the  whole  treaty-making 
power  was  with  the  President,  by  and  with  the  advice  and 
consent  of  the  Senate,  and  that  the  publication  of  the  treaty 
made  it  the  law  of  the  land. 

Mr.  Gallatin  said  *  that  he  had  no  objection  to  follow 
them  into  the  examination  of  the  constitutional  question, 

"  and  to  rest  the  decision  of  the  Constitutional powet-s  of  Congress  on 
the  fate  of  the  present  question.  He  would,  therefore,  state  his 
opinion  that  the  House  had  a  right  to  ask  for  the  papers  proposed 
to  be  called  for,  because  their  co-operation  and  sanction  was 
necessary  to  carry  the  Treaty  into  full  effect,  to  render  it  a  bind- 
ing instrument,  and  to  make  it,  properly  speaking,  a  law  of  the 
land  ;  because  they  had  a  full  discretion  either  to  give  or  to  re- 
fuse that  co-operation  ;  because  they  must  be  guided,  in  the 
exercise  of  that  discretion  by  the  merits  and  expediency  of  the 
Treaty  itself,  and  therefore  had  a  right  to  ask  for  every  informa- 
tion which  could  assist  them  in  deciding  that  question." 

The  same  points  were  urged  by  all  the  leading  members 
of  the  House  who  took  that  side  of  the  discussion,  Madison, 
Giles,  Baldwin,   Livingston,  and   others,   and  they  were  an- 

*  Annals  of  Congress,  Sept.,  1795-6,  p.  465. 


1796]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  4 1 

swered  by  Smith  of  South  Carolina,  Harper,  Sedgwick, 
Hillhouse,  and  others,  who  based  their  arguments  on  the 
Constitution  itself,  as  Sedgwick  said  *  :  "  The  treaty-making 
power,  with  all  its  effects  and  consequences,  was  solely  and 
exclusively  in  the  President  and  Senate."  As  the  framers 
of  the  Constitution  supported  this  construction,  those  who 
ratified  did  the  same,  and  as  the  practical  action  of  the  gov- 
ernment had  been  in  conformity  with  it,  it  was  clear  that 

"Treaties  so  made  became  in  fact  supreme  law,  and  being  com- 
pacts they  bound  the  public  faith,  and  could  not  be  violated 
without  national  disgrace  and  personal  dishonor.  They  might 
require  Legislative  provision  to  carry  them  into  effect  ;  but  this 
neither  implied  nor  authorized  the  exercise  of  discretion  as  to 
refusal  ;  " 

and  that  Congress  could  not  revise  the  terms  that  might  be 
made,  or  have  any  authority  in  carrying  it  out,  except  where 
money  was  to  be  had,  and  that  then  their  power  was  limited 
to  the  best  method  of  raising  and  paying  the  money. 

Mr.  Harper,  f  who  closed  the  debate,  stated  that  he  op- 
posed the  resolution  because  "  the  papers  to  be  called  for 
were  not  necessary  for  enabling  the  House  to  execute  this 
discretion  (to  withhold  its  aid,  where  Legislative  aid  was 
requisite  to  carry  the  Treaty  into  effect) ;  that  their  decision 
on  it  was  to  be  guided  by  the  instrument  itself,  and  not  by 
the  instructions  or  the  previous  negotiations,  the  call  for 
which  implied  an  opinion  that  the  House  had  a  right,  not 
only  to  determine  whether  it  would  co-operate  in  carrying  a 
Treaty  into  effect,  but  also  to  interfere  in  making  Treaties." 
Finding  the  former  ground  could  not  be  maintained,  he  said, 
"  they  now  asserted  a  right  to  interference  in  making 
Treaties,"  which  right  he,  as  others  before  him,  explicitly 
denied. 

The  debate  was  a  very  able  and  prolonged  one,  and  of  ex- 

*  Annals  of  Congress,  1795-6,  pp.  527,  528. 
\  Ibid.,  p.  747. 


42  RUFUS  KING.  [1796 

treme  interest,  as  it  involved  a  constitutional  provision,  rela- 
tive to  the  powers  of  the  Legislative  department  and  of  the 
Executive,  the  President,  and  the  Senate  acting  in  executive 
capacity.  It  consumed  nearly  three  weeks,  when  on  March 
24th,  the  resolution  of  Mr.  Livingston  with  its  modification 
was  passed  by  a  vote  of  sixty-two  ayes  and  thirty-seven 
nays. 

The  decision  of  the  House  was  next  day  conveyed  to  the 
President,  who  informed  the  committee  that  he  would  take 
the  resolution  into  consideration. 

In  Hamilton  s  Works,  vi.,  p.  94,  is  a  letter  from  him  to 
King,  March  16th,  giving  his  views  upon  the  call  made  by 
the  House  upon  the  President,  and  asserting  that  the  Presi- 
dent ought  to  take  a  stand  against  the  usurpation  of  the 
House,  for  reasons  which  he  gives,  and  closes  a  letter  to 
Washington  of  March  28th,  after  considering  some  sugges- 
tions as  to  the  propriety  of  his  communicating  "  only  the 
commissions  and  Mr.  Jay's  correspondence,"  saying  that 
these  are  all  that  it  appears  to  him  for  the  public  interest  to 
send, 

"  But  after  the  fullest  reflection  I  have  been  able  to  give  the 
subject  (though  I  perceive  serious  degrees  of  inconvenience  in 
the  course),  I  entertain  a  final  opinion  that  it  will  be  best,  after 
the  usurpation  attempted  by  the  House  of  Representatives,  to  send 
none,  and  to  resist  in  totality."  * 

Three  days  after  this  date  Washington  writes,  on  the  31st : 

"  From  the  first  moment,  and  from  the  fullest  conviction  in  my 
own  mind,  I  had  resolved  to  resist  the  principle,  which  was  evi- 
dently intended  to  be  established  by  the  call  of  the  House  of 
Representatives,  and  only  deliberated  on  the  manner  in  which 
this  could  be  done  with  the  least  bad  consequences." 

And  while  thanking  Hamilton  for  the  trouble  he  had  taken 
to  dilate  on  the  request  of  the  House  of  Representatives, 

*  Hamilton 's  Works,  vol.  vi.,  p.  98. 


1796]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  43 

and  "  to  show  the  impropriety  of  that  request,"  he  stated 
that  after  consultation  with  the  heads  of  the  departments 
and  Attorney-General,  he  had  finally  sent  the  answer  he  had 
prepared,  and  which  will  be  found  in  the  Annals  of  Congress, 
1795,  vi.,  pp.  760,  761,  which  closes  with  this  paragraph  : 

"  As  therefore  it  is  perfectly  clear  to  my  understanding,  that  the 
assent  of  the  House  of  Representatives  is  not  necessary  to  the 
validity  of  a  Treaty  ;  as  the  Treaty  with  Great  Britain  exhibits  in 
itself  all  the  objects  requiring  legislative  provision,  and  on  these  the 
papers  called  for  can  throw  no  light  ;  and  as  it  is  essential  to  the 
due  administration  of  the  Government,  that  the  boundaries  fixed 
by  the  Constitution  between  the  different  departments  should  be 
preserved — a  just  regard  to  the  Constitution  and  to  the  duty  of 
my  office,  under  all  the  circumstances  of  this  case,  forbid  a  com- 
pliance with  your  request." 

Upon  receipt  of  this  Message,  the  House  resolved  itself 
in  Committee  of  the  Whole  upon  it,  and  after  a  short  debate 
affirmed,  by  a  vote  of  57  to  35,  their  right  to  deliberate  on  the 
expediency  or  inexpediency  of  carrying  a  treaty  into  effect, 
and  to  determine  and  act  thereon,  as  in  their  judgment  may 
be  most  conducive  to  the  public  good,  when  the  treaty  con- 
tains stipulations  which  depend  for  execution  upon  a  law, 
or  laws,  to  be  passed  by  Congress,  and  that  it  is  not  neces- 
sary to  state  in  the  application  for  such  information  as  they 
may  desire,  the  purpose  for  which  the  information  is 
wanted.  At  the  same  time  they  said  they  did  not  claim  any 
agency  in  making  treaties,  as  the  Constitution,  in  Article  II., 
gave  the  power  to  the  President,  with  the  advice  and  con- 
sent of  the  Senate.  The  bill  for  carrying  the  treaty  into 
effect  was  finally  passed  on  the  3d  of  May,  by  5 1  to  48.* 

*  Mr.  Jefferson's  A  nas,  vol.  ix.,  p.  194  (Jefferson  s  Works.) 
'*  March  the  1st,  1898,  Mr.  Tazewell  tells  me,  that  when  the  appropriations 
for  the  British  Treaty  were  on  the  carpet,  and  very  uncertain  in  the  lower  House, 
there  being  at  the  time  a  number  of  bills  in  the  hands  of  the  committees  of  the 
Senate,  none  reported  and  the  Senate  idle  for  the  want  of  them,  he,  in  his  place, 
called  on  the  committees  to  report,  and  particularly  on  Mr.  King,  who  was  of 
most  of  them.     King  said  that  it  was  true  the  committees  kept  back  their  re- 


44  RUFUS  KING.  [1796 

The  above  sketch  of  the  proceedings  in  reference  to  the 
Jay  treaty  is  given  to  show  the  interest  taken  by  Mr.  King 
in  the  proper  solution  of  the  grave  questions  which  were 
involved.  He  appears  in  harmony  with  Hamilton,  who, 
though  no  longer  occupying  an  official  position,  was  still  the 
able  and  trusted  adviser  of  the  President — not  the  director 
of  his  actions  on  all  occasions,  as  some  have  asserted.  The 
President's  mind,  as  he  says  himself,  was  made  up  at  once 
as  to  his  duty ;  his  only  hesitation  was  as  to  the  manner  of 
doing  it.  Mr.  King  in  the  Senate,  and  occupying  an  influen- 
tial position  there,  as  the  records  of  that  body  show,  was 
able  to  watch  events  and  to  hold  himself  in  readiness  to  meet 
every  case  that  might  arise  and  give  direction  to  the  efforts 
of  the  friends  of  the  administration  in  the  House  also.  A 
letter  to  Hamilton  of  1st  May,  speaks  of  the  results  then 
accomplished  and  his  fears  and  hopes  for  the  future.* 

"  In  committee  of  the  whole  on  Friday,  it  was  resolved  by  the 
casting  vote  of  Muhlenburgh,  the  chairman,  to  make  provision  by 
law  for  carrying  the  Treaty  with  England  into  effect  ;  yesterday 
the  resolution  of  the  committee  was  passed  by  the  House  by  51 
against  48.  A  proposition  to  prefix  to  the  resolution  a  preamble 
declaring  the  Treaty  to  be  injurious  to  the  interests  of  the  United 
States  and  assigning  the  short  duration  of  its  temporary  articles  as 
a  reason  why  it  should  be  permitted  to  go  into  effect,  was  negatived 

ports  waiting  the  event  of  the  question  about  appropriation  ;  that,  if  that  was 
not  carried,  they  considered  legislation  as  at  an  end  ;  that  they  might  as  well 
break  up  and  consider  the  Union  dissolved.  Tazewell  expressed  his  astonish- 
ment at  these  ideas,  and  called  on  King  to  know  if  he  had  misapprehended  him. 
King  rose  again  and  repeated  the  same  words.  The  next  day  Cabot  took  an 
occasion  in  debate,  and  so  awkward  a  one  as  to  show  it  was  a  thing  agreed  to 
be  done,  to  repeat  the  same  sentiments  in  stronger  terms,  and  carried  further, 
by  declaring  a  determination  on  their  side  to  break  up  and  dissolve  the 
government." 

This  narrative  certainly  shows  that  Mr.  King  held  an  influential  position  in 
the  Senate  during  this  exciting  period,  and,  if  correct,  that  he  looked  with 
most  serious  forebodings  as  to  the  future,  if  the  House  refused  their  part  in 
carrying  out  the  provisions  of  the  treaty. 

*  Hamilton' s  Works,  vol.  vi.,  p.  112. 


1796]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  45 

by  50  against  49,  and  the  resolution  was  immediately,  and  without 
division,  referred  to  a  committee,  with  instructions  to  prepare  a  bill, 
or  bills,  in  conformity  with  the  resolution.  The  failure  of  the 
party  in  their  intention  to  denounce  the  Treaty,  I  am  fearful,  will 
not  discourage  them  in  a  second  attempt.  A  majority  of  five  or 
six  (if  I  am  not  mistaken)  would  join  in  a  vote  of  condemnation, 
but  in  the  shape  in  which  the  proposition  was  offered,  some  of 
the  most  inveterate  opponents  of  the  Treaty  voted  in  the  nega- 
tive, because,  they  said,  if  they  voted  for  the  preamble,  it  would 
be  then  proper  for  them  to  vote  for  the  resolution,  which  they 
were  determined  not  to  do.  Though  from  the  stage  in  which  the 
business  now  is,  I  hope  the  attempt  will  not  be  made  ;  yet,  if  an 
independent  resolution  should  be  offered  declaring  the  Treaty  to 
be  injurious,  &c,  I  am  apprehensive  it  would  be  adopted.  This, 
however,  would  not  defeat  the  provision  for  the  execution  of  the 
Treaty — 51  votes  in  the  affirmative  ;  the  Speaker's  vote,  with  that 
of  Mr.  Freeman,  of  Massachusetts,  both  of  whom  are  in  favor  of 
the  provisions,  make  53  affirmative  votes,  a  majority  of  the  whole 
number  of  Representatives." 


J.  Marshall  to  R.  King. 

Richmond,  April  25,  1796. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  take  the  liberty  to  avail  myself  of  your  aid  for  forwarding  to 
Mr.  Hamilton  the  inclosed  letter.* 

The  ruling  party  of  Virginia  are  extremely  irritated  at  the  vote 
of  to-day  and  will  spare  no  exertion  to  obtain  a  majority  in  other 

*  The  letter  to  Hamilton  here  mentioned  is  of  the  same  date  as  the  above, 
and  may  be  found  in  Works  of  Hamilton,  vol.  vi.,  p.  108.  It  relates  to  the 
feeling  in  Virginia  relative  to  the  question  of  the  adoption  of  Jay's  treaty,  and 
of  the  temper  of  the  House  of  Representatives,  and  especially  of  the  Virginia 
members,  who  bitterly  opposed  its  ratification  ;  and  speaks  of  the  meeting 
called  that  day  in  Richmond  by  those  who  desired  the  ratification  of  the  treaty, 
saying  that  a  resolution  had  been  passed  by  a  decided  majority,  after  long  dis- 
cussion, "  that  the  welfare  and  honor  of  the  nation  required  us  to  give  full  effect 
to  the  treaty  negotiated  with  Britain."  He  says  further  :  "  I  think  it  would  be 
very  difficult,  perhaps  impossible,  to  engage  Mr.  H.  [probably  Mr.  Henry]  on 
the  right  side  of  this  question." 


46  RUFUS  KING.  [1796 

counties.  Even  here  they  will  affect  to  have  the  greater  number 
of  freeholders  and  have  set  about  counter  Resolutions  to  which 
they  have  the  signatures  of  many  respectable  persons,  but  of  still 
a  greater  number  of  mere  boys  ;  and  altho'  some  caution  has  been 
used  by  us  in  excluding  those  who  might  not  be  considered  as 
authorized  to  vote,  they  will  not  fail  to  charge  us  with  having  col- 
lected a  number  of  names  belonging  to  foreigners  and  to  persons 
having  no  property  in  the  place.  The  charge  is  as  far  untrue  as 
has  perhaps  ever  happened  on  any  occasion  of  the  sort.  We 
could,  by  resorting  to  that  measure,  have  doubled  our  list  of 
petitioners. 

I  have  endeavored  to  take  means  to  procure  similar  applications 
from  various  parts  of  the  State.     Exitus  in  dubio  est. 
With  very  much  respect  &  esteem,  &c. 

J.  Marshall. 


R.  King  to  A.  Hamilton.* 

Monday,  May  2,  1796. 

The  inclosed  letter  will  give  you  all  the  information  that  we 
have  on  the  subject  to  which  it  relates.  It  seems  problematical 
whether  P.  H.  can  be  induced  to  agree  in  the  arrangement.  Some 
circumstances  of  which  I  have  lately  heard  incline  me  to  believe 
that  he  will  not.  Our  session  will  close  by  the  1st  of  June,  pro- 
vided no  further  impediment  is  thrown  in  the  way  of  the  provision 
for  giving  efficacy  to  the  treaty  with  England — and  it  is  much  to 
be  wished  that  a  definitive  should  be  made  before  we  separate. 

Mr.  Pinckney  has  asked  leave  to  return  home,  and  waits  only 
for  permission.  To  his  former  stock  of  popularity  he  will  now 
add  the  good-will  of  those  who  have  been  peculiarly  gratified 
with  the  Spanish  Treaty.  Should  we  concur  in  him,  will  he  not 
receive  as  great,  perhaps  greater,  southern  and  western  support 
than  any  other  man  ? 

*  Hamilton: 's  Works,  vi.,  p.  113.  In  this  same  volume,  p.  425,  Mr.  J.  C. 
Hamilton  says  in  reference  to  Mr.  Pinckney 's  wish  to  be  recalled  :  "  This  pur- 
pose was  communicated  by  Rufus  King  to  Hamilton,  in  a  letter,  relative  to 
overtures  which  Hamilton  had  requested  Marshall  to  open  with  Patrick  Henry, 
to  permit  his  name  to  be  used  at  the  next  canvass  for  the  Presidency." 


1796]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  47 

You  must  know  that  I  am  not  a  little  tired  with  this  separation 
from  my  family  and  drudging  in  the  Senate.  The  work  now  be- 
fore us  being  finished,  I  think  I  am  entitled  to  a  dismission.  It 
would  be  agreeable  to  me  to  spend  a  few  years  abroad,  and  if  I 
do  not  misconceive  the  interests  of  the  country,  I  think  I  could 
render  some  service  to  the  public  at  the  present  period  in  Eng- 
land. Will  you  converse  with  Mr.  Jay  on  the  subject — I  can 
through  no  other  channel  communicate  with  the  Executive — nor 
do  I  desire  that  either  of  you  should  suggest  the  measure,  unless 
you  both  agree  in  its  propriety  and  utility. 

Yours  very  sincerely. 


A.  Hamilton  to  R.  King.  * 

May  4,  1796. 
My  Dear  Sir  : 

Since  my  last  I  have  received  two  or  three  letters  from  you. 
The  late  turn  of  the  treaty  question  makes  us  all  very  happy.  I 
hope  no  future  embarrassment  will  arise. 

I  am  entirely  of  the  opinion  that,  Patrick  Henry  declining,  Mr. 
Pinckney  ought  to  be  our  man.  It  is  even  an  idea  of  which  I 
am  fond  in  various  lights.  Indeed,  on  later  reflection,  I  rather 
wish  to  be  rid  of  Patrick  Henry,  that  we  may  be  at  full  liberty  to 
take  up  Pinckney. 

In  the  event  of  Pinckney's  return  to  this  country,  I  am  of 
opinion,  all  circumstances  considered,  it  is  expedient  you  should 
replace  him.  I  hope  no  great  question  will  in  a  short  period  agi- 
tate our  councils,  and  I  am  sure  you  will  do  much  good  on  the 
scene  in  question.  I  have  called  on  Jay,  but  happened  not  to 
find  him  disengaged.  I  shall  quickly  see  him,  and  shall,  with 
great  pleasure,  do  everything  requisite  on  my  part. 

We  believe  confidently  our  election  in  the  city  has  succeeded  ; 
the  other  party,  however,  claims  success.  Our  Senator  ticket 
seems  admitted  on  both  sides  to  have  prevailed,  and  all  accounts 
assure  us  of  great  success  throughout  the  State.    The  vile  affair  f 

*  Hamilton  s  Works,  vol.  vi.,  p.  114. 

f  Life  of  Alex.  Hamilton,  vol.  vi.,  p.  426.  "  This  '  vile  affair  '  was  the  in- 
fliction of  personal  chastisement  by  order  of  a  Bridewell  Court  for  insolence  to 
an  Alderman." 


48  RUFUS  KING.  [1796 

of  whipping  Burke  and  McCredy  made  our  election,  in  the  view 

of  the  common  people,  a  question  between  the  rich  and  the  poor. 

You  will  easily  conceive  how  much  this  must  have  embarrassed 

and  jeoparded. 

Yours  affectionately  &c. 

The  following  letter  closes  the  correspondence  on  the 
negotiations  with   Mr.    Henry. 

J.  Marshall  to  R.  King. 

Richmond,  May  24,  1796. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Mr.  Henry  has  at  length  been  sounded  on  the  subject  you  com- 
mitted to  my  charge.  Genl.  Lee  and  myself  have  each  conversed 
with  him  on  it,  tho'  without  informing  him  particularly  of  the 
persons  who  authorized  the  communication.  He  is  unwilling  to 
embark  in  the  business.  His  unwillingness,  I  think,  proceeds 
from  an  apprehension  of  the  difficulties  to  be  encountered  by 
those  who  shall  fill  high  Executive  offices. 

With  very  much  respect  and  esteem  &c. 

J.  Marshall. 
Endorsed  by  R.  King  : 

Ansd.    1   June. — regretting  &c  and  observing  that  it  wd.  be 

requisite  to  fix  on  another  person  without  delay. 

R.  K. 

A.  Hamilton  to  R.  King.  * 

May  5,  1796. 

Dear  Sir  : 

After  reading,  seal  and  hand  in  the  enclosed.     If  such  things 

are  to  be,  you  cannot  leave  the  Senate.     Jay  is  against  it,  at  all 

events  until  the  European  storm  is  over.     We  must  all  think  well 

of  this  business. 

Yours  affectionately  &c. 

The  inclosed  letter  was  for  the  President. — R.  K. 

It  is  probable  that  the  inclosed  letter  is  that  of  which 
Washington  acknowledged  the  receipt,  and  which  he 
answered   on    May   8th,  f  beginning : 

*  Hamilton  s  Works,  vi.,  114.  \  Ibid.,  vi.,  116. 


1796]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  49 

"  Your  note   of  the  5th  inst.,  accompanying  the   information 

given  to  G. M. ,  on  March  16th  came  to  me  on  Friday. 

The  letter  he  refers  to  as  having  been  written  to  me  is  not  yet 
received  ;  but  others  from  Mr.  Monroe  of  similar  complexion,  and 
almost  of  as  imperious  a  tone  from  the  Government  have  come  to 
hand." 

The  tenor  of  these  letters  indicated  that  France,  disap- 
proving of  the  treaty  with  Great  Britain,  might  take  deci- 
sive steps  to  show  this  disposition,  and  as  the  President 
says : 

"  May,  and  I  believe,  will  send  out  an  envoy  extraordinary, 
with  instructions  to  make  strong  remonstrances  against  the  un- 
friendliness (as  they  will  term  it)  and  the  tendency  of  our  treaty 
with  Great  Britain  ;  accompanied,  probably,  and  expectedly,  with 
discretionary  powers  to  go  farther.  .  .  .  But  I  cannot  bring 
my  mind  to  believe  that  they  seriously  mean,  or  that  they  could 
accompany  this  envoy  with  a  fleet  to  demand  the  annihilation  of 
the  treaty  with  Great  Britain  in  fifteen  days,  or  that  war,  in  case 
of  refusal,  must  follow  as  a  consequence.  ...  If  you  have 
communicated  this  letter  to  Mr.  Jay,  I  wish  you  would  lay  this 
also  before  him  in  confidence,  and  that  you  and  he  would  be  so 
good  as  to  favor  me  with  your  sentiments  and  opinions  upon 
both." 

This  condition  of  the  foreign  relations  was  doubtless  the 
reason  which  induced  Hamilton  to  say  that  Mr.  King  must 
not  leave  the  Senate,  an  opinion  in  which  Jay  concurred, 
and  not  as  Mr.  J.  C.  Hamilton*  says  without  comment  or 
reason  given.  "  Jay  thought  King  should  not  leave  the 
Senate."  In  the  same  spirit,  f  in  reference  to  the  appoint- 
ment of  Mr.  King  as  Minister  to  England,  he  gives  no 
authority  for  the  following  remark  :  "  Washington's  objec- 
tions to  this  appointment  were  not  merely  of  a  public 
nature  ;  he  had  conceived  a  strong  dislike  to  King  ;  but 
sedulous  of  the  public  good  the  President  now  acquiesced 

*  Life  of  Hamilton,  vi.,  426.  \  Ibid.,  p.  428. 

VOL.  11. — 4 


50  RUFUS  KING.  [1796 

in  Hamilton's  wishes."  There  is  no  evidence  given  of  the 
existence  of  this  dislike.  Mr.  King's  being  a  Senator  was 
one  of  the  causes  of  the  President's  hesitation,  as  the  follow- 
ing extract  from  a  letter  of  May  15  th  from  Washington  to 
Hamilton  indicates*: 

" .  .  .  With  respect  to  the  gentleman  you  have  mentioned 
as  successor  to  Mr.  P.,  there  can  be  no  doubt  of  his  abilities,  nor 
in  my  mind  is  there  any  of  his  fitness.  But  you  know,  as  well  as 
I,  what  has  been  said  of  his  political  sentiments  with  respect  to 
another  form  of  government ;  and  from  thence  can  be  at  no  loss 
to  guess  at  the  interpretation  which  would  be  given  to  the  nomi- 
nation of  him.  However,  the  subject  shall  have  due  considera- 
tion ;  but  a  previous  resignation  would,  in  my  opinion,  carry  with 
it  too  much  the  appearance  of  concert,  &  would  have  a  bad 
rather  than  good  effect." 

To  this  Mr.  Hamilton  replied,f  referring,  as  the  general 
index  to  Hamilton's  works  says,  to  Rufus  King: 

A.  Hamilton  to  G.  Washington. 

"  May  20,  1796. 

" .  .  .  I  observe  what  you  say  on  the  subject  of  a  certain 
diplomatic  mission.  Permit  me  to  offer  with  frankness  the  reflec- 
tions which  have  struck  my  mind. 

"The  importance  of  our  security,  and  commerce,  and  good 
understanding  with  Great  Britain,  renders  it  very  important  that 
a  man  able  and  not  disagreeable  to  that  Government,  should  be 
there.  The  gentleman  in  question,  equally  with  any  who  could 
go,  and  better  than  any  willing  to  go,  answers  this  description. 
The  idea  hinted  in  your  letter  will  apply  to  every  man  fit  for  the 
mission,  by  his  conspicuousness,  talents,  and  dispositions.  'T  is 
the  stalking  horse  of  a  certain  party,  and  is  made  use  of  against 
every  man,  who  is  not  in  their  views  and  of  sufficient  conse- 
quence to  attract  their  obloquy.     If  listened  to,  it  will  deprive 

*  Hamilton's  Works,  vi.,  122. 
f  Ibid.,  vi.,  125. 


1796]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  5 1 

the  government  of  the  services  of  the  most  able  and  faithful 
agents.  Is  this  expedient  ?  What  will  be  gained  by  it  ?  Is  it  not 
evident  that  this  party  will  pursue  its  hostility  at  all  events  as  far 
as  public  opinion  will  permit  ?  Does  policy  require  anything 
more  than  that  they  shall  have  no  real  cause  to  complain  ?  Will 
it  do,  in  deference  to  their  calumniating  insinuations,  to  forbear 
employing  the  most  competent  men,  or  to  entrust  the  great  busi- 
ness of  the  country  to  unskilful,  unfaithful,  or  doubtful  hands  ? 
I  really  feel  a  conviction  that  it  will  be  very  dangerous  to  let 
party  insinuations  of  this  kind  prove  a  serious  obstacle  to  the 
employment  of  the  best  qualified  characters.  Mr.  King  is  a  re- 
markably well  informed  man,  a  very  judicious  one,  a  man  of 
address,  a  man  of  fortune  and  economy,  whose  situation  affords 
just  ground  of  confidence  ;  a  man  of  unimpeached  probity,  where 
he  is  best  known,  a  firm  friend  to  the  government,  a  supporter  of 
the  measures  of  the  President — a  man  who  cannot  but  feel  that 
he  has  strong  pretensions  to  confidence  and  trust. 

"  I  might  enlarge  on  these  topics,  but  I  have  not  leisure 
neither  can  it  be  necessary.  I  have  thrown  out  so  much  in  the 
fulness  of  my  heart,  and  too  much  in  a  hurry  to  fashion  either 
the  idea  or  the  expression  as  it  ought  to  be.  The  President,  how- 
ever, will,  I  doubt  not,  receive  what  I  have  said,  as  it  is  meant,  as 
dictated  by  equal  regard  for  the  public  interest  and  the  honor- 
able course  of  his  administration.     ..." 

Mr.  King  was  soon  after  nominated,  and  confirmed  by 
the  Senate,  as  Minister  Plenipotentiary  at  the  Court  of  Lon- 
don, and  on  the  23d  his  letter  of  resignation  from  that  body 
was  read  in  the  Senate.*     Thus  closed  for  a  time  his  career 

*  In  reference  to  this  appointment,  Mr.  King  says  in  answer  to  questions 
from  Mr.  William  Coleman  in  his  letter  of  February  5,  181 7  :  "  The  Mission 
to  England  I  was  desirous  to  have.  I  had  reason  to  know  that  Genl.  W.  had 
thought  of  giving  it  to  me,  when  Mr.  Th.  P.  was  appointed.  When  Mr.  Py. 
desired  to  be  recalled,  and  the  mission  was  offered  to  me,  I  unhesitatingly 
accepted  it. 

"I  lived  more  intimately  with  the  public  men  of  England,  as  well  those  of 
the  Opposition  as  of  the  Govt.,  than  any  foreigner  of  my  time.  I  frequented 
the  society  of  literary  men  and  have  been  in  correspondence  with  several  of  the 
most  distinguished  civilians  of  the  old  world." 


52  RUFUS  KING.  [1796 

in  that  legislative  body.  That  he  had  been  active  in  the  per- 
formance of  his  duties  there,  both  as  chairman  of  important 
committees  and  as  a  member  of  others,  in  matters  relating 
to  commercial  regulations,  to  the  various  treaties  negotiated, 
to  the  admission  of  Tennessee  as  a  new  State,  which  only 
took  place  after  he  left  the  Senate,  and  to  many  other  im- 
portant measures  considered  during  that  session,  the  Journal 
of  the  Senate  bears  abundant  evidence.  He  had,  however, 
for  reasons  which  have  been  given,  determined  to  retire 
from  his  position  in  the  Legislature,  and  desired  to  seek 
employment  elsewhere,  where  he  thought  he  might  do  good, 
and  in  a  position  more  congenial  to  his  tastes.  Washington 
thus  announced  to  Mr.  Pinckney,  who  had  asked  leave  to 
return  home,  the  appointment  of  Mr.  King  to  take  his 
place : 

"  The  doubtful  issue  of  the  dispute  and  the  real  difficulty  in 
finding  a  character  to  supply  your  place  at  the  Court  of  London, 
has  occasioned  a  longer  delay  than  may  have  been  convenient  or 
agreeable  to  you.  But,  as  Mr.  King  of  the  Senate,  who,  it  seems, 
has  resolved  to  quit  his  seat  at  that  Board,  has  accepted  the  posi- 
tion, and  will  embark  as  soon  as  matters  can  be  arranged,  you 
will  soon  be  relieved." 


CHAPTER  V. 

Correspondence  relative  to  the  Treaty — Massachusetts  Politics — Opinion  of 
Hamilton  as  to  Washington's  Course  relative  to  the  Demand  made  by  the 
House  of  Representatives  for  the  Instructions  to  Mr.  Jay — Congratulations 
to  Mr.  King  on  his  Appointment — Some  Instructions  and  his  Suggestions — 
Letters  from  W.  Smith  on  Affairs  of  S.  Carolina  and  George  Cabot  on 
those  of  Massachusetts. 

Theodore  Sedgwick  to  R.  King,  N.  York. 

Phil.,  ist  Jany.,  1796. 
Dear  King  : 

I  hope  you  have  found  your  family  happier  than  you  expected. 

.  .  .  A  copy  of  the  treaty  and  its  ratification  is  arrived,  but 
the  Prest.  will  not  submit  it  to  the  legislature  untill  he  receives 
the  original.  This  information  I  have  from  Col.  Pickering.  By 
whom  the  original  is  to  be  expected  is  not  known.  I  have  evi- 
dence, to  my  mind  conclusive,  that  it  is  determined  to  oppose  the 
treaty  and  on  the  ground  that  it  is  unconstitutional. 

The  legislature,  by  this  however  I  mean  only  the  House  of 
Representatives,  of  S.  Carolina,*  have  declared  agt.  the  treaty, 
but  in  terms  more  soft  and  mild  than  the  original  motion.  The 
concurrence  of  the  Senate  was  not  requested,  and  because,  as  the 
friends  of  the  measure  declared,  they  were  convinced  it  could  not 
be  obtained.  This  I  learn  from  a  letter  to  Wm.  Smith  from  his 
cousin  a  member  of  the  house.     Barnwell  behaved  nobly.     .     .     . 

Yours  affectly. 

Theodore  Sedgwick. 

.  .  .  Smith's  correspondent  states  about  30  as  having  retired 
before  the  vote.     Himself  &  Barnwell  Stuck  by  the  Stuff. 

*  The  action  which  was  taken  in  this  as  in  the  Legislatures  of  several  of  the 
other  States — some  sustaining  the  treaty  and  others  condemning  it — is  here 
referred  to,  as  it  is  also  in  some  of  the  other  letters. — Ed. 

53 


54  RUFUS  KING.  [1796 

A.  Hamilton  to  R.  King. 

Jany.,   1796. 

My  Dear  Sir  : 

If  the  News  Papers  tell  truth  it  would  appear  that  Massachusetts 
has  anticipated  New  York.  But  it  is  intended  by  our  friends  in 
the  Legislature  to  give  some  pointed  discountenance  to  the  propo- 
sitions. It  was  expected  that  it  would  have  been  done  to-day, 
but  by  the  divergings  of  some  men,  who  seek  popularity  with  both 
sides,  they  have  gotten  into  an  unnecessary  debate  over  the 
proposition  in  detail,  which  will  lose  time,  but  in  the  result  a 
handsome  majority  will  do  right. 

Lawrance  is  hurt  and  as  far  as  I  see  not  without  some  reason 
from  particular  circumstances  at  being  left  out  of  the  Direction 
of  the  Bank.  It  will  be  balm  to  his  feelings  to  be  put  into  the 
direction  of  the  office  here,  and  I  believe  it  will  be  an  improve- 
ment of  the  Direction  to  do  it.  I  wish  you  would  endeavor  to 
bring  it  about.  Speak  to  Bayard  of  our  city  and  to  Wharton  of 
Philadelphia.  This  is  a  suggestion  of  my  own,  for  Lawrance 
rather  rides  a  high  horse  upon  the  occasion. 

Yrs.  truly, 
A.  Hamilton. 

C.  Gore  to  R.  King. 

Boston,  21st  January,  1796. 
My  Dear  Friend  : 

You  did  me  justice  in  supposing  that  I  confided  in  your  friend- 
ship and  zeal  to  promote  my  gratification.  A  confidence  in  the 
affection  and  esteem  of  those  we  love  &  respect  is  one  of  the 
choicest  blessings  of  heaven,  a  distrust  of  a  disposition  in  my 
friends  to  gratify  wishes  not  in  their  opinion  unreasonable,  wou'd 
be  the  sorest  mortification  I  could  experience.  Be  assured  I  have 
not  lost  the  former,  or  felt  the  latter. 

A  letter  from  Mr.  Cabot  by  this  mail  requests  an  explicit 
answer  by  return  of  post  whether,  if  invited,  I  woud  engage  as 
Commissioner  and  go  very  soon  to  England.  My  answer  by  this 
post  is  explicitly  in  the  affirmative.  I  coud  settle  my  own  affairs 
in  one  week.  I  shoud  wish,  and  think  it  probable,  that  the 
Executive    might    choose,  that  I  shoud  visit   Philadelphia   and 


1796]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  55 

receive  the  ideas  of  our  own  government  on  the  manner  of  ex- 
ecuting the  commission.  These  things  done,  I  know  nothing  to 
hinder  my  immediate  embarkation  for  Europe. 

Ames  was  in  this  town  the  day  before  yesterday  ;  he  talks  of 
proceeding  to  Springfield  shortly,  and  from  thence  making  an 
effort  to  meet  his  friends  in  Congress.  He  express'd  a  wish  for 
me  to  accompany  him,  wh.  I  would  readily  have  acceded  to,  if 
it  were  not  for  the  indelicate  state  it  woud  place  me  in  before  an 
appointment  of  Commr.  He  acknowledged  the  weight  of  the 
objection.     .     .     . 

You  will  see  in  the  papers  Governor  Adams'  Speech  which 
was  received  with  almost  universal  disgust.  The  Senate  has 
appointed  a  Committee  wh.  I  think  will  respond  not  in  unison 
with  his  Excellency.  Two  of  the  House's  committee  (the  two 
branches  answer  separately)  are  deadly  opposed  to  the  Governor's 
sentiments  :  a  third,  I  am  of  opinion,  will  not  promote  an  echo  : 
Jarvis  and  Ely  will  be  disposed  to  any  measures,  regardless  of 
their  consequences.  The  disposal  of  the  Virginia  resolves,  as 
related  in  the  Centinel,  is  correct  in  every  thing  but  the  final  vote 
of  the  house.  After  the  question  for  commitment  was  lost, 
Doctr.  Jarvis  moved  that  they  might  lay  on  the  table  till  the 
answer  to  the  Govr's  Speech  was  reported  ;  with  great  difficulty 
this  obtained  a  majority  of  one  only. 

Our  Senate  and  house  are  well  disposed  to  the  federal  govern- 
ment, and  it  is  more  than  probable  that  an  effort  will  be  made  to 
displace  Adams  from  the  chair,  and  put  Sumner  in  his  stead. 

With  Sincerity  and  affection  your  friend 

C.  Gore. 


John  Jay  to  R.  King. 

New  York,  27  Jany.,  1796. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  Mr.  Pinckney's  success  in  Spain  is  an  agreeable  cir- 
cumstance, and  together  with  the  Restoration  of  peace  with 
Algiers  and  the  Indians  will  tend  greatly  to  compose  and  gratify 
the  public  mind. 

Yours  sincerely 

John  Jay. 


56  RUFUS  KING.  [1796 

John  Jay  to  R.  King,  Philadelphia. 

New  York,  2d  Feby.,  1796. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  was  at  this  moment  favd.  with  yours  of  the  29th  ult.,  in- 
forming me  that  "  Mr.  Harper  concurred  in  the  Idea  of  print- 
ing by  way  of  note  my  entire  letter  to  him."  My  Idea  was  a 
short  note  referring  to  the  letter,  subjoined  or  annexed  to  the 
address.*  I  have  no  objection  to  either  mode,  my  object  being 
that  the  first  appearance  of  the  Letter  should  be  in  or  with  his 
address,  rather  than  in  a  newspaper  ;  for  his  objections  to  the 
latter  mode  appear  to  me  well  founded. 

The  ratification  will  bear  a  little  longer  absence.  Things  seem 
to  work  together  for  good.  Are  you  apprized  that  the  preliminary 
articles  of  the  peace  were  ratified  on  a  copy  sent  by  Dr.  Franklin  ? 
I  suspect  that  the  original  still  remains  among  his  private  papers. 
A  hint  of  this  to  Mr.  Pickering  may  not  be  improper,  that  he  may 
(if  that  be  the  case)  take  measures  for  getting  and  placing  the 
original  in  the  office.  I  think  I  once  searched  for  it  there  and 
could  not  find  it  and  that  the  fact  is  as  I  have  suggested.  It  seems 
strange  Mr.  Adams  should  have  been  ordered  to  London  to  do 
nothing,  but  we  see  strange  things  in  our  Days.     .     .     . 

Yours  sincerely 

John  Jay. 

A.  Hamilton  to  R.  King. 

New  York,  March  16,  1796. 
My  Dr.  Sir  : 

I  thank  you  for  your  letter  of  the 

My  opinion  on  the  resolution,  when  it  first  appeared,  was  that 
the  President  should  answer  in  substance  as  follows,  viz. 

"  That  it  could  not  be  admitted  as  a  right  of  course  in  the 
House  of  Representatives  to  call  for  &  have  papers  in  the  Ex- 
ecutive department,  especially  those  relating  to  foreign  negotia- 
tions which  frequently  embrace  confidential  matter.  That  under 
all  the  circumstances  &  upon  so    indefinite    a  call  without  any 

* Life  of  John  Jay,  by  William  Jay,  ii.,  261.  See  letter  written  to  Mr. 
Harper  on  his  Address  for  approving  the  treaty  with  Great  Britain — printed 
Boston,  1796. 


1796]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  57 

declared  specific  object,  he  did  not  think  it  proper  nor  consistent 
with  what  he  owed  to  a  due  separation  of  the  respective  Powers, 
to  comply  with  the  call.  That  if  in  the  course  of  the  Proceedings 
of  the  House,  a  question  of  their  competency  should  arise  for 
which  any  of  the  papers  in  question  might  be  necessary,  an  ap- 
plication made  on  that  ground  would  be  considered  with  proper 
respect  &c." 

But  after  what  has  taken  place  in  the  discussion,  if  it  can 
with  propriety  be  got  in  as  to  form,  I  think  a  stand  ought  to  be 
made  by  the  President  against  the  usurpation.  The  following 
propositions  comprise  an  obvious  ground. 

I.  The  Constitution  empowers  the  President  with  the  Senate  to 
make  Treaties. 

II.  A  treaty  is  a  perfected  contract  between  two  nations  obliga- 
tory on  both. 

III.  That  cannot  be  a  perfected  contract  or  Treaty  to  the 
validity  of  which  the  concurrence  of  any  other  power  in  the  state 
is  constitutionally  necessary. 

IV.  The  Constitution  says  a  treaty  is  a  law. 

V.  A  Law  is  an  obligatory  rule  of  action  prescribed  by  the 
competent  authority.     But 

VI.  That  cannot  be  such  a  rule  of  Action  or  a  law  to  the  valid- 
ity of  which  the  Assent  of  any  other  power  is  requisite.     Again 

VII.  The  object  of  the  Legislative  Power  is  to  prescribe  a  rule 
of  Action  for  our  own  Nation,  which  includes  foreigners  coming 
among  us. 

VIII.  The  object  of  the  Treaty  Power  is  by  agreement  to  settle 
a  rule  of  action  between  two  nations  binding  on  both. 

IX.  These  objects  are  essentially  different  and  in  a  consti- 
tutional sense  cannot  interfere. 

X.  The  Treaty  Power  binds  the  will  of  the  nation,  must 
within  its  constitutional  limits  be  paramount  to  the  Legislative 
Power,  which  is  that  will  ;  or,  at  least,  the  last  law  being  a  Treaty 
must  repeal  an  antecedent  contradictory  law. 

And  XI.  If  the  Legislative  power  is  competent  to  repeal  this 
law  by  a  subsequent  law,  this  must  be  the  whole  Legislative  power 
by  a  solemn  act  in  the  forms  of  the  constitution,  not  one  branch  of 
the  legislative  power  by  disobeying  the  law. 


58  RUFUS  KING.  [1796 

XII.  The  foregoing  construction  reconciles  the  two  powers  and 
assigns  them  distinguishable  spheres  of  action.     While 

XIII.  The  other  construction,  that  claiming  that  a  right  of 
assent  or  sanction  for  the  House  of  Representatives,  destroys  the 
Treaty  making  Power  &  negatives  two  Propositions  in  the  Con- 
stitution— to  wit — I.  that  the  President  with  the  Senate  are  com- 
petent to  make  Treaties,  II.  that  a  Treaty  is  a  Law. 

On  these  grounds  with  the  President's  name  a  bulwark  not  to 

be  shaken  is  erected.     The  propositions  amount  in  my  judgment 

to  irresistible  demonstration. 

Yrs. 

A.  Hamilton. 

A.  Hamilton  to  R.  King. 

Ap'l  2,  1796. 

Thank  you  for  yours  of  yesterday.  I  have  no  copy  of  the  paper 
sent.  The  greatest  part  went  in  the  original  draft,  though  consid- 
erably reformed  acccording  to  joint  ideas  &  somewhat  strength- 
ened by  new  thoughts.  A  letter  I  have  received  tells  me  that  it 
came  to  hand  after  the  ground  which  was  acted  upon  had  been 
formally  considered  in  Council,  and  that  it  is  referred  for  future 
use  in  the  event  of  an  expected  criticism  of  the  Message. 

I  have  asked  for  it  conditionally  to  secure  correct,  &c.     If  I  get 

it  you  shall  have  a  copy.     But  you  must  take  care  that  there  is  no 

crossing  of  path. 

Yrs.  truly, 

A.  Hamilton. 

C.  Gore  to  R.  King. 

Boston,  14  April,  1796. 
My  Dear  Sir  : 

By  the  last  mail,  I  received  notice  from  the  Sec'y  of  State  that 

the  President  had  appointed  me  one  of  the  commiss'rs  under  the 

7.  art,  of  the  treaty  with  Great  Britain.     .     .     .    The  President's 

answer  has  been  universally  pleasing  here,   some  have  become 

so  enamoured  with  the  thing  that  they  have  had  it  printed  in 

white  satin,  and  are  having  it  framed  and  glazed.     .     .     . 

Your  affectionate  friend, 

C.  Gore. 


1796]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  59 

A.  Hamilton  to  R.  King.* 

New  York,  April  15,  1796. 

My  Dear  Sir  : 

A  letter  by  yesterday's  Post  from  our  Friend  Ames  informed 
me  that  the  Majority  (57  concurring)  had  resolved  in  a  private 
Meeting  to  refuse  appropriations  for  the  Treaty.  A  most  impor- 
tant crisis  ensues.  Great  evils  may  result  unless  good  men  play 
their  card  well  &  with  promptitude  and  decision.  For  we  must 
seize  and  carry  along  with  us  the  public  opinion  ;  and  loss  of 
time  may  be  loss  of  everything. 

To  me  our  true  plan  appears  to  be  the  following  (I  suppose 
that  a  certain  communication  has  been  made). 

1.  The  President  ought  immediately  after  the  House  has  taken 
the  ground  of  refusal  to  send  them  a  solemn  Protest.  This  pro- 
test ought  to  contain  reasons  in  detail  against  the  claim  of  the 
House  in  point  of  Constitutional  right  &  ought  to  suggest  sum- 
marily but  with  solemnity  and  energy  the  danger  to  the  interests 
&  Peace  of  the  country  from  the  measures  of  the  House.  The 
certainty  of  a  deep  wound  to  our  character  with  foreign  Nations, 
and  essential  destruction  of  their  confidence  in  the  Government, 
concluding  with  an  intimation  that  in  such  a  state  of  things,  he 
must  experience  extreme  embarrassment  in  proceeding  in  any 
pending  or  future  negotiation  which  the  affairs  of  the  U.  States 
may  require,  inasmuch  as  he  cannot  look  for  due  confidence  from 
others,  nor  give  them  the  requisite  expectation  that  stipulations 
will  be  fulfilled  on  our  part. 

A  copy  of  this  protest  to  be  sent  to  the  Senate  for  their  infor- 
mation :  the  Senate  by  resolutions  to  express  strongly  their  appro- 
bation of  his  principles,  to  assure  him  of  their  firm  support,  &  to 
advise  him  to  proceed  in  the  execution  of  the  Treaty  on  his  part 
in  the  confidence  that  he  will  derive  from  the  virtue  and  good 
sense  of  the  people,  constitutionally  exerted,  eventual  &  effectual 
support ;  &  may  still  be  the  instrument  of  preserving  the  Consti- 
tution, the  Peace  &  the  Honor  of  the  Nation. 

Then  the  merchants  to  meet  in  the  cities  and  second  by  their 
resolutions   the   measures   of   the    President   &   Senate,    further 

*  Hamilton's  Works,  viM  103. 


60  RUFUS  KING.  [1796 

addressing  their  fellow  citizens  to  co-operate  with  them.  Petitions 
afterwards  to  be  handed  throughout  the  U.  States. 

The  Senate  to  hold  fast  &  consent  to  no  adjournment  till  the 
expiration  of  the  term  of  service  of  the  present  House  unless  pro- 
vision be  made. 

The  President  to  cause  a  confidential  communication  to  be 
made  to  the  British  stating  candidly  what  has  happened,  his 
regrets,  his  adherence  nevertheless  to  the  Treaty,  his  resolution  to 
persist  in  the  Execution  so  far  as  depends  on  the  Executive,  & 
his  hope  that  the  faith  of  the  Country  will  be  eventually  preserved. 

I  prefer  that  the  measures  should  begin  with  a  Protest  of  the 
President,  as  it  will  be  in  itself  proper  &  there  will  be  more 
chance  of  success  if  the  contest  appears  to  be  with  him  &  the 
Senate  auxiliaries,  than  in  the  reverse. 

But  in  all  this  business  celerity,  decision  &  an  imposing  attitude 
are  indispensable.  The  Glory  of  the  President,  the  safety  of  the 
Constitution,  the  greatest  interests  depend  upon  it.  Nothing 
will  be  wanting  here.  I  do  not  write  to  the  President  on  the 
subject. 

An  Idea  has  come  from  Cooper  of  an  intention  in  our  friends  in 
the  House  of  Representatives  to  resist  the  execution  of  the  other 
Treaties,  the  Spanish  &  Algerine,  unless  coupled  with  the  British. 
But  this  will  be  altogether  wrong  &  impolitic.  The  misconduct 
of  the  other  party  cannot  justify  in  us  an  imitation  of  their  prin- 
ciples. 'Tis  best  I  think  that  the  freest  course  should  be  given 
to  the  other  Treaties  ;  or  at  most,  if  a  feint  of  opposition  is 
deemed  adviseable,  it  ought  to  be  left  to  the  Senate  by  postpone- 
ment &c.     But  even  this  is  very  delicate  and  very  questionable. 

Let  us  be  Right,  because  to  do  right  is  intrinsically  proper  &  I 
verily  believe  it  is  the  best  mean  of  securing  final  success.  Let 
our  adversaries  have  the  whole  glory  of  sacrificing  the  interests  of 
the  Nation. 

Yrs.  affectly. 

A.  Hamilton. 

P.S. — If  the  treaty  is  not  executed,  the  President  will  be  called 
upon  by  regard  to  the  character  of  the  public  good  to  keep  his 
post  till  another  House  of  Representatives  has  pronounced. 


1796]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  6 1 

A.  Hamilton  to  R.  King.* 

New  York,  April  18,  1796. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  thank  you  for  your  letter  received  to-day.  Our  merchants 
here  are  not  less  alarmed  than  those  of  Philadelphia,  and  will  do 
all  they  can.  All  the  insurance  people  meet  to-day :  the  Merchants 
&  Traders  will  meet  to-morrow  or  the  next  day.  A  Petition  will 
be  prepared  and  circulated  among  the  other  citizens. 

I  regret  that  a  certain  communication  was  not  made.  Indeed 
I  think  the  Executive  will  be  hereafter  blamed  for  keeping  back 
the  fact  in  so  critical  a  posture  of  things. 

Yrs  truly 

A.  Hamilton. 


A.  Hamilton  to  R.  KiNG.f 

April  20,  1796. 

Dr.  Sir  : 

Yesterday's  Post  brought  me  a  letter  from  you  which  gave  me 
pleasure.  The  papers  will  apprize  you  of  the  proceedings  of  the 
Merchants  &  Traders  here  on  yesterday  :  there  is  among  them 
also  "unexampled  unanimity,"  &  as  far  as  I  can  judge  the  current 
is  in  our  favour  throughout  the  City.  Persons  to-day  are  going 
through  the  different  wards. 

Yrs  sincerely 

A.  Hamilton. 

P.S. — Our  friends  in  the  House  will  do  well  to  gain  time. 


A.  Hamilton  to  R.  Ktng.  \ 

April  23,  1796. 

Dr.  Sir  : 

I  have  received  your  two  letters  and  shall  this  day  attend  to 
the  one  which  requires  it.  I  see  however  no  objection  to  it  as  it 
stands,  and  I  do  not  now  perceive  how  the  further  object  you 
aim  at  could  be  accomplished  in  the  manner  you  seem  to  desire. 

*  Hamilton  s  Works,  vi.,  p.  106.  f  Ibid.,  p.  106.  \Ibid.,  p.  114. 


62  RUFUS  KING.  [1796 

I  have  written  to  Ames  this  day  concerning  the  course  of  things 
in  our  city.  He  will  communicate  to  you,  as  I  have  not  time  to 
repeat.  We  are  decidedly  well.  But  it  is  intended  to-day  to 
continue  the  Petition  in  circulation  &  to-morrow  it  will  be  sent. 
I  thought  it  adviseable  to  publish  an  extract  from  your  letter  with- 
out naming  you. 

Yrs.  truly 

A.  Hamilton. 

It  is  much  to  be  regretted  that  the  letters  of  Mr.  King 
referred  to  in  the  above  short  notes  of  Mr.  Hamilton,  and 
which  must  have  given  some  interesting  facts  as  well  as  the 
views  of  Mr.  King  relative  to  the  important  questions  under 
review,  are  not  accessible,  if  they  are  in  existence,  Mr. 
J.  C.  Hamilton,  in  his  Works  of  Hamilton,  publishing  those 
above,  but  not  the  answers  to  them.  A  search  for  them  in 
the  United  States  State  Department  among  the  Hamilton 
papers  by  Mr.  Andrew  H.  Allen,  Chief  of  Bureau  of  Rolls 
and  Library,  at  the  Editor's  request,  has  been  unsuccessful. 

Fisher  Ames  to  R.  King,  N.  York. 

Phil.,  May  30,  1796. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  did  not  expect  you  would  leave  us  before  the  end  of  the 
Session.  Your  sudden  departure  has  deprived  me  of  the  oppor- 
tunity I  would  have  taken  to  give  you  my  hand  at  parting.  If  I 
had  enjoyed  it,  I  could  not  have  expressed  all  the  esteem,  good 
wishes,  and  real  regrets  I  shall  feel  for  you.  I  know  you  will  not 
think  it  necessary,  in  order  to  make  you  convinced  of  my  sin- 
cerity. It  is,  however,  a  pleasure  to  me,  tho'  it  is  a  farewell,  to 
assure  you  how  ardently  I  shall  ever  take  an  interest  in  the 
increase  of  your  reputation  and  happiness.  I  beg  Mrs.  King  to 
accept  my  best  respects — a  good  voyage — once  more  farewell. 

Yrs  Fisher  Ames. 

I  go  south  for  three  weeks. 


1796]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  63 


R.  King  to  T.  Pickering. 

Private. 

New  York,  June  1,  1796. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  omitted  suggesting  to  you  before  my  departure  from  Phila- 
delphia an  observation  or  two  concerning  our  Consul  at  Ham- 
burgh. Our  merchant  ships  may,  without  violating  our  national 
impartiality,  be  employed  in  the  service  of  the  belligerent  Powers 
— if  they  engage  in  a  service  prohibited  by  the  Law  of  Nations, 
and  are  detected,  they  incur  the  Penalty,  and  the  conduct  is  not 
imputed  to  the  nation.  But  where  any  officer  of  the  Nation  does 
an  act,  which  in  a  private  person  wld.  be  prohibited  by  the  Law 
of  Nations,  it  is  requisite  in  my  opinion  that  on  complaint  the 
Nation  to  wh.  such  officer  belongs  shd.  disavow  the  Act  and  pun- 
ish the  offender.  I  am  inclined  to  think  the  conduct  of  Mr. 
Parish  has  afforded  just  cause  of  complaint,  and  that  although  he 
may  be  a  worthy  man  he  shd.  be  displaced.  The  step  may  be 
explained  to  him  in  a  satisfactory  manner.  The  party  wh.  com- 
plains is  in  a  state  of  irritation — the  conduct  cannot  be  justified. 
A  compliance  with  the  Desires  of  those  who  complain  will  be 
politic.  The  point  is  not  of  sufficient  importance  to  be  made  a 
serious  and  solemn  question  between  the  two  Nations.  Besides  I 
suspect  we  shd.  be  put  in  the  wrong.  I  hope  you  will  see  this 
subject  in  the  light  in  which  I  view  it — in  itself  it  is  of  small  im- 
portance, it  may  become  of  real  consequence.  Should  the  Consul 
be  dismissed  and  the  ground  explained  to  him,  he  would  feel 
little  dissatisfaction  if  he  is  a  man  of  sense — and  after  the  Peace 
he  might  be  re-appointed  if  it  should  be  deemed  advisable. 

I  am  Dr.  Sir  your  ob.  St. 

Rufus  King. 

R.  King  to  T.  Pickering. 

Private. 

N.  York,  7  June,  1796. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  do  not  remember  to  have  conversed  with  Mr.  Jay  concerning 
the  terms  of  the  XII  Article  of  the  Treaty  with  Great  Britain, 
which  were  intended  to  ascertain  the  articles  of  Import  and  Ex- 


64  RUFUS  KING.  [1796 

port  to  and  from  the  W.  In.  Colonies.  I  have  conceived  that  the 
Article  would  have  secured  to  us  a  Right  to  carry  thither  every 
Article  which  it  is  now  lawful  to  carry  thither  from  the  U.  S.  in 
Br.  vessels — that  the  Catalogue  of  articles  could  not  have  been 
diminished  :  and  moreover  that  we  should  have  had  a  right  to 
carry  thither  every  other  article,  which  might  hereafter,  and 
during  the  operation  of  the  Stipulation,  be  lawfully  carried  there 
from  the  U.  S.  in  Br.  Vessels — the  second  paragraph  secured  to 
our  vessels  a  right  to  export  from  these  Colonies,  only  such  Arti- 
cles as  may  now  lawfully  be  brought  from  thence  to  the  U.  S.  in 
Br.  vessels  ;  here  again  the  Catalogue  of  articles  could  not  have 
been  abridged,  but  in  case  it  had  been  enlarged  in  favor  of  Br. 
vessels,  it  is  not  obvious  that  we  could  have  claimed  a  Right  to 
receive  and  bring  from  thence  in  our  vessels  such  additional  arti- 
cles ;  and  in  this  respect  the  stipulation  appears  unequal — whether 
this  was  accident  or  Design,  I  am  at  a  loss  ;  probably  the  former. 
I  have  seen  no  sufficient  reason  to  change  an  opinion  that  I 
thought  well  founded  on  the  first  appearance  of  this  article  ; 
which  is  that  it  would  have  been  more  plain  as  a  rule  of  Conduct, 
and  less  likely  to  originate  misunderstandings,  and  perhaps  com- 
mercial losses,  if  instead  of  a  reference  to  the  Br.  Statutes  to  find 
out  the  articles  which  might  be  imported  and  exported  to  and 
from  the  Br.  W.  Inds.,  the  articles  had  been  enumerated  in  the 
Treaty. 

A  clause  might  have  been  added  which  would  have  secured 
to  us  the  advantages  of  any  enlargement  of  the  List  of  articles 
which  the  Br.  Policy  in  future  might  have  adopted. 

Relative  to  Mr.  Adams  taking  leave  at  the  Hague,  would  it  not 
be  proper  to  intimate  to  the  Government  of  the  U.  N.  "  that  cir- 
cumstances interesting  to  the  U.  S.  have  induced  the  President  to 
remove  Mr.  Adams  from  the  Hague  to  Lisbon — that  it  is  hoped 
this  measure  will  be  taken  in  good  Part,  and  meet  with  the  appro- 
bation of  the  Gov.  of  the  U.  N.  for  whom  we  entertain  a  sincere 
esteem  and  friendship,  and  in  whose  Prosperity  and  Happiness 
we  take  a  lively  concern — that  it  is  the  President's  intention  to 
name  a  successor  to  Mr.  Adams  who  will  renew  to  the  Govt,  the 
assurances  of  the  friendly  attachment  of  the  U.  S.  for  the  Bata- 
vian  Republic." 


1796]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  65 

Some  course  like  this  will  conciliate  the  Convention  and  will 
leave  the  President  sufficient  latitude  in  respect  to  the  time  of 
replacing  Mr.  Adams  at  the  Hague. 

I  omitted  to  tell  you  in  a  line  I  wrote  to  you  yesterday,  that  I  have 
engaged  my  Passage  in  the  ship  James,  Conckling  Master,  of  this 
Port.  She  is  an  American  Ship  and  Master,  is  not  to  take  con- 
traband of  war  nor  Enemy  Goods.  She  is  to  sail  on  the  19th 
instant.  I  have  engaged  to  be  ready  by  that  Day.  She  is  bound 
to  London. 

.    Farewell  my  dear  Sir,  I  am  very  sincerely 

Yr  Obt.  Servt. 

Rufus  King. 


Wm.  Smith  to  R.  King. 

Charleston,  July  23d,  1796. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  I  did  not  leave  Philad.  till  ten  days  after  the  adjt.  and 
having  a  very  tedious  passage  did  not  arrive  here  till  the  1st  inst, 
not  in  time  to  prepare,  and  scarcely  in  time  to  deliver  my  Oration, 
a  copy  of  which  I  send  you,  with  a  curious  advertisement  of  the 
Vender,  who  says  that  the  works  which  have  lately  had  the 
greatest  run  in  town,  are  Paine's  Age  of  Reason  &  Smith's 
Oration.  You  will  smile  at  seeing  any  work  of  mine  associated 
with  Paine's  &  the  heroic  actions  of  the  French. 

Our  unfortunate  town  has  lately  suffered  much  from  fire  ;  the 
last,  which  occurred  on  the  13th  of  June,  was  very  destructive, 
having  swept  away  several  whole  streets,  and  consumed  upwards 
of  two  hundred  and  fifty  dwellings.  The  contributions  have 
been  very  considble.  here  for  the  relief  of  the  sufferers,  &  we  un- 
derstand that  very  generous  aid  will  be  furnished  from  New  York, 
Philad.  and  some  other  cities.  Many  of  our  planters  and  Merchts. 
are  extremely  embarrassed  by  the  great  fall  of  produce.  Mr. 
Izard,  who  refused  a  great  price  here  &  shipped  a  part  of  his 
crop,  will  probably  lose  near  ^"3000. 

He  and  his  family  are  well.  I  need  not  inform  you  how  much 
satisfaction  he  reed,  from  your  appointmt.  ;  indeed  I  can  assure 

vol.  n.— s 


66  RUFUS  KING.  [1796 

you  it  has  met  with  general  approbation  here.  .  .  .  We  have  as 
yet  no  certain  accot.  of  the  President's  intentions  as  to  the  next 
election.  Before  I  left  Philada.,  it  seemed  understood  that  Major 
Pinckney  was  to  be  joined  with  Mr.  Adams.  The  friends  of  the 
former  have  been  sounded  about  it,  but  as  he  is  expected  here 
soon,  nothing  definite  has  been  concluded  on. 

Since  the  last  session  there  has  been  a  promotion  in  Congress  ; 
Hillhouse,  Goodhue  and  Sedgwick  having  succeeded  to  Ellsworth, 
Cabot  and  Strong,  I  am  happy  to  find  that  Goodhue  is  elected  for 
six  years  from  next  March.  .  .  .  The  Treatyphobia  is  com- 
pletely cured  here,  and  federal  politics,  when  they  engage  the 
attention,  excite  generally  approbation.  Those  who  made  such  a 
ridiculous  clamor  last  summer  seem  ashamed  of  themselves  and 
are  glad  to  throw  a  veil  over  what  has  passed.  Mr.  Rutledge, 
the  late  C.  J.,  lives  quite  retired  &  avoids  being  seen  ;  his  health 
is  said  to  be  mended.  ...  I  am,  Dr.  Sir,  very  sincerely 
yours  &c. 

Wm.  Smith. 


G.  Cabot  to  R.  King,  London. 

Brookline,  July  24,  1796. 
My  dear  friend  : 

.  .  .  I  am  in  every  sense  so  abstracted  from  the  political 
world,  that  if  my  daily  visitors  did  not  talk  over  what  passes  in  it, 
I  should  know  nothing  of  its  affairs  ;  as  one  of  the  people,  however, 
I  feel  it  my  duty  to  say  that  we  are  well  satisfied  with  our  gov- 
ernment, and  perceive  very  plainly  that  it  has  done  for  us  much 
better  than  we  shou'd  have  done  for  ourselves,  if  we  had  fol- 
lowed our  own  humour.  We  understand  this  now  pretty  well 
throughout  New  England,  and  we  generally  agree,  that  in  future 
we  ought  to  think  before  we  decide  on  public  measures,  or  inflec- 
tion may  come  too  late. 

The  Gazettes  inform  us  a  Mr.  Williams  of  Stockbridge  and 
Saml.  Sewall  are  nominated  as  the  successors  of  Sedgwick  and 
Goodhue,  and  I  am  told  that  Sewall  will  probably  be  carried.  In- 
deed the  present  temper  of  the  people  is  extremely  favorable  to 
the  choice  of  good  men.     If  poor  old  Gorham  had  not  gone  off, 


796]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  6j 


I  incline  to  the  opinion  that  he  might  probably  have  been  elected 
Senator,  but  I  am  well  persuaded  that  no  man  of  doubtful  poli- 
tics cou'd  possibly  have  obtained  the  appointment.  Several  of 
the  Gentlemen  of  that  description  very  prudently  declined  being 
considered  as  candidates. 

I  was  ready  enough  to  anticipate  the  troubles  of  which  you 
speak  in  a  prophetic  spirit,  but  on  the  whole  there  is  no  appear- 
ance that  our  serenity  will  be  disturbed  this  season.  Every  thing 
without  doors  looks  well,  and  if  Wolcott  cou'd  only  have  a  mo- 
ment's use  of  the  desideratum  of  the  alchymists,  every  thing 
would  go  well.  The  cursed  intrigues  engendered  by  Americans 
at  Paris  and  by  Frenchmen  in  America  have  occasioned  some 
anxiety  among  many  lovers  of  our  Country,  but  these  projects 
are  evidently  failing,  and  it  may  be  hoped  that  the  time  is  not 
very  distant  when  the  cares  of  our  Allies  may  be  more  confined 
to  their  domestic  concerns.     .     .     . 

Truly  your  affectte.  friend 

George  Cabot. 


CHAPTER  VI. 

Mr.  King  having  been  appointed  Ambassador  to  England  starts  on  his  Mission 
— Responsibilities  of  a  Minister  at  that  Time,  from  Difficulty  of  communi- 
cating with  his  Government — Often  obliged  to  act  at  once  withou,t  waiting 
for  new  Instructions — Mr.  Jay's  Course  in  England  left  good  Impressions 
for  his  Successor,  which  Mr.  King  was  qualified  and  took  pains  to  continue 
— His  Arrival  and  Settlement  in  London. 

We  have  seen  in  the  correspondence  which  has  been  pre- 
sented, that  Mr.  King,  after  continuous  service  in  the  councils 
of  the  nation  for  a  period  of  twelve  years,  the  last  seven  of 
which  had  been  in  the  Senate,  as  a  member  from  the  State 
of  New  York,  had  determined  to  resign  his  position,  having 
said  in  a  letter  to  Hamilton,  "  You  must  know  that  I  am  not 
a  little  tired  with  this  separation  from  my  family  and  drudgery 
in  the  Senate." 

During  these  years  he  had  borne  an  active  and  intelligent 
part  in  perfecting  the  various  measures  adopted  for  the 
inauguration  of  the  new  government,  his  experience  in  the 
old  Confederation  eminently  qualifying  him  to  assist  in  put- 
ting into  operation  the  new  Constitution,  in  the  formation 
of  which  he  had  been  so  prominent  an  agent.  The  different 
departments  through  which  it  was  to  operate,  and  the  wise 
principles  upon  which,  through  the  guidance  and  moulding 
hand  of  Hamilton,  the  financial  affairs  were  to  be  conducted, 
had  been  firmly  established,  and  the  first  steps  had  been 
taken  to  determine  our  relations  with  foreign  countries  by 
the  commercial  treaty  with  Great  Britain.  The  government 
was  still  embarrassed  by  a  faction  at  home  which  seemed  to 

68 


1796]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  69 

be  anxious  to  engraft  upon  the  nation  the  wild  schemes  of 
French  democracy  and  manifested  a  consequent  hatred 
against  England,  due  partly  to  her  unwillingness  or  delay  to 
fulfil  her  obligations  under  the  treaty  of  peace.  They  con- 
sidered the  new  treaty,  as  did  the  French  Government, 
inimical  to  France,  which  used  it  as  a  ground  for  outrages 
upon  our  commerce  and  even  for  breaking  off  diplomatic 
relations. 

There  was  much  excuse  for  the  dissatisfaction  with 
England,  because  of  her  conduct  towards  us ;  for  she  too 
obstructed  our  commerce,  especially  with  the  West  Indies, 
capturing  American  vessels  and  condemning  them  in  the 
colonial  courts,  impressing  seamen  from  our  ships,  and  re- 
taining her  hold  upon  the  forts  on  the  western  frontier,  which 
she  had  agreed  to  surrender  by  the  treaty  of  peace.  A 
large  number  of  the  friends  of  the  government  and  who  had 
no  great  sympathy  with  France,  was  influenced  by  these  con- 
siderations to  demand  from  England  a  redress  for  the  wrongs 
inflicted  upon  us,  and  could  only  be  satisfied  by  the  appoint- 
ment of  a  minister  to  continue  the  negotiations  who  not 
only  possessed  a  thorough  knowledge  of  the  history  of  his 
own  country,  was  conversant  with  her  resources  and  needs, 
understood  the  genius  and  character  of  her  people,  but  was 
at  the  same  time  prudent,  clear-headed,  and  intelligent,  and 
thus  able  to  cope  with  the  practised  statesmen  of  England, 
to  present  his  country's  claims  with  courtesy,  tact,  and  firm- 
ness, and  to  render  himself  acceptable  to  the  Court  to  which 
he  was  to  be  accredited. 

The  President  could  not  but  feel  the  responsibility  that 
rested  upon  him,  and,  moved  by  the  suggestion  of  Mr.  Ham- 
ilton, was  inclined  to  select  Mr.  King  for  the  post.  He 
hesitated,  however,  not  because  he  had  a  doubt  of  his  fitness 
for  it,  but  that  he  feared,  from  "  what  has  been  said  of  his 
political  sentiments  with  respect  to  another  form  of  govern- 
ment .  .  .  the  interpretation  which  would  be  given  to 
the  nomination  of  him."      His  doubts  were  dispelled  by  the 


70  RUFUS  KING.  [!796 


letter  of  Mr.  Hamilton,  who  said  that  such  considerations 
should  have  no  weight  against  his  well  known  character. 
Mr.  King  then  received  the  appointment  of  Ambassador  and 
Minister  Plenipotentiary  to  Great  Britain,  resigned  his  seat 
in  the  Senate,  and  began  at  once  to  make  the  needful  prep- 
arations to  start  upon  his  mission. 

He  was  at  this  time  in  the  prime  of  life,*  a  man  among 
men,  of  athletic  form  and  graceful  carriage,  handsome  of 
feature,  as  represented  by  Trumbull  in  his  portrait  of  him, 
and  dignified  and  courteous  in  address.  His  mind  was  well 
stored,  conversant  with  the  literature  of  ancient  and  modern 
times,  which  was  always  at  his  command  whether  in  conver- 
sation or  in  debate.  For  twelve  years  he  had  mingled  freely 
with  the  leading  men  of  his  own  country,  taking  a  large  share 
of  the  burden  which  had  made  the  nation  what  it  was,  and 
so  accustomed  to  deal  with  the  large  questions  which  daily 
arise  in  the  domestic  and  foreign  affairs,  which  are  the  busi- 
ness of  the  nation,  that  he  felt  full  confidence  in  himself  in 
the  new  position  to  which  he  was  called,  and  believed  that 
he  might  do  good  service  for  his  country  and  promote  its 
welfare. 

It  may  be  here  remarked  that  the  responsibility  of  a  foreign 
minister  in  the  times  which  are  now  being  considered,  was 
far  different  from  that  in  the  present  day,  when  instantaneous 
communication  may  be  had  between  a  minister  and  his  gov- 
ernment, and  information  sent  to  him  at  once  to  meet  any 
modifications  of  the  instructions  given  him,  in  order  to  meet 
new  aspects  of  a  question.  During  the  period  of  Mr.  King's 
mission  and  long  afterwards  a  minister  could  rely  only  upon 

*Mr.  William  Sullivan,  in  the  Public  Men  of  the  Revolution,  p.  59,  gives 
us  his  reminiscences  of  Mr.  King  in  1788,  a  few  years  before  this  : 

"  Rufus  King  at  this  time  was  about  thirty-three  years  of  age.  He  was 
an  uncommonly  handsome  man  in  face  and  form  ;  he  had  a  powerful  mind, 
well  cultivated  and  was  a  dignified  and  graceful  speaker.  He  had  the  appear- 
ance of  one  who  was  a  gentleman  by  nature  and  had  well  improved  all  her 
gifts.  It  is  a  rare  occurrence  to  see  a  finer  assemblage  of  personal  and  intel- 
lectual qualities  cultivated  to  best  effect  than  were  seen  in  that  gentleman." 


1796]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  J I 

general  instructions,  which  could  not  provide  for  the  rapidly 
changing  events  which,  at  that  time,  arose  in  the  entangled 
affairs  of  Europe,  requiring  his  immediate  decision  and 
action.  He  was  often  for  months  unable  to  exchange  views 
with  his  government,  and  was  compelled  to  act  upon  his 
own  responsibility  and  judgment  where  delay  or  hesitation 
would  have  been  prejudicial  to  his  country's  interest.* 

It  is,  therefore,  an  evidence  of  the  wisdom  of  Mr.  King's 
appointment,  that  although  his  residence  in  England  con- 
tinued eight  years,  under  Washington,  Adams,  and,  two  of 

*  Mr.  Pickering,  Sec'y  of  State,  on  the  27th  July,  1796,  says  to  Mr.  King 
that  as  many  questions  have  occurred  and  will  continue  to  arise,  in  Mr.  Bayard's 
agency  for  appeals  and  claims  in  behalf  of  American  citizens,  some  of  law  and 
some  of  policy  or  expediency,  the  decision  of  which  by  reference  to  his  depart- 
ment would  cause  delays  and  might  be  less  depended  upon  than  the  legal  opin- 
ions of  the  official  American  gentlemen  on  the  spot — "  I  mean  you,  Mr.  Gore 
and  Mr.  William  Pinckney,"  he  "has  instructed  Mr.  Bayard  to  consult  with 
the  Commissioners  (Mr.  Gore  and  Mr.  Pinckney)  as  to  the  measures  he  should 
adopt.  With  regard  to  questions  of  Policy  or  Expediency,  those  also  can  for 
the  most  part  be  best  decided  in  the  same  manner.  To  postpone  decisions  of 
measures  proper  to  be  adopted,  till  advice  can  be  sent  and  answers  returned 
from  hence,  would  generally  be  injurious  by  the  delay,  and  often,  probably, 
incur  the  loss  of  advantages  to  be  secured  only  by  prompt  determinations.  In 
great  and  extraordinary  occasions,  where  the  sanction  of  the  President  will  be 
previously  necessary,  should  any  such  occur,  the  delay  will  be  unavoidable  ;  in 
others  you  and  the  Commissioners  will  know  when  you  may  advise  a  proceed- 
ing, on  a  fair  presumption  of  his  approbation." 

An  extract  from  a  letter  of  R.  King,  Jan'y  14,  1798,  to  the  Secretary  of 
State,  shows  that  he  felt  the  responsibility  resting  upon  him,  owing  to  the  time 
which  must  elapse  before  he  could  receive  instructions  to  meet  new  conditions 
constantly  arising  and  requiring  immediate  attention  and  prompt  decisions. 
"  I  shall  consider  this  subject  with  attention  and  will  exercise  a  discretion  that 
the  exigency  seems  to  demand.  It  would  certainly  be  more  agreeable  to  me  to 
have  it  in  my  power  on  all  occasions,  and  especially  on  those  of  the  highest 
moment,  to  find  my  duty  in  observing  the  well  considered  instructions  of  the 
President.  But  there  sometimes  occur,  and  more  frequently  at  this  period, 
than  formerly,  events  so  wholly  unlooked  for,  that  the  subordinate  agents  of  a 
nation  may  be  called  upon  to  act  always  with  a  sound  and  prudent  discretion, 
in  cases  the  decision  of  which  belong  to  the  highest  department  of  the  Govern- 
ment. While  on  the  one  hand  I  shall  regret  the  existence  of  the  occasion,  I 
shall  not  hesitate  on  the  other  to  do  what,  under  its  peculiar  circumstance,  shall 
appear  to  my  judgment  to  be  necessary  to  promote  the  national  welfare." 


72  RUFUS  KING.  [1796 

them,  under  Jefferson,  we  find  no  instance  in  which  he  did 
not  show  a  clear  understanding  of  the  questions  under  con- 
sideration, a  large  and  comprehensive  foresight,  and  a  firm 
yet  courteous  presentation  of  the  views  of  his  government, 
winning  at  the  same  time  the  confidence  of  the  different 
ministers  with  whom  he  had  to  deal  in  Great  Britain  ;  nor 
was  his  action  ever  Overruled,  nor  its  wisdom  denied  by  his 
government  at  home.  Indeed  there  is  abundant  evidence 
that  his  residence  in  London,  surrounded  as  he  was  there, 
and  intimate  with  the  leading  statesmen  of  the  world,  was 
used  by  him  to  raise  the  new  country  to  a  position  of  respect 
in  the  eyes  of  Europe,  and  to  claim  from  other  nations  the 
consideration  due  to  a  power  which  knew  its  rights  and  was 
determined  to  maintain  independence  and  firmness  in  dealing 
with  them.  He  was  but  following  the  example  of  Mr.  Jay, 
who,  he  said,  had  already  laid  the  foundations  for  such 
respectful  consideration.* 

Having  received  his  instructions,  Mr.  King  sailed  on  June 
20,  1796,  from  New  York  in  the  ship  James,  Conckling  mas- 
ter, both  American.  The  vessel  "  took  neither  contraband 
of  war  nor  enemy's  goods  "  and  sailed  directly  to  London, 
where  he  arrived  on  the  23d  of  July,  as  he  wrote  to  Mr. 
Low  on  August  1st, 


a 


after  a  good  passage,  which  we  all  found  less  disagreeable  than 
we  apprehended.     I  am  unable  to  tell  you  any  news,  having  been 

*  Charles  J.  Ingersoll  in  his  Recollections  (Phil.,  1861)  says,  p.  in  : 
"  I  have  heard  Mr.  King  describe  Mr.  Jay's  deportment  in  London  as  not 
only  purely  and  firmly,  but  boldly  and  highly  independent  American." 

John  Jay  to  Lord  Grenville. 

"  New  York,  4th  of  June,  1797. 

"  .  .  .  My  respect  and  esteem  for  your  Lordship  remain  unabated,  and 
I  natter  myself  with  the  pleasure  of  becoming  a  better  correspondent.  It  will 
give  you  satisfaction  to  know  that  the  letters  I  have  received  from  Mr.  King 
and  Mr.  Gore  make  honourable  mention  of  the  candour  and  good  faith  of  your 
government.  They  both  appear  to  be  well  pleased,  and  I  am  glad  of  it.  .  .  ." 
— Correspondence  and  Public  Papers  of  John   Jay,  iv.,  227. 


1796]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  73 

wholly  engaged  since  my  arrival  in  those  employments,  which  are 
usual  on  like  occasions  "  ;  and  on  August  16th  :  "  We  do  not  yet 
feel  ourselves  settled,  and  when  you  see  my  friend  the  Judge,  tell 
him,  I  find  here  no  such  house  as  I  left  in  New  York." 

His  family  at  this  time  consisted  of  his  wife  and  four  boys, 
the  eldest  eight  years  old,  and  his  youngest  brother  Cyrus 
as  his  secretary.  He  was  particularly  attached  to  this 
brother,  who  had  been  carefully  educated  by  him,  was  at  the 
time  preparing  to  enter  the  bar,  and  had  given  strong  evi- 
dence of  the  high  ability,  which,  in  his  subsequent  career, 
made  him  a  prominent  man  in  the  councils  of  the  nation.  It 
may  here  be  said  that  he  remained  in  London  about  a  year, 
profiting  in  many  ways  by  his  association  with  his  brother, 
and  then  returned  to  America  to  resume  his  studies. 

There  is  little  doubt  that  Mr.  King's  arrangements  were 
much  facilitated  by  his  friends  Mr.  C.  Gore  and  his  wife,  who 
had  preceded  him  to  England,  the  former  as  one  of  the  Com- 
missioners under  the  7th  article  of  the  treaty  with  England. 
A  house  was  taken  at  first  at  18  Baker  Street,  where  he  re- 
mained some  time  ;  but  by  the  beginning  of  the  next  year 
we  find  him  established  in  Great  Cumberland  place,  his  resi- 
dence during  the  time  he  passed  in  England.  Through  his 
friends,  Mr.  Richard  Codman  and  Mr.  J.  Pitcairn,  he  pur- 
chased much  of  the  china  and  glass  for  his  table  in  Paris,  as 
well  as  the  French  wines  for  his  use,  and  thus  began  to  pre- 
pare to  take  the  place  in  social  life  which  his  own  merits  and 
his  position  as  Ambassador  Extraordinary  and  Minister 
Plenipotentiary  of  the  United  States  entitled  him  to  hold. 
It  may  here  be  mentioned  that  he  soon  found  that  the  pay 
he  received  from  the  Government  would  not  enable  him  to 
meet  the  demands  upon  him,  and  his  correspondence  with 
his  friend  and  agent  in  New  York,  Mr.  N.  Low,  shows  that 
he  was  obliged  to  draw  upon  his  private  funds,  which  were 
ample  for  all  his  wishes.  His  letters,  which  follow,  to  Mr. 
J.  Q.  Adams  and  Col.  Monroe  show  his  kindly  feelings  to 
those  who  were  in  the  diplomatic   service   of  his  country 


74  RUFUS  KING.  [1796 

and  which,  as  will  be  seen,  marked  his  intercourse  with  his 
fellow  ministers  during  his  residence  abroad,  and  were  mani- 
fested in  return  by  them  to  him. 

R.  King  to  J.  Q.  Adams. 

London,  July  24,  1796. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  arrived  here  last  evening,  and  by  a  conveyance  wh.  our  friend 
Mr.  Hall  informs  me  is  perfectly  safe,  I  send  you  a  letter  from 
the  Department  of  State.  I  have  only  time  to  congratulate  you 
on  yr.  appointment  to  Lisbon,*  and  to  assure  you  of  the  perfect 
esteem  &  respect  with  which  I  am,  Dr.  Sir,  yr.  ob.  servt. 

R.  K. 


Wm.  Strickland  to  R.  King. 

York,  July  29,  1796. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  this  day  received  an  account  of  your  arrival  in  England 
&  take  the  liberty  of  congratulating  you  on  the  occasion. 

The  minds  of  each  of  our  countries  have  for  some  time  wished 
in  your  hands  the  appointment  you  now  hold  but  despaired  of 
seeing  it  accomplished,  apprehensive  that  your  presence  would 
be  too  valuable  in  your  own  country  for  it  to  be  there  dispensed 
with  ;  fortunately  it  has  proved  otherwise  and  I  am  satisfied  to 
the  mutual  advantage  of  our  kindred  countries. 

I  have  much  pleasure  in  the  thoughts  of  renewing  in  this  coun- 
try an  acquaintance  commenced  with  so  much  satisfaction  to  my- 
self on  the  other  side  of  the  Atlantic  ;  &  shall  therefore  take  the 
earliest  opportunity  of  paying  my  respects  to  you  whenever  I 
come  to  London,  but  which  I  fear  will  not  be  before  the  next 
Spring,  having  left  it  not  more  than  six  weeks  since.  You  will 
no  doubt,  while  here,  endeavour  to  see  as  much  of  the  country  as 
you  can  ;  this  I  must  strongly  recommend  to  every  one  from  the 
United  States,  who  knows  how  to  turn  the  many  new  objects  he 

*  Before  Mr.  Adams  entered  upon  the  duties  of  that  office  he  was  appointed 
Minister  to  Berlin. 


1796]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  75 

would  meet  with  to  the  benefit  of  his  own  country  ;  the  Metropo- 
lis is  the  seat  of  pleasure  &  of  Politics,  but  a  just  estimate  of  this 
country  can  only  be  formed  by  visiting  the  interior  of  it ;  &  there 
only  can  observation  be  made  useful  in  numberless  instances  to 
the  circumstances  of  America.  Should  you  visit  this  place  or  the 
neighbourhood  of  it,  before  I  have  the  pleasure  of  seeing  you,  be 
assured  of  my  possessing  the  inclination  to  be  of  every  service  to 
you  in  my  power  &  to  assist  you  in  obtaining  the  object  of  your 
researches  or  acquiring  the  information  you  may  wish  for  ;  it  is 
the  slightest  return  I  can  make  for  innumerable  attentions  re- 
ceived in  your  country  &  for  the  liberal  and  friendly  reception  I 
everywhere  experienced  &  always  acknowledge  with  pleasure. 

I  shall  be  happy  to  hear  that  you  have  had  a  pleasant  voyage 
across  the  Atlantic,  &  all  your  family  are  arrived  in  good  health  ; 
and  tho'  I  have  not  the  Honor  to  be  known  to  Mrs.  King,  I  beg 
my  respects  to  her. 

I  am,  Dear  Sir,  with  great  esteem  &  respect,  your  very  obedient 
&  humble  Servant. 

William  Strickland. 


R.  King  to  Col.  Monroe,  Paris. 

London,  August  1,  1796. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Mr.  Pinckney  having  desired  to  return  home,  I  arrived  here  a 
few  days  ago  to  relieve  him.  We  sailed  from  New  York  on  the 
20th  of  June,  but  as  your  information  through  our  countrymen, 
who  are  so  frequently  arriving  from  America,  is  probably  as 
late  or  later  I  presume  that  I  can  tell  you  nothing  new  or  inter- 
esting.    .     .     . 

I  shall  be  happy  to  hear  from  you,  and  beg  you  to  be  assured 
that  it  will  afford  me  peculiar  pleasure  to  render  you  any  service 
that  my  situation  in  this  country  will  permit.     .     .     . 

R.  King. 


CHAPTER  VII. 

Mr.  King  enters  upon  his  Duties  as  Ambassador — Presentation  to  the  King — 
First  Interview  with  Lord  Grenville — Statement  by  Dr.  Edwards  of  the 
Condition  of  Affairs  in  France — Appointment  of  Col.  Trumbull  as  the 
fifth  Commissioner  under  7th  Article  of  the  Treaty — Mr.  Monroe's 
Recall  from  France — Treaty  of  Peace  with  Algiers — Count  De  la  Prade's 
Pretensions. 

Mr.  King  in  the  following  letter  announces  to  the  Secre- 
tary of  State  his  arrival  in  London,  his  reception  by  the 
King,  and  his  first  interview  with  Lord  Grenville : 

R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

London,  August  10,  1796. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  arrived  here  on  the  23d  ultimo  ;  the  King  was  in  the  course 
of  a  few  days  to  go  to  Weymouth,  where  he  spends  the  remainder 
of  the  summer.  Finding  it  to  be  the  desire  of  Mr.  Pinckney  that 
I  should  enter  on  my  office  without  delay,  I  was  in  the  course  of 
the  week  that  followed  my  arrival  presented  to  the  King  and 
Queen. 

My  reception  being  in  the  usual  manner,  nothing  occurred  on 
the  occasion  that  merits  particular  attention  ;  the  King  expressed 
his  satisfaction  with  the  prospect  of  a  lasting  friendship  and 
harmony  between  the  two  countries,  declared  that  he  sincerely 
desired  to  live  in  friendship  with  the  United  States  and  that  he 
would  execute  with  the  most  scrupulous  good  faith  the  Treaty 
lately  concluded  with  them. 

Tho'  this  is  a  season  when  public  men  in  this  country  consider 
themselves  entitled  to  some  relaxation  from  business,  and  most 

76 


1796]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  J 7 

of  them  are  in  the  country  not  much  disposed  to  be  interrupted, 
yet  I  thought  some  parts  of  my  instructions  were  so  important  and 
interesting,  that  I  ought  not  to  delay  requesting  a  conference  with 
Lord  Grenville  respecting  them.  I  accordingly  wrote  him  a  note 
on  the  eighth  instant,  requesting  him  to  appoint  a  time  when  I 
should  wait  on  him  for  the  purpose  of  making  certain  communi- 
cations to  him,  relating  as  well  to  the  suspended  portions  of  the 
late  Treaty,  as  to  some  other  points  that  are  mentioned  in  my 
instructions.  He  appointed  the  next  day  for  the  interview,  when 
I  communicated  to  him  in  a  concise  manner  our  ideas  respecting 
the  points  *  of  our  conference.  He  heard  me  with  attention,  ex- 
pressed the  desire  of  this  government  to  preserve  harmony  and 
good  understanding  with  us,  and  said  that  as  these  were  points  of 
much  consequence  to  their  commerce  and  marine,  he  would 
faithfully  state  what  I  had  said  to  his  colleagues,  with  whom  a 
conference  would  be  requisite  preparatory  to  any  reply.  The 
object  of  the  meeting  was  to  begin,  and  to  make  the  principal 
points  contained  in  my  instructions.  Speaking  respecting  the 
care  of  our  Seamen,  Lord  Grenville  expressed  a  wish  that  some 
notice  had  been  given  of  our  intention  to  send  an  agent  for  their 
protection  to  their  West  India  Colonies  ;  observing  that  the  Gov- 
ernors of  those  colonies  were  not  authorized  to  allow  the  resi- 
dence of  such  a  character,  and  that  without  instructions  they 
might  perhaps  refuse  to  admit  Mr.  Talbot,  an  event,  he  said,  that 
might  excite  unpleasant  feelings  on  our  part.  I  explained  the 
course  of  this  measure,  and  urged  the  importance  of  our  having 
an  agent  in  that  quarter  ;  intimating  at  the  same  time  that  an  im- 
mediate instruction  for  Mr.  Talbot's  admission  might  arrive  in 
season  to  prevent  any  disappointment  to  which  we  might  other- 
wise be  exposed. 

Col.  Trumbull  is  in  France  ;  he  is  expected  here  soon,  but  I 
am  fearful  that  he  will  be  unwilling  to  accept  the  agency  for  the 
protection  of  our  seamen.  This  I  shall  regret,  as  from  a  recent 
arrangement,  appplication  for  the  discharge  of  our  seamen,  de- 
tained on  board  the  British  ships,  which  have  formerly  been 
made  by  our  Consuls,  must  soon  go  through  my  hands.  I 
hope  to  be  able  to  prevail  on  Col.  Trumbull  to  accept  the  ap- 

*  Appendix  III. 


78  RUFUS  KING.  [1796 

pointment  and  continue  to  act  until  the  President  can  appoint 
another  person.     .     .     . 

With  great  respect, 

R.  King. 

Mr.  T.  Pickering,  Secretary  of  State,  in  his  letter  of 
August  8,  1796,  says  to  Mr.  King: 

"  Our  Treaty  with  Spain  was  promptly  ratified,  and  the  ratified 
copy  has  been  received  here  a  few  days  since  from  Spain.  By 
this  time  all  the  British  posts  must  have  been  delivered  up  to  the 
troops  of  the  United  States,  except  perhaps  the  remote  one  of 
Michilimackinac.  The  deliveries,  so  far  as  we  have  received 
intelligence  have  been  made  in  the  most  handsome  manner  on 
the  part  of  the  British." 

R.  King  to  Col.  Monroe,  Paris. 

London,  August  11,  1796. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  avail  myself  of  Mr.  Tudor's  visit  to  Paris  to  inform  you  that 

a  few  days  since  a  paper  was  published  in  the  English  Gazettes, 

purporting  to  be  a  letter  from  the  Directory  to  Mr.  Barthelemi, 

in  which  the  French  government  announces  their  intention  to 

stop  the  cargoes  of  all  neutral  vessels  bound  to  the  English  ports, 

and  assigns  as  the  cause  and  justification  of  this  measure  a  recent 

order  of  the  British  government  to  stop  the  cargoes  of  all  neutral 

vessels  bound  to  French  ports.     Though  I  was  not  ascertained  of 

the  authority  of  this  paper,  yet  considering  its  importance  to  our 

commerce,  I  applied  to  this  government  for  information  whether 

any  such  order  had  been   issued,  and  I  was  assured  in  reply  that 

no  such  order  exists,  and  that  no  new  order  has  been  issued  on 

this  subject.     I  expect  that  it  will  be  in  my  power  in  a  day  or  two 

to  send  you  a  precise  and  formal  document  on   this  point ;  in 

the  meantime   I   could   not   excuse  myself  from  giving  you  the 

earliest  information  in  my  power  relative  to   a  measure  so  truly 

afflicting,  should  the  paper  in  question  prove  genuine. 

I  am  &c, 

R.  King. 


1796]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  79 

The  following  statement  is  in  Mr.  King's  handwriting  : 

Doctor  Edwards,  August  19th,  1796. 

Dr.  Edwards*  called  on  me  yesterday  with  Mr.  Pinckney,  hav- 
ing arrived  the  day  before  from  France — he  spoke  of  the  dissatis- 
faction towards  the  U.  S.  which  was  entertained  by  and  influenced 
the  Government  of  France — that  Mr.  Monroe  had  conducted 
with  fidelity  towards  the  U.  S.,  that  he  had  vindicated  the 
measures  of  our  Government,  and,  though  he  did  not  like  the 
Treaty,  that  he  had  contended  that  in  no  respect  it  violated  our 
Treaty  with  France — that  the  Government  there  were  elevated 
with  their  successes,  and  said  though  we  might  not  have  broken  the 
Treaty,  that  nevertheless  by  the  late  Treaty  with  England,  we 
had  broken  our  Friendship  with  France — that  the  late  order  for 
stopping  neutral  vessels  was  aimed  in  a  great  measure  against 
England — that  however  they  were  disposed  to  treat  us  not  as  an 

*  Through  the  assistance  of  Mr.  F.  D.  Stone,  Librarian  of  the  Pennsylvania 
Historical  Society,  the  editor  has  been  enabled  to  identify  Dr.  Edwards  with 
Dr.  Evan  Edwards,  of  Philadelphia.!  He  was  born  in  1757,  and  received  a 
classical  and  medical  education,  was  an  earnest  participant  in  the  Revolution- 
ary war,  and  especially  during  the  British  occupation  of  Philadelphia,  having 
been  an  aide  to  Lord  Stirling.  After  the  war  he  held  many  important  posi- 
tions in  Pennsylvania,  and  was  a  Judge  from  1791  to  the  time  of  his  death 
in  1802. 

Frenno's  Gazette  is  quoted,  saying  : 

"He  possessed  talents  which  eminently  qualified  him  for  a  public  station, 
a  sound  understanding,  good  sense  improved  by  habits  of  reading  and  reflec- 
tion, an  intimate  knowledge  of  mankind,  incorruptible  integrity  with  popular 
and  engaging  manners.  .  .  .  His  affable  and  amiable  manners  and  cheer- 
ful conversation  .  .  .  procured  him  the  esteem  and  good-will  of  all  who 
conversed  with  him."  Mr.  Charles  Biddle,  in  his  Autobiography,  p.  309,  gives 
an  interesting  account  of  him.  He  was  very  sick  in  Paris,  and  spoke  in  the 
warmest  terms  of  the  kindness  of  those  who  cared  for  him,  wondering  how 
these  people — French — could  "be  guilty  of  crimes  so  disgraceful  to  human 
nature.  It  has  often  been  said  that  Mr.  Monroe  encouraged  Thomas  Paine 
to  write  the  infamous  letter  he  sent  to  Genl.  Washington.  The  Doctor  often 
told  me  that  Monroe  sent  him  to  Paris,  and  did  everything  in  his  power  to  pre- 
vent his  sending  or  publishing  that  letter.  Paine  told  him  that  anything  Mr. 
Monroe  wrote,  it  was  of  no  consequence  whether  it  was  suppressed  or  not,  but 
what  he  wrote  was  for  posterity." 

\  Penn.  Magazine,  ii.,  p.  74  ;  also  ix.,  p.  325  ;  Miss  Sally  Wister's  Journal 


80  RUFUS  KING.  [1796 

Enemy  but  as  a  Nation  who  had  shown  a  Preference  for  their 
rival  &  Enemy — I  met  Dr.  Edwards  in  the  city  to  day  and  walked 
home  with  him — the  Temper  of  France  towards  our  Country  was 
again  the  Topic  of  conversation.  He  said  T.  Paine  had  been 
writing  a  Book  agt.  the  President — that  Monroe,  while  T.  P.  was 
in  his  House,  expressed  his  disapprobation  of  the  measure,  and 
that  Paine  immediately  removed  to  other  Quarters — that  the  work 
was  very  abusive, — he  had  seen  it,  and  a  young  Virginian  who 
came  over  with  him  from  Havre  had  the  Copy,  which  he  was 
charged  to  deliver  to  Bache  for  Publication — that  in  a  conversa- 
tion he  had  with  the  Members  of  the  Directory,  speaking  of  their 
sentiments  respecting  America,  he  attributed  all  the  circumstances 
of  coldness  and  caution  respecting  which  they  complained,  to  the 
operations  of  Genet  ;  Reubell  replies  that  undoubtedly  there  was 
the  first  Error  ;  but  Barras  said  perhaps  it  was  to  be  regretted 
that  Genet  had  been  recalled — that  Monroe  had  been  much  re- 
spected— that  he  was  believed  to  be  honest,  frank,  and  a  zealous 
friend  of  the  French  ;  that  for  a  Time  he  rec'd  marks  of  Prefer- 
ence and  Distinction,  but  that  latterly  such  was  the  temper 
towards  us,  that  his  situation  was  less  agreeable — that  at  a  Dinner 
given  by  La  Croix  to  the  foreign  Ministers,  he  gave  out,  turning  to 
Del  Campo  (of  Spain)  our  new  ally,  and  to  the  Prussian  ambassa- 
dor, our  old  and  faithful  ally,  that  Monroe  suspected  T.  Paine  of 
having  done  him  an  injury  with  the  Directory — that  he  was  there- 
fore on  bad  terms  with  Paine  ;  that  La  Croix  expressing  his  Dis- 
approbation with  us  observed,  that  they  had  no  intention  of  treat- 
ing us  as  an  Enemy  ;  once  he  said  they  had  resolved  to  send  an 
Envoy  Extray.  to  demand  certain  explanations,  and,  in  case  they 
were  not  satisfactory,  to  immediately  withdraw — that  this  Project 
was  abandoned,  and  they  had  resolved  to  permit  their  resident 
Minister  Adet  to  return  home,  and  to  leave  with  us  a  Charge  des 
Affaires  to  take  care  of  their  People  and  Concerns  in  our 
Country. 

Doct.  Edwards  mentioned  various  circumstances  to  shew  the 
haughtiness  of  the  French,  flushed  as  they  were  with  Victory — the 
refusal  of  the  Swedish  Charge  des  Affaires,  the  sending  away  the 
Tuscan  Minister,  and  the  language  they  held  on  the  subject  of 
peace  and  particularly  of  a  Peace  with  England — he  said  that 
Monroe  had  been  made  uneasy  with  the  declar'on  of  a  Character 


1796]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  8 1 

supposed  to  be  confidential,  or  employed  by  Reubell  of  the 
Directory — who  lately  intimated  to  Monroe,  that  the  Directory 
had  been  deceived  by  his  Representations  of  the  Temper  & 
Dispositions  of  our  Country — that  Monroe  suspected  T.  Paine, 
with  having  been  the  source  of  the  Information  that  had  led  the 
Directory  to  doubt  his  Representations,  that  he  had  applied  to 
Reubell  and  his  Colleagues  on  the  Subject,  and  asked  whether  T. 
Paine  had  given  them  Information  contradictory  to  the  Repre- 
sentations— that  he  had  not  been  perfectly  satisfied  on  this  Point 
— that  in  conversation  concerning  their  temper  towards  us  he  had 
said  that  it  would  disserve  them,  that  every  country  has  its  Par- 
ties, that  this  was  the  case  in  America — that  the  Friends  of  France 
must  be  silent,  or  join  those  of  England,  if  France  persisted  in  an 
unfriendly  conduct  towards  us 

After  a  desultory  conversation  on  these  points — he  spoke  of 
Monroe  having  formerly  been  much  influenced  by  Hichbon  ; 
that  he  had  finally  suspected  &  thrown  him  off — that  Hichbon 
spoke  of  the  corrupt  Character  of  some  of  his  countrymen,  and 
of  the  application  of  English  Money  to  procure  an  influence  in 
America,  that  he  himself  had  been  Offered  a  Bribe  &  that  the 
Money  and  Offer  came  from  Lord  Dorchester. 

That  Monroe  was  made  uneasy  by  a  Report  that  his  political 
Opponents  were  combining  to  Effect  his  Recall — that  he  hated 
Jay  &  Hamilton,  especially  the  former,  concerning  whom  he  told 
a  story  of  his  having  very  soon  after  Monroe  coming  into  Con- 
gress, in  a  private  conversation  attempted  to  engage  him  to  con- 
cur in  a  Proposal  of  appointing  a  committee  of  Congress  to 
instruct  him  Jay  respecting  the  negotiation  of  the  sp.  treaty  ; 
the  Object  of  wh.  was  to  shut  up,  as  Monroe  supposes,  the  Missis- 
sippi— that  he  from  that  moment  suspected  Jay's  integrity  & 
Patriotism — -that  he  made  a  memorandum  of  the  overture  in  his 
Diary,  and  showed  it  to  Henry  Lee  who  would  now  recollect 
it— &c.  &c— 

Dr.  Edward's  idea  respecting  the  Order  agt.  the  neutral  com- 
merce seemed  to  be  this — the  Commerce  of  Amer.  centres  in  G. 
B. — it  is  of  immense  consequence  to  that  nation — Fr.  cannot 
affect  G.  B.  in  any  way  but  by  assailing  her  commerce — if  she  can 
shut  her  out  from  the  various  Ports  of  Europe  she  will  severely 
wound  her — if  she  can  moreover  embarrass  her  Commerce  with 

VOL   II. — 6 


82  RUFUS  KING.  [1796 

America,  she  may  do  her  a  still  greater  injury — The  order  there- 
for is  more  aimed  against  G.  B.  than  America  &c.  &c.  Speaking 
of  the  President  he  said  he  was  truly  unpopular  in  France — that 
the  conduct  of  G.  Morris  had  paved  the  way  to  his  unpopularity 
— that  when  G.  M.  was  recalled,  Monroe  carried  him  a  private 
Letter  from  the  President,  which  was  delivered  to  Morris  at  a 
Dinner  where  there  was  much  Company,  and  several  Members  of 
the  Government — that  G.  M.  publickly  read  the  Letter  in  which 
the  President  told  him  that  his  recall  arose  from  no  dissatisfaction 
that  he  had  with  his  Conduct — but  because  the  french  Govt,  had 
requested  it — that  besides,  the  Directory  had  a  letter  from  the 
Pr.  to  G.  M.  which  had  been  intercepted,  and  wh.  was  written 
after  the  Ratification  of  the  Treaty  with  England,  in  which  he 
says  "  so  desirous  have  we  been  to  preserve  our  Neutrality  and 
remain  at  Peace,  that  though  he  disapproved  of  some  parts  of  the 
Treaty  he  had  ratified  it — that  he  hoped  this  conduct  would  have 
its  Effect  in  procuring  to  us  the  friendship  of  England,  and  he 
wished  G.  M.  to  let  Lord  Grenville  know  his  Opinions  in  this 
respect." 

August  30th,  1796. 

Mr.  Pinckney  told  me  that  conversing  with  Doctr.  Edwards,  he 
told  him  that  inasmuch  as  he  did  not  on  his  way  through  France 
to  Spain,  solicit  the  aid  of  the  french  Government  in  the  negotia- 
tion with  Spain,  they  had  revoked  an  instruction  which  had  been 
given  to  their  Minister  at  Madrid  to  facilitate  our  wishes — that 
they  were  displeased  with  the  Treaty  and  said  that  it  sacrificed 
their  Interest — Mr.  Pinckney  said  he  did  not  ask  the  interference 
of  France,  because  he  supposed  them  displeased  with  our  having 
concluded  a  Treaty  with  England. 


R.  King  to  N.  Low. 

August  16,  1796. 

We  do  not  yet  feel  ourselves  settled  and  when  you  see  our 
friend  the  Judge,  tell  him,  I  find  here  no  such  house  as  I  left  in 
New  York.  I  dare  not  write  to  you  respecting  politics,  because  I 
can  form  no  conjectures  that  are  entitled  to  any  consideration.  .  . 


1796]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  83 

By  a  letter  of  the  24th  of  July  from  Paris,  I  am  informed  that  our 
fellow  citizens  so  long  held  in  captivity  at  Algiers  have  been 
released  and  have  arrived  at  Marseilles  :  through  the  same 
channel  we  learn  that  the  American  Schooner  Eliza  captured  by 
the  Tunissians  has  been  given  up.  Mr.  Barber  employed  for  that 
purpose  by  Col.  Humphries  having  effected  a  treaty  with  the  Bey, 
previous  to  her  capture. 

Yours  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  A.  Hamilton.  * 

London,  August  25,  1796. 
Dear  Sir  : 

It  would  have  been  agreeable  to  this  government,  if  we  could 
have  agreed  to  the  appointment  of  Doctor  Swabey  as  the  Commis- 
sioner ;  he  is  really  a  very  candid  and  honorable  man.  But  for 
the  same  reason  that  we  could  not  satisfy  the  Commissioners  on 
the  part  of  Great  Britain  with  the  appointment  of  our  country- 
man, Colonel  Trumbull,  an  equally  candid  and  honorable 
character,  they  have  been  unable  to  convince  us,  that  under  all 
circumstances,  it  would  be  advisable  that  we  should  accept  Doctor 
Swabey. 

The  utmost  propriety  of  conduct  has  been  shown  on  both  sides  ; 
and  out  of  several  names  proposed  by  each,  the  British  Commis- 
sioners selected  Colonel  Trumbull,  and  our  Commissioners  Doctor 
Swabey,  as  the  names  to  be  put  in  the  urn.  The  lot  has  decided 
in  our  favor,  and  Colonel  Trumbull,  who  is  on  the  spot,  is  the 
fifth  Commissioner.  \  The  Board  being  now  complete,  will  pro- 
ceed to  business  without  unnecessary  delay. 

Knowing  the  immense  importance  of  this  Commission  to  our 
Commerce  and  navigation,  I  take  the  earliest  opportunity  to  give 

*  Works  of  Hamilton,  vi.  p.  146. 

f  In  the  treaty  with  Great  Britain,  negotiated  by  Mr.  Jay,  two  of  the  Articles 
provided  for  the  adjustment  of  claims  by  private  individuals  against  the  two 
Governments,  the  sixth  Article  for  claims  preferred  by  Englishmen  against  the 
United  States,  and  the  seventh,  by  American  citizens  against  England.  The 
claims  were  to  be  adjusted  by  five  Commissioners  under  each  Article,  two  of  each 
set  to  be  chosen  by  the  respective  Governments  and  the  fifth  by  lot  cast  by  the 
four.     Those  under  the  sixth  Article  were  to  sit  in  Philadelphia,  those  under 


84  RUFUS  KING.  [1796 

you  this  information.  The  surrender  of  the  posts  which  has 
taken  place,  and  the  very  explicit  assurances  that  I  have  received 
from  the  highest  authority  in  that  nation,  of  a  resolution  to  carry 
into  effect  the  treaty,  with  the  most  scrupulous  fidelity,  make  me 
anxious  that  nothing  should  take  place  on  our  part,  that  would 
furnish  even  a  pretence,  much  less  a  justification,  for  arresting 
the  further  and  complete  execution  of  the  treaty.  The  very  ex- 
traordinary situation  of  Europe  at  this  moment,  should  inspire 
us  with  great  caution,  and  those  whose  property  depends  on  the 
treaties  being  permitted  to  go  into  full  effect,  should  feel  and  be 
influenced  by  this  reflection.     Farewell,  &c. 


T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

Department  of  State,  Aug.  29,  1796. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  beg  your  care  to  transmit  the  inclosed  Letter  to  Mr.  Monroe. 
The  object  of  it  is  to  inform  him  of  his  recall,  of  which  it  is  de- 
sirable to  give  him  notice,  prior  to  the  arrival  of  his  successor. 
Mr.  Monroe's  own  communications  in  February  and  March  last 
laid  the  foundation  of  his  recall.  They  manifested  the  great  un- 
easiness existing  in  the  French  government  in  relation  to  the 
United  States,  especially  on  account  of  the  Treaty  with  Great 
Britain.  His  former  letters  had  predicted  this  consequence  of 
the  Treaty  ;  and  the  good  reception  of  Mr.  Fauchet,  who  left  this 
country  with  strong  prejudices  against  it,  was  likely  to  aggravate 
every  cause,  real  or  imaginary,  of  dissatisfaction  on  the  part  of 
France.  The  necessity  of  obviating  complaints,  of  stating  facts, 
of  explaining  the  conduct  and  declaring  the  principles  of  the 
American  government  had  been  apparent ;  and  for  these  pur- 
poses Mr.  Monroe  had  been  amply  furnished  with  documents,  the 
last  of  which  he  acknowledged,  in  his  letter  of  December  6,  1795, 

the  seventh,  in  London.  The  Commissioners  under  the  sixth  Article  were 
Thomas  Fitzsimons,  and  James  Innes,  who  died,  Samuel  Sitgreaves  being  ap- 
pointed in  his  place,  Americans,  and  Thomas  McDonald  and  Henry  Pye  Rich, 
with  John  Guillemard,  the  fifth,  Englishmen.  Those  under  the  seventh  Arti- 
cle were  Christopher  Gore  and  William  Pinkney,  Americans,  and  John  Nickoll 
and  James  Anstey,  afterwards  Maurice  Swabey,  Englishmen — John  Trum- 
bull being  the  fifth.  The  history  of  these  Commissions  will  appear  in  the 
correspondence. 


1796]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  85 

that  he  had  received.  Yet  he  appears  to  have  been  perfectly- 
silent,  until  on  the  15th  of  February  last  he  was  alarmed  by  a 
project  of  the  Directory,  announced  to  him  by  the  Minister,  M. 
De  La  Croix,  to  send  an  Envoy  Extraordinary  to  this  Country. 
This  he  endeavoured  to  prevent  and  manifested  his  readiness  to 
vindicate  his  Government.  He  had  an  audience  of  the  Directory  ; 
and  the  project  was  suspended  to  give  an  opportunity  to  receive 
their  complaints  and  make  his  answer.  The  result  was  not  re- 
ceived here  until  the  18th  July,  in  a  letter  from  Mr.  Monroe, 
dated  the  2d  of  May.  But  this  only  covered  M.  De  La  Croix's 
statement  of  complaints  and  Mr.  Monroe's  answer  ;  the  effect  of 
the  latter  remained  to  be  learnt.  The  objections  made  were 
feeble  and  perhaps  we  may  hear  no  more  of  them.  But  the  dis- 
satisfaction and  uneasiness  produced  by  Mr.  Monroe's  Letters  of 
February  and  March,  concurring  with  divers  other  causes,  had 
determined  the  President  early  in  July  to  recall  him.  The  Presi- 
dent immediately  wrote  to  General  Pinckney,  requesting  him  to 
accept  the  mission  to  Paris.  He  has  accepted  ;  and  is  daily 
expected  here  from  Charleston. 


R.  King  to  the  Secretary  of  State.  * 

Sept.  8.  1796. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Mr.  Trumbull's  appointment  as  the  fifth  Commissioner  in  the 

capture  question  has  prevented  his  acceptance  of  the  agency  for 

the  relief  and  protection  of  our  seamen.     His  duties  must  devolve 

on  me  for  the  present  ;  and,  I  hope  by  a  careful  attention  to  the 

cases  that  shall  come  to  my  knowledge  assisted  by  the  several 

Consuls,  whose  vigilance  on  this  subject  is  great  and  meritorious, 

that  I  shall  be  able  to  relieve  many  of  our  countrymen  from  the 

hardships  and  injustice  to  which  they  continue  to  be  exposed.    If 

I  shall  find  occasional  aid  requisite  for  the  purpose  of  extricating 

any  of  our  seamen  detained  on  board  the  British  Ships  of  War,  I 

*  It  should  be  stated  that  the  correspondence  with  the  Secretary  of  State 
which  is  given  in  these  volumes  is  contained  in  the  Letter  Books  of  Rufus 
King,  and  consists  of  press  copies  from  the  letters,  while  that  with  foreign 
ministers  and  other  official  persons  is  either  in  the  original  letters  from  them 
or  copied  answers  to  them. — Ed. 


86  RUFUS  KING.  [1796 

shall  not  hesitate  to  compensate  the  persons  I  may  employ  out  of 
the  money  destined  for  this  Service. 

A  practice  has  prevailed  among  our  Consuls  to  grant  Certifi- 
cates of  Citizenship,  or  Protections  as  they  are  called,  to  our 
seamen  and  I  am  informed  that  they  have  been  efficacious  in 
securing  those  who  possessed  them  from  Impressment.  Some 
abuses  are  unavoidable,  and  it  is  said  have  been  discovered  ;  in 
consequence  of  which  these  consular  Certificates  have  in  some 
instances  been  disregarded,  and  in  a  late  conference  with  Lord 
Grenville,  he  asked  me  whether  our  Laws,  or  the  President's  In- 
structions gave  to  our  consuls  authority  to  grant  these  certifi- 
cates ;  observing  that  it  was  not  within  the  ordinary  Functions 
of  Consuls  to  issue  Documents  of  this  nature.  Perceiving  the 
importance  of  this  enquiry,  I  told  his  Lordship  that  I  would 
enquire  concerning  the  authority  of  our  Consuls,  &  give  him  an 
answer  as  soon  as  I  should  have  obtained  satisfactory  informa- 
tion respecting  it.  The  Fees  taken  for  these  Certificates  may 
have  some  influence  in  rendering  the  Consuls  less  critical  than 
would  be  proper  in  the  examination  of  Evidence ;  but  no  com- 
plaint of  this  nature  has  been  made,  and  as  the  Practice  of 
granting  these  Certificates  is  not  peculiar  to  our  Consuls,  but 
common  with  the  consuls  of  other  nations,  and  our  Sailors  are 
frequently  found  here  without  a  certificate  of  citizenship,  whereby 
they  are  exposed  to  impressment,  I  cannot  take  upon  myself  to 
instruct  the  Consuls  to  discontinue  the  practice,  though  I  should 
find  no  positive  law  or  instruction  that  authorizes  it. 

With  perfect  respect  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

R.  King  to  B.  Wolcott,  Jr.,  Esq. 

Private. 

London,  Sept.  9,  1796. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Col.  Humphries  having  authorized  Mr.  Donaldson  *  to  draw 
on  the  Mess.  Barings  for  Sterling  sufficient  to  purchase  at  Leg- 
horn 400,000   Dollars,  and  Donaldson  having  drawn  for  a  part 

*  Mr.  David  Humphreys,  United  States  Minister  to  Portugal,  was  authorized 
to  make  a  treaty  of  peace  with  the  Dey  of  Algiers,  in  the  manner  customary  in 
those  days.     During  an  absence,  Mr.  Donaldson,  who  had  been  left  by  him  in 


1796]  LIFE   AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  87 

and  given  notice  that  he  should  probably  draw  for  the  whole  of 
that  sum,  Mess.  Barings  after  sending  me  a  statement  explaining 
the  probable  deficiency  of  the  public  money  in  their  hands,  a 
copy  of  which  is  enclosed,  asked  my  opinion  whether  they  should 
pay  Donaldson's  drafts  for  a  greater  sum  than  the  estimated 
amount  of  the  public  money  in  their  hands.  They  manifested 
no  disinclination  to  make  the  advance  should  it  be  requisite,  but 
desired  advice.  As  Col.  Humphries  is  fully  empowered  on  this 
subject  and  has  authorized  Donaldson  to  draw,  I  told  Mess. 
Barings  that  I  thought  it  adviseable  that  they  should  pay  Donald- 
son's drafts,  adding  that  I  was  convinced  their  conduct  would  be 
approved  and  the  advance  wrhich  they  might  make  faithfully  re- 
imbursed by  the  U.  S.  They  will  pay  the  drafts  should  they 
exceed  the  funds  appropriated  for  this  object  ;  I  mean  the  amount 
of  their  sales  added  to  the  estimated  value  of  the  unsold  stock  in 
their  hands. 

I  intimated  to  Sir  Francis  Baring  a  wish  that  the  sale  of  the 
residue  of  the  stock  might  not  be  forced,  especially  at  a  time  of 
such  general  depression  in  the  prices  of  all  Funds.  I  understood 
him  that  they  could  without  inconvenience  make  the  requisite 
advance  and  that  the  6  pr.  cents  unsold  would  not  be  sold  under 
90  for  100,  without  consulting  you  on  the  subject.  I  hope  the 
Algerine  Treaty  may  finally  be  effected,  though  hitherto  it  has 
been  attended  with  a  series  of  disasters.  The  low  price  of  Stocks 
here  and  the  high  price  of  dollars  at  Leghorn  make  the  present 
operation  a  very  unfavorable  one. 

Though  it  is  no  relief,  it  is  an  argument  against  bad  manage- 
ment to  know  that  great  embarrassments  accompany  all  money 
operations  at  this  period.  Even  here  great  difficulties  are  en- 
countered and  burthensome  terms  submitted  to  to  make  their  loans. 

Farewell  yrs.  very  truly  &  sincerely 

Rufus  King. 

Algiers,  concluded  on  the  5th  September,  1795,  a  treaty  of  peace  with  the  Dey, 
by  which  a  payment  of  about  800,000  dollars  was  to  be  made  in  cash,  besides  an 
annual  tribute,  and  goods  to  the  value  of  $24,000  a  year.  The  treaty  was  rati- 
fied by  the  United  States  and  the  money  had  to  be  borrowed  by  a  sale  of  bonds 
for  $800,000  through  the  Messrs.  Barings  in  London.  The  allusions  in  this 
letter  and  in  several  others  refer  to  this  transaction.  Before  the  Dey  was 
satisfied,  an  agreement  was  made  to  give  him  a  frigate  and  more  money. — Ed. 


88  RUFUS  KING.  [1796 

Le  Cte.  de  la  Pra.de  having  on  the  17th  September,  1796, 
written  to  Mr.  King  a  letter  stating  his  services  to  the 
United  States,  that  he  had  been  made  a  member  of  the 
Cincinnati,  that  he  proposed  returning  to  the  United  States, 
and  asking  him  certain  questions  based  upon  these  state- 
ments, was  answered  as  follows  : 

R.  King  to  Le  Cte.  de  la  Prade. 

London,  Sep.  18,  1796. 
Sir: 

I  have  reed,  the  letter  you  did  me  the  honor  to  write  to  me  on 
the  17th  instant,  and  regret  that  my  answers  to  your  enquiries  will 
be  less  satisfactory  and  agreeable  to  you,  than  I  could  wish  them. 
The  members  of  the  Society  of  Cincinnatus  do  not  receive  any 
pensions  from  the  U.  S.  ;  indeed  no  person  is  allowed  a  pension 
except  such  officers  and  soldiers  as  are  disabled  by  wounds  re- 
ceived in  war.  The  Military  Establishment  of  the  U.  S.  has 
always  been  small  &  since  the  peace  lately  made  with  the  Sav- 
ages, this  establishment  has  been  made  less  ;  so  that  no  vacancies 
exist  either  in  the  infantry  or  cavalry.  The  U.  S.  have  lands  for 
sale,  and  at  moderate  prices  ;  but  they  do  not  grant  any  lands 
gratuitously  ;  neither  do  they  supply  or  defray  the  Expenses  of 
Passages  to  foreigners  inclined  to  become  American  Citizens. 

With  great  respect  &c 

Rufus  King. 


CHAPTER  VIII. 

French  Order  against  neutral  Vessels — Mr.  Monroe's  Statement  relative  to  it — 
Complaints  against  British  Cruisers — Washington  declines  a  Re-election 
— Mr.  Adet's  Reception  in  Boston — M.  de  Liancourt's  Opinion  of  French 
Designs  on  Neutrals  to  destroy  British  Power — R.  King's  Letter  to  Messrs. 
Baring  relative  to  the  Funds  for  Barbary  Purposes — To  Mr.  Bayard  rela- 
tive to  the  Costs  in  Cases  of  Claims  decided  by  the  Admiralty  Courts — To 
Mr.  Monroe,  Report  that  Genl.  Pinckney  had  been  appointed  to  succeed 
him  in  Paris — Letter  to  Mr.  Pitcairn  relative  to  the  French  Debt — Nego- 
tiations with  England  at  a  Standstill — American  Affairs — Secretary  of 
State  on  Impressments— Washington's  Address — Letter  from  R.  King  to 
him  on  European  Affairs. 

R.  King  to  A.  Hamilton.* 

London  Sept.  ioth,  1796. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  received  this  morning  a  letter  from  Mr.  Monroe,  dated  Paris, 
August  28th,  of  which  the  following  is  an  extract  : 

"  As  soon  as  the  order  of  this  government,  as  notified  by  the 
Minister  of  Foreign  Affairs  to  Barthelemi,  the  present  ambassa- 
dor at  Basle,  appeared  in  the  papers,  for  it  was  never  notified  to 
the  foreign  Ministers  here,  I  applied  for  information  whether 
orders  were  issued  for  the  seizure  of  neutral  vessels,  stating 
equally  as  the  motive  of  my  application  a  report,  apparently  well 
authenticated,  that  one  of  our  vessels  had  been  lately  taken  near 
our  own  coast  ;  and  was  informed,  that  no  such  order  was  issued, 
and  further,  that  none  such  could  be,  in  case  the  British  did  not 
seize  our  vessels.  I  am  happy  to  give  you  this  information,  be- 
cause I  flatter  myself  the  knowledge  of  this  fact  may  be  useful 
in  respect  to  our  commerce  with  the  country  in  which  you  reside. 

*  Works  of  Hamilton,  vi.,  150. 
89 


90  RUFUS  KING.  [1796 

I  have  in  a  former  letter  told  you  that  the  British  government 
deny  that  any  order  has  been  lately  issued,  or  that  any  order  ex- 
ists, authorizing  the  seizure  of  neutral  cargoes  bound  to  the 
French  ports,  as  was  alleged  to  be  the  case  in  the  letter  from 
the  French  Minister  of  Foreign  Affairs  to  Barthelemi." 

The  foregoing  extract  is  all  I  know  from  Mr.  Monroe  respect- 
ing the  resolution  of  the  French  government,  communicated  by 
their  Minister  of  Foreign  Affairs  to  their  ambassador  at  Basle, 
you  will  have  seen  the  letter  to  Barthelemi,  which  is  undoubtedly 
authentic  ;  and  you  have  now  what  Mr.  Monroe  reports  as  the 
result  of  his  application  on  the  subject  ;  I  make  no  comments 
nor  inferences.  You  have  the  materials,  and  can  make  your  own 
interpretations. 

Very  sincerely  yours 

Rufus  King. 

This  same  extract  was  communicated  to  the  Secretary  of 
State,  and  is  referred  to  in  his  letter  of  Oct.  26,  1796,  to 
Mr.  King. 

T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

Department  of  State,  Sep.  22,  1796. 
Dear  Sir  : 

In  this  letter  relative  to  complaints  of  injuries  and  insults  from 
the  British  Naval  officers,  and  a  fresh  one,  of  which  he  encloses 
affidavits  and  protests,  Mr.  P.  says  "  It  must  be  painful  to  you 
to  receive  such  repeated  complaints  of  this  kind,  and  unpleas- 
ant to  lay  them  before  the  British  ministers  ;  but  their  number  and 
frequency  may  serve  to  rouse  them  to  some  exertion  to  prevent 
a  continuance  of  such  outrages,  while  a  few  solitary  instances 
might  be  passed  over  in  silence  .  .  .  You  will  make  such  use 
of  information  of  the  kind  here  presented  as  you  shall  think  most 
likely  to  produce  a  remedy  for  the  evil.     ..." 


John  Lawrance  to  R.  King,  London. 

New  York,  Sept.  24,  1796. 
My  Dear  Sir  : 

We  have  heard  of  your  arrival,  and  having  had  a  closet  audi- 
ence.    .     .     .     Nothing  material  has  happened,  relative  to  your 


1796]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  9 1 

Friends  here,  since  your  departure,  or  on  political  matters  ;  ex- 
cept the  address  of  the  President,  who  declines  another  election. 
His  address  contains  very  good  advice,  and,  if  followed,  will 
make  our  Country  a  great  and  happy  one.  Indeed  we  enjoy 
peculiar  felicity  at  present,  and  every  day  adds  to  our  prosperity. 
It  is  said  Mr.  Adams  and  Mr.  Pinckney  will  be  voted  for  on  one 
side  ;  on  the  other  Mr.  Jefferson  and  Mr.  Burr  are  mentioned. 
You  can  determine  as  well  as  myself,  who,  it  is  probable,  will  be 
the  successful  persons.  We  are  all  well.  Mrs.  Lawrance  joins 
me  in  best  wishes  for  Mrs.  King's  health,  and  all  with  you. 

Yours  very  truly, 

John  Lawrance. 

George  Cabot  to  R.  King,  London. 

Brookline,  Sept.  24,  1796. 
My  Dear  Sir  : 

The  public  papers  announced  to  us  the  day  before  yesterday 
your  safe  arrival  in  England  and  your  presentation  at  Court.    .    .    . 

A  Mr.  Maund  of  Virginia  who  is  here  and  seems  to  be  well  in- 
formed is  very  confident  that  Patrick  Henry  will  come  into  the 
Senate  in  Mason's  place  at  the  next  election.  He  also  strengthens 
our  hope  that  a  strong  party  is  formed  in  that  State  in  favor  of 
government,  &  which  in  future  will  be  active.  You  will  see  by 
the  newspapers  that  Mr.  Adet  was  yesterday  entertained  at  Con- 
cert Hall  ;  altho'  he  associates  with  Jacobins  only,  yet  the  friends 
of  order  were  the  promoters  of  this  measure.  As  I  go  to  town 
scarcely  once  in  a  month,  I  was  not  apprized  of  the  intention  of 
our  friends  until  it  was  in  execution  ;  but  I  was  extremely  morti- 
fied to  see  this  sort  of  testimonial  in  favor  of  french  politics  given 
by  the  best  citizens,  when  it  is  known  that  the  undue  influence  of 
that  nation  among  the  people  already  endangers  the  union  and 
government  of  the  U.  S.  I  wish  Mr.  Adet  to  receive  all  the  indi- 
vidual attentions  which  hospitality  can  require,  but  I  consider  Ox 
Feasts  as  acts  of  supererrogation  and  as  tending  to  confirm  in  the 
minds  of  the  people  erroneous  opinions,  which  are  extremely 
mischievous. 

A  few  days  ago  Mr.  Liancourt  assured  me  that  as  soon  as  the 
french  had  subdued  the  Emperor  and  given  peace  to  Germany? 


92  RUFUS  KING.  [1796 

they  intended  to  cut  up  the  roots  of  the  british  power  (their  com- 
merce and  manufactures).  He  says  they  are  resolved  "  that  all 
ships  of  whatever  nation  wheresoever  from,  or  whithersoever 
bound,  having  on  board  any  of  the  products  or  manufactures  of 
the  british  dominions,  shall  be  captured,  and  such  product  or 
manufacture  (at  least,  if  not  the  vessel)  confiscated."  I  told 
him  such  an  outrage  on  the  rights  of  nations  wou'd  render  the 
french  universally  detested  &  wou'd  confirm  to  all  the  world, 
what  many  already  believe,  that  they  are  animated  by  the  most 
vindictive  and  daring  spirit  that  ambition  had  ever  engender'd. 
He  acknowledged  his  fears  that  the  measure  wou'd  be  deemed 
extraordinary  &  that  it  wou'd  be  unjustifiable  if  there  were  any 
better  way  of  destroying  the  English.  This  inveterate  hatred  of 
the  English,  increased  by  the  pride  of  conquest  is  now  the  strong- 
est passion  frenchmen  feel,  and  if  their  successes  continue  must 
occasion  serious  inquietudes  among  the  English.  Is  it  therefore 
possible  that  this  nation  shall  disdain  to  engage  in  its  defence 
every  auxiliary  in  its  power  ?  I  have  always  thought  that  the  true 
policy  of  England  wou'd  be  to  invite  every  neutral  nation  to  a 
participation  of  its  commerce  during  the  war,  by  which  means  her 
trade  wou'd  be  uninterrupted,  &  she  wou'd  be  enabled  to  man  a 
navy  sufficient  to  annihilate  the  marine  of  all  her  ene??iies.  This 
expedient  too  long  neglected  might  even  now  be  resorted  to  with 
advantage.  It  is  intimated  by  English  emigrants  in  this  country, 
that  Mr.  Pitt  will  find  it  difficult  to  procure  money  sufficient  to 
maintain  the  contest  :  Is  it  so  ? 

Your  sincere  &  affectte.  friend 

G.  Cabot. 


R.  King  to  Messrs.  I.  &  F.  Baring  &  Co. 

London,  Oct.  6,  1796. 
Gentlemen  : 

I  have  received  with  much  satisfaction  the  information  you 
have  been  so  obliging  as  to  give  me  respecting  your  agency  in  the 
application  of  the  funds  placed  in  your  hands  for  Barbary  pur- 
poses. And  though  this  business  exclusively  belongs  to  Col. 
Humphries,  yet  as  a  Servant  of  the  U.  S.  I  think  it  due  to  the 
occasion  to  express  to  you  my  approbation  of  the  liberal  and 


1796]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  93 

skillful  manner  in  which  you  have  assisted  Col.  Humphries  in  a 
very  critical  operation.  I  have  written  to  the  Secretary  of  the 
Treasury  on  this  subject  and  shall  communicate  to  him  the 
assurances  that  I  have  given  to  you  of  my  conviction  that  the 
U.  S.  will  entertain  a  proper  sense  of  your  Services  in  this  Busi- 
ness and  moreover  make  speedy  dispositions  to  re-imburse  any 
advances  you  shall  make  on  this  account. 

Should  it  finally  appear  requisite  to  advance  a  greater  sum  than 
we  have  heretofore  thought  probable,  I  flatter  myself  that  you  will 
be  able  to  make  such  arrangements  as  will  obviate  any  disap- 
pointment, which  at  this  stage  of  the  Business  might  hazard  all 
that  has  been  already  done. 

Although   a  sale  of  the  stock,  in  the  present  depression  of  the 

market,  would  be  somewhat  unpleasant  in  reference  to  the  credit 

of  the  U.  S.,  yet  that  must  be  done,  rather  than  risque  the  refusal 

of  any  of  the  drafts  which  Donaldson  may  have  negotiated  in  the 

course  of  his  agency.     I  hope  however  that  his  drafts  will  not  be 

found  to  exceed  the  Estimate  that  we  have  heretofore  made  of 

their  amount. 

With  perfect  regard  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

R.  King  to  S.  Bayard,  Esq. 

London,  Oct.  6,  1796. 
Sir  : 

I  perceive  by  Mr.  Slade's  letter  to  you  and  by  the  papers  you 
left  with  me  some  time  since,  that  he  has  furnished  you  with  the 
amount  of  several  Bills  of  costs,  in  cases  stated  to  have  been 
finally  decided  in  the  Admiralty,  and  likewise  that  most  of  the 
many  causes  that  you  have  confided  to  his  care,  are  or  soon  may 
be  at  a  stage  in  their  progress,  at  which  he  expects  a  further  ad- 
vance of  Eighty  Pounds  sterling  in  each.  As  the  payment  of  a 
single  Bill  will  constitute  a  precedent  for  all  future  cases,  it  ap- 
pears to  me  proper,  before  such  precedent  is  made,  that  the  items 
and  regularity  of  the  Bill  should  be  critically  examined.  I  there- 
fore desire  that  you  will  receive  from  Mr.  Slade  the  Bills  of  costs 
in  such  cases  under  his  management  as  have  been  terminated, 
and  that  you  will  transmit  them  to  me  in  order  that  I  may  make 
such  enquiries  respecting  them  as  may  be  requisite. 


94  RUFUS  KING.  [1796 

The  public  money  at  my  Disposal  applicable  to  various  objects 
does  not  amount  to  a  sum  sufficient  to  satisfy  even  the  expecta- 
tions of  a  single  Proctor.  I  have  however  advanced  to  you  one 
Thousand  pounds  Sterling,  which  you  will  apportion  among 
our  Proctors  according  to  the  number  of  cases  in  their  respective 
hands,  having  regard  to  the  stage  in  which  they  are.  These  pay- 
ments should  be  made  on  account  and  without  being  applied  to 
any  particular  cases  or  classes  of  cases.  This  will  be  productive 
of  no  inconvenience  to  the  Proctors  and  will  give  time  to  consider 
and  decide  the  manner  in  which  the  Business  must  ultimately  be 
conducted. 

No  precise  understanding  exists  on  the  subject  of  the  Ex- 
penses which  attend  the  prosecution  of  the  claims  of  our  citi- 
zens in  the  Courts  of  Admiralty.  In  most  instances  the  public 
have,  &  will  probably  continue  to  advance  the  money  that  may 
be  requisite.  Though  under  all  circumstances  such  advances  may 
be  reasonable,  it  appears  to  me  just,  that  ultimately  these  advances 
should  be  re-imbursed  by  the  claimants.  Where  the  costs  are 
paid  by  the  Captors,  the  claimants  have  no  title  to  them,  except  to 
repay  the  public  advances.  Where  the  costs  are  charged  upon  the 
claimants,  it  must  be  on  the  principle  of  their  delinquency  ;  and 
for  that  reason  they  ought  to  be  paid  by  them  and  not  by  the 
public.  In  these  cases,  however,  we  have  no  means  in  our 
power  to  recover  such  costs  ;  except  in  the  instances  of  a  restora- 
tion of  the  Property  claimed  and  a  condemnation  of  the  claim- 
ants in  costs.  In  such  cases,  as  well  as  in  all  cases  where  the 
property  is  restored  and  the  captors  condemned  in  costs,  it  will  be 
in  your  power  to  retain  sufficient  to  reimburse  the  public  ad- 
vances.    This  I  think  it  will  be  proper  that  you  should  do. 

With  much  esteem  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

R.  King  to  Col.  Monroe. 

London,  Oct.  7,  1796. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  was  extremely  sorry  to  receive  the  information  contained  in 

your  last  letter,  that  there  was  reason  to  believe  that  the  French 

Government  has,  contrary  to  the  stipulations  of  our  Treaty,  issued 


1796]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  95 

orders  to  their  cruizers  &  Corsairs  to  seize  Enemy  goods  on 
board  American  vessels.  These  orders  are  the  more  extraordinary 
since  they  are  excused  by  no  circumstance  of  necessity  and  as 
they  violate  the  Doctrine  that  free  Bottoms  make  free  Goods,  at  a 
period  when  France  proclaims  herself  the  friend  of  liberal  com- 
merce and  the  advocate  of  the  Freedom  of  the  seas.  The  injury 
that  the  enemies  of  France  may  experience  by  the  execution  of 
these  Orders  will  be  small  indeed  :  but  the  Damage  and  mischief 
to  her  Friends,  and  especially  to  the  U.  S.  will  be  great  and  seri- 
ous. These  orders  furnish  to  private  cupidity  a  Pretence  for  the 
interruption  and  spoliation  of  our  Trade,  which  France,  as 
our  Friend,  cannot  desire  to  see,  and  which  must  prove  ex- 
tensively mischievous  to  our  Navigation  and  Commerce.  I  hope 
my  dear  Sir,  that  those  representations  that  I  am  persuaded  you 
have  made,  to  demonstrate  the  impolicy  and  injury  of  this  meas- 
ure, will  induce  the  Revocation  of  the  Orders,  if  they  have  in  fact 
been  issued. 

I  mention  to  you  a  report  which  is  in  circulation  here  among 
some  of  our  countrymen,  because  you  may  possibly  hear  of  it, 
and  think  it  singular  that  I  had  given  you  no  information  on  the 
subject.  It  is  for  this  reason  only  that  I  am  induced  to  com- 
municate to  you  a  Rumour  that  General  Pinckney  of  S.  Carolina 
has  been  appointed  to  succeed  you  at  Paris.  I  have  letters  from 
Mr.  Pickering  as  late  as  the  15th  Aug.,  and  likewise  from  several 
friends  in  different  parts  of  America,  and  in  no  one  letter  have  I 
the  slightest  intimation  of  General  Pinckney's  appointment  or  of  a 
change  being  meditated  in  our  Legation  to  France.  Mr.  Pinckney 
my  predecessor,  who  is  still  here  or  rather  on  the  sea  side  waiting 
for  his  ship,  knows  nothing  of  his  Brother's  having  been  ap- 
pointed and  has  heard  only  the  London  rumour  to  which  I  have 
alluded  above. 

With  Sentiments  of  Esteem  &  respect,  &c, 

Rufus  King. 

R.  King  to  J.  Pitcairn,  Paris. 

London  Oct.  9,  1796. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.     You  have  been  erroneously  informed,  when  you  were 

told  that  a  portion  of  the  debt  we  owed  to  France  has  been  paid 


96  RUFUS  KING.  [1796 

in  assignats.  I  am  at  a  loss  to  conjecture  to  what  circumstance  such 
an  opinion  owes  its  origin.  The  instalments  and  interest  were 
regularly  paid,  and  in  solid  coin  j  and  we  made  advances  both  to 
Mr.  Genet  and  Mr.  Fauchet  byway  of  anticipation  of  future  instal- 
ments, when  the  demands  of  France  were  pressing,  and  often  with 
much  inconvenience  to  ourselves.  In  the  year  1794  Congress 
passed  a  Law  to  domesticate,  if  I  may  so  say,  the  foreign  debt, 
or  so  much  of  it  as  the  foreign  Proprietors  should  be  willing  to 
change  from  a  foreign  to  a  domestic  debt,  the  annuities  in  which, 
and  the  final  reimbursement  whereof,  should  be  payable  at  the 
Treasury  of  the  United  States. 

Under  this  Law  in  June  or  July  1795,  Mr.  Swan  came  forward 
with  full  powers  from  the  French  Government  to  subscribe  the 
whole  of  the  remaining  instalments  of  the  debt  due  to  them — 
amounting  to  something  over  2.  Mills,  of  Dollars — and  a  new 
stock  bearing  an  interest  of  5J  per  cent,  for  as  much  as  bore  an  in- 
terest of  5  pr.  cent,  and  4-J,  for  as  much  as  bore  an  interest  of  4 
p.  c.  was  offered  to  Mr.  Swan,  who  I  presume  has  sold  the  same 
for  cash  to  satisfy  such  engagements  as  he  had  entered  into  for 
the  French  Government.  This  was  a  measure  of  choice  on  the 
part  of  France.  The  instalments  would  together  with  the  inter- 
est have  been  regularly  paid  as  they  fell  due.  France  preferred 
to  change  this  shape  of  the  debt,  for  one  bearing  a  half  per  cent, 
higher  interest,  and  possessing  a  transferable  quality— we  were 
willing  to  make  this  change  with  respect  to  the  French  debt,  as 
well  as  the  whole  foreign  debt,  because  instead  of  foreign  com- 
missions and  expensive  remittances,  which  would  be  requisite  to 
discharge  the  annuities  and  reimburse  the  capital  of  the  foreign 
debt,  we  pay  both  at  our  Treasury  after  it  is  changed  to  a  domes- 
tic debt.  It  is  possible  that  the  discharge  of  what  remained  of 
the  French  debt  in  1795,  by  issuing  to  the  agent  Mr.  Swan  5!  and 
4!  per  cent,  certificates  of  stock,  may  be  what  you  heard  called  a 
payment  in  assignats — but  this  is  unfair  and  unfounded — We 
were  bound  to  pay  by  instalments  ;  we  did  regularly  pay  as  fast 
as  pay  day  arrived.  This  was  not  as  fast  as  France  wanted  the 
money.  We  then  offered  to  change  the  nature  of  the  contract  ; 
to  make  the  foreign  a  domestic  debt  and  to  add  J  percent,  to  the 
annuities  and  make  the  capital  transferable.  France  had  the 
option  to  stand  to  the  old  contract,  or  to  change  it  for  the  new — 


1796]  LIFE  AND   COERESFONDENCE.  97 

she  preferred  the  latter — we  have  gained  nothing  by  it.  If  she 
has  sold  this  stock  at  a  loss,  we  have  not  gained  the  difference. 
In  short  nothing  can  be  more  uncandid  than  to  represent  this 
measure  adopted  for  the  benefit  of  France  without  the  least  advan- 
tage to  us,  as  a  profitable  or  unkind  proceeding  on  our  part.  I 
send  you  a  printed  statement  on  this  subject  presented  to  the 
House  of  Reps,  in  January  last,  by  which  you  will  see  that  our 
debt  is  paid  off. 

I  shall  be  happy  to  hear  from  you  often,  and  if  you  think  it 
prudent  to  give  me  a  little  news  and  politicks,  I  shall  be  glad  to 
receive  them.  Make  my  compliments  and  congratulations  to 
Talleyrand. 

Farewell  Yrs  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Lord  Grenville. 

Baker  Street,  10th  Oct.,  1796.* 

Mr.  King  presents  his  compliments  to  Lord  Grenville,  and  in- 
closes for  his  Lordship's  information  a  letter  that  he  has  received 
from  Mr.  John  Haven,  a  citizen  of  the  U.  S.  of  America,  stating 
the  capture  of  the  American  ship  Strafford  laden  with  a  valuable 
Cargo,  the  property  of  the  said  John  Haven  &  regularly  cleared 
at  his  Majesty's  custom  house  and  bound  from  London  to  Lisbon. 

Mr.  King  takes  the  liberty  to  request  Lord  Grenville's  inter- 
ference, in  order  that  this  case  may  speedily  be  examined,  and  if 
the  statement  of  Mr.  Haven  is  well  founded,  that  the  said  ship  & 
cargo  may  with  the  least  possible  delay,  be  restored  and  permit- 
ted to  proceed  on  her  voyage. 


R.  King  to  Mr.  Strickland. 

London,  Oct.  14,  1796. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.     .     .     I  owe  you,  my  dear  Sir,  a  thousand  apologies  for  not 

having  before  answered  your  very  obliging  letter,  the  receipt  of 

*  As  a  specimen  of  the  complaints,  which  were  now  frequently  received  by 
Mr.  King,  and  of  the  manner  in  which  he  treated  them,  the  above  is  intro- 
duced. 

vol.  11. — 7 


98  RUFUS  KING.  [1796 

which  within  a  few  days  after  my  arrival,  afforded  me  so  much 
pleasure.  I  have  the  more  regrets  on  this  subject,  as  without  em- 
ploying terms  of  civility,  I  can  with  truth  say  that  no  foreigner 
who  has  visited  America,  has  left  more  favorable  impressions,  and 
that  to  no  one  with  whom  I  have  had  so  short  an  acquaintance 
should  I  have  been  so  unwilling  to  have  appeared  wanting  in 
those  tokens  of  respect  and  esteem,  which  I  feel  to  be  due  from 
me  to  you. 

When  you  visit  London,  I  shall  hope  for  the  pleasure  of  seeing 
you,  and  of  making  you  acquainted  with  Mrs.  King,  who  with 
our  young  family  are  with  me.  In  the  course  of  the  next  year,  I 
natter  myself,  that  I  shall  be  able  to  see  different  parts  of  your 
charming  country,  and  I  assure  you  it  will  give  me  peculiar  pleas- 
ure to  meet  you  where  you  reside. 

With  perfect  and  sincere  esteem  your  faithful  &  ob.  Servt. 

Rufus  King. 


John  Lawrance  to  R.  King,  London. 

New  York,  Oct.  15,  1796. 
My  Dear  Sir  : 

It  gave  us  pleasure  to  hear  you  were  all  safe. 
We  hope  that  now  and  then  some  information  we  can 
rely  on  will  reach  us.     What  is  to  be  the  result  of  all,  I  have  done 
conjecturing.     The  late  events  have  so  far  exceeded  my  expecta- 
tions, that  I  am  lost  in  astonishment. 

We  are  somewhat  alarmed  at  the  report  of  the  design  of  the 
French  interfering  with  the  vessels  of  neutral  Powers,  coming  to 
and  going  from  the  ports  of  their  enemies.  This  may  embarrass 
our  trade  exceedingly,  and,  I  suppose,  if  carried  into  execution, 
produce  serious  losses  ;  however  we  have  escaped  serious  dangers 
heretofore,  and  I  am  not  without  hope  we  shall  get  through  with- 
out much  inconvenience.  We  must  mind  our  own  concerns  and 
take  care  of  ourselves  ;  could  we  do  these  things  we  should  not  be 
tangible.     .     .     . 

Hamilton,  Henderson  &  myself  made  an  excursion  to  Long 
Island  for  5  days,  the  beginning  of  this  month.  We  got  a  few 
grouse,  and  the  ride  restored  Hamilton's  digestion.     He  was  not 


1796]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  99 

well.  I  remembered,  when  at  Nicolls  Mill,  the  execution  you  did 
with  the  aid  of  your  spectacles.  Hamilton  is  gone  to  attend  the 
term  at  Albany.     .     .     . 

Yours  sincerely, 

John  Lawrance. 

R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

London,  Oct.  16,  1796. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  I  wish  it  was  in  my  power  now  to  give  you  a  more 
satisfactory  account  of  what  will  be  the  decision  of  this  Govern- 
ment respecting  our  trade  with  their  West  Indies  and  relative  to 
an  equitable  agreement  for  the  security  of  our  seamen.  I  have 
before  communicated  to  you  that  soon  after  my  arrival  here,  I 
asked  a  conference  with  Lord  Grenville,  in  which  I  explained  to 
him  what  would  be  satisfactory  to  us  on  these  points.  He  en- 
gaged to  confer  with  his  colleagues  and  to  give  me  an  answer  ; 
but  here  the  business  has  stopped,  his  Lordship  not  having  yet 
furnished  me  with  his  promised  answer.  I  know  that  this  Gov- 
ernment are  almost  exclusively  employed  in  the  very  interesting 
affairs  in  which  they  and  the  principal  powers  of  Europe  are  en- 
gaged. These  may  divert  their  attention  from  objects  which  we 
consider  as  very  important  to  us,  and  I  have  no  doubt  that  the 
delay  that  I  shall  experience  is  in  some  measure  to  be  ascribed  to 
this  cause  ;  but  I  am  not  certain  that  other  considerations  may 
not  have  their  influence  in  postponing  for  the  present  any  defini- 
tive step  on  these  subjects. 

If  they  should  decline  forming  such  an  article  relative  to  the 
West  Indies  as  we  would  accept,  they  may  prefer,  as  I  think 
they  would,  not  to  design  such  decision  at  this  juncture.  A  like 
policy  may  operate  in  respect  to  our  Seamen  :  though  I  cannot 
allow  myself  to  believe  that  ultimately  they  will  decline  entering 
into  a  reasonable  convention  on  this  subject.  But  as  they  believe 
that  their  national  safety  depends  essentially  upon  their  marine, 
they  feel  unusual  caution  relative  to  a  stipulation  that  by  mere 
possibility  can  deprive  their  navy  of  a  single  seaman,  who  is  a 
real  British  subject,  or  that  may  even  diminish  the  chance  of  ob- 
taining the  services  of  those  who  are  not  British  subjects,  but  who 


IOO  RUFUS  KING.  [1796 

by  various  pretences  are  detained  in  service  as  such.  Hence  it  is 
to  be  apprehended  that  they  desire  to  postpone  a  convention  with 
us  on  this  subject  till  the  return  of  peace.  In  the  mean  time  their 
officers  may  show  more  caution  in  impressing  our  Seamen,  and 
more  justice  in  discharging  them  when  claimed. 

I  have  no  reason  to  doubt  the  sincere  desire  of  this  Government 
to  cultivate  our  esteem.  I  believe  that  the  administration,  to- 
gether with  the  nation  throughout,  desire  to  live  with  us  in  Friend- 
ship, and  I  do  not  think  they  would  for  a  slight  cause  disagree 
with  us.  But  their  colony  trade  and  marine  are  topics  intimately 
and  exclusively  connected  with  their  prosperity  and  security  and 
more  deeply  with  their  prejudices.  If  we  cannot  agree  respecting 
their  West  Indies,  we  may  still  remain  friends.  The  case  of  our 
Seamen  is  more  important  as  well  as  more  difficult.  At  present 
we  are  injured  in  this  point.  A  rule  of  discrimination  between 
our  and  their  Seamen  is  practicable.  We  are  ready  and  desirous 
to  establish  such  Rule.  If  they  decline  it  they  increase  the  injury. 
We  cannot  respect  the  justice  of  a  nation  and  at  the  same  time 
believe  that  it  will  refuse  to  enter  into  a  convention,  that  without 
injury  to  itself  is  necessary  to  prevent  it  to  another. 

I  have  thought  prudent,  as  well  as  politic,  to  pursue  the  most 
conciliatory  course.  I  shall  continue  to  follow  it  and  will  not 
cease  to  endeavour  to  effect  a  reasonable  and  satisfactory  arrange- 
ment, as  well  in  respect  to  the  West  India  article  as  well  as  rela- 
tive to  the  security  of  our  Seamen. 

With  great  respect  &  esteem  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

R.  King  to  N.  Low,  New  York. 

London,  Oct.  17,  1796. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  Our  Commissioners  here  are  beginning — hitherto  they 
have  decided  no  important  questions,  though  I  understand  they 
are  now  discussing  some  points  of  much  consequence.  There 
does  not  appear  any  reason  to  doubt  that  the  results  of  this  com- 
mission will  be  satisfactory. 

The  French  Govt,  have  issued  a  new  order,  as  I  am  informed, 
authorizing  the  seizure  of  enemy  property  on  board  neutral  ships  ;, 


1796]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  10 1 

their  treaties  to  the  contrary  notwithstanding.  This  is  a  singular 
proceeding  at  the  time  when  they  proclaim  themselves  the  advo- 
cates of  a  liberal  commerce  and  of  the  freedom  of  the  seas.  Lord 
Malmesbury  has  gone  to  Paris — whether  peace  will  be  established 
is  thought  very  problematical.  Some  say  a  Spanish  war  is  nearer 
and  more  likely  than  a  French  peace. 

Farewell  yrs. 

Rufus  King. 

R.  King  to  Col.  Monroe. 

London,  Oct.  19,  1796. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Since  I  wrote  to  you  a  few  days  past  by  Mr.  Livingston,  the 
rumour  that  General  Pinckney  had  been  named  to  succeed  you  at 
Paris  has  been  confirmed  ;  and  the  letters  from  Philadelphia  that 
I  now  transmit  to  you  by  Mr.  Robert  Lyle,  will  I  presume  an- 
nounce this  information  from  the  Department  of  State.  I  hope 
there  has  been  no  misunderstanding  on  this  subject.  Mr.  Pinck- 
ney, my  predecessor,  did  not  embark  till  within  two  days,  and 
just  as  he  was  going  on  board  ship,  he  received  the  information 
that  his  Brother  was  named  as  your  successor  &  that  they  would 
probably  pass  each  other  on  the  Ocean.     .     .     . 

With  great  esteem  yr  ob  &  faithful  Servt. 

Rufus  King. 

John  Jay  to  R.  King,  London. 

New  York,  Oct.  21,  1796. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  Dr.  Edwards  left  us  a  few  days  ago.  He  arrived  here 
after  an  uncommon  short  passage  ;  from  him  I  reed,  much  inter- 
esting Information  ;  among  other  things  that  you  pleased  and  was 
pleased. 

I  am  happy  to  find  that  the  Board  of  Comrs.  has  been  com- 
pleated,  and  that  it  consists  of  men,  whose  characters  promise 
Justice  and  Satisfaction  to  both  sides.  This  intelligence  causes 
agreeable  sensations  in  this  Country,  and  is  in  many  Respects  in- 
teresting. It  is  to  be  wished  that  the  Comrs.  may  harmonize  as 
to  principles,  and  the  application  of  them. 


102  RUFUS  KING.  [1796 

Things  remain  here  much  in  the  state  in  which  you  left  them. 
The  President's  Resignation  has  been  followed  by  publications 
calculated  to  influence  the  ensuing  Election.  They  manage  in 
some  places  with  very  little  Respect  to  Decorum.  It  is  said  that 
Mr.  Jefferson  has  consented  to  serve  if  elected.  But  this  Fact 
does  not  as  yet  appear  to  be  unequivocally  ascertained. 

The  handsome  manner  in  which  the  Posts  were  delivered — the 
appointment  of  Benson  to  the  St.  Croix  Commission  and  of  Trum- 
bull to  the  other  are  pleasing  circumstances.  The  Return  of  the 
Governors  of  Canada,  who  were  generally  supposed  not  to  have 
been  friendly  to  us  in  regard  to  the  Indians,  is  a  judicious 
measure — especially  if  their  successors  should  be  prudent  and 
conciliatory. 

Very  Sincerely  yours 

John  Jay. 


T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

Department  of  State,  Oct.  26,  1796. 

.  .  .  I  think  it  is  mentioned  in  your  Instructions,  that  the 
British  naval  officers  often  impress  Swedes,  Danes  and  other 
foreigners  from  the  vessels  of  the  U.  States  ;  they  have  even 
sometimes  impressed  Frenchmen.  If  there  should  be  time  to 
make  out  a  copy  of  a  Protest  lately  received,  it  shall  be  inclosed, 
describing  the  impress  of  a  Dane  and  a  Portuguese.  This  surely 
is  an  abuse  easy  to  correct.  They  cannot  pretend  an  inability  to 
distinguish  these  foreigners  from  their  own  subjects  ;  and  they 
may  with  as  much  reason  rob  American  vessels  of  the  property  or 
merchandize  of  Swedes,  Danes  and  Portuguese,  as  seize  and  de- 
tain in  their  service  subjects  of  those  nations,  found  on  board 
American  vessels.  The  President  is  extremely  anxious  to  have 
this  business  of  Impresses  placed  on  a  reasonable  footing.     .    .    . 

Your  information  of  the  advice  from  Mr.  Monroe  in  his  Letter 
of  August  28,  was  very  gratefully  received.  *  The  note  published 
purporting  to  be  from  Mr.  De  La  Croix  to  M.  Barthelemi  was 
doubtless  authentic  ;    but  it  only  declared  the  intentions  of  the 

*  See  R.  K.'s  Letter  to  Hamilton,  Sept.  10,  1796. 


1796]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  IO3 

Directory,  and  no  order,  it  is  to  be  presumed,  had  been  issued 
for  capturing  neutral  vessels  bound  to  or  from  English  ports  ;  and 
as  the  threatened  order  for  this  purpose  was  made  to  depend  on 
a  previous  similar  order  of  the  British  Government,  I  trust  our 
Commerce  will  not  be  subjected  to  new  vexations.  In  the  West 
Indies  indeed  the  French  Privateers  are  capturing  and  condemn- 
ing our  vessels  ;  but  I  believe  this  to  proceed  only  from  the 
wants  of  their  Colonies,  and  the  injustice  of  their  officers  in  other 
instances,  who  under  the  pretence  of  public  wants  plunder  for 
themselves.     .     .     . 

Your  observations  relative  to  costs  in  prosecuting  appeals  by 
the  Agent  of  the  U.  States,  Mr.  Bayard,  merit  much  attention — 
Mr.  Pickering  then  proceeds  to  state  the  case  as  it  strikes  his 
mind,  and  closes  "  where  there  shall  be  a  final  condemnation  of 
the  property  captured,  we  have  a  right  to  conclude  that  the  suf- 
ferers were  not  entitled  to  the  aid  of  Government,  and  yet  these 
are  the  cases  in  which,  as  you  remark,  the  recovery  of  an  indem- 
nity to  the  public  would  be  extremely  difficult,  no  previous 
security  or  stipulation  being  given  by  the  claimants.  Where  resti- 
tution shall  be  decreed,  the  amount  of  the  expenses  may  be 
deducted  as  you  propose,  and  the  balance  paid  over  to  the  claim- 
ants. It  will  certainly  be  proper  to  adopt  your  advice  in  this  case 
until  by  the  proper  authority  the  question  shall  be  deter- 
mined."    .     .     . 


R.  King  to  J.  Q.  Adams. 

London,  Nov.  10,  1796. 
Dear  Sir  : 

We  still  have  cause  to  complain  of  the  capture  of  our  vessels 
by  the  marine  of  this  country.  At  the  same  time  it  is  no  more 
than  candour  to  confess  that  some  of  the  captures  have  been  but 
too  well  justified.  Allured  by  the  Hope  of  high  freights  some  of 
our  people  (I  hope  and  believe  the  instances  are  few)  have  lent 
their  names  to  cover  Enemy  Goods.  One  or  two  such  cases  hav- 
ing been  detected,  have  cast  a  suspicion  upon  all  our  vessels 
employed  in  a  similar  trade.  .  .  .  Though  we  have  reason 
to  be  disatisfied  that  so  many  of  our  vessels  are  captured,  still  I 


104  RUFUS  KING.  [1796 

think  the  injury  and  injustice  we  experience  in  the  impressment  of 
our  Seamen  is  a  more  serious  cause  of  discontent.  I  wish  I 
could  inform  you  that  I  have  a  reasonable  expectation  that  any 
equitable  Regulation  is  likely  to  be  agreed  in  by  this  Government 
on  this  point.  I  will  not  say  that  I  despair  of  their  doing  us 
justice,  but  being  sincerely  desirous  to  see  a  friendly  and  harmo- 
nious intercourse  between  the  two  countries,  I  regret  that  I  do 
not  discover  that  disposition  on  this  very  important  subject  with- 
out which  it  cannot  exist. 

Our  latest  accounts  from  home  are  to  the  last  of  September. 
The  President  has  published  an  address  to  the  People,  in  which 
he  declines  another  Election.  The  Topics  he  has  discussed  are 
very  interesting  to  our  Happiness  and  I  think  the  perform- 
ance will  add  to  his  Reputation.  The  country  is  in  great  tran- 
quillity and  unless  the  passions  of  the  People  should  be  roused 
by  any  unexpected  occurrence,  I  feel  little  doubt  that  the  choice 
of  a  successor  will  fall  where  it  is  eminently  merited,  where  you 
&  I  must  wish  it.  I  understand  that  Mr.  Adams  &  Mr.  Pinckney 
(my  predecessor)  will  be  voted  for  by  the  Federalists,  and  Mr. 
Jefferson  and  I  don't  know  whom  by  their  opponents.  Mr. 
Monroe  is  recalled  &  is  to  be  succeeded  by  General  Pinckney, 
the  elder  brother  of  the  gentleman  you  knew  here.  He  is  a  very 
amiable  and  truly  respectable  character.  I  allow  myself  to  hope 
that  no  public  inconvenience  will  attend  this  change. 

With  sincere  Esteem  &  Respect  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Genl.  Washington. 

Washington,  Nov.  12,  1796. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  had  the  honor  to  receive  your  letter  of  the  26th  of 
August,  and  Dr.  Nichols,  whose  advice  I  have  asked,  has  been  so 
obliging  as  to  give  me  information  respecting  the  manner  in 
which  the  order  of  the  Court  of  Chancery  should  be  published. 
In  a  day  or  two  I  will  procure  its  insertion  in  the  proper  News 
Paper.     Some  little  attention  will  be  requisite  to  avoid,  as  far  as 


I796J  LIFE   AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  105 

practicable,  the  great  Expense  which  commonly  attends  this  kind 
of  publication.  The  Newspapers  containing  the  notification  shall 
be  transmitted  to  you  agreeable  to  your  directions. 

It  is  extremely  difficult  to  form  a  satisfactory  opinion  respect- 
ing the  probability  of  peace.  I  meet  with  few  persons  who 
appear  to  have  much  confidence  in  the  success  of  Lord  Malmes- 
bury.  The  declaration  of  war  by  Spain  at  a  moment  when  Eng- 
land appeared  to  be  making  serious  efforts  to  conclude  a  general 
peace,  strengthens  the  belief  of  many  that  France  prefers  still  to 
continue  the  war.  All  the  internal  movements  of  this  Govern- 
ment, that  are  visible,  indicate  a  Determination  to  prosecute  the 
war  with  vigour.  The  funding  of  the  floating  debt  earlier  than 
usual  and  at  the  commencement  of  the  negotiations  with  France, 
when  its  influence  upon  the  Stocks  is  such  as  a  measure  so  direct 
for  the  restoration  of  peace  is  calculated  to  produce,  the  augmen- 
tation of  the  militia  by  the  addition  of  60,000  men,  and  the  means 
employed  to  recruit  the  regular  army,  if  peace  is  near,  would 
seem  to  be  improvident  and  unwise.  But  if  the  war  continues, 
12  millions  will  have  been  funded  on  advantageous  terms,  the 
Government  will  have  removed  an  important  obstacle  to  the  fur- 
ther use  of  their  credit,  and,  by  an  increase  of  the  internal 
strength  of  the  nation,  placed  at  their  disposal,  the  regular  Forces 
to  be  employed  abroad. 

France  will  bend  all  her  energies  against  that  Commerce  in 
which  England  finds  such  immense  Resources  to  prosecute  the 
war,  not  by  attacking  her  navy,  not  by  attempting  the  threatened 
invasion,  but  by  compelling  the  neighbouring  nations  to  exclude 
the  commerce  of  England  from  the  great  and  profitable  markets 
of  Europe.  England  in  turn  will  endeavour  to  balance  the 
account,  by  conquering  or  emancipating  the  colonies  of  Spain 
and  France,  thereby  opening  new  and  extensive  markets  in 
another  quarter  of  the  Globe.  Should  the  war  unfortunately  still 
grow,  the  meditated  expedition  against  Canada  by  the  Mississippi 
may  possibly  be  undertaken.  I  think  it  much  less  probable  since 
the  evacuation  of  our  frontier  posts  by  the  British  forces. 
Though  I  cannot  seriously  believe  that  such  an  expedition  will  be 
attempted,  still  it  may  be  the  part  of  prudence  to  consider  it  as 
possible,  in  order  to  guard  against  its  mischiefs. 


106  KUFUS  KING.  [1796 

Spain  enumerates  among  the  injuries  received  from  Great 
Britain,  the  Treaty  concluded  with  us.  And  France  was  satisfied 
neither  with  that  Treaty,  nor  with  the  subsequent  one,  that  was 
concluded  at  a  fortunate  moment  between  us  and  Spain.  Both 
may  have  been  dissatisfied  from  motives  connected  with  the 
Project  of  an  Expedition  through  the  Mississippi. 

With  perfect  respect  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


CHAPTER  IX. 

Correspondence  with  the  Secretary  of  State — Sailing  of  the  British  Commis- 
sioners Under  the  Sixth  Article  of  the  Treaty  with  Great  Britain — Mr. 
Adet's  Publication  Relative  to  the  French  Decree  on  the  Commerce  of 
Neutrals — Mr.  Pickering's  Answer — R.  Troup  on  the  coming  Election  of 
President — Baron  Jacobi  about  General  Steuben's  Property  and  Mr. 
King's  Answers—Mr.  Bingham  sends  Stuart's  Painting  of  Washington  to 
Lord  Landsdown — R.  King's  letter  to  Lord  Grenville  about  Mr.  John 
Maxwell,  an  impressed  American  Citizen — Protest  against  Captain  Pigot's 
Conduct — Letter  to  Hamilton  on  Condition  of  England. 

R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

London,  Nov.  12,  1796. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  The  ordinary  conferences  at  Lord  Grenville's  office 
have  been  interrupted  for  some  days  past  on  account  of  the  death 
of  his  sister  ;  in  consequence  of  this  interruption  I  have  not  been 
able  since  the  receipt  of  your  letter  of  the  31st  of  August  to  fulfil  in 
the  manner  I  prefer  your  instructions  respecting  Mr.  Liston's 
conciliatory  and  friendly  interference  to  assist  Col.  Talbot's 
agency  for  the  relief  of  our  seamen  in  the  West  Indies.  I 
have  no  reason  to  believe  that  this  interference  will  be  disap- 
proved :  on  the  contrary  I  am  persuaded  that  it  is  a  pleasing  cir- 
cumstance to  this  Government  that  Mr.  Liston's  conduct  has 
been  satisfactory  to  us.  Mr.  Liston  had  transmitted  an  account 
of  the  base  and  humiliating  treatment  of  Captain  Jessup  by  Capt. 
Pigot  before  I  received  your  letter  of  the  10th  of  September  and 
the  Lords  of  the  Admiralty  have  ordered,  as  I  am  informed,  a  rig- 
orous enquiry  to  be  made  into  the  conduct  of  that  officer.  This 
case  is  so  extraordinary  that  I  hope  proper  means  will  be  em- 

107 


108  RUFUS  KING.  [1796 

ployed  to  authenticate  it  in  the  most  solemn  manner.  If  this  is 
done  and  the  evidence  transmitted  to  me  I  think  this  Government 
cannot  avoid  punishing  Capt.  Pigot  in  a  manner  that  will  deter 
others  from  imitating  his  infamous  conduct. 

Mr.  McDonald  and  Mr.  Rich  will  sail  in  a  day  or  two  for  Phila- 
delphia. These  gentlemen  are  the  Commissioners  on  the  part  of 
this  country  in  the  Debt  Questions.  The  former  is  a  Barrister  of 
some  eminence,  the  latter  is  a  merchant  who  has  resided  for  more 
than  twenty  years  in  Holland  and  was  the  British  Consul  there  at 
the  commencement  of  the  war  between  this  and  that  country. 
They  are  both  esteemed  to  be  liberal  &  upright  men,  wholly  un- 
connected with  the  business  of  the  Commission  and  well  disposed 
to  cultivate  a  good  understanding  and  friendly  intercourse  be- 
tween the  two  countries.  I  have  no  doubt  that  they  will  be  re- 
ceived in  a  manner  that  will  be  proper  and  of  course  satisfactory. 

With  perfect  respect,  &c, 

Rufus  King. 


T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

Department  of  State,  Nov.  14,  1796. 

Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  A  very  unpleasant  transaction  has  lately  taken  place 
between  the  French  Minister  Mr.  Adet  and  our  Government. 
On  the  28th  ulto.  I  received  his  Letter  of  the  27th,  which  he  pub- 
lished in  the  Aurora  of  the  31st,  together  with  the  Decree  of  the 
Executive  Directory  relative  to  the  commerce  of  the  Neutral 
Nations.  His  representations  were  of  a  nature  to  render  it  ex- 
tremely desirable  that  the  conduct  of  the  American  Government 
should  be  as  publicly  vindicated.  The  public  sentiment  appeared 
to  demand  it.  Yet  it  was  with  great  reluctance  that  my  answer  to 
Mr.  Adet  was  sent  to  the  press.  The  printed  copies  of  these 
letters  you  will  find  inclosed.  In  his  note  of  the  3d,  of  which 
also  a  copy  is  inclosed,  he  promises  information  in  answer  to  the 
questions  I  had  proposed  relative  to  our  Commerce  ;  but  his  reply 
has  not  yet  been  received.  It  is  remarkable  that  in  this  short 
note,  he  says  that  the  Decree  of  the  Directory,  which  he  notified 


1795]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  IO9 

to  me,  bears  no  likeness  to  the  supposed  order  which  was  the 
subject  of  Mr.  Monroe's  Letter  of  the  28th  of  August  to  you  ; 
when  the  result  of  both  is  precisely  the  same,  to  wit,  that  the 
French  cruizers  would  act  towards  the  vessels  of  other  Nations  in 
the  same  manner  as  these  suffer  the  English  to  act  towards  them. 
The  declaratory  words  in  the  note  to  Mr.  Barthelemi,  to  which 
you  and  Mr.  Monroe  referred,  as  printed  in  the  Paris  newspapers 
(for  the  matter  was  not  officially  communicated  to  Mr.  Monroe) 
were  these  "  Le  directoire  executif  charge,  en  consequence,  tous 
les  agens  politiques  de  la  republique  francaise  d'annoncer  aux 
gouvernemens  pres  desquels  ils  sont  envoyes,  que  les  escadres  et 
les  corsaires  de  la  republique  agiront  contre  les  navires  de  chaque 
pays  de  la  meme  maniere  que  ces  gouvernemens  souffriront 
qu'en  agissent  envers  eux  les  anglais."  The  words  of  the  decree, 
sent  to  me  by  Mr.  Adet,  are  as  follows  : 

"  II  sera  notifie  sans  delai  a  toutes  les  puissances  neutres  ou 
allies  que  le  pavilion  de  la  republique  francaise  en  usera  envers 
les  batimens  neutres  soit  pour  la  confiscation,  soit  pour  la  visite, 
ou  prehension  de  la  meme  maniere  qu'elles  souffront  que  les 
Anglais  en  usent  a  leur  egard." 

As  Mr.  Adet's  letter  was  published  on  Monday,  and  the  elec- 
tion of  Electors  of  President  and  Vice  President  was  to  take  place 
the  Friday  following  in  Pennsylvania,  and  the  choice  of  President 
was  so  near  at  hand,  conjectures  appeared  in  the  newspapers  of 
one  motive  for  its  publication. 


T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

Department  of  State,  Nov.  26,  1796. 

Mr.  Pickering  writing  about  the  difficulty  of  communicating 
directly  with  Mr.  Pinckney  at  Paris,  says  "It  will  be  in  your 
power  to  communicate  earlier  advices  of  what  is  passing  in  France 
than  we  can  expect  from  Mr.  Pinckney.  I  must  entreat  you  to 
advert  to  this  circumstance,  and  that  to  a  recital  of  facts  you 
would  add  such  reflections  as  a  nearer  view  of  them  shall 
suggest." 


IIO  RUFUS  KING.  [1796 

R.  Troup  to  R.  King. 

New  York,  16th  Nov.,  1796. 

My  Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  Our  good  friend  the  district  Judge  (John  Lawrance) 
has  been  appointed  to  take  your  seat  in  the  Senate.  There  was 
but  one  dissenting  voice  in  both  branches  of  our  Legislature  to 
this  appointment.     .     .     . 

We  are  all  anxiety  about  the  coming  election  of  President  and 
Vice  President.  In  this  State  our  electors  were  appointed  a  few 
days  ago.  We  have  none  but  good  and  true  men,  who  will  vote 
unanimously  for  Adams  and  Pinckney.  ...  I  am  inclined  to 
think,  and  such  is  the  inclination  of  our  friends  here,  that  Mr. 
Adams  will  not  succeed  ;  but  we  have  Mr.  Pinckney  completely 
in  our  power  if  our  Eastern  friends  do  not  refuse  him  some  of 
their  votes,  under  an  idea  that  if  they  vote  for  him  unanimously 
they  may  injure  Mr.  Adams.  Upon  this  subject,  we  are  writing 
to  all  our  Eastern  friends  and  endeavoring  to  make  them  accord 
with  us  in  voting  unanimously  both  for  Mr.  Adams  and  Mr. 
Pinckney.  It  would  appear  from  the  proceedings  of  Jefferson's 
party  in  Pennsylvania,  that  Burr  was  to  be  their  Vice  President. 
But  we  all  suppose  he  will  meet  with  little  support.  ...  In 
our  election  for  Representatives,  we  are  and  I  fear  we  shall  con- 
tinue to  be  divided.  It  is  most  probable  that  Watson  will  be 
agreed  on  to  be  supported  ;  but  if  he  succeeds,  it  will  be  owing 
to  vigorous  exertions.  His  very  name  is  an  emetic  to  many  of 
our  best  friends. 

The  President's  resignation  has  not  even  been  carped  at  in  a 
single  instance  that  I  have  heard  of  ;  all  his  friends  consider  it  a 
second  new  testament. 

Our  friend  the  Governor  is  well  but  rather  out  of  temper  with 
the  abrupt  adjournment  of  our  Legislature  to  meet  in  January 
next,  and  at  Albany.  We  shall  never,  in  all  probability,  see  them 
again  in  this  city  ;  and  we  suppose  it  will  not  be  long  before  the 
seat  of  government  is  removed  to  that  quarter.  The  northern 
and  western   interests    are  much    too   powerful  for  us.     .     .     . 

Your  friend 

R.  Troup. 


1796]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  Ill 

Baron  Jacobi  to  Mr.  King. 

London,  Gloucester  Place,  iothNov.,  1796. 

Baron  Jacobi  begs  leave  of  Mr.  King  to  apply  to  him  in  the 
following  business.  General  Von  Steuben,  a  Prussian  subject 
being  lately  in  the  service  of  the  United  States  of  America,  died 
there  near  New  York,  as  it  is  presumed  these  twelve  months  ago. 

His  sister,  Julianna  Von  Steuben,  and  his  brother  Siegfried  Von 
Steuben  are  desirous  to  know  what  has  become  of  the  inheritance 
of  the  said  General. 

B.  Jacobi  would  be  much  obliged  to  Mr.  King  if  he  would 
have  the  goodness  to  interfere  in  order  to  procure  some  authentic 
accounts  about  that  business.  He  would  be  very  thankful  also  if 
in  the  mean  time  he  could  get  any  information  about  the  steps  to 
be  taken  for  procuring  the  inheritance  of  General  Von  Steuben 
to  his  above  mentioned  heirs. 


Great  Cumberland  Place,  Nov.  19,  1796. 

Mr.  King  presents  his  compliments  to  Baron  Jacobi,  and  has 
the  honor  to  inform  him  in  answer  to  his  note  respecting  the  late 
Baron  de  Steuben,  with  whom  Mr.  King  had  the  pleasure  to  be 
well  acquainted,  that  he  served  with  great  reputation  in  the 
American  army,  and  by  the  introduction  of  a  more  perfect  dis- 
cipline than  had  before  existed,  rendered  important  and  acknowl- 
edged service  to  the  United  States.  At  the  conclusion  of  the 
American  war,  in  addition  to  other  compensations  for  these  ser- 
vices, the  Baron  was  allowed  by  Congress  a  yearly  pension  of  two 
thousand  and  five  hundred  dollars  to  continue  during  his  life — 
and  the  State  of  New  York,  where  the  Baron  resided,  gave  him  a 
valuable  tract  of  Land,  containing  several  thousand  acres.  The 
Baron  was  a  man  of  expence  and  Mr.  King  has  reason  to  believe 
that  he  owed  debts  to  a  considerable  amount,  when  he  left  for 
Europe.  Some  of  these  debts  were  afterwards  paid  by  the  Baron  ; 
others  of  them  remained  unpaid  at  his  death. 

The  Baron's  moveables,  or  personal  estate,  were  at  the  time  of 
his  death  of  small  value.  His  Lands,  part  of  which  he  sold  during 
his  life,  were  his  only  property  worth  inquiry.     As  the  Baron  died 


112  XUFUS  KING.  [1796 

without  issue,  his  next  of  kin  capable  to  inherit,  would  have 
succeeded  to  his  Lands  had  he  died  intestate.  But  he  made  a 
will,  in  which,  after  bequeathing  his  Books,  Furniture  and  other 
personal  estate  of  small  value  to  a  young  Gentleman  of  the  name 
of  Milliken  (who  lived  in  his  house  and  whom  he  had  assisted  in 
his  collegiate  education)  he  devised  the  whole  of  his  Lands  and 
other  property  to  Col.  Walker  and  Major  North,  two  American 
citizens,  who  had  been  Aids-de-Camp  to  the  Baron  and  whom  he 
considered  and  treated  as  his  particular  friends.  This  will  has 
been  established  according  to  the  requisitions  and  forms  of  our 
Laws,  and  the  next  of  kin  to  the  Baron  de  Steuben  are  thereby 
excluded  from  inheriting  any  part  of  his  estate.  Mr.  King  gives 
this  information  from  recollecting  what  was  publickly  understood 
respecting  the  Baron  de  Steuben's  affairs — he  has  no  doubt  that 
it  is  essentially  correct.  If  however,  the  Baron  Jacobi  should 
desire  more  exact  and  formal  information,  Mr.  King  with  much 
pleasure,  will  procure  from  New  York  an  authenticated  copy  of 
the  Baron's  will,  together  with  an  attested  inventory  of  his  estate. 


Wm.  Bingham  to  R.  King,  London. 

Philada.,  Nov.  29,  1796. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  sent  by  the  present  opportunity  a  full  length  Portrait  of 
the  President.  It  is  executed  by  Stewart  (who  is  well  known  in 
London)  with  a  great  deal  of  enthusiasm,  and  in  his  best  manner, 
&  does  great  credit  to  the  American  Artist.  It  is  intended  as  a 
Present  on  the  part  of  Mrs.  Bingham  to  Lord  Landsdown.  As  a 
warm  Friend  of  the  United  States  and  a  great  admirer  of  the 
President,  it  cannot  have  a  better  Destination. 

The  Frame  that  accompanies  it  is  manufactured  in  Philada.  with 
much  Taste  &  Elegance.  It  has  been  suggested  that  some  diffi- 
culties may  exist  relative  to  its  admission  :  in  which  case  I  must 
request  your  Interference  to  obviate  them. 

Our  Elections  of  Electors  have  been  so  far  closed  as  to  deter- 
mine with  considerable  accuracy  the  result.  The  Friends  of  Mr. 
Adams  may  calculate  on  a  majority  in  his  favor,  but  so  small  that, 
on  so  momentous  an  occasion,  it  would  be  risking  too  much  to 


1796]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  II3 

trust  entirely  thereto.  It  is  therefore  deemed  expedient  to  recom- 
mend to  the  federal  Electors  to  give  an  uniform  vote  for  Mr. 
Pinckney,  which  with  those  that  he  will  obtain  to  the  Southward, 
detached  from  Mr.  Adams,  will  give  him  a  decided  Majority  over 
the  other  Candidates. 

We  are  unfortunate  in  the  Election  in  this  State  :  we  carried 
only  two  of  our  Ticket.  The  most  unwearied  Exertions,  accom- 
panied by  some  Bribery,  and  not  a  little  chicane,  have  been  prac- 
tised on  this  occasion  by  the  anti-federal  Party.  They  were  very 
essentially  aided  in  their  Views  by  some  of  Mr.  Adet's  strokes  of 
diplomatic  Finesse.  In  the  House  of  Representatives  the  fed- 
eralists have  triumphed  at  the  last  Election.  We  shall  rather 
have  an  accession  than  diminution  of  strength  in  the  Senate. 
Burr  will  not  be  re-elected  and  Butler  resigns  in  disgust.     .     .     . 

With  sincerity  &  esteem, 

Wm.  Bingham. 

R.  King  to  Lord  Grenville. 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  Nov.  30,  1796. 
My  Lord  : 

I  have  the  honor  to  return  the  letter  addressed  to  John  Maxwell 
from  his  wife  which  your  Lordship  some  time  since  transmitted 
to  me  as  containing  evidence  of  improper  conduct  on  the  part  of 
the  American  Consul  at  Bristol.  I  sent  this  letter  to  Mr.  Vander- 
horst,  the  Consul  referred  to,  with  a  request  that  he  would  furnish 
such  Explanations  relative  to  this  case  as  should  be  in  his  power. 
From  the  communication  that  I  have  received  from  Mr.  Vander- 
horst,  extracts  from  which  I  take  the  liberty  to  inclose  for  your 
Lordship's  information,  I  flatter  myself  that  it  will  appear  that  the 
unfavorable  inferences  that  have  been  drawn  from  this  letter,  re- 
specting the  conduct  of  Mr.  Vanderhorst  are  not  well  founded. 

In  your  Lordship's  letter  of  the  21st  of  September  in  answer  to 
my  application  for  the  discharge  of  Mr.  Maxwell,  an  American 
citizen  impressed  and  detained  on  board  his  Majesty's  ship 
Sandwich,  the  reason  assigned  against  his  discharge  is  "  that  he 
is  married  and  settled  at  Bristol  "  ;  and  I  understand  that  the  orders 
of  the  Commissioners  of  the  Admiralty  for  the  discharge  of  Amer- 

VOL.   II. — 8 


114  RUFUS  KING.  [1796 

ican  Seamen  usually  contain  a  Proviso  that  the  discharge  is  not  to 
operate  in  favor  of  any  person  who  has  entered  on  board  any  of 
his  Majesty's  ships,  or  who  is  married  or  settled  within  any  of  his 
Majesty's  dominions.  Without  admitting  or  contesting  on 
this  occasion  the  Rule  of  English  Law,  that  a  subject  cannot 
divest  himself  of  his  natural  Allegiance,  I  take  the  liberty  to  re- 
quest your  Lordship's  attention  to  the  diversity  of  practice  so 
much  to  the  disadvantage  of  American  citizens  that  prevails  in 
the  application  of  this  Rule. 

If  Great  Britain  requires  the  acquiescence  of  foreign  nations 
in  this  Law,  so  far  as  regards  the  requisition  of  her  subjects  mar- 
ried or  settled  abroad,  or  voluntarily  engaged  in  foreign  service, 
is  she  not  bound  in  like  manner  to  observe  it  herself  in  respect 
to  the  subjects  of  foreign  Powers  under  similar  circumstances  in 
her  service  or  within  her  Dominions  ?  If  to  the  demand  of  a 
Foreigner  in  her  service  by  the  nation  to  which  he  belongs,  Great 
Britain  answers  that  such  Foreigner  cannot  be  delivered  because 
he  voluntarily  engaged  to  serve  his  Majesty  or  is  married  or  set- 
tled within  his  Majesty's  Dominions  ;  is  she  not  bound  by  her 
own  Principles  to  admit  the  validity  of  the  same  answer  from 
such  foreign  nation,  when  she  requires  the  surrender  of  British 
Subjects  found  in  a  similar  predicament  in  the  service  or  within 
the  Territory  of  such  foreign  Nation  ?  Justice,  which  is  always 
impartial,  furnishes  the  proper  answer  to  these  questions. 

Admitting  that  the  voluntary  contract  of  an  American  citizen 
to  serve  on  board  a  British  Ship,  or  the  marriage  or  settlement  of 
such  citizen  within  his  Majesty's  Dominions,  is  the  foundation  of 
a  right  in  his  Majesty's  Government  to  refuse  the  requisition  of 
the  United  States  of  America,  that  such  citizen  should  be  dis- 
charged from  his  Majesty's  service,  do  we  not  thereby  establish  a 
Principle  that  at  once  condemns  and  puts  an  end  to  the  practice 
of  his  Majesty's  Naval  officers  in  entering  American  Ships  in 
search  of  and  for  the  purpose  of  impressing  British  seamen,  since 
all  seamen  found  on  board  such  ships  are  there  of  choice  and  by 
voluntary  compact  to  serve  in  the  American  Employ. 

But  if  neither  of  these  circumstances  can  be  considered  as 
justly  giving  a  Right  to  his  Majesty's  Government  to  refuse  the 
discharge  of  American  citizens,  does  it  not  result  that  the  usual 


1796]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  115 

Proviso  connected  with  the  orders  for  the  discharge  of  such  citi- 
zens, and  which  is  assigned  as  a  reason  against  the  discharge  of 
John  Maxwell,  is  without  any  just  foundation  and  consequently 
operates  to  the  disadvantage  and  injury  of  the  American 
citizens  ? 

With  the  highest  consideration  &  esteem,  &c,  &c, 

Rufus  King. 

R.  King  to  Lord  Grenville. 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  Nov.  30,  1796. 
My  Lord  : 

In  obedience  to  the  instructions  of  the  President  of  the  United 
States  of  America,  I  transmit  to  your  Lordship  an  account  of  the 
violent  and  humiliating  treatment  received  by  William  Jessup,  a 
citizen  of  the  said  United  States  and  master  of  the  American  ship 
Mercury,  from  H.  Pigot  commander  of  his  Majesty's  Frigate  Suc- 
cess. The  circumstances  of  this  outrage  are  so  extraordinary, 
that,  persuaded  as  I  am  of  the  Justice  of  his  Majesty's  Govern- 
ment, I  cannot  a  moment  doubt  that  conformable  to  the  just 
requisition  of  the  President  of  the  United  States,  efficacious 
measures  will  be  taken  to  inquire  into  the  same,  and  upon  the 
verification  thereof,  that  the  said  H.  Pigot  will  be  punished  as  an 
atrocious  violator  of  the  Treaty  between  the  two  Nations. 
With  high  consideration  &  esteem,  &c, 

Rufus  King. 

London,  December  9,  1796.  R.  King  on  this  date  reports 
to  the  Secretary  of  State  the  following  answers  from  Lord 
Grenville,  December  8,  1796: 

Downing  Street,  Dec.  8,  1796. 
Sir: 

I  have  the  honor  of  acknowledging  the  receipt  of  your  letter 
of  the  30th  ulto.,  and  of  transmitting  to  you  the  copy  of  a  letter 
upon  the  subject  of  it,  which  I  have  received  from  the  Lords  of 
the  Admiralty,  and  from  which  you  will  perceive  that  previously 
to  any  complaint  having  been  made  by  yourself  or  the  Govern- 


Il6  RUFUS  KING.  [1796 

ment  of  the  United  States  to  Mr.  Liston,  directions  had  been 
given  for  instituting  an  immediate  inquiry  into  the  Conduct  im- 
puted to  Captain  Pigot. 

I  have  the  honor  to  be,  with  great  truth,  &c, 

Grenville. 

Admiralty  Office,  7th  Dec,  1796. 
My  Lord  : 

Your  Lordship  having  transmitted  to  us  in  your  letter  of  the  3d 
inst.  an  extract  of  one  which  you  had  received  from  Mr.  Liston, 
his  Majesty's  Minister  to  the  United  States  of  America,  together 
with  a  Copy  of  the  Petition  referred  to  therein  from  William 
Jesup,  Master  of  the  American  vessel  the  Mercury,  on  the  subject 
of  the  outrageous  and  cruel  conduct,  stated  to  have  been  exer- 
cised towards  him  by  Capt.  Pigot  of  his  M.  S.  Success  on  the  occa- 
sion set  forth  ;  and  signified  to  us  at  the  same  time  his  Majesty's 
pleasure  that  we  should  cause  a  particular  inquiry  to  be  immedi- 
ately made  respecting  the  conduct  imputed  to  Capt.  Pigot  and  the 
circumstances  of  the  transaction  in  question  ;  we  have  the  honor, 
in  answer  thereto  to  acquaint  your  Lordship  for  his  Majesty's 
information,  that  we  have  sent  transcripts  of  the  Extract  and 
Petition  above  mentioned  to  Admiral  Sir  Hyde  Parker,  Com- 
mander in  chief  of  his  Majesty's  Ships  and  vessels  at  St.  Do- 
mingo, with  instructions  to  make  immediate  and  strict  Enquiry 
into  the  said  transaction  accordingly,  and  to  report  to  us  the 
Result  without  delay  ;  having  however  previous  to  the  receipt  of 
your  letter,  sent  similar  instructions  to  him,  in  consequence  of  a 
statement  which  had  appeared  in  an  American  Newspaper  dated 
the  25th  of  July  last. 

We  have  the  honor  to  be,  &c, 

Arden 

Charles  Small  Pybus 

Ph.  Stephens. 

Mr.  King  finishes  his  letter  thus: 

"  If  the  charge  of  Captain  Jesup  shall  on  examination  be  sup- 
ported, of  which  there  can  scarcely  be  a  doubt,  I  think  that 
Captn.  Pigot  will  be  punished  with  severity." 


I796J  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  WJ 

R.  King  to  A.  Hamilton.* 

London,  Nov.  30th,  1796. 
My  Dear  Sir  : 

The  Archduke  having  expelled  Jourdan  and  Moreau  from  Ger- 
many, the  parties  are  in  respect  to  territory  in  that  quarter,  where 
they  were  when  the  campaign  began.  Bonaparte,  by  the  latest 
accounts  from  Italy,  is  critically  circumstanced,  and  it  seems  not 
improbable,  that  he  likewise  will  be  compelled  to  retire  from 
Lombardy.  The  mission  of  Lord  Malmesbury  remains  undecided, 
and  though  the  negotiation  is  not  promising,  it  does  not  appear 
as  desperate  as  it  did  a  fortnight  ago.  Paper  has  entirely  ceased 
as  a  medium  in  France  ;  what  their  ability  is  to  prosecute  another 
campaign,  you,  as  well  as  I  can,  may  conjecture.  New  projects  are 
to  be  brought  forward  in  this  country,  and  if  for  no  other  reason 
than  that  they  are  novelties,  they  will  be  hazardous,  where  the 
force  of  habit  is  stronger  than  that  of  reason.  The  minister's  plan 
is  not  definitively  settled  ;  but  enough  is  known  to  authorize  a  be- 
lief that  it  cannot  be  approved  by  the  moneyed  men.  The  3  per- 
cents  are  at  about  56  per  ct.  The  minister  is  unwilling  to  augment 
the  debt,  already  enormous,  by  borrowing  on  such  terms.  He 
intends  proposing  a  loan,  which  is  to  be  advanced  by  patriotic 
capitalists,  upon  terms  more  advantageous  to  the  government. 
What  patriotism  may  do,  I  cannot  say  ;  but  unless  there  exists  a 
real  conviction  in  the  minds  of  wealthy  men,  that  their  wealth  is 
in  danger,  I  should  suspect  that  this  virtue,  pure  and  dignified  as 
it  is,  will  in  this  country  prove  an  unproductive  source  when  mil- 
lions are  required.  It  is  time  to  make  peace  ;  for  all  sides  are 
weary  with  the  war.  We  most  sincerely  desire  it,  since  peace 
alone  will  afford  us  the  tranquillity  we  wish,  and  ought  to  enjoy. 

I  do  not  think  it  prudent  to  write  my  opinions,  so  far  as  I 
have  formed  them,  concerning  certain  subjects  interesting  to  our 
rights,  and  respecting  which  you  will  naturally  wish  for  informa- 
tion from  this  quarter.  The  casualties  to  which  letters  are  liable 
require  a  caution  that  between  friends  is  unpleasant,  and  some- 
times inconvenient.  You  know  my  opinion  respecting  this 
country.     We  have  often  endeavored  to  explain  appearances  that 

*  Works  of  Hamilton,  v'\,,  183. 


Il8  RUFUS  KING.  [1796 

we  disliked,  and  preserve  our  respect  for  a  nation  who  have  done 
much  to  improve  the  condition  and  happiness  of  mankind.  I 
still  hope  that  I  have  not  been  deceived,  and  that  experience  will 
prove  that  the  opinions  of  those  from  whom  we  differed  were,  as 
we  believed  them,  partial  and  erroneous. 

We  are  anxious  to  hear  the  result  of  the  Presidential  election — 
much,  very  much  will  depend  upon  that  event.     Farewell. 

Yours  very  sincerely,  &c, 

R.  King. 


CHAPTER  X. 

Correspondence  with  Lord  Grenville  relative  to  the  Conduct  of  the  Consuls  of 
the  U.  S.  in  granting  Certificates  to  Seamen — Also  as  to  the  Detention  of 
American  Seamen  on  British  Ships  of  War — Case  of  the  Olive  Branch — 
Letters  from  Mr.  Goodhue  and  Mr.  Hamilton  respecting  the  coming 
Presidential  Election  in  the  U.  S.  and  Mr.  Adet's  Communications — R. 
King's  letters  to  Mr.  Pinckney  in  Paris  on  French  Affairs — Vindication  of 
the  U.  S.  in  the  Conduct  towards  France. 

R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

London,  Dec.  10,  1796. 
Dear  Sir  : 

My  letter  of  the  8th  of  September  has  given  you  information  of 
what  passed  between  Lord  Grenville  &  me  respecting  the  author- 
ity of  our  Consuls  to  grant  Protections  to  Seamen.  On  the  3rd 
day  of  Nov.  I  received  the  following  letter  from  his  Lordship. 

"  Downing  Street,  3d  Nov.,  1796. 
"  Sir  : 

"  The  Consuls  of  the  United  States  residing  in  his  Majesty's 
Dominions  have  for  some  time  past  been  in  the  habit  of  granting  to 
sea-faring  Persons  certificates  under  their  consular  seal  purport- 
ing that  the  Bearers  of  them  are  citizens  of  the  United  States,  and 
as  such  liable  to  be  called  upon  for  the  service  of  their  own  country 
and  that  they  are  therefore  not  to  be  interrupted  or  molested  by 
any  means  whatever.  I  have  reason  to  believe  that  these  certifi- 
cates have  frequently  been  granted  upon  very  slight  and  insuf- 
ficient evidence  and  in  a  great  number  of  cases  to  Persons  who 
were  in  fact  British  seamen. 

119 


120  RUFUS  KING.  [1796 

"  But  independently  of  this  abuse,  I  am  under  the  necessity  of 
representing  to  you  on  the  part  of  his  Majesty's  Government 
the  insuperable  objections  which  apply  to  the  Principle  of  a 
jurisdiction  in  this  respect  assumed  and  exercised  within  his 
Majesty's  dominions  by  the  Consuls  of  a  foreign  nation.  And 
I  must  remark  to  you  that  the  impropriety  of  a  proceeding  so 
much  out  of  the  ordinary  line  of  consular  functions,  and  so  liable 
to  be  abused  for  the  worst  purposes,  is  very  much  aggravated  by 
the  unwarrantable  assumption  of  a  Power  in  the  Consuls  to 
administer  oaths  to  his  Majesty's  subjects  and  others  resident 
within  these  realms  concerning  the  matter  of  the  said  cer- 
tificates. 

"  I  had  the  honor  of  writing  to  Mr.  Pinckney  on  this  subject  on 
the  13th  of  July  last,  requesting  that  he  would  inform  me  whether 
the  Consuls  of  the  United  States  are  in  any  manner  authorized  or 
instructed  by  their  own  Government  to  grant  such  certificates, 
and,  in  such  case,  whether  any  and  what  Rule  of  evidence  or  dis- 
cretion is  prescribed  to  them  for  their  guidance  is  a  duty  of  so 
difficult  and  delicate  a  nature. 

"  I  apprehend  that  Mr.  Pinckney's  departure  prevented  his 
answering  my  letters  ;  but  as  I  am  persuaded  that  no  such  author- 
ity can  in  fact  have  been  given,  the  frequent  instances  of  this 
practice  which  have  lately  come  within  my  knowledge,  oblige  me 
now  to  request  that  you  will  have  the  goodness  to  notify  the  con- 
suls that  they  are  in  future  to  abstain  from  a  proceeding  which 
far  exceeds  the  limits  of  their  office,  which  is  neither  sanctioned 
by  the  law  and  usage  of  nations,  nor  by  any  treaty  between  the 
two  countries,  and  the  continuance  of  which  must  be  considered 
an  act  on  their  part  injurious  to  the  authority  of  the  King's  Gov- 
ernment. The  earnest  desire  which  I  feel  to  avoid  even  the  ap- 
pearance of  a  misunderstanding  between  the  two  Governments, 
leads  me  to  prefer  this  mode  of  notification  rather  than  to  take 
any  manner  of  signifying  it  to  them  more  directly. 

"  And  I  avail  myself  with  pleasure  of  this  opportunity  to  assure 
you  of  the  high  consideration  &  esteem,  &c,  &c. 

"  I  have  the  honor  to  be, 

"  Grenville." 

I  thought  it  proper  to  communicate  this  letter  to  our  Consuls, 
which  I  did  by  copies  accompanied  by  the  following  letter  : 


1796]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  121 

Mr.    Knox,    American    Consul,    Hull — Circular    to    the 

Consuls. 

"London,  Nov.  18,  1796. 
"  Sir  : 

"  Inclosed  I  send  you  a  copy  of  a  letter  from  Lord  Grenville  to 
me  respecting  the  Consular  Jurisdiction.  Hitherto  I  have  not 
had  leisure  to  consider  the  subject  in  the  manner  I  wish  to  do, 
previous  to  the  return  of  an  answer.  It  has  however  appeared  to 
me  adviseable  to  transmit  to  you  a  copy  of  the  letter,  in  order  that 
you  should  be  informed  of  the  Decision  of  this  Government  on 
the  points  to  which  it  refers.  I  am  at  present  inclined  to  believe 
that  the  administration  of  oaths  by  our  Consuls  in  these  or  any 
other  cases  to  British  subjects  is  neither  necessary  nor  proper. 
The  other  Point  is  more  doubtful,  as  well  as  more  important,  as  it 
regards  the  security  of  our  navigation  and  seamen.  As  we  have 
no  convention  with  this  Nation,  defining  the  Consular  Powers, 
they  must  be  ascertained  by  the  Law  of  Nations.  General  usage 
is  evidence  of  this  Law,  and  some  of  its  Rules  are  to  be  found 
only  in  the  existence  of  such  usage.  I  have  not  discovered  any- 
thing explicit  on  the  Question  in  any  work  of  Reputation,  and  I 
shall  be  obliged  to  you  to  inquire  and,  as  early  as  convenient,  to 
inform  me  what  is  the  Practice  on  this  subject  of  the  consuls  of 
other  Powers  resident  in  this  nation.  If  you  can  procure  and  send 
me  copies  of  similar  certificates  issued  by  the  Consuls  of  other 
nations,  if  such  certificates  are  granted  by  any  of  them,  I  desire 
you  to  do  so. 

"  Though  I  would  not  be  understood  as  giving  a  settled  opinion 
on  this  Point,  I  ought  not  to  omit  observing  to  you,  that  neither 
our  Laws  respecting  Consuls  nor  the  late  Law  for  the  Relief  and 
Protection  of  American  Seamen  give  to  our  Consuls  any  authority 
to  grant  Certificates  of  Citizenship  ;  and  I  have  seen  no  Instruc- 
tion from  the  Executive  that  authorizes  it.  If  the  Power  exists,  it 
must  be  derived  from  the  Law  of  Nations.  This  Government 
denies  that  it  can  be  deduced  from  that  source,  and  notifies  to  us 
that  we  must  abstain  from  the  Exercise  of  the  Power,  since  the  same 
is  deemed  to  be  repugnant  to  the  Jurisdiction,  and  a  continuance 
thereof  will  be   considered  as  injurious  to  the  Authority  of  the 

King's  Government. 

"  With  great  respect,  &c, 

"Rufus  King." 


122  RUFUS  KING.  [1796 

I  do  not  consider  myself  authorized  to  instruct  our  Consuls  in 
this  or  in  any  other  instance  :  in  cases  in  which  they  ask  my  ad- 
vice, I  readily  give  it  according  to  my  views  of  their  Privileges, 
and  of  the  public  welfare.  So  far  as  I  have  been  informed,  the 
Consuls  do  not  think  it  prudent  since  this  communication  from 
Lord  Grenville  to  grant  any  more  protections,  and  in  consequence 
thereof,  I  am  frequently  applied  to  by  Seamen  on  the  subject. 

I  did  not  approve  of  that  part  of  the  late  Law  for  the  Relief  and 
Protection  of  Seamen  which  authorizes  the  Collectors  to  grant 
Protections.  It  appeared  to  me  to  be  a  measure  of  questionable 
policy,  and  I  apprehend  it  has  placed  our  Seamen  in  a  worse 
instead  of  a  better  situation  than  that  in  which  they  were  before. 

One  great  evil  of  the  regulation  is  that  every  Seaman  who  is 
without  a  Certificate,  and  every  one  who  has  a  Certificate  from 
%  any  other  Officer  than  a  Collector,  is  considered  as  not  having 
been  able  to  procure  a  certificate  from  the  Collector  and  is  treated 
here  as  a  British  Subject.  The  Law  ought  to  be  repealed,  or 
what  under  present  circumstances  would  be  better,  it  might  be 
amended  by  requiring  every  Seaman,  who  is  a  citizen,  to  prove 
the  same  in  a  safe  and  satisfactory  manner  and  to  procure  a  Cer- 
tificate thereof  from  the  Collector.  Another  amendment  should 
be  added  to  prohibit  every  other  person  except  the  Collectors 
from  granting  Certificates  to  Seamen. 

At  present  it  is  optional  with  a  Seaman  to  procure  or  not  to 
procure  a  Certificate  of  citizenship,  or  to  procure  it  from  the  Col- 
lector or  any  other  Officer.  Hence  these  Certificates  are  granted 
on  a  variety  of  forms  on  different  degrees  of  proof  and  by  almost 
every  grade  of  magistrates,  and  the  consequence  thereof  has 
been  that  they  are  all  in  some  sort  disregarded. 


R.  King  to  Lord  Grenville. 


Great  Cumberland  Place,  Dec.  12,  1796. 


Mr.  King  presents  his  compliments  to  Lord  Grenville,  and 
takes  the  liberty  to  inclose  a  list  of  Thirty  three  Seamen,  who 
state  themselves  to  be  American  citizens  detained  on  board  his 
Majesty's  Ships   of  War  ;    most  of  these  cases  are  without  the 


1796]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  1 23 

usual  Proofs  :  the  laws  of  the  United  States  permit,  but  do  not 
oblige  any  citizen  to  procure  and  carry  with  him  abroad  a  Certifi- 
cate of  Citizenship.  Several  of  the  persons  named  in  the  list 
state  that  they  did  procure  such  Certificates  before  they  left 
America,  but  that  the  same  have  been  taken  from  them,  and  are 
detained  or  destroyed.  All  of  them  are  strenuous  in  declaring 
themselves  to  be  American  Citizens,  and  in  expressing  their  Confi- 
dence, that  on  an  impartial  examination  they  shall  be  able  to 
produce  such  Circumstances  and  Proofs,  as  will  afford  reasonable 
satisfaction  that  they  really  are  so. 

Mr.  King  is  apprized  that  inconveniences  may  be  apprehended 
from  the  reference  of  these  and  similar  cases  to  a  civil  magis- 
trate, or  to  any  other  &  more  regular  Tribunal,  than  that  which  at 
present  decides  them.  But  on  the  other  hand  his  confidence  in 
Lord  Grenville's  candor,  induces  him  to  believe  that  his  Lordship 
will  agree  with  him  in  the  opinion,  that  the  commander  of  a  ship 
of  war  (however  honorable  and  esteemed,  whose  zeal  for  the 
public  service,  whose  personal  emulation,  and  whose  Reputation 
and  honor  must  inspire  him  with  a  strong  and  natural  anxiety 
that  his  ship  should  continue  ably  and  fully  manned)  cannot  be 
the  impartial  Judge  that  these  cases  require. 

Mr.  King  on  this  occasion  finds  it  to  be  his  Duty,  to  request 
Lord  Grenville's  interference  in  order  that  these  cases  may  receive 
an  impartial  examination  ;  and  though  not  accompanied  by  the 
usual  proofs,  if  by  Circumstances  and  other  satisfactory  Evidence, 
it  shall  appear  that  the  same  are  truly  represented,  that  the  said 
Seamen  may  be  discharged. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

London,  Dec.  15,  1796. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  think  it  prudent  to  transmit  to  you  copies  of  a  Letter  and  of 
the  papers  that  accompanied  it,  which  I  yesterday  received  from 
General  Ira  Allen  of  Vermont.  Agreeable  to  his  wishes  and  to 
the  accustomed  course  in  Cases  of  Capture,  I  shall  send  copies  to 
Lord  Grenville  with  a  request  of  his  interference  in  order  that 
this  case  should  be  examined,  and  if  the  statements  of  General 


124  RUFUS  KING.  [1796 

Allen  should  be  found  true,  that  the  ship  and  Cargo  should  be 
restored  and  permitted  to  proceed  on  her  voyage. 

Various  rumours  respecting  the  Destination  of  these  arms  have 
prevailed  here  ;  among  them  it  has  been  said  that  they  were  in- 
tended to  be  introduced  through  Vermont  into  Canada  in  order 
to  favor  certain  Projects  that  France  meditates  respecting  that 
Country.  It  is  not  my  business  to  add  conjectures  or  specula- 
tions upon  this  subject.  You  will  be  able  to  judge  of  the  number 
of  the  militia  of  Vermont,  of  their  probable  deficiency  of  arms  ; 
whether  it  has  been  the  practice  in  Vermont  to  arm  the  militia  at 
the  public  charge,  whether  the  Legislature  had  authorized  Gov- 
ernor Chittenden  or  General  Allen  to  make  a  Purchase  of  such  a 
quantity  of  muskets  &  Cannon  and,  by  examining  the  contracts, 
of  which  I  enclose  copies,  you  will  be  better  able  to  form  a 
correct  opinion  of  the  nature  of  this  Transaction  than  I  am 
able  to  do.* 

Yr.  obt.  &  faithful  Servt., 

Rufus  King. 


B.  Goodhue  to  R.  King,  London. 

Philada.,  Dec.  15,  1796. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  You  must,  I  presume,  have  seen  Adet's  Notes  to  our 
Secretary  calculated  to  degrade  the  character  and  measures  of 
the  Executive,  and  to  influence  in  the  choice  of  another  :  in  the 
latter  view  it  had  doubtless  an  effect  to  establish  the  Anti-Ticket 
of  Electors  in  this  State  by  a  small  majority,  but  I  don't  hear  of 
any  such  effect  anywhere  else  ;  neither  do  I  believe  it  will  be 
possible  for  him  or  his  Master,  either  by  gasconading  threats  or 
fulsome  flattery  to  strengthen  their  party  or  influence. 

I  enclose  you  the  returns  of  the  Electors  so  far  as  have  been 
received  ;  a  few  days  will  put  us  out  of  doubt ;  indeed  from  the 

*  This  case  is  the  capture  of  the  American  ship  Olive  Branch  of  Boston, 
Capt.  Bryant,  sailing  from  Ostend  to  New  York  with  arms  for  the  State  of  Ver- 
mont, as  alleged,  and  captured  by  his  Majesty's  ship  of  war  Audacious \  Capt. 
Gould,  on  the  19th  Nov.,  1796,  and  carried  into  Portsmouth.  It  is  further 
alluded  to  in  Mr.  Pickering's  letter  to  Mr.  King  of  April  6th  and  June  16th, 
1797. — Ed- 


1796]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  1 25 

votes  already  in,  and  by  the  information  we  have,  it  almost  is  a 
certainty  that  Mr.  Jefferson  cannot  be  President  :  tho',  probably 
by  throwing  away  votes  in  some  of  the  Eastern  States  for  Pinck- 
ney  to  ensure  Adams,  he  may  be  the  V.  President.  His  own 
party  pretty  much  give  up  any  expectation  of  his  being  President. 
Mr.  Tichenor  succeeds  Gov.  Robinson,  Mr.  Howard  Mr.  Potts, 
and  Mr.  Butler  has  resigned  ;  from  these  changes  with  our  ex- 
pectation of  having  a  good  man  instead  of  Mr.  Burr  after  the 
Third  of  March,  I  think  we  need  not  fear  any  machinations  that 
can  affect  the  Senate,  and  poqrr  Langdon  will  be  the  only  man 
East  of  the  Potomac  in  the  Senate  to  save  us  from  going  to  the 
Devil,  as  his  phrase  is.  Dearborn  &  Lyman  will  be  left  out,  and 
Gov.  Jay  &  Col.  Hamilton  inform  me  they  expect  a  better  repre- 
sentation from  your  State,  tho'  they  fear  James  Watson  is  not 
popular  enough  to  oust  Livingston.  Those  who  could  have  done 
it,  could  not  be  prevailed  upon  to  stand  Candidates.  There  is  a 
better  representation  in  this  State,  Delaware,  Maryland,  So.  Caro- 
lina, and  a  better  one  expected  from  Virginia,  so  that  we  calculate 
upon  having  a  decided  majority  of  good  men  in  our  House  of 
Representatives.     .     .     . 

It  may  be  expected  the  threatenings  of  Adet  may  occasion 
much  spouting  and  foaming  in  the  House,  touching  the  subjects 
of  his  complaints,  but  never  fear  ;  we  shall  be  steady  and  our 
Country  will  support  us  against  these  Disorganizers.  I  expect 
the  French  will  practise  on  their  Scheme  of  Spoliation  ;  but  if 
they  should,  I  hear  of  no  person  who  supposes  we  would  get  any- 
thing by  going  to  war  with  them.     .     .     . 

Your  sincere  friend, 

B.  Goodhue. 

A.  Hamilton  to  R.  King,  London. 

New  York,  Dec.  16,  1796. 

I  have  received,  my  dear  Sir,  your  several  letters  of  the  25th 
August  10th  &  nth  of  Sept.  You  know  my  sentiments  towards 
you  too  well  to  ascribe  my  Delay  in  answering  them  to  any  other 
than  the  imperiousness  of  avocations  with  which  I  could  not 
dispense. 


126  RUFUS  KING.  [1796 

Public  opinion,  taking  the  Country  at  large,  has  continued 
since  you  left  us  to  travel  on  in  a  right  direction,  and,  I  trust, 
will  not  easily  deviate  from  it.  You  will  have  seen  before  this 
reaches  you  Mr.  Adet's  communications.  We  conjecture,  as  to 
the  timing  of  them,  that  they  were  intended  to  influence  the  elec- 
tion of  President  by  the  apprehension  of  war  with  France.  We 
suppose  also  they  are  designed  in  the  same  way  to  give  support 
to  the  partizans  of  France,  and  that  they  have  for  eventual  object 
the  placing  things  in  such  a  state  as  will  leave  France  at  liberty 
to  slide  easily  into  a  renewal  of  cordiality  or  an  actual  or  virtual 
war  with  the  U.  S.  If  the  war  of  Europe  continues,  the  efforts 
of  France  will  be  likely  to  be  levelled,  as  a  primary  object,  against 
the  Commerce  and  Credit  of  Great  Britain  ;  and  to  injure  these 
she  may  think  it  adviseable  to  make  war  upon  our  Trade,  for- 
getting perhaps  that  the  consequence  may  be,  to  turn  it  more 
entirely  into  the  channels  of  Great  Britain.  These  reflexions 
will  be  obvious  to  you.  I  only  make  them  to  apprize  you  of  the 
view  which  is  taken  of  the  subject  here.  Thus  far  appearances 
do  not  indicate  that  the  purpose  of  influencing  this  Country  has 
been  obtained.  I  think  in  the  main  the  effect  has  been  to  im- 
press the  necessity  of  adhering  more  firmly  to  the  Government. 

You  need  not  be  told  that  every  exertion,  not  degrading  to  us, 
will  be  made  to  preserve  peace  with  France.  Many  of  the  oppo- 
site party,  however  they  may  be  pleased  with  appearances  of  ill 
humour  in  France,  will  not  wish  it  to  go  to  the  length  of  war ; 
and  we  shall  endeavour  to  avoid  it  in  pursuance  of  our  general 
.plan  of  preserving  peace  with  all  the  world.  Yet  you  may 
depend,  that  we  shall  not  submit  to  be  dictated  to,  or  to  be  forced 
into  a  departure  from  our  plan  of  neutrality  unless  to  repel  an 
attack  upon  us. 

Our  anxiety  has  been  extreme  on  the  subject  of  the  Election 
for  President.  If  we  may  trust  our  information,  which  there  is 
every  reason  to  trust,  it  is  now  decided  that  neither  Jefferson  nor 
Burr  can  be  President.  It  must  be  either  Adams  or  Pinckney, 
the  first  most  probably.  By  the  throwing  away  votes  in  New  Eng- 
land, lest  Pinckney  should  outrun  Adams,  it  is  not  unlikely  that 
Jefferson  will  be  Vice  President.  The  event  will  not  a  little  mor- 
tify Burr.     Virginia  has  given  him  only  one  Vote. 

It  was  to  be  expected,  of  course,  that  the  Senators'  answer  to 


1796]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  12 J 

the  President's  speech  would  be  nattering  to  him.  But  the  result 
in  the  House  of  Representatives  has  been  better  than  was  ex- 
pected. An  address  which  I  have  not  yet  seen,  but  stated  by  our 
friends  to  be  a  very  good  one,  passed  the  house  with  only  twelve 
dissentients,  confessedly  of  the  most  fiery  spirits.  The  address 
is  not  only  generally  complimentary  to  the  President,  but  includes, 
it  is  said,  an  explicit  approbation  of  his  administration,  which  caused 
the  division.     Edward  Livingston  is  in  the  minority. 

After  giving  you  these  consolatory  accounts,  I  am  now  to  dash 
the  cup  a  little,  by  telling  you  that  Livingston  is  in  all  probability 
re-elected  in  this  City.  The  principal  cause  has  been  an  unac- 
ceptable candidate  on  our  part,  James  Watson.  There  were  four 
Gentlemen  who  would  certainly  have  succeeded,  but  neither  of 
them  would  accept.  In  Watson  we  could  not  unite  opinions  ;  he 
was  more  disagreeable  than  I  had  supposed  to  a  large  body  of  our 
friends  ;  and  yet  after  the  declining  of  the  four  persons  alluded 
to,  we  could  not  do  otherwise  than  support  him  :  for  he  had 
gotten  a  strong  hold  on  most  of  the  leading  mechanics  who  act 
with  us. 

But  in  the  State  at  large,  we  shall  better  our  representation, 
and  I  hope  for  a  majority  in  the  next  house  of  Representatives. 
As  an  omen  of  this,  there  are  several  new  me??ibers  in  Congress 
from  different  States,  who  hitherto  vote  with  our  friends. 

The  favourable  change  in  the  conduct  of  Great  Britain  towards 
us  strengthens  the  hand  of  the  friends  of  order  and  peace.  It  is 
more  to  be  desired  that  a  Treatment  in  all  respects  unexception- 
able from  that  quarter  should  obviate  all  pretext  to  inflame  the  pub- 
lic mind.  We  are  labouring  hard  to  establish  in  this  country 
principles  more  national  and  free  from  foreign  ingredients  ;  so  that 
we  may  be  neither  "  Greeks  nor  Trojans,"  but  truly  American. 
Adieu. 

Affectly.  yrs, 

A.  Hamilton. 


R.  King  to  Col.  Humphries. 

London,  Dec.  29,  1796. 

.     .     .     Adet  had  announced  to  our  Government,  a  decree  of 
the   Directory  authorizing  the  capture  of  neutral  vessels  in  like 


128  RUFUS  KING.  [*797 

manner  and  for  the  same  causes  as  England  captured  them.  Col. 
Pickering  made  a  very  proper  reply  to  Mr.  Adet's  Note.  I  have 
not  heard  whether  Mr.  Pinckney  has  been  reed,  at  Paris.  I  am 
^fc  inclined  to  believe  that  he  has  been,  or  soon  will  be  received. 
The  object  of  the  apparent  displeasure  of  the  Directory  no  longer 
requires  this  stately  behaviour,  and  I  therefore  conclude  that  the 
Directory  in  France  and  Mr.  Adet  in  America  will  return  to  their 
former  and  more  reasonable  course  of  proceeding  towards  us. 
Nothing  is  more  certain  than  that  we  sincerely  desire  to  live  in 
harmony  and  friendship  with  France  ;  and  of  this  Disposition  we 
have  given  the  most  plain  and  solid  proofs.  We  equally  desire 
and  are  firmly  resolved  to  be  the  independent  Judges  of  our  own 
interest  and-  concerns.  We  think  ourselves  able  to  manage  our 
own  affairs,  and  observing  Justice  towards  every  other  Nation, 
we  are  willing  to  be  left  to  govern  our  own.  If  it  is  essential  to 
the  continuation  of  a  friendship  with  France,  that  we  should  sub- 
mit our  Politicks  and  the  Management  of  our  affairs  to  their  Guid- 
ance I  think  we  shall  not  hesitate,  or  be  embarrassed,  in  discovering 
our  Duty.     .     .     . 

Farewell,  &c,  &c, 

Rufus  King. 

R.  King  to  General  Pinckney. 

London,  Jany.  2,  1797. 

.  .  .  I  had  thought  much  of  your  situation  before  Mr.  Hall's 
arrival  and  I  am  convinced  that  the  course  you  have  pursued,  has 
been  the  most  proper  that  could  have  been  adopted.  It  will  require 
moderation,  patience  and  firmness  to  finish  the  work  you  have  so 
well  begun.     .     .     . 

I  am,  Dear  Sir,  truly  yours, 

Rufus  King. 

The  above  letter  was  written  in  answer  to  a  communication 
addressed  to  the  Secretary  of  State  by  Mr.  Pinckney,  giving 
to  him  an  account  of  the  conduct  of  the  Directory  of  France, 
in  not  receiving  him  as  Minister,  succeeding  Mr.  Monroe, 
and  of  his  own  course ;  he  asked  Mr.  King  to  transmit  the 


1 797 J  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE.  1 29 

same,  first  making  a  copy  of  it.  It  is  an  interesting  state- 
ment of  the  circumstances  connected  with  this  refusal  to 
receive  him. 

In  the  following  letter  to  Mr.  Pinckney,  Mr.  King  expresses 
most  clearly  the  views  he  held  in  reference  to  the  charges  so 
often  made  against  him  and  those  who  acted  with  him,  of 
an  extreme  fondness  for  England  in  the  opinions  they  held, 
controlling  their  actions  in  the  public  affairs  of  the  country. 
They  could  not  indeed  conceal  their  fear  of  the  dangers  to  be 
encountered  in  surrendering  the  conduct  of  our  government 
into  the  power  of  those  who  were  carried  away  by  a  most 
unreasoning  admiration  for  French  methods  and  the  French 
ideas  then  so  prevalent,  which  had  been  so  disastrous  to 
other  nations.  Nor  could  they  fail  to  see  that  with  all  her 
acts  of  unkindness  and  insolent  assumption  towards  us,  Eng- 
land was  indeed  the  bulwark  against  French  aggrandizement, 
and  the  nation  from  which  we  might  receive  in  the  end  the 
fairest  treatment,  and  which  would  contribute  most  to  the 
growth  of  our  commercial  interests,  though  at  the  time  look- 
ing most  persistently  and  even  unjustly  after  her  own.  Com- 
mercially England  and  the  United  States  have  always  been 
rivals,  and  at  this  time,  the  younger  country  was  only  begin- 
ning to  win  the  respect  of  other  nations  and  thus  to  lay  the 
foundations  on  which  she  might  command  and  maintain  it. 

R.  King  to  General  Pinckney,  Paris. 

London,  Jany.  14,  1797. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  I  have  received  no  intelligence  of  the  public  opinion 
respecting  Mr.  Adet's  Notes.  The  News  Papers  suggest  that  they 
have  been  published  in  order  to  influence  the  choice  of  a  Presi- 
dent ;  and  not  it  is  said  without  having  in  some  measure  answered 
the  purpose  with  the  Quakers  of  Pennsylvania.  How  humiliating 
is  this  Reflection  !  On  carefully  attending  to,  and  examining, 
these  complaints  of  Mr.  Adet,  it  is  plain  that  no  just  cause  of 
offence  has  been  given  by  us  to  the  French  Government.     Our 

VOL.  II.— 9 


130  RUFUS  KING.  [1797 

real  sin,  however  it  may  be  desired  to  conceal  it,  has  been  that 
neither  our  interest,  nor  inclination,  led  us  to  make  common  cause 
with  France  in  the  war  against  England.  Most  of  the  complaints 
preferred  by  Mr.  Adet  have  again  and  again  been  discussed  and 
refuted.  Those  which  grow  out  of  the  Treaty  with  this  Country, 
are  built  on  gross  misrepresentations  and  are  quite  unfounded. 
The  pretended  Vexations  of  French  Privateers  and  prizes  and  the 
countenance  by  our  Government  of  British  Equipments  in  our 
ports  are  equally  uncandid  and  destitute  of  support.  Every  man 
who  has  resided  in  America  must  recollect  the  great  trouble  we 
have  had  by  repeated  attempts  to  equip  French  Privateers  in  our 
Ports,  and  to  engage  our  People  to  embark  in  their  enterprizes  so 
repugnant  to  our  Interest  and  our  Laws ;  and  there  is  not  a  French- 
man who  has  visited  our  seaports  who,  if  he  will  declare  the  truth, 
would  not  say  that  it  has  been  impossible  for  the  British  openly  to 
make  an  equipment  of  a  single  vessel  in  any  of  our  Harbours. 
The  most  satisfactory  answer  might  in  my  opinion  be  given  to 
these  notes,  and  such  only  I  hope  will  be  given  ;  an  answer  which 
shall  expose  and  correct  the  misstatements  with  which  Mr.  Adet's 
Notes  abound  ;  which  shall  demonstrate  that  we  have  been  just  to 
f  ranee  and  impartial  to  all  Nations  ;  that  we  are  resolved  to  gov- 
ern our  own,  and  that  we  continue  to  be  earnestly  desirous  to 
cultivate  in  every  way  compatible  with  self-respect,  and  the  inter- 
est and  honor  of  our  Country,  the  esteem,  the  good-will  and  the 
friendship  of  France,  in  whose  welfare  and  prosperity  we  have  at 
all  times  taken  not  only  a  sincere  but  an  affectionate  concern. 
No  step,  in  my  belief,  would  have  been  more  impolitic,  none  will 
in  the  end  be  more  injurious  to  a  beneficial  connection  between 
America  and  France,  than  that  lately  adopted,  unless  it  is  suc- 
ceeded by  one  which  Justice  and  sound  Policy  alike  demand.  I 
detest  the  idea  that  either  France  or  England  should  really  have 
any  influence  in  the  Government  of  America.  I  will  not  believe 
that  such  is  our  degraded  condition.  From  causes  too  plain  to  be 
mistaken  and  too  considerable  not  to  have  some  influence  there 
have  existed  a  strong  regard  and  sincere  friendship  among  the 
people  of  America  for  those  of  France  ;  but  these  have  their  limits 
and  can  be  overcome.  Much  as  France  has  been  beloved,  our  own 
character,  our  honor,  our  national  Independence  not  only  of 


1797]  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE.  131 

France,  but  of  all  the  rest  of  the  world,  are  infinitely  more  dear 
to  us  than  the  interest  we  have  taken  in  whatever  concerned 
France.  This  will  be  proved  beyond  a  doubt  if  France  persists. 
But  I  will  not  tire  you  with  observations  which  you  must  feel  and 
know  to  be  true.  I  still  hope  that  you  will  witness  more  modera- 
tion, and  experience  a  Treatment  less  extraordinary  and  more 
friendly  than  you  have  hitherto  received.     .     .     . 

Truly  yrs., 

Rufus  King. 


CHAPTER  XI. 

Despatches  to  the  Secretary  of  State  relative  to  the  Arrest  in  the  Proceedings 
of  Commissioners  under  the  7th  Article — R.  Troup  on  the  Presidential  Elec- 
tion and  American  Affairs — Treaty  of  Commerce  with  Turkey — Delays  in 
Admiralty  Courts  in  England — Law  of  the  United  States  for  the  Protection  of 
Seamen — R.  King  to  Col.  Hamilton  ;  Estimate  of  Washington  in  England, 
and  of  the  Fairness  of  the  British  Government  in  Meeting  Questions  under 
the  7th  Article — Good  Feeling  in  England  towards  America  Shown  in  a 
Letter  of  R.  King  to  Washington — Maryland  Bank  Stock — Question  of 
Retrocession  of  Louisiana  to  France — Letters  giving  the  Result  of  the 
Presidential  Election — Suspension  of  Specie  Payments  by  the  Bank  of 
England — Condition  of  that  Country — American  Merchants  ask  for  British 
Convoys  on  Account  of  French  Captures. 

R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

London,  Jany.  14,  1797. 
Dear  Sir  : 

We  sometime  since  were  uneasy  on  account  of  certain  embarrass- 
ments which  for  a  time  arrested  the  proceedings  of  the  Commis- 
sioners and  threatened  to  defeat  the  purposes  of  their  appointment. 
These  difficulties  I  have  reason  to  think  are  overcome,  a  pretty 
full  explanation  of  the  extent  of  the  Provision  of  the  Seventh 
Article  has  taken  place  between  me  and  this  Government,  and  I 
now  flatter  myself  that  the  Commissioners  will  not  in  future  ex- 
perience any  serious  obstructions  to  the  fair  and  full  execution 
of  their  Trust.  I  reserve  a  more  detailed  report  on  this  subject 
to  a  future  opportunity.*  Very  few  American  Vessels  have  for 
some  time  past  been  taken  by  the  British  Cruizers  in  these  seas. 
Three  or  four  American  ships  bound  with  rich  cargoes  from 
Surinam  to  Amsterdam  have  been  sent  in  and  are  in  the  course 

*  See  Appendix  III. 
132 


1797]  MF&  AND  CORRESPONDENCE,  1 33 

of  an  admiralty  trial.  Some  discoveries  unfavorable  to  the  Amer- 
ican claims  have  in  one  or  two  of  these  cases  been  made  and  operate 
against  others  in  the  same  Trade* 

I  have  for  some  time  been  endeavouring  to  obtain  from  Mr. 
Bayard  an  abstract,  classing  in  a  manner  I  have  indicated  to  him 
the  whole  of  the  American  claims.  I  hope  soon  to  obtain  it, 
when  I  shall  be  able  to  judge  what  measures  remain  to  be  adopted 
in  order  that  we  may  not  be  charged  with  Delay,  negligence  or 
wilful  omission.  I  am  not  however  without  my  fears  that  this 
business  has  been  conducted  in  a  manner  that  we  may  have  cause 
to  regret.  The  mutual  Reliance  of  the  Claimants  and  of  the 
Government  on  each  other  may  have  prevented  either  from  ob- 
taining such  Documents  and  Proofs  as  may  be  found  requisite  to 
substantiate  our  Claims.  What  our  true  situation  is  in  this  respect, 
I  cannot  discover  because  /  have  not  been  able  to  obtain  such  a  view 
of  the  agency  of  Mr.  B.  and  of  the  cases  in  his  care  as  is  necessary 
for  this  purpose.  I  hope  we  shall  not  ultimately  find  that  greater 
talents  were  requisite  in  this  agency  than  those  that  have  been 
employed  in  it  ;  and  it  will  be  a  real  relief  if  I  shall  find  the 
business  in  such  a  situation  that  past  omissions  can  still  be 
remedied.  ...  I  have  intended  at  an  earlier  period  to  mention  to 
you  the  expediency  of  precise  instructions  respecting  the  Receit, 
deposit  and  Payment  to  the  Proprietors  of  such  Sums  of  money  as  may 
be  paid  upon  the  claims  under  the  care  of  Mr.  Bayard.  I  have  sug- 
gested to  you  my  opinion  on  the  subject  of  costs  advanced  by  the 
Governments  ;  and  I  have  lately  learned  that  Mr.  Bayard  expects 
and  perhaps  will  claim  a  commission  upon  all  sums  paid  by  him  to 
those  to  whom  it  belongs.  Having  a  strong  and  I  think  just  aver- 
sion to  the  blending  of  public  and  private  Duties  and  the  mingling 
of  pub.  with  priv.  emoluments,  I  disapprove  of  this  course  of  pro- 
ceeding. In  my  opinion  the  pay  of  the  Government  ought  to  be 
considered  as  the  only  compensation  of  its  agents,  and  all  monies 
received  by  such  agents  on  account  of  any  of  our  citizens,  ought 
to  be  paid  to  them  without  any  deduction  except  of  the  advances 
for  costs  made  on  their  account  by  the  Government.  The 
national  character  and  the  interests  of  individuals  will  in  this 
manner  be  best  secured. 

*  Sentences  in  italics  are  in  cipher  here  and  elsewhere. 


134  RUFUS  KING.  [1797 

The  money  when  received  should  be  deposited  with  some  safe 
banker,  notice  should  be  given  to  the  Proprietors  of  the  amount 
of  their  respective  Portions,  on  whose  Drafts,  or  to  whose  Agents 
duly  authorized  the  same  would  be  paid  without  delay  or  deduc- 
tion. It  will  be  easy  to  form  a  proper  rule  on  this  subject,  its 
promulgation  in  America  will  put  the  Claimants  on  their  guard 
against  improper  demands,  and  moreover  will  enable  them  to  make 
seasonable  arrangements  for  the  Reception  of  their  Money. 

As  this  Business  is  in  some  degree  connected  with  the  Duties 
of  my  office,  I  think  it  due  to  myself  as  well  as  to  the  public  inter- 
est, to  intimate  my  Ideas  on  the  subject.  Knowing  that,  in 
pecuniary  concerns  in  which  the  public  as  well  as  individuals  are 
interested,  nothing  short  of  the  utmost  circumspection  can  shield 
a  man  from  suspicions  that  often  fasten  themselves  upon 
him.     ,     .     . 

With  perfect  Respect, 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Genl.  Pinckney. 

London,  Jany.  20,  1797. 

.  .  I  send  you  a  few  of  the  latest  American  Papers 
that  I  have  received.  They  contain  the  President's  Speech  to 
Congress,  and  the  address  of  the  two  Houses  in  answer.  They 
have  afforded  me  much  satisfaction,  as  I  consider  them  as  strong 
Testimonials  of  what  all  my  letters  concur  in  stating  to  be  the  case> 
that  the  public  opinion,  taking  the  country  at  large,  is  sound  and 
right  ;  the  addresses  of  the  two  Houses  are  not  only  highly  com- 
plimentary to  the  President,  but  they  contain  an  explicit  approba- 
tion of  his  administration.  Principles  more  and  more  national 
appear  in  every  quarter  of  the  Union,  strong  marks  of  displeasure 
on  the  subject  of  foreign  influence  and  foreign  interferences  in 
our  affairs  are  likewise  seen  in  the  different  News  Papers  ;  so  that 
I  think  it  will  be  soon  perceived  that  we  are  neither  Greeks  nor 
Trojans,  but  truly  Americans.     .     .     . 

Farewell,  yrs.  very  Sincerely, 

Rufus  King. 


17971  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  1 35 


R.  Troup  to  R.  King. 

New  York,  28  Jan.,  1797. 
My  Dear  Sir  : 

Our    election    for    President     and    Vice    President 

has  terminated.     It  is  admitted  on  all  hands  that  Adams  is  to 

be  our  President    and    Jefferson    our  Vice   President.     .     .     . 

The  Eastern  States  were  afraid  of  voting  generally  for  Pinckney 

lest  they  should  make  him  outstrip  Adams  ;   and  this  policy  has 

lost  us  one  of  our  Candidates.     Burr  was  left  very  much  in  the 

background  ;  even  in  Virginia  where  his  greatest  strength    was 

supposed  to  lie  he  had  but  one  vote.    The  antifederal  party  affect 

at  present  to  be  well  pleased  with  the  fate  of  the  election,  and 

they  are  now  fraternizing  with  Adams  and  his  particular  friends 

and  endeavoring  to  raise  an  opinion  that  Hamilton  and  his  friends 

E'ted  to  bring  Pinckney  forward  in  preference  to  him.  In  this 
e  we  voted  unanimously  Adams  and  Pinckney.  This  was  the 
also  with  New  Jersey.  As  the  event  of  the  election  was  all 
important  and  extremely  critical,  we  judged  it  the  soundest  policy 
to  take  a  double  chance — the  contrary  policy  put  everything  at 
hazard,  and  we  have  made  a  hairbreadth  escape.  Jefferson,  his 
friends  say,  will  serve. 

The  public  mind  is  at  present  much  engaged  with  the  letter 
from  our  Secretary  of  State  to  our  Minister  at  Paris,  in  answer  to 
Mr.  Adet's  note  of  the  15th  of  November  last.  ...  I 
think  Mr.  Pickering  has  given  a  satisfactory  refutation  to  all  the 
charges  contained  in  Mr.  Adet's  note.  .  .  .  Adet  and 
his  party  have  injured  their  cause  by  the  means  they  have 
taken.  I  have  not  met  a  man  who  does  not  condemn  his  note. 
All  the  friends  of  peace,  which  constitute  the  great  mass  of  our 
fellow  citizens  consider  it  as  one  of  the  most  insulting  and 
offensive  addresses  that  ever  was  made  to  a  government  or  a  peo- 
ple. Adet  having  suspended.himsje]f  remains  suspended.  .  .  . 
What  is  to  be  the  result  of  the  present  state  of  things  with 
France  we  cannot  even  conjecture.  The  general  opinion  is  that 
we  shall  rub  along  without  a  war.  An  embargo  has  lately  been 
talked  of  in  consequence  of  the  serious  depredations  on  our  com- 
merce in  the  West  Indies  by  the  French  ;  but  I  doubt  whether 
the  measure  will  be  adopted.     .     .     . 


136  RUFUS  KING.  [1797 

The  only  subject  which  during  the  present  sessions  (of  Con- 
gress) has  occasioned  any  warmth  in  the  House  of  Representa- 
tives, is  a  resolution  which  lately  passed  for  calling  upon  the 
debtor  States  to  pay  their  balances.  Lawrance  writes  me  that  he  is 
not  without  hopes  of  a  satisfactory  result. 

The  payment  of  the  balance  due,  or  appearing  to  be  due  from 
this  State  is  a  subject  much  debated  with  us.  I  confess  I  feel 
awkwardly  and  unpleasantly  on  the  occasion.  If  we  are  called 
upon  to  pay,  our  State  will  give  an  answer  that  I  presume  will  go 
into  the  merits  of  the  claim.  W.  Smith  of  South  Carolina  has 
been  very  active  in  Congress  in  urging  the  claim.  Benson  says  he 
is  the  last  man  in  the  world  to  have  engaged  in  the  measure. 
What  will  be  the  final  issue  of  this  business  is  very  uncertain.  It 
certainly  creates  embarrassment  and  excites  feelings  that  are  to  be 
regretted.     .     .     . 

Burr  is  now  here.  He  has  during  the  present  session  paid  lit- 
tle, or  no,  attention  to  his  duties  in  the  Senate.  It  is  whispered 
that  his  money  engagements  are  embarrassing  to  him.     .     .     . 

By  the  by,  do  you  know  that  I  am  Lawrance's  successor — the 
fact  is  undoubtedly  so.  I  have  in  consequence  begun  to  powder 
my  hair — and  in  a  full  suit  of  black  with  powdered  hair  I  have 
appeared  on  the  bench  thus  far  with  some  advantage.  All  admire 
the  decorum  and  gravity  with  which  I  conduct  myself.  Hamilton 
and  Lawrance  are  the  cause  of  my  metamorphose.  .  .  . 
You  have  no  conception  how  high  the  necessaries  of  life,  labour, 
&c,  still  continue.  Every  month  brings  after  it  some  addition  to 
prices.  The  pressure  for  money  in  every  part  of  the  continent  is 
beyond  example.  This  arises  from  the  large  sum  locked  up  in 
France  ;  the  depredations  upon  our  trade  by  the  French  which 
are  enormous  ;  the  over  speculations  as  well  by  merchants,  as  by 
land-jobbers,  and  other  causes  that  will  readily  occur  to  you. 
Failures  here  are  becoming  common  ;  not  a  man  amongst  us  that 
is  in  business  but  what  is  extremely  driven  for  money.  .  .  . 
This  state  of  things  is  a  source  of  innumerable  mischiefs  to  us, 
and  I  pray  that  we  may  soon  experience  a  release.     .     .     . 

Hamilton  has  for  some  time  past  been  laid  up  with  a  lame  leg, 
got  by  watching  the  City.  Have  you  heard  that  within  two 
months  past  frequent  attempts  have  been  made  to  burn  the  City  ? 
It  is  the  case.     The  like  attempts  have  been  made  in  Philadel- 


1797]  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE,  1 37 

phia.  Who  are  concerned  in  them,  or  what  in  particular  has 
led  to  them  we  cannot  discover.  The  consequence,  however,  has 
been  a  serious  alarm,  which  produced  a  nightly  watch  consisting 
of  about  20  in  each  ward.  From  this  duty  no  person  is  considered 
as  exempt  if  health  will  permit  his  service.  A  few  nights  ago 
Col.  Hamilton  and  Col.  Troup  had  the  honor  of  being  reduced  to 
the  ranks,  serving  under  Capt.  Low,  ci-devant  Governor  Low.  I 
do  not  believe  the  watching  in  this  way  will  continue  much 
longer  ;  the  fear  has  lessened.     .     . 

Very  sincerely  and  affectionately, 

Rob.  Troup. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

London,  Jany.  24,  1797. 
Dear  Sir  : 

In  one  or  two  conversations  with  the  Turkish  Ambassador  at 
this  court  relating  to  a  Treaty  of  Commerce,  I  should  infer,  if  reli- 
ance can  be  placed  on  his  opinion,  that  there  would  not  be  much  diffi- 
culty in  our  concluding  a  valuable  Treaty  with  that  Power.  On  this 
subject  I  take  the  liberty  to  inclose  a  letter  sent  to  me  by  Mr. 
Bird  which  has  been  addressed  to  him  by  Mr.  Abot,  who  was  born 
&  has  for  many  years  resided  at  Constantinople.     .     .     . 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Lord  Grenville. 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  Jany.  24,  1797. 
My  Lord  : 

From  considerations  perfectly  respectful  to  his  Majesty's  govern- 
ment, it  is  with  reluctance  that  I  find  myself  obliged  to  represent 
to  your  Lordship  the  numerous  complaints  of  the  delays  which 
have  been  experienced  by  the  American  citizens  and  which  con- 
tinue to  prevent  decisions  in  the  causes  pending  in  the  High 
Court  of  Admiralty.  These  causes  are  very  important  both  in 
number  and  value.  Many  of  them  for  a  very  long  time  have  been 
ready  for  trial  ;  in  all  of  them  the  Claimants  are  exposed  to  heavy 
expenses  in  the  prosecution  of  their  claims,  and  in  some  instances 
they  are  threatened  with  heavy  losses  by  the  detention  of  their 


138  RUFUS  KING.  [1797 

property,  in  consequence  of  which  other  of  their  commercial  con- 
cerns are  deranged  and  placed  in  a  ruinous  situation.  I  am 
sensible  that  a  prompt  administration  of  Justice  by  his  Majesty's 
Courts  is  enjoined  by  the  highest  and  most  venerable  Authority. 
I  likewise  know  that  this  authority  is  equally  obligatory  upon  the 
highest  court  of  Admiralty  as  upon  the  other  Branches  of  the 
judicial  Department,  in  addition  to  which,  the  act  commonly 
called  the  Prize  act,  conformable  to  the  equitable  and  just  Princi- 
ples of  public  Law,  prescribes  and  limits  the  time  within  which 
all  Questions  of  Prize  shall  be  decided  by  this  court.  It  would  ill 
become  me,  my  Lord,  to  inquire  into  the  causes  of  the  delays 
complained  of,  if  on  investigation  these  complaints  shall  appear 
to  be  well  founded  ;  but  it  is  my  duty  to  state  to  your  Lordship 
that  a  long  catalogue  of  American  Causes,  in  which  these  cap- 
tures took  place  so  long  ago,  as  the  period  when  the  Island  of 
Martinique  was  conquered  by  his  Majesty's  Forces,  and  in  which 
the  Claimants  for  a  long  time  have  been  prepared  for  Trial, 
remain  undecided  ;  and  that  others,  some  of  which  are  attended 
with  circumstances  of  peculiar  hardship,  are  likewise  ready  for  a 
hearing,  but  no  decision  can  be  had. 

Having  full  reliance  upon  the  Justice  of  his  Majesty's  Govern- 
ment, and  being  likewise  impressed  with  the  belief  that  the 
subject  of  these  complaints  is  not  without  a  remedy,  I  take  the 
liberty  to  request  your  Lordship's  interference  in  order  that,  by 
such  means  as  shall  be  deemed  proper,  future  delays  may  be  pre- 
vented, and  a  speedy  Trial  be  had  in  the  said  American  Causes. 

With  the  greatest  satisfaction,  I  avail  myself  of  this  occasion  to 
assure  your  Lordship  of  the  high  consideration  with  which  I  have 
the  honor  to  be  your  obed.  &  very  humble  servant. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Lord  Grenville. 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  Jany.  28,  1797. 
My  Lord  : 

I  have  the  honor  to  send  your  Lordship  the  copy  of  a  Law  of 
the  United  States  for  the  relief  and  protection  of  American  Sea- 
men, likewise  the  copy  of  an  Instruction  given  by  the  President 


1797]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  1 39 

to  the  Collectors  of  the  several  Districts,  which  supplies  an  omis- 
sion in  this  Law  and  prescribes  the  Evidence,  on  which  alone 
Certificates  of  Citizenship  may  be  granted  by  such  Collectors,  and 
also  a  copy  of  the  first  section  of  the  law  of  the  United  States 
prescribing  an  uniform  Rule  of  naturalization.  I  flatter  myself 
that  your  Lordship  will  perceive  in  these  Documents  the  care  and 
caution  that  the  American  Government  have  observed,  in  order 
that  those  only  who  are  justly  entitled  should  obtain  Certificates 
of  American  Citizenship.  It  is  not  my  present  purpose  to  enter 
into  an  Examination  of  the  precise  limits  of  the  Consular  Juris- 
diction and  Functions,  which  your  Lordship  conceives  do  not 
extend  to  give  a  right  to  the  American  Consuls  to  grant  Cer- 
tificates of  Citizenship  to  the  Seamen  of  that  Nation,  who  come, 
or  are  brought  within  his  Majesty's  Dominions  ;  I  think  it  how- 
ever my  Duty  to  observe,  that  on  careful  Enquiry  I  find  it  to 
have  been  the  antient  practice  of  the  Consuls  of  Maritime  Nations, 
resident  within  his  Majesty's  Dominions,  ex  officio,  to  grant  Cer- 
tificates of  this  kind  ;  and  that  this  practice  is  still,  as  I  am 
informed,  pursued  by  the  Consuls  of  Denmark,  Sweden  &  Portu- 
gal, and  probably  by  those  of  other  Nations.  *  I  ought  also  to 
add  that  from  the  best  Examination  I  have  been  able  to  give  the 
subject,  I  cannot  but  be  of  the  opinion,  with  becoming  deference 
for  the  Sentiments  of  his  Majesty's  Government,  that,  under 
proper  Regulations,  the  Exercise  of  this  Power  is  both  an  im- 
portant, and  especially  between  America  &  Great  Britain,  the 
most  material,  portion  of  the  Consular  Rights.  I  make  this  ob- 
servation, my  Lord,  not  to  invite  a  discussion  of  the  Question, 
but  for  the  sole  purpose  of  precluding  any  Inference  that  might 
result  from  its  not  having  been  made  on  this  occasion. 

The  object  of  this  communication  is  to  represent  to  your  Lord- 
ship, that  in  consequence  of  the  relations  of  Peace  and  friendship 
subsisting  between  America  and  Great  Britain  which  give,  and  of 
the  fourteenth  Article  of  the  Treaty  lately  concluded  between 
them  which  confirms,  to  the  People  and  Inhabitants  of  the  United 

*  See  Lord  Grenville;  Letter  to  R.  K.,  p.  119  of  this  volume,  denying  this 
right  and  requesting  R.  K.  to  notify  the  Consuls  to  abstain  from  granting 
these  Certificates  as  "neither  sanctioned  by  the  law  and  usage  of  nations, 
nor  by  any  treaty  between  the  two  Govts." 


140  RUFUS  KING.  [1797 

States,  a  Right,  securely  to  resort  to,  and  to  reside  in  his  Majesty's 
European  Dominions,  great  numbers  of  American  Citizens,  and 
especially  of  the  class  which  compose  the  Seamen  engaged  in  the 
American  Navigation,  are  from  Time  to  Time  arriving  within,  and 
in  the  prosecution  of  their  lawful  concerns  frequenting,  his 
Majesty's  said  European  Dominions,  many  of  whom  have  no  Cer- 
tificates of  Citizenship,  in  some  instances  having  omitted  to  obtain 
the  same  within  the  United  States,  and  in  others  the  Certificates, 
which  had  been  so  obtained,  having  by  the  casualties  of  sea- 
faring Lives  been  destroyed.  These  seamen  who  cannot  easily 
be  distinguished  by  language  or  manners  from  those  of  Great 
Britain,  are  while  employed  on  board  American  Ships,  and  on 
Shore,  daily  seized,  and  contrary  to  their  will,  impressed  into  his 
Majesty's  Service,  to  the  manifest  injury  of  their  personal  Rights, 
and  to  the  material  detriment  and  disadvantage  of  the  American 
Navigation  and  Commerce.  So  long  as  our  Consuls  were  in  the 
Practice  of  granting  Protections  to  American  Seamen,  these  in- 
juries and  inconveniences  were  less  frequent,  and  more  easily 
remedied.  The  Laws  of  the  United  States  authorize,  but  do  not 
compel,  their  Seamen  to  take  out  Certificates  of  Citizenship,  within 
the  United  States  ;  and  the  Practice  is  not  uncommon,  that  they 
omit  to  obtain  such  Certificates  ;  and  place  their  dependence 
upon  the  assistance  of  the  Consuls  in  case  of  interruption  in  any 
of  the  Ports  of  his  Majesty's  European  Dominions. 

Some  few  irregularities,  it  is  possible,  may  unintentionally  have 
happened  in  the  granting  of  Protections  by  the  American  Consuls, 
as  no  precise  instructions  for  the  Regulation  of  their  Conduct  in 
this  respect,  have  heretofore  been  given  to  them.  To  avoid 
similar  irregularities  in  future,  and  to  afford  the  Protection  which 
is  indispensably  due  to  the  American  Seamen  within  his  Majesty's 
European  Dominions,  I  have  the  honor  to  submit  to  your  Lord- 
ship, the  following  propositions — 

1.  That  the  American  Consuls  shall  hereafter  grant  Certificates 
of  Citizenship,  in  the  Form  prescribed  in  the  inclosed  Law,  to 
such  American  Seamen  as  shall  prove  themselves  entitled  to 
receive  the  same. 

2.  In  order  that  no  persons,  except  those  who  are  so  entitled, 
should  receive  such  Certificates,  That  an  instruction  similar,  to 
and  founded  upon  that  given  by  the  President  to  the  Collectors, 


1797]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE,  141 

should  be  given  by  me  to  the  several  American  Consuls  for  the 
government  of  their  conduct. 

3.  That  instructions  should  be  given  by  the  proper  Department 
of  his  Majesty's  Government,  to  his  Majesty's  Naval  Officers  to 
respect  such  Certificates  issued  by  the  American  Consuls. 

Convinced  of  the  Disposition  of  his  Majesty's  Government  to 
remove  effectually  and  as  fast  as  possible  every  cause  of  In- 
quietude and  Discontent  between  the  two  countries  and  to 
strengthen  the  good  understanding  and  friendship  which  subsist 
between  them,  I  persuade  myself  that  your  Lordship  will  see  no 
objection  sufficiently  weighty  to  prevent  the  early  Adoption  of 
the  Propositions,  which  appear  to  me,  my  Lord,  to  be  essential  to 
the  security  of  the  commerce  and  navigation  of  my  Country. 

I  cannot  express  to  your  Lordship  in  language  too  strong,  my 
thorough  conviction  of  the  importance  of  this  Subject  to  the 
Mutual  Harmony  of  the  two  Countries,  which  it  is  my  earnest 
Desire  should  be  uninterrupted  and  perpetual  ;  nor  can  I  cease 
to  entertain  the  Expectation  that  his  Majesty's  Government  will, 
with  as  little  Delay  as  possible,  meet  the  overtures  of  the  United 
States  and  proceed  to  those  mutual  Discussions,  which,  it  is  be- 
lieved, must  lead  to  the  permanent  settlement  of  Principles  and 
Rules,  by  which  the  Seamen,  belonging  to  the  respective  Nations, 
may  in  all  Situations  hereafter  be  known  &  distinguished. 

This  done,  the  Regulations  that  I  have  the  honor  to  submit  to 
your  Lordship's  consideration,  will  cease  to  be  necessary. 
With  high  consideration,  &c, 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Col.  Hamilton. 

London,  Feb.  6,  1797. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  had  the  pleasure  to  receive  your  letter  of  the  16th  of 
Deer.,  and  I  need  not  express  the  satisfaction,  which  the  informa- 
tion that  it  contained  afforded  me.  The  probable  termination  of 
the  Election  of  Pr.,  the  general  Temper  of  the  Country,  and  the 
Effect  likely  to  be  produced  by  Mr.  Adet's  Notes,  are  such  as  I 
had  not  only  hoped  but  expected  :  if  by  prudence  and  Firmness, 


142  RUFUS  KING.  [1797 

which  have  hitherto  kept  us  out  of  this  extraordinary  and  deso- 
lating war,  we  shall  be  able  to  maintain  the  public  peace  and  na- 
tional Honor,  we  shall  not  only  increase  our  Reputation  as  a  wise 
people,  but  we  shall  moreover  establish  a  Precedent  of  inestima- 
ble worth  for  future  Times  of  Trouble  and  Embarrassment.  Noth- 
ing can  exceed  the  applause  that  is  given  here  to  our  Government, 
and  no  American  who  has  not  been  in  England  can  have  a  just 
Idea  of  the  admiration  expressed  among  all  Parties  of  General 
Washington.  It  is  a  common  observation  that  he  is  not  only  the 
most  illustrious  but  also  the  most  meritorious  character  that  has 
hitherto  appeared.  The  King  is  without  doubt  a  very  popular 
character  among  the  People  of  this  Nation  :  it  would  be  saying 
very  much  to  affirm,  that  next  to  him,  General  Washington  is  the 
most  popular  character  among  them,  and  yet  I  verily  believe  this 
to  be  the  fact. 

I  mention  these  Circumstances,  not  only  because  it  will  give 
you,  as  it  has  afforded  me,  much  pleasure  to  hear  them  mentioned, 
but  also  because  they  show  a  more  liberal  manner  of  thinking  and 
speaking  respecting  us,  and  a  more  rational  estimate  of  our  affairs 
than  formerly  existed.  Much  credit  is  due  to  Mr.  Jay  on  this 
Score,  who  we  thought  would  do  honor  and  be  of  advantage  to 
our  country,  but  who  has  done  much  more  than  I  could  have 
imagined,  had  I  not  seen  the  clearest  proofs  of  his  success.  He  had 
great  difficulties  to  encounter,  he  overcame  many  of  them,  some 
still  exist  &  when  they  will  be  removed  I  am  unable  to  say.  Time 
and  patience  are  necessary  to  form  a  satisfactory  opinion  how  far 
we  shall  finally  be  able  to  agree.  In  the  main  our  affairs  here  are 
in  a  good  train,  the  treaty  I  think  will  be  fairly  and  fully  executed. 
You  remember  the  opinion  given  by  certain  Gentlemen  upon  the 
Construction  of  the  7th  Article  of  the  Treaty.  We  have  experienced 
embarrassments  on  this  subject,  and  for  several  weeks  the  busi- 
ness of  the  Commissioners  was  entirely  at  a  stand  ;  the  advocate 
of  this  Government  having  denied  their  Power  to  examine  any 
question  that  had  been  decided  by  the  H.  Court  of  Appeals.  The 
question  was  delicate ;  the  pride,  and  as  it  was  alleged,  the  im- 
portance of  men  of  Rank  and  Influence  were  almost  enlisted 
against  our  pretensions ;  and  a  little  imprudence  might  have 
thrown  the  Business  into  the  worst  possible  situation  :  this  did 
not  happen  ;  with  moderation,  caution  and  a  conciliatory  mode  of 


1797]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  1 43 

proceeding  these  difficulties  have  been  entirely  removed,  and  all 
is  now  proceeding  in  a  satisfactory  manner.  The  result  of  several 
conferences  has  been,  after  the  manifestation  of  much  candor 
and  fairness  on  the  part  of  this  Government,  a  direction  to  the 
British  Commissioners  to  unite  with  ours  and  to  proceed  to  hear 
and  decide  every  question  that  shall  be  brought  before  them  ac- 
cording to  the  Provisions  of  the  Treaty,  which  it  was  added  it  was 
the  Duty  of  the  Commrs.  to  consider  and  interpret.     .     .     . 

By  letters  received  to-day  from  Paris,  I  have  the  unpleasant 
information  that  Genl.  Pinckney  was  on  the  28th  ulto.  ordered  by 
the  Directory  to  leave  Paris,  and  that  he  intended  to  depart  for 
Holland  (where  he  will  wait  the  orders  of  our  Govt.)  on  the  31st. 
I  cannot  fully  account  for  this  step,  after  the  irresolution  that  for 
some  time  has  existed  ;  whether  it  is  to  be  ascribed  to  information 
which  has  been  thought  sufficient  to  satisfy  the  Directory  of  the 
Result  of  the  Election  for  Pr.,  or  whether  it  is  to  be  attributed  to 
the  late  astonishing  victories  of  Buonaparte,  which  have  latterly 
destroyed  an  army  of  40,000  Austrians,  I  am  uncertain  ;  perhaps 
both  have  contributed  to  this  extraordinary  step. 

Yours  very  sincerely 
Rufus  King. 

R.  King  to  Genl.  Washington. 

London,  Feby.  6,  1797. 

Sir  : 

I  have  had  the  honor  to  receive  your  letter  of  the  22d  of  De- 
cember. Count  Rumford  being  in  Bavaria,  I  have  requested  the 
minister  of  that  country  at  this  court,  to  forward  your  letter  to  the 
count  with  his  next  dispatch.     .     .     . 

Our  affairs  here  relative  to  the  execution  of  the  Treaty  are  in  a 
good  train  ;  some  delays  and  difficulties  have  existed,  but  they 
exist  no  longer,  and  the  Commissioners  are  going  on  in  a  satisfac- 
tory manner.  In  the  Conferences  that  I  have  had  with  this 
Government  upon  these  and  other  Topics,  I  have  found  them 
candid  and  impartial  in  as  great  a  degree  as  I  had  expected. 
Several  important  points  not  settled  by  the  Treaty  still  remain 
open  ;  and  both  time  and  patience  are  requisite  even  now  to  form 
a  safe  opinion  how  far  we  shall  in  the  end  be  able  to  agree.  I 
think  I  am  not  deceived  in  supposing  that  a  sincere  and  general 


144  RUFUS  KING.  [1797 

desire  exists  in  this  country  to  live  in  harmony  and  friendship 
with  us.  This  disposition  is  however  fettered  and  enfeebled  by- 
Prejudices  and  Opinions  connected  with  the  national  commerce 
and  marine,  which  make  the  Government  slow  and  cautious  in 
every  step  which  has  a  reference  to  these  important  concerns. 
Some  uneasiness  has  been  manifested  here  for  some  few  weeks 
past  concerning  the  situation  of  the  British  Territories  in  the  E. 
Indies.  It  is  not  very  easy  to  obtain  good  information  upon  this 
Subject,  but  there  is  reason  to  believe  that  much  disaffection 
exists  among  the  native  troops  in  the  Company's  Service.  The 
Establishment  is  understood  to  be  20,000  Europeans  and  60,000 
native  or  Black  troops.  Whatever  the  origin  of  these  discontents 
may  have  been,  and  they  are  supposed  to  be  of  several  years' 
standing,  they  have  lately  risen  to  such  a  pitch  that  the  local  Gov- 
ernment of  India  has  been  compelled  first  to  temporise,  and  then, 
as  is  commonly  the  consequence,  to  submit  to  measures  they  were 
unable  to  prevent.  Lord  Cornwallis  is  suddenly  to  be  sent  to 
Bengal,  and  with  such  extensive  powers  as  it  is  hoped  will  enable 
him  to  restore  tranquillity.  What  may  be  his  success  my  w 
accurate  information  forbids  me  to  conjecture.  .  .  . 
With  perfect  Respect,  I  have  the  honor,  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Lord  Grenville. 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  Feby.  10,  1797. 
Mv  Lord  : 

Long  antecedent  to  the  year  1775,  the  Assembly  of  the  Colony 
of  Maryland  invested  a  large  sum  of  money,  collected  from  the 
Inhabitants  thereof,  in  the  capital  stock  of  the  Bank  of  England. 
The  object  of  this  investment  was  to  aid  the  credit  and  promote 
the  local  welfare  of  the  Inhabitants  of  the  colony.  This  Stock  for 
the  convenience  of  its  management  was  purchased,  and  stood,  in 
the  names  of  certain  British  subjects,  resident  in  England.  The 
Dividends  pursuant  to  the  direction  of  the  Colony's  Legislature, 
were,  for  a  series  of  years,  invested  in  the  same  stock,  and  thus 
the  property  belonging  to  the  said  Colony  in  the  year  1775,  had 
increased  to  the  sum  of  Twenty-nine  Thousand  Pounds  sterling 
of  the  said  capital  stock  of  the  Bank  of  England. 


1797]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  1 45 

The  Trustees  continuing  to  reinvest  the  Dividends,  have  thereby 
since  augmented  the  said  Property  to  a  still  greater  sum.  In  the 
year  1783,  the  Legislature  of  the  State  of  Maryland  authorized  the 
appointment  of  an  agent  for  the  purpose  of  receiving  from  the  said 
Trustees,  or  their  Survivors,  a  transfer  of  the  said  stock,  together 
with  all  monies  that  had  arisen  from  the  same,  &  which  had  not 
been  reinvested.  One  of  the  said  Trustees  having  refused  to  join 
in  such  Transfer  &  Payment,  a  Suit  or  Suits  were  instituted  in 
his  Majesty's  high  Court  of  Chancery  to  compel  the  same.  These 
Suits,  in  which  his  Majesty's  attorney-general  has  been  made  a 
party,  are  still  depending,  and  the  State  of  Maryland  is  unable  to 
obtain  possession  of  the  said  property,  inasmuch  as  it  is  ailed ged 
that  the  Crown  has  an  interest  in  the  same.  In  this  Situation  the 
State  of  Maryland  made  application  to  the  President  of  the  United 
States,  who  has  instructed  me  to  employ  such  proper  means  as 
should  be  deemed  advisable,  in  order  to  obtain  for  the  said  State 
the  possession  and  enjoyment  of  the  said  Property. 

Without  entering  into  a  discussion  of  the  Reasons  on  which  the 
right  of  his  Majesty  is  supposed  to  be  founded,  my  full  and  per- 
fect confidence  in  his  Majesty's  equity  induces  me  to  rely  with 
Satisfaction  that  his  Majesty,  when  he  shall  be  informed  of  the 
nature  and  circumstances  of  this  case,  will  be  pleased  to  relinquish 
the  claim  to  the  said  Property,  that  the  Crown  has  been  supposed 
to  have,  and  that  in  consequence  of  the  Request,  which  in  obedi- 
ence to  the  Instructions  of  the  President  of  the  United  States  I 
have  the  honor  to  make,  his  Majesty  will  moreover  authorize  and 
appoint,  that  the  said  Property  should  be  assigned  transferred  and 
paid  to  me,  by  the  Accomptant  General  of  his  Majesty's  high 
Court  of  Chancery  (in  whose  possession  the  same  is)  to  and  for 
the  use  of  the  State  of  Maryland. 

From  the  experience  that  my  short  Residence  near  his  Majesty 
has  given  me,  of  your  Lordship's  disposition  to  countenance  and 
assist  those  measures  which  are  truly  calculated  to  increase  and 
confirm  the  Harmony  and  good  will  that  happily  subsist  between 
the  United  States  &  Great  Britain,  I  feel  assured  on  this  occasion 
of  your  Lordship's  good  offices  and  obliging  interference,  which 
I  take  the  liberty  to  solicit. 

With  high  consideration  I  have  the  honor  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

VOL.  II. — IO 


I46  RUFUS  KING.  [1797 

T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

Department  of  State,  Feby.  15,  1797. 

.  .  .  By  the  news  papers  you  will  find  Mr.  Monroe's  infor- 
mation mentioned  in  your  letter  of  Oct.  10th  has  been  more  than 
verified.  The  French  armed  vessels  have  captured  ours  not  only 
when  they  had  enemy's  property  or  contraband  goods  on  board, 
according  to  the  enumeration  of  such  goods  in  our  Treaty  with 
Great  Britain  but  merely  because  they  were  going  to  or  from  a 
British  port.  This  has  been  done  in  Europe.  Two  American 
vessels  had  been  carried  into  Spain  by  French  Privateers,  about 
the  10th  of  September  last,  before  even  the  general  Decree  of  the 
Directory  (of  July  2d)  had  been  made  known  to  our  Consuls,  and 
the  French  Consul  at  Cadiz  avowed  his  authority  to  condemn 
them,  under  the  order  of  the  Directory. 

But  in  the  West  Indies,  the  proceedings  of  the  public  agents 
and  of  the  Privateers  have  set  all  justice  at  defiance.  Lanthonax 
and  the  other  commissioners  at  St.  Domingo  have  issued  a  decree 
explicitly  directing  the  capture  of  American  (not  generally 
Neutral}  vessels  bound  to  or  from  a  British  Port.  Great  numbers 
have  been  taken  under  this  order.     .     .     . 

The  letters  received  from  Col.  Talbot  (agent  to  the  British  W. 
Indies)  show  that  his  mission  has  been,  and  will  be  useful  in 
liberating  some  of  our  seamen  and  preventing  the  impressment  of 
others.  Admiral  Harney  at  Martinico  and  Admiral  Bligh  at 
Jamaica  treated  him  with  the  utmost  politeness,  released  the 
Americans  found  on  board  their  own  ships,  and  gave  orders  for 
the  discharge  of  all  found  in  the  ships  under  their  command.  But 
some  of  the  Commanders  of  Ships  behaved  very  differently  and 
reluctantly  complied  with  the  order  of  the  Admirals,  or  in  part 
evaded  them  ;  at  the  same  time  treating  Col.  Talbot  with  dis- 
respect. Hence  we  feel  strongly  the  necessity  of  some  other 
arrangement  for  the  protection  of  our  Citizens,  and  which  it  was 
hoped  you  would  have  been  able  to  accomplish.  But  the  subject 
presents  many  difficulties,  especially  when  you  look  beyond  the 
protection  of  native  citizens  ;  and  your  design  of  using  concilia- 
tory means  in  the  negotiation  can  alone  be  eligible. 

Timothy  Pickering. 


1797]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  1 47 

T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

In  Cipher. 

Feby.  15,  1797. 

Sir: 

We  have  often  heard  that  the  French  Government  contemplated 
the  repossession  of  Louisiana,  and  it  has  been  conjectured  that 
in  their  negotiations  with  Spain  the  cession  of  Louisiana  and  the 
Floridas  may  have  been  agreed  on.  You  will  see  all  the  mischief 
to  be  apprehended  from  such  an  event ;  the  Spaniards  will  cer- 
tainly be  more  safe  and  quiet  neighbours  ;  for  her  own  sake  Spain 
should  absolutely  refuse  to  make  these  cessions. 

One  of  our  citizens  who  resided  many  years  at  New  Orleans, 
and  who  was  acquainted  with  Don  Galvez,  who  had  been  Viceroy 
of  Mexico,  says  Don  Galvez  considered  Louisiana,  notwithstand- 
ing the  distance  between  them,  as  the  door  of  Mexico,  and  con- 
sequently of  the  highest  importance  to  Spain  to  retain  in  her 
hands.  We  do  not  know  what  opportunity  can  occur  to  you  for 
throwing  obstacles  in  the  way  of  the  conclusion  of  this  project 
of  the  French  Government.  We  know  it  has  been  an  object  very 
dear  to  them  ;  it  was  expressly  avowed  by  one  of  their  ministers 
here  to  Mr.  Randolph.  Mr.  Adet  said  "  he  knew  that  the  cession 
of  Louisiana  to  France  was  a  preliminary  to  be  insisted  on  by  France 
as  a  negotiation  with  Spain."  We  are  happy  to  recollect  that  the 
public  Treaty  between  them  announced  only  the  cession  of  the 
Spanish  part  of  St.  Domingo,  which  we  hoped  was  offered  and  ac- 
cepted as  an  equivalent  for  Louisiana,  and  that  Spain  would  not 
yield  the  latter.  The  President  desires  that  you  will  keep  this 
affair  in  your  mind  to  discover  whether  the  design  exists  and  to 
counteract  it  by  any  proper ,  should  your  situation  put  any- 
thing in  your  power. 

A.  Hamilton  to  R.  King. 

Feby.  15,  1797. 

My  Dr  Sir  : 

.  .  .  You  must  not  think  I  forget  you  because  I  do  not 
write  (for  this  is  only  my  third  letter).  I  am  overwhelmed  in 
professional  business,  and  have  scarcely  a  moment  for  anything 
else. 


148  RUFUS  KING.  [1797 

You  will  have  learnt  the  terrible  depredations  which  the  French 
have  committed  upon  our  Trade  in  the  West  Indies,  on  the  de- 
clared principle  of  intercepting  our  whole  Trade  with  the  ports  of 
Jier  enemies.  This  conduct  is  making  the  impression  which  might 
be  expected,  though  not  with  that  electric  rapidity  which  would 
have  attended  similar  Treatment  from  another  power.  The 
present  session  of  Congress  is  likely  to  be  very  unproductive. 
That  body  is  in  the  situation  which  we  foresaw  certain  Anti- 
executive  maxims  would  bring  them  to. 

Mr.  Adams  is  President,  Mr.  Jefferson  Vice  President.  Our 
Jacobins  say  they  are  well  pleased,  and  that  the  Lion  &  the  Lamb 
are  to  lie  down  together.  Mr.  Adams'  personal  friends  talk  a 
little  in  the  same  way.  Mr.  Jefferson  is  not  half  so  ill  a  man  as 
we  have  been  accustomed  to  think  him.  There  is  to  be  a  united 
and  vigorous  administration.  Sceptics  like  me  quietly  look  for- 
ward to  the  event,  willing  to  hope,  but  not  prepared  to  believe. 
If  Mr.  Adams  has  Vanity,  't  is  plain,  a  plot  has  been  laid  to  take 
hold  of  it.  We  trust  his  real  good  sense  and  integrity  will  be  a 
sufficient  shield. 

Yrs.  affectly. 

A.  Hamilton. 


R.  King  to  Richard  Codman,  Paris. 

London,  Feby.  20,  1797. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  had  the  pleasure  to  receive  your  favor  by  Mr.  Whitte- 
more  and  am  pleased  to  hear  that  no  unfavorable  change  in  the 
situation  of  our  Countrymen  in  Paris  has  taken  place  since  the 
departure  of  General  Pinckney.  We  have  nothing  new  from 
home,  but  every  day  expect  the  confirmation  of  Mr.  Adams'  elec- 
tion to  the  Presidency.  I  regret  very  much  the  apparent  mis- 
understanding between  our  country  and  France.  As  we  think 
and  act  respecting  National  Rights  and  Duties  different  from  any 
of  the  European  Nations — always  preferring  peace  to  war,  with 
the  same  decision  as  we  prefer  the  friendship  to  the  enmity  of 
France,  I  am  persuaded  that  we  shall  display  in  our  conduct  upon 
this  occasion  a  wisdom  and  moderation  which  will  compose  an 
honorable  contrast  to  the  ill  advised  and  erroneous  proceedings 


1797]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE,  1 49 

of  those  who  are  without  a  title  to  the  character  of  the  real 
friends  of  France  or  America.  We  shall  incontestably  prove, 
notwithstanding  the  sounding,  and  often-repeated,  Professions  of 
France,  that  we  are  in  reality  more  sincere  friends  to  her  and  her 
interests  than  she  is  or  has  been  to  us,  and  ours.  Against  her 
creeds  of  Republicanism,  we  shall  place  the  modesty,  the  justice 
and  the  firmness  of  real  Republicans.  Hence  I  conclude  that 
there  will  be  no  war  between  France  and  America,  unless  France 
makes  war  upon  us,  which  I  hope  and  believe  she  will  be  too  wise 
and  just  to  do.     .     .     . 

Very  sincerely  yrs. 

Rufus  King. 


Thomas  Pinckney  to  R.  King,  London. 

Charleston,  Feby.  21,  1797. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  to  thank  you  for  your  favor  of  the  19th  of  November 
enclosing  sundry  letters  to  my  address.  I  wish  I  had  any  agree- 
able intelligence  to  communicate  to  you  from  this  country,  but 
great  commercial  distress  in  our  cities,  our  trade  much  harassed 
in  the  American  seas,  particularly  by  the  cruizers  of  the  French 
Republic,  &  much  party  spirit  prevailing  within  our  country,  form 
the  general  description  of  our  affairs.  This  spirit  of  party  was 
particularly  called  forth  by  the  late  election  &  I  feel  extremely 
happy  that  I  was  not  called  upon  to  sacrifice  my  domestic  tran- 
quillity and  risk  the  total  ruin  of  my  private  fortune  by  being 
again  brought  forward  into  public  life. 

I  hope  you  are  now  compleatly  settled  to  your  satisfaction  in 
Cumberland  Place  ;  the  neighbourhood  of  our  amiable  friend  Mr. 
Gore  and  his  lady  must  add  greatly  to  the  comforts  of  your  situa- 
tion. Indeed  I  think  you  must  feel  yourself  much  supported  in 
the  social  line  by  all  the  public  agents  of  the  United  States  in 
London.     .     .     . 

With  sincere  regard  &  esteem 

Your  faithful  &  obedt. 

Thomas  Pinckney. 


150  RUFUS  KING.  [*797 

R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

London,  Mar.  5,  1797. 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  unexpected  and  total  defeat  of  the  Austrians  in  Lombardy, 
followed  by  the  fall  of  Mantua,  to  which  the  Treasure  of  the 
neighbouring  country  had  been  removed  for  safety,  produced  a 
serious  despondency  in  the  public  Opinion  of  this  country.  The 
expedition  against  Ireland,  tho'  it  failed,  increased  the  public 
inquietude,  by  refuting  the  consoling  opinion  that  England  was 
safe  against  invasion,  so  long  as  she  could  maintain  a  decided 
superiority  upon  the  Ocean.  The  effects  of  these  events  have  been 
strengthened  by  the  continuation  of  the  practice  of  alarming  the 
Country  in  order  that  the  means  of  prosecuting  the  war  might  more 
easily  be  obtained*  The  consequence  has  been  that  the  Fears  and 
Despondency  of  the  Nation  have  been  such,  as  to  materially 
impair  that  confidence  so  necessary  in  conducting  the  affairs  of 
every  Nation,  and  without  which  the  means  of  administering  this 
Government  are  annihilated.  The  alarm  first  commenced  in  the 
country,  and  the  provincial  Banks,  being  pressed  for  Specie 
beyond  the  customary  demand,  had  recourse  to  the  Metropolis, 
and  the  Bank  of  England  was  put  in  requisition  to  supply  their 
wants.  The  National  Stocks  in  which  most  of  the  Provincial 
Banks  had  invested  a  Portion  of  their  Capitals,  were  in  this 
Emergency  brought  in  large  sums  into  the  market,  for  the  purpose 
of  being  converted  into  Specie,  and  thereby  the  Funds  suffered  an 
alarming  Depression.  This  joined  to  the  Failure  of  several  country 
Banks  increased  the  public  apprehensions  and  augmented  the 
Demands  for  Specie  upon  the  Bank  of  England.  The  quantity 
of  Specie  in  the  Vaults  of  the  Bank  is  not  publicly  known,  but 
without  Doubt  it  has  always  been  much  beneath  the  sum  generally 
supposed  to  be  deposited  there.  The  strongest  objection,  or  at 
least  one  of  them,  against  the  Bank  combination  is  that  Bank 
Paper,  in  itself  of  little  or  no  value,  excludes  from  the  country  in 
too  great  a  degree  real  money  or  specie,  which  possesses  intrinsic 
worth.  Credit  has  nowhere  been  more  perfect  than  in  England, 
and  the  Substitution  of  Paper,  including  the  public  stocks  as  well 
as  bank  notes,  in  lieu  of  Specie,  been  equally  extensive  and  gen- 

*  Italics  in  cipher. 


1797]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  151 

eral  in  any  other  Country,  and  to  this  cause  in  a  considerable 
degree  must  be  ascribed  the  small  quantity  of  actual  Coin  to  be 
found  in  England,  compared  with  the  sum  in  circulation  in  other 
Commercial  Countries. 

It  is  not  extraordinary  then  that  the  principal  Depository  of  the 
national  Coin,  when  called  on  at  a  period  of  Despondency  and 
of  general  alarm,  to  give  it  in  exchange  for  that  which  had  before 
passed  as  of  equal  value,  because  it  was  esteemed  an  instant  power 
over  an  equivalent  Sum,  should  be  unable  either  from  its  actual 
deposits,  or  from  the  contributions  of  its  Patrons  and  Friends  to 
perform  its  Engagements.  This  was  in  fact  discovered  to  be  the 
Situation  of  the  Bank  of  England  on  Saturday,  the  26th  of  Feb- 
ruary ;  and  on  the  communication  thereof  to  the  Chancellor  of 
the  Exchequer,  the  King  was  brought  from  Windsor  on  Sunday 
to  attend  a  Council,  which  passed  an  Order  requiring  the  Bank  to 
stop  the  further  issue  of  Specie  ;  and  accordingly  on  Monday  the 
28th,  the  Bank  refused  Specie  for  their  notes,  and  also  to  their 
other  creditors.  Committees  were  immediately  named  by  the 
several  Houses  of  Parliament,  to  examine  the  affairs  of  the  Bank, 
which  have  reported  the  amount  of  the  Debts  which  the  Bank  owe, 
and  likewise  of  the  Debts  due  to  the  Bank,  together  with  their 
other  effects  (exclusive  of  their  funded  capital)  applicable  to  the 
payment  of  their  Engagements.  The  result  of  these  Reports  con- 
firms the  Declaration  of  the  Directors,  that  there  is  a  difference 
of  more  than  three  millions  sterling  in  favor  of  the  Bank,  between 
the  amount  of  debts  they  owe  and  that  of  the  effects  applicable  to 
the  payment  thereof. 

Parliament  have  passed  two  Bills,  one  enabling  the  Bank  to  issue 
notes  for  any  sum  less  than  £$.  ;  the  other  enabling  the  Manu- 
facturers, Bankers  and  others,  to  issue  small  notes  payable  on 
Demand,  which  by  the  existing  Laws  they  were  prohibited  to  do. 
The  object  of  the  first  has  been  to  enable  the  Bank  to  supply  the 
Absence  of  Guineas  by  20/  and  40/  notes  ;  and  of  the  second,  to 
allow  the  Manufacturers  who  employ  great  numbers  of  workmen, 
whom  they  pay  weekly,  to  give  them  their  own  notes  in  lieu  of 
Specie.  Parliament  will  probably  go  on,  and  pass  another  Bill 
sanctioning  and  continuing  for  a  limited  Time  the  Prohibition 
upon  the  Bank  to  issue  Specie  ;  they  will  likewise  make  Bank 
notes  receivable  in  Payment  of  Taxes,  and  also  by  the  public 


152  RUFUS  KING.  [1797 

Creditor  in  Payment  of  the  Annuities,  or  Dividends  upon  the 
National  Debt.  Associations  have  been  formed  in  London,  and 
throughout  the  Kingdom  to  receive  and  circulate  Bank  Notes  ; 
and  for  a  time  this  may  secure  to  them  a  general  currency.  But 
unless  they  can  be  converted  into  Specie,  they  will  depreciate  : 
indeed  they  are  at  this  moment  at  a  depreciation,  by  the  Prefer- 
ence that  universally  exists  of  Gold  and  Silver,  which  have 
disappeared  and  are  no  longer  in  Circulation. 

This  Depreciation  is  proved  likewise  by  the  sudden  rise  of  for- 
eign Exchange  and  also  by  the  Demand  for  the  American  Stocks, 
which  have  risen  since  the  Bank  stopped  payment  in  Specie. 
Bank  Stock  from  ^103  to  ^117  per  share.  Six  per  cents  from 
80  to  90  per  cent  ;  three  per  cents  from  49  to  55  per  cent  :  while 
the  British  three  per  cents  have  vibrated  between  50  and  52  per 
cent.  It  is  commonly  said  that  this  Embarrassment  will  be  but 
of  short  Duration,  and  that  the  Bank  will  soon  resume  its  former 
course  of  payments  ;  but  I  do  not  see  the  subject  in  this  favora- 
ble Light.  What  influence  the  event  may  have  on  the  Duration 
of  the  war,  what  changes  it  may  effect  in  the  Ministry,  in  short  what 
misfortunes  this  event  will  draw  down  upon  this  nation,  is  beyond 
human  foresight  to  discern.  I  see  but  little  chance  against  a  Na- 
tional Bankruptcy  ;  an  event  that  the  progressive  accumulation  of 
their  public  Debt  has  menaced  but  which  no  one  seems  to  have  sup- 
posed so  near  at  hand* 

With  perfect  respect  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

London,  March  12,  1797. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  We  are  embarrassed  to  decide  how  far  the  french  Gov- 
ernment will  carry  their  measures  of  vexation  towards  our  Com- 
merce :  Though  but  few  Instances  of  Captures  have  occurred  in 
these  Seas,  yet  these  joined  to  the  apparent  misunderstanding 

*  Italics  in  cipher. 


1797]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  1 53 

between  us  and  France,  have  imposed  a  heavy  Tax  upon  our 
Commerce  with  this  country  by  the  enormous  increase  of  Pre- 
miums demanded  and  given  to  insure  our  Ships  &  Cargoes.  .  .  . 
The  persons  principally  concerned  in  the  American  Business,  as 
well  as  the  underwriters  upon  the  American  Ships  &  Cargoes 
have  been  desirous  that  our  Ships  and  Cargoes  should  take  a  British 
Convoy  ;  a  committee  of  merchants  have  applied  to  this  government 
on  the  subject.  This  was  all  without  consulting  me,  an  opinion  being 
entertained,  as  I  am  informed,  that  it  would  not  be  advisable  that  I 
should  be  consulted,  since  it  was  supposed  that  I  should  not  think  my- 
self authorized  to  give  the  measure  my  support.  From  several  indi- 
rect suggestions  I  had  seen  that  the  Government  would  order  a 
Convoy  if  I  should  ask  it.  I  had  therefore  well  considered  the  sub- 
ject before  this  movement  among  the  merchants  occurred.  I  saw  it  to 
be  a  measure  too  important  to  suffer  my  opinion  respecting  it  to  be 
misunderstood.  I  went  therefore  to  Lord  Grenville's  office,  and  said 
not  only  that  the  project  was  without  my  approbation,  that  moreover  I 
desired  to  be  understood  as  explicitly  objecting  to  the  measure  as  one 
too  decisive  to  be  adopted  except  upon  the  plain  and  direct  application 
of  the  American  Government.  Having  since  heard  little  of  the 
scheme,  I  suppose  that  it  has  been  laid  aside.  I  however  think  that 
it  would  be  proper  that  I  should  know  the  President's  way  of  think- 
ing upon  this  subject,  should  unfortunately  a  state  of  things  exist 
that  would  make  such  a  measure  more  proper  than  it  would  be  under 
present  circumstances. 

Mr.  Adams  will  inform  you  from  the  Hague  of  what  is  passing 
in  that  quarter  :  but  least  his  opportunities  of  writing  should  be 
less  frequent  than  mine,  it  may  be  proper  to  state,  that  I  have 
reason  to  believe,  tho'  the  French  Government  assigns  our  Treaty 
with  England  as  the  cause  of  their  maritime  conduct  towards  us, 
they  have  recently  demanded  of  Hamburgh  and  Bremen  to  suspend 
all  commerce  with  England.  These  cities  have  not  yet  complied,  and 
the  French  Minister  has  been  removed  from  Hamburgh.  The  same 
demand  has  been  made  at  Copenhagen,  and  the  refusal  has  pro- 
duced a  sharp  diplomatic  controversy  ;  these poivers  have  made  no  late 
Treaties  with  England*     .     .     . 

With  perfect  respect  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

*  Italics  in  cipher. 


154  RUFUS  KING.  [1797 

R.  King  to  A.  Hamilton.* 

March  8,  1797. 
Dear  Sir  : 

On  the  28th  ult.,  the  Bank  of  England  stopped  payment  in 
specie  and  since  every  bank  in  Great  Britain  has  followed  its  ex- 
ample.! .  .  .  Many  whom  I  meet  profess  to  believe  that  the 
bank  will  soon  be  able  to  resume  their  former  course  of  payments. 
But  I  see  so  few  of  the  causes  (if  they  exist)  which  are  to  effect 
this  restoration,  that  I  am  somewhat  skeptical,  and  my  want  of 
faith  is  in  some  measure  excused  by  circumstances  that  I  think 
will  for  the  present  prevent  the  return  of  the  golden  age.  No 
nation  has  supported  a  more  perfect  credit  than  England.  None 
has  been  able  to  substitute  in  so  great  a  degree  paper  in  lieu  of 
coin — and  in  no  country,  therefore,  is  the  quantity  of  specie  com- 
paratively so  small  as  in  England.  This  fact  was  not  practically 
believed.  The  Bank  has  now  proved  it  to  the  conviction  and  dis- 
may of  the  country.     .     .     . 

Farewell  yours  sincerely. 

P.  S.  Since  the  capture  of  Mantua,  the  Austrians  have  notified 
this  court  of  their  resolution  to  prosecute  the  war — relying  on  the 
co-operation  of  Great  Britain.  What  effect  the  pecuniary  state  of 
England  may  have  upon  their  disposition  to  persevere,  I  will  not 
conjecture.  Without  moneys  the  Emperor  will  not  be  able  to  go 
on.  Thus  you  see  a  very  interesting  subject  brought  within  a 
narrow  compass.  France  will  harass  and  waste  our  commerce, 
regardless  of  justice.  She  makes  our  treaty  with  England  the 
pretence.  Had  we  made  no  treaty  her  conduct  would  have  been 
the  same.  She  has  recently  required  of  Hamburg  and  Bremen 
to  suspend  and  prohibit  all  commerce  with  England — and  yet  she 
has  not  succeeded  in  her  views,  though  she  has  recalled  her  min- 
ister from  Hamburgh.  The  demand  has  likewise  been  repeated 
at  Copenhagen,  and  a  refusal  to  comply  has  produced  a  diplo- 
matic altercation,  as  pointed  perhaps,  as  that  between  Colonel 
Pickering  and  Mr.  Adet. 

Our  affairs  in  the  Mediterranean  are  settled,  or  nearly  so.  Col. 
Humphries  informs  me  that  we  stand  well  with  Algiers.     We  have 

*  Works  of  Hamilton,  vi.,  211. 

\  The  details  of  this  suspension  are  seen  in  the  letter  to  the  Secretary  of 
State,  March  5,  1797. 


1797]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  1 55 

concluded  a  treaty  of  peace  with  Tripoli,  and  it  is  probable  we 
shall  soon  make  a  similar  one  with  Tunis.  The  Dey  of  Algiers 
having  invaded  the  Tunissean  territory — principally,  says  Col. 
Humphries,  to  compel  the  Bey  to  conclude  a  peace  with  the 
United  States  of  America,  for  the  accomplishment  of  which 
the  Dey  offers  to  advance  the  money  from  his  own  treasury,  and 
engages  to  guarantee  this  treaty  as  he  has  done  that  with  Tripoli. 
Strange  event. 


CHAPTER  XII. 

Sedgwick's  Letter  on  the  presidential  Election  and  Inauguration — Cabot  on 
Relations  with  France — King  to  Dr.  Southgate — Private  Affairs — To 
Hamilton  on  new  French  Arret — Affair  of  the  Olive  Branch — Wm.  Smith's 
Letter  on  French  Depredations — Pinckney's  Despatches  Relative  to  Con- 
duct of  the  French  Causes  the  President  to  call  a  special  Meeting  of 
Congress — General  Statement  of  American  Affairs — Hamilton's  View  of 
the  Duty  of  the  Country. 

Theodore  Sedgwick  to  R.  King,  London. 

Stockbridge,  i 2th  March,  1797. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.     .     .     The  scenes  which  have  passed  here,  since  you  left  the 

country,  to  every  man  who  is  interested  in  its  welfare,  have  been 

highly  important.     The  retirement  of  Genl.  Washington  from  the 

Presidency,  and  the  subsequent  election  have  produced  an  ardor 

far  exceeding  all  former  experience.     Men  of  a  character  the  most 

congenial  to  your  own,  and  in  whom  I  believe  you  have  the  most 

confidence,  thought  that  in  our  critical  situation  the  object  of 

most  importance  was  to  exclude  the  Virginia  Philosopher  from  the 

chair,  endeavored,  as  they  might,  to  exclude  him  by  impressing 

their  own  sentiments  on  the  electors  and  inducing  them  to  vote 

homogeneously   from   the   Delaware  eastward   for   Pinckney   & 

Adams.     Had  those  views,  and  in  them  I  concurred,  prevailed, 

the  former  would  have  been  President  and  the  latter  continued  in 

his  former  station.     What  effects  that  arrangement  would  have 

produced  can  now  only  be  a  subject  of  conjecture.     The  attempt 

however  has  afforded  abundant  matter  for  Jacobinical  intrigue. 

The  first  display  of  this  was  a  letter  from  Mr.  Jefferson  to  his 

friend  Madison,  which  was  disclosed,  in  confidence,  within  one  or 

two  days  after  the  event  of  the  election  was  certainly  known.     In 

the  letter  the  writer  states  that  he  may  be  placed  in  three  situa- 

156 


1797]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  1 57 


tions  in  relation  to  this  subject.  The  first,  and  that  which  would 
be  most  grateful  to  himself,  that  he  may  not  be  elected  to,  or  a 
candidate  for  either  of  the  offices  of  Prest.  or  Vice  Prest.  ;  the 
second,  that  he  may  be  the  competitor  of  Mr.  Adams,  &  the  com- 
petition to  be  decided  by  the  H.  of  Representatives,  in  which  case 
he  earnestly  requests  that  his  own  pretensions  may  be  withdrawn 
in  favor  of  the  preferable  ones  of  his  rival  ;  and  the  third,  (which 
he  most  dreads)  that  he  may  be  elected  President.  Concurring 
in  this  system  of  insidious  deception,  the  faction  have  been  indus- 
trious in  declaring  that  it  was  evidently  the  intention  of  Hamilton  6° 
his  party  (so  when  speaking  on  this  subject  they  denominated  the 
friends  of  the  Government)  that  Mr.  Pinckney  should  be  elected 
as  President,  because  him  they  believed  they  could  govern,  and  Mr. 
Adams  they  knew  they  could  not.  You  will  perceive  that  Mr.  Jeffer- 
son is  profering  the  same  objects  in  his  speech  to  the  Senate,  when 
he  took  his  seat  as  Vice  Prest.  It  is  really  to  be  regretted  that 
these  Ideas  had  not  occurred  to  the  "  Friend  of  the  People  "  a  few 
weeks  sooner  ;  he  might  then  have  spared  the  good  man,  whom 
he  so  highly  reveres,  much  unmerited  abuse,  and  his  friends  much 
painful  anxiety. 

The  late  session  has  been  one  of  the  most  unpleasant  which  I 
have  known.  Our  friends  in  the  House,  knowing  their  adversaries 
to  be  a  majority,  have  despaired  of  effecting  any  public  good, 
and  have,  therefore,  permitted  the  Session  to  pass  without  one 
generous  effort.  The  same  impression  as  to  the  character  of  the 
House,  has  given  the  same  apprehension  of  indolent  inactivity  to 
the  Senate. 

Two  objects  of  importance  present  themselves,  the  one,  an  im- 
provement of  revenue,  and  the  other,  giving  to  the  executive  the 
means  of  checking  the  depredations  on  our  commerce.  An  in- 
crease of  revenue  I  do  not  believe  to  be  immediately  necessary 
to  discharge  existing  demands.  It  was  however  most  certainly 
desirable  in  our  critical  situation.  In  this  all  parties  were  agreed, 
but  as  to  the  means,  there  was  not  a  majority  for  anything  except 
a  paltry  increase  of  imposts,  which  will  produce,  probably  be- 
tween 2  &  300,000  dols. — a  sum  less  than  the  diminution  by 
French  robbery.  To  check  the  insolent  oppression  of  the  french 
the  most  obvious,  and  I  believe  the  most  effectual  measure  which 
could  have  been  adopted,  would  have  been  to  have  authorized  the 


158  RUFUS  KING.  [1797 

President  to  lay  an  Embargo,  either  general  or  special.  There 
was  little  hope  such  a  measure  would  have  passed  the  House,  but 
its  friends  entertained  no  doubt  of  its  success  in  the  Senate  ;  but 
to  our  astonishment  the  Bill  was  lost  on  the  final  question  by  an 
equivote.  Several  gentlemen,  who  did  not  take  the  trouble,  pre- 
viously, to  explain  themselves,  afterwards  declared  that  they 
voted  against  the  Bill,  because  they  thought  it  would  place  the 
President  in  too  delicate  a  situation,  for  he  having  been  charged 
with  improper  prejudices  for  the  british  and  against  the  french  j  it 
would  be  said  that  he  had  been  influenced  by  partiality  to  adopt  a 
measure,  which  in  its  effects  would  benefit  the  former  and  injure  the 
latter. 

The  circumstance  of  a  new  administration  would  of  itself  in 
some  degree  tend  to  check  the  virulence  of  faction.  This  will  be 
the  more  encreased  by  the  attempt  which  is  manifestly  made  to 
seduce  the  President,  by  impressing  him  with  a  belief  that  he  has 
been  deserted  by  his  friends.  This  attempt,  I  trust,  will  be  inef- 
fectual. At  all  events,  while  they  are  making  their  efforts,  they 
will  suspend  all  personal  attacks. 

In  the  newly  elected  house  of  Reps,  we  flatter  ourselves  that 
there  is  a  majority  of  good  men — friends  of  national  liberty,  of 
their  country  and  of  its  government.  It  is,  however,  if  at  all  a 
majority,  a  small  one.  If  our  expectations  are  not  disappointed, 
the  next  session  will  be  a  very  important  and  I  hope  a  productive 
one  ;  much  remains,  respecting  our  internal  police,  to  be  done, 
to  give  to  the  government  the  best  chance  of  success.  I  have 
been  long  convinced  that  even  on  the  principles  of  our  federal 
Union,  much  more  might  be  done  than  has  even  yet  been  at- 
tempted. This  will  possibly  induce  me  once  more  to  sacrifice 
my  quiet  and  happiness  by  attending  another  session  of 
Congress. 

There  is  much  distress,  in  this  state,  among  the  adventurers 
in  the  Georgia  Speculation.  A  committee  of  Senate  have  made 
an  elaborate  report,  which  had  not  been  printed  when  I  left 
Philadelphia,  which  is  well  founded,  and,  whether  it  be  so  or 
not  I  am  ignorant,  will  show  that  Georgia  is  restricted  within 
much  narrower  limits  than  I  had  supposed. 

The  inauguration  of  the  President  was  a  scene  the  most 
august  and  sublime  I  ever  beheld.     Mr.  Adams  behaved  with 


1797]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE,  1 59 


dignity.  The  company  was  numerous,  respectable,  and  behaved 
with  that  decent  gravity  which  the  solemn  occasion  demanded  ; 
but  the  circumstance  the  most  interesting  was  the  presence  of  the 
late  President.  He  came  unattended  and  on  foot,  with  the  modest 
appearance  of  a  private  citizen.  No  sooner  was  his  person  seen, 
than  a  burst  of  applause  such  as  I  had  never  before  known, 
and  which  it  would  be  as  impossible  for  me  to  describe,  as  my 
own  sensations  produced  by  it,  saluted  the  venerable  Hero  and 
Patriot,  while  the  animation  of  countenance  which  accompanied  it 
gave  the  most  pleasing,  as  well  as  the  most  convincing  evidence, 
that  all  the  lies  which  malice  has  invented,  have  been  ineffectual  to 
injure  the  character  of  this  great  and  good  man.  ...  I  am, 
dear  Sir,  most  sincerely  &  affectionately 

Your  friend, 

Theodore  Sedgwick. 


R.  King  to  R.  Southgate,  Esq. 

London,  March  17,  1797. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  am  reluctant  in  saying  anything  more  respecting  Emery's 
claim,*  having  so  often  troubled  you  with  the  expressions  of  my 
concern  upon  that  subject,  but  having  heard  that  Emery  has  been 
recently  baffled  in  an  attempt  to  procure  a  legal  decision  in  his 
case  ;  I  feel  that  I  do  him  an  injustice  in  suffering  the  circum- 
stance of  my  absence  to  deprive  him  of  the  exercise  of  a  perfect 
Right  that  he  has  to  demand  a  judicial  Examination  of  his  Claim. 
I  have  therefore  authorized  Cyrus  [R.  K.'s  brother  and  secretary] 
who  is  returning  home  to  consent  to  a  suit  against  me,  in  case  you 

*  In  a  letter  dated  Jany.  14,  1794,  S.  Emery  had  written  to  R.  K.  : 
1 '  I  have  endeavoured  to  settle  the  matter  respecting  the  farm  at  Scarborough 
which  you  sold  my  father  with  Dr.  Southgate  till  I  am  quite  tired  out  ;  he  will 
not  settle  upon  any  principle  which  I  think  just     .     .     .     therefore  I  am 
obliged  to  write  to  you  or  take  what  he  pleases  to  give.     .     .     ." 
Enclosing  this  letter  to  Dr.  Southgate,  R.  King  writes,  Jany.  27,  1794  : 
".     .     .     I  had  hoped  that  by  some  arrangement  convenient  to  all  branches 
of  the  family,  the  Heirs  of  Mr.  Emery  had  been  satisfied.     It  will  remain  with 
you  to  do  what  is  proper  on  this  Subject.     I  have  written  to  Mr.  Emery  in  my 
answer  to  his  letter  that  the  claim   will  not  be  denied  and  that  you  will  do  all 
that  justice  which  I  sincerely  desire  should  be  afforded.     .     .     ." 


l6o  RUFUS  KING.  [1797 

and  Emery  continue  to  be  unable  to  agree  in  an  amicable  Settle- 
ment. I  have  a  great  Repugnance  to  legal  controversy,  and 
should  therefore  be  gratified  in  being  exempt  in  this  instance 
from  disputing  with  a  man  who  I  think  has  just  grounds  of  com- 
plaint against  me.  The  Difference  between  his  demand  and  what 
you  would  be  willing  to  pay  I  understand  to  be  small  and  unim- 
portant ;  and  I  had  much  rather  pay  it  myself  than  be  drawn  into 
a  lawsuit,  in  which  I  must  in  the  End  be  in  the  wrong. 

We  are  so  far  apart  and  both  at  a  period  of  life  at  which  we 
are  liable  to  occurrences  that  may  prevent  our  reunion,  that  I  feel 
the  force  of  that  uncertainty,  which  darkens  the  prospect  of  our 
meeting.  I  hope  for  the  Pleasure  of  the  Event,  and  flatter  my- 
self that  it  will  not  long  be  postponed.  Where  I  now  am  I  am 
not  quite  my  own  master,  but  it  is  not  my  intention  to  remain 
long  in  England  ;  and  it  will  be  one  of  the  earliest  pleasures  of 
my  return  home  to  visit  and  embrace  those  branches  of  my  family 
from  whom  I  have  been  so  long  separated.  I  hope  you  enjoy 
health  &  Happiness.  These  Blessings  I  likewise  wish  to  my 
beloved  Sister.     God  bless  you,  her  and  yours. 

Forever  and  affectionately  yrs 

Rufus  King. 


G.  Cabot  to  R.  King,  London. 

Brookline,  March  19,  1797. 

Dear  Sir  : 

I  hope  your  conjectures  respecting  Mr.  Pitt's  supplies  will  not 
prove  as  well  founded  as  your  political  opinions  usually  are,  for  I 
have  never  yet  thought  a  peace  practicable,  &  with  Burke,  I  think 
any  peace  wou'd  be  unsafe  while  the  power  of  Societicide  or  rather 
Staticide  remains  unbroken.  That  the  welfare  of  the  United 
States  will  become  precarious,  if  G.  B.  yields,  most  of  our  think- 
ing people  perceive  pretty  plainly.  The  feelings  of  our  merchants 
are  greatly  irritated  &  their  fears  not  a  little  excited  by  the  depre- 
dations committing  by  the  French.  But  what  is  to  be  done  ?  The 
great  extension  of  our  maritime  commerce  has  rendered  us  ex- 
tremely vulnerable  while  our  aggressor  has  nothing  upon  the  sea 
thro'  which  a  blow  could  be  returned. 

By  the  pieces,  entitled  "  the  Warning,"  which  from  their  ex- 


1797]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  l6l 

cellence  I  attribute  to  Hamilton,  you  may  see  our  affairs  with 
France  are  converging  to  a  critical  point.  How  we  shall  behave 
at  last  you  can  foresee  as  well  as  I  ;  for  living  out  of  the  world  as 
I  do,  and  having  no  other  communication  with  it  than  the  visits 
of  a  dozen  friends,  which  are  not  frequent,  my  knowledge  of 
what  passes  is  chiefly  derived  from  the  Newspapers.  Our  public 
servants  however  will  ordain  the  course  to  be  pursued  and  I  hope 
they  will  do  right,  and  be  fully  encouraged  by  us  their  masters. 

Some  pains  have  been  taken,  and  I  think  with  considerable 
success  in  this  quarter  to  explain  the  nature  of  our  controversy 
with  France.  I  fully  agree  to  the  superior  estimate  you  make  of 
the  present  enjoyments  and  future  hopes  of  our  country,  as  com- 
pared with  others,  but  I  can't  avoid  suspecting  you  of  a  little  too 
much  despondency  on  another  topic.  Perhaps  we  always  over- 
rate absent  blessings,  and  generally,  present  difficulties. 

You  will  be  glad  that  Adams  is  elected,  and  that  the  prospect 
of  our  Government  continuing  steady  is  good.  For  a  while  things 
will  go  well  and  we  must  do  everything  in  our  power  to  give  per- 
manency to  every  good  disposition.  I  am  nevertheless  mortified 
to  see  Jefferson  Vice-President  after  so  much  exertion  among  the 
agents  of  a  foreign  nation  to  secure  his  election,  and  I  cannot  dis- 
card my  fears  that  he  will  have  an  influence  that  may  be  unpro- 
pitious.  It  occurs  to  my  mind  frequently  that  the  hostile  conduct 
of  France  towards  this  Country,  may  suggest  to  the  British  Gov- 
ernment new  schemes  of  policy  that  might  extremely  embarrass 
us  ;  but  it  wou'd  be  the  most  short-sighted  project  that  folly  ever 
adopted  if  their  conduct  should  become  ^conciliatory  now  that 
we  are  breaking  off  that  dependent  connexion  with  their  enemies, 
which  they  ought  always  to  discourage,  but  which  their  disdainful 
spirit  had  contributed  to  produce.  I  reflect  with  infinite  satisfac- 
tion that  you  are  placed  in  a  situation  to  demonstrate  the  ill 
tendencies  of  these  crooked  politics,  which  erroneous  views  of 
this  country  cou'd  alone  have  recommended. 

What  do  Sweden  &  Denmark  say  to  the  outrages  of  the  French  ! 
They  must  be  uneasy  under  such  treatment  as  we  receive  ;  but  at 
what  point  will  they  begin  to  repel  ?  Presuming  that  Pinckney 
will  not  be  received,  I  expect  an  official  notice  of  this  will  be  fol- 
lowed by  a  summons  of  Congress,  &  if  it  shou'd,  I  hope  they 
will  have  spirit  enough  to  declare  all  Treaties  between  the   2 

VOL.  II. — II 


l62  RUFUS  KING,  [1797 

nations  annulled  by  the  gross  and  avowed  violations  of  our  rights 
under  them.  But  all  these  affairs  are  with  the  constituted  authori- 
ties &  while  I  rejoice  that  I  am  not  among  them,  I  am  happy  that 
many  better  heads  are  devoted  to  those  services,  which  our  country 
needs  &  deserves.     .     .     . 

Yrs.  faithfully 

G.  Cabot. 


R.  King  to  Sir  John  Sinclair. 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  Ap.  1,  1797. 
Sir  : 

I  have  had  the  honor  to  receive  your  letter  of  tl±e  29th  ulto. 
informing  me,  in  very  obliging  terms,  that  the  Board  of  Agriculture 
had  been  pleased  to  admit  me,  as  a  "  Foreign  honorary  member  " 
of  that  Society.  I  request  the  favor  of  you,  Sir,  to  present  to  the 
Board  my  respectful  acknowledgments  of  the  honor  conferred 
upon  me  by  this  admission.  I  ought  at  the  same  time,  Sir,  to 
observe  to  you,  that  my  very  moderate  acquaintance  with  agricul- 
tural subjects,  forbids  me  to  hope  that  it  will  be  in  my  power  to 
afford  the  society  any  valuable  information  in  the  prosecution  of 
their  patriotic  and  important  researches. 

With  great  consideration  and  esteem,  &c, 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  A.  Hamilton.* 

London,  April  2,  1797. 
Dear  Sir  : 

As  Mr.  Church  is  the  bearer,  I  refer  you  to  him  for  what  it 
would  take  many  pages  to  relate,  and  will  only  say,  that,  notwith- 
standing the  injuries  we  continue  to  receive  from  France,  I  still 
hope  the  same  policy  that  has  hitherto  kept  us  out  of  the  war,  will 
continue  to  influence  and  decide  our  government. 

How  the  new  President  will  conduct  himself  in  a  situation 
thorny  and  embarrassing,  remains  to  be  seen  ;  the  first  step  is  very 
important,  and  therefore  should  be  deeply  and  extensively  con- 
sidered. 

*  Works  of  Hamilton,  vi.,  227. 


1797]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  163 

Everything  looks  like  an  active  and,  to  a  certain  degree,  a 
vigorous  campaign  ;  yet,  with  all  these  appearances  of  the  con- 
tinuance of  the  war  peace  may  be  near.  But  what  will  be  the 
consequence  of  such  a  peace  as  alone  can  be  had  at  this  time  ? 

A  late  arret  of  the  Directory  gives  notice  to  all  French  citizens 
that  the  Treaty  of  February  1778,  between  France  and  the  United 
States  of  America,  has  been  (of  full  right)  in  virtue  of  the  second 
article  thereof,  so  modified  as  to  conform  to  the  stipulations  con- 
tained in  the  treaty  of  1794  between  the  United  States  and  Great 
Britain.     The  arret  proceeds  to  specify  the  modification. 

This  says  Mr.  King,  demanding  in  its  fourth  article  that 
our  ships  should  have 

a  role  d'  equipage  en  bonne  forme,  such  as  is  required  by  the 
form  annexed  to  the  treaty  of  the  6th  of  February  1778  .  .  .  will 
render  all  our  ships  liable  to  capture,  and,  if  acted  upon,  to  con- 
demnation, since  no  American  vessel  has  on  board  the  document 
required.  .  .  .  Mr.  Church  will  show  you  a  copy  of  the  com- 
mercial Treaty  with  France,  printed  in  London  in  1783,  which  has 
the  form  of  a  passport  role  d'equipage,  &c,  annexed  .  .  by  which 
you  will  see  that  none  of  our  vessels  are  exempt  from  capture  ;  if 
this  copy  is  that  referred  to  in  the  late  arret.  Indeed  it  seems 
too  absurd  in  some  things  to  be  genuine,  yet  I  suspect  it  is  the 
model  or  form  referred  to  and  required  by  the  fourth  article  of 
the  arret. 

Farewell  yours, 

Rufus  King. 


T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

Department  of  State,  April  6,  1797. 
Dear  Sir  : 

...  I  have  written  to  Vermont  for  information  about  the 
arms  and  cannon  captured  on  the  Olive  Branch,  with  Governor 
Ira  Allen,  and  carried  into  England.  Whatever  answer  I  obtain 
shall  be  communicated  to  you.  In  the  meantime  there  appears 
to  me  to  be  little  room  to  doubt  of  their  real  destination  such  as 
you  mention  to  be  suggested  in  London.     It  is  incredible  that 


164  RUFUS  KING.  [1797 

Governor  Allen  should  undertake  to  purchase  20.000  muskets 
and  24  brass  cannon  with  their  appendages  for  the  militia  of  Ver- 
mont at  the  request  of  Governor  Chittenden.  Nothing  but  an  Act 
of  the  Legislature  would  warrant  the  measure  or  provide  the  funds, 
is  well  known  that  Allen  was  destitute  of  property.     .     .     . 


T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

Department  of  State,  12  April,  1797. 

.  .  .  The  French  continue  their  depredations  on  our  com- 
merce in  the  West  Indies  ;  and  by  the  accounts  almost  daily 
published  in  the  newspapers,  frequently  commit  the  most  flagrant 
piracies  and  robberies,  even  in  their  own  ports  :  so  that  the 
insurers  at  Baltimore  (as  I  am  this  day  informed  by  a  letter  from 
thence)  have  ceased  to  underwrite  upon  American  vessels  bound 
to  French  ports  ;  while  they  insure  at  war  premiums  those  bound 
to  English  West  India  ports. 


Wm.  Smith  to  R.  King,  London 


•> 


Philad.,  April  3,  1797. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  Capt.  O'Brien  arriv'd  day  before  yesterday  &  brought 
as  the  acct.  of  Sir  J.  Jervis'  victory  over  the  Spaniards,  which  has 
assisted  in  raising  our  depressed  spirits.  It  is  a  melancholy  and 
a  humiliating  consideration  that  we  are  compelled  to  derive  con- 
solation from  the  successes  of  other  nations.  Under  present 
circumstances  we  must  rejoice  at  the  victories  of  G.  Britain,  tho' 
we  may  fear  they  may  hereafter  be  turned  to  our  disadvantage. 
The  haughty  conduct  of  France,  which  increases  with  her  tide  of 
prosperity,  makes  us  rejoice  at  the  defeat  of  herself  or  her  allies  ; 
we  look  for  safety  in  her  depression,  for  we  cannot  expect  to  find 
either  from  her  justice  &  our  wisdom.  Her  late  outrages  have 
however  kindled  a  good  spirit,  but  it  is  uncertain  how  long  it  will 
be  kept  alive,  and  there  is  reason  to  fear  that  the  same  capricious 
disposition,  which  so  quickly  changes  from  love  to  resentment 
will  from  trifling  causes  change  back  again. 


1797]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  l6$ 

The  active  and  incessant  manoeuvres  of  french  agents  in  this 
Country,  make  me  apprehend  that  any  inconsidble.  change  in  the 
measures  of  France  favorable  to  us  will  drive  the  great  mass  of 
knaves  &  fools  back  into  her  arms.  What  indeed  have  we  not  to 
apprehend  from  the  multitude  which  for  four  years  has,  with  so 
little  reason,  avowed  such  a  devoted  attachment  to  that  insidious 
nation  ?  If  the  present  temper  can  be  steadfastly  maintained, 
the  losses  from  their  spoliations  will  scarcely  be  regretted  ;  they 
will  be  well  compensated  by  our  deliverance  from  gallic  thraldom. 

The  eyes  of  a  great  many  are  now  opened  to  the  real  views  of 
France,  and  the  public  mind  is  thereby  become  more  open  to  re- 
ceive impressions  favorable  to  England  ;  nothing  will  be  so  con- 
ducive to  the  complete  establishment  of  our  independence,  as  a 
conduct  on  the  part  of  G.  Britain  at  this  crisis,  marked  with  sin- 
cere good  will  to  this  country.  This  will  do  away  with  those 
antipathies  which  are  still  lurking  in  a  great  many  breasts  and 
produce  a- general  disposition  to  view  that  nation  as  connected 
with  us  by  the  strongest  ties  of  mutual  interest.  It  has  been  so 
much  a  fashion  of  late  years  to  call  parties  here  by  foreign  names, 
that  many  conceive  we  cannot  be  alienated  from  the  French 
without  throwing  ourselves  a  corps  perdu  into  the  arms  of  the 
English  ;  and  unfortunately  many  of  the  ci-devant  English  mer- 
chants here,  yielding  without  due  reflection  to  an  habitual  im- 
pulse, encourage  this  degrading  idea  ;  it  is  important  that  it 
should  be  banished  from  our  sight  and  that  we  should  forcibly 
inculcate  the  sentiment,  that  if  we  are  alienated  from  the  French, 
it  is  because  we  cherish  our  independence  and  have  determined 
to  form  no  connexions  but  those  which  unite  indepent.  nations  for 
their  common  interest. 

It  is  a  fortunate  thing  for  us  that  the  Representatives  of  the 
respective  nations  are  at  this  present  juncture  so  peculiarly  gifted 
with  those  rare  and  valuable  qualities,  which  at  the  same  time 
remove  every  distrust  and  strengthen  a  growing  friendship.  Mr. 
&  Mrs.  Liston  are  much  liked,  so  much  so  as  to  be,  in  the  eyes  of 
the  Jacobins,  dangerous  people.  I  am  much  pleased  with  the 
promises  of  Abercromby  &  Simcoe  ;  the  british  Govt,  may,  with 
little  trouble  &  no  expence,  do  many  things  which  wo'd  produce 
the  most  happy  effects  here.  There  never  was  so  favorable  an 
opportunity  ;  but  they  must  understand  the  footing  on  which  our 


\66  RUFUS  KING.  [i797 

^connexions   are    to    rest — the   most   complete  independence  on 
our  part. 
v      I  was  about  to  return  to  Charleston,  when  the  late  disagreeable 
intelligence  from  Gen.  Pinckney  compelled  the  Executive  to  con- 
vene Congress  on  the  15th  May.    I  must  therefore  stay  here.    The 
successes  of  Buonaparte  will  probably  give  the  Directory  a  still 
more  haughty  tone,  unless  their  internal  affairs  sho'd  produce 
something  favorable  for  us.     Congress  are  to  meet  this  day  six 
weeks — something  may  occur  of  an  important  nature  before  that 
period.     The  operations  of  the  French  cabinet  have  been  so  fluc- 
tuating &  their  danger  relative  to  foreign  and  neutral  powers  so 
C    sudden  &  violent,  that  I  am  not  without  hopes  that  when  they  find 
\     their  prospects  blasted  of  overthrowing  our  Government  &  can- 
celling the  British  Treaty,  they  will  suddenly  wheel  about  and 
generously  forgive  us.     There  is  only  this  yet  wanting  to  com- 
pete  their   character  for   generosity  &  magnanimity,  so  much 
dinned  in  our  ears  by  their  adherents. 

We  shall  pass  a  new  Law  next  Session  relative  to  Seamen  ; 
your  suggestion  on  that  subject  will  be  carefully  attended  to. 
Major  Lenox,  the  successor  of  Trumbull,  sails  for  London  in  a 
few  weeks.  The  Commrs.  for  the  6th  Article  are  arrived  here. 
I  have  not  yet  seen  them. 

Our  Treaty  with  Sweden  expires  in  about  fifteen  months  ;  the 
Executive  have  it  in  contemplation  to  propose  a  revival  of  it. 
Have  you  turned  your  attention  much  to  this  subject  ?  What 
think  you  of  a  commercial  connexion  with  Denmark  ?  Those 
two  powers  have  a  common  interest  with  us,  whenever  the  great 
maritime  nations  are  at  war  ;  it  seems  therefore  strange  that  we 
sho'd  have  a  Minister  Plenipotenty.  in  Portugal  with  whom  we 
have  no  Treaty  and  little  commercial  intercourse,  and  no  relations 
with  Denmark  &  Sweden,  whose  interests  in  time  of  war  are  so 
homogeneous  with  ours  and  with  whom  we  might  have  extensive 
commercial  intercourse.     .     .     . 

The  accounts  from  the  Mediterranean  are  highly  pleasing.  The 
Treaties  with  the  Barbary  powers  have  cost  us  a  great  deal  of 
money  and  vexation.  I  trust  they  will  realize  the  benefits  you 
justly  anticipated.  This  new  source  of  commerce  will  indemnify 
us  for  the  abridgement  of  our  Commerce  in  the  W.  Indies. 

The  change  of  the  Executive  here  has  been  wrought  with  a 


1797]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  1 67 

facility  and  a  calm  which  has  astonished  even  those  of  us  who 
always  augured  well  of  the  governt.  and  the  general  good  sense 
of  our  citizens.  The  machine  has  worked  without  a  creak.  On 
the  4th  of  March  John  Adams  was  quietly  sworn  into  office, 
George  Washington  attending  as  a  private  citizen.  A  few  days 
after  he  went  quietly  home  to  Mt.  Vernon  ;  his  successor  as 
quietly  took  his  place,  and  in  the  same  house  last  Tuesday  I  saw 
him  well  dressed,  in  a  full  suit,  sword,  bag  &c.  at  his  first  levee, 
which  was  a  very  crowded  one.  The  Jacobins  are  nattering  him 
and  trying  to  cajole  him  to  admit  the  V.  P.  into  the  Council. 
Jefferson  lodged  at  Francis'  hotel  (with  Adams)  while  here, 
attended  the  Philosophical  Society  of  which  he  is  President,  made 
a  dissertation  about  a  Lion's  claw,  and  soon  after  returned  to 
Monticello. 

Our  friend  Murray  sails  for  Amsterdam  shortly  ;  he  will  do 
credit  to  the  appointment.  I  shall  intrust  to  his  care  a  copy  of 
my  little  work  on  the  Constitution  for  you,  which  I  have  had 
interleaved  to  receive  those  judicious  remarks  which  will  I  am 
sure  occur  to  you  on  perusing  it.  When  this  is  done,  I  shall  request 
you  to  return  it  to  me,  in  exchange  for  a  copy  of  a  new  edition 
on  a  more  enlarged  &  useful  plan. 

Farewell,  yours  very  affectly. 

Wm.  Smith. 

A.  Hamilton  to  R.  King,  London. 

April  8,  1797. 

I  thank  you,  my  Dear  Sir,  for  your  letter  of  the  6th  of  Febru- 
ary. The  Intelligence  that  the  Directory  have  ordered  away  our 
Minister  is  every  way  unpleasant.  It  portends  too  much  a  final 
Rupture  as  the  only  alternative  to  an  ignominious  submission. 
Much  public  feeling  has  been  excited.  But  the  Government,  I 
trust  &  believe,  will  continue  prudent,  and  do  everything  that 
honor  permits  towards  accommodation.  'Tis  however  to  be  feared 
that  France  successful  will  be  too  violent  and  imperious  to  meet 
on  any  admissible  ground. 

Congress  are  called  together.  I  can  give  you  no  conjecture  as 
to  what  will  be  done.  Opinions  are  afloat.  My  idea  is  another 
attempt  to  pacify  by  negotiation,  vigorous  preparations  for  war 


1 68  RUFUS  KING.  [1797 

and  defensive  measures  with  regard  to  our  Trade.  But  there  never 
was  a  period  of  our  affairs  in  which  I  could  less  foresee  the  course 
of  things. 

I  believe  there  is  no  danger  of  want  of  firmness  in  the  Execu- 
tive. If  he  is  not  ill-advised,  he  will  not  want  prudence.  I  mean 
that  I  believe  that  he  is  himself  disposed  to  a  prudently  firm 
course. 

You  know  the  Mass  of  our  Senate.  That  of  our  House  of 
Representatives  is  not  ascertained.  A  small  majority  on  the  right 
side  is  counted  on.  In  Virginia  it  is  understood  that  Morgan 
comes  in  place  of  Rutherford,  &  Evans  in  place  of  Page.  The 
whole  result  of  the  Virginia  election  is  not  known. 

The  conduct  of  France  has  been  a  very  powerful  medicine  for 
the  political  diseases  of  the  country.  I  think  the  community 
improves  in  soundness. 

Adieu,  God  bless  you 

A.  Hamilton. 


CHAPTER   XIII. 

Opposition  to  France  growing  more  popular — Reliance  on  the  Firmness  and 
Prudence  of  the  President — England's  commercial  Policy  should  be  a 
conciliator}'  one — Jacobi  on  Negotiations  between  France  and  Prussia — 
R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State — French  Captures — English  Politics — The 
Nation  tired  of  the  War — Austria  her  only  Ally — Question  of  Peace — 
France  refuses  to  acknowledge  Passports  granted  by  American  Ministers 
— French  Depredations  in  the  West  Indies — R.  King  writes  to  the  Secre- 
tary on  Carelessness  in  getting  Testimony  in  Cases  of  Capture  by  Mr. 
Bayard — Secretary  of  State  relative  to  Convoys. 

G.  Cabot  to  R.  King,  London. 

Brookline,  April  10,  1797. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  see  by  the  style  of  your  Letter  of  the  25th  of  Jany  that  you  are 
more  happy  and  if  you  had  not  told  me  expressly  that  you  had 
surmounted  your  difficulties,  I  shou'd  have  inferr'd  it.  Our  Cam- 
paign here  is  soon  to  open,  &  I  think  may  prove  a  more  impor- 
tant one  than  any  we  have  seen.  Both  parties  are  active  in 
endeavouring  to  preoccupy  the  popular  mind,  and  if  a  judgment 
were  now  to  be  formed,  it  wou'd  be  that  the  friends  of  order  and 
good  government  will  be  successful.  The  aim  is  to  rouse  the 
country  as  much  as  possible  without  inflaming  it,  &  by  exciting  a 
due  attention  to  the  public  danger  it  is  expected  that  we  the  people 
shall  be  reconciled  to  some  new  burthens  which  may  become 
necessary,  &  shall  be  disposed  to  strengthen  the  Govt,  by  a  ready 
support  of  the  measures  it  shall  adopt.  The  President,  I  am  as- 
sured, will  not  yield  to  the  insolent  dictates  of  France  ;  but  on  the 
contrary  will  propose  to  Congress  measures  which  will  satisfy 
the  men  who  elected  him.  If  the  House  of  Representatives 
shou'd  be  well  composed,  the  national  dignity  will  be  supported 
at  any  rate  (&  probably  peace  maintained)  ;  but  if  a  majority 

169 


1^0  RUFUS  KING.  [1797 

there  shou'd  be  wrong,  disgrace  may  be  expected.     The  weakest 
men  generally  follow  the  popular  sentiment,   &  I  am  persuaded 
that  opposition  to  the  tyranny  of  France  is  every  day  growing 
more  popular.     To  me  it  wou'd  seem   a  wise  policy  in  G.  B.  to 
seize  upon  this  moment  for  breaking  off  our  French  attachments. 
A  steady  course  of  liberal  treatment  wou'd  render  this  Country  an 
inestimable  customer  to  G.   B.  for  a  long  time.     We  shou'd  con- 
tinue to  buy  of  them  what  a  quarrel  or  even  coldness  may  oblige 
us  to  make  for  ourselves.     I  have  been  for  many  years  convinced 
that  the  true   interest    of    Great    Britain    required  a  relaxation 
towards  us  of  the  vigorous  commercial  system  she  ordinarily  main- 
tains.    We  are  not,  and  probably  never  shall  be  her  Rival  in  Naval 
power.     The  extensive  territory  we  possess  forms  an  interest  that 
jpust  countervail  it  for  many  years,   &  it  is  hardly  to  be  doubted 
JjjJ^ftf/'1*'''  many  years  shall  elapse,  we  shall  divide  or  be  divided. 
A  constant  &  adequate  market  for  their  manufactures  is  infinitely 
important  to  the  support  &  prosperity  of  England  proper,  &  to 
enable  the  parent  stock  to  circulate  without  impoverishment  or 
redundance  of  the  nutriments  of  the  immense  cyons  engrafted  in 
the  2  Indies.     But  quitting  a  figure  almost  unintelligible,  is  it  not 
clear  that  the  prosperity  of  England  depends  more  than   ever 
upon  her  power  at  Sea  ?     Her  wisest  provisions  for  the  support 
of  this  power  are  calculated  to  keep  at  all  times  the  greatest  pos- 
sible number  of  Seamen  employ'd  :  the  intention  is  proper  but  it 
is  not  well  fulfilled.     It  is  in  navigation  as  in  other  branches  of 
industry  ;  they  who  work  cheapest  will  have  most  employment. 
The  English  laws  which  recognize  no  Ship  as  British  except  such 
as  are  built  within  the  British  dominions,  prevent  Englishmen 
from  freighting  in  many  countries  where  they  might,  if  allowed  to 
use  the  cheap  Ships  they  cou'd  build  in  the  U.  S.     To  whatever 
extent  this  is  true,  England  sacrifices  her  greater  interest  in  sailors, 
to  a  minor  interest  in  shipwrights.      Besides  every  facility  of  pay- 
ment which  England  gives  to  the  U.  S.  must  tend  to  increase  our 
consumption  of  her  goods  ;  and  if  the  facility  costs  her  nothing, 
she  certainly  derives  a  clear  profit  on  the  increased  consumption. 
Many  other  considerations  occur  to  me  which  ought  to  produce 
in  G.  B.  the  most  conciliatory  policy,  but  these,  as  well  as  those 
suggested,  are  all  familiar  to  you.     The  condition  of  the  British 
nation  is  certainly  critical  &  requires  to  be  propp'd  up  by  every 


1797]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  \J\ 


auxiliary  they  can  obtain.  A  commercial  intercourse  with  us 
established  on  the  most  liberal  principles  wou'd  be  a  firm  &  last- 
ing support  to  them  &  might  be  highly  useful  to  us.     .     .     . 

Your  faithful  friend, 

G.  Cabot. 

There  is  an  interesting  paper  in  the  handwriting  of  Mr. 
King  containing  a  statement  of  the  negotiations  between 
France  and  Prussia,  made  by  Jacobi,  the  Prussian  Ambas- 
sador in  London,  which  is  here  given  : 

"April  16,  '97. 

11  Jacobi  told  me  that  the  King  of  Prussia  had  been  applied  to 
by  France  to  aid  in  restoring  peace  with  Austria  ;  that  he  had 
declined  all  interference  unless  in  favor  of  a  general  peace  and 
the  integrity  of  the  German  Empire.  Thus,  said  Jacobi,  it  is 
evident  that  the  Rumours  of  a  Design  in  the  King  to  break  in 
upon  the  Rights  of  the  Empire  are  disproved  ;  and  it  is  equally 
plain  that  the  account  of  his  having  guaranteed  Belgium  is  un- 
founded. The  French  offered  to  give  him  Hanover  long  ago, 
wh.  he  refused.  If  Bavaria  sh.  be  attempted  to  be  annexed  to 
Austria,  the  King  of  Prussia  wd.  object,  nay  he  wd.  be  obliged  to 
take  a  portion  equivalent  of  some  part  of  Germany  contiguous  to 
his  Dominions.  I  have  consd.  Jacobi  notified  to  this  Court  the 
refusal  of  the  King  to  assist  in  a  separate  peace,  France  wants 
peace — she  will  not  insist  on  the  Rhine  as  a  boundary,  but  she 
will  adhere  to  the  union  of  Belgium.  England  will  not  agree  to 
this  sacrifice  to  obtain  peace.  The  Emperor  will  therefore  refuse 
to  make  any  peace — he  will  even  quit  Vienna  and  retire  to  Hun- 
gary, where  he  will  make  still  great  exertions  to  expel  the  French 
from  his  Dominions." 


R.  King  to  Lord  Grenville. 

London,  April  19,  1797. 
My  Lord  : 

Having  learnt  that  a  Packet  soon  sails  for  the  West  Indies,  I 
take  the  Liberty  to  send  to  your  Lordship  copies  of  a  letter  and 
its  inclosures  that  I  have  lately  received  from  Mr.  Talbot,  who  is 
the  Agent  appointed  by  the  President  of  the  United  States  for  the 


172  RUFUS  KING,  [1797 

Relief  and  Protection  of  American  Seamen  in  the  West  Indies. 
It  gave  me  much  pleasure  when  I  had  last  the  honor  of  meeting 
your  Lordship  to  express  to  you  the  satisfaction  with  which  the 
President  had  been  informed,  that  Mr.  Talbot  had  been  received 
and  treated  in  a  friendly  manner  by  his  Majesty's  Naval  officers 
in  the  West  Indies  ;  and  that  there  was  a  fair  prospect  that  his 
agency  would  prove  successful  in  relieving  such  of  our  Seamen 
as  had  been  impressed  and  were  detained  on  board  his  Majesty's 
ships  in  those  seas.  I  have  great  regret  in  perceiving  by  Mr. 
Talbot's  report,  that  there  is  an  appearance  of  a  Temper,  some- 
what different  from  our  just  expectations  on  this  subject,  on  the 
part  of  the  Commander  in  Chief,  Admiral  Sir  Hyde  Parker,  and 
(it)  is  my  Duty  to  request  your  Lordship's  interference  to  obtain 
an  order  from  the  proper  Department  of  his  Majesty's  Govern- 
ment for  the  Discharge  of  the  American  Citizens  named  in 
the  list  remitted  by  Mr.  Talbot,  and  also  instructions  to  the 
Commanders  of  his  Majesty's  ships  of  war  in  the  West  Indies  to 
discharge  all  other  American  citizens,  that  have  been  impressed 
and  are  detained  on  board  any  of  the  said  Ships. 

With  high  consideration  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

R.  King  to  the  Secretary  of  State. 

London,  April  19,  1797. 
Dear  Sir  : 

You  will  naturally  suppose  that  I  must  be  anxious  to  be 
informed  what  measures  the  President  shall  adopt  to  arrest  the 
depredations  that  France  is  committing  upon  our  commerce. 
The  Arret  of  the  2nd  of  March,  if  executed,  will  subject  all  our 
Ships  to  capture  and  condemnation,  since  none  of  them  are 
furnished  with  such  papers  as  the  6th  Article  thereof  requires. 

Hitherto  the  captures  in  Europe  have  not  been  numerous, 
though  several  of  our  valuable  ships  have  been  carried  into 
France,  and  in  a  few  instance  the  Masters  and  other  Officers  of 
our  vessels  have  been  treated  in  a  barbarous  and  cruel  manner  by 
the  French  Cruizers,  who  have  put  them  to  the  torture  to  compel 
them  to  make  such  Declarations  relative  to  the  property  and  des- 
tination of  their  ships  and  Cargoes  as  were  desired.  I  send  you 
the  protest  of  William  Martin,  Master  of  the  Cincinnatus  of  Balti- 


1797]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  1 73 

more,  who  lately  arrived  here,  after  having  fallen  into  the  hands 
of  a  French  Cruizer,  which  obliged  him  to  leave  his  own  vessel 
and  to  go  on  board  the  Cruizer,  when  he  was  tortured  for  more 
than  three  hours.  Captain  Martin's  thumbs,  which  I  examined, 
bear  the  marks  of  the  screws,  and  the  scars  will  go  with  him  to 
his  grave. 

It  is  impossible  that  these  barbarous  outrages  should  be  author- 
ized ;  indeed  the  concealment  observed  by  the  Perpetrators  of 
them,  who  refused  to  tell  their  names,  or  the  Port  of  their  Equip- 
ment, evince  that  they  are  not  so.  A  general  Peace,  if  concluded 
on  a  basis  of  reciprocal  Justice  may  secure  to  us  an  exemption  from 
the  System  of  Plunder  and  Barbarity  into  which  Europe  seems 
in  danger  of  relapsing. 

The  elections  in  France,  so  far  as  Results  are  known,  have  been 
favorable  to  the  friends  of  moderation  ;  but  Victory  &  Conquest 
are  advantageous  to  their  opponents,  and  will  elate  both.  The 
Emperor  of  Russia  avoids,  even  in  a  greater  Degree  than  his 
Mother  did,  taking  any  share  in  the  war.  Prussia  adheres  to 
the  maxims  that  have  long  influenced  her,  and  will  make  no  efforts 
except  to  augment  her  own  Territories  or  to  weaken  those  of  *  her 
neighbours.  Some  recent  successes  confirm  the  past  character  of 
this  Court  and  increase  our  Detestation  of  its  principles.  Germany 
is  disjointed,  dispersed  and  in  some  degree  revolutionized  ;  it 
cannot  therefore  be  depended  on  at  a  time,  when  union,  courage 
and  zeal  could  alone  be  of  any  advantage.  England  must  soon 
have  no  option  j  her  wealth  and  her  Navy  have  been  her  glory  and 
her  safeguard.  The  f owner  is  found  to  have  limits  j  the  latter  by 
an  extensive  and  successful  mutiny  of  her  Seamen  has  recently 
received  a  wound  of  the  most  dangerous  consequence.  The  Nation  is 
weary  of  the  War  and  there  is  a  general  despair  of  any  advantages 
from  the  prosecution  of  it.  The  Ministry  have  been  supported 
for  the  last  twelve  months  by  the  opinion  which  they  assiduously 
propagated  that  the  continuance  of  the  war  was  against  their 
wishes  and owing  to  the  disinclination  of  the  French  to  make  Peace. 

The  public  discontents  increase  daily  and  there  is  reason  to  be- 
lieve, notwithstanding  the  strong  personal  desire  of  the  King  to  go 
on  with  the  war,  that  nothing  but  the  dread  of  the  consequences 
to  his  authority  from  Mr.  Fox's  coming  into  office,  prevents  a  change 

*  Italics  in  cipher. 


174  RUFUS  KING.  [1797 

of  Ministers.  If  an  administration  could  be  made  without  Mr. 
Fox  it  is  supposed  that  an  immediate  change  would  take  place. 
There  is  however  a  circumstance  of  considerable  weight  that  is 
favorable  to  the  continuance  of  the  present  Ministry.  A  change  of 
Ministers,  it  is  apprehended,  would  require  a  change  of  the  House 
of  Commons.  The  present  is  the  first  session  of  a  new  Parliament, 
and  the  seats  are  too  expensive  to  be  soon  given  up.  Hence  the  friends 
of  the  Ministers,  though  they  wish  for  Peace  and  would  recom- 
mend a  surrender  of  all  the  National  Conquests  to  obtain  it  desire 
that  it  should  be  made  by  men  whom  they  have  supported  and  not  by 
those  whom  they  have  opposed.  In  this  situation  of  ±e  Allies,  the 
burthen  of  continuing  the  War  falls  upon  Austria.  The  Emperor, 
it  is  true,  whatever  we  may  think  of  his  wisdom  by  his  firmness 
and  constancy  excites  our  admiration.  The  nobles  of  Vienna 
since  the  late  Defeat  of  the  Arch  Duke  have  surrounded  the 
Throne  with  Petitions  for  an  immediate  Peace,  as  the  only  means 
of  saving  the  Capitol,  or  preserving  the  Monarchy.  To  this 
advice,  nothwithstanding  past  Disasters,  and  the  tide  of  success 
on  which  Bonaparte  advances,  the  Emperor  has  answered  that  he 
could  not  consent  to  make  Peace,  without  his  allies,  that  Vienna 
was  not  the  Monarchy,  that  the  Monarchy  would  survive,  beloved 
and  defended  by  his  loyal  subjects,  when  even  Vienna  should 
have  surrendered  to  the  enemy.  Though  this  courageous  firm- 
ness in  the  Chief  of  a  warlike  nation,  if  accompanied  with  more 
propitious  Circumstances,  would  perform  Prodigies  and  might 
save  a  sinking  State,  yet  in  this  instance  the  affairs  of  Austria 
are  so  deranged,  her  armies  so  reduced  and  dispirited,  her  sub- 
jects so  depressed  by  the  Burthens  and  misfortunes  of  the  war, 
and  the  conflict  so  apparently  hopeless,  that  it  is  even  doubted 
whether  the  Emperor  will  be  able  to  hold  out  till  the  person  who 
has  been  sent  from  this  Country  to  Vienna,  to  join  in  the  nego- 
tiations, shall  arrive  there. 

Should  he  conclude  a  separate  Peace,  &  whether  separate  or 
joint  its  terms  will  be  much  the  same,  it  must  be  one  in  which 
France  dictates  the  conditions,  and  consequently  too  unequal  and 
humiliating  to  be  lasting.  This  view  of  the  Situation  of  the  war 
recommends  to  us  in  a  forcible  manner  the  Policy  of  continuing, 
if  possible,  in  peace.  We  have  been  wronged  and  greatly  so,  but 
it  is  only  by  negotiation  and  by  persevering  in  the  moderate  but 


1797]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  1 75 

manly  representations  of  the  injustice  that  has  been  done  to  us 
that  we  shall  be  likely  to  obtain  satisfaction.  There  certainly  is 
nothing  heroic,  nothing  that  excites  admiration  in  this  march  ; 
on  the  other  hand  I  hope  there  is  nothing  really  humiliating  in  it  ; 
since  it  is  one  that  promises  to  obtain  for  us,  with  more  certainty 
than  any  other,  that  satisfaction  for  the  past  and  security  for  the 
future  which  in  a  different  way  the  greatest  and  most  powerful 
Nations  in  Europe  have  attempted  but  utterly  failed  to  obtain. 

With  great  respect  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

P.  S.  The  public  Papers  announce  an  arret  of  the  Executive 
Directory  of  the  10th  instant  which  directs  that  the  Passports 
granted  by  the  Ministers  and  Diplomatic  Envoys  of  the  United 
States  of  America,  and  Passports  certified  by  them,  shall  not  be 
admitted  nor  acknowledged  by  any  authority  ;  the  arret  is  ordered 
to  be  printed  and  the  Minister  of  Police  is  charged  with  the 
execution  of  it. 

I  am  at  a  loss  to  conjecture  the  motives  to  this  Regulation. 
You  know  that  in  time  of  war,  it  is  by  Passports  only  that  the 
Merchants  are  enabled  to  pass  from  one  country  to  another  in  the 
transaction  of  their  business.  This  arret  will  be  embarrassing  to 
such  of  our  countrymen  as,  being  in  Europe,  might  be  desirous  of 
following  and  claiming  their  Property  captured  and  carried  into 
France. 

I  shall  recommend  to  those  of  them  who  are  going  to  France 
from  this  Country  to  take  a  Certificate  of  Citizenship  from  our 
Consuls  here  ;  having  sometime  since  understood  that  Mr.  Skip- 
with,  our  Consul  at  Paris,  was  permitted  to  grant  Certificates  of 
this  nature.  But  whether  this  precaution  will  answer,  or  whether 
we  shall  avoid  still  greater  mischief  than  hitherto  I  have  appre- 
hended, I  confess  myself  at  a  loss  to  determine. 

I  have  this  moment  received  a  letter  from  Mr.  Pitcairn,  dated 
Paris  April  8,  1797  :  he  begins  by  saying  that  "  Mr.  de  Clerck 
flls,  the  Chief  of  the  Co?nptability  of  the  National  Treasury,  in- 
formed me  yesterday  that  two  days  before  the  Directory  had  laid 
an  opposition  to  prevent  any  payment  being  made  to  the  American 
Government  or  any  of  the  people,  founded  on  the  law  of  Reprisals." 
Mr.  Pitcairn  makes  a  query  whether  Private  Debts  could  be  con- 
fiscated.    .     .     . 


176  RUFUS  KING.  [i797 

T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

"  Department  of  State,  April  26,  1797. 
"  Dear  Sir  : 

"  .  .  .  To-day  I  received  your  letter  of  March  5th,  and 
notice  the  immediate  causes  and  effects  of  the  stoppage  of  cash 
payments  from  the  Bank  of  England.  I  should  presume  on  the 
spirit  and  patriotism  of  British  subjects,  to  make  sacrifices  propor- 
tioned to  the  present  extraordinary  emergencies.  It  is  an  obvious 
remark  that  if  you  contend  with  a  nation  which  uses  new  weapons 
or  new  manoeuvres,  to  which  your  own  are  unequal  or  inapplica- 
ble— to  fight  on  a  par,  you  must  change  your  own  and  adopt 
corresponding  means  of  attack  and  defence.  What  would  France 
have  effected  in  the  present  war,  had  she  relied  on  the  ordinary 
means  of  France  when  a  Monarchy  ?  With  even  a  small  portion 
of  the  immense  sacrifices  of  that  nation  under  her  Revolutionary 
governments,  Britain  might  yet  maintain  the  conflict.  Her  bitter 
resentments  and  national  antipathy  and  revenge  towards  a  people 
whom  she  has  long  called  her  natural  enemy,  joined  to  her  national 
pride,  it  might  be  imagined  would  furnish  the  extraordinary  means 
which  the  unexampled  state  of  things  demand. 

"  The  depredations  of  the  French  in  the  West  Indies  continue. 
Mr.  Adet,  a  few  days  since  expressed  to  me  his  opinion  that  they 
are  not  authorized  by  the  French  Government  ;  remarking  that  it 
is  impossible  to  restrain  Privateers  from  irregularities.  But  it 
happens,  unfortunately,  that  nearly  all  the  vessels  or  Cargoes,  or 
both,  which  are  carried  in  by  their  Privateers  are  condemned  by 
their  civil  officers  on  shore.  Besides  when  he  mentions  unauthor- 
ized captures,  he  cannot  refer  to  the  multitude  which  we  complain 
of  as  made  in  direct  violation  of  our  Treaty  with  France,  or  of 
the  law  of  nations,  but  which  he  himself  declared  would  be  made 
pursuant  to  the  Decree  of  the  Directory  on  the  2nd  of  July  last." 


R.  King,  London,  to  T.  Pickering. 

Personal  and  Private. 

Ap.  29,  1797. 

Dear  Sir  : 

.     .     .     I  submit  to  you  whether  it  would  not  be  advantageous, 
if  you  shd.  send  me  10  or  12  Copies  of  the  State  Papers  from  your 


1797]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE,  1 77 

office  which  are  from  time  to  time  published  :  a  distribution  of 
them  among  the  foreign  Ministers  here  &  others,  would  in  my 
opinion  contribute  much  to  the  extension  of  correct  opinions  con- 
cerning our  Policy  and  national  Characters.  Your  late  letter  to 
Genl.  Pinckney  has  been  very  serviceable  in  this  light ;  it  has  been 
well  received  by  every  one,  and  obtained,  as  it  deserved,  the 
approbation  and  praise  of  sensible  and  impartial  men. 

Mess.  Gore  and  Pinckney  will  write  to  you  on  a  subject  on 
which  I  have  had,  and  still  suffer,  much  anxiety — unless  a  more 
systematic  attention  is  given  to  the  procuring  of  the  seasonable 
and  requisite  Evidence  in  cases  of  Capture,  I  see  little  prospect 
in  obtaining  the  reasonable  satisfaction  for  our  Losses,  which  with 
proper  diligence  &  skill  in  the  Agency,  and  with  the  present 
views  of  this  Government,  we  might  rationally  expect  to  receive. 
It  is  unpleasant  to  say  so,  but  it  is  my  opinion,  that  we  shall  ulti- 
mately meet  with  serious  Losses,  and  give  occasion  to  complaints 
among  our  people,  unless  we  can  induce  Mr.  Bayard  to  examine 
each  case  (instead  of  turning  them  over  without  examination  to  a 
Proctor)  and  wherever  there  is  a  defect  of  proof,  to  point  it  out 
and  take  immediate  measures  to  supply  it.  If  Mr.  Bayard  is 
unable  or  unwilling  to  take  this  trouble,  which  ought  to  have  been 
taken  a  year  ago,  we  shall  endeavour  to  fall  upon  some  plan  of 
having  the  business  done  by  some  other  person. 

I  hope  soon  to  hear  from  you  respecting  the  manner  of  keeping 
and  paying  to  the  Claimants  the  Monies  awarded  to  be  paid  by 
this  Government.  I  am  persuaded  that  a  precise  regulation  must 
be  given  on  this  subject  ;  and  I  am  likewise  in  hopes  to  receive 
your  Opinion  concerning  the  Commission  which  may  be  claimed 
to  be  deducted  by  Mr.  Bayard  (for  his  own  emolument)  from  such 
sums  as  he  shall  pay  over  to  the  Claimants.  I  can't  say  that  Mr. 
Bayard  will  make  this  claim  unless  he  has  the  consent  of  the 
claimant,  but  I  have  reason  to  suppose  that  it  has  not  been  a  dif- 
ficult matter  to  obtain  their  consent  ;  various  motives  may  have 
induced  Merchants  and  others  in  America  to  agree  to  such 
proposal.  I  have  before  observed  to  you  that  I  wholly  disapprove 
of  it. 

With  great  Respect  &  Truth 

I  am,  Dr.  Sir,  yours  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

VOL.  II. — 12 


I78  RUFUS  KING.  [1797 

T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

Department  of  State,  May  9,  1797. 
Dear  Sir  : 

On  the  6th,  in  the  evening,  I  received  your  letter  of  the  12th  of 
March.  .  .  .  The  State  of  affairs  relative  to  French  Captures 
of  American  Vessels,  at  the  date  of  your  Letter  no  doubt  rendered 
your  disapprobation  of  the  project  of  a  Convoy  very  proper.  I 
mean  for  vessels  of  the  United  States  sailing  from  the  ports  of 
Great  Britain  ;  but  the  piratical  conduct  of  their  privateers  in  the 
American  seas,  and  even  on  the  coast  of  Spain,  must  render  any 
measures  of  protection  and  defence  both  eligible  and  lawful.  If 
therefore  the  British  Government,  on  the  request  of  the  Merchants 
trading  to  America,  or  of  the  underwriters,  or  on  their  own  Mo- 
tion, order  convoys  for  the  American  vessels  under  a  change  of 
circumstances  which  show  that  our  commerce  is  in  more  danger 
than  when  you  expressed  your  disapprobation  of  the  measure,  the 
convoys  are  certainly  not  to  be  refused. 

After  illustrating  the  question  by  some  suggestions  Mr.  P.  says  : 
*'  What  legal  consequences  can  result  from  accepting  a  convoy  in 
any  case,  except  that  of  its  being  a  cause  of  condemnation  in 
cases  of  capture,  altho'  the  vessel  should  really  be  neutral  ?  It 
would  then  seem  to  be  a  matter  of  calculation,  whether  to  accept 
or  decline  a  convoy."  He  then  presents  some  decisions  by  Eng- 
lish authorities  on  the  subject  of  the  causes  of  forfeiture  of  a 
vessel  under  convoy,  and  says  :  "  But  here  the  cause  of  forfeit- 
ure is  not  the  simple  act  of  going  under  convoy  ;  but  the  attempt- 
ing in  a  neutral  vessel  to  shelter  the  goods  of  an  enemy  by  means 
of  a  convoy  ;  and  therefore,  if  this  distinction  be  correct  an 
American  Vessel,  with  an  American  Cargo,  may  innocently  go 
under  Convoy.  Because  a  belligerent  power,  without  regarding 
Treaties  or  the  Law  of  Nations  makes  prize  of  such  Property. 
If  however  such  unwarrantable  captures  are  not  made  (and  this  I 
suppose  you  judged  to  be  the  fact  in  respect  to  our  vessels  trad- 
ing with  Great  Britain  and  Ireland)  there  can  be  no  reason  for 
seeking  convoys,  and  the  doing  it  might  give  offence  to  the  Gov- 
ernment against  which  it  was  requested.  But  whenever  that 
Government  has  no  scruple  to  interrupt  and  injure  our  lawful 
commerce,  by  means  of  her  armed  vessels,  we  can  have  no  scruple 


1797]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  1 79 


to  accept  protection  from  the  Convoys  of  her  Enemies.  The 
question  will  be  whether  the  Government  shall  personally  request  con- 
voys. This  is  a  question  of  some  delicacy,  as  it  regards  the  foreign 
power  to  whom  the  request  shall  be  made,  on  the  score  of  obligation. 
But  if,  for  the  sake  of  preserving  lucrative  or  necessary  trade,  that 
power  voluntarily  offers,  or  on  the  request  of  individuals,  grants  the 
requisite  Convoys,  are  we  to  refuse  them  ?  Certainly  not,  and  such  is 
the  sense  of  the  President* 

With  perfect  esteem,  &c. 

Timothy  Pickering. 

*  Italics  in  cipher. 


CHAPTER  XIV. 

French  Designs  as  affecting  the  U.  S. — Public  Temper  in  the  U.  S.  improving 
in  reference  to  these — Causes  of  the  Mutiny  in  the  British  Fleets — Paid 
Agents  of  the  U.  S.  cannot  demand  extra  Compensation  from  Awards  to 
Claimants — General  Allen's  Claim  for  the  Restoration  of  Arms  captured 
and  detained  in  England — Kosciuszko  thanks  Mr.  King  for  assisting  him 
in  obtaining  a  Passage  to  America. 

G.  Cabot  to  R.  King,  London. 

Brookline,  May  9,  1797. 
Dear  Sir  : 

It  is  abundantly  evident  that  the  designs  of  France  as  disclosed 
to  me  by  Mr.  Liancourt  *  last  summer  were  real,  and  if  they  do 
not  already  exceed  them  fully,  it  is  only  because  their  successes 
have  fallen  short  of  their  calculation.  I  fear  it  will  prove  unfor- 
tunate for  our  country  that  their  successes  have  been  lately  so 
great.  The  fall  of  Mantua  and  the  appearance  of  pecuniary  em- 
barrassment in  England  have  revived  the  spirit  of  Jacobinism,  which 
had  been  declining  very  fast.  Still  however  it  may  be  relied  on, 
that  public  opinion  in  relation  to  foreign  politics  &  the  affairs  of 
France  particularly,  is  infinitely  more  correct  than  it  has  ever 
been  since  the  Devil  was  let  loose.  You  will  feel,  as  we  all  do, 
great  anxiety  for  the  measures  which  Congress  shall  adopt  :  our 
friends  have  hope,  &  even  expect  that  things  will  all  go  well,  but 
you  know  I  always  expect  the  contrary,  and  if  the  power  of  faction 
is  not  sufficient  to  direct  the  movements  of  Government,  I  am 
persuaded  they  will  obstruct  them.  Their  schemes  have  so  far  de- 
veloped themselves  as  to  convince  us  that  they  will  favor  every 
kind  of  concession  to  France,  and  will  endeavor  to  charge  all  our 
troubles,  and  even  the  disgraceful  submission  they  would  make 

*  See  letter  of  Sept.  24,  1796. 
180 


1797]  LIFE  AN&   CORRESPONDENCE.  l8l 

to  France,  to  the  British  Treaty.  Our  best  security  against  them, 
is  that  their  projects  are  well  understood  by  the  Executive  &  will 
be  resisted  there.  My  own  opinion  is  to  avoid  giving  provocation 
to  the  pride  of  France  and  to  hold  ourselves  ready  to  conciliate 
on  any  terms  not  dishonorable  j  but  as  they  are  encouraged  to  in- 
sult and  injure  us  by  a  contempt  of  our  power,  I  wou'd  make  a 
show  of  the  Spirit  and  resolution  of  the  country,  that  shou'd  com- 
pel them  to  expect  resistance,  if  they  advance.  .  .  .  After  all 
I  think  our  tranquillity  essentially  depends  upon  events  on  your 
side  the  water  &  the  fate  of  England  especially.  If  Englishmen 
do  not  forfeit  the  just  character  of  their  ancestors,  they  will  perish 
sooner  than  submit  to  France,  &  altho'  it  must  be  confessed  they 
have  immense  difficulties  to  struggle  with  at  home,  yet  if  they  feel 
the  same  inveteracy  toward  their  rival,  which  this  feels  toward 
them,  they  will  certainly  conquer  at  last.  England  has  the  means 
to  defend  herself  on  the  sea  against  the  whole  of  Europe  and  I 
shou'd  imagine  with  these  means  in  possession,  the  nation  will 
always  reject  the  idea  of  submission  under  every  vicissitude  of  its  in- 
ternal affairs.  Our  Expectants  of  Compensation  for  captur'd 
property  begin  to  feel  impatient  at  the  delay  which  they  can't 
easily  be  persuaded  is  unavoidable. 

Your  faithful  and  affect,  friend 

G.  Cabot. 


N.  Webster,  Jr.  to  R.  King,  London. 

New  York,  May  30,  1797. 
Sir  : 

I  take  the  liberty  to  enclose  you  my  opinions  on  the  relative 

interests  of  Great  Britain  &  the  United  States.*     If  you  agree 

with  me  in  opinion,  you  will  make  what  use  you  please  of  the 

Letter.     The  present  moment  is  important,  and  tho'  I  reprobate 

a  connection  with  any  European  power,  which  shall  necessarily 

involve  us  in  their  broils,  yet  it  is  hardly  possible  for  a  commercial 

nation  not  to  be  implicated  more  or  less  in  the  contentions  of 

other  powers.    Prudence  and  safety  seem  to  require  that  we  should 

be  on  good  terms  with  the  greatest  naval  power  in  Europe,  as  I 

*  Paper  alluded  to  published  in  New  York,  1802  ;  see  Webster's  Essays,  dated 
June  1,  1797. 


182  RUFUS  KING.  [1797 

apprehend,  in  case  of  hostility,  naval  aid  will  nearly  supersede  the 
necessity  of  any  other  defense. 

In  the  ideas  I  have  suggested,  a  few  friends  to  whom  I  have 
communicated  them,  most  heartily  concur.  And  as  we  are 
probably  approaching  a  rupture  with  France,  we  are  to  calculate 
upon  the  event,  &  be  prepared  to  meet  it.  If  we  can  escape  it, 
so  much  the  better.  I  sincerely  wish  the  British  Ministry  could 
be  convinced  of  the  utility  of  conciliating  the  attachment  of  the 
Americans  &  of  the  extreme  folly  of  irritating  them  by  taking 
little  advantages  at  sea.  This  policy  had  nearly  thrown  us  into 
the  arms  of  France  in  1793.  You  know  with  what  firmness  Govt 
resisted,  and  you  was  among  the  foremost  in  the  ranks  on  that 
occasion.  The  French  interest  is  yet  considerable,  but  much 
weakened,  since  the  seizure  and  confiscation  of  our  vessels  in  the 
West  Indies.  The  tide  has  turned  and  the  current  is  setting 
strong  agt.  the  French  Govt.  The  northern  States  wish  peace  as 
much  as  ever,  but  the  losses  of  property  already  sustained,  &  the 
insolent  conduct  of  the  French  Govt,  toward  ours,  has  united 
them  in  the  opinion  that  war  is  probable,  and  they  are  ready  to 
meet  it  with  firmness. 

Never  was  there  a  more  favorable  moment  for  the  British  Govt, 
to  remove  the  prejudice  &  regain  the  confidence  of  our  citizens  ; 
&  what  extreme  ill-policy  in  the  Ministry  not  to  embrace  it.    .    .    . 

With  great  respect  your  obedt.  Servt. 

N.  Webster,  Jr. 


John  Jay  to  R.  King,  London. 

New  York,  June  3,  1797. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  The  newspapers  contain  the  Debates  and  Proceedings 
in  Congress.  Public  opinion  respecting  the  true  policy  of  this 
country  is  gradually  becoming  more  and  more  correct.  Injurious 
Treatment  from  foreign  nations,  whether  followed  by  peace  or 
war,  will  encrease  our  Wisdom.  It  seems  Experience  must 
generally  be  purchased,  and  sometimes  at  a  high  price. 
I  am  happy  to  find  that  the  Comrs.  go  on  well,  and  that  the  brit- 
ish  Govt,  act  candidly. 

The  late  session  of  our  Legislature  was  a  temperate  and  in 


1797]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE,  1 83 

several  respects  an  useful  one.  The  Security  and  Lassitude  of 
the  Federalists  at  the  late  election  was  such  in  this  City  and  some 
other  Places,  that  the  present  House  of  Assembly  will  be  more 
chequered  than  the  last.     .     .     . 

Yours  sincerely 
John  Jay. 

A.  Hamilton  to  R.  King,  London. 

June  8,  1797. 

I  thank  you,  my  Dear  Sir,  for  your  two  letters  lately  received 
from  you.  ...  I  feel  very  guilty  for  my  negligence — but 
how  can  I  help  it  ? 

The  public  prints  will  inform  you  of  the  course  of  public  pro- 
ceedings hitherto.  You  will  perceive  that  the  general  plan  is 
analogous  to  what  was  done  in  the  case  of  Great  Britain,  though 
there  are  faults  in  the  detail.  Some  people  cannot  learn  that  the 
only  force  which  befits  a  government,  is  in  the  thought  and  action, 
not  in  the  words,  and  many  reverse  this  golden  rule.  I  fear  we 
shall  do  ourselves  no  honor  in  the  result,  and  we  shall  remain  at 
the  mercy  of  events  without  those  efficient  preparations  which  are 
demanded  by  so  precarious  a  situation,  and  which  not  provoking 
war,  would  put  us  in  condition  to  meet  it.  All  the  consolation 
I  can  give  is  that  the  public  temper  of  this  country  mends  dayly 
&  that  there  is  no  final  danger  of  our  submitting  tamely  to  the 
yoke  of  France. 

Yrs.  affectly. 

A.  H. 

R.  King  to  the  Secretary  of  State. 

London,  June  5,  1797. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.     .     .     The  Mutiny  of  the  Navy  is  ascribed  to  the  intrigues  of 

Emissaries  employed  to  mislead  and  corrupt  the  Seamen,  and  a 

Bill  has  been  brought  into  Parliament  for  the  Punishment  of  those 

who  shall  be  detected.     It  is  possible  that  the  Seamen  may  have 

been  tampered  with,  but  practices  of  this  sort  could  not  well 

escape  detection,  and  it  is  not  easy  to  conceive  that  this  general 

insubordination  should   have   been   produced    in    this    manner. 


1 84  RUFUS  KING.  [1797 


There  are  other  and  more  obvious  causes  to  which  it  may  be  at- 
tributed. The  Naval  Force  of  the  Enemy  has  been  held  in 
Contempt  by  the  British  Fleet.  France  has  had  neither  Fleets 
nor  Commerce  against  which  the  Navy  of  England  could  be 
employed.  The  men  of  war  have  therefore  passed  most  of  the 
time  in  Port ;  discipline  has  been  neglected  ;  the  officers  have 
lived  on  shore  ;  and  the  Ships  have  been  left  under  the  command 
of  young,  inexperienced  and  very  subordinate  officers  ;  besides 
the  Times  have  been  feverish  and  critical,  and  men  of  all,  includ- 
ing the  most  subordinate,  conditions  have  heard  so  much  of  the 
Equality  and  Rights  of  Man,  that  the  dependencies  of  Society, 
instead  of  being  acknowledged  and  submitted  to  by  habit,  have 
been  questions  for  determination  and  proof. 

This,  in  my  belief,  is  nearer  the  true  solution  than  that  which 
is  publickly  professed. 

The  Situation  of  Ireland  is  still  hazardous,  and  must  neces- 
sarily be  the  subject  of  great  inquietude.  The  Bank  of  England 
continues  to  make  their  operations  solely  with  Paper,  and  it 
seems  improbable  that  they  will  be  able  with  safety  to  resume 
their  ancient  mode  of  payment  before  the  return  of  Peace  :  an 
event  that  the  present  distresses  of  England  may  induce  the 
French  Government  to  postpone  in  hopes  of  a  more  ample  grati- 
fication of  their  resentment  and  hatred  against  the  only  Nation 
which  they  own  as  a  Rival. 

The  supposed  accession  of  Moderation  in  the  new  third  added 
to  the  election  of  Barthelemy,  have  however  decided  the  British 
Government  to  make  another  effort  to  terminate  the  war,  and  a 
Message  has  been  Sent  to  France  to  ask  a  Passport  for  a  Minister 
to  be  sent  from  this  Country  direct  to  Paris. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  N.  Low. 

London,  June  6th,  1797. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  It  is  not  easy  in  a  short  letter  to  give  you  an  adequate 
idea  of  the  situation  of  this  country.  Ireland  is  in  a  very  dis- 
turbed and  critical  condition,  and  government  is  there  maintained 


1797]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE,  1 85 

alone  by  military  force,  although  your  kinsman,  Mr.  Wallace,  who 
is  at  present  in  London,  says  things  are  not  so  bad  in  Ireland  as 
they  are  represented. 

The  late  mutiny  in  the  Channel  on  Lord  Bridport's  fleet,  after 
a  negotiation  carried  on  between  delegates  on  the  part  of  the  sea- 
men with  the  Lords  of  the  Admiralty,  was  quieted  and  the  fleet  is 
now  at  sea.  But  the  ships  at  Sheerness  joined  by  a  portion  of 
Admiral  Duncan's  fleet  from  the  north  seas  (which  have  confined 
their  officers  and  separated  from  the  fleet)  are  in  a  state  of  Revolt 
and  indeed  Rebellion. 

Negotiations  have  been  attempted  with  them  but  their  demands 
are  deemed  wholly  subversive  of  the  discipline  and  government 
of  the  navy  and  therefore  not  to  be  admitted.  The  consequence 
has  been  that  the  mutinous  ships,  consisting  of  about  twenty  sail, 
eleven  of  which  are  of  the  line,  have  blocked  the  mouth  of  the 
Thames  and  detain  and  plunder  all  vessels  which  pass.  All  com- 
munication with  them  is  forbidden  ;  the  neighbouring  shores  are 
put  in  a  state  of  defence  ;  and  the  alternative  seems  to  be  submis- 
sion or  the  carrying  of  the  ships  to  the  enemy. 

The  Bank  will  not  resume  their  former  mode  of  payments  till 
peace.  It  is  believed  that  their  operations  are  prudent ;  the  first 
embarrassments  which  followed  in  stopping  specie  payments 
have  in  a  great  degree  vanished.  Specie  circulates  in  small  pay- 
ments, and  very  large  sums  have  been  obtained  from  abroad  and 
lodged  by  the  Bank  in  their  vaults. 

The  nation  despairs  of  advantage  from  a  continuation  of  the 
war  ;  they  therefore  desire  peace,  direct  and  new  efforts  to  obtain 
which  have  been  lately  made  by  this  government,  who  have  sent 
a  messenger  to  France  to  obtain  a  passport  for  a  Minister  to  go 
to  Paris.  The  moderation  that  has  prevailed  in  the  election  of 
the  new  third,  joined  to  the  election  of  Barthelemi  as  a  Director, 
are  favorable  to  the  conclusion  of  peace  ;  but  the  very  great  em- 
barrassment of  England  has  a  contrary  influence  and  may  induce 
the  Directory  to  defer  an  event  so  much  desired  in  hopes  of  seeing 
England,  their  only  rival,  reduced  still  lower. 

We  who  are  nearer  the  war  than  you  are  earnestly  hope  that 
America  will  persevere  in  that  course  of  moderation  and  prudence 
which  has  kept  her  out  of  the  war.  I  think  the  late  change  in 
France  furnishes  an  occasion  that,  if   improved,  will  probably 


1 86  RUFUS  KING.  [1797 

terminate  our  disagreements,  or  at  least  so  far  terminate  them,  as 
to  enable  us  to  maintain  peace  with  the  preservation  of  pub. 
honor.  The  dreadful  scenes  which  have  been  exhibited  in 
Europe,  and  which  are  still  to  be  exhibited,  should  decide  us  to 
reject  the  advice  of  those  who  may  advise  us  to  war.  Fare- 
well— 

Rufus  King. 


T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

"  Department  of  State,  June  9,  1797. 
"  Dear  Sir  : 

"  I  have  recurred  to  your  letter  of  January  14th,  in  which  you 
state  your  ideas  relative  to  the  monies  which  shall  be  recovered 
as  indemnifications  to  our  citizens  for  the  losses  sustained  by 
British  captures.  They  are  indisputably  just,  and  the  agents  of 
the  United  States  employed  and  paid  by  the  government  in  prose- 
cuting and  establishing  those  claims,  can  form  no  rightful  de- 
mands for  compensation  beyond  their  fixed  salaries  ;  but  after 
deducting  the  costs  of  prosecution,  which  shall  have  been  ad- 
vanced by  the  United  States,  the  remainder  to  be  wholly  paid  to 
the  claimant  or  his  agent. 

"  If  however,  the  claimants  choose  to  appoint  either  of  the  public 
agents  (Mr.  Bayard  or  Mr.  Cabot)  to  receive  their  reimbursements 
there  will  be  no  objection  made  to  it.  Many  of  the  sufferers  have 
no  connections  in  London,  and  such  will  doubtless  prefer  the  pub- 
lic agents  to  receive  their  monies.  Mr.  Cabot  will  probably  have 
authority  from  many  of  the  claimants  in  New  England  to  receive 
their  dues,  and  with  this  view  in  part  they  solicited  his  appoint- 
ment ;  and  I  know  that  the  expectation  of  this  benefit  was  a  prin- 
cipal inducement  with  him  to  accept  the  public  agency.  Where 
the  claimants  have  correspondents  in  England  to  receive  their 
dues,  there  can  be  no  pretence  for  any  demand  of  commissions 
by  either  of  the  agents.  Neither  ought  they  to  make  any  such 
demands  when  their  monies  can  be  safely  lodged  with  some  safe 
bankers,  subject  to  be  drawn  for  by  the  claimants  without  any 
expense.  But  there  will  be  some  risk  in  this  mode  of  depositing 
the  money,  and  whose  shall  it  be  ?  Instead  of  drawing  the  monies 
from  the  British  Government,  will  it  not  be  most  eligible  to  let 


1797]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  1 87 

them  remain  in  the  Bank  of  England  to  be  paid  at  the  times  fixed 
by  the  commissioners  or  pursuant  to  the  Decrees  of  the  Courts  ? 
For  this  purpose  you  will  be  pleased  to  make  an  arrangement 
with  the  British  Government.  .  .  .  With  this  information  of 
the  intentions  of  the  Government,  you  will  consider  yourself 
authorized  to  take,  in  forming  the  proposed  arrangement,  that  full 
latitude  and  discretion,  which  the  security  of  the  property  of  our 
citizens  and  their  receiving  the  same  with  the  fewest  possible 
deductions,  shall  appear  to  you  to  require." 


T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

"  Department  of  State,  June  15,  1797. 
"  Dear  Sir  : 

".  .  .  The  Senators  and  that  Representative  (Mr.  Lyons) 
from  Vermont  (the  other  Representative  was  not  chosen  when 
the  present  session  commenced)  have  shown  me  a  Letter  from 
Governor  Chittenden,  desiring  them  to  seek  the  aid  of  the  British 
Minister  in  favor  of  General  Allen's  Claim  for  the  restoration  of 
the  arms  and  cannon  he  procured  from  France  and  which  were 
carried  into  England.  I  have  handed  that  Letter  to  the  British 
Minister,  together  with  a  Letter  from  each  of  these  gentlemen  in 
which  they  concur  in  one  opinion  that  those  arms  and  cannon 
were  really  destined  for  Vermont.  They  say  that  General  Allen 
was  embarrassed  in  his  pecuniary  affairs,  for  relief  in  which  he 
has  pledged  real  property  to  a  large  amount  ;  to  redeem  which 
was  the  object  of  his  voyage  to  Europe,  by  some  important  specu- 
lation, to  which  his  genius  was  well  adapted.  Governor  Chitten- 
den advised  him  to  speculate  in  arms  for  the  purpose  of  supplying 
the  militia  of  Vermont,  who  by  the  law  of  the  State  were  required 
to  furnish  themselves,  or,  if  paupers,  their  respective  towns  were 
to  supply  them  ;  the  penalty  for  not  being  furnished  was  con- 
siderable. 

"  General  Allen,  being  successful  in  obtaining  arms  in  France, 
gave  notice  of  it  to  Governor  Chittenden,  who  formally  communi- 
cated the  information  to  the  Legislature  of  Vermont,  last  Fall. 
In  consequence  of  the  expected  arrival  of  these  arms,  the  Legis- 
lature suspended  the  law  above  mentioned,  to  give  the  militia  this 


1 88  RUFUS  KING,  [1797 

opportunity  of  arming  themselves  before  the  penalty  should  be 
exacted.  Other  circumstances  relative  to  the  character  of  Gen- 
eral Allen  and  the  nature  of  this  speculation  lead  me  to  think  that 
the  real  objects  of  it  were  to  arm  the  militia  of  Vermont  with 
arms  which  cost  General  Allen  (or  rather  for  which  he  made  a 
bargain  in  form  with  the  French  minister  of  war)  twenty  five 
livres,  but  which  he  could  readily  sell  to  the  militia  for  fifty  livres 
to  the  number  of  ten  or  fifteen  thousand  in  that  State,  and  the 
residue  to  the  militia  of  the  neighbouring  States  or  to  the  Govern- 
ment of  some  of  the  States  ;  and  thus  relieve  himself  from  his 
incumbrances  on  his  lands,  which  those  Gentlemen  assure  me  are 
extensive  and  worth  perhaps  two  hundred  thousand  dollars,  but 
a  great  part  of  which  he  has  already  forfeited,  and  will  forfeit 
much  more  by  means  of  the  detention  of  the  arms  in  question, 
unless  they  should  be  immediately  restored,  and  his  creditors, 
whose  forfeitures  are  already  incurred  should  from  equitable 
views  relinquish  their  strictly  legal  rights. 

"  The  Gentlemen  assure  me  that  the  most  friendly  intercourse 
has  taken  place  and  is  increasing  between  the  inhabitants  of 
Vermont  and  those  of  Canada  [for  whose  benefit  it  has  been  sug- 
gested these  arms  were  intended. — Ed.]  and  nothing  would  be 
more  impracticable  than  to  induce  the  former  to  aid  an  insurrec- 
tion against  the  British  Government  in  that  Province. 

"  Upon  the  whole,  it  is  the  real  wish  of  the  Executive  of  the 
U.  States  that  the  arms  and  military  stores  in  question  may  be 
restored  to  General  Allen,  to  be  brought  to  the  U.  States,  where 
they  are  much  wanted.  By  General  Allen's  Letter  to  Capt. 
Gould,  of  which  you  sent  me  a  copy  ;  the  General  offered  to  give 
caution  for  the  landing  of  the  arms  &c,  in  New  York.  Upon  such 
security  I  hope  there  will  be  no  difficulty  in  restoring  them.    .    .    . 

"  We  have  this  day  a  report  by  Letters  from  Boston,  that  the 
French  Directory  have  proposed  to  the  Council  of  500  to  declare 
war  against  the  U.  S.  and  the  Council  rejected  the  proposition. 
No  act  of  the  Directory  can  any  longer  excite  surprise." 


"  Le  Gl.  Kosciuszko  a  l'honneur  de  remercier  S.  E.  M.  L.  En- 
voye  des  Etats  Unis  de  l'Amerique  de  toutes  les  peines  qu'il  a 
eu  la  bonte  de  se  donner  pour  lui  procurer  un  batiment  faisant 


1797]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  1 89 

voile  pour  l'Amerique.     Son  ami  M.  Niemcewicz  aura  l'honneur 
de  faire  sa  cour  a  S.  E.  demain  vers  le  Midi  ;  il  sera  l'interprete 
des  sentiments  de  reconnoissance   et  de  veneration  que  le  Gl. 
Kosciuszko  lui  a  voues  pour  la  vie. 
"  Le  3.  Juin  1797." 


T.  Kosciuszko  to  Rufus  King. 

Bristol,  16th  June,  1797. 
Sir  : 

I  feel  great  satisfaction  in  answering  your  last  favour,  being 
able  to  express  my  warmest  thanks  to  you  for  the  trouble  I  have 
given  you  during  my  stay  in  London.  Your  generous  heart  has 
found  no  limits,  and  you  have  continued  your  kind  care  at  Bris- 
tol and  America.  I  am  under  the  greatest  obligation  to  you,  and 
more  forcibly  not  having  deserved  it.  Be  convinced  of  my  ever- 
lasting gratitude  to  you  and  of  the  honour  I  shall  always  feel  in 
signing  myself  with  great  Respect  and  Affection  your  obedient 

humble  servant. 

T.  Kosciuszko. 

P.  S.  I  have  been  particularly  desired  by  Mr.  Vander-Horst, 
American  Consul,  and  his  amiable  Family  to  accept  a  Lodging  at 
their  house,  where  I  am  more  tenderly  treated  than  if  I  had  been 
a  Member  of  their  Family.  You  can  not  conceive  what  Cares 
and  friendly  attentions  are  shown  to  me.  It  grieves  me  much 
that  I  am  not  able  to  shew  them  a  degree  of  Gratitude  equal  to 
my  feelings  on  that  Occasion  and  which  would  perfectly  corre- 
spond with  their  Tenderness  to  me.  Be  so  kind  as  to  give  them 
Thanks  for  me. 

I  shall  have  the  honour  of  writing  to  you  from  Philadelphia 
where  I  am  going  with  Captain  Lee  on  account  of  his  ship  being 
more  comfortable  for  the  Passage  for  a  man  in  my  Situation.  I 
will  follow  your  advice  and  will  do  every  thing  as  you  will  order 
me.  Receive  once  more  my  most  grateful  and  respectful 
Thanks. 


CHAPTER   XV. 

Mr.  Pickering's  Account  of  Spanish  Duplicity  about  southern  Boundaries — 
Apprehends  France  means  to  regain  Louisiana — Arrest  of  Major  McLane 
and  others  for  alleged  treasonable  Practices  against  Canada — Sedgwick  on 
Relations  with  France — Gerry's  Appointment  as  Commissioner  to  France 
— Washington  on  the  Political  Situation  in  U.  S. — R.  King  to  Hamilton 
on  French  Affairs — Impeachment  of  Gov.  Blount — Mr.  Liston's  Letter — 
Bingham's  Letter  about  Stewart's  Portrait  of  Washington  to  Marquis  of 
Lansdown — And  about  Gov.  Blount — R.  King  to  Wm.  Hindman. 

T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

"  Department  of  State,  June  20,  1797. 
"  Dear  Sir  : 

" .  .  .  The  President  sincerely  desirous  of  adjusting  by 
negotiation  all  our  differences  with  France,  declared  his  determi- 
nation to  pursue  that  course  ;  but  the  issue  being  uncertain 
strongly  recommended  preparatory  measures  of  defence.  In  the 
Senate  these  assumed  a  form  ;  but  the  House  of  Representatives 
have  but  partially  concurred.  The  session  however  continues, 
and  as  the  aggressions  on  the  part  of  France  are  multiplying 
daily,  and  Spain  by  her  agents  in  Louisiana,  has  discovered  an 
inclination  to  postpone  and  apparently  to  evade  the  execution  of 
her  Treaty  with  us,  at  least  respecting  the  Boundary  Line,  and 
the  withdrawing  of  her  Troops  from  our  Territory — perhaps  the 
preparatory  measures  may  at  last  be  adopted. 

"  The  correspondence  between  Mr.  Ellicott,  the  American 
Commissioner  and  the  Spanish  Governors,  the  Baron  de  Caron- 
delet  and  Gayoso,  on  the  subject  above  mentioned,  you  will  find 
in  the  Packet  which  accompanies  this  letter.  The  miserable  pre- 
texts, evasions  and  prevarications  of  Governor  Gayoso  are  aston- 
ishing. We  should  expect  from  any  man  claiming  any  degree  of 
consideration,  and  especially  from  an  officer  of  rank,  even  if 
deficient  in  moral  principle,  that  for  the  sake  of  his  reputation  in 
the  world,  he  would  have  some  regard  to  consistency  and  truth. 

190 


1797]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  I9I 

But  the  Baron  de  Carondelet  is  still  more  eminent  in  rank  ;  he  is 
the  Governor  General  of  Louisiana,  and  has,  the  Spanish  Minister 
here  informed  me,  been  appointed  lately  to  the  Government  of 
Quito  in  South  America.  Yet  the  Baron  has  written  to  the  Min- 
ister on  the  subject  of  the  Boundary  and  the  Spanish  Ports,  and 
the  Minister  literally  translating  it,  as  he  said,  read  me  the  Baron's 
Letter  in  which  he  makes  some  complaints  against  Mr.  Ellicott, 
frivolous  indeed,  and  one  palpably  false.  He  complained  that 
Mr  Ellicott  had  not  informed  him  of  his  arrival  at  the  Natchez 
as  the  Commissioner  of  the  U.  States  for  running  the  Boundary 
line  !  I  showed  the  chevalier  d'Yrujo  the  Letter  of  Mr.  Ellicott 
dated  the  27th  February  to  the  Baron,  three  days  after  his  arrival 
at  the  Natchez,  and  doubtless  by  the  first  conveyance  to  New 
Orleans,  informing  him  of  his  arrival  in  the  character  of  American 
Commissioner,  and  the  Baron's  answer  of  the  1st  of  March,  con- 
gratulating Mr.  Ellicott  on  his  arrival.  The  Chevalier  was  con- 
founded, but  said  he  supposed  the  Baron  did  not  consider  Mr. 
Ellicott's  Letter  as  official 7     .     .     . 

"  The  Windsor  (Vermont)  Paper  of  June  9th  informs  that  a 
Major  McLane  from  Rhode  Island  and  his  brother  and  Thomas 
Butterfield  of  Vermont,  have  lately  been  apprehended  at  Quebec 
■  upon  something  more  than  a  suspicion  of  treasonable  practices 
against  the  Government  of  that  province.'  That  Major  McLane 
had  a  commission  from  the  French  Republic,  was  under  pay,  and 
for  about  two  years  had  been  faithfully  employed  whispering  sedi- 
tion in  the  ears  of  the  French  Canadians  ;  and  that  upon  exami- 
nation this  appeared  to  be  a  branch  of  an  extensive  plan  of  opera- 
tions settled  in  the  French  Cabinet ;  that  upon  the  arrival  of  a 
Fleet  in  the  St  Lawrence  the  magazines  were  to  be  blown  up — 
the  French  inhabitants  were  to  rise  in  a  mass  and  exterminate 
the  English.  It  is  added  that  several  characters  in  Vermont  are 
implicated  in  the  business,  and  the  whole  (says  the  Editor)  '  We 
learn  by  undoubted  authority.'  Probably  Mr.  Liston  may  have 
received  official  intelligence  of  this  affair.  The  discovery  corre- 
sponds with  prior  facts  and  circumstances  indicating  the  designs 
of  France  to  repossess  Canada  by  a  force  from  Europe,  an  insur- 
rection of  the  Canadians  and  aid  from  numerous  adherents  in  the 
United  States.  In  the  expectations  from  the  letter,  I  have 
no   doubt  France   would  find  herself    essentially  disappointed. 


I92  RUFUS  KING.  [7179 

Whatever  might  have  been  done  three  years  ago  when  we  were 
suffering  under  British  spoliations  and  saw  threatening  appear- 
ances of  hostility  from  that  power,  France  can  form  no  reason- 
able hopes  of  assistance  in  the  U.  S.  except  from  a  few  corrupt 
men,  a  few  desperate  adventurers,  and  a  few,  who  apparently 
would  be  willing  to  sacrifice  even  their  own  country  to  their 
malignant  passions.  The  Vermont  Gentlemen  in  the  Senate, 
who  you  know  are  persons  of  information  and  stability,  assure  me 
that  the  Inhabitants  of  their  State  are  perfectly  well  disposed 
towards  their  neighbours  in  Canada  and  the  British  Government 
there  established. 

"  We  are  not  without  apprehensions  that  France  means  to  regain 
Louisiana,  and  to  renew  the  ancient  plan  of  her  Monarch,  of  cir- 
cumscribing and  encircling  what  now  constitutes  the  Atlantic 
States.  To  the  execution  of  such  a  plan,  so  dangerous  to  our 
union  and  peace,  every  real  American  must  be  firmly  opposed." 


T.  Sedgwick  to  R.  King. 

My  Dear  Sir  :  Philadelphia,  24  June,  1797. 

.  The  Convention  of  the  Legislature  was  generally,  I 
believe  universally,  approved  by  the  friends  of  government  and 
declaredly  by  all  the  Jacobins.  The  former,  at  the  commence- 
ment of  the  session,  warmly  approved  the  sentiments  expressed  in 
the  Prest's  speech.  War  must,  if  possible,  be  avoided  ;  a  redress 
of  our  injuries  must  be  obtained.  For  these  purposes,  a  new 
attempt  must  be  made  to  negotiate,  &  to  render  its  success  prob- 
able, manly  preparations  must  be  made.  This  was  the  language 
held  by  all  our  friends,  and  altho'  the  reasons  for  such  a  system 
of  measures  have  been  strengthened  and  increased  by  events, 
which,  since  that  time,  have  been  disclosed,  and  altho'  men  of 
good  disposition,  are  in  fact  a  majority,  yet  all  things  dictated  by 
our  situation  have  been  left  undone. 

To  account  for  these  apparent  contradictions,  I  am  sorry  to 
state  a  fact,  which  to  my  mind  is  the  principal  &  perhaps  the  only 
operative  cause,  a  dread  of  the  power  &°  vengeance  of  the  terrible 
Republic.  Some  almost  explicitly  declare  it :  they  talk  of  our 
divided  councils, — that  France  elated  with  victory  will  be  irri- 


1797]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  1 93 

tated  by  any  attempt  to  coerce — that  resistance  in  Europe  is  at  an 
end,  and  that  in  the  event  of  peace  now  certain,  she  can  have  no 
motive  to  quarrel  with  us,  but  on  the  other  hand  will  hope  to 
participate  in  our  commerce,  as  the  means  of  reviving  her  own, 
— that  therefore  she  will  be  disposed  to  conciliate  &c.  &c.  Con- 
comitantly with  arguments  of  this  nature,  the  authors  of  them 
dwell  on  the  necessity  of  avoiding  expence,  and  indeed  to  justify 
themselves  declare  that  any  incurred  at  present  for  defence  or 
protection  would  be  a  waste  of  money.  The  session  is  now  draw- 
ing to  a  close  and  we  shall  separate  after  having  given  to  the 
world  the  most  conclusive  evidence  that  the  contempt  in  which 
France  holds  our  power  of  resistance,  which  is  her  motive  for 
aggression,  is  a  sentiment  well  founded. 

Our  friend  Gerry  is  the  third  of  our  joint  and  several  ministers 
to  France.  No  appointment  could,  in  my  opinion,  have  been 
more  injudicious.  In  justice  to  the  President's  council,  I  ought 
to  tell  you,  that  the  nomination  was  not  the  result  of  their  appro- 
bation, and  in  justice  to  myself,  I  declare  that  it  received  my 
negative.  However  painful,  for  reasons  which  will  be  obvious  to 
you,  it  was  to  withhold  my  consent,  I  could  not  reconcile  to  myself 
to  approve  an  appointment  so  highly  improper.  Messrs.  Read, 
Marshall,  Ross,  Tracy  &  Goodhue  also  voted  against  it. 

I  have  frequently  seen  the  british  commissioners  ;  and  am  much 
pleased  with  them,  particularly  Mr.  McDonald.  I  believe  they 
have  a  disposition  to  conduct  liberally. 

The  House  of  Representatives  did  not  reelect  Mr.  Beckley  as 
their  Clerk.  This  was  resented  not  only  by  himself  but  the  whole 
party,  and  they  were  rendered  furious  by  it.  To  revenge,  Beck- 
ley  has  been  writing  a  pamphlet  mentioned  in  the  enclosed  adver- 
tisement. The  "  authentic  papers  "  there  mentioned  are  those  of 
which  you  perfectly  know  the  history,  formerly  in  the  possession 
of  Messrs.  Monroe,  Muhlenberg  &  Venable.  This  conduct  is 
mean,  base  and  infamous.  It  may  destroy  the  peace  of  a  respect- 
able family,  and  so  gratify  the  diabolical  malice  of  a  detestable 
faction,  but  I  trust  it  cannot  produce  the  intended  effect  of  injur- 
ing the  cause  of  government.  .  .  .  With  much  sincerity  and 
esteem 

Your  affect'e  friend 

Theodore  Sedgwick. 

VOL.  II. — 13 


194  RUFUS  KING.  [1797 

G.  Washington  to  R.  King,  London. 

Mount  Vernon,  25th  June,  1797. 

Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  been  honoured  with  your  letter  of  the  12th  of  Novr.  of  the 
last,  and  6th  of  Feby.  &  26th  of  April  of  the  present  year  ;  and  feel 
myself  much  obliged  by  your  kind  &  prompt  attention  to  the  pub- 
lication of  the  Decree  of  the  High  Court  of  Chancery,  of  the  State 
of  Virginia  ;  the  evidence  of  which  you  were  pleased  to  forward 
in  the  London  Gazette. 

As  you  will  have  the  Political  situation  of  this  country  trans- 
mitted to  you  from  the  proper  Department,  and,  no  doubt,  will 
be  informed  of  the  causes  wch.  have  produced  it  and  which 
create  a  continual  opposition  to  the  Administration,  detailed  with 
more  accuracy  by  such  of  your  friends  as  are  at  or  near  the  foun- 
tain of  intelligence,  than  I  could  do,  I  shall  say  but  little  more  on 
the  subject  of  Politics,  than  that  matters  are  pretty  much  in  the 
train  you  left  them  ;  and  that  it  is  my  firm  belief  that  no  occur- 
rence or  event,  of  whatsoever  kind  or  nature  it  may  be,  will 
change  the  sentiments,  or  (which  perhaps  would  be  more  correct) 
the  conduct  of  some  characters  amongst  us. 

However  much  to  be  regretted  this  is,  by  those  who  think  dif- 
ferently, yet,  having  taken  my  seat  in  the  Shade  of  my  Vine  & 
Fig  tree,  I  shall  endeavour  to  view  things  in  the  "  calm  lights  of 
mild  Philosophy  "  ;  persuaded  that  if  ever  a  crisis  should  arise  to 
call  forth  the  good  sense  &  spirit  of  the  People,  no  deficiency  in 
either  will  be  found. 

For  the  interesting  details  you  have  had  the  goodness  to  com- 
municate in  your  several  letters,  I  pray  you  to  accept  my  thanks. 
It  is  reported,  and  with  a  confidence  which  gives  it  a  currency, 
that  the  preliminaries  of  Peace  between  France  &  Austria  are 
actually  signed.  For  the  sake  of  humanity,  I  hope  it  is  true,  but 
it  is  an  accommodation  of  the  differences  between  the  former  & 
Great  Britain,  that  is  to  produce  harmony  in  this  country  ;  for 
nothing  short  of  that,  while  there  is  a  party  determined  to  advo- 
cate French  measures  under  all  circumstances,  &  to  withdraw 
this  country  from  that  tried  neutrality,  which  its  policy  adopted 
&  the  administration  has  adhered  to,  can  effect  this  purpose. 

Let  me  ask  the  favor  of  you  to  present  me  in  respectful  terms 


1797]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  1 95 

to  Mrs.  King,  and  that  you  would  be  assured  of  the  great  esteem 
&  regard  with  which 

I  am,  Dear  Sir,  your  most  obedt.  Hble.  Servt. 

Geo.  Washington. 


R.  King  to  A.  Hamilton.* 

London,  June  27th,  1797. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Lord  Malmesbury  will  leave  London  in  three  or  four  days  for 
Lisle,  where  the  conferences  between  this  country  and  France  are 
to  be  held.  Opinions  fluctuate  concerning  the  probability  of 
peace.  A  struggle  evidently  exists  in  France  between  the  Direc- 
tory and  the  Legislature  ;  in  the  latter  of  which  bodies  it  is  sup- 
posed there  is  a  sincere  desire  of  peace. 

Some  late  proceedings  in  the  Legislature,  or  rather  in  the 
Council  of  Five  Hundred,  give  occasion  to  hope  that  our  affairs 
are  in  train  to  assume  a  more  friendly  appearance. 

If,  as  many  assert,  the  public  opinion  is  friendly  to  America,  it 
will  be  employed  by  the  Legislature  against  the  Directory,  which 
at  this  moment  is  viewed  as  a  rival  power.  We  have  just  received 
the  President's  speech  :  it  has  arrived  at  a  critical  hour.  You 
will  perceive  by  newspapers  that  all  Italy  will  be  overturned. 
Venice  is  no  more  ;  and  Genoa  has  been  completely  revolution- 
ized by  Citizen  Faypoult,  the  Minister  of  France. 

Portugal  sees,  but  seems  unable  to  escape  her  fate. 

Though  these  are  days  of  wonder,  still  one  dares  not  believe 
all  we  hear.  The  march  already  made  by  France  has  astonished 
and  confounded  every  beholder — and  we  are  told  that  she  medi- 
tates and  will  attempt  projects  still  more  gigantic  than  those  she 
has  executed — plans  which  will  operate  a  change  in  the  whole  face 
of  Europe,  and  which  extend  to  every  other  quarter  of  the  globe. 
Russia  may  be  able  to  preserve  her  dominions  from  the  fire  that 
is  passing  over  the  neighbouring  countries.  This  nation  has 
lately  renewed  her  commercial  treaty  with  Russia,  and  by  an 
arrangement  of  their  mutual  interests  may  strengthen  their  com- 
mon defence.  It  may  be  worth  remarking  that  during  this 
negotiation  Russia  never  even  proposed  the  project  of  the  armed 

*    Works  of  Hamilton,  vi.,  260. 


I96  RUFUS  KING.  [1797 

neutrality,  so  that  the  omission  of  the  requisite  provisions  on 
that  subject  may  be  considered  as  an  abandonment  of  the  system 
by  Russia. 

Russia  is  to  be  treated  in  the  British  ports  upon  the  same  foot- 
ing as  the  most  favored  European  nation.     Farewell. 

Yours,  &c,  &c. 


T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

"  Department  of  State,  July  8,  1797. 
"  Dear  Sir  : 

"  .  .  .  The  letter  from  Governor  Blount  to  Carey  has 
been  considered  by  both  Houses  of  Congress.  .  .  .  This  in- 
tended Impeachment  induced  Governor  Blount  and  his  friends 
to  endeavour  to  postpone  a  decision  on  a  question  of  expulsion 
(from  the  Senate)  until  the  trial  on  the  Impeachment  should  be 
had  ;  when,  if  found  guilty,  his  removal  from  office  would  be  a 
part  of  his  sentence.  .  .  .  But  the  impropriety  of  suffering  a 
Senator  incontrovertibly  guilty  of  the  crimes  exhibited  in  his 
Letter  to  Carey,  to  retain  his  seat  was  stated  with  great  force  and 
justice  ;  and  after  hearing  Governor  Blount  by  his  Counsel 
(Messrs.  Ingersoll  and  Dallas),  the  Senate  this  day  pronounced 
the  Sentence  of  Expulsion  with  only  one  dissenting  voice,  Mr. 
Tazewell's — 25  Senators  were  present.  Mess.  Mason,  Stockton, 
Schuyler,  Paine  and  Langdon,  together  with  the  Vice  President 
were  absent.     Mr.  Bradford  was  President  pro  tempore. 

Precisely  to  understand  the  nature  of  Governor  Blount's  offence, 
it  will  be  necessary  to  remind  and  inform  you  that  Col.  Hawkins 
(whom  you  well  know)  is  the  actual  Superintendent  of  the  United 
States  for  the  four  Southern  Indian  Nations  ;  that  Dinsmoor  is  a 
particular  agent  of  the  U.  S.  residing  among  the  Cherokees  ;  that 
Byers  is  the  factor  charged  with  the  public  store  at  Tallico- 
Blockhouse,  for  carrying  on  trade  with  the  Indians,  and  that 
Carey,  to  whom  the  Letter  was  written,  was  the  Interpreter  regu- 
larly appointed  and  in  constant  pay  of  the  United  States  for  the 
Cherokee  Nation.  Carey  had  been  employed  in  the  same  capacity 
during  Governor  Blount's  Superintendency,  and  doubtless  was 


1797]  LIFE   AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  igj 

supposed  by  the  latter  to  be  devoted  to  his  interest,  and  abso- 
lutely subject  to  his  direction.  Chisholm  also  used  to  be  an 
agent  of  the  Governor  and  was  often  employed  by  him  in  Indian 
affairs,  carrying  messages  into  their  nations  and  repeatedly  con- 
ducting the  Chiefs  to  and  from  Philadelphia.  Chisholm  came 
on  here  last  winter  with  a  party  of  the  Cherokee  Chiefs.  You 
will  see  by  Mr.  Liston's  note  to  me,  dated  the  second  instant,  that 
several  persons  were  concerned  in  offering  to  him  the  project  ex- 
hibited in  Governor  Blount's  Letter.  But  their  names  are  not  yet 
known.     .     .     ."  * 

The  following  letter  from  Mr.  Liston  will  be  interesting 
in    this    connection    as  showing  the    circumstances    under 

*  "  Along  with  the  papers  transmitted  to  Congress  in  relation  to  the  Spanish 
business  was  the  copy  of  a  letter  from  William  Blount,  late  Governor  of  the 
Territory  south  of  the  Ohio,  and  now  one  of  the  Senators  from  Tennessee,  ad- 
dressed to  a  recently  appointed  Indian  agent  (Carey)  among  the  Cherokees,  by 
whom  it  had  been  communicated  to  the  President.  It  appeared  from  this  let- 
ter, as  well  as  from  information  furnished  by  Liston,  the  new  British  Minister, 
of  whom  explanations  had  been  asked,  that  Blount  was  engaged  in  an  intrigue 
for  transferring  New  Orleans  and  the  neighboring  districts  to  the  British  by 
means  of  a  joint  expedition,  Britain  to  furnish  a  naval  force,  and  a  co-operating 
corps  of  backwoodsmen  and  Indians  to  be  raised  on  the  western  frontier  of  the 
United  States.  Desperately  involved  in  extensive  land  speculations  in  Ten- 
nessee, and  wishing  to  relieve  himself  by  getting  up  an  English  company  for 
the  purchase  of  his  lands,  Blount  dreaded  the  re-transfer  to  the  French,  a  mili- 
tary and  not  a  commercial  nation,  of  the  outlet  of  the  Mississippi,  a  transfer 
expected,  and  indeed  supposed  by  some  to  be  already  made.  Conceiving  that 
it  would  be  for  the  interest  of  the  Western  people,  as  well  as  for  his  own  pri- 
vate benefit  as  a  land  speculator,  that  Louisiana  should  pass  into  the  hands  of 
the  English,  he  relied  upon  his  influence  with  the  backwoodsmen  of  Tennessee, 
and  with  the  Southern  Indians,  among  whom  he  had  long  acted  as  agent,  to  raise 
a  necessary  force.  He  had  engaged  as  his  chief  co-operator  one  Chisholm,  a 
wild  backwoodsman,  well  acquainted  with  the  Spanish  posts,  and  who  had  con- 
ceived against  the  Spanish  authorities,  from  some  collisions  with  them,  a  bitter 
hatred  and  an  ardent  desire  of  revenge,  and,  in  his  letter,  laid  before  Congress, 
he  had  sought  to  engage  in  his  schemes  the  Indian  agent  to  whom  it  was 
addressed. 

"  It  did  not  appear  that  the  British  minister  had  given  to  it  any  other  coun- 
tenance beyond  yielding  to  Chisholm's  earnest  request  to  be  sent  to  England  to 
lay  the  project  before  the  British  ministry,  by  whom  it  was  rejected  on  the  very 
ground  that  it  might  interfere  with  the  neutrality  of  the  United  States." — 
Hildreth's  His.  of  U.  S.,  2d  Ser.,  vol.  ii.,  pp.  88-90. 


I98  RUFUS  KING,  [1797 


which  he  introduced  Mr.  Chisholm  to  his  correspondent  in 
England. 


R.    LlSTON    TO    J.    H.    GOVERTS,    ESQ. 

Philadelphia,  16th  March,  1797. 

Dear  Sir  : 

I  beg  leave  to  recommend  to  your  attention  and  good  offices  the 
bearer  of  this  Letter,  Mr.  John  Chisholm,  a  native  of  Scotland, 
but  settled  from  his  early  years  in  this  Country.  He  goes  to  Eu- 
rope to  dispose  of  certain  Lands  situated  in  different  parts  of 
America,  but  particularly  in  the  South  :  and  if  you  can  in  this 
point  render  him  any  service,  you  will  personally  oblige  me.  I 
beg  however  that  before  you  do  anything  definitive  &  particularly 
before  you  either  advance  or  even  promise  money,  you  will  natu- 
rally consider  the  long  letter  I  wrote  you  on  this  subject  on  the 
13th  of  last  month.  This  I  say  so  far  as  it  regards  myself  ;  as  to 
others  I  give  you  full  liberty  to  do,  and  to  allow  him  to  do,  what- 
ever you  please. 

My  injunctions  on  this  subject  are  the  more  positive,  as  I  have 
lately  seen  Capt.  W,  from  the  Genessee  Country  &  listened  with 
a  pleasure  mixed  with  regret,  which  I  cannot  describe,  to  his  de- 
scription of  the  new  Settlements  he  is  carrying  on  there.  Upon 
my  honour,  it  is  enough  to  make  a  man  go  stark  staring  mad. 
However,  mum  !  I  do  not  hold  this  language  to  my  friends  in 
London,  and  I  beg  you  never  may. 

I  do  not  think  it  impossible  that  Mr.  Chisholm  may  push  on 
to  London,  if  he  is  not  completely  successful  at  Hamburgh.  If 
so,  and  if  he  applies  to  you  for  a  recommendation  to  any  of  your 
correspondents  in  London,  I  beg  you  will  not  refuse  it  to  him.  I 
do  not  intend  he  should  return  re  infecta,  and  I  am  well  acquainted 
with  your  goodness.  .  .  .  The  damned  French  Rogues  are 
playing  the  Devil  with  this  country,  as  they  have  done  with  all 
the  world  ;  but,  as  you  used  to  say,  when  things  are  at  the  worst, 
they  must  mend.     Amen,  so  be  it. 

With  perfect  truth,  your  most  obedient  and  faithful  humble 
Servant, 

R.  Liston. 


1797]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  1 99 

Wm.  Bingham  to  R.  King. 

Philada.,  July  10,  1797. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  received  your  Letter  of  April  26th,  with  several  inclosures 
from  the  Marquis  of  Lansdown,  who,  I  am  pleased  to  find,  is 
much  gratified  with  the  Portrait  of  the  President.  Stewart  has 
been  much  disappointed  in  his  Hopes  relative  to  Profits,  which  he 
expected  to  derive  from  this  Picture.  He  had  wrote  to  his  friend 
West,  requesting  him  to  engage  an  able  artist  to  execute  an  En- 
graving therefrom,  which,  from  the  general  admiration  the  picture 
attracted,  might  have  been  disposed  of  to  great  advantage  in  this 
Country.  He  has  not  heard  from  Mr.  West,  &  he  is  fearful  that 
Lord  Lansdown's  obliging  character  may  induce  him  to  permit 
some  other  artist  to  take  off  the  Impression.* 

Congress  has  finished  its  Sessions.  Its  acts  during  that  Period, 
partake  strongly  of  a  Disposition  towards  Peace,  thro'  friendly 
Negotiation.  Many  of  our  Friends,  who  believe  war  with  France 
inevitable,  wished  the  public  councils  to  assume  that  appearance. 
In  the  meantime  our  Commerce  is  much  molested,  &  Bankruptcies 
are  already  happening  in  our  great  Towns.  A  stagnation  is 
taking  place  in  business  of  all  kinds  ;  the  Wages  of  Labor  are 
lowering  ;  Property  of  all  kinds  is  much  diminished  in  value  ; 
Disappointment  in  their  views,  joined  to  a  great  scarcity  of 
money,  has  put  an  end  to  the  various  extravagant  Speculations, 
which  disgraced  the  Country  ;  many  of  those,  who  engaged 
deeply,  are  ruined  &  involved  great  numbers  in  their  Mis- 
fortunes. 

A  general  Hope  prevails,  that  Peace  will  take  place  in  Europe 
as  the  result  of  the  present  Negotiations.  This  alone  will  heal 
our  Misunderstanding  with  the  French  Republic.  A  Commission 
of  Envoys  extraordinary  has  been  instituted  ;  it  is  questionable 
whether  they  will  be  received,  &  still  more  doubtful  whether,  if 
received,  their  Negotiation  will  be  successful.  If  war  should  en- 
sue, I  dread  the  Disorganization  and  extreme  Disorder  which  will 
arise  out  of  it,  especially  in  the  Southern  Parts  of  the  Union. 

The  public  papers  will  inform  you  of  the  Expulsion  of  Gov. 
Blount  from  the  Senate.    A  Letter,  which  you  will  find  published, 

*  This  happened,  and  thus  Stuart  lost  the  benefit. 


200  RUFUS  KING.  [1797 

he  wrote  to  the  Interpreter  of  the  Cherokee  Nation  was  the  Cause 
of  it.  A  Project  was  set  on  foot,  ostensibly  to  engage  &  encour- 
age the  British  to  attack  the  Spanish  Settlements.  But  it  rather 
appears  that  the  real  object  was  to  alarm  the  Spaniards,  and  when 
the  Agents  in  this  Business  had  created  serious  Apprehensions  in 
their  Minds,  then  to  offer  their  Services  to  arrest  or  oppose  its 
Progress,  from  which  they  expected  to  derive  immense  advan- 
tages. This  nefarious  Scheme  was  dark  &  intricate,  &  the  full 
Extent  of  its  Views  is  not  yet  unravelled.  It  has  defeated  the 
Provisions  of  the  Spanish  Treaty,  as  relative  to  the  Cession  of 
Territory,  near  the  Boundary  Line,  &  without  great  Prudence,  at 
the  present  moment,  on  the  part  of  our  Government  may  involve 
us  in  a  war  with  that  nation. 

I  will  write  to  Baron  Hompesch  on  the  Subject  of  his  Proposals 
relative  to  the  Transportation  of  his  Germans  to  this  Country  :  I 
do  not  think  that  I  can  offer  him  much  Encouragement.  Such 
an  arrangement  can  only  succeed  after  a  Variety  of  necessary 
Measures  have  been  pursued  preparatory  to  their  Arrival.  How- 
ever I  will  present  the  Matter  to  him  in  different  Points  of  View, 
so  that  he  shall  be  fully  acquainted  with  the  Subject  &  be  able  to 
act  with  Confidence. 

With  great  sincerity  yours, 

Wm.  Bingham. 


R.  King  to  Wm.  Hindman. 

London,  July  15,  1797. 
Dear  Sir  : 

It  was  some  time  after  my  arrival  here  that  I  received  the  Let- 
ter that  you  wrote  to  me  just  before  my  embarkation.  My  Brother 
accompanied  me  as  my  Secretary,  but  as  he  is  destined  to  the 
Profession  of  the  Law,  and  had  not  been  admitted  to  the  Bar 
when  he  left  America,  he  has  returned  home  in  order  to  pursue 
his  Studies.  This  has  occasioned  a  vacancy  in  the  place  of  my 
Secretary,  which  I  am  willing  should  be  filled  by  Mr.  Helmsley. 
Inclosed  is  a  letter  for  him  which  I  request  you  to  deliver.  Mr. 
Helmsley  will  be  one  of  my  family  in  all  respects,  except  that  he 
will  not  lodge  in  my  house.     This  was  the  footing  on  which  Mr. 


1797]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  201 

Deas  was  with  my  Predecessor.  .  .  .  My  table  will  be  that  of 
my  Secretary,  and  his  servant  will  eat  with  mine.  I  mention 
these  small  circumstances  that  no  misconception  may  take  place 
respecting  them.  If  I  have  but  a  very  slight  knowledge  of  Mr. 
Helmsley  that  indeed  has  left  favorable  impressions  of  his 
character  ;  I  rely  essentially  upon  your  knowledge  and  recom- 
mendation of  it.  I  shall  be  inclined  to  treat  him  as  a  friend,  if 
he  will  put  it  in  my  power.     .     .     . 

Farewell,  my  worthy  friend,  and  accept 
the  assurance  of  my  sincere  Esteem  and  Friendship, 

Rufus  King. 


CHAPTER  XVI. 

Maryland  Bank  Stock — Mr.  King  advises  no  partial  Regulations  relative  to  the 
Detention  of  Seamen — Provision  of  Money  to  meet  Obligations  under 
Treaty  with  Tunis — Sir  Joseph  Banks  asks  for  Passport  for  Mr.  Masson  to 
go  to  America  to  collect  Plants — Letter  of  R.  King  to  M.  Talleyrand,  in- 
troducing Col.  Trumbull  and  Asking  his  friendly  Influence  to  aid  in  remov- 
ing the  Troubles  between  France  and  the  United  States — R.  King  to  the 
Secretary  of  State — France  probably  owns  Louisiana — Genl.  Allen's  Claim 
— T.  Pickering  on  Gov.  Blount's  Conspiracy — R.  King  to  A.  Hamilton — 
Gloomy  Views  relative  to  Affairs  in  Europe — Letters  from  G.  Cabot  and 
Wm.  Hindman — R.  King  to  T.  Jefferson — S.  Williams  relative  to  Genl. 
Lafayette. 

R.  King  to  Lord  Grenville. 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  July  19,  1797. 
My  Lord  : 

I  have  the  honor  to  send  your  Lordship  inclosed  copies  of  my 
Letter  of  the  10th  of  February  and  also  of  a  Letter  that  some  time 
ago  I  wrote  to  the  Lord  Chancellor  respecting  the  Maryland  Bank 
Stock.  I  have  the  satisfaction  to  add  that  the  Lord  Chancellor 
lately  informed  me  that  the  Certificate  (which  for  many  years  has 
been  in  the  Court  of  Chancery)  is  now  in  a  situation  in  which  a 
Transfer  of  the  Stock  could  be  made  to  me,  provided  his  Majesty 
under  his  Sign  Manual  would  give  an  order  for  that  Purpose. 

Since  the  date  of  my  Letter  to  the  Chancellor,  I  have  ascer- 
tained that  the  other  persons  who  claimed  to  be  indemnified  from 
the  Fund  for  their  Losses  in  Maryland,  have  as  American  Loyal- 
ists been  compensated  for  these  Losses  by  his  Majesty's  Govern- 
ment, so  that  the  Claim  is  freed  from  those  demands,  which  are 
supposed  formerly  to  have  obstructed  the  Transfer.  I  take  the 
Liberty  to  request  your  Lordship's  interference  for  the  Purpose 
of  Compleating,  in  such  manner  as  shall  be  deemed  adviseable, 

202 


1797]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  203 

the  Transfer  of  the   said  Stock  to  me  for  the  use  of  the  State  of 
Maryland. 

With  perfect  Consideration  &  Respect,  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Lord  Grenville. 

Private. 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  July  20,  1797. 
My  Lord  : 

From  what  has  taken  place  in  the  Court  of  Chancery,  I  flatter 
myself  that  there  no  longer  exists  any  objection  agt.  the  Transfer 
of  the  Maryland  Bk.  Stock  :  my  only  remaining  concern  is,  that 
the  Business  should  be  finished  without  Delay.  Since  the  Trans- 
fer is  to  be  made,  I  take  the  liberty  to  express  to  your  Lordship 
my  earnest  wish,  that  it  may  take  place  as  soon  as  possible.  I 
think  I  do  not  deceive  myself  in  supposing  that  the  satisfactory 
settlement  of  this  Affair  at  the  present  juncture  may  be  attended 
with  consequences  mutually  beneficial  to  both  Countries. 

I  presume  that  the  order  will  enjoin  the  Accountant  General 
of  the  Court  of  Chancery  to  pay  over  such  Dividends  as  he  may 
have  received  since  the  Stock  has  stood  in  his  name,  and  which 
may  not  have  been  invested  in  further  Sums  of  capital  Stock. 

I  intreat  your  Lordship's  attention  to  this  Subject  before  the 
King  goes  to  Weymouth  ;  and  beg  you  to  accept  the  assurance  of 
the  sincere  Respect  and  Esteem,  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

London,  July  27,  1797. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  was  a  few  days  since  informed  that  Instructions  were  by  the 

last  vessel  sent  to  Mr.  Liston  to  propose  an  article  to  be  added  to 

the  late  Treaty,  which  should  stipulate  that  all  Deserters  from  the 

Army  and  Navy  of  the  two  countries  should  be  delivered  up  and 

obliged  to  return  to  the  service  from  which  they  deserted.     This 

Instruction,  it  is  understood,  has  been  given  in  consequence  of 


204  RUFUS  KING.  [1797 

the  inconvenience  experienced  by  the  British  Ships  of  war  in  our 
Ports.  We  cannot  with  propriety  object  to  such  just  and  con- 
venient Regulations  as  may  be  calculated  to  promote  and  secure 
a  good  Understanding  and  friendly  intercourse  between  us  and 
other  Nations.  But  that  proposed  embraces  only  part  of  a  Sub- 
ject of  great  Extent  and  Importance  ;  and  it  does  not  appear  to 
me  that  it  would  consist  with  good  Policy  to  enter  into  any  par- 
tial Stipulations  respecting  it ;  more  especially  when  our  repeated 
Overtures  to  adjust  the  entire  Subject  on  Principles  of  liberality 
and  mutual  advantage,  if  not  neglected,  have  not  been  received 
in  a  manner  we  had  a  Right  to  expect. 

I  have  received  a  letter  from  Col.  Humphries,  dated  the  21st 
of  June,  in  which  he  informs  me  that  it  is  probable  that  our  Peace 
with  Tunis  has  been  concluded  and  that  for  the  purpose  of  cora- 
pleating  our  Treaties  with  the  three  principal  Barbary  Powers,  he 
may  be  obliged  to  draw  on  the  House  of  Barings  for  170,000  or 
200,000  dollars  ;  he  adds  that  he  has  no  other  resource  but  the 
Credit  of  the  United  States  in  London,  and  that  a  failure  in  the 
procuring  of  this  Sum,  may  put  at  Risque  what  we  have  already 
expended  to  accomplish  this  object.  The  House  of  Barings  are 
already  in  advance  a  few  Thousand  Pounds  beyond  the  Funds 
remitted  to  them.  You  are  sensible  that  I  have  no  authority  to 
enter  into  any  engagements  upon  this  Subject,  the  whole  concern 
having  been  committed  to  Col.  Humphries. 

I  have  not  however  on  that  account  omitted  to  employ  the  best 
means  in  my  power  to  make  a  provisional  arrangement  for  the 
advance  of  this  money,  should  Col.  Humphries  be  under  the 
necessity  of  drawing  for  it.  Accordingly  the  Mess.  Hopes  and 
the  House  of  Barings  have  agreed  to  accept  and  pay  Col. 
Humphries'  Bills.  The  Business  will  be  conducted  by  the  House 
of  Barings.  I  have  informed  Col.  Humphries  of  this  arrange- 
ment and  shall  in  a  few  days  be  able  to  send  you  Copies  of  the 
Letters  between  Col.  Humphries  and  me  and  between  me  and  the 
Mess.  Barings  ;  these  will  give  you  full  information  of  the  terms 
upon  which  the  money  will  be  advanced  by  the  Mess.  Hopes  & 
Barings.     .     .     . 

My  letter  of  the  26th  of  June  will  apprise  you  of  the  Regula- 
tions I  have  presented  to  Mr.  Bayard  concerning  the  Receit, 
Custody  and  payment  of  the  Monies.     (Paid  under  the  Decisions 


1797]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  205 

of  the  Commissioners  for  settling  claims  &  damages  against  Eng- 
land.) The  affairs  of  some  of  the  Claimants  have  been  deranged 
and  their  Creditors  employ  every  means  to  seize  their  property 
wherever  it  can  be  found.  Among  these  means  they  have  served 
attachments  upon  Mr.  Bayard  to  arrest  any  property  which  may 
come  into  his  Hands.  This  circumstance  joined  to  an  opinion 
that  my  Superintendance  of  the  Payments  might  be  advantageous 
have  induced  me  to  deposit  the  Money  received  on  the  Awards  in 
the  Bank  of  England  to  my  Credit.  I  have  at  the  same  time  by 
procuration  appointed  Mr.  Bayard  to  draw  for  and  pay  the  Money 
to  the  respective  Claimants.  This  Arrangement  will  disappoint 
the  Schemes  of  Arrestation  that  otherwise  might  have  been  prac- 
tised, and  as  the  Receit  Book  will  show  the  sums  drawn  and  the 
names  of  the  persons  to  whom  paid,  this  check  will  be  in  favor  of 
a  correct  execution  of  this  Trust. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem,  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


Sir  Joseph  Banks  to  R.  King. 

Soho  Square,  July  29,  1797. 
Sir  : 

The  King  having  been  graciously  pleased  to  give  orders  that 
Mr.  Francis  Masson,  a  Botanic  Gardener  who  has  for  many  years 
been  employed  to  collect  Plants  for  the  Royal  Gardens  at  Kew  in 
Various  parts  of  Europe,  Africa  &  America,  do  proceed  to  upper 
Canada  to  collect  and  transmit  from  thence  to  Kew  such  Plants 
as  he  may  discover  which  have  not  yet  been  described  by  Botani- 
cal Writers  ;  and  it  having  been  represented  to  his  Majesty  that 
the  most  commodious  Rout  Mr.  Masson  can  chuse  is  by  the  way 
of  New  York,  I  have  his  Majesty's  command  to  solicit  your 
Excellency  to  furnish  him  with  the  necessary  Passports  for  his 
intended  journey. 

I  beg  leave  at  the  same  time  to  state  to  your  Excellency  that  it 
appears  to  me  very  desireable  that  Mr.  Masson  should  during  the 
time  of  his  Residence  in  upper  Canada,  visit  the  immense  Tract 
of  high  Land  between  the  Lakes  Michigan  and  Huron,  from 
whence  numerous  rivers  take  their  Rise,  some  of  which  discharge 
their  waters  into  the  Western  &  some  into  the  Eastern  Lakes, 


206  RUFUS  KING.  [1797 

provided  that  the  States  of  America  are  not  likely  to  make  any 
objection  to  his  undertaking  this  journey,  of  which  I  beg  your 
Excellency's  opinion  and  also  your  advice  how  to  proceed  in  case 
it  is  deemed  proper  that  Mr.  Masson  should  Receive  it  before 
he  undertakes  to  carry  on  his  Enquiries  within  the  American 
Boundaries.     I  have  the  honor  to  be 

with  respect,  esteem  &  regard,  your  Excellencies 

Obedient  Hble  Servant 

Jos.  Banks. 

It  cannot  be  without  interest  to  read  the  following  letter 
to  M.  Talleyrand,  and  especially  in  view  of  his  conduct 
towards  the  envoys  who  had  been  sent  from  the  United 
States  to  endeavor  to  reconcile  the  two  nations  and  re-estab- 
lish the  good  feeling  which  had  formerly  existed.  How 
entirely  Mr.  King  misunderstood  the  wily  and  dishonest 
statesman  at  that  time  is  only  too  evident. 

R.  King  to  Mons.  Talleyrand,  &c. 

London,  3d  Aug.,  1797. 
Dear  Sir  : 

My  Countryman  and  friend  Col.  John  Trumbull  is  going  to  Stutt- 
gard  for  the  purpose  of  receiving  a  Plate  that  has  been  engraved 
for  him  in  that  City  from  a  Picture  which  he  painted  some  years 
since  in  Commemoration  of  a  military  Event  that  occurred  in  our 
Revolutionary  War.  It  would  very  much  shorten  his  journey  if 
he  could  receive  a  Passport  to  go  and  return  thro'  France.  I 
therefore  take  the  liberty  to  state  to  you  his  wishes  and  if  no 
public  consideration  forbids  it,  I  think  I  can  rely  upon  your  dis- 
position to  gratify  Col.  Trumbull  in  his  request.  If  the  Passport 
is  lodged  with  the  Mayor  or  Municipality  of  Calais,  he  will  with- 
out difficulty  find  it  on  his  arrival  at  that  Place. 

I  cannot  suffer  the  present  occasion  to  pass,  without  offering 
you  my  congratulations  upon  your  appointment  to  the  office  of 
Foreign  Affairs,  a  department  always  and  in  every  country  im- 
portant ;  but  nowhere  so  much  so  as  with  you  at  the  present 
Juncture.  Neither  will  I  affect  to  conceal  from  you  that  the 
satisfaction  with  which  I  have  heard  of  your  choice  has  not  been 


1797]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  207 

purely  disinterested.  We  have  been  accustomed  to  converse  on 
every  subject  with  the  greatest  freedom  ;  and  though  I  ought  to 
impose  upon  myself  a  reserve  that  official  situation  on  both  sides 
may  seem  to  recommend,  yet  I  prefer  to  express  my  sentiments 
with  that  frankness  which  you  approve  and  practice  and  which 
always  belongs  to  important  occasions. 

You  know,  because  you  have  resided  among  us,  that  we  desire 
to  have  neither  attachment  nor  aversion  to  any  Nation.  France 
has  no  cause  to  believe  that  we  prefer  any  other  to  her,  and  you 
can  pronounce,  if  we  had  an  aversion  to  any  Nation,  that  it  would 
not  be  to  yours.  Not  yet  recovered  from  the  Derangement  in 
our  affairs  produced  by  our  Revolutionary  War,  busily  employed 
in  watching  the  operations  of  our  new  organization,  and  in  gaining 
by  our  Union  Strength  and  Consistency,  we  were  forbid  by  all 
the  Duties  of  Patriotism  from  suffering  ourselves  to  become 
Parties  in  a  war  in  which  from  situation,  we  could  afford  little  aid, 
and  should  be  certain  to  suffer  great,  if  not  irreparable  Evils.  Our 
Policy  has,  therefore,  been  by  practising  Justice  to  all  and  by  ob- 
serving the  most  scrupulous  and  exact  neutrality,  to  establish  and 
confirm  our  State,  to  remain  in  peace.  Unfortunately  our  success 
has  not  corresponded  with  our  Expectations  ;  you  witnessed 
the  Posture  of  our  affairs  when  we  suffered  by  the  British  Depre- 
dations on  our  Commerce,  and  you  saw  its  influence  upon  the 
public  opinion,  and  you  also  perfectly  understand  the  motives 
which  guided  us  in  the  Measures  we  adopted  to  procure  Compen- 
sation for  our  Losses  and  to  maintain  our  National  Peace. 

The  afflicting  Events  which  have  since  occurred  are  notorious: 
but  their  extent  and  tendency  are,  I  apprehend,  greater  and 
more  consequential  than  has  been  supposed.  It  is  neither  France 
nor  America  which  will  be  benefitted  by  the  angry  Passions  which 
so  many  causes  unite  to  provoke.  This  is  a  fruitful  and  interest- 
ing topic  :  to  your  mind  it  is  not  necessary  to  present  its  details  ; 
you  will  view  the  subject  in  the  extensive  consequences  with 
which  it  is  connected,  and  I  am  confident  that  you  will  exhibit  it 
in  the  light  in  which  a  wise  Policy  requires  it  should  be  seen. 
Without  intimating  how  much,  in  my  poor  opinion,  the  Character 
of  the  future  Connections  of  America  with  Europe  will  depend 
upon  the  Sentiments  of  France  concerning  Questions  which  have 
arisen  and  must  be  decided,  I  will  only  add  to  these  private  and 


208  RUFUS  KING.  [1797 

personal  observations,  that  from  the  moment  I  heard  that  you  had 
been  named  to  the  Department  of  Foreign  Affairs,  I  have  felt  a 
satisfactory  Confidence  that  the  Cause  of  the  increasing  Misunder- 
standing between  us  would  cease,  and  that  the  overtures  meditated 
by  our  Government  would  not  fail  to  restore  Harmony  and  Friend- 
ship between  the  two  Countries. 

Accept,  my  dear  Sir,  the  assurances  of  the  Sincere  attachment 

&  Esteem,  &c,  &c, 

Rufus  King. 

R.  King  to  R.  Troup. 
Dear  Sir  :  London,  Aug.  4,  1797- 

I  promised  myself  a  treasure  in  your  correspondence,  for  really 
one's  friends  are  so  occupied,  or  so  little  inclined  to  give  them- 
selves the  trouble  of  writing  even  the  familiar  incidents  which 
occur  from  day  to  day,  that  when  absent  we  know  very  little  of 
what  is  passing  at  Home.  You  began  with  me  in  a  way  that  prom- 
ised to  leave  me  no  regrets  on  this  subject,  but  unfortunately  I 
have  reed,  but  a  single  letter  from  you  since  your  promotion. 
Now,  my  dear  Judge,  I  must  appeal  to  your  Equity,  for  I  think 
you  are  a  chancellor  as  well  as  a  common  Law  Judge,  and  with 
its  assistance  endeavour  to  enforce  your  engagement  to  be  a 
punctual,  nay  a  better  correspondent  than  Hamilton,  or  any 
other  of  our  friends  whom  you  sometimes  amuse  yourself  with. 
As  for  Lawrance,  I  have  not  heard  from  him  since  he  became  a 

Senator.     .     .     . 

Farewell,  yrs., 

R.  K. 

Do  you  know,  my  dear  Judge,  that  the  Debates  which  took 
place  in  May  &  June  last  in  a  certain  Assembly,  did  not  afford 
me  any  gratification  ?  Is  it  that  they  were  ill  reported,  or  that 
they  did  not  display  the  true  character  of  our  country  ? 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 
Dear  Sir:  London,  Aug.  5,  1797- 

.  .  .  Great  Secrecy  prevails  concerning  the  Negotiations  at 
Lisle,  which  may  be  protracted  for  many  Months,  and  probably 
are  to  be  very  materially  affected  by  the  result  of  the  Struggle 


1797]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  209 

which  exists  at  Paris  between  the  different  Parties.  The  Refusal 
to  evacuate  the  Spanish  Posts  in  the  Mississippi  according  to  the 
Stipulations  of  the  Treaty  ;  the  Spoliations  committed  upon  our 
Commerce  by  the  Spanish  Privateers,  and  that  under  the  most 
scandalous  pretexts,  joined  to  the  prevalence  of  the  Rumour  that 
Spain  has  actually  ceded  Louisiana  to  France,  are  circumstances 
of  some  weight  in  leading  us  to  apprehend  that  France  has  really 
become  the  Proprietor  of  that  extensive  and  undefined  Region. 

Immediately  on  the  Receit  of  your  Letter  of  the  16th  of  June 
I  communicated  to  Lord  Grenville  the  President's  opinion  and 
wishes  respecting  the  Military  Stores  claimed  by  General  Allen  ;* 
and  in  consequence  thereof,  notwithstanding  this  Government 
has  received  Information  which  was  confidentially  shewn  to  me 
that  the  Arms  were  French  Property,  and  that  General  Allen 
would  lose  nothing  by  their  Condemnation,  I  have  been  assured, 
and  am  satisfied,  that  the  Government  are  disposed  to  restore 
them  without  farther  Enquiry  :  but  the  Captors,  who  have  no  In- 
terest in  the  Question,  refuse  to  consent  to  the  restoration,  and 
persist  in  holding  the  property  for  Trial.  The  process  is  at  a 
stage  when  according  to  the  usual  Custom  of  the  Court,  the  claim- 
ant has  a  Title  to  receive  the  Property  on  bail.  I  have  advised 
General  Allen  to  endeavour  to  obtain  Possession  of  the  Property 
in  this  way,  and,  in  case  he  fails  in  the  attempt,  to  leave  the  claim 
in  the  care  of  his  Counsel  and  to  return  home.     .     .     . 

With  great  Respect  &  Esteem,  &c, 

Rufus  King. 


T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

Department  of  State,  Aug.  5,  1797. 
Dear  Sir  : 

In  my  letter  of  the  8th  of  July  I  gave  you  some  information 
respecting  Governor  Blount's  conspiracy.  The  House  of  Rep- 
resentatives appointed  a  Committee  to  sit  in  the  recess,  with 
power  to  send  for  persons  and  papers.  By  this  authority  they 
sent  and  took  Dr.  Romayne  of  New  York  and  his  papers  ;  but  I 
do  not  learn  that  any  important  discoveries  were  the  consequence. 
The  Party,  who  stick  at  nothing  to  excite  resentment  against 

*  Case  of  the  Olive  Branch. 


210  RUFUS  KING.  [1797 

Great  Britain,  ascribe  the  plot  to  her  Minister,  Mr.  Liston,  and 
pronounce  that  the  British  Government  was  at  the  bottom  of  it. 
But  no  evidence  has  as  yet  appeared  to  warrant  these  charges. 
On  the  contrary,  Mr.  Liston's  frank  declarations,  verbally  and 
in  writing,  have  been  verified,  and  the  discoveries,  as  to  the 
participation  of  the  British  amount  to  no  more  than  this — That 
certain  citizens  of  the  United  States,  of  whom  Capt.  John  Chis- 
holm  was  one,  made  proposals  early  last  winter  to  Mr.  Liston, 
for  an  expedition  against  the  Floridas  and  adjacent  possessions 
of  Spain,  to  be  carried  on  by  land  with  the  aid  of  citizens  of 
the  United  States,  assisted  by  the  Indians,  and  by  sea,  on  the 
part  of  the  British  ;  that  Mr.  Liston  among  other  objections  to 
the  project  offered  these  two,  that  upon  the  plan  proposed  the 
expedition  could  not  be  carried  into  execution  without  viola- 
ting the  neutral  rights  of  the  United  States,  nor  without  employing 
the  Indians  ;  that  he  nevertheless  thought  it  his  duty  to  com- 
municate the  project  to  his  Government,  accompanied  with  his 
objections  ;  and  that  his  Government  rejected  the  proposals,  be- 
cause the  means  suggested  were  inadequate  to  the  object ;  and 
because,  independently  of  all  other  objections,  the  two  reasons 
of  Mr.  Liston  above  mentioned  were  sufficient  to  determine  the 
British  Ministry  not  to  adopt  it.  It  appears  also  that  the  answer 
of  Lord  Grenville  not  arriving  so  soon  as  Chisholm  expected,  he 
became  impatient ;  and  importuned  Mr.  Liston  to  let  him  go  in 
person  to  London  to  tell  his  own  story,  which  with  much  hesita- 
tion and  reluctance  Mr.  Liston  consented,  paying  his  passage. 


R.  King  to  A.  Hamilton.* 

London,  August  6th,  1797. 
Dear  Sir  : 

No  satisfactory  opinion  can  yet  be  formed  concerning  the  ter- 
mination of  the  negotiations  for  peace.  Even  those  who  are  sup- 
posed to  have  the  best  information  are  without  confidence.  On 
the  one  hand,  peace  may  be  concluded  sooner  than  any  one 
thinks  probable.  On  the  other,  the  negotiations  at  Lisle  and 
Montebello  may  be  suddenly  broken  off,  and  France  again  en- 
gaged with  Austria,  as  well  as  England.  A  great  struggle  in  which 

*  Works  of  Hamilton,  vi.,  262. 


1797]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  211 

all  Europe  think  themselves  interested  exists  between  the  two 
Councils  and  a  majority  of  the  Directory,  for  it  is  well  understood 
that  almost  every  question  is  decided  in  this  latter  body  by  three 
against  two.  If  the  Councils  prevail,  peace  is  believed  to  be  more 
probable  ;  if  the  war  continues,  Denmark  and  the  neighboring 
free  cities,  Portugal,  perhaps  Switzerland,  and  even  Greece,  as 
well  as  the  whole  of  Italy  will  be  revolutionized.  I  wish  I  could 
write  to  you  with  the  same  freedom  as  we  could  converse.  How 
far  the  new  order  of  things  is  to  extend,  which  are  still  to  be  over- 
turned, and  who  are  to  be  spared,  is  a  subject  concerning  which 
we  amuse  ourselves  with  conjectures.  It  would  be  a  consolation, 
could  we  anywhere  discover  a  mind  of  adequate  foresight  and 
authority  to  influence,  to  combine  and  apply  to  their  proper  and 
legitimate  uses,  the  disposition  and  the  means  which  unques- 
tionably exist  to  resist  and  baffle  the  monstrous  force  which  over- 
turns and  will  continue  to  lay  waste  every  country  against  which 
it  bends  its  energies.  Paradoxical  as  it  may  appear,  the  people 
are  less  wrong  than  their  governments,  which,  everywhere  seem 
to  be  destitute  of  both  wisdom  and  courage.  I  cannot  except 
even  the  government  of  this  country,  which  possessing  the  com- 
mand of  the  resources  of  the  richest  nation  in  Europe,  with  a 
clear  and  distinct  view  of  the  total  insecurity  of  any  compromise 
with  their  enemy,  still  dismounts  and  lowers  the  national  spirit 
and  courage  by  fruitless  and  repeated  efforts  to  restore  peace. 
Men  are  mortal  and  by  a  law  to  which  they  are  subject,  can  exist 
but  for  a  limited  time.  Societies  are  exempt  from  this  law,  and 
there  is  nothing  in  their  nature  that  limits  their  improvement,  in 
duration  ;  still  the  analogy  is  but  too  strict,  and  we  seem  to  be 
doomed  to  witness,  if  not  to  suffer,  in  the  dissolution  of  the 
present  social  organization.  Farewell — when  I  am  able  to  give 
you  a  gayer  prospect  I  will  write  you  again. 


G.  Cabot  to  R.  King,  London. 

Brookline,  August  17,  1797. 
My  Dear  Sir  : 

Altho'  it  is  a  long  time  since  I  had  the  pleasure  of  hearing  from 

you,  yet  I  have  no  right  to  complain,  but  we  are  full  of  concern 

for  the  fate  of  Europe,  which  we  know  may  ultimately  affect  our 


212  RUFUS  KING.  [1797 

own  ;  we  are  anxious  to  see  the  condition  of  their  political  wrecks, 
after  the  revolutionary  storm  shall  subside.  But  when  will  this 
happen  ?  I,  who  am  a  sailor,  have  great  fears  of  a  sudden  calm  ; 
the  tempestuous  gales,  which  threaten  to  overwhelm  the  ship, 
furnish  also  some  means  of  escape,  but  the  terrible  agitations, 
which  succeed  the  wind,  bring  a  destruction  which  cannot  be 
resisted  &  from  which  there  can  be  no  flight.  ...  I 
refer  you  to  the  public  papers  for  all  sorts  of  news  &  I  am 
mortified  that  they  should  tell  to  you  &  the  world  how  much  we 
are  disgraced  by  the  Congressional  discussions  of  the  last  session. 
But  at  the  same  time,  I  think  that  I  can  assure  you  that  the  peo- 
ple are  infinitely  better  than  many  of  the  Representatives,  and 
that  infamous  servility  discovered  in  the  debates  has  been 
properly  reprobated. 

Ever  your  sincere  friend, 

G.  Cabot. 


Wm.  Hindman  to  R.  King,  London. 

Bellfield,  Talbot  County,  Maryland,  Aug.  21st,  1797. 

My  Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  I  presume  you  have  been  already  gratified  in  hear- 
ing that  there  is  a  Majority  of  fsederal  Members  in  the  House 
of  Representatives  ;  it  is  by  the  bye  a  very  bare  one.  Of  this 
number  there  are  some  new  Members  who  want  training.  They 
sometimes  get  frightened  and  fly  the  way  ;  I  am  in  hopes  they 
will  understand  things  better  at  the  next  Session  &  feel  the  neces- 
sity of  going  with  the  Friends  of  Government  upon  all  occasions. 
The  Antis,  or  Jacobins,  or  whatever  name  may  be  given  them, 
are  ever  at  their  Post,  always  prepared  to  seize  upon  any  Prey 
which  may  offer,  whenever  they  discover  a  new  member,  who 
comes  under  the  character  of  fsederal,  in  any  sort  wavering.  They 
hang  about  him,  flatter  him,  sometimes  completely  seduce  him. 
In  this  they  have  an  Advantage,  as  the  same  measures  are  not 
taken  on  our  side  of  the  Question.  Jacobinism  I  think  is  on  the 
Decline,  happily  for  the  Friends  of  Government  and  those  who 
administer  it  ;  whenever  any  Plots  or  Villainies  are  discovered  it 
ever  falls  upon  those  worthless  Men,  who  have  the  Effrontery  to 


1797]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  213 

stile  themselves  the  exclusive  Patriots.    Quondam  Senator  Blount's 
letter  you  must  have  seen. 

The  Ministerial  appointment  of  our  Friend  W.  Smith  of 
Charleston  will  be  a  great  loss  to  our  House,  unless  he  is  suc- 
ceeded either  by  your  Predecessor  Major  Pinckney  or  Mr.  Desa- 
soare,  of  which  I  hear  there  are  some  Hopes  ;  it  is  said  if  either 
of  those  Gentlemen  will  consent  to  stand,  there  is  no  doubt  of 
their  Election  ;  if  they  do  not,  there  is  some  danger  that  our  for- 
mer Acquaintance,  Charles  Pinckney  of  the  Old  Congress  will  be 
elected  :  this  would  be  very  unfortunate.     .     .     . 

Most  of  the  great  Land  Speculators  are  Bankrupt.  Mess. 
Nicholson,  Greenleaf,  Judge  Willson  are  said  to  be  in  Jail.  Mr. 
Morris  has  been  for  some  time  confined  to  his  own  House  for 
Fear  of  the  common  Jail.  I  hear  he  means  to  surrender  himself 
shortly  ;  his  notes  have  been  for  some  time  as  low  as  five  cents  in 
the  Pound. 

Mr.  Smith  &  myself  were  alone  at  Mrs.  Williams  last 
session.     .     .     .     The  Old  Lady  drinks  less  than  she  used  to 

do.     .     . 

Yrs.  affecty.  &  sincerely, 

Wm.  Hindman. 


R.  King  to  Thos.  Jefferson. 

London,  Aug.  22,  1797. 
Sir: 

I  have  requested  Capt.  Newel  of  the  Ship  Cleopatra,  who  is 
bound  to  Philadelphia  to  take  charge  of  a  Diploma  delivered  to 
me  for  you  by  Sir  John  Sinclair,  President  of  the  Board  of  Agri- 
culture. 

I  have  just  received  from  Mr.  Strickland  a  letter  for  you  ;  but 
as  he  informs  me  that  the  letter  is  to  accompany  a  small  box, 
containing  an  assortment  of  seeds  which  is  also  to  be  sent  to  my 
care,  but  which  has  not  yet  been  received,  I  shall  detain  this  let- 
ter to  be  sent  with  the  box  by  a  future  opportunity. 

With  perfect  respect  I  have  the  honor  to  be,  sir, 

Your  obed.  &  faithful  servt., 

Rufus  King. 


214  RUFUS  KING,  [1797 

S.  Williams  to  R.  King. 

Hamburgh,  22d  Aug.,  1797. 

Sir  : 

I  have  the  pleasure  to  inform  you  that  the  Marquis  de  la 
Fayette  and  his  companions  will  soon  be  at  liberty.  The  French 
Government,  or  laws,  denying  them  an  entry  into  France,  the  Em- 
peror has  been  pleased  to  order  that  they  shall  be  at  liberty  to 
proceed  to  Holland,  or  to  embark  at  Hamburgh  for  the  United 
States,  provided  proper  measures  be  taken  to  pursue  either  rout 
within  eight  days  after  their  arrival  here.  The  Baron  de  Buol, 
the  Imperial  Minister,  has  been  instructed  to  apply  to  Mr.  Parish 
(as  Consul)  and  make  the  necessary  arrangements.  He  called 
and  communicated  to  me  his  instructions.  As  Consul,  I  told  him, 
I  was  not  authorized  to  take  any  steps,  but  in  a  private  capacity 
I  was  ready  to  do  all  that  was  required  in  case  the  Marquis  were 
desirous  to  embark  for  the  U.  S.  I  soon  met  Mr.  Childs  and 
Mr.  Joy.  We  agreed  to  provide  the  Marquis  and  his  family  with 
a  passage  and  every  necessary,  if  wanted — certain  that  we  should 
have,  at  least,  a  compensation,  in  gratifying  our  feelings,  by  pro- 
curing them  a  speedy  release.  I  waited  on  the  minister  the  next 
day  (yesterday)  and  informed  him  of  the  steps  we  were  ready  to 
take. 

A  friend  of  the  Marquis  was  at  Vienna  and  had  a  conference 
with  the  Imperial  Minister  relative  to  this  business.  He  is  here 
and  had  seen  Mr.  Parish,  and  obtained  a  letter  from  him  to  the 
Baron  de  Buol,  with  an  offer  similar  to  ours.  He  and  another 
friend  went  with  me  to  the  Baron's,  who  has  communicated  our 
arrangements  to  his  Court,  and  who  appears  well  disposed.  Al- 
though the  condition  of  their  release  is  that  they  quit  the  terri- 
tory of  the  Empire  eight  days  after  their  arrival  in  this  city,  the 
Minister  observed  that  he  did  not  doubt  of  their  being  indulged 
agreeably  to  their  wishes,  and  that  if  the  state  of  the  Marquis' 
health  would  not  admit  of  his  proceeding  immediately  to  Holland 
or  America,  he  might  reside  at  Altona. 

It  appears  to  be  the  wish  of  his  friends,  that  he  go  by  the 
shortest  rout  to  Holland  ;  they  expect,  perhaps,  that  he  will  have 
leave  to  enter  France  and  recover  his  property.  I  hope  so,  for, 
entre  nous,  I  would  rather  that  he  and  his  companions  were  there 


1797]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE,  21 5 

than  in  the  U.  S.  Knowing  that  it  will  gratify  his  best  Friend 
General  Washington  and  our  Countrymen  in  general,  I  shall 
render  him  every  service  in  my  power. 

Respectfully  &c,  &c, 

S.  Williams. 


CHAPTER  XVII. 

Senator  Blount's  Expulsion  from  the  Senate — Mr.  Liston's  Conduct — R.  King 
declines  a  Dinner  offered  by  American  Merchants — Gen.  Lafayette — R. 
King  to  the  Secretary  of  State,  thanking  him  for  regular  Information  on 
the  Affairs  of  the  U.  S.,  and  sending  to  him  an  Account  of  European 
Politics — Lafayette  and  French  Affairs — Disturbances  in  Ireland — Release 
of  Lafayette,  and  his  Arrival  in  Hamburgh — Lafayette  to  R.  King. 

R.  King  to  Lord  Grenville. 

Private. 

Gr.  Cumberland  Place,  28th  Aug.,  1797. 
My  Lord  : 

Having  just  received  dispatches  from  Philadelphia,  I  take  the 
liberty  to  send  your  Lordship  several  newspapers  containing  the 
Proceedings  of  the  Congress  relative  to  Thomas  Blount,  who  was 
expelled  from  the  Senate  on  the  8th  of  July  by  all  the  voices 
except  one. 

It  has  given  me  great  satisfaction  to  observe,  and  especially  as 
it  corresponds  with  the  tenor  of  my  reports  to  the  American 
Government,  that  his  Majesty's  ministers  so  distinctly  disap- 
proved the  project  contrived  by  Blount  and  his  associates,  the 
moment  they  were  apprized  of  it. 

But  I  cannot  avoid  regretting  that  Mr.  Liston  suffered  an  oc- 
casion so  favorable  to  the  promotion  of  the  good  harmony  be- 
tween the  two  countries  to  pass  without  turning  it  to  profit  by 
communicating  to  the  American  Government  the  existence  of  a 
scheme  so  full  of  mischief  and  so  hazardous  to  our  Peace.    .    .    . 

With  perfect  consid'n., 

R.  King. 
216 


1797]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  21 J 

R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

London,  Aug.  28,  1797. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Before  I  received  your  Letter  of  the  8th  of  July,  communi- 
cating the  intercepted  letter  of  Mr.  Blount,  I  had  entertained 
suspicions  and  been  on  the  watch,  respecting  certain  characters 
who  had  appeared  here  from  the  Tennessee  Country.  In  the 
ship  John  Henderson,  which  arrived  here  last  spring  from  Phila- 
delphia, came  Captain  Chisholm  and  another  person  who  called 
himself  Doctor  Hutter.  The  latter  is  a  Dutchman  who  I  am 
informed  has  lived  several  years  in  Knoxville.  Hutter  has  said 
that  his  coming  with  Chisholm  was  accidental,  that  he  came  to 
England  for  the  purpose  of  going  from  thence  to  the  Continent, 
which,  as  he  alledged,  he  has  several  times  attempted  to  do,  but 
not  having  the  requisite  Passports  to  leave  this  Country,  has  been 
stopped  and  turned  back.  Neither  Hutter  nor  Chisholm  have 
come  near  me  ;  and  by  the  reports  of  a  person  in  some  measure  in 
their  confidence*  I  have  been  repeatedly  informed  that  Chisholm 
since  his  arrival  has  received  money  from  this  Government,  that  he 
has  sometimes  spoken  of  having  had  an  interview  with  Lord  Gren- 
ville,  and  having  plunged  into  the  dissipation  of  this  City,  and 
spent  his  money,  that  he  had  been  redeemed  from  the  custody  of  the 
Bailiff  by  the  Government 's  paying  his  debts.  This  they  refused  do- 
ing except  Chisholm  would  immediately  leave  the  Country  which  he 
promised  to  do,  but  has  not  yet  done.  Hutter  says  that  he  lodged 
in  the  same  house  with  Chisholm  in  Second  Street  Philadelphia, 
that  Chisholm  was  often  backwards  and  forwards  between  the 
houses  of  Blount  and  Liston,  and  that  the  latter  was  several  times  at 
the  house  in  which  they  lodged  :  that  they  brought  a  letter  of 
introduction  from  Liston  to  a  Mrs.  Thomas  or  Thomson  who  lives 
in  Half?noon  Street,  and  at  whose  House  they  lodged  on  their  first 
arrival  here  ;  that  this  woman  is  an  old  friend  of  Liston 's,  having 
been  abroad  in  his  family  for  many  years. 

Hutter  is  reserved  and  cautious,  says  little  concerning  his  own 
affairs  but  sometimes  has  intimated  to  the  person  who  at  my  desire 
has  observed  them,  that  Chisholm  in  his  opinion  had  been  sent 
here  by  Blount  and  that  his  mission  was  connected  with  a  pro- 

*  Italics  in  cipher. 


21 8  RUFUS  KING,  [1797 

ject  to  invade  Florida,  and  perhaps  to  separate  Tennessee  and  the 
Western  Country  from  the  American  Union.  I  cannot,  I  think,  be 
mistaken  in  the  information  that  Chisholm  has  received  money  herey 
and  at  several  times  :  the  sums  have  been  inconsiderable  and  such  as 
his  course  of  life  soon  dissipated.  lie  is  said  to  have  brought  a  let- 
ter of  Credit  from  Mr.  Bell  of  Philadelphia  to  a  Mr.  Wilson  of 
London.  This  is  a  thread  which  you  may  follow  :  I  shall  be 
able  to  ascertain  from  Wilson  whether  this  information  is  correct. 
By  Mr.  d'Asp,  the  Swedish  Envoy  here,  and  who  was  at  Consta?iti- 
nople  with  Liston,  I  am  ascertained  that  Mrs.  Thomas,  the  person 
at  whose  house  Hutter  and  Chisholm  lodged,  was  really  with  Liston 
in  Turkey.  Chisholm  is  again  arrested  for  his  Debts,  and  is  at 
this  time  in  a  Lock-up  House  in  Chancery  Lane.  I  do  not  des- 
pair of  being  able  to  obtain  the  possession  of  Chisholm' s  papers,  tho' 
the  publication  of  Blount's  Letter,  as  well  as  of  those  between 
you  and  Liston  which  have  appeared  in  all  the  News  Papers 
may  put  the  parties  on  their  guard. 

With  perfect  Respect  and  Esteem,  &c,  &c, 

Rufus  King. 


Lord  Grenville   to  R.  King. 

Private. 

Dropmore,  Aug.  30,  1797. 
My  Dear  Sir  : 

I    am   much  obliged  to  you   for  the  communication   of   the 

American  Papers  you  sent  me.     I  am  not  sorry  for  the  accident 

which  has  afforded  the  means  of  proving  the  principles  and  rules 

by  which  our  conduct  is  guided  in  everything  that  affects  the 

Peace  and  tranquillity  of  the  U.  S.  :  but  I  hardly  think  that  Mr. 

Liston  would  have  been  at  liberty  to  communicate  to  the  Govt. 

of  the  U.  S.   a  proposal  of  this  nature,  the  communication  of 

which  might  have  involved  the  proposers  in  much  personal  risk, 

while  the  plan  itself  could  be  productive  of  no  inconvenience  to 

your  Government, — since  it  could  never  be  acted  upon  but  by 

the  cooperation   of  the  King's   Ministers — a  cooperation  which 

Mr.  Liston  had  no  reason  to  presume  could  be  given,  and  which 

was  accordingly  refused  in  the   most  distinct  &  pointed  manner, 

on  the  first  intimation  we  received  of  the  business. 


1797]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  219 


I  own  I  think  that  Mr.  Liston  (tho'  acting  for  the  best  un- 
questionably &  with  great  means  of  judging  of  the  line  which  he 
was  to  pursue)  has  nevertheless  gone  at  least  to  the  utmost  extent 
of  what  his  situation  allowed,  if  not  somewhat  beyond  it,  when 
he  answered  the  letter  of  Col.  Pickering  by  an  avowal  which  may 
prejudice  individuals  supposed  to  be  implicated  in  it.  I  have 
however  no  reason  to  regret  in  the  present  instance  that  the  sub- 
ject did  not  strike  him  in  the  light  in  which  it  might  perhaps  have 
struck  me  in  the  same  situation,  as  the  consequence  has  only 
been  to  evince  still  more  clearly  the  correctness  of  our  principles 
and  conduct. 

Ever,  my  dear  Sir, 
Most  faithfully  &  sincerely  your  obt.  Hum.  Servt, 

Grenville. 

It  would  appear  that  the  merchants  in  London  interested 
in  American  commerce  asked  Mr.  King  to  accept  a  dinner 
as  an  evidence  of  their  gratitude  for  the  efficient  efforts  he 
had  made  to  facilitate  their  trade  and  protect  them  from 
the  depredations  consequent  upon  the  persistent  interference 
by  French  enactments  and  cruisers.  The  answer  below  is 
characteristic  of  the  Minister. 


R.  King  to  H.  M.  Bird. 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  Sep.  1,  1797- 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  had  the  honor  to  receive  your  letter  of  the  31st  ult.  We 
still  remain  in  Town,  and  are  uncertain  when  we  shall  be  able  to 
pursue  our  projected  excursion.  Concerning  the  intentions  of 
the  American  Merchants,  which  you  have  been  so  obliging  as  to 
communicate  to  me,  I  entreat  you  to  believe  and  to  assure 
these  Gentlemen,  sensible  as  I  am  of  the  honor  of  their  good 
opinion,  that  it  will  be  far  more  agreeable  to  me  that  their  pur- 
pose should  be  postponed,  than  that  it  should  be  carried  into 
execution.  As  I  do  not  entertain  the  smallest  Doubt  of  their 
good  wishes  and  friendly  sentiments  towards  my  Country,  I  can- 
not on  that  score   desire   the   Proof  thereof    which    they  have 


220  RUFUS  KING.  [1797 

proposed  to  give  ;  and  so  far  as  I  have  any  personal  wishes,  they 
will  be  best  gratified  by  availing  myself  with  the  least  possible 
eclat  of  every  occasion  that  shall  occur  to  render  to  you  and 
them  any  service  that  my  situation  shall  permit. 

With  great  consideration  and  Esteem,  &c, 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

London,  Sept.  1.  1797. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  am  much  obliged  to  you  for  the  regular  and  satisfactory  in- 
formation that  your  correspondence  has  afforded  me.  Nothing 
could  be  more  unpleasant,  and  I  may  add  more  disadvantageous, 
in  my  situation  than  to  be  without  authentic  information  concern- 
ing what  is  passing  in  our  own  Country  ;  and  it  is  with  very  sin- 
cere pleasure  that  I  acknowledge  the  attention,  which,  amidst 
other  engagements,  you  have  found  time  to  bestow  upon  the 
Correspondence  with  this  Legation.  There  is  an  authenticity  in 
your  letters  that  you  must  not  expect  to  find  in  those  of  our 
Foreign  Ministers.  You  possess  all  the  means  of  giving  a  correct 
Report  of  the  situation  in  our  domestic  affairs  ;  while  we  on  the 
contrary,  are  often  obliged  to  form  an  opinion  upon  contradic- 
tory evidence.  From  this  consideration  I  have  indulged  myself 
less  in  troubling  you  with  Speculations  relative  to  affairs  in 
which  we  have  a  common  interest  than  I  should  have  done,  had 
I  either  possessed  more  complete  information  concerning  them, 
or  more  adequate  means  of  procuring  it.  I  do  not,  however, 
recollect  that  I  have  ever  expressed  to  you  an  opinion  that  a 
general  Peace  was  likely  to  be  the  Result  either  of  the  Prelimi- 
naries with  Austria  or  of  the  Negotiations  at  Lisle  :  indeed  my 
uniform  opinion  has  been,  as  it  now  is,  that  the  Peace  of  Europe 
was  still  far,  very  far  distant.  Was  Peace  concluded  tomorrow 
upon  the  Terms  on  which  alone  it  could  be,  with  the  Temper  and 
Principles  which  prevail  and  under  the  present  circumstances  of 
the  Parties,  it  would  not  be  durable.  I  therefore  do  exceedingly 
regret  to  observe  that  Congress  have  been  in  any  degree  influ- 
enced by  an  opinion  that  the  Peace  of  Europe  was  about  to  be 


1797]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  221 

restored,  and  that  consequently  they  might  dispense  with  those 
wise  and,  in  my  judgment  indispensable  precautions  which  the 
President  recommended  for  their  adoption. 

Nothing  can  be  more  erroneous  in  the  Politicks  of  a  Nation 
than  to  omit  on  any  consideration,  much  less  on  the  score  of  a 
mistaken  and  dangerous  economy,  those  Preparations  for  self 
defence  and  national  safety,  which,  even  in  days  of  profound 
Peace,  ought  not  to  be  neglected,  and  of  which,  in  this  mighty 
crisis  of  human  affairs,  he  must  be  blind  who  does  not  see  the 
absolute  necessity.  It  is  a  false,  and  will  prove  a  fatal,  security, 
if  we  allow  ourselves  to  be  persuaded  that  we  are  either  too  just, 
too  remote,  too  wise,  or  too  powerful  to  be  drawn  into  the  present 
war,  which  continues  to  exhaust  and  threatens  to  change  the 
face  of  Europe,  and  the  results  of  which,  in  reference  to  the 
whole  world,  were  never  more  uncertain  or  beyond  the  reach  of 
human  foresight,  than  at  the  present  moment. 

In  Italy,  the  negotiations  still  continue,  while  the  Emperor  with 
great  activity  is  reinforcing  his  armies  and  completing  the  Feudal 
organization  of  his  Subjects  in  Hungary.  The  preliminaries  with 
Austria  stipulated  among  other  things  the  restoration  of  Mantua 
and  the  assembling  of  a  Congress  of  all  the  Powers  affected  by  the 
war  for  the  purpose  of  concluding  a  definitive  and  general  Peace  : 
the  Performance  of  these  Stipulations  France  desires  to  avoid,  the 
Emperor  insists,  and  there  seems  to  be  no  small  Probability  of  the 
recommencement  of  war  between  them.  At  Lisle  the  Prospect  is 
still  more  unpromising,  and  it  may  with  confidence  be  concluded, 
unless  a  temper  more  pacific  on  the  part  of  France  shall  prevail, 
that  the  negotiation  will  entirely  fail  and  that  the  war  will  be  pur- 
sued with  encreased  Vehemence  and  Energy. 

England  will  probably  consent  to  restore  to  France  all  her  Con- 
quests ;  to  Holland,  all  but  Ceylon  and  the  Cape,  perhaps  the  for- 
mer of  these  places  also  ;  and  it  is  not  likely  that  she  would  hesitate 
to  restore  Trinidad  to  Spain.  In  respect  to  Belgium,  she  would 
not  insist  on  what  the  Emperor  has  consented  to  relinquish  for 
Equivalents  ;  but  this  is  not  enough.  France,  by  her  Canada 
project,  delivered  at  Lisle,  is  understood  to  have  required  for  her- 
self a  restoration  of  all  the  places  that  England  had  taken  from 
her,  a  return  of  the  Ships  carried  away  from  Toulon  and  payment 
for  those  which  were  there  destroyed,  an  alteration  in  the  English 


222  RUFUS  KING.  [1797 

Navigation  Act  and  a  renunciation  of  the  Use  of  the  Title  of  King 
of  France. 

For  Spain,  a  Restoration  of  the  Places  conquered,  together  with 
Gibraltar,  and  for  Holland,  a  Restoration  of  all  the  Places  con- 
quered, the  return  of  the  Ships  of  War,  and  Compensation  for  the 
Ships  and  Merchandize  stopped  and  brought  into  the  English 
Ports,  before  the  declaration  of  war  between  England  and  Holland. 
To  these  England  will  not  agree. 

Portugal  has  been  counted  among  the  Enemies  of  France  ;  but 
if  the  late  Treaty  shall  be  ratified,  she  will  probably  be  treated  as 
the  enemy  of  England.  It  is  said  with  considerable  confidence 
that  d'Aranjo,  the  Portuguese  Minister  had  no  power  to  conclude 
a  treaty  ;  and  England  hopes  to  defeat  it,  by  preventing  its  confir- 
mation. The  same  thing  was  said  concerning  the  Treaty  with 
Spain,  concluded  by  d'Yriarte  at  Basle,  on  which  occasion  the 
Prince  of  Peace,  even  after  the  date  of  the  Signature  of  the  Treaty 
told  Lord  Bute  not  only  that  d'Yriarte  had  no  power  to  conclude 
a  Treaty,  but  that  Spain,  with  her  accustomed  Fidelity,  would 
adhere  to  England  in  the  prosecution  of  the  War.  The  fact  is 
said  to  have  been,  that  both  the  Queen  and  the  Prince  of  Peace 
were  ignorant  that  a  certain  influence  had  prevailed  on  the  King 
to  give  a  private  instruction  and  authority  to  d'Yriarte,  in  conse- 
quence of  which  the  Treaty  was  concluded  and  afterwards  ratified. 
Whatever  the  fact  may  be  respecting  the  power  of  d'Aranjo,  there 
is  not  much  doubt  respecting  the  ratification  of  this  Treaty.  The 
articles  are  not  yet  public,  but  they  are  supposed  to  be  favorable 
to  France  and  repugnant  to  the  Treaties  with  England,  and  among 
other  Stipulations  it  is  believed  that  Portugal  has  consented  to  the 
Cession  of  a  portion  of  her  possessions  in  America  ;  but  to  what 
extent,  I  am  not  informed.  If  Spain  should  take  the  alarm,  which 
she  reasonably  may  do,  from  the  neighborhood  of  the  French  to 
her  Colonies,  it  is  possible  that  she  will,  to  a  certain  extent,  coun- 
tenance Portugal  in  refusing  her  Ratification  ;  but  the  predomi- 
nant influence  of  France  destroys  in  a  great  measure  the  proba- 
bility of  an  efficient  interference  from  this  Quarter. 

Besides  Portugal  is  a  minor,  and  against  France  and  Spain,  a 
defenceless  Power,  and  in  common  with  almost  every  Nation  in 
Europe,  is  deeply  embarrassed  in  her  pecuniary  affairs  :  indeed 
there  seems  to  be  everywhere  those  symptoms  of  Derangement, 


1797]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  223 

which  may  be  expected  to  precede  a  general  Bankruptcy  of 
Europe.  At  Rome,  at  Genoa  and  at  Venice,  private  as  well  as 
public  Credit  is  annihilated  ;  in  Spain,  as  on  former  occasions, 
the  Government  has  been  obliged  to  have  recourse  to  the  fraudu- 
lent and  ruinous  System  of  Paper  Money  which  has  likewise  been 
lately  adopted  by  Portugal,  and  failed  in  the  attempt  to  obtain  a 
Loan  of  half  a  Million  Sterling  in  London,  tho'  she  offered  to 
pledge  Diamonds  to  the  full  amount  and  to  mortgage  in  addition 
the  Revenue  of  the  Tobacco  Farm.  In  Holland,  and  in  Germany 
there  is  no  public  and  a  very  limited  private  Credit,  and  all  Parties 
agree  in  the  Confusion  and  insufficiency  of  the  French  Finances. 
With  the  exception  perhaps  of  this  Country,  whose  fate  is  beyond 
my  view,  but  on  whose  security  we  ought  not  to  depend,  there  is 
no  where  that  safety  for  Property  and  that  security  for  Individuals 
that  our  Country  at  present  affords. 

To  preserve  these  Blessings  will  demand  all  our  efforts  and  we 
must  be  prepared  to  meet  and  to  resist  the  Storm  which  lays  waste 
the  old  world  and  threatens  to  extend  to  the  New. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem,  &c,  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

London,  5  Sept.,  1797. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Mr.  Williams,  our  Consul  at  Hamburgh,  informs  me  that  the 
Imperial  Minister  has  notified  to  him  that  the  Emperor  had  con- 
sented to  the  release  of  General  La  Fayette  upon  condition  that 
he  should  embark  for  America  within  eight  days  after  his  arrival 
at  Hamburgh  ;  he  also  requested  Mr.  Williams  to  make  the  neces- 
sary preparations  for  this  embarkation.  Mr.  Williams  answered 
that  he  had  no  instructions  to  take  any  measures  on  this  Subject, 
but  that  he  had  no  hesitation  to  engage  (and  he  accordingly  did 
so  in  concert  with  one  or  two  other  Americans)  to  make  the  ad- 
vances which  may  be  required  to  provide  a  ship  and  other  accom- 
modations for  the  passage  of  General  La  Fayette  and  his  family 
to  America.  Conceiving  that  it  would  be  more  agreeable  both  to 
the  President  and  to  the  General  that  the  Supplies  which  may  be 
necessary  on  this  occasion  should  be  furnished  by  the  public 
instead  of  Individuals,  I  wrote  to  Mr.  Williams  a  letter  recom- 


224  RUFUS  KING.  [1797 

mending  to  him  to  make  such  advances  to  General  La  Fayette  as 
his  occasions  might  require,  and  to  draw  upon  me  for  their  reim- 
bursement. This  arrangement  corresponds  with  one  that  I  had 
before  made  with  Mr.  Cadignan,  one  of  the  General's  aids,  who 
went  a  few  days  past  to  Hamburgh  in  expectation  of  meeting  him 
at  that  place.  I  do  not  consider  it  certain  that  General  La  Fay- 
ette will  go  to  Hamburg  or  embark  immediately  for  America, 
having  understood  that  he  will  be  allowed  by  the  Emperor  to  go 
to  Holland  where  (if  permitted  by  the  Dutch  Government)  he  may 
perhaps  be  inclined  to  wait  some  time  in  order  to  ascertain  whether 
he  will  be  allowed  to  return  to  France. 

.  .  .  Paris  is  not  a  Commercial  Station,  or  a  place  at  which 
commercial  questions  can  ordinarily  arise,  but  where  they  may 
nevertheless  exist  by  reference  from  the  Sea  Ports  :  yet  we  have 
always  had  a  Consul  General  at  Paris,  who  has  had  a  superinten- 
dance  over  our  Consuls  in  that  Nation,  and  at  present  the  office 
is  particularly  important  to  us.  London  is  the  centre  of  our  ex- 
tensive commercial  operations  with  this  Country,  and  it  is  likewise 
essentially  connected  in  our  commercial  intercourse  with  the 
South,  as  well  as  with  the  North  of  Europe.  Still  we  never  have 
had  a  Consul  General  at  London.  The  duties  have  been  exercised 
by  me  since  my  residence  here  ;  but  I  do  assure  you  that  the  per- 
petual details,  in  which  I  am  thereby  engaged,  consume  much  of 
my  time  and  attention  which  perhaps  might  be  more  advanta- 
geously employed.  Most  of  our  Consuls  in  this  Country  are  British 
Subjects  :  they  are  certainly  worthy  characters  ;  but  I  have,  I 
confess,  a  decided  preference  of  the  employment  of  our  own 
people,  where  they  can  be  induced  to  serve  ;  and  in  respect  to  the 
office  of  Consul  General,  a  consul  for  London,  I  think  you  will 
agree  with  me,  that  he  should  be  an  American  Citizen.  I  take 
the  liberty  of  making  this  latter  observation  from  a  knowledge 
that  several  Foreigners  are  desirous  of  obtaining  this  appointment. 

.  .  .  The  Paris  accounts  exhibit  no  proofs  of  reconciliation 
between  the  Directory  and  the  Consuls  ;  the  breach  now  appears 
greater  than  it  has  been  ;  both  sides  are  courting  the  Armies,  who, 
having  at  present  no  foreign  enemy  to  employ  them,  are  engaged 
in  considering  the  internal  affairs  of  the  country.  This  is  a  state 
of  things  that  will  not  surprize  you  and  is  moreover  one  that  must 
be   productive  of   further  and  still  more   important   Events  in 


1797]  LJFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  225 


Europe.  The  Armies  may  take  different  sides,  and  after  a  bloody- 
civil  war,  the  Conqueror  may  establish  such  a  government  as  will 
best  maintain  his  authority. 

There  is  great  suspicion  concerning  the  views  of  Buonaparte  ; 
the  deference  with  which  he  is  treated  by  the  Directory  is  com- 
monly ascribed  to  his  supposed  Devotion  to  their  views  ;  while 
others  think  he  is  too  powerful  to  be  treated  in  the  customary 
stile,  and  that  both  England  and  Austria  would  aid  him,  if  requi- 
site, in  the  consolidation  of  the  Italian  States  under  one  Govern- 
ment to  be  hereditary  in  his  family.     .     .     . 

The  Malcontents  of  Ireland  have  been  overawed,  and  that 
country  is  at  present  quiet ;  but  Scotland  is  at  this  moment  in  a 
state  of  great  fermentation,  in  consequence  of  a  late  determination 
of  the  Government  to  embody  6000  militia  in  that  Country.  The 
People  in  several  counties  have  resisted  the  execution  of  this  meas- 
ure and  blood  has  already  been  shed  in  the  Controversy  :  the 
Consequence  will  be  that  large  Bodies  of  troops  will  be  sent  to 
Scotland,  and  the  Peasantry  will  be  forced  to  submit. 
With  Great  Respect  &  Esteem,  &c,  &c. 

Rufus  King, 

R.  King  to  General  Washington. 

Dear  Sir  :  London,  Sept.  5,  1797- 

I  have  had  the  honor  to  receive  your  Letter  of  the  15th  of  June  ; 
and  having  a  few  minutes  before  the  Mail  for  New  York  is  dis- 
patched, I  employ  them  in  sending  you  inclosed  the  copy  of  a 
Letter  that  I  received  a  few  days  past  from  our  Consul  at  Ham- 
burgh, which  announces  the  approaching  release  of  General  La 
Fayette.* 

*  The  event  recorded  above  is  the  release  of  La  Fayette  from  the  cruel  im- 
prisonment in  the  dungeon  at  Olmutz,  to  which  he  had  been  consigned  by  the 
Austrian  Government  for  four  years.  He  had  been  in  17S9,  a  member  of  the 
Assembly  of  France  and  Commander-in-chief  of  the  National  Guard,  and,  dis- 
trustful of  the  policy  of  the  Jacobins,  had  sought  to  screen  the  King  from  their 
attempts  to  coerce  him.  Having  been  promoted  to  the  chief  command  of  a 
portion  of  the  Army  on  the  Prussian  frontier,  upon  the  declaration  of  the  war 
with  Austria,  he  still  watched  over  the  welfare  of  the  King  and  wrote  to  the 
Assembly  a  letter  denouncing  the  acts  of  the  Jacobins,  and  even  went  to  Paris 
to  endeavor  to  defend  himself  in  the  course  he  had  taken.     He  found  that  he 

was  too  late  to  counteract  their  designs,  returned  to  the  army,  and  after  the  im- 
vol  n. — 15 


226  RUFUS  KING.  [l797 

Knowing  the  friendship  that  you  have  uniformly  had  for  him, 
and  recollecting  likewise  that  his  Son  is  with  you,  I  could  not 
refuse  myself  the  pleasure  of  making  to  you  this  communication. 
With  perfect  consideration  &  Respect  &c.  &c, 

Rufus  King. 

S.  Williams  to  R.  King. 

Hamburgh,  8  Sept.,  1797. 
Sir  : 

.  .  .  I  shall  comply  with  your  advice  in  advancing  the  sup- 
plies that  General  La  Fayette  may  want.  He  may  not  want  any, 
for  Madame  La  Fayette  holds  her  estates  in  France,  worth  two 
millions.     .     .     . 

With  great  consideration  &  regard  &c, 

S.  Williams. 

prisonment  of  the  King,  finding  himself  suspected,  his  command  taken  from 
him,  and  his  impeachment  ordered,  he  fled  into  Belgium,  where  he  was  captured, 
confined  by  the  Prussians,  who  offered  him  freedom  on  the  condition,  which  he 
refused,  that  he  would  fight  against  his  country.  He  was  then  handed  over  to 
Austria,  which  sent  him  to  the  dungeon  at  Olmutz.  From  this  he  was  at  one 
time  set  free  by  the  enterprise  and  boldness  of  a  young  German,  Dr.  Bollman 
and  Mr.  F.  K.  Huger  of  S.  Carolina,  but  being  recaptured  was  again  placed  in 
prison,  where  his  wife  and  daughter  were  permitted  to  join  him  in  1795.  At 
this  time  G.  Washington  La  Fayette,  with  his  tutor,  Mr.  Trestel,  left  France, 
with  the  privity  of  some  of  the  Committee  of  Safety,  and  arrived  at  New  York, 
where  he  was  received  by  Genl.  Hamilton,  who  informed  Washington  of  their 
arrival  and  advised,  on  Washington's  suggestion,  that  the  latter  should  at  first 
communicate  with  them  only  by  letter.  This  was  done,  but  after  some  months 
they  were  received  by  Washington  in  person,  and  urged  him  to  suggest  some 
method  by  which  La  Fayette  might  be  released  from  captivity.  His  opinion 
was  that  the  return  of  peace  alone  would  cause  him  to  be  set  free,  but  intimated 
to  them  that  perhaps  a  private  letter  addressed  to  the  Emperor  of  Austria  from 
him,  communicating  his  own  hope  and  that  of  the  people  of  America,  to  be 
sent  through  Mr.  Pinckney,  the  Minister  of  London,  after  consultation  with  the 
other  diplomats  there,  might  bring  about  the  liberation,  on  condition  of  his 
coming  to  America.  The  letter  was  written  and  sent.*  What  effect  it  had  in 
mitigating  the  severity  of  his  imprisonment  is  not  known.  But  what  other 
means,  the  sympathy  in  England  and  the  United  States,  had  failed  to  do,  was 
finally  brought  about  by  the  victorious  march  of  Bonaparte,  on  the  23d  of  Sep- 
tember, 1797.  The  young  men  were  still  in  America,  when  Mr.  King's  letter 
reached  there,  and  though  against  the  advice  of  Washington,  they  returned 
immediately  to  Europe  to  join  the  General  on  his  liberation  from  captivity. 
*  Marshall's  Life  of  Washingion,  v.,  669. 


1797]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE,  227 

R.  King  to  A.  Hamilton.* 

London,  September  9,  1797. 
Dear  Sir  : 

We  hear  this  day  accounts  from  Paris,  which,  though  very 
important  and  interesting,  are  not  unexpected.  The  breach 
between  the  Councils  and  the  Directory  has  for  some  time  de- 
stroyed all  prospect  of  a  reconciliation  between  them,  and  either 
an  organized  civil  war,  in  consequence  of  the  different  sides 
adopted  by  the  several  armies,  or  a  measure  like  that  which  has 
happened,  had  become  inevitable.  The  march  of  a  considerable 
division  of  the  army  into  the  interior,  the  removals  of  generals  in 
whom  they  did  not  confide,  the  various  messages  in  the  style  of 
manifestoes  addressed  to  the  Councils,  and  the  sending  for  Gen- 
eral Jourdan  who  commanded  the  Army  of  the  Rhine,  to  Paris, 
and  putting  his  army  in  the  interim  of  his  absence  under  Hoche, 
are  now  explained. 

Augereau,  who  had  been  called  from  Italy  for  the  purpose, 
upon  the  alarm-cannon  being  fired  on  the  morning  of  the  4th  in- 
stant, marched  his  troops,  and  surrounded,  without  opposition, 
the  place  of  sitting  of  the  Council  of  500.  He  then  proceeded 
to  arrest  Pichegru,  and  a  considerable  number  of  the  most  in- 
fluential members  of  that  Council,  on  the  charge  of  a  royalist 
conspiracy  ;  having  for  its  object  the  massacre  of  three  of  the 
Directory,  to  make  way  for  successors  who  would  place  Louis 
XVIII  on  the  throne  of  France.  Carnot,  say  the  same  advices, 
has  fled  and  Barthelemi,  say  others,  is  also  arrested.  I  do  not 
give  you  this  account  as  authentic,  though  I  have  little  doubt  it 
is  so,  as  far,  at  least,  as  it  states  an  attack  of  the  Directory  upon 
the  Council  of  500. 

If  the  consequence  of  this  proceeding  was  confined  to  France 
it  would  be  less  the  subject  of  regret,  though  all  must  deplore  the 
sanguinary  scenes  so  frequently  there  exhibited  ;  but,  in  reference 
to  the  pending  negotiations  and  the  return  of  peace,  this  transac- 
tion is  very  important.  The  two  Councils,  who,  in  this  respect, 
are  supposed  to  here  faithfully  represent  their  constituents,  de- 
sired peace  with  sincerity  ;  the  Directory  most  certainly  differed 
from  them  in  their  inclinations  on  this  subject.     If  the  Directory 

*  Works  of  Hamilton,  vi.,  265. 


228  KUFUS  ICING.  [1797 

overwhelm  the  Councils,  the  war  must,  and  will,  continue.  But 
how  will  the  armies — how  will  the  nations  conduct  on  this  occa- 
sion ?  I  fear  there  is  little  consolation  to  the  friends  of  humanity 
from  the  doubt,  which  for  a  moment  exists  on  these  points — the 
nations  are  nothing,  the  armies  are  most  probably  secured,  and 
the  Directory  will  triumph.     Adieu. 

Yours,  &c, 

P.  S.  If  I  do  not  forget  names,  a  majority  of  the  Committee 
to  whom  Pastoret's  speech  on  our  affairs  was  referred,  are  among 
the  members  now  arrested.  You  will  readily  see  how  mischiev- 
ous to  us  this  success  of  the  Directory  may  and  probably  will  be. 


John  Lawrance  to  R.  King. 

Newport,  Sept.  19,  1797. 
My  Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  We  are  waiting  with  much  anxiety  to  hear  the  result  of 
the  Negotiation  at  Lisle.  Much  (probably)  depends  on  it  as  to 
us.  We  are  sincere  in  our  wishes  for  Peace,  and  in  our  endeavors 
to  preserve  it.  A  nation,  so  much  disposed  to  amity,  ought  not 
to  have  their  tranquillity  disturbed.  Ours  has  been  too  much  so, 
but  still  not  so  much  as  it  may  be  ;  should  an  Event,  so  unfortu- 
nate, take  place,  I  hope  we  shall  exhibit  a  conduct  which  will  not 
disgrace  us.     ... 

Yr,  affectionate  humble  Servt., 

John  Lawrance. 

C.  Cadignan  to  R.  King. 

Hambro',  19  Sept.,  1797. 
Sir: 

I  have  delayed  to  write  to  you  since  my  arrival  here  in  hopes 
that  I  should  have  soon  some  good  news  of  our  friend  to  relate 
to  you.  This  day  is  at  last  come.  Mr.  William  has  acquainted 
your  excelency  of  the  last  business  between  the  minister  of  the 
emperor  and  Mr.  Parish  here  ;  since  that  we  have  been  without 
news  ;  but  yesterday  M.  Le  B.ron  de  Buol,  minister  of  the  em- 
peror here,  wrote  a  note  to  Mr.  Masson  to  let  him  know  that  he 
had  just  received  the  official  note  from  his  Cabinet  that  the  order 


1797]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  220, 

had  been  sent  from  Vienna  to  Olmutz  to  liberate  the  prisoner 
directly  ;  so  we  expect  them  here  now  every  moment  and  will 
have  the  honour  to  inform  your  excelency  of  their  arrival  and 
mention  then  the  offer  you  have  made  to  me  for  our  friend  Laf. 
who  certainly  will  be  very  grateful  of  the  interest  you  have  always 
shown  for  his  unfortunate  fate. 

Mr.  William  will  certainly  write  to  you  by  this  post,  so  I  have 
nothing  more  to  tell.  Pray  present  my  respects  to  Mrs.  King.  I 
remain 

Of  your  Excelency  Most  obedient  Servant, 

C.  Cadignan. 


S.  Williams  to  R.  King. 

Hamburgh,  3  Oct.,  1797. 
Sir: 

I  shall  have  the  happiness  of  receiving  General  Lefayette  to 
morrow.  He  will  arrive  tonight  with  his  family  and  companions 
at  Harburg  on  the  opposite  bank  of  the  Elbe,  and  on  passing  it 
tomorrow  he  will  be  saluted  by  an  American  ship — which  with 
the  others  in  the  Port,  will  show  him  every  mark  of  attention  by 
displaying  their  colours,  &c.  We  shall  endeavour  to  do  every- 
thing that  will  be  agreeable  to  him  and  to  every  American. 

They  are  all,  excepting  Madame  La  Fayette  and  one  of  her 
Daughters,  in  pretty  good  health.  If  the  state  of  theirs  do  not 
prevent,  the  General  and  family  may  embark  in  Mr.  Joy's  ship 
for  Philadelphia. 

With  perfect  consideration,  &c, 

S.  Williams. 

S.  Williams  to  R.  King. 

Hamburg,  5  Oct.,  1797. 
Sir: 

General  Lefayette,  his  Lady  and  two  Daughters,  his  two  com- 
panions, and  their  families  arrived  here  yesterday.  Mr.  Joy  sent 
the  ship  John's  barge  for  them  in  the  morning — on  their  way 
they  stopped  to  partake  of  a  collation  on  the  ship,  and  then  met 
Mr.  Cadignan  and  other  friends,  then  landed  and  proceeded  to 
my  house. 


23O  RUFUS  KING.  [1797 

I  find  their  health  to  be  as  I  have  mentioned.  The  General 
retains  all  his  affection  and  respect  for  the  United  States.  The 
season  is  now  so  far  advanced,  that  it  is  not  probable  they  will 
embark  for  America  this  fall.  They  all  go  tomorrow  to  lodgings 
about  ten  miles  from  the  city,  where  they  may  pass  the  winter 
without  molestation.  It  appears  that  the  Emperor  will  not  med- 
dle with  them  again.     .     .     . 

With  perfect  respect,  &c, 

S.  Williams. 

C.  Cadignan  to  R.  King. 

Hambro,  13  Octob'r.  1797. 
Sir: 

Mr.  Williams  having  informed  you  of  the  arrival  here  of  M. 
Lafayette  with  his  family,  I  shall  only  mention  to  your  Excel- 
lency that  he  has  accepted  with  gratitude  the  offer  you  charge 
me  to  make  to  him,  which  Mr.  Williams  has  confirmed,  and  that 
he  has  to  write  to  you  about  it.  He  has  set  off  for  the  Holstein 
where  he  expects  to  stay  till  the  weather  permits  him  to  embark 
for  America,  Mrs.  Lafayette  being  very  much  indisposed.  I  did 
expect  to  have  a  letter  tonight  for  you,  but  the  danish  post 
arrives  only  tomorrow ;  so  very  likely  I  shall  be  able  to  forward 
it  to  you  next  post. 

Now,  Sir,  I  must  trouble  you  again  for  me.  I  am  going  to  set 
off  from  here  for  england  to  meet  again  my  little  family  and  my 
business,  in  few  days  by  a  neutral  vessel  for  gravesend,  from 
what  place  I  embarked  in  august  last ;  would  you  be  so  good  to 
send  a  note  to  his  grace  Duke  of  portland  to  desire  him  to  send 
an  order  to  gravesend  to  let  me  get  in  as  soon  as  I  arrive  there, 
as  you  had  the  goodness  to  do  last  april  when  I  was  at  yarmouth. 
I  am  with  respect  your  Excelency  your  most  obedient 

C.  Cadignan. 
Citizen  of  America. 

P.S.  .  .  .  They  assure  here  the  american  plenipotentiaries 
arrived  in  france  ;  I  hope  they  will  be  able  to  succeed  notwith- 
standing the  encore  new  revolution  in  that  country.  All  the  ger- 
man  papers  of  to-day  say  that  the  hostilities  were  to  begin  again 
in  Italy  the  8  of  this  month,  and  Buonoparte  is  reported  very  ill 
by  the  paris  papers  of  the  4th. 


1797]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  23 1 

Lafayette  to  R.  King. 
Wiltmold  near  Ploen  in  Holstein,  October  the  13th,  1797. 

His  Excellency  Mr.  King,  Esq.  Plenipotentiary  Minister 

from  the  United  States  at  the  Court  of  London. 
My  Dear  Sir  : 

While  I  am  happy  in  this  Opportunity  to  offer  you  my  affec- 
tionate thanks  for  the  kind  and  friendly  interest  which  you  have 
been  pleased  to  take  in  my  behalf,  I  am  sure  your  good  heart 
will  enjoy  the  account  I  am  now  able  to  give  you  that  my  family, 
my  two  friends  and  myself  are  totally  out  of  the  Coalitionary 
fangs.  You  know  what  have  been  for  five  years  the  applications 
from  the  American  Government,  the  exertions  of  American  Rep- 
resentatives abroad,  and  who,  more  than  you,  my  dear  Sir,  has 
a  right  to  say,  et  quorum  pars  magna  fui?  For  those  obligations 
my  heart  shall  ever  be  bound  by  the  ties  of  the  most  lively  Grati- 
tude. You  also  have  been  acquainted  with  the  measures  taken 
by  the  French  Commonwealth  and  her  Plenipotentiaries  from  the 
Beginning  of  this  long  Negotiation  with  the  Court  of  Vienna,  and 
with  the  final  Arrangement  which  has  been  agreed  upon  between 
the  Baron  de  Thugue  and  my  Aid  de  Camp  Romeuf,  whom  Bona- 
parte and  Clarke  had  sent  to  Vienna  to  put  an  end  to  the  chicanes 
which  for  five  months  had  deferred  our  being  set  at  Liberty.  In 
consequence  of  this  we  left  Olmutz  on  the  19th  of  September 
and  have  been  at  Hamburgh  put  into  American  Hands,  which  I 
rejoice  to  see  taking  a  part  in  this  late  Business,  as  they  have 
taken  so  kind,  early  and  constant  part  in  everything  that  relates 
to  my  Captivity,  the  means  to  alleviate  it  and  the  applications  to 
put  an  end  to  the  long  and  unhealthy  Confinement.  It  is  impos- 
sible in  the  deplorable  state  of  my  Wife's  Health  even  to  think  of 
a  winter  passage.  We  are  going  to  pass  this  season  in  a  retired 
place  about  sixty  English  miles  from  Hamburgh.  The  Healths 
of  us  all  are  in  great  need  of  repair  :  that  of  my  Wife  is  by  far 
the  most  injured.  I  need  not  tell  you,  my  dear  Sir,  that  my 
Restoration  to  Liberty  has  been  much  embittered  by  the  unhappy 
news  of  the  differences  which  have  troubled  the  good  Harmony 
so  naturally  subsisting  between  the  American  and  French  Re- 
publics. What  I  feel  on  the  occasion  it  is  superfluous  to  say — 
what  I  wish  is  obvious.     But  how  the  purpose  can  be  effected  is 


232  RUFUS  KING.  [1797 

the  question  in  which  my  Head  and  my  Heart  are  wholly,  and 
at  every  minute  busying  themselves,  not  on  account  of  the  diffi- 
culties, it  is  more  difficult  indeed  to  set  up  a  quarrel  between  the 
two  Nations  than  to  mend  it,  but  on  account  of  many  circum- 
stances, which  altho'  they  are  merely  personal  or  foreign  to  the 
American  contest,  cannot  fail  greatly  to  influence  the  Negocia- 
tion.  Are  those  Commissioners  arrived  in  Paris  ?  I  think  I  shall 
by  and  bye,  notwithstanding  the  late  despotic  measures,  hear 
from  france,  but  I  also  entreat  you,  as  far  as  you  think  it  con- 
venient, to  let  me  know  your  opinion  and  expectations  with 
respect  to  this  unfortunate  and  afflicting  affair.  Cadignan  has 
told  me  what  you  have  been  pleased  in  the  name  ot  the  United 
States  to  offer  to  lend  to  us  should  we  want  these  pecuniary  ad- 
vances. 1  the  more  gratefully  accept  them  as  the  difficulties  for 
Mdme.  Lafayette  to  get  money  from  france  are  still  great,  and  as 
I  have  bound  myself  immediately  to  pay  a  sum  of  two  hundred 
and  fifty  guineas,  the  secret  use  of  it  has  a  relation  to  our  prison 
Business,  which  Cadignan  will  verbally  explain.  To  him  give 
me  leave  to  refer  it,  as  he  intends  soon  to  have  the  honour  to 
wait  on  you,  and  contenting  myself  here  to  present  you  with  my 
grateful  and  affectionate  thanks,  I  shall  only  add,  that  with  an 
eternal  Remembrance  of  your  kind  interest  in  my  Behalf,  of 
which  you  see  I  take  the  liberty,  occasionally  to  make  use  as 
frankly  as  it  has  been  bestowed  on  me,  and  with  the  sentiments 
of  the  highest  Regard,  warm  gratitude  and  affectionate  friend- 
ship, I  have  the  honour  to  be,  my  dear  Sir, 

Your  obliged  Servant, 

Lafayette. 


CHAPTER  XVIII. 

Embassy  of  Messrs.  Pinckney,  Marshall,  and  Gerry  to  France — Blount's  Con- 
spiracy— Dr.  Romaine's  connection  with  it — Portuguese  Treaty  with 
France — Cession  of  Louisiana  by  Spain  demanded  by  France — French 
Duplicity  towards  America — R.  King  believes  the  People  of  England  will 
continue  to  Support  the  Government — Especially  since  the  Failure  of  the 
Negotiation  at  Lisle — Communication  to  Lord  Grenville  relative  to  the 
Trade  to  British  Territories  in  India — French  Orders  against  American 
Commerce  in  the  West  Indies. 

It  is  not  proposed  to  enter  into  the  details  connected  with 
the  embassy  of  Messrs.  Pinckney,  Marshall,  and  Gerry  to 
France  ;  but  it  may  be  well  to  state  the  fact,  illustrated  by 
the  following  correspondence,  which  extends  over  many 
pages,  that  it  was  an  endeavor,  on  the  part  of  the  United 
States,  to  settle  the  troubles  with  France  which  had  now 
reached  a  point  which  involved  an  entire  cessation  of  friendly 
intercourse.  Mr.  Adams,  the  President,  contrary  to  the 
advice  of  his  political  supporters,  decided  to  try  an  experi- 
ment, which  he  deemed  wise,  of  sending  three  commission- 
ers to  Paris,  and  through  their  efforts  to  bring  about  a 
solution  of  the  questions  pending  between  the  two  countries. 
As  it  is  well  known  the  mission  failed  in  its  objects,  and  M. 
Talleyrand,  after  a  formal  reception  of  the  American  Com- 
missioners, endeavored  to  bring  about  by  corrupt  means  a 
settlement  which  he  was  unwilling  to  make  by  an  open  and 
honest  discussion  of  the  questions  at  issue.  The  basis  of  this 
plan  was  that  the  United  States  should  apologize  for  all  the 
matters  complained  of  by  the  French,  including  the  treat- 
ment of  the  French  Vessels  of  war  and  privateers  during  the 
residence  of  Genet  and  afterwards,  and  especially  the  alleged 

233 


234  RUFUS  KING.  [1797 

grievances  consequent  upon  the  treaty  with  Great  Britain  ; 
should  also  make  a  loan  to  France,  either  immediate  or 
prospective,  and  give  a  considerable  sum  in  cash  to  be  dis- 
posed of  by  M.  Talleyrand  for  his  own  and  the  Directory's 
use.  The  correspondence  shows  the  manner  in  which  these 
propositions  were  received  and  indignantly  rejected  by  the 
American  Ministers,  and  the  universal  outcry  in  America 
against  France,  when  the  President,  upon  the  call  of  Con- 
gress, laid  before  them  the  papers  relative  to  the  failure  of 
the  mission. 

In  a  letter  of  Mr.  King  to  the  Secretary  of  State,  Decem- 
ber 23,  1797,  will  be  found  a  statement  made  by  the 
Directory,  through  M.  Talleyrand,  for  a  proposed  peace 
with  England,  which  will  be  found  interesting  in  this  con- 
nection. 

R.  King  to  Genl.  Pinckney. 

London,  Oct.  17,  1797. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  I  do  not  even  yet  permit  myself  to  despair  of  the  suc- 
cess of  your  mission,  tho'  anxious  as  I  feel  on  that  subject,  it 
would  be  a  very  high  gratification  to  learn  from  any  circumstance 
that  has  occurred  since  your  arrival  at  Paris  that  your  hopes  are 
somewhat  increased.     .     .     . 

The  NewsPapers  contain  a  correspondence  between  the  Secy 
of  State  and  Mr.  Monroe,  on  the  refusal  of  the  Demands  of  the 
latter  that  the  Reasons  wh.  induced  his  Recall  should  be  assigned 
for  the  Purpose  of  a  public  Discussion. 

Tho'  in  some  small  particulars  I  am  not  partial  to  Mr.  G.  [erry] 
still  I  am  thoroughly  convinced  of  his  Integrity,  Patriotism  and 
Honor  :  entire  confidence  in  which  serves  to  extenuate  those  sub- 
ordinate Defects  to  bear  with  and  to  get  over  which  require  only 
patience  and  a  little  management.  I  however  know  nothing  con- 
cerning him  for  the  last  four  years,  which  have  wrought  great 
changes  in  America  as  well  as  elsewhere.  I  speak  of  him  as  of 
former  times.     You  will   be  satisfied  with   Genl.  Marshall  j   his 

*  Italics  in  cipher. 


1797]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  235 

character  stands  well  on  all  points.  Personally  I  know  little  of 
him,  but  his  head  is  one  of  the  best  organized  of  any  one  that  I 
have  known.  This  I  say  from  general  Reputation,  and  more 
satisfactorily  from  an  Argument  that  I  heard  him  deliver  before 
the  fedl.  Court  at  Philadelphia.     .     .     . 

Yr.  faithful  Servt., 

Rufus  King. 

R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

London  17,  October,  1797. 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  violation  of  the  constitution  in  the  triumph  of  the  three 
Directors  over  their  Colleagues  and  the  Majority  of  the  two 
Councils,  was  an  event  neither  surprising  nor  unexpected.  The 
termination  of  the  negotiation  at  Lisle  was  a  natural  consequence 
of  this  revolution  ;  and  it  is  quite  probable  that  the  conferences 
at  Udina  have  likewise  been  broken  off,  on  which  event,  advanced 
as  the  season  is,  the  Armies  of  France  will  be  put  in  March  for 
Vienna. 

Mess.  Marshall  and  Gerry  have  both  arrived  in  Holland  about 
the  middle  of  September,  on  the  last  of  which  month,  in  company 
with  General  Pinckney,  they  reached  Paris,  and  according  to  the 
French  papers  (for  I  have  received  no  letter  from  them  since 
they  arrived  at  Paris)  they  have  had  an  interview  with  the  Minis- 
ter of  Foreign  Affairs.  I  make  no  conjecture  concerning  the 
result  of  this  mission  ;  you  know  what  have  been  the  sentiments 
and  conduct  of  the  Directory,  and  you  also  understand  what  were 
the  opinions  as  well  as  what  probably  would  have  been  the  De- 
cisions of  those  in  the  two  Councils,  who  have  been  driven  from 
their  offices  ;  the  Legislature  is  now  completely  subservient  to  the 
Directory. 

The  total  Defeat,  accompanied  with  the  capture  of  the  greater 
part  of  the  Dutch  Fleet  by  the  English  Squadron  under  Admiral 
Duncan  on  the  Eleventh  of  this  month,  may  have  some  influence 
in  lowering  the  tone  of  the  Directory  ;  but  whether  that  or  any 
other  consideration  will  induce  them  to  consent  to  arrangements 
with  us,  without  which  an  open  rupture  appears  inevitable,  re- 
mains to  be  seen.     I  wish  that  I  could  discover  any  circumstance 


236  RUFUS  KING.  [l797 

that  would  allow  me  to  expect  with  some  degree  of  Confidence 
that  we  shall  be  able  to  avoid  a  War. 

.  .  .  General  La  Fayette  has  been  released  and  with  his 
family  are  at  Hamburgh,  where  according  to  a  letter  I  have  from 
Mr.  Williams,  they  will  probably  remain  till  the  Spring.  It  is 
more  than  probable  that  I  may  be  called  on  for  money  from  this 
quarter,  I  shall  not  hesitate  to  supply  it,  within  certain  limits,  in 
the  belief  that  my  doing  so  will  under  all  circumstances  receive 
the  President's  approbation.     .     .     . 

With  perfect  Consideration  &  Respect  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State,  No.  51. 

London,  31st  Oct.,  1797. 
Dear  Sir  : 

In  my  number  45.,  I   gave  you   some   reason   to  expect  that  I 

might  be  able  to  obtain  the  possession  of  Chisholm's  Papers.     I 

believe  that  he  is  still  here  and  in  confinement  ;  but  I  have  not 

succeeded  in  obtaining  his  Papers.     Doctor  Romaine  was  in  this 

Country  at  the  time  of  my  arrival  here  ;  I  saw  him  several  times, 

but  knew  nothing  concerning  his  business,  except  that  it  was  said 

he  was  an  agent   for  the   Sale   of   New   Lands.     Since  receiving 

the   information   that    he   was  supposed    to   be  connected   with 

Blount,  I  have  endeavoured   to   trace  his   connections  while  last 

in  England.     From  a  person   who   in   some   measure   possessed 

Romaine's  Confidence,  I  am   assured   that  he  was  introduced  by 

the  Count   de   Moustier   (formerly  the   French  Minister  with  us 

and  with  whom  I  remember  that  Romaine  was  in  great  intimacy) 

to  the  Marquis   Las   Casas,   then  the   Spanish   Minister  at   this 

Court,   with   whom   Romaine  had   frequent  conferences   on  the 

subject  of  "  certain  Lands  belonging  to  Spain  in  the  Western  part 

of  America."      Romaine  proposed  to  engage  Las  Casas  in  his 

project  which  was   represented   as  promising  immense  Profit  to 

the   Adventurers  ;    Las   Casas    was    to    support  the  Scheme   at 

Madrid,  and  by  his  influence  procure   the   King's  sanction.     De 

Yrujo  who,  as  I  am  informed  was  privy  to  these  conferences, 

and  who  was  soon  going  to  America,  was  to   act  as  Las  Casas' 

Agent  in  that  Country.     What  was  finally  arranged  or  concluded, 


1797]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  237 

I  have  not  been  able  to  learn.  Perhaps  Blount's  conspiracy  may- 
be connected  with,  and  a  part  of,  the  Plan  discussed  by  Romaine 
and  Las  Casas  ;  and  Romaine  may  have  been  the  Agent  of 
Blount  and  his  Associates. 

It  would  be  extraordinary  (did  any  event  in  these  times  merit 
that  character)  should  there  exist  a  connection  between  Blount's 
conspiracy,  against  which  De  Yrujo  so  rudely  complained  and 
the  project  between  Romaine  and  Las  Casas,  the  execution  of 
which  is  said  to  have  been  confided  to  the  Chevalier  ! 

Romaine  has  been  in  correspondence  with  several  People  in 
this  Country  since  his  return  ;  but  the  notoriety  of  his  implica- 
tion in  the  conspiracy  of  Blount,  makes  it  difficult  to  discover 
the  object  of  his  correspondence.  Chisholm  could  not  be  the 
man  of  consequence,  whom  Blount  was  to  have  sent  to  England. 
In  a  letter  from  Romaine  to  one  of  his  Correspondents  in  London 
dated  April  4,  1797,  he  says  "There  have  some  circumstances 
turned  up,  which  I  am  fearful  will  make  it  necessary  for  me  to 
visit  England  in  May.  I  shall  endeavour  to  avoid  going  but  it 
is  highly  probable  I  shall  be  obliged  to  embark  in  one  of  the 
first  vessels  after  the  middle  of  May."  And  in  a  subsequent  let- 
ter to  the  same  person,  of  the  30th  of  April,  he  says  "  I  informed 
you  in  my  last  that  it  was  not  improbable  but  you  would  soon 
see  me  in  England  ;  I  have  not  yet  made  up  my  mind  but  it  may 
be  that  I  may  have  to  leave  this  in  a  fortnight." 

With  perfect  Respect,  &c, 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State,  No.  52. 

Wholly  in  cipher. 

London,  Nov.  9,  1797. 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  last  letters  from  the  British  Minister  in  Portugal  state, 
that  de  Pinto  the  Portuguese  Minister  has  received  a  dispatch 
from  their  Envoy  at  Madrid,  saying  that  his  last  conference  with 
the  Prince  of  Peace  "  (more  diffuse  and  conducted  with  less  re- 
serve than  usual)  had  been  concluded  by  the  Declaration  of  the 
Prince,  that  after  mature  consideration  the  Court  of  Madrid  ad- 


238  RUFUS  KING.  [1797 

vised  that  of  Portugal  to  ratify  without  further  delay  the  Treaty 
lately  concluded  with  France."  To  prove  the  sincerity  of  this 
advice,  the  Prince  adverted  to  the  critical  Situation  in  which  the 
Government  of  Spain  found  itself.  He  said  that  the  little  in- 
fluence that  they  once  had  at  Paris  was  lately,  and  especially 
since  the  18th  Fructidor,  diminished  ;  that  Del  Campo  was  rarely 
permitted  to  speak  to  any  of  the  Directors,  and  upon  a  representa- 
tion respecting  the  order  for  the  Transportation  to  Spain  of  the 
Remnant  of  the  Bourbons,  in  which  he  took  occasion  to  say  that 
their  presence  would  be  disagreeable  to  the  Court  of  Spain,  he 
was  contemptuously  answered  that  this  would  not  be  thought 
an  objection  to  the  measure. 

After  mentioning  the  difficulty  of  the  present  situation,  and 
the  more  unpleasant  prospect  of  the  future,  the  Prince  added  that 
Spain  would  not  be  able  to  oppose  any  effectual  resistance  to 
the  measures  that  France  will  pursue  on  the  refusal  of  Portugal 
to  ratify  the  Treaty  ;  for  although  by  different  means  she  has 
hitherto  avoided  the  Decision,  the  Directory  have  recently  re- 
ceived their  Demand  for  the  Cession  of  Louisiana  to  France, 
"  which,"  continued  the  Prince,  "the  Court  of  Spain  no  longer 
finds  itself  in  a  condition  to  refuse." 

I  received  this  information  yesterday  from  Lord  Grenville,  of 
whom  I  sometime  since  requested  such  intelligence  as  he  should 
receive  on  this  subject. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem  &c, 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  General  LaFayette. 

London,  Nov.  7,  1797. 
Dear  General : 

I  have  deferred  the  acknowledgment  of  your  Letter  in  the  daily 
expectation  of  receiving  from  our  Envoys  in  Paris  such  informa- 
tion as  would  enable  me  to  state  to  you  the  present,  as  well  as  the 
probable,  situation  of  our  Affairs  with  France  ;  and  tho'  I  am 
without  this  information,  and  therefore  unable  to  make  you  the 
communications  I  otherwise  should  have  done,  I  can  no  longer 
delay  offering  you  my  sincere  and  hearty  congratulations  upon 
your  delivery  from  Prison,  and  being  again  at  liberty.  You  know 


1797]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  239 

America  so  well,  that  it  seems  superfluous  to  say  that  this  Event 
will  inspire  our  Countrymen  with  the  most  lively  joy,  and  I  can- 
not be  mistaken  in  assuring  you,  that  your  Reception  there,  as 
well  as  that  of  Madame  LaFayette  and  your  Daughters,  whose 
virtues  and  Sufferings  have  equally  excited  our  admiration  and 
sympathy,  will  equal  in  affection  and  Respect  your  utmost  wishes. 
I  have  much  anxiety  respecting  Madame  LaFayette's  health  and 
earnestly  hope  that  it  may  be  restored  and  confirmed  in  season 
for  your  Embarkation  early  in  the  Spring  ;  for  I  will  not  conceal 
from  you,  that  in  the  present  uncertain  State  of  Europe,  I  shall 
not  consider  you  safe,  until  you  shall  have  landed  upon  the 
American  shores.  I  expressed  to  Cadignan  my  Readiness  in 
behalf  of  our  country  to  make  such  pecuniary  arrangements  as 
you  should  find  requisite ;  I  need  not  therefore  add  anything 
more  on  this  subject,  except  to  assure  you  that  I  am  persuaded 
that  such  arrangements  will  receive  the  approbation  of  our  Gov- 
ernment, which  has  never  ceased  to  feel  an  interest  in  whatever 
concerned  you.  I  pray  you,  my  dear  General,  to  present  my 
most  respectful  Homage  to  Mad.  LaFayette,  and  to  accept  the 
Esteem  and  Respect  of 

Your  ob't.  and  faithful  Servant, 

Rufus  King. 


John  Jay  to  R.  King. 

Albany,  Nov.  7,  1797. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  was  a  few  days  ago  fav'd  with  yours  of  the  16th  Augt.  last. 
The  attention  of  this  country  continues  I  think  too  much  fixed  on 
the  negotiations  for  Peace.  Many  are  of  opinion  that  our  em- 
barrassments will  cease  with  the  war.  It  may  be  so,  but  my  mind 
is  not  free  from  doubts  on  that  head.  The  prudence  of  pre- 
paring for  the  worst,  is  manifested  by  the  experience  of  ages  ;  and 
yet  we  very  indiscreetly  neglect  it.  I  wish  we  had  a  well  com- 
piled selection  of  Switzerland's  state  papers  respecting  their 
diplomatic  discussions  with  belligerent  powers  during  the  present 
war  ;  and  the  measures  they  have  taken  for  their  own  security. 

It  is  an  agreeable  circumstance  that  De  LaCroix's  successor 
expresses  himself  in  friendly  Terms  about  american  affairs  ;  but 


240  RUFUS  KING.  [1797 

I  shall  be  mistaken  if  he  does  not  act  as  may  best  suit  him — what 
that  may  be  I  cannot  pretend  to  say,  nor  at  this  distance  to  con- 
jecture. France  is  doing  us  much  injury,  but  good  will  ultimate- 
ly result  from  it.  We  shall  be  taught  a  useful  lesson,  tho'  perhaps 
at  no  inconsiderable  expence.     .     .     . 

Yours  sincerely 

John  Jay. 

R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State.    No.  53, 

London,  November  12,  1797. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  The  Directory  at  the  instance  of  Portugal  are  understood 
to  have  prolonged  the  Time  for  the  Ratification  of  the  Treaty 
with  that  Nation,  but  on  the  day  after  the  definitive  Treaty  with 
Austria  reached  Paris,  they  annulled  the  Treaty  with  Portugal, 
assigning  as  a  Justification  that  it  had  not  been  ratified  within 
the  Time  first  prescribed  for  that  purpose.  Portugal  must  there- 
fore expect  to  be  attacked,  unless  Spain  (of  which  according  to 
the  information  in  my  No.  52  there  is  no  probability)  shall  be 
able  to  avert  the  Blow.  The  French  army  that  shall  be  sent 
against  Portugal  will  accelerate,  if  it  does  not  accomplish,  the 
destined  Revolution  of  Spain. 

The  Congress  that  in  a  few  days  will  meet  at  Rastadt,  for  the 
Pacification  of  Germany,  will  bring  to  light  some  of  the  secret 
articles,  supposed  to  exist  in  the  Treaties  between  Austria  and 
France  and  between  the  latter  and  Prussia.     .     .     . 

The  Chiefs  of  the  Opposition  in  this  Country  do  not  attend 
Parliament,  which  manifests  much  firmness  in  the  present  posi- 
tion of  the  Nation,  and  which,  in  my  opinion,  will  receive  the 
support  of  their  Constituents  in  the  prosecution  of  the  war  ;  until 
their  enemy  shall  discover  a  disposition  to  end  it.  The  late  Naval 
Victory  and  the  Dismantling  of  the  French  men  of  war  at  Brest, 
have  in  a  considerable  degree  quieted  the  apprehension  of  inva- 
sion, notwithstanding  a  late  Arrete  of  the  Directory  to  assemble 
an  army  on  the  Coast  of  the  Ocean,  to  be  commanded  by 
Buonaparte,  and  called  "the  Army  of  England." 

I  employed  a  few  weeks  of  the  Autumn  in  travelling  through 
the  interior,  including  some  of  the  Manufacturing  Towns  of  this 


1797]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  24 1 

Country  ;  and  tho'  my  means  of  making  a  correct  Judgment  were 
in  many  respects  imperfect,  I  endeavoured  to  form  an  Estimate 
of  the  Public  Opinion  on  the  Subject  of  the  war,  which  for  a 
long  time  past,  I  have  thought,  could  not  soon  be  concluded. 
The  result  of  my  observations,  is  that  a  general  desire  of  Peace 
prevails  throughout  the  Nation,  but  that  an  opinion  exists  which 
is  nearly,  if  not  quite,  as  general,  that  this  Government  has 
sought  Peace  with  sincerity,  and  that  France  has  not  been  willing 
to  make  it  on  terms  consistent  with  the  safety  and  independence 
of  England  :  hence  I  infer  that  the  Nation,  but  without  zeal  or 
Enthusiasm,  for  they  shew  neither,  will  support  the  Government 
in  carrying  on  the  War,  and  that  they  will  give  this  support  in  the 
Belief,  that  without  it  the  Nation  must  sink  beneath  the  Blows  of 
their  Enemy.  God  grant  that  a  less  passive  temper  may  be  dis- 
played in  our  Country,  should  unhappily  the  pending  negotiation 
fail  to  restore  harmony  between  us  and  France. 

I  send  you  herewith  ...  a  long  Essay,  taken  from  the 
Redacteur  of  the  19th  of  October,  concerning  the  causes  of  the 
misunderstanding  between  us  and  France.  This  is  supposed  to 
be  the  performance  of  Thomas  Paine,  who  has  lately  published  a 
Justification,  as  he  calls  it,  of  the  revolution  of  the  18th  Fructidor, 
since  which  epoch  the  Press  has  been  put  under  the  control  of 
the  Government ;  a  circumstance  that  gives  some  importance  to 
this  absurd  disquisition  respecting  the  misunderstanding  between 
us  and  France.     .     .     . 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


Rufus  King  to  Col.  Pickering. 

Personal  and  Private. 

London  Nov.  13,  1797. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.     .     .     Pray  send  me  a  Consul  to  reside  in  London.     As  I  do 

not  decline  any  service  that  I  can  perform,  I   am   in    constant 

requisition  to  supply  those  Consular  certificates  of  various  sorts, 

which  it  has  been  usual  to  procure  from  Mr.  Johnson.     .     .     . 

Very  truly  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

VOL.  II.— 16 


242  RUFUS  KING.  [l797 

John  Jay  to  R.  King. 

Albany,  14  Nov.,  1797. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  A  late  arrival  has  brought  intelligence  of  the  Explosion 
at  Paris.  It  opens  a  wide  Field  for  Speculation  and  conjecture. 
It  is  difficult  for  a  demoralized  People  to  have  any  stable  Gov- 
ernmt ;  human  laws  can  reach  only  a  small  portion  of  human 
actions.  I  am  anxious  to  know  how  our  Comrs.  have  been 
received.  To  me  it  does  not  appear  certain  that  the  new  Revolu- 
tion will  injure  us  ;  but  the  cloud  is  too  thick  to  be  penetrated. 
It  seems  that  France  is  to  be  purified  by  fire  ;  if  so,  she  is  not 
yet  ready  to  leave  the  furnace.  We  hear  that  Ld.  Malmesbury 
has  returned  to  England  ;  and  yet  I  should  not  be  surprised,  if 
something  like  a  Peace  should  be  patched  up  this  winter  between 
France  and  Austria.  I  suspect  the  Emperor's  Resources  to  be 
exhausted  so  much  that  it  will  not  be  in  his  power  to  provide  for 
the  Expences  of  such  a  campaign  next  year,  as  would  become  his 
Dignity  &  Interest — but  this  is  all  Guess-work.     .     .     . 

Yours  sincerely, 

John  Jay. 


Rufus  King  to   Mess.  Pinckney,  Marshall,  and  Gerry. 

All  in  cipher. 

London,  15th,  Nov.,  1797. 
Gentlemen  : 

.  .  .  Though  my  expectations  of  a  satisfactory  issue  of 
your  Mission  was  materially  weakened  by  the  Revolution  of  the 
fourth  of  September,  yet  I  must  confess  that  I  was  not  prepared 
for  the  accounts  which  Col.  Trumbull  has  given  me.  I  will  not 
however  allow  myself  yet  to  despair  of  your  success,  though  my 
apprehensions  are  greater  than  my  hopes.  I  annex  the  Copy  of 
my  No.  52  to  the  Secretary  of  State.  ...  It  may  be  con- 
sidered as  a  communication  of  considerable  importance  in  en- 
abling you  to  judge  of  the  views  of  the  French  Government.  The 
Envoy  of  Portugal  confirmed  to  me  to-day  this  information  so 
far  as  regards  the  demand  which,  he  said,  had  been  made  in  the 


1797]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  243 

shape  of  a  Note,  and  not,  as  heretofore,  verbally.  He  knew 
nothing  of  the  answer  that  was  given  by  the  Minister  of  Spain. 
I  likewise  send  you  the  copy  of  a  Letter  that  some  months  past 
I  wrote  to  Mr.  Talleyrand,  to  which  I  received  no  answer.  .  .  . 
Slight  circumstances  sometimes  assist  us  in  the  discovery  of 
important  decisions.     .     .     . 

The  failure  of  the  Negotiation  at  Lisle  has  undoubtedly  added 
strength  to  this  Government.  The  two  Houses  of  Parliament  made 
a  joint  and  unanimous  address  to  the  King,  in  reply  to  his  Speech, 
pledging  the  wealth  and  Strength  of  the  Nation,  in  language  of 
uncommon  solemnity  and  force,  to  support  the  Crown  in  the 
prosecution  of  the  War  against  an  Enemy,  whose  enmity,  says 
the  address,  is  directed  against  their  Laws,  Religion  and  Liberty. 

What  another  Revolution  in  France  may  effect ;  nay  to  what 
the  Corruption  of  those  who  are  now  in  Power  may  lead  them  to 
agree,  it  is  not  easy  to  pronounce  ;  but  here,  there  is  every  appear- 
ance of  a  firm  and  steady  perseverance  in  the  war. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State.     No.  54. 

London,  Nov.  18,  1797. 
Dear  Sir  : 

"  Si  tout  se  vend  rien  ne  se  garantit."  The  fate  of  the  late 
Treaty  between  France  and  Portugal  would  confirm  this  Truth,  was 
it  doubtful.  Portugal  tvas  also  required  to  pay  down  a  sum  of 
mo7iey  to  be  distributed  as  a  preliminary  to  JVegoliation  and  she  ad- 
vanced it.  By  a  secret  article  of  the  Treaty  she  was  bound  to  make 
a  loan  to  France,  a  part  of  which  was  paid  at  the  Signature  of  the 
Treaty  and  was  the  money  that  enabled  the  Directory  to  march  the 
Army  which  effected  the  Revolution  of  the  18th  Fructidor.  You  may 
depend  on  this  information* 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

*  Italics  in  cipher. 


244  RUFUS  KING.  [i797 

R.  King  to  Lord  Grenville. 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  Nov.  20,  1797. 

My  Lord  : 

Your  Lordship  may  probably  recollect  that  after  the  Ratifica- 
tion of  the  American  Treaty,  but  before  the  Act  of  Parliament  for 
carrying  it  into  effect,  I  took  the  Liberty  to  mention  to  your  Lord- 
ship the  Circumstances  of  an  Insurance  Cause  in  one  of  his 
Majesty's  Courts,  in  which  the  Plaintiff,  an  American  Citizen,  had 
been  non-suited  in  consequence  of  an  opinion  of  the  Court,  that 
the  Trade  to  the  British  Territories  in  Asia  could  not  be  carried 
on  by  Foreigners.  Since  the  Act  of  Parliament,  a  new  trial  of 
the  cause  has  been  ordered,  and  the  suit  is  about  to  be  decided 
by  the  construction  that  shall  be  given  in  Westminster  Hall  to  the 
XIII.  Article  of  the  Treaty. 

This  question  is  of  importance  not  only  in  respect  to  the 
Property  immediately  depending  upon  its  decision,  but  far  more  so 
as  it  affects  those  voyages  and  commercial  adventures  which  have 
been  commenced  under  the  Security  of  this  article  of  the  Treaty  ; 
according  to  which,  in  the  opinion  of  the  American  Government, 
it  is  free  for  their  citizens  to  import  in  American  Ships  into  the 
British  Territories  in  the  East  Indies,  any  goods  or  Merchandize 
that  may  be  imported  into  the  same  by  the  East  India  Company, 
paying  the  same  duties  as  are  paid  by  that  Company  and  this 
without  being  subject  to  inquiry  or  Disadvantage  in  respect  to  the 
Country  of  which  such  Goods  or  Merchandize  are  the  produce  or 
manufacture,  or  whether  they  come  directly  from  America,  or  are 
shipped  in  Europe  or  elsewhere. 

Had  there  been  any  Doubt  of  this  interpretation,  it  would  have 
been  removed  by  the  discussion  that  grew  out  of  the  restrictive 
clauses  which  the  East  India  Company  were  desirous  should  have 
been  added  to  the  Act  of  Parliament,  establishing  the  Provisions 
of  the  American  Treaty,  and  to  the  Act  concerning  the  Trade  to 
the  East  Indies  by  nations  in  Amity  with  Great  Britain.  But  not- 
withstanding my  persuasion  that  the  Parties  do  not  disagree  in 
the  interpretation  of  this  article  of  the  Treaty,  I  am  not  without 
apprehension  that  an  erroneous  Construction  may  be  attempted, 
and  perhaps  successfully,  in  the  course  of  this  Trial. 

Hence  I  have  thought  it  to  be  my   Duty  to  place  the  Subject 


1797]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE,  245 


before  your  Lordship,  and  to  request  your  influence  in  order  that 
the  Court  of  King's  Bench,  before  whom  this  suit  is  depending, 
may  be  seasonably  informed  of  the  Construction  given  to  this 
Article  of  the  American  Treaty  by  his  Majesty's  Government.  .  .  . 
Your  obedient  &  very  humble  servant  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Messrs.  Pinckney,  Marshall,  and  Gerry. 

London,  Nov.  24,  1797. 
Gentlemen  : 

No  one  detests  more  than  I  do  the  Conduct  of  France  towards  our* 
Country  still  I  earnestly  desire  that  we  may  remain  in  Peace.  War 
would  retard  our  progress  ;  which  with  all  the  disadvantages  to  wh. 
we  are  exposed,  brings  daily  additions  of  wealth  and  strength  ;  and 
to  the  ceconomical  and  moral  motives  which  should  influence  Na- 
tions to  cultivate  Peace,  we  may  add  the  Danger  to  be  apprehended 
from  the  Division  of  our  People.  I  make  these  observations  in  order 
that  you  may  justly  estimate  such  information  as  with  a  view  to  the 
Negotiation  in  your  Hands,  I  may  send  you  ;  for  with  all  our  im- 
partiality, our  Prejudices  will  sometimes  colour  not  only  what 
passes  thro'  our  minds,  but  even  the  objects  that  fall  beneath  our 
senses. 

Portugal  gave  ??ioney  as  a  Preliminary  to  the  negotiation  of  the  late 
Treaty  with  France,  by  a  secret  article  of  which  she  also  stipulated 
a  Loan,  part  of  which  was  actually  paid  at  the  Signature  of  the 
Treaty.  This  money  enabled  the  Directory  to  march  the  army  who 
effected  the  Revolution  of  the  18th.  Fructidor.  Spain  is  alarmed  and 
Portugal  trembles.  England  cannot  furnish  troops,  without  which 
Portugal  must  fall.  The  Court  of  Vienna  have  at  this  moment  little 
confidence  in  the  solidity  of  their  Peace.  This  is  no  Task,  and  the 
war  may  again  burst  out.  The  Directory  are  not  at  Ease  on  this 
Point.  Efigland  sees  all  this,  and,  notwithstanding  the  disaffected 
State  of  Ireland,  is  resolved  with  Firmness  to  continue  the  war. 

I  cannot  give  you  my  sources  of  information  but  I  am  not  deceived. 

Yrs.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

*  Italics  in  cipher. 


246  R  UFUS  KING.  [1797 

R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State.     No.  55. 

London,  Dec.  6,  1797. 
Dear  Sir: 

.  .  .  /  think  that  I  am  not  mistaken  in  my  Belief,  that  this  in- 
security of  Peace,  and  probability  that  the  Congress  of  Rastadt  will 
rekindle  the  war,  has  been  formally  communicated  to  this  Court  by 
that  of  Vienna,  in  order  that  measures  of  Concert,  grounded  on  this 
expectation,  should  be  pursued  by  the  two  nations* 

The  Directory  have  given  orders  to  divide  the  German  Terri- 
tory on  the  left  of  the  Rhine  into  Departments  on  the  model  of 
those  of  France,  while  by  an  Imperial  Aulic  Decree,  the  Emperor 
calls  upon  the  Deputies  of  the  Empire  to  the  Congress  to  exert 
themselves  with  German  firmness,  jointly  with  him,  to  obtain  a 
solid  Peace,  "  on  the  basis  of  the  Integrity  of  the  Empire." 

At  this  critical  moment  has  happened  the  death  of  the  King  of 
Prussia  ;  an  event  capable  of  producing  the  most  important  con- 
sequences. Some  circumstances,  tho'  far  from  being  conclusive, 
have  already  appeared,  which  induce  those  who  wish  it,  to  believe 
that  the  young  King  will  pursue  a  course  altogether  the  reverse 
of  that  of  his  Father. 

The  new  monarch  is  said  to  be  attached  to  the  Army,  brave 
and  emulous  of  the  character  of  the  Great  Frederick  ;  he  is 
moreover  both  frugal  and  moral,  and  in  these  Points  the  opposite 
of  his  Father.  Events  of  the  first  magnitude  follow  each  other 
with  such  rapidity  that  we  shall  even  in  a  few  days  be  able  to 
appreciate  the  character  of  the  new  Sovereign. 

The  Directory  will  be  active  on  this  occasion,  unless,  as  is 
rumoured,  they  are  embarrassed  by  a  new  Party  at  Paris  that  is 
forming  itself  against  them.  We  are  not  yet  able  to  discern  the 
shape  of  this  Faction,  nor  to  distinguish  the  peculiar  means  with 
which  it  will  act.  But  it  is  as  certain  that  things  must  change, 
and  that  soon,  as  they  have  recently  become  what  they  are. 

On  the  26th  ulto.  our  Envoys  had  not  been  received  by  the 
Directory,  nor  had  they  advanced  a  step  since  their  dispatch  by 
Col.  Trumbull  :  except  that  on  the  nth.  they  had  by  a  Note  to 
the  Minister  of  Foreign  Affairs  requested  that  the  Government 
would,  without  further  delay,  take  the  Subject  of  their  Mission 
into  consideration,  and  ten  days  after,  not  having  received  any 
answer,  they  sent  Major  Rutledge  to  inquire  whether  their  request 

*  Italics  in  cipher. 


1797]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  247 

had  been  communicated  to  the  Directory,  who  was  informed  that 
it  had,  and  that  the  result  would  shortly  be  made  known  to  the 
Envoys.  In  the  mean  time  the  animosity  of  the  French  Govern- 
ment against  our  Country  increases  and  the  condemnation  of  our 
Ships  and  Cargoes  is  pursued  with  eagerness  and  rapacity.  A 
Proclamation  by  the  Directory  of  the  22d  of  November,  which 
holds  up  the  Government  of  England  as  a  Conspiracy  against 
French  Liberty  and  charges  it  as  influencing  and  corrupting 
every  other  nation,  has  this  expression,  "  Parlez  Americains, 
dites  quels  sont  directement  ou  indirectement  vos  vrais  domina- 
teurs."     .     .     . 

Nothing  material  since  my  last  has  occurred  in  this  country. 
The  proposal  of  raising  seven  millions  additional  Revenue  by 
tripling  the  direct  assessments  will  be  carried  into  execution.  In 
the  present  State  of  England,  we  may  find  both  admonition  and 
Instruction.  If  we  should  be  forced  into  the  war  in  defence  of 
our  Property  and  Government,  I  hope  that  we  may  Profit  by 
seasonable  reflections  upon  the  dangers  to  the  State  from  too 
great  an  accumulation  of  public  Debt.  This  country  is  now  said  to 
have  arrived  near  to  the  Limits  of  the  funding  system,  and  with  all 
its  burden,  bearing  upon  them,  they  are  compelled  to  go  back  to 
the  old  Scheme  of  raising  within  the  year  their  annual  Expences. 
We  shall  not  be  able  to  borrow  in  Europe,  and  instead  of  bor- 
rowing at  Home  except  for  mere  anticipations,  why  should  we 
not,  in  a  war  of  strict  necessity,  raise  within  the  year  the  money 
to  defray  our  Expenses  ?  I  still  entertain  a  faint  hope  that  we 
shall  escape  the  war  ;  the  present  State  of  things  must  soon 
change,  and  any  change  will  mend  our  situation  and  Prospects. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem,  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

R.  King  to   General  Pinckney,  General  Marshall,  and 

Mr.  Gerry* 

Confidential. 

London,  Dec.  9,  1797. 
Gentlemen  : 

Lord  Grenville  last  night  sent  Mr.  Hammond  to  me  with  the 
following  information  that  had  just  been  received  by  this  Gov- 
ernment. 

*  In  cipher. 


248  RUFUS  KING.  [l797 

"  Coast  of  France  November  26,  1797.  The  Minister  of  Marine 
Pleville  Lepeley  has  recommended  to  the  Marine  officers  at  Gran- 
ville, St.  Maloes,  to  throw  every  secret  impediment,  without  open 
force,  to  delay  the  Departure  of  American  vessels,  and  the  expor- 
tation of  American  property  which  they  daily  expected  orders  to 
sequester." 

Mr.  Hammond  said  that  he  was  ordered  to  declare  that  the  in- 
formation was  authentic,  and  such  as  they  should  act  upon  in  a 
case  that  concerned  them.  You  will  judge  whether  you  can  give 
notice  to  our  People  to  withdraw  their  property. 

With  great  truth  yours  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


CHAPTER   XIX. 

Mr.  Hindman  on  Maryland  Politics — Mr.  King  and  Maryland  Bank  Stock — 
Judge  Cambauld  in  St.  Domingo — Genl.  Washington  relative  to  Lafayette's 
Son — Count  Rumford — Chisholme,  Agent  of  Governor  Blount  in  London 
— Statement  of  Facts  made — Correspondence  with  Commissioners  in  Paris 
— Directory  propose  Peace  to  England — Declined — Mr.  King  to  the  Com- 
missioners— The  United  States  must  act  with  Decision — Fear  of  Mr. 
Gerry  in  Letter  to  General  Pinckney — Letter  to  Mr.  Gerry — From  General 
Pinckney — No  Hope  of  a  Treaty  with  France. 

Wm.  Hindman  to  Wm.  Hensley,  Jr.,  London. 

Philadelphia,  Dec.  3,  1797. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Inclosed  is  a  Copy  of  a  Letter  I  received  from  Mr.  King  .  .  . 
I  presume  that  you  are  happily  fixed  as  Mr.  King's  Secretary,  so 
that  your  accompanying  Mrs.  Tilghmam  to  England  has  proved 
a  most  lucky  circumstance,  as  She  was  thereby  fortunately  re- 
lieved from  a  great  Weight  upon  her  mind.  You  will  arrive  in 
London  most  seasonably  to  take  upon  you  the  Duties  of  your 
Office. 

Mr.  Henry  is  elected  our  Governor  ;  it  is  not  yet  known  here 
who  will  succeed  Him  in  the  Senate  ;  from  what  I  collect  the 
Contest  will  probably  terminate  between  Messrs.  Joshua  Seney 
and  Wm.  Winder,  the  first  a  decided  Jacobin,  the  other  a  doubt- 
ful Character.  It  is  truly  lamentable  that  We  should  be  driven 
to  this  Dilemma.  It  is  said  there  is  a  Majority  of  Antis  in  our 
House  of  Delegates.  Tom  Martin  was  chosen  by  a  great 
Majority.  Mr.  Josh.  Seney  has  declared  Himself  a  Candidate 
for  the  House  of  Representatives  of  Congress  at  the  next 
Election. 

There  was  no  opposition  to  the  Answer  to  the  President's 
Speech.     What  the  Plan  of  the  Antis  is  this  Session,  I  have  not 

249 


250  RUFUS  KING.  [*797 

heard.  Messrs.  Jefferson  and  Giles  are  not  yet  come  ;  I  suppose 
nothing  decisive  will  be  fixed  upon  untill  their  Arrival.  Our 
Speaker  has  given  up  the  French  since  their  last  Revolution. 

Congress  can  do  nothing  decisive  untill  They  hear  from  our 
Commissioners  at  Paris  ;  should  our  Differences  not  be  accom- 
modated, I  flatter  myself  We  shall  be  more  united  than  We  have 
hitherto  been  ;  there  will  however  be  a  Party  in  Favor  of  the 
French  let  their  Conduct  towards  Us  be  what  it  may. 

I  have  lately  received  a  Letter  from  Mr.  Perry,  who  is  now  at- 
tending our  Legislature  ;  in  which  is  the  following,  "  Mr.  King 
has  truly  rendered  the  State  of  Maryland  vast  Service  respecting 
our  Bank  Stock  in  England.  He  has  now  got  it  in  a  very  good 
Way  for  our  laying  our  Hands  upon  it.  He  has  really  taken 
great  Pains  in  examining  into  this  Business,  and  has  by  a  single 
Letter  given  Us  a  much  clearer  View  of  the  whole  Business  than 
we  have  been  able  to  obtain  from  Mr.  Chase  from  his  first  Com- 
mencement of  the  Business.  Mr.  King  has  rendered  Himself 
very  popular  with  us."  This  Information  was  doubly  gratifying 
to  me. 

Mr.  Edwd.  Lloyd  was  married  to  Miss  Murray  on  the  30th 
ulto.  and  is  to  settle  at  Wye.  You  have  no  Doubt  heard  that 
your  Father  is  on  the  Eve  of  Matrimony.  The  Hessian  Fly  has 
increased  twofold  upon  Us  this  Fall.  Pray  present  me  to  Mr. 
King  in  Terms  of  the  most  affectionate  Regard  ;  tell  Him  I  feel 
in  the  most  grateful  Manner  his  friendly  attentions  to  me.  Mr. 
Sitgreaves  and  Myself  are  alone  at  Mrs.  Williams,  and  eat  when 
at  Home  of  the  excellent  Cheese  which  Mr.  King  was  so  kind  as 
to  send  Her.     I  shall  be  happy  to  hear  from  you. 

Yrs  Sincerely  &c. 

W.  Hindman. 


T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

Department  of  State,  Dec.  5,  1797. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.     .     .     Another    grievance    which    has    for    some    time    past 

excited  much  complaint,  is  the  proceeding  of  the  Judge  of  the 

Court  of  Vice-admiralty  in  St.  Domingo.    This  Court  was  erected 

by  Governor  Simcoe,  who  appointed  a  Mr.  Richard  Cambauld 


1797]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  25  I 

the  Judge.  From  what  I  have  heard  of  this  man's  character  and 
the  inferences  to  be  drawn  from  his  proceedings,  we  must  con- 
clude that  Governor  Simcoe  did  not  know  him.  .  .  .  It  is 
not  only  against  the  frequency  of  the  captures  that  are  made, 
that  complaints  have  been  preferred,  but  the  Judge  is  represented 
as  a  man  who  does  not  support  the  decency  belonging  to  that 
character.  He  has  an  extraordinary  facility  in  condemning,  and 
it  is  unpleasant  to  our  sea-faring  citizens  to  see  those  naval 
officers,  who  are  interested  in  the  condemnations,  sitting  on  the 
bench  with  the  Judge,  and,  as  they  imagine,  influencing  his 
decisions.  ...  It  may  be  questioned  whether  this  Judge 
possesses  a  competent  knowledge  of  his  profession. 


Geo.  Washington  to  R.  King. 

Mount  Vernon,  Dec.  6,  1797. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Your  favor  of  the  6th  of  September  has  been  duly  received, 
and  for  the  information  contained  in  the  enclosure,  respecting 
Genl.  Lafayette,  I  offer  you  my  thanks.  The  footing  on  which 
his  releasement  is  placed  by  the  Emperor,  &  the  succeeding 
event  in  Paris,  on  the  4th  of  September,  render  his  proceedings, 
after  he  gets  to  Hamburg,  problematical. 

Should  these  circumstances  (for  it  is  not  easy  to  say  what 
effect  the  latter  may  have  on  his  prospects  in  France)  induce  him 
to  steer  his  course  immediately  for  this  Country,  it  will  be  a  mat- 
ter of  some  regret  to  him,  &  his  son,  that  they  shall  have  passed 
each  other  on  the  Ocean. 

Deluded  (though  not  designedly)  by  premature  information  of 
his  parents  liberation  &  journeying  to  France,  by  a  correspondent 
at  Hamburg,  his  eagerness  to  embrace  them,  and  his  Sisters,  in 
the  first  moment  of  their  reception  in  France, — the  fear  of  a  win- 
ter passage  (should  he  delay  his  departure)  ; — and  persuasion,  as 
he  left  his  native  country  under  the  authority  of  the  Government, 
that  he  had  nothing  to  apprehend  from  his  return  to  it  ; — over- 
came my  advice  to  him  to  await  a  direct  account  from  his  father  ; 
which  would  not  only  have  ascertain'd  the  fact,  but  might  also 
have  pointd.  out  a  course  which  he  would  have  him  pursue. — 


252  RUFUS  KING.  [1797 

Nay,  I  went  so  far  as  to  tell  him,  that  although  it  was  not  proba- 
ble, it  was  nevertheless  possible,  he  might  be  disappointed  of  his 
object,  by  the  means  which  seems  likely  to  have  happened  ;  but 
his  purpose,  from  the  considerations  already  mentioned,  were  not 
to  be  diverted  ;  and  being  excited  by  the  purest  filial  affection, 
for  he  is  realy  a  sensible,  amiable,  and  valuable  youth,  I  shall 
feel  much  for  the  disappointment  of  both  parties,  if  they  do  not 
meet  in  Europe.  With  the  highest  esteem  &  regards,  I  am,  My 
dear  Sir, 

Your  Most  Obedt.  &  Obliged  Hbl.  Ser. 

Geo.  Washington. 


R.  King  to  T.  Pickering. 

Private. 

London,  Dec.  8,  1797. 

Count  Rumford,  late  Sir  Benjamin  Thompson,  whose  name  and 
history  are  probably  known  to  you,  and  whose  talents  and  ser- 
vices have  produced  the  most  beneficial  Establishments  and 
reforms  in  Bavaria,  was  lately  named  by  the  Elector  to  be  his 
Minister  at  this  Court.  On  his  arrival  he  has  been  informed  that 
being  a  British  Subject,  it  was  contrary  to  usage  to  receive  him 
and  that  therefore  he  could  not  be  acknowledged. 

The  intrigues  and  opposition  against  which  he  had  for  some 
years  made  head  in  Bavaria,  probably  made  him  desire  the  mis- 
sion to  England  ;  the  refusal  that  he  has  met  with,  has  decided 
him  to  return  and  settle  himself  in  America.  He  proposes  to 
establish  himself  at  or  near  Cambridge,  to  live  there  in  the 
character  of  a  German  Count,  to  renounce  all  political  expecta- 
tions, and  devote  himself  to  literary  pursuits — his  connections  in 
this  Country  are  strictly  literary,  and  his  knowledge,  particularly 
in  the  military  Department,  may  be  of  great  use  to  us.  The  Count 
is  well  acquainted  with,  and  has  had  much  experience  in  the 
establishment  of  Cannon  Founderies  ;  that  which  he  established 
in  Bavaria  is  spoken  of  in  very  high  terms,  as  well  as  certain  im- 
provements that  he  has  introduced  in  the  mounting  of  flying 
artillery.  He  possesses  an  extensive  military  Library,  and 
assures  me  that  he  wishes  nothing  more  than  to  be  useful  to  our 
country.     I  make  this  communication  by  his  desire,  and  my  wish 


1797]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  253 


is  that  he  may  be  well  received,  as  I  am  persuaded  that  his  Prin- 
ciples are  good  and  his  talents  and  information  uncommonly  ex- 
tensive. It  is  possible  that  attempts  may  be  made  to  misrepresent 
his  political  opinions  :  from  the  enquiry  that  I  have  made  on  this 
head,  I  am  convinced  that  his  political  sentiments  are  correct. 
Be  good  enough  to  communicate  this  letter  to  the  President. 
With  great  respect  &  esteem,  &c,  yours  faithfully, 

Rufus  King. 


Chisholme  to  Thos.  Digges. 

Nov.  25,  1797. 
My  Dear  Sir  : 

May  I  expect  to  see  you  early  to-morrow  morning — I  am  so 
Destresed — that  I  canot  Refrain  Troubling  you.  I  have  thought 
of  a  measure  that  perhaps  will  Serve  me, — if  I  can  gitt  it  Done — 
perhaps  you  can  have  it  Done  for  me. 

Believe  me  Sir  Cencerley, 

Chisholme. 


Thos.  Digges  to  R.  King. 

25th  Nov.,  1797. 
Sir: 

I  called  in  on  Mr.  Chisholme  yesterday  evening  in  order  to 
obtain  from  Him  the  names  of  the  Persons  in  Ama.  who  may 
have  been  implicated  in  the  plan  of  surprising  the  Spanish  Posts, 
&c,  and  I  took  in  with  me  Majr.  Geo  Barnes,  a  native  of  Vir- 
ginia, now  in  London  selling  a  large  quantity  of  Georgia  and 
Tennessee  Lands  (about  which  I  understand  he  had  wrote  to  you) 
and  from  his  being  acquainted  with  Mr.  Chisholme  when  He  was 
at  Phila  with  the  party  of  Indians  making  the  Southern  Indian 
Treaty.  I  think  I  am  in  a  fair  way  thro'  him  of  obtaining  most 
of  the  names  implicated  in  schemes  for  wresting  the  Southern 
Territory  from  the  Spaniards,  &  of  which  Mr.  B.  and  Mr.  C. 
spoke  freely  before  me.  Mr.  Chisholme  has  heretofore  uniformly 
told  me  he  would  expose  every  matter  &  plan  relative  to  that 
transaction  save  the  exposition  of  names,  and  hinted  at  several  in 
N.   York  as  well  as   Phila  who  were   concerned   therein.      He 


254  RUFUS  KING.  [1797 

showed  me  a  letter  rec'd  yesterday  from  Mr.  Moore  of  Ld.  G's 
office,  dry  &  guardedly  written,  as  if  in  ansr.  to  one  from 
Chisholme,  asking  for  supplys,  or  that  He,  Mr.  C,  should  be 
obliged  to  seek  for  aid  &  assistance  through  other  channels, 
meaning,  as  I  conceived,  through  you.  I  went  to  him  by  ap- 
pointment to  be  the  bearer  of  a  letter,  which  states  his  case  & 
purposes,  in  some  measure,  together  with  a  larger  bundle  of 
sealed  papers.  I  read  the  letter  before  he  sealed  it,  but  had  no 
view  of  the  other  papers.  I  delivered  them  to  yr  young  man 
Sutton  last  night  &  He  will  wait  upon  you  to  day  abo't  12  o'clk 
with  them.  I  think  it  best  to  apprise  you  of  this  by  a  messenger 
wch.  I  now  send. 

I  will  get  Mr  Barnes  to  go  in  from  time  to  time  to  Chisholme 
and  doubt  not  he  will  be  able  to  get  at  names  &c  &c. 

Neither  of  the  three  parties  know  I  have  any  communications 
or  acquaintance  with  you,  and  so  it  had  better  remain  for  the 
present ;  I  will  attend  to  any  request  of  yours  as  to  what  queries 

or  questions  to  put  to  Mr  C thro'  the  other  two  Gentl,  for  T 

was  obliged  during  my  conversations  with  him  to  co-incide  in  his 
opinion  that  the  giving  up  the  names  of  his  friends  &  party  would 
not  be  perfectly  fair.  He  however  told  me  last  night  He  w'd  do 
it  provided  they  were  held  back  from  the  Spaniards  in  that 
quarter  of  the  Country. 

I  am  in  haste  &  with  esteem 

Sir  yr.  Ob.  Hb  Serv. 
Tho.  Digges. 

Thos.  Digges  to  R.  King. 

Nov.  27,  1797. 
Sir  : 

Mr.  Chisholme  in  many  instances  seems  wild  and  incoherent, 
altho  he  has  rather  spoke  out  to  Mr  B.  (the  Gentl  I  mention'd  in 
my  last  letter)  respecting  the  names  of  some  of  His  Colleagues. 
He  wrote  me  the  inclosed  supposing  from  a  slender  acquaintance 
with  the  Duke  of  Portland  &  in  that  office,  I  could  solicit  for  him 
some  appointment  in  upper  Canada,  but  this  is  totally  out  of  the 
question  ;  His  plans  &  expectations  must  have  been  more  de- 
veloped to  you  by  the  letter  &  papers  I  took  from  him  to  Mr 
Sutton  wch.  I  suppose  you  have  seen. 

The  following  are  the  names  I  have  discovered  of  those  persons 


1797]  LIFE   AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  2$$ 

concerned  with  them  &  wch.  may  lead  to  some  quest  for  the  dis- 
covery of  others  viz.  at  N  York,  a  Captain  Mitchell — Capt  Sted- 
man  (who  wrote  the  Expedition  to  Surinam) — Doctor  Romain 
(who  entered  into  the  plan  and  made  his  Unkle,  Mr.  Vandam  of 

London,  acquainted  therewith) — a  Mr  Morris  then   in  N. 

York  but  formerly  of  Kingston  Jamaica,  and  anor  name  wch.  is 
blotted  in  my  memdm. 

Governor  Blount  seems  to  have  been  the  chief  or  main  spring, 
also  a  Colol.  Ore  in  the  Tennessee — a  Colol.  Wm.  Whitley  in 
Kentucky  was  promised  him  w'd  join  in  the  plan. 

N.  B.  he  has  promised  to  give  the  plan  in  writing  to  Mr  Sutton 
and  you  will  of  course  see  it.  At  Philadelphia — a  Mr  Nicolas  (a 
ship  owner  of  Newhaven  in  Massachusets  who  would  send  ar'ond 
vessels  to  Florida  &  Orleans).  From  Phila  he  wrote  to  Colol. 
Brandt,  and  The  Corn  Planter  upon  the  business,  &  they  came  to 
Phila.  bringing  with  them  a  Mr.  Street,  a  member  of  the  Assembly 
of  upper  Canada. — Capt.  Johnson  and  a  Mr.  Smith,  an  Indian 
Interpretor — Chisholme  sent  for  Captain  Mitchell  before  men- 
tioned to  Philaa,  and  Mitchell  there  spoke  to  Major  Craig  of 
Pensylvania,  and  Mitchell  was  then  sent  by  the  party  to  The 
Mississippi  to  sound  the  people  there  &  get  plans  &c.  of  the  Forts 
&  posts. — also  saw  &  open'd  the  matter  to  Capt  Collins  at  Phila 
but  who  resides  in  Marblehead. — also  a  Mr.  Blackburne  of 
Richm'd  in  Virginia.  The  plans  were  all  concerted  with  &  known 
to  Mr.  Liston,  the  English  Envoy  some  time  between  ist  Nov.  96 
and  Mar  last,  at  which  time  Capt  Chisholme  sailed  for  England. 
to  concert  measures  here  in  Eng'd,  and  brought  introductory  let- 
ters to  Lord  Grenville,  Mr  Dundas,  Mr  Hammond  &  others.,  all 
close  packed  up  in  sheet  lead  so  as  to  be  easily  sunk  if  he  was 
taken  at  sea,  and  he  had  artificial  Intrody  letters  to  Mr  Liston's 
friends  in  Hambro'  to  cover  him  from  detection  if  taken  at  Sea. 
I  wonder  much  at  the  confidence  placed  in  such  a  Man  ! — but  the 
plan  seems  to  have  been  deep  &  well  laid.  Mr  Chisholme  seems 
to  be  poor,  &  abandoned  by  his  ministerial  Friends  at  the  Treas- 
ury &  is  of  course  very  anxious  to  get  out  of  Prison.  There  is  a 
mode  of  getting  his  release  &  which  is  frequently  &  every  Term 
done  in  the  Courts  here,  wch.  you  may  not  be  apprized  of — It  is 
by  getting  him  Baild  out  by  Jews,  or  men  who  openly  do  it  for  a 
certain  percentage  on  the  Sum,  &  never  after  look  for  the  person 
so  bailed,  nor  can  he  be  troubled  or  run  to  Execut'n  for  some 


256  RUFUS  KING.  [1797 

3  or  4  terms  after  He  is  bailed  out. — In  this  way  I  think  He  may- 
be released  for  9  or  10  jQ  advance  to  such  Bail  upon  their  pro- 
ducing His  discharge.  Whether  he  is  worth  this,  or  not  is  the 
question. 

Least  some  doubt  may  arise  in  your  mind  respecting  a  pass- 
port for,  or  helping  out  another  person  to  America  (as  express'd 
in  Chisholme  proposals)  I  think  I  can  confidently  assure  you  it  is 
for  Mr.  D.  y.  Sutton  J^nr,  (the  young  man  who  has  waited  on 
you)  and  the  reason  is  this.  By  extravagance  and  some  boyish 
indiscretion,  he  is  an  alien  from  His  Father's  affections  &  actually 
forbid  appearing  at  his  house  No  18  Great  St  Helens.  His 
Father  is  a  respectable  Quaker  Mercht  who  lived  many  years  in 
Alexandria  (wch.  is  in  sight  of  my  estate  at  Digges'  Landing  on 
the  Potomack  just  fronting  Mount  Vernon  &  in  sight  of  Wash- 
ington City)  where  the  father  now  is  collecting  &  remitting  home 
debts. — His  Son  (the  young  man  in  question)  was  born  there  & 
was  brought  up  in  Virga.  but  for  some  3  or  4  yr's  back  has  been 
a  Clk.  to  his  Father  in  London,  who  unfortunately  left  him  in  too 
great  a  trust  &  I  know  his  wish  is  to  get  out  to  Ama. — with  Chis- 
holme or  with  any  one  rather  than  meet  his  Father,  whom  I  ex- 
pect dayly  in  London.  The  way  he  got  acquainted  with 
Chisholme  was  by  being  put  into  the  same  prison  for  a  Taylor's 
Bill  of  12  or  15  £  which  I  soon  got  compounded  &  procured  his 
discharge  about  3  weeks  ago  The  Taylor  willingly  taking  half 

the  sum. 

I  am  with  great  respect  Sir 

yrs  most  obt  Serv. 

Thos.  Digges. 

I  thought   it  better  to  send  this  information  to   you  as  young 

Sutton  will  probably  call  on  you  to  Morrow  forenoon  with  further 

communications  from  Mr.  Chisholme. 


R.  King  to   Secretary  of   State.     No.  57. 

London,  December  10,  1797. 
Dear  Sir  : 

It  was  not  until  Chisholm  despaired  of  receiving  further  sup- 
port for  himself  or  his  Plan  from  this  Government  that  he  con- 
sented to  open  himself  to  such  person  as  I  should  send  to  him  for 


1797]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  257 

that  purpose.  Major  Lenox  by  my  desire  went  to  him  and  wrote 
down  from  Chisholm's  relation  the  Paper  called  his  Declaration. 
The  outlines  of  the  Paper  and  the  answers  to  the  twenty  nine 
Questions  which  follow  it,  were  taken  by  me  from  Chisholm  at  the 
House  of  Major  Lenox,  and  in  his  presence.  The  whole  has  been 
signed  and  sworn  to  by  him  in  the  presence  of  Major  Lenox  and 
myself.  Chisholm  required  that  none  of  the  names  of  the  Per- 
sons residing  within  or  on  the  borders  of  Florida  should  be  com- 
municated to  the  Spanish  Government,  and  I  gave  him  a  Promise 
that  no  such  communication  should  be  made.  He  also  requested 
me  to  lend  him  a  small  sum  of  money  to  enable  him  to  discharge 
a  few  trifling  Debts,  and  likewise  to  assist  him  in  procuring  a  Pas- 
sage to  New  York.  I  have  complied  with  these  requests,  taking 
from  him  a  Receit,  in  which  he  agrees  that  the  loan  shall  be  de- 
ducted from  a  Balance  that  he  says  is  due  to  him  from  the  U.  S.  ; 
and  in  case  such  balance  should  be  insufficient  that  he  will  repay 
the  loan  to  you  or  to  your  Successor  on  Demand.  On  asking 
him  if  he  has  any  objection  to  be  re-examined  in  Philadelphia,  he 
said  that  many  individuals  were  concerned  in  the  plan,  and  that 
if  he  should  become  a  public  witness,  his  life  might  be  endan- 
gered, since  there  were  men  engaged  with  him  who  would  take  it . 
that  if  he  should  return  home  by  the  way  of  New  York  he  would 
call  on  you,  and  in  case  the  Government  would  give  him  security, 
that  he  should  not  object  to  being  examined  ;  but  that  he  wished 
rather  to  avoid  such  examination,  and  to  get  back  to  the  Creek 
Nation  with  whom  he  would  employ  all  his  influence  in  favor  of 
the  U.  S.  to  whom  he  was  desirous  to  become  a  citizen. 

He  is  strongly  impressed  with  an  opinion  that  Blount  had  made 
associates  with  whom  he  had  no  acquaintance  ;  and  that  it  was 
their  intention  to  have  managed  the  affair  without  his  Agency  ex- 
cept in  a  subordinate  capacity  ;  and  I  have  some  reason  to  think 
that  Romaine  had  begun  a  correspondence  with  some  Persons  of 
pecuniary  importance  in  this  Country  respecting  his  Plan. 

I  am  persuaded  from  the  whole  Tenor  of  the  Examination  of 
Chisholm  that  he  had  no  intention  of  asking  aid  from  the  French, 
or  any  other  Foreigners  except  the  British.  This  idea,  as  well  as 
that  of  the  Indians,  was  that  Liston,  from  the  nature  of  his  office, 
would  have  had  Authority  to  adopt  their  Plan,  and  to  make  the 
necessary  corporations  to  carry  it  into  execution.     The  voyage  to 

VOL.    II. — 17 


258  RUFUS  KING.  [l797 

England    proceeded    from  the   Disappointment  concerning   the 
extent  of  Liston's  Powers,  and  a  jealousy  of  Blount. 

I  have  had  very  satisfactory  reasons  to  be  convinced  that  this 
Government  from  the  first  disapproved  of  the  Scheme  ;  a  circum- 
stance that  may,  with  a  little  pains,  be  turned  to  profit  with  the 
Indians,  who  on  our  whole  Frontier  were  acquainted  with  the 
Plan.  I  will  take  care  to  advise  you  of  the  vessel  in  which 
Chisholm  takes  his  passage.* 

With  perfect  Respect  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  James  Munro. 

London,  December  12,  1797. 
Dear  Sir  : 

In  a  letter  that  some  months'  past  I  wrote  to  you  in  answer  to 
one  that  I  received  from  you  concerning  your  Right  to  hold  and 
employ  in  the  trade  between  this  Country  and  the  United  States 

*  In  the  folio  A,  p.  378  of  R.  King's  letters  are  "  The  Declaration  of  John  D. 
Chisholm  "  and  "  The  General  Outlines  of  the  Plan  referred  to  in  my  Declaration 
of  the  29th  May,  1797,"  p.  385,  and  on  p.  386  "  Questions  proposed  by  Rufus 
King  and  answered  by  John  D.  Chisholm  at  the  house,  and  in  the  presence,  of 
Major  David  Lenox  on  the  Fifth  day  of  December  One  thousand  seven  hun- 
dred and  ninety  seven."  This  last  paper  is  signed  by  John  D.  Chisholm — in 
his  handwriting — an  original  paper.  Then  follows  p.  391 — a  statement,  over 
the  name  of  Rufus  King,  Min.  Plenip.,  etc.,  and  before  him,  that  John  D. 
Chisholm  did  swear  to  the  truth  of  the  Declaration,  etc.,  to  the  truth  of  the 
paper  called  the  General  Outline,  and  to  the  truth  of  the  foregoing  twenty-nine 
interrogatories,  all  of  which  he  subscribed,  London,  Dec.  9,  1797. 

Among  the  papers  is  the  letter  from  Mr.  Liston  (original  in  the  possession  of 
Mr.  King)  dated  Philadelphia,  March  16, 1797,  to  M.  Goverts,  Esq.,  recommend- 
ing John  Chisholm,  a  native  of  Scotland,  to  him. 

There  is  also  a  copy  of  "  a  memorandum  for  Mr.  Chisholm  (original  in  pos- 
session of  R.  King)  by  Mr.  L.  on  his  arrival  at  Hamburg." 

At  the  end  of  these  papers  is  this  :  "  P.  S.  The  originals,  of  which  the  above 
are  true  copies,  are  in  my  possession,  having  been  delivered  to  me  by  J.  D. 
Chisholm. 

"London,  Dec.  9,  1797.  Rufus  King.' 


M 


The  papers  are  very  long,  and  reveal  the  whole  plot  in  which  Govr.  Blount  was 
engaged  and  for  which  he  had  been  expelled  from  the  Senate,  upon  the  estab- 
lishment of  the  facts. — Ed. 


1797]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  259 

American  Ships,  I  distinctly  gave  to  you  my  opinion,  that  being 
an  American  Citizen  and  Consul  according  to  our  Laws,  you  are 
authorized  to  hold  and  employ  in  any  Trade  American  Ships 
equally  with  a  citizen  of  the  United  States  resident  within  the 
same.  I  am  still  of  the  same  opinion,  and  according  to  my  view  of 
the  subject,  the  English  Government,  so  far  as  regards  an  Ameri- 
can Citizen  who  has  been  appointed  and  admitted  as  an  American 
Consul  within  the  British  Dominion,  ought  not  to  discriminate 
between  him  and  an  American  citizen  resident  within  the  United 
States.  But  I  understand  that  the  Law  officers  of  this  Govern- 
ment hold  a  different  Opinion  ;  according  to  which  the  Rights  of 
American  Citizens  in  respect  to  Commerce  are  deemed  to  belong 
only  to  American  Citizens,  whose  Domicil  or  Commercial  sta- 
tion is  within  the  United  States  ;  and  on  this  ground  I  have  heard 
the  Civilians,  being  consulted  by  Mr.  Johnson,  informed  him  that 
they  did  not  think  him  capable  of  holding  American  Ships,  he 
being  domiciled  in  England.  The  same  principle  has  been  em- 
ployed to  condemn  in  the  Admiralty  the  Property  of  our  Consuls 
resident  in  France  ;  and  in  a  very  recent  case,  the  Property  of 
Mr.  Bowen,  our  Consul  at  Amsterdam,  tho'  the  Property  was  found 
on  board  an  American  Ship,  owned  by  Citizens  residing  in  Massa- 
chusetts. Under  these  Circumstances  I  should  hesitate  to  rec- 
ommend to  you  to  rely  with  much  confidence  upon  what  I 
conceive  to  be  your  commercial  Rights  ;  but  which,  as  well  in 
respect  to  the  Safety  of  your  Ships  as  to  the  Security  of  your  in- 
surance, may  be  liable  to  interruption.  I  shall  in  a  short  time 
ascertain  by  the  measures  which  I  have  adopted  concerning 
Johnson's  ship,  the  final  decision  of  this  Government. 

Your  obedt.  Servt. 

Rufus  King. 

C.    C.    PlNCKNEY    TO    R.    KlNG. 

In  Cipher. 

Paris,  Dec.  14,  1797. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Your  favor  of  the  24th  ultimo  arrived  safe.     I  wish  you  would 

not  merely  give  us  information  of  facts,  but  state  explicitly  your 

sentiments  ;  they  would  be  of  great  service  to  us,  and  you  was 

rather   enigmatical.      Your   facts   however   are   very   important, 


260  RUFUS  KING.  [*797 

and  frequent  information  will  be  essentially  useful.  We  are  not 
yet  received,  and  I  think  it  is  very  probable  we  shall  not  be.  It 
is  said  Barras  and  Neufchateau  are  for  receiving  us,  and  attempt- 
ing to  obtain  money  from  us  by  negotiation.  Merlin  and  Rewbell 
think  it  will  be  in  vain,  and  are  for  sending  us  away  immediately. 
La  Reveilliere  is  undecided  ;  but  the  whole  of  them  are  undoubt- 
edly hostile  to  our  Government,  and  are  determined,  if  possible, 
to  effectuate  a  change  in  our  administration,  and  to  oblige  our 
present  President  to  resign.  With  regard  to  our  Citizens  here,  it 
is  in  contemplation  to  send  away  from  France  every  American 
who  cannot  produce  proof  of  an  implicit  approbation  of  the 
present  measures  of  France,  and  of  a  decided  aversion  to  the  ad- 
ministration of  our  Government.  Attempts  are  made  to  divide 
the  Envoys,  and  with  that  view  some  civilities  are  shown  to  Mr. 
G.  and  none  to  the  two  others.  I  am  in  hopes  such  attempts  will 
be  without  success.  The  American  Jacobins  here  pay  him  great 
Court.  Since  writing  the  above,  we  have  received  another  unoffi- 
cial Message  from  Mr.  Talleyrand  to  meet  the  same  Persons  as 
had  formerly  conversed  with  us,  without  their  being  officially 
authorized.  This  we  have  pointedly  and  unanimously  refused ; 
declaring  we  would  have  no  communication  on  the  subject  of  our 
Missions  with  Persons  not  officially  authorized  to  treat  with  us. 
As  I  have  not  time  by  this  opportunity  to  write  to  Col.  Pickering, 
be  so  good  as  to  communicate  this  Letter  to  him  in  cipher  unoffi- 
cially from  me,  and  be  assured  I  am  yours  Sincerely, 

Charles  Cotesworth  Pinckney. 


R.  King  to  Col.  Pickering. 

Not   Official. 

London,  Dec.  23,  1797. 
Dear  Sir  : 

With  due  precaution  in  the  manner,  /  have  made  our  Envoys  *' 
acquainted  with  the  information  contained  in  my  Nos.  52,  54,  55, 
56.  My  Correspondence  with  them  has  been  almost  invariably 
confined  to  Facts  important  for  them  to  know.  In  the  letter  re- 
ferred to  in  the  copy  of  one  of  Genl.  Pinckney  to  me,  which  I  send 

*  Italics  in  cipher. 


1797]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  26 1 

you,  /took  occasion  with  a  particular  view  to  make  some  observa- 
tions upon  the  Importance  of  Peace.  From  the  tenor  of  Genl.  P.,  I 
infer,  little  valuable  as  my  sentiments  are,  that  they  have  on  this 
occasion  been  misconceived  and  treated  with  more  respect  by  Mr. 
Gerry  than  they  merited.  1  have  corrected  this  Error  in  a  Letter  to 
our  Envoys,  communicating  to  them  the  extraordinary  fads  con- 
tained in  my  No.  jp*  which  accompanies  this  Letter.  You  will 
consider  this  as  well  as  the  Letter  from  Genl.  P.  to  me  as  unofficial, 
tho'  on  this  or  any  other  occasion  I  can  have  no  wish  that  you  shd. 
not  communicate  the  contents  to  the  President,  from  whom 
nothing  should  be  concealed  that  affects  the  Honor  or  Welfare  of 
our  Country. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem  &c. 

Rufus  King, 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State.     No.  59. 

In  Cipher. 

London,  Dec.  23,  1797. 
Dear  Sir  : 

This  Cabinet  last  night,  after  several  days  consideration,  gave  a 

decided  negative  to  a  proposal  of  Peace  made  by  the  Directory 

thro'  Talleyrand  ;  the  Project  was  in  detail,  and  the  Terms  more 

favorable  to  England  than  those  demanded  by  Lord  Malmesbury 

at  Lisle  ;  the  price  was  a  Bribe  of  a  Million  Sterling  to  be  divided 

among  Directors,  Ministers  and  others.     Talleyrand's  Department 

was  to  share  one  hundred  thousand   Pounds  Sterling.     I  could 

name  the  Persons  employed,  the   Stages  and  every  circumstance 

of  the  Overture  ;  so  that  you  may  place  perfect  confidence  in  the 

information.     This  decision  has  been  made  at  a  time  when  it  is 

uncertain  what  part  will  be  adopted  by  the  new  King  of  Prussia, 

when   England  would  be  glad    to  make  a  solid   Peace,   and  if 

economy  alone  had  influenced  her,  would  have  paid  the  Bribe  to 

obtain  it ;  in  case  she  could  have  had  confidence  in  the  corrupt 

Agents  with  which  she  might  have  made  the  Bargain.     This  and 

*  Evidently  corrected  in  the  manuscript  letter.  See  note  by  T.  Pickering, 
March  18,  1798  : 

"  I  suppose  it  should  be  his  No.  59,  for  neither  No.  57,  nor  52,  54,  55,  nor 
56  have  come  to  hand."  T.  P. 


262  RUFUS  KING.  [1797 

some  former  information  have  been  obtained  in  a  way  that  forbids 
its  publication  in  this  shape  or  as  received  from  me  ;  others  as 
well  as  myself  would  thereby  be  placed  in  a  situation  that  would 
be  insupportable. 

With  perfect  Respect  and  Esteem  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Messrs.  Pinckney,  Marshall,  and  Gerry. 

In  Cipher. 

London,  Dec.  23,  1797. 
Gentlemen  : 

I  hope  that  my  letters  of  Nov.  15  and  24,  and  of  the  7th  instant, 
have  come  to  hand  :  in  that  of  Nov.  24,  I  took  notice  of  those 
considerations  which  render  the  Preservation  of  Peace  so  import- 
ant :  more  might  be  added  on  the  same  subject.  But  France 
perseveres  in  the  capture  and  condemnation  of  our  Ships,  she 
continues  to  decline  to  treat  with  us,  and  even  to  receive  our 
Envoys,  while  she  employs  all  the  influence  left  her  to  discredit 
our  Government  and  to  divide  our  People. 

If  we  are  denied  the  Right  of  Embassy,  if  we  cannot  navigate 
the  Ocean  in  Security,  and  if,  moreover,  we  are  not  free  to  choose 
our  own  Governors,  unless  they  are  agreeable  to  France,  and  at 
the  same  time  to  remain  in  Peace  ;  our  Reputations  in  the  Eyes 
of  others,  our  Duty  to  ourselves,  and  above  all  Self  Respect  and 
natural  Independence  command  us  to  endeavour  to  protect  and 
preserve  these  high  Privileges,  even  at  the  expence  of  Peace. 

Earnestly  as  we  desire  the  preservation  of  Peace,  the  Time  is 
near  at  hand,  when  we  must  look  and  act  with  firmness  upon  the 
alternative.  France  may  be  inclined  to  practice  a  dilatory  and 
insidious  Policy  ;  it  is  in  your  power  to  disappoint  the  former,  and 
I  have  the  consolation  to  believe  that  the  latter  will  be  attempted 
in  vain.  Confidence  on  this  Point  is  derived  as  well  from  the 
Respect  due  to  your  Judgment,  as  from  the  Persuasion  that  you 
will  think  and  act  in  Concert  ;  the  want  of  which  in  some  of  our 
former  commissions  has  been  injurious,  as  well  as  disreputable, 
to  our  Country.  The  Events  of  every  Day  confirm  the  propriety 
of  your  resolution  not  to  treat  with  any  unauthorized  Person  ; 
and  on  the  Subject  of  Bribes  and  Loans,  I  do  not  perceive  that, 


1797]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  263 

under  any  circumstances,  you  can  consent  to  them  :  To  Ransom 
our  country  from  Injustice  and  Power,  would  be  to  invite  Dis- 
honor and  injury,  because  there  can  be  no  guaranty  against 
them.  This  Cabinet,  last  night,  after  several  days  consideration, 
gave  a  decided  negative  to  a  Proposal  of  Peace  from  the  Direc- 
tory thro'  Talleyrand.  The  Project  was  detailed,  and  the  Terms 
more  favorable  than  those  demanded  by  Lord  Malmesbury  at 
Lisle.  The  Price,  a  Bribe  of  a  million  Sterling  to  be  divided 
among  Directors,  Ministers,  and  others  :  Talleyrand's  department 
to  have  shared  one  Hundred  Thousand  Pounds.  I  could  name 
the  Agents,  the  Stages  and  every  circumstance  of  the  overture  ; 
you  may  place  entire  confidence  in  the  Fact.  This  Refusal  has 
been  made  at  a  time  when  the  Part  that  shall  be  taken  by  the  new 
King  of  Prussia  is  unknown,  when  England  would  be  glad  to  ob- 
tain a  solid  Peace,  and  if  economy  alone  influenced  her,  would 
have  paid  the  Bribe  to  procure  it  ;  in  case  she  could  have  put 
confidence  in  the  corrupt  agents  with  whom  she  might  have  made 

the  Bargain. 

With  great  Esteem  &  Respect  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Genl.  Pinckney. 

Confidential. 

London,  Dec.  24,  1797. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  received  yours  of  the  14th  yesterday,  have  changed  the  cypher 

and  shall  have  *  an  opportunity  in  a  day  or  two  to  send  it  with  an 

unofficial  letter  to  Col.  Pickering.     If  I  do  not  wholly  mistake  its 

import,  we  are  in  danger  fro?n  a  quarter,  in  which  1  confess  I  have 

not  felt  wholly  secure,  but  when  I  thought  Integrity  and  honest,  tho* 

sometimes  mistaken,  Patriotism  would  overcome  a  7niserable  vanity 

and  a  few  little  defects  of  character,  that  I  have  for  a  long  time 

known  to  exist,  and  which  I  now  fear  have  been  discovered  by  those 

who  will  be  assiduous  to  turn  them  to  mischief.    You  must  not  appear 

to  suspect  what  you  may  really  k?iow  ;  you  must  appear  to  act  as  you 

would  do — did  the  most  perfect  Harmony  exist — you  must  in  short 

save  him  and,  in  doing  so,  prevent  the  Division  that  would  grow  out 

*  Italics  in  cipher. 


264  RUFUS  KING.  [1797 

of  a  Seism  in  your  Commission.  His  Integrity  is  incorruptible  :  and 
the  true  Interest  of  his  Country  will  be  seen  and  prevail,  unless  Pride 
shall  be  put  in  opposition  to  Duty,  or  Jealousy  shall  mislead  a  mind 
neither  ingenuous  nor  well  orga?iised,  but  habitually  suspicious,  and, 
when  assailed  by  personal  vanity,  inflexible.  I  earnestly  hope  that  I 
overrate  your  Embarrassments.  The  observations  in  my  letter  of 
the  24th  of  Nov.  were  written  after  retracing  in  my  mind  the  charac- 
ter for  whom  they  were  intended.  My  letter  of  yesterday  will  knock 
away  the  scaffolding  that  may  have  been  built  with  them.  Take  care 
that  means  are  not  employed  to  protract  the  negotiation  till  our  com- 
merce ruined  by  Depredations  shall  not  be  worth  protecting.  The 
Commence?nent  of  the  New  Year  should  bring   the  Business  to  a 

crisis. 

Very  sincerely  yrs., 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Elbridge  Gerry. 

London,  Dec.  24,  1797. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  Our  latest  news  from  home  is  of  the  17th  Novr.,  when 
Congress  had  not  made  a  Quorum.  The  account  of  the  revolu- 
tion of  the  4th  of  September  reached  the  U.  S.  early  in  Novr., 
and  seems  to  have  materially  weakened  the  Hope  of  a  satisfac- 
tory issue  of  your  mission.  The  continued  depredations  upon  our 
Commerce  had  the  effect  that  might  naturally  have  been  looked 
for,  and  temperate  men  have  become  anxious  lest  a  long  and 
patient  negotiation  should  be  followed  by  an  open  rupture.  I 
omitted  in  my  letter  of  yesterday  to  you  and  your  colleagues  to 
state  that  hitherto  our  Ships,  when  rescued  by  the  Br.  Cruizers 
from  those  of  France,  have  been  restored  without  payment  of 
Salvage,  tho'  in  some  instances  small  complimentary  presents 
have  been  made  to  the  Recaptors.  Since  the  Tribunals  of  France 
have  in  the  last  resort  confirmed  the  condemnation  of  our  Ships 
and  Cargoes  for  the  defect  of  a  Role  d'equipage,  the  Recaptors 
have  libelled  in  the  Admiralty  of  this  Country  our  recently  re- 
captured Ships,  not  possessing  this  Document.  What  will  be  the 
Decision  I  am  unable  to  say,  and  perhaps  it  may  be  influenced 
by  future  Events.     In  the  famous  case  of  the  Spanish   Register 


1797]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE,  265 

Ship,  recaptured  by  the  English  from  the  French  in  the  begin- 
ning of  the  present  war,  the  whole  Ship  and  Cargo  were  con- 
demned ;  acting  upon  the  Rule,  which  Spain  observes,  that  24 
hours'  possession  by  an  enemy  changes  the  Property.  Our  case 
and  that  of  Spain  are  not  the  same,  for  tho'  we  adopted  the  Rule 
of  the  24  hours,  we  are  not  at  war,  and  therefore  there  can  be  no 
Enemy  Possession.  You  will  however  perceive  that  be  the 
salvage  much  or  little,  the  mischief  to  our  commerce  is  daily 
augmenting, 

With  sincere  Respect  and  attachment  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State.     No.  60. 

London,  Dec.  28,  1797. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  I  was  in  hopes  that  I  should  have  been  able  before 
this  time  to  have  informed  you  that  the  tedious  question  respect- 
ing the  Maryland  Bank  Stock  had  been  brought  to  a  satisfactory 
issue.  But  on  further  examination,  it  has  been  found  that  altho' 
Russell's  claim  for  Losses  supposed  in  Maryland  was  liquidated 
by  the  Commissioners,  who  ascertained  the  Claims  of  the  Ameri- 
can Loyalists,  the  payment  was  suspended  until  it  should  be  de- 
cided whether  he  was  entitled  to  indemnity  out  of  the  Maryland 
Bank  Stock  of  which  he  was  a  Trustee  for  Maryland. 

The  Chancellor  said  to  me  a  few  days  since,  you  will  have  no 
objection  to  satisfy  Russell's  claim  upon  a  transfer  to  you  of  the 
Maryland  Bank  Stock.  I  replied  that  I  was  sorry  to  say  that  I 
had  entertained  a  mistake  in  supposing  that  the  claim  had  been 
satisfied  ;  but  that  I  did  not  think  myself  authorized  to  engage  to 
pay  it  :  that  if  contrary  to  what  I  had  wished  might  have  been 
the  case,  and  contrary  to  what  I  could  not  but  consider  as  good 
Policy,  it  was  determined  to  make  the  Payment  of  Russell's  claim 
a  condition  of  the  Transfer,  I  must  request  that  a  Letter  might 
be  written  to  me  to  that  effect,  which  I  would  immediately  send 
to  you,  in  order  that  the  opinion  of  the  State  of  Maryland  might 
be  had.  The  Chancellor  made  me  no  direct  reply,  but  I  thought 
he  acquiesced  in  the  propriety  of  a  letter  being  written  to  me, 
conformable  to  my  suggestion. 


266  RUFUS  KING.  [*797 

I  have  spoken  to  Lord  Grenville  on  the  subject,  and  have  en- 
deavoured to  present  to  his  mind  those  Considerations,  which, 
were  I  in  his  situation,  would  influence  me  to  transfer  the  Stock 
without  any  deduction.  It  may  not  be  amiss  to  apprize  the 
State  of  Maryland  of  the  present  posture  of  the  business,  to 
which  I  shall  continue  to  give  every  attention  that  I  shall  think 
useful  to  accomplish  the  object  of  their  just  and  reasonable 
expectations.     . 

Rufus  King. 


C    C.    PlNCKNEY    TO    RUFUS    KlNG. 

In  Cipher. 

Paris,  December  27,  1797. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  I  have  not  now  the  least  hope  that  we  shall  make  any 
Treaty  with  this  Government ;  for  in  order  to  do  so  tribute  under 
the  disguise  of  a  loan  or  some  other  disguise,  and  a  private 
douceur  of  fifty  thousand  pounds  Sterling  must  be  stipulated  ; 
and  these  degrading  terms  must  be  humbly  offered  by  us  even 
before  we  can  be  received  ;  and,  I  have  been  given  to  understand 
by  a  person  who  wished  us  well,  and  is  intimate  with  Mr.  Talley- 
rand, that  if  we  were  to  remain  here  for  six  months  longer,  we 
should  not  advance  a  step  farther  towards  our  negotiation  till 
these  matters  are  agreed  on. 

In  the  mean  time  depredations  on  our  Commerce  are  threatened 
to  be  continued,  and  that  Frigates  and  armed  vessels  from  St. 
Domingo  shall  ravage  our  Coasts.  In  a  conversation  which  Mr. 
Gerry  had  with  Mr.  Talleyrand,  he  told  him  the  offer  of  a  loan 
must  come  from  us.  We  still  intend  to  prepare  and  transmit  by 
the  10.  of  next  month  to  the  Minister  of  Foreign  Affairs,  a  State- 
ment of  the;  Claims  of  our  Country,  and  declare  our  desire  to 
enter  into  a  discussion  of  their  Complaints,  and  to  do  justice  in 
all  the  points  wherein  we  shall  be  convinced  that  justice  is  due  ; 
and  if  they  shall  still  continue  not  to  receive  us,  and  enter  into  an 
Investigation  of  the  objects  of  our  Mission,  and  matters  remain 
as  they  are,  it  is  my  opinion,  and  my  colleagues  tell  me  it  is  theirs 
also,  that  we  ought  to  request  our  Passports  and  no  longer  ex- 
hibit to  the  World  the  unprecedented  Spectacle  of  three  Envoys 


1797]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  267 

Extraordinary    from   a    free    and    independent    nation,    in    vain 
soliciting  to  be  heard. 

It  is  our  present  intention  to  require  Passports  for  Calais,  and 
remain  on  your  side  of  the  Channel  until  March  and  then  embark 
for  America.  But  Passports  to  go  to  Calais  may  be  refused  us, 
and  we  are  not  decided  to  what  part  we  shall  then  go  to  embark. 
Be  so  good  as  to  send  a  copy  of  the  above  to  Col.  Pickering  as  a 
private  communication  from  me. 

I  remain  with  great  Respect  and  Regard  &c 

C.  C-  PlNCKNEY. 

S.  Williams  to  R.  King. 

Hamburg,  Dec.  29,  1797. 
Sir  : 

.     .     .     I  wrote  you  on  the  8th  Nov.  by  our  friend,  Mr.  Cadig- 

nan,   for   whose  safety   we    are   extremely   anxious,  that   I   had 

advanced  Mr.    Lafayette  two  thousand   one  hundred   and  fifty 

marcs  banco.     Mr.  C.  engaged  to  make  an  arrangement  with  you 

to  reimburse  me.    If  he  do  not  arrive  soon,  you  will  cause  it  to  be 

done  as  your  convenience  may  suit.     .     .     .     M.  Maubourg,  who 

left  the  General  a  few  days  ago  well,  informed  me  that  he,  the 

General  and  Mr.  Puzy  are  determined  to  go  in   the  spring   to 

America.    Madame  Lafayette  will  go  to  France. 

With  perfect  Respect  &c. 

S.  Williams. 


CHAPTER  XX. 

Mr.  King  to  Secretary  of  State — France  in  the  Ascendant — England  apathetic 
but  preparing  against  Invasion — N.  E.  Boundary — St.  Croix  River — Lord 
Grenville  advises  of  new  French  Decrees — American  Masters  propose  to 
arm  their  Ships — British  Government  would  grant  Convoys — Mr.  King  to 
Lord  Chancellor  relative  to  Maryland  Bank  Stock — Continental  Affairs — 
N.  E.  Boundary,  an  additional  Article  proposed — English  Depredations  on 
Commerce  in  the  West  Indies — Mr.  King  to  Secretary  of  State — Affairs  on 
the  Continent — Envoys  in  Paris — England  has  no  Expectation  of  Peace — 
Miranda — Maryland  Bank  Stock — Mr.  Gerry — Mr.  King  to  R.  Troup — 
To  the  Secretary  of  State  relative  to  Transfer  of  American  Funds  by  Dutch 
Lenders  to  France — Envoys  to  France  send  a  Letter  to  the  Directory — 
Letter  from  General  Hamilton — Public  Opinion  sounder  than  that  of  the 
national  Representatives. 

R.  King  to  T.  Pickering. 

Private, 

London,  Jany.  8,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  just  learned  that  the  November  Packet  for  New  York 
has  been  captured  and  carried  to  France.  This  I  very  much 
regret  as  she  had  important  despatches  for  you  from  our  Envoys 
in  Paris,  &  likewise  from  me.     .     .     . 

Rufus  King. 

P.  S.  Nothing  can  exceed  the  applause  with  which  the 
President's  Speech  has  been  received  by  all  good  men  in  this 
country. 

R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State.     No.  61. 

London,  Jan.  9,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Every  appearance  on  the  Continent  is  marked  with  the  as- 
cendancy of  France.  Vienna  will  no  longer  resist,  but  will  co- 
operate with  France  in  the  Plan  of  Partition  arranged  at  Campo 

268 


1798]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  269 

Formio.  The  King  of  Prussia,  who  is  supposed  to  entertain 
different  sentiments  from  those  of  his  Father,  is  surrounded  by 
the  Ministers,  and  fettered  with  the  Councils,  of  the  last  Reign, 
and  therefore  will  not,  as  Germany  wishes  and  solicits,  put  him- 
self at  their  Head  to  oppose  France. 

No  recent  Change  has  taken  place  in  Portugal  or  Spain.  This 
Government  has  consented  that  Portugal  shall  make  the  best 
Bargain  in  her  Power,  notwithstanding  her  Treaties  with  England. 
She  is  therefore  now  desirous  to  confirm  the  Treaty  sometime 
since  signed  at  Paris  ;  but  the  Directory  seem  disposed  to  exact 
more  rigorous  Terms,  and  Spain  is  under  great  apprehensions  for 
the  existence  of  her  System,  should  France  march  an  Army 
against  Portugal. 

Here,  tho'  there  is  apparent  Union,  there  is  no  animation  ;  or 
if  any,  it  is  far  below  what,  under  the  present  circumstances  of 
the  country,  it  ought  to  be. 

Preparations  are  made  to  resist  the  threatened  Invasion,  which 
will  undoubtedly  be  attempted  on  a  large  or  small  scale  in  some 
part  of  the  Three  Kingdoms.  These  preparations  are  conducted 
in  a  manner  that  proves  to  my  mind,  that  there  is  no  serious  ex- 
pectation that  they  will  be  necessary  ;  an  error  that  may  be  dis- 
covered should  the  attack  prove  formidable.     .     .     . 

Lord  Grenville  mentioned  to  me  a  few  days  since,  that  the 
Commissioners  under  the  V.  article  of  our  Treaty  with  this 
Country,  had  suggested  the  expediency  of  an  additional  Article 
for  the  purpose  of  dispensing  with  the  Provision  that  required 
them  to  ascertain  the  Latitude  and  Longitude  of  the  source  of 
the  St.  Croix  River.  Upon  examining  our  First  Treaty,  it  was 
seen  to  be  important  that  the  source  of  this  River  should  be 
accurately  ascertained,  as  it  is  the  point  from  whence  a  North  line 
is  to  proceed  to  the  High  Lands  that  divide  our  Territory  from 
Canada  ;  and  unless  this  point  be  ascertained  by  taking  the  Lat. 
and  Longe.,  or  by  erecting  some  durable  monument,  it  may  here- 
after become  the  occasion  of  future  disagreement  and  misunder- 
standing, especially  as  we  know  that  what  in  the  wilderness 
appears  to  be  the  Head  of  a  River  will,  when  the  Country  is 
opened  and  cultivated,  retain  no  marks  of  having  been  so.  Lord 
Grenville  concluded  from  this  view  of  the  Subject  to  authorize 
Mr.  Liston  to  consent  to  form  an  additional  article  which  should 


270  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

leave  our  Commissioners  free  to  erect  a  durable  monument  at  the 
scource  of  the  River  St.  Croix,  which  should  occasionally  be 
visited  and  kept  in  repair  at  the  expense  of  the  two  Nations.  .  .  . 

This  gave  me  an  opportunity  of  going  into  the  Question  re- 
specting the  Impress,  of  Seamen  engaged  in  our  Service  ;  the 
conversation,  tho'  understood  to  be  only  personal,  was  more 
satisfactory  than  any  former  one  on  this  subject.     .     .     . 

If,  as  now  I  believe,  our  Mission  to  France  shall  totally  fail,  it 
will  be  very  important  in  guiding  my  opinions  and  conduct,  that 
I  should  be  early  and  fully  possessed  of  the  views  of  our  Govern- 
ment. ...  I  omitted  above  to  take  notice  of  the  Situation  of 
Switzerland,  which  according  to  present  appearances  is  destined 
to  be  soon  revolutionized  in  order  to  be  recast  in  the  French 
Moulds.  We  have  been  mistaken  in  the  conduct  of  these  Can- 
tons ;  their  System  has  been  a  temporizing  one  ;  France  has 
dictated  to  them  during  the  whole  of  the  war,  and  the  hour  is 
arrived  when  she  seems  resolved  to  overturn  the  Helvetic 
system.     .     .     . 

With  Respect  and  Esteem  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


Lord  Grenville  to  R.  King. 

Private. 

Cleveland  Row,  Jan.  13,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  decree  of  the  Convention,  which  we  may  suppose  will  be 
the  necessary  consequence  of  the  Message  of  the  Directory,  seems 
to  decide  the  question  of  Peace  &  war,  with  you,  as  it  is  evidently 
impossible  that  America  can  under  the  present  circumstances  of 
Europe  carry  on  any  trade  whatever,  subject  to  the  confiscation  of 
her  ships  if  they  contain  English  goods  on  board,  or  goods  which 
the  captors  may  deem  English.  This  is  carrying  the  principles  of 
maritime  War  to  an  extent  to  which  no  Country  ever  thought 
of  carrying  them  &  which  must  render  the  existence  of  a  neutral 
trade,  particularly  in  the  case  of  the  U.S.  absolutely  impossible. 

As  I  conclude  you  will  think  not  a  moment  should  be  lost  in 
apprizing  your  Government  of  this  circumstance,  for  the  security 
&   protection  of  the   commerce  of  the  U.S.,  I  have  desired  that 


1798J  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  27 1 

the  packet,  which  I  am  sorry  to  hear  is  still  detained  at  Falmouth, 
may  have  orders  to  sail  the  instant  that  they  shall  receive  any 
dispatches  you  may  have  to  send,  and  if  any  other  steps  can  be 
taken  by  us  that  can  be  of  use  to  you,  I  beg  you  will  let  me  know 
it  ;  and  that  you  will  be  assured  of  my  constant  desire  to  obey 
your  commands  on  all  occasions  &  to  prove  to  you  the  senti- 
ments which  I  have  so  often  expressed  on  the  subject  of  the  U.S. 
Ever,  my  dear  Sir,  most  sincerely  &  faithfully  yrs. 

Grenville. 

R.   King   to  Secretary  of  State.     No.  62. 

London,  Jany.  14,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  present  composition  of  the  French  Legislature,  as  well  as 
the  Terror  of  the  last  Revolution,  leave  no  doubt  that  the  Coun- 
cils will  pass  a  decree  comformable  to  the  Message  of  the  Direc- 
tory of  the  4th  inst  :  the  consequences  of  which  will  be  the 
general  capture  of  all  neutral  Ships  ;  since  there  are  very  few  in- 
deed which  have  not  as  a  part  of  their  Cargo  articles  which  are 
or  may  be  alleged  to  be  of  the  manufacture  of  the  British  Terri- 
tories in  the  East  or  West  Indies  or  in  Europe.  Had  I  before 
entertained  any  remaining  hope  of  an  amicable  settlement  of  our 
disagreement  with  France,  this  last  proceeding  would  completely 
extinguish  it. 

I  have  no  letters  from  our  Envoys  since  the  30th  ulto.  ;  but  I 
consider  that  they  will  now  think  it  requisite  to  bring  their  Mis- 
sion to  an  issue  ;  if  not  that  which  has  been  earnestly  desired, 
it  must  be  one  that  will  correspond  with  the  opinion  pronounced 
by  the  President,  and  which  our  Interest  and  Honor,  under 
present  circumstances,  call  upon  us  manfully  to  maintain  before 
the  rest  of  the  world.     .     .     . 

I  am  called  upon  by  the  Masters  of  our  Ships  here  for  advice 
and  direction  what  their  conduct  is  to  be.  They  propose  to  arm 
their  vessels  ;  I  have  hitherto  said  tho'  our  Commerce  were  sorely 
vexed  and  plundered,  still  we  were  not  at  war,  and  further,  that 
as  they  were  not  permitted  to  arm  at  home  I  could  not  give 
them  any  authority  to  do  so  abroad.  But  will  not  this  new  Pro- 
ject, of  France  totally  change  the  State  of  our  Relations  ?  Will 


272  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

it  not  necessarily  compel  us  into,  and  is  it  not  indeed,  war  ?  Our 
Ships  returning  home  from  England,  if  met,  will  be  captured  and 
condemned,  because  their  cargoes  will  be  British  Manufactures. 
If  they  are  armed  and  sail  together,  they  may  escape  small 
cruizers  ;  and  if  they  are  captured,  they  will  not  share  a  worse 
fate  than  they  would  have  done,  had  they  been  taken  without 
arms.  I  shall  consider  this  subject  with  attention  and  will  exer- 
cise a  discretion  that  the  exigency  seems  to  demand.  It  would 
certainly  be  more  agreeable  to  me  to  have  it  in  my  power  on  all 
occasions,  and  especially  on  those  of  the  highest  moment,  to  find 
my  Duty  in  observing  the  well  considered  Instructions  of  the 
President.  But  there  sometimes  occur,  and  more  frequently  at 
this  period  than  formerly,  events  so  wholly  unlooked  for,  that  the 
subordinate  Agents  of  a  Nation  may  be  called  upon  to  act  always 
with  a  sound  and  prudent  Discretion,  in  cases,  the  Decision  of 
which  belong  to  the  highest  Department  of  the  Government. 
While  on  the  one  hand  I  shall  regret  the  existence  of  the  occasion, 
I  shall  not  hesitate  on  the  other  to  do  what,  under  its  peculiar 
circumstances,  shall  appear  to  my  Judgment  to  be  necessary  to 
promote  the  National  Welfare.  .  .  .  This  Government,  for  I 
am  so  assured,  will,  if  I  desire  it,  detain  our  Spring  Ships,  until 
they  shall  be  all  laden  and  ready  to  Sail,  when  they  will  convoy 
them  to  our  Shores.  Perhaps  this  may  be  a  more  eligible  Plan 
than  that  of  arming  them,  which  will  be  expensive  and  a  security 
only  against  small  Privateers.  If  our  Ships  sail  under  Convo)'',  I 
am  informed  that  they  may  be  insured  at  15  pr  Cent,  to  return 
ten,  if  they  arrive,  whereas  they  will  without  Convoy  be  obliged 
to  give  from  13  to  perhaps  18  pr  Cent  premiums  for  their 
Insurance.     .     .     . 

With  perfect  Respect  and  Esteem 

Rufus  King. 

R.  King  to  Lord  Grenville. 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  Jany.  15,  1798. 
My  Lord  : 

I  pray  your  Lordship  to  accept  my  acknowledgments  for  your 
very  obliging  Letter  of  the  13th  inst.  Your  Lordship  will  be  satis- 
fied from  the  Tenor  of  my  opinions  that  I  must  see  the  proposed 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  273 

Measures  of  France  in  the  same  light  as  they  appear  to  you  ;  and 
under  these  impressions  I  have  prepared,  to  be  sent  by  the  Packet, 
a  Despatch  for  Col.  Pickering,  which  will  apprize  him  of  the  Law, 
which  without  doubt  has  been,  or  will  soon  be  passed  by  the 
French  Legislature. 

I  have  likewise  intimated  to  him  that,  as  I  have  reason  to  be- 
lieve, your  Government  will  be  willing  to  grant,  according  to  my 
present  view  of  the  subject  it  is  my  intention  to  ask,  your  co- 
operation to  detain  and  collect  our  Spring  Ships,  in  order  that 
they  may  be  sent  home  under  convoy  ;  a  precaution  that  will  be 
indispensable  in  case  the  Law,  called  for  by  the  Directory  shall 
be  enacted.     .     .     . 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem  &c 

Rufus  King. 

R.    King  to  Lord  Chancellor. 

Private. 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  Jany.  19,  179S. 
My  Lord  : 

.  .  .  Disinterested  and  generous  actions  are  in  the  end 
commonly  beneficial  to  those  who  perform  them  ;  and  I  am  con- 
fident the  People  of  America  are  not  less  than  others  sensible  to 
their  influence.  Your  Lordship's  Candour  will  apply  this 
observation  as  it  is  meant,  to  the  occasional  Relaxation  of  Strict 
Rights  and  to  those  mutual  accomodations  and  tokens  of  good  will 
and  Friendship,  often  called  for  by  the  Individuals  and  some- 
times by  the  Governments  of  Countries,  between  which  such  ex- 
tensive Connections  exist  as  between  Great  Britain  and  the 
United  States.  Whether  the  Case  of  the  Maryland  Bank  Stock 
may  be  considered  as  falling  within  this  description,  will  depend 
upon  your  Lordship's  decision  ;  and  without  discussion  of  the 
merits  of  the  conflicting  claims  to  this  property,  which  from  their 
character  cannot  be  judicially  ascertained,  I  take  the  liberty  to 
remark  that  the  Question  is  the  only  one,  in  any  manner  con- 
nected with  the  Treaty  of  1783,  that  has  not  been  satisfactorily 
settled,  or  is  not  in  a  course  of  amicable  adjustment. 

Your  Lordship  sometime  since  intimated  to  me  that  it  seemed 
reasonable  that  Maryland  should  compensate  Russell's  family  for 

VOL.  II.  —18 


274  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

their  losses,  which  being  done,  no  further  impediment  would  pre- 
vent the  Transfer  of  the  Stock.  If  your  Lordship  should  con- 
tinue to  be  of  this  opinion,  my  belief  certainly  is,  that  Maryland 
would  compensate  Russell's  Family  and  accept  the  Transfer  ; 
but,  my  Lord,  this  course  would  be  attended  with  delay,  and  the 
present  seems  to  be  the  true  moment  to  conclude  the  Business. 
Besides,  I  am  too  well  acquainted  with  the  Sentiments  of  the 
State  of  Maryland  not  to  know  before-hand  that  a  considerable 
and  disadvantageous  difference  in  the  public  opinion  would  exist 
between  a  conditional  and  an  unconditional  transfer  of  this  Stock  : 
the  former  would  furnish  occasion  to  those  who  may  be  inclined 
to  use  it,  to  complain  of  rigour,  perhaps  of  injustice,  and  to  dep- 
recate the  benefit  which  even  that  mode  would  secure,  while  the 
latter  would  have  a  salutary  influence  in  producing  cordiality, 
good  Humour  and  Kind  Offices  towards  England  in  a  community 
of  very  considerable  and  merited  importance  in  the  American 
Union. 

I  should  have  no  objection  in  case  of  an  entire  transfer  of  the 
Stock,  should  it  be  deemed  advisable,  to  reccommend  to  the 
State  of  Maryland  to  satisfy  Russell's  claim,  and  I  should  hope 
that  such  Recommendation  would  not  be  in  vain.  The  amount 
of  this  Claim  is  not  considerable,  and  nothing  in  my  estimation, 
when  compared  with  the  political  considerations  with  which  it  is 
connected.  What  Maryland  might  with  Reluctance  grant  in  the 
shape  of  a  Condition,  she  may  cheerfully  give  from  her  own  spon- 
taneous sense  of  equity. 

With  perfect  Consideration  and  Respect  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State.     No.  63. 

London,  Jany.  27,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  am  still  without  any  knowledge  of  the  situation  of  our  En- 
voys, since  the  commencement  of  the  present  year  ;  this  is  the 
more  regretted  as  the  Period  is  near  at  hand  when  our  Spring 
Ships  will  be  ready  to  sail  from  the  ports  of  this  country  :  pre- 
vious to  which  I  must  decide  whether  they  are  to  be  put  under 
Convoy  or  to  sail  with  the  increased  Risque  of  Capture  and  cer- 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  2?$ 

tainty  of  condemnation.  A  Commission  of  the  English  Mer- 
chants concerned  in  the  American  Commerce,  have  applied  for  a 
Convoy  for  the  Trade  of  America,  which  will  be  granted  :  but  the 
Masters  of  the  American  Ships  will  hesitate,  perhaps  refuse,  to  put 
themselves  under  this  Convoy,  unless  I  shall  give  them  positive 
instructions  to  do  so.  I  think  this  week  cannot  pass  over  without 
nry  hearing  from  our  Envoys,  if  I  shall  not  have  the  pleasure  to 
see  them. 

Great  preparations  are  certainly  making  to  execute,  as  well  as 
to  defeat,  the  threatened  Invasion.  The  Treaty  of  Campo-Formio 
appears  to  be  going  into  full  execution,  as  well  in  Italy  as  upon 
the  Rhine  and  in  Germany.  The  late  affair  at  Rome  is  to  be  the 
occasion  of  extending  and  establishing  the  new  order  of  things 
throughout  Italy. 

The  Emperor,  according  to  every  appearance,  and  some  of 
them  by  no  means  equivocal,  will  act  in  full  concert  with  the 
Directory  in  their  Schemes  of  Partition.  The  Swiss  Cantons  are 
in  such  a  situation  that  they  will  exceed  the  hopes  of  their  friends, 
if  they  shall  be  able  to  prevent  the  dissolution  of  their  Confede- 
racy, or  the  plunder  and  overthrow  of  their  Country.  They  are 
too  rich  as  well  as  too  happy  to  be  suffered  to  remain  in  Peace  : 
and  the  usual  means  have  therefore  been  employed  to  divide  and 
debauch  their  people.  Perhaps  they  also  have  been  disposed  of, 
as  Venice  and  certain  portions  of  the  Empire  have  been.  It  is 
no  longer  expected  that  Prussia  will  act  with  much  decision  or 
vigour  in  opposition  to  France  and  Austria.  The  maxims  of  the 
two  last  Reigns  would  rather  lead  to  the  belief  that  she  would  not 
find  many  scruples  in  even  becoming  a  Partner  in  the  Division  of 
the  Spoils.  It  is  however  said  that  Prussia,  in  concert  with  the 
North  of  Germany,  including  Denmark,  will  resist  the  project  of 
France  upon  Hamburgh  and  the  other  Hanse  towns  ;  and  hopes 
are  therefore  entertained  that  the  valuable  Commerce  of  this 
Country  thro'  the  Elbe  will  remain  open. 

I  certainly  wish  that  this  may  be  the  case  ;  but  if  France  per- 
severe in  her  Demands,  and  she  is  not  likely  to  relax  in  them,  I 
think  she  must  succeed.  Neither  of  the  Envoys  of  Sweden  or 
Denmark  have  received  any  Despatches  from  their  Courts  since 
the  new  Edict  of  France  concerning  the  Navigation  of  Neutrals. 
The  fate  of  Portugal  is  yet  unascertained.     Their  Ambassador  at 


276  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

Paris  is  confined  in  the  Temple.  The  System  of  Russia  is  de- 
cidedly to  keep  out  of  the  war  ;  but  it  remains  to  be  seen  what 
effects  upon  the  Government  and  among  the  inhabitants  of  Rus- 
sia may  proceed  from  the  adoption  of  the  Body  of  French  Sol- 
diers under  the  Prince  of  Conde.  A  single  Frenchman  is  said, 
during  the  late  Reign  to  have  nearly  effected  a  Revolt  in  the 
Russian  Fleet  upon  the  Black  Sea  !  ;  and  the  Corps  of  Conde 
has  been  employed  in  opposition  to  the  opinion  of  a  Minister  of 
the  Russian  Cabinet,  who  is  believed  to  be  the  ablest  Statesman 
of  his  nation.     .     .     . 

With  Perfect  Respect  and  Esteem,  &c., 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Lord  Grenville. 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  Feby.  2,  1798. 
My  Lord  : 

I  have  the  honor  to  send  enclosed  to  your  Lordship  a  copy 
of  my  full  Power,  on  the  part  of  the  United  States  to  agree  to 
and  conclude  an  additional  article  to  our  Treaty  of  Amity, 
Commerce,  and  Navigation,  which  shall  leave  the  Commissioners 
acting  under  the  fifth  article  thereof,  at  liberty  to  ascertain  and 
describe  the  true  River  St.  Croix,  without  particularising  the 
Latitude  and  Longitude  of  the  Source  of  that  River. 

.  .  .  It  is  desirable,  if  an  additional  article  shall  be  con- 
cluded, that  it  should  be  done  in  season  to  be  laid  before  the  Sen- 
ate of  the  United  States  in  their  present  Session.  I  shall  be  ready 
to  confer  with  your  Lordship  upon  this  subject  at  any  time  that 
you  shall  have  the  goodness  to  name. 

With  perfect  consideration  &  Respect  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


Rufus  King  to  Lord  Grenville. 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  Feby.  3,  1798. 

This  is  a  long  letter  calling,  under  instructions  from  the  Presi- 
dent of  the  U.S.,  his  attention  "  to  Depredations  committed  upon 
the  American  Trade  in  the  West  Indies  by  the  irregular  Capture 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  27 J 

of  American  Ships  and  Cargoes,  and  their  illegal  condemnation 
by  the  Court  of  Admiralty,  erected  by  General  Simcoe  at  St. 
Domingo — to  the  dissatisfaction  that  these  Depredations  must 
have  produced  in  America,  to  the  mischief  that  by  a  sudden 
interruption  of  supplies  may  fall  upon  the  British  Possessions  in 
the  West  Indies,"  and  requesting  his  Lordship's  attention  to  put 
an  end  to  them,  in  case  they  are  unauthorized  or  to  regulate  his 
(the  judge's)  conduct  in  case  they  are  authorized  and  to  state  how 
that  redress  may  be  obtained,  which  he  refuses  to  give  the  means 
of  obtaining. 

Having  often  experienced  your  Lordship's  ready  attention  to 
the  Representations  that  I  have  made  on  other  occasions,  I  take 
the  liberty  of  suggesting  that  I  shall  be  particularly  obliged  to 
your  Lordship  for  an  answer  to  this  Note  in  season  to  be  sent  by 
the  earliest  Conveyance  to  America,  it  being  my  earnest  desire 
that  the  dissatisfaction  that  has  been  excited,  may  cease  as  soon 
as  possible. 

With  the  most  perfect  Consideration  &  Respect  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


Rufus  King  to  Lord  Grenville. 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  Feby.  5,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Acknowledging  a  receipt  of  a  note  from  Ld.  G.  on  the  advisabil- 
ity of  transferring  the  Negotiation  about  the  St.  Croix  River  ques- 
tion to  the  U.S.,  in  which  under  other  circumstances  R.  K.  says 
"  the  negotiation  here  is  a  saving  of  time." 

He  says  :  "  By  the  enclosed  Copy  of  a  letter  that  I  have  received 
from  Col.  Pickering  your  Lordship  will  observe  that  the  Latitude 
and  Longitude  of  the  Mouths  of  the  two  Rivers  have  already  been 
ascertained  ;  and  there  is  reason  to  expect  that  the  Surveys  will 
also  be  compleated  before  the  meeting  of  the  Commissioners  in 
June  ;  when  they  might  be  able  to  finish  their  Business  ;  if  they 
shall  have  been  freed  from  the  necessity  of  ascertaining  experi- 
mentally the  Latitude  and  Longitude  of  the  Source  of  the  two  St. 
Croix."  He  therefore  urges  making  the  article  here  in  London  to 
save  time. 


278  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

Department  of  State,  Feb.  5,  179S. 

.  .  .  P.  S.  I  enclose  four  depositions  concerning  the  con- 
duct of  Richard  Cambauld,  Esq.,  Judge  of  the  Vice-admiralty 
Court  at  Cape  Nichola  Mole.  In  the  view  of  the  American  Mer- 
chants his  character  is  to  the  last  degree  infamous.  I  expect  to 
obtain  Evidence  of  his  Corrupt  practices,  but  hope  without  this 
that  he  may  be  removed  from  a  bench  which  he  dishonors.  I  am 
informed  that  Lord  Dunmore,  late  Governor  of  the  Bahama 
Islands,  knows  him  well,  and  can  bear  witness  to  his  duplicity  and 
dishonorable  actions  there.  I  have  also  private  information  that 
at  Nova  Scotia,  where  he  lived  some  time,  he  had  lost  all  reputa- 
tion, and  was  pronounced  a  swindler  and  an  unprincipled  man. 


R.  King  to  T.  Pickering. 

Private — In  Cipher. 

London,  Feby.  7,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

In  my  answer  to  General  Pinckney's  letter  of  the  14th  Deer.,  I 
expressed  my  apprehensions  that  they  would  experience  great 
embarrassments  from  a  certain  quarter  but  that  they  might  rely 
with  perfect  security  upon  his  integrity  and  that  for  the  rest  they 
must  be  patient  and  endeavour  to  prevent  a  seism  among  them- 
selves. The  General  in  a  letter  of  the  2  2d  ulto.  tells  me  that  I 
had  by  no  means  overrated  their  embarrassment,  but  that  they 
had  and  should  follow  my  advice.  He  adds  that  the  letter  will 
soon  be  presented. 

With  perfect  regard  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State.     No.  64. 

London,  Feby.  7,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

My  last  letter  from  Paris  is  dated  22d  ultimo.     The  Law  called 

for  by  the  Directory  on  the  4th,  after  having  passed  the  Council 

of  the  Five  Hundred,  was  on  the  18th  adopted  by  the  Council  of 


I798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  2jg 

Antients,  and  is  now  in  full  operation.  It  does  not  appear  that 
any  debate  or  division  took  place  in  the  Council  of  Antients  upon 
the  passage  of  this  Law.  A  Report  was  made  concerning  it  to  the 
Council  of  five  hundred,  where  it  passed  with  unanimity.  I  send 
you  inclosed  a  copy  of  this  Report.  The  Personalities  which  it 
contains  have  an  object  too  plain  to  be  misunderstood,  and  are 
part  of  the  plan  systematically  pursued  to  change  the  Executive 
Head  of  our  Government. 

The  last  mails  confirm  the  information  that  I  have  before  given 
you  respecting  the  critical  situation  of  Switzerland.  .  .  .  The 
German  Deputies  at  Rastadt  have,  according  to  the  Requisition  of 
the  French  Ministers,  been  furnished  with  full  powers  to  conclude 
a  Convenient  Peace,  instead  of  one  founded  upon  the  integrity  of 
the  Empire.  ...  In  the  present  France  recedes  from  the 
Projects  against  Hamburgh.  Prussia,  in  concert  with  the  North 
of  Germany,  have  manifested  a  disposition  to  prevent  the  French 
from  passing  what  is  called  the  line  of  neutrality  ;  and  this  Com- 
bination must  be  dissolved  before  the  Hanse  Towns  shall  be 
subjected,  as  they  finally  will  be,  to  the  Controul  of  France. 

The  Dutch  have  shown  too  little  Energy  ;  and  even  in  their 
Revolutionary  State,  have  displayed  too  much  of  the  Deliberation, 
which  forms  an  essential  part  of  their  national  character,  to  suit 
the  new  order  of  things  that  reigns  in  France.  Hence  it  has  been 
necessary  to  effect  a  change.  Charles  La  Croix,  the  late  Minister 
of  Foreign  Affairs,  was  accordingly  sent  to  replace  Citizen  Noel 
at  the  Hague,  where,  under  his  Direction,  a  Revolution  took  place 
on  the  2 2d  of  January,  upon  the  exact  model  of  that  which 
occurred  at  Paris  on  the  4th  of  September.  .  .  .  It  is  plain 
that  in  future  Holland  must  without  deliberation  obey  the  orders 
of  France,  among  the  first  of  which  will  be  an  Instruction  to  adopt 
the  French  Code  of  Laws  concerning  the  Trade  of  Neutrals. 

.  .  It  is  difficult  to  form  an  opinion  of  what  is  doing  in 
France.  But  Private  Letters  confirm  the  Probability  that  another 
struggle  is  about  to  take  place  between  the  chiefs  of  the  Party  who 
came  uppermost  in  the  last  Revolution.  .  .  .  It  is  now  more 
than  a  month  that  from  day  to  day  I  have  expected  to  hear  that 
our  Envoys  had  quitted  Paris  ;  and  notwithstanding  I  have  not 
been  authorized  by  a  single  circumstance  within  my  knowledge  to 
believe  that  they  will  be  successful  in  preventing  a  war,  still  their 


280  RUFUS  KING,  [1798 

continuance  at  Paris  has  had  an  influence  upon  my  Conduct. 
Perhaps  you  may  think  that  I  have  been  too  cautious,  and  that 
with  my  Knowledge  of  the  opinion  of  the  President  upon  the  sub- 
ject of  Convoys,  I  ought  not  to  have  hesitated  in  asking  this  Gov- 
ernment to  grant  them.  The  truth  is,  that  for  many  weeks  past, 
I  had  a  firm  persuasion  that  our  Mission  to  France  would  wholly 
fail  of  success  :  that  the  Directory  themselves  wished  to  see  an 
end  to  it  :  and  they  were  only  waiting  and  watching  for  an  osten- 
sible reason,  either  in  the  conduct  of  the  Envoys,  or  of  others,  to 
send  them  away.  In  this  view  of  the  Subject  you  will  see  that  my 
application  for  a  Convoy,  which,  in  less  than  a  week,  would  have 
been  known  at  Paris,  was  a  step  by  no  means  free  from  objection, 
inasmuch  as  it  might,  and  probably  would,  have  been  represented 
and  acted  upon  as  a  measure  on  our  part  of  Perfidy  and  even  of 
aggression  ;  and  that  too,  while  in  the  public  Eye  our  Ministers 
were  at  Paris  for  the  purpose  of  an  amicable  settlement  of  the 
Disagreement  between  the  two  Countries.  So  long  as  I  viewed 
the  Question  in  this  Light,  and  things  continued  in  the  situation 
in  which  they  had  stood  for  several  months,  I  declined  any  direct 
interference  on  the  Subject  of  Convoys  ;  taking  care  to  inform 
such  of  my  Countrymen  as  applied  to  me,  that  I  thought  it  probable 
that  Convoys  would  be  offered  and  that  they,  as  Private  individ- 
uals might  without  prejudice  to  their  country,  accept  the  Protection 
that  they  would  afford. 

But  since  the  adoption  of  the  Law  concerning  Neutrals,  which 
is  particularly  aimed  at  our  Navigation,  and  will  be  followed  by 
the  Dismission  of  our  Envoys,  the  Question  has  assumed  a  new 
shape  ;  and  it  would,  in  my  judgment  be  weakness,  instead  of 
prudence,  to  hesitate  under  present  circumstances,  in  adopting 
measures  of  effectual  security,  from  an  apprehension  that  they 
might  give  displeasure,  or  be  deemed  unfriendly,  to  those  whose 
conduct  towards  us  has  no  other  character  than  that  of  unjust 
aggression  and  war.     .     .     . 

Nothing  that  has  for  some  time  past  fallen  within  my  Observa- 
tion, has  led  me  to  believe  that  this  Government  have  any  expec- 
tation of,  or  that  they  are  engaged  in  any  measures  with  a  view 
to,  Peace.  The  triple  taxes  will  be  productive,  and  the  voluntary 
Subscriptions  considerable.  The  Country  appears  to  be  calm 
and  without  anxiety  upon  the  subject  of  Invasion  ;  indeed  there 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE,  28 1 

has  been  an  unusual  stability  for  the  past  three  months  in  the 
public  Opinion,  notwithstanding  all  the  Manifestoes  and  Demon- 
strations that  France  has  made  of  her  resolution  to  bring  the  war 
to  an  end  by  dictating  a  Peace  on  the  Banks  of  the  Thames. 

/  have  had  some  reason  to  believe  that  the  prospect  of  our  being 
engaged  in  the  war,  has  renewed  the  project  that  *  on  more  than  one 
occasion  has  been  meditated  against  South  America.  I  think  I  am 
not  mistaken  in  this  conjecture.  Miranda  who  was  certainly  en- 
gaged in  this  scheme  at  the  time  of  the  affair  of  Nootka  and  who  has 
since  served  tender  Dumouriez  in  France,  came  to  this  country  a 
few  weeks  since.  He  has  been  with  the  Ministry  and  is  here  by 
their  Desire  or  with  their  Permissio?i ;  the  object  is  the  complete 
Independence  of  South  A?nerica  to  be  effected  by  the  co-operation  of 
England  and  the  U.  S. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem  &c  &c 

Rufus  King. 

Mr.  Pickering,  in  a  letter  dated  February  7,  1798,  sends 
to  Mr.  King,  at  the  request  of  Mr.  Chase,  their  agent,  the 
resolves  of  the  Legislature  of  Maryland  of  January  19, 
1798,  relative  to  the  stock  of  that  State  in  the  Bank  of  Eng- 
land. These  resolutions  give  him  full  power  to  act  in  be- 
half of  the  State,  and  suggest  a  course  of  conduct  based 
upon  advices  they  had  received  from  Mr.  King  as  to  the 
probable  action  of  the  British  Government,  and  Mr.  P. 
gives  his  approval  of  his  exertions  in  the  matter.  The 
resolution  follow : 

"  Resolved  that  the  General  assembly  of  Maryland  approve  the 
exertions  of  Rufus  King  to  procure  an  unconditional  transfer  of 
the  Bank  Stock  due  this  State  in  the  hands  of  the  Accountant 
General  of  the  High  Court  of  Chancery  of  Great  Britain,  and  for 
his  maintaining  the  absolute  and  unqualified  right  of  this  State  to 
the  said  Bank  Stock. 

"  Resolved  that  Rufus  King  be  appointed  Trustee  on  behalf  of 
the  State  to  accept  in  his  own  name  a  transfer  of  the  Bank  Stock 
due  this  State,  or  such  part  thereof  as  the  King  of  Great  Britain 
may  direct  to  be  transferred  ;  the  Legislature  of  Maryland  not 

*  Italics  in  cipher. 


282  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

relinquishing  the  States'  Right  to  any  part  of  said  Bank  Stock, 
but  declaring  a  detention  of  any  part  thereof  by  the  Crown  of 
Great  Britain  to  be  contrary  to  justice  and  in  violation  of  the 
Treaty  of  Peace  of  1783  between  Great  Britain  and  America. 

"  Resolved  that  Rufus  King  do  not  accept  on  the  part  of  the 
State  the  transfer  of  said  stock,  if  the  release  or  dereliction  of  the 
States'  Right  to  any  part  be  insisted  on  as  a  condition  precedent 
to  the  transfer  of  the  residue.     ..." 


R.  King,  London,  to  E.  Gerry,  Paris. 

Feb.  20,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  We  have  no  accounts  from  home  since  7  th  of  Jany, 
nor  is  my  intelligence  much  later  from  Paris.  I  have  experienced 
no  small  Difficulty  in  deciding  what  ought  to  have  been  my  con- 
duct in  respect  to  American  Property  about  to  depart  from  this 
Country  for  our's,  and  which  is  now  liable  to  Capture  and  Con- 
demnation by  the  french  ;  fortunately  the  Business  has  taken  a 
turn  that  for  the  present  does  not  require  my  interference.  It  is 
not  therefore  expedient  nor  would  it  under  any  circumstances  be 
necessary,  to  give  you  the  course  of  my  Reflections,  since  you 
will  readily  see  the  subject  in  all  its  Relations.  Whether  correctly 
or  otherwise  you  can  but  decide,  they  have  had  an  influence  in 
persuading  me  that  it  is  time  we  should  distinctly  understand 
what  are  the  real  views  of  France  towards  our  Country.  I  wish 
I  could  derive  any  satisfaction  in  my  conjectures,  I  had  almost 
said  my  fixed  opinions,  on  this  important  Subject.  I  reject  all 
Quixotism  in  Politicks  ;  but  national  honor,  rightly  understood, 
is  national  Power — and  if  the  former  is  degraded,  the  latter  will 
be  despised. 

With  sincere  regard  I  am  &  yr.  ob.  &  faithful  serv. 

Rufus  King. 

R.  King  to  R.  Troup. 

London,  Feby  22,  1798. 

Dr.  Romaine  (says  Sir  Wm.  P.)  was  introduced  to  me  by  let- 
ters from  a  worthy  and  respectable  character  of  New  York,  and 
with  such  recommendations  how  could  I  refuse  to  pay  attention 


1798]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  283 

to  his  Reports  of  the  Prospects  and  situation  of  the  U.  S.  Do 
you  understand  this,  my  dear  Judge  ?  1  hope  that  you  and  my 
more  sanguine  friend  and  successor  have  seasonably  changed  into 
Dollars  and  eagles,  a  few  thousand  of  your  many  acres  ;  for  with 
all  my  infidelity,  I  sincerely  wish  that  the  result  of  your  specula- 
tions may  far  exceed  even  your  own  expectations  of  Profit.*  Re- 
member that  war  will  bring  depreciation,  and  how  we  are  to 
escape  it,  my  poor  eyes  cannot  discover.  The  prayers  of  Prot- 
estant Christians  are  answered  by  the  downfall  of  the  Pope,  and 
what  is  strange  to  relate  the  faithful  Swiss  are  involved  in  the 
same  ruin. 

The  poor  Dutch  after  passing  thro'  Purgatory,  are  condemned 
to  weeping,  wailing  and  gnashing  of  teeth,  Spain  and  Portugal  are 
soon  to  meet  their  fate,  and  God  only  knows  the  number  of  days 
that  remain  to  those  who  are  last  to  be  destroyed. 

I  will  hope  that  we  are  nearly  cured  of  the  folly  of  admiring 

the  progress  of  this  scourge  of  the  human  kind.     .     .     . 

Farewell  yrs 

R.  K. 

P.  S.  I  send  you  one  of  General  Allen's  Pamphlets — it  con- 
tains curious  matter.  The  General's  cause  is  to  be  tried  by  the 
Lords  on  Tuesday  of  next  week. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

London,  Feb,  26,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Two  points  have  within  a  fortnight  been  settled  in  the  English 

Cabinet  respecting  South  America.     If  Spain  is  able  to  prevent  the 

overthrow   of  her  present  Government  and  to  escape  being  brought 

nnder  the  entire  coniroul  of  France,  England  (between  whom  and 

*  Col.  Troup  says  in  a  letter  of  8th  of  June,  1798  :  "  I  read  your  remarks 
about  our  land  speculations  a  few  days  ago  to  Lawrance,  who  was  here  to  re- 
cruit his  health.  He  winched  at  them.  Within  eighteen  months  he  has  been 
obliged  to  assume  for  his  brother  land  speculators  near  18,000  dollars  which 
has  worked  him  almost  to  an  oil.  ...  I  have  been  in  one  respect  fortu- 
nate ;  I  have  lost  nothing  by  any  person — in  another  I  have  been  unlucky — my 
estate  is  altogether  landed  and  for  some  time  past  it  has  been  locked  up,  and  is 
still  very  unprofitable.  The  country  is  however  filling  up  as  rapidly  as  ever. 
To  settlers  it  still  brings  the  same  prices  as  usual,  but  payments  are  not  so 
regularly  made  as  formerly." 


284  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

Spam,  notwithstanding  the  war,  a  certain  understanding  appears  to 
exist)  will  at  present  engage  in  no  scheme  to  deprive  Spain  of  the 
possession  of  Sth.  America.  But  if,  as  appears  probable,  the  army 
destined  against  Portugal,  and  which  will  march  thro'  Spain,  or  any 
other  means  which  may  be  e?nployed  by  France,  shall  overthrow  the 
Spanish  Government,  and  thereby  place  the  resources  of  Spain  and 
of  her  Colonies  at  the  disposal  of  France,  England  will  immediately 
commence  the  execution  of  a  Plan  long  since  digested  and  prepared 
for  the  compleat  independe?ice  of  Sh.  America. 

If  England  engages  in  this  Plan,  she  will  at  Philadelphia  propose 
to  the  U.  S.  to  cooperate  in  its  execution.  Miranda  will  be  detained 
here,  under  one  pretence  or  another,  until  events  shall  decide  the 
conduct  of  England. 

The  revolution  of  Spain  is  decreed  j  the  attempt  will  be  made,  and 
the  success  is  scarcely  doubtful.  The  President  may  therefore  expect 
the  overture  of  England,  and  will,  I  am  persuaded,  act  upon  it,  wider 
the  influence  of  that  wise  and  comprehensive  policy,  which,  looking 
forward  to  the  Destinies  of  the  New  World,  shall  in  the  beginning 
by  great  and  generous  Deeds  lay  deep  and  firm  the  foundations  of 
lasting  accord  between  its  rising  Empires.  If  possible,  I  will  bring 
together  and  seasonably  arrange  and  send  to  you  such  information,  as 
I  have  been  able  to  procure  upon  this  interesting  and  very  consequen- 
tial subject,  having  found  out  and  acquired  the  confidence  of  certain 
jFesuits,  ?iatives  of  Sth.  America,  who  with  a  view  to  its  independence 
are  and  for  several  years  have  been,  in  the  service  and  pay  of  Eng- 
land. I  have  cofiversed  with  them  and  seen  the  Reports  which  they 
have  prepared  for  their  employers.  These  communications  throw 
much  light  upon  the  population,  the  resources,  the  oppression  and  the 
temper  and  character  of  the  Spanish  Americans* 

.  .  .  By  what  means  the  Dutch  Money  Lenders  have  been, 
or  are  to  be,  induced  to  transfer  to  the  French  their  American  or 
other  Funds,  I  am  not  informed.  But  a  few  days  since  a  French- 
man, under  a  German  Name  and  Passport,  arrived  in  London 
from  Paris  :  the  object  of  his  voyage  is  to  ask  of  certain  Capital- 
ists here  whether  they  will  purchase  or  advance  Money  upon  the 
Bonds  of  the  United  States  held  by  the  Dutch  and  Antwerp 
Money  Lenders  upon  their  being  assigned  and  transferred  to 
them  in  a  way  that  shall  be  entirely   satisfactory  ?     One  of  our 

*  Italics  in  cipher. 


1798]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  285 

Countrymen,  whose  pursuits  are  regulated  by  a  faithful  attach- 
ment to  his  Country,  and  who  has  been  invited  to  participate  in 
the  purchase  of  these  Bonds,  consulted  me  upon  the  propriety  of 
the  measure.  I  had  no  hesitation  to  dissuade  him  from  engaging 
in  it :  because  in  the  present  situation  of  Holland,  it  appears  to 
me  desirable  to  preserve  the  influence,  be  it  great  or  small,  arising 
from  the  property  which  Individuals  of  that  country  hold  in  our 
funds ;  and  because,  moreover,  in  the  present  Disposition  of 
France  towards  us,  we  cannot  with  prudence  desire  to  Contribute 
to  the  supply  of  the  means  which  may  enable  France  to  multiply 
their  unjust  aggressions  against  us  and  others.  Our  Debt  to 
the  Money  Lenders  of  Amsterdam  and  Antwerp,  exclusive  of 
what  they  hold  in  our  Domestic  Stock,  amounts  to  Eleven  Mil- 
lions of  Dollars,  not  more  than  two  hundred  and  fifty  thousand  of 
which  is  liable  to  re-imbursement  during  the  present  Century. 
The  preservation  of  this  Debt,  in  its  present  shape,  may  operate 
to  restrain  measures  of  hostility  that  otherwise  may  be  adopted. 
It  was  doubted  by  some  persons,  whether  the  payment  by  antici- 
pation of  our  Debt  to  France  was  a  prudent  Policy  :  as  an  inde- 
pendent measure  of  finance,  it  was  beneficial ;  but  the  political 
mischiefs  of  the  arrangement  deserved  to  have  been  taken  into 
the  question,  since  they  might  be  found  to  outweigh  the  Argu- 
ment of  ceconomy.  .  .  .  Notwithstanding  the  increased  prob- 
ability that  we  shall  be  drawn  into  the  Vortex,  our  Stocks  have 
risen  in  their  price  and  are  now  sought  for  by  some  people,  who 
have  heretofore  thought  nothing  out  of  England  secure.     .     .     . 

Annexed  you  have  Copies  of  three  notes  which  I  have  received 
from  Lord  Grenville.  The  first  is  an  answer  to  my  note  respect- 
ing the  Proceedings  of  the  Vice-admiralty  Court  of  St.  Domingo. 
As  this  Court  was  not  legally  constituted,  its  proceedings  are 
void  ;  and  those  who  have  suffered  from  its  acts  are  referred,  as 
in  the  Martinique  cases,  to  the  High  Court  of  Admiralty  for 
redress.     .     .     . 

On  the  3 1st  of  January  our  Ministers  at  Paris,  who  were  still  unre- 
ceived  and  therefore  unauthorized  to  hold  a  regular  communication 
with  the  French  Government,  sent  to  the  Minister  of  Foreign 
Relations  the  letter  which  they  have  informed  you  they  were  pre- 
paring for  that  purpose.  On  the  19th  of  February  they  had  re- 
ceived no  answer,  nor  had  any  notice  been  taken  of  them  or  their 


286  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

letter  by  Mr.  Talleyrand.  .  .  .  There  is  really  no  hope  that 
France  will  return  to  reason  in  our  affairs  ;  and  we  should  take 
care  not  to  be  deceived  by  any  false  appearances  that  perhaps  she 
may  think  it  politic  to  pursue.  Her  conduct  can  only  be  explained 
by  supposing  that  she  thinks  that  we  have  neither  Union,  nor 
courage,  nor  character  to  resist  any  outrage  that  she  may  choose 
to  practise  towards  us  ;  and  is  it  strange  that  she  and  others  should 
entertain  this  opinion,  if  they  believe  the  late  publication  by  Mr. 
Monroe,  who  proves  his  Patriotism  by  an  attempt  to  revile  and 
degrade  his  Country  in  the  eyes  of  the  whole  World  ? 

With  perfect  Respect  and  Esteem, 

Rufus  King. 


A.  Hamilton  to  R.  King. 

Probably  March,  12,  1798. 

It  is  a  great  while,  my  Dr.  friend,  since  I  have  written  you  a 
line.  You  will  not  I  am  sure  impute  my  silence  to  any  cause  im- 
peaching my  friendship,  for  that  must  be  always  cordial  and 
entire.  The  truth  is  that  my  professional  avocations  occupm  ye 
to  the  extent  of  the  exertions  my  health  permits,  and  I  have  been 
unwilling  to  sit  down  to  write  you  without  leisure  to  say  some- 
thing interesting.  But  I  now  depart  from  this  rule  that  my  perse- 
vering silence  may  not  make  me  sin  beyond  Redemption.  I  have, 
however,  only  time  to  tell  you  that  your  friends  are  generally  well 
&  as  much  attached  to  you  as  ever  ;  &  that  I  hear  of  no  cabals 
against  you. 

Being  just  returned  from  Albany,  I  would  say  nothing  about 
the  political  juncture  as  it  is  affected  by  the  unpleasant  advices 
from  our  Commissioners  in  France.  I  will  only  say  that  the  pub- 
lic mind  is  much  sounder  than  that  of  our  Representatives  in  the 
national  Council  &  that  there  is  no  danger  of  our  actively  dis- 
gracing ourselves,  that  is,  by  any  unworthy  compliances  with  the 
exorbitant  pretensions  of  "  The  Great  Monster."  * 

Yours  Affecty. 

A.  Hamilton. 

*  Soi  disant,  "  The  Great  Nation." 


CHAPTER  XXI. 

Claims  of  English  Commissioners  under  7th  Article  of  the  Treaty  denied — 
Mr.  Cabot  on  growing  Discontent  against  French  Aggressions — Confidence 
in  the  English  Action — Congress  should  protect  our  Commerce — General 
Pinckney  on  French  Demands — Mr.  King  regrets  the  Stay  of  the  Envoys 
in  Paris — Recall  of  the  Envoys — Indisposition  in  Congress  to  protect  Com- 
merce— Fear  of  causing  War — Convoys  to  be  accepted,  and  Merchantmen 
may  be  armed — Dispatches  to  Envoys  called  for — Mr.  Bingham  on  the 
commercial  Regulations  with  England — Mr.  King's  Letters  to  the  Envoys 
in  Paris — To  Secretary  of  State  on  Relations  of  Denmark  and  France — 
Rebellion  in  Ireland — General  Pinckney  announces  that  Mr.  Gerry  will 
stay  in  Paris. 

C.  C.  Pinckney  to  R.  King. 

In  Cipher. 

Paris,  March  14,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  hope  you  have  received  safe  our  No.  6.  to  the  Secretary  of 
State  with  its  inclosures.  We  had  prepared  the  letter  therein 
mentioned.  It  was  agreed  to  by  all  of  us,  after  it  had  been 
altered  so  as  to  meet  the  apparent  sentiments  of  all.  General 
Marshall  and  myself  signed  it,  yet  Mr.  Gerry  delayed  adding  his 
Signature,  and  at  last  declined  it,  on  a  conversation  he  had  with 
Mr.  Talleyrand's  Secretary,  wherein  the  terms  of  a  loan  to  be  stip- 
ulated by  us  now,  but  not  to  be  paid  until  after  the  war,  were  sug- 
gested. This,  when  communicated  to  us,  General  Marshall  and 
myself  altogether  disapproved.  Mr.  Gerry  thought  it  admissible 
if  stipulations  were  made  that  it  should  not  be  transferred  until 
after  the  war.  On  a  conversation  with  Mr.  Talleyrand  himself,  it 
clearly  appears  that  the  intention  was  to  make  this  loan  a  present 
aid  ;  but  to  conceal  the  intention  by  deferring  the  time  of  pay- 
ment.    Mr.  Gerry   declared  he   was   convinced   of   it  and   was 

287 


288  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

against  it ;  but  I  think  he  will  not  sign  the  letter  he  agreed  to,  nor 
consent  to  ask  for  Passports  until  he  hears  from  our  Government. 
The  intention  here  is,  with  regard  to  the  Envoys,  to  get  General 
Marshall  and  myself  away  and  to  keep  Mr.  Gerry  ;  with  regard  to 
our  Country,  it  is  to  get  money  if  they  can  ;  but,  if  not,  then  to 
keep  American  affairs  in  suspense  till  the  Expedition  against 
England  is  determined. 

I  remain  with  great  truth  your  Sincere  &  affectionate 

Charles  Cotesworth  Pinckney. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State.     No.  69. 

London,  March  17,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Lord  Grenville  informed  me  at  the  last  Conference,  that  he  was 
concerned  to  learn  from  their  Commissioners  that  an  opinion  was 
entertained  by  their  Colleagues,  that  they  had  power  to  receive 
and,  immediately  after  the  expiration  of  Eighteen  months  from 
the  opening  of  the  Commission,  to  decide  all  questions  within 
the  Purview  of  the  Treaty,  whether  the  same  were  depending 
before,  or  had  been  decided  by,  the  Courts  of  Admiralty. 

He  said  that  he  was  at  a  loss  how  the  Commissioners  could  upon 
their  Oaths  say,  in  cases  depending  in  the  Courts  of  Admiralty, 
that  Compensation  could  not  be  had  and  received  in  the  ordinary 
Courts  of  Justice  ;  and  unless  upon  their  Oaths  they  could  say  so, 
they  had  no  authority  to  proceed  to  decide  such  cases  ;  they 
might  receive  the  Claims,  but  unless  the  delays  of  the  Admiralty 
were  such  as  amounted  to  a  denial  of  Justice,  they  must  defer 
their  decisions  until  the  Admiralty  had  given  theirs.  His  Lord- 
ship added  that,  if  the  opinion  alluded  to  should  be  persisted  in, 
he  did  not  see  how  they  could  authorize  their  Commissioners  to 
assist  in  giving  the  awards. 

I  said  that  I  was  not  prepared  to  discuss  the  question  ;  that  I 
had  hoped,  after  the  apparent  Disagreement,  which  on  a  former 
occasion  had  occurred,  that  we  should  not  again  be  obliged  to 
search  for  the  interpretation  of  this  Article  of  the  Treaty,  but  that 
the  same  would  have  been  left  to  the  Commissioners  ;  that  I 
must  however  observe  to  his  Lordship,  that  as  far  as  I  had  formed 


1798]  LIFE   AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  289 

any  opinion  upon  the  subject,  it  differed  from  his  ;  that  I  had 
more  than  once  intimated  this  opinion  to  him,  as  a  motive  to 
greater  Dispatch  in  the  Admiralty  Courts  ;  that  many  of  our  peo- 
ple had  been  long  attending  here  for  a  Decision  of  their  Causes  ; 
that  according  to  the  progress  hitherto  made  in  the  Admiralty 
Courts,  the  cases  within  the  provision  of  the  Treaty,  would  not 
all  be  tried  at  the  end  of  seven  years  from  this  time  ;  that  the 
Claimants  had  waited  with  the  more  patience,  because  they  have 
been  led  to  believe  that  the  Treaty  ascertained  a  Period  when  the 
Commissioners  would  have  authority  to  take  up  and  decide  their 
claims.  That  I  did  not  recollect  that  the  Commissioners  had  a 
Right  to  receive  any  Claim,  the  merits  of  which  they  could  not 
immediately  decide  ;  and  that  all  Claims  must  be  preferred  within 
Eighteen  months  from  the  opening  of  the  Commission. 

Besides  the  assignment  which  the  Commissioners  may  award 
will  enable  the  British  Government  to  pursue  the  Captors,  and  to 
recover  from  them  the  money  that  may,  under  the  award  of  the 
Commissioners,  be  advanced  to  the  Claimants  in  their  Behalf  ; 
that  after  waiting  four  years,  which  was  the  situation  of  most  of 
the  Claimants,  the  inconvenience  of  longer  delay  should  be  born 
by  those  who  could  prevent  it,  and  not  by  those  who  had  no 
means  of  expediting  the  Proceedings  of  the  Admiralty.  I  con- 
cluded the  conversation  by  saying  that,  after  conversing  with  our 
Commissioners,  I  would  examine  the  Subject,  preparatory  to  a 
future  interview  with  his  Lordship. 

You  see  how  this  Question  bears  upon  that  of  the  like  character 
respecting  the  Debts  ;  and  tho'  I  have  not  time  to  present  it  to 
you  in  the  extent  I  wish,  I  think  you  will  perceive  that  it  is  of 
such  magnitude,  that  I  must  particularly  desire  to  receive  as  early 
as  possible  the  President's  opinion  respecting  the  Construction  to 
which  we  shall  adhere. 

Is  it  not  probable  that  this  Government,  should  they  persist  in 
the  opinion  intimated  by  Lord  Grenville  (which  for  plain  reasons 
will  be  zealously  and  loudly  supported  by  the  whole  body  of 
Civilians),  may  be  willing  to  agree  that  after  a  certain  period, 
within  which  they  will  oblige  their  Courts  to  proceed  witti  expe- 
dition, the  Commissioners  shall  proceed  and  decide  all  the  Claims 
that  shall  have  been  brought  before  them,  whether  they  shall  have 
been  decided  by  the  Admiralty  Courts  or  not  ? 

VOL.   II. — 19 


29O  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

This  suggestion  occurs  while  the  pen  is  in  my  hand  ;  I  have 
not  considered  it,  nor  do  I  know  that  it  merits  consideration  ; 
my  belief  is  that  we  may  without  risque,  insist  upon  what  we  shall 
judge  to  be  the  fair  and  just  interpretation  of  the  Treaty.  As  I 
know  nothing  of  the  situation  or  amount  of  the  Claims  before  the 
Commission  at  Philadelphia,  I  can  form  no  estimate  of  the  weight 
of  those  political  considerations  which  may  exist  in  that  quarter, 
nor  consequently  of  the  influence  they  ought  to  have  upon  our 
proceedings  here.*     .     .     . 

The  Bill  will  be  soon  brought  before  Parliament,  imposing  a 
2J  per  Cent  Impost  upon  the  Exports  &  Imports  of  Great  Britain 
.  .  .  to  afford  Convoys  to  the  Trade  .  .  .  and  to  defray 
the  expence  thereof.  Neutral  nations  who  shall  convoy  their  own 
Ships,  ...  by  giving  notice  of  their  intention  from  time  to 
time  to  afford  such  convoy,  will  be  exempt  from  the  payment  of  this 
Impost.  .  .  .  Should  the  System  be  adopted,  will  it  not  be  much 
cheaper  as  well  as  in  other  respects  wiser,  for  us  to  Convoy  our 
own  Trade  than  to  pay  the  impost  and  sail  under  English  Convoy. 

It  is  proper  that  I  should  hint  to  you  that  the  long  absence  of 
Mr.  Liston  from  Philadelphia  during  the  President's  residence 
there,  and  while  Congress  are  in  session,  is  not  approved  of,  and 
by  this  opportunity  he  would  be  told  so.     .     .     . 

With  perfect  Respect  and  Esteem, 

Rufus  King. 


G.  Cabot  to  R.  King. 

Brookline,  March  21,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Before  I  had  the  pleasure  of  reading  your  letter  of  the  14th 
Jany  intelligence  had  been  received  from  France  respecting  their 
Decrees  against  Neutrals.  This  last  step  was  all  that  remained 
to  be  taken  to  fulfil  the  intentions  formed  by  the  Directory  2  years 
ago  &  of  which  I  was  informed  by  the  D.  de  L.  in  July  1796. — 
The  project  seemed  then  to  be  too  extravagant  to  be  believed  ; 
however  I  fully  believed  myself  in  its  reality  &  accordingly  men- 
tioned the  affair  to  you  soon  afterward,  but  as  you  have  never 

*  This  subject  was  renewed  at  a  later  period,  and  received  at  that  time  a  full 
discussion  and  satisfactory  settlement. — Ed. 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  291 

noticed  it  I  suspect  my  letters  (for  I  think  there  were  two) 
which  contained  the  information  may  have  miscarried.  I  thought 
it  proper  soon  afterward  to  acquaint  Mr.  Wolcott  with  the  sub- 
stance of  my  conversation  with  the  D.,  &  Mr.  Wolcott  has  since 
written  to  me  that  there  was  abundant  evidence  of  the  truth  of 
what  I  had  heard.  It  is  impossible  to  compare  all  this  with 
Monroe's  representation  &  not  feel  indignant  at  his  perfidy  or 
chagrined  at  his  folly.  It  is  natural  to  suppose  that  the  accumu- 
lated injuries  of  France  toward  this  country  &  her  undisguised 
resolution  to  establish  her  power  over  every  nation  that  she  can, 
would  have  excited  a  general  resentment,  and  that  the  sense  of 
common  danger  wou'd  have  united  us  in  our  measures  of  defence, 
but  I  fear  it  is  otherwise.  It  appears  to  me  that  arming  for  de- 
fence is  less  popular  now  than  it  wou'd  have  been  in  June  last  ; 
the  servile  temper  of  our  Representatives  not  only  dishonor'd 
them  but  dispirited  the  people  &  at  this  moment  it  is  not  easy  to 
conceive  of  any  indignity  to  which  they  wou'd  not  submit  & 
which  a  powerful  party  wou'd  not  palliate.  You  have  doubtless 
seen  thro'  the  whole  contest  that  the  British  Treaty  is  made  the 
pretext  &  you  undoubtedly  see  the  policy  of  this,  &  altho'  there 
is  no  man  of  information  who  openly  attacks  any  article  of  the 
Treaty  yet  still  the  ignorant  are  played  upon  &  their  prejudices 
kept  alive  ;  &  this  expedient  more  than  any  other  countenances 
their  apathy  to  the  outrages  of  France. 

It  is  a  humiliating  thought,  &  I  reluctantly  avow  it,  that  our 
fate  depends  essentially  upon  the  issue  of  the  struggle  between 
Britain  &  France.  I  think  however  that  the  future  prosperity  & 
security  of  Britain  requires  that  the  U.  S.  shou'd  be  kept  out  of 
the  fangs  of  the  great  monster  if  possible  &  therefore  I  rely  that 
British  policy  will  do  more  for  us  than  we  are  willing  to  do  for 
ourselves — it  wou'd  indeed  be  extreme  weakness  in  the  British 
Cabinet  to  suffer  the  Govt,  of  this  country  to  pass  into  the  hands 
of  France  if  they  can  possibly  prevent  it,  for  this  country  wou'd 
make  weight  in  the  scale  sufficient  to  make  the  final  preponder- 
ance on  which  ever  side  it  shou'd  be  placed  :  the  interest  of  both 
those  nations  will  best  comport  with  what  is  certainly  our  own  & 
that  is  perfect  Independence. 

I  don't  see  how  you  can,  nor  do  I  think  it  advisable  to  try  to 
use  force  of  any  kind  to  oblige  the  vessels  to  take  convoys.     I 


292  RUFUS  KING.  [T798 

hope  however  you  will  be  successful  in  inducing  them  to  accept 
and  the  Govt,  to  give  protection.  It  is  for  the  interest  of  all  con- 
cerned that  this  shou'd  be  done  &  the  idle  desire  of  each  to  be 
first  home  shou'd  be  sacrificed  to  the  common  safety.  I  shall  not 
be  surprised  however  to  learn  that  some  intractable  spirits  break 
away  &  get  captured.  A  few  such  ships  wou'd  greatly  encourage 
the  predatory  efforts  of  the  French  and  wou'd  multiply  our 
future  losses. 

Congress  are  soon  to  decide  on  the  kind  &  extent  of  defensive 
armament  &  it  is  possible  that  in  the  course  of  the  season  they 
may  put  the  Frigates  &  some  smaller  Vessels  out  to  protect  our 
Coast — shou'd  this  happen  there  is  some  little  risk  of  a  rencounter 
with  british  arm'd  ships.  It  is  unfortunate  for  the  tranquillity  of 
nations  that  the  Naval  officers  are  obliged  often  to  act  without 
much  deliberation  &  upon  presumption  instead  of  clear  evidence  ; 
they  are,  too,  men  of  more  nautical  than  political  skill  &  their 
courage  which  is  generous  and  ingenuous  too  often  disdains 
caution,  hence  there  may  be  danger  of  a  misunderstanding  if  the 
Commanders  of  both  sides  are  not  perfectly  well  instructed  with 
their  rights  and  duties. 

The  misfortunes  of  our  friend  Payne  must  disquiet  Gore  as  it 
does  me  and  all  his  friends,  but  while  you  sympathize  with  him 
you  will  not  regret  that  the  cursed  land  speculations  did  not  de- 
bauch your  prudence. 

Yours  sincerely, 

G.  C. 


G.  Cabot  to  R.  King. 

Brookline,  23d  March,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Since  I  wrote  you  on  the  21st  I  have  been  favored  with  your 
letter  of  the  9th  of  Jany  &  as  my  letter  is  not  gone  I  open  the 
cover  to  add  my  acknowledgement  of  the  great  favor  you  have 
done  in  communicating  the  desponding  &  gloomy  sentiments  you 
feel.  What  (am  I  to  understand)  can  have  been  done  or  medi- 
tated to  be  done  by  the  French  worse  than  I  have  for  years 
imagined  ?  I  must  take  your  word  as  I  already  have  the  word  of 
the  Secy  of  State  that  there  is  a  degree  of  atrocity  beyond  my 
conception. 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  293 

I  am  mortified  at  the  stupidity  of  several  of  the  European 
Cabinets  who  seem  to  have  consented  to  be  annihilated  by  &  by, 
if  they  can  only  be  allowed  to  enjoy  at  the  present  a  temporary 
respite  :  but  my  whole  reliance  for  effective  force  has  been  upon 
England.  Doubtless  if  they  yield,  the  whole  civilized  world  falls 
a  prey  to  France  ;  but  is  it  possible  the  people  of  property  & 
sense  there  at  this  late  day  shou'd  hesitate  to  spend  the  last  shil- 
ling &  hazard  the  last  life  rather  than  submit  to  their  merciless 
enemies  ?  If  those  people  are  so  weak  yet  the  Govt,  is  not,  &  if 
this  is  not  afraid  to  do  all  it  can  it  will  do  enough.  I  have  never 
doubted  the  competency  of  G  B  to  withstand  all  the  power  that 
France  can  bring  against  her,  but  as  I  have  not  thought  that  the 
efforts  of  the  British  were  as  great  as  they  ought  to  be,  or  so  well 
directed  as  they  might  be,  I  have  seriously  wished  a  thousand 
times  that  the  French  wou'd  be  mad  enough  to  attempt  an  Inva- 
sion. This  it  appears  to  me  wou'd  be  putting  their  cause  at  issue 
when  according  to  all  human  calculations  their  defeat  &  destruc- 
tion wou'd  be  inevitable.  All  the  friends  of  order  &  virtue 
throughout  the  world  ought  to  be  willing  to  trust  the  success  of 
such  a  conflict  because  they  can  never  expect  a  trial  of  force  on 
better  terms. 

The  English  nation  is  well  constituted  &  well  situated  in  every 
respect  to  make  the  defence  required  :  she  has  too  abundant 
means  of  men  &  money,  skill  &  spirit  &  all  these  will  be  suffi- 
ciently exerted  if  an  attempt  is  made  to  conquer  her.  But  I  have 
no  idea  that  any  such  attempt  is  even  thought  of  by  the  Directory 
of  French  Affairs  :  they  will  do  wicked  things  but  not  weak  ones. 
For  myself  I  have  attributed  all  the  gasconading  of  France  to  in- 
ternal projects  &  necessities  : — but  be  this  as  it  may  the  English 
are  contending  for  existence  as  a  nation  &  therefore  they  ought  to 
act  worthy  of  the  greatness  of  the  Stake  :  their  constitution  must 
be  preserved  but  the  Parliament  ought  to  clothe  the  Executive 
with  all  power  for  such  a  period  as  the  danger  may  last,  &  the 
people  shou'd  be  brought  to  acquiesce  &  support  their  system  by 
constant  &  judicious  publications  &  kept  steady  by  a  prudent  use 
of  force — a  force  however  not  to  be  overcome  by  Faction.  I 
shou'd  imagine  that  it  would  not  escape  the  sagacity  of  the  Eng- 
lish that  all  the  Decrees  against  English  Manufactures  operate 
chiefly  upon  the  Neutrals  who  buy  them,  &  that  instead  of  dimin- 


294  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

ishing  the  demand  upon  the  English  artists,  if  many  vessels  are 
captured,  the  demand  will  be  increased  ;  indeed  it  will  be  scarcely- 
possible  to  prevent  the  increase  of  English  Industry  if  the  Order 
of  the  Nation  is  pursued,  for  it  is  the  only  country  in  Europe 
where  men  will  feel  that  the  fruits  of  their  labor  will  be  secured 
to  them  &  will  not  be  wrested  from  them  wantonly  or  unjustly. 
God  bless  you  ! 

Your  afft.  friend 
G.  C. 


Lord  Grenville  to  R.  King. 

Private. 

Cleveland  Row,  March  29,  1798. 
My  Dear  Sir  : 

The  inclosed  sketch  having  been  published  this  morning  and 
containing,  tho'  not  the  expressions,  yet  the  heads  &  substance  of 
the  speech  in  question,  I  have  thought  that  your  friendship  would 
give  it  in  your  eyes  more  interest  than  it  would  perhaps  be  other- 
wise entitled  to — I  have  therefore  taken  the  liberty  to  send  it  to 

you  &  beg  you  to  believe  most  truly  &  sincerely  yrs. 

G. 

Endorsed  by  R.  K. :  "  N.  B.  Lord  Grenville's  speech  de- 
livered in  the  H.  of  Lords  on  the  Duke  of  Bedford's  motion 
to  dismiss  the  Ministers  on  the  22d  instant." — R.  K. 


R.  King  to  W.  V.  Murray. 

London,  March  31,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  The  French  have  in  my  opinion  formed  their  plan, 
and  will  not  depart  from  it,  respecting  our  Country.  They 
reckon  (I  hope  and  believe  erroneously)  upon  many  friends  and 
Partizans  among  us  ;  and  those  who  are  in  the  secret  do  not  hesi- 
tate to  say,  if  they  can  gain  "  un  point  d'appui  "  in  our  Country,  or 
upon  its  borders,  that  they  can  easily  make  a  fourth  of  September 
at  Philadelphia  !     Foolish  and  extravagant  as  this  opinion  is,  the 


I798l  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  295 

extraordinary  events  and  success  of  their  Enterprises  in  Europe 
dispose  the  Directory  to  believe  it. 

Being  firmly  convinced  that  they  have  made  up  their  minds 
concerning  both  South  and  North  America,  I  regret  the  humiliat- 
ing continuation  of  our  friends  at  Paris.  If  I  could  hope  even  that 
there  was  any  chance  that  we  should  adjust  our  affairs,  or  that 
France  would  be  persuaded  to  abandon  the  projects  that  she  has 
conceived,  my  earnest  desire  that  our  Country  should  not  become 
a  party  in  the  war  would  lead  me  to  applaud  their  patience  ;  but 
as  I  utterly  despair  of  their  success  in  this  Respect,  I  think  I  see 
mischief  in  their  remaining  at  Paris.  Until  they  leave  it  there 
will  be  no  adequate  Preparations  for  the  alternative,  and  the 
events  which  follow  each  other  with  such  rapidity  in  Europe  and 
which  are  to  precede  the  Labor  intended  to  be  performed  in 
America,  make  me  fear  that  they  may  find  us,  as  they  lately  found 

Switzerland,  unprepared. 

Farewell  yrs.  very  truly 

R.  K. 

P.  S.  Be  cautious  of  Genl.  Eustace  ;  he  is  a  very  troublesome, 
but  I  do  not  think  in  any  way  a  dangerous,  character.  He  was 
sent  out  of  England,  and  his  conduct  towards  me  was  rude  and 
ungentlemanlike.  He  began  his  acquaintance  with  me  with  the 
Tale  that  I  perceive  he  has  related  to  you,  respecting  Monroe, 
Fulton  and  others.  By  Monroe's  Book  I  observe  that  Eustace  was 
one  of  his  addressers  when  he  was  replaced  by  General  Pinckney  ; 
Be  assured  that  he  is  a  more  suitable  acquaintance  of  Monroe  than 
of  you  or  me.  He  will  be  a  Tale  bearer  between  you  and  others, 
with  whom  he  may  seek  an  acquaintance,  and  is  base  enough  for 
the  office.  In  the  end  he  will  quarrel  with  you,  either  because  you 
will  not  lend  money,  or  countenance  him  in  Pretensions  that  he 
will  have  no  right  to  make. 

Mr.  Pickering  announces  to  Mr.  King,  in  this  letter,  the 
receipt  of  despatches  from  the  envoys  in  Paris  to  the  8th  of 
January,  the  last  declaring  "  that  there  existed  no  hope  of 
their  being  officially  received,  or  in  any  way  accomplishing 
the  object  of  their  mission,"  and  saying  that  they  were  de- 
sirous of  doing  what  they  could  by  remaining  at  their  post 
to  effect  a  reconciliation,  and  were  to  write  a  letter  to  Min- 


296  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

ister  of  Foreign  Affairs  on  the  10th  January,  requesting  the 
Government  to  open  negotiations  with  them  or  grant  them 
passports.  "  Nevertheless  it  has  been  thought  expedient  to 
transmit  them  a  letter  of  recall,"  which  had  been  done. 


T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

"Department  of  State,  April  2,  1798. 

"  .  .  .  A  copy  I  now  inclose  to  your  care,  with  a  copy  for 
your  own  information,  of  its  contents.  It  is  very  desirable  that 
the  Envoys  should  speedily  receive  the  Letter  of  Recall,  if  they 
still  remain  in  France.  We  hope  and  trust  they  are  not  there  ; 
for  their  personal  safety,  or  at  least  their  liberty  might  be  in- 
volved, while  in  the  power  of  a  Government  which  at  its  pleasure 
violates  the  Law  of  Nations  and  imprisons  Ambassadors  with 
as  little  ceremony  as  it  arrests  its  own  subjects.  But  to  return 
to  the  main  object  of  this  letter.  What  ought  we  under  existing  cir- 
cumstances to  propose  to  the  British  Government  j  or,  if  to  avoid  a 
present  overture  on  our  part  be  eligible,  what  offers  are  likely  to  be 
made  by  that  Government,  and,  if  made,  what  answer  shall  be  given 
them  ? 

"  In  the  first  place,  threatening  as  is  the  aspect  of  our  affairs  with 
France,  the  President  does  not  deem  it  expedient  at  this  time  to  make 
any  advances  to  Great  Britain.  The  interest  of  her  own  commerce 
will  on  some  occasions  lead  her  to  afford  convoys  to  ours.  In  your 
Letter  of  the  14th  of  January  you  say  you  are  assured  this  will  be 
done  in  respect  to  our  Spring  Ships  if  you  request  it  and  Mr.  Leston 
has  lately  shown  me  a  Letter  from  Admiral  Vandeput  who  commands 
the  British  Squadron  on  our  Coasts  by  which  it  appears  that  the 
Admiral  had  anticipated  the  Minister  s  request  to  furnish  Convoys  to 
American  vessels,  having  ordered  his  captains  '  that  if  they  should  fall 
in  with  any  ships  or  vessels  of  the  United  States  coming  from  India 
(and  not  from  the  ports  of  any  of  his  Majesty's  enemies)  or  any  ships 
or  vessels  coming  from  any  of  his  Majesty's  Dominions  to  see  them  in 
safety  to  the  nearest  port,  protecting  them  in  like  mariner  as  if  they 
were  the  ships  of  his  Majesty's  subjects?  This  request  was 
voluntary  on  the  part  of  the  British  Minister.     All  this  is  very 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  297 

convenient  in  our  present  defenceless  condition,  but  how  disgraceful  to 
the  United  States  if  we  co?itinue  to  depend  on  the  protection  of  the 
British  Navy  without  any  reasonable  exertion  on  our  part  to  protect 
ourselves."  * 

After  discussing  the  conduct  the  United  States  should 
adopt  in  case  of  open  hostilities  between  France  and  the 
United  States,  as  to  our  relations  with  Great  Britain,  Mr. 
Pickering  says  : 

"  You  will  observe  that  the  President  has  withdrawn  his  restric- 
tion as  to  the  arming  of  merchant  vessels  of  the  United  States. 
.  .  .  Many  Merchants,  I  understand  are  beginning  to  arm  ; 
but  guns  are  scarce,  and  all  the  requisite  articles  are  dearer  here 
than  in  Europe.  It  will,  therefore,  be  expedient  for  you  to  rec- 
ommend to  the  Masters  and  Agents  of  our  vessels  in  Europe, 
who  are  inclined  to  arm,  to  do  it  there.  It  will  also  be  well  to 
encourage  their  bringing  home  Gunpowder,  Saltpetre,  Lead, 
Copper,  sail  cloth  and  hemp,  and  whatever  else  is  necessary  for 
equipping  Vessels  of  war.  The  owners  of  Iron  works  are  pre- 
paring to  cast  cannon,  and  in  the  course  of  a  year  there  will  be 
an  ample  supply." 

44  April  6. 

"  There  is  still  an  evident  opposition  on  one  side  of  each  House,  to 
provide  for  any  thing  beyond  our  internal  defences  j  and  the  exhibi- 
tion of  the  dispatches  from  the  Envoys  seems  not  to  have  produced  the 
proper  effect  j  for  while  the  most  inveterate  opposers  of  the  Govern- 
ment  now  acknowledge  its  sincerity  and  the  propriety  and  even  liber- 
ality of  its  measures  to  effectuate  an  accommodation  with  France,  and 
add  that  she  has  given  us  abundant  cause  to  declare  war  against  her, 
they  say  it  is  not  expedient,  and  therefore  we  must  not  attempt  to  pro- 
tect our  commerce,  because  its  defence  will  be  a  war  measure  and  will 
issue  in  open  war.  But  this  spirit  I  hope  will  be  changed*  The 
dispatches  from  our  Envoys,  communicated  on  the  3d.  instant  in 
confidence,  are  ordered  to  be  printed,  are  now  in  the  press, 
and  in  two  or  three  days  will  be  published.  The  indignant 
voice  of  the  people  must  irresistibly  urge  the  adoption  of  efficient 
measures  of  defence  by  sea  as  well  as  by  land." 

*  Italics  in  cipher. 


298  KUFUS  KING.  [1798 

William  Bingham  to  R.  King. 

Philada.,  April  2,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  to  acknowledge  the  receipt  of  your  letter,  which  con- 
veyed the  pleasing  Intelligence  of  a  well  founded  Expectation 
that  the  British  Government  would  afford,  by  Convoys,  a  Protec- 
tion to  our  Mercantile  Navigation,  as  far  as  our  own  Shores. 
This  management  is  very  gratefull  to  our  Citizens,  &  will  in  a 
great  Measure  circumvent  the  Views  of  the  French  Directory,  in 
curtailing  our  Trade  in  British  Merchandize,  which  will  be 
exposed,  in  proportion  to  the  Increase  of  Temptation  for 
plundering  it. 

Their  late  Decree  on  this  Subject,  combined  with  the  refusal 
of  their  Executive  to  enter  into  friendly  Negotiations  with  our 
Ministers,  has  made  a  very  Serious  Impression  on  the  American 
Mind. 

The  necessity  of  adopting  an  efficient  System  of  Self  Defence 
has  become  Strikingly  evident.  But  the  Extent  &  Character  of 
this  System  will  occasion  warm  and  agitated  Debates. 

The  prevailing  opinion  is  in  favor  of  immediate  energetic 
Measures,  for  the  Protection  of  our  Trade,  that  will  not  eventuate 
in  open  &  declared  War  :  for  the  convulsed  State  of  Parties,  the 
confined  Resources  of  the  Country  &  the  Indisposition  to  increase 
them,  as  well  as  the  Power  of  the  Nation  with  whom  the  Contest 
would  exist,  have  created  an  unusual  Alarm,  with  respect  to  the 
Consequences  that  might  result. 

Oar  first  vigorous  Step  will  be  the  Equipment  of  public  armed 
Vessels  for  the  Protection  of  our  Neutral  Rights  of  Commerce, 
by  convoying  our  Merchant  Ships,  laden  with  Articles,  not 
Contraband  by  the  Stipulations  of  Treaties,  or  the  general  Law 
of  Nations,  when  bound  to  the  Ports  of  a  belligerent  Power.  In 
the  mean  Time,  the  President  has  revoked  his  Circular  Letter  to 
the  Collectors  which  restrained  the  Armament  of  private  Mer- 
chant Ships,  &  has  adduced  as  a  Reason  for  this  vigorous  & 
responsible  Measure,  the  Change  that  has  recently  taken  place  in 
our  political  Situation. 

A  call  has  been  made  in  the  House  of  Representatives  for  the 
Dispatches  from  our  Commissioners  in  France,  &  I  expect  the 
President  will  comply  with  the  request.     These  Communications 


1798]  LIFE   AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  299 

will   present  a  very  minute  Detail  of  their  Proceedings,  &  I  am 
inclined  to  believe  Matter  of  a  very  confidential  Nature. 

The  Act  of  Parliament  to  carry  the  British  Treaty  into  Effect, 
has  excited  a  considerable  Sensation,  of  no  very  friendly  Ten- 
dency. By  a  rigid  Adherence  to  the  Letter  of  the  Articles, 
Great  Britain  has  departed  from  that  System  of  Commercial 
Policy,  which  regulated  her  Conduct  at  a  Period,  antecedent  to 
the  Treaty,  when  our  Passions  &  Animosities  were  mutually  in- 
flamed towards  each  other. 

Our  East  India  Trade  is  in  a  worse  Predicament  than  formerly. 
We  are  precluded  from  carrying  the  Produce  &  Manufactures  of 
her  Possessions  directly  to  Europe  ;  whereas  the  Vessels  of  all 
Neutral  Powers  in  Amity  with  her  are  Subjected  to  no  Restraint 
of  this  Kind.  The  additional  Delay,  &  Expense  of  double 
Freight  &  Insurance,  by  the  circuitous  Route  of  the  United 
States,  present  an  insuperable  Barrier,  to  the  carrying  Trade, 
betwixt  the  East  India  British  Factories  &  Europe,  in  American 
Bottoms. 

The  Equalization  of  the  Tonnage  Duties  places  us  on  a  footing, 
relatively  very  unfavorable,  as  our  Vessels  are  exposed  to  the 
Payment  of  double-light  Money  &  other  heavy  Port  Charges, 
from  which  their  Shipping  are  exempt  in  our  Harbors. 

But  what  is  deemed  very  prejudicial  &  obnoxious  is  the  Im- 
position of  10  <f>  additional  Customs  on  Cargoes  imported  into 
England,  in  American  Vessels.  This  will  be  an  absolute  Prohibi- 
tion of  our  carrying  Trade,  employed  in  the  Exports  of  a  Variety 
of  Articles,  as  the  Competition  will  be  too  unfavorable.  Indeed, 
whenever  the  British  Customs  are  higher  ad  Valorem,  than  our 
Imports,  a  definite  per  Centage  cannot  be  called  a  mutual  Equiv- 
alent, so  as  to  operate  as  a  countervailing  Duty  ;  there  must  be 
Inequality  in  favor  of  one  Party  &  to  the  Injury  of  the  other.  In 
the  Article  of  Tobacco,  which  is  meant  to  be  favored,  the  addi- 
tional Duty  will  tend  to  an  entire  Exclusion  of  our  Tonnage  in 
the  Carriage,  as  it  will  amount  in  peaceable  Times  to  50  <f0  in  the 
Value  of  the  Freight. 

Besides,  the  British  Manufactures,  by  their  Nature,  occupying 
little  Space,  employ  but  a  Small  Quantity  of  Tonnage  in  their 
Transportation,  &  therefore  their  Prohibition  is  an  Evil,  not 
extensively  felt ;  but  the  bulky  Produce  of  this  Country,  destined 


300  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

to  England,  as  Remittances  in  Exchange  for  their  Manufactures, 
requires  an  Immensity  of  Shipping  :  the  Result  therefore  of  the 
Arrangement  will  operate  very  unequally,  by  the  difference  in  the 
relative  Quantity  of  Tonnage  that  will  be  respectively  excluded  in 
Consequence  of  it. 

This  is  certainly  a  great  Departure  from  the  former  System  of 
G.  Britain,  which  tended  to  attract  into  her  Ports,  by  the  most 
encouraging  Overtures,  American  Vessels,  who  came  into  them 
to  exchange  their  Produce  &  raw  Materials  for  Manufactures. 
As  the  Treaty  cannot  exist,  but  for  a  Short  Period  after  the  War, 
it  appears  that  Great  Britain,  by  so  rigidly  carrying  it  into  Effect, 
wished  to  establish  a  Fund  of  Pretensions ;  so  that  whenever  a 
new  Negotiation  shall  take  place,  She  may,  by  departing  from 
the  existing  State  of  things,  have  the  Appearance  of  relaxing  & 
making  a  Concession. 

I  find  the  Antifederalists  disposed  to  take  Advantage  of  all 
these  Circumstances,  in  order  to  justify  the  Clamors  they  excited 
against  the  British  Treaty,  &  I  regret  that  any  Opportunity  has 
been  afforded  to  them,  considering  the  critical  State  of  our  Affairs 
at  present. 

An  American  Vessel  was  yesterday  despatched  to  Havre,  by 
our  Government,  with  a  View  of  presenting  an  opportunity  for 
our  Commissioners  to  return.  But  I  am  rather  disposed  to 
believe  they  have  already  taken  their  Departure. 

With  much  sincerity  &  esteem  &c. 

Wm.  Bingham. 


R.  King  to  Messrs.  Pinckney,  Marshall,  and  Gerry. 

In  Cipher. 

London,  April  2,  1798. 
Gentlemen  : 

//  should  be  known  to  you  that  So.  America  is  on  the  Eve  of  Rev- 
olution. England  has  prepared,  and  waits  only  for  the  Events  that 
the  march  of  the  Erench  ar?ny  into  Spain  will  effect,  to  send  an  ex- 
pedition to  commence  the  Revolution  which  shall  make  South  America 
independent.  If  it  is  not  assured  to  become  independent  by  E?iglandy 
the  work  will  be  do?ie  by  France,  who  will  introduce  there  her  de- 
testable principles,  divide  it  into  small  Republicks,put  bad  men  at  their 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  3OI 

head,  and  by  these  means  facilitate  her  meditated  enterprises  against 
us.  We  have  an  immense  Interest  in  the  Event,  as  well  as  in  the 
manner  in  which  it  shall  be  accomplished.  England  will,  at  Phila- 
delphia, ask  the  co-operation  of  the  U.  S.  France  has  formed,  and 
will  not  be  diverted  from,  her  Plan  respectifig  the  U.  S.  Your 
mission  must  therefore  fail,  and  if  so,  the  sooner  the  better,  thd*  I 
understand  that  Humphries  has  received  assurances  that  our  Treaty 
ivith  Spain  will  be  carried  into  execution  ;  I  do  not  believe  it.  France 
expects  to  find  "  un  point  d'appui  "  in  Louisiana,  and  to  begin  from 
thence  her  operations  against  the  United  States ;  the  Treaty  must 
then  remain  unexecuted  j  it  will  serve  the  same  purpose  as  the  obsolete 
Treaty  respecting  the  Pays  de  Vaud,  or  the  antient  Disputes  between 
Rome  and  Naples. 

The  French  System  once  established  in  So.  America  and  the  West 
Indies,  we  shall  be  in  perpetual  risqtie  j  on  the  other  hand,  the  inde- 
pendence of  So.  America  on  wise  principles,  will  put  an  end  to  the 
Old  Colony  and  Com?nercial  System,  and  with  obvious  Combinations 
presents  Wealth  and  Security  to  the  U.  S.,  and  a  new  balance  among 
nations.     This  communication  is  most  strictly  confidential.     .     .     . 

Your  obedt.  faithful  Servt. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  General  Pinckney. 

In  Cipher. 

London,  April  2,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  same  Doubts  and  Hesitations  which  restrain  him  from  joining 
in  measures  of  decision,  would  operate  more  powerfully  if  he  was 
quite  alone  j  and  should  their  views  of  getting  rid  of  you  and  General 
M.,  and  of  keeping  him  be  effected,  nothing  would  be  gamed,  for  he 
never  would  conclude  anything.  Don't  from  hence  infer  that  I  think 
you  should  leave  him  behind ;  the  seism  would  be  full  of  mischief. 
You  must  still  endeavour  to  preserve  him  j  it  cannot  be  long  before 
you  hear  from  Philadelphia,  and  I  think  there  will  not  afterwards 
be  any  hesitation.  The  Letter  to  you  and  Colleagues,  you  will  com- 
municate to  G.  or  not  as  you  think  advisable. 

With  perfect  Respect  and  Esteem 

Rufus  King. 


^02  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 


o 


R.  King  to  E.  Gerry,  Esq. 

London,  April  2,  1798. 
My  Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  had  the  pleasure  to  receive  your  Letter  of  the  10th 
ultimo,  and  have  delayed  writing  to  you  in  hope  that  I  should  be 
able  to  send  you  some  late  and  important  intelligence  from  Phila- 
delphia :  but  the  prevalence  of  Easterly  winds,  which  has  I  hope 
carried  our  Spring  Ships  nearly  half  way  home,  has  kept  back 
those  on  their  Passage  to  Europe. 

My  last  Letters  are  to  the  beginning  of  February,  when  every- 
thing seemed  at  a  stand,  in  expectation  of  receiving  decisive 
information  from  your  Commission.  This  state  of  the  public 
mind  is,  in  my  apprehension,  full  of  perplexity  and  of  real  Danger. 
I  reason  thus ;  France  has  settled  her  Plan  respecting  America, 
and,  as  might  be  expected,  it  is  a  bold  and  comprehensive  one, 
including  both  South  and  North  America.  She  is  not  likely  to 
be  diverted  from  the  attempt  to  carry  this  Plan  into  execution  ; 
her  preparatory  measures  are  probably  now  in  operation,  and  she 
only  waits  for  certain  Events,  prior  in  their  order,  to  commence 
with  activity  the  Enterprise.  The  safety  of  America  will  depend 
upon  her  being  prepared  in  Season  to  defeat  the  Projects  of 
France  ;  so  long  as  she  expects  success  in  negotiation,  she  will 
neglect  those  preparations,  without  which  we  may  be  exposed  to, 
and  experience,  great  National  Calamity. 

I  ask  myself,  but  without  obtaining  a  satisfactory  answer, 
whether  there  remains  one  rational  Hope  of  a  favorable  issue  of 
your  Mission  ?  The  interest,  independent  of  the  earnest  wishes, 
of  our  country  to  keep  out  of  the  war,  rendered  every  effort  for 
the  purpose  a  sacred  duty,  and  all  the  world  must  admit  that  our 
Envoys  have  persevered  in  their  endeavours  with  unexampled 
patience,  and  under  the  most  discouraging,  as  well  as  humiliating 
circumstances.  But  does  not  the  public  welfare,  as  well  as  the 
National  character,  prescribe  limits  to  Submission  ?  and  without 
trying  the  Question  by  those  maxims  which  belong  to  the  laws  of 
Honor,  the  observance  of  which,  however,  can  never  be  indifferent 
to  nations,  ought  we  from  any  motive  to  persist  in  asking  what 
we  have  reason  to  believe,  nay  are  convinced,  will  not  be  granted  ; 
when  by  doing  so,  our  Country  may  be  made  to  doubt  the  exist- 
ence of  Evils,  that  are  daily  maturing  and  which  may  burst  upon 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  303 

us  when  we  are  not  prepared  to  resist  them  ?  Is  not  the  main  end 
of  every  Embassy  the  promotion  and  confirmation  of  the  public 
Interest  and  Safety  ?  In  the  supposed  state  of  your's  does  not  a 
longer  residence  in  France  expose  both  to  considerable  risque 
and  would  not  each  be  secured  by  the  termination  of  your  Mis- 
sion ?  It  does  not  necessarily  result  that  war  must  follow  your 
retreat  from  France  ;  on  the  contrary  I  am  inclined  to  believe, 
that  if  war  is  avoided,  and  our  Complaints  treated  with  Justice,  it 
will  be  by  a  Demonstration  of  that  Preparation,  Union  and  Firm- 
ness which  shall  undeceive  the  French  Government  and  lead  them 
to  abandon  their  unjust  Views  and  Pursuits  respecting  our 
Country. 

I  have  involuntarily  been  induced  to  write  what  is  passing  in 
my  mind,  but  on  casting  my  eye  over  it,  I  hesitate  in  sending  it 
to  you,  lest  it  should  have  the  air  of  an  unbecoming  interference 
in  a  Business  committed  to  others,  whose  Judgment  is  in  every 
respect  better  and  safer  than  my  own.  Yet  as  I  feel  real  Concern 
upon  this  Subject,  and  as  the  fate  of  Nation  upon  Nation  that  is 
fallen  beneath  the  Power  of  France  encreases  my  anxiety  for  the 
safety  of  our  own,  I  have  thought  that  I  might  safely  rely  upon 
your  friendship  for  an  apology  for  Reflections,  so  little  solid,  I 
fear,  in  your  mind,  but  which  are  the  unbiassed  sentiments  of 
mine. 

With  the  most  sincere  Esteem  &  attachment  &c.  &c. 
Your  friend  &  faithful  servant 

Rufus  King. 


C.  C.  PlNCKNEY  TO  R.   KlNG. 

In  Cipher. 

Paris,  April  4,  1798. 
My  Dear  Sir  : 

.  As  I  suspected  Mr  Geny  is  resolved  to  remain  here.  I 
have  warmly  remonstrated  with  him  on  the  bad  consequences  that  will 
result  from  such  conduct,  and  on  the  impropriety  of  his  having  car- 
ried on  a  Correspondence  with  Talleyrand  under  inju?iction  not  to 
communicate  it  to  his  Colleagues.     I  have  7nade  great  sacrifice  of  my 


304  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

feelings  to  preserve  union,  but  in  vain.  I  never  met  with  a  man  of 
less  candor  and  so  much  duplicity  as  Mr.  Gerry.  General  Marshall 
is  a  ma?i  of  extensive  ability,  of  7nanly  candor  and  an  honest 
heart.     .     .     . 

With  great  Regard  &  Esteem  &c. 

Charles  Cotesworth  Pinckney. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State.     No.  71. 

London,  April  6,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Denmark  is  not  safe*  French  Principles  have  many  advocates 
there,  and  the  Danish  Government,  like  others  connected  with  the 
German  System  temporizes,  acts  by  expedients  and  is  without 
vigour.  The  French  Envoy  at  Copenhagen  who  is  the  same  Per- 
son that  read  to  Louis  the  Sixteenth  his  Sentence  of  Death,  possesses 
great  influence,  and  step  by  step  increases  it  ;  little  things,  and 
such  as  in  themselves  are  of  no  importance,  are,  from  time  to 
time,  conceded  to  the  demands  of  France  ;  these  prepare  the  way 
for,  and  are  followed  by,  more  important  Requisitions,  which  in 
their  turn  will  be  complied  with.  France  claims,  and  will  attempt 
to  impose,  contributions  upon  every  Nation  with  whom  she  has  a 
connection  :  her  armies  exhaust  the  Countries  in  which  they  ob- 
tain a  footing  ;  and  her  Diplomacy  acts  where  her  army  does  not 
penetrate.  Thus  Hamburgh  and  the  other  free  cities,  who  since 
the  beginning  of  the  war  have  paid  considerable  Sums  to  France, 
have  lately,  and  while  their  Deputies  were  at  Rastadt  negotiating 
Peace,  been  asked  for  Twelve  Millions  of  Livres,  which  after 
seeking  advice  at  Berlin  and  Copenhagen  they  agreed  to  pay. 
Denmark  herself  will  soon  be  required  to  make  a  loan  to  France, 
and  in  my  opinion  will  not  refuse.  Sweden  is  in  no  better  condi- 
tion than  Denmark  ;  her  Government  is  liable  to  convulsions  ; 
these  under  the  present  divisions  among  her  people  are  not  less 
extensive,  nor  more  mild  in  their  character  than  heretofore.  The 
King  is  without  experience,  possesses  the  sovereign  authority  under 
a  doubtful  title,  and  by  several  acts  of  his  reign  has  shewn  a  deference 

*  Italics  in  cipher. 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  305 

for  France  inconsistent  with  a  due  respect  for  his  own  authority  or 
for  the  indepe?idence  of  his  Nation.  The  recent  appointment  of  the 
Baron  de  Sthael  as  his  Envoy  in  France  is  an  act  of  this  character. 
After  the  Directory  had  refused  several  Swedes  who  were  proposed, 
they  intonated  a  desire  that  the  Baron  de  Sthael  should  be  sent  to 
them.,  and,  to  secure  his  appointment,  caused  it  to  be  understood 
that  they  would  receive  no  other  person. 

It  was  from  these  and  si?nilar  proceedings  in  Denmark  and 
Sweden  that  in  my  No.  69,  I  stated  it  to  be  my  opinion  that 
neither  of  these  Poivers  would  resist  with  Decision  and  Energy 
the  depredations  that  France  has  resolved  to  commit  upon  the 
Commerce  of  all  neutral  States. 

For  several  weeks  past  we  have  heard  nothing  of  the  army  to  be 
sent  against  Portugal.  .  .  .  The  battle  of  Loupin  decided  the 
fate  of  the  Swiss.  .  .  .  The  Swiss  Soldiers  in  common  with 
the  Peasantry  have  submitted  to  be  disarmed  by  their  Con- 
querors, .  .  .  provisional  Governments  are  everywhere 
established,  and  the  deluded  populace  are  promised  ...  to 
be  constituted  a  Republic  one  and  indivisible  !  United  the  Swiss 
were  invincible  and  free  ;  divided  they  have  lost  their  Country 
and  ingloriously  submitted  to  become  the  Slaves  of  their  Conquer- 
ors. What  a  lesson,  as  well  as  example,  does  their  History  furnish 
to  America  !  .  .  .  A  French  Emissary,*  who  has  lately  pub- 
lished his  Travels  thro'  the  United  States,  in  which  he  takes 
frequent  occasion  to  contrast  the  zealous  attachment  to  France  of 
the  People  with  the  conduct  of  our  Government,  says,  "  That 
France  wants  only  a  footing  upon  the  Continent  to  regulate  the 
Destinies  of  the  Citizens  of  the  United  States."  With  these  false 
representations,  confirmed  not  only  by  some  of  our  own  Citizens, 
but  supported  by  the  uniform  success  of  the  Directory  in  other 
Countries,  ought  we  to  be  surprized  at  the  opinion  that  they  will 
be  able  to  bring  about  a  fourth  of  September  at  Philadelphia  with 
as  little  difficulty  as  it  was  effected  at  Paris  ? 

South  A??ierica  must  soon  pass  through  a  Revolution  :  we  have  an 

immense  i?iterest  in  the  Event,  as  well  as  in  the  manner  in  which 

it  shall  be  effected.     In  a  former  letter  I  have  co??imunicated  to  you 

the  views  and  intentions  of  England,  who  will  not  provoke  the  revolt 

in  case  Spain  shall  be  able  to  save  herself  from  a  Revolution,  and 

*  Volney. 
vol.  11. — 20 


306  rufus  king.  [1798 

keep  the  French  out  of  Portugal,  and  t/10'  there  seems  little  proba- 
bility that  this  will  be  the  case,  England  since  the  arrival  of  Miranda 
here,  but  without  his  knowledge,  has  informed  Spain  that  she  will  not 
countenance  or  assist  the  Spanish  Colonies  in  becoming  independent 
but  that  she  will  join  her  in  resisting  the  endeavours  of  others  to 
accomplish  it,  provided  that  Spain  will  oppose  the  views  of  France 
against  her  own  Dominions  and  those  of  Portugal.  At  the  same 
time  that  this  communication  has  been  made  to  Spain,  an  Expedition 
has  been  prepared,  and  the  correspondent  arrangements  at  Trinidad 
have  been  ordered,  for  the  purpose  of  beginning  the  Revolution  of 
So.  America  j  in  this  Event,  as  I  have  before  intimated  to  you,  Eng- 
land will  at  Philadelphia  open  herself  to,  and  ask  the  cooperation  of,  the 
United  States.  Miranda  who  is  impatient  with  the  delays  that  he 
experiences,  as  well  as  ignorant  of  the  provisional  Decisions  of  this 
Cabinet,  has  concluded  to  send  his  friend  and  associate  Mr.  Caro  to 
Philadelphia  with  a  letter  for  the  President,  and  I  have  given  him  a 
letter  to  identify  and  introduce  him  to  you.  Conjecturing  the  inten- 
tions of  France,  and  knowing  with  precision  those  of  England,  we 
shall  be  better  able  in  season  to  consider  and  regulate  the  conduct  that 
it  shall  be  proper  for  us  to  pursue* 

The  disaffection  has  become  so  general  in  Ireland  that  on  the 
30th  ultimo,  a  Rebellion  was  declared  to  exist  and  the  whole 
country  is  put  under  Martial  Law.  The  preparations  for  Invasion 
are  continued  and  will,  it  is  believed,  be  attempted  in  Ireland  ; 
tho'  from  the  number,  distribution  and  superiority  of  the  British 
Fleet,  it  is  inconceivable  how  it  can  succeed.  Ireland  is  full  of 
Troops,  and  without  the  protection  of  the  Navy,  will  be  able  to 
defend  itself  from  Invasion,  if  the  Irish  Soldiers,  who  form  a  con- 
siderable portion  of  the  Army,  can  be  depended  on.     .     .     . 

The  Court  of  Appeals  have  reversed  the  decree  of  the  High 
Court  of  Admiralty  which  condemned  the  arms  claimed  by  Gen- 
eral Allen  ;  have  decreed  that  the  arms  be  delivered  to  the 
General  on  Bail,  and  that  he  give  further  Proof  respecting  the 
purchase  of  them,  particularly  respecting  the  100,000  Livres, 
which  the  Contract  states  to  have  been  paid  by  him  to  the  French 
Government.     .     .     . 

With  perfect  Respect  and  Esteem  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

*  Italics  in  cipher. 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  307 

R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

April  6,  1 798. 

Dear  Sir  : 

General  Miranda  has  informed  me  that  his  associate  and  coun- 
tryman, Mr.  Caro,  is  about  to  return  to  So.  America  and  that  he 
will  take  Philadelphia  in  his  way,  in  order  to  deliver  to  the  Presi- 
dent a  letter  that  the  General  has  for  that  purpose  committed  to 
his  care. 

Having  been  made  acquainted  with  the  object  of  Mr.  Caro's 
voyage,  I  take  the  liberty  of  introducing  him  to  you  and  of 
requesting  that  you  will  assist  him  in  the  delivery  of  the  letter 
with  which  he  is  charged  for  the  President. 

With  perfect  Esteem  Respect 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Col.  Pickering. 

Private. 

London,  April  9,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  this  morning  received  from  Genl.  Pinckney  a  letter,  of 
which  the  annexed  is  a  copy.  I  cannot  express  to  you  the  dis- 
gust and  indignation  with  which  I  have  read  it  :  tho'  it  only  con- 
firms my  opinion,  long  since  formed,  that  France  had  settled  and 
would  not  depart  from  her  Plan  respecting  America.  Is  it  possi- 
ble with  such  examples  before  us,  that  we  can  suffer  ourselves  to 
become  the  Dupes  and  Victims  of  so  perfidious  a  Policy  ? 

With  Truth  and  Esteem  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


C.  C.  Pinckney  to  R.  King. 

Paris,  March  27,  1798. 
My  Dear  Sir  : 

A  few  days  ago  we  received  an  answer  from  the  Minister  of 

Foreign  Affairs  to  a  long  letter  we  some  days  ago  addressed  to 

him  ;  towards  the  end  of  it  is  the  following  paragraph  :  "  C'est 

done  uniquement  dans  la  vue  d'applanir  la  voie  des  discussions 


308  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

que  le  soussigne"  est  entre  dans  les  Developpements  qui  precedent. 
C'est  dans  lameme  vue  qu'il  declare  aux  Commissaires  et  Envoyes 
Extraordinaires,  que  malgre  la  sorte  de  prevention,  qu'on  a  pu 
concevoir  sur  eux,  le  Directoire  Executif  est  dispose  a  traiterazw 
celui  d'eux  trots,  dont  les  opinions,  presumees  plus  impartiales, 
promettent,  dans  le  cours  des  explications,  plus  de  cette  confiance 
reciproque  qui  est  indispensable." 

We  shall  reply  to  the  whole  letter  and  this  part  in  particular  j 
we  shall  say  that  being  appointed  from  the  three  great  portions  of 
America,  the  interests  of  each  part  of  the  United  States  might  be  par- 
ticularly attended  to,  neither  of  us  think  it  proper  voluntarily  to  quit 
the  Duty  imposed  upon  him  by  his  Country,  nor  to  venture  to  take  him- 
self  alone  the  burthen  of  a  Negotiation  committed  not  to  one  but  to 
three.  Notwithstanding  we  all  agree  in  this  Sentiment,  I  have  rea- 
son to  think  Mr.  Gerry  means  to  stay.  General  Marshall  and  my- 
self will  be  ordered  away  but,  *  as  my  daughter  is  exceedingly  ill 
and  her  physicians  have  directed  that,  as  soon  as  she  is  able  to 
travel,  she  may  be  removed  to  the  South  of  France,  it  is  probable 
that  Mrs.  Pinckney,  my  Daughter  and  myself  may  be  permitted  to 
take  that  route,  in  which  case  I  shall  stay  some  weeks  at  Nismes, 
thence  go  to  Bagneres  to  drink  the  water  and  then  proceed  to 
Bordeaux  and  embark  from  thence  for  America. 

With  great  Respect  and  Esteem, 

Charles  Cotesworth  Pinckney. 


R.  King  to  G.  Cabot. 

London,  April  9,  1798. 

A  letter  that  I  have  this  minute  reed,  from  Paris  confirms  my 
Opinion,  long  since  formed,  that  France  had  settled  and  would 
not  be  diverted  from  her  Plan  respecting  America.  Is  it  not  sot- 
tish, as  well  as  incredible,  that  we  should  any  longer  hope  even 
for  success  from  our  Mission  ?  After  all  the  Humiliation  that  our 
Envoys  have  suffered,  after  the  unceasing  intrigues  to  divide 
them,  and  thereby  to  divide  us,  after  having  humbly  waited  more 
than  six  months  in  the  Halls  and  Antechambers  of  the  Direc- 

*  Italics  in  cipher. 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  309 

tory,  sometimes  spoken  to  by  a  subordinate  clerk,  and  at  others 
insulted  by  the  gross  and  offensive  Proposals  of  some  Profligate 
Renegado  retained  in  the  service  of  the  Minister,  two  of  them  (P 
&  M)  are  to  be  sent  away,  and  the  third  (if  it  is  possible  to  be- 
lieve that  he  will  become  a  converted  Dupe)  will  be  allowed  to 
stay  ;  and  when  the  Directory  shall  have  nothing  else  to  do,  will 
be  heard  in  Excuse  of  our  Errors  and  in  mitigation  of  our  Punish- 
ment. 

Yrs.  with  great  truth, 

R.  K. 


CHAPTER  XXII. 

Mr.  Sedgwick's  View  of  American  Politics — The  President  acting  a  noble 
Part — His  Message  on  the  French  Mission — Instructions  to  Envoys  and 
their  Dispatches  called  for  and  sent  to  Congress — Effect  produced — War- 
like Measures  proposed — Letters  from  and  to  the  Envoys  in  Paris — Mr. 
King  to  Mr.  Gerry — Letters  from  Messrs.  W.  Hindman,  Cabot,  and  Sedg- 
wick— Public  Opinion  about  French  Duplicity — American  Students  in 
Edinburgh  to  Mr.  King — Mr.  King  to  Secretary  of  State  on  Mr.  Gerry's 
Conduct — Ireland's  wretched  Condition — Martial  Law — To  Gen.  Hamil- 
ton on  European  Affairs — Maryland  Bank  Stock — Mr.  J.  A.  Smith's  Letter 
relative  to  Irish  Troubles — Messrs.  R.  Troup,  Bingham,  Lawrance,  and 
Cabot  show  Disgust  and  Resentment  against  France — Approving  war-like 
Measures. 

Theodore  Sedgwick  to  R.  King. 

Philadelphia,  9th  April,  1798. 
My  Dear  Sir  : 

I  received  just  before  I  came  from  home,  the  beginning  of 
December,  your  letter  dated  in  August— I  should  not  have  delayed 
answering  it,  till  this  time,  but  for  the  unpleasant  situation  of  our 
affairs. 

The  session  has  been  a  disagreeable  one  &  hitherto  almost 
wholly  unproductive.  The  house  is  almost  exactly  divided — 
there  are  52  determined  and  rancorous  Jacobins,  and  54  who  pro- 
fess attachment  to  the  government,  or  in  other  words,  confidence 
in  the  Executive  ;  of  them,  however,  four  are  of  that  particular 
cast  of  character,  whimsical,  kinkish  &  unaccomodating,  which 
renders  it  impossible  10  calcinate,  with  any  degree  of  certainty 
on  the  success  of  any  measure  dependent  on  their  votes  ;  while 
their  adversaries,  under  the  controul  of  the  Genevese,*  are  a  well 
organized  &  disciplined  Corps,  never  going  astray,  or  doing  right 
even  by  mistake. 

*  Mr.  Gallatin.— Ed. 

310 


I798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  3  I  I 

The  Speaker  has  become  violently  federal,  for  New  Jersey  not- 
withstanding every  effort  to  seduce  her  re?nains  firm  and  united. 
The  Senate  since  I  first  knew  it  has  considerably  improved. 
Governor  Bradford  from  age,  or  other  causes  had  become  discon- 
tented &  petulant.  Mr.  Green,  except  that  he  obeyed  the  in- 
structions of  the  State  of  R.  I.  in  moving  &  advocating  a  repeal 
of  the  Stamp  Act,  in  which  I  am  sure  he  sacrificed  at  the  shrine 
of  popularity,  has  never  deviated  from  a  right  line.  Chipman, 
from  Vermont,  the  successor  of  Tichenor,  or  rather,  as  you  knew 
the  Senate,  of  old  Robinson,  is  firm,  &  indeed,  intelligent. 
Hobart,  who  replaces  Burr,  you  know.  (By  the  way  it  is  said 
that  Burr  is  irretrievably  ruined  by  Speculation.)  Lawrance  is  as 
you  knew  him  so-so.  Generally  right — sometimes  egregiously 
wrong.  Stockton  from  New  Jersey  ranks  high  among  the  able 
&  virtuous  men  of  our  Country.  Clayton,  in  the  room  of  Vining, 
is  a  worthy  &  respectable  man  after  whom  there  is  no  necessity,  on 
important  questions,  of  sending  the  door-keeper.  Lloyd  is  worth  a 
thousand  of  his  Predecessor.  Henry — he  is  a  sure  shot,  and 
Hunter,  in  the  room  of  B — rarely,  now,  votes  with  the  disor- 
ganizes. 

The  President,  under  circumstances  the  most  trying,  and  dis- 
couraging, has  acted,  from  the  time  of  his  inauguration  speech, 
a  noble  part.  No  instances  of  impatience,  no  whining  croaking 
complaints,  regardless  of  the  infamous  attacks  that  have  been 
made  on  his  character,  he  has  exhibited  a  manly  fortitude  &  dig- 
nified composure.  His  conduct  has,  indeed,  increased  the  con- 
fidence of  the  friends  of  the  government,  and  I  am  very  much 
mistaken  if  it  has  not  commanded   the  respect  of  his  adversaries. 

You  will  readily  believe  that  the  situation  of  our  Vice-President 
cannot  be  a  very  pleasant  one.  More  than  once  he  has  heard,  in 
debates,  and  in  terms  which  could  not  be  mistaken,  Philipics  pro- 
nounced against  the  author  of  the  letter  to  Mazzei.  He  is,  I 
have  no  doubt,  the  very  life  and  soul  of  the  opposition. 

You  will  have  seen  the  President's  Message  in  which  he  com- 
municated to  the  Legislature  the  result  of  the  mission  to  France. 
Directly  the  reverse,  of  what  might  reasonably  have  been  ex- 
pected, was  the  effect.  Anderson  soon  moved  a  resolution,  in  the 
Senate,  to  call  on  the  President  for  his  instructions  to  the  En- 
voys &  for  their  communications  to  him.     About  this  time  it  was 


312  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

whispered  that  those  dispatches  contained  evidence,  not  very- 
honorable  to  the  purity  of  french  republicans.  The  motion  of 
course  was  permitted  to  sleep.  In  the  meantime  impressions  were 
attempted  to  be  made,  and  not  altogether  without  success  un- 
favorable to  the  Government.  It  was  said  that  the  whole  policy 
of  the  Executive,  from  the  commencement  of  the  french  revolu- 
tion, had  been  unfriendly  to,  &  intended  to  produce  a  rupture 
with,  that  power  ;  that  neither  the  instructions  given,  nor  the 
agents  employed  were  intended  to  produce  an  amicable  adjust- 
ment, and  in  short,  that  the  President  dared  not  expose  his  con- 
duct to  the  public.  It  was  added,  that  the  measures  recommended 
were  warlike,  and  might  impose  a  necessity  of  declaring  war,  of 
which  the  Legislature  was  exclusively  the  Judge,  and  as  such  en- 
titled to  all  the  means  of  forming  a  correct  opinion.  This  reason- 
ing incessantly  enforced,  was  not  without  effect,  and  Mr.  Allen 
was  induced,  from  a  conviction  of  the  impossibility  of  taking  any 
effective  measures  while  the  existing  temper  prevailed,  of  moving 
an  address  for  the  papers.  The  President  determined  as  was 
foreseen  he  would  determine,  and  the  papers  were  laid  before 
Congress.  They  are  undoubtedly  forwarded  to  you.  On  the  first 
view  the  whole  faction  was  overwhelmed  with  confusion.  The 
leaders,  in  both  houses,  declared  a  perfect  confidence  in  the  in- 
tegrity &  wisdom  of  the  President,  and  a  conviction  of  the  profli- 
gacy of  their  former  friends  the  french.  Many  of  our  friends 
believed  them  sincere  and  expected  an  Union  of  Councils  and 
Exertions.  But  already  their  tune  is  changed,  &  they  will  en- 
deavor to  fortify  their  supporters  against  the  impression.  They 
say  that  Talleyrand  is  a  very  corrupt  &  unprincipled  Scoundrel,  a 
friend  of  Royalty  &  that  this  conduct  might  naturally  be  expected 
from  the  Company  he  kept  in  this  Country.  That,  however  there 
is  no  evidence  that  he  acted  by  the  orders  of  his  Government. 
Some  go  further  &  say  that  all  we  can  justly  complain  of,  is,  the 
non-reception  of  our  Envoys,  which  might  justly  have  been  ex- 
pected from  France  for  the  injuries  she  had  received  from  our 
Government. 

There  were  certainly  strong  objections  against  publishing  the 
communication  &  which  would  have  been  conclusive,  if  with- 
holding the  publication,  could  have  prevented  its  publicity.  But 
the  substance  was  known  before  the  order  of  the  Senate  for  that 
purpose.     The  mischief  was,  therefore,  done,  and  the  only  ques- 


179^]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  313 

tion  was,  whether  we  should  avail  ourselves  of  the  opportunity- 
afforded  us  of  acquiring  confidence  in  the  Government  and  Union 
among  the  people.  The  effects  as  they  respect  both  these  objects 
will,  I  believe,  be  considerable. 

The  Senate  has  this  day  passed  a  bill  authorizing  the  President 
to  procure  16  ships  of  22  Gunnseach  to  be  employed  as  Convoys. 
There  is  also  before  the  house  a  bill  for  the  establishment  of  a 
foundery.  The  measures  which  I  hope  will  take  place  are  the 
passage  of  those  two  bills  ;  the  procuring  arms,  ammunition  & 
cannon.  A  fortification  of  our  ports,  raising  immediately  a 
corps  of  artillerists  &  another  of  cavalry,  an  authority  to  raise 
30,000  men  to  be  added  to  the  Military  establishment  &  to  accept 
the  tender  of  voluntary  Corps.  (This  last  a  measure  of  security 
to  the  great  towns  principally.)  To  authorise  the  capture  of  any 
french  armed  Vessels  which  shall  attack  any  of  ours,  &  all  such 
as  shall  be  found  within  20  leagues  of  our  coasts — A  legislative 
declaration  that  all  treaties  with  france  are  become  void — A  com- 
prehensive alien  act,  and  revenue  sufft.  to  sustain  the  necessary 
expenditure,  and  preserve  the  public  credit.  If  something  like 
this  cannot  be  done,  I  shall  not  deem  the  public  safety  pro- 
vided for. 

Chancellor  Livingston  has  started  in  the  election  ground  in 
New  York  against  Mr.  Jay,  but  I  hope  without  any  prospect  of 
success. — In  Massachusetts  Sumner  is  reelected  by  an  immense 
majority. 

The  Bubble  of  speculation  is  burst,  which  I  deem  a  very  happy 

circumstance,  tho'  vast  numbers  and  among  them  many  worthy 

people  are  involved  in  ruin  by  it. — Our  old  friend  Mr.  Morris  has 

been  sometime  in  gaol.     Nicholson  is  confined  in  his  own  house — 

Wilson  is  ruined.     .     .     . 

Your  affect  friend 

Theodore  Sedgwick. 


Wm.  Hindman  to  R.  King. 

Philadelphia,  April  12,  1798. 
My  Dear  Sir  : 

.     .     .     Our  good  Friend  the  Duke  is  now  here,  &   as   firm 

strong  &  decided  as  ever  in   his  Country's   Good.      I   have  not 

seen  him  since  the  Receipt  of  your  Letter,  I  will  inform  Him  to 

Day  what  You  say  of  Him. 


314  RUFUS  KING.  [l798 

Genl.  James  Lloyd  is  Mr.  Henry's  Successor  in  the  Senate,  & 
inferior  to  no  Man  in  Federalism  &  real  Love  to  his  Country. 
He  is  a  Gentleman  of  good  Talents,  amiable  &  of  unexceptional 
Character,  &  by  our  Friends  deemed  a  great  Acquisition.  It 
was  said  that  our  Friend  Henry  expressed  himself  shortly  after 
his  Appointment  as  Governor,  too  warmly  in  Favor  of  Mr.  Jef- 
ferson, which  injured  Him  much  with  the  Federalists  in  the 
Legislature  of  Maryland,  &  it  was  supposed  prevented  his  Brother- 
in-Law  Mr.  Winder  from  succeeding  Him,  as  Genl.  Lloyd  had 
but  one  vote  more  than  Him. 

In  a  Letter  which  I  wrote  to  Mr.  Hemsley  last  Deer.,  I  re- 
quested Him  to  inform  You,  that  I  had  received  a  Letter  from 
the  President  of  the  Senate  of  Maryland,  saying  that  You  had 
rendered  Yourself  highly  popular  in  our  State,  by  your  friendly 
&  useful  Attention  to  our  Bank  Stock,  &  had  given  the  Legisla- 
ture the  highest  Satisfaction  ;  this  is  the  present  Reward  You 
must  accept  from  the  State  for  the  Services  You  have  rendered 
Her,  the  Time  may  come  when  You  will  receive  the  highest 
Retribution. 

I  fear  poor  Murray  has  an  unpleasant  Time,  you  can  best  tell 
what  the  Dutchmen  will  do  with  Him. 

I  hope  our  Commissioners  are  not  now  in  France  :  the  Publica- 
tion of  their  Dispatches  I  flatter  Myself  has  done  much  Good  to 
our  Country,  it  must  sink  the  Jacobins  &  tend  much  to  unite  Us  ; 
I  am  told  the  Opposition  Party  of  our  House  have  lately  had  a 
Caucus,  at  which  They  agreed  upon  strong  internal  defensive 
Measures  ;  when  We  get  upon  Vessels  of  War  for  the  protection 
of  our  Commerce  I  fear  They  will  give  Way.  A  Bill  has  just 
come  to  Us  from  the  Senate  for  fitting  out  fourteen  armed  Vessels 
not  exceeding  22  Guns  ;  the  Antis  in  our  House  count  upon  51  on 
their  Side,  We  55,  so  that  if  the  Federal  Members  would  all 
attend  &  be  as  firm  &  united  as  the  Opposition,  the  Power  is 
with  Us  ;  I  flatter  Myself  that  many  of  the  Opposition  will  be 
constrained  to  do  right,  as  the  People  at  large  will  not  longer 
endure  the  Injuries  committed  on  Them  by  the  infamous  & 
abandoned  Men  who  now  govern  France.     .     .     . 

Adieu 

Yours  sincerely  &  affy. 

Wm.  Hindman. 


I798]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  315 

R.  King  to  General  Pinckney. 

London,  April  13,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  reed,  yours  of  the  27th  ultimo.     I  will  not  yet  believe, 

tho'  my  apprehensions  are  great  that  Mr.  G.  will  consent  to  stay 

at  Paris  after  you  and  Genl.  Marshall  shall  have  been  sent  away. 

It  seems  impossible  to  mistake  the  absolute  Duty  of  the  situation  ; 

you  ought  all  to  go,  or  all  to  stay  :  there  is  no  third  course  ;  as 

in   my   belief   will   be   proved   by   the   public   opinion   of    our 

country.     .     .     . 

With  sincere  attachment  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  General  Marshall. 

London,  April  13,  1798. 
My  Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  considered  my  Letters  to  Genl.  Pinckney  as  written 
jointly  to  you  and  him,  and  therefore  have  not  particularly  ac- 
knowledged the  Letter  that  you  sometime  past  wrote  to  me.  By 
General  Pinckney's  last  Letter,  I  have  reason  to  apprehend  that 
I  may  not  see  him  before  his  return  :  the  object  of  this  Letter  is 
to  entreat  you  to  take  England  in  your  way  and  give  me  the 
opportunity  and  advantage  of  confering  with  you  not  only  upon 
what  has  passed  but  what  is  likely  to  occur  respecting  our  con- 
nection and  affairs  with  Europe.     .     .     . 

Accept  the  assurance  of  the  sincere  attachment  &  Respect  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  E.  Gerry. 

London,  April  13,  179S. 
My  Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  received  your  Letter  of  the  28th  ulto.  by  Mrs.   Mount 

Florence,  and  the  next  day  had  an  opportunity  of  forwarding  the 

enclosed  Letters  for  the  President  and  Mrs.  Gerry  by  a  ship  that 

was  on  the  point  of  sailing  for  Boston. 


316  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

In  the  Letters  that  I  have  lately  written,  you  will  perceive  that  I 
long  since  despaired  of  Success  for  the  Mission  to  France,  be- 
cause I  believed  that  the  Directory  had  settled  a  Plan  concerning 
America,  from  which  they  wld.  not  be  diverted,  and  which  was 
incompatible  with  our  independent  Rights  and  just  Pretensions ; 
your  Last  Letter  confirms  my  opinions.  How  you  were  to  be 
withdrawn  from  the  Stage,  I  could  only  conjecture  ;  but  I 
never  doubted,  if  the  Directory  were  to  regulate  your  exit,  that 
it  would  be  done  with  a  reference  to  their  own  views,  and  not  to 
the  propriety  that  belongs  to  the  proceeding  or  to  the  Justice 
due  to  our  Country.  They  could  not,  in  my  apprehension  have 
devised  a  more  insidious  and  more  mischievous  Plan  than  that 
which  they  have  chosen.  It  is  impossible  to  believe  for  a 
moment  that,  with  a  view  to  a  negotiation,  they  can  really  prefer 
one  to  another  of  our  Envoys  ;  when  measures  are  in  view,  per- 
sonal attachments  and  aversions  do  not  impede  their  accomplish- 
ment. The  proposal  to  send  away  two  and  retain  one  of  you  is 
treacherous,  and  if  acceded  to,  may  be  injurious  ;  but  in  my  belief, 
will  be  disgusting  and  universally  condemned  by  our  Country. 

I  see  this  subject  in  so  strong  and  unclouded  a  light,  that 
I  avail  myself  of  the  authority  of  a  long  friendship  to  entreat  you 
to  distrust  your  own  mind,  if  it  has  suggested  a  doubt  even  con- 
cerning the  only  course  that  remains  for  you  to  adopt.  You 
must  either  all  go,  or  all  stay.  There  is  a  plain  line  of  propriety 
and  duty  in  this  alternative,  any  other  course  may  ensnare  us.  I 
have  not  the  smallest  knowledge  of  our  Country,  and  will  forever, 
hereafter,  disclaim  every  Pretension  to  judge  beforehand  of  its 
opinion,  if  the  President  does  not  with  the  united  will  and  appro- 
bation of  his  Constituents  immediately  recall  the  individual  who, 
separating  from  his  Colleagues,  shall  consent  to  remain  at  Paris 
after  they,  without  cause,  shall  have  been  sent  away. 

The  freedom  of  this  Letter  would  require  an  apology,  did  it 
not  proceed  from  a  pure  zeal  for  the  Welfare  and  Honor  of  our 
Country,  and  was  I  not  convinced  that  it  is  the  office  as  well  as 
the  Right  of  Friendship  to  avoid  reserve  upon  Subjects  in  which 
the  reputation  and  happiness  of  our  friends  and  Country  may  be 
deeply  affected. 

With  the  most  sincere  Esteem  and  attachment  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  317 

R.  King  to  Col.  Pickering. 

Private. 

London,  April  16,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  yesterday  received  a  letter  from  General  Pinckney,  a  copy  of 
which  is  annexed,  confirming  my  apprehension  of  an  open  seism 
in  the  Mission,  and  of  Mr.  Gerry's  determination  to  separate  from 
his  Colleagues.  Mr.  Talleyrand's  Letter  to  the  Envoys  ought  to 
have  removed  every  doubt  respecting  the  intentions  of  the  Direc- 
tory and  must  open  the  eyes  of  all  who  are  not  obstinately  blind  to 
the  views  of  France  concerning  our  Country.  I  can  entertain  no 
doubt  of  the  course  that  the  President  will  adopt  on  this  extra- 
ordinary occasion  ;  I  shall  send  this  with  a  Dispatch  to  Ports- 
mouth this  evening.     .     .     . 

Your  faithful  servant 

Rufus  King. 

P.  S.  The  Prince  of  Peace  has  resigned  or  been  removed,  & 
Mr.  Turguet,  the  Fr.  ambassador  rules  the  Sp.  nation  ! 


G.  Cabot  to  R.  King. 

Brookline,  April  16,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  Yesterday  I  received  a  paper  containing  the  proceed- 
ings of  our  Envoys  at  Paris  ;  they  exhibit  a  degree  of  depravity 
in  the  French  Govt,  which  very  few  people  can  believe.  I  owe 
to  you  &  to  Mr.  Pickering  the  confession  that  the  Directorial 
Conduct  is  much  more  gross  than  I  apprehended,  but  to  myself  I 
owe  the  declaration  that  they  can  not  possibly  be  more  wicked 
than  I  supposed  them.  I  wish  it  were  possible  for  me  to  give 
you  any  correct  opinion  of  the  effect  which  these  communica- 
tions will  produce  on  the  temper  &  spirit  of  our  Country — you 
have  concluded  that  they  will  silence  the  clamours  of  Jacobinism 
&  unite  all  Parties  ;  doubtless  they  ought  to  do  this  &  to  excite 
a  sentiment  of  universal  indignation  &  resentment  which  if  prop- 
erly guided  wou'd  secure  us  against  every  essential  danger  ;  but 
I  dare  not  pronounce  that  such  good  fruits  will  be  reaped.     I 


318  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

have  great  fear  as  well  as  some  hopes.  It  is  natural  that  we 
shou'd  wish  to  avoid  a  contest  (if  possible)  where  so  much  is  to 
be  suffer'd  &  everything  endanger'd — &  it  is  not  unnatural  that 
our  people  shou'd  shut  their  eyes  to  injuries  rather  than  acknowl- 
edge that  they  see  them  &  thus  admit  the  indispensable  obligation 
to  repel  the?n,  ox  provide  to  repel  them.  I  have  endeavored  to  con- 
vince those  I  meet  that  an  avowed  determination  of  desperate 
resistance  wou'd  secure  us  in  any  event  &  if  we  are  united  wou'd 
prevent  an  attack,  but  there  is  an  extreme  reluctance  to  do  any- 
thing which  may  imply  that  we  are  in  danger  of  meeting  those 
terrible  calamities  which  French  Ambition  is  inflicting  on  other 
Nations.     .     .     . 

Your  affectte.  friend 

G.  Cabot. 


T.  Sedgwick  to  R.  King. 

Philadelphia,  May  i,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  The  effects  of  the  publication  of  the  instructions  to 
our  Envoys  to  france,  and  their  dispatches  to  the  Executive  on 
the  people,  as  far  as  my  information  extends,  has  been  prodigious. 
It  is,  however,  said  that  the  city  of  New  York  is  an  exception  to 
the  general  state  of  the  public  mind  in  the  eastern  district  of  this 
Country  :  and  that  it  is  probable  that  Edward  Livingston  is 
reelected  against  our  Friend  Philip  Livingston,  who  was  opposed 
to  him.  There  never  has  been,  probably  in  the  United  States  an 
election  so  actively  nor  so  acrimoniously  contested  as  the  last  in 
your  State.  We  are  consoled  by  the  concurring  information, 
which  we  received  from  every  quarter,  that  Mr.  Jay  has  suc- 
ceeded by  a  great  majority. 

The  depredations  on  our  commerce  and  the  numerous  failures 
which  have  resulted  from  speculation  and  the  spirit  which 
created  and  accompanied  it,  unfortunately,  pervaded  more  gener- 
ally than  you  can  well  imagine  the  mass  of  our  people,  and  have 
created  much  embarrassment,  and  probably  more  in  New  Eng- 
land than  elsewhere,  because  there  the  spirit  was  most  ardent, 
and  the  means  most  general.  I  was  yesterday  informed  that  400 
actions  were  entered  at  the  last  court  of  common  pleas  in  Berk- 


l^gS]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  319 

shire,  about  three  times  the  usual  number  at  the  corresponding 
terms.  This  is  generally  the  case  in  New  England.  It  is  unfor- 
tunate that  this  should  be  the  case  at  this  time,  yet  I  have  no 
doubt,  that  the  people  will,  in  that  part  of  the  United  States,  if 
the  government  is  faithful,  act  with  spirit  &  effectual  decision. 

The  leaders  of  the  opposition,  and  indeed  the  whole  corps, 
were  astonished  &  confounded  at  the  evidence  exhibited  at  once 
of  the  purity  of  the  Executive,  and  the  profligacy  of  their  be- 
loved friends  the  french,  and  they  have  made  proportional  exer- 
tions to  defeat  the  natural  effects.  Letters  from  several  members 
of  the  house,  containing  many  false  statements,  in  point  of  fact, 
and  more  false  reasoning,  have  got  into  the  hands  of  the  friends 
of  Government  &  been  published.  It  is  no  longer  wonderful 
that  the  people  thus  deceived  &  misled  have  been  in  opposition 
to  the  measures  of  the  government — a  government  which  they 
have  been  taught  to  believe  was  perfidious  in  its  conduct  to  other 
nations  &  insidious,  indeed  traitorous,  to  its  constituents. 

Till  this  morning  I  thought  that  Letters  by  the  packet  might 
have  been  received  at  the  post  office  to-morrow,  but  I  am  in- 
formed that  this  is  the  last  day  and  I  have  indulged  myself  in 
this  scrawl  to  you  while  waiting  for  a  committee  which  is  directed 
to  report  an  alien  bill. 

I  am  yours  sincerely 

Theodore  Sedgwick. 


R.  King  to  American  Students  in  the  University  of 

Edinburgh. 

London,  May  2,  1798. 
Gentlemen  : 

I  have  had  the  honor  to  receive  a  letter  without  signature,  but 
which  purports  to  be  from  the  American  Students  at  the  Univer- 
sity of  Edinburgh,  inclosing  sundry  papers  from,  and  asking  my 
interference  in  behalf  of,  a  number  of  Americans  taken  in  arms 
and  confined  as  Prisoners  of  war  in  Scotland. 

Having  heretofore  without  success  applied  to  the  British  Gov- 
ernment for  the  discharge  of  several  American  Citizens  who  had 
been  taken  in  French  Privateers,  I  have  no  reason  to  believe  that 
^  Repetition  of  the  like  application  in  behalf  of  those,  in  whose 


320  RUFUS  KING.  \M9% 

favor  you  kindly  take  an  interest,  would  receive  a  different  an- 
swer ;  more  especially  as  the  motives  which  are  alleged  to  have 
engaged  the  latter  in  the  Privateering  Service  of  France  are  no^ 
more  justifiable  than  those  which  influenced  the  former.  It 
would  give  me  much  satisfaction  to  comply  with  any  Request 
that  you  should  approve  or  recommend,  but  you  must  be  sensible, 
that  as  Great  Britain  has  a  perfect  Right  to  treat  as  prisoners  of 
war  all  Persons  taken  in  arms  against  her,  we  can  have  no  such 
Right  to  demand  xht  release  of  our  fellow  Citizens,  who  from  any 
motive,  may  have  changed  their  neutral  for  an  enemy  character. 

Having  been  denied  when  we  asked  their  Release  as  a  Favor, 
we  ought  not  to  expose  ourselves  to  a  second  Refusal. 
With  Sentiments  of  Esteem  &  Regard  &c.  &c 

Rufus  King. 


T.  Pickering  to  R.  King.      No.  71. 

Department  of  State,  May  3,  1798. 
ear  Sir  : 

It  is  probable  that  France  will  continue  her  actual  hostilities 
against  the  commerce  of  the  United  States,  without  a  formal 
declaration  of  war,  and  new  pretences  may  be  advanced  for 
decrees  that  will  embrace  the  remnant  of  our  vessels  not  compre- 
hended in  former  Decrees.  Of  such  new  Decrees  or  of  plans 
aimed  against  our  Commerce  generally,  or  of  open  war,  you  are 
likely  to  gain  the  earliest  information  ;  and  the  immense  import- 
ance of  transmitting  it  speedily  to  the  American  Government  is 
apparent.  It  is  therefore  the  desire  of  the  President  that  in  the 
two  former  cases  at  your  discretion,  and  in  case  of  open  war 
without  fail,  you  would  dispatch  a  fast  sailing  vessel  with  the  in- 
telligence to  the  nearest  port  she  can  make  in  the  United  States, 
from  whence  the  person  charged  with  your  dispatches  must  send 
them  forward  in  the  most  expeditious  manner  to  the  seat  of 
Government.  .  .  .  We  have  authentic  intelligence  from  New 
Orleans  that  the  Posts  of  Walnut  Hills  and  Natchez  have  been 
evacuated  and  that  our  Troops  are  in  possession.  A  Letter  from 
Mr.  Ellicott  advises  me  that  he  was  packing  up  his  instruments 
and  baggage  to  move  down  to  the  31st  Degree  of  Latitude,  ex- 


1 7 98 J  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  32 1 

pecting  to  commence  the   running  the  boundary  line  the   second 
of  April. 

Addresses  are  coming  in  from  all  quarters  approving  of  the 
measures  of  the  Government  in  relation  to  France,  and  pledging 
life  and  fortune  to  defend  our  honor  and  independence. 

With  great  respect  &  esteem,  &c. 

Timothy  Pickering. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State.     No.  72. 

London,  May  11,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  Tho'  Mr.  Gerry  joined  his  Colleagues  in  the  Declara- 
tion to  the  French  Government,  that  no  one  of  them  was  author- 
ized to  take  upon  himself  a  negotiation  confided  to  them  all,  it  is 
the  opinion  of  Major  Rutledge,  who  arrived  here  a  few  days  since 
from  Paris,  as  well  as  of  others,  that  a  public  reception  will  be 
offered  to  Mr.  Gerry,  and  that  every  effort  will  be  employed  to 
amuse  him  and  to  mock  his  Country  with  the  parade  of  an  insidi- 
ous negotiation.  I  cannot  refrain  from  expressing  a  hope  that  this 
humiliating  scene  is  soon  to  close  and  that  instructions  are  now 
on  their  way  to  Mr.  Gerry  to  follow  his  Colleagues,  from  whom 
his  own  honor,  and,  what  is  more,  the  public  welfare  forbid  that 
he  should  ever  have  separated. 

.  .  .  A  very  important  event  has  passed  at  Vienna.  Berna- 
dotte,  the  French  Ambassador  at  Vienna  has  withdrawn  from 
that  City  in  consequence  of  a  popular  movement  of  which  you 
will  see  the  accounts  in  all  the  Papers.  We  as  yet  know  nothing 
of  the  Resolution  of  the  Directory  on  this  subject.  .  .  .  The 
Emperor  is  strong  in  Italy,  and  his  military  establishment  is  much 
improved  since  the  Peace.  Both  he  and  the  King  of  Prussia  are 
said  now  to  see  more  clearly  than  heretofore  the  Dangers  with 
which  they  are  threatened.  But  whether  they  can  suppress  the 
little  Interests  and  miserable  Jealousies  that  France  keeps  alive 
and  excites  between  them  ;  whether  they  are  capable  of  uniting 
upon  one  great,  disinterested  but  all  important  idea,  is  more  than 
my  limited  information  permits  me  to  determine.  Without  a 
coalition  against  France,  and  that  a  speedy  one,  all  that  is  South 

VOL.  II. — 21 


322  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

of  the  Baltic  must  be  revolutionized  and  fall  beneath  the  Power 
of  France.     .     .     . 

Ireland  is  in  a  wretched  state  ;  martial  law  prevails  throughout 
the  country,  and  every  day  supplies  new  proofs  of  the  intimate 
connection  that  subsists  between  the  Chiefs  of  the  Malcontents 
and  the  Directory.  .  .  .  Several  persons  have  been  taken  up 
and  confined  ;  .  .  .  the  Government  are  said  to  have  ob- 
tained proofs  of  a  Conspiracy  formed  by  some  of  the  Members  of 
the  Corresponding  Societies  to  assist  the  French  in  case  of  a 
descent,  to  set  fire  to  London.  .  .  .  The  trial  of  O'Connor 
and  the  other  Persons  indicted  for  Treason  will  come  on  the  week 
after  next ;  after  which  the  Government  will  publish  the  Proofs 
of  the  Conspiracy. 

At  a  late  meeting  of  the  Whig  Club,  Mr.  Fox  gave  us  a  Toast 
"  The  Sovereignty  of  the  People  "  ;  and  the  King  on  Wednesday 
last  struck  his  name  out  of  the  List  of  Privy  Councillors.     ... 

With  perfect  Esteem  &  Respect  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Col.  Hamilton. 

London,  May  12,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

It  will  not  surprise  you  that  an  open  seism  accompanied  by 
mutual  reproaches  took  place  between  our  Envoys  before  they 
separated.  Mr.  Gerry  remains  at  Paris  and  there  is  a  strong 
opinion  that  great  pains  will  be  taken  to  persuade  him  to  consent 
to  a  public  reception  in  order  to  deceive  and  mock  his  Country 
with  overtures  of  an  insidious  negotiation.  Marshall  and  Pinckney 
left  Paris  about  the  middle  of  April ;  the  former  I  hope  is  on  his 
passage  to  Philadelphia,  the  latter  will  embark  early  in  June. 

You  will  be  at  no  loss  to  understand  this  state  of  things. 
Nothing  but  vigour  and  energy  will  save  our  Country.  Unanimity 
cannot  be  expected.  Moderation  and  forbearance  with  all  the 
virtues  that  meekly  follow  in  their  train  have  been  faithfully 
employed  and  without  success.  It  is  now  time,  and  the  wretched 
Pictures  exhibited  by  the  Countries  where  France  has  introduced 
her  detestable  Principles,  should  admonish  us  to  give  up  half-way 
measures  with  half-way  men  ;  they  do  not  belong  to  the  Times  in 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  323 

which  we  live.  The  people  of  America  will  support  their  Govern- 
ment, if  that  Government  acts  with  decision,  if  it  appeals  to  the 
Pride,  the  Patriotism,  and  the  Honor  of  the  Nation  !  But  if  it 
temporises,  if  it  wastes  itself  in  words,  if  it  stops  short  of  the 
only  course  that  remains  for  its  adoption,  consistently  with  the 
public  Safety,  the  next  Election  will  convulse  the  Country,  and 
may,  as  the  Directory  intend  and  expect  it  shall,  give  the  Govern- 
ment to  those  who  will  deliver  it  up  to  the  same  ruin  that  con- 
tinues to  desolate  Europe. 

There  is  a  slight  appearance  that  things  are  mending  upon  the 
Continent ;  but  little  interests,  little  jealousies  and  little  men, 
whose  united  influence  is  opposed  to  the  only  effectual  Remedy 
for  the  mischief,  forbid  us  to  expect  it  until  the  Evil  has  spread 
still  wider  :  for  so  wretched  are  the  Governments  on  the  Con- 
tinent, not  yet  subverted,  that  the  best  hope  is  from  the  People 
who  are  cured  when  the  Fire  has  passed  over  them. 

I  received  a  short  Letter  from  you  a  few  days  since  without 
date,  which  gave  me  great  satisfaction,  as  it  authorized  the  hope 
that  the  public  opinion  was  sounder  than  that  of  its  Representa- 
tives. War  will  encrease  the  public  Taxes  ;  these  are  unpleasant 
Subjects  for  meditation ;  the  Passions  must  be  attended  to  ;  they 
must  have  an  object,  there  is  a  great  one.  I  can't  explain  myself. 
I  have  had  no  occasion  for  reserve  with  the  Secretary  of  State, 

because  I  write  to  him  in  cipher. 

Yours  &c. 

R.  K. 


R.  King  to  the  Right  Honble.  the  Lord  Chancellor,  &c. 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  June  1,  1798. 
My  Lord  : 

I  have  been  informed,  and  in  a  way  that  leaves  no  doubt  of  the 
fact,  that  Mr.  Mollison,  in  behalf  of  the  family  of  Russell,  has 
lately  received  from  the  Exchequer,  full  compensation  for  the 
losses  of  that  family  in  Maryland,  and  that  no  further  opposition 
will  be  made  in  their  behalf  against  the  transfer  of  the  Bank  Stock, 
of  which  Russell  with  others  were  the  Trustees. 

Having  so  often  troubled  your  Lordship  on  this  subject,  I  am 
unwilling  to  say  a  word  more  respecting  it,  being  persuaded  that 


324  RUFUS  KING.  [i79& 

no  unnecessary  delay  will  retard  its  Settlement  :  but  as  I  supposed 
that  the  Claim  of  the  Russell  family  has  been  the  only  impediment 
to  be  removed,  and  as  that  no  longer  exists,  I  take  the  liberty  to 
express  to  your  Lordship  my  earnest  desire  to  be  able  to  inform 
the  State  of  Maryland  what  is  likely  to  be  the  result  of  their  ap- 
plication, and  I  should  be  very  particularly  obliged  to  your  Lord- 
ship, to  enable  me  to  give  this  information  by  the  Packet  that  sails 
in  the  course  of  next  week. 

With  perfect  Consideration  &  respect  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


J.  A.  Smith  to  R.  King. 

Dublin,  June  i,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  person  above  all  others,  to  whom  I  ought  to  have  written  is 
yourself,  for  it  is  to  the  respect  which  was  paid  to  your  name,  that 
I  am  indebted  for  all  the  attention  whh.  I  have  received  since  my 
arrival  in  this  country.  I  will  not  attempt  to  apologise  for  that 
which  cannot  be  excused,  and  will  only  declare  that  although  I 
have  not  been  attentive  in  expressing  them,  I  have  never  ceased  to 
feel  all  those  sentiments  of  gratitude  so  justly  due  to  the  politeness 
I  experienced  from  you.  The  fact  is,  I  have  been  a  thousand 
times  on  the  point  of  writing  to  you,  but  was  loth  to  trouble  you 
with  a  letter  without  giving  you  some  account  of  the  situation  of 
this  country,  the  Truth  of  which  might  have  been  depended  upon. 
But  such  is  the  curious  manner  in  which  things  are  conducted  in 
Ireland,  and  such  is  the  chaos  of  misrepresentation,  that  I  have 
been  always  kept  in  a  state  of  uncertainty,  and  had  only  the  satis- 
faction of  finding  that  others  whose  penetration  was  far  superior 
to  my  own  were  in  the  same  predicament  as  myself. 

The  history  of  most  countries  is  stained  with  crimes,  but  that  of 
Ireland,  more  particularly,  presents  a  picture  of  violence  and 
wrongheadedness,  both  on  the  part  of  the  governors  and  governed. 
The  administration  of  affairs  has  generally  been  committed  to  a 
set  of  men  who  have  seldom  hesitated  to  sacrifice  the  inter- 
ests of  the  country  to  their  own  ;  while  the  people,  in  many  parts 
extremely  wretched,  and  consequently  idle  and  addicted  to 
drunkenness,  have  been   forced  by  the   oppression  of  the  middle 


1 7 98 J  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  325 

men,  or  squirearchy,  as  it  is  termed,  to  acts  of  outrage  often  at- 
tended with  robbery  and  murder.  Hence  the  origin  of  the  White 
Boys,  the  Steel  Boys,  the  Oak  Boys,  &c.  At  length  arose  the 
Volunteer  associations,  who  at  first  conducted  themselves  with 
the  greatest  propriety,  and  obliged  England  to  acknowledge  the 
Independency  of  the  Irish  Parliament  ;  but  soon  they  were  seen 
attempting  to  overawe  and  intimidate  that  very  Parliament,  the 
freedom  of  whose  deliberations  it  had  been  their  great  object  to 
establish. 

Things  remained  after  this  for  some  years  in  a  state  of  quiet, 
during  which  period  the  country  rapidly  improved.  It  was  soon, 
however,  discovered  that  the  Parliament  was  not  more  indepen- 
dent from  the  acknowledgement  which  had  been  made,  but  that 
by  far  the  majority  were  named  by  the  Peers  and  wealthy  com- 
moners in  the  interest  of  the  Crown.  In  a  word  that  the  corrup- 
tion which  had  been  introduced  into  this  country  for  the  purposes 
of  Government  had  increased  instead  of  diminishing.  A  desire 
of  reform  manifested  itself  in  the  North,  under  which  expression 
and  catholic  emancipation  were  classed  all  the  grievances  that  still 
remained  to  be  redressed.  The  Jealousies  arising  from  a  differ- 
ence of  religion,  and  which  had  been  the  cause  of  so  much  mis- 
chief, were  laid  aside  and  a  society  was  formed  of  "  United 
Irishmen,"  whose  views  at  first,  I  believe,  were  moderate  and  con- 
stitutional. Conciliation  might  then  have  been  used  with  advan- 
tage. But  perceiving  that  Govt,  treated  their  petitions  with 
contempt  they  were  induced  at  length  to  turn  their  thoughts  to 
France.  It  was  at  this  moment  that  their  most  respectable  mem- 
bers quitted  them,  and  they  were  left  to  leaders  for  the  greatest 
part,  equally  without  Consideration  or  Principle.  The  military 
were  now  let  loose  upon  them,  and  after  a  great  deal  of  wanton 
cruelty  and  devastation,  of  which  the  most  wretched  were  gener- 
ally the  victims,  the  North  was  put  down,  but  remained  in  a  state 
of  sullen  tranquillity.  In  the  meantime  the  contagion  was  com- 
municated to  the  South,  where  it  found  infinitely  more  bigotry 
and  misery  to  work  upon.  The  wretched  inhabitants,  suffering 
under  the  violent  measures  of  Govt.,  were  easily  prevailed  upon  by 
persons,  probably  in  the  interest  of  France,  and  determined  to  go 
to  all  lengths,  that  it  would  be  a  meritorious  thing  to  overturn  the 
Government  ;  and  when  they  were  told  that  they  should  be  free 


326  RUFUS  KING.  [l79& 

from  Tythes  and  have  land  for  nothing,  there  was  no  withstand- 
ing the  temptation.  It  was  now  thought  proper  to  permit  the 
Troops  to  live  at  free  quarters,  and  the  most  dreadful  Cruelties 
were  practised  to  enforce  confessions. 

The  advocates  of  revolution  thought  this  the  moment  of  rising, 
and,  we  are  told,  that  a  conspiracy  was  discovered  having  for  its 
object  a  general  Insurrection  and  Massacre  in  the  City  of  Dublin, 
as  well  as  in  the  country  around.  How  far  this  is  true  I  am  in- 
capable of  judging,  but  this  I  am  willing  to  believe  that  a  revolution 
in  this  country  would  be  attended  with  circumstances  the  most 
atrocious.  In  this  state  of  anxiety  we  remained  until  Thursday 
Morning,  the  21st  May,  when  the  City  of  Dublin  was  thrown  into 
the  greatest  consternation  by  the  information  that  the  mails  had 
been  stopped  and  that  a  partial  Insurrection  had  taken  place  in 
the  County  Kildare.  You  will  have  read  in  the  papers  of  the 
Massacre  of  the  Troops  in   the  Barracks  at  Prosperous,  of  the 

attack  on  the  gaol  at  and  of  the  cruelties  committed  by  the 

Insurgents  at  Hacketstown.  Dunsaghlin  Goreys  &c,  and  you  will 
be  equally  shocked  on  the  other  hand  at  reading  the  accounts  of  the 
different  attacks  made  upon  these  wretches  at  Tara  Hill,  &c,  where 
three  or  four  hundred  have  been  put  to  death  at  a  time,  with  the 
loss  of  six  or  eight  men.  A  company  of  Yeomanry  Horse  among 
whom  was  the  young  Earl  of  Ormond  proceeded  to  Dunboyne 
on  an  information  that  the  Insurgents  had  appeared  there.  They 
found,  I  am  told,  fifteen  persons  sitting  in  the  churchyard,  whom 
they  immediately  put  to  death  ;  they  then  proceeded  some  dis- 
tance on  the  road,  and  finding  others  whose  appearance  displeased 
them,  they  treated  them  in  the  same  summary  manner.  In  short 
nothing  can  be  more  shocking,  and  in  many  instances  more  absurd, 
than  the  scenes  that  are  passing  in  this  country.  Notwithstanding 
the  great  force  under  the  command  of  Govt.,  the  communication 
with  the  South  was  interrupted  for  six  days,  and  was  at  length 
opened  by  Sir  J.  Duff,  who  marched  from  Limerick  with  three  or 
four  hundred  men,  and  is  supposed  to  have  put  to  death  a  great 
body  of  those  wretches  to  which  Genl.  Dundas  had  granted  a  cap- 
itulation. The  City  of  Dublin  in  the  meantime  presented  a  scene 
of  indecent  and  ridiculous  confusion,  which  left  little  doubt  that 
if  a  small  body  of  French  troops  had  landed,  Ireland  would  have 
been  lost.     People  were  seen  parading  the  street  in  the  middle  of 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  327 

the  day  with  pistols  in  each  hand  ;  yeomanry  galloping  backwards 
and  forwards  ;  numbers  of  persons  taken  up,  flogged  and  other- 
wise tortured  to  force  confessions  ;  dead  bodies  exposed  in  the 
Castle  yard  and  crowds  flocking  to  gratify  their  curiosity,  and 
observing  by  what  stroke  in  "  the  sword  exercise  "  they  had  been 
killed.  Several  persons  hanging  at  the  lamp  posts,  and  dreadful 
reports  that  the  Catholics  had  determined  to  murder  all  the  prot- 
estants,  and  that  a  great  many  servants  had  purchased  arsenic 
for  the  purpose  of  poisoning  their  masters.  In  short,  my  dear  Sir, 
it  would  be  difficult  to  convey  to  you  an  idea  of  the  dreadful  sit- 
uation to  which  this  unfortunate  country  has  been  reduced,  and 
the  little  probability  that  it  will  soon  be  restored  to  tranquillity. 

The  seeds  of  suspicion  and  discontent  are  too  widely  sown. 
As  an  instance  of  this,  I  will  only  mention  the  case  of  Mr.  Brown, 
gentn.  of  property  in  the  County  Kildare.  As  soon  as  the  alarm 
was  given  he  joined  the  Yeomanry  and  fought  with  great  bravery 
agt.  the  Insurgents,  when  a  few  moments  after  he  was  served  with  a 
warrant  as  one  of  those  persons  who  had  been  seen  (as  it  was 
reported)  at  their  head.  Other  gentlemen  have  fallen  under  the 
same  suspicion  and  have  been  arrested  by  Govt.,  and  I  was  told 
yesterday  that  a  gardener  of  Mr.  Grattan  was  flogged  at  Bray, 
until  he  was  induced,  probably  to  relieve  himself  from  immediate 
pain,  to  utter  expressions  unfavorable  to  his  master.  Among 
other  curious  papers  of  the  day,  you  will  see  one  of  Alderman 
James,  who  has  opened  an  office  for  receiving  Information,  where 
secrecy  is  promised  and  rewards  in  proportion  to  the  magnitude 
of  the  Information.  .  .  .  The  town  of  Wexford  is  supposed 
to  be  in  the  hands  of  the  Insurgents  and  Govt,  are  marching 
troops  in  hopes  of  surrounding  them.  Those  that  were  in  force 
in  the  Mountains  of  Wicklow,  disappeared  on  the  approach  of  the 
military.  I  have  just  seen  a  private  letter  from  a  gentleman  who 
lives  within  8  miles  of  the  town  of  Enniscorthy,  giving  the  dread- 
ful account  of  the  murder  of  14  families  by  the  Insurgents.  They 
did  not  spare  even  the  children.  From  his  window  he  saw  the 
houses  in  flames.  He  has  barricaded  his  own  and  with  the  assist- 
ance of  a  party  of  military,  is  determined  to  defend  it.  It  is  said 
that  2  companies  marching  across  the  country  with  two  howitzers 
were  attacked  and  obliged  to  retreat  with  the  loss  of  one  of  the 
howitzers.     Should  the  Insurgents  have  contrived  to  give  infor- 


328  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

mation  to  the  French  and  these  last  risk  the  landing  of  a  few 
troops,  the  country,  I  fear,  would  be  lost.  Ryan  who  was  wounded 
by  Ld.  E.  Fitzgerald  was  buried  this  morning,  a  great  body  of 
yeomanry  attending  his  funeral. 

You  will  excuse  this  long  letter,  my  dear  Sir,  and  believe  me 
very  truly  your  obliged  Humble  Ser. 

Post  Office,  Dublin. 

The  North,  as  Ld.  Charlemont  assures  me,  is  perfectly  tranquil. 
The  publication  of  the  Correspondence  of  Mr.  Pinckney,  in  which 
America  appears  to  so  much  advantage,  and  the  corruption  of  the 
Directory  so  completely  unmasked,  has  been  of  great  service  to 
them  in  opening  their  eyes  to  the  insidious  policy  of  the  tyranni- 
cal Republic.     My  best  compliments  to  Mr.  Rutledge. 


T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

Private. 

Philadelphia,  June  2,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  one  minute  to  inform  you  that  I  have  received  your 
letters  no.  69.  and  your  Nos.  71  .  .  .  together  with  your  private 
letters  of  April  7,  9  and  16,  accompanied  by  General  Pinckney's 
to  you  of  March  14,  27  and  April  4. 

You  have  expressed  the  indignant  feelings  which  their  perusal 
must  excite  in  the  breast  ot  every  honest  and  independent  mind. 

G s  conduct  is  unpardonable.     I  hope  the  Directors  did  not 

permit  General  P.  to  visit  the  south  of  France,  because  I  hope 
that  both  he  and  General  M.  were  out  of  France  before  April 
expired. 


Robert  Troup  to  R.  King. 

New  York,  3d  June,  1798. 
My  Dear  Sir  : 

.     .     .     By  this  time  you  have  doubtless  seen  in  the  public 

prints  the  despatches  from  our  Envoys  in  Paris  to  our  Government. 

The  incessant  efforts  of  the  democrats  to  impeach  the  integrity  of 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  329 

our  executive — the  misguided  zeal  of  many  of  our  virtuous  fellow- 
citizens  in  favor  of  France — and  the  urgent  necessity  for  greater 
unanimity  induced  the  publication  of  the  despatches.  The  pub- 
lication was  made  by  the  Senate  with  a  majority  of  two  votes. 
The  democratical  party  in  the  House  of  Representatives  were 
very  clamorous  for  the  publication  until  they  became  acquainted 
with  the  intelligence  communicated.  From  that  moment  they 
opposed  the  publication,  and  finally  they  carried  a  majority  against 
the  measure.  The  Senate  finding  this  to  be  the  case  instantly 
directed  the  publication.  The  crisis  of  our  affairs  compelled  the 
Senate  to  overlook  all  former  precedents  and  to  take  upon  them- 
selves the  responsibility  of  a  novel  and  extraordinary  act  in 
diplomatic  concerns.  The  act  has  produced  the  most  magical 
effects.  A  spirit  of  warm  and  high  resentment  against  the  rulers 
of  France  has  suddenly  burst  forth  in  every  part  of  the  United 
States,  and  addresses  from  all  bodies  and  descriptions  of  men  are 
pouring  like  a  torrent  upon  the  President  and  both  Houses  of 
Congress. 

I  suppose  the  fact  to  be  that  since  man  was  created  and  gov- 
ernment was  formed  no  public  officer  has  stood  higher  in  the 
confidence  and  affection  of  his  countrymen  than  our  present 
President  now  does.  His  firm  and  manly  tone  of  conduct  has 
regenerated  all  the  energies  of  our  revolutionary  character  and 
placed  us,  I  hope,  upon  an  eminence  from  which  we  shall  look 
down  with  contempt  and  safety  upon  the  machinations  and  power 
of  the  French  Directory.  So  irresistible  has  been  the  current  of 
public  opinion  in  favor  of  the  government  that  within  a  fortnight 
past  it  has  broken  down  the  opposition  in  Congress. 

A  very  important  bill  for  authorizing  the  capture  of  French 
privateers  upon  our  coast  passed  a  few  days  ago  without  oppo- 
sition ;  and  yesterday  we  received  an  account  from  Philadelphia 
that  a  Bill  for  suspending  all  commercial  intercourse  between  us 
and  France  and  its  dependencies  until  the  adjustment  of  our  dif- 
ferences, passed  through  the  Committee  of  the  Whole,  in  the 
House  of  Representatives,  without  debate,  and  no  doubt  is  enter- 
tained that  it  will  formally  pass  into  a  law. 

The  democratical  cant  now  is, — the  friends  of  the  government, 
as  they  call  themselves,  have  at  last  succeeded  in  their  favorite 
object  of  a  war  with  France  ;  they  must  fight  their  own  battles  ; 


330  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

we  will  take  no  part  in  them.  What  excellent  Republicans  !  to 
say  they  will  not  aid  in  carrying  into  effect  the  measures  agreed 
upon  by  a  majority  of  their  representatives, — this,  however,  is  in 
character  with  all  they  have  heretofore  done — and  I  fear  will  be 
with  all  their  future  conduct. 

Considering  the  strength  of  the  opposition  and  its  deadly  ani- 
mosity against  the  administration,  the  government  has  accom- 
plished miracles — a  provisional  army  is  directed  to  be  formed — 
our  frigates  are  beginning  to  guard  our  coast — purchases  are 
making  of  merchant  vessels  for  the  purpose  of  equipping  and 
sending  them  to  sea  as  auxiliaries  to  the  frigates — magazines  are 
forming — a  bill  of  direct  taxes  is  on  the  point  of  passing — and 
generally  a  system  of  defence  is  getting  into  operation.  ...  In 
a  word,  my  good  friend,  I  can  assure  you  that  we  consider  the 
present  crisis  as  the  most  awful  since  the  days  of  vandalism.  If 
the  storm  now  raging  in  Europe  should  travel  across  the  Atlantic 
and  spend  the  remnant  of  its  force  upon  us,  we  shall  meet  it  with 
fortitude.  All  extremities  will  be  encountered,  and  every  sacri- 
fice made  to  preserve  our  sovereignty,  our  constitution,  our  liber- 
ties civil  and  religious.  Be  under  no  apprehensions,  therefore, 
that  we  shall  disgrace  our  ancestors,  or  the  founders  of  our  free- 
dom. We  know  by  the  melancholy  experience  of  the  Republics 
in  the  neighbourhood  of  France  the  inevitable  ruin  that  awaits  us 
if  her  principles  should  ever  be  planted  in  our  soil.     .     .     . 

For  my  own  part  I  have  made  up  my  mind  decidedly  not  to 
survive  the  independence  and  freedom  of  my  country — and  in 
speaking  this  language  I  deliver  you  the  sentiment  and  fixed 
resolve  of  all  your  friends  in  the  circle  of  my  acquaintance.  .    .    . 

Hamilton  is  well  and  is  all  sensibility  to  the  honor  and  interests 
of  our  country.  His  practice  is  extensive  and  lucrative.  .  .  . 
For  this  twelvemonth  past  this  poor  man — Hamilton  I  mean — 
has  been  most  violently  and  infamously  abused  by  the  demo- 
cratical  party.  His  ill  judged  pamphlet  has  done  him  incompara- 
ble injury.     .     .     . 

God  bless  you  and  yours 

Rob.  Troup. 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  33 1 

Wm.  Bingham  to  R.  King. 

Philadelphia,  June  5,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  Publication  of  the  Instructions  which  evinced  the  Sincerity 
of  the  Government  in  its  wish  to  make  Peace  with  France,  by  an 
Acquiescence  in  Terms,  which  induced  an  abandonment  of  its 
Rights,  has  opened  the  Eyes  of  the  People,  &  convinced  Some 
of  the  most  blindly  obstinate,  of  the  Delusion  they  lay  under. 

The  Spirit  of  the  People  is  roused,  &  the  Enthusiasm  which 
prevails  would  astonish  those  Persons  who  recently  contemplated 
the  apparent  Apathy  of  the  American  Character,  suffering  the 
greatest  Indignities  without  indicating  a  Disposition  to  resent 
them. 

I  wish  the  French  Duke  *  was  here,  &  if  his  Chagrin,  arising 
from  disappointed  Hopes  in  this  country,  had  not  riveted  his 
Resentments,  he  might  be  led  to  change  those  unfavorable 
Opinions  which  he  has  expressed  on  our  Subject  in  a  Work  re- 
cently published  at  Paris.  When  he  first  arrived  in  this  Country 
he  sought  it  as  an  Asylum,  &  was  so  highly  gratified,  that  he  was 
extravagant  in  its  Praises.  But  when  he  saw  a  Prospect  open  for 
his  Return  into  France,  &  supposed  that  he  could  facilitate  his 
Views  by  his  abuse  of  the  United  States  &  the  People,  he  re- 
garded every  Object  with  a  jaundiced  Eye.  This  Opinion  of  his 
Conduct  arose  from  my  own  Observations  &  I  have  been  told,  is 
confirmed  by  the  Publication  of  his  Book.  ...  I  hope  some 
Answer  will  be  made  to  it  ;  for,  such  Sentiments,  falling  from  so 
great  a  Height,  may  make  a  considerable  Impression,  &  be  in- 
jurious to  the  American  Character  ;  it  is  said  he  has  prefixed  his 
Name  to  the  Work. 

By  the  Addresses  from  all  Quarters  of  the  Union  you  will  ob- 
serve that  the  People  are  ripe  for  the  Support  of  the  most  decisive 
Measures  of  the  Government.  There  is  more  danger  at  present 
of  overstepping  the  Bounds  of  Prudence,  than  of  falling  Short,  in 
the  Adoption  of  such  a  System,  as  the  Occasion  may  call  for — 
The  Friends  of  this  Country  will  greatly  rejoice  at  finding  so  little 
of  the  Jacobinic  Spirit  prevailing  in  it  &  the  Knowledge  of  this 
Circumstance  will  impress  Europeans  with  additional  Confidence. 

*  Due  de  Liancourt. 


332  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

We  are  much  alarmed  for  the  Fate  of  our  Commissioners.  If 
they  have  not  left  France  previous  to  the  Knowledge  of  the  Pub- 
lication of  the  Dispatches,  I  dread  the  Consequences.  We  wait 
with  great  Anxiety  for  the  Result. 

Yours, 

Wm.  Bingham. 


John  Lawrance  to  Rufus  King. 

Philadelphia,  June  5,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Since  the  publication  of  the  five  dispatches,  from  our  Ministers 
at  Paris,  in  which  Messrs.  X  Y  &  Z  display  so  great  a  share  in 
the  Negotiations,  public  Opinion  has  undergone  a  material  change, 
in  our  Country,  and  from  the  Evidence,  furnished  from  the  various 
parts  of  it,  I  believe  we  shall  exhibit,  when  seriously  called  upon 
to  act,  a  Conduct  not  unworthy  of  a  People,  contending  for  the 
preservation  of  their  Independence  and  Government.  As  unim- 
portant as  the  French  now  consider  us,  we  may  convince  them,  in 
the  progress  of  our  Controversy,  it  was  better  for  them  to  have 
preserved  the  good  will  of  this  country,  than  created  its  enmity  : 
from  the  former,  much  was  to  have  been  gained  ;  and  from  the  latter 
more  may  be  lost  than  they  have  apprehended  :  however,  I  now 
consider,  as  they  are  unwilling  to  turn  from  the  Error  of  their 
ways  respecting  us,  we  must  do  what  may  be  necessary,  to  do  our- 
selves Justice, — we  have  hitherto  acted  on  the  defensive  except  on 
our  Coast ;  how  soon  we  must  act  otherwise,  cannot  be  long  in 
doubt :  and  acting  under  a  conviction  of  great  Injustice,  Insult  and 
Injury,  we  may  create  more  inconvenience  to  them,  than  they 
have  expected — we  shall  experience  some,  undoubtedly  our- 
selves :  but  we  must  remember  the  Objects  of  the  Contest,  and 
cheerfully  submit  to  whatever  may  be  deemed  proper,  to  accom- 
plish them.  The  public  prints  will  inform  you  of  the  Acts  passed 
by  the  Government.  Many  have  been  passed  relative  to  our 
Army  &  Navy.  We  shall  soon,  I  hope,  be  respectable  in  both, 
and  what  is  yet  necessary  to  be  done,  I  expect  will  be  produced 
before  we  rise. — Union  and   Firmness  I  hope  will  prevail,   and 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  333 

carry  us  well  through  the  contest,  however  arduous  it  may  be. 
This  Contest  has  been  forced  on  us  unjustly  and  which  we  have 
taken  every  honorable  and  proper  mode  to  prevent. — So  much  for 
public  Concerns.     .     .     . 

Yours  very  sincerely 

John  Lawrance. 


G.  Cabot  to  R.  King. 

June  6,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  time  has  come  that  the  people  of  this  country  are  awaken- 
ing from  those  slumbers  which  resembled  death  more  than  sleep 
— you  will  see  &  admire  the  spirit  of  the  President  &  which  he 
daily  infuses  into  the  people. — I  have  been  extremely  mortified  at 
the  continuance  of  our  Envoys  at  Paris  &  for  which  I  shou'd  not 
have  been  able  to  account  satisfactorily  without  the  intimations 
you  have  given — however  it  has  been  our  fate  to  be  assisted  by 
our  blunders  sometimes  as  well  as  by  our  wisdom  &  it  may  yet 
prove  beneficial  to  the  country  that  some  of  the  Commissioners 
are  superlatively  fastidious. — judging  from  the  external  com- 
plexion of  the  Diplomacy  it  is  universally  understood  here  that 
Mr.  is  no   less  chagrined  than  his  colleagues   with   the 

arrogance  of  the  f rench  Tyrants  &  this  idea  has  certainly  operated 
powerfully  to  silence  many  Fractious  People  who  cou'd  never  be 
influenced  by  better  motives.  The  News  papers  will  tell  you 
every  thing  &  therefore  I  need  tell  you  nothing  of  a  public  nature, 
but  as  I  have  long  been  one  of  the  Desponding  Patriots  I  ought 
to  say  to  you  that  things  are  going  better  than  I  had  feared  &  that 
I  do  not  wholly  despair  of  seeing  a  tolerable  degree  of  Union  & 
firmness  in  defending  our  Country  &  vindicating  its  rights — in  a 
word  I  think  we  shall  stand  fast  unless  G  Britain  yields  ;  I  go  no 
further  at  present  altho'  I  am  persuaded  if  we  would  act  as  we 
ought  no  nation  in  the  world  can  subjugate  us — if  the  temper  of 
the  House  of  Reps  had  been  right  last  year  at  the  time  of  the 
extra  Session,  I  am  persuaded  our  danger  wou'd  have  been  less  & 
G.  B.  wou'd  certainly  have  felt  a  little  more  encouraged  to  make 


334  RUFUS  KING.  [i798 

those  immense  efforts  which  she  is  called  to  make  in  defence  of 
her  own  existence  &  that  of  civilized  society  :  I  feel  confident 
however  that  (under  God)  her  force  is  fully  adequate  to  her  pro- 
tection &  I  have  constantly  believed  that  it  wou'd  be  well  for  us 
&  all  the  &;zconquered  nations  that  France  shou'd  with  all  her 
Energies  attempt  an  Invasion  of  England — I  think  the  Expedition 
wou'd  issue  in  the  ruin  or  disgrace  of  the  french  force,  &  if  it 
shou'd,  the  subjugated  nations  wou'd  be  immediately  free — cer- 
tainly if  the  contest  is  on  the  Sea  the  chance  must  be  in  favor  of 
the  English  even  if  their  numbers  are  inferior  &  I  shou'd  think 
the  British  Govt,  very  improvident  indeed  if  it  does  not  make  a 
certainty  of  having  a  Naval  force  always  equal  in  strength  to  any 
that  the  French  &  the  enslaved  Nations  can  possibly  bring  against 
them — I  say  this  because  it  is  completely  in  the  power  of  the 
british  to  provide  such  a  force  of  themselves,  without  drawing 
any  assistance  from  Russia  or  any  other  power,  whose  aid  is  never- 
theless to  be  obtained  if  possible  on  almost  any  terms. — I  have 
never  yet  realized  nor  can  I  believe  that  the  french  will  trust 
themselves  on  the  Sea — with  all  their  boasting  they  fear  the  Eng- 
lish on  the  Sea  more  than  they  themselves  are  feared  on  the  land, 
&  at  this  late  period  of  the  war  when  the  English  Naval  power  is 
at  its  acme  it  wou'd  be  rashness  &  folly  to  encounter  it  with  an 
unformed  &  unskilled  fleet.  I  look  therefore  for  some  other  de- 
velopment of  this  great  scheme.  You  will  see  that  the  U  S  are 
equipping  &  have  already  sent  out  some  Cruisers  to  pick  up  the 
french  privateers  &  Buccaneers  who  infest  our  Coast — if  Congress 
will  authorize  50  instead  of  12  such  Vessels,  many  of  which  may 
be  very  small,  the  Coast  will  be  kept  clear,  &  a  good  body  of  men 
will  be  ready  to  act  against  those  who  shall  attempt  to  transport 
troops  here  by  &  by,  if  such  a  thing  shou'd  happen — I  trust  that 
in  this  kind  of  warfare  our  people  will  prove  equal  to  any  in  the 
world. — at  this  moment  there  is  more  tranquillity  here  than  usual, 
the  clamour  of  Faction  is  in  some  good  degree  silenced  &  a 
sober  attention  to  the  interesting  affairs  of  the  nation  seems  to 
suspend  many  slight  differences  among  individuals — there  was 
more  of  the  Jacobin  Spirit  in  this  vicinity  than  any  part  of  New 
England  except  at  Portsmouth — it  has  subsided  or  changed  very 
much  &  I  pray  God  it  may  never  revive  or  return. — 

Believe  me  ever  your  sincere  friend. 


CHAPTER  XXIII. 

Sir  Francis  D'lvernois  on  Fate  of  Switzerland — R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State 
— Publication  of  Envoys'  Dispatches — France  will  not  declare  War,  may- 
release  Vessels — Irish  Troubles — Emperor  of  Russia  will  help  England — 
R.  King's  Dissatisfaction  with  English  diplomatic  Ways — Letter  to  Genl. 
Hamilton — Consul  Bosc  on  Slavery  in  S.  Carolina — West  India  trade  Orders 
— R.  Troup — Warlike  Tone  against  France  in  the  U.  States — Capture  of 
Vessels  in  West  Indies — T.  Pickering  on  the  Envoys — R.  King  to  Secre- 
tary of  State — Irish  Rebellion  and  probable  Emigration — Talleyrand's  Du- 
plicity with  Envoys — R.  Troup — Warlike  Measures  against  France — John 
Adams  will  not  disgrace  the  Country — Recall  of  Mr.  Gerry — Sedgwick — 
Measures  adopted  not  strong  enough — American  Politics — Cabot  believes 
England  with  the  U.  S.  can  command  the  Ocean. 

R.  King  to  the  President  of  the  United  States. 

London,  June  6,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  fate  of  Switzerland  is  an  instructive  lesson  to  America. 
The  Newspaper  Reports  of  the  ruin  of  that  brave  and  innocent 
People  are  so  detached  and  imperfect,  that  I  thought  it  would  be 
useful  to  obtain  a  connected  and  plain  account  of  this  afflicting 
Event.  I  explained  my  wishes  to  Sir  Francis  D'lvernois,  who  im- 
mediately prepared  the  Letter,  a  translation  of  which  I  have  the 
honor  to  send  you.  This  Letter  is  addressed  to  you,  and  the 
original  will  be  forwarded  by  the  next  opportunity.  Sir  Francis 
desires  that  it  may  be  understood  that  he  can  have  no  objection 
to  the  Publication  of  it  with  his  name  or  in  any  other  way  that 
you  shall  judge  best  calculated  to  promote  the  welfare  of  our 
Country. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Attachment,  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

335 


336  RUFUS  KING.  [l798 

R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State.      No.  75. 

London,  June  6,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  President's  Message  of  the  5th  of  April  and  the  Instruc- 
tions and  Despatches  of  the  Envoys  were  published  here  on  the 
15th  of  May,  and  immediately  afterwards  translated  into  French 
and  thro'  a  variety  of  channels  sent  into  France.  We  have  the 
Paris  papers  to  the  30th  of  May,  which  are  entirely  silent  upon 
the  affairs  of  the  United  States,  and  private  letters  give  us  no 
information  respecting  either  Genl.  Pinckney  or  Mr.  Gerry. 

The  Government  vessel  despatched  with  a  letter  of  Recall  to 
the  Envoys  arrived  at  Havre  on  the  nth  of  May.  I  have  heard 
by  the  way  of  Holland  that  about  the  14th  of  May,  Mr.  Gerry 
informed  some  of  our  Countrymen  at  Paris  that  Talleyrand  had 
told  him  that  the  Directory  would  soon  enter  upon  the  affairs  of 
the  United  States,  and  that  he  (Mr.  G.)  thought  it  probable  that 
the  Directory  could  now  consent  to  terms  that  we  could  with 
honor  and  advantage  accept.  From  the  same  quarter  I  have 
been  informed  that  two  American  Vessels  have  lately  been  re- 
leased in  some  of  the  Tribunals  of  France  ;  and  I  can  readily 
believe  both  accounts.  Many  persons  here  who  applaud  and  ad- 
mire the  conduct  of  our  Government  towards  France  (and  it  has 
the  singular  good  fortune  to  be  approved  by  all  parties)  have 
supposed  that  the  Directory  would  declare  war  against  us.  As 
this  would  not  increase,  but  probably  diminish,  the  plunder  that 
she  commits  upon  our  commerce,  and  as  it  would  moreover  shut 
up  the  mouths  of  her  Partizans  and  compel  them  even  to  unite 
against  her,  instead  of  a  declaration  of  war,  she  will,  in  my  opin- 
ion, release  some  of  our  ships,  appear  to  recede  from  some  of  her 
demands,  and  send  you  a  soothing  and  insidious  message  by  Mr. 
Gerry,  who,  in  vindication  of  his  own  conduct,  must  appear  to 
believe  the  sincerity  of  that  of  France.     .     .     . 

In  Ireland,  which  I  still  continue  to  believe  to  be  the  object  of 
the  Toulon  Expedition,  the  Rebellion  is  not  yet  overcome.  Many 
partial  engagements  have  taken  place  between  the  Loyal  troops 
and  the  Rebels,  which  have  in  almost  every  instance  ended  in  the 
overthrow  of  the  latter.  .  .  .  There  is  great  reason  to  believe 
that  the  Irish  Malcontents  expected  the  descent  of  the  French  to 
have  taken  place  about  the  2 2d  of  May,  and  that  the  insurrec- 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  337 

tions  which  broke  out  in  different  places  at  that  period  are  to  be 
accounted  for  by  this  expectation. 

The  Rebels  are  either  without  arms  or  very  badly  armed,  and 
are  therefore  easily  overcome  by  the  royal  Troops.  .  .  .  The 
prematurity  of  the  Insurrection  has  given  to  the  Government  a 
very  great  advantage,  and  should  the  descent  hereafter  be  made, 
the  danger  will  be  greatly  diminished  by  the  recent  overthrow  of 
the  Rebels.     .     .     . 

.  .  .  Though  some  doubts  are  entertained  respecting  the 
authenticity  of  the  Manifesto  that  has  been  published  in  the 
Newspapers,  in  which  the  Emperor  (of  Russia)  says  he  will  im- 
mediately equip  22  Ships  of  the  line  and  250  Gallies  in  defence 
of  the  freedom  of  the  Trade  of  the  North  of  Europe,  it  is  certain 
that  he  has  recently  expressed  to  England  a  fixed  Resolution  to  assist 
her  as  far  as  possible  in  the  war  against  France  j  that  his  Ambas- 
sador at  Vienna  has  likewise  urged  the  Emperor  to  make  the  requi- 
site remittances  to  England  to  fulfil  his  pecuniary  engagements  there, 
and  that  according  to  all  appearances  he  is  zealously  endeavour- 
ing to  persuade  Austria  and  Prussia  to  unite  with  Russia  and 
England  in  a  new  league  for  the  safety  of  Europe. 

Notwithstanding  the  mysterious  Policy  of  Vienna,  it  is  believed 
that  this  Court  is  not  blind  to  its  proper  interest  and  that  with  the 
Court  of  Peter sburgh  it  is  inclined  to  form  a  new  Coalition  against 
France,  which  is  prevented  only  by  the  persevering  repugnance 
of  Prussia*     .     .     . 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem,  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  A.  Hamilton.! 

London,  June  6th,  1798. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

We  have  certain  intelligence  that  the  Toulon  fleet  has  sailed. 
The  number  of  troops,  of  transports  and  of  men  of  war  are  vari- 
ously stated,  but  it  is  known  that  Bonaparte  commands,  and  that 
the  fleet  is  a  very  great  one.  Its  destination  is  the  subject  of  in- 
quietude and  of  conjecture.     A  few  days  will  bring  us  more  per- 

*  Italics  in  cipher. 

f  Works  of  Hamilton,  vi.,  298. 

VOL.  11. — 22 


338  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

feet  accounts,  and  from  the  force  and  position  of  the  British  fleet 
under  Lord  Vincent,  the  public  are  in  daily,  not  to  say  hourly, 
expectation  of  hearing  that  he  has  discovered  and  destroyed  this 
boasted  armada. 

If  Ireland  is  the  object,  the  insurrection  has  been  ill-judged 
and  premature.  In  almost  every  instance,  the  insurgents  have 
been  dispersed,  and  the  quarter  round  Dublin  is  now  restored  to 
the  king's  peace.  Still  however,  if  a  moderate  French  force, 
with  a  supply  of  arms,  could  now  be  thrown  into  Ireland,  the 
issue  would  be  dubious,  so  deep  and  general  is  the  desertion. 
Great  Britain  is  unquestionably  in  a  better  and  more  secure,  as 
well  as  more  united  state,  than  she  has  been  since  the  commence- 
ment of  the  war.  With  her  the  question  with  France  is  at  issue, 
and  so  far  as  regards  Europe,  upon  her  alone  must  it  essentially 
depend.  For  upon  the  continent,  French  principles  and  French 
influence  seem  still  to  extend  themselves  in  every  direction. 
Though  it  is  more  than  a  fortnight  since  the  publication  of  the 
instructions  and  dispatches  of  our  Envoys  must  have  been  re- 
ceived in  Paris,  neither  their  papers,  nor  letters  from  France  take 
any  notice  of  them.  Gerry  is  still  there,  but  about  to  return 
home,  and,  if  I  mistake  not,  will  be  the  bearer  of  a  soothing  and 
treacherous  message  from  the  Directory.  Be  upon  your  guard. 
France  will  not  declare  war  against  us.  No.  Her  policy  will  be 
to  pursue  the  same  course  she  already  has  done  and  which  has 
served  her  purpose  in  Italy  and  among  the  honest,  but  devoted 
and  ruined  Swiss. 

I  will  say,  that,  if  after  all  that  has  occurred  among  ourselves 

and  in  other  countries,  we  are  content  to  be  duped,  and  cajoled, 

and  betrayed,  we  shall  deserve  the  fate  which  they  are  preparing 

for  us. 

Yours  affectionately 

R.  King. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State.     No.  76. 

London,  June  7,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  It  is  a  disappointment  to  me  that  I  am  not  able  to  in- 
form you  that  anything  is  yet  arranged  concerning  the  Question 
before  the  Commissioners.     Their  business  is  now  actually  at  a 


1798]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  339 

stand.  I  continue  to  press  Lord  Grenville  upon  the  subject  and 
he  renews  to  me  a  sincere  desire  that  measures  may  be  fallen 
upon  to  expedite  the  Decisions  of  their  Courts  and  in  this  way  to 
avoid  the  Question  concerning  the  Powers  of  the  Commissioners. 
,  .  .  I  have  hitherto  forborne,  from  motives  that  you  will  be  at 
no  loss  to  conjecture,  to  express  to  you  the  dissatisfaction  and  even 
the  disgust  that  I  often  experience  in  *  our  intercourse  and  connec- 
tion with  this  Government.  The  indijference,  the  procrastination  and 
in  short  the  exclusive  principles  by  which  they  cotisider  almost  every 
question  that  is  brought  before  them,  should  admonish  us,  as  it  has 
done  every  other  Nation,  to  depend  upon  ourselves  as  much,  and  upon 
others  as  little  as  possible.  With  these  sentiments  (which  the 
experience  of  my  residence  here  has  contributed  very  much  to 
confirm)  you  will  conclude  that  I  have  been  much  gratified  with 
the  political  views  developed  in  your  No.  7.  ;  and  in  correspond- 
ence with  them,  I  have  always  carefully  avoided,  particularly 
upon  the  Subject  of  Convoys,  to  ask  anything  which  could  be  con- 
sidered as  a  mere  favor  solicited  by  us  and  gratuitously  conferred  by 
them.  I  will  resume  this  subject  when  I  give  you  an  account  of 
the  answers  that  I  shall  receive  from  Lord  Grenville  respecting 
certain  parts  of  your  No.  7. 

.  .  .  Annexed  are  copies  of  two  intercepted  letters  from  the 
French  Consul  at  Charleston. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem,  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

The  two  letters  from  which  extracts  are  given  below  are 
interesting  in  many  respects,  as  showing  the  feeling  in 
Charleston  towards  the  French  Republic  at  the  time,  and  as 
foreshadowing  some  of  its  plans.  A  large  portion  of  each  is 
of  a  merely  personal  character  and  is  therefore  omitted  here. 
M.  Bosc,  in  the  confidence  of  friendship  with  his  correspond- 
ent, exposes  his  unwillingness  to  go  to  Wilmington,  whose 
commerce  is  of  no  value,  and  then  speaks  of  a  desire  to  be 
transferred  to  some  other  post,  which  would  be  more  ac- 
ceptable in  every  sense.  He  says,  referring  to  two  letters 
previously  written : 

*  Italics  in  cipher. 


340  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

Charleston  4e  Pluviose,  An.  6. 

.  .  .  Toutes  deux  te  parloient  de  ma  situation  morale  et 
politique,  et  t'invitoient  de  me  faire  sortir  d'un  Pays,  ou  regne 
l'esclavage  et  ou  je  suis  signale  comme  un  Philantrope,  par  con- 
sequent comme  un  homme  dangereux.  Le  vice-consulat  de 
Wilmington  est  a.  supprimer  pour  son  inutilite. 

Je  te  demande  de  nouveau,  mon  cher,  de  me  faire  employer  en 
Floride  ou  en  Louisiane,  si  ces  contrees  sont  reunies  a.  la  Re- 
publique,  et  dans  le  cas  contraire  dans  toute  autre  colonic 
J'imagine  que  depuis  le  i8eFructidor  les  causes  qui  s'opposoient 
a  ce  que  ma  Severite  Republicaine  fut  preferee  a  la  Souplesse 
Contre  Revolutionnaire  de  certain  individus  n'existent  plus  ;  que 
la  totalite  du  Directoire  sent  la  necessite  de  ne  mettre  dans  les 
places  superieures  que  des  amis  eprouves  a.  la  liberte,  que  les 
Patriotes  de  1789.  Je  ne  crois  pas  qu'on  me  conteste  ces  qualites, 
que  ta  es  la  pour  rappeler.  Depuis  mon  arrive  ici  je  n'ai  eprouve 
qu'une  fois  regret  d'etre  sorti  de  la  France  ;  c'est  que  j'ai  appris 
le  mort  de  Louvet  et  l'affreuse  situation  de  la  France.  Mais 
quoique  moins  eloigne  d'y  retourner  depuis  que  mon  ami  s'est  un 
peu  calme  apres  que  les  contre-revolutionnaires  sont  demasques^ 
je  desire  encore  passer  quelque  temps  dans  des  pays  nouveaux. 
Je  concois  la  probability  de  faire  servir  mes  connaissances  et  mon 
gout  pour  les  arts  agricoles  aux  progres  d'une  Colonie  dans 
laquelle  j'aurois  de  l'influence.  Celle  de  la  Floride  me  sourit 
plus  que  les  autres,  parce  qu'elle  est  toute  entiere  a  former,  les  80 
Families  qui  forment  en  ce  moment  la  population  de  la  campagne 
se  disposant  a  passer  avec  leurs  esclaves  dans  les  autres  posses- 
sions Espagnoles,  si  la  cession  a  lieu.  L'histoire  naturelle  y  est, 
dit  on,  fort  riche  et  les  details  de  l'etablissement  de  construction 
que  le  Ministre  de  la  Marine  y  formera,  sans  doute,  me  donneroi- 
ent  cette  activite  d'occupation  dont  je  sens  le  besoin  et  que  je  ne 
puis  jamais  esperer  de  trouver  a  Wilmington. 

Chaque  jour  la  situation  des  Francais,  amis  de  leur  pays,  devient 
plus  desagreable  en  Amerique.  L'influence  Angloise  domine  en- 
tierement,  et  si  je  ne  suis  pas  individuellement  insulte,  c'est  que 
je  ne  sors  pas  de  Michaux,  que  je  ne  vais  a.  la  ville  qu'une  fois  en 
15  jours,  pour  seavoir  des  nouvelles  et  recevoir  mes  communica- 
tions officielles.  Les  emigres  de  St.  Domingue  m'ont  pris  si  fort 
en  haine  depuis  que  leurs  esperances  contre-revolutionnaires  sont 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  34.I 

evanouies,  que  quoique  fort  peu  me  connoissent  de  vue,  ils  me 
dechirent  continuellement  et  cherchent  de  faire  passer  leurs 
fureurs  dans  l'ame  des  Americains.  Mon  ignorance  de  la  langue 
Angloise  fait  reellement  ma  meriteuse  sauvegarde,  mais  on  me 
fait  craindre  l'arrestation,  si  la  guerre  est  declaree.  J'en  ai  parle 
au  ministre  dans  ma  precedente  depeche  et  je  lui  ai  parle  encore 
dans  celle  que  je  suis  ici,  moins  parceque  j'ai  peur,  que  parceque 
je  crois  qu'il  est  de  la  Dignite  de  la  Republique  de  faire  respecter 
ses  Representans,  quelque  mince  que  soit  le  rang  qu'ils  occupent 
dans  la  Hierarchie  des  Pouvoirs.     Adieu,  cher  ami.     .     .     . 

Bosc. 


Au    Ministre    des    Relations     Exterieures    de    la 

Republique. 

Charleston,  4e  Nivose,  An.  6. 
Citoyen  Ministre  : 

.  .  .  Depuis  ma  derniere  Lettre,  l'Esprit  public  s'est  beau- 
coup  tourne  contre  nous.  Les  Huletans  des  Campagnes  qui 
nous  environnoient,  ont  ete  particulierement  seduits  par  les 
calomnies  des  amis  des  Anglois.  Frequemment  la  Cocarde  Na- 
tionale  est  insultee  par  des  propos  injurieux  a  la  Republique. 
Les  Bruits  les  plus  absurdes,  les  nouvelles  les  plus  extravagantes 
sont  repandues  a  dessin  de  nous  perdre  de  plus  en  plus  dans 
l'opinion.  Un  voyage  que  vient  de  faire  en  cette  ville  l'Ambas- 
sadeur  d'Angleterre,  probablement  pour  organizer  une  Expedi- 
tion contres  les  Florides,  si  la  Guerre  a  lieu,  a  acheve  notre 
Discredit.  Tout  le  monde  craint  pourtant  la  Republique.  Les 
Proprietaires  d'Esclaves  surtout  redoutent,  que  la  Suite  d'une 
Declaration  de  Guerre  ne  soit  une  descente  d'une  armee  des 
Noirs  de  St.  Domingue,  contre  laquelle  ils  scavent  qu'ils  n'auroient 
pas  le  secours  des  leurs.  Ma  position  n'est  rien  moins  qu'  agre- 
able  dans  les  circonstances  actuelles.  J'ai  ete  signale  par  les 
Emigres  de  St.  Domingue  comme  un  Philantrope,  un  Jacobin,  un 
Espion  des  Terroristes ;  et  quoique  le  resultat  de  leurs  premieres 
Calomnies,  dont  je  vous  ai  deja  entretenue,  n'ait  pas  ete  conforme 
a  leur  veux,  ils  ne  perdent  point  Courage,  et  on  me  fait  craindre 
l'arrestation  malgre  mon  titre  diplomatique  au  premier  bruit  de 

'     '  Salut  et  Respect. 

Bosc. 


342  RUFUS  KING.  [i79& 

R.  King  to  A.  Hamilton.* 

London,  June  8,  1798. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

Since  writing  you  a  day  or  two  past,  I  have  the  pleasure  to 
receive  your  letters  by  the  packet  and  rejoice  to  find  my  hopes 
confirmed  by  your  opinions  that  we  shall  not  be  wanting  to  our- 
selves in  our  conduct  towards  France. 

Immediately  on  hearing  the  proceedings  of  the  Admiralty 
Judge  at  St.  Domingo,  I  remonstrated  to  this  government  against 
them,  and  was  without  delay  answered  that  General  Simcoe  had 
no  power  to  erect  the  Court,  that  the  appointment  of  Judge  Cam- 
bauld  was  illegal,  and  all  his  decrees  void  ;  and  that  those  who 
had  unfortunately  suffered  by  them  must,  as  in  the  Martinique 
cases,  apply  for  satisfaction  to  the  High  Court  of  Admiralty  in 
England.  I  expected  and  so  it  was  determined,  that  orders 
should  have  instantly  been  dispatched  to  suppress  the  court ;  this 
was  omitted  from  the  negligence  of  the  officer  to  whom  the  duty 
belonged  in  the  Admiralty,  hence  the  continuation  of  the  Court 
at  St.  Domingo.  Orders  have,  however,  at  length  been  sent  to 
suppress  the  Court. 

The  instructions  of  the  25th  of  January  1794,  a  copy  of  which, 
was  on  the  7th  of  February  sent  to  the  Secretary  of  State,  have 
been  misrepresented  or  not  understood.  Instead  of  enlarging, 
the  effect  of  them  will,  as  it  was  intended  it  should,  be  to  contract 
the  description  of  cases,  in  which  the  trade  of  neutrals  will  be 
liable  to  interruption.  The  order,  as  it  is  called,  of  the  6th  of 
November  1793,  authorized  the  capture  of  all  vessels  carrying 
supplies  to,  or  laden  with  the  produce  of  the  French  West  Indies. 
The  instruction  of  the  8th  of  January,  1794,  revoked  this  order, 
and  substituted  another  in  which  the  bona  fide  neutral  trade  be- 
tween the  United  States  and  the  French  West  Indies  was  con- 
sidered legal — while  that  between  the  French  West  Indies  and 
Europe  was  liable  to  interruption  by  the  vessels  being  sent  in  for 
adjudication.  The  late  instruction  of  the  25th  of  January,  which 
I  have  thought  a  point  gained,  enlarges  the  rights  and  security  of 
the  trade  of  neutrals,  for  instead  of  former  restraints,  it  is  now 
admitted,  that  a  direct  trade  by  neutrals  between  their  respective 
countries  and  the  French,  Dutch  and  Spanish  West  Indies,  out 

*  Works  of  Hamilton,  vi.,  300. 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE,  343 

and  home,  and  likewise  the  direct  voyages  from  those  colonies 
to  any  port  in  Great  Britain  are  lawful  and  not  liable  to 
interruption. 

That  the  naval  officers  will  often  exercise  their  authority,  how- 
ever limited,  in  abuse,  will  continue  to  be  the  case  so  long  as  the 
military  profession  is  disgraced  by  a  sordid  love  of  gain,  and  so 
long  as  the  system  of  the  Admiralty  Courts  of  England  shall  be  so 
little  satisfactory  as  they  really  are.  We  are,  as  you  will  naturally 
suppose,  extremely  impatient  to  receive  information  from  the 
Mediterranean.  It  appears  certain  that  the  Toulon  expedition 
sailed  about  the  19th  of  May.  The  force  is  variously  reported. 
Buonaparte  is  supposed  to  be  with  the  fleet,  which  is  said  to  be 
thirteen  ships  of  the  line,  as  many  frigates  and  nearly  four  hun- 
dred transports — all  the  naval  characters  agree,  that  it  is  next  to 
impossible  that  they  can  reach  Ireland  without  discovery.  Indeed 
from  the  prevalence  of  the  winds  from  the  west,  a  single  ship 
would,  it  is  said,  be  at  this  season  perhaps  two  months  in  making 
the  voyage  from  Toulon  to  Ireland.  The  opinion  that  has  the 
most  advocates  is,  that  the  expedition  is  against  Portugal — that 
the  troops  will  be  disembarked  at  Carthagena  or  Malaga  in  Spain, 
and  that  they  will  cross  the  mountains  to  Portugal.  It  is  well 
understood  that  from  the  want  of  subsistence  they  could  not  have 
marched  through  Spain.  But  Portugal  has  no  money,  and  all  the 
plunder  that  would  be  obtained  would  not  defray  the  expenses  of 
the  expedition.  The  enterprize  would  reduce  Spain  under  the 
more  complete  control  of  France.  Cadiz  would  become  a  French 
port.  The  English  would  be  expelled  from  the  Tagus.  The 
Spanish  fleet  would  be  relieved  as  soon  as  the  windy  season 
arrives,  and  from  the  Tagus  and  Cadiz  the  expedition  may  go  to 
the  Brazils  and  the  treasure  of  South  America  may  be  at  the  dis- 
posal of  the  Directory.  Besides  the  country  may  be  revolution- 
ized on  the  French  model,  and  this  may  prepare  for  the  measures 
to  be  adopted  toward  us.  Letters  from  Lord  St.  Vincent,  of  the 
19th  of  May  (when  his  fleet  off  Cadiz  consisted  of  twenty  five  sail 
of  the  line,  in  excellent  condition)  induce  the  belief  that  Sir 
Roger  Curtis  would  join  him  from  the  Greek  station  by  the  2 2d 
or  23d,  with  the  sail  of  the  line.  His  orders  are  to  leave  a  force 
to  block  up  Cadiz  and  watch  the  fleet,  and  to  proceed  with  the 
residue  of  the  fleet  to  search  for  and  fight  the  Toulon  fleet,  and 


344  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

according  to  everything  that  we  know,  there  is  great  reason  to 
expect  that  he  will  be  in  season  to  intercept  them  even  should 
their  object  be  Carthagena  or  Malaga.  'Tis  against  every  proba- 
bility that  the  Toulon  expedition  can  pass  the  Gut  without 
discovery. 


R.  Troup  to  R.  King. 

New  York,  June  10,  1798. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  Every  day  brings  us  new  and  decisive  proofs  of  the 
growing  unanimity  throughout  the  whole  extent  of  our  territory. 
Addresses  to  the  President  are  constantly  coming  in — meetings 
are  holding,  and  the  people  are  resolving  with  heart  and  hand  to 
support  the  government  in  all  such  measures  as  the  public  coun- 
cils shall  devise  for  the  protection  of  our  independence  and 
liberties.  Even  Governor  Mifflin,  alias  Secretary  Dallas,  in  an 
address  to  the  officers  of  the  State  of  Pennsylvania  on  the  neces- 
sity of  putting  themselves  in  warlike  array,  speaks  in  very  harsh 
terms  of  the  Government  of  France,  and  considers  it  as  having 
forfeited  all  claims  to  our  gratitude  and  friendship.  In  short  all 
may  be  truly  said  to  be  united  and  determined  to  take  our 
stand. 

If  Great  Britain  should  happen  to  fall,  it  will  be  an  event  all 
shall  deplore  with  all  the  sincerity  the  necessary  consequences 
resulting  from  it  will  naturally  inspire  ;  but  such  an  event  will  not 
deter  us  from  the  combat  in  which  we  are  about  to  engage.  The 
sense  of  the  studied  insults  and  unjust  aggressions  of  France,  is 
so  deeply  rooted  that  the  nation  will  freely  encounter  every  pos- 
sible extremity  to  convince  her  that  we  are  a  free,  virtuous  and 
spirited  people. 

In  this  city  we  are  putting  on  quite  a  military  face — volunteer 
companies,  of  horse  and  infantry,  are  raising  ;  and  meetings  of 
the  old  officers  of  the  army  and  navy — and  of  the  citizens,  in  the 
different  wards  have  been  had  to  concert  measures  for  the  defence 
of  our  port.  All  parties  compose  the  committees  appointed  for 
this  object,  and  all  join  in  the  necessity  of  prompt  and  efficacious 
measures.  We  shall  apply  to  the  Governor  for  an  immediate  call 
of  the  Legislature  to  give  us  aid.     The  Secretary  at  war  is  mo- 


1798]  LIFE   AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  345 

mently  expected  here  on  the  same  business — and  we  hope  soon 
to  be  in  a  situation  to  prevent  our  being  disgraced  by  a  few- 
frigates,  however  unable  we  might  be  to  prevent  an  impression  by 
a  formidable  fleet  and  army. 

Congress  have  not  yet  adjourned,  and  there  are  appearances  of 
their  continuing  in  session  without  an  adjournment.  Gallatin 
continues  to  clog  the  wheels  of  government,  but  he  has  not  suf- 
ficient strength  to  stop  its  motion.  Without  him  the  party  would 
be  completely  scattered.  He  constantly  preaches  the  duty  of 
resisting  all  foreign  attacks,  and  professes  warm  zeal  for  the  con- 
stitution and  country. 

Giles  has  gone  home  with  a  broken  heart  and  ruined  constitu- 
tion. Edward  Livingston  has  been  home  for  several  weeks  and  I 
see  no  symptoms  of  his  return. 

The  young  men  of  Philadelphia,  this  city  and  Boston  have 
come  forward  in  mass,  with  the  most  patriotic  and  determined 
addresses  to  the  President,  and  made  an  offer  of  their  lives  in  the 
service  of  their  country.  They  have  gone  farther  and  claimed  it 
as  a  matter  of  right  to  compose  the  van  of  our  army.  Their 
addresses  and  the  President's  are  extremely  affecting  and  will  be 
read  with  exulting  pride  by  posterity.  The  fourth  of  July  will  be 
celebrated  with  great  animation  and  pomp. 

Tell  our  friends  Mr.  Gore  and  Mr.  Trumbull  that  the  Eastern 
States  stand  like  old  grenadiers  in  their  ranks,  firm,  erect  and 
looking  well  to  the  right.  One  soul  animates  them  ;  and  if  the 
French  invade  their  shores  I  have  no  doubt  the  Yankee  Doodle 
will  triumph  over  ca-ira. 

If  you  should  meet  any  of  our  Envoys  to  Paris  in  London,  you 
may  tell  them  that  their  conduct  has  given  the  most  entire  and  uni- 
versal satisfaction.  Upon  their  return,  they  will  be  received  with 
all  the  ardor  of  affection  that  can  possibly  be  expressed  by  men 
who  have  a  love  for  virtue  and  a  respect  for  talents  and  firmness. 
Their  memorial  to  the  Directory  is  considered  as  one  of  the  first 
State  papers  of  the  age.  You  will  read  it  with  infinite  satisfac- 
tion. A  few  days  ago  their  despatches  down  to  the  middle  of 
March  were  received  from  them.  They  are  all  published  and 
contain  nothing  more  than  repeated  demands  for  money  ;  we  will 
not  however  give  them,  as  our  Envoys  have  already  informed 
them,  a  single  sixpence.     We  are  uneasy  lest  our  Envoys  may 


346  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

be    arrested    and    imprisoned.      Our    hope    is    they    have    left 
France.     .     .     . 

The  old  Chief  is  again  furbishing  his  sword.  If  there  be  a 
dignus  vindice  nodus,  and  he  should  be  invited  he  will  take  the 
field  and  so  will  Hamilton.  .  .  .  Burr  has  been  re-elected  a 
member  of  the  State  Legislature  for  this  city.  He  was  a  member 
the  last  year  ;  and  his  conduct  very  different  from  what  you 
would  imagine.  Some  conjecture  that  he  is  changing  his  ground. 
He  concurs  with  us  decidedly  in  measures  for  defence  of  our 
port.     .     .     . 

The  City  is  perpetually  improving  in  buildings  &c.  The  Park 
near  your  house  [Broadway  on  part  of  lot  where  the  Astor  House 
now  stands]  has  made  your  situation  not  only  pleasant,  but  has 
given  it  an  air  of  elegance  that  will  please  you.     .     .     . 

God  bless  you, 

Rob.  Troup. 

P.  S.  Congress  have  lately  passed  an  Act  for  establishing  a 
naval  department  to  be  under  the  direction  of  a  Commissioner  of 
the  Navy.  Your  friend  Cabot  was  appointed  —  but  declined  ; 
afterward  Benj.  Stoddart  of  Maryland  ;  he  declined — and  the 
office  is  still  vacant. 

June  nth. — It  is  reported  by  way  of  the  West  Indies  that  the 
British  court  have  issued  orders  for  capturing  all  neutral  vessels 
bound  to  French,  Dutch,  or  Spanish  ports.  A  Judge  Cambold 
or  Gambold,  of  very  considerable  celebrity  in  protecting  pirates, 
has  it  is  said  lately  condemned  many  vessels  under  these  orders. 
Capt.  Cochran  of  the  Thetis  has  likewise  recently  captured 
several  vessels,  and  the  captures,  from  the  reports  respecting 
them,  cannot  be  accounted  for  except  as  the  effects  of  these  same 
orders.  This  business  has  created  very  unpleasant  sensations  in 
the  public  mind.  If  true,  and  the  system  is  persisted  in,  I  have 
no  doubt  it  will  lead  to  a  rupture.  By  this  morning's  paper  I  find 
Foster's  resolutions  are  postponed  for  a  fortnight  by  44  to  40.  .  .  . 
Mr.  Blount  has  given  notice  that  when  Foster's  resolutions  are 
brought  forward,  he  will  move  similar  resolutions  against  Great 
Britain.  The  democratical  party  will  be  highly  gratified  with  a 
war  agt.  Great  Britain  ;  and  the  friends  of  the  government  are 
not  now  in  a  frame  of  mind  to  bear  a  blow  from  any  quarter. 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  347 

T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

Private. 

Philadelphia,  June  12,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  .  The  conduct  of  Mr.  Gerry  surpasses  the  fears  of 
those  who  knew  him  intimately  and  anticipated  mischief  from  his 
appointment.  To  the  errors  of  usual  wrongheadedness,  must  be 
added  folly,  meanness  and  treachery  ;  the  latter  I  should  not  have 
suspected  ;  but  his  conduct  is  not  to  be  satisfactorily  accounted 
for  on  any  other  principle.  Altho'  the  evil  to  his  country  is 
equal,  I  wish  it  may  be  found  attributable  only  to  an  excess  of 
vanity  and  weakness. 

This  morning  I  received  a  letter  from  Mr.  Murray  dated  April 

1 2th,  and  conveying  information  *  from  Genl.  Pinckney  dated  at 

Paris  the  6th  of  April.     By  this  it  appears  that   Mr.  Gerry  with 

unpardonable  arrogance  and  folly  had  determined  to  take  upon 

himself  the  whole  responsibility  of  the  Mission  agreeably  to  the 

designation  of  the  Executive  Directory  !  and  that  Generals  P.  and 

M.  were  to  be  ordered  to  leave  France.     There  is,  however,  one 

consolation  in  this,  that  those  two  excellent  men  will  be  out  of 

France  and  safe  when  the  publication   of  the  first  dispatches  of 

the  Envoys  will  be  known  there.     If  they  would  then  guillotine 

Mr.  Gerry  they  would  do  a  favor  to   this  Country  ;  but  they  will 

keep  him  alive  to  write,  a  la  Monroe,  a  Book,  which  will  equally 

express  his  misconduct.     .     . 

T.  Pickering. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State.     No.  78. 

London,  June  14,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  Toulon  Expedition  continues  to  be  the  object  of  anxiety 

and  of  uncertainty.     The   affairs  of  Ireland  are  most  alarming, 

the  rebellion  having  burst  forth  in  Antrim,  and  Ulster  being  in 

danger  of  a  revolt.     Should  the  insurrection  thus  extend  itself 

over  the  North,  the  South  in  which  symptoms  of  disaffection  have 

appeared  will  not  remain  quiet.     In  consequence  of  this  critical 

state  of  Irish  affairs,   Lord  Cambden  will  be  recalled  and  Lord 

Cornwallis  sent  as  his  Successor.     The  military  capacity  and  ex- 

*  Mostly  in  cipher. 


348  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

perience  of  the  latter  have  recommended  the  change  which  does 
not  originate  in  a  dissatisfaction  with  Lord  Cambden,  whose  zeal 
and  exertions  have  been  entirely  approved.  In  case  the  Re- 
bellion is  suppressed,  which  must  be  effected  or  England  is  lost, 
thousands  of  the  fugitive  Irish  will  seek  an  asylum  in  our  Country. 
Their  principles  and  habits  would  be  pernicious  to  the  order  and 
industry  of  our  people,  and  I  cannot  persuade  myself  that  the 
Malcontents  of  any  character  or  country  will  ever  become  useful 
citizens  of  ours.  It  is  my  duty  seasonably  to  apprize  you  of  the 
probability  of  this  Emigration  :  but  it  belongs  to  others  to  decide 
what  the  safety  and  welfare  of  the  Country  may  require  to  be 
done,  should  it  actually  take  place. 

We  have  Paris  papers  to  the  9th  inst.  The  "  Bien  Inform^  " 
contains  a  Correspondence  between  Talleyrand  and  Mr.  Gerry — 
the  object  of  which  is  the  disavowal  of  the  Bribe  and  the  sacrifice 
of  Mr.  Talleyrand's  agents.  Mr.  Gerry  is  called  upon  to  give 
up  their  names,  which,  after  a  faint  opposition,  he  consents  to  do, 
under  the  limitation  that  they  shall  not  be  published  as  having 
been  received  from  him.  The  Correspondence  is  preceded  by  a 
piece,  which,  tho'  anonymous,  undoubtedly  comes  from  the  office 
of  foreign  affairs.  It  represents  the  Envoys  (always  excepting 
Mr.  Gerry)  as  indisposed  to  the  restoration  of  friendship  between 
France  and  the  United  States  ;  as  refusing  a  direct  intercourse 
with  the  Minister  of  foreign  affairs,  who  often  solicited  it,  and  as 
surrounded  by  men  of  Intrigue  who  constantly  missled  and  de- 
ceived them.  These  indispositions  of  the  Commissioners,  it  is 
alledged,  correspond  with  the  views  of  the  American  Government, 
which  desires  a  war  with  France,  in  order  that  it  may  have  an 
opportunity  to  co-operate  with  England  against  the  French  and 
Spanish  Colonies,  and  especially  that  it  may  be  enabled  to  estab- 
lish in  the  United  States  a  Monarchical  Government.  The  piece 
concludes  as  I  have  before  told  you  it  would  by  declaring  :  "  Not- 
withstanding the  injuries  and  provocations  that  have  been  offered 
with  the  hope  to  excite  France  to  declare  war  against  America, 
that,  superior  to  her  just  resentments,  she  has  resolved  to  consult 
only  the  happiness  of  the  two  Republicks,  and  to  call  the  whole 
world  to  witness  the  sincerity  of  her  disposition  which  she  has 
not  ceased,  and  will  never  cease,  to  manifest  to  live  in  peace  with 
America." 


1798]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  349 

If  we  are  the  dupes  of  this  repeated  and  bare-faced  effort  to 
deceive  and  divide  us,  we  must  shut  our  eyes  to  the  fate  of  Switz- 
erland and  of  the  other  victims  of  the  pretended  friendship  of 
the  great  Nation.  It  must  be  the  subject  of  perpetual  regret  that 
Mr.  Gerry  suffered  himself  to  be  separated  from  his  Colleagues  ; 
for  had  he  remained  firm,  they  would  all  have  been  received  and 
Europe  as  well  as  America  would  have  been  spared  the  scandal- 
ous scene  that  has  passed. 

With  perfect  respect  &  Esteem,  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State.     No.  79. 

London,  June  15,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.     .     .     Notwithstanding  his  pretended  delicacy,  Hauteval  by 

no  means  denies  the  agency  ascribed  to  him  in   soliciting   the 

Bribe  required  by  Talleyrand.     Colonel  Trumbull,  who  was  at 

Paris  soon  after  the  arrival  of  the  Commissioners,  has  more  than 

once  informed  me  that  Hauteval  told  him  that  both  the  Douceur 

and  the  Loan  were  indispensable,  and  urged  him  to  employ  his 

influence  with  the  American  Commissioners  to  offer  the  Bribe  as 

well  as  the  Loan.     .     .     . 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem,  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


Robert  Troup  to  R.  King. 

New  York,  23d  June,  1798. 
My  Dear  Sir  : 

I  seize  a  few  minutes  to  inform  you  that  the  die  between  us  and 
France  is  finally  cast.  General  Marshall  arrived  here  on  Sunday 
last.  His  arrival  was  unexpected  and  his  stay  with  us  very  short. 
I  have  no  other  apology  to  make  for  our  not  giving  him  a  public 
demonstration  of  our  love  and  esteem.  You  can  form  no  concep- 
tion of  the  flow  of  affection  for  all  our  Commissioners.  Mr. 
Gerry's  continuance  has  created  much  uneasiness,  but  all  appears 
satisfactorily  explained  by  the  intelligence  this  day  received  from 
Philadelphia.  The  newspapers  herewith  sent  will  furnish  you 
with  the  President's  last  message  to  Congress,  in  which  he  de- 


350  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

clares  he  will  never  send  another  minister  to  France  without 
previous  assurance  from  its  government  that  the  Minister  shall 
receive  that  honorable  distinction,  which  is  due  to  the  representa- 
tive of  an  independent,  free,  and  powerful  nation.     .     .     . 

Mr.  Marshall  has  been  received  in  Pennsylvania  with  high 
proof  of  public  attachment.  ...  I  am  far  from  thinking 
that  our  treaty  with  France  will  now  be  considered  as  binding. 
In  other  words,  I  believe  it  will  be  declared  to  have  been  broken 
by  France,  and  therefore  that  we  hold  it  to  be  void. 

Thus,  my  good  friend,  we  are  about  cutting  asunder,  if  the 
separation  has  not  already  taken  place,  the  bonds  that  have  long 
united  us  to  France.  We  must  either  submit  to  being  a  colony  of 
that  wicked  and  domineering  republic,  or  we  must  exert  all  the 
means  we  possess  to  preserve  our  sovereignty  and  everything  that 
is  valued  and  sacred  in  society.  The  latter  is  our  choice.  We 
have  counted  the  cost,  and  like  our  virtuous  ancestors  we  deem 
nothing  to  be  valuable  without  the  enjoyment  of  freedom.  It  is 
impossible  to  foresee  what  may  be  our  future  destiny.  If  it  be  the 
design  of  Providence  that  we  should  fail  in  the  contest,  we  shall, 
at  least,  merit  the  esteem  of  posterity. 

The  bills  for  suspending  all  intercourse  with  France — for  cap- 
turing French  privateers  on  our  coast — for  sending  off  disaffected 
or  seditious  aliens — for  arming  our  merchantmen — for  raising  a 
provisional  army — for  direct  taxes — for  borrowing  money  &c — 
have  been  passed,  and  I  have  now  no  doubt  but  all  other  needful 
measures  will  be  promptly  and  pretty  unanimously  taken.     .     . 

Inform  our  friends  Gore  and  Trumbull  that  John  Adams  will 
not  disgrace  his  country  and  that  his  country  will  support  him. 
There  never  was,  and  indeed  there  never  can  be,  a  man  of  more 
solid  popularity  than  he  now  possesses.     .     .     . 

Your  very  affectionate  friend 

Rob.  Troup. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State.     No.  82. 

"  London,  June  27,  1798. 

"  It  is  now  believed  that  this  Expedition  (from  Toulon),  is 
destined  for  the  Nile  from  whence  the  Army  will  cross  the  Isthmus 
of  Suez  to  the  head  of  the  Red  Sea,  whence  it  is  expected  that 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  35 1 


the  Ships  of  Tippo,  with  such  others  as  shall  have  been  collected 
at  that  Spot  will  receive,  and  by  the  aid  of  the  periodical  west 
winds  transport  them  to  India." 


T.  Pickering  to  R.  King.     No.  18. 

Department  of  State,  June  27,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  Mr.  Gerry  having  persisted  (contrary  to  the  opinion  of 
his  Colleagues  and  obvious  propriety)  in  his  determination  of 
staying  in  France  to  prevent  an  immediate  rupture,  as  he  was  per- 
suaded to  believe,  I  wrote  him,  on  the  25th  instant,  the  inclosed 
letter  of  recall,*  which  when  you  have  read,  be  pleased  to  seal 
and  forward  to  him,  if  still  in  France,  or  anywhere  in  Europe. 

The  public  opinion  is  becoming  more  and  more  correct  in 
regard  to  France,  the  ambition,  lust  of  domination  and  rapine  of 
whose  Government  have  at  length  become  so  apparent  that  mul- 
titudes, whose  former  attachment  and  prejudices  had  blinded, 
now  view  it  in  all  its  deformities  and  horrors.  With  the  general 
indignation  at  the  insults  and  injuries  received  from  that  Republic 
a  martial  spirit  is  rising  and  extending. 

A  Bill  has  passed  the  Senate  for  declaring  our  three  Treaties 

with  France  no  longer  binding  on  the  United  States.     I  presume 

it  will  also  pass  in  the  House  of  Representatives  without  much 

difficulty. 

T.  Pickering. 

*  In  this  letter  Mr.  Pickering  writes,  giving  a  positive  recall  : 
"  The  respect  due  to  yourselves  and  to  your  Country,  irresistibly  required  that 
you  should  turn  your  backs  to  a  Government  that  treated  both  with  contempt, 
a  contempt  not  diminished  but  aggravated  by  the  flattering  but  insidious  dis- 
tinction in  your  favor,  in  disparagement  of  men  of  such  respectable  talents, 
untainted  honor  and  pure  patriotism  as  Generals  Pinckney  and  Marshall,  and 
in  whom  their  Government  reposed  entire  confidence,  and  especially  when  the 
real  object  of  that  distinction  was  to  enable  the  French  Government,  tram- 
pling on  the  authority  and  dignity  of  our  own,  to  designate  an  envoy  with  whom 
they  could  condescend  to  negotiate.  It  is  therefore  to  be  regretted  that  you 
did  not  concur  with  your  Colleagues  in  demanding  passports  to  quit  the  Terri- 
tories of  the  French  Republic  sometime  before  they  left." — He  says  further, 
that  in  laying  his  [Mr.  Gerry's]  letter  of  April  16th  before  Congress,  the  Presi- 
dent declared  the  negotiation  at  an  end  and  that  "  he  will  never  send  another 
minister  to  France,  without  assurances  that  he  will  be  received,  respected  and 
honored  as  the  representative  of  a  great,  free,  powerful  and  independent  nation." 


352  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

Theodore  Sedgwick  to  R.  King. 

Philadelphia,  July  1,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  In  my  last  I  gave  you  some  account  of  the  publica- 
tion of  the  first  dispatches  from  our  ministers  in  france,  &  the 
considerations  which  induced  the  adoption  of  that  measure.  The 
effects,  out  of  congress,  have  been  considerable, — It  has  stimu- 
lated those  who  before  felt  interested — awakened  the  indifferent 
— in  many  instances  dispelled  delusion,  and  in  some,  perhaps^ 
converted  the  opposers.  Instances  of  the  latter  are  few,  if  any, 
among  those  who  affect  the  character  of  leaders.  In  congress  the 
opposition  remains  unaltered,  except  as  to  their  pretences.  They 
are,  indeed,  no  longer  a  french  faction,  but,  as  heretofore,  they 
invariably  oppose  everything  and  propose  nothing.  Less  effect 
has  been  produced  by  the  disclosure  of  the  outrageous  conduct 
of  france,  in  the  state  of  New  York,  than  in  any  other  state  east 
of  the  Delaware.  In  the  late  election  six  out  of  the  ten  represen- 
tatives are  incorrigible  jacobins. 

The  measures  of  the  legislature  have  been  as  much  below  what 
they  ought  to  have  been,  as  above  what  might  have  been  expected 
from  the  materials  of  which  it  is  composed.  So  equally  are  par- 
ties divided  in  the  house,  that  measures  to  be  successful,  must  be 
graduated  by  the  feelings  &  opinions  of  the  most  cool  and  feeble 
of  our  friends.  .  .  Long  since,  in  my  opinion,  a  wise  policy 
required  a  declaration  of  war  &  an  immediate  and  complete  prep- 
aration for  that  state  of  things.  Several  of  our  friends,  however, 
believed  it  would  tend  to  discredit  them  among  their  constituents, 
— that  the  opposition  would  endeavor  to  create,  in  the  popular 
estimation,  a  new  denomination  of  parties — those  of  peace  & 
war.  For  myself,  I  believe,  this  calculation  extremely  erroneous. 
— If  Congress  adjourns  without  a  declaration,  I  am  persuaded,  it 
will  have  a  directly  contrary  effect.  In  that  case  the  people  will 
be  addressed  with  some  plausibility  &  more  effect,  and  induced 
to  believe,  that  the  friends  of  peace,  may  save  them  from  the 
calamities  of  war.  But,  on  the  other  hand,  if  war  be  inevitable, 
it  may  reasonably  be  hoped,  that  the  people,  in  their  selection  of 
characters,  will  choose  those  who  are  best  qualified  to  conduct  it. 
Unless,  among  our  most  respectable  friends  in  the  house,  there  is 
an  absolute  despair  of  success  ;  the  measure  will  be  brought  for- 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  353 


ward  &  I  presume  in  the  course  of  two  or  three  days.  The 
Speaker  last  evening,  indeed,  told  me,  he  presumed  it  would  be 
done  on  the  4th  inst. — (Dayton  is  now  in  advance  of  the  first 
rank  of  federalism.)  It  has  not  been  thought  prudent  to  pass  it 
in  the  Senate  with  a  possibility  of  rejection  in  the  House.  In  this 
opinion  I  have  fully  concurred.  Should  it  pass  the  House  there 
is  no  doubt  it  will  prevail  in  the  Senate.  Indeed  I  know  no  man, 
except  our  friend  Bingham,  who  can  be  called  federal,  who  will 
not  vote  for  it. 

The  President  is  daily  rising  in  the  opinion  &  affection  of  the 
well  disposed  ;  and  in  the  same  proportion  the  second  is  becoming 
more  &  more  an  object  of  abhorrence  &  detestation. 

The  conduct  of  our  old  friend  Gerry  has  astonished  all  who 
were  not  intimately  acquainted  with  him,  but  he  has  behaved 
much  better  than  I  expected — Nothing  could  have  made  me 
regret,  but  I  now  rejoice  that  I  voted  against  his  appointment. 

The  plunderings  of  the  french  and  still  more  the  mad  specula- 
tions which  have  been  so  extensively  pursued  by  many  in  our 
country  is  the  cause  of  great  embarrassments.  The  rage  to  get 
rich  without  industry  or  economy  was  more  general  than  can  well 
be  imagined.  With  the  great  destroyers,  Morris  &  Greenleaf,  who 
are  in  the  gaol  of  this  City,  Wilson  who  is  confined  in  Norfolk, 
Virga.  &ca.  &ca.  there  is  hardly  a  county  in  any  of  the  eastern 
States  where  there  are  not  monuments  of  the  prevailing  mania.  .  .  . 

I  am  very  sincerely, 


Your  friend 


Theodore  Sedgwick. 


G.  Cabot  to  R.  King. 

July  2,  1798. 
My  Dear  Sir  : 

Your  extreme  inquietude  occasioned  by  Mr.  G's  conduct  will 
be  much  abated  before  this  can  reach  you — his  course  has  been 
indeed  the  most  dangerous  that  cou'd  have  been  taken  &  had  the 
knowledge  of  it  been  possessed  by  our  Jacobins  six  months  ago 
it  wou'd  have  enabled  them  to  work  great  mischief, — our  divisions 
wou'd  have  been  more  marked  &  confirmed  ;  at  this  time  it  is 
unpropitious  but  the  evil  is  circumscribed,  as  all  the  follies  & 

VOL.  II.— 23 


354  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

weaknesses  which  have  been  exhibited  at  Paris  are  well  known  to 
his  Great  Patron  they  must  necessarily  produce  great  Chagrin  & 
I  sincerely  wish  he  may  never  recollect  how  much  his  friends  have 
differ'd  from  him  in  estimating  Mr.  G's  character.  Altho'  I  am 
happy  in  being  disengaged  from  the  political  world  yet  I  am  too 
much  interested  in  its  events  to  refrain  from  observing  them.  I 
have  expressed  to  you  often  my  high  opinion  of  the  competency 
of  G.  B.  to  withstand  all  the  power  which  France  can  possibly 
employ  against  her  so  long  as  her  Govt,  stands  &  the  nation  is 
politically  united.  I  have  sincerely  wished  that  an  invasion  might 
be  attempted  not  doubting  that  it  wou'd  issue  in  the  disgrace  of 
France,  but  I  have  at  no  time  believed  that  so  mad  a  project 
wou'd  be  executed.  It  will  give  you  great  pleasure  to  see  by  the 
public  papers  how  fast  our  indignation  rises  against  the  French  & 
that  we  are  in  a  fair  way  to  get  rid  of  every  tie  which  bound  us  to 
that  seductive  &  perfidious  nation — our  people  are  learning  every 
day  that  we  have  everything  to  fear  from  the  arts  of  France  & 
therefore  are  becoming  reconciled  to  the  trial  of  arms.  This  new 
state  of  things  must  bring  new  &  interesting  duties  to  our  Minis- 
ter in  London  ;  I  know  he  will  discharge  them  with  ability  & 
fidelity  &  I  hope  with  success.  Doubtless  the  British  Govt.  &  in- 
deed every  Statesman  in  Europe  who  is  opposed  to  French  Domi- 
nation, will  rejoice  to  know  that  the  United  States  are  about  to 
engage  heartily  on  their  side  :  it  is  true  that  we  shall  do  little 
more  at  first  than  provide  for  our  own  defence,  but  we  are  capa- 
ble of  greater  efforts  after  we  are  fully  engaged,  &  a  variety  of 
considerations  unite  to  render  our  association  in  the  war  extremely 
favorable  to  G.  B.  ;  we  are  at  least  sufficient  for  a  make  weight 
where  the  scales  are  so  nearly  even,  &  if  our  Destiny  had  thrown 
us  on  the  other  side,  as  we  cou'd  not  remain  neutral,  G.  B.  must 
have  yielded  to  so  much  discouragement.  But  I  am  fully  per- 
suaded that  G.  B.  in  concert  with  the  U.  S.  can  command  the  ocean  in 
opposition  to  all  Europe,  Russia  alone  excepted  &  if  the  war  shou'd 
continue  several  years,  these  nations  wou'd  enjoy  exclusively  the 
Commerce  of  all  America  &  Africa  &  the  best  part  of  Asia  & 
Europe — the  Colonies  of  France  &  the  Nations  subject  to  her 
power  wou'd  soon  listen  to  the  pleas  of  Necessity  &  wou'd  volun- 
tarily receive  the  Commercial  Ships  of  those  who  alone  woud 
supply  their  wants.     Already  a  fleet  of  armed  Merchantmen  have 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  355 

sailed  from  Boston  carrying  130  Guns  &  as  this  spirit  is  extend- 
ing itself  the  little  pirates  from  the  West  Indies  will  not  be  able 
to  annoy  us  much  in  future  ;  our  public  vessels  carrying  from  14 
to  44  Guns  will  be  increased  to  40  or  50  in  the  course  of  the  year 
&  surely  we  are  capable  of  doing  much  more. 

Vive  vale. 

G.  C. 


CHAPTER  XXIV. 

France  to  send  skilful  Intriguers  to  U.  S — Bonaparte's  Fleet  from  Toulon  may 
meet  Nelson — Ireland's  Union  to  England  must  come — American  Consuls 
should  give  Certificates  of  Residence — Conquest  of  Malta — Miranda — 
Treaties  with  France  set  aside — U.  S.  must  defend  themselves — Hostile 
Measures  passed  by  Congress — Washington  appointed  Lieut.  Genl. — 
Troops  to  be  raised — Patriotic  iVddresses  to  the  President — Decatur  cap- 
tures French  Privateer — France  may  declare  War  against  the  U.  S. — Mr. 
Murray  suggests  England's  Interference  for  People  of  Holland — Copper  for 
the  U.  S. — Members  of  French  National  Institute  to  be  sent  to  the  U.  S. 
— Republic  of  Blacks  in  St.  Domingo — T.  Pinckney  would  support  the 
Government — Irish  likely  to  emigrate — Should  have  Certificates  of  Char- 
ter— Washington  accepts  Command — R.  King  gratified  by  Firmness  of  U. 
S. — Its  Effect  in  England — Its  Government  and  People  decided. 

R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State.     No.  83. 

London,  July  2,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

We  desire  farther  information  respecting  the  views  of  France 
from  the  following  extracts  of  the  Paris  papers.  The  project  of 
sending  Mr.  Sottin,  lately  the  Minister  of  Police,  and  other  rest- 
less and  skilful  Intriguers,  under  the  character  of  Consuls  into 
our  country  is  the  same  as  that  by  which  they  have  succeeded  in 
overthrowing  the  Independence  of  Switzerland  and  other  nations. 
If  any  thing  could  exceed  the  past  insolence  of  France,  it  is  the 
Mission  of  a  corps  of  Revolutionary  agents,  under  the  masque  of 
public  characters,  and  who  it  is  presumed  (I  hope  and  believe 
falsely)  will  be  received  and  permitted  to  reside  among  us,  after 
the  repeated  refusal  and  expulsion  of  our  public  Ministers.  I 
think  it  is  a  bold  step  on  the  part  of  France,  who  certainly  risques 
a  refusal  from  us,  which  she  has  as  yet  nowhere  received,  and 
which  would,  in  my  opinion,  exalt  our  character  still  higher  in  the 

eyes  of  Europe. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

356 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  357 

Extracts  referred  to  : 

"  Paris,  June  18,  1798. 

"  EXTRAIT    DES    REGISTRES    DU    DlRECTOIRE    EXECUTIF. 

"  Le  Directoire  Executif  considerant  que  chaque  jour  on  ac- 
quiert  des  nouveaux  indices  des  coupables  intelligences  qu' 
entretiennent  les  ennemis  de  la  Republique  avec  les  malveillans 
de  l'interieure  ;  considerant  que  les  motifs  qui  ont  fait  interdire 
aux  Americains  l'entree  des  Ports  de  Brest,  I/Orient,  Rochefort, 
Toulon  &  Dunkerque,  sont  applicables  au  Port  de  Havre,  contre 
lequel  il  y  a  lieu  de  craindre  que  la  perfidie  Anglaise  ne  dirige 
specialement  ses  funestes  intrigues  ;  oui  le  Rapport  du  ministre 
de  la  marine  &  des  colonies,  arrete  1.  L'entree  du  port  du  Havre 
est  interdit  aux  batimens  Americains.  2  Ceux  des  batimens  de 
cette  nation  qui  se  trouveront  maintenant  au  Havre,  seront  tenus 
d'en  sortir  sous  le  plus  bref  delai  ;  3  Le  ministre  de  la  marine 
est  charge  de  l'execution  &c." 

"Paris  June  18,  1798.  Le  citoyen  Roziers  est  nomme  Consul 
General  aux  Etats  Unis  ;  Gamier,  ex-conventionnel  de  Saintes, 
consul,  &  Boscq,  vice-consul  a  Wilmington.  Quillet,  consul  a 
Tanger,  passe  a  Norfolk  ;  Bosc  a  New  York  et  le  citoyen  Sottin, 
ambassadeur  pres  la  Republique  Ligurienne,  et  ci-devant  minis- 
tre de  la  Police,  vient  d'etre  nomme  consul  a  New  York." 


R.  King  to  A.  Hamilton.* 

London,  July  2,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

France  will  pursue  with  us  the  plan  that  she  has  elsewhere 
found  successful.  She  will  endeavour  to  overthrow  us  by  the 
divisions  among  ourselves,  which  she  will  excite  and  support  by 
all  the  means  of  which  she  is  mistress.     .     .     . 

If  any  thing  could  exceed  the  past  insolence  of  France,  it 
would  be  this  attempt  to  plant  in  our  chief  towns  a  corps  of  revo- 
lutionary agents  under  the  mask  of  public  characters,  and  whom 
she  expects,  I  hope  falsely,  that  our  government  will  receive  and 
permit  to  reside  among  us,  after  having  herself  repeatedly  refused 
and  expelled  from  her  territory  our  public  ministers.     .     .     . 

*  Hamilton's  Works,  vi.,  308. 


358  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

Another  arret  of  the  Directory  has  added  Havre  to  the  ports 
into  which  our  vessels  are  forbid  an  entry  ;  so  that  we  cannot  now 
enter  the  ports  of  Toulon,  Rochefort,  L'Orient,  Brest,  Dunkerque 
or  Havre.  Cadiz  and  the  Texel  are  closed  by  the  British  squad- 
rons, and  I  apprehend  that  the  Meuse  will  likewise  be  blockaded, 
as  the  British  North  Sea  fleet  is  by  this  time  reinforced  by  the 
Russian  Squadron. 

We  are  still  at  a  loss  where  Buonaparte  is  bound.  He  sailed 
from  Toulon  on  the  19th  of  May.  My  opinion  has  been  that 
Ireland  was  his  object.  At  present,  it  seems  to  be  the  general 
opinion  that  he  never  intended  to  leave  the  Mediterranean.  In  a 
few  days  we  must  hear  of  him.  The  English  confidently  believe 
that  he  will  fall  into  the  hands  of  Admiral  Nelson,  who  is  in  pur- 
suit of  him.  In  Ireland,  though  for  some  months  there  will  be 
partial  and  unimportant  risings,  the  force  of  the  insurrection  is 
broken  and  the  danger  nearly  over.  The  chiefs  have  been  with- 
out character  and  without  any  intellect.  There  is  no  indication 
that  they  have  received  a  single  musket  from  France,  and  in  gen- 
eral they  are  without  arms,  except  pikes.  There  is  but  one  suc- 
cessful remedy  for  Ireland,  and  it  is  that  which  has  proved  so 
successful  with  Scotland.  Ireland,  like  Scotland,  must  become 
an  integral  part  of  the  British  Empire,  or  she  will  continue  igno- 
rant, ill-governed,  oppressed  and  wretched. 


Rufus  King  to  W.  Wickham. 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  July  3,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  take  the  liberty  of  sending  you  a  list  of  American  citizens  in 
whose  favor  I  think  there  would  be  a  propriety  in  making  an  ex- 
ception in  the  proposed  regulations  respecting  Aliens.  The  great 
number  of  American  citizens  residing  in  different  parts  of  Great 
Britain  for  commercial  and  other  purposes,  seems  to  make  it 
requisite,  in  order  to  satisfy  the  provisions  of  the  alien  law,  that 
they  should  be  enabled  to  obtain  from  our  Consuls  certificates  of 
citizenship  instead  of  being  obliged  to  apply  to  me  for  that 
purpose. 

From  the  great  prudence  and  good  principles  of  our  Consuls  in 
this  country  I  am  persuaded  that  you  will  be  safe  from  abuse  in 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  359 

accepting  their  certificates  in  the  place  of  mine.  If  this  arrange- 
ment will  be  agreeable  to  you,  which  should  extend  to  all  the  dis- 
tricts, I  will  transmit  to  you  a  list  of  our  Consuls  and  furthermore 
send  to  them  an  instruction  on  this  subject.  I  should  hope  like- 
wise that  the  certificates  of  our  Consuls  will  be  received  in  all 
applications  for  passports  upon  the  arrival  and  departure  of 
American  citizens.  To  you  who  are  frequently  acquainted  with 
the  thousand  things  that  occupy  the  attention  of  a  foreign  Minis- 
ter, it  is  needless  to  remark  that  an  arrangement  such  as  I  propose 
must  be  a  very  great  relief  to  me. 

With  perfect  respect  &  esteem. 

Rufus  King. 

In  despatch  No.  84  to  Secretary  of  State,  etc.,  dated  Lon- 
don, July  6,  1798,  R.  King  says  : 

"  The  late  accounts  from  America,  as  is  natural,  have  given 
very  great  satisfaction  here  ;  and  I  should  observe  an  improper 
reserve  did  I  not  add  that  all  Parties  unite  in  expressing  their 
admiration  of  the  conduct  of  the  President. 

"  With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem  &c. 

"Rufus  King." 


Circular  to  Consuls. 

London,  July  9,  1798. 
Sir: 

You  will  observe  that  with  a  few  exceptions,  the  late  Procla- 
mation requires  all  aliens  to  report  themselves  and  obtain  permis- 
sion to  reside  in  Great  Britain,  and  that  no  alien  will  be  suffered 
to  come  and  go  without  a  Passport.  As  it  would  be  inconvenient 
to  our  countrymen,  dispersed  as  they  are  throughout  this  country 
and  likewise  to  those  from  time  to  time  arriving  and  departing  to 
be  obliged  to  apply  to  me  for  certificates  of  citizenship  in  order 
to  obtain  permission  to  reside,  or  passports  to  depart,  the  Duke 
of  Portland  has  consented  to  my  proposal,  that  our  Consuls,  in  all 
cases  relative  to  the  alien  regulations,  shall  give  certificates  of 
citizenship  to  such  persons  as  shall  in  a  satisfactory  manner  prove 
themselves  entitled  to  the  same,  and  that  these  certificates  shall 
be  received  in  like  manner  as  mine  heretofore  have  been.  It  is 
proper  that  I  should  recommend  to  you  the  greatest  caution  in 


360  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

this  business,  and  you  will  recollect  that  the  certificate  is  merely 
to  enable  the  person  to  whom  it  shall  be  granted,  to  conform  to 
the  Regulations  of  the  alien  laws,  and  that  it  is  not  to  be  con- 
founded with  Certificates  of  Protection.  You  will  therefore 
grant  these  certificates  only  to  such  Americans  as  are  required  to 
register  themselves,  to  those  who  on  their  arrival  .  .  .  desire 
permission  to  land  and  reside  here,  and  to  those  who  want  pass- 
ports to  leave  Great  Britain  ;  tho'  I  think  it  probable  that  in  the 
last  class  of  cases  your  certificates  will  not  be  required,  as  the 
permission  granted  to  those  who  shall  have  registered  themselves 
will  sufficiently  identify  them  in  their  applications  for  passports 
to  leave  the  country. 

With  great  Respect  I  am  &c  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  A.  Hamilton.* 

London,  July  7th,  1798. 

Buonaparte  has  made  the  debut  of  the  campaign  by  the  easy 
though  important  conquest  of  Malta.  The  island  has  been  sup- 
posed impregnable,  and  therefore  was  the  depository  of  great 
wealth,  removed  thither  from  Italy.  It  contained  likewise  an  ex- 
cellent arsenal,  two  or  three  ships  of  the  line,  and  as  many  as 
6000  excellent  seamen.  It  was  the  Maltese  seamen  who  made 
the  fine  campaign  under  Suffrein  in  the  East  Indies  during  the 
American  War.  Sicily  is  near,  and  from  thence  the  French  will 
obtain  provisions,  should  Admiral  Nelson  attempt  to  blockade 
the  fleet  in  the  harbor  of  Malta.  Buonaparte  may  perhaps  take 
possession  of  Sicily,  after  which  Naples  would  almost  fall  of 
course.  We  are  left  to  conjecture  what  are  his  ulterior  plans.  I 
don't  perceive  that  it  is  believed  that  the  English  squadron  can, 
owing  to  the  tempestuous  seas,  maintain  a  long  blockade.  At 
Rastadt  procrastination  is  the  game.  The  French  journalists 
amused  themselves  with  calling  it  "  the  Eternal  Congress."  I  see 
no  likelihood  of  a  concert  upon  the  Continent  against  France. 
The  struggle  is  left  to  England,  who  certainly  maintains  it  with 
increased  zeal  and  resolution.  For  some  months  past  we  have 
not  a  word  about  peace.     No  one  appears  to  think  that  peace 

*  Works  of  Hamilton,  vi.,  310. 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  361 

would  bring  safety.  The  affair  of  Ireland  is  nearly  finished. 
Cornwallis  has  requested  that  no  more  troops  should  be  sent  to 
him  and  that  those  on  their  way  should  be  countermanded.  In 
this  state  of  things  we  are  (for  so  I  consider  our  situation)  forced 
into  a  war  of  defence.  Have  you  received  a  former  letter  of  mine 
on  this  subject  ?  It  is  of  infinite  importance  that  we  are  not  de- 
ceived by  ourselves  or  others.  We  must  do  more  than  merely 
defend.  I  still  think  that  the  object  that  I  have  before  sug- 
gested, *  demands  all  our  consideration,  wisdom  and  energy. 
Don't  suppose  that  I  would  combine  our  fortunes  with  those  of 
others.  On  the  contrary,  whatever  our  interest  may  require  in 
regard  to  a  co-operation  with  others,  I  am  averse  to  indissoluble 
engagements  with  any  one.  The  Continent  of  Europe  cannot  be 
saved,  but  this  is  no  reason  why  America  should  likewise  perish. 
France  is  the  only  nation  that  projects  enterprises,  or  succeeds  in 
putting  them  into  execution  ;  all  others  are  puzzled  in  a  perpetual 
effort  to  find  out  and  defeat  the  plans  of  France,  without  concert- 
ing and  attempting  to  execute  one  that  might  give  to  France  the 
disadvantage  of  defence.     If  we  follow  this  course,  I  dread  the 

issue. 

Farewell — yours  &c. 

I  am  mortified  with  the  probable  result  of  the  election  in 
New  York.  Mr.  Jay  according  to  probability,  is  re-elected,  but 
how  very  considerable  has  been  the  opposition.  Besides  what  is 
to  become  of  us,  if  we  return  such  members  to  Congress,  as  I 
think  it  likely  will  compose  a  majority  of  our  next  delegation  ? 


T.  Pickering  to  R.  King.     No.  20.  B. 

Department  of  State,  July  9,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  An  act  was  passed  last  week  (July  7th),  declaring  "  That 
the  United  States  are  of  right  freed  and  exonerated  from  the 
stipulations  of  the  Treaties  and  of  the  Consular  Convention  here- 
tofore concluded  between  the  United  States  and  France,  and  that 
the  same  shall  not  henceforth  be  regarded  as  legally  obligatory  on 
the  Government  or  citizens  of  the  United  States." 

An  Act  authorizing  the  expulsion  of  dangerous  aliens  was 
*  Probably  Miranda's  expedition. — Ed. 


362  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

passed  some  days  before,  and  a  Bill  from  the  Senate  for  punish- 
ing seditious  persons  and  libellers  will  probably  pass  the  House 
of  Representatives  to-morrow.     .     .     . 

An  addition  is  to  be  made  to  the  Standing  Army  of  eight  or 
twelve  Regiments,  and  the  officers  of  the  provisional  army  are  to 
be  appointed.  .  .  .  General  Washington  has  been  appointed 
Lieutenant  General,  with  the  command  of  all  the  armies  of  the 
United  States,  raised  and  to  be  raised.  It  is  probable  that  he 
will  accept  the  appointment.  The  spirit  of  the  people  continues 
rising.     ...  T.  Pickering. 


R.  Troup  to  R.  King. 

New  York,  July  10,  1798. 
My  Dear  Sir  : 

Yesterday  the  President  approved  the  bill  for  annulling  our 
Treaty  and  Consular  Convention  with  France.  The  majority  in 
the  House  of  Representatives  for  this  measure  was  about  ten. 
The  Bill  passed  the  Senate  yesterday,  and  the  President  must 
have  had  it  with  him  but  a  very  short  time.     .     .     . 

General  Washington  is  appointed  Lt.  General  and  Commander 
in  chief  of  our  armies.  .  .  .  Congress  have  determined  to  pro- 
ceed to  the  immediate  raising  of  an  army  of  between  12  and  13000 
men ;  and  I  have  no  doubt  that  an  augmentation  of  it  will  soon 
take  place. 

We  are  busily  engaged  in  fortifying  our  harbour.  The  Gov- 
ernor has  just  issued  a  proclamation  convening  our  Legislature  at 
Albany  on  the  9th  of  August  next  to  take  our  situation  as  a 
State,  and  particularly  our  harbour,  into  consideration. 

The  4th  instant  was  celebrated  with  great  animation  and  splen- 
dor here  and  in  all  other  parts  of  the  union,  from  which  we  have 
any  accounts.  A  new  troop  of  horse,  commanded  by  our  friend 
Giles  and  in  elegant  uniform,  made  their  first  appearance  on  that 
day  and  added  much  to  the  brilliancy  of  the  scene.  Our  city 
resembles  a  camp  rather  than  a  commercial  port. 

Addresses  are  still  coming  in  to  the  President.  They  all,  a 
very  few  solitary  instances  excepted,  breathe  the  dignified  and 
determined  sentiments  of  freemen  alive  to  the  honor  and  sover- 
eignty of  their  country.     Wherever  there  is  a  deviation  from  these 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  363 

sentiments  the  President  undertakes  to  whip  the  addressers.  The 
President  seems  to  have  all  the  ardor  of  youth  and  all  the  energies 
and  firmness  of  meridian  life.  If  we  survive  the  struggle,  as  I 
have  no  doubt  we  shall,  speaking  of  us  as  a  nation,  no  man  that 
has  figured  on  our  theatre,  will  go  down  to  posterity  with  greater 
lustre  than  John  Adams — I  will  not  even  except  George  Wash- 
ington. 

Last  Saturday  Capt.  Decatur,  who  commands  one  of  our  sloops 
of  war  captured  a  French  privateer  schooner  of  12  guns  and 
seventy  men  near  Egg  Harbour.  .  .  .  This  is  the  first  capture 
that  has  been  made.  It  is  a  good  beginning  and  it  has  excited 
very  agreeable  sensations.  Our  coast  is  much  freer  than  it  has 
been  of  French  Pirates.     .     . 

The  spirits  of  our  countrymen  are  highly  elevated  ;  and  you 
may  proclaim  it  everywhere,  that  we  will  pay  tribute  to  no  nation, 
and  that  we  shall  water  our  soil  with  our  blood  and  suffer  every 
hardship  before  we  yield  to  the  imperious  demand  of  any  foreign 
nation. 

The  last  letter  I  wrote  you,  mentioned  that  Mr.  Gerry's  letters 
had  removed  disagreeable  suspicions  that  had  prevailed  agt.  him. 
I  wrote  my  letter  the  instant  after  I  had  read  Mr.  Gerry's  letters 
— before  I  had  time  to  reflect,  and  before  I  had  an  opportunity  of 
learning  the  public  opinion.  The  truth  is  that  upon  reflection  I 
dislike  his  letters  and  his  conduct.  They  are  both  generally  dis- 
liked. At  a  public  dinner  given  by  both  Houses,  or  rather  by 
members  of  both  Houses  of  Congress,  at  which  all  the  public 
officers  in  Philadelphia  and  many  foreigners  of  distinction  were 
present,  Mr.  Pinckney  was  toasted  and  Gerry  was  omitted.  At 
almost  all  subsequent  entertainments  Pinckney  and  Marshall  have 
been  most  honorably  noticed  and  Gerry  has  been  neglected.  It 
is  understood,  and  that  from  Marshall  himself,  that  Gerry  has 
suffered  himself  to  be  wheedled  in  Paris  ;  that  he  acted  there  in 
direct  opposition  to  the  wishes  and  decided  opinions  of  Marshall 
and  Pinckney  ;  and  that  Genl.  Pinckney,  before  Mr.  Marshall  left 
France,  spoke  to  Mr.  Gerry  in  strong  terms  of  contempt  and 
indignation  at  his  behaviour.  .  .  .  No  two  men,  however  can 
be  more  beloved  and  honored  than  Pinckney  and  Marshall. 
Their  two  memorials  have  made  a  deep  impression  on  the  public 
mind  and  have  done  more  good  in  placing  the  conduct  of  our 


364  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

government  in  its  true  point  of  light,  than  all  that  has  been  before 
said  or  written.     .     .     . 

We  are  arresting  some  disorganizers  here  for  libelling  the 
President  and  Secretary  of  State — a  Mr.  Burk  and  a  Doctor 
Smith — the  former  a  late  Irish  emigrant  and  the  latter,  a  late 
English  emigrant,  who  was  connected  with  Ld.  G.  Gordon  in  his 
famous  riots — conduct  a  press  in  this  city,  which  publishes  a 
paper  called  the  Time  piece.  Burr  is  much  suspected  to  be  in- 
terested in  the  press.  It  is  confidently  said  he  was  security  for 
the  purchase  money  of  the  press.  Dr.  Smith  is  an  elderly  man — 
a  brother  of  the  famous  Wm.  Smith,  late  Chief  Justice  of  Canada 
— and  as  he  is  a  native  of  America,  he  claims  to  be  a  citizen  of 
the  United  States.  They  are  bound  over  to  the  next  Circuit 
Court  which  will  sit  in  September.  Patterson  will  preside  at  it. 
Bache  is  under  recognizance  in  Philadelphia  for  a  similar  offense. 
Burr  and  Rutgers — I  mean  the  rich  Col.  of  this  city — are  bail  for 
Burk  ;  Smith's  relations  are  his  bail.  It  is  determined  to  try 
whether  we  have  strength  enough  to  cause  the  constituted  authori- 
ties to  be  respected.  I  have  not  a  fraction  of  a  doubt  respecting 
the  issue.     .     .     . 

It  is  very  grateful  to  our  friends  that  you  are  now  in  London. 
It  is  of  great  importance  that  we  should  stand  well  with  Great 
Britain  ;  and  we  have  unbounded  confidence  in  your  dis- 
cretion.    .     .     . 

Most  affectionately  your  friend 

Rob.  Troup. 

R.  King  to  A.  Hamilton.  * 

London,  July  14,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  send  you  inclosed  an  interesting  little  piece  addressed  to 
Gallatin  by  a  former  citizen  of  Geneva.  If  translated  and  pub- 
lished it  may  do  good.  We  have  no  news  from  the  Mediterranean 
since  the  capture  of  Malta,  nor  can  we  do  more  than  conjecture 
the  future  destination  of  Buonaparte.  Turin  with  its  arsenals  is 
possessed  by  a  French  army  ;  so  that  Sardinia  is  at  the  feet  of 
the  Directory.  The  Emperor  continues  to  recruit  his  armies,  and 
is  now  laying  up  magazines  in  the  Tyrol.     His  expenses  are  said 

*  Works  of  Hamilton,  vi.,  313. 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  365 

to  be  equal  to  those  of  an  open  war,  and  his  resources  unequal  to 
his  present  expenditures.  Prussia  manifests  no  inclination  to 
enter  into  a  new  coalition  against  France,  and  there  are  who  sus- 
pect a  most  intimate  connection  between  those  powers.  In  short 
the  fate  of  Europe  is  as  uncertain  and  difficult  to  understand  as 
at  any  period  of  the  war.  It  is  at  least  ten  days  since  the 
spirited  measures  passed  in  America  must  have  been  known  in 
Paris.  We  are,  therefore,  anxious  to  learn  the  effect  they  have 
produced.  They  will  be  entirely  disappointed,  and  my  conjecture 
is,  that,  contrary  to  their  wishes,  their  pride  will  drive  them  to 
declare  war  against  us.  On  the  13th  of  June  Gen.  Pinckney  was 
still  at  Lyons  ;  his  daughter  was  much  better,  and  he  flattered 
himself  with  the  expectation  of  being  able  to  reach  Bordeaux  and 
to  embark  by  the  middle  of  this  month.  On  the  26th  of  June, 
Mr.  Gerry  was  at  Paris,  waiting,  say  letters  from  Americans  who 
are  about  him,  for  the  ultimatum  of  the  Directory.  Letters  are 
sent  in  every  direction  by  the  Americans  in  Paris,  which  say  that 
the  Directory  hold  a  conciliatory  language,  and  that  Mr.  Gerry  is 
in  hopes  to  procure  terms  which  will  be  honorable  and  satis- 
factory to  his  country.  I  thought  it  impossible  that  any  future 
step  of  Mr.  G.  could  exceed  in*  and  what  had  passed  when 
he  decided  to  separate  from  his  colleagues  and  remain  at  Paris,, 
but  I  was  mistaken.  His  answer  to  Talleyrand's  demands  of  the 
names  of  X,  Y,  and  Z,  place  him  in  a  more  degraded  light  than  I 
ever  believed  it  possible  that  he  or  any  other  American  citizen 
could  be  exhibited. 

I  send  you  Bellamy's  address.  It,  as  well  as  all  that  has  been 
published,  serves  to  confirm  the  public  detestation  against  the 
Directory.  The  American  dispatches  have  been  circulated 
throughout  Europe,  and  have  everywhere  done  much  good  and 
increased  the  reputation  of  the  government. 


R.  King  to  Lord  Grenville. 

My  Lord  :  Great  Cumberland  Place,  July  14,  1798. 

I  have  the  honor  to  send  your  Lordship  enclosed  the  copy  of  a 
letter  that  I  have  received  from  the  American  Minister  at  the 
Hague  ;  that  to  which  it  refers  as  having  been  sent  by  Mr.  Wads- 

*  Words  omitted  in  Hamilton 's  Works. — Ed. 


366  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

worth  has  not  yet  come  to  hand.  I  desire  to  be  understood  as 
merely  transmitting  the  Proposition  of  the  Dutch  Directory,  and 
not  as  expressing  any  sentiments  of  my  own  upon  the  subject  or 
requesting  those  of  the  British  Government.  I  ought  neverthe- 
less to  observe  that  I  will  with  pleasure  send  to  Mr.  Murray  such 
answer  as  it  may  be  thought  proper  to  make  to  this  informal  com- 
munication. 

With  perfect  Consideration  &  Respect  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

[Copy] 

W.  V.  Murray  to  Mr.  King,  &c,  &c,  London. 

The  Hague,  29th  June,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  wrote  day  before  yesterday  by  Mr.  Wadsworth,  your  and  my 
excellent  friend.  The  object  of  my  letter  was  to  request  you  to 
obtain,  if  possible,  some  relaxation  of  the  Govt,  and  orders  of 
Great  Britain  in  favor  of  the  Dutch  Herring  Fishery.  On  the  24th 
instant  their  little  fleet  of  Baasses  ought  to  have  cast  nets.  The 
proceeds  of  this  annual  tour  at  sea  are  deeply,  almost  essentially, 
important  to  the  poor  as  provisions  ;  besides  as  their  profits  of  the 
year's  income  to  great  bodies  of  poor  fishermen,  it  is  all  in  all. 

Sure  I  am  that  neither  Great  Britain  nor  the  Prince  of  O.  can 
wish  to  hurt  these  men,  except  as  they  may  be  considered  with 
their  boats  as  the  involuntary  means  of  Invasion.  These  means, 
I  believe,  have  been  suspended  as  far  as  they  were  intended  to 
operate  from  this  point  of  embarkation.  * 

I  understand  that  the  boats  lately  in  requisition  are  delivered 
up  all  through  Flanders  to  their  owners.  To  these  men  it  was  the 
usage  of  the  Prince  of  Orange  to  show  great  personal  kindness 
formerly.  On  this  subject  I  have  been  spoken  to  by  the  Directory  and 
requested  to  speak  to  you.  I  need  not  assure  you  that  especially  in 
the  poorest  state  of  her  affairs,  I  would  not  knowingly,  as  I  value 
my  own  country's  safety,  hurt  Great  Britain  or  thwart  her  strength. 
I  wish  it  success.     Pray  inform  me  if  anything  can  be  done. 

I  am  dear  Sir  truly  always  &c.  &c. 

W.  V.  Murray. 

*  See  R.  K's  answer  Aug.  16th  1798.  Letter  of  R.  K.  to  Secy,  of  State. 
Aug.  20.   1798. 


*798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  367 

R.  King  to  Right  Honble.  Lord  Grenville. 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  July  14,  1798. 
My  Lord  : 

I  have  this  morning  been  informed  that  the  Lords  of  the  Coun- 
cil decline  granting  permission  for  the  shipping  to  the  United 
States  of  Copper  in  Sheets  and  Bolts,  unless  on  my  certificate  that 
the  same  are  for  the  use  of  the  American  Government. 

Exclusive  of  the  demand  which  the  American  Government  may- 
have  for  these  articles  very  considerable  quantities  are  wanted  for 
the  Merchant  service,  which  would  be  exposed  to  embarrassments 
in  case  the  permission  heretofore  granted  to  export  the  same  shall 
in  future  be  refused.  As  I  understand  that  the  Manufacturers 
can  supply  any  quantity  of  these  articles,  and  consequently  the 
demands  from  America  are  not  likely  to  interfere  with  those  of 
the  Naval  Department  of  the  Country,  I  take  the  liberty  to  re- 
quest your  Lordship's  interference  in  order  that  under  proper 
cautions,  permission  may  from  time  to  time  be  given  for  the  Ex- 
portation of  Copper  in  Sheets  and  Bolts  for  the  use  of  the  Mer- 
chant Ships. 

In  making  this  request  I  conform  to  an  instruction  that  I  have 
lately  received  from  the  American  Government. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State.     No.  86. 

London,  July  14,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

It  is  more  than  ten  days  since  they  must  have  known  at  Paris 
the  spirited  measures  adopted  by  our  Government  ;  we  may  there- 
fore every  hour  expect  important  information  from  that  country. 
I  think  they  will  declare  war  against  us  ;  that  will  essentially 
thwart  their  plans  ;  but  their  pride  will  not  leave  them  an  option. 

Sir  Joseph  Banks,  the  President  of  the  Royal  Society,  a  few 
days  past  received  a  letter  dated  the  6th  of  June  from  Dupont  de 
Nemours,  which  states  that  he  with  a  Delegation  from  the  National 
Institute  are  going  to  the  United  States  of  America  with  the  view 
of  improving  and  extending  the  sciences  :  the  letter  adds  that  the 
Directory  has  given  them  the  requisite  passports,  and,  thro'  Sir 


368  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

Joseph,  requests  that  passports  from  the  British  Government  may 
likewise  be  granted  to  them.  I  have  been  informed  that  this 
mission  of  Philosophers  meditates  an  establishment  without  the 
limits  of  the  United  States,  and  within  the  boundaries  of  Spain 
high  up  the  Mississippi  ;  their  objects  can  hardly  be  mistaken  ; 
and  notwithstanding  the  moderation  and" character  of  Dupont,  it 
is  not  probable  that  either  the  American  or  English  Government 
will  be  disposed  to  give  any  encouragement  to  this  mission  of  the 
Directory.* 

There  is  no  news  from  the  Mediterranean  since  the  capture  of 
Malta,  and  excepting  the  possession  of  Turin  with  its  fine  arsenal 
by  a  French  army,  I  can  add  nothing  to  my  last  accounts  of 
the  situation  on  the  Continent.  We  have  a  rumour  that  the 
American  ships  in  the  French  ports  are  embargoed,  and  that  all 
American  citizens  are  to  be  immediately  sent  out  of  the  Republic. 
Mr.  Gerry,  on  the  26th  ult?  was  still  at  Paris,  waiting  according 
to  private  letters  from  persons  about  him,  for  the  ultimatum  of 
the  Directory  ;  General  Pinckney  was  at  Lyons  on  the  13th  of 
June  ;  his  daughter  was  then  much  better,  and  he  hoped  to  be  at 
Bordeaux  and  to  embark  by  the  20th  of  this  month. 

The  day  after  the  arrival  of  the  last  Packet  from  New  York,. 
f  in  a  Conference  with  Lord  Grenville,  he  had  heard  with  horror 
from  Mr.  Liston  that  in  a  conversation  between  you  and  him,  you 
had  intimated  an  idea  that  our  Government  might  be  disposed  to 
countenance  the  establishment  of  a  Republic  of  Blacks  in  St.  Domingo. 
I  replied  that  I  had  no  knowledge  of  such  intention  and  after  saying 

*  The  President,  Mr.  Adams,  in  answer  to  the  Secretary's  letter,  communi- 
cating the  above,  wrote  to  T.  Pickering,  Secretary  of  State  : 

"  Quincy,  Sept.  16,  1798. 

".  .  .  I  shall  not  be  guilty  of  so  much  affectation  of  regard  to  science,  as 
to  be  very  willing  to  grant  passports  to  Dupont  de  Nemours,  or  any  other 
French  philosophers,  in  the  present  situation  of  our  Country.  We  have  had 
too  many  French  philosophers  already,  and  I  really  begin  to  think,  or  rather 
to  suspect,  that  learned  academies,  not  under  the  immediate  inspection  and 
control  of  government,  have  disorganized  the  world,  and  are  incompatible  with 
social  order.  Mr.  King  judges  correctly  of  the  American  government,  that  it 
has  no  disposition  to  give  any  encouragement  to  the  mission  of  the  Directory. 
I  hope  he  conjectures  equally  well  of  the  English." — Life  and  Works  of  J, 
Adams,  v.,  596. 

f  Italics  in  cipher. 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  369 

that  I  should  prefer  to  see  one  or  two  Republicks  in  So.  America, 
the  conversation  turned  to  other  and  less  important  Topics. 
With  perfect  Respect  and  Esteem,  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

Thomas  Pinckney  to  R.  King. 

Charleston,  18  July,  1798. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

The  infirm  state  of  my  health  rendered  it  necessary  for  me  to 
leave  Congress  previous  to  their  adjournment  by  which  means 
your  favor  addressed  to  me  in  Philadelphia  did  not  reach  me 
until  after  a  long  &  tedious  journey  I  had  returned  home — the 
debates  in  Congress  detailed  in  the  Newspapers  will  long  before 
you  receive  this  have  enabled  you  to  give  an  answer  to  Sir 
Clement  Cottrell  on  the  subject  of  the  present  ;  but  lest  this  in- 
formation should  by  chance  not  have  met  your  Eye,  I  have  to 
inform  you  that  I  wrote  to  each  branch  of  the  Legislature  relating 
to  them  the  offers  of  the  Courts  of  G.  Britain  and  Spain  to  make 
me  the  customary  present  &  asking  their  decision  whether  or  not 
I  should  receive  them — the  Senate  passed  a  resolution  consenting 
to  the  acceptance,  which  Resolution  was  not  concur'd  in  by  the 
Representatives.  No  reason  was  assigned  for  this  rejection  but 
from  the  course  of  the  debates  it  appeared  that  the  Majority  were 
actuated  by  general  motives  of  policy  &  not  by  such  as  peculiarly 
related  to  either  party.  I  am  convinced  that  you  either  have  or 
will  put  the  refusal  in  its  proper  point  of  view,  so  that  no  umbrage 
may  be  taken  where  I  believe  none  was  intended  to  be  given. 

The  increased  spirit  of  union  which  has  lately  been  manifested 
in  the  United  States  &  the  general  determination  to  support  our 
independence  at  all  hazard  &  against  every  assailant  must  have 
afforded  you  much  satisfaction.  This  spirit,  if  not  universal  is  as 
general  as  could  have  been  expected — if  there  are  any  Americans 
still  deceived  concerning  the  views  &  intentions  of  the  French 
toward  us,  nothing  I  think  could  have  continued  the  delusion  but 
the  conduct  of  Mr.  Gerry.  I  fear  that  to  want  of  judgement  in 
this  character  may  be  added  qualities  of  a  more  criminal  nature — 
The  present  questions  which  seem  to  divide  the  sentiments  of  the 
friends  to  our  independence  are  an  immediate  declaration  of  war, 
&  an  Alliance  with  Great  Britain.     I  am  of  opinion  with  those 

VOL.  II. — 24 


370  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

who  are  averse  to  both  measures,  preferring  to  go  into  the  war  if 
necessary  without  the  declaration  ;  continuing  our  preparations 
for  a  vigorous  opposition  &  actually  repelling  every  aggression 
both  at  home  &  abroad  until  we  see  the  effect  of  our  late  meas- 
ures, which  I  am  well  assured  will  astonish  the  French  Govern- 
ment, whether  or  not  they  may  cause  any  alteration  in  their  coun- 
cils. And  as  to  an  Alliance  offensive  or  defensive  with  any 
power  on  Earth  I  have  a  multitude  of  reasons  too  tedious  to 
detail  against  that  measure,  one  is  founded  on  past  experience, 
as  we  are  now  paying  the  penalty  of  a  former  engagement ;  an- 
other is  that  I  have  no  faith  in  these  paper  bonds  when  the 
pressure  of  circumstances  tends  to  dissolve  them  ;  a  third  is  that 
these  compacts  must  be  neutral  &  might  drag  us  on  into  war  con- 
trary to  our  interest  &  inclinations  when  the  cause  of  war  may 
no  longer  exist ;  but  above  all  I  wish  us  to  stand  on  American 
ground — at  least  I  wish  the  experiment  fairly  to  be  made  ;  if 
then  we  find  we  can  not  go  alone,  it  will  be  time  to  call  for 

assistance. 

Truly  Yours 

Thomas  Pinckney. 


R.  King  to  Col.  Pickering. 

Private, 

London,  July  19,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

On  the  14th  inst  Mr.  Gerry  was  still  at  Paris,  and  the  Ameri- 
cans about  him  continue  by  their  letters  which  are  sent  in  every 
direction  to  amuse  their  correspondents  with  Reports  that  the 
Directory  hold  a  conciliatory  language  concerning  America,  and 
that  Mr.  G.  has  hopes  that  he  shall  be  able  to  obtain  for  his  Coun- 
try Terms  that  will  be  honorable  and  satisfactory.  This  is  pre- 
cisely what  the  Directory  must  desire  that  he  and  they  should 
say  and  circulate  at  the  moment  they  expect  a  Rupture  between 
the  Two  Countries.  How  he  will  justify  his  residence  at  Paris 
after  the  receit  of  the  letter  of  Recall  sent  to  him  &  his  col- 
leagues I  cannot  conjecture  ;  he  certainly  feels  and  acts  differ- 
ently from  what  most  of  his  Countrymen  would  do  in  his 
situation.  There  is  a  most  extraordinary  and  to  me  a  most 
satisfactory  contrast  between  his  conduct  and  language  and  that 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  37 1 

of  the  President.  So  striking  is  the  Difference  that  the  question 
has  been  often  asked,  by  those  who  do  not  understand  our  con- 
stitution, by  whom  our  Ambassadors  are  appointed,  and  who  has 
the  power  to  recall  them  ;  the  supposition  being  that  these  powers 
do  not  reside  in  the  President  whose  opinions  are  so  much  at 
variance  with  those  manifested  by  Mr.  Gerry.     .     .     . 

We  still  have  nothing  more  than  vague  Rumours  concerning 
Buonaparte,  and  the  squadron  under  Nelson  since  the  capture  of 
Malta.  At  Rastadt  there  is  the  appearancee  of  pretty  firm  Re- 
sistance to  the  last  Note  of  the  French  ministers.  But  nothing 
positive  or  satisfactory  can  be  inferred  from  the  present  Posture 
of  negotiations  there. 

As  I  have  intimated  to  you  would  probably  be  the  case,  I  per- 
ceive that  numbers  of  the  disaffected  Irish  will  be  expelled  and 
that  they  will  be  disposed  to  plant  themselves  among  us.  It  was 
the  practice  of  the  Emigrants  from  Scotland  to  bring  with  them 
Certificates  from  the  religious  Societies  to  which  they  belonged, 
of  their  honesty,  sobriety  and  generally  of  their  good  Character  ! 
Why  should  we  not  require  some  such  Document  from  all  Emi- 
grants, and  it  would  be  well  to  add  to  the  Testimonial  that  the 
person  to  whom  it  was  granted  was  not  expelled  from  his  Coun- 
try and  had  not  been  convicted  of  any  crime.  I  am,  I  confess 
very  anxious  upon  this  subject.  The  contrast  between  New  Eng- 
land and  some  other  Parts  of  the  U.  S.  is  in  my  view  a  powerful 
admonition  to  us  to  observe  greater  caution  in  the  admission  of 
Foreigners  among  us.  If  from  the  emigrations  of  past  time  we 
have  suffered  inconvenience  and  our  true  national  character  has 
been  disfigured,  what  are  we  to  expect  from  the  Emigrants  of  the 

present  Day  ?     .     .     . 

With  great  haste 

R.  K. 

R.  Troup  to  R.  King. 

New  York,  24th  July,  1798. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

.     .     .     I  now  enclose  you  Gen.  Washington's  acceptance  of 

the  command  of  our  armies.     This  is  much  admired  and  thought 

to  add  another  gem  to  that  crown  of  glory  he  has  so  long  worn. 

Congress  have  adjourned  ;    our  Treaties  with  France  are   dis- 


372  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

solved  ;  no  declaration  of  war  has  taken  place,  although  we  are 
on  both  sides  in  a  state  of  actual  hostility. 

The  temper  of  our  countrymen  is  still  continuing  to  mount 
higher  and  brighter.  We  shall  not  dishonour  our  country.  .  .  . 
Our  general  officers  are  appointed.  Hamilton  is  the  first  on  the 
list  as  Inspector  General,  with  the  rank  of  Major  General  ;  next 
to  him  is  Pinckney,  our  Envoy  to  France  as  Major  General ;  then 
comes  Knox  as  Major  General.     .     .     . 

God  bless  you 
Rob.  Troup. 

T.  Pickering  to  R.  King.     No.  23. 

"  Department  of  State,  July  25,  1798. 
"  Dear  Sir  : 

"...  You  will  have  seen  by  the  news  papers  that  General 
Washington  has  accepted  the  office  of  Lieutenant  General  and 
Commander  in  Chief  of  the  Armies  of  the  United  States.  This 
has  given  great  satisfaction  and  contributed  to  heighten  and  ex- 
tend the  rising  spirit  of  the  people  of  the  United  States.     .     .     .'" 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State.     No.  87. 

Margate,  July  28,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  as  you  will  suppose  been  much  gratified  with  the  late 
intelligence  from  America  :  if  anything  can  preserve  us  from  the 
distress  and  ruin  which  continue  to  extend  themselves  in  Europe, 
it  will  be  our  thinking  and  acting  concerning  France  with  that 
wisdom  and  firmness  of  which  the  President  gives  us  so  illustrious 
an  example.  We  shall  not  only  thereby  save  our  own  country 
but  we  shall  do  more  ;  our  example  beyond  what  we  imagine  will 
encourage  others  to  unite  in  that  resistance  which  alone  can  res- 
cue Europe  from  Slavery  and  Barbarism.  Men  of  all  parties,  and 
of  every  country  agree  in  applauding  the  moderation,  the  justice 
and  the  wisdom  of  our  Government,  and  never  perhaps  did  the 
publication  of  any  negociation  more  completely  serve  to  decide 
and  settle  the  public  opinion  than  that  of  our  mission  to  Paris 
has  done.  It  has  given  reputation  to  our  couutry,  and  besides 
been  advantageous  by  closing  the  mouth  of  the  apologists  of 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  373 

France.  I  wish  I  could  send  you  even  a  tolerable  program  re- 
specting the  affairs  of  Europe.  Many  people  think  that  great 
events  depend  on  the  success  or  failure  of  the  Expedition,  which 
nobody  understands,  of  Buonaparte.  We  know  nothing  of  con- 
sequence from  the  Mediterranean  since  the  capture  of  Malta.  A 
frigate  returned  from  thence  to  Toulon  with  despatches  and  a 
general  officer  on  board,  has  been  met  and  captured  by  an  Eng- 
lish frigate  and  we  are  told  that  Buonaparte  with  his  fleet  had  left 
Malta  two  days  before  the  English  fleet  that  pursues  him  arrived 
there.  The  prevalent  opinion  is  that  there  is  a  great  probability 
that  the  French  fleet  will  be  overtaken  and  defeated.  The  con- 
ferences at  Seltz  between  that  Ex-director  and  Count  Cobenzel, 
which  it  has  been  said  related  to  the  affair  of  Bernadotte  at 
Vienna,  have  broken  off,  and,  as  is  given  out,  without  effecting 
their  object.  At  Rastadt  the  ministers  continue  to  exchange 
notes,  and  to  protract  the  negociations  as  if  the  winding  up  of 
their  business  depended  upon  events  that  had  not  yet  arrived. 
The  conquest  of  Switzerland  and  the  occupation  of  Turin  by  a 
French  army  enables  the  Directory  to  complete  the  Revolution  of 
all  Italy  whenever  they  please.  In  Ireland  the  Rebellion  is  at  an 
end,  a  general  amnesty  with  a  few  exceptions  will  soon  be  pro- 
claimed ;  many  of  the  inferior  chiefs  will  be  permitted  to  go  into 
exile.  I  have  before  intimated  the  probability  of  such  a  measure, 
and  hope  the  President  will  have  power  to  exclude  from  our 
country  all  such  foreigners  whose  residence  among  us  would  be 
dangerous.  England  strong  in  her  union  and  confident  of  her 
resources  manfully  resolves  to  maintain  the  struggle  with  the 
enemy  ;  no  one  speaks  of  peace  ;  and  all  seem  to  think  and  act 
as  tho'  arms  alone  could  protect  them  from  the  misery  that  is  suf- 
fered by  the  people  of  France.  You  may  observe  in  some  of  the 
newspapers  indications  of  a  change  in  the  Ministry  ;  no  credit  is 
due  to  them  ;  the  Ministry  undoubtedly  possess  as  great,  and  per- 
haps a  greater  portion  of  public  confidence  and  support  than  were 
ever  bestowed  upon  any  former  administration,  and  in  respect  to 
the  favor  of  the  King,  so  long  as  they  will  continue  the  war,  so  long 
they  will  receive  his  protection  ;  indeed  the  opposition  are  too  small  to 
form  from  among  themselves  a  new  administration  ;  and  could  they 
do  it,  neither  the  King  nor  the  Nation  would  confide  in  them* 

*  Italics  are  in  cipher. 


374  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

I  don't  say  this  without  the  highest  and  most  convincing  proof 
that  it  is  true.  The  Paris  papers  of  the  13th  give  with  fidelity  the 
late  news  from  Philadelphia.  Mr.  Gerry  was  still  there  !  Dupont 
(a  letter  from  whom  to  his  sister  that  lately  fell  into  my  hands  is 
sent  enclosed*)  had  arrived  at  Bordeaux  after  a  short  passage  from 
New  York.  We  may  judge  of  his  Report  from  the  tenor  of  this 
letter.  We  have  accounts  from  France,  which  tho'  probable,  need 
confirmation,  that  on  the  9th  instant  an  Embargo  was  laid  on  all 
American  Ships,  and  yesterday  there  was  a  rumour  that  the  same 
measure  had  been  adopted  in  Holland.  The  French  papers  of 
the  10th  are  silent  on  this  subject,  tho'  they  mention  the  encreased 
probability  of  an  open  rupture  with  the  United  States.  I  have 
taken  such  measures  as  I  think  will  give  me  early  information  on 
this  subject,  and  in  a  certain  event,  I  am  prepared,  to  send  out 
safe  and  expeditious  intelligence  thereof. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Col.  Hamilton. 

31st  July,  1798. 

Dear  Sir  : 

You  will  believe  that  I  have  been  much  gratified  with  the  late 
intelligence  from  home.  France  has  calculated  all  her  plans  on 
our  disunion,  and  the  expectation  that  her  friends  if  not  more 
numerous  would  be  more  active  and  possess  greater  energy  than 
the  friends  of  our  Government ;  or  rather  she  has  believed  that 
our  Government  like  that  of  every  country  that  she  has  succeeded 
to  overturn  and  enslave,  would  act  with  such  timidity  and  in 
so  qualified  a  manner,  that  the  affections  and  support  of  the 
People  would  be  easily  withdrawn  from  and  even  turned  against 
it.  If  the  Government  continues  to  speak  and  act  with  decision, 
the  people  will  become  more  and  more  united,  and  still  better  in- 
clined to  execute  its  purposes.  This  opinion  should  be  taken  in 
connection  with  an  observation  (the  importance  of  wh.  appears 
to  me  the  greater  the  oftener  I  consider  it)  that  I  have  suggested 
in  more  than  one  of  my  late  letters.  The  composition  of  ad- 
dresses and  the  forming  of  volunteer  associations  who  will  have 

*  Not  found.— Ed. 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  375 

nothing  to  do,  are  for  the  present  well  ;  but  they  will  cease  to  be 
novelties  and  soon  become  tiresome,  and  to  be  secure  you  must 
have  some  sufficient  object  that  will  interest  and  employ  the 
passions  of  the  Nation.  The  mere  defensive  system  of  the 
enemies  of  France  has  been  a  principal  cause  of  her  success,  and 
if  we  adopt  the  error  we  shall  be  exposed  to  greater  Risques  than 
by  a  bold  and  active  system,  which,  exclusive  of  being  the  most 
certain  means  of  safety,  would  promise  the  acquisition  of  great 
and  lasting  advantages. 

The  Destiny  of  the  new  world,  and  I  have  a  full  and  firm  per- 
suasion that  it  will  be  both  happy  and  glorious,  is  in  our  hands. 
We  have  a  right  and  it  is  our  duty  to  deliberate  and  act,  not  as 
secondaries,  but  as  Principals.  The  object  and  the  occasion  are 
such  as  we  ought  not  in  respect  to  ourselves  and  others  to  suffer 
to  pass  unimproved. 

I  have  nothing  to  observe  in  reference  to  the  subject  of  regret 
and  complaint,*  mentioned  in  your  last  letters.  You  will  not 
doubt  that  all  the  means  in  my  power  have  been  employed  to 
correct  the  mischief  ;  they  have  served  only  to  convince  me  that 
it  is  incorrigible  ;  it  is  an  evil  too  deeply  rooted  and  too  power- 
fully protected  to  be  cured  ;  and  it  is  something  gained  to  know 
that  it  is  so.  If  we  are  wise  we  shall  have  the  agents  that  will 
place  the  remedy  in  our  own  hands. 

A  Frigate  returning  from  Malta  to  Toulon  and  a  general  officer 
has  been  captured  by  an  English  frigate,  and  we  are  told  that 
Buonaparte  had  sailed  on  his  expedition  two  days  before  the  Eng. 
fleet  that  pursues  him  arrived  there.  If  so,  the  French  fleet  is  in 
great  danger.  Many  persons  think  that  great  events  depend  on 
the  success  or  failure  of  Buonaparte's  expedition.     All  the  late 

*  Reference  is  probably  here  made  to  a  letter  of  Hamilton,  June  6th  (vol.  vi., 
p.  298),  in  which  occurs  the  following  passage  :  "  How  vexatious  it  is  that  at 
such  a  juncture  there  should  be  officers  of  Great  Britain,  who,  actuated  by  a 
spirit  of  plunder,  are  doing  the  most  violent  things,  calculated  to  check  the 
proper  amount  of  popular  feeling  (in  the  U.  States),  and  to  furnish  weapons  to 
the  enemies  of  government,"  and  mentioning  several  cases  of  outrages  in  the 
W.  Indies,  such  as  Cambauld's  at  the  Mole,  and  the  captures  of  vessels  by 
Cochrane  of  the  Thetis,  he  closes  :  "  There  seems  a  fatality  in  all  this.  It 
cannot  be  doubted  that  the  British  Cabinet  must  at  this  time  desire  to  conciliate 
this  country.  It  is  to  be  hoped  they  will  not  want  vigor  to  do  it  with  effect,  by 
punishing  those  who  contravene  the  object." — Ed. 


376  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

arrivals  from  Paris  say  a  new  storm  is  at  hand  ;  but  none  ex- 
press a  hope  that  the  changes  it  may  effect  will  render  the  condi- 
tion of  France  or  of  others  better.  Gerry  still  hangs  about  the 
Directory  !  !  At  Rastadt  the  Congress  continues,  and  the  jeal- 
ousies between  Austria  and  Prussia  artfully  kept  alive  by  the 
common  Enemy,  prevent  that  hearty  union  without  which  no  suc- 
cessful cooperation  will  take  place  against  France. 

In  Ireland  the  Rebellion  is  suppressed,  and  our  Government 
will  I  hope  have  the  power  and  the  inclination  to  exclude  those 
disaffected  characters,  who  will  be  suffered  to  seek  an  asylum 
among  us.  England  is  more  than  ever  united  and  resolves  with 
confidence  in  the  superiority  of  her  resources  to  prosecute  the 
war.  There  is  no  talk  of  peace  ;  nor  is  there  any  appearance  wh. 
wd.  lead  to  an  opinion  that  new  overtures  for  that  purpose  are 
likely  soon  to  be  made. 

On  the  other  hand  France  is  extremely  embarrassed  any  longer 
to  find  the  money  necessary  to  maintain  her  army  and  carry  on 
the  war. 

Be  so  kind  as  to  present  my  affectionate  respect  and  congratu- 
lations to  the  Governor.  I  ought  to  write  to  him,  but  I  consider 
a  letter  to  him  or  you  as  nearly  the  same. 

With  great  truth  and  attachment  &c.  Yrs. 

R.  King. 

P.  S.     We  have  just  heard  that  Gerry  has  received  his  passport. 

At  the  close  of  Talleyrand's  letter,  sending  it,  he  says  though 

the  Directory,  as  a  measure  of  precaution,  has  laid  an  embargo 

upon  all  American  vessels,  "  telle  est  la  repugnance  du  Directoire 

a.  considerer  les  Etats  Unis  comme  ennemis,  que  malgre  leurs 

demonstrations  hostiles,  il  veut  attendre,  qu'  il  y  voit  irresistible- 

ment  force  par  des  hostilites  reelles." 

R.  King. 


CHAPTER  XXV. 

King  to  R.  Troup — French  and  Irish  Affairs — Benedict  Arnold — To  Secretary 
of  State — French  Affairs — United  States  must  be  firm — Reports  of  Vol- 
ney — Lord  Grenville  on  Relations  of  the  United  States  with  France — 
Gerry's  Arrival  at  Spithead — King's  Failure  to  see  him — Duverne  de  Praisle 
sent  to  Philadelphia — His  Character — Dr.  Logan's  Arrival  at  Hamburg — 
King  to  W.  Vans  Murray — Negotiation  between  England  and  Holland — 
Mr.  Derby  desires  to  import  Saltpetre  from  E.  Indies  to  America — King 
to  purchase  Muskets  and  Cannon  for  the  United  States — King's  Admira- 
tion of  the  Firmness  of  the  Govt,  of  the  United  States  in  Relations  with 
France — Conversation  with  Lord  Grenville  on  the  Effect  of  the  Fupture 
of  Treaties  with  France — Probability  of  Revolution  in  S.  America — Euro- 
pean Politics — To  S.  Williams  relative  to  Seizure  of  Nails  as  Contraband 
— Cabot  on  European  Affairs — Also  on  the  Condition  of  the  United  States 
and  its  Firmness. 

R.  King  to  R.  Troup. 

July  31,  1798. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

I  give  you  a  thousand  thanks  for  three  letters  that  I  have  lately 
received  from  you.  They  have  given  me  more  information  and 
more  satisfaction  than  all  I  had  heard  for  the  preceding  six 
months.  We  are  delighted  with  the  firm  and  manly  conduct  of 
our  Government.  If  any  thing  will  save  us  from  the  Snares  and 
Ruin  prepared  for  us,  it  will  be  the  resolute  and  plain  Policy  of 
which  the  President's  conduct  is  so  worthy  an  example.  We 
everywhere  gain  applause  and  admiration  ;  even  from  those  who 
have  strong  prejudices  to  overcome  in  speaking  well  of  any  of 
our  measures. 

Such  persons  as  have  lately  returned  from  Paris  concur  in  their 
reports  of  the  disappointment  and  chagrin  of  those  who  are  most 
intimate  with  the  Directory.  Nothing  can  exceed  the  rage  of  the 
apostate  Americans,  who  have  so  long  misrepresented  and  dis- 
graced their  country  at  Paris.     Mr.  Gerry  remained  there,  when 

377 


378  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

we  last  heard  from  thence.  The  information  lately  received  from 
Philadelphia,  which  is  to  the  20th  of  June,  has  been  received  and 
published  with  tolerable  fidelity  in  the  French  papers.  The  late 
law,  authorizing  the  Directory  to  make  domiciliary  visits  is  the 
return  of  terror  and  forbodes  another  Revolution.  The  Expedi- 
tion agt,  Engd.  is  of  tedious  preparation. 

The  Rebellion  in  Ireland  is  suppressed  and  there  is  reason  to 
believe,  so  numerous  and  vigilant  have  been  the  English  ships  of 
war,  that  not  a  single  musket,  nor  a  single  officer  have  been  landed 
in  Ireland.  If  measures  are  not  employed  to  prevent  it,  you  will 
find  that  considerable  numbers  of  the  disaffected  will  seek  an 
asylum  among  us.  Notwithstanding  all  you  may  hear  to  the  con- 
trary, England  is  more  united  than  ever  ;  confident  in  her  re- 
sources and,  thoroughly  convinced  of  the  importance  of  the 
contest,  she  will  manfully  maintain  it,  until  Peace  can  be  obtained 
that  will  bring  security.  The  French  have  demonstrated  their 
inability  in  respect  to  the  threatened  invasion,  in  not  having 
attempted  even  to  succour  Ireland  whom  she  encouraged  to 
revolt.  If  England  is  wise  she  will  pursue  a  Policy  that  will  here- 
after preserve  her  from  that  anxiety  and  expence  to  which  she  has 
been  so  often  exposed  by  Ireland.  Scotland  was  formerly  equally 
troublesome  ;  but  since  the  Union  the  Scots  have  been  loyal  ;  the 
same  measure  would  probably  produce  the  same  effects  in  Ireland. 

We  are  waiting  with  impatience  for  further  news  from  the 
Mediterranean — At  Rastadt  nothing  is  decided  and  the  Congress 
continues.  The  jealousies  between  Austria  and  Prussia  prevent 
their  union,  without  which  both  these  nations  must  undergo  a 
Revolution.  Our  Agent  in  the  case  of  captures  has  just  reed, 
from  the  Exchequer  in  payment  of  the  awards  of  the  commissrs. 
and  of  Sir  Wm.  Scott  and  Dr.  Nicholl,  about  ^70,000  Sterling, 
and  there  is  a  prospect  of  a  satisfactory  termination  of  the  cases 
of  capture  that  fall  within  the  purview  of  the  Treaty.     .     . 

You  have  undoubtedly  heard  that  here,  as  well  as  with  you,  all 
the  country  have  been  permitted  to  form  volunteer  corps — in  the 
Parish  of  Mary-le-bone,  the  tradesmen  associated  and  a  proposal 
was  made  to  appoint  a  number  of  half-pay  officers  to  be  their 
officers.  General  Arnold  lives  in  that  Parish,  and  a  rumour  circu- 
lated that  he  wished  a  command.  The  tradesmen  met  and  re- 
solved that  General  Arnold,  having  once  betrayed  and  deserted 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  379 

his  duty,  ought  never  again  to  be  trusted,  and  that  they  wd.  never 

serve  with  him  or  under  his  command. 

Yours, 

R.  King. 

P.  S.  We  hear  that  Mr.  Gerry  has  demanded  and  received  his 
Passport.  Mr.  Talleyrand  informs  Mr.  Gerry,  "  that  notwithstand- 
ing the  hostile  preparations  in  America,  the  Directory  will  wait  until 
they  are  forced  by  actual  hostilities  to  declare  war."  They  do 
not  easily  relinquish  a  plan,  and  they  appear  moderate  and  hum- 
ble, in  hopes  that  we  shall  relax  and  that  in  the  end  they  shall 
succeed. 

R.  Ktng  to  Secretary  of  State.     No.  88. 

London,  August  1,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

It  is  confirmed  that  France  has  laid  an  Embargo  on  all  Ameri- 
can vessels  in  her  ports,  and  I  have  reason  to  apprehend  that  the 
same  measure  will  be  enforced  in  Holland.  The  knowledge  of 
what  has  been  done  in  France  will  hasten  the  departure  of  such 
of  our  ships  as  are  in  the  Dutch  ports.  Excepting  ten  or  twelve 
at  Bordeaux,  there  are  but  few  American  vessels  in  the  French 
ports,  and  I  do  not  learn  that  the  number  is  considerable  in 
Holland. 

Mr.  Gerry  received  his  Passport  on  the  15th  ulto.,  but  was  still 
at  Paris  on  the  25th,  tho'  proposing  to  leave  it  to  embark  at 
Havre  ;  Genl.  Pinckney  has  reached  Bordeaux,  where  he  ex- 
periences new  embarrassments  on  account  of  the  Embargo,  but 
expects  to  receive  permission  to  embark  in  the  ship  in  which 
Dupont  and  others  lately  returned  to  France.  I  have  sent  you 
by  various  channels  Talleyrand's  last  letter  to  Mr.  Gerry,  which 
having  been  published  in  Paris,  has  been  republished  here.  You 
will  doubtless  regret  that  Mr.  Gerry's  unfortunate  separation  from 
his  colleagues  has  furnished  an  occasion  for  some  of  the  Remarks 
that  this  letter  contains,  the  principal  object  of  which,  agreeable 
to  the  original  and  avowed  hopes  of  the  Directory,  and  which  it 
appears  they  still  cherish,  is  the  establishment  of  that  division 
among  our  People,  and  between  them  and  the  Government  which 
will  enable  France  to  regulate  the  destinies  of  America,  in  the 
manner  she  continues  to  rule  those  of  Europe. 


380  RUFUS  KING,  [1798 

We  have  intelligence  from  Boston  as  late  as  the  3d  of  July,  and 
it  is  highly  satisfactory  ;  but  unless  we  are  patient,  firm  and  per- 
severing, and  can  thereby  succeed  to  deprive  France  of  the  oppor- 
tunity of  employing  the  means  among  ourselves  upon  which  she 
relies  to  effect  her  purposes,  we  shall  notwithstanding  our  promis- 
ing beginnings  ultimately  become  the  victims  of  her  insidious  and 
destructive  policy.  For  consider  the  rapacity  and  insolence  that 
she  daily  practises  towards  those  who  have  unhappily  fallen  be- 
neath her  power  :  she  knows  how  to  assume  the  language  of 
justice  and  of  moderation  to  others  ;  and  to  attain  her  object 
with  deep  dissimulation  displays  in  the  most  captivating  manner 
the  images  of  candour,  of  sincerity  and  of  Justice.  My  anxiety 
is  lest  our  Country  may  be  deceived  by  her  false  appearances, 
and  after  ail  we  have  ourselves  experienced,  and  after  the  dread- 
ful commentary  upon  French  moderation  and  justice  exhibited 
in  the  fate  of  the  Swiss,  that  we  shall  find  those  among  us  who  will 
become  the  advocates  of  a  system  that  will  prematurely  bring  the 
new  world  to  that  ruin,  that  has  nearly  overwhelmed  the  old.  I 
am  informed  and  I  believe  correctly,  that  the  Reports  of  Volney 
which  are  in  the  highest  degree  gross  and  offensive  in  regard  to 
our  Government,  represent  the  separation  between  the  northern 
and  southern  States  and  between  them  and  the  western  country, 
as  events  that  nature  has  ordained  and  which  France  can  with 
ease  and  advantage  at  any  time  effect.  The  Reports  of  Dupont 
differ  in  this  respect  from  those  of  Volney,  and  the  former  also 
represent  the  people  to  be  more  united  and  better  inclined  to 
support  their  Government  than  the  latter  conceives  them  to 
be.     .     .     . 

With  perfect  Respect  and  Esteem  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

Lord  Grenville  to  R.  King. 

Secret. 

Dropmore,  Aug.  3.  1798. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

I  am  very  much  obliged  to  you  for  the  interesting  information 

contained  in  your  letter  of  the  31st  July.     The  spirit  which  the 

United  States  continue  to  display  in  the  present  crisis  of  their 

affairs  affords  the  best  prospect,  &  the  surest  means,  for  the  main- 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  38 1 

tenance  of  their  consideration  abroad  &  of  their  tranquillity  at 
home.  You  know  how  sincerely  I  concur  with  you  in  every  wish 
that  you  can  form  for  the  success  of  the  wise  &  dignified  measures 
which  your  Government  is  pursuing. 

In  my  opinion  the  tone  of  Talleyrand's  last  letter  to  Gerry  on 
sending  him  his  passport  plainly  shows  that  those  measures  have 
already  produced  a  great  part  of  the  effect  to  be  expected  from 
them.  But  if  this  affectation  of  friendship  &  conciliation  suc- 
ceeds in  imposing  upon  your  people,  and  induces  them  or  their 
Government  to  relax  its  efforts,  the  whole  of  what  has  been  done 
will  be  useless  and  the  same  course  will  be  to  be  again  pursued 
with  less  expectation  of  ultimate  success. 

You  know  I  am  never  very  sanguine  in  what  I  say  to  you  of 
continental  affairs,  in  Europe.  If  all  or  any  of  those  Powers 
whose  ruin  is  either  completed,  or  in  the  regular  progress  of  com- 
pletion, had  shown  half  the  energy  that  has  been  displayed  by 
the  British  &  American  People,  they  would  have  been  safe,  we 
should  have  been  triumphant,  and  America  would  have  been  a 
tranquil  and  uninterested  spectator  of  the  troubles  which  the 
infernal  spirit  of  atheism  and  modern  Philosophy  had  produced 
in  France. 

It  would  be  too  much  to  persuade  oneself  that  they  are  yet 
fairly  roused  from  their  fatal  Lethargy  &  impressed  with  a  true 
sense  of  the  nature  of  the  crisis  in  which  they  are  placed.  There 
are  however  just  now  appearances  more  favourable  with  respect 
to  Austria  &  Russia  than  we  have  lately  been  accustomed  to  see. 
Between  the  former  of  these  Powers  &  Naples  a  defensive  Alli- 
ance has  been  concluded  for  mutual  support  against  France,  and 
any  attack  by  the  French  against  Naples  for  receiving  or  supply- 
ing our  ships  (which  the  Neapolitan  Govt,  has  engaged  to  do)  is 
to  be  considered  by  Austria  as  a  casus  foederis.  This  stipulation 
seems  to  render  a  renewal  of  the  War  almost  certain  and  Austria 
is  preparing  for  it  accordingly.  The  conferences  at  Seltz  are 
entirely  broken  off.  Cobenzel  &  Neuchateau  had  both  orders  to 
demand  satisfaction  on  the  affair  of  Bernadotte,  and  as  neither 
was  authorized  to  give  it,  nothing  was  settled  on  that  head.  Co- 
benzel had  also  orders  to  remonstrate  &  treat  on  the  subject  of 
the  Italian  &  Swiss  revolutions  since  Campo-Formio,  &  Neuchateau 
refused  to  talk  on  these  events  which  had  happened,  as  he  said, 


382  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

by  the  will  of  the  Italian  &  Helvetic  nations  !  Nothing  was  there- 
fore agreed  to,  but  the  whole  negotiation  was  referred  back  to  the 
ordinary  channels  of  intercourse,  the  negotiators  separated,  as 
I  learn,  with  great  mutual  politeness. 

I  mention  these  particulars  to  you  in  confidence  not  to  be 
talked  of  here,  but  with  such  liberty  to  state  them  to  your  Gov- 
ernment to  whom  I  conceive  it  may  be  important  to  be  accurately 
informed  of  them.  If  there  was  more  energy  &  union  on  the 
continent,  I  should  think  the  prospects  of  the  present  moment 
very  favourable,  but  be  the  conduct  or  the  state  of  the  continent 
what  it  may  you  [may]  be  assured  that  neither  the  principles  nor 
the  conduct  of  this  Country  will  vary.* 

Believe  me  ever  with  the  most  sincere  regard,  dear  Sir,  your 

most  faithful  humbl.  servt. 

Grenville. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State.     No.  90. 

Margate,  August  5,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  last  Paris  papers,  which  are  to  the  30th  of  July,  are  un- 
interesting ;  but  the  information  from  thence  by  Dover  &  Ham- 
burgh confirms  the  inference  that  may  be  drawn  from  Talleyrand's 
farewell  letter  to  Mr.  Gerry,  that  the  spirit  of  our  people  and  the 
wise  and  dignified  conduct  of  our  Government  have  already  pro- 
duced a  great  part  of  the  effect  to  be  expected  from  them. 
Should  however  this  affectation  of  friendship  and  conciliation  suc- 
ceed in  imposing  upon  our  people,  or  should  it  induce  them  or 
our  Government  to  relax  in  the  only  sure  means  of  saving  the 
Country,  the  whole  of  what  has  been  done  will  be  useless,  and 
the  same  course  will  be  to  be  again  pursued  with  less  expectation 
of  ultimate  success.  Difficult  as  it  undoubtedly  is  with  the  best 
and  most  regular  information,  to  form  a  correct  opinion  respect- 
ing the  affairs  of  Europe,  I  shall  forever  believe  that  if  those 
powers  whose  ruin  is  either  completed,  or  in  the  progress  of  being 
so,  had  shown  half  the  energy  that  continues  to  be  displayed  by 

*  Mr.  King's  dispatch  to  the  Secretary  of  State,  No.  90,  August  5th,  con- 
tains the  information  given  by  Lord  Grenville  used  generally  in  the  language  of 
his  letter. — Ed. 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  383 

the  people  of  America,  they  would  have  been  safe,  England 
would  long  since  have  been  at  peace,  and  we  should  have 
remained  the  tranquil  and  uninterested  spectator  of  the  troubles 
which  the  infernal  spirit  of  atheism  and  modern  philosophy  had 
produced  in  France.  When  the  enslaved  nations  will  awake 
from  their  lethargy  cannot  be  predicted,  and  it  would  be  too 
much  to  persuade  ourselves  that  they  or  those,  who  are  on  the 
eve  of  ruin,  are  yet  fairly  roused  or  fully  impressed  with  the  crisis 
in  which  they  are  placed. 

But  I  have  this  moment  learned,  and  you  may  give  full  credit 
to  the  information,  that  there  are  just  now  appearances  more 
favorable,  and  particularly  in  respect  to  Austria  and  Prussia  than 
we  have  lately  been  accustomed  to  see.  Between  the  former  and 
Naples  a  defensive  alliance  has  been  concluded  for  mutual  sup- 
port against  France ;  and  any  attack  by  the  French  against 
Naples  for  receiving  or  supplying  the  British  ships  of  war,  which 
the  Neapolitan  Government  has  engaged  to  do,  is  to  be  consid- 
ered by  Austria  as  a  Casus  foederis  !  This  expectation,  so  very 
important  in  the  present  posture  of  affairs  in  the  Mediterranean, 
seems  to  render  the  renewal  of  the  war  almost  certain,  and  Austria 
is  accordingly  preparing  for  it.  Through  the  same  channel  that 
I  have  obtained  this  highly  interesting  intelligence,  I  also  learn 
that  Cobenzel  and  Neufchateau  in  their  conference  at  Seltz  have 
orders  to  demand  satisfaction  in  the  affair  of  Bernadotte  ;  and 
as  neither  was  authorized  to  give  it,  nothing  was  settled  on  that 
head.  Cobenzel  had  also  orders  to  remonstrate  and  treat  on  the 
subject  of  the  Italian  and  Swiss  Revolutions  since  the  Treaty  of 
"Campo  Formio  ;  the  Ex-director  refused  to  talk  on  these  events 
which  had  happened,  he  said,  by  the  will  of  the  Italian  and  Hel- 
vetic nations. 

Nothing  was  therefore  agreed,  but  the  whole  negociation  was 
referred  back  to  the  ordinary  channels  of  intercourse,  and  the 
negociators  separated,  as  I  hear,  with  great  mutual  politeness.  I 
hope  to  be  able  to  send  this  letter  by  the  Packet,  tho'  the  mail 
has  been  despatched,  as  I  consider  it  to  be  of  great  consequence 
that  the  President  should  receive  the  earliest  information  of  the 
present  and  probable  state  of  Europe  ;  respecting  which  if  there 
was  greater  energy  and  union  upon  the  Continent,  the  prospects 
of  the  present  moment  might  be  considered  as  favorable.     But 


384  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

let  the  conduct  or  condition  of  the  continent  be  what  it  may,  I 
am  assured  that  neither  the  principles  nor  the  conduct  of  this 
country  will  vary. 

With  perfect  Respect  and  Esteem  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Lord  Spencer. 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  nth  August,  1798. 

Mr.  King  presents  his  compliments  to  Lord  Spencer,  and  has 
the  honor  to  inform  his  Lordship  that  the  American  Brigantine 
Sophia Master  which  the  Government  of  the  U.  S.  some- 
times since  dispatched  to  France  for  the  purpose  of  bringing  from 
thence  their  Envoys  at  Paris,  is  now  arrived  at  Spithead  with 
Elbridge  Gerry  Esq,  one  of  their  Envoys,  on  board. 

The  Sophia  was  forced  to  put  into  Portsmouth  in  order  to  es- 
cape a  French  Privateer  which  they  had  every  reason  to  believe 
was  in  pursuit  of  them.  She  had  also  been  stopt,  soon  after  leav- 
ing Havre,  by  the  British  Frigate  Niger,  Capt.  Woodhouse,  from 
whom  Mr.  Gerry  received  every  mark  of  the  most  polite  attention. 
Mr.  Gerry  being  desirous  of  prosecuting  his  voyage  with  all  possible 
expedition,  and  anxious  to  prevent  future  interruptions  by  his 
Majesty's  Ships  of  War,  has  sent  a  confidential  person  to  Town, 
with  directions  to  Mr.  King  to  apply  immediately  for  letters  of 
safe  conduct  from  the  English  Government,  addressed  to  the 
Commanders  and  officers  of  its  fleets. 

In  compliance,  therefore,  with  this  request,  Mr.  King  takes  the 
liberty  of  soliciting  the  necessary  Passport  and  flatters  himself 
that  he  cannot  in  any  manner  so  effectually  and  readily  obtain  it 
as  in  Lord  Spencer's  interference  ;  he  confides  in  his  Lordship's 
giving  every  facility  to  Mr.  Gerry,  not  only  in  consideration  of 
his  public  character,  but  of  his  being  personally  the  intimate  friend 
of  Mr.  King. 

Copy. 

Mr.  Nepean  presents  his  compliments  to  Mr.  King,  has  the 
honor  of  enclosing  to  him  the  Protection  he  has  desired. 

Mr.  Nepean  imagines  that  no  great  difficulty  would  arise  in  ac- 
commodating Mr.   Gerry  on  board  the  Cleopatra,  charged  with 


1798]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  385 

the  outward  bound  Convoy  to  America,  if  he  or  Mr.  King  should 
have  any  particular  wishes  on  that  head.     Mr.  Nepean  opened 
Mr.  King's  letter  in  Lord  Spencer's  absence. 
Admiralty,  Saturday  Afternoon. 


R.  King  to  Elbridge  Gerry. 

London,  Aug.  13,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Your  letter  of  the  10th  arrived  at  my  office  on  Saturday,  and 
was  sent  that  evening  to  me  at  Margate,  which  place  I  left  the 
next  morning  before  the  arrival  of  the  mail  ;  by  the  return  post 
however  I  have  at  length  received  it.  On  Saturday  Mr.  Munro 
sent  you  my  Passport  which  cannot  be  of  any  use  to  you  ;  he  had 
and  as  I  conceive  agreeable  to  your  desire,  applied  for  and  by  this 
mail  has  sent  you  a  Passport  from  the  Lords  Commissioners  of  the 
Admiralty. 

I  am  extremely  sorry  that  my  absence  from  town  prevented  my 
receiving  your  letter  on  Saturday,  as  in  that  case  I  should  have 
gone  immediately  to  Portsmouth  to  meet  you  ;  I  still  hope  for 
that  pleasure  and  it  will  afford  me  much  satisfaction  to  receive 
you  in  London  ;  the  visit  cannot  be  uninteresting  to  you,  and  with 
the  belief  that  you  will  have  both  time  and  inclination,  I  have  just 
sent  Mr,  Munro  to  the  Duke  of  Portland's  office  to  procure  and 
forward  to  you  the  requisite  Passport. 

I  should  not  put  our  meeting  upon  this  footing,  but  would  be 
with  you  to-morrow  morning,  was  I  not  obliged  to  be  in  town  both 
to-morrow  and  the  day  after.  If,  however,  you  shall  feel  any  dis- 
inclination to  come  hither  and  will  wait,  which  the  adverse  winds 
are  likely  to  compel  you  to  do,  I  will  meet  you  at  Portsmouth  on 
Thursday. 

Our  accounts  from  home  are  as  late  as  the  10th  of  July  ;  tho' 
not  official,  I  believe  them  authentic.  You  already  know  the 
tenor  of  the  Laws  for  the  Protection  of  our  Commerce,  and  like- 
wise of  those  which  authorize  the  Capture  of  French  Privateers. 
The  Law  suspending  all  commercial  intercourse  with  France  and 
her  Dominions  has  been  followed  by  another  declaring  all  our 
treaties  with  that  nation  void  ;  and  I  have  seen  in  a  Norfolk  pa- 


386  RUFUS  KING.  [i798 

per  of  the  5th  of  July  the  copy  of  a  Bill  that  had  been  twice  read 
in  the  Senate  of  the  U.  S.,  which,  after  reciting  the  French  ag- 
gressions, enacts  that  the  Government  and  People  of  France  and 
of  their  Dependencies  are  to  be  deemed  Enemies  of  the  U.  S., 
and  that  any  person  owing  allegiance  to  the  U.  S.  who  shall  ad- 
here to  them,  giving  them  aid  and  comfort  shall  be  deemed  a 
Traitor,  and  on  conviction  suffer  death. 

A  private  letter  that  has  been  shown  to  me  from  Baltimore  of 
the  10th  of  July  states  that  Colonel  McHenry,  Secretary  of  War, 
was  then  there  on  his  way  to  meet  General  Washington,  who  had 
been  appointed  Commander  of  the  Army  which  he  has  accepted. 

With  respect  to  this  Country,  you  will  naturally  suppose  that 
the  intelligence  from  America  is  received  with  great  satisfaction. 
Upon  this  and  other  important  points,  a  meeting  between  us, 
would,  in  my  opinion,  be  advantageous  to  our  Country.  I  have 
but  a  moment  before  the  mail  closes  to  renew  my  assurances  of 
Esteem  and  to  beg  you  to  believe  me  your  faithful  friend. 

R.  K. 


R.  King  to  Elbridge  Gerry,  Esq. 

London,  August  14th,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  had  the  pleasure  to  receive  your  Letter  of  yesterday,  and 
as  the  winds  continue  unfavorable,  I  am  in  great  hopes  that  we 
shall  have  an  opportunity  of  meeting  before  you  sail. 

If  you  do  not  come  to  London,  but  remain  at  Spithead,  I  will 
see  you  there  on  Thursday.  Your  letter  of  to-morrow  in  answer 
to  mine  of  yesterday  will  regulate  my  conduct  in  this  respect. 

I  have  very  strong  reason  to  believe  that  a  person  has  been 
sent  from  France  to  Philadelphia,  with  a  commission  not  friendly 
to  the  U.  S.  ;  but  under  what  assumed  name,  or  on  what  ship  he 
went  over  I  don't  know.  By  this  mail  I  have  sent  to  our  Con- 
sular Agent  at  Portsmouth  a  despatch  to  Col.  Pickering  with 
instructions  to  send  it  together  with  a  Packet  of  newspapers  on 
board  the  Sophia,  if  she  has  not  sailed. 

I  am,  Dear  Sir,  your  ob.  &  faithful  friend. 

Rufus  King. 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  387 

R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State.     No.  91. 

London,  Augt.  14,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Mr.  Gerry  sailed  from  Havre  on  the  evening  of  the  8th,  and 
was  chased  into  Portsmouth  on  the  10th  by  a  French  Lugger, 
which  he  conjectures  was  sent  to  sea  for  the  purpose  of  intercept- 
ing him  notwithstanding  his  Passports. 

I  have  by  his  desire  sent  him  a  Passport  from  the  Lords  Com- 
missioners of  the  Admiralty  ;  and  although  from  his  letter  to  me 
I  perceive  that  he  is  anxious  to  proceed  on  his  voyage  without 
delay,  I  have  desired  him  to  come  to  London,  thinking  that  our 
meeting  might  be  of  public  advantage.  If  he  should  be  disin- 
clined to  leave  his  ship,  or  to  come  here,  I  have  informed  him  that 
I  will  meet  him  at  Portsmouth  on  the  16th,  before  which  my  en- 
gagements do  not  permit  me  to  leave  London. 

Several  letters  of  a  later  date  than  those  heretofore  noticed 
passed  between  Mr.  Gerry  and  Mr.  Talleyrand  before  the  former 
left  France  ;  the  last  which  was  received  by  Mr.  Gerry  at  Havre 
announces  the  Arrete  of  the  Directory  of  the  31st  of  July  con- 
cerning the  Privateers  of  the  West  Indies.  This  arrete  is  pub- 
lished in  all  the  papers. 

I  lose  no  time  to  inform  you  that  Duverne  de  Praisle,  who  un- 
der the  name  of  betrayed  the  cause  of  the  Royalists  in 
France,  has  been  sent  to  Philadelphia  with  his  sister  (with  whom 
he  lived  in  a  state  of  prostitution)  and  that  I  have  very  strong 
reason  to  believe  that  some  commission,  not  friendly  to  the  United 
States  has  been  given  to  him. 

He  is  an  officer  of  the  Army,  a  man  of  talents,  and  unlike 
most  of  his  countrymen,  cautious  and  discreet.  I  don't  know 
under  what  name  or  in  what  ship  he  went  over  ;  but  he  may  be 
discovered  by  his  conversation,  which,  with  all  his  reserve,  habitu- 
ally turns  on  the  countries  he  has  visited  ;  which  are  America 
where  he  served  in  de  Grasse's  fleet  ;  England  where  he  was  some- 
time a  prisoner,  in  1782  ;  and  the  Black  Sea,  where  he  was  sent 
to  assist  in  taking  a  survey  of  the  coasts.  He  is  remarkable  from 
an  uncommon  dark  and  downcast  look,  tho'  he  has  sharp  eyes  ; 
he  is  about  five  feet  seven  or  eight  inches  high,  and  has  a  swing 
in  his  walk  like  that  of  seamen.     His  sister,  tho'  somewhat  better 


388  RUFUS  KING.  [l798 

looking  is  not  unlike  him  ;  they  have  a  child  the  issue  of  their 
incestuous  connexion. 

I  have  no  letter  from  you  later  than  your  number  13. 
With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem  &c  &c 

Rufus  King. 

P.  S.  I  have  just  received  a  second  letter  from  Mr.  Gerry  in 
which  he  informs  me  that  it  turns  out  to  have  been  an  English 
and  not  a  French  Lugger  that  chased  him  into  Spithead.  The 
Commander  of  the  Lugger  by  order  of  his  superior  officer  has 
waited  upon  Mr.  Gerry  and  made  an  apology  for  having  chased 
the  Sophia.  As  Mr.  Gerry  appears  to  be  anxious  to  reach 
America  with  the  greatest  expedition,  I  am  apprehensive  that  I 
shall  not  have  an  opportunity  of  meeting  him. 

2d  P.  S.  By  the  Hamburgh  Mail  that  has  just  arrived,  I  am  in- 
formed that  on  the  27th  ulto.  Dr.  Logan  arrived  there  on  a  Danish 
vessel.  He  kept  himself  very  quiet,  waited  on  the  French  agent 
there,  but  not  on  the  American  Consul.  He  is  said  to  have  been 
charged  with  letters  from  Mr.  Jefferson  and  others  for  Fayette, 
Merlin  and  Talleyrand  :  the  French  agent  without  hesitation  gave 
him  a  Passport  for  Paris  where  he  expressed  much  anxiety  to 
arrive  before  Mr.  Gerry's  departure  ;  but  in  this  he  has  been  dis- 
appointed. He  gave  the  idea  of  being  sent  by  the  American 
Government,  and  that  his  mission  required  expedition  &  secrecy. 
I  shall  probably  know  what  was  the  tenor  of  his  conversation  at 
Hamburgh,  and  will,  if  of  any  consequence,  hereafter  communi- 
cate it  to  you. 

I  know  the  Doctor  and  am  at  no  loss  to  understand  the  object 
of  his  Mission. 


R.  King  to  Elbridge  Gerry. 

London,  12  p.m.,  15th  Augt.,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  this  moment  received  by  Express  yours  of  this  date.     I 

should  have  been  on  my  way  to  meet  you,  but  not  receiving  any 

answer  to  my  letter  of  the  13th  in  course  by  the  mail  that  arrived 

this  morning,  I  concluded  that  you  had  sailed  before  it  reached 

Portsmouth.     This  I  the  more  regret,  as  it  is  now  impossible  that 


1 7 98 J  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  389 

I  can  arrive  at  Portsmouth  within  the  time  that  you  prescribed.    I 

am  therefore  reluctantly  obliged  to  give  up  the  hope  that  I  had 

entertained  of  an  interview  with  you  before  your  return.     .     .     . 

Wishing  you  a  safe  and  Expeditious  Passage, 

I  have  the  honor  to  remain,  Dr.  Sir,  Your  ob.  &  faithful  St. 

R.  K. 


R.  King  to  Wm.  V.  Murray. 

In  W.  V.  Murray's  Cipher. 

London,  Aug.  16,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

It  is  almost  certain  that  the  war  will  soon  be  renewed,  at  least 
between  Austria  and  France.  The  political  timidity  of  Prussia 
will  prevent  the  king  from  acting  ;  but  a  war  with  Austria  sup- 
ported by  Russia  would  favor  any  disposition  that  may  exist  in 
Holland  to  emancipate  themselves  from  France.  It  will  be  diffi- 
cult for  England  by  any  formal  act  to  discard  the  Prince  of 
Orange,  tho'  as  I  have  before  told  you,  and  as  the  past  history  of 
England  and  Holland  proves,  the  non-existence  of  the  Stadthold- 
erate  will  not  impede  a  friendly  and  useful  connexion  and  Treaty 
between  the  two  Countries  :  a  reform  would  perhaps  be  preferable 
to  an  abolition  of  the  Stadtholderate. 

Wadsworth  has  reported  to  me  a  conversation  with  Shimmel- 
pennick  that  passed,  I  believe,  in  your  presence,  and  which  may 
be  made  the  commencement  of  at  least  an  informal  negociation 
between  Holland  and  England.  No  one  can  approve  the  old 
constitution  of  Holland.  England  desires  to  see,  and  would 
gladly  assist  in,  any  suitable  manner  to  establish  a  rational,  free, 
and  efficient  Government  in  that  Country  :  she  would  engage 
to  all  persons  perfect  security  against  every  sort  of  personal  or 
other  inconvenience  on  account  of  the  past  and  would  moreover 
become  the  guaranty  against  the  abuse,  which  might  be  appre- 
hended from  the  weakness  of  the  Prince  of  Orange. 

The  portion  of  authority  which  he  or  his  family  should  retain 
in  the  new  System,  would  be  matter  proper  for  discussion,  and  you 
may  say  that  a  person  on  the  part  of  England  will  meet  such  per- 


390  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

son  on  the  part  of  Holland,  by  which  I  mean  all  the  Provinces,  as 
shall  be  sent  to  any  convenient  place  that  they  shall  name  con- 
fidentially to  confer  upon  these  important  concerns.* 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Right  Honorable  Henry  Dundas. 

London,  Aug.  16,  1798. 
Sir  : 

I  take  the  liberty  to  send  you  the  enclosed,  a  copy  of  a  letter 
that  I  have  received  from  Mr.  Lane,  a  merchant  in  the  city,  who 
is  the  agent  of  Mr.  Derby  a  respectable  citizen  and  merchant  of 
the  United  States. 

Mr.  Derby  is  desirous  of  sending,  with  the  utmost  expedition  a 
small  ship  to  Bengal  for  the  purpose  of  purchasing  and  exporting 
from  thence  to  the  United  States,  a  cargo  of  Saltpetre  :  this  he 
cannot  do  without  the  permission  of  his  Majesty's  Government. 
Notwithstanding  I  have  on  a  former  occasion  obtained  thro'  your 
interference  for  my  countryman  Mr.  Babcock  a  permission  to  ex- 
port a  quantity  of  Saltpetre  from  Bengal  to  the  United  States,  I 
should  feel  some  hesitation  in  repeating  the  application,  did  not 
the  present  situation  of  the  United  States,  and  a  precise  instruc- 
tion that  I  have  lately  received  from  the  President,  make  it  my 
duty  to  give  all  the  aid  and  encouragement  in  my  power  to  our 
Merchants  to  carry  to  the  United  States  every  species  of  military 
stores,  the  acquisition  of  which  is  daily  becoming  more  important 
to  us. 

Under  these  circumstances,  so  different  from  those  which  have 
heretofore  existed,  I  take  the  liberty  to  request  your  interference 
in  order  that  permission  may  be  given  under  such  cautions  as  may 

be  thought  requisite   to  Bullock,  Master  of  the  American 

Ship  Benjamin,  belonging  to  Elias  D.  Derby  to  purchase  at  Cal- 
cutta 130  tons  of  Saltpetre  and  to  export  the  same  from  thence 
directly  to  the  United  States. 

With  perfect  Consideration  and  Respect,  &c,  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

*  See  R.  K.  to  Secy,  of  State,  Aug.  20,  1798. 


1798]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  39 1 

R.  King  to  Rt.  Hon.  Lord  Grenville. 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  Aug.  16,  1798. 
My  Lord  : 

I  have  been  instructed  to  cause  to  be  purchased  and  sent  to  the 
United  States  with  the  least  possible  delay  25000  muskets,  as 
many  Iron  cannon  for  the  naval  service,  consisting  of  equal  num- 
bers of  24.  18.  12.  9.  6.  &  4.  pounders  as  can  be  purchased  for 
^6000  sterling,  and  of  Iron  cannon  for  the  land  service,  consist- 
ing of  32.  24.  18.  12.  &  9.  pounders,  as  can  be  purchased 
for  ^4000  Sterling,  and  I  have  reason  to  expect  orders  for  a 
farther  supply. 

It  is  my  wish  that  this  order  should  be  executed  in  such  man- 
ner as  shall  least  interfere  with  the  system  of  the  Ordnance  De- 
partment. Several  of  the  Manufacturers  of  Birmingham  inform 
me  that  they  can  manufacture  more  arms  than  are  at  present  de- 
manded by  the  Ordnance  Department.  I  mention  this  circum- 
stance with  a  view  that  the  Government  orders  may  be  enlarged 
in  case  that  it  shall  on  consideration  appear  adviseable  that  the 
supply  we  want  should  be  furnished  from  the  Tower.  As  it  is  my 
intention  to  send  these  military  Stores  by  several  vessels,  a  de- 
livery of  them  by  parcels  will  suit  as  well  as  to  receive  them  all 
together.  It  is  however  of  very  great  importance  to  us  that  we 
obtain  them  as  soon  as  possible. 

With  perfect  Consideration  &  Respect, 

Rufus  King. 

R.  Troup  to  R.  King. 

New  York,  Aug.  16,  1798. 
My  Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  The  President  is  at  Braintree.  On  his  way  he  met  with 
every  mark  of  distinguished  attention.  Here  his  reception  was 
the  most  splendid  I  have  ever  seen.     .     .     . 

Philadelphia  is  again  visited  with  the  yellow  fever.     It  is  said 

to  be  as  malignant  as  it  was  in  the  year  1793.     The  consequence 

is    that    the    inhabitants    are    generally  leaving  it.      Almost  all 

the  public   offices   are   removed   to    Trenton.      We  are  healthy 

here.     .     .     . 

Very  truly  yours 

Rob.  Troup. 


392  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State.     No.  93. 

London,  Augt.  17,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  not  succeeded  in  effecting  an  interview  with  Mr.  Gerry, 
who  probably  sailed  from  Portsmouth  last  evening  or  this 
morning. 

We  have  a  report  that  Congress  have  passed  a  law  annulling 
all  our  Treaties  with  France  ;  should  this  be  true  the  moderate 
tone  manifested  in  the  late  Letters  of  Mr.  Talleyrand  may  prob- 
ably change.  It  is  not  my  duty  to  make  comments  upon  the 
effect  already  produced  by  the  firmness  that  I  so  much  admire 
in  our  Government,  but  I  cannot  suppress  the  expression  of  my 
anxious  hope  that  we  shall  test  the  sincerity  of  these  conciliatory 
overtures  by  the  past  conduct  of  France  towards  other  powers,  as 
well  as  by  her  present  treatment  of  our  citizens,  of  their  Property 
under  the  unrecalled  arretes  respecting  the  Trade  of  Neutrals. 
We  should  constantly  remember  that  the  Tiger  crouches  before  he 
leaps  upon  his  prey* 

In  a  conference  that  I  had  yesterday  with  Lord  Grenville,  he 
assured  me  of  every  facility  in  their  power  in  the  execution  of  an 
order  for  arms  that  I  have  received  from  the  Secretary  of  the 
Treasury.  We  cotiversed  upon  the  new  state  of  things  that  would 
arise  upon  the  abolition  of  the  Treaties  between  us  and  France.  He 
intimated  a  wish  that  the  two  articles  in  our  Treaty  respecting  Ships 
of  War,  Privateers  and  their  Prizes  might  be  revised,  in  order  that 
they  should  become  more  precise  and  less  liable  to  misconception 
or  disagreements  ;  he  suggested  the  expediency  of  abolishing  the  dis- 
tinction between  National  Ships  and  Privateers,  from  the  difficulty 
i?i  certain  cases  of  distinguishing  the  one  fro??i  the  other,  it  being  a 
practice  with  the  French  to  lend  their  Frigates  to  private  adventurers 
and  then  again  to  employ  them  in  the  national  service  j  he  said  he 
hoped  to  be  understood  as  not  wishing  to  hasten  any  measures 
of  this  nature,  but  merely  as  suggesting  a  subject  that  might  be- 
come of  consequence  seasonably  to  attend  to,  and  added  that  he  should 
write  to  Mr.  Liston  to  this  effect.  I  told  his  Lordship  that  I  was 
without  any  late  i?iformation  from  Philadelphia,  that  I  heard  of 
the  Laws  having  passed  to  which  he  referred,  but  that  I  had  no 

*  Italics  in  cipher. 


1798]  LIFE  AND    CORRESFONDENCE.  393 

certain  account  of  it  j  that  such  a  measure  opened  a  new  and  extensive 
view  of  the  affairs  of  the  United  States  and  of  Great  Britain,  and 
one  so  different  fr 07n  that  which  had  heretofore  existed  that  I  could 
not  consider  any  instruction  of  antecedent  date  as  in  any  degree  ap- 
plicable to  such  a  new  state  of  things  j  that  I  was  however  per- 
suaded that  we  should  be  disposed  to  consider  and  explain  any  of  the 
Articles  of  our  Treaty  so  as  to  avoid  misconceptions  or  disagree- 
ments about  their  meaning  ;  that  it  undoubtedly  occurred  to  him 
that  the  duration  of  the  commercial  parts  of  the  Treaty  depends  upon 
the  Settlemetit  of  certain  points  not  cojicluded  betiveen  him  and  Mr. 
y^ay,  and  upon  the  adjustment  of  the  West  India  Trade  ;  that  con- 
sequently the  maritime  Regulatio7is  to  which  he  had  alluded,  and 
which  would  become  so  important  by  an  elder  Treaty  than  that  which 
should  exist  between  France  and  the  United  States,  would  depend 
upon  a  satisfactory  and  seasonable  agree??ient  upon  these  imsettled 
points.  He  replied  that  he  was  quite  aware  of  this  circumstance  ; 
that  for  his  own  part  he  had  no  hesitatio?i  to  say  to  7ne  that  he 
thought  the  state  of  the  Conti7ient  dubious  j  that  a  ce7itury  perhaps 
would  not  restore  it  to  what  it  was  ten  years  ago  j  that  he  felt  77iore 
and  77iore  encouraged  i7i  the  union  of  the  people  of  Great  Britai7i  a7id 
in  their  ability  to  outlive  the  stor77i  j  but  that  they  must  essetitially 
cha7ige  their  co7inectio7i  ;  that  they  77iust  look  to  A7nerica  instead  of 
Europe,  a7id  from  its  i7icrease  a7id prosperity  they  hoped  and  expected 
to  find  what  they  should  lose  i7i  Europe  ;  they  therefore  should  be 
prepared  at  a  proper  time  to  go  into  the  consideration  of  the  subject 
with  a  sincere  desire  of  an  arra7ige7ne7it  that  bei7ig  77iutually  bene- 
ficial a7id  satisfactory  should pro7nise  to  be  durable. 

Our  Conference  here  took  a  turn  to  the  probability  of  the  Revo- 
lution of  S.  A77ierica  ;  he  was  fuller  and  more  explicit  than  he  had 
been  on  any  former  occasion,  always  understanding  that  77iy  con- 
versatio7i  on  this  subject  was  personal  and  wholly  U7iautho7'ized. 
This  digression  which  treated  of  the  practicability  a7id  of  the  77ieans 
of  effecting  the  ?7ieasure,  tended  to  shew  to  me  that  they  have  at 
times  considered  and  co77ibi7ied  with  their  vieivs  of  a  future  connectio7i 
with  the  U7iited  States,  the  i7idepe7ide7ice  of  the  Spa/iish  Co7iti7ie7ital 
Colo7iies.  I  did  not  perceive,  nor  do  I  believe  it  to  be  the  case, 
that  they  have  a7iy  recent  infor77iatio7i  of  the  prese7it  Temper,  disposi- 
tion or pla7is  of  these  Colo7iies,  a  knowledge  77iore  easily  procured 
fro77i  the  United  States  than  froi7i  Europe  and  which  is  indispensably 


394  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

requisite  to  the  success  of  an  enterprize  to  accomplish  the  Revolution. 
He  spoke  of  the  government  to  be  established  in  those  as  a  Revolu- 
tion. He  thought  our  System  would  attract  and  receive  their  appro- 
bation, and  made  some  remarks  upon  the  apprehensions  to  be  enter- 
tained on  account  of  their  genius  and  character,  which  especially 
in  Peru  was  said  to  be  highly  animated  and  full  of  enthusiasm ; 
and  concluded  by  observing  that  he  was  more  and  more  con- 
firmed in  the  opinion,  that  none  but  Englishmen  and  their  Descend- 
ants knew  how  to  make  a  Revolution. 

Another  subject  of  some  consequence  to  others  was  discussed  in 
this  conference,  a  Report  of  which  I  must  defer  until  my  next 
Dispatch. 

We  have  nothing  by  the  last  mails  from  the  Continent  and  are 
still  ignorant  of  the  destination  and  fate  of  Buonaparte.  Russia 
has  become  alarmed  lest  Greece  is  the  object,  the  revolution  of 
which  would  begin  that  of  her  Do7ninions  j  the  reappearance  of 
Kosciusko  in  Europe  has  increased  the  inquietudes  of  Russia.  A 
late  Treaty  between  the  two  Emperors  stipulates  a  succour  of  16 
thousand  men  to  Austria  in  case  of  a  renewal  of  the  war  with 
France.  The  force  is  inconsiderable,  but  knowing  the  character  of 
the  Emperor  Paul,  the  engagement  is  a  beginning  and  in  this  light 
very  important.  It  is  more  and  more  confirmed  that  the  political 
timidity  of  Prussia  will  prevent  the  king  from  engaging  in  the  war. 
Prince  Repnin  has  entirely  failed  in  his  object,  and  is  about  leaving 
Berlin.  The  great  business  of  Seyes  is  to  convince  this  monarch 
of  the  interest  that  the  Nation  has  to  remain  quiet  and  to  grow  rich, 
while  their  neighbours  are  distracted  and  i?npoverished.  The  delu- 
sion will  be  seen  when  it  is  too  late. 

With  perfect  Respect  and  Esteem  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Saml.  Williams. 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  Aug.  17,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  am  very  glad  that  you  have  asked  my  advice  in  the  prosecu- 
tion of  an  appeal  from  a  Vice-Admiralty  Decree,  concerning  a 
quantity  of  iod.  nails  as  contraband  of  war.     Several  decrees  of 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  395 


this  character  have  been  rendered  particularly  by  the  upright  and 
learned  judge  Cambauld,  who  has  gone  further,  and  on  account 
of  the  delinquency  of  the  neutral  for  carrying  to  the  enemy  in 
some  cases,  a  bale  of  Osnaburgs,  which  instead  of  being  em- 
ployed for  sails,  are  used  for  negro  clothing  ;  and  in  others,  a 
cask  of  nails,  which  instead  of  being  used  for  Ship  Building  are 
employed  in  House  Building,  has  condemned  the  Ship  and  the 
residue  of  the  Cargo.  It  is  true  that  small  nails  and  even  Brads 
are  used  in  finishing  the  Cabin  of  a  vessel  ;  but  as  well  might  the 
Admiralty  Court  condemn  Window  Glass,  because  this  article  is 
used  in  glazing  the  windows  of  a  ship's  cabin,  or  leather,  be- 
cause it  serves  to  prepare  the  Boxes  of  the  pumps,  as  they  can 
condemn  any  species  of  nails  beneath  the  size  of  what  is  called 
Dock  Nails,  a  smaller  sort  of  spikes,  and  which  are  the  only  nails 
that  can  with  common  sense  be  alleged  to  serve  directly  to  the 
equipment  of  Vessels. 

That  in  the  provincial  Courts  of  Admiralty  such  decisions  may 
have  happened,  when  we  know  the  character  and  capacity  of 
some  of  the  judges,  is  not  to  be  wondered  at  ;  but  that  in  the 
High  Court  of  Admiralty,  especially  in  the  Court  of  Appeals,  a 
decree  so  entirely  preposterous  should  be  even  apprehended  is 
truly  surprizing.  I  will  never  believe  it  possible,  until  it  has 
actually  been  given,  and  the  sooner  we  decide  the  question  the 
better.  A  trial  cannot  be  had  in  any  case,  in  which,  according  to 
your  statement,  the  point  will  be  more  simple  and  easy  to  be 
settled. 

I  therefore  desire  that  you  will  by  all  means,  prosecute  the 
appeal,  before  the  Lords  ;  that  you  may  perceive  that  on  this 
occasion  I  follow  the  sentiments  of  our  Government,  I  transmit 
to  you  the  extract  of  a  Letter  that  I  have  received  from  the 
Secretary  of  State,  which  shows  the  importance  of  a  decision  that 
shall  put  this  question  at  rest. 

With  great  Esteem  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

P.  S.  I  need  not  remark  to  you  that  the  supply  of  nails  for  the 
building  of  mills  &  houses  and  particularly  for  Negroes  is  a  valua- 
ble branch  of  the  American  West  India  Commerce. 


396  RUFUS  KING.  [l798 

Henry  Dundas  to  Rufus  King,  Esq.* 

Copy. 

Parliament  Street,  18th  August,  1798. 
Sir: 

I  have  received  the  honor  of  your  letter  of  the  16th  instant, 
enclosing  a  letter  from  Mr.  Lane,  a  Merchant  in  the  City  of  Lon- 
don, stating  that  his  Correspondent  Mr.  Derby  of  Salem  in  the 
United  States,  is  desirous  of  sending  a  Ship  to  Bengal  for  the 
purpose  of  exporting  from  thence  to  the  United  States  a  Cargo  of 
Saltpetre. 

Independent  of  any  personal  consideration,  which  would  induce 
me  at  all  times  to  pay  attention  to  any  wish  of  yours,  I  can  have 
no  hesitation  in  contributing  to  afford  every  possible  facility  to 
the  Government  of  the  United  States,  which  my  influence  with 
the  East  India  Company  can  tend  to  procure,  and  I  shall  instantly 
forward  your  application  to  the  Court  of  Directors,  who  I  flatter 
myself  will  feel  no  hesitation  in  complying  with  your  wish. 
I  have  the  honor  to  be,  Sir,  your  most  obed.  humble  St. 

Henry  Dundas. 


G.  Cabot  to  R.  King. 

August  18,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  am  just  now  favored  with  your's  of  the  12th  &  26th  of  May. 
You  are  in  the  midst  of  great  events  which  occupy  the  attention 
of  the  whole  world  &  for  whose  issue  we  feel  a  particular  solici- 
tude. We  speculate  more  on  what  is  passing  on  your  side  the 
water  than  the  affairs  which  are  transacting  here  ;  indeed  it  is 
impossible  we  shou'd  not  see  that  our  destiny  is  involved  in  the 
fate  of  Europe.  If  France  succeeds  in  executing  the  projects  of 
her  mad  ambition,  it  appears  to  me  a  Feudal  System  worse  than  the 
old  will  be  established  over  the  whole  face  of  the  civilized  world. 
We  shall  see  only  two  sorts  of  people  Soldiers  6°  Slaves.  While 
conjecture  is  rambling  everywhere  with  the  Toulon  Fleet  I  have 
ventured  to  opine  that  they  are  gone  into  the  Euxine  in  concur- 
rence with  the  Turks  to  attack  the  Russians  in  that  quarter  & 

*  Answer  to  R.  King's  Letter,  Aug.  16,  1798. 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  397 

thus  to  divert  their  force  from  the  borders  of  the  Baltic.  There 
Germany  may  be  also  checked,  &  there  the  disaffected  Polanders 
may  be  easily  rallied.  If  such  is  the  object,  its  first  success  may 
be  great,  resulting  from  surprise  &  from  a  security  against  the 
Fleets  of  England  which  wou'd  be  shut  out  from  the  passage  of  the 
Dardanelles  :  but  it  wou'd  ultimately  be  favorable  to  England  by 
engaging  Russia  to  act  with  vigor  against  all  the  undertakings  of 
France.  If  however  Nelson  overtakes  them  I  expect  a  profit- 
able victory  &  this  wou'd  seem  to  be  certain  if  the  French  are  not 
acting  in  concert  with  the  Turks. 

Our  accounts  from  Ireland  are  to  the  first  week  in  June  &  are 
affecting — if  the  Govt,  succeeds  however  in  fully  suppressing  the 
Insurrection  as  is  expected  no  one  can  doubt  that  the  power  of 
G.  B.  will  be  greater  than  before  ;  the  anxieties  about  Ireland  will 
cease  &  the  Royal  army  there  will  form  a  new  security  against  the 
French. 

I  saw  the  P  last  week  at  Quincy,  he  is  extremely  dissatisfied, 
(I  think),  with  Gerry  ;  he  maintains  however  that  he  can  do  no 
harm  now,  but  he  supposes  the  Directory  will  try  new  artifices  to 
restore  their  party  here.  I  think  Congress  will  be  called  together 
early  in  November  if  anything  occurs  to  render  it  expedient.  You 
will  see  that  they  have  not  done  enough  altho'  they  have  done 
many  good  things.  We  are  still  tainted  with  Jacobinism  in 
various  parts  of  the  U.  S.  but  the  majority  of  Antijacobins  is 
certainly  very  great  on  the  whole  &  I  think  we  are  in  less  danger 
than  we  have  been  these  5  years, — among  the  military  arrange- 
ments you  see  Hamilton  is  named  first  after  Washington,  but 
several  sorts  of  people  are  endeavoring  to  establish  the  opinion 
that  Knox  and  others  cannot  serve  unless  their  rank  is  above 
Hamilton's,  because  Hamilton's  rank  in  a  former  war  was  below 
theirs.  I  hope  that  Mr  Pinckney  will  not  be  ensnared  by  those 
fallacious  plausibilities  which  have  been  successful  (as  I  am  told) 
with  Knox  ;  the  Country  needs  all  the  aid  of  H's  talents  &  I  trust 
will  have  it. 

I  know  nothing  of  Mr.  Pitt's  scheme  but  what  I  infer  from  the 
remarks  in  your  letter,  we  ought  to  make  liberal  allowances  for 
the  extraordinary  circumstances  in  which  G.  B.  is  placed,  but  it 
will  be  unfortunate  for  us  &  perhaps  for  her,  if  she  is  obliged  to 
adopt  any  measures  which  will  furnish  new  food  to  the  french 


39§  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

Partisans  in  the  U.  S.     Some  of  the  great  men  about  you  still 

entertain  the  belief  that  an  Invasion  is  to  be  attempted  ;  I  have 

often  wished  it  but  never  for  a  single  moment  cou'd  believe  it. 

It  must  certainly  give  you  great  pleasure  to  know  that  we  are 

earnest  in  equipping  a  little  navy  &  that  we  shall  soon  have  50 

vessels  of  all  sizes — say  from  10  to  44  guns.     You  will  be  equally 

glad  to  hear  that  our  Interdict  of  french  trade  has  already  produced 

very  uneasy  sensations  among  the  West  India  Cutthroats  &  I  think 

if  we  are  steady  &  G.  B.  cooperate  with  us,  in  less  than  a  year  the 

trade  of  the  Enemy  Colonies  may  pass  into  the  hands  of  G.  B.  & 

the  U.  S.  ;  but  this  I  think  shou'd  not  be  admitted  unless  those 

Colonies  throw  off  the  Jacobin  Yoke. 

Notwithstanding  almost  all  Europe  is  enslaved  by  France  yet 

to  me  it  appears  that  France  is  on  the  decline — I  hope  the  time 

so  often  mentioned  by  the  Clergy  is  at  hand  when  the  wrath  of 

man  having  praised  the  Lord  the  remainder  of  it  he  will  restrain. 

A  line  from  Gunn  lately  informed  me  that  the  Georgians  were 

federal    &    other   information    corroborates   his — the   bold   and 

patriotic  language  of  P.  Adams  has  done  infinite  service  among 

the  people. 

G.  C. 


CHAPTER  XXVI. 

King  to  Secretary  of  State  relative  to  Negotiations  between  England  and  Hol- 
land— To  Lord  Grenville  on  Talleyrand's  Proposals  to  Gerry  and  Lord 
Grenville's  Answer — Also  Application  for  the  Use  of  certain  Cannon  given 
by  George  II.  to  South  Carolina  and  then  in  Halifax — Yellow  Fever  in 
Philadelphia — Apprehended  Difficulty  with  Commissioners  under  sixth 
Article — Military  Appointments — Hamilton  and  Knox — King  to  Secretary 
of  State — French  Perfidy  and  Outrage — Also  his  Satisfaction  with  the  de- 
cided Measures  against  France — State  of  Europe — Landing  of  French 
Troops  in  Ireland — Ignorance  of  the  Destination  of  French  Fleet  from 
Toulon — On  the  Eve  of  a  Recommencement  of  the  War  on  the  Continent 
— Irish  Rebellion — Dr.  Logan  in  Paris — King  complains  to  Lord  Grenville 
of  Proceedings  of  English  High  Court  of  Admiralty  in  the  Matter  of  Cap- 
tures— Pickering's  Opinion  of  Gerry — Correspondence  about  Muskets — 
King  to  Hamilton — Military  Appointments — Pickering  on  the  same — King 
says  the  Conduct  of  the  President  and  of  America  wise  and  approved  in 
England — Circular  to  Consuls  as  to  Commissions  to  armed  American 
Vessels. 

R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State.     No.  94.* 

Secret  and  Confidential. 

London,  August  20,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Mr.  Murray  has  on  several  occasions  informed  me  that  disposi- 
tions and  views  existed  among  certain  influential  persons  in  poiuer  in 
the  country  where  he  is,  to  throw  off  the  odious  dominion  of  Fra7ice  : 
the  object  of  these  communications  has  been  to  procure  from  England 
assurances  of  support  on  certain  points,  and  relaxation  in  the  rigour 
with  which  the  war  is  carried  on,  particularly  against  the  Dutch 
Fisheries. 

These  communications  have  always  been  so  loose,  informal,  and  im- 
perfect that  I  have,  on  his  account  as  well  as  others,  felt  considerable 
embarrassment  in  permitting  myself  to  be  drawn  into  an  affair,  the 

*  In  cipher. 
399 


400  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

real  character  whereof  I  was  so  little  able  to  appreciate.  So  far  as 
I  could  give  precision  to  the  principal  wishes  of  these  persons,  they 
desire  an  assurance  from  England  that  she  would  discard  the  Prince 
of  Orange,  co-operate  with  them  to  extricate  themselves  from  France 
a?id  assist  them  in  establishing  a  Government  which  should  exclude 
the  Stadthclderate. 

After  considerable  hesitation  I  took  an  occasion  to  mention  the 
subject  with  frankness,  disclosing  at  the  same  time  all  my  own 
doubts  to  Lord  Grenville.  He  treated  it,  as  I  have  been  accus- 
tomed to  find  him  treat  all  other  subjects,  with  candour  and  good 
sense  ;  the  result  of  the  conference  was  a  Letter  that  I  wrote  to 
Mr.  Murray,  in  which  without  communicating  to  him  that  I  had 
conferred  with  this  Government  I  observed  to  Mju,  as  of  myself,  that 
considering  the  State  of  Parties  in  Holland,  it  being  certain  that  a 
very  great  body  of  the  nation  are  still  attached  to  the  House  of 
Orange,  it  seemed  to  me  a  difficult  step  to  be  taken  by  England,  to  give 
any  such  assurance  as  seemed  to  be  desired;  but  that  I  could  venture 
with  considerable  confidence  in  my  own  opinion  to  say,  that  there 
was  nothing  in  the  presumed  sentiments  of  England,  or  in  the  past 
history  of  the  two  Countries,  that  forbids  the  expectation  of  a  sincere 
and  beneficial  connexion  and  intercourse  between  them,  should  Holland 
again,  as  heretofore  she  has  done,  abolish  the  Stadtholderate. 

Upon  the  other  point  I  wrote  a  note  to  Lord  Grenville  in  which 
I  communicated  to  him  the  representation  Mr.  Murray  had  made 
to  me,  of  the  very  great  distress  of  the  poor  in  consequence  of  the  in- 
ter ruptio7i  of  their  Herring  fishery,  and  of  the  hutnanity  as  well  as 
Policy  of  some  relaxation  in  the  orders  given  to  the  English  Cruisers 
upon  this  subject,  adding  that  I  desired  to  be  understood  as 
giving  no  opinion  of  my  own,  nor  as  soliciting  any  answer  from  the 
English  Government ;  my  sole  object,  being  the  bare  communica- 
tion of  what  L  understood  to  be  the  wishes  and  sentiments  of  others. 
L  informed  Mr.  Murray  of  what  I  had  done,  and  that  I  should  send 
to  him  such  answer  as  I  received  ;  I  have  not  received  any,  nor  is  it 
likely  I  shall. 

Mr.  Wadsworth,  who  lately  arrived  here  from  Holland,  by  the 
desire  of  Shimmelpennick,  related  to  me  a  conversation  that  passed 
between  them,  which  I  thought  it  adviseable,  especially  at  the  pres- 
ent moment  when  according  to  appearances  the  war  between  France 
and  Austria  is  about  to  recommence,  to  communicate  to  this  Govern- 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  40 1 

?nent.     This  was   done   at   the   conference   which  I  gave  you  an 
account  of  in  my  No.  93. 

My  letter  to  Mr.  Murray*  a  copy  of  which  is  annexed,  was  the 
fruit  of  our  conference.  I  have  thought  it  my  duty  to  state  this  affair 
to  you  for  the  infor?nation  of  the  President.  It  will  naturally  occur 
to  you  that  Mr.  Murray's  safety  may  depend  on  secresy. 

With  perfect  Respect  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

R.  King  to  Lord  Grenville. 

Private. 

Margate,  Aug.  26,  1798. 
My  Lord  : 

If  your  information  is  not  so  late,  the  inclosed  Letter,  f  which 
I  pray  you  to  return  to  me,  will  communicate  intelligence  of  some 
importance.  Talleyrand  with  much  earnestness  urged  Mr.  Gerry 
to  wait  at  Paris  for  Instructions,  which  he  expressed  his  belief  to 
be  on  their  way,  and  which  would  remove  all  his  scruples  respect- 
ing his  powers  to  treat  separately  with  France.  We  see  the 
explanation  of  this  Scheme  in  a  motion  that  has  been  made  in  the 
House  of  Representatives  to  address  the  President,  requesting 
him  to  instruct  Mr.  Gerry  to  treat  separately  with  France  on  the 
basis  laid  down  in  the  Instructions  originally  given  to  him  and  his 
Colleagues. 

The  proposition  was  treated  with  great  and  uncommon  marks 

of  indignation  and  negatived  by  51  against  30  voices. 

R.  K. 

P.S.  Are  we  to  despair  of  Buonaparte's  being  intercepted  by 
Nelson  ? 

R.  King  to  Lord  Grenville. 

Margate,  Aug.  26,  1798. 
My  Lord  : 

I  take  the  liberty  to  send  your  Lordship  inclosed  the  copy  of  a 
Letter  that  I  have  lately  received  from  Colonel  Pickering  respect- 
ing a  number  of  Iron  Cannon  said  to  have  been  given  by  the  late 
King  George  the  2nd  to  the  Province  of  South  Carolina  ;  these 

*  See  letter  to  him  in  cipher,  August  13th. 

f  This  letter  is  not  among  R.  King's  papers. — Ed. 

VOL.  II. — 26 


402  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

Cannon  which  are  represented  to  be  entirely  useless  at  Halifax, 
would  be  of  great  service  in  the  defence  of  Charleston. 

If  there  should  be  no  objection  against  their  being  received  by 
South  Carolina  upon  such  terms  as  may  be  thought  proper,  I  beg 
your  Lordship's  permission  to  suggest  the  expediency  of  a  Dupli- 
cate of  the  Instructions  that  may  be  given  to  Governor  Wentworth 
on  this  subject  being  delivered  to  me  to  be  sent  to  Philadelphia, 
in  order  that  the  requisite  measures  may  be  taken  to  receive  and 
transport  the  Cannon  from  Halifax  to  Charleston.  As  I  think  it 
of  the  greatest  importance  not  to  lose  a  moment  in  the  execution 
of  the  orders  that  I  have  lately  recived  for  a  supply  of  Military 
Stores,  I  beg  your  Lordship  to  have  the  goodness  to  give  me  the 
earliest  answer  in  your  power  to  the  application  that  a  few  days 
since  I  had  the  honor  to  make  to  you  on  this  Subject. 

With  perfect  Respect  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

Lord  Grenville  to  R.  King. 

Dropmore,  Aug.  27,  1798. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

I  return  you  your  letters  with  many  thanks.  The  papers  to-day 
give  us  General  Washington's  letter,  which  is  I  think  extremely 
well  written  and  calculated  to  produce  the  best  effect.  We  have 
nothing  about  Bonaparte  or  Nelson,  nor  can  we  I  think  expect 
to  hear  yet,  as  the  letters  from  Constantinople  were  of  so  very 
recent  date. 

The  French  are,  thank  God,  a  good  deal  too  late  in  their  Irish 
Expedition.  Two  months  ago  such  a  debarkation  would  have 
been  matter  of  some  uneasiness  ;  now,  I  trust,  it  cannot  but  ter- 
minate more  advantageously  for  us  than  if  the  thing  had  not 
taken  place. 

Ever,  my  dear  sir,  most  truly  yrs.,  G. 


T.  Pickering   to  R.  King.    No.  26. 

Department  of  State,  Trenton,  Aug.  29,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  yellow  fever  has  again  driven  us  from  Philadelphia ;  the 

public   offices   are  removed  to  this  place.     The  fever  is   more 


I79SJ  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  403 

malignant  than  in  any  former  year  ;  upwards  of  eighty  persons, 
chiefly  adults,  died  in  the  48  hours  from  the  25th  to  the  27th 
inst.  The  poor  are  the  principal  sufferers  ;  most  of  those  who 
have  the  means  have  left  and  are  still  leaving  the  city.     .     .     . 

The  President  a  few  days  after  the  adjournment  of  Congress 
(which  was  the  middle  of  July)  set  out  for  Massachusetts,  and 
will  probably  remain  at  Quincy  till  Autumn.  Your  numbers  69 
and  71  were  read  by  him  ;  but  no  definitive  opinion  on  the  im- 
portant question  relative  to  the  Proceedings  of  the  Board  of 
Commissioners  in  London  was  formed.  I  am  apprehensive  of 
serious  difficulties  in  the  Board  of  Commissioners  at  Philadelphia  ; 
those  on  the  part  of  Great  Britain  claiming  a  jurisdiction  in  cases 
which  we  conceive  were  never  contemplated  in  the  Treaty,  and 
Mr.  Guillemand  concurs  in  these  claims.  The  United  States 
have  been  exposed  to  great  disadvantage  by  the  continued 
absence  and  sickness  of  Col.  Innes  ;  he  is  dead,  and  Samuel  Sit- 
greaves  Esquire  is  recently  appointed  to  succeed  him.  Perhaps 
in  my  next  I  may  have  it  in  my  power  to  state  the  principal 
points  on  which  the  British  Commissioners  insist  ;  and  if  they 
persevere  in  their  claims,  probably  the  American  Commissioners 
must  stop  the  proceedings  by  a  secession.     .     .     . 

Your  account  of  the  reception  of  the  Instructions  to  and  dis- 
patches from  our  Envoys  to  the  French  Republic  is  highly  grati- 
fying ;  it  was  anticipated  that  their  publication  would  do  much 
good  in  Europe  as  well  as  in  America.  Here  they  produced  their 
natural  and  obvious  effect  on  all  unprejudiced  and  unperverted 
minds.  But  you  are  too  well  acquainted  with  public  Bodies  to 
have  expected,  or  rather  to  be  surprised  if  there  was  not  a  very 
material  change  in  the  conduct  of  one  side  of  the  house.  The 
constituents,  however,  of  many  members  are  proving  and  will 
prove  that  their  opinions  and  feelings  have  not  been  justly  repre- 
sented in  Congress.  This,  perhaps,  will  nowhere  be  more  visible 
than  in  North  Carolina.  The  prevailing  sentiments  of  the  Country 
are  undoubtedly  expressed  correctly  in  the  general  spirit  of  the 
addresses  to  the  President  of  the  United  States.     .     .     . 

Complaints  against  Judge  Cambauld  have  continued.  I  am 
glad  that  orders  for  suppressing  his  court  are  at  length  to  be  sent 
out.     .     .     . 


404  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

T.  Pickering  to  Rufus  King. 

Private, 

Trenton,  Aug.  29th,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  Some  of  the  military  appointments  will  please  you. 
The  public  voice  had  declared  the  Chief  Command  ought  to  be 
conferred  on  Col.  Hamilton.  This  was  before  it  was  imagined 
that  General  Washington,  at  his  advanced  age,  would  again  take 
the  field.  Since  this  event  he  has  designated  Col.  Hamilton  to 
be  Inspector  General  with  the  rank  of  Major  General  ;  then 
General  Pinckney  and  next  General  Knox  for  Major  Generals. 
I  know  that  General  Washington  hesitated  only  between  the  two 
first,  and  that  he  had  no  question  that  General  Knox  should  fol- 
low both  the  others.  Yet  General  Knox  to  my  surprise  has  more 
than  hesitated  to  serve  under  Col.  Hamilton  ;  looking  back  to  his 
rank  in  the  American  War,  whereas  the  army  now  to  be  raised  is 
to  be  a  new  one,  and  the  nature  of  the  impending  war  imperiously 
demands  the  advancement  of  the  best  talents  wherever  to  be 
found,  and  whatever  their  grade  in  a  former  war.  I  am  not,  you 
may  suppose,  singular  in  my  opinion  ;  of  all  the  members  of  Con- 
gress who  spoke  of  the  chief  command  in  my  hearing,  not  one 
ever  mentioned  the  name  of  General  Knox  ;  and  consequently, 
as  they  expected  he  would  be  called  into  service,  they  contem- 
plated for  him  a  station  subordinate  to  Col.  Hamilton.  I  believe, 
however,  that  some  sort  of  compromise  is  proposed  which  will  sub- 
ject the  question  to  a  future  decision. 

I  understand  that  Baron  Steuben's  case  may  be  cited  as  a  pre- 
cedent in  favor  of  Col.  Hamilton.  The  Baron  was  appointed 
"Inspector  General  with  the  rank  (and  pay)  of  a  Major  General." 
The  like  words  were  used  in  the  appointment  of  Col.  Hamilton. 
The  Baron  it  was  decided  should  take  rank  as  a  Major  General 
from  the  date  of  his  appointment  over  the  other  Major  Generals, 
who  were  subsequently  appointed  ;  and,  consequently,  as  Col. 
Hamilton  was  first  named  on  the  List  of  Nominations,  he  must 
precede  in  rank  all  the  other  Major  Generals  named  at  the  same 
time.  I  believe  the  Senate  would  have  passed  on  his  nomination 
and  have  adjourned  to  the  next  day,  and  then  have  decided  on 
the  rest,  if  they  had  suspected  a  serious  question  would  have 
arisen  between  him  and  General  Knox. 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  405 

*You  must  know  that  the  President  wishes  Knox  to  precede 
Hamilton  whom  he  dislikes  extremely,  and  whom  he  would  have 
named  first  ;  but  that  the  order  of  the  names  was  designated  by 
General  Washington,  who  claimed  as  a  condition  of  his  accepting 
the  Chief  Command,  the  privilege  of  prosposing  his  principal 
officers. 

Mr.  Caro  forwarded  his  letters  from  Falmouth  ;  writing  me 
that  he  was  obliged  to  go  immediately  to  South  America.  But  I 
presume  he  advised  you  of  this  step. 


R.  King  to  James  Maury,  Esq.,  Liverpool. 

Margate,  Aug.  30,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

No  Commissions  have  been  sent  to  me  for  American  Vessels, 

nor  do  I  think  it  likely  that  any  will  be  sent,  it  being  my  opinion 

that  the  delivery  of  these  should  always  take  place  within  the 

United   States.     I  can  have  no  hesitation  in   recommending  to 

such  of  our  Ships  as  are  armed  (and  I  request  you  to  afford  every 

suitable  aid  and  encouragement  to  those  who  are  inclined  to  arm), 

to  defend  themselves  to  the  utmost  of  their  power  against  the 

French  cruizers. 

Yrs.  &c.  Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State.     No.  95. 

Margate,  Sep.  3,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Mr.  Tazewell  whom  Mr.  Gerry  sent  to  me  from  Paris  with  a 
copy  of  the  Correspondence  between  him  and  Talleyrand,  informs 
me  that  no  copy  of  it  had  been  sent  to  you,  so  that  should  an 
accident  happen  to  Mr.  Gerry,  or  to  his  papers,  you  would  be  with- 
out information  of  what  passed  at  Paris  after  the  expulsion  of 
General  Pinckney  and  General  Marshall. 

This  consideration  has  determined  me  to  send  you  a  copy  of 
that  delivered  to  me  by  Mr.  Gerry's  Secretary.  I  see  nothing  in 
these  papers  that  ought  in  the  least  to  change  our  opinions  of  the 

*  In  cipher. 


406  RUFUS  KING.  [i79& 

insidious  views  of  France.  The  arrete  of  the  Directory,  and 
which  their  agents  will  represent  as  a  concession  of  importance, 
will  furnish  a  profitable  job  for  those  who  shall  be  appointed  to 
distribute  the  new  commissions  ;  but  so  long  as  the  Laws  author- 
izing the  capture  of  neutral  property  remain  unrecalled  (and 
so  far  from  being  revoked,  they  have  since  the  date  of  the  arrete 
been  confirmed  as  you  will  perceive  by  a  letter  from  Boulay  Paly, 
member  of  the  Council  of  500,  inserted  in  the  Echo  of  the  26th 
ulto),  it  must  be  a  matter  of  indifference  to  us  whether  our  ves- 
sels are  captured  by  Privateers  with  new  or  with  old  Commissions. 

The  pretence  for  this  arrete  is  of  a  piece  with  the  vindication 
of  Talleyrand  respecting  X.  Y.  &  Z,  and  the  justice  and  sincerity 
of  the  Directory  should  be  ascertained  not  by  their  words  but  by 
the  following  contemporaneous  fact. 

Hayley  an  American  citizen,  master  of  the  American  Ship  Hare 
lying  in  the  Port  of  London,  laden  with  a  rich  Cargo,  the  property 
of  an  American,  and  bound  to  New  York,  went  with  my  Passport 
from  London  to  Paris,  where  in  a  personal  interview,  not  with  the 
Agents  of  the  Minister  of  Marine,  but  with  the  Minister  himself^ 
he  disclosed  his  plan  of  bringing  the  Ship  Hare  and  her  Cargo 
into  France,  and  to  enable  him  to  receive  the  profits  of  the  fraud 
without  risquing  the  punishment  of  piracy,  he  demanded  and  re- 
ceived from  the  Minister  of  Marine  a  Commission  naming  him 
the  Commander  of  a  Privateer  that  did  not  exist  ;  with  which  in 
his  Pocket  he  returned  to  London,  and  soon  after  carried  the 
Ship  Hare  and  her  Cargo  as  a  prize  into  France. 

The  Ship  and  Cargo  were  both  claimed  by  the  American 
Owners  and  upon  the  unveiling  of  this  infamous  proceeding  be- 
fore the  lowest  Tribunals,  the  judges  hesitated  and  finally  re- 
fused to  sanction  so  unheard  of  a  fraud  ;  tho'  instead  of  restoring 
the  property  to  its  lawful  owners  they  on  some  frivolous  pretence 
adjudged  both  Ship  and  Cargo  to  be  good  prize  to  the  Nation. 
Lately  the  Tribunal  in  the  last  resort,  upon  the  appeal  of  Hayley, 
has  reversed  the  judgment  of  the  lower  Court  and  decreed  the 
Ship  and  Cargo  to  be  condemned  as  good  prize  to  the  Renegade. 

If  a  transaction  more  grossly  corrupt  and  infamous  has  oc- 
curred in  the  West  Indies,  where  I  admit  that  the  examples  of 
fraud  and  violence  have  been  sufficiently  numerous  under  colour 
of  authority  from  more  than  one  nation,  I  have  not  heard  of  it ; 


I798]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  407 

and  yet  with  this  case  of  unequalled  infamy  and  corruption  be- 
fore them,  sanctioned  by  the  highest  Tribunals  of  the  Nation,  the 
Directory  expect  to  amuse  us  with  the  disavowal  of  the  conduct 
of  a  few  subaltern  Agents  in  a  remote  part  of  their  Dominions  !  !  ! 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem  &c,  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State.     No.  96. 

Margate,  Sept.  5,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  lately  received  your  No.  20  ;  the  four  or  five  immediately  pre- 
ceding missions  have  not  yet  come  to  hand.  The  Newspapers 
inform  us  that  Congress  has  adjourned,  and  I  have  seen  with  the 
greatest  satisfaction  the  military  appointments  that  have  been 
made  and  the  other  important  measures  which  have  been  adopted 
by  the  President.  If  we  have  constancy  and  firmness  to  act  upon 
our  own  Systems,  which  France  by  every  possible  intrigue  will  en- 
deavour to  disturb  and  defeat,  we  shall  not  only  save  our  Country 
from  the  mischiefs  that  have  been  plotted  against  it,  but  we  shall 
acquire  a  reputation  in  our  own  eyes,  as  well  as  in  those  of  others, 
that  will  increase  our  security  and  in  other  respects  prove  highly 
advantageous  in  future  times.  It  does  not  appear  that  the  Law 
annulling  our  Treaties  with  France,  or  that  extending  the  authori- 
ties of  our  public  armed  Ships  to  capture  any  French  armed 
Vessels,  were  known  at  Paris  on  the  30th  ulto.  These  measures 
with  dismission  of  the  French  Consuls  are  of  a  character  to  bring 
to  a  speedy  decision  the  questions  between  France  and  the  United 
States. 

If  we  do  not  within  a  few  days  hear  of  a  Declaration  of  War 
against  us,  I  shall  conclude,  what  I  am  inclined  to  believe  will  be 
their  choice,  that  they  will  wait  for  the  effect  of  the  Publication 
of  the  Correspondence  between  Mr  Gerry  and  Mr  Talleyrand 
and  of  their  Vindication  against  the  Report  of  our  Envoys.  The 
French  Report  that  I  send  you  by  this  opportunity  contains 
several  Paragraphs,  which  though  not  important,  should  not 
escape  our  notice.  Duverne  de  Baisle,  of  whose  mission  I  gave 
you  an  account  in  a  former  letter,  drew  up  and  delivered  to  the 


408  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

Directory  a  plan  to  revolutionize  Canada  with  certain  portions  of 
the  United  States,  and  there  is  reason  to  believe  that  his  late  mis- 
sion to  America  is  connected  with  this  plan.  We  are  still  entirely 
ignorant  notwithstanding  the  variety  of  Reports  which  continue 
to  circulate  concerning  the  real  object  and  situation  of  Buona- 
parte. The  accounts  from  Constantinople  that  a  body  of  French 
forces  had  arrived  at  Alexandria  are  believed  by  this  Govern- 
ment, but  it  has  heard  nothing  from  Nelson  since  he  passed  the 
Straits  of  Messina,  nor  is  there  any  intelligence  whether  the  troops 
landed  at  Alexandria  are  the  main  body  or  only  an  advanced 
Corps  of  Buonaparte's  Army.  At  Paris  there  seems  to  be  the 
same  uncertainty  respecting  the  situation  of  the  two  Fleets.  The 
preparations  for  war  are  carried  on  with  the  greatest  activity  by 
both  France  and  Austria.  At  Rastadt  the  Congress  appears  to  be 
drawing  to  a  close  :  the  French  Ministers  have  delivered  their 
ultimatum  and  insist  upon  an  immediate  and  decisive  answer  : 
the  Deputation  of  the  Empire  seem  inclined  to  yield,  but  the 
Emperor  avoids  a  definitive  answer.  There  are  strong  tokens  of  a 
spirit  of  Revolt  throughout  all  Italy,  and  notwithstanding  the  late 
Offensive  and  Defensive  Treaty  between  the  French  and  Swiss 
Directories  the  Swiss  are  radically  discontented,  and  under  favor- 
able auspices  would  almost  unanimously  rise  to  expel  the  armies 
of  France. 

On  the  22nd.  ulto.  a  body  of  French  Troops,  whose  exact  number 
is  not  yet  ascertained,  landed  with  a  quantity  of  military  stores  at 
Killaloe  in  the  Province  of  Connaught  in  Ireland  :  this  force  must 
be  inconsiderable  as  they  are  supposed  to  have  disembarked  from 
only  three  frigates,  who  brought  them  from  Bordeaux.  It  is 
now  nearly  a  fortnight  and  we  have  no  account  that  they  are 
Prisoners. 

A  few  days  after  landing  they  attacked  a  Corps  of  British 
Troops,  whom  they  compelled  to  retire  writh  the  loss  of  six  pieces 
of  artillery.  Lord  Cornwallis  has  gone  himself  against  them,  and 
from  the  force  that  he  has  collected,  unless  they  have  been  joined 
by  large  bodies  of  the  malcontents,  there  can  be  no  doubt  that 
we  shall  hear  of  their  total  defeat  by  the  next  Messenger. 

The  impression  that  has  been  produced  by  this  handful  of 
Frenchmen,  and  the  delay  and  caution  with  which  they  are  ap- 
proached, demonstrate  that  the  Government  has  but  little  conn- 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  409 

dence  in  Irish  loyalty  and  that  it  is  fortunate  that  this  descent 
was  not  made  eight  weeks  sooner.  In  what  part  of  our  Country 
would  1000  Enemy  land  and  remain  unconquered  for  a  fort- 
night ? 

With  perfect  Esteem  &  Respect  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

P.S.  I  hear  that  many  of  our  Vessels  are  changing  their  flags 
at  Hamburgh  and  other  Northern  Ports  for  those  of  Denmark, 
Sweden  and  Prussia,  and  that  the  Masters  put  on  shore  and 
abandon  their  crews  of  American  sailors  ! 


R.  King  to  Lord  Grenville. 

Copy. 

Margate,  Sept.  6,  1798. 
My  Lord  : 

I  have  heretofore  with  much  concern  represented  to  your 
Lordship  the  great  embarrassment  and  loss  to  which  the  Ameri- 
can Commerce  has  been  subjected  in  consequence  of  the  dilatory 
and  unsatisfactory  proceedings  of  his  Majesty's  High  Court  of 
Admiralty. 

The  increasing  infirmities  of  the  Judge  of  this  Court,  and 
which  from  his  advanced  age  there  is  little  reason  to  believe  will 
ever  be  mitigated,  incapacitate  him  to  discharge  the  Duties  of  his 
important  office  with  the  ability  and  dispatch  that  the  undoubted 
rights  and  essential  interests  of  neutral  nations  give  them  a  title  to 
expect  and  require. 

It  would  be  misplaced  and  altogether  useless  to  enter  into  a 
discussion  to  prove  what  impartial  justice  and  your  Lordship's 
perfect  knowledge  of  the  subject  will  at  once  admit,  that  the 
right  of  the  Belligerent  Nations  to  capture  and  retain  for  adjudi- 
cation the  vessels  of  neutrals,  is  qualified  and  accompanied  by  a 
correspondent  and  perfect  obligation  to  establish  Tribunals,  that 
with  the  least  possible  delay  shall  hear  and  determine  all  such 
cases  of  Capture. 

Will  it  be  requisite  to  proffer  proofs  which,  in  respect  to  the 
United  States  are  unfortunately  but  too  abundant,  of  the  increas- 


4IO  RUFUS  KING.  [i79& 

ing  and  ruinous  delays  to  which  our  navigation  and  commerce 
continue  to  be  exposed  in  the  High  Court  of  Admiralty.  Prop- 
erty to  a  very  great  amount  has  been  unreasonably  detained  for 
adjudication  in  that  Court  beyond  the  time  requisite  for  that 
purpose  ;  new  captures  have  in  succession  augmented  this  capital, 
and  the  claimants  in  cases  ready  to  be  heard,  after  waiting  term 
after  term  and  year  after  year,  subjected  to  heavy  expences,  and 
the  discontented  witnesses  of  the  cause  of  these  delays  have,  in 
several  instances,  returned  home  despairing  of  the  re-possession 
of  property  that  they  assert  and  believe  an  impartial  Tribunal 
ought  long  since  to  have  restored  to  them. 

In  cases  of  Capture  that  have  appeared  to  me  illegal,  I  have 
sometimes  addressed  myself  to  your  Lordship  for  the  purpose  of 
obtaining  their  release.  The  usual  answer  to  these  applications 
has  been  that  such  cases  were  attended  with  circumstances  which 
made  it  proper  to  subject  them  to  a  judicial  examination.  With 
confidence  I  appeal  to  your  Lordship's  justice  and  impartiality  to 
decide  how  far  this  answer  ought  to  be  satisfactory  when,  without 
considering  the  growing  infirmities  of  the  Judge,  but  estimating 
the  future  progress  of  the  Court,  by  its  past  proceedings,  it  cannot 
be  doubted  that  years  must  elapse  before  such  new  cases  would 
be  in  turn  to  be  decided. 

It  will  not  be  thought  necessary  in  order  to  strengthen  our  just 
expectations  on  this  subject  to  state  to  your  Lordship  the  extra- 
ordinary losses  to  which  in  some  instances  the  American  Mer- 
chants have  been  liable  by  the  derangement  of  their  affairs  in 
consequence  of  the  capture  and  indefinite  detention  of  their  Ships 
and  Cargoes.  The  mere  capture  of  the  property  of  a  Neutral 
without  those  circumstances  of  aggravation  coupled  with  the  de- 
lay that  notoriously  exists  in  the  Court,  will,  I  flatter  myself,  be 
thought  of  sufficient  importance  to  engage  your  Lordship's  inter- 
ference, which  I  earnestly  hope  may  not  be  withheld  in  order,  in 
such  way  as  shall  be  found  practicable,  to  remove  the  cause  of 
these  grievous  delays,  and  thereby  to  afford  to  all  parties  the  like 
motives  of  satisfaction  with  the  dispatch  and  impartial  justice  of 
the  Maritime  Tribunals  of  England,  as  are  universally  admitted  to 
exist  in  respect  to  the  other  Branches  of  the  Judiciary. 

With  perfect  consideration  &  Respect 

Rufus  King. 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  4II 

R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State.     No.  97. 

Margate,  Sept.  7,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Herewith  I  have  the  honor  to  send  you  copies  of  my  note  *  and 
Lord  Grenville's  answer  respecting  the  Cannon  said  to  have  been 
given  by  George  the  Second  to  the  Province  of  South  Carolina, 
and  which  his  Britannick  Majesty  has  instructed  his  Lieutenant 
Governor  of  Nova  Scotia  to  deliver  to  such  American  officers  as 
shall  be  appointed  to  receive  them  for  the  service  of  the  United 
States. 

With  perfect  Respect  and  Esteem  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

Copy. 

Lord  Grenville  presents  his  compliments  to  Mr.  King,  and  has 
the  honor  to  inform  him  in  answer  to  bis  note  of  the  26th  ulto. 
that  his  Majesty  has  been  graciously  pleased  to  allow  that  the 
Cannon  therein  mentioned  (as  being  at  Halifax)  should  be  lent 
for  the  service  of  the  United  States,  on  the  condition  of  their 
being  returned  by  that  Government  into  the  King's  Stores  at 
Halifax  whenever  the  occasions  of  the  public  service  may  induce 
the  British  Government  to  make  a  requisition  to  that  effect.  The 
Lieutenant  Governor  of  Nova  Scotia  will  be  instructed  by  the 
first  mail  to  carry  this  arrangement  into  execution  in  concert  with 
any  Officer  who  may  be  appointed  by  the  United  States  for  that 
purpose. 

Downing  Street,  Sept.  8,  1798. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State.     No.  98. 

Margate,  Sep.  13,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

It  is  within  a  few  days  of  four  months  since  the  sailing  of  the 

expedition  from  Toulon,  and  strange  as  it  will  appear,  we  are  still 

ignorant  of  the  ultimate   destination   and  views  of  Buonaparte. 

*  August  26,  1798. 


412  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

Admiral  Nelson  after  looking  for  him  in  vain  thro'  the  Seas  of  the 
Levant  returned  with  the  English  Fleet  to  Syracuse  on  the  2 2d  of 
July,  from  whence,  after  forming  a  junction  with  the  Portuguese 
Squadron  which  carries  his  force  to  19  Sail  of  the  Line,  and  re- 
victualling  his  Fleet,  has  sailed  again  in  search  of  the  French. 
Whether  with  reason  or  otherwise,  there  is  a  disposition  to  cast 
blame  upon  the  Admiralty  for  having  sent  Nelson  into  the  Medi- 
terranean without  a  sufficient  Stock  of  Water  and  Provisions  ;  the 
failure  of  which  is  said  to  have  obliged  him  to  return  to  Sicily. 
The  rumour  is  that  Buonaparte  divided  his  fleet  and  landed  part 
of  his  forces  at  Alexandria,  and  the  other  part  at  Alexandretta  in 
Syria  ;  that  one  body  will  proceed  by  the  Red  Sea  and  the  other 
by  the  Persian  Gulph,  and  that  the  French  have  a  marine  force 
under  Richery  in  the  Seas  of  the  hither  India  superior  to  that  of 
England,  and  sufficient  to  secure  a  passage  for  the  French  army 
to  the  Malabar  Coast  ;  but  we  have  been  amused  with  so  many 
reports  on  this  Subject  which  have  turned  out  fabulous,  that  little 
credit  is  given  to  the  new  ones  that  continue  to  be  circulated.  All 
we  certainly  know  is,  that  we  know  nothing  certain  of  Buonaparte 
since  he  left  Malta. 

No  intelligence  has  been  received  from  Rastadt  since  the  de- 
livery of  the  French  ultimatum.  The  latest  accounts  afford  further 
proof  of  the  discontents  of  Switzerland  and  that  the  Roman  and 
Cisalpine  Republics  are  threatened  with  new  convulsions  ;  in  the 
former  the  Consuls  have  been  suspended,  and  the  controul  of  the 
nation  taken  into  the  hands  of  the  French  General  at  Rome 
who  has  lately  suppressed  a  revolt  in  one  of  the  Departments  by 
the  bloody  extermination  of  the  Inhabitants.  In  the  Cisalpine 
Republic  the  division  among  the  Patriots  is  so  great  that  it  seems 
probable  that  the  Constitution  will  be  laid  aside,  and  the  Govern- 
ment be  confided  to  the  French  Commander  in  chief  at  Milan. 
The  Grisons  refuse  to  unite  with  the  new  Helvetic  Republic, 
which  finds  few  friends  and  supporters  out  of  the  large  Towns. 
Some  Swiss  peasants  who  lately  surprised  and  murdered  four 
French  soldiers,  for  which  they  were  condemned  to  death,  went 
boldly  to  their  execution,  glorying  that  they  had  shed  the  blood 
of  their  enemy,  and  calling  upon  their  countrymen  to  imitate 
their  example.  These  circumstances  connected  with  the  activity 
of  the  military  preparations  of  France,  Austria,  Russia  and  Naples 


179*3]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE,  413 

leave  little  doubt  that  we  are  upon  the  eve  of  a  recommencement 
of  the  War  ! 

The  Invasion  of  Ireland  has  ended  in  the  Surrender  of  the 
Invaders  *  ;  as  yet  we  have  no  returns  of  their  number  nor  of  that 
of  the  Irish  who  joined  them  ;  both  are  supposed  to  be  inconsid- 
erable. The  Reports  of  the  Secret  Committees  of  the  Irish  Parlia- 
ment which  I  send  you,  fully  disclose  the  principles  and  views  of 
the  Leaders  of  the  Rebellion.  These  are  so  conformable  to  those 
which  have  prevailed  in  France,  so  false  and  so  utterly  inconsist- 
ent with  any  practicable  or  settled  form  of  Government,  that  I 
have  taken  occasion  to  express  my  wishes  that  the  United  States 
might  not  be  selected  as  the  Country  to  which  any  of  the  State 
Prisoners  should  be  permitted  to  retire. 

It  is  nearly  a  fortnight  since  I  have  received  any  accounts  from 
Paris.  Doctor  Logan,  it  appears,  has  had  an  interview  with 
Merlin,  has  been  closeted  by  Talleyrand,  and  observes  no  reserve 
or  decorum  in  reprobating  the  conduct  of  the  President,  which, 
if  I  may  credit  my  information,  he  asserts  is  disapproved  by  a 
majority  of  the  people,  who  are  alarmed  lest  his  measures  should 
involve  us  in  a  war  with  France  !  !  ! 

The  manner  in  which  the  Directory  answered  the  offer  by 
Shimmelpennick  of  the  Dutch  mediation  confirms  my  opinion 
that  they  entertain  great  hopes  and  expectations  from  the  publica- 
tion of  the  Correspondence  between  Talleyrand  and  Gerry,  tho' 
I  have  again  and  again  considered  it,  and  can  discover  nothing 
that  ought  to  change  our  opinion  respecting  their  views  and  ob- 
jects. I  am  unable  to  decide  whether  the  offer  proceeded  spon- 
taneously from  the  Dutch  or  was  instigated  by  France  ;  the 
commercial  interest  of  the  former  is  sufficient  to  have  engaged 
their  exertions  to  prevent  a  war  between  us  and  France,  which  if 
it  did  not  draw  them  in,  would  destroy  the  little  remnant  of  their 
Commerce  :  on  the  other  hand,  many  and  unequivocal  circum- 
stances shew  that  seeing  our  union  and  firmness  France  is  adverse 
to  an  open  rupture  ;  there  are  even  appearances  that  she  medi- 
tates a  revision  of  the  Maritime  Laws  ;  and  the  employment  of 
the  Dutch  as  mediators  may  be  another  means  by  which  she  may 
hope  to  avoid  extremities  and  bring  about  a  new  negociation. 
But  all  these  symptoms  are  antecedent  to  the  knowledge  that  the 

*  See  letter  96,  Sept.  5,  1798. 


4H  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

Treaties  were  abolished,  and  that  we  know  nothing  from  Paris 
since  this  important  fact  was  known  there. 

With  perfect  respect  and  Esteem 

Rufus  King. 


T.  Pickering  to  R.   King. 

Private. 

Trenton,  Sept.  15,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  Your  letter  (private)  of  Feby  7,  expresses  your  opinion 
of  Mr.  Gerry  as  communicated  to  General  Pinckney,  an  opinion 
in  which  all  the  public  men  whom  I  had  heard  speak  of  Mr.  G. 
and  I,  from  my  acquaintance  with  him,  were  ready  to  concur. 
But  General  Pinckney  in  a  letter  to  his  brother  of  April  4th  says  : 
"  I  never  met  with  a  man  so  destitute  of  candour  and  so  full  of 
deceit  as  Mr.  Gerry*  ;  "  and  Mr.  Marshall  is  of  his  opinion.  .  .  . 

The  Newspapers  will  have  informed  you  of  the  extensive 
calamity  of  yellow  fever,  which  has  visited  Philadelphia,  New 
York,  Wilmington  in  Delaware,  New  London,  Boston  and  Ports- 
mouth, N.  Hampshire.  It  is  more  malignant  and  mortal  than  in 
any  former  year.     .     .     . 

Your  faithful  and  obedt  servant, 

Timothy  Pickering. 

Mr.  Fenno,  the  printer,  died  yesterday  or  this  day. — B.  F.  Bache 
died  a  few  days  before.  Sept.  17.  yesterday  I  was  informed  that 
Greenleaf  of  New  York,  the  printer  of  the  Argus,  was  also  dead. 


R.  King  to  R.  Troup. 

London,  Sep.  16,  1798. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

I  have  just  received  your  letter  of  the  24  July — The  military 

appointments  [that  letter  contained  the  names  of  them — Ed.]  are 

on  the  whole  excellent — with  such  leaders  and  a  proper  spirit  in  the 

country,  I  almost  give  myself  up  to  a  confidence  that  we  shall  be 

secure.     I  don't  like,  however,  the  divisions   which  continue  to 

*  Italics  in  cipher. 


1798]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  41 5 

prevail  in  New  York  and  regret  to  see  that  you  divide  even  be- 
tween Hail  Columbia  !  and  "fa  ira."  At  this  rate  we  shall  hear 
more  of  the  party,  and  of  the  means  which  France  possessed  in 
America. 

It  is  ten  days  or  more  since  we  have  anything  authentic  from 
Paris  respecting  our  affairs.  The  Americans,  who,  on  the  laying 
of  the  Embargo,  were  conducted  to  prison  as  prisoners  of  war, 
have  been  released  and  an  Arrete  of  the  Directory  has  ordered 
the  Embargo  to  be  raised,  tho'  we  have  no  accounts  that  our 
vessels  have  in  fact  been  allowed  to  sail.  Logan  is  announced  in 
the  Paris  papers  as  the  Envoy  of  the  Patriotic  Party  in  America. 
He  has  met  Merlin,  to  whom,  it  is  said,  he  had  letters  from  Jeffer- 
son, McKean  and  Mifflin — been  closeted  with  Talleyrand,  and 
meets  the  Party  at  Skipwith's. 

Observe  that  we  know  nothing  from  Paris  subsequent  to  it's 
being  known  there  that  the  Treaties  are  abolished.  It  is  plain 
that  discovering  our  union  and  firmness,  they  intended  to  regain, 
if  possible,  the  ground  they  had  lost.  They  wd.  have  negotiated 
a  Treaty  which  they  would  not,  because  they  are  really  unable, 
have  performed  !  and  I  should  add  which  they  would  not  have 
executed,  if  they  had  been  able.  But  the  Treaties  are  dead  and 
cannot  be  renewed  !  the  ground  cannot  be  regained  ;  what,  when 
they  see  this  to  be  their  situation,  will  be  their  conduct  is  matter 
of  conjecture.  I  still  believe  they  will  not  declare  war,  and  think 
it  probable  that  they  will  endeavour  to  reinstate  themselves  and 
their  influence  among  us. 

Nelson  missed  Buonaparte,  who  it  seems  has  reached  Egypt, 
tho'  the  accounts  are  obscure  and  even  contradictory  in  regard  to 
this  fact.  Nelson  after  revictualling  his  fleet,  strengthened  by  the 
junction  of  a  Portuguese  Squadron  has  returned  to  the  Levant  in 
search  of  the  French. 

War  is  almost  certain  and  on  the  eve  of  recommencing  between 
Austria  and  France.  Naples  and  Russia  will  in  all  probability 
act  on  the  side  of  the  Emperor.  Russia  will  not  reengage,  and  the 
German  Empire  will  prefer,  according  to  appearances,  to  be  in- 
corporated with  France,  rather  than  to  be  overrun  by  her  armies, 
which  she  would  be  in  case  of  war. 

The  invasion  of  Ireland  has  made  a  great  noise,  excited  much 
alarm  and  required  the  presence  of  the  Viceroy  at  the  head  of 


41 6  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

20,000  men  before  the  handful  of  invaders  laid  down  their  arms. 
This  could  not  have  been  so  if  there  had  been  more  confidence  in 
the  army  !  !  !  and  the  time  and  bustle  that  has  been  requisite  to 
conquer  the  invaders  reflect  no  credit  on  the  zeal  of  the  Br. 
Army. 

Yrs.  &c. 


R.  King  to  O.  Wolcott,  Sec.  of  Treasury. 

Margate,  Sep.  17,  1798. 

Dear  Sir  : 

The  Messrs.  Baring  will  keep  you  advised  of  the  progress  they 
make  in  executing  your  order  for  Cannon.  As  the  shipments  will 
be  made  in  different  vessels  I  have  instructed  them  not  to  insure  ; 
and  I  now  take  notice  of  this  circumstance  for  the  double  purpose 
of  enabling  you  to  make  insurance,  if  you  think  it  adviseable,  and 
also  to  apprize  you  that  I  shall  in  no  case  order  insurance  to  be 
made  here  without  your  special  directions. 

It  is  yet  uncertain  whether  we  shall  be  able  to  procure  any  con- 
siderable quantity  of  Muskets  in  this  Country.  I  hope  soon  to  be 
able  to  inform  you  whether  we  can  obtain  from  the  Government 
or  the  Manufacturers  the  quantity  ordered  in  your  letter  of  the 
3rd  of  July  :  in  the  meantime  I  am  completing  the  inquiries  that 
for  some  time  past  I  have  been  making  in  other  quarters  :  being 
informed  that  there  are  about  four  thousand  English  Muskets  for 
sale  at  Hamburgh,  I  have  desired  Mr.  Pitcairn,  our  Consul  there, 
to  purchase  them,  if  they  are  in  good  condition,  uniform  and  can 
be  had  for  the  price  that  has  been  named  to  me. 

In  case  of  failure  in  England  I  have  the  prospect  of  being  able 
to  procure  about  18,000  Muskets  of  German  Fabrick  at  Hamburgh, 
from  whence  only  we  are  likely  to  obtain  them  :  in  this  case  we 
must  endeavor  to  ship  them  by  the  Convoys  which  are  established 
between  England  &  Hamburgh,  and  then  to  forward  them  with 
a  Convoy  from  England  to  the  United  States. 

With  perfect  respect  and  esteem 

Rufus  King. 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  417 

R.  King  to  A.  Hamilton.* 

London,  September  17,  1798. 

I  am  charmed  with  the  military  appointments.  In  the  main  they 
are  quite  what  they  should  be.  Such  chiefs  ought  to  give  glory  as 
well  as  security  to  their  country,  and  they  will  do  both  if  the  occa- 
sions offer.  You  see  that  I  relapse  into  my  former  strain.  I  know 
not  what  you  and  others,  whose  sentiments  I  respect,  may  think, 
but  I  must  unsettle  all  that  is  best  settled  in  my  opinions  of  the 
character  of  the  present  extraordinary  crisis,  or  I  cannot  agree 
that  an  unimpassioned,  phlegmatic,  cautious,  inactive  and  merely 
defensive  war,  even  under  the  highest  toned  and  most  vigorous 
form  of  government,  is  capable  of  affording  a  tolerable  chance  of 
security  against  such  an  adversary  as  France. 

I  do  not  entirely  comprehend  the  views  and  proceedings  of 
Congress,  who  appear  to  have  done  too  much  or  not  enough.  But 
I  have  been  too  long  acquainted  with  the  temper  and  composition 
of  that  body,  not  to  be  able  to  conjecture  the  difficulties  that  arise 
from  the  vanities  of  some,  and  the  obstinacy  of  others  ;  and  which 
have  given  the  appearance  of  inconsistency  to  their  measures. 

Congress  has  adjourned,  and  it  is  of  the  highest  importance  that 
we  should  form  a  correct  opinion  of  the  course  that  France  is  likely 
to  pursue.  It  is  plain,  that  discovering  our  union  and  firmness, 
France  instantly  decided  upon  her  relinquishment  of  apologies 
and  loans,  and  resolved  to  recede  as  far  as  should  be  necessary  to 
regain  her  standing  ;  and  if  possible,  her  influence  among  our 
people.  But  she  has  no  intention  of  doing  us  justice  for  the  past, 
or  performing  what  she  might  be  induced  to  promise  in  respect  to 
the  future.  The  correspondence  between  Talleyrand  and  Gerry, 
inclusive  of  other  extemporaneous  and  subsequent  measures  of  the 
same  character,  should  convince  us  of  the  justice  of  this  opinion. 
Logan,  who  as  we  hear,  was  provided  with  letters  from  Jefferson 
and  others,  has  been  presented  to  Merlin  as  the  envoy  of  the  patri- 
otic party  in  America.  He  has  been  closeted  with  Talleyrand  and 
speaks  openly  of  his  success  with  the  French  government.  Since 
his  arrival  at  Paris,  the  American  Seamen  have  been  released,  who, 
on  the  laying  the  embargo,  were  conducted  to  prison,  and  the 
Directory  have  ordered  the  embargo  to  be  raised.  The  preamble 
of  the  Arret  merits  attention. 

*  Works  of  Ha??iilton,  vi.,  356. 


41 3  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

"  29  Thermidor.  Le  Directoire  executif,  considerant  que  malgre 
la  manifestation  hostile  du  gouvernement  des  Etats  Unis,  qui 
avait  determine  un  embargo  momentane  sur  leurs  batimens,  il  doit 
croire  qu'a  moins  d'etre  livre  aux  passions  du  Cabinet  Britannique, 
ce  gouvernement  fidele  aux  interets  de  la  Nation  Americaine,  pren- 
dra  des  mesures  analogues  aux  dispositions  pacifiques  de  la  Re- 
publique  Fran9aise  des  qu'  il  recevra  la  confirmation,  et  voulant 
suivre  les  habitudes  amicales  et  fraternelles  de  la  France,  envers 
un  peuple  dont  elle  a  defendu  la  liberte,  arrete  ce  qui  suit,  &c, 
&c."  These  proceedings  should  be  compared  with  the  treatment 
and  language  received  by  our  envoys,  and  we  shall  from  hence  be 
able  perhaps  to  fathom  the  views  and  discover  the  meaning  of 
France.  It  is  analogous  to  what  has  been  done  in  other  countries. 
Difficulties  and  embarrassments  complained  of  by  the  proper 
agents  of  such  countries  have  been  aggravated  and  increased,  and 
in  order  to  divide  the  people  from  their  government,  promises  of 
redress  and  satisfaction  have  been  given  to  the  popular  agents  of 
such  countries,  which  had  been  refused  to  the  envoys  of  their 
governments. 

But  we  know  nothing  certain  of  the  views  of  France  since  it  has 
been  known  at  Paris  that  our  treaties  are  dissolved.  The  measures 
above  referred  to  were  of  antecedent  date.  I  still  think  they  will 
not  declare  war,  but  endeavor  to  gain  their  object  by  humiliation 
and  intrigue. 

The  war  is  on  the  eve  of  recommencing  between  France  and 
Austria.  Prussia  will  remain  neuter  :  Germany  will  suffer  herself 
to  be  incorporated  with  France  in  preference  to  being  again  at  war 
with  her.  Naples  will  be  engaged,  and  Russia,  according  to 
appearances,  will  also  become  active. 

Rufus  King. 


T.  Pickering  to  R.  King.* 

Private. 

Trenton,  Sept.  18,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

In    mine    of  the   29th  of  August    I   mentioned  that   General 
Washington   claimed  as  a  condition  of    his  acceptance  of   the 

*  All  in  cipher. 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  419 

chief  command  the  privilege  of  proposing  his  principal  officers. 
This  was  not  correct.  He  agreed  to  serve  with  the  reservation 
that  he  should  have  such  principal  officers  in  the  line  and  staff  as 
he  could  confide  in.  His  advice  was  asked  on  this  subject  by  the 
written  instructions  of  the  President  to  the  Secretary  of  War,  and 
the  advice  being  formally  given,  with  respect  to  the  three  first  (for 
there  is  at  present  no  dispute  about  others)  it  cannot  be  departed 
from  without  wounding  General  Washington's  feelings,  nor  indeed 
consistently  with  good  faith,  especially  as  it  was  known  to  the 
President,  that  General  W.  had  declared  that  he  relied  on  the  aid 
of  Col.  Hamilton,  to  whom  he  wrote  explicitly  that  as  to  his 
(Genl.  W's)  friend  General  Knox  whom  he  loved  and  esteemed, 
he  ranked  him  after  both  Hamilton  and  Pinckney.  This  private 
letter  was  left  open,  and  the  Secretary  of  War  submitted  it  to  the 
President's  perusal.  In  the  face  of  all  this  General  K.  (to  whom 
also  General  Washington  has  explained  himself)  demands  the 
priority  of  rank,  or  he  will  not  serve.  This,  though  to  be  regret- 
ted, would  be  of  comparatively  little  moment,  were  not  the  Presi- 
dent disposed  to  admit  his  pretensions.  But  the  reasons  opposed 
to  them  and  in  favor  of  H.  are  so  cogent  and  indeed  irrefragable, 
and  are  now  prepared  to  be  laid  before  the  President  in  all  their 
force,  I  cannot  believe  but  that  he  will  be  convinced,  and  make 
all  predilection  yield  to  the  considerations  of  public  welfare,  in 
which,  indeed,  his  own  honor,  reputation  and  influence  are  neces- 
sarily involved. 

Your  intimate  friendship,  esteem  and  respect  for  Col.  H.  and 
your  regard  for  General  K.  will  interest  you  in  this  matter  ;  altho' 
your  first  and  great  concern  will  be  the  influence  of  the  Presi- 
dent's final  decision  on  the  safety  and  welfare  of  your  country. 
The  result,  I  hope  and  trust,  will  be  satisfactory.  It  must  soon  be 
known  ;  and  I  will  embrace  the  conveyance  to  relieve  your 
anxiety  which  I  am  sure  cannot  be  less  than  my  own.  To  you 
alone  of  all  Americans  in  Europe  have  I,  or  shall  I,  touch  on  this 
subject ;  for  I  know  not  of  any  one  so  intimately  connected  with 
all  the  characters  in  question  ;  or  to  whom  it  will  be  of  so  much 
consequence  to  communicate  information  that  will  be  confined 
within  very  narrow  bounds  when  at  home. 

T.  P. 


420  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State.     No.  99. 

London,  Sept.  19,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  I  can  give  you  no  recent  account  of  Buonaparte,  except 
that  it  is  now  fully  believed  that  he  has  landed  in  Egypt  :  the 
French  Journals  are  silent  respecting  him,  while  those  of  Germany 
are  filled  with  stories  of  his  victories  over  the  Beys  of  Egypt  and 
the  Arabs  of  the  Desert. 

The  last  mails  agree  with  the  more  direct  and  recent  intelli- 
gence from  Paris,  that  we  are  on  the  eve  of  the  commencement  of 
the  war  between  Austria  and  France.  Logan  has  left  Paris  for 
Bordeaux  on  his  return  to  America  ;  he  is  said  to  be  charged  with 
Dispatches  from  the  French  Government,  tho'  the  Directory 
seems  desirous  that  it  should  not  be  supposed  that  he  has  been 
particularly  noticed,  or  that  his  visit  at  Paris  has  been  connected 
with  any  political  object.  The  Arrete  for  raising  the  Embargo 
on  American  Vessels  in  the  Ports  of  France  is  dated  on  the  16th 
of  August  ;  but  I  have  not  heard  that  our  Ships  have  been  per- 
mitted to  depart  ;  tho'  from  the  tenor  of  all  our  information,  it  is 
more  and  more  plain  that  the  Directory  will  endeavour  to  avoid 
an  open  rupture  with  America,  and  as  far  as  possible  to  regain  the 
former  standing  and  influence  of  France  among  us. 

How  wise  and  magnanimous  has  been  the  conduct  of  the  Presi- 
dent !  how  honorable  to  our  Nation  the  support  he  has  received 
from  the  people  !  All  the  world  is  becoming  inquisitive  respect- 
ing America  :  foreigners  do  us  the  greatest  justice,  and  those  who 
dare  not  imitate,  applaud  and  admire  our  example. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  esteem  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  the  Consuls. 

Circular. 

London,  Sep.  20,  1798. 
Sir  : 

Congress  having  authorized  the  capture  of  any  French  armed 

vessels  within  the  jurisdictional  limits  of  the  United  States  or 

elsewhere  on  the  high  Seas,  by  private  armed  American  Ships  ;  a 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  42 1 

number  of  blank  Commissions  and  Bonds,  with  copies  of  the  In- 
structions prescribed  by  the  President,  have  been  sent  to  me  by 
the  Secretary  of  State,  for  the  purpose  of  being  delivered  to  such 
of  our  Merchant  Vessels,  as  shall  arm  themselves  within  the  ports 
of  Great  Britain  ;  applications  for  these  Commissions  may,  for  the 
present,  be  addressed  to  Samuel  Williams  Esq,  our  Consul  in  this 
city,  and  should  be  accompanied  with  proofs  that  the  Ship  is 
American  property  and  a  statement  of  her  name  and  tonnage,  the 
number  of  her  Carriage  Guns,  the  number  of  her  men,  the  names 
and  places  of  residence  of  her  Captain  and  Lieutenant,  and  like- 
wise the  names  and  places  of  residence  of  her  Owners  :  as  these 
are  presumed  to  be  in  the  United  States  the  Bonds  which  are  re- 
quired may  be  executed  by  their  Agents  or  Consignees  in  this 
Country. 

You  will  without  delay  communicate  this  information  to  the 
Masters  of  such  American  Vessels  as  are  from  time  to  time  within 
your  District  ;  but  it  does  not  appear  to  me  requisite  to  give  the 
subject  any  other  publicity. 

With  great  esteem  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


CHAPTER  XXVII. 

King  to  Secy,  of  State  and  Hamilton  on  Opinions  in  France  looking  for  a  Re- 
newal of  Negotiations— Bingham  reports  State  of  Feeling  in  United  States 
on  the  Publication  of  the  Dispatches — Pickering  gives  an  Account  of 
Gerry's  Arrival  in  England — Troup — Yellow  Fever,  its  Severity,  Causes, 
and  Treatment — Military  Appointments — Burr — Political  Opinions — Con- 
tempt for  Conduct  of  Talleyrand  and  Gerry — Failures  in  United  States — 
King — Nelson's  Victory — Supposed  Purpose  of  Bonaparte  to  go  to  India — 
Condition  of  Affairs  on  the  Continent — Lord  Grenville  on  European  Poli- 
tics— Proposes  Arrangement  as  to  Duties  on  Sugar — Cabot  draws  a  Pic- 
ture of  Affairs — Gerry  has  seen  the  President ;  talks  prudently — Military 
Appointments — King  to  Secy,  of  State — Dissatisfaction  with  High  Court 
of  Admiralty — Correspondence  with  Lord  Portland  relative  to  the  Irish 
Prisoners — To  Wolcott — Difficulty  in  purchasing  Arms — To  Secy,  of  State, 
in  Reference  to  the  Proposition  relative  to  Duties  on  Sugar — To  T.  Pinck- 
ney — Approves  of  the  Abolition  of  Treaties  with  France — Gratified  with 
the  Attitude  of  United  States. 

R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State.     No.  ioo. 

London,  Sep.  21,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  I  this  morning  received  the  Paris  paper  to  the  16th  in- 
stant. "  L'Ami  des  lois  "  of  the  15th  Fructidor  (Sep.  1st)  announces 
the  arrival  of  a  flag  of  truce  at  Bordeaux  in  24  days  from  Phila- 
delphia, and  Poultier,  the  editor,  asserts  that  she  brings  dispatches 
of  the  most  satisfactory  nature  to  the  friends  of  peace.  "  Le 
parti  Anglais  (dit  il)  loin  d'avoir  pris  decidement  le  dessus  dans 
les  E.  U.,  est  au  contraire  dejoue  dans  ses  projets  sanguinnaires, 
et  la  majorite  du  Congres  vaincue  par  les  procedes  genereuses  du 
gouvernment  de  la,  grande  nation,  a  rejete  tous  les  plans  hostiles 
qui  lui  avaient  ete  presentes  par  M.  Adams.  Elle  a  repousse 
toutes  mesures  qui  tendraient  a  troubler  la  bonne  harmonie  qui 
doit  exister  entre  deux  peuples  amis  ;  et  apres  avoir  manifeste 

422 


1 798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  423 

tres  clairement  ses  intentions  a  ce  sujet,  le  Congres  s'est  separe 
au  milieu  des  Benedictions  d'un  peuple  qui  sent  tout  le  prix  de 
son  alliance  avec  la  Republique  Francaise,  et  qui  avait  deja 
donne  en  plusieurs  occasions  des  preuves  non-equivoques  de  son 
eloign ement  pour  les  actes  de  rupture  projettes  par  un  fonction- 
naire  inftdele  que  V  opinioti  publiqiie  accuse  d'  etre  vendu  auplus  infdme 
de  Gouvememens.  En  apprenant  l'heureuse  nouvelle  que  nous 
transmittons  a  nos  lecteurs,  nous  n'avons  pu  nous  defendre  d'un 
sentiment  d'admiration  pour  la  conduite  politique  tenue  derniere- 
ment  par  le  Directoire  envers  les  E.  U.,  conduite  qui  a  opere  des 
changemens  si  avantageuses  dans  notre  position  vis-a-vis  cette 
puissance,  et  qui  doit  nous  concilier  l'estimede  tous  lespeuples." 

It  is  probably  known  to  you  that  Poultier's  Journal,  tho'  not 
strictly  official,  is  one  that  furnishes  the  means  of  conjecturing 
the  Politicks  of  the  Luxembourg.  Paragraphs  of  the  same  tenor 
appear  in  the  French  papers  of  a  later  date,  and,  if  what  I  suspect 
be  true,  before  this  reaches  you,  you  will  have  received  direct 
overtures  for  the  renewal  of  negotiations.  If  the  views  of  the 
Directory  could  be  doubted  by  any  one  who  has  impartially  ob- 
served them,  the  distinction  which  continues  to  be  made  and  kept 
up  between  the  Government  and  people  of  the  United  States, 
and  the  base  insinuations  of  Poultier  concerning  the  President 
should  increase  the  caution  with  which  we  meet  the  overture  of  a 
Nation  from  whose  acts  alone  we  have  anything  to  fear.  I  per- 
suade myself,  if  the  President  renews  the  negotiation,  that  he  will 
perceive  not  only  that  his  own  character,  so  justly  precious  to  his 
country,  but  what  is  dearer  to  him,  that  the  Constitution  and 
safety  of  the  Country  itself,  will  require  a  total  exclusion  of  every 
suspected  individual  from  a  share  in  the  negotiation.  This  is  a 
subject  too  important  not  to  merit  the  most  profound  reflections  ; 
it  is  one  that  conceals  our  only  real  danger  ;  there  are  obvious 
reasons  why  it  is  neither  adviseable  nor  necessary  that  the  Topic 
should  be  more  than  hinted  at  by  me. 

The  French  papers  of  the  16th  inst.  contain  an  account  that 
Buonaparte  landed  with  his  army  at  Alexandria  on  the  1st  of  July, 
and  after  concluding  a  Treaty  of  friendship  with  the  Beys  and 
Arabian  Chiefs  entered  Grand  Cairo  on  the  2 2d  from  whence  he 
immediately  pursued  his  march.  The  same  papers  announce  the 
receit  of  Letters  from  Malta,  which  state  that  the   English  Fleet 


424  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

had  given  battle  to  that  of  France,  which  was  found  at  anchor  on 
the  coast  of  Begnieres,  preparing  to  return  to  France  :  the  battle 
is  reported  to  have  been  fought  with  obstinacy  and  to  have  ended 
in  a  decisive  victory  by  the  English. 

No  dates  are  given,  and  the  details  are  obscure  ;  the  event  is 
notwithstanding  upon  the  whole  highly  probable  :  the  Redacteur 
of  the  1 6th  says  we  learn  par  line  voie  sure  that  two  ships  part  of 
the  Toulon  Fleet,  have  arrived  in  our  ports,  one  of  80  Guns, 
commanded  by  rear-admiral  Villeneuve  is  at  Malta,  the  other  of 
74  Guns  is  at  Corfu. 

With  Perfect  Respect  and  Esteem,  &c,  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  A.  Hamilton.* 

London,  September  23d,  1798. 

You  will  have  no  war  !  France  will  propose  to  renew  the 
negotiation  upon  the  basis  laid  down  in  the  President's  instruc- 
tions to  the  envoys.     At  least  so  I  conjecture. 

If  the  negotiation  is  recommenced,  the  most  obvious  pre- 
caution suggests  the  expediency  of  confiding  it  to  hands  above  all 
suspicion. 

We  see  that  we  have  nothing  to  fear  from  the  arms  of  France  ; 
all  her  skill  and  energy  and  resentment  will  nevertheless  be  em- 
ployed to  attain  her  ends. 

A  treaty,  liberal  in  terms  and  stipulations,  though  neither  should 
be  performed  nor  observed,  would  gain  time,  and  go  a  great  way 
to  restore  her  injured  credit. 

The  election  of  President  would  return  before  the  efficacy  and 
sincerity  of  the  new  stipulations  and  engagements  would  be  ex- 
perimentally ascertained.  To  give  them  any  chance  of  success, 
they  must  be  liberal  to  the  utmost  bounds  of  our  expectations. 

Bonaparte  reached  Grand  Cairo  on  the  22d  of  July,  but  we  are 
quite  ignorant  whether  he  was  opposed  by  the  Beys.  It  does 
not  appear  yet  whether  he  will  remain  some  time  in  Egypt,  in 
order  to  consolidate  his  conquest  and  authority  over  that  country, 
or  proceed  immediately  by  the  Red  Sea  for  India.     We  are  with- 

*  Works  of  Hamilton,  vi.,  359. 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  42$ 

out  details  or  confirmation  of  the  victory  which  the  French  papers 
of  the  15th  and  16th  instant  state  to  have  been  gained  over  the 
French  fleet  by  Nelson.  The  news  is  on  the  whole  highly  prob- 
able, and  the  victory  has,  according  to  these  reports,  been  very 
decisive  and  glorious.     The  war  is  about  to  recommence. 


Wm.  Bingham  to  R.  King. 

Bellevue,  Jersey  Shore,  Septem.  30th,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  publication  of  the  Dispatches  of  our  Commissioners,  which, 
considering  the  Nature  of  them,  must  have  excited  some  Surprize 
amongst  the  diplomatic  People  of  Europe,  had  an  astonishing 
Effect  in  creating  a  Spirit  of  determined  Resistance  to  French 
Aggressions.  The  Friends  of  the  Government  have  improved  the 
Opportunity  of  cloathing  the  Executive  with  additional  Energies. 

Another  good  Consequence  will  be  felt  in  our  Elections,  which 
will  return  a  large  Majority  of  federal  Characters.  The  Result 
of  that  of  No.  Carolina  has  been  very  favorable.  I  hope  the  Im- 
pression will  be  durable  ;  but  I  have  my  Apprehensions  with  re- 
spect to  many  of  our  political  Proselytes.  I  am  confident  that 
many  of  them  possess  a  disorganizing  Mind,  &  that  in  their  Hearts 
there  is  still  lurking  a  secret  Attachment  to  the  French  Cause. 
But  I  hope  the  Government  will  be  made  sufficiently  energetic  to 
controul  the  Conduct  of  such  Characters. 

It  is  evident  that  the  Policy  of  France  will  be  to  divide  us  &  if 
she  cannot  create  a  formidable  Party  by  her  Intrigues,  she  will 
probably  have  Recourse  to  Arms,  altho'  at  present  she  has  too 
many  objects  of  pressing  Importance  in  Europe  to  attract  her 
Attention,  to  attempt  an  Expedition  in  this  Quarter. 

Our  Commercial  People  have  suffered  immensely  by  French 
Spoliations  &  the  Country  at  large  is  undergoing  a  very  consider- 
able Change,  from  the  scarcity  of  Money  &  the  stagnation  of 
Trade,  which  have  effected  a  considerable  fall  in  the  Price  of 
Labor  &  Provisions,  as  well  as  in  the  Value  of  all  kinds  of  Property. 
The  Fate  of  England  will  have  a  great  Influence  on  the  political 
Situation  of  this  Country.  I  cannot  but  entertain  very  serious 
apprehensions,  for  the  Result,  when  I  see  the  preponderance  that 


426  XUFUS  KING.  [1798 

France  is  daily  acquiring  on  the  Continent,  &  no  Union  of  Force 
or  Concert  of  Governments  to  oppose  her  ambitious  Projects. 

Her  Aim  is  evidently  to  revolutionize  Europe  &  she  has  made 
great  Progress  in  her  Views,  when  she  has  impressed  a  Terror, 
which  operates  like  the  Stroke  of  a  Torpedo,  &  has  benumbed  all 
the  Faculties  of  the  European  Powers.  If  she  continues  a  little 
longer  in  her  Career,  she  will  have  Europe  at  her  Feet. 

We  are  anxious  to  hear  the  ultimate  Object  of  Buonaparte's 
Expedition.  Malta  was  but  a  half  way  House.  We  suppose  it 
to  be  India  ;  but  by  what  Route,  or  what  Preparations  have  been 
made  to  effect  it,  is  Matter  of  Conjecture. 

I  deprecate  the  Consequences  of  the  Insurrection  in  Ireland  ; 
if  successfull,  as  it  regards  England — if  otherwise,  as  it  regards 
this  Country.  In  the  latter  Case,  we  shall  have  immense  Emi- 
grations of  an  ignorant  &  deluded  Class  of  People,  who  will  make 
a  Merit  of  resisting  every  Government,  they  live  under.  I  cannot 
see  how  we  can  shut  our  Doors  against  their  admission.  A  late 
Law  has  rendered  a  longer  Residence,  necessary  to  Naturalization, 
but  this  will  not  prevent  their  seeking  an  Asylum  here  ;  altho'  it 
will  deprive  them  of  the  Power  of  influencing  Elections. 

You  inquire  if  Ross  will  become  Governor.  I  think  &  hope 
he  will ;  all  my  Efforts  will  be  exerted,  to  insure  his  Election. 
We  shall  certainly  feel  his  Loss  to  the  Senate  ;  but,  in  critical 
Times,  he  may  still  be  more  usefull,  as  the  chief  Magistrate  of 
this  state  ;  altho'  I  must  confess  that  the  Senate  has  not  appre- 
ciated, in  point  of  Talents,  by  the  recent  Changes,  that  have 
taken  place. 

You  will  hear  with  great  pain  the  melancholy  Accounts  of  the 
Situation  in  New  York  and  Philadelphia,  again  scourged  by  the 
Introduction  of  an  epidemic  disorder  of  the  most  malignant 
Character.  It  has  caused  the  Cities  to  be  abandoned,  &  the 
Inhabitants  to  fly  in  every  Direction,  to  seek  an  Asylum.  You 
will  readily  judge  the  distress  which  must  arise  from  so  general  a 
Derangement,  independent  of  the  Loss  of  so  many  valuable  Citi- 
zens, who  have  fallen  Victims  to  the  Disorder.  The  Physicians 
are  disputing  whether  it  is  contagious,  infectious,  or  epidemic  ;  or 
whether  it  is  a  local  or  imported  Disease  ;  they  likewise  differ 
about  the  Mode  of  treating  it.  However,  if  some  effectual  Means 
are  not  adopted  to  eradicate  the  Cause  of  these  severe  visitations, 


1798]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  427 

the  Cities  on  the  Sea-Coast  will  be  considerably  depopulated,  as 
the  lower  Class  of  People  cannot  support  the  Loss  &  Inconvenience? 
which  arise  from  the  necessity  of  such  frequent  Removals. 

Yours  &c. 

Wm.  Bingham. 


A.  Hamilton  to  R.  King. 

New  York,  Oct.  2d,  1798. 
My  Dear  Sir  : 

Mr.  R.  delivered  me  your  letter  of  the  31  of  July.  The  opinion 
in  that  and  other  of  your  letters  concerning  a  very  important 
point  has  been  acted  upon  by  me  from  the  moment  that  it  be- 
came unequivocal  that  we  must  have  a  decisive  rupture  with 
France.  In  some  things  my  efforts  succeeded,  in  others  they 
were  disappointed,  in  others  I  have  had  promises  of  conformity 
to  lay  the  foundation  of  future  proceeding,  the  performance  and 
effect  of  which  promises  are  not  certainly  known  to  me.  The 
effect,  indeed,  cannot  yet  be  known. 

The  public  mind  of  this  Country  continues  to  progress  in  the 
right  direction.  That  must  influence  favorably  the  present  Con- 
gress at  the  ensuing  session.  The  next  will  be  in  all  appearances 
intrinsically  better. 

Of  the  executive  I  need  say  little  ;  you  know  its  excellent  dis- 
positions, its  general  character  and  the  composition  of  its  parts. 
You  know  also  how  widely  different  the  business  of  Government 
is  from  the  speculation  of  it,  and  the  energy  of  the  imagination, 
dealing  in  general  propositions,  from  that  of  execution  in  detail. 

There  are  causes  from  which  delay  and  feebleness  are  experi- 
enced. But  difficulties  will  be  surmounted  and  I  anticipate  with 
you  that  this  Country  will  ere  long  assume  an  attitude  correspond- 
ing with  its  great  destinies,  majestic,  efficient  and  operative  of 
great  things.     A  noble  career  lies  before  it. 

Why  does  not  Gouverneur  Morris  come  home  ?  His  talents 
are  wanted.  Men  like  him  do  not  superabound.  Indeed  I  wish 
that  you  were  here  rather  than  where  you  are,  though  I  think 
your  position  an  important  one  at  the  existing  juncture.  But  we 
want  to  infuse  more  abilities  into  the  management  of  our  internal 
affairs. 


428  RUFUS  KING.  \M9% 

Governor  Jay  is  well.     He  &  all  your  friends  continue  to  take 
a  lively  interest  in  whatever  concerns  you. 

Adieu.     Yrs.  Affect. 

A.  H. 


R.  Troup  to  R.  King. 

New  York,  Oct.  2d,  1798. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  I  sincerely  wish  this  letter  could  be  the  messenger  of 
goodness.  The  reverse  is  the  case.  Our  city  is  in  the  deepest 
mourning  !  Since  August  last  we  have  been  again  visited  with 
the  yellow  fever  and  its  ravages  have  been  much  more  terrible 
than  those  of  the  fever  of  1795.  Our  number  of  deaths  to  the  1st 
of  this  month  exceed  1400.  At  least  two  thirds  of  our  fellow 
citizens  are  now  in  the  country.  We  have  lost  many,  very  many 
valuable  men.  .  .  .  The  weather  is  now  getting  cool  and  the 
fever  is  consequently  beginning  to  abate.  Nothing  but  frost — 
and  a  severe  frost  too — will  restore  us  to  our  usual  health.  .  . 
For  three  weeks  past  the  deaths  have  averaged  45  a  day.  .  .  . 
one  day  58.  I  am  in  the  house  I  formerly  occupied  in  Broadway, 
and  as  my  neighbourhood  has  been  healthy,  I  have  remained  with 
my  family  in  town.  We  have  hitherto  escaped.  .  .  .  Col. 
Hamilton,  Mr.  Church  and  their  families  have  also  remained  in 
town,  except  for  a  few  days  past,  when  out  of  compliance  with 
the  pressing  solicitations  of  Genl.  Schuyler  they  took  rooms  a  few 
miles  out  of  town  ;  but  they  have  spent  the  greatest  part  of  the 
time  in  town.     .     .     . 

The  fever  has  prevailed  more  amongst  the  higher  classes  of  citi- 
zens than  it  did  in  1795.  I  do  not  mean  by  the  term  higher  classes 
to  convey  an  aristocratic  idea.  No,  no.  I  only  mean  those  citi- 
zens, whose  means  of  living  furnished  them  most  amply  with 
medical  assistance  and  all  other  necessaries  to  subdue  the  force  of 
the  disease.  .  .  .  Philadelphia  has  been  in  a  much  more  de- 
plorable state.  The  fever  broke  out  there  before  it  made  its 
appearance  with  us,  and  its  devastations  have  been  dreadful.  It 
had  not  raged  long  before  it  was  found  to  baffle  all  medical  skill 
and  all  means  to  subdue  its  force,  and  limit  its  sphere  of  action. 
The  result  was  that  the  inhabitants  came  to  a  general  resolution 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  429 

to  abandon  the  city  and  seek  safety  in  flight.  .  .  .  To  make 
the  flight  more  universal,  a  number  of  the  principal  physicians  led 
the  way.  Rush,  however,  and  others  of  inferior  note  to  him,  re- 
mained. It  is  thought  that  there  are  now  about  7000  souls  in 
Philadelphia.  The  deaths  for  more  than  a  month  past  have 
averaged  near  70  a  day — some  days  last  week  they  have  exceeded 
100.  .  .  .  All  the  public  offices,  both  State  and  Continental, 
are  removed  ;  some  to  Germantown,  others  to  Trenton  and  other 
places.  All  private  business  is  at  an  end,  and  nothing  but  dis- 
tress, deep  distress,  prevails  in  that  quarter. 

Our  situation  is  not  so  calamitous,  but  is  nevertheless  very 
afflicting.  Our  courts  are  shut  up  ;  our  trade  totally  stagnant, 
and  we  have  little  or  no  appearance  of  business.  What  little  com- 
mercial business  there  is  to  do,  is  done  on  this  street  and  on  the 
north  side  of  the  City.  Our  Coffee  House  is  now  at  the  Tontine 
Hotel,  a  little  above  Trinity  Church.  There  our  Custom  house 
is  kept,  and  there  the  Insurance  gentlemen  meet.  I  go  nowhere 
but  from  my  house  to  the  Battery  and  from  thence  back  again.  I 
call  in  once  a  day  at  Hamilton's,  and  we  endeavour  to  fortify  each 
other  with  philosophy  to  bear  the  ills  we  cannot  cure.  We  meet 
with  nothing  of  what  our  friend  Lawrance,  when  in  practice,  used 
emphatically  to  term  touching.  We  meet  with  no  clients  and  of 
course  with  no  fees.  When  that  is  the  case,  I  need  not  tell  you 
how  deplorable  must  be  the  condition  of  society  ! 

But  New  York  and  Philadelphia  are  not  the  only  victims  of  the 
fever.  It  has  also  visited  Wilmington,  New  London,  Boston,  and 
several  other  parts  of  the  New  England  States.  .  .  .  We  are 
as  usual  looking  about  for  a  cause.  .  .  .  Our  last  winter  was 
uncommonly  long  and  severe  ;  and  our  last  summer  in  heat  and 
length  has  exceeded  the  memory  of  the  oldest  among  us.  In  the 
midst  of  our  heat,  we  had  the  longest  heaviest  shower  ever  re- 
membered here  ;  and  this  by  filling  cellars,  choking  drains,  &c. 
put  our  whole  mass  of  filth  into  a  state  of  violent  fermentation. 
The  foul  air  arising  from  this  source  was  increased  by  a  large 
quantity  of  beef  stored  in  different  places  in  the  neighbourhood 
of  Burling  Slip,  and  which  bad  packing  and  extreme  heat  rendered 
putrid.  Hence  the  explosion  was  first  made  at  Burling  Slip,  and 
its  effects  were  quickly  communicated  to  almost  every  other  part 
of  the  city. 


430  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

Our  medical  gentlemen  have  changed  their  treatment  of  the 
disorder  with  happy  effects.  The  violent  system  of  the  lancet  and 
mercury  has  given  way  to  gentle  cathartics  and  powerful  sudorifics. 
A  Mr.  Underhill — a  quaker — who  is  no  physician,  but  a  man  of 
infinite  humanity  and  attention  to  the  poor,  has  cured  hundreds 
with  the  use  only  of  castor  oil  and  sweating  teas.  Bard  and  sev- 
eral of  our  most  eminent  physicians  are  decided  friends  to  the 
new  remedies.  We  have  lost  fourteen  medical  gentlemen,  amongst 
whom  Dr.  Varick,  brother  of  the  Mayor,  young  Dr.  Hicks,  Dr. 
Dingley,  &  Dr.  Elihu  H.  Smith  are  the  most  conspicuous. 
Scarcely  a  single  physician  has  escaped  an  attack,  and  several — 
such  as  Dr.  Moore,  Dr.  Rodgers  and  Dr.  Onderdonk — have  worn 
themselves  out  and  taken  refuge  in  the  country.  Dr.  Bard  has 
been  ill,  but  is  recovered  and  will  set  off  for  his  farm  in  Dutchess 
County.     .     .     . 

The  President  was  driven  by  the  fever  and  the  heat  of  the 
weather  from  Philadelphia  to  his  farm  at  Braintree,  where  he  now 
is.  His  absence  from  the  seat  of  government  and  the  derange- 
ments occasioned  by  the  fever,  have  prevented  the  celerity  that 
was  expected  in  the  raising  of  our  army.  A  fresh  misfortune  is 
likely  to  befal  the  army.  The  appointment  of  General  Officers 
(saving  in  the  rejection  of  W.  S.  Smith)  was  in  conformity  with  a 
list  made  out  by  General  Washington  and  by  him  transmitted  to 
the  President.  Upon  this  list  Hamilton  stands  as  first  Major 
General,  with  the  additional  appointment  of  Inspector  General. 
General  Washington's  idea  and  the  idea  of  several  in  the  Senate 
was  that  Hamilton  would  be  the  second  in  command.  This  idea 
is  very  offensive  to  General  Knox,  also  appointed  one  of  the  Major 
Generals.  The  President,  it  is  confidently  said,  is  inclined  to 
favor  Knox's  pretensions,  and  I  fear  a  misunderstanding  will  take 
place  that  may  materially  injure  the  public  service.  I  hope  an 
adjustment  will  be  effected  to  the  satisfaction  of  all  parties.  I 
know  that  it  is  a  cause  of  very  considerable  anxiety  to  some  of 
our  best  friends,  and  that  it  is  particularly  so  to  General  Wash- 
ington. If  Hamilton  should  resign,  he  will  resume  his  former 
station  as  aide-de-camp  to  Genl.  Washington. 

Col.  Smith  (I  mean  the  President's  son-in-law)  was  down  on 
General  Washington's  list  as  adjutant  General,  with  the  rank  of 
Brigadier  General.     There  were  but  three  votes  in  the  Senate  for 


1798]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  43  I 

him,  and  of  these  was  the  vote  of  Lawrance.  The  objection 
against  Smith  I  have  never  heard  ;  we  are  left  to  conjecture. 
Some  ascribe  his  rejection  to  the  utter  embarrassment  of  his 
affairs  ;  others  to  his  unsteady  political  course  ;  the  true  cause  I 
am  as  much  a  stranger  to  as  others.  I  have  reason  to  believe  that 
the  rejection  made  a  deep  and  lasting  impression  on  the  President's 
mind.     .     .     . 

Our  Legislature  met  on  the  9th  of  August.  .  .  .  They  granted 
300,000  dollars  for  fortification  &c.  and  unanimously  agreed  upon 
an  address  to  the  President  on  the  conduct  of  France.  The  ad- 
dress upon  the  whole,  considering  that  Burr  was  in  the  Assembly 
and  much  superior  in  talents  to  any  of  the  opposite  party,  is  bet- 
ter than  I  expected.  It  breathes  a  decided  determination  to 
support  our  sovereignty  and  independence  against  France,  and 
expresses  strong  indignation  at  the  treatment  our  Commissioners 
received.     .     .     . 

It  is  said  with  Confidence  that  Mr.  Jay  means  to  retire  to 
private  life,  at  the  end  of  his  current  term  of  service  which  will  be 
in  July  1801.  He  is  sick  of  the  office,  and  he  is  a  good  deal 
complained  of  by  many  of  those  who  supported  him  in  his  two 
first  elections.  Not  half  the  zeal  and  energy  formerly  displayed 
for  him  manifested  themselves  in  his  favor  in  several  parts  of  the 
State  at  the  last  election.  There  will  be  great  embarrassment  in 
the  choice  of  his  successor. 

Burr  still  continues  in  our  Assembly.  His  object  cannot  be 
precisely  developed  ;  some  suppose  it  to  be  a  state  bankrupt 
law,  in  which  he  is  said  to  be  deeply  interested.  Others  conceive 
that  he  has  the  government  in  view.  It  is  certain  that  he  has  not 
discovered  a  desire  to  resume  his  station  in  the  Senate.  No 
doubt  is  entertained  that  after  the  publication  of  the  dispatches 
from  our  Envoys  to  France,  his  conduct  showed  strong  symptoms 
of  a  wish  to  change  his  ground.  He  was  active  and  apparently 
zealous  in  our  measures  for  defending  our  harbour  :  he  was  par- 
ticularly courteous  to  Hamilton  and  some  of  the  most  intelligent 
of  his  party  have  gone  so  far  as  to  say  he  certainly  expected  an 
appointment  in  the  army.  He  began  in  a  considerable  degree  to 
lose  the  confidence  of  some  of  his  associates  ;  and  yet  before  the 
appointment  of  General  Officers  took  place,  and  in  the  midst  of 
conciliatory   appearance,  he  became  bail  for  the  appearance  of 


432  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

Bourk,  who  was  apprehended  upon  a  warrant  issued  by  Judge 
Hobart  for  a  most  infamous  libel  on  the  President.  I  understand 
Judge  Hobart  refused  to  take  Burr  alone,  and  that  Burr  then 
prevailed  upon  Col.  Rutgers  to  join  him  in  the  recognizance. 
.  .  .  It  is  determined  to  try  the  force  of  government  in  pro- 
tecting the  character  and  conduct  of  its  officers  from  the  ribaldry 
and  abuse  uttered  against  them  in  certain  papers. 

The  fever  has  disposed  of  Bache  of  Philadelphia  and  Greenleaf 
of  this  city.  Poor  Fenno  is  also  gone,  and  we  have  lost  McLean 
who  published  our  daily  gazette.  .  .  .  On  the  whole  we 
count  with  confidence  that  the  next  new  Congress  will  yield  a 
decided  majority  for  honorable  and  strong  measures  against 
France.  I  am  so  well  satisfied  on  this  head  that  my  mind  is  at 
perfect  rest. 

Madison  seems  to  be  in  a  tomb  ;  we  hear  nothing  of  him. 
Jefferson  on  his  return  home  from  the  last  sitting  of  Congress, 
was  indiscreet  enough  to  accept  of  the  honor  of  a  public  enter- 
tainment in  Virginia  on  a  Sunday.  This  fact  has  been  trumpeted 
from  one  end  of  the  continent  to  the  other  as  an  irrefragable 
proof  of  his  contempt  for  the  Christian  religion  and  his  devotion 
to  the  new  religion  of  France.  It  has  made  an  impression  much 
to  his  prejudice  in  the  Middle  and  Eastern  States. 

We  have  seen  and  read  with  the  greatest  contempt  the  cor- 
respondence between  Talleyrand  and  Mr.  Gerry  relative  to 
Messrs.  X.  Y.  and  Z.  and  with  the  same  emotion  we  have 
also  seen  and  read  the  concluding  correspondence  between 
Talleyrand  and  Mr.  Gerry  just  before  the  departure  of  the  latter 
from  Paris  on  his  return  home.  The  public  mind  is  now  too 
much  enlightened  and  too  firmly  fixed  in  the  belief  of  French 
falsehood — perfidy — and  corruption  to  give  credit  to  any  thing 
that  comes  from  the  democracy  of  its  infamous  agents.  . 
No  declaration  made  by  the  President  has  been  more  grateful  to 
the  feelings  of  our  countrymen,  and  of  course  more  popular,  than 
the  declaration  that  he  never  would  send  another  minister  to 
France  until  we  were  treated  with  respect  and  distinction  due  to 
a  great,  powerful  and  free  nation.  ...  I  never  reflect  upon 
the  recent  Conduct  of  France  towards  us  without  an  ejaculation 
to  Heaven  for  its  special  favor  in  giving  us  cause  to  dissolve  our 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  433 

connexion  with  her.  It  was  a  connexion  pregnant  with  the  most 
destructive  poison  to  our  morals,  our  religion — and  all  those 
principles  and  maxims  of  government  that  tend  to  the  preserva- 
tion and  increase  of  human  happiness.  I  consider  the  Act  of 
Congress  which  rescinded  the  treaties  as  a  new  declaration  of  our 
freedom  and  independence  ;  and  if  my  wishes  were  to  be  gratified 
the  day  on  which  the  act  finally  passed  would  be  celebrated  as  a 
great  anniversary  festival  and  honored  with  the  highest  testi- 
monies of  public  joy. 

I  may  be  an  enthusiast  ;  but,  my  good  friend,  I  really  have 
such  a  horror  of  the  French  Revolution  and  the  misery  it  has 
inflicted  upon  so  great  a  portion  of  our  species,  that  I  think  the 
Revolution  we  have  just  achieved  is  one  of  the  choicest  natural 
blessings  that  God  in  his  Providence  ever  bestowed  upon  a 
people. 

As  to  Mr.  Gerry,  I  can  say  nothing  honorable  to  him,  or  pleas- 
ing to  you.  De  mortuis  nil  nisi  bonum  is  a  maxim  as  applicable 
to  him  as  if  he  was  in  his  grave.     . 

Do  you  know  that  Mr.  Low  has  communicated  to  me  your 
wish  to  purchase  a  farm  on  the  North  River  in  Dutchess  County; 
and  as  I  am  better  acquainted  in  that  quarter  than  he  is,  I  have 
undertaken  to  assist  him  in  procuring  information  for  you  .  .  . 
but  I  have  written  myself  into  a  headache.  This  pamphlet,  for 
I  can  call  it  by  no  other  name,  goes  by  the  packet. 

Failures  with  us  are  still  too  prevalent.  Horace  and  Seth 
Johnson  just  before  the  fever  broke  out  failed  for  an  immense 
amount.  .  .  .  Comfort  Sands  has  taken  his  stand  at  Flatbush 
in  King's  County  within  the  liberties  of  the  gaol,  where  he  means 
to  stay.  .  .  .  Mr.  Thomas  the  Lawyer  in  Philadelphia  about 
three  months  ago,  to  the  utter  astonishment  of  the  whole  City,  ab- 
sconded after  committing  the  most  horrid  forgeries  and  frauds 
that  can  be  imagined.  He  in  all  probability  would  have  been  the 
federal  candidate  for  Congress  if  he  had  maintained  his  former 
character     .     .     . 

Poor  Morris  remains  in  gaol.  Judge  Wilson  lately  died  in  North 
Carolina  in  the  hands  of  the  Sheriff — a  victim  to  misfortune  and 
liquor  !     Poor  Duer  in  gaol  likewise.     .     .     .     God  help  you. 

Rob.  Troup. 

VOL.  II. — 28 


434  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

T.  Pickering  to  R.  King.     No.  29. 

Department  of  State,  October  3,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

This  morning  I  received  your  interesting  Letters  No.  87,  88,  &  89, 
dated  July  28,  Aug.  1  and  Aug.  5,  and  shall  forward  them  by  this 
evening's  mail  to  the  President,  who  continues  at  Quincy.  Mr. 
Henry  Rutledge  forwarded  you  letters  from  New  York,  where  he 
has  arrived  in  the  ship  Factor,  Capt.  Kemp.  He  informs  me  that 
while  he  lay  windbound  at  Portsmouth,  Mr.  Gerry  arrived  there 
in  the  Brigantine  Sophia.  He  sailed  from  Havre  on  the  8th  of 
August  and  reached  Portsmouth  Harbour  on  the  9th,  pursued  by 
a  British  rowboat,  dispatched  by  the  Commanding  Officer  at  the 
Islands  of  St.  Marcow,  to  speak  the  Sophia,  as  she  came  from 
Havre,  according  to  custom  in  those  seas.  Mr.  Gerry's  fears 
having  transformed  this  boat  into  one  sent  after  him  by  the  French 
Directory,  insisted  on  Captain  Geddes  keeping  out  of  its  reach  ; 
and  to  escape  the  boat  they  tugged  at  the  Brig's  sweeps  till  she 
arrived  at  Portsmouth  Harbour,  where  the  boat  also  arrived  two 
hours  after  her.  Mr.  Gerry  expected  to  pursue  his  voyage  in  a 
day  or  two  after  the  Factor  left  Portsmouth.  Mr.  Gerry  assured 
Mr.  Rutledge  that  the  motive  of  his  flight  was  the  fear  that  the 
boat  might  have  been  dispatched  after  him  by  order  of  the  French 
Government,  for  the  purpose  of  bringing  him  back,  and  of  com- 
mitting him  to  the  Temple,  or  of  sending  him  a  Prisoner  to  the 
West  Indies  ;  adding  that  after  his  conduct  towards  the  French 
Government,  he  was  sensible  he  had  every  thing  to  dread  from 
their  enmity.     .     .     . 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State.     No.  2. 

London,  Oct.  3,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.     .     .     Nelson's  victory  off  the  Nile  has  been  more  glorious 

and  decisive  than  any  recorded  in  the  annals  of  naval  Powers  ; 

of  thirteen  ships  of  the  line  and  four  frigates  which  composed  the 

French  force  eleven  ships  and  two  frigates  remained  on  the  scene 

of  action  :  the  details  upon  this  subject  and  the  comparison  of 

the  number  and  force  of  the  two  Squadrons,  which  you  will  find 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  435 

in  Nelson's  dispatch  are  highly  interesting  and  demonstrate  the 
superiority  of  the  English  over  the  French  in  this  species  of 
war. 

Buonaparte  arrived  at  Alexandria  three  days  after  the  English 
Fleet  had  left  it.  Alexandria  was  immediately  taken  possession 
of  :  a  corps  of  5000  troops  were  left  there.  Buonaparte  with 
about  18000  men  proceeded  to  Cairo,  which  he  entered  on  the 
2 2d  of  July  ;  the  landing  and  progress  of  the  French  were  resisted 
by  the  Mamelukes  and  Arabs,  and  tho'  the  contests  were  always 
unequal,  there  is  reason  to  believe  that  the  French  suffered  con- 
siderable loss. 

Several  advice  Boats  have  been  taken  with  Buonaparte's  dis- 
patches and  a  great  number  of  private  Letters,  some  of  the  latest 
written  since  the  destruction  of  the  Fleet  ;  they  are  all  in  a 
desponding  stile,  describing  the  difficulties  as  much  greater  than 
were  expected,  the  army  to  be  wasting  with  disease,  and  on  every 
side  harassed  by  the  Arabs  and  country  troops  ;  so  little  has  been 
the  success  in  revolutionizing  the  public  opinion,  and  so  active  and 
hostile  are  the  Egyptians  that  not  even  a  letter  can  be  sent  from 
Cairo  to  Alexandria  without  an  escort  of  600  horse.  The  Porte, 
whom  Buonaparte  hoped  to  conciliate  by  declaring  against  the 
Beys  and  professing  a  deference  for  the  Ottoman  Power,  issued  a 
Declaration  of  War  against  France  on  the  2d  of  Sep.,  the  imme- 
diate consequence  of  which  was  the  sending  of  the  French  Charge 
d'Affaires  to  the  Seraglio  Towers,  and  the  arrest  of  all  the  French 
throughout  the  Turkish  dominions  and  the  sequestration  of  their 
Goods. 

The  ultimate  object  of  Buonaparte  is  India  ;  but  his  complete 
establishment  in  Egypt  was  first  to  be  accomplished.  A  Letter 
from  the  Commissary  General  complains  of  their  want  of  pro- 
visions and  particularly  of  wine  or  of  some  substitute,  without 
which  the  waters  and  climate  of  Egypt  will,  in  his  opinion,  destroy 
the  army.  Buonaparte  himself  is  disappointed  and  dejected  ;  in 
a  private  Letter  to  a  friend  at  Paris,  he  writes  his  despondency, 
expresses  his  intention  to  return  to  Paris  this  winter,  and  gives 
orders  that  his  house  should  be  kept  prepared  to  receive  him. 
Letters  from  Tallien  to  his  wife,  written  after  the  Battle,  which  he 
saw,  and  of  the  disastrous  issue  of  which  he  says  he  was  about 
setting  out  to  carry  the  news  to  Buonaparte,  breathe  the  same  re- 


436  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

grets  and  disappointment.  The  French  transports  are  in  the 
harbour  of  Alexandria  where  they  cannot  be  approached  by  the 
heavy  ships,  and  at  present  Nelson  has  no  Frigates  or  Gun  Boats 
with  him.  He  leaves  a  number  of  Ships  off  the  Nile,  and  returns 
with  the  others  to  Sicily,  which  will  hereafter  be  the  rendezvous 
of  the  Fleet  that  England  will  maintain  in  the  Mediterranean. 

Russia  has  finally  taken  a  decided  part  both  by  a  liberal  offer  of 
assistance  to  Austria,  and  by  the  still  more  liberal  step  of  actually 
sending  a  Fleet  to  Constantinople,  and  putting  that  and  a  Rus- 
sian army,  which  is  upon  the  Frontiers,  under  the  orders  of  the 
Russian  Ambassador  to  be  employed  on  the  requisition  of  the 
Porte  for  the  defence  of  the  Ottoman  Territories.  On  the  whole 
there  is  a  great  probability  that  the  Expedition  will  totally  fail 
and  that  the  enem}'  will  meet  a  fate  as  disastrous  as  that  of  the 
Fleet.  The  Declaration  of  the  Porte  and  the  disposition  of 
Russia  to  enter  into  the  war  against  France  are  important  events, 
but  the  Councils  of  Vienna  have  become  more  wavering,  as 
those  of  Russia  have  become  more  decided  ;  and  should  the 
French  lower  their  tone  a  little  more,  or  should  the  late  Blow 
induce  them  to  offer  to  the  Emperor  further  acquisitions  in  Italy, 
it  is  by  no  means  certain  that  Austria  would  not  snatch  at  the 
bait ;  tho'  neither  she  nor  Prussia  can  promise  themselves 
security  so  long  as  France  is  mistress  of  such  immense  Terri- 
tories as  she  at  present  possesses. 

The  Directory  immediately  after  the  news  of  the  destruction 
of  the  Toulon  fleet  sent  a  Message  to  the  Councils  in  which  they 
demand  more  men  and  money  to  enable  them  to  force  Austria  to 
conclude  peace  and  to  take  vengeance  of  England  :  it  is  needless 
to  add  that  these  supplies  were  instantly  decreed. 
With  perfect  Respect  and  Esteem  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

P.  S.  The  course  of  events  has  confirmed  an  opinion  some 
time  since  given  to  you  that  Sweden  and  Denmark  would  make 
no  effectual  opposition  to  the  maritime  Plunder  that  their  com- 
merce suffers  from  the  French  Privateers.  Two  Swedish  con- 
voys laden  with  deals,  iron  and  naval  stores,  consisting  together 
of  about  forty  sail  of  merchantmen  under  the  protection  of  a 
National  Frigate  and  Sloop  of  war,  and  bound  to  different  ports 
ot  Spain,  France  and  Italy  have  been  stopped  and  sent  into  the 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  437 

English  Ports  :  the  Swedish  Envoy  has  demanded  their  release, 
asserting  that  the  articles  composing  their  Cargoes  are  not  con- 
traband according  to  the  Treaties  with  England  :  this  is  denied 
on  the  part  of  England  and  the  Ships  are  ordered  to  be  unloaded. 


Lord  Grenville  to  R.  King. 

Private. 

Dropmore,  Oct.  4,  1798. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

I  have  not  a  great  deal  to  add  to  what  I  last  stated  to  you  on 
the  subject  of  Continental  Politics.  Russia  has,  as  you  may  have 
seen,  taken  a  decided  part,  both  by  liberal  tender  of  assistance  to 
Austria  &  by  the  still  more  liberal  step  of  actually  sending  a 
fleet  to  Constantinople,  &  putting  that  &  a  Russian  army  (which 
is  on  the  frontier)  under  the  orders  of  the  Russian  Ambassador 
there,  to  be  employed,  on  the  requisition  of  the  Porte,  for  the 
defence  of  the  Ottoman  territory. 

We  have  taken  several  advice  boats  with  Bonaparte's  dis- 
patches &  a  number  of  private  letters,  some  of  the  latter  written 
since  the  action  off  Alexandria.  All  are  in  a  desponding  stile 
describing  difficulties  much  greater  than  were  expected.  The 
army  is  wasted  by  disease  and  continually  harrassed  by  the 
country  troops  &  the  Arabs.  Even  a  letter  cannot  be  sent  from 
Cairo  to  Alexandria  without  an  escort  of  600  horse.  On  the 
whole  I  really  think  that  without  being  sanguine  we  may  con- 
sider that  business  as  over.  The  Porte  declared  war  against 
France  the  2d  September. 

The  Councils  of  Austria  are  still  wavering  &  irresolute,  &  if 
the  insolence  of  the  Directory  is  so  far  humbled  by  this  last  blow, 
as  to  induce  them  to  hold  out  fresh  lures  to  Vienna  of  acquisi- 
tions in  Italy,  I  would  not  answer  for  it  that  the  Austrians  might 
not  catch  at  the  bait,  tho'  they  see  the  hook  it  no  longer 
conceals. 

I  have  been  desired  to  suggest  to  you  an  idea  which  might,  it 
is  conceived,  be  beneficial  to  both  our  Countries,  in  the  essential 
article  of  raising  supplies  with  as  little  pressure  as  possible  on 
our  own  People.  It  is  that  by  mutual  agreement  we  should  re- 
tain so  much  of  our  drawback  on  Sugars,  Szyau  charge  the  export 


438  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

of  that  Article  for  foreign  consumption  with  such  duties,  as  would 
supply  to  both  of  us  a  considerable  Revenue  drawn  from  foreign 
Countries,  on  an  article  in  which  our  two  Nations  have  no  com- 
petitors, nor  are  likely  to  have  any.  If  you  think  any  thing  of 
this  sort  practicable,  Mr.  Pitt  would  I  know  be  very  happy  to  be 
allowed  to  converse  with  you  upon  it,  &  if  possible,  before  this 
Mail  goes  out. 

Ever,  my  dear  Sir,  most  truly  yours 

G. 


Geo.  Cabot  to  R.  King. 

Oct.  6,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Dumourier's  sketch  has  afforded  me  a  good  deal  of  pleasure 
for  tho'  his  ideas  of  invading  England  partake  of  the  pride, 
revelry,  vanity  &  folly  of  all  Frenchmen  on  that  subject  yet  his 
picture  of  the  other  States  of  Europe  is  drawn  skillfully  &  is  in- 
structive. We  are  aware  of  the  danger  you  have  ably  described 
in  your  letter  of  the  4th  of  August  &  shall  profit  by  your  ideas. 
Altho'  the  elections  in  New  York  are  bad  we  flatter  ourselves 
with  the  expectation  of  some  great  reforms  in  other  States.  N 
Carolina  has  already  gratified  us  &  I  expect  our  3  Jacobiny  votes 
will  be  reduced  to  1,  or  probably  annihilated — should  the  new 
Congress  be  well  constituted  as  is  now  expected  I  presume  the 
President  will  call  them  together  in  March  if  the  present  house 
shou'd  persist  in  refusing  any  thing  which  the  public  welfare  re- 
quires. Shou'd  this  happen  the  new  house  wou'd  meet  under 
impressions  so  favorable  to  strong  &  decisive  measures  that  I 
think  they  wou'd  do  every  thing  that  has  that  character  &  which 
cou'd  be  desired.  It  has  proved  unfortunate  that  Genl  Marshall 
entertained  the  opinion  that  France  wou'd  declare  war  as  soon 
as  the  Dispatches  published  here  shou'd  reach  Paris.  In  no- 
event  ought  they  to  declare  war  because  it  wou'd  certainly  help 
us  without  serving  them,  yet  this  opinion  of  Mr.  Marshall  damped 
the  ardor  of  some,  furnished  excuses  to  others  &  satisfied  a  few 
of  the  best  men  that  as  it  wou'd  be  advantageous  to  us  that  France 
shou'd  take  the  odium  &  that  she  would  do  it,  therefore  we  ought 
to  forbear  ;  however  as  we  always  got  along  as  well  by  blunder- 


I798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  439 

ing  measures  as  by  those  we  denominate  wise,  let  us  hope  that 
even  this  dangerous  delay  will  be  salutary. 

Gerry  is  here — he  arrived  6  days  since  &  has  visited  the  Presi- 
dent at  Quincy — we  wait  silently  to  see  the  part  he  will  take — 
he  has  hitherto  talked  prudently  since  his  landing — he  approves 
the  vigorous  measures  that  have  been  adopted  &  says  we  must 
rally  round  our  Govt.  &  yet  it  is  impossible  he  shou'd  not  justify 
himself  &  therefore  he  must  say  that  we  might  have  had  an  ad- 
justment of  differences  safe  &  honorable.  If  he  says  this  he  will 
renew  the  clamours  of  the  factions  &  the  hopes  of  the  credulous. 
Great  pains  have  been  taken  to  guard  the  Community  against 
plunging  into  new  delusions  &  much  more  will  be  done  ;  there 
will  after  all  be  a  prevalence  of  folly,  but  I  hope  not  so  much  as 
to  ruin  us. 

As  you  have  seen  the  military  appointments,  you  naturally  an- 
ticipate the  heart  burnings  which  are  felt  by  K.  at  seeing  H. 
placed  where  he  ought  to  be.  Some  Jacobins  who  associate  with 
K.  have  stimulated  him  to  demand  a  Rank  superior  to  H.  &  even 
Genl  Lincoln  has  countenanced  this  demand  ;  upon  every  prin- 
ciple the  demand  is  unsupportable,  but  yet  it  has  been  listened 
to  in  a  place  where  it  may  work  mischief.  I  believe  however  K. 
having  discover'd  that  he  might  fail  altogether  finally,  has  been 
prudent  enough  to  say  that  "  if  Genl  Pinckney  wou'd  serve  in  a 
Station  subordinate  to  H.  he  wou'd."  A  perfect  understanding 
of  this  subject  was  not  to  be  expected  in  a  moment  &  many  who 
have  not  examined  it  have  been  led  to  suppose  K.  was  right.  I 
am  satisfied  however  that  he  is  totally  wrong  ;  he  relies  on  a  Re- 
solve of  the  old  Congress  which  provides  that  in  case  of  election 
of  several  persons  to  similar  offices  on  the  same  day  a  priority  of 
Rank  shou'd  be  allowed  to  those  whose  Rank  was  highest  pre- 
vious to  the  election — but  this  was  a  regulation  for  a  particular 
description  of  offices  ;  &  there  is  in  fact  another  Resolve  gen- 
eral in  its  nature  which  provides  that  in  Elections  on  the  same 
day  the  order  of  the  Elections  shall  determine  the  rank — this  is 
common  sense  &  has  been  consider'd  as  proper  by  the  present 
Govt.  It  applies  to  all  New  officers  &  such  certainly  as  are  all 
who  at  the  time  of  their  appointment  are  private  citizens — such 
were  the  men  concerning  whom  the  question  is  raised.  Con- 
versing with  Mr.  Liston  on  this  subject  he  informed  me  that  a 


440  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

military  man  who  shou'd  from  any  cause  be  z/;zofficered  in  Eng- 
land wou'd  not  be  able  to  avail  himself  of  former  rank  if  he 
shou'd  again  enter  the  service.  Probably  you  may  know  from 
others  more  of  this  business,  but  I  have  said  so  much  with  a  view 
to  engage  your  interference  with  Genl  Pinckney,  if  he  is  any 
where  within  your  reach.  Knox's  objection  being  really  un- 
founded it  is  probable  Pinckney  wou'd  not  adopt  it,  &  therefore, 
if  he  is  disposed,  can  easily  smooth  over  the  whole  difficulty. 
For  if  he  is  unwilling  to  enter  the  service  from  any  other  motive 
he  may  satisfy  Knox  by  saying  to  him  that  he  acquiesces  perfectly 
in  the  order  of  the  appointments  as  regards  himself  &  wou'd  not 
decline  the  service  but  for  other  reasons — if  indeed  he  serves  as 
is  universally  desired  all  difficulty  vanishes  at  once.  I  have  in- 
terested myself  in  this  affair  because  it  threatens  an  embarrass- 
ment to  the  Administration  which  every  good  man  desired  to 
prevent — I  have  written  frankly  to  the  P.  on  the  subject  to  put 
him  on  his  guard, — it  will  be  extraordinary  indeed  if  these  anti- 
quated claims  are  to  deprive  the  Country  of  its  best  resources. 

My  last  letter  from  Gore  is  gloomy  in  the  extreme  but  nothing 
has  shaken  my  faith  in  the  execution  of  the  national  covenant 
made  with  us  by  G.  B.  The  obstacles  have  been  too  great  & 
are  ungraceful  ;  they  are  greater  than  I  expected  &  if  the  business 
does  not  wind  up  well  great  discontent  will  grow  out  of  it  ;  but  I 
still  confide  in  the  weight  of  all  those  reasons  which  you  are  per- 
fectly qualified  to  enforce,  to  satisfy  the  B.  G.  that  a  liberal  con- 
duct is  the  only  true  policy. 

Yours  truly, 

C. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State.      No.  3. 

London,  Oct.  6,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

We  have  had  great  reason  to  be  dissatisfied  with  the  delays  and 
caprice  of  the  High  Court  of  Admiralty  ;  these  have  lately  en- 
creased  with  the  encreasing  infirmities  of  the  Judge. 

You  know  that  the  tenure  of  this  office  is  during  good  be- 
haviour ;  had  it  been  otherwise,  I  am  persuaded  that  he  would 
long  since  have  been  removed  ;  for  his  incapacity  has  been 
notorious  and  the  Government  has  received  repeated  Complaints 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  44 1 

on  this  head  from  the  Ministers  of  all  the  Neutral  Nations. 
Learning  that  the  Captors  have  lately  become  equally  dissatisfied 
with  the  Claimants,  and  that  their  influence  would  co-operate  with 
that  of  those  whom  a  reform  would  provide  for,  I  thought  the 
occasion  a  favorable  one  to  renew  our  Complaints  upon  this  sub- 
ject, which  I  accordingly  did  in  a  Letter  to  Lord  Grenville,  a  copy 
of  which  is  annexed.*  The  like  step  was  adopted  by  the  Danish 
Envoy  and  the  Swede  would  have  joined  us,  had  he  not  been  at 
the  moment  engaged  in  an  unpleasant  Correspondence  respecting 
the  Swedish  Convoys  that  had  been  stopped  and  sent  into  the 
English  Ports. 

As  yet  we  are  uncertain  of  the  effect  ;  but  there  is  considerable 
reason  to  expect  an  arrangement  by  which  Sir  William  Scott  will 
become  the  Successor  of  Sir  James  Marriot. 

I  likewise  annex  copies  of  a  Letter  that  I  lately  wrote  to  the 
Duke  of  Portland,!  and  of  his  answer  J  ;  though  they  are  both 
Private  Letters,  I  have  not  thought  it  proper  to  omit  communi- 
cating them  to  you.  There  are  occasions  and  this  is  one  of  them, 
of  delicacy  as  well  as  of  importance,  and  in  which  we  can  only 
act  from  our  own  view  of  what  the  public  welfare  appears  to  re- 
quire ;  I  flatter  myself  that  in  this  instance  it  will  not  be  thought 
either  that  my  opinion  was  ill  founded  or  that  the  step  it  gave  rise 
to  was  impolitic.     .     .     . 

With  perfect  Respect  and  Esteem  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


Dear  Sir  : 


R.  King    to  Oliver  Wolcott. 

London,  6  Oct.,  1798. 


[The  beginning  of  this  letter  relates  to  efforts  made  to 
carry  out  instructions  for  the  purchase  of  cannon  and  mus- 
kets, and  the  difficulty  in  obtaining  in  England  what  were 
required  at  the  time.] 

Under  these  circumstances  you  will  conclude  that  I  have  little 
or  no  prospect  of  procuring  in  this  country  the  muskets  we  want. 

*  See  Letter,  Sept.  6,  1798. 

\  Sept.  13,  1798.  \  Sept.  22,  1798. 


442  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

I  am  assured  however  *  that  in  the  event  of  an  actual  rupture  with 
France,  tve  shall  instantly  receive  a  part  of  what  they  may  possess 
and  that  the  supply  shall  be  continued. 

I  stated  to  Genl.  Ross  who  conducts  the  business  of  the  Ord- 
nance Department  during  the  absence  of  Lord  Cornwallis,  that 
though  the  event  to  which  he  alluded  had  not  in  fact  arrived  we 
thought  it  so  probable  that  it  was  indispensable  on  our  part  to  pre- 
pare for  it  beforehand  and  in  case  we  could  not  obtain  in  England 
the  supply  of  Muskets  we  want  that  we  must  turn  our  attention 
to  the  Continent,  though  we  should  experience  many  difficulties 
in  procuring  arms  from  thence,  which  when  we  have  got  them 
would  be  inferior  to  those  of  England.  The  General  replied  that 
they  would  give  us  all  the  information  and  aid  in  their  power,  and 
to  enable  us  to  escape  the  impositions  to  which  we  should  be  ex- 
posed in  respect  to  the  proof,  that,  if  we  would  contract  for  their 
delivery  and  proof  in  England,  they  would  prove  them  for  us  in 
like  manner  as  for  themselves.  He  added  that  tho'  he  had  sup- 
posed from  the  late  Measures  of  France  that  they  would  avoid  an 
open  rupture  with  us  and  that  therefore  we  should  not  be  in  urgent 
want  of  arms,  still  if  upon  his  return  from  Scotland,  wh.  would  be 
in  about  three  weeks,  /  should  continue  to  desire  it  that  they  would 
supply  us  with  five  thousand  Muskets  from  the  Tower. 

I  have  written  to  Pitcairn  at  Hamburgh  to  ascertain  whether 
we  can  contract  for  ten  or  fifteen  thousand  muskets,  and  within 
what  time  they  can  be  supply'd  to  be  delivered  and  proved  in 
England.  .  .  .  From  all  the  enquiries  I  have  made  on  this 
subject,  I  am  induced  to  believe  that  there  is  no  safety  in  the 
purchase  of  Muskets  unless  they  have  been  regularly  proved  in 
some  national  establishment.  I  had  a  prospect  of  purchasing  a 
quantity  of  Prussian  arms  which  were  to  have  been  procured 
from  the  Prussian  arsenals  ;  but  the  King  of  Prussia  has  very 
lately  forbid  the  exportation  of  Muskets,  in  consequence  of  which 
a  contract  that  had  been  made  by  this  country  for  a  supply  of 
Prussian  arms  has  failed.  The  Prussian  arms  are  of  the  same 
caliber  as  the  English,  but  they  are  heavy  and  much  more  so 
towards  the  muzzle  than  those  of  England  on  account  of  their 
cylindrical  Ramrods  ;  but  they  are  efficient  arms.     . 

With  great  respect,  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

*  Italics  in  cipher. 


1798]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  443 

R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State.     No.   4. 

London,  Oct.  10,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

A  few  days  since  I  received  a  message  from  Mr.  Pitt*  desiring 
me  to  meet  him  for  the  purpose  of  conferring  upon  a  plan  to  be 
concocted  between  the  American  and  British  Governments  for  the 
purpose  of  encreasing  their  respective  revenues  by  diminishing  the 
drawback  on  Sugar  exported  to  foreign  markets.  Mr.  Pitt  pro- 
poses that  Great  Britain  should  withhold  a  certain  portion  of  the 
drawback  on  that  article,  and  that  the  United  States  should  impose 
an  equivale?it  Export  Duty  upon  it,  supposing,  I  presume,  either 
that  we  impose  no  Duty  on  its  i??iportation,  or  that  it  is  less  than  the 
portion  of  the  Drawback  he  has  in  view  to  detain. 

I  have  written  a  note  to  Lord  Grenville,  through  whom  I  re- 
ceived the  message,  explaining  to  him  the  present  footing  of  this 
branch  of  our  commerce,  as  well  in  respect  to  the  Duties  and 
Drawbacks  as  to  the  course  of  our  trade,  the  Ships  employed  in 
which  are  not  obliged  to  return  with  their  cargoes  to  the  U.  States 
but  are  free  to  go,  as  they  sometimes  do,  directly  from  the  West 
Indies  to  a  foreign  market,  adding  also  that  Congress  are  restrained 
from  imposing  duties  011  Exports. 

I  have  at  the  same  time  expressed  my  want  of  facts  sufficient 
to  form  an  opinion  how  far  this  branch  of  trade  is  so  exclusively  in 
the  hands  of  Great  Britain  and  the  United  Slates,  as  to  authorize 
the  measures  suggested  by  Mr.  Pitt,  and  concluded  by  saying,  as  I 
have  no  reason  to  doubt,  that  the  American  Govemme?it  will  readily 
agree  to  such  commercial  relations  as  may  be  likely  to  improve  our 
revenues  and  at  the  same  time  benefit  those  of  Great  Britain  j  that 
I  would  with  pleasure  at  any  time  confer  with  Mr.  Pitt  on  this  or 
any  other  subject  having  the  same  object  in  view. 

I  have  thought  it  adviseable  to  communicate  this  overture,  tho" 
privately  and  informally  made,  because  exclusive  of  its  particular 
object,  it  appears  to  me  to  be  of  some  importance  i?i  assisting  us  to 
judge  of  the  opinions  of  this  Government  respecting  our  encreasing 
Commerce,  and  of  its  views  and  wishes  in  regard  to  our  future 
connection. 

Whatever  may  be  our  opinion  concerning  this  proposition,  the 

*  Italics  in  cipher. 


444  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

high  price  at  which  Sugar  is  so  universally  consumed  in  Europe 
persuades  me  to  believe  that  we  can  with  ease  and  advantage, 
whenever  we  find  it  requisite,  greatly  encrease  the  Duty  now  im- 
posed on  that  and  a  considerable  number  of  other  articles  of  gen- 
eral consumption.  The  restraint  upon  Congress  relative  to 
export  Duties  proceeded  from,  I  then  thought  and  still  think,  an 
ill  founded  opinion  &  jealousy  respecting  a  Duty  on  the  exporta- 
tion of  Tobacco.  The  diminution  of  the  culture  of  this  article 
in  Europe,  and  the  superior  quality  of  that  of  America,  give  us 
in  fact  a  monopoly  in  the  Sale  of  it  ;  &  without  detriment  to  the 
Planters  we  might  at  least  divide  with  the  European  Govts,  the 
tax  paid  by  the  consumer. 

The  revenue  obtained  from  the  Consumption  in  Europe  is  a 
demonstration  of  this  truth  provided,  as  I  believe  to  be  the  fact, 
that  our  Tobacco  is  without  a  rival. 

With  perfect  Respect  &c,  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Thos.  Pinckney,  Esq. 

London,  Oct.  12,  179S. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  had  the  pleasure  to  receive  your  obliging  Letter  of  [18th 
July,  1798].  We  do  not  disagree  in  opinion  upon  what  is  the  true 
policy  of  our  country  on  the  subject  of  foreign  connection. 
France  according  to  her  convenience  has  violated  the  Treaties  we 
made  with  her,  and  at  length  we  have  consented  to  their  abolition  : 
they  are  now  dead,  they  cannot  be  revived,  and  my  dearest  hope 
is  that  we  may  never  see  their  like  with  any  nation  !  Europe  has 
reached  her  maturity,  America  has  yet  her  race  to  run  ;  their 
relative  importance  and  interests  are  therefore  constantly  chan- 
ging, hence  the  policy  that  our  Treaties  should  be  occasional,  par- 
ticular, and  not  of  long  duration.  Besides  a  nation  of  the  first 
order  may  make  and  break  treaties  as  suits  the  moment,  but  it  is 
not  so  with  those  of  a  second  rank  ;  these  then  should  make  only 
such  treaties  as  they  intend  to  observe  themselves,  and  which 
they  have  reason  to  believe  will  be  kept  by  others.  It  is  one 
thing  to  release,  and  a  different  one  to  guaranty  a  title  ;  the 
former  conduces  to  peace,  the  latter  is  fruitful  in  contention  and 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  445 

injustice.  As  our  Titles  are  well  settled,  and  as  we  are  moreover 
able  by  ourselves  to  defend  them,  we  want  no  guarantees,  and 
wanting  none  are  without  the  common  motive  to  guaranty  the 
Titles  of  others.  Perhaps  I  go  beyond  you  and  too  far  upon  this 
subject.  If  I  could  be  persuaded  to  admit  an  exception  to  this 
Policy,  it  would  not  be  in  favor  of  any  Power  of  Europe. 

I  have  been  gratifyd.  as  all  real  Americans  must  be  by  the  firm 
and  imposing  attitude  assumed  by  our  Government  :  it  has  en- 
creased  our  union  and  security  at  home,  and  as  far  as  I  am  able 
to  judge,  has  had  the  happiest  influence  in  establishing  and  ex- 
tending a  high  and  well  merited  opinion  of  our  wisdom  and 
character  abroad. 

France  has  receded  as  we  have  advanced,  but  we  shall  deceive 
ourselves  if  we  believe  that  she  has  relinquished  her  views.  The 
fate  of  Switzerland,  the  history  of  which  should  be  read  by  every 
American,  is  a  dreadful  lesson  and  should  preserve  us  from  the 
fatal  error  that  hastened  and  disgraced  her  Fall. 


CHAPTER  XXVIII. 

R.  King  to  Duke  of  Portland  on  the  third  Article  of  the  Treaty,  relative  to 
Fishery  Privileges  on  Magdalen  Islands,  etc. — His  Answer — J.  Adams  to  R. 
King — Our  Country  unanimous  and  firm — R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State — 
General  Affairs  in  Europe — Brest  Expedition — Conference  with  Mr.  Pitt 
relative  to  Sugar,  etc.,  and  on  commercial  Regulations — Sir  James  Marriot 
resigned — To  Secretary  of  State — On  the  Irish  State  Prisoners,  Effect  of 
Nelson's  Victory — To  Col.  Pickering — Miranda  Expedition — To  A.  Ham- 
ilton on  the  same — N.  Webster  to  R.  King — Effect  of  Publication  of 
Envoys'  Dispatches — Yellow  Fever — R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State — In 
Case  of  War  with  France  England  will  share  Muskets — Efforts  to  buy 
them  in  Hamburgh,  etc.,  French  Frigates  on  the  Coast  of  Ireland— Secre- 
tary of  State  to  R.  King — Talleyrand's  Declaration,  "  United  States 
merited  no  more  Consideration  than  Genoa  or  Geneva" — R.  King  to 
Hamilton — Continental  and  English  Affairs — Lord  Grenville  on  Affairs  of 
Holland — R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State — Union  with  Ireland  will  be  pro- 
posed— Extension  of  Trade  in  the  Mediterranean  suggested — Also  a  Treaty 
with  Russia. 

R.  King  to  the  Duke  of  Portland. 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  Oct.  13,  1798. 
My  Lord  : 

By  the  Third  Article  of  the  Treaty  of  Peace  between  the 
United  States  and  Great  Britain  it  is  provided  "  that  the  Ameri- 
can fishermen  shall  have  liberty  to  dry  and  cure  fish  in  any  of  the 
unsettled  bays,  harbours  and  creeks  of  Nova  Scotia,  Magdalen 
Islands  and  Labrador,  so  long  as  the  same  shall  remain  unsettled  ; 
but  so  soon  as  the  same  or  either  of  them  shall  be  settled,  it 
shall  not  be  lawful  for  the  said  fishermen  to  dry  or  cure  fish  at 
such  settlement  without  a  previous  agreement  for  that  purpose 
with  the  inhabitants,  proprietors  or  possessors  of  the  ground." 

The  plain  and  amicable  intention  of  this  Provision  appears  to 

446 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  ^J 

be  that  this  liberty  should  without  interruption  be  enjoyed  by  the 
American  fishermen  until  it  should  prove  actually  prejudicial,  by 
interfering  with  the  cultivation  or  pursuits  of  the  Settlers  and  In- 
habitants of  the  places  to  which  according  to  the  said  Article 
the  American  fishermen  have  a  right  to  resort. 

Hitherto  we  have  met  with  no  impediments,  but  I  am  appre- 
hensive that  without  your  Grace's  interference,  we  are  likely  soon 
to  experience  Embarrassments  on  this  subject.  A  Letter  that  I 
have  lately  received  from  Isaac  Coffin  Esq.,  a  copy  of  which  I 
send  enclosed  to  your  Grace,  gives  us  notice  that  he  has  or  is 
about  to,  become,  the  proprietor  of  the  Magdalen  Islands  in  the 
Gulph  of  St.  Lawrence,  and  though  I  have  heard  of  no  change  in 
respect  to  their  settlement,  Mr.  Coffin  expects  that  our  fishermen 
should  apply  not  at  these  Islands,  but  at  Halifax  for  licences  to 
pursue  the  fishing  in  this  quarter  in  the  manner  they  have  been 
accustomed  to  do.  I  am  not  acquainted  with  the  soil  of  these 
Islands,  and  therefore  cannot  form  an  opinion  how  far  they  are 
valuable  for  the  purposes  of  cultivation  :  that  they  have  been 
known  and  neglected  for  nearly  two  centuries,  affords  a  presump- 
tion that  they  are  in  this  respect  of  little  or  no  value  ;  and  their 
neighbourhood  to  Newfoundland  precludes  their  being  chosen  as 
a  new  station  for  the  establishment  of  the  Fisheries. 

The  only  motive  then  that  seems  likely  to  have  influenced  Mr. 
Coffin  to  become  their  proprietor,  instead  of  being  permitted  to 
remain  public  property  of  use  to  the  Fishermen  of  both  nations, 
must  have  been  the  expectation  of  obtaining  a  revenue  from  the 
American  fishermen,  who  shall  continue  to  frequent  them 

How  far  these  views  will  be  found  to  correspond  with  the  pro- 
visions that  I  have  cited,  is  a  question  of  considerable  importance, 
and  one  that  I  can  with  great  confidence  submit  to  your  Grace's 
consideration.  If,  as  I  flatter  myself  must  be  the  case,  your 
Grace  shall  agree  with  me  in  the  construction  to  be  given  to  the 
third  article  of  the  Treaty  of  Peace,  I  could  hope  that  your  Grace 
will  deem  it  expedient  to  give  such  instructions  upon  the  subject 
to  his  Majesty's  Governor  within  whose  jurisdiction  these  Islands 
may  be  situated,  as  shall  prevent  the  misunderstanding  that  other- 
wise may  be  apprehended. 

With  perfect  consideration  &c 

Rufus  King. 


448  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

J.  Adams  to  R.  King. 

Quincy,  Oct.  16,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  inclosed  Letter  from  the  Sec.  of  State  I  pray  you  to  con- 
vey in  safety  and  as  soon  as  may  be  to  Berlin. 

I  ought  not  to  omit  the  opportunity  to  thank  you  for  the  Pam- 
phlets you  have  sent  me  from  time  to  time.  They  not  only 
entertain  and  amuse  me  but  I  flatter  myself  are  Useful.  Our 
Country  seems  to  be,  as  we  used  to  say  in  1775,  unanimous  &  firm. 
They  are  much  more  so  now  than  they  were  then.  N.  York  and 
Pennsylvania,  were  always  a  little  chancellants.  But  they  will  be 
kept  tolerably  steady.     There  are  strong  Pillars  in  both. 

But,  Watchman,  what  of  the  Night  ?  Where  is  all  tending  ? 
I  am  weary  of  conjectures.  Will  Princes  ever  be  more  wise,  or 
People  more  temperate  or  United  ?  or  Aristocrats  more  willing  to 
acknowledge  a  Superior  ? 

With  great  Regard  I  have  the  Honor  to  be,  sir,  your  most 
obedient 

John  Adams. 

R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State.     No.  5. 

London,  Oct.  16,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

We  are  impatient  to  receive  the  Hamburgh  Mail  ;  two  are  due, 
and  according  to  the  last  I  have,  we  may  expect  the  result  of  the 
Congress  at  Rastadt.  If  the  reports  in  the  French  papers  are 
correct,  the  Empire  is  likely  to  make  its  peace  and  the  Emperor 
to  be  again  involved  in  the  war.  But  the  Cabinet  of  Vienna  is 
so  wavering  and  undecided  that  it  is  not  easy  to  predict  its  final 
determination  ;  on  the  one  hand,  its  preparations  for  war  are  in- 
creasing, and  the  movements  of  the  French,  particularly  in  Italy, 
such  as  indicate  the  greatest  probability  that  Naples  will  speedily 
be  attacked  ;  on  the  other  the  recent  refusal  of  Austria  to  ratify 
the  Convention  lately  signed  by  its  minister  at  this  Court  for  the 
reimbursement  of  the  monies  advanced  by  England  before  the 
Treaty  of  Campo  Formio,  pretending  that  its  ratification  at  this 
moment  might  have  a  sinister  influence  upon  its  negotiation  with 
France,  added  to  the  important  circumstance  of  the  Emperor's 


1798]  LIFE   AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  449 

having  remained  a  quiet  spectator  of  the  overthrow  of  Switzer- 
land, which  opens  his  dominions  to  France,  would  incline  me  to 
conclude  that  Austria  at  least  believes  that  she  shall  avoid  the 
war  and  dispense  with  the  future  succours  of  England. 

Russia  is  in  the  most  zealous  manner  employing  her  influence 
to  engage  Austria  in  a  new  coalition,  and  has  certainly  come  for- 
ward in  the  most  liberal  and  decided  manner  to  support  the 
Porte.  The  revolution  in  the  politicks  of  St.  Petersburgh  is 
among  the  unexampled  events  of  these  extraordinary  times. 
England  is  of  course  gratified  and  as  usual  has  engaged  an 
eventual  subsidy  to  Russia,  of  twelve  hundred  thousand  pounds 
sterling.  But  unless  Austria  confederates,  the  Russians  and  Turks 
can  do  nothing  against  the  Body  of  France. 

Perhaps  among  conjectures  this  is  as  probable  as  any,  the  Em- 
peror will  continue  to  temporise,  when  France  will  either  march 
against  Naples,  or  without  reserve  attack  Austria  on  the  side 
of  Switzerland.     War  abroad  can  alone  prevent  war  at  Home. 

Portugal  has  again  failed  in  an  attempt  to  treat  with  France,, 
through  the  mediation  of  Spain  ;  the  Directory  consented  to  re- 
ceive another  minister  ;  this  was  at  first  refused  and  at  last  agreed 
to,  only  upon  the  assurance  of  D'Azara,  the  Spanish  Ambassador, 
that  on  the  conclusion  of  the  Treaty  the  customary  and  liberal 
presents  should  be  made  by  Portugal.  Noranha  the  new  Portu- 
guese Envoy  had  scarcely  arrived  at  Paris  before  he  received 
Passports  and  an  order  to  leave  the  territories  of  the  Republic. 
The  real  cause  of  the  change  may  be  conjectured  but  not  known. 
The  published  one  is  that  the  Directory  declined  a  Treaty  on  the 
former  basis,  and  that  Noranha  had  no  powers  to  accede  to  the 
enlarged  demands  for  money  and  territory  in  Guiana. 

We  have  as  yet  no  certain  intelligence  of  the  destination  of  the 
Brest  expedition  ;  another  small  Squadron  with  troops  is  reported 
to  have  put  to  sea  within  a  few  days  from  Dunkirk,  and  the  French 
papers  mention  the  sailing  of  two  or  three  frigates  from  Brest  for 
the  Windward  Islands.  They  are  said  to  have  on  board  two 
agents  of  the  Directory,  one  for  Guadaloupe  and  the  other  for 
Cayenne.  Several  of  the  counties  in  Ireland  continue  to  be  in- 
fested with  a  daring  banditti,  who,  from  the  fastnesses  of  the 
mountains,  lay  waste  the  neighbouring  plains.  The  plan  of  uniting 
Ireland  with  Great  Britain  which  was  in  agitation  in  the  year  1792,, 

VOL.    II. — 2Q 


450  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

and  laid  aside  on  the  breaking  out  of  the  war,  has  been  lately  re- 
sumed, and  measures  are  at  this  time  in  train  to  carry  it  into 
effect.  A  million  Sterling  was  in  1792  the  estimate  of  the  sum 
that  would  be  necessary  to  accomplish  this  measure  ;  perhaps  the 
same  sum  will  still  be  sufficient  as  the  late  disturbances  may  have 
depreciated  the  Property  in  that  Country,  and  none  perhaps  more 
than  that  of  the  revenue  of  the  Boroughs. 

I  had  yesterday  a  conference  with  Mr.  Pitt  *  on  the  subject  of 
my  No.  4.  He  thinks  the  measure  one  that  will  prove  beneficial 
to  both  countries,  and  that  the  objections  that  I  have  suggested 
may  be  got  over.  Facts  are  wanted  and  means  are  employed  to 
collect  and  arrange  them  ;  the  concert  must  necessarily  be  tempo- 
rary should  it  on  consideration  be  approved  by  the  Governments 
of  the  two  Countries.  Coffee  is  an  article  of  equal  importance 
with  Sugar,  and  instructions  have  been  sent  to  the  British  Consuls 
to  collect  information  of  the  qua?itity  of  these  articles  exported  from 
the  countries  where  they  severally  reside,  in  order  to  assist  in  de- 
ciding how  far  this  Trade  is  in  our  hands.  I  have,  as  you  would 
suppose,  said  that  I  could  conclude  nothing,  nor  shall  I  do  any- 
thing that  would  in  the  smallest  degree  compromit  us  ;  but  if  the 
Subject  should  appear  to  the  President  to  deserve  attention,  he 
will  perhaps  think  it  proper  by  the  earliest  opportunity  that  you 
should  express  to  me  his  instructions  respecting  it. 

After  our  conference  on  this  subject  had  ended,  I  took  occasion 
to  express  to  Mr.  Pitt  the  embarrassment  to  which  several 
branches  of  our  Trade  to  this  Country  are  liable  from  the  intri- 
cacy, the  prohibitory  clauses,  and  in  several  instances  the  rigour 
of  their  commercial  Laws,  and  adverting  to  the  relaxation  that 
usually  takes  place  during  every  war  in  their  famous  Navigation 
act,  expressed  a  wish  that  the  policy  might  become  more  and 
more  clear  of  permitting  England  to  become  the  Entrepot  of  the 
Trade  of  foreign  nations.  He  immediately  interrupted  me  by 
saying  he  was  in  hopes  that  the  next  session  would  not  pass  over 
without  the  establishment  of  extensive  and  very  important  regula- 
tions on  that  subject ;  and  I  hear  it  is  in  contemplation  to  make 
eight  or  ten  free  Ports  in  Great  Britain  where  the  Productions  of 
all  Nations  may  be  brought  and  deposited,  free  of  all  duties  except 
on  such  of  them  as  shall  be  taken  out  for  home  consumption  ;  a 

*  Italics  in  cipher. 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  45  I 

policy  that  beyond  any  other  will  serve  to  increase  the  wealth,  and 
extend  the  Commerce  of  this  Nation. 

Our  Conversation  finished  by  Mr.  Pitt  declaring  to  me  that 
their  commerce  during  the  last  year  had  been  more  extensive 
and  their  ordinary  revenues  more  productive  than  in  any  former 
year,  and  that  the  result  as  well  in  regard  to  the  new,  as  to  the 
old  Taxes,  disproved  the  assertions  which  had  been  made  respect- 
ing the  incapacity  of  the  Nation  to  support  the  burthen  it  was 
obliged  to  bear,  and  joined  to  the  prevailing  unanimity  and  firm- 
ness of  the  Country,  afforded  him  the  fullest  conviction  that  even 
alone  England  would  be  able  to  carry  on  the  war  as  long  as  France 
may  be  inclined  to  pursue  it. 

I  hear  it  has  been  decided  to  maintain  a  strong  and  superior 
naval  force  in  the  Mediterranean,  a  circumstance  that  I  hope  will 
be  turned  to  profit  by  our  Merchants,  and  particularly  by  those 
concerned  in  the  Fisheries.  It  is  believed  that  we  should  begin 
to  indemnify  ourselves  for  the  numerous  expenses  of  the  Barbary 
Treaties. 

Sir  James  Marriot  has  resigned  and  the  probability  is  that  Sir 
William  Scott  will  be  his  successor.  This  is  an  event  of  great 
importance  to  us  as  well  as  to  all  others  who  have  suffered  by  the 
caprice,  inferiority  and  incapacity  of  the  late  Judge.  .  .  .  The 
long  vacation,  as  it  is  called,  being  nearly  over,  I  intend  resuming 
with  the  Chancellor  the  Question  respecting  the  Maryland  Bank 
Stock.  Russell's  family  has  certainly  been  compensated  and  I 
really  see  no  remaining  objection  to  the  claim. 

With  great  respect  and  Esteem  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


Duke  of  Portland  to  R.  King. 

Copy. 

Whitehall,  Oct.  18,  1798. 

Sir: 

I  have  had  the  honor  to  receive  your  Letter  of  the  13th  inst, 
with  a  copy  of  one  which  had  been  written  to  you  by  Mr.  Coffin, 
stating  that  he  is  sole  proprietor  of  the  Magdalen  Islands  in  the 
Gulph  of  St.  Lawrence,  and  that  as  the  Treaty  of  Peace  fully  ex- 
plains that  it  shall  not  be  lawful  for  American  fishermen  to  dry 
and  cure  their  fish  on  those  Islands  without  leave  of  the  Proprie- 


452  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

tor  it  will  be  necessary  to  apply  at  Halifax  for  licence  from  him 
or  his  agent  for  permission  to  resort  to  the  said  Islands. 

It  appears  that  a  grant  of  the  Islands  in  question  has  been 
made  to  Mr.  Coffin  ;  but  as  such  grant  by  no  means  implies  the 
settlement  of  the  said  Islands,  I  will  instruct  his  Majesty's  Gov- 
ernor of  Newfoundland,  including  the  Magdalen  Islands,  to  take 
particular  care  that  no  interruption  is  given  to  the  liberty  granted 
to  the  American  fishermen  by  the  3d  Article  of  the  Treaty  of 
Peace  of  1783  between  his  Majesty  and  the  United  States  of 
America  to  dry  and  cure  fish  in  any  of  the  Bays,  Harbours  & 
Creeks  of  the  said  Islands  (amongst  other  places  mentioned  in 
the  3d  Article)  so  long  as  the  same  shall  remain  unsettled. 
I  am,  Sir,  your  most  obt.  Hble  Servt. 

Portland. 

Rufus  King  to  Secretary  of  State.     No.  6. 

London,  Oct.  19,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  The  newspapers  continue  to  announce  that  prepara- 
tions are  making  to  send  the  Irish  State  Prisoners  to  the  United 
States.  I  wrote  another  Letter  to  the  Duke  of  Portland  upon  the 
subject,  a  copy  of  which  is  annexed  &  likewise  a  copy  of  his 
Grace's  Letter  to  Lord  Cornwallis,*  that  has  been  sent  to  me,  & 
which  will,  I  presume,  relieve  me  from  any  further  concern  on 
that  head.  I  also  annex  the  copies  of  a  Letter  that  I  lately 
wrote  to  the  Duke  of  Portland  &  his  answer  respecting  a  claim 
affecting  our  fisheries  that  had  been  notify'd  to  me  by  Captain 
Israel  Coffin.  Though  I  am  not  certain  that  our  fishermen  resort 
to  the  Magdalen  Islands,  or  are  in  the  practice  of  curing  their 
fish  abroad,  I  judged  it  desirable  to  resist  this  claim,  and  by  no 
means  to  lose  a  moment  in  asserting  the  true  construction  of  the 
Treaty  of  Peace  concerning  this  important  Branch  of  our  National 
enterprize  and  industry.  The  answer  of  the  Duke  is  satisfactory 
and  may  hereafter  be  an  important  document. 

Though  we  are  without  particular  account  of  the  issue  of  the 
Battle,  there  is  no  doubt  that  the  expedition  that  lately  sailed  from 
Brest  was  destined  against  Ireland,  and  that  it  has  been  met  and 
defeated  by  the  English  squadron  off  the  northwest  angle  of  Ire- 

*  See  Appendix  IV. 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  453 

land  ;  the  battle,  which  was  seen  from  the  shore,  took  place  on  the 
1 2th.  The  other  expedition  that  was  reported  to  have  sailed 
from  Dunkirk  is  said  to  have  been  driven  into  some  of  the  Dutch 
Ports. 

I  understand  it  to  be  ascertained  that  all  the  Irish  patriots  who 
were  some  time  since  at  Paris  embarked  with  the  Expedition  from 
Brest.  This  defeat  will  therefore  in  all  probability  put  an  end  for 
some  time  to  further  Schemes  of  Invasion. 

According  to  the  last  news  from  the  Mediterranean  and  Italy, 
the  late  victory  of  Nelson  has  had  a  very  great  influence  in  en- 
couraging and  confirming  Hostilities  against  France.  A  revolt  is 
said  to  have  taken  place  in  Malta,  and  I  think  it  probable  that  the 
English  will  now  endeavour  to  become  Masters  of  that  important 
Island. 

A  Paris  paper  of  the  8th  instant  contains  the  following  para- 
graph, "  Les  derniers  lettres  de  Bordeaux  assurent  qu'il  y  est  ar- 
rive un  courier  extraordinaire  porteur  d'ordres  pour  remettre 
Tembargo  sur  les  navires  Americains.  Voila  done  la  guerre  in- 
evitable avec  ce  peuple,  du  moins  toutes  nos  correspondances 
coincident  avec  ce  bruit." 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Col.  Pickering. 

Private. 

London,  Oct.  20,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  am  very  much  obliged  to  you  for  your  private  letter  of  the 
29th  of  August.  I  had  heard  a  rumour  that  General  Knox  was 
not  pleased  ;  tho'  I  have  no  great  reliance  upon  my  own  opinion 
in  regard  to  questions  of  rank  among  military  men,  I  should  not 
have  believed  that  General  Knox  would  have  made  and  persisted 
in  an  objection  to  Hamilton's  being  placed  above  him.  I  am 
however  glad  that  the  question  is  not  likely  to  deprive  us  of  Gen- 
eral Knox's  services.  You  are  silent  concerning  South  America*  ; 
I  have  again  and  again  touched  upon  it  ;  I  have  wished  to  say 

much  more,  but  I  have  not  thought  it  prudent.     As  England  is 
*  Italics  in  cipher. 


454  RUFUS  KING.  [179S 

ready  she  will  furnish  a  fleet  and  military  stores  and  we  should  fur- 
nish the  army  ;  a  map  of  the  country  that  some  time  since  I  pro- 
cured is  in  the  hands  of  the  engraver  j  the  copies  will  be  delivered 
in  January. 

Rufus  King. 

R.  King  to  A.  Hamilton.* 

London,  Oct.  20,  1798. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

I  have  received  your  letter  of  the  22.  of  August  with  an  inclos- 
ure  that  has  been  delivered  as  directed — on  that  subject,  things 
are  here,  as  we  could  desire  :  there  will  be  precisely  such  a  co- 
operation as  we  wish  the  moment  we  are  ready — The  Secretary  of 
State  will  shew  you  my  communications  on  this  subject,  tho'  I 
have  not  a  word  from  him  respecting  it  ;  your  outline  corresponds 
with  what  has  been  suggested  by  me,  and  approved  by  this  Gov- 
ernment— fortunately  some  months  past  I  obtained  a  fac  simile  of 
the  latest  Map  of  the  Country — it  has  been  now  two  Months  in 
the  Hands  of  an  Engraver,  who  has  engaged  to  deliver  the  Copies 
in  January — This  Government  has  considerable  information  re- 
specting the  interior,  as  well  as  concerning  the  condition  and 
Dispositions  of  the  Inhabitants,  tho'  I  apprehend  it  is  not  of  a 
recent  date — What  we  know  is  favorable  ;  but  if  we  are  to  be 
betrayed  by  France,  the  glorious  opportunity  will  be  lost — I  am 
gratified  in  receiving  your  opinion  of  the  good  condition  of  our 
public  affairs,  but  do  not  feel  confident  that  we  are  as  safe  as  you 
appear  to  think  we  are — It  is  fraud  not  force  that  I  fear — A  Paris 
Paper  of  the  8th  instant  which  is  the  latest  that  takes  any  notice 
of  the  U.  S.  says,  "  Les  derniers  lettres  de  Bordeaux  assurent 
qu'il  y  est  arrive  un  courier  extraordinaire  porteur  d'ordres  pour 
remettre  l'embargo  sur  des  navires  Americains.  Voila  done  la 
guerre  inevitable  avec  ce  peuple  ;  du  moins  toutes  nos  corre- 
spondances  coincident  avec  ce  bruit.  Yrs. 

K. 
P.  S. 

As  I  presume  from  your  present  connection  with  the  Govern- 
ment that  you  are  acquainted  with  all  the  information  possessed 

*  Hamilton  Papers,  vol.  xvi.,  p.  187,  U.  S.  State  Department. 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE,  455 

by  it*  not  say  anything  to  you  upon*  subjects  that  I  should 
otherwise  *  of.  Another  reason,  we  have  no  *  May  be  advan- 
tageous that  we  should  establish  one — Genl.  Schuyler  invented  a 
most  excellent  cipher,  and  I  wish  you  would  send  it  to  me  by  the 

Packet  or  other  safe  conveyance,  preserving  the  counter  part. 

K. 


N.  Webster,  Jr.  to  R.  King. 

New  Haven,  Nov.  i,  1798. 
Sir  : 

.  .  .  You  must  be  well  acquainted  with  the  various  meas- 
ures and  changes  of  public  opinion  in  this  country.  From  the 
time  you  left  America  till  the  publication  of  the  dispatches  from 
our  Envoys  in  France,  no  change  of  consequence  took  place  in 
the  strength  of  parties.  That  publication  had  a  great  effect. 
There  is  no  doubt  that  many  real  converts  were  made  to  the 
measures  of  our  Govt.  Other  opposers  were  silent  or  became 
moderate  or  neutral.  But  a  principal  effect  was  the  exhibition 
of  the  real  force  of  our  Govt.  Men  who  had  been  active  advo- 
cates of  Govt,  and  others  who  were  staunch,  but  inactive  friends 
came  forward  with  boldness  and  confidence,  &  pledged  them- 
selves to  maintain  Govt.  The  wisdom  &  the  property  are  now 
enlisted  &  committed  on  the  side  of  Govt. — a  thing  much  wanted, 
in  a  country,  whose  Govt,  rests  on  popular  opinion. 

The  Elections,  I  conceive,  do  not  exhibit  the  strength  of  the 
party  on  which  France  relied  for  aid  in  case  of  a  serious  Crisis. 
There  are  multitudes  of  men  who  vote  for  certain  leaders  in  oppo- 
sition from  former  friendships  and  confidence  in  men  who  will 
never  enlist  under  a  military  commander  to  aid  a  foreign  invader. 
France  deceives  herself  if  she  relies  on  the  elections  for  an 
estimate  of  her  force  in  this  country,  farther  than  to  aid  a  change 
in  the  administration.  Indeed  this  may  be  all  she  intends  or 
wants. 

But  it  is  confidently  expected  that  the  next  Congress  will  show 
a  more  decided  majority  in  favor  of  Govt,  than  the  last.  We  are 
now  apprehensive  of  the  "  diplomatic  skill  "  of  France  in  holding 
out  apparently  friendly  offers,  which  shall  ensnare  our  credulous 

*  Torn  off. 


456  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

fellow  citizens.  Agst.  this  we  must  guard  night  and  day.  Of  our 
Executive,  there  is  no  danger  ;  but  you  well  know,  Sir,  the  fas- 
cinating powers  of  French  arts  over  weaker  minds. 

Our  last  advices  from  Europe  show  a  troubled  State  of  Nations. 
I  apprehend  after  all  a  general  change  in  the  Govts,  in  Europe, 
unless  perhaps  the  British  Fleet  should  save  the  nation  from  the 
contagion.  It  appears  to  me  that  democracy  is  planted  already  in 
most  of  that  part  of  the  world  and  that  no  force  whatever  can 
exterminate  it.  Whatever  may  be  the  ultimate  result,  certain  it 
is  that  during  the  struggle  between  the  old  and  new  systems, 
Europe  must  be  a  continual  scene  of  convulsions  and  misery. 
Our  distance  may  protect  us,  but  great  care  must  be  taken  here 
to  prevent  the  effect  of  French  principles.     .     .     . 

The  dreadful  pestilence  which  has  scourged  our  cities,  the  sum- 
mer past,  is  abating  and  business  revives.  New  York  will  lose 
about  2000  of  her  citizens  &  Philada.  twice  that  number.  .  .  . 
The  disease  has  this  year  been  more  mortal  &  contagious  than 
before  &  has  more  frequently  put  on  the  form  of  Levant  plague. 
It  has  demonstrated  the  fact  that  the  plague  is  only  the  worst  form 
of  bilious  fever.  The  received  theories  about  the  origin  of  the 
plague  will  all  be  overthrown  by  our  experience.  The  notion  that 
this  disease  is  propagated  by  specifc  contagion  only,  from  the 
Levant  into  the  northern  part  of  Europe,  is  totally  unfounded, 
and  will  soon  be  completely  disproved.  The  Faculty  of  Europe 
have  yet  to  learn  that  the  great  principle  which  causes  the 
X>lague,  or  which  gives  the  usual  autumnal  fevers  the  malignity 
of  pestilence,  is  commonly  diffused  over  a  great  part  of  the  habi- 
table globe  at  the  same  ti?7ie,  and  shows  its  effects  in  Europe, 
Asia,  Africa,  &  America  in  the  same  year  or  the  same  season. 
This  I  shall  demonstrate  in  a  work  I  am  preparing  for  the  press. 
In  this,  I  want  exceedingly  the  bills  of  mortality  for  Paris,  Am- 
sterdam, Copenhagen,  Osnaburg,  Vienna,  Berlin  and  some  cities 
in  the  South  of  Europe,  for  a  century  or  two  past,  (London  bills 
I  have)  and  I  had  thoughts  of  writing  to  the  Royal  Society  to 
procure  them  thro'  their  influence  ;  but  I  have  omitted  it,  because 
the  work  is  here  called  for  &  I  must  publish  it,  the  winter  com- 
ing. As  soon  as  the  work  is  out  I  will  send  you  a  copy. 
With  great  respect,  your  obt.  Servt. 

N.  Wtebster,  Jr. 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  457 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State.     No.  7. 

London,  Nov.  5,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

A  Swiss  lately  arrived  here  from  the  Continent  with  an  order 
from  Talleyrand  to  procure  and  send  to  him  all  the  English 
charts  and  Maps  of  the  Bahama  Islands  in  the  Gulph  of  Mexico, 
Louisiana  &  of  the  United  States.  Some  few  maps  of  other 
countries  were  likewise  inserted  in  the  List  and  probably  intended 
as  blinds  ;  the  order  has  been  executed  by  Faden.  Pitcairn*  in- 
forms me  by  the  last  Hamburgh  mail  that  Matthew  Salmon,  a 
Mulatto,  formerly  a  St.  Domingo  Representative  in  the  Conven- 
tion, with  his  wife  also  a  Mulatto  and  two  other  of  the  name  of 
Villard  and  Collier,  are  on  the  point  of  embarking  on  board  the 
Danish  ship  Minerva,  Capt.  Kramp,  from  Hamburgh  to  Charles- 
ton, S.  Carolina.  Salmon  has  large  Dispatches  from  the  French 
Directoire  concealed  in  tubs  (cases)  with  false  bottoms  ;  they 
have  Passports  from  the  Magistrates  of  Hamburgh  as  Swiss. 

In  the  late  conference  with  Genl  Rose  who  conducts  the  busi- 
ness of  the  Ordnance  Department  in  the  absence  of  Lord  Cornwallis, 
he  said  that  he  was  authorized  to  inform  me  that  in  the  event  of  war 
between  us  and  France,  they  would  instantly  divide  with  us  the  Mus- 
kets and  other  military  stores  in  their  possession,  and  that  they  would 
moreover  without  a  moment's  delay  ship  and  send  the  same  to  us 
in  some  of  their  men  of  war  ;  that  they  were  desirous  of  affording 
us  immediately  the  supply  we  want,  but  that  their  own  demands  as 
well  as  those  of  the  Turks  which  they  were  now  obliged  to  supply  to  a 
considerable  extent,  added  to  the  earnest  importunities  from 
Portugal  for  arms  to  assist  her  in  defending  herself  against  the 
invasion  with  which  she  is  again  threatened,  put  it  out  of  their  power 
to  supply  us  with  the  quantity  we  have  requested  j  that  they  had 
however  concluded  to  deliver  us  two  or  three  thousand  immedi- 
ately and  to  continue  to  deliver  us  five  hundred  at  the  beginning 
of  every  month  ;  that  orders  to  this  effect  would  be  immediately 
given  to  the  officers  of  the  Tower  where  the  arms  would  be  properly 
packed  in  boxes  ready  to  be  shipped  ;  the  price  will  be  the  same  as 
that  paid  by  the  ordnance. 

Pitcairn  has  contracted  for  6000  Mitskets,  a  part  of  which  are 

*  Italics  in  cipher. 


458  RUFUS  KING.  [l79S 

already  shipped,  and  the  whole  will  probably  be  delivered  in  the 
course  of  three  months.  The  price  is  lower  than  that  of  England, 
but  I  am  very  fearful  they  are  not  such  as  we  shall  approve 
though  we  have  used  every  precaution  in  order  to  escape 
imposition. 

I  have  a  faint  hope  of  obtaining  a  quantity  of  Bavarian  Mus- 
kets which  are  not  quite  the  model  we  should  prefer  ;  but  their 
caliber  is  like  that  of  the  English  Muskets,  and  they  are  moreover 
to  be  relied  upon  as  effective  arms,  being  all  proved  in  the  Prussian 
arsenals. 

We  continue  to  receive  vague  Rumours  from  the  Continent  of 
the  surrender  of  the  French  to  the  Inhabitants  of  Malta,  of  the 
destruction  of  the  Transports  at  Alexandria  &  of  the  Capitula- 
tion of  Buonaparte.  The  late  mail  brings  us  nothing  satisfactory 
or  certain  respecting  the  issue  of  the  negotiations  at  Rastadt.  The 
Emperor  continues  his  military  preparations  and  France  inforces 
the  new  requisitions.  We  have  no  confirmation  of  the  renewal  of 
the  Embargo  on  our  ships  in  the  French  ports  ;  but  the  capture 
of  our  ships  by  the  French  Privateers  is  frequent  and  without  any 
perceptible  discrimination  in  respect  to  their  voyages  or  the  nature 
of  their  cargoes.  Some  of  these  captures  arrive  in  France,  most 
of  them  are  carried  into  Spain,  and  many  of  them  are  recaptured 
and  brought  into  this  Country.  The  last  mail  from  Ireland 
brought  intelligence  of  the  appearance  of  several  more  French 
Frigates  with  troops  in  Killala  Bay,  which  are  said  to  have  put  to 
sea  again  on  learning  the  Defeat  of  the  Expedition  from  Brest. 
These  Frigates  are  supposed  to  have  come  from  Rochefort  or  Ro- 
chelle  and  to  have  been  destined  to  reinforce  the  troops  from 
Brest.     They  will  with  difficulty  regain  their  own  ports. 

The  Thetis,  Capt.  Cochran,  has  lately  arrived  from  Halifax.  I 
had  some  time  before  spoken  to  Lord  Spencer  respecting  the  dis- 
contents excited  among  our  Merchants  by  the  vexatious  captures 
made  by  this  officer  upon  our  coasts  &  expressed  a  wish  that  he 
might  be  recalled.  His  Lordship  on  his  arrival  gave  an  immediate 
notice  thereof,  with  an  assurance  that  he  should  not  return. 
With  perfect  Respect  and  Esteem,  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


1798]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  459 

T.  Pickering  to  R.  King.     No.  32. 

Department  of  State,  November  7,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

In  your  92  you  remind  me  of  the  advances  you  have  made  to 
Mr.  La  Fayette.  The  President  has  not  yet  returned  from  Massa- 
chusetts, but  in  his  absence  I  express  to  you  my  opinion  (in  which 
the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  decidedly  concurs)  that  you  should 
stop  your  hand  and  make  him  no  further  advances.  There  is  in  fact, 
as  Mr.  Wolcott  remarked,  no  appropriation  to  cover  them.    .    .    . 

The  arret  for  recalling  the  Commissioners  of  French  Privateers 
in  the  West  Indies  is  perfectly  illusory,  seeing  all  the  Laws  and 
arrets  to  capture  neutral  vessels  remain  in  full  force.  But  you  well 
know  that  their  depredations  on  our  commerce  in  the  European 
seas,  tho'  not  as  numerous,  have  been  as  atrocious  as  those  in  the 
West  Indies.  Yet  Mr.  Gerry  in  his  communications  with  Mr. 
Talleyrand  adverted  only  to  those  in  the  West  Indies,  as  tho'  the 
ports  of  France  and  Spain  were  exempt  from  such  monstrous  viola- 
tions of  the  Laws  of  Nations  and  of  the  most  obvious  princplies  of 
Justice.  This  unfounded  distinction  by  Mr.  Gerry  was  the  result 
of  unpardonable  ignorance  or  criminal  complaisance.  .  .  . 
Copies  (of  Mr.  Gerry's  dispatches)  are  preparing  to  be  laid  before 
Congress.  This  step  will  be  necessary  for  two  reasons  ;  one  to 
satisfy  the  public  expectation,  the  other,  to  prove  that  all  Talley- 
rand's overtures  were  inconsequential ;  and  their  main  object  to 
procrastinate,  and  in  the  mean  time,  by  amicable  tho'  deceitful 
professions  of  an  ardent  desire  of  reconciliation,  to  lull  us  asleep, 
until  the  French  should  be  at  leisure  to  take  vengeance  for  our 
daring  to  look  "the  Great  Nation  "  in  the  face  and  to  prosecute 
their  original  plan  of  subjugating  the  United  States,  as  they  have 
done  Switzerland,  Holland,  &c.  You  will  recollect  that  in  some 
letter  from  General  Pinckney  when  alone  at  Paris,  he  recited  an 
expression  of  a  Frenchman,  who  had  been  in  America,  "  That  the 
United  States  merited  no  more  consideration  than  Genoa  or  Geneva  "  : 
it  was  Mr.  Talleyrand  who  made  this  declaration.  We  see  what 
the  French  have  done  with  these  Republics,  and  our  fate  was  to  be 
similar  ;  for  according  toTalleyrand  our  supposed  divisions  would 
render  us  equally  weak  and  unable  to  resist.     .     .     . 


460  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

R.  King  to  A.  Hamilton.* 

London,  Nov.  9,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  same  uncertainty  exists  respecting  the  recommencement  of 
the  war.  Both  Austria  and  Prussia  are  bolder  than  before  the  late 
naval  success  of  this  country  ;  but  the  conduct  of  the  Emperor 
is  rather  calculated  to  show  that  he  may  be  purchased  by  further 
acquisitions  in  Italy.  Naples  will  not  decline  a  war.  Her  exist- 
ence perhaps  depends  upon  her  provoking  it. 

The  casus  foederis  with  Austria  is  a  defensive  war,  but  the 
Emperor  has  said  that  he  should  not  be  critical  on  that  head. 
The  news  of  the  capitulation  of  Buonaparte  and  the  destruction 
of  the  transports  at  Alexandria,  is  not  confirmed,  though  they  are 
events  that  must  take  place.  The  expeditions  against  Ireland  are 
annihilated.  Of  the  nine  ships  that  sailed  from  Brest,  seven, 
including  the  Hoche,  are  in  the  English  ports  ;  the  two  frigates 
that  escaped  from  the  Texel  have  both  been  taken  ;  and  of  the 
three  that  sailed  from  Rochefort  and  appeared  off  Ireland  soon 
after  the  defeat  of  the  Brest  squadron,  two  are  said  to  be  taken. 

The  Dutch  frigates  were  probably  bound  to  Demerara,  though 
the  soldiers  were  told  they  were  to  go  to  Ireland. 

Parliament  meets  on  the  20th.  Mr.  Pitt  will  have  a  good 
account  to  give  of  the  extension  of  their  commerce,  and  of  the 
increase  of  the  revenue.  The  assessed  taxes,  which  have  been 
shamefully  evaded,  will  be  given  up,  and  a  tax  upon  the  income 
of  the  nation  substituted.  There  will  be  great  difficulties  in  the 
details,  as  well  as  strong  prejudices  to  overcome,  but  I  hear  that 
the  body  of  merchants  in  London  are  to  support  the  plan.  The 
late  naval  success  has  excited  a  high  degree  of  animation  through- 
out the  nation  :  and  the  government  will  be  generally  and  cor- 
dially supported  in  such  measures  as  it  shall  adopt  to  prosecute 
the  war.  The  funds  have  gone  up  to  57  per  cent,  which  is  a  great 
rise,  and  in  a  short  time.  You  will  see  that  I  have  prevented  the 
sending  to  you  of  about  fifty  Irish  state  prisoners,  who  were  at 
the  head  of  the  rebellion  in  Ireland,  and  closely  connected  with 
the  Directory  at  Paris.  Probably  our  patriots  will  think  my  con- 
duct  presumptuous.     In   the   present   posture    of    our  affairs,   I 

*    Works  0/  Hamilton,  vi.,  375. 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  461 

could  have  no  hesitation.  We  have  an  account  that  the  Constel- 
lation, Capt.  Truxton,  has  taken  a  French  frigate  on  our  coast. 
This  news  is  brought  by  Capt.  Cochrane,  of  the  Thetis,  who  will 
not  be  permitted  to  return  to  the  American  station. 

Yours  very  truly,  &c. 

P.  S.  The  Hamburgh  Mail,  just  arrived,  informs  us  that  very 
great  resistance  is  made  to  the  requisition  of  200,000  men  in  Bel- 
gium ;  12,000  young  men  are  embodied,  and  the  spirit  of  revolt 
extends  itself  every  where.  The  scene  is  too  near  the  army  of  the 
Rhine. 


R.  King  to  W.  V.  Murray. 

London,  Nov.  17,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

To  avoid  any  misunderstanding  I  put  my  letter  of  the  16th  of 
August  and  yours  of  the  7th  of  September  and  6th  of  October 
into  the  hands  of  Lord  Grenville*  with  a  request  that  he  would 
give  me  in  writing  what  he  should  think  proper  to  be  said  to  you 
upon  the  subject.  Annexed  you  have  a  copy  of  his  Letter 
to  me. 

With  sincere  attachment  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


Lord  Grenville  to  R.  King. 

Private.     Copy. 

Dropmore,  Nov.  6,  1798. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

I  return  you  the  two  letters  which  you  had  the  goodness  to 
leave  with  me.  I  think  I  collect  from  them  that  the  persons  with 
whom  Mr.  Murray  has  conversed*  will  not  treat  with  us  about  the 
means  of  delivering  their  Country  from  the  yoke  of  France  unless 
we  first  agree  that  the  P.  of  O.  and  the  Stadtholderate  should  be 
set  aside. 

This  condition  we  consider  as  wholly  inadmissible  as  a  prelimi- 
nary to  such  a  discussion,  nor  can  we  give  the  least  expectation 

*  Italics  in  cipher. 


462  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

that  it  would  even  be  the  result  of  it.  We  hold  it  to  be  impos- 
sible to  restore,  and  still  more  to  maintain  the  tranquillity  of  that 
country  by  the  exclusion  of  the  most  numerous  party  in  it. 

The  object  of  England  is  what  you  stated  to  Mr.  M .,  and  what 
it  has  been  for  above  a  century  :  to  see  in  that  Country  a  rational, 
free  and  efficient  Government,  capable  of  providing  for  its  domes- 
tic happiness  and  maintaining  a  real  independence  with  respect 
to  all  its  neighbors.  The  prosecution  of  one  party  for  the  past,  or 
its  exclusion,  or  that  of  the  other  party  for  the  future  are  equally 
incompatible  with  these  objects.  Those  persons  whoever  they 
may  be  who  concur  in  this  wish  would  find  in  England  a  willing 
and  a  powerful  assistance :  but  there  is  nothing  in  the  present 
relative  state  of  G.  Britain  and  Holland,  which  could  tempt  us  to 
embark  in  any  more  limited  plan  at  the  risk  of  increasing  instead 
of  destroying  the  internal  dissension  of  that  Country,  and  thereby 
exposing  it  to  become  avowedly  and  permanently  what  it  is  now  in 
substance,  but  for  a  time  only,  a  conquered  Country  annexed  to  the 
present  Government  of  France. 

With  many  thanks  to  you  and  to  Mr.  M.  for  the  trouble  you 
have  taken  on  this  subject,  Believe  me,  my  dear  Sir  &c.  &c. 

Grenville,  j6. 

P.  S.  I  need  hardly  repeat  that  if,  on  the  ground  stated  in  this 
letter  and  in  yours  of  16th  August,  there  is  any  disposition  to  open 
a  discussion  with  us,  our  disposition  remains  the  same,  and  it  would 
only  be  for  them  to  name  the  place  and  person  where  and  thro 
whom  they  would  communicate.  We  would  immediately  give  the 
necessary  instructions  to  a  fit  person  on  our  part. 

Grenville. 

R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State.     No.  8. 

London,  Nov.  10,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  same  uncertainty  continues  with  respect  to  the  recom- 
mencement of  the  war  between  Austria  and  France,  and  for 
nearly  three  weeks  we  are  without  any  precise  information  from 
Paris.  Naples  will  not  decline  the  war,  nay  she  appears  inclined 
to  provoke  it.  The  casus  foederis  with  Austria  is  a  defensive  war, 
but  the  Emperor  has  lately  given  assurances  that  he  shall  not  be 
critical  on  that  point. 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  463 

The  Irish  Expeditions  have  all  failed  and  most  of  the  French 
ships  are  prizes  in  the  English  ports.  Parliament  meets  on  the 
20th  ;  the  Nation  is  animated  by  the  late  victories  at  sea  and  the 
Government  will  receive  a  very  general  and  cordial  support. 

There  is  no  doubt  that  the  Union  with  Ireland  will  be  proposed 
and  as  there  are  thirty  thousand  English  troops  in  that  country, 
the  measure  will  probably  be  carried  into  execution,  tho'  there 
will  be  much  opposition. 

There  appears  to  be  very  great  activity  among  the  Merchants 
in  preparing  voyages  for  the  Levant.  The  interruption  of  the 
supplies  of  rice  from  Egypt  to  Constantinople  has  created  a  great 
demand  and  sudden  rise  in  the  price  of  that  and  some  other  com- 
modities in  this  market.  I  cannot  but  think  the  present  a  favor- 
able moment  not  only  for  the  extension  of  our  trade  in  the 
*  Mediterranean,  but  for  the  conclusion  of  a  commercial  Treaty  with 
the  Porte.  Speaking  upon  this  subject  to  Lord  Grenville,  he  assured 
me  that  we  might  with  confidence  rely  upon  their  good  offices  and  in- 
fluence at  Constantifiople  in  any  arrangements  we  may  be  inclined  to 
make  there. 

The  Russian  Envoy  of  his  own  accord  yesterday  observed  to  me 
that  we  have  considerable  trade  in  the  Baltic  and  it  appeared 
somewhat  singular  that  no  direct  intercourse  or  correspondence  had 
ever  subsisted  between  our  two  Governments.  He  added  that  they 
stood  well  at  this  moment  with  the  Porte  with  whom  we  might  have 
an  interest  in  making  a  commercial  Treaty,  and  that  he  had  no 
reason  to  doubt  that  the  Emperor  would  be  inclined  not  only  to  form 
a  commercial  Treaty  with  us,  but  moreover  to  afford  us  his  Influence 
in  concluding  one  with  the  Porte. 

I  answered  that  I  could  perceive  considerable  advantage  in  a 
commercial  Treaty  with  Russia  and  that  it  would  undoubtedly  be 
an  object  of  importance  to  extend  and  establish  our  Trade  in  the 
Levant.  He  then  proposed  that  we  should  take  an  early  opportunity 
of  resuming  this  conversation,  and  concluded  by  saying  that  by 
writing  to  our  respective  Governments,  if  the  measure  should  be 
found  adviseable,  they  might  authorize  the  Treaty  to  be  negotiated 
here. 

I  have  thought  it  best  to  report  this  conversation,  tho'  the  sub- 
ject is  referred  to  another  interview.     Count  Woronzow  is  a  man 

*  Italics  in  cipher. 


i 


464  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

of  good  principles  and  of  great  honour  j  I  know  not  whether  this 
intimation  proceeds  from  himself  or  has  been  ordered  by  his  Gov- 
ernment. I  shall  not  fail  to  send  you  the  result  of  our  next  Con- 
ference. 

With  perfect  Respect  and  esteem  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

P.  S.  The  mail  that  has  just  arrived  from  Hamburgh  brings 
accounts  of  great  opposition  in  various  parts  of  France  to  the 
Requisition  of  200,000  men.  In  Brabant  12,000  young  men  have 
embody'd  themselves  to  resist  the  requisition  and  the  spirit  of  re- 
volt is  hourly  extending  itself.  But  the  army  of  the  Lower  Rhine 
is  too  near  long  to  suffer  this  Defiance. — R.  K. 


CHAPTER  XXIX. 

R.  Troup — Military  Appointments — Reception  of  Gerry  at  Boston — Dr. 
Logan — Marshall — St.  Croix  Commission  has  settled  the  Line — Commis- 
sioners under  sixth  Article  make  Decision  in  Favor  of  Persons  attainted 
during  the  Revolution — Cabot — Elections — Knox  declines — Gerry  ap- 
proves the  national  Measures — Course  of  the  President  relative  to  him — 
R.  King  to  Secy,  of  State — French  Plans — Extravagant  Arrete  to  treat  as 
Pirates  all  Natives  of  Countries,  Allies  of  France,  found  on  Enemy's  Vessels 
— Lord  Grenville  on  this — England  threatens  Retaliation — R.  King  presses 
Claims  for  Maryland  Stock — Treaty  between  England  and  Toussaint — 
To  and  from  J.  Jay  relative  to  Supply  of  Arms — R.  King  to  Secy,  of  State 
— Conversation  with  British  Ministers  on  the  Convention  with  Toussaint ;  its 
great  Importance  to  the  United  States — R.  King  to  T.  Pickering — May 
call  ourselves  united — France  looks  to  our  Divisions — Count  Rumford 
proposes  to  settle  in  America — R.  King  to  W.  Bingham — France  encour- 
aged by  our  Divisions,  etc. — Dangers  ahead  great — W.  Hindman  to  R. 
King — Federalism  increasing  —  General  Politics — W.  Bingham  —  Irish 
Prisoners  not  desirable — General  Politics — St.  Domingo — Indian  Medals — 
R.  King  to  H.  Dundas — Correspondence  relative  to  Convention  with  St. 
Domingo — To  Genl.  Pinckney — United  States  should  take  the  Lead  in 
what  affects  the  New  World. 

R.  Troup  to  R.  King. 

New  York,  16th  Nov.,  1798. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

.     .     .     Quitting  the  subject  of  farms,  I  proceed  to  give  you  a 

general  sketch  of  our  political  state.     .    .     .     Genl.   Pinckney  & 

Mr.  Gerry  are  both  arrived,  the  former  at  this  port  and  the  latter 

at  Boston.     .     .     .     No  man  can  stand  higher  in  public  opinion 

than  he  (Genl.   Pinckney)  does.     Saving  General  Washington,  I 

believe  the  President,  Pinckney  and  Marshall  are  the  most  popular 

characters  now  in  our  country.     There  is  a  certain  something  in 

the  correspondence  of  Pinckney  and  Marshall  (for  Gerry  seems 
vol  n—30  465 


466  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

to  be  considered  a  blank)  with  Talleyrand  that  has  united  all  heads 
and  hearts  in  their  eulogy.  Pinckney  is  well  pleased  with  his  late 
appointment  of  Major  General  and  has  expressed  great  pleas- 
ure at  the  idea  of  serving  under  Hamilton.  Knox,  it  is  said,  has 
resigned  his  appointment,  and  I  have  seen  a  surmise  that  his 
land  operations  have  so  embarrassed  him  as  to  make  his  entrance 
upon  public  life  inconvenient.  The  President  was  doubtless 
favorable  to  Knox's  pretensions  against  Hamilton.  There  is  no 
cordiality  on  the  part  of  the  President  to  Hamilton.  During  the 
last  election  for  President,  Hamilton  publickly  gave  out  his  wishes 
that  Pinckney  should  be  elected  President.  These  wishes  were 
communicated  both  privately  and  publickly  to  the  President,  and 
have  occasioned,  I  suspect,  more  than  a  coolness  on  the  part  of 
the  President.  I  blamed  Hamilton  at  the  time  for  making  the 
declarations  he  did,  and  I  foresaw  that  evil  would  arise  from 
them.     .     .     . 

There  is  now  a  council  of  war  at  Philadelphia.  General  Wash- 
ington is  there  attending  it  with  all  the  Major  Generals.  The 
precise  object  is  not  known  ;  but  the  public  expectation  is  that 
vigorous  measures  will  speedily  be  adopted  and  pursued  to  bring 
our  army  into  the  field. 

Gerry  upon  his  landing  in  Boston  was  said  to  have  been  re- 
ceived with  three  cheers  :  since  which  I  have  heard  nothing  of 
him  except  that  the  Boston  papers  announce  that  he  detests  the 
French — has  a  budget,  which,  when  opened,  will  give  additional 
and  very  strong  proofs  of  French  perfidy  and  corruption,  and  that 
he  warmly  approves  of  the  measures  lately  adopted  by  our 
government. 

The  famous  Dr.  Logan,  who  is  generally  called  Jefferson's 
Envoy  Extraordinary,  has  lately  arrived  from  France  with  de- 
spatches, as  report  announces,  from  the  Directory  to  the  Secretary 
of  State.  The  same  report  also  announces  that  he  hastened  to 
Trenton  to  deliver  his  despatches  to  the  Secretary,  who  dismissed 
him  with  a  flea  in  his  ear.  .  .  .  It  is  asserted  in  the  papers 
with  the  appearance  of  authority  from  the  Secretary  .  .  .  that 
as  to  any  overtures  or  propositions  towards  a  negotiation  there 
are  none.  .  .  .  I  do  not  think  that  a  more  rooted  detestation 
of  France  exists  in  England,  than  prevails  with  a  great  mass  of 
our  fellow  citizens.      All  the  old  prejudices  instilled  into  our 


1798]  LIFE   AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  467 

minds  by  our  ancestors,  seem  to  be  revived  and  to  have  acquired 
infinitely  more  force  than  they  ever  possessed.  So  let  them  re- 
main till  time  shall  cease  to  run  his  course. 

Speaking  of  the  elections  to  Congress  Mr.  T.  says  among  other 
things,  Marshall  is  certainly  a  candidate  for  the  district  in  which 
he  lives,  and  has  published  an  answer  to  some  questions  addressed 
to  him.  He  thinks  the  Alien  and  Sedition  bills  lately  passed  by 
Congress  were  unneccessary  and  that  he  should,  if  he  had  been 
in  Congress  at  the  time,  have  opposed  them.  On  the  subject  of  a 
Treaty  with  Great  Britain  he  is,  if  we  form  one  during  the  con- 
troversy with  France,  for  confining  it  to  objects  connected  wholly 
with  the  controversy  and  to  end  with  it.  He  means,  if  elected, 
to  vote  for  the  repeal  of  the  Alien  and  Sedition  Bills.     .     .     . 

At  a  late  circuit  court  of  the  U.  States — Judge  Paterson  pre- 
siding, in  Vermont,  Lyons  was  indicted  for  printing — it  seems  he 
has  set  up  a  press  there — a  letter  written  by  Joel  Barlow  to  Bald- 
win of  Georgia.  The  letter  goes  by  the  name  of  the  Barlow 
letter.  It  is  an  infamous  libel  on  our  government  and  eulogy  on 
that  of  France  ;  it  was  written  last  spring.  Lyons  after  a  very 
fair  trial,  was  found  guilty  and  sentenced  to  pay  a  fine  of  1000 
dollars  and  suffer  four  months  imprisonment.  He  is  now  in  gaol. 
During  the  trial  and  afterwards  he  behaved  like  himself — like  a 
fool  and  a  blackguard.  Mrs.  Bache,  the  widow  of  the  editor  of 
the  Aurora,  considers  him  a  martyr.  This  woman  has  renewed 
her  husband's  paper  with  as  much  virulence  as  was  manifested  by 
her  husband.     This  also  is  the  case  with  Greenleaf's  widow.    .     . 

17th  Nov.,  1798. 

Benson  has  just  returned  from  the  Eastward,  where  he  has  been 
attending  the  St.  Croix  Commissioners.  This  line  is  at  length 
settled.  The  Commissioners  have  unanimously  decided  against 
us  and  in  favor  of  the  pretensions  of  Great  Britain. 

The  Commissioners  for  British  Debts,  it  is  said,  have  decided 
that  debts  due  to  persons  attainted  by  our  laws  during  the  late 
Revolution,  are  to  be  paid  on  the  ground  that  those  debts  have 
been  prevented  from  being  recovered  by  lawful  impediments.  A 
precedent  of  this  kind  has  been  set  in  the  case  of  Dr.  Inglis,  now 
Bishop  of  Nova  Scotia,  and  formerly  an  Episcopal  Clergyman  in 
this  City.     He  is  named  in  our  Bill  of  attainder.     I  am  not  with- 


468  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

out  a  suspicion  that  this  precedent  is  not  warranted  by  the 
Treaty.  It  will  cut  deeply — and  I  think  will  create  not  a  little 
uneasiness.     .     .     . 

The  Philadelphia  papers  announce  that  Dr.  Logan  has  been  to 
pay  his  respects  to  General  Washington,  and  that  he  met  with  a 
very  dry  and  contemptuous  reception.     .     . 

Very  truly  yours 

Rob.  Troup. 


George  Cabot  to  R.  King. 

Nov.  16,  1798. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

I  lament  that  while  our  Elections  must  be  considered  as  the 
truest  test  of  public  opinion  their  evidence  at  the  present  junc- 
ture is  so  unfavorable.  The  result  of  ours  is  not  wholly  known 
but  Varnum  is  rechosen  &  the  declination  of  Isaac  Packer  will 
open  the  way  for  Dearborn.  In  the  District  where  I  reside  a 
very  great  effort  was  made  in  favor  of  Heath  &  conducted  with 
so  much  system  and  industry  as  gave  me  much  uneasiness.  It 
appeared  evidently  that  a  plan  was  formed  to  bring  every  jacobin 
to  the  poll  without  any  previous  alarm  to  the  Federalists  ;  these 
however  were  not  wholly  surprised  &  Otis  was  carried  by  400 
majority. 

Genl.  Knox  declines  serving  in  the  army  unless  he  can  be  placed 
above  Hamilton  where  neither  the  Govt,  the  people,  nor  his  own 
merits  wou'd  place  him — a  hope  has  been  entertained  that  Gen^ 
Pinckney  wou'd  adopt  similar  opinions  but  far  from  every  such 
idea  he  readily  declared  his  satisfaction  with  the  arrangement  & 
his  great  pleasure  in  seeing  Hamilton  employed  where  his  Genius 
&  Talents  fairly  ranked  him — this  business  is  now  adjusted  & 
Knox's  refusal  is  perhaps  no  injury,  for  his  private  embarrass- 
ments wou'd  always  have  hung  heavy  about  him  &  sunk  him  in 
the  public  estimation  :  I  regret  however  that  his  feelings  have 
stimulated  him  to  speak  of  Hamilton  privately  as  a  man  of  in- 
satiable ambition  &c — 

Gerry  since  his  return  has  declared  pretty  explicitly  his  appro- 
bation of  our  National  Measures  &  his  desire  to  see  them  per- 
sisted in  &  supported.  The  President  appears  to  think  him  a 
good  patriot  still  &  considers  his  errors  as  no   greater  than  his 


I798l  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  469 

colleagues  especially  Pinckney's  ;  this  disposition  in  the  P.  to 
cover  the  follies  &  improprieties  of  his  friend,  threatens  us  with 
new  &  mischievous  schisms.  Gerry's  conduct  will  be  reprobated 
by  the  wise  &  the  good  if  there  shou'd  be  a  discussion  of  the 
respective  merits  of  the  Envoys  in  the  Newspapers  or  elsewhere. 
Already  the  P.  in  answering  an  address  from  the  people  of 
Machias  has  spoken  of  the  errors  of  the  Envoys  as  if  they  were 
common  :  a  little  more  of  this  wou'd  bring  forward  Pinckney  & 
Marshal  who  can  hardly  vindicate  themselves  without  criminating 
Gerry.  Col.  Pickering  in  his  excellent  answer  to  P.  Johnson  has 
used  expressions  which  wound  Gerry  &  the  latter  has  written  an 
explanatory  letter  to  the  President  in  which  he  treats  Pickering 
with  some  little  disrespect.  This  letter  the  Prest.  forwarded  to 
Pickering  with  his  own,  a  request  that,  as  it  wou'd  be  some  satis- 
faction to  Gerry  &  cou'd  do  harm  to  no  one,  it  might  be  inserted 
in  some  public  print — but  Pickering  will  not  publish  it  &  if  it 
shou'd  be  published  he  will  comment  upon  it  &  upon  Gerry's 
conduct  in  a  manner  that  will  show  his  business  in  a  strong  light. 
Prudence  forbids  me  to  write  all  you  wou'd  wish  to  know  &  I 
hope  you  will  learn  nothing  more  on  the  subject  for  we  need  all 
our  strength  against  the  common  Enemy  &  therefore  must  suffer 
no  division  :  some  pains  are  taken  to  prevent  this  matter  from 
proceeding  which  I  trust  will  be  successful.  With  the  purest 
principles  of  Morality  &  patriotism  &  a  profound  knowledge  of 
the  theory  of  Govt,  the  Prest.  needs  some  faithful  monitor  to 
guard  him  against  the  delusions  of  his  own  heart,  which  tho'  a 
very  good  one,  its  impulses  shou'd  not  be  followed  without  critical 
examination.  Yours  faithfully  &  affectly — 

G.  C. 

R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State.     No.  9. 

London,  Nov.  16,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

We  have  Paris  papers  to  the  nth  instant.  Notwithstanding  the 
slavery  of  the  Press,  their  papers  contain  curious  articles  which 
shew  not  only  that  the  interior  of  France  is  in  a  state  of  consider- 
able agitation  but  that  the  Directory  think  themselves  on  the  eve 
of  the  renewal  of  the  war.  I  was  yesterday  informed  from  a  re- 
spectable quarter  that  Naples  would  certainly  begin.     The  march 


470  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

of  the  Austrians  into  the  country  of  the  Grisons  is  an  important 
measure,  and  not  likely  to  have  happened  unless  the  war  had 
seemed  inevitable.  The  annexed  arrete  would  appear  extravagant 
and  incredible  if  it  proceeded  from  any  other  authority  ;  but  man- 
kind is  so  accustomed  to  the  violence  and  injustice  of  France,  that 
we  almost  cease  to  express  our  surprize  and  indignation  at  the  new 
instances  she  continues  to  display. 

Some  of  the  foreign  ministers  have  urged  this  Government  to 
make  reprisals  on  the  French  Prisoners,  and  the  measure  is  now 
under  consideration.  I  have  remained  silent.  Two  of  our  citi- 
zens who  commanded  a  French  Privateer  are  prisoners  here  ;  I 
have  heard  of  no  prosecution  against  them. 

With  perfect  Esteem  and  Respect  &c  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

DlRECTOIRE    EXECUTIF 

Arrete  du  8  Brumaire,  An.  7. 

Le  Directoire  Executif  sur  le  rapport  du  Ministre  des  Rela- 
tions Exterieures,  considerant  que  les  Escadres,  armemens  en 
course  et  Navires  de  l'Angleterre  et  de  la  Russie  sont  en  parti 
equipes  par  des  individus  etrangers. 

Considerant  que  cette  violation  est  un  abus  manifeste  du  droit 
des  gens,  et  que  les  puissances  de  l'Europe  n'ont  pris  aucune 
mesure  pour  le  faire  cesser, 

Arrete. 

Art.  ier.  Tout  individu  natif  ou  origineux  des  pays  amis 
allies  de  la  Republique  Francaise  ou  neutres  porteur  d'une  com- 
mission derivee  par  les  ennemis  de  France,  ou  faisant  partie  des 
Equipages,  des  batimens  de  guerre  et  autres  ennemis,  sera  par  ce 
seul  fait  declare  pirate  et  traite  comme  tel  sans  qu'il  puisse  en 
aucun  cas  alleguer  qu'il  a  ete  force  par  violence,  menaces  ou 
autrement. 

2.  Les  Directoires  Executifs  du  Republique  Batave,  Ligurienne, 
Cisalpine  et  Romaine  seront  instruits  de  cette  mesure. 

3.  Les  dispositions  contenues  en  l'article  premier  seront  noti- 
fieesaux  puissances  neutres  ou  alliees  de  la  Republique  Francaise. 

4.  Le  Ministre  des  Relations  Exterieures  est  charge  de  l'Execu- 
tion  du  present  arrete,  qui  sera  imprime  au  Bulletin  des  Lois. 

Signe,  Threillard, 

President. 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  47 1 

R.  King  to  Wm.  Wickham. 

Private. 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  Nov.  23,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

From  the  character  that  Mr.  Coke  gives  of  Lynch,  there  can  be 
no  danger  apprehended  from  his  residence  in  America.  The  only- 
objection  to  our  consenting  to  his  going  there  is  that  it  will  be  an 
exception  to  a  good  Rule  and  may  lead  to  other  applications. 

But  under  the  circumstances  of  his  case,  and  especially  as  Lord 
Cornwallis  must  see  something  in  it,  that  discriminates  it  from 
others,  I  beg  you  to  inform  the  Duke  of  Portland  that  I  do  not 
object  to  Lynch's  being  permitted  to  proceed  to  the  United  States 
of  America. 

With  the  most  sincere  esteem  &  Regard  &c  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

R.  King  to  the  Secretary  of  State.     No.  10. 

London,  Nov.  28,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  Parliament  met  on  the  20th.  The  King's  speech  mani- 
fests a  decided  resolution  to  persevere  in  the  war,  &  the  unanimity 
and  zeal  of  the  Nation  will  enable  the  Ministers  to  raise  the  sup- 
plies without  difficulty.  An  early  Loan  will  be  negotiated,  tho*  it 
is  understood  that  the  plan  of  raising  a  considerable  portion  of 
the  Supplies  within  the  year  will  be  persisted  in. 

The  Directory  enforces  the  new  Levies,  tho'  they  meet  with 
considerable  opposition,  particularly  in  Brabant  &  the  annexed 
territories.  The  Insurrection  in  Brabant  has  been  very  extensive, 
but  the  Insurgents  will  not  be  able  to  maintain  the  Contest.  The 
accounts  sometime  since  circulated  of  the  burning  of  the  Trans- 
ports at  Alexandria  are  discredited,  and  if,  as  there  are  some 
appearances  of  being  the  case,  Buonaparte  succeeds  in  conciliat- 
ing any  considerable  bodies  of  the  Inhabitants,  he  will  be  able  to 
maintain  himself  a  long  time  in  that  fruitful  country. 

Annexed  I  send  you  a  copy  of  a  Note  from  Lord  Grenville 
respecting  the  French  arrete  transmitted  to  you  with  my  number 
9.  A  late  French  paper  contains  a  second  arrete,  which  sus- 
pends the  execution  of  the  first. 

With  perfect  Esteem  &  Respect  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


472  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

Lord  Grenville  to  R.  King. 

Copy. 

Downing  Street,  November  27,  1798. 

The  undersigned,  His  Majesty's  Secretary  of  State  for  Foreign 
Affairs,  has  the  honor  of  communicating  to  Mr.  King  Minister 
Plenipotentiary  for  the  United  States  of  America  for  the  informa- 
tion of  his  Govt.,  that  by  a  Decree  published  officially  at  Paris  it 
appears  to  have  been  declared  in  the  name  of  the  French  Direc- 
tory, that  every  person  being  a  native  of,  or  originally  belonging 
to  neutral  countries,  or  to  such  as  are  in  amity  &  alliance  with 
the  French  republic,  who  shall  bear  any  Commission  under  His 
Majesty,  or  who  shall  form  a  part  of  the  crews  of  British  ships  of 
war  or  other  vessels,  should  on  the  proof  of  that  fact  alone,  be 
considered  and  treated  as  a  Pirate,  and  that  it  has  been  ordered 
that  this  Resolution  shall  be  notified  to  the  neutral  powers  and  to 
those  in  alliance  with  France. 

Even  this  Decree,  contrary  as  it  is  to  the  usage  of  every  civil- 
ized nation,  cannot  excite  our  surprize  as  proceeding  from  those 
in  whose  name  it  has  been  published.  To  the  different  powers 
who  are  thus  insulted  and  whose  innocent  subjects  are  exposed  to 
the  most  cruel  treatment  on  the  part  of  a  Govt.,  professing  friend- 
ship or  alliance  with  them,  His  Majesty  must  leave  it  to  adopt  such 
measures  as  they  will  without  doubt  judge  necessary  in  the  case 
of  an  outrage  hitherto  unexampled  in  the  History  of  the  World. 

The  King  however  feels  that  protection  is  due  from  him  to 
those  who  sail  under  his  flag,  either  in  his  Majesty's  ships  of  war, 
or  in  other  British  vessels.  His  Majesty  has  therefore  not  hesi- 
tated to  direct  it  to  be  signified  to  the  Commissary  of  French 
Prisoners  in  G.  Britain  that  the  first  instance  of  the  execution  of 
this  Decree  shall  be  followed  by  the  most  rigorous  retaliation 
against  the  French  Prisoners,  whom  the  fortune  of  War  has 
already,  or  may  hereafter  place  at  the  King's  disposal. 

It  would  certainly  never  be  but  with  extreme  reluctance  that 
the  King  could  yield  to  the  painful  necessity  of  subjecting  any 
unfortunate  individuals,  to  the  fatal  but  inevitable  effects  of  this 
atrocious  Decree  ;  but  His  Majesty  will  have  at  least  the  satis- 
faction of  feeling  that  nothing  has  been  omitted  on  his  part  to 
prevent  its  execution  ;  that  the  authors  of  it  can  alone  be  con- 
sidered responsible  for  all  its  guilt  and  all  its  consequences. 

Grenville. 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE,  473 

R.  King  to  Lord  Grenville. 
Private. 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  Dec.  1,  1798. 
My  Lord  : 

I  continue  to  be  urged,  and  more  frequently  than  I  could  have 
wished,  have  applied  to  your  Lordship  and  others  respecting  the 
Maryland  Bank  Stock.  The  Lord  Chancellor  to  whom  I  am 
much  obliged  for  the  politeness  and  favorable  disposition  with 
which  he  has  uniformly  attended  to  my  repeated  efforts  to  bring 
this  business  to  a  conclusion,  must  notwithstanding  his  habitual 
patience  and  good  temper  be  fatigued  with  hearing,  as  I  really 
am  with  devising,  new  expedients  for  that  Purpose.  I  have 
therefore  determined  to  relinquish  a  course  that  I  have  so  assidu- 
ously tho'  ineffectually  followed,  and  will  send  to  your  Lordship 
a  note  referring  to  those  heretofore  presented,  and  requesting  an 
answer  whether  the  stock  in  question  will  without  further  delay 
be  transferred  to  the  State  of  Maryland.  Previous  however  to 
the  adoption  of  this  step,  availing  myself  of  the  freedom  with 
which  I  am  accustomed  to  treat  every  subject  with  your  Lord- 
ship, I  have  thought  it  adviseable  to  write  this  private  Letter  to 
your  Lordship,  and  not  without  the  hope  that,  through  your  in- 
terference assisted  by  the  good  offices  of  the  Lord  Chancellor,  the 
presentation  of  the  note  may  become  unnecessary. 

I  am  the  more  encouraged  to  hope  that  this  may  be  the  case 
when  I  consider  that  since  this  Question  has  been  depending  be- 
fore the  Court  of  Chancery  (the  suit  commenced  in  1784)  all  the 
persons  who  opposed  the  transfer  and  who  lost  real  estate  by  the 
American  Revolution,  including  as  well  the  Ewers,  as  the  family 
of  Russell,  have  been  compensated  for  their  losses  by  his  Majesty's 
Government,  and  that  all  persons  who  have  incurred  losses  by 
the  non-payment  or  confiscation  of  American  Debts,  have  a 
remedy  before  the  Commission  under  the  late  Treaty  now  open 
at  Philadelphia. 

In  truth,  My  Lord,  there  does  not  appear  to  exist  any  solid 
reason  why  this  property  should  be  longer  withheld  from  its  law- 
ful owners  ;  for  according  to  my  view  of  the  Question,  it  belongs 
to  the  People  of  Maryland  by  the  soundest  and  most  solid  of  all 
titles,  that  of  their  having  bought  and  paid  for  it. 

With  perfect  Esteem  &  Respect  &c  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


474  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

R.  King  to  Lord  Grenville. 

Private. 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  Dec.  1,  1798. 
My  Lord  : 

The  Newspapers  speak  in  such  positive  terms  of  a  Treaty  con- 
cluded between  General  Maitland  and  Toussaint  the  negro  Chief 
of  St.  Domingo,  that  I  take  the  liberty^to  enquire  of  your  Lord- 
ship, whether  any  engagement  of  the  nature  of  that  said  to  have 
been  formed  by  General  Maitland  has  actually  been  concluded. 
Your  Lordship  knows  how  materially  we  are  concerned,  at  the 
present  moment,  in  this  Enquiry  ;  and  I  flatter  myself  will  on 
that  account  excuse  what  might  otherwise  seem  a  mere  matter  of 
Curiosity. 

With  most  perfect  Esteem  and  Respect  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  John  Jay. 

London,  Dec.  7,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  had  the  honor  to  receive  your  Letter  of  the  30th  of 
Sept.,  and  am  sorry  that  we  shall  not  be  able  at  present,  nor  for 
a  considerable  time  to  come,  to  obtain  in  this  Country  the  supply 
of  arms  wanted  by  the  State  of  New  York.  I  have  for  some  time 
had  orders  from  the  Government  of  the  U.  S.  for  a  much  larger 
quantity  of  Muskets  than  I  shall  be  able  to  procure.  The  Manu- 
facturers of  this  Country,  tho'  exclusively  employ'd  by  the 
Government,  not  being  able  to  supply  its  wants.  So  great  indeed 
has  been  the  Deficiency,  that  England  has  during  the  last  year 
purchased  and  imported  more  than  sixty  thousand  German  Arms. 
I  have  purchased  several  thousand  German  Muskets  at  Ham- 
burgh ;  they  are  made  under  the  English  model,  are  rather 
cheaper  than  those  of  England,  but  not  as  good.  We  can  obtain 
Arms  from  no  other  part  of  Europe,  and  under  these  circum- 
stances I  will  immediately  write  to  Mr.  Pitcairn,  our  Consul  at 
Hamburgh,  to  engage  the  manufacturers  whom  we  have  employed 
to  make  and  have  ready  to  deliver  at  Hamburgh  in  the  Spring 
Three  thousand  Muskets  with  Steel  Ramrods  &  Bayonets.  The 
Remittances  may  be  made  to  me  or  to  him  as  the  State  of  the 
Exchange  shall  recommend.     Perhaps  it  will  be  best  to  remit 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  475 

directly  to  him  as  the  Exchange  between  England  and  Hamburgh 
will  be  against  the  former  if,  as  is  not  improbable,  any  of  the 
Continental  Powers  are  subsidized  by  this  Country. 

With  the  most  perfect  Respect  and  Esteem,  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

John  Jay  to  R.  King. 

Albany,  30th  Sept.,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

A  late  Act  of  the  Legislature  of  this  State  authorises  me  to 
purchase  a  further  supply  of  arms,  and  the  Money  appropriated 
for  that  and  other  Purposes  of  Defence  not  being  in  the  Treasury, 
I  am  empowered  to  borrow  it.  A  Loan  to  the  amount  of  two 
hundred  thousand  Dollars  has  been  agreed  to  by  the  Bank  of 
New  York.  The  proportions  in  which  this  sum  should  be 
apply'd  to  the  different  objects  of  the  Act  have  not  yet  been 
ascertained  ;  I  cannot  therefore  at  present  determine  on  the  exact 
number  of  arms  which  should  be  purchased  :  but  being  certain 
that  it  will  not  be  less  than  three  thousand  Muskets  and  Bayonets, 
I  must  request  the  favor  of  you  to  take  early  measures  for  caus- 
ing that  number  to  be  made  or  purchased,  so  that  they  may  be 
shipped  in  the  Spring  ;  a  sufficient  sum  for  the  purpose  shall  be 
seasonably  remitted  to  you.  Knowing  the- confidence  reposed  by 
the  Legislature  on  your  Readiness  to  promote  their  views  for  the 
common  good,  I  take  the  liberty  of  troubling  you  with  this  Busi- 
ness ;  it  will  I  am  persuaded  be  cheerfully  undertaken  and  prop- 
erly conducted. 

With  great  Esteem  &  Regard  &c.  &c. 

(Signed)     John  Jay. 

R.  King  to  the  Secretary  of  State.     No.   ii. 

London,  Dec.  7,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  No  material  occurrence  relative  to  the  recommence- 
ment of  the  war  has  happened  since  the  date  of  my  last  Letter. 
The  Austrians  continue  to  strengthen  their  Posts  on  the  frontiers 
of  Switzerland,  and  the  French  to  reinforce  their  Army  in  Italy. 
It  is  a  long  time  since  we  have  heard  from  Buonaparte  ;  accord- 
ing to  the  Paris  accounts  he  has  conciliated  large  bodies  of  the 


476  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

Inhabitants  of  the  Country,  is  quietly  establishing  himself  in 
Egypt,  and  will  soon  be  in  a  condition  to  extend  his  conquests 
Where  or  how  the  united  Squadrons  of  Turks  and  Russians  are 
employed  we  know  not.  Nelson  continues  the  blockade  of 
Malta  and  the  Expedition  of  six  thousand  men  under  General 
Stuart,  that  lately  sailed  from  Gibraltar,  is  supposed  to  have  gone 
against  Minorca,  a  Position  of  importance  to  enable  the  English 
to  maintain  a  naval  superiority  in  the  Mediterranean. 

Lord  Elgin,  late  Envoy  at  Berlin,  is  going  as  Ambassador  to 
Constantinople,  and  Mr.  Grenville,  an  elder  brother  of  Lord 
Grenville,  goes  on  a  special  Mission  to  Berlin  and  Vienna.  The 
particular  motives  to  be  presented  by  Mr.  Grenville  to  those 
Courts  are  not  known,  but  the  object  is  to  influence  them  to 
unite  in  a  new  confederacy  against  the  Enemy. 

A  Rumour  having  prevailed  that  previous  to  the  Evacuation  of 
Si.  Domingo,  General  Maitland*  concluded  a  Treaty  with  Tous- 
saint, according  to  the  provisions  of  which  a  trade  is  to  be  opened 
between  the  English  and  the  Inhabitants  of  that  Island,  I  wrote  a 
note  to  Lord  Grenville,  in  which  after  stating  how  much  in  the 
present  Situation  of  our  affairs,  we  are  interested  in  the  Inquiry, 
I  desired  to  be  informed  whether  any  such  Treaty  had  been  made. 
His  L'dship  referred  me  to  Mr.  Dundas,  by  whose  orders  I  was 
shewn  Genl.  Maitland 's  Dispatches  and  the  Competition  concluded 
between  him  and  Toussaint,  a  copy  of  which  is  annexed.  I  asked  if 
Hadonville  and  Ragaud  were  included  in  the  Convention,  and  was 
answered  in  the  negative.  Did  General  Maitland  consider  Tous- 
saint as  a  Erench  General,  or  as  the  Chief  of  an  Independent  State, 
the  measure  might  issue  in  the  Independence  of  St.  Domingo  ;  if 
St.  Domingo  is  an  Independent  State,  we  as  well  as  you  may  trade 
there  ;  if  a  Erench  Colony  with  whom  you  have  concluded  a  truce, 
we  cannot  consent  to  supplies  being  carried  there  from  the  U.  S. 
which  would  nourish  and  increase  their  Depredations  on  our  Trade. 
The  Reply  was,  that  the  Subject  was  not  free  of  difficulty  j  that 
General  Maitland  without  instruction  or  authority  had  concluded 
the  Convention  j  that  Toussaint  had  the  most  influence  and  greatest 
authority  in  the  Island,  and  that  if  Hadofiville  &  Ragaud  opposed 
him  he  would  endeavour  to  expel  them  ;  that  England  found  the 
Conquest  impracticable,  and  to  prevent  the  danger  to  which  Ja- 

*  I  alics  in  cipher. 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  477 

maica  would  be  exposed  they  on  the  whole  had  thought  it  expedient 
to  ratify  the  Convention  ;  that  St.  Domingo  wd.  be  a  market  for 
our  provisions,  &  that  Coll.  Grant  was  going  there  to  superintend  the 
Execution  of  the  Convention. 

I  returned  from  Mr.  Dundas'  office  to  Ld.  Grenville,  with 
whom  I  conversed  on  this  extraordinary  measure,  taking  care  to 
remind  his  Ld.ship  *  of  what  he  had  formerly  remarked  to  me 
concerning  a  supposed  inclination  on  our  part  to  encourage  the 
Establishment  of  a  Black  Republic  in  St.  Domingo.  I  think  I  am 
not  mistaken  in  supposing  that  Lord  Grenville  does  not  approve  of 
what  has  been  done,  and  that  he  sees  the  pernicious  effects,  which 
it  will  have  upon  our  Trade,  as  well  as  upon  the  future  security  of 
their  own  Colonies.  I  have  this  evening  only  reed,  a  copy  of  the 
Convention.  If  Toussainfs  authority  enables  him  to  carry  it  into 
execution,  it  will  be  a  measure  of  vast  importance  &  one  pregnant 
with  extensive  consequences.  I  shall  write  a  Letter  to-morrow  to 
Mr.  Dundas,  stating  the  mischievous  effects  that  it  is  likely  to  have 
upon  our  Trade  ;  but  as  the  mail  will  be  dispatched  to-morrow,  I 
will  not  be  able  to  send  you  his  reply. 

I  have  lately  resumed  the  Maryland  Business  :  I  think  I  shall 
bring  it  to  a  conclusion — I  hope  a  satisfactory  one,  but  I  dare  not 
give  any  assurances  that  this  will  be  the  case.  Under  present 
circumstances  I  do  not  think  it  would  be  adviseable  that  the  State 
should  take  any  new  or  further  step  respecting  it.     .     .     . 

With  great  Respect  &  Esteem  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

R.  King  to  Col.  Pickering. 
Private. 

London,  Dec.  7,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  am  extremely  obliged  to  you  for  your  private  Letters  of  29th 

Aug.  15  &  17  Sept.  and  7th  Nov.,  and  was  made  quite  happy  in 

learning  by  the  last  that  the  point  which  gave  you,  as  it  did  me, 

so  much  real  anxiety  had  been  definitely  and  satisfactorily  settled. 

I  certainly  have  my   regrets  in  regard  to  a  particular  character  ; 

but  the  public  service  would  have  been  deeply  affected  had  any 

other  Decision  taken  place.     If  my  respect  and  regard  for  Genl. 

*  See  remarks  of  Lord  Grenville, page  368  of  this  volume. 


478  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

P.  could  have  been  encreased,  they  would  have  been  by  his  noble 
and  manly  conduct  on  this  critical  occasion.  He  is  a  man  of  the 
highest  honor  and  greatest  virtue,  and  merits  all  that  the  esteem 
and  gratitude  of  his  Country  can  bestow  upon  him. 

I  am  concerned  to  see  the  result  of  the  Elections  in  New  Jer- 
sey, Pennsylvania  and  Maryland,  and  am  not  without  apprehen- 
sions that  the  late  publications  on  the  part  of  France  have  had  a 
pernicious  influence  on  public  opinion  ;  unless  the  next  H.  of  R. 
are  intrinsically  better  than  the  present,  I  shall  feel  a  most  serious 
alarm  for  the  tranquillity  of  the  country. 

We  may  repeat  it  in  a  thousand  addresses  to  the  President  that 
we  are  a  united  people  ;  but  France  will  look  to  the  divisions  of  the 
H.  of  R.,  and  from  them  take  courage  to  persevere  in  her  fixed 
determination  to  break  down  our  Government  and  divide  our 
Country. 

Mr  Listoris  *  last  Dispatch  gave  rather  a  gloomy  picture  of  our 
affairs  ;  he  does  the  fullest  justice  to  the  Government  and  its 
views,  but  laments  the  activity  and  success  of  the  Jacobins. 

With  great  Respect  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Col.  Pickering. 

Private. 

London,  Dec.  8,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Count    Rumford,    late    Sir  Benjamin   Thomson,   whose  name 

and  history  are  probably  known  to  you,  and  whose  talents  and 

services  have  produced  the  most  beneficial  Establishments  and 

Reforms  in  Bavaria,  was  lately  named  by  the   Elector  to  be  his 

Minister  at  this  Court  ;  on  his  arrival,  he  has  been  informed  that, 

being  a  British  Subject,  it  was  contrary  to  usage  to  receive  him 

and  that  therefore  he  could  not  be  acknowledged.     The  intrigues 

and  opposition  against  which  he  had  for  some  years  made  head 

in  Bavaria,  probably  made  him  desire  the  mission  to  England  ; 

the  refusal  that  he  has  here  met  with,  has  decided  him  to  return 

and  settle  in  America.  He  proposes  to  establish  himself  at  or  near 

Cambridge  ;  to  live  there  in  the  character  of  a  German  Count,  to 

renounce  all  political  expectations  and  devote  himself  to  literary 

*  Italics  in  cipher. 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  479 

pursuits.  His  connections  in  this  country  are  strictly  literary, 
and  his  knowledge  particularly  in  the  military  department  may 
be  of  great  use  to  us.  The  Count  is  well  acquainted  with,  and 
has  had  much  experience  in  the  Establishment  of  Cannon  foun- 
deries  :  that  which  he  established  in  Bavaria  is  spoken  of  in  very 
high  terms,  as  well  as  certain  improvements  he  has  introduced  in 
the  mounting  of  flying  artillery. 

He  possesses  an  extensive  military  Library,  and  assures  me 
that  he  wishes  nothing  more  than  to  be  useful  to  our  country.  I 
make  this  communication  by  his  desire  and  my  wish  is  that  he 
may  be  well  received,  as  I  am  persuaded  that  his  principles  are 
good  and  his  talents  and  information  uncommonly  extensive.  It 
is  possible  that  attempts  may  be  made  to  misrepresent  his  politi- 
cal opinions  ;  from  the  Enquiry  that  I  have  made  on  this  head,  I 
am  convinced  that  his  political  sentiments  are  correct. 

Be  good  enough  to  communicate  this  to  the  President. 
With  great  Respect  &  Esteem  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  W.  Bingham. 

London,  Dec.  8,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  received  your  obliging  Letter  of  the  30.  of  Sep.,  and  am 
happy  to  have  heard  by  accounts  of  a  later  date  that  the  fever 
has  nearly  disappeared.  Your  Session  began  on  Monday  last, 
and  we  wait  with  great  impatience  to  learn  what  are  your  senti- 
ments on  the  subject  of  French  affairs.  The  issue  of  the  late 
Elections  in  New  Jersey,  Pennsylvania  and  Maryland  is  not  such 
as  I  had  been  led  to  expect,  and  would  not  I  think  have  hap- 
pened unless  the  late  publications  in  favor  of  France  had  had  an 
undue  and  unfavorable  influence  on  the  Public  opinions. 

It  is  in  vain  that  we  talk  of  national  union,  while  so  large  and 
firm  an  opposition  is  seen  in  the  H.  of  R.  We  deceive  our- 
selves if  we  believe  that  the  Directory  believe  us  :  they  and  their 
agents  perfectly  understand  their  Business,  and  by  our  Divisions 
are  encouraged  to  persevere  in  their  fixed  Purpose  to  overthrow 
our  Government  and  break  up  our  Union  :  I  respect  your  good 
sense  and  character  too  highly  to  express  to  you  this  opinion,  did 


480  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

I  not  most  religiously  entertain  it  ;  and  unless  the  Senators  and 
Representatives,  with  a  majority  of  the  People  likewise  believe 
and  act  with  vigor  upon  this  opinion,  the  Government  and  the 
Country  are  lost.  No  man  is  more  deeply  concerned  than  you 
are  in  the  Security  and  Prosperity  of  the  Country  ;  no  one  is 
more  able  to  form  a  correct  Estimate  of  the  dangers  to  which  it 
is  liable ;  I  therefore  hope  that  the  Crisis  has  drawn  your  atten- 
tion to  the  Subject,  and  because  we  have  escaped  many  Perils 
by  unforeseen  means,  that  we  shall  not  wholly  depend  on  fortune 
to  save  us. 

I  wish  I  could  send  you  good  tidings  from  this  quarter  of  the 
world  ;  but  I  am  more  and  more  convinced  that  we  must  resolve 
to  look  to  and  depend  upon  ourselves,  and  not  upon  others  for 
Security. 

With  sincere  Regards  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

Wm.  Hindman  to  R.  King. 

Philadelphia,  Dec.  8th,  1798. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

.  .  Your  Sentiments  of  the  Directory  &  their  persevering 
Designs  against  this  Country  are  in  perfect  Unison  with  mine — 
the  late  great  &  glorious  Victory  obtained  over  their  Fleet  by 
Admiral  Nelson,  will  I  hope  give  Them  a  severe  Check,  &  that 
the  Turks  &  Arabs  have  e'er  this  given  a  good  Account  of 
Buonaparte  &  his  Army.  The  Peace  &  Happiness  of  Mankind 
render  this  almost  essential,  as  They  can  be  viewed  in  no  other 
Light  than  the  Plunderers  &  Destroyers  of  the  human  Race. 

I  am  extremely  happy  to  inform  you  that  there  is  already  an 
Augmentation  of  Federalism  in  the  next  House  of  Representa- 
tives ;  the  Elections  of  Virginia,  Kentucky  &  Tennessee  are  not 
yet  made.  We  have  some  hopes  that  the  Federalists  will  increase 
there.  We  calculate  the  present  H.  of  R.  56  Feeds.  50  Antis. 
The  Gain  in  the  next  H.  on  the  different  Sides  stands  thus — 
Fcederalists  2  in  Massachusetts,  6  in  N.  Carolina,  2  in  S.  Caro- 
lina 2  in  Georgia — total  12,  Antis.  2  in  New  York,  say  3  in  New 
Jersey,  as  there  are  2  Feeds,  and  1  Anti  &  2  dubious  there,  &  I 
always  set  down  the  uncertain  Man  against  Me,  1  in  Maryland. 
Total  say  6 — Majority  in  Favor  of  Feeds  6  which  added  to   the 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  48 1 

Majority  of  the  present  House  makes  12 — Should  every  Member 
from  Virginia  be  in  the  Opposition,  as  there  are  now  but  3  Feeds, 
there  must  at  every  Event  be  a  Majority  of  9  in  the  next  H.  of  R. 
Giles  has  retired  from  Congress  &  gone  into  the  State  Legisla- 
ture, no  Doubt  to  do  all  the  Mischief  He  can  against  the  general 
Government.  It  is  supposed  the  next  Legislature  of  Virginia  will 
change  their  Mode  of  Election,  from  District  to  the  State  at  large, 
for  the  Purpose  no  Doubt  of  defeating  Genl.  Marshall,  who  has 
declared  Himself  a  Candidate  at  the  next  Election. 

I  send  You  the  President's  Speech,  which  I  hear  the  Antis 
affect  to  approve  of  ;  if  Sincere,  our  Session  must  be  harmonious. 

Genls  Washington,  Hamilton  &  Pinckney  have  been  some 
Time,  in  Fixing  upon  proper  Characters  as  Officers  to  our  Army, 
which  I  understand  has  been  a  most  difficult  Business  ;  it  is  now 
nearly  accomplished. 

I  presume  You  have  heard  that  our  Friend  Sedgwick  has  given 
the  strongest  Evidence  of  true  Patriotism,  in  having  declined  be- 
ing chosen  a  Senator,  &  agreed  to  oppose  Jacobin  Skinner  who 
now  represents  his  District,  in  which  He  has  been  successful. — 
S.  has  not  yet  come  on. 

I  am  sorry  to  inform  You  that  I  was  defeated  at  the  last  Elec- 
tion by  Mr.  Joshua  Seney,  who  died  shortly  afterwards,  occasioned 
by  the  Fatigue  He  must  have  undergone.  A  new  Writ  was  imme- 
diately issued  by  our  Executive  to  fill  that  vacancy,  which  I 
conceived  they  did  without  Authority.  I  did  not  again  come 
forward — Mr.  J.  Nicholson  an  Anti  was  elected  by  a  Majority 
of  only  74  agt.  a  Mr.  Goldsborough  a  good  Fcederalist. 

Yours  sincerely 

Wm.  Hindman. 

Wm.  Bingham  to  R.  King. 

Philada.,  Decern.  8th,  1798. 

Dear  Sir  : 

I  entirely  agree  with  you  in  the  Danger  that  may  arise  from  the 
Emigration  of  so  many  Irish  Insurgents  to  this  Country,  amongst 
whom  it  appears  there  are  many  professional  Characters,  who 
will  be  able  to  make  an  Impression  on  Society  much  greater  than 
the  common  Class  of  disaffected  Irish.  They  will  join  the  party 
in  opposition  to  the  Government,  &  will  vent  their  Resentments 

VOL.  II. — 31 


482  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

against  Great  Britain,  by  attacking  those  who  are  disposed  to  be 
on  friendly  Terms  with  her.  They  will  be  discontented,  &  there- 
fore disorganizing  Characters,  whose  Residence  amongst  us  can- 
not be  otherwise  than  injurious,  in  the  present  Moment  of  political 
agitation. 

Your  Idea  of  the  Views  of  the  Directory,  to  divide  the  People 
&  by  such  Means  endanger  our  Government,  are  perfectly  cor- 
rect, &  it  has  therefore  been  the  unceasing  Effort  of  its  friends,  by 
strong  energetic  Language  to  rouse  the  Pride  &  awaken  the  Spirit 
of  the  People,  as  well  as  to  impress  upon  them  a  Sense  of  their 
Danger. 

Their  Measures  have  been  attended  with  Success  as  you  will 
observe  by  the  Returns  of  the  late  Elections — three-fourths  of  the 
aggregate  Representation  of  the  three  Southern  States  will  be 
federal — a  great  change  will  probably  take  place  in  Virginia  : 
Pennsylvania  &  New  York  have  been  very  unfortunate,  by  de- 
luding the  People  with  the  most  glaring  Falsehoods  &  Misrepre- 
sentations, but,  on  the  whole,  there  will  be  a  large  Majority  in 
favor  of  dignified  Measures. 

There  will  not  be  much  essential  Business  done  this  Session. 
The  Government  will  carry  into  more  compleat  Effect  the  Powers 
that  have  been  entrusted  to  it,  by  an  extension  of  the  Naval  & 
military  Establishment,  so  as  to  be  better  prepared  for  War,  or 
insure  a  more  energetic,  negotiation  for  Peace. 

Much  Clamor  has  been  made  about  the  Alien  &  Sedition  Bill, 
&  a  vigorous  Attack,  in  the  Course  of  the  Session,  supported  by 
all  the  Virginia  Faction,  will  be  made  on  it,  in  order  to  alarm  the 
public  Mind,  &  prepare  the  way  for  their  Success,  in  the  ensuing 
Election,  in  April  next. 

You  will  long  since  have  known  that  General  Maitland  has 
withdrawn  the  British  Forces  from  St.  Domingo  &  left  it  in 
Possession  of  the  Island  Troops.  Recent  Accounts  from  that 
Quarter  confidently  assert  that  the  black  General  Toussaint  is 
about  declaring  the  Island  independent. 

Whatever  may  be  the  Tendency  of  this  bold  measure,  with 
respect  to  the  Negro  Property  in  the  British  Colonies,  it  cannot 
but  result  favorably  for  this  Country,  by  the  immense  Supplies  it 
will  be  required  to  furnish.  The  Eastern  States  will  more  par- 
ticularly benefit   therefrom.     It  is  possible,  that  instead  of  the 


1 7 98 J  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  483 

Habits  of  Industry,  to  enable  them  to  pay  for  the  Articles  they 
consume,  they  may  have  recourse  to  a  System  of  Buccaneering  ; 
but  there  is  little  Probability  of  such  an  Arrangement. 

Volney's  Conduct  is  infamous.  You  will  see  by  the  Kentucky 
Resolves,  that  he  might  have  spoken  the  Language  of  that 
Country  ;  but  probably  of  no  other  Part  of  the  United  States. 

Yours  &c. 

Wm.  Bingham. 


R.  King  to  J.  McHenry. 

London,  Dec.  8,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

By  the  Ship  Connecticut  that  will  sail  soon  for  Philadelphia, 

I  shall  send  you  a  Box  of  Indian  Medals,  which  will  compleat 

the  series  ;  by  another  conveyance,  the  first  good  one  that  offers, 

I  will  send  you  the  Dies,  which  I  have  ordered  to  be  retouched. 

The  Map  of  So.  America,  of  which  I  have  spoken  to  you,  will  be 

published  in  three  or  four  weeks  ;  when  it  is  out  I  will  send  you 

a  Copy,  as  it  will  be  at  least  amusing  to  see  something  correct 

and  authentic  respecting  this  Terra  incognita.     I  have  been  at 

great  pains  to  collect  the  best  maps  of  every  Country,  and  have 

reason  to  think  that  my  Collection  is  nearly  as  perfect  as  it  can 

be  made.     It  has  occurred  to  me  that  your  office  should  possess 

a  like  collection.     I  cannot  at  present  tell  you  what  it  will  cost, 

but  if  you  desire  one  to  be  made,  I  will  employ  the  same  Person 

who  has  done  so  well  for  me. 

Very  sincerely  yr.  ob.  St. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Henry  Dundas. 

Copy. 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  Dec.  8,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  am  much  obliged  to  you  for  the  copy  of  the  Convention  con- 
cluded by  Genl.  Maitland  with  Toussaint.  I  have  examined  it 
with  care  and  think  I  perceive  that  it  will  be  productive  of  great 
mischief  to  the  American  Trade.  France  captures  the  ships  of 
America  with  as  little  ceremony  as  tho'  open  war  existed  between 


484  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

the  two  Nations,  and  St.  Domingo  is  a  Portion  of  her  Dominions 
from  whence  our  Commerce  has  been  much  harassed  by  her 
Cruizers.  For  the  purpose  of  crippling  her  Privateers  and  in 
order  to  diminish  her  means  of  annoying  us,  we  have  prohibited 
all  commercial  Intercourse  between  our  Territories  and  those  of 
France,  and  refused  to  her  the  Supplies  of  various  kinds  which 
she  has  been  accustomed  to  receive  from  us. 

If  the  Fifth  Article  of  this  Convention  is  carry'd  into  execu- 
tion, that  Portion  of  St.  Domingo  which  is  under  the  dominion 
of  Toussaint  (including  the  Cape  of  St.  Nicholas  and  Port-au- 
Prince)  will  be  supplied  under  the  protection  of  England  with 
Provisions  and  other  Articles,  and  thus  nourished  will  be  en- 
couraged and  enabled  to  increase  and  pursue  the  Depredations 
on  our  Trade. 

This  I  am  persuaded  is  entirely  contrary  to  the  views  and  in- 
tentions of  the  British  Government,  but  such,  in  my  apprehension, 
will  be  the  effect  of  a  ratification  and  execution  of  the  Convention 
as  it  stands. 

As  the  Convention  was  concluded  without  authority,  it  is  free 
to  the  British  Government  to  accept  or  reject  it  in  toto,  or  to  pro- 
pose such  additional  articles  as  will  make  it  as  little  injurious  as 
possible  to  their  friends. 

If  it  shall  not  be  deemed  expedient  to  reject  it  altogether,  is  it 
not  due  to  the  amity  and  good  understanding  between  the  United 
States  and  Great  Britain,  that  it  should  be  amended  by  the  addi- 
tion of  an  article  by  which  it  shall  be  declared  that  no  Privateer 
shall  be  fitted  out  or  permitted  to  sail  from  any  of  the  Ports  under 
the  dominion  of  Toussaint  to  cruise  against  the  Vessels  or  Trade 
of  the  United  States,  and  that  no  American  Prize  shall  be  re- 
ceived or  sold  in  any  such  Port. 

If  such  an  article  should,  as  I  flatter  myself  it  will,  appear  to 
you  to  be  both  just  and  expedient,  Col.  Grant  may  be  instructed 
to  make  its  addition  and  observance  an  indispensable  condition 
of  the  Ratification  and  Execution  of  the  Convention. 

In  the  present  interruption  of  our  Trade  in  consequence  of  the 
Prohibition  of  our  Ships  to  resort  to  the  Ports  of  France,  I  am 
aware  that  Jealousies  may  be  felt  among  our  Merchants  from 
the  exclusive  Commerce  secured  to  Great  Britain  under  this  Con- 
vention ;  and  perhaps   it  might  have  been  wished  that  under  a 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  485 

Truce  with  this  Portion  of  the  French  Territories,  a  trade  to  it 
should  likewise  have  been  opened  to  every  Nation  not  at  war 
with  Great  Britain. 

This  however  is  a  subject  of  inferior  consideration  to  the  Prin- 
cipal object  of  this  Letter. 

With  perfect  Consideration  &  Respect  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


H.  Dundas  to  R.  King. 

Copy. 

Downing  Street,  gth  Dec,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  to  acknowledge  the  receipt  of  your  Letter  of  yesterday 
respecting  the  agreement  entered  into  between  Genl.  Maitland  & 
Genl.  Toussaint  L'Ouverture  at  St.  Domingo. 

This  agreement  as  you  are  already  informed  was  not  entered 
into  in  consequence  of  any  Instructions  or  under  any  authority 
Genl.  Maitland  received  from  this  Country.  The  powers  and 
directions  given  him  from  hence  being  exclusively  confined  to 
objects  connected  with  our  military  situation  in  that  Island  ;  but 
the  General  upon  a  full  consideration  of  that  situation,  having 
found  it  necessary  to  withdraw  His  Majesty's  troops,  and  a  sus- 
pension of  hostilities  having  been  proposed  and  entered  into  with 
the  Enemy  during  the  evacuation,  the  agreement  in  question  ap- 
pears principally  to  have  arisen  out  of  this  armistice,  and  at  the 
same  time  to  have  been  in  some  degree  connected  with  an  expec- 
tation that  the  French  General  would  be  thereby  induced  to 
suffer  the  Inhabitants  and  natives  who  had  taken  an  active  part 
in  favor  of  this  country  to  remain  in  the  Island  without  any 
molestation  to  their  persons  or  Property,  in  consequence  of  their 
former  conduct.  The  favorable  report  I  have  received  of  Genl. 
Toussaint's  behaviour  in  this  respect,  and  the  hope  I  entertain 
that  our  giving  effect  to  the  agreement  would  become  an  addi- 
tional encouragement  to  him  to  persevere  in  the  same  humane 
system,  are  the  grounds  on  which  I  have  recommended  to  His 
Majesty  to  send  Col.  Grant  to  St  Domingo  for  this  purpose. 

Having  stated  to  you  the  motives  which  appear  to  have  actu- 
ated Genl.  Maitland  in  forming  this  engagement  and  those  which 


486  KUFUS  KING.  [i798 

have  suggested  to  me  the  propriety  of  giving  it  effect,  I  have  no 
hesitation  to  admit  that  as  Genl.  Maitland  acceded  to  the  same 
without  any  powers  whatever  from  this  Country  so  to  do,  Genl. 
Toussaint  can  have  no  right  to  complain  of  its  ratification  being 
made  conditional  to  his  binding  himself  not  to  suffer  any  Privateer 
to  be  fitted  out,  or  to  sail  from  any  Ports  under  his  Dominion  to 
cruise  against  the  vessels  or  trade  of  the  United  States,  nor  any 
American  Prize  to  be  received  or  sold  in  any  such  Ports  ;  and  I 
shall  not  fail  to  direct  Col.  Grant  to  propose  an  additional  Article 
to  this  Effect,  and  to  inform  Genl.  Toussaint  that  unless  it  shall 
be  accepted  and  strictly  observed,  he  must  not  expect  that  the 
Convention  can  be  ratified  or  executed  by  this  Country. 

As  I  cannot  doubt  the  favorable  light  in  which  you  view  every 
measure  that  tends  to  maintain  and  improve  the  political  and 
commercial  relations  existing  between  this  Country  and  the 
United  States,  I  derive  a  great  satisfaction  from  this  opportunity 
of  convincing  you  how  anxiously  I  feel,  in  common  with  every 
Department  of  His  Majesty's  Government,  to  pay  all  possible  at- 
tention to  every  suggestion  which  coincides  with  your  wishes  and 
the  friendly  footing  in  which  England  and  America  now  stand 
with  respect  to  each  other. 

I  have  the  honor  to  be  &c,  &c, 

Henry  Dundas. 


R.  King  to  Genl.  Pinckney. 

London,  Dec.  10,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  very  great  pleasure  in  congratulating  you  on  your  safe 
arrival  ;  it  will  be  a  further  satisfaction  to  hear  that  the  voyage 
did  not  prove  injurious  to  your  daughter's  health.  We  are,  as 
you  will  naturally  suppose,  extremely  anxious  to  receive  news  from 
Philadelphia,  subsequent  to  the  meeting  of  Congress,  and  the  more 
so  since  we  have  been  made  acquainted  with  the  issue  of  the  late 
Elections  in  some  of  the  middle  States. 

I  have  hoped  that  we  should  acquire  greater  union  among  our- 
selves and  more  confidence  in  our  Government  by  the  experience 
of  the  few  last  years  :  but  if  the  same  firm  and  persevering  oppo- 
position  in  the  H.  of  R.  is  to  continue,  the  Govt,  must  be  degraded 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  487 


and  embarrassed  ;  and  we  amuse  ourselves  in  believing  that  ulti- 
mately France  will  not  succeed  in  her  detestable  projects. 

No  one  has  felt  more  keenly  than  you  the  disgust  and  indigna- 
tion excited  by  the  frequency  as  well  as  the  manner  in  which  our 
divisions  and  attachments  are  spoken  of  abroad.  I  have  often 
wished  that  some  of  the  real  Americans,  who  profess  an  ardent 
devotion  to  their  Country  and  still  oppose  its  Government,  could 
come  abroad  and  there  experience  the  same  Humiliation  ;  if  they 
are  men  of  integrity,  it  would  cure  them  of  their  dangerous  folly. 

The  U.  S.  from  situation,  strength  and  knowledge,  as  well  as 
on  account  of  the  freedom  of  their  Government,  and  the  vigour 
and  enterprize  of  their  People,  have  the  Right  as  well  as  the  Power 
to  take  the  lead  in  whatever  may  affect  or  concern  the  new  world  : 
without  boasting,  we  may  truly  say  that  we  can  resolve  on  no 
measure  relative  to  our  Continent,  that  we  are  not  able  to  exe- 
cute :  and  I  therefore  hope  we  shall  never  form  a  connexion  with 
any  nation,  in  which  America  is  not  the  main  object  and  the  U. 
S.  the  principal  and  leading  agent.  If  we  resolve  to  respect  our- 
selves, we  shall  soon  receive  better  treatment  and  more  respect 
from  others.  No  one  can  predict  the  return  of  Peace  to  Europe  ; 
there  are  no  symptoms  even,  which  encourage  the  Hope  that  this 
desirable  Event  is  likely  soon  to  arrive. 

This  then  is  the  favorable  moment,  when  we  should  assume  the 
attitude  that  belongs  to  us,  and  hasten  those  Plans,  the  execution 
of  which  ought  not  in  Prudence  to  be  longer  deferred. 
With  sincere  attachment  &  Esteem  &c  &c 

Rufus  King. 

P.  S.  I  can't  express  the  satisfaction  with  which  I  have  heard 
of  the  definite  settlement  of  a  question  in  wh.  you  and  some  other 
of  my  friends  were  concerned. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State.    No.  12. 

London,  Dec.  11,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  detention  of  the  Packet  gives  me  an  opportunity  of  send- 
ing you  copies  of  my  Letter  to  Mr.  Dundas  and  of  his  answer. 
I  have  no  doubt  that  the  Convention  with  Toussaint  grew  out  of 


488  RUFUS  KING.  [i798 

the  Difficulties  of  Genl.  Maitland's  military  situation.  He  found 
it  impossible  to  defend  himself  and  was  embarrassed  with  three 
or  four  thousand  Colonial  troops,  principally  blacks,  whom  he 
dared  not  carry  to  Jamaica,  and  was  without  shipping  to  send  to 
Europe.  He  asked  Toussaint  to  receive  and  protect  them,  which 
was  agreed  to  on  condition  that  Provisons  should  be  sent  to  sub- 
sist them.     Hence  the  stipulations  on  this  Head. 

Col.  Grant  will  soon  embark  for  St.  Domingo.  I  understand 
that  the  Government  intend  to  put  the  Business  into  the  hands 
and  under  the  control  of  some  one  person  ;  it  has  been  offered 
to  a  considerable  Jamaica  merchant  who  has  refused  it  ;  indeed 
the  Jamaica  proprietors  are  much  alarmed  by  the  transaction.  If 
Toussaint  supports  his  Power  and  is  not  ensnared  by  Hadonville, 
it  is  not  improbable  that  St.  Domingo  will  entirely  throw  off  the 
Dominion  of  France. 

We  are  perplexed  with  the  same  uncertainty  with  respect  to 
the  recommencement  of  the  war.  According  to  the  last  mail  from 
Ireland,  there  will  be  great  opposition  to  the  projected  union. 

With  perfect  Respect  and  Esteem, 

Rufus  King. 


CHAPTER  XXX. 

Jay  to  King — European  Affairs — Cabot,  Conversation  with  Liston — Praise  of 
King — England's  Power  and  Policy — Hindman — Result  of  the  Elections — 
Pickering  to  King — Alien  and  Sedition  Laws — Virginia  and  Kentucky 
call  for  their  Repeal — King  to  Secy,  of  State — Buonaparte  in  Egypt — Re- 
port of  Assassination — To  Hamilton — State  of  Europe — To  Secy,  of  State 
— France  declares  War  against  Naples — Neapolitan  Troops  defeated — 
Austria  had  made  Peace — To  the  Duke  of  Portland — Restoration  of  an 
Estate  confiscated  in  Newfoundland  demanded — To  Secy,  of  State — St. 
Domingo — England  and  United  States  should  act  in  Concert  should  it  be- 
come independent — Conferences  with  Lord  Grenville  as  to  its  Influence 
on  British  West  Indies — His  Suggestion  of  a  joint  Corporation  for  Trade 
objected  to  as  inadmissible  under  the  Constitution  and  unadvisable  for 
our  Merchants — Might  each  make  Treaties  with  Toussaint,  etc. — G.  B. 
desires  to  act  with  U.  S. — Secy,  of  State  to  King — Outrage  of  Capt. 
Loring — J.  Hale  to  King — Affairs  in  United  States. 

John  Jay  to  R.  King. 

Albany,  12  Dec,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  The  Treaty  between  Austria  and  Naples  countenanced 
the  probability  of  a  war  between  them  and  France  ;  and  subse- 
quent Events  do  not  encrease  the  prospect  of  a  general  peace. 
It  appears  that  the  Invasion  of  Egypt  followed  by  Nelson's  vic- 
tory, has  produced  a  Declaration  of  War  by  the  Turks  agst  France. 
If  it  be  true  that  Oglow  has  not  only  been  pardoned  but  pro- 
moted, the  affairs  of  the  Turkish  Empire  must  be  in  sad  state  ; — 
Russian  anxieties  are  dangerous  Remedies  for  imbecilities  at 
Home.     I  suspect  the  Turk  has  much  to  fear. 

The  Directory  and  Buonaparte  have  gotten  rid  of  each  other, 
and  they  both  must  know  and  think  of  it.  I  presume  therefore 
that  Buonaparte  when  deciding  on  his  present  Expedition  did 
not  calculate  with  certainty  on  aid  from  them,  and  consequently 

4S9 


490  KUFUS  KING.  [l798 

that  his  Expectation  of  Success  must  rest  on  other  Circumstances. 
What  may  be  his  object  or  his  Fate  cannot  be  known  or  foreseen 
as  yet — possibly  and  I  think  not  improbably,  important  conse- 
quences will  be  the  Result — one  has  already  taken  place — I  mean 
the  bringing  the  Turks  into  the  War. 

Britain  makes  a  distinguished  figure,  and  the  United  States 
have  by  their  late  measures  compensated  in  some  Degree  for  their 
preceeding  Errors — French  Influence  continues  very  active  and 
will  not  be  entirely  expelled — their  Agents  and  partizans  are  less 
loud  and  insolent,  but  not  less  industrious  and  unprincipled — 
much  will  depend  on  the  present  Session  of  Congress,  and  on  this 
head  I  am  not  free  from  apprehensions. 

Yours  sincerely, 

John  Jay. 


G.  Cabot  to  R.  King. 


Dec.  12,  1798. 


My  dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  I  had  some  considerable  conversation  with  Mr.  Liston 
when  he  was  here  &  he  was  so  polite  as  to  express  his  desire  for 
more.  I  labored  much  to  impress  him  with  the  ideas  which  you 
know  I  entertain  on  the  subject  of  those  great  common  interests 
which  ought  steadily  to  guide  the  two  nations  in  their  conduct 
toward  each  other,  &  I  insisted  much,  as  I  have  always  done 
with  sensible  Englishmen,  that  from  the  nature  of  our  Govt,  it 
was  the  peculiar  duty  of  theirs  to  avoid  every  act,  as  much  as  pos- 
sible, which  might  keep  alive  the  animosity  against  them  which 
France  or  Faction  had  enkindled  among  our  people  &c.  &c.  &c. 
I  found  he  had  well  considered  the  subject  &  needed  no  sugges- 
tions of  mine,  but  I  cou'd  not  help  thinking  you  had  done  some- 
thing toward  producing  sentiments  which  appear  to  me  extremely 
important  as  they  are  certainly  just.  I  was  the  more  ready  to 
attribute  to  you  some  merit  because  in  the  course  of  conversation 
he  repeatedly  gave  you  great  praise  &  expressed  a  warm  wish 
that  you  might  continue  where  you  are  for  a  long  time  to  come. 
I  cou'd  not  refrain  from  reflecting  upon  the  inferences  which  our 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  49 1 

Democrats  wou'd  draw  from  hearing  your  Eulogy  pronounced 
by  a  British  Minister,  but  for  myself  I  am  ready  to  declare  it 
gave  me  infinite  pleasure  &  that  it  strengthened  the  hope  I  have 
long  cherished  that  two  nations  so  perfectly  well  adapted  to  sup- 
port &  promote  each  others  interests  wou'd  not  be  again  the 
Dupes  of  the  Enemy  of  either. 

I  suppose  the  great  city  you  inhabit  has  been  intoxicated  with 
joy  at  the  unparalleled  victory  of  Nelson  :  by  this  time  the  world 
must  see  that  England  is  not  degenerated  as  France  wou'd  pre- 
tend, but  is  able  of  herself  to  resist  all  the  physical  force  of 
Europe  on  the  Sea.  I  hope  too  it  is  admitted  that  England  can 
sustain  the  war  for  an  indefinite  period  without  impoverishment 
— indeed  it  has  appeared  to  me  evident  that  G.  B.,  the  U.  S.  & 
Russia  cou'd  triumph  over  all  the  powers  &  that  the  two  former 
might  even  be  enriched  by  the  war.  What  shall  hinder  G.  B.  from 
deriving  directly  or  indirectly  immense  commercial  benefit  from 
the  Colonies  &  even  the  Countries  of  her  Enemies  ?  her  manufac- 
tures will  find  their  consumers  among  the  deluded  Followers  of 
French  Equality  who  can  no  longer  manufacture  for  themselves 
because  their  Stock  has  disappeared  as  soon  as  it  was  insecure. 
The  Gold  plundered  from  the  Treasury  of  Berne  will  finally  pay 
English  Clothiers  for  the  coats  which  the  Plunderers  wore.  From 
various  causes  the  trade  of  the  East  Indies  will  be  continually 
supplanting  that  of  the  West  &  it  is  not  to  be  doubted  that  a 
Nation  which  covers  the  Sea  with  its  victorious  Fleets  will  enjoy 
the  largest  portion  of  that  distant  Commerce.  I  think  the  Eng- 
lish have  only  to  be  true  to  themselves  (Govt.  &  People)  &  they 
may  defy  France  with  all  the  Devils  they  can  conjure  up. 

The  English  have  great  dread  &  their  Enemies  great  hopes  of 
Buonaparte's  success  in  an  Enterprise  against  India  :  it  is  a  dan- 
ger not  wholly  to  be  despised,  &  yet  it  is  10  to  1  he  never  arrives 
there  with  any  great  force  &  he  wou'd  finally  fail  of  establishing 
himself  there  if  he  shou'd  arrive — the  command  of  the  Sea  is  in- 
dispensable to  the  permanent  security  of  whatever  might  be 
acquired  in  Countries  so  distant. 

Your's  fideliter, 

G.  C. 


492 


RUFUS  KING. 


[1798 


Wm.  Hindman  to  R.  King. 

Philadelphia,  Dec.  13th,  1798. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

I  here  give  You  a  more  intelligible  Statement  of  the  Elections 
for  the  new  Congress,  as  far  as  they  have  been  made.     .     .     . 

Anti 


1     No  Choice  in  2  Distcts. 
all  Feed. 

No    Choice    in   Lyons 
District 
6 
3    Two  of  these  said  to 

be  doubtful 
8 

3     • 

3 

1 


New  Hampshire     .     . 
Rhode  Island     .     .     . 
Massachusetts  (say)    . 

Feed 

•  4 
2 

•  13 

Connecticut  .... 
Vermont 

•     7 
1 

New  York      .... 
New  Jersey  (say)   .     . 

•     4 
2 

Pennsylvania      .     .     . 

Delaware 

Maryland       .     .     .     . 
N.  Carolina  .... 
S.  Carolina    .... 
Georgia 

•  5 
1 

•  5 

•  7 

•  5 
2 

2  Dent 


The     bitter     Baldwin 
defunct,  i.  e.  ousted. 


58 


25 


Suppose  Virginia,  Kentucky  &  Tennessee  should  return  all 
Jacobins,  there  will  notwithstanding  be  a  Majority  of  ten,  in 
Favor  of  Government  &  the  Administration,  a  most  comforting 
Circumstance,  by  which  We  shall  be  enabled  to  bid  Defiance  to 
all  the  Machinations  &  Deviltry  of  the  Directory  ;  who  I  hope 
will  be  a  Non-Entity  before  this  reaches  You, — as  their  Reign 
has  been  long  enough — &  God  knows  whether  Mankind  will  be 
bettered  by  the  Change. 

Mr.  Jefferson,  the  Fountain  of  Mischief  in  this  Country,  has 
not  yet  arrived  here,  to  discharge  his  constitutional  Duty  ;  but 
remains,  it  is  said,  for  the  purpose  of  attending  the  Legislature  of 
Virginia,    to  aid  Taylor,  Giles  &   Junto   in  plotting  some  dia- 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  493 

bolical  Plan  against  the  Foederal  Government  ;  one  great  Object 
is  to  Change  the  Foederal  Elections  from  Districts  to  the  State  at 
large,  dreading  the  Abilities  &  Power  of  Genl.  Marshall,  who  I 
flatter  Myself  will  at  every  Event  be  elected  a  Member  of  the  H. 
of  R. 

I  send  You  the  President's  Speech,  the  Senate's  Answer  &  his 

Reply. 

Your's  sincerely  &  arTy. 

Wm.  Hindman. 


T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

Department  of  State,  December  14,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  Incredible  pains  have  been  taken  to  misrepresent  the 
laws  passed  at  the  last  Sessions,  called  the  Alien  and  Sedition 
Laws  ;  but  no  extensive  effect  has  been  produced,  except  in  Vir- 
ginia and  Kentucky.  In  the  former  addresses  to  the  Legislature 
have  been  prepared  and  signed,  calling  for  its  interposition  to 
obtain  the  repeal  of  those  laws.  In  Kentucky  the  Governor  has 
made  to  the  General  Assembly  a  very  impudent  and  inflammatory 
speech  on  the  subject  of  those  Laws.  Possessing  a  high  respect 
for  the  federal  Constitution,  and  determination  to  maintain  it,  the 
idea  is  held  out  of  the  right  of  an  individual  State  to  judge  and 
determine  whether  the  Acts  of  the  federal  Legislature  conform  to 
it ;  and  a  pretty  clear  implication  of  a  right  to  disobey  them,  if 
any  motives  induce  a  declaration  of  their  being  unconstitutional. 
This  Governor  (Gerrard)  I  suppose  to  be  a  new,  not  a  native 
Citizen.  I  have  been  told  that  he  was  a  Baptist  Preacher,  and  his 
secretary  a  new  comer  of  Dr.  Priestley's  sect.  The  leaders  in 
Kentucky  have  been  endeavouring  to  draw  the  State  of  Tennessee 
into  their  schemes,  but  in  vain  ;  and  the  people  North  of  the  Ohio 
remain  uncontaminated.  I  have  just  received  a  letter  from 
Kentucky,  by  which  it  is  plain  their  opposition  is  not  by  any 
means  as  universal  as  their  public  resolves  import  ;  and  this 
opposition  is  there,  as  in  other  districts  of  the  United  States,  the 
result  of  misrepresentations  and  falsehoods.     .     .     . 

T.  P. 


494  RUFUS  KING.  [1798 

R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State.     No.  13. 

London,  Deer.  15,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  Imperial  Internuncio  at  Constantinople  on  the  17th  of 
November  dispatched  a  Messenger  to  Vienna  with  the  information 
that  courier  after  courier  had  arrived  that  day  by  different  routes 
with  intelligence  that  on  the  news  of  the  preparation  of  Murad  Bey 
and  Ibraham  Bey  to  march  against  the  French  armies  in  Egypt, 
Buonaparte  had  convened  his  chief  officers  with  the  principal 
Inhabitants  of  Egypt  in  the  great  Hall  of  Cairo,  when  after  stating 
the  approach  of  the  Beys,  he  enlarged  upon  the  necessity  of  imme- 
diate measures  to  repel  them,  and  concluded  by  proposing  a  gen- 
eral contribution  to  enable  him  to  oppose  the  Enemy  ;  that  this 
Discourse  was  ill-received  by  the  Egyptians,  and  that  a  Tripoline 
chief  drew  from  under  his  garment  a  Pistol  and  shot  Buonaparte, 
whose  death  was  the  signal  for  the  massacre  of  the  other  French 
officers  as  well  as  all  the  unarmed  French  found  in  the  city. 

Baron  Thugut  communicated  this  intelligence  to  Sir  Morton 
Eden,  the  British  Ambassador  at  Vienna,  who  on  the  3d  inst. 
dispatched  an  extraordinary  messenger  that  arrived  here  yesterday. 

It  is  difficult  to  form  a  satisfactory  opinion  concerning  the  accu- 
racy of  this  news.  The  Turks  have  strong  imaginations  as  well  as 
great  credulity.  I  find  that  it  receives  credit  in  Downing  Street. 
The  same  messenger  brings  a  Report  that  the  Pacha  of  Rhodes,  who 
is  said  to  have  embarked  with  a  Body  of  Troops  in  the  Squadron 
of  Russian  and  Turkish  ships  gone  against  Alexandria,  has  made 
good  his  Landing  and  retaken  that  Port  from  the  French. 
With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  A.  Hamilton.* 

London,  Dec.  19th,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  same  uncertainty  continues  to  perplex  us  concerning  the 
recommencement  of  the  war.  One  day  we  are  told  that  Naples 
has  really  begun,  and  that  Austria  is  on  the  way  to  support  her  ; 
the  next,  that  Naples  is  kept  back,  by  Austria,  to  whom  the  Direc- 
tory have  made  the  most  advantageous  offers.     It  is  certain  that 

*  Works  of Ifa??iilton,  vi.,  376. 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  495 

France  feels  the  change  that  has,  within  the  last  six  months,  taken 
place  in  Europe,  and  is  extremely  anxious  to  defeat  the  projected 
coalition.  Prussia  observes,  and  seems  inclined  to  adhere  to  the 
same  cautious  policy  that  for  some  time  has  governed  her  admin- 
istration. Poor  Spain  is  completely  under  the  influence  of  the 
Directory,  and,  however  strange  it  may  seem,  the  King,  who  most 
cordially  hates  England,  shed  tears  and  was  inconsolable  on  the 
news  of  Nelson's  victory.  Portugal  is  threatened  with  a  war  with 
Spain,  unless  she  concludes  a  peace  on  the  terms  of  the  Directory. 
There  is  great  discontent  in  many  of  the  French  departments,  but 
still  the  levy  of  the  new  requisition  proceeds.  The  insurrection 
of  Brabant  extends  itself ;  but  though  it  will  give  the  Directory 
some  trouble,  cannot  prove  successful  unless  the  war  soon  recom- 
mences. Mr.  Grenville,  an  elder  brother  of  the  Minister,  has  gone 
on  a  special  mission  to  Berlin.  He  is  said  to  be  very  clever,  and 
has  therefore  refused  to  go  into  the  diplomatic  course.  Unless 
favorable  circumstances  of  success  exist,  one  would  scarcely  be- 
lieve that  the  Minister  would  just  now  have  employed  his  brother. 
The  French  will  lose  all  their  islands,  trade  and  influence  in  the 
Mediterranean.  Minorca  has  been  taken  by  the  English.  Malta 
must  fall.  Corsica  will  probably  expel  the  French,  though  England 
will  not  again  accept  of  their  capricious  allegiance.  Zante,  Cerego, 
and  Cephalonia,  and  probably  Corfu,  have  fallen  into  the  hands 
of  the  Turks  and  Russians. 

A  report  from  Constantinople  states  that  Buonaparte  has  been 
assassinated  ;  though  probable,  it  wants  confirmation.  Mr.  Pitt 
will  be  supported  in  the  tax  of  10  per  cent,  on  the  income  of  the 
nation  ;  indeed,  the  people  appear  firm  and  resolved  to  support 
the  government,  and  the  prosperity  of  their  manufactures  and 
trade  enable  them  to  do  so.     Adieu. 

Yours  truly,  &c. 

P.  S. — I  make  you  my  hearty  congratulations  on  the  settlement 
of  the  question  of  rank.         

R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State.     No.   14. 

London,  Dec.  21,   1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

On  the  7th  instant  France  declared  war  against  the  King  of 
Naples  and  Sardinia.  The  Neapolitan  troops,  headed  by  their 
King,  had  before  entered  the  Roman  Territory,  alleging  that  it 


4g6  rufus  king.  [1798 

had  been  revolutionized  subsequent  to  Campo  Formio,  and  not 
acknowledged  as  a  Republic  either  by  the  Court  of  Naples  or  its 
ally,  the  Emperor. 

The  King  of  Sardinia  has  for  many  months  been  a  Prisoner  in 
his  own  capital,  enjoying  a  mock  liberty  of  service  only  to  his 
Gaolers.  He  cannot  be  degraded  lower,  and  the  causeless  attack 
upon  him  is  one  more  proof  that  safety  cannot  be  found  in  sub- 
mission, and  that  no  degree  of  Humiliation  can  satisfy  this  im- 
moral and  tyrannical  Power. 

It  is  not  natural  to  suppose  that  Naples  would  have  taken  this 
decisive  step  without  being  confident  of  support  from  the  Em- 
peror, and  this  presumption  is  strengthened  by  the  known  charac- 
ter of  the  Austrian  General  Mack,  who  under  the  king  commands 
the  Neapolitan  army.  Our  next  dispatches  from  Vienna  are 
therefore  expected  with  anxiety  &  impatience.  There  is  little 
doubt  that  Corfu  has  surrendered,  and  information  was  yesterday 
received  of  the  surrender  of  Malta  with  the  Ships  in  that  Harbour, 
which  escaped  from  the  battle  of  the  Nile.  Minorca  is  undoubt- 
edly in  the  hands  of  the  English,  and  was  taken,  as  we  hear,  with- 
out resistance.  By  the  capture  of  Corfu  and  Malta,  the  two  ships 
of  the  line  and  the  two  frigates  which  escaped  from  Aboukir,  have 
fallen  into  the  hands  of  the  allies,  so  that  the  whole  of  the  Toulon 
Fleet  attacked  by  Admiral  Nelson  is  taken  or  destroy'd. 

We  have  no  further  accounts  relative  to  the  Death  of  Buona- 
parte or  concerning  his  Army. 

With  Perfect  Respect  &  Esteem  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State.     No.   15. 

London,  Dec.  22,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

A  single  Paris  paper  of  the  19th  instant  brought  by  a  Packet 
Boat  from  Gravelines  was  received  in  town  this  morning,  and 
states  that  a  large  body  of  Neapolitan  troops  were  beaten  on  the 
4th  by  a  column  of  French  troops  commanded  by  Genl.  Macdon- 
ald.  From  the  scenes  where  this  action  took  place,  it  may  be  in- 
ferred that  Rome  was  in  the  hands  of  the  Neapolitans.    Piedmont 


1798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  497 

had  been  entirely  overrun  by  the  French.  Admiral  Nelson  had 
taken  possession  of  Leghorn  &  with  his  fleet  blockaded  the 
Ligurian  ports.  Not  a  word  is  said  concerning  the  Austrian  army 
in  Italy  and  we  are  left  quite  at  a  loss  whether  it  has  or  will  ad- 
vance to  support  the  Neapolitans.  If  Naples  gave  the  attack 
without  being  confident  of  this  support,  her  conduct  has  been  less 
prudent  than  perilous  ;  as  without  it  Naples  as  well  as  the  whole 
of  Italy  must  quickly  fall  under  the  power  of  the  French. 

The  same  Paper  asserts  that  information  was  just  received  by 
the  Telegraph  that  the  Deputation  of  the  Empire  had  just  ac- 
ceded to  the  French  ultimatum,  and  that  peace  with  the  Empire 
was  concluded.  If  this  is  true  there  is  much  reason  to  apprehend 
that  the  Emperor  has  resolved  not  to  engage  in  the  war.  Loose 
and  inaccurate  as  this  information   is,  I  think  it  my  duty  to  send 

it  to  you. 

With  perfect  Respect  and  Esteem  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  the  Duke  of  Portland. 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  Dec.  26,  1798. 
My  Lord  : 

The  Treaty  of  Peace  between  the  United  States  and  Great 
Britain  forbids  any  further  confiscation  of  Estates. 

The  late  Treaty  of  Amity  and  Commerce  provides  that  citizens 
of  the  United  States  holding  real  Estates  within  the  Territories  of 
Great  Britain  and  the  Subjects  of  Great  Britain  holding  real 
Estates  within  the  Territories  of  the  United  States  shall  continue 
to  hold  them,  and  that  the  same  shall  descend  to  their  Heirs, 
provided  they  are  not  sold  during  the  lifetime  of  the  Proprietors, 
which  may  freely  be  done. 

According  to  the  inclosed  Report  of  the  Judges  in  His 
Majesty's  Colony  of  Newfoundland,  the  Estate  therein  described 
belonging  to  Abigail  Lillie,  a  Citizen  of  the  United  States,  was 
not  confiscated  during  the  American  War,  but  was  held  and  en- 
joy'd  by  her  during  that  period  and  for  several  years  afterwards  ; 
but  in  the  year  1788  was  taken  from  her  by  order  of  the  Governor 
because  she  had  become  an   alien.     This  plain  statement  of  the 

VOL.  II.— 32 


498  RUFUS  KING.  [i799 


Case,  will,  I  am  confident,  satisfy  your  Grace  that  this  Proceeding 
has  been  altogether  erroneous  and  contrary  to  the  existing  stipu- 
lations relative  to  this  subject  between  the  United  States  and 
Great  Britain. 

Extensive  real  Estates  within  the  United  States  which  belonged 
to  British  subjects  before  the  American  War  continue  to  be  held 
by  their  original  holders  or  their  Heirs,  and  these  Estates  are 
secured  from  Escheat  by  the  Provisions  of  the  Ninth  Article  of 
our  late  Treaty  above  cited. 

I  will  not  give  your  Grace  the  trouble  of  any  further  observa- 
tions on  this  subject,  and  will  only  request  that  Instructions  may 
be  given  for  the  Restoration  of  the  Estate  in  question  and  for  the 
loss  sustained  by  the  dispossession  of  the  lawful  owner. 

With  the  most  perfect  Consideration  and  Respect  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  the  Secretary  of  State.     No.  16. 

London,  Jany.  3,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  Elbe  being  closed  by  the  late  severe  frost,  no  Packets  have 
arrived  from  Hamburgh  within  the  last  three  weeks,  so  that  at 
this  critical  and  interesting  moment  in  respect  to  the  affairs  of  the 
Continent,  we  are  without  information  except  such  as  is  collected 
from  the  Paris  papers,  which  are  irregularly  received  from  Grave- 
lines.  Mr.  Grenville  who  embarked  in  a  Frigate  about  a  fort- 
night since  for  Hamburgh  on  his  mission  to  Berlin  has  returned, 
not  being  able  to  land. 

The  Newspapers  which  I  send  by  this  conveyance  detail  the 
intelligence  contained  in  the  late  French  papers.  Hadonville  has 
returned  to  France  from  St.  Domingo,  and  in  his  last  Proclama- 
tion intimates  that  Toussaint  and  his  advisers  meditate  the  Inde- 
pendence of  that  Island.  Subsequent  to  Hadonville's  return  an 
Advice  Boat  arrived  at  L'Orient  with  an  Aide  de  Camp  &  Dis- 
patches from  Toussaint. 

The  Bill  calling  for  a  Tenth  of  every  man's  Income  in  addition 
to  the  old  Taxes  last  night  passed  the  House  of  Commons.  This 
measure  has  received  a  very  general  and  zealous  support,  and  is 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  499 

a  high  proof  of  the  Firmness  and  Capacity  of  the  Nation  in   sup- 
port of  the  war. 

With  perfect  Respect  and  Esteem  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  the  Secretary  of  State.     No.   17. 

London,  Jany.  10,  1799- 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  situation  of  St.  Domingo*  having  on  repeated  consideration 
appeared  to  me  to  be  likely  materially  to  affect  certain  great  in- 
terests of  the  U.  S.  and  consequently  to  require  of  them  a  compre- 
hensive as  well  as  cautious  Policy  to  protect  those  interests  and 
to  turn  to  profit  if  possible  the  changes  of  which  the  Indepe?idence 
of  Saint  Domingo  is  the  forerunner,  /  went  some  days  since  to 
Lord  Grenville,  and  after  stating  to  him  my  reflections  upon  this 
subject,  observed  that  the  principle  motive  that  led  me  to  submit 
them  to  him  was  in  order  to  ascertain  his  opinion  whether  it  would 
not  be  of  great  and  mutual  benefit  that  we  should  act  in  concert  as 
well  in  respect  to  the  present  as  the  expected  condition  of  this  Im- 
portant  Island.  He  could  best  decide  the  advantages  and  disad- 
vantages which  they  were  likely  to  expect  from  the  emancipation  of 
that  Colony.  With  regard  to  us  we  had  to  apprehend  some  incon- 
veniences from  the  Influence  of  the  example  upon  our  slaves  in  the 
Southern  States,  and  it  would  be  incumbent  upon  us  to  pursue  such 
measures  as  should  promise  security  against,  and,  if  practicable, 
effectually  prevent  the  depredations  and  Piracy  to  be  apprehended 
should  St.  Domingo  become  the  Resort  and  Asylum  of  Buccaneers  6° 
rovers.  We  had  never  attempted  to  foment  insurrections  among 
our  neighbours,  nor  to  persuade  the  Colonies  near  us  to  throw  off 
their  allegiance  ;  but  we  should  neglect  what  we  owe  to  ourselves,  if 
in  the  present  case  and  in  others  which  may  be  like  it,  we  did  not 
adopt  such  measures  as  should  seem  best  calculated  not  only  to 
render  them  harmless,  but  as  far  as  possible  to  make  them  beneficial 
to  us.  What  those  measures  would  be,  it  was  not  possible  for  me 
to  form  an  opinion  ;  but  that  they  and  we  should  take  care  not  to 
embarrass  each  other,  and  so  disappoint  the  views  of  both,  appeared 
to  me  very  plain. 

*  Italics  in  cipher. 


500  RUFUS  KING.  [i799 

Ld.  Grenville  said  that  it  seemed  highly  probable  that  St.  Do- 
mingo would  become  independent,  and  that  he  entirely  agreed  in  the 
opinion  I  had  expressed  in  reference  to  the  Policy  and  advantage 
of  a  concert  of  measures  betwem  them  and  us.  At  present  they  had 
not  formed  any  distinct  views  on  that  head  ;  the  late  engagements 
of  himself  and  colleagues  in  Parliament  had  delayed  the  Business, 
but  they  were  then  engaged  in  the  consideration  of  the  subject  which 
in  a  variety  of  lights  they  considered  an  important  one  ;  that  Col. 
Grant  had  not  yet  gone  out,  and  would  be  detained  until  they  had  come 
to  some  further  determinations  upon  the  subject  of  his  Mission. 

That  they  desired  to  secure  their  colonies  from  the  influence  of 
the  example  of  St.  Domingo  and  to  prev  at  the  existence  of  a  new 
Barbary  power  in  that  quarter  of  the  world.  They  moreover  had  it 
in  view  to  propose  to  Toussaint  to  put  the  Trade  upon  such  a  foot- 
ing as  might  afford  to  him  the  supplies  that  he  should  require,  and 
at  the  same  time  guard  against  the  mischiefs  that  they  and  we 
desire  to  prevent :  that  he  had  thought  of  an  exclusive  company  com- 
posed jointly  of  British  and  American  subjects  j  that  the  Idea  had 
not  been  examined,  and  that  as  soon  as  he  had  more  fully  consid- 
ered the  subject,  he  would  invite  me  to  meet  him  and  his  Colleagues 
for  the  purpose  of  considering  it. 

The  foregoing  is  the  outline  and  substance  of  our  first  consul- 
tation, in  the  course  of  which  other  things  were  said,  not  however 
of  sufficient  importance  to  be  repeated.  The  following  queries 
and  their  answers  are  exceptions  to  this  remark.  I  asked  Ld.  Gren- 
ville if  the  lndepende?ice  of  St.  Domingo  must  not  inevitably  have  a 
great  influence  upon  Jamaica  and  the  other  Islands?  he  answered 
that  certainly  it  must  j  must  it  not  be  soon  followed,  notwithstand- 
ing all  your  vigilance,  by  the  abolition  of  the  whole  Colony  System  in 
that  quarter  of  the  world?  the  Colony  System  must  fall  to  the  ground, 
we  have  foreseen  it,  and  nothing  remains  but  to  postpone  it  as 
long  as  possible  and  to  employ  such  measures  as  seem  best 
adapted  to  diminish  the  Evils  of  the  event  when  it  arrives,  and  I 
have  no  reserve,  added  his  Ld.Ship,  in  saying  that  in  whatever  we 
do,  we  must  act  in  Harmony  with  you. 

Last  evening  I  received  a  letter  from  Lord  Grenville,  a  copy  of 
which  and  of  the  enclosed  Minute  are  annexed,  and  according  to 
his  Ld.Ship 's  invitation  I  met  him  and  his  Colleagues  this  morning. 
The  Conference  began  by  my  saying  that  before  /  made  any  obser- 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  50 1 

vation  upon  our  present  equivocal  situation  in  regard  to  France,  or 
upon  the  division  of  the  Trade  between  us  and  them,  as  proposed, 
I  ought  to  express  my  belief  that  the  Plan  would  be  objected  to 
as  well  on  account  of  the  general  unpopularity  of  monopolies  in 
America,  as  on  the  score  of  a  defect  of  power  in  Congress  to  create 
an  Exclusive  Corporation  for  the  Purposes  of  Trade.  Such  a 
Power  is  not  expressly  given,  and  if  it  exists  must  be  taken  by  in- 
ference from  Powers  which  are  distinctly  given.  Questions  of  this 
sort  are  liable  to  much  debate,  and  in  this  case  would  perhaps  be 
opposed  by  some  who  might  think  the  Power  exists,  but  who  dis- 
like monopolies.  Besides  our  merchants  are  numerous  and  full  of 
enterprize,  and  no  way  has  suggested  itself  by  which  a  limited 
number  of  them  could  without  undue  preference  be  selected  to 
compose  a  company.  In  respect  to  the  proposed  Division  of  the 
trade  between  us  and  them,  I  said,  that  the  distinction  in  the  supplies 
seemed  plain  and  natural  enough,  but  there  were  articles  supply  d 
to  St  Domingo  not  of  their  manufacture  nor  of  our  production,  such 
as  Wines,  Brandies,  nankeens  &  probably  other  commodities  that 
did  not  occur,  in  respect  to  which  it  might  be  agreed  that  such 
articles  might  be  supplied  by  either.  In  regard  to  our  situation  with 
France  it  is  easier  to  say  what  it  is  not,  than  what  it  really  is,  & 
I  could  only  express  my  hope  that  it  might  soon  become  less 
doubtful  &  better  denned. 

Mr.  Pitt  observed  that  it  would  be  presumptuous  in  a  stranger 
to  give  an  opinion  on  the  Powers  given  to  Congress  by  our  Constitu- 
tion, wh.  possibly  were  not  as  large  as  we  ?night  find  to  our  advan- 
tage that  they  should  be,  but  the  present  case  was  of  great  strength, 
and  the  mischiefs  with  which  ive  were  menaced  were  such  that  it 
wd.  be  singular  indeed,  if  an  adequate  Power  did  not  exist  to 
guard  against  them.  Our  Southern  States  were  open  to  Emissaries 
of  St.  Domingo,  and  perhaps  all  things  considered  it  was  not 
stating  it  too  widely  to  say  that  we  had  as  much  or  more  to  appre- 
hend than  they  had  fro??i  St.  Domingo  becoming  the  Resort  and 
Refuge  of  Buccaneers  &>  Pirates.  If  the  proposed  project  affords  a 
fair  probability  of  preventing  those  Evils,  it  would  be  unfortunate 
that  it  should  fail  from  a  defect  of  Power  in  Congress  :  and  per- 
haps we  should  think  it  expedient  in  that  case  to  refer  the  Plan  to 
the  respective  States  for  their  co?ifirmatio?i.  In  respect  to  the 
articles  ?iot  of  growth  or  manufacture  of  either,  it  will,  said  Mr. 


502  RUFUS  KING.  [l799 

Pitt,  be  best  to  divide  the  supply  between  us  in  some  equitable  and 
convenient  manner,  betraying  to  my  apprehension,  a  fear  of  an 
open  competition. 

Ld.  Grenville  after  making  several  observations  explanatory  of 
the  minute  he  had  sent  me,  asked  what  other  plan  could  be  devised 
that  would  be  likely  to  avoid  the  objections  which  I  had  suggested 
and  which  would  secure  the  principal  objects  in  view. 

I  reply'd  that  if  it  should  turn  out  Congress  had  not  the  Power, 
or  were  unwilling  to  erect  an  exclusive  Commercial  Company,  the 
Power,  to  form  Treaties  and  to  regulate  Trade  with  foreign  nations, 
were  expressly  given,  and  under  them  in  the  shape  of  Treaties  and 
Laws,  we  could  establish  such  regulations  as  our  Interest  and 
Safety,  &  those  of  our  friends  should require  j  going  upon  the  idea 
of  the  entire  Independence  of  St.  Domingo,  we  and  they  might  form 
Treaties  with  Toussaint,  by  which  it  should  be  agreed  that  the 
citizens  of  the  U7iited  States  a?id  the  subjects  of  G.  Britain  alone 
should  trade  to  that  Island.  These  Treaties  might  contain  such 
special  stipulations  relative  to  the  particular  Ports  of  Trade — the 
coasting  Vessels  to  be  employ'd  between  these  Ports — the  supplies 
which  should  or  should  not  be  carried  there — emigrations — the 
suppression  of  Privateers,  and  all  such  other  points  as  may  sug- 
gest themselves  upon  a  full  consideration  of  the  Question. 

A  Convention  might  likewise  be  made  between  the  United  States 
and  G.  Britain  that  should  prescribe  the  regulatio?is  to  be  observed 
by  Each  in  carrying  on  the  trade  which  should  be  open  to  all  the 
subjects  of  the  two  Countries.  This  Convention  to  be  valid  when 
Laws  conforming  and  providing  for  the  execution  of  its  stipulations 
sho'd  be  enacted  by  the  Legislatures  of  both  nations — these  regula- 
tions might  be  as  minute  and  extensive  as  the  various  objects  to  be 
attained  shou'd  require. 

Lord  Grenville  made  several  objections  to  this  Plan,  grounded 
upon  the  insecurity  there  would  be  in  enforcing  the  observance  of 
the  requisite  regulations  when  the  Trade  should  be  open  to  all  the 
People  of  the  two  Countries.  Mr.  Pitt  appeared  less  decided  on 
this  Point  and  agreed  as  they  all  did  in  my  observation  that  concert 
in  this  business  between  us  and  the?n,  was  on  many  accounts  of  the 
first  importance  j  that  if  the  best  Plan  was  inconsistent  with  con- 
cert, one  must  be  devised  that  will  secure  this  primary  object  and  as 
many  others  as  possible  ;  and  that  the  more  liberal  the  terms  were 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  503 

in  respect  to  Toussaint,  the  more  advantageous  the  connexion  would 
be  to  the  Inhabitants  of  St.  Domingo,  and  the  less  likely  to  be  de- 
feated by  the  instigation  of  Emissaries.  I  asked  what  probability 
there  was  that  Toussaint  would  agree  to  a  Plan  that  should  leave 
him  but  a  limited  Independence  j  Mr.  Dundas  reply  V  that  taking 
all  their  information  together,  he  thought  it  quite  probable  that 
Toussaint  would  consent,  and  with  respect  to  his  intentions  he  had 
told  one  of  their  officers  lately  returned,  that  he  would  throw  off  the 
yoke  of  France,  if  he  could  be  supported. 

It  was  remarked  that  something  must  be  done  immediately.  I 
replied  that  I  could  see  no  objection  to  Col.  Grant's  going  forward 
according  to  their  first  intention.  He  might  open  the  Plan  to  Tous- 
saint and  state  the  difficulties  likely  to  exist  against  its  adoption 
by  the  United  States — that  whatever  should  be  agreed  upon  be- 
tween Toussaint  and  G.  Britain  should  be  open  for  the  accession 
of  the  United  States,  and  also  open  to  such  modifications  as  should 
enable  the  U.  S.  to  become  a  party  in  case  they  decline  or  are 
unable  to  agree  to  the  proposed  Plan — that  full  information  should 
be  given  to  the  President  thro'  me,  as  well  as  by  Id.  Grenville  thro' 
Mr.  Liston,  with  the  assurance  that  G.  Britain  desires  the  coopera- 
tion of  the  U.  S.,  and  will  agree  on  such  equitable  commercial 
stipulations,  as  shall  be  compatible  with  the  attainment  of  the 
pri?icipal  objects  they  have  in  view  in  respect  to  their  Colonies.  To 
this  Id.  Gretwille  and  his  Colleagues  asse?ited  and  the  Conference 
ended  with  the  suggestion  that  the  President  would  think  it  advise- 
able  to  send  some  person  to  join  Col.  Grant  in  settling  the  arrange- 
ments with  Toussaint. 

This  is  a  subject  that  me?'its  deliberate  and  extensive  considera- 
tion. Whatever  we  do,  should  be  done  with  a  view  as  well  to  the 
present  Colony  system,  as  to  future  events  still  more  important  than 
the  present.  It  is  certain  that  Great  Britain  desires  to  act  with 
us,  and  we  may  be  sure  of  her  cooperation  if  we  will  concur  in  her 
Plans.  She  will  even  risk  something  to  obtain  our  concurrence,  but 
she  will  act  without  us  in  case  we  disagree  as  to  the  terms  of  a  joint 
cooperation.  We  also  can  act  without  her  and  should,  as  she  un- 
doubtedly does,  balance  the  advantages  &  disadvantages  of  a 
separate  and  a  joint  negotiation. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


504  RUFUS  KING.  [1799 

Lord  Grenville  to  R.  King.* 

Copy  (annexed  to  previous  letter). 

Cleveland  Row,  Jany.  9,  1799. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

In  consequence  of  our  last  conversation  relative  to  St.  Domingo, 
I  have,  after  discussing  the  subject  with  some  of  my  Colleagues, 
prepared  the  enclosed  minute,  which  I  send  for  your  considera- 
tion, as  the  basis  of  an  arrangement  which  would  I  think  provide 
equitably  for  the  Commercial  Interests  of  our  two  Countries  as  con- 
cerned in  that  business,  and  what  is  infinitely  more  important,  wd. 
afford  us  as  good  security  as  the  nature  of  things  allows  of, 
against  the  infinite  dangers  to  which  our  Islands  and  your  Southern 
Provinces  would  be  exposed  from  an  unrestrained  intercourse  with 
St.  Domingo  in  its  present  state. 

If  you  should  be  at  leisure  &  could  meet  Mr.  Pitt  and  Mr.  Dundas 
here  to-morrow  morning  at  Eleven,  half  an  hour's  discussion 
might  very  probably  so  far  terminate  the  business  as  to  enable  us 
to  write  to  Amei'ica  and  to  dispatch  Col.  Grant.  If  you  had  any 
wish  to  see  me  earlier,  I  shall  be  at  home. 

Believe  me  &c.  &c. 

Grenville. 

Minute. 

The  whole  Trade  of  Import  and  Export  with  Toussainf  s  part  of 
St.  Domingo  to  be  confined  to  one  port — viz.  Port-au-Prince.  The 
supply  to  be  restricted  by  agreement  with  Toussaint  and  by  compact 
between  G.  B.  and  the  U.  S.  to  a  Joint  Company  to  be  formed  by  the 
two  Governments  and  to  consist  of — British  and  American  subjects. 

This  Co7iipany  to  be  confined  to  furnish  no  manufactures  but  from 
the  British  Territories,  and  no  articles  of  Produce  or  live  stock  but 
from  America.  To  send  the  returns  for  the  former  in  St.  Domingo 
produce  to  Jamaica  or  G.  Britain  only  ;  and  for  the  latter  to  the 
United  States  only.  An  agent  on  the  part  of  this  Company  to  reside 
at  the  specify'd  Port,  and  to  have  on  the  part  of  the  Compa?iy  the 
exclusive  conduct  of  the  whole  coasting  trade,  which  he  shall  carry 
on  by  Boats  of  the  Country  to  a  sufficient  extent  for  the  supply 
of  the  different  parts  of  the  Island  under  Toussaint 's  authority,  and 

*  Italics  in  this  copy  in  cipher. 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  505 

for  bringing  back  their  Produce  to  Port-au-Prince  :  all  British  or 
American  Vessels  not  belonging  to  the  Company,  and  all  vessels  be- 
longing to  France  or  any  other  Power  or  to  any  person  in  any  part 
of  the  Island  of  St.  Domingo  and  trading  to  or  from  any  of  its 
Ports,  coastwise  or  otherwise,  except  those  employed  by  the  agent 
of  this  Company  as  above,  and  furnished  with  proper  Passports,  to  be 
liable  to  seizure,  and  Toussaint  to  engage  on  his  part  to  the  ut??wsl  of 
his  power  to  discourage  and  prevent  all  such  trade. 

The  exportation  of  Blacks  from  St.  Domingo  to  any  other  place, 
(or  of  any  other  persons  without  previous  permission  to  that  effect) 
or  the  carrying  on  any  intercourse  whatever  between  that  Island  and 
any  other  place,  except  as  above,  to  be  prohibited  under  the  severest 
Penalties. 

Both  Powers  to  guarantee  this  arrangement  to  each  other,  and  to 
agree  that  in  case  of  its  being  violated  o?i  the  part  of  Toussaint, 
with  respect  either  to  G.  Britain  or  America,  the  whole  shall  be 
suspended,  and  neither  the  subjects  of  G.  B.  nor  America  to  be  at 
liberty  to  carry  on  any  trade  there  from  thenceforth  j  and  the  present 
prohibition  continue  as  to  all  the  rest  of  the  Island. 


T.  Pickering  to  R.  King.     No.  37. 

Department  of  State,  Jany.  8,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  am  directed  by  the  President  of  the  United  States  to  transmit 
to  you  the  inclosed  narrative  of  Lewis  Tresevant  and  Wm.  Tim- 
mons  of  an  outrage  committed  on  the  flag  of  the  United  States, 
together  with  extracts  of  a  letter  from  George  C.  Morton,  Con- 
sular Agent  of  the  United  States  at  the  Havanna.*  As  soon  as 
Captain  Phillips  arrives  and  makes  his  official  report  to  the  Navy 
Department,  it  shall  be  transmitted  to  you.  In  consequence  of 
this  insult,  the  President  has  directed  the  inclosed  order  *  to  be 
issued  to  all  our  naval  commanders  to  resist  every  future  attempt 
of  the  kind  to  the  last  extremity.  A  copy  of  this  order  I  have 
sent  to  Mr.  Liston  with  the  letter  of  which  also  a  copy  is 
inclosed. 

*  As  the  facts  are  presented  in  the  accompanying  letter  to  Mr.  Liston,  and 
the  order  to  the  naval  commanders  is  summed  up  in  Mr.  Pickering's  letter,  they 
are  omitted  here. 


506  RUFUS  KING.  [l799 

This  act  of  Captain  Loring  excited,  as  you  may  imagine,  no 
little  sensation.  It  drew  the  attention  of  the  House  of  Repre- 
sentatives, who  passed  the  inclosed  resolution,  in  pursuance  of 
which,  the  narrative  above  mentioned  and  extracts  of  Mr.  Mor- 
ton's letter  have  been  communicated  to  them. 

To  the  extracts  from  Mr.  Morton's  Letter  laid  before  the  House, 
I  have  now  added  other  parts  relating  to  the  capture  of  three 
American  vessels  bound  to  the  Havanna  by  Capt.  Loring's 
Squadron — the  pretence  that  4^.  &  6d.  nails  and  oznaburgs  are 
contraband  of  war,  the  latter  as  sail  cloth  and  the  former  because 
other  than  "  unwrought  iron."  It  is  impossible  that  these  articles 
should  have  been  contemplated  as  falling  within  the  18  article  of 
our  Treaty  with  Great  Britain  :  the  interpretation  that  would 
comprehend  them  appears  to  us  a  perverse  one  :  yet  they  have 
been  made  the  occasion  of  much  injury  and  vexation  to  our 
Merchants  and  Mariners,  as  I  formerly  wrote  you,  when  com- 
plaining of  the  iniquitous  proceedings  of  Judge  Cambauld  at 
Cape  Nichola  Mole.  It  is  true  that  Capt.  Loring  released  two 
of  the  vessels  captured,  as  above  mentioned,  near  the  Havanna  ; 
but  an  erroneous  construction  of  the  Treaty  should  not  furnish  a 
pretence  for  so  serious  an  injury  as  the  detention  and  carrying 
into  port  of  the  third  to  gratify  his  resentment  against  a  sturdy 
Master.  If  this  abuse  in  the  construction  of  the  18  article  of 
the  Treaty  has  not  yet  attracted  the  notice  of  the  British  Govern- 
ment, or  if  orders  for  correcting  it  have  not  been  issued,  the 
President  desires  that  it  may  be  a  subject  of  representation 
together  with  the  insult  which  is  the  immediate  object  of  this 
letter. 

With  regard  to  the  insult  on  our  flag,  it  will  readily  occur  that 
the  right  of  searching  and  stripping  public  Vessels  of  War  of  their 
hands,  if  it  exists  at  all,  must  be  reciprocal,  and  it  need  not  be 
asked  whether  a  British  Naval  Commander  would  submit  to  it  : 
neither  will  ours.  But  if  such  search  for  and  taking  away  of  sea- 
men were  at  all  admissible  in  practice,  it  should  be  in  our  favor, 
because  American  Seamen  are  generally  aboard  British  Ships  only 
by  impressments,  whereas  the  British  Seamen  to  be  found  in  the 
armed  Vessels  of  the  United  States  are  all  Volunteers  ;  and  you 
will  recollect  that  the  British  Government  have  made  a  distinction 
between  Volunteer  and  Impressed  Americans,  releasing  the  latter 


I798]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  507 

when  their  citizenship  was  proved  ;  but  detaining  the  former 
altho'  they  had  entered  and  taken  the  bounty  only  in  consequence 
of  a  previous  impressment. 

After  these  observations,  candour  demands  an  acknowledgment 
of  the  general  friendly  and  polite  behaviour  of  the  British  Naval 
Officers  towards  ours,  and  of  their  readiness  to  protect  our  mer- 
chant vessels  against  the  Plunderers  of  the  World,  and  to  afford 
them  relief  when  in  distress.  An  instance  has  very  lately  occurred 
in  the  Chesapeake.  A  British  Vessel  of  War  seeing  an  American 
vessel  aground  on  a  dangerous  shoal,  sent  down  cables,  anchors 
and  thirty  Seamen,  who  got  her  off  and  thus  saved  a  valuable 
ship  and  cargo,  which  in  the  next  four  and  twenty  hours  would 
have  been  dashed  to  pieces  and  lost. 

You  cannot  too  strongly  express  the  desire  of  the  President  to 
maintain  a  perfect  harmony  between  the  two  countries  and  his 
regret  at  any  incident  tending  to  disturb  it,  and  which,  while  it 
sensibly  wounds  the  real  friends  to  their  country,  furnishes  a 
topic  of  popular  clamour  to  others  whose  enmity  to  their  own 
Government  is  equalled  only  by  their  hatred  to  Great  Britain. 

I  have  the  honor  to  be,  &c. 

T.  Pickering. 

T.  Pickering  to  Robt.  Liston. 

"  Department  of  State,  Philadelphia  Dec.  31,  1798. 
''Sir  : 

"...  The  principal  facts  stated  are  these.  Capt.  Phillips  having 
under  his  convoy  several  American  vessels  bound  to  the  Havanna 
saw,  not  far  from  that  port,  a  fleet  of  three  ships  of  the  line  and 
two  frigates,  which,  as  soon  as  he  discovered  them  to  be  British, 
he  approached  and  spoke  the  Commodore,  the  above  named 
Capt.  Loring.  This  officer  told  Captain  Phillips  that  he  should 
take  from  him  all  the  seamen  who  had  not  protection  as  citizens 
of  the  United  States.  Capt.  Phillips  remonstrated  against  it,  ob- 
serving among  other  things,  that  the  public  flag  of  the  United 
States  was  their  protection,  and  that  if  he  carried  his  declaration 
into  effect,  the  Baltimore  would  not  have  men  enough  for  her  de- 
fence. His  remonstrances  were  fruitless.  Capt.  Loring  took 
from  the  Baltimore  fifty  five  of  her  crew.  Afterwards  finding 
Capt.  Phillips  indisposed  to  comply  with  some  other  propositions 


508  XUFUS  KING.  [1799 

and  demands,  Capt.  Loring  thought  proper  to  return  fifty  of  the 
men,  retaining  five,  among  whom  was  the  Baltimore's  Boatswain. 
It  is  impossible,  Sir,  for  the  American  Government  to  imagine 
that  this  outrage  can  be  the  consequence  of  any  orders  from  his 
Britannic  Majesty,  and  equally  impossible  for  the  United  States 
quietly  to  bear  the  repetition  of  insults  and  injuries  of  this  kind. 
The  President  of  the  United  States  has  therefore  directed  that  all 
attempts  to  commit  them  be  resisted." 


Joseph  Hale  to  R.  King. 

Boston,  Jany.  14,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Tho'  not  insensible  of  the  tax  you  will  be  exposed  to  by  this 
&  its  accompaniments  travelling  from  Liverpool  to  London,  I 
cannot  forbear  giving  you  a  specimen  of  the  Congressional 
Temper. 

The  Kentucky  &  Virginia  resolutions,  which  will  doubtless 
reach  you  thro'  another  channel,  will  prove  that  there  is  still 
sufficient  scope  with  us  for  industry,  talents,  &  patriotism. 

In  the  New  England  States  the  alien  &  sedition  acts  make  less 
noise  than  the  land  tax.  Its  novelty  &  immediate  application  to 
the  purse-strings  excite  soft  but  general  murmurs.  Yankee  good 
sense  will  soon  silence  these  &  the  support  of  the  tax  be  universal 
in  the  northern  states. 

We  are  daily  increasing  our  naval  preparations.  It  is  said  five 
ships  of  the  line  are  to  be  built  &  the  proposal  in  a  few  days  to 
be  brought  forward  in  Congress.  The  ready  concurrence  of  both 
houses  said  to  be  unquestionable.  With  the  army  now  organizing 
we  shall  shortly  assume  the  aspect  of  a  well  regulated  govern- 
ment. The  sedition  act  operates  as  a  check  upon  the  disorgan- 
izes, tho'  they  still  indulge  themselves  too  freely  in  their  favourite 
bias. 

Permit  me,  Sir,  to  congratulate  you  on  the  resignation  of  the 
Judge  of  Admiralty.  His  successor  is  a  man  of  business.  Hav- 
ing been  an  advocate  for  the  Crown,  he  will  have  great  merit  in 
divesting  himself  of  that  character  in  his  judicial  decisions. 
Doctor  N.'s  successor  will  doubtless  do  justice  to  his  appointment. 

Joseph  Hale. 


CHAPTER   XXXI. 

King  to  Secretary  of  State — New  French  Decree  against  American  Commerce 
— St.  Domingo — Affairs  on  the  Continent  and  Egypt — To  R.  Troup — 
Situation  of  Americans  in  Paris  perilous — Sedgwick  to  King— Congress 
should  have  acted  firmly,  declared  War,  treated  Spain  as  an  Ally  of 
France,  and  seized  the  Mouth  of  the  Mississippi — Composition  of  the  Sen- 
ate not  improved  ;  of  House,  better — Virginia's  Opposition  growing 
worse — Surplus  of  Revenue — Conduct  of  Commissioners  under  sixth  Arti- 
cle outrageous — Not  a  single  enlisting  Order  for  the  Army  issued — King 
to  Hamilton — St.  Domingo  and  Miranda — Pickering's  Son  suggested  as 
Secretary  to  King — King  to  W.  Wickham — Miranda  to  Secretary  of  State 
— Mission  of  Colonel  Maitland — President's  Speech  able — Admiralty  De- 
crees— Tobacco  Ships  Captured  by  the  French — Secretary  of  State  to  King 
— Outrage  of  Captain  Loring — Captain  Phillips's  Conduct  pusillanimous — 
Troup — Summary  of  American  Affairs — King  to  the  President — Weakness 
of  continental  Governments — Firmness  of  England — Pride  in  the  increas- 
ing attention  in  Europe  to  the  able  and  dignified  Administration  of  the 
American  Government. 

R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State.     No.  18. 

London,  Jany.  14,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  Moniteur  contains  a  Report  made  by  Boullay  Paty  in  the 
Council  of  500,  on  the  21st  of  Decemr.  in  the  name  of  a  Commit- 
tee to  whom  a  reference  from  the  Tribunal  of  Cassation  had  been 
sent  on  the  subject  of  the  Law  of  the  29.  Nivose,  which  authorises 
the  capture  of  all  vessels  loaded  wholly  or  in  part  with  articles  of 
the  growth  or  fabric  of  the  British  Territories.  The  questions 
referred  from  the  Tribunal  of  Cassation  were  whether  the  Law  is 
applicable  to  all  captures  made  after  its  publication,  or  only  to 
such  as  were  made  in  consequence  of  a  knowledge  of  its  publica- 
tion, and  whether  the  terms,  articles  of  the  growth  or  fabric  of  the 

509 


5IO  RUFUS  KING.  [i799 

British  Territories,  include  Commodities  of  the  growth  or  fabric 
of  Portugal  ?  The  Report  is  in  the  usual  strain  of  violence  against 
England  and  of  Injustice  and  Contempt  towards  the  neutral 
Powers,  all  of  whom  are  treated  with  great  indecorum,  tho'  I  think 
none  with  so  large  a  portion  as  the  U.  S.,  "  whose  Commerce," 
says  the  Reporter,  "  is  serviceable  alone  to  England  who  directs 
their  wavering  Politics."  The  Reporter  concluded  by  proposing 
the  two  following  Resolutions. 

Art.  iier.  La  loi  du  29.  Nivose,  an  6,  qui  a  etendu  sur  mer 
l'execution  de  celle  du  10.  Brumaire,  continuera  d'etre  executee, 
a  compter  du  jour  qu'elle  a  ete  rendue. 

Art.  2nd.  La  loi  du  29.  Nivose  sur  les  marchandises  Anglaises 
est,  a  compter  de  ce  jour,  applicable  aux  navires  charges  de  mar- 
chandises et  productions  provenant  des  Possessions  ou  des  manu- 
factures de  toutes  les  puissances  qui  seront  en  guerre  avec  la  Re'pub- 
lique  Fran$aise. 

The  discussion  of  these  resolutions  was  adjourned,  but  judging 
from  the  support  they  received  when  reported  they  have  probably 
been  adopted.  As  a  violation  of  our  national  right,  and  a  De- 
cree in  contempt  of  Public  Law,  this  will  be  nothing  new,  being 
only  an  extension  of  the  application  of  a  former  Decree  ;  yet  it 
is  an  extension  that  having  regard  merely  to  our  interest,  will  be 
found  materially  to  affect  our  Trade  to  Petersburgh,  Portugal  and 
the  Wine  Islands. 

The  decree  in  another  view  will  merit  attention,  inasmuch  as  it 
will  disprove  the  repeated  declarations  that  have  been  made,  that 
the  Laws  of  France  against  the  Trade  of  neutrals  were  a  retalia- 
tion upon  Great  Britain,  a  punishment  upon  the  neutrals  for  sub- 
mitting to  the  injuries  received  from  that  Nation.  Neither  Russia 
nor  Portugal  have  interrupted  or  vexed  the  Neutral  Commerce. 

Several  of  our  Tobacco  and  other  valuable  ships,  including  one 
bound  to  China,  have  been  lately  captured  by  French  Privateers, 
which  suffer  nothing  to  escape  them  which  they  can  master. 

Genl.  Allen  who  had  been  sent  to  the  Temple,  after  several 
weeks'  confinement  procured  his  discharge,  but  was  again  impris- 
oned at  the  same  time  that  two  other  Americans,  Mr.  Tailor,  for- 
merly of  Boston,  and  Mr.  Joseph  Sands  of  New  York,  were  sent 
to  the  Temple.  From  Mr.  Fosdick,  who  lately  arrived  here  from 
Paris,  I  hear  that  the  situation  of  our  citizens  there  is  unquiet  and 


S799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  511 

in  every  respect,  disagreeable.     Mr.  Fosdick  went  to  Paris  with 
his  uncle,  Col.  Hitchborn,  who,  as  he  states,  on  being  lately  sent 
for  by  Talleyrand,  and  asked  whether  the  President   wd.  send 
another  Envoy  to  Paris,  told  him  that  he  certainly  would  not. 
With  perfect  Respect  and  Esteem  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State.     No.  19. 

London,  Jany.  16,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  went  this  morning  to  Ld.  Grenville  to*  state  to  him  what  I  had 
written  as  the  substance  of  our  late  Conferences  respecting  St. 
Domingo,  especially  on  the  point  of  their  agreement  with  Toussaint 
being  left  open  to  such  modifications  as  should  enable  us  to  accede 
to  it.  I  found  that  I  had  faithfully  reported  to  you  what  had 
passed,  and  that  upon  further  consideration  of  the  subject,  of  the 
difficulties  that  might  attend  the  execution  of  their  project  &  the 
danger  to  be  apprehended  from  delay,  they  have  concluded  imme- 
diately to  send  Col.  Maitland  to  New  York  with  full  power  to  Mr. 
Liston,  assisted  by  Col.  Maitland,  who  made  the  Convention  with 
Toussaint,  to  settle  the  business  between  us  and  them  6°  then  to  pro- 
ceed immediately  to  St.  Domingo  in  order  to  conclude  it  there.  I  did 
not  omit  to  express  my  satisfaction  with  this  determination,  and 
added  what  I  afterwards  repeated  to  Mr.  Dundas  that  as  Col, 
Maitland  was  well  acquainted  with  the  whole  subject,  a  circum- 
stance that  would  be  of  great  importance  to  Mr.  Liston,  it  was 
very  much  to  be  desired  that  every  point  should  be  left  open  to  such 
practicable  and  safe  arrangements  as  should  be  devised  at  Phila- 
delphia, instead  of  particular  plans  being  sent  there,  which  with  the 
best  disposition  on  our  part  might  be  found  impracticable,  and 
might  moreover  have  an  unfavorable  influence  upon  the  adoption 
of  a  substitute.  Both  Ld.  Grenville  and  Mr.  Dundas  assented  to 
this  observation,  and  I  hope  the  subject  will  be  found,  as  I  think 
it,  susceptible  of  an  adjustment  mutually  safe  and  advantageous 
to  all  Parties.  It  would  be  well  to  provide  that  our  Ships  should 
be  at  liberty  to  proceed  with  their  cargoes  from  St.  Domingo  to 

*  Italics  in  cipher. 


512  RUFUS  KING.  I~i799 

G.  Britain  as  well  as  to  the  U.S.  If  the  Plan  of  taking  off  the 
Drawback  or  a  part  of  it,  referred  to  in  former  letters,  should  be 
approved,  perhaps  we  could  obtain  a  stipulation  for  the  Repay- 
ment to  us  of  the  duty  paid  on  the  importation  and  detained  on 
the  Exportation  of  the  Commodity  here  :  unless  this  is  done,  and 
the  Drawbacks  are  taken  off,  it  will  be  our  interest  to  oblige  our 
Ships  to  return  Home  with  their  Cargoes  instead  of  proceeding 
with  them  to  Gt.  Britain. 

With  perfect  Respect  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State.     No.  20. 

London,  Jany.  17,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  can  send  you  no  news  ;  we  are  almost  as  ignorant  of  what  has 
been  doing  upon  the  Continent  within  the  last  two  months,  as  if 
we  were  at  Philadelphia  ;  the  only  foreign  intelligence  received 
since  the  beginning  of  December,  has  been  received  from  Paris. 
The  ice  which  extends  several  leagues  from  the  shore  all  along  the 
northern  coast  of  Europe  continues  to  interrupt  all  intercourse 
with  the  mainland.  Our  papers  from  Philadelphia,  New  York 
and  Boston  are  later  than  those  from  Hamburgh,  tho'  we  have  not 
yet  received  the  President's  Speech.  The  winter  has  been  uncom- 
monly severe,  the  weather  is  now  becoming  more  moderate  and 
the  usual  channels  of  communication  with  the  Continent  must 
soon  be  free  of  impediments.  We  are  left  to  mere  conjecture 
respecting  the  accounts  which  we  shall  receive  from  Vienna  & 
Berlin  :  my  apprehensions  are  stronger  than  my  Hopes.  When 
Naples  is  overrun,  as  Piedmont  has  been,  Austria  may  move  ;  and 
after  her  armies  are  driven  out  of  Italy,  Prussia  may  think  it  time 
to  begin.  Deliberation  is  wisdom,  but  Doubts  after  decision  are 
proofs  of  weakness.  When  the  weights  that  hang  about  great 
occasions  are  removed,  wings  should  be  added  in  their  place  ;  the 
ruinous  consequences  of  all  timid  hesitation  and  delay  in  the  con- 
duct of  public  affairs,  have  been  so  often  exemplified,  that  we  shall 
be  without  Excuse  if  we  repeat  the  Fault. 

With  perfect  Respect  and  Esteem  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  513 

R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State.     No.  21. 

London,  Jany.  19,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Several  mails  arrived  last  evening  from  Hamburgh,  but  they  were 
those  longest  due,  and  bring  little  news  of  importance.  The  Pas- 
sage being  at  length  open;  we  may  every  moment  expect  authen- 
tic, late  and  interesting  intelligence.  Buonaparte  escaped,  and 
was  not  assassinated  as  first  reported,  in  the  insurrection  at  Cairo. 
His  situation  is  said  to  have  become  very  critical  and  difficult. 
The  effect  of  the  latest  information  from  the  Continent,  is  an 
opinion  that  a  recommencement  of  the  war  is  almost  unavoidable. 
With  very  great  Respect  &  Esteem  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  O.  Wolcott. 

London,  Jany.  19,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

By  the  last  mails  from  Hamburgh,  I  am  informed  by  Mr. 
Adams  that  we  cannot  obtain  a  single  Musket  from  the  Prussian 
manufactories  ;  and  the  increased  probability  of  the  recommence- 
ment of  the  war  with  Austria  and  the  Empire  diminishes  the 
hope  of  a  considerable  supply  from  any  Part  of  Germany.  I 
shall  continue  to  give  the  subject  the  most  careful  attention  and 
will  endeavour  to  obtain  a  few  thousand  more  from  the  German 
manufacturers. 

If  the  war  is  renewed,  the  exchange  will  run  against  us,  but 
this  in  my  opinion  will  be  a  less  Evil  than  to  remit  in  the  present 
state  of  Exchange  which  is  favorable,  and  risque  the  Funds  at 
Hamburgh. 

With  great  Respect  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Rob.  Troup. 

London,  Jany.  19th,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  frost  has  at  length  yielded,  and  last  night  we  received 

some  of  the  many  mails  due  from  the  continent.     Tomorrow  they 

will  probably  all  arrive,  and  we  shall  be  able  from  the  news  they 

VOL.  II.— 33 


514  RUFUS  KING.  [1799 

bring  to  form  a  pretty  good  opinion  respecting  the  Recommence- 
ment of  the  War.  The  last  french  order  seems  to  put  it  beyond 
doubt ;  the  Empire  will  not  be  able  to  stop  the  advance  of  the 
Russian  Troops,  &  without  it,  the  french  declare  the  negotiations 
for  peace  to  be  at  an  End.  .  .  .  We  have  not  yet  reed,  the 
Pr's.  Speech,  tho'  we  have  New  York  Papers  of  the  10th  Dec.  & 
Boston  Gazettes  of  the  15th.  This  is  provoking  as  we  are  very 
anxious  to  see  what  Mr.  Adams  says  of  the  return  of  the  Envoys 
and  state  of  our  affairs  with  France. 

One  or  two  Americans  who  have  escaped  in  a  Neutral  Vessel 
from  France,  say  that  the  situation  of  the  Americans  at  Paris  is 
unquiet  and  perilous.  Gen.  Allen  after  several  weeks  imprison- 
ment in  the  Temple  was  set  at  liberty,  but  has  since  been  arrested 
and  is  now  confined  in  a  prison  of  less  distinction. 

Young  Mr.  Sands,  son  of  Comfort  Sands,  and  a  Mr.  Tailor, 

formerly  of  Boston,  have  been  lately  arrested  at  Paris  and  are 

confined  in  the  Temple.     No  crime  was  alleged — perhaps  things 

are,  in  this  as  most  other  cases,  reversed,  and  Creditors  instead 

of  Debtors  sent  to  Gaol.     What  will  the  Lyons  and  other  parti- 

zans  say  upon  this  violation  of  Liberty  in  the  Person  of  Genl. 

Allen  ? 

Yrs. 

R.  K. 


Theodore  Sedgwick  to  R.  King. 

Philadelphia,  20  Jany.,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  You  know  how  anxious  I  had  been  for  some  time  to 
retire  from  public  life.  My  own  happiness,  connected  with  the 
interests  of  my  family,  afforded  motives  which,  to  my  own  mind, 
justified  my  determination.  I  was  well  assured  my  successor 
would  be  worthy  &  respectable — accordingly  I  declined,  Dexter 
was  chosen,  and  I  was  happy.  But  my  evil  destiny  has  conquered, 
my  friends  would  not  permit  me  to  indulge  my  own  wishes,  their 
arguments  &  importunities  have  again  seduced  me,  and  after  the 
third  of  March  I  shall  again  be  a  representative. 

The  letter  which  I  wrote  you,  at  the  conclusion  of  the  last  ses- 
sion, will  have  given  you  the  reasons  why  this  government  has 
exhibited  our  country  in  the  awkward  attitude  which  you  justly 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  515 

deplore.  Our  measures  in  themselves  were  not  only  feeble,  but 
taken  with  that  gradation  and  hesitation,  which  shewed  a  want  of 
system,  &  of  spirit  &  vigor.  The  extent  &  shape  of  our  measures 
were  divided,  not  by  comprehensive  policy  and  wisdom,  but  by 
the  feeble  minds  of  the  Tillinghasts,  the  Bullocks  &  the  Coits  of 
the  house  of  Representatives.  We  ought  at  once  to  have  put  an 
end  to  the  cooperation  of  external  &  internal  enemies — to  have  at 
once,  as  far  as  in  our  power,  prevented  the  possibility  of  their  carry- 
ing on  that  most  dangerous  species  of  warfare,  for  the  seduction 
of  our  people,  "  diplomatic  skill."  This  could  not  in  my  opinion 
have  been  done  effectually  but  by  a  declaration  of  war.  This 
would  have  conduced  equally  to  the  honor  &  interest  of  the 
U.  S.  To  have  taken  advantage  of  that  measure,  it  would  have 
been  necessary  to  consider  Spain,  as  in  fact  she  is,  a  Colony  of 
france.  Besides,  acting  under  the  orders  of  her  principal,  Spain 
had  given  us  sufficient  cause,  by  innumerable  aggressions,  to  jus- 
tify our  conduct.  Having  assumed  the  character  of  Enemy,  as 
such,  I  would  have  rendered  myself  respectable  by  a  prompt  and 
decided  blow.  The  mouth  of  the  Mississippi  &  the  countries 
connected  with  and  dependent  on  it  should  have  been  immedi- 
ately seized.  The  immense  benefits  to  have  been  derived  from 
that  position,  whether  for  treaty,  or  a  continuance  of  the  war,  are 
obvious.  In  the  mean  time  we  should  have  superseded  the 
necessity  of  alien  &  sedition  laws — without  them  we  might  have 
hanged  traitors  and  exported  frenchmen.  This  was  the  policy  I 
would  have  pursued  instantly  after  the  publication  of  the  dis- 
patches.    But  it  was  ordered  otherwise. 

The  State  of  the  Senate  is  not  improved  for  the  next  Congress. 
In  N.  Hampshire  Livermore  is  re-elected.  This  has  put  him  in 
some  what  better  humour.  In  Massachusetts  you  know  the  altera- 
tion. It  certainly  is  not  worse.  In  New  York  Watson  is  more 
firm  &  stable,  so  far  as  I  have  yet  been  able  to  observe,  than  I 
had  thought  him.  In  New  Jersey  Dayton,  now  furiously  federal 
&  antijacobin,  replaces  Stockton  one  of  the  most  trustworthy  men 
in  our  Country.  He  could  not  be  prevailed  upon  to  continue — I 
believe  could  not  well  afford  it.  Rutherfurd  firm,  decided,  hon- 
orable &  intelligent  is  afflicted  with  an  inveterate  rheumatism,  & 
has  resigned.  A  successor  is  to  be  chosen  this  week  &  it  is  said 
that  either  General  Dickinson  or  Doctr.  Elmer  will  be  the  man. 


516  RUFUS  KING.  [1799 

You  know  them  both.  Ross  in  this  State  is  a  candidate  for  the 
government  and  I  hope  will  prevail  ;  but  I  need  not  say  to  you 
that  he  will  be  a  serious  loss  to  the  Senate.  In  Delaware  an 
Election  will  be  made  this  week  to  supply  the  vacancy.  The 
Candidates  are  all  good.  Tazewell  in  Virginia  is  reelected.  In 
N.  Carolina  Governor  Martin,  always  theoretically  right,  tho' 
generally  practically  wrong,  is  replaced  by  Franklin  a  furious  but 
feeble  Jacobin.  Hunter  from  S.  Carolina,  who  in  the  modern 
language  of  our  country,  had  from  the  pride  of  being  in  good 
company  "  turned  about,"  is  succeeded  by  Charles  Pinckney. 
Gunn  gives  us  hopes  of  a  reformation  in  Georgia,  but  Baldwin, 
who  has  lost  his  election  as  a  member  of  the  house,  will  I  fear  be 
chosen.     So  much  for  the  Senate. 

In  the  house  of  Representatives  there  is  on  the  whole  an 
amelioration.  In  the  New  England  States  there  will  not  be  more 
than  two  antifederalists.  One  of  these  may  be  Lyon,  but  of  that 
election  we  as  yet  have  had  no  authentic  information,  and  the  ac- 
count in  the  papers  of  his  election  is  only  the  result  of  conjecture. 
In  New  York  the  election  is  against  us  in  the  proportion  of  six  to 
four.  By  districting  New  Jersey  the  opposition  has  obtained  two 
members — In  this  State  they  are  eight  to  five. — In  Delaware  they 
have  again  chosen  Mr.  Bayard,  a  young  Gentleman  of  great  re- 
spectability. In  Maryland  our  old  tried  friend  Hindman  has  lost 
his  election  and  they  give  us  now  five  on  the  side  of  the  govern- 
ment to  three  against  it.  In  North  Carolina  they  want  seven  for, 
to  three  against  us  ;  and  in  S.  Carolina  &  Georgia  all  but  one 
right.  But  in  these  three  last  states  several  are  counted,  who  have 
been  lately  converted,  and  as  they  are  not  well  established  in  the 
faith  and  in  good  works,  they  may  fall  from  grace.  In  Virginia 
there  is  every  reason  to  believe  the  spirit  of  opposition  is  every 
day  growing  more  &  more  rancorous.  In  that  state  it  has 
always  been  the  policy  to  keep  the  members  in  subjection,  and 
therefore  they  have  not  elected  the  members  of  the  house,  untill 
the  month  of  March,  and  after  their  term  of  service  had  expired. 
The  legislature  is  now  in  session,  and  it  is  in  contemplation  to 
provide  for  the  election  of  their  members,  for  the  next  Congress, 
by  a  general  ticket ;  from  an  apprehension  that  otherwise  some, 
not  friends  to  their  kind  of  Liberty,  may  be  elected.  I  am  not 
acquainted  with  the  characters  of  the  majority  of  their  Legisla- 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  517 

ture,  but  they  must  be  men  bold  and  adventurous  indeed,  or 
rendered  desperate  by  faction,  if  they  dare  adopt  a  measure,  so 
little  consonant  to  their  circumstances,  and  so  opposed  to  the 
general  tendency  of  their  democratic  doctrines.  Should  they, 
however,  do  it,  I  entertain  no  doubt,  that  it  will  produce  the  in- 
tended effect — a  solid  homogeneous  column  in  opposition  to  Gov- 
ernment ;  but  I  believe,  ultimately,  it  would  ruin  its  authors.  In 
any  event  we  may,  I  believe,  promise  ourselves  that  the  next  house 
will,  at  least,  possess  as  much  firmness,  as  much  principle,  and  as 
much  talents,  as  the  present. 

Notwithstanding  the  plunder  of  our  commerce,  and  notwith- 
standing a  real  pressure  which  has  been  occasioned  by  it,  and  the 
still  greater  which  has  resulted  from  the  failure  of  those  wild 
speculations  which  have  pervaded  every  part  of  our  country,  & 
more  particularly  the  eastern  states,  our  finances  still  remain  solid 
&  productive — We  have  an  annual  surplus  of  revenue,  exceeding 
two  millions  and  a  half,  beyond  permanent  appropriations.  This 
is,  and  by  monied  men  &  institutions  will  be  deemed,  ample  se- 
curity for  loans  ;  and  the  one  to  be  opened  in  February  will,  I 
have  no  doubt,  immediately  fill.  The  terms  offered  8  per  cent  & 
a  limited  irredeemability  are  certainly  high,  but  the  necessity  of 
obtaining  the  subscriptions  promptly,  and  the  present  high  market 
rate  of  Interest,  from  causes  which  you  perfectly  comprehend,  in 
my  opinion  justify  the  measure. 

Since  writing  the  above  poor  Tazewell  has  died  suddenly.  The 
government  will  derive  no  benefit  from  this,  because  there  is  no 
chance  of  getting  a  good  man  from  that  State.  We  are  told  that 
either  Monroe,  Madison  or  Nicholas,  a  brother  of  the  Representa- 
tive of  that  name,  and  whom  the  Virginians  represent  as  a  man  of 
talents,  will  be  chosen.  I  hope  the  first,  from  reasons  which  you 
will  understand. 

The  legislature  of  Virginia  has  abandoned  the  project  of  elect- 
ing their  representatives  by  a  general  ticket.  Our  friend  from 
that  state  tells  us  this  was  occasioned  by  a  conviction  that,  in  the 
event  contemplated,  the  whole  representation  would  have  been 
federal — I  cannot  believe  so  well  of  the  disposition  of  the  state, 
but  imagine  their  conduct  was  the  result  of  the  dread  of  the  loss 
of  popularity.  John  Taylor,  the  former  Senator,  has  brought  for- 
ward in  the  house  of  Representatives  of  that  state,  an  address  to 


5  1 8  R  UFUS  KING.  [l799 

the  people  on  the  subject  of  the  measures  of  the  national  govern- 
ment, particularly  the  alien  &  sedition  Laws,  which  will  doubtless 
pass  both  houses  and  is  little  short  of  a  declaration  of  war. 

Since  writing  the  former  part  of  this  letter,  Mr.  Wells  of  whose 
talents  and  decided  federalism,  those  acquainted  with  him  speak 
handsomely,  is  elected  a  Senator  from  Delaware  in  the  stead  of 
Mr.  Clayton — The  election  in  New  Jersey  has  not  yet  taken 
place. 

You  have  seen  an  account  of  the  motion  of  Mr.  Griswold,  oc- 
casioned by  the  mission  of  Citizen  Logan,  and  of  the  debates  & 
bill  to  which  it  gave  rise.     It  has  passed  the  Senate — Bloodworth 

6  Langdon  only  dissenting.  As  well  the  policy  as  the  utility  of 
this  measure  might,  in  my  judgment,  have  been  originally  doubt- 
ful, yet  after  it  became  a  question  of  party  there  was  no  hesitation 
that  it  ought  to  have  been  supported. 

The  majority  of  the  commissioners  on  the  6th  arte,  of  the 
British  treaty  are  outrageous  in  their  decisions.  It  is  impossible 
in  this  letter  to  enter  into  the  detail,  but  it  is  to  be  feared  that  it 
will  become  indispensable  on  the  part  of  the  minority,  (Fitzsimons 
&  Sitgreaves)  to  secede.  This  will  afford  to  you  a  subject  of  un- 
pleasant discussion,  but  I  confide  in  it  that  the  British  government 
has  too  much  wisdom  not  to  perceive  her  interests,  and  too  much 
justice  to  give  support  to  the  extravagance  of  her  agents. 

The  object  of  the  present  session  of  Congress  will  be  to  "  in- 
vigorate "  the  systems  adopted  at  the  last  :  perhaps  it  is  not  go- 
ing too  far  to  say  that  our  consideration  ought  to  have  been, 
exclusively  confined  to  those.  We  ought,  however,  to  have  con- 
sidered an  increase  of  revenue  as  a  principal  cause  of  this  invigora- 
tion,  but  in  this  opinion  few  of  our  friends  in  the  house  concur. 
The  army  &  navy  must  be  attended  to — In  regard  to  the  former, 
the  conduct  of  the  executive  has  been  astonishingly  dilatory — As 
yet  not  a  single  inlisting  order  has  been  issued.  It  will  not  be 
expedient,  at  present,  to  increase  the  numbers,  but  authority 
ought  to  be  given  to  the  President  to  raise  a  provisional  army,, 
the  act,  which  passed  the  last  session,  for  that  purpose  having, 
expired  at  the  commencement  of  this.  As  to  the  Navy  it  ought 
to  be  increased  exactly  in  proportion  to  our  utmost  ability. 

Your  friend, 

Theodore  Sedgwick. 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  519 

R.  King  to  A.  Hamilton.  * 

London,  January  21st,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

We  have  the  New  York  papers  to  the  15th  ulto.  These  con- 
tain the  speeches  as  well  as  the  answers  of  the  two  Houses.  All 
seems  intended  for  the  best,  but  it  gives  me  an  ill  idea  abroad  of 
our  zeal,  to  find  that  our  army,  decreed  so  many  months  since,  re- 
mained to  be  raised.  The  difficulty  and  time  necessary  to  find 
suitable  officers,  reminds  one  of  the  like  impediments  which  pre- 
ceded the  appointment  of  Monroe  to  Paris.  I  hope  the  results 
will  differ. 

I  am  entirely  disposed,  indeed  resolved,  to  treat  the  subject  as 
the  good  principles  of  all  concerned  merit,  but  I  can't  conceal 
from  you  my  very  great  apprehension  that  too  much  is  left  to  the 
chance  and  influence  of  intrigue  and  diplomatic  skill.  In  the 
light  in  which  I  alone  can  see  the  views  of  France,  there  seems 
to  be  no  secure  alternative,  and  the  sooner  we  say  so  and  act,  the 
less  will  be  our  danger. 

For  God's  sake,  attend  to  the  very  interesting  subject  treated  of 
in  my  ciphered  dispatches  to  the  Secretary  of  State  of  the  10th, 
1 8th,  and  19th  instant.f  Connect  it,  as  it  should  be,  with  the 
main  object,  the  time  to  accomplish  which  has  arrived.  Without 
superstition,  Providence  seems  to  have  prepared  the  way,  and  to 
have  pointed  out  the  instruments  of  its  will.  Our  children  will 
reproach  us  if  we  neglect  our  duty,  and  humanity  will  escape 
many  scourges  if  we  act  with  wisdom  and  decision.  I  am  more 
confirmed  than  before,  that  an  efficient  force  will  be  confederated 
to  act  against  France.  The  combination  is  not  yet  completed,  but, 
as  I  have  reason  to  believe,  will  soon  be. 

That  will  be  the  moment  for  us  to  settle  upon  immutable  foun- 
dations the  extensive  system  of  the  American  nation.  Who  can 
hinder  us  ?  One  nation  alone  has  the  power  ;  and  she  will  co- 
operate in  the  accomplishment  in  South  America  of  what  has  so 
well  been  done  in  North. 

P.  S.     Mr.  Church  knows  very  well  Col.  Maitland. 

*  Works  of  Hamilton,  vi.,  389. 

f  loth  January  (No.  17).  No.  18,  14th  January  ;  No.  19,  16th  January. 
In  connection  with  the  St.  Domingo  question,  the  Miranda  project  is  probably 
here  referred  to. — Editor. 


520  RUFUS  KING.  [i799 

Lord  Grenville  to  R.  King. 

Most  Secret. 

Cleveland  Row,  Jany.  20,  1799. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

No  apology  was  necessary  ;   you  know  the  pleasure  with  which 

I  communicate  to  you  whatever  may  be  useful  to  your  Govt,  to 

know,  particularly  when  it  is  good  news  ;  but  keep  our  secret 

here — We  are  on  the  point,  as  I  trust,  of  concluding  a  Convention 

with  Russia  for  the  march  of  a  second  &  much  larger  army,  & 

our  expectations  in  other  quarters  are  certainly  better,  tho'  not 

yet  {even yet)  decisive. 

Ever  most  truly  yrs. 

G. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State.     No.  22. 

London,  Jany.  21,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

All  the  mails  are  received.  With  the  last,  Couriers  arrived 
from  Petersburgh  and  Berlin.  In  consequence  of  Dispatches  just 
received*  from  the  Continent,  England  is  on  the  point  of  concluding 
a  Convention  with  Russia  for  the  march  of  a  second  6°  much  larger 
army,  and  the  Expectations  of  this  Govt,  in  other  quarters  are  cer- 
tainly better,  tho''  not  yet  decisive.  Consider  this  as  authentic,  though 
secret.  Russia  would  not  march  a  second  army,  unless  assured  that 
the  Emperor,  or  Prussia,  or  both  would  join  them. 

With  perfect  Respect  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

Mr.  Dandridge,  of  Virginia,  had  been  acting  as  Secretary 
for  Mr.  King,  but  having  expressed  a  desire  to  take  a  com- 
mission in  the  Troops  to  be  raised  in  1798-9,  was  nominated 
and  appointed  to  a  commission.  Mr.  Pickering  in  a  private 
letter,  dated  Jany.  20,  1799,  under  these  circumstances  wrote 
to  Mr.  King,  to  ask  him  to  receive  his  son,  John  Pickering, 
in  his  place,  he  being  at  that  time  with  Mr.  Smith,  U.  S. 
Minister  at  Lisbon,  by  whom  he  was  highly  appreciated,  and 

*  Italics  in  cipher. 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  52 1 

who  had  "  manifested  an  esteem  and  attachment  honorable 
to  my  [his]  son."  Mr.  Pickering  after  speaking  of  his  char- 
acter and  qualifications,  says  : 

"  He  had  begun  to  study  the  law,  when  it  was  proposed  to  me 
to  let  him  accompany  Mr.  Smith.  I  felt  a  reluctance  to  interrupt 
studies  which  were  to  form  the  basis  of  his  pursuit  for  life  ;  having 
long  since  determined  to  bring  up  my  sons  to  some  employment 
suited  to  their  capacities  and  dispositions  by  which  they  might 
support  themselves  and  families  independently  without  any  public 
expectations — But  for  public  employments,  a  previous  study  of 
the  law  is  highly  useful." 

As  his  son  had  been  nearly  two  years  with  Mr.  Smith,  Mr. 
Pickering  had  thought  of  ordering  him  home  to  resume  his 
studies,  when,  observing  that  Mr.  King  was 

"  likely  ere  long  to  be  without  a  secretary,  it  occurred  to  me 
that  could  he  be  placed  in  that  office,  it  would  gratify  him,  be 
imcomparablymore  useful  than  a  longer  residence  at  Lisbon,  and 
at  the  same  time  procure  to  you  as  diligent,  as  able  and  as  faithful 
a  secretary  as  you  would  anywhere  find.  .  .  .  Without  mean- 
ing to  be  importunate,  I  cannot  withhold  an  assurance  to  you,  that 
I  know  not  any  circumstance  which  could  give  me  so  much  satis- 
faction as  to  have  my  son  spend  a  year  with  you  in  London — 
because  he  is  indeed  an  excellent  young  man.  This  is  not  the 
effusion  of  a  father's  fond  affection  but  the  testimony  of  all  who 
know  him."  * 


R.  King  to  Wm.  Wickham. 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  Jany.  21,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Martin,  to  whom  the  enclosed  letter  is  addressed,  is  Miranda, 

and  Quatremere  whose  nom  de  guerre  is  subscribed  to  it  was  a 

member  of  the  Council  of  Five  hundred,   and  of  the  number 

ordered  to  be  banished  at  the  Revolution  of  the  4.  September 

*  See  Mr.  King's  answer  to  this  and  other  letters  on  the  same  subject,  March 
16,  1799. 


522  RUFUS  KING.  [*799 

1797.  Since  that  period  he  has  remained  in  concealment  at 
Paris.  The  late  Decree,  applying  the  Laws  respecting  Emigrants 
to  the  victims  of  the  4th  of  September,  who  shall  not  within  a 
limited  time  surrender  themselves  &  submit  to  banishment,  has 
obliged  Quatrem£re  to  quit  France  and  to  seek  an  asylum  here. 
I  have  reason  to  believe  him  to  be  an  honest  man,  and  that  his 
principles  are  good  considering  where  they  were  formed. 

He  will  bring  us  pretty  exact  and  recent  information  respecting 
the  situation  of  France  ;  and  if  you  see  no  special  reasons  to  the 
contrary,  I  shall  be  obliged  to  you  to  give  instructions  to  your 
officer  at  Yarmouth,  to  permit  him  to  come  to  London,  where  he 
desires  to  reside.  He  seems  to  prefer  to  keep  his  assumed  name  ; 
if  however  you  have  any  rule  on  that  point,  his  gratification  in 
this  respect  can  be  of  no  importance.  Be  so  obliging  as  to  give 
me  your  answer  in  season  to  write  by  the  mail  of  tomorrow.  I 
have  an  interest  in  seeing  this  character  that  leads  me  to  this 
application. 

With  great  truth,  &c,  &c, 

Rufus  King. 


T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

Department  of  State,  Jany.  22,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

...  In  my  letter  of  8th  I  promised  to  send  you  the  official  re- 
port of  Capt.  Phillips,  as  soon  as  it  should  be  received,  in  reference 
to  the  outrage  of  Capt.  Loring  on  the  U.  States  Ship  Baltimore. 
But  I  find  it  is  not  necessary  ;  it  is  a  detail  of  his  own  pusilani- 
mous  conduct,  so  disgraceful  to  himself  and  unworthy  an  officer 
in  the  American  Navy,  that  in  consequence  of  his  own  statement 
of  the  facts  the  President  has  dismissed  him  from  the  service. 
He  suffered  some  British  Lieutenants  to  take  the  command  of  his 
own  ship  ;  on  their  requisition  he  gave  them  a  list  of  his  crew, 
and  called  them  up  to  answer  to  their  names,  and  to  the  enquiries 
of  these  British  officers  !  He  suffered  55  of  his  men,  to  be  taken 
away  by  Capt.  Loring's  boats,  without  any  resistance.  When 
50  of  these  had  been  returned,  and  a  Lieutenant  of  the  Thunderer 
by  Captain  Loring's  orders,  demanded  the  delivery  of  four  others, 
whom  he  called  British  subjects,  and  Capt.  Phillips  told  the  officer 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  523 

that  he  should  not  consent  to  their  being  taken  from  him,  the 
officer  desisted  and  went  away  because  he  would  not  use  any  force. 
This  demonstrates  that  if  Captain  Phillips  had  at  first  declared 
that  if  any  were  taken,  it  should  only  be  by  a  superior  force 
actually  exerted,  none  would  have  been  impressed. 

This  easiness  and  pusilanimity  of  Capt.  Phillips,  however, 
will  not  justify  Captain  Loring.  Before  he  proposed  an  exchange, 
he  dema?ided  of  Capt.  Phillips  and  told  him  he  would  take  all  who 
had  not  protections,  and  he  sent  his  boats  and  took  them  accord- 
ingly and  surrounded  by  three  ships  of  the  line  and  some  frigates, 
Captain  Phillips  submitted  to  the  outrage. 

To  the  information  in  my  letter  of  the  8th,  I  have  now  to  add 
the  further  direction  of  the  President,  that  you  make  application 
to  the  British  Government  for  the  five  men  taken  and  detained  by 
Captain  Loring.     .     .     . 

Mr.  Liston  informs  me  that  he  has  written  to  Sir  Hyde  Parker, 
who  is  chief  in  command  of  the  British  naval  force  in  the  West 
Indies,  representing  the  impropriety  of  taking  even  known  British 
subjects  from  public  armed  vessels  of  the  United  States  ;  remark- 
ing that  the  right  of  doing  it,  if  it  exists  at  all,  must  be  reciprocal  ; 
but  to  the  exercise  of  which  right  no  British  Naval  Commander 
would  submit. 


R.  Troup  to  R.  King. 

New  York,  23  January,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  Since  the  meeting  of  Congress  nothing  important  has 
occurred.  The  President's  speech  and  the  answers  of  the  two 
houses  you  have  before  this  seen.  Nothing  will  be  done  towards 
accommodation  with  France  until  she  makes  our  government  an 
assurance  that  she  will  respect  the  rights  of  embassy  and  receive 
a  minister  from  us  with  due  honor.  On  this  part  of  our  Presi- 
dent's speech  our  friends  in  Philadelphia  were  divided.  Some 
thought  that  we  should  wait  for  a  Minister  from  France  ;  but  the 
President  thought  differently. 

Our  government  is  opening  a  new  loan  at  8  per  cent,  which 
does  not  seem  to  be  relished.  It  is  universally  thought  the  money 
wanted  will  be  subscribed  in  less  than  half  an  hour.      The  in- 


524  RUFUS  KING.  [l799 

terest  is  complained  of ;  I  fear  in  Europe  it  will  look  like  the  giv- 
ing of  two  per  cent  a  month  by  an  individual. 

Our  army  is  progressing  but  slowly.  ...  I  think  the  great 
naval  victories  of  Great  Britain  have  tended  powerfully  to  dimin- 
ish our  ardor,  and  to  bring  on  a  languor  fatal  to  all  our  energies. 
.  .  .  Our  Navy  is  increasing  and  growing  respectable.  There  is 
every  appearance  that  it  will  be  a  favorite  and  popular  object  of 
the  government.     .     .     . 

The  proposition  for  amending  the  Constitution  by  excluding 
aliens  from  a  seat  in  Congress,  has  been  rejected  by  our  Legisla- 
ture now  in  session.  Burr  has  made  a  speech,  which  is  published 
in  the  Aurora  on  this  question.  He  contends  that  the  only 
instances  of  corruption  we  have  had  are  a  corruption  in  our  own 
countrymen.  Foreigners  amongst  us  have  always  been  virtuous, 
honorable  and  faithful  servants  of  the  public.     .     .     . 

More  business  in  the  mercantile  line  has  never  been  done  in 
this  city  than  has  been  done  since  November.  Insurance  has 
fallen  50  per  cent ;  this  agreeable  change  is  ascribed  to  our  Navy 
which  has  rendered  our  commerce  more  secure.     .     .     . 

When  General  Washington  was  in  Philadelphia,  he  was  in  per- 
fect health  and  his  mind  was  thought  to  be  as  alert  as  ever.  Since 
he  left  Philadelphia  we  have  had  a  report  of  his  death — but  thank 
God  it  has  proved  to  be  groundless — He  is  not  even  sick — The 
shock  this  report  gave,  I  cannot  describe.     .     .     . 

Adieu, 

Robt.  Troup. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State.     No.  23. 

London,  Jany.  25,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Col.  Maitland  is  a  character  that  I*  think  well  chosen  for  the 
business  that  carries  him  to  Philada.  All  his  family,  which  is  Scotch, 
are  remarkable  for  their  talents  and  independence.  The  Colo,  was 
a  member  of  the  last  Parlia??ient  and  with  his  brother,  Lord  Lauder- 
dale, in  opposition. 

In  a  conversation  that  I  had  with  him  he  appeared  to  be  con- 
vinced of  the  force  of  the  objections  that  we  should  offer  to  the 

*  Italics  in  cipher. 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  525 

Project  first  proposed  by  Ld.  GrenvilU  and  also  of  the  necessity  of 
concerted  measures  between  us  and  this  country.  He  went  very  far 
upon  this  point,  and  as  his  Powers,  or  rather  those  given  to  Mr. 
Liston,  {for  Col.  M aitland  will  have  no  public  character)  are  very 
full,  I  am  greatly  in  hopes  that  an  adjust??ient  will  be  made  that  will 
be  satisfactory  in  the  present  case  and  open  the  way  to  future  and 
beneficial  Regulations  respecting  the  West  Indies.  What  is  now  done, 
should  have  in  view,  and  if  possible  should  be  so  settled  as  to  assist 
what  hereafter  must  be  done.  Colojiel  M aitland  is  well  acquainted 
with  Mr.  Liston,  and  from  peculiar  circumstances  will  be  likely  to 
have  much  influence  with  him. 

We  have  just  received  the  President's  speech.  The  king  who 
had  before  more  than  once  asked  me  whether  it  had  yet  arrived, 
told  me  yesterday  that  he  had  read  it  and  that  he  found  it  an  able 
and  excellent  speech.  This  opinion  is  expressed  by  every  one, 
and  our  national  reputation  is  daily  increased  by  the  steady  and 
dignified  conduct  of  our  Government. 

I  have  not  heard  that  any  of  our  Ships  have  made  use  of  Cer- 
tificates purporting  that  no  part  of  their  cargoes  was  of  the  growth 
or  fabric  of  the  British  territories.  Some  Danish  or  Swedish  ships, 
lately  detained  by  the  English  cruizers  are  provided  with  Certifi- 
cates of  this  sort  ;  indeed  the  merchants  and  navigators  of  their 
Nation,  appear  to  conform  to  the  Regulations  from  time  to  time 
made  by  France  respecting  the  Commerce  &  Navigation  of  Neu- 
tral Nations. 

In  a  late  trial  of  these  detained  Ships,  the  Judge  of  the  High 
Court  of  Admiralty  took  notice  of  the  French  Decree  respecting 
British  Productions  and  manufactures  belonging  to  Neutrals  and 
laden  upon  Neutral  ships,  spoke  of  it  as  a  violation  of  the  essen- 
tial maxims  of  the  Law  of  Nations,  intimated  that  an  acquiescence 
in  it  by  Neutral  Nations  appeared  unfriendly  to  England  as  well 
as  humiliating  to  themselves,  and  that  Certificates  granted  by 
French  Consuls  resident  in  Neutral  Countries  declaring  that  no 
part  of  the  Cargoes  of  Ships  laden  in  such  Countries  was  of  British 
production  or  fabric,  afforded  a  presumption  that  such  Cargo  be- 
longed to  France  or  to  her  citizens.  After  this  intimation  it  is  not 
improbable  that  vessels  provided  with  such  certificates  will  be  de- 
tained and  sent  in  for  adjudication.  On  the  other  hand  France 
adheres  to  her  Decrees,  and  our  vessels  are  captured  because 


526  RUFUS  KING.  [1799 

their  Passports  or  Roles  d'Equipages  do  not  conform  to  the  law 
of  March  1797,  and  upon  the  pretence  that  their  Cargoes  are 
wholly  or  partly  of  English  fabric  or  production. 

Several  of  our  Tobacco  and  other  valuable  ships  have  lately 
been  taken  and  upon  one  pretence  or  another  all  vessels  met  by 
French  Privateers  &  which  are  unable  to  defend  themselves  are 
captured  ;  and  it  is  nearly  or  quite  two  years  since  I  have  heard 
of  the  discharge  of  any  American  Ship  sent  into  a  French  Port  as 
Prize.  Upon  our  own  Coasts  &  in  the  West  Indies,  the  Privateers 
have  decreased,  but  they  have  during  the  winter  increased  in  the 
North  Sea,  the  Bay  of  Biscay  and  about  the  Western  Islands. 

The  Privateers  are  nourished  by  the  capture  of  Neutral  Prop- 
erty. The  Trade  of  England  sails  in  fleets  and  under  Convoy 
and  in  this  way  is  essentially  protected.  Why  should  we  not 
collect  our  Rice  and  Tobacco  Ships  and  send  them  to  market 
under  our  own  convoy  ?  We  see  that  the  English  East  and  West 
India  Trade  isScarry'd  on  in  fleets  which  are  convoyed  in  safety  to 
their  Ports  of  discharge.  More  time  is  requisite  to  perform  the 
voyage,  but  a  much  less  premium  insures  the  ship  and  cargo,  and 
the  measure  would  be  no  inconsiderable  national  saving. 

Should  any  of  our  Frigates  come  to  Europe,  and  touch  at  any 
of  the  English  Ports,  I  think  by  no  means  improbable  that  we 
could  obtain  the  discharge  of  the  American  seamen  who  have 
been  taken  in  French  Privateers  and  are  confined  here  as  prisoners 
of  war.  They  are  upwards  of  an  hundred  and  perhaps  double 
that  number. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  John  Adams,  President  of  the  United  States. 

London,  Jany.  26,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  had  some  weeks  past  the  pleasure  of  receiving  your  Letter  of 
the  16th  October.  The  Enclosure  was  immediately  forwarded, 
tho'  from  the  obstructions  which  interrupted  the  Passage  to  Ham- 
burg, I  fear  it  was  a  long  time  on  its  way  to  Berlin.  We  are  still 
uncertain  what  is  to  be  the  Situation  of  Europe  during  the  ap- 
proaching summer  ;  on  this  topic  I  must  refer  to  my  Dispatches 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  $2? 

to  Col.  Pickering.  It  would  be  hardly  decent  to  express  what  I 
think  of  the  weakness,  corruption  &  indecision  of  most  of  the 
Continental  Govts.  The  aristocracies  are  as  unwise  and  as  base 
as  their  Princes  ;  and  if  Europe  shall  be  rescued  from  the  Bar- 
barism, with  which  Philosophy  is  about  to  overrun  it,  it  will  be 
effected  by  the  moderation  &  virtues  of  the  People,  who  in  Spain, 
Italy  &  throughout  Germany  are  less  guilty,  &  more  meritorious 
than  their  Magistrates  and  Rulers.  This  is  a  melancholy  pros- 
pect, and  one  that  may  appal,  tho'  it  ought  not  to  discourage,  the 
boldest  minds.  The  firmness,  the  courage  and  the  resources  of 
England,  joined  to  the  docility  of  the  people  and  the  wonderful 
ease  with  which  the  Laws  are  adapted  to  the  new  and  dangerous 
condition  of  surrounding  circumstances,  are  the  highest  Eulogium 
of  its  Constitution,  afford  a  rational  Hope  of  ultimate  security 
and  confirm  what  is  so  well  proved  in  the  best  work  that  has 
been  written  upon  the  intricate  subject  of  Government. 

Amidst  this  mighty  storm,  it  is  my  greatest  pleasure,  and  the 
source  of  the  most  gratifying  Pride,  to  mark  the  increasing  atten- 
tion with  which  Europe  continues  to  observe  and  applaud  the 
able  and  dignified  Administration  of  the  American  Government, 
— which  in  its  open  &  manly  proceedings  towards  France  has 
not  only  done  much  for  its  own  Security,  but  more  for  that  of 
Europe  than  many  portions  of  it  have  had  the  courage  or  wisdom 
to  do  for  themselves.  This  language  is  involuntary,  for  every- 
where throughout  Europe,  strong  tho'  ill  founded  prejudices 
existed  against  us  and  our  Institutions.* 

With  unfeigned  Respect  &  attachment,  I  am,  &c. 

R.  King. 

*  J.  Adams  to  T.  Pickering,  Secretary  of  State. 

Quincy,  13th  Ap.,  99. 

I  regret  I  cannot  have  an  opportunity  of  receiving  Genl.  Maitland  and 
Colonel  Grant,  and  conversing  with  them  on  several  subjects  of  importance. 
I  hope  Mr.  King's  public  dispatches  to  you  were  written  in  better 
spirits  than  his  private  letter  to  me  (probably  Jany.  26  p.  29).  You  will  please 
return  it  to  me.  Mr.  King  was,  you  know,  at  times  a  little  subject  to  croak- 
ing. I  fear,  however,  in  this  case  he  has  too  much  reason.  The  people  of 
Europe  see  little  difference  between  the  new  and  old  state  of  things.  The 
highest  and  lowest  of  mankind  are  desperately  corrupt  and  wicked,  and  the 
middling  people  are  almost  destroyed. 


CHAPTER  XXXII. 

King  to  Secretary  of  State — Neapolitans  beaten  in  every  Quarter — Union  of 
Great  Britain  and  Ireland  considered — To  General  Maitland — His  Mission 
should  be  no  Misunderstanding  between  England  and  United  States — King 
to  Lord  Grenville — Will  England  receive  the  Construction  of  France  as 
conclusive  on  the  Points  in  which  France  and  United  States  disagree  ? — 
Shows  the  Wrong  of  such  a  Decision — Secretary  of  State  to  King — Presi- 
dent approves  his  Interposition  to  prevent  the  Emigration  of  the  Irish 
Traitors  to  the  United  States — Difficulties  with  Commissioners  under  the 
6th  Article — Act  of  Congress  against  French  Privateers — King  nominated 
as  Commissioner  to  make  a  commercial  Treaty  with  Russia — Cabot — 
Troubles  with  the  Commissioners  under  6th  Article — Confidence  in  R. 
King  to  act  wisely — Secretary  of  State  to  King — Virginia  Resolutions  dis- 
approved of — King  to  Dundas  on  the  East  India  Trade  and  his  Answer — 
To  R.  Varick — Counterfeit  Notes — Cabot  to  King — Effect  of  Conduct  of 
France — Speculations  on  commercial  Relations — Affairs  in  the  United 
States — Truxton  captures  LTnsurgente — Scarcity  of  Copper  prevents  the 
Sale  of  it  to  the  United  States. 

R.  King  to  the  Secretary  of  State.     No.  24. 

London,  Jany.  27,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Letters  were  yesterday  received  from  Adml.  Nelson,  dated 
Naples  Bay  Deer,  the  2 2d,  which  state  that  the  Neapolitan  Army 
is  beaten  in  every  quarter,  that  the  cowardice  of  the  soldiery  is 
only  equalled  by  the  Treachery  of  the  officers,  that  the  King  & 
Queen  with  the  British  Ambassador  Sir  Wm.  Hamilton  have  es- 
caped and  were  on  board  the  Admiral's  Ship  on  their  way  to 
Palermo  in  Sicily.  Genl.  Mack  was  at  Capua  &  Naples  in  the 
hands  of  the  French.  Thus  all  Italy,  excepting  Tuscany,  which 
will  not  escape,  especially  as  Leghorn  has  lately  been  occupied 
by  the  Neapolitans  protected  by  the  Br.  fleet,  is  completely  in 

528 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  529 

the  Power,  and  its  wealth  &  resources  entirely  at  the  disposal  of 
the  Directory.  It  does  not  appear  that  the  least  effort  was  made 
by  Austria  to  assist  Naples  ;  the  Casus  Foederis  it  is  alleged  did 
not  exist.  The  Conquest  of  Italy  in  itself  is  a  most  important 
Event,  but  the  influence  of  these  rapid  Successes  will  exceed  all 
calculation,  on  the  one  hand  in  dissipating  the  effects  of  the  late 
naval  victories  of  England,  and  by  animating  &  hastening  the 
new  Levies  of  France  ;  and  on  the  other  by  increasing  the  hesita- 
tion of  Austria  &  Russia,  and  adding  to  the  embarrassments 
which  retard  the  projected  Confederacy. 

The  subject  of  an  Union  has  been  brought  before  the  Parlia- 
ments of  G.  Britain  and  Ireland  ;  in  the  former  an  answer  to  the 
King's  Message  has  been  voted  without  division  engaging  to  take 
the  subject  into  consideration  ;  in  the  latter  the  address  to  the 
same  effect  in  answer  to  the  Soeech  of  the  Lord  Lieutenant  was 

A. 

carried  in  the  House  of  Commons  only  by  106  against  105  Votes. 
This,  I  presume,  is  an  unexpected  Division.  What  will  be  the 
next  step  I  can  only  conjecture.  The  Minister  here  stands  pub- 
lickly  pledged  to  pursue  the  measure  until  it  shall  be  crowned 
with  compleat  success.  At  present  perhaps  nothing  further  will 
be  attempted  in  Ireland  ;  but  the  Plan  will  I  think  be  laid  before 
the  Br.  Parliament,  where  its  advantages  as  well  to  Ireland  as  to 
the  Empire  being  fully  discussed  and  laid  open,  may  become  the 
Foundation  of  a  renewed  attempt  with  the  present  or  a  future 
Irish  Parliament. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  General  Maitland. 

London,  Jany.  27,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  cannot  omit  the  opportunity  before  your  departure  to  express 
to  you  the  satisfaction  that  I  feel  in  your  going  to  Philadelphia. 
The  Business  that  carries  you  there  in  itself  is  of  considerable  im- 
portance, but  taken  in  connection  with  the  harmony  and  friendly 
intercourse  that  so  happily  subsist  between  our  two  Countries,  and 
which  it  is  so  much  the  wish  of  both  to  preserve  and  to  perpetu- 
ate, the  subject  becomes  ten   fold  more  interesting  ;    and  it  is 

VOL.  II. — 34 


530  RUFUS  KING.  [*799 

principally  in  this  latter  view  that  I  think  it  truly  fortunate  that 
the  questions  which  shall  arise  in  the  course  of  your  discussions 
are  certain  to  receive  an  equitable,  as  well  as  an  unprejudiced  and 
liberal  decision.  The  late  news  from  Italy,  the  whole  of  which 
except  Tuscany  is  in  the  possession  of  the  French,  will  on  the 
one  hand  serve  to  diminish  the  Influence  of  the  late  naval  Vic- 
tories of  this  Country  and  to  hasten  and  animate  the  new  Levies 
of  France  ;  while  on  the  other,  it  will  increase  the  Doubts  and 
indecision  of  Austria  and  Prussia,  and  raise  up  fresh  embarrass- 
ments against  the  projected  Confederacy.  Without  stopping  to 
inquire  where  all  this  will  end,  does  not  the  present  situation  of 
Europe  eminently  strengthen  and  confirm  the  Policy  of  removing 
as  soon,  and  as  effectually  as  possible,  every  cause  of  future  mis- 
understanding and  jealousy  between  Gr.  Britain  &  the  U.  States  ? 
I  am  truly  happy  in  believing  that  this  must  be  your  opinion  ;  and 
in  this  way  I  derive  some  consolation  from  those  disasters  which 
cannot  fail  to  excite  our  commiseration  and  Regret. 

With  the  most  perfect  Respect  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Lord  Grenville. 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  February  4,  1799. 
My  Lord  : 

I  persuade  myself  that  your  Lordship  will  feel  the  Equity  of 
our  Expectations  in  respect  to  the  Subject  of  the  enclosed  Note. 
Precedents  are  conclusively  applicable  only  to  cases  strictly  anal- 
ogous. We  present  a  case  without  Example,  and  therefore  not 
within  the  reach  of  Precedents.  France  asserted  a  construction 
of  a  public  Treaty  that  we  denied  ;  she  persisted  and  we  dissolved 
the  Instrument,  the  provision  of  which  she  construed  in  abuse. 

A  Question  involving  the  settlement  of  much  Property  occurs 
before  your  tribunals,  which  on  its  merits  can  only  be  decided  by 
deciding  the  Point  and  Construction  on  which  we  &  France  dis- 
agree. Will  you  receive  the  Construction  of  France  as  conclusive 
against  us  ?  What  would  have  been  proper  had  we  acquiesced  in 
&  submitted  to  the  Interpretation  given  to  the  Treaty  by  France 
is  another  point  ;  but  circumstanced  as  this  question  is,  and  with 
the  knowledge  of  the  violence  and  little  regard  to  Justice  that  un- 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  53 1 

fortunately  prevail  in  France,  and  which  no  man  can  exclude  from 
his  mind,  I  cannot  believe  that  we  are  to  be  thrown  out  of  your 
Courts,  on  the  Plea  that  respect  is  due  to  the  Decisions  of  the  Tri- 
bunals of  France  against  the  most  explicit  Denial  of  their  Justice 
and  Validity  by  us.  All  we  ask  is  that  the  facts  should  be  decided 
without  a  reference  on  the  one  hand  to  France,  or  on  the  other  to 
us.  If  the  demand  is  novel,  so  unhappily  are  the  times  in  which 
we  live  ;  and  so  much  so  indeed,  that  the  application  of  maxims 
established  upon  the  former  usages  and  ancient  faith  of  nations, 
to  occurrences  and  cases  originating  from  the  Subversion  of  these 
maxims,  would  often  defeat  instead  of  securing  the  Justice  they 
were  formed  to  support. 

In  regard  to  the  Laws  respecting  Neutral  Ships  laden  with 
articles  of  the  growth  or  fabric  of  the  British  Territories,  and  be- 
longing to  neutrals,  can  I  suppose  that  your  Courts  will  receive 
a  French  sentence  condemning  such  property  on  account  of  growth 
or  fabric,  as  conclusive  evidence  against  a  suitor,  who  comes  be- 
fore them  to  prove  the  Property  to  be  neutral  ?  Would  not  such  a 
decision  be  an  acquiescence  in  and  an  admission  of  the  Justice  of 
the  Law — and  how  can  one  sentence  be  rejected  and  another 
received  ? 

I  will  only  add  my  Desire  that  this  Subject  may  with  as  little 
Delay  as  convenient  receive  your  Lordship's  attention  as  I  am  in- 
formed that  one  or  two  of  the  Cases  in  question  are  in  a  state 
very   soon  to  be  argued  and  decided  by  the  Court   of  King's 

Bench. 

With  most  perfect  Consideration  &  Respect 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  the  Right  Honorable  Lord  Grenville. 

Copy. 

London,  February  4,  1799. 

The  undersigned  Minister  plenipotentiary  has  received  the  ex- 
press order  of  the  President  of  the  United  States  to  represent  to 
the  Government  of  his  Britannic  Majesty  that  immediately  upon 
the  breaking  out  of  the  present  war  in  Europe,  the  United  States 
in  the  most  public  and  solemn  manner  announced  their  determina- 
tion to  take  no  part  in  the  same,  but  on  the  contrary  to  observe 


532  RUFUS  KING.  [*799 

during  the  continuance  thereof  the  most  exact  and  impartial 
neutrality  ;  a  Resolution  alike  influenced  by  a  just  regard  to  the 
welfare  and  happiness  of  their  own  People  and  an  earnest  desire 
to  preserve  the  Relations  of  Peace  and  amity  which  happily  sub- 
sisted between  them  and  the  different  Nations  of  Europe. 

These  views  continued  invariably  to  regulate  the  conduct  of 
the  Amn.  Govt,  until  the  period  when  that  of  France,  unmindful 
of  the  obligation  of  Treaties,  and  disregarding  the  Rights  of  In- 
dependent and  friendly  Nations,  passed  certain  laws  injurious  to 
those  Rights  &  which  authorized  extensive  Depredations  upon 
the  Amern.  Commerce. 

The  Undersigned  refers  in  particular  to  an  Order  of  the  French 
Directory  of  the  2d  of  August  1797,  and  to  a  Law  of  the  two 
Councils  of  the  18  January  1798.  The  first  declares  liable  to 
capture  and  condemnation  as  lawful  Prizes,  all  American  Vessels 
not  provided  with  a  Role  d'Equipage  in  the  form  thereby  pre- 
scribed ;  a  Document  which  the  American  Vessels  never  pos- 
sessed, which  was  not  required  by  any  stipulation  in  the  treaties 
between  the  two  Nations,  &  which  according  to  express  Provisions 
of  such  Treaties  was  wholly  unnecessary.  The  Second,  in  viola- 
tion of  the  acknowledged  and  hitherto  universally  reed.  Law  of 
Nations,  declares  liable  to  capture  and  condemnation  all  Neutral 
Vessels  laden  wholly  or  in  part  with  articles  of  the  growth  or 
fabric  of  any  of  the  Territories  of  Great  Britain,  notwithstanding 
the  same  shall  bona  fide  belong  to  Neutrals. 

The  United  States,  whose  Commerce  became  the  Victim  of 
these  Regulations  did  not  fail  to  present  to  the  French  Govern- 
ment repeated  and  friendly  Remonstrances  against  them  ;  in 
which  they  demonstrated  their  inconsistency  with  the  stipulations 
of  existing  treaties,  refuted  the  pretended  reasons  upon  which  they 
were  alleged  to  be  founded  &  called  upon  the  Justice  of  France 
for  their  revision  and  repeal. 

This  pacific  and  friendly  course  failed  to  produce  its  natural 
and  proper  Effect  ;  and  the  U.  States,  finding  that  neither  the 
faith  of  treaties  could  restrain  the  Govt,  of  France,  nor  reasona- 
ble remonstrances  induce  a  recall  of  its  unjust  and  vexatious 
Regulations,  by  a  solemn  Act  of  their  Legislature  declared  the 
treaties  between  them  and  France  dissolved,  void  and  no  longer 
binding  upon  them  or  their  People — gave  orders  to  their  Ships  of 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  533 

war  &  authority  to  their  merchant  vessels,  the  Masters  whereof 
should  apply  for  and  receive  Commissions  for  that  purpose,  not 
only  to  resist,  but  to  attack,  capture  and  make  Prize  of  any  armed 
French  vessel  found  upon  the  high  seas,  and  prohibited  all  trade 
&  Commercial  Intercourse  between  the  Territories  of  the  United 
States  &  the  Dominion  of  France. 

The  undersigned  flatters  himself,  from  the  facts  thus  concisely 
stated,  the  truth  whereof  is  equally  notorious  and  incontestable, 
that  it  might  be  evident  to  the  British  Government,  that  the 
United  States  have  never  acquiesced  in,  but  on  the  contrary  that 
they  have  constantly  denied  the  Justice  and  validity  of  the  above 
recited  Regulations  ;  and  that  unable  by  friendly  Remonstrances 
to  recall  France  to  an  observance  of  her  treaties  and  a  deference 
for  those  long  established  maxims  of  public  Law,  which  no  Nation 
is  free  to  change  or  to  disobey,  they  have  dissolved  and  cut  off 
all  commercial  Intercourse  between  the  two  Nations,  &  armed  in 
defence  of  their  just  &  violated  Rights. 

It  has  been  in  consequence  of  the  above  mentioned  Regulations 
that  American  vessels  laden  with  valuable  cargoes  of  innocent 
merchandize  &  insured  in  Gr.  Britain  have  been  captured  by 
French  cruizers,  and  tho'  acknowledged  to  be  American  Property 
have  been  condemned  as  lawful  Prizes  in  the  Tribunals  of 
France. 

These  condemnations,  made  in  violation  of  public  faith,  and 
which  have  led  to  the  dissolution  of  the  treaties  by  which  they 
were  pretended  to  be  justified,  are  resorted  to,  and  attempted  to 
be  used  as  just  and  conclusive  sentences  before  the  Judiciary  of 
Great  Britain,  for  the  Purpose  of  defeating  the  Citizens  of  the 
United  States  in  their  claims  against  such  of  his  Majesty's  Sub- 
jects, as  upon  adequate  consideration  took  upon  themselves  the 
Risque  and  became  the  assurors  of  the  Property  so  unjustly  con- 
demned. It  is  with  a  view  to  Property  in  this  peculiar  situation 
that  the  Undersigned  is  ordered  to  present  this  note  ;  and  with- 
out discussing  the  nature  and  true  extent  of  precedents,  founded 
undoubtedly  in  the  Justice  as  well  as  convenience  of  Nations,  and 
which  enjoin  a  Respect  for  the  Decisions  of  foreign  Tribunals,  or 
asking  with  what  Propriety  such  precedents  can  be  made  to  bear 
upon  cases  circumstanced  like  the  present,  the  Undersigned  con- 
tents himself  in  referring  these  Enquiries  to  the  Justice  and  im- 


534  RUFUS  KING.  [i799 

partiality  of  the  Br.  Govt,  in  full  confidence  that  they  must  lead 
to  the  adoption  of  such  measures  as  will  effectually  secure  to  the 
citizens  of  the  United  States  the  Remedies  to  which  the  Justice 
of  their  Claims  in  the  above  described  Cases  gives  them  a  solid 
title.  Whether  this  object  is  to  be  attained  by  Legislative  or 
other  Provisions  for  that  Purpose,  the  Undersigned  does  not  pre- 
sume to  enquire  ;  but  he  is  bound  to  express  the  reasonable  Ex- 
pectation of  his  own  Government,  that  adequate  means  will  be 
devised  to  remove  any  Impediments  that  may  be  supposed  to 
stand  in  the  way  of  real  and  substantial  Justice  in  the  cases  before 
alluded  to. 

Rufus  King. 


T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

Department  of  State,  Feby.  5,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  The  resignation  of  Sir  James  Marriott  is  a  fortunate 
occurrence  ;  the  expences  of  long  and  indefinite  delays  in  the 
proceedings  of  the  high  Court  of  Admiralty  in  England,  added  to 
the  ordinary  heavy  charges  of  suits  in  that  Court,  rendered  them 
insupportable. 

Your  timely  interference  to  prevent  the  emigration  of  the  Irish 
Traitors  to  this  country  is  extremely  acceptable  to  the  President  ; 
but  if  removed  to  any  other  country  many  of  them  will  probably 
find  their  way  hither,  and  therefore  not  only  a  List  of  their  names, 
but  descriptions  of  their  persons  and  their  ages  would  be  very 
useful,  if  attainable.     .     .     . 

The  difference  of  opinion  among  the  Commissioners  here  under 
the  6th  Article  of  the  British  Treaty  will  doubtless  suspend  their 
proceedings  ;  the  claims  not  only  surpass  immensely  in  amount 
whatever  was  contemplated  by  us  ;  but  are  advocated  on  princi- 
ples which  appear  quite  inadmissible.  They  go  the  length  to 
make  the  United  States,  at  once,  the  debtor  for  all  the  outstanding 
debts  of  British  subjects  contracted  before  the  peace  of  1783, 
and  in  effect  reduce  the  Board  to  a  company  of  clerks,  whose 
chief  business  would  be  to  examine  and  see  that  the  accounts 
were  rightly  cast.     The  amount  of   the  claims  presented  exceeds 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  535 

Nineteen  Millions  of  Dollars.  I  expect  a  statement  will  be  made 
of  the  claims  and  arguments  on  one  side,  and  of  the  reasons  with 
which  they  are  combated  on  the  other,  which  with  the  requisite 
Documents  will  be  transmitted  to  you.  They  will  in  that  case  be 
the  subject  of  instructions  from  the  President. 

.  .  .  The  Decree  of  the  Directory  of  France  of  the  29th  of 
October,  received  in  your  No.  9.,  has  by  the  President  been  laid 
before  Congress,  with  the  remark  you  made  upon  it.  The  chair- 
man of  a  Committee  of  the  Senate  told  me  yesterday  that  a  Bill 
was  prepared  to  be  introduced  on  the  subject  this  day.  The 
suspension  of  the  execution  of  that  Decree,  as  mentioned  in  your 
No.  10,  cannot  change  the  disposition  of  any  measure  on  our 
part ;  and  especially  as  the  Decree  of  March  2d  1797  prescribed 
the  same  sanguinary  treatment  of  our  Seamen,  and  that  Decree  is 
neither  repealed  nor  suspended. 

The  Law  prohibiting  Commercial  intercourse  with  the  French 
Dominions  was  to  continue  only  until  the  end  of  the  present  ses- 
sion of  Congress.  A  new  Bill,  with  material  alterations  has  passed 
the  House  of  Representatives,  by  a  very  great  majority,  and  will 
probably  be  adopted  to  day  in  the  Senate.  It  is  proposed  to  vest 
the  President  with  power  to  open  the  intercourse  with  such  places 
in  the  French  Territories,  into  which  our  vessels  may  enter  with 
safety  ;  and  consequently  where  the  licenced  piracies  of  French 
Privateers  shall  no  longer  be  practised.  It  is  not  a  secret  that 
this  may  be  expected  in  St.  Domingo  ;  and  it  would  be  unwise  in 
us  not  to  benefit  by  such  an  event.  If  this  discrimination  in  the 
bill  should  produce  such  an  effect  we  cannot  be  blamed.  If  by  a 
Commercial  arrangement  we  disarm  an  enemy,  the  measures  can- 
not be  censured.  The  profits  of  that  Commerce,  should  it  be 
opened,  will  tend  to  compensate  our  Merchants  for  the  interest  of 
the  immense  capital  of  which  French  Captures,  seizures  and  the 
non-fulfillment  of  Contracts  have  deprived  them.  .  .  .  The 
injuries  we  have  sustained  by  such  captures  and  partial  condem- 
nation (by  the  British  cruizers  in  the  West  Indies)  are  very  con- 
siderable. It  is  time  that  on  both  sides  the  meaning  of  the  18th 
article  was  understood.  It  has  lately  been  stated  that  one  Insur- 
ance Company  in  this  city  (Philadelphia)  has  in  the  last  six 
months  paid  for  losses  by  British  captures  to  a  much  greater 
amount  than  for  those  arising  from  French  captures. 


536  RUFUS  KING.  [1799 


P.S.  The  President  has  this  day  nominated  you  Commissioner 
Plenipotentiary  to  negociate  a  Commercial  Treaty  with  Russia. 
6th  Feby.  

G.  Cabot  to  R.  King. 

Feby.  7th,  1799. 
My  Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  I  anticipate  the  chagrin  you  will  feel  at  the  falling  off 
so  visibly  in  our  Country  since  the  meeting  of  Congress  &  I  par- 
take of  the  inquietude  &  perplexity  which  you  are  to  suffer  from 
the  secession  of  our  Comms.  at  Phila.  Altho  I  am  wholly  unin- 
formed of  the  grounds  of  misunderstanding  yet  I  can  think  of  no 
other  than  is  suggested  by  the  Newspaper  relative  to  confiscated 
debts  or  property,  &  I  shou'd  not  have  imagined  that  serious  pre- 
tensions cou'd  have  been  raised  on  either  Treaty  to  revise  those 
acts.  Whatever  it  may  be,  you  are  to  negotiate  the  accommoda- 
tion &  your  success  good  or  bad  will  be  decisive,  in  the  judgment 
of  this  country,  of  the  policy  G.  B.  will  habitually  pursue  towards 
the  U.  S.  Every  thing  has  conspired  to  satisfy  me  that  you  per- 
sonally wou'd  give  to  our  country  a  fair  &  full  chance  for  the 
operation  of  every  favorable  motive  &  incident,  &  if  under  these 
circumstances  we  cannot  procure  a  liberal  system  of  intercourse 
the  fault  must  be  in  the  intractable  temper  of  G.  B.  But  nothing 
short  of  experience  will  convince  me  that  she  can  be  so  blind  to 
her  own  interest.  I  know  your  moderation  and  equanimity  & 
with  these  your  knowledge  &  Industry  can  hardly  fail  to  accom- 
plish all  our  wishes.  I  have  heard  nothing  of  the  commercial  pro- 
jects you  have  transmitted — my  own  head  has  been  often  filled 
with  extensive  schemes  which  G.  B.  &  the  U.  S.  might  execute 
with  infinite  advantage  if  they  cou'd  be  brought  to  act  together 
with  that  perfect  good  faith  &  good  humour  which  alone  can 
result  from  a  common  interest  well  understood  by  both  parties. 
Men  who  live  out  of  the  world  always  wonder  its  affairs  are  not 
better  regulated  ;  but  when  they  are  made  to  see  the  innumerable 
&  apparently  insuperable  obstacles  which  Vice  &  Folly  every 
where  produce  they  wonder  that  any  thing  like  order  subsists.  I 
send  you  Mr.  Pickering's  Report  which  you  cannot  but  approve 
as  a  good  antidote  to  Gerryism  which  has  a  little  infected  some  of 
the  very  Great  &  some  of  the  very  Little.     I  dare  not  commit  to 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  537 

writing  my  ideas  on  the  subject  but  you  wou'd  be  charmed  with 
Pickering  if  you  knew  the  great  part  he  sustains. 

Vive  vale. 
G.  C. 

Mr.  Pickering  in  the  following  letter  enlarges  upon  the 
suggestions  in  a  previous  despatch  relative  to  a  designation 
of  a  more  particular  description  by  name  of  articles  which 
have  been  considered  and  treated  as  contraband,  under  the 
18.  article. 

T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

Private. 

Department  of  State,  Feby  6th,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  I  wish  you  to  turn  the  subject  in  your  mind  ;  and  the 
more  as  you  may  yourself  have  occasion,  I  believe,  very  shortly  to 
concur  in  making  an  arrangement  which  will  embrace  it,  and  in 
which,  as  in  all  acts  of  the  kind,  precision  is  of  the  highest 
importance.     .     .     . 

I  inclose  a  very  candid  and  sensible  address  (printed)  from  the 
Minority  of  the  House  of  Assembly  of  Virginia  to  the  people  of 
that  State,  to  counteract  the  Address  and  Resolves  of  the  majority 
which  were  of  the  most  inflammatory  nature  and  hostile  to  the 
General  Government.  .  .  .  They  have  been  rejected  by  every 
other  Legislature,  which  has  yet  taken  them  up.  In  short,  Vir- 
ginia and  its  offspring  Kentucky  will  stand  alone  in  those  outra- 
geous attempts  to  break  the  union  of  the  States  ;  their  proceedings 
excite  only  contempt  mingled  with  some  resentment,  proportioned 
to  the  degree  of  force  with  which  they  could  assail  the  union. 

T.  P. 

R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State.     No.  25. 

London,  Feby.  13,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  last  French  papers  contain  a  long  Message  of  the  Directory 
to  the  Councils  delivered  on  the  13th  ulto.,  recommending  a  re- 
vision of  the  Prize  Laws  and  a  transfer  of  the  Power  to  decide 
Prize  questions  in  the  last  resort  from  the  ordinary  Tribunals  to 


538  RUFUS  KING.  [l799 

the  Executive  Directory.  Probably  the  last  is  the  real  object  of 
the  Message.  The  Profits  now  divided  among  the  Tribunals 
would  upon  this  modification  of  the  Laws,  center  in  the  Hands 
of  the  Directory  &  its  particular  Agents.  I  shall  send  you  a  copy 
of  this  Message,  and  a  Report  of  the  proceedings  of  the  Councils 
upon  it,  as  soon  as  I  am  able  to  obtain  them. 

No  mails  have  been  received  from  Hamburgh  since  the  middle 
of  January,  and  we  know  nothing  of  what  is  doing  upon  the  Con- 
tinent, except  from  the  French  Papers.  Italy  has  completely 
fallen  without  the  Emperor's  moving.  Ehrenbreitstein  is  likewise 
reported  to  have  surrendered  without  any  attempt  by  Prussia  to 
retain  it.  Portugal  is  menaced  with  an  army,  to  which  Spain  is 
said  to  have  given  permission  to  march  thro'  her  Territories  ;  and 
another  Expedition  is  undoubtedly  preparing  at  Brest  ;  naval 
Stores  are  carried  overland  from  Dunkirk  to  Brest  for  its  equip- 
ment, and  the  French  papers  say  they  are  to  make  another  effort 
to  throw  a  body  of  troops  into  Ireland  ;  ten  or  twelve  Ships  of 
the  Line  with  Frigates  and  Transports  are  to  be  employed  in  the 
attempt. 

I  annex  copies  of  a  Note  that  I  lately  sent  to  Lord  Grenville  in 
consequence  of  your  Letter  of  the  13.  of  December  (No.  35),  and 
of  a  letter  to  Mr.  Dundas  respecting  the  interruption  of  our  Ships 
returning  from  the  Danish  Provinces  in  India  to  Europe.  The 
former  has  been  sent  to  the  Law  Officers  of  the  Crown  for  their 
opinion  and  Report ;  and  to  the  latter  I  have  yet  received  no 
answer. 

The  Swedish  Envoy  will  leave  a  few  days  hence  on  his  return 
home  ;  his  secretary  remains  as  Charge  d'Affaires  :  this  recall  is 
to  be  understood  as  a  mark  of  displeasure  of  Sweden  on  account 
of  the  seizure  of  its  ships  in  the  course  of  the  last  Summer  ; 
these  vessels  are  still  detained  and  are  to  be  tried  by  the  Prize 
Courts. 

Mr.  Smith  our  Minister  at  Lisbon  lately  inquired  of  me  whether 
we  were  likely  to  recover  anything  here  on  account  of  the  capture 
of  the  Ship  Fortune,  the  vessel  employed  by  Barlow  to  carry  the 
captives  from  Algiers  to  Marseilles.  I  have  answered  him  after 
a  full  examination  of  the  Case,  and  taking  the  opinion  of  Counsel 
here,  the  claim  has  been  abandoned  as  desperate.  I  think  that 
I  have  already  given  you  an  exact  report  of  the  circumstances  of 


1799]  LIFE   AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  539 

this  Case  ;  if  not,  you  may  obtain  it  from  Donaldson,  who  has  re- 
turned to  Philadelphia  ;  the  vessel  was  never  American  property  ; 
the  whole  transaction  was  a  fraud,  of  which  (in  the  most  charita- 
ble light  that  it  can  be  said)  Barlow  was  the  Dupe. 

With  the  most  perfect  Respect  and  Esteem  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Henry  Dundas. 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  Feby.  13,  1799. 
Sir  : 

Your  official  connexion  with  the  whole  subject  of  British  India, 
leads  me  to  address  this  Letter  to  you  directly  instead  of  passing 
it  into  the  Department  of  Foreign  Affairs.  The  Representations 
of  the  Masters  of  the  American  Ships  Iphigenia  and  Kensington, 
and  which  I  take  the  liberty  to  send  you  inclosed,  are  so  full  and 
satisfactory  that  it  seems  unnecessary  that  I  should  restate  the 
cases  for  your  information. 

I  presume  that  no  question  exists  concerning  the  reality  of  the 
Danish  Settlement  at  Serampore  and  therefore  that  none  can  exist 
concerning  the  Right  of  Denmark  to  regulate  the  trade  between 
it  and  the  Danish  Dominions  in  Europe.  These  ships  then  were 
engaged  in  lawful  voyages  when  the  Governor  of  St.  Helena  act- 
ing, as  he  alleges,  under  instructions  from  the  East  India  Com- 
pany, detained  and  sent  them  to  England  charged  with  having 
violated  the  Provisions  of  the  Treaty  between  Gr.  Britain  and  the 
United  States. 

That  we  shall  experience  occasional  interruptions  from  the 
agents  of  the  Company  in  our  trade  to  India,  I  am  disposed  to 
believe  ;  as  it  is  of  the  essence  of  their  employment  to  render  as 
exclusive  as  possible  the  trade  of  the  Company,  and  the  advan- 
tages it  enjoys. 

But  I  have  the  satisfaction  to  know  that  other  and  more  just 
and  liberal  views  are  entertained  by  you  on  this  subject,  and  I 
flatter  myself  that  you  will  be  disposed  to  temper  and  moderate 
a  spirit,  that  left  to  its  natural  impulse  will  expose  our  commerce 
to  unceasing  and  most  inconvenient  interruptions. 

These  ships  are  not  detained  on  suspicion  that  they  or  their 
cargoes  are  enemy's  property,  but  on  a  principle  against  which  I 


540  RUFUS  KING.  [i799 

cannot  too  early  offer  my  Protest,  and  which  I  persuade  myself 
a  due  regard  to  the  stipulations  of  our  treaty  and  to  the  mutual 
harmony  and  friendship  of  our  Countries  will  cause  to  be  re- 
linquished. So  far  as  I  am  able  to  understand  the  conduct  of  the 
Governor  of  St.  Helena,  it  was  not  influenced  by  an  opinion  that 
these  cargoes  were  not  exported  from  the  Danish,  but  from  the 
British  Territories  in  India,  and  according  to  the  Provisions  of 
our  Treaty  ought  to  have  been  carried  directly  from  there  to 
America,  instead  whereof  being  bound  to  Denmark,  they  became 
liable  to  seizure  by  the  officers  of  the  British  Government.  It  is 
this  influence  that  I  resist  ;  and  admitting  the  case  to  be  the  re- 
verse of  what  it  is,  and  precisely  what  it  is  supposed  to  be,  we 
cannot  allow  that  these  ships  were  liable  to  seizure  by  any  person 
deriving  his  authority  from  Great  Britain.  The  stipulation  in 
question,  in  terms  as  well  as  meaning,  is  an  agreement  on  the 
part  of  the  United  States  that  their  people  shall  carry  the  articles 
exported  from  the  British  Territories  in  India  directly  to  America, 
and  moreover  that  the  United  States  shall  adopt  such  regulations, 
as  from  time  to  time  may  be  found  necessary  to  enforce  the  faith- 
ful performance  of  this  agreement.  It  is  the  United  States  and 
their  officers,  and  not  Great  Britain  or  her  officers,  who  have  the 
right  and  are.  bound  to  enforce  the  observance  of  this  rule  ;  and 
in  this  as  in  other  Stipulations  of  Treaties  between  Nations,  the 
performance  rests  upon  the  good  faith  of  those  who  have  made 
the  promise.  If  the  citizens  of  the  United  States  evade  or  dis- 
obey the  rule  contained  in  the  stipulation,  the  United  States, 
and  they  only,  have  the  Right,  and  by  express  clauses  in  the 
Treaty  are  obliged  to  punish  the  offenders.  The  remedy  on  the 
part  of  Great  Britain,  if  this  stipulation  is  violated,  is  by  calling 
on  the  American  Government  to  enforce  the  observance  of  it  ; 
and  in  case  of  neglect  or  refusal,  a  fact  however  not  to  be  pre- 
sumed, the  Treaty  itself  may  justly  be  considered  as  at  an 
End. 

Thus  then  whether  these  ships  were  engaged  in  a  voyage  with- 
out the  reach  of  the  Treaty,  or  in  a  voyage  contrary  to  its  pro- 
visions, in  either  case  their  detention  is  illegal  and  they  ought  to 
be  restored. 

With  the  most  perfect  Esteem  &  Respect  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  54 1 


R.  King  to  Richard  Varick,  New  York. 

London,  Feby.  14,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Having  obtained  information  that  a  person  was  employed  in 
printing  a  quantity  of  American  Notes  or  Bills  of  Credit,  I  took 
immediate  measures  to  have  him  and  his  work  seized  by  the 
Police.  It  turns  out  to  be  a  forgery  of  the  Small  Notes  issued  by 
Mr.  Phoenix  by  order  of  the  Corporation  of  New  York,  feb  20. 
1790.  The  printer  had  worked  off  20.000  sheets,  each  sheet  con- 
taining 4  notes  for  threepence,  and  2  for  twopence  ;  the  work  was 
to  have  been  delivered  the  evening  of  the  day  it  was  seized.  The 
printer  says  that  he  intended  to  disclose  the  business  to  me  before 
the  delivery,  and  as  evidence  of  his  honesty  pointed  out  the  dif- 
ference between  the  letters  in  the  words  "  two  pence  "  on  the  back 
of  the  false  Bills  from  those  of  the  true,  as  well  as  some  other 
variations.  We  are  now  endeavouring  to  detect  the  Employer, 
whose  name  and  residence  the  printer  says  he  does  not  know,  but 
whom  he  understood  to  be  an  American.  I  have  promised  to  re- 
lease the  Printer  (by  the  way  I  don't  find  that  he  could  be  pun- 
ished) and  to  give  him  a  few  Guineas  if  he  will  effectually  assist 
the  Police  officers  in  discovering  the  Employer. 

I  wish  that  this  new  proof  of  the  risque  as  well  as  injustice  of 
these  small  paper  money  Schemes  may  operate  to  discourage  us 
from  resorting  to  them.  The  Corporation  would  have  detected 
and  refused  to  pay  these  counterfeits  ;  but  the  citizens  and  that 
class  of  them  least  able  to  bear  the  loss  would  have  been  sufferers 
to  the  amount  that  should  have  been  thrown  out  of  circulation.  * 

With  sincere  Respect  &  Esteem  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

*  Richard  Varick  to  R.  King. 

New  York,  February  1st,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Some  time  in  April  last  I  had  the  honor  of  receiving  your  very  friendly  favor 
of  the  14th  February  last,  advising  me  of  the  measures  you  had  adopted  for 
securing  the  counterfeiters  of  our  City  small  change  commonly  called  Penny 
Bills  alias  Fhcenixes,  and  covering  a  specimen  of  the  false  bills  which  are  in  my 
opinion  sufficiently  well  executed  to  deceive  9  tenths  of  the  Citizens,  and  as 
you  observe  the  poorer  class  in  particular. 

At  the  first  Common  Council  thereafter  and  which  was  held  within  a  few 
days  after  the  receipt  of  your  letter,  I  laid  it  with  its  contents  before  the  Board. 


542  KUFUS  KING.  [1799 

G.  Cabot  to  R.  King. 

Feby.  16,  1799. 

My  dear  Sir  : 

If  the  Seditious  were  hardy  enough  to  denounce  you  for  the 
great  service  you  have  render'd  the  country  in  shutting  its  doors 
against  Irish  Desperadoes  you  wou'd  still  have  reason  to  be  con- 
tent, for  the  praises  of  the  good  wou'd  be  increased  in  proportion 
to  the  clamours  of  the  vicious  ;  but  I  believe  the  measure  is  so 
generally  approved  that  Faction  will  hardly  dare  to  condemn  it. 
I  mention'd  in  a  late  letter  the  secession  of  our  Comms.  ;  my 
only  authority  was  the  Newspapers  but  it  stood  uncontradicted 
until  it  was  universally  credited — the  truth  of  it  is  now  denied  by 
Porcupine,  so  that  we  may  at  least  suppose  the  acct  was  ex- 
aggerated, &  altho'  I  know  there  are  some  unexpected  proceedings, 
I  hope  they  are  not  of  so  great  moment  as  I  had  feared. 

You  are  not  more  chagrined  than  many  other  Federalists  at  the 
inconsistency  of  Congress  in  their  last  session.  I  believe  how- 
ever there  is  no  great  secrecy  in  the  cause  of  it  ;  a  maxim  a  1000 
times  repeated  &  a  million  times  verified  since  the  day  of  De  Retz 
may  serve  for  a  general  explanation — how  often  do  we  lament  the 

They  in  the  first  place  requested  me  to  present  to  you  their  thanks  for  the 
attention  you  have  manifested  to  the  interest  of  your  fellow  citizens  of  New 
York,  and  to  declare  to  you  their  readiness  to  reimburse  any  expence  which  you 
might  have  incurred  on  the  subject  to  serve  us  ;  They  also  took  immediate 
measures  for  calling  out  of  circulation  those  notes  so  as  to  put  a  stop  to  farther 
evil  and  the  little  Fraud  by  means  thereof. 

[Mr.  Varick  then  states  that  though  he  had  sent  an  answer  to  Mr.  King's 
letter  shortly  after  his  was  received,  he  had  learned  from  him  that  it  had  not 
reached  him  and  therefore  in  this  repeated  what  had  been  written  in  it.  He 
finishes  the  letter  by  saying  :] 

I  agree  with  you  in  the  opinion  that  we  ought  not  to  hold  our  real  property 
cheap  on  account  of  a  few  visits  of  the  Yellow  Fever.  Indeed  I  mention  with 
pleasure  that  it  has  not  depreciated  as  much  as  our  friends  at  a  distance  from 
us  would  be  led  to  suppose,  or  as  some  of  our  desponding  ones  here  imagine. 
It  is  true  that  Real  Estates  do  not  command  as  high  prices  now  as  4  or  5  years 
since,  when  every  monied  man,  alias  paper  dealer,  considered  himself  a  Nabob  ; 
but  our  citizens  in  general  are  not  yet  disposed  to  abandon  their  residences  or 
to  part  with  their  Real  Estates  under  fair  prices. 

I  transmit  you  nothing  new,  as  I  suppose  Mr.  Low  and  many  other  friends 
give  you  all  our  country  affairs.  I  pay  my  respects  to  Mrs.  King  and  wish  you 
both  every  happiness. 

With  great  respect  and  esteem,  &c. 

Richd.  Varick. 


799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  543 


impossibility  of  combining  the  efforts  of  those  who  truly  aim  at 
the  same  end  !  but  in  the  present  case  Genl  Marshall  unfor- 
tunately held  the  decided  opinion  that  France  woud  declare  war 
when  the  Dispatches  shou'd  appear  :  &  T.  Sewell  with  other  good 
men  were  so  strongly  impressed  with  the  advantage  of  such  a 
declaration  by  them  that  they  cou'd  not  be  persuaded  to  relinquish 
the  belief  in  it — I  was  astonished  that  they  shou'd  have  attributed 
to  the  French  such  miserable  policy. 

You  will  be  more  mortified  at  the  strange  language  lately  held 
on  the  practicability  of  a  safe  &  pacific  system  of  intercourse 
being  at  the  option  of  France  to  restore  &c  &c — when  a  public 
man  allows  himself  to  become  the  advocate  of  Inconsistency  in 
another,  he  necessarily  becomes  inconsistent  himself.  The  spirit 
of  our  country  which  was  rising  to  a  just  indignation  has  un- 
doubtedly been  damped  by  some  who  had  great  merit  in  exciting 
it.  You  will  see  however  that  it  is  not  wholly  repressed  &  the 
violent  &  seditious  temper  of  Virginia  operates  powerfully  to  re- 
vive it.  The  addresses  of  our  Legislature  to  Govr  Sumner  &  their 
spirited  proceedings  in  opposition  to  Virginianism  will  show 
plainly  that  the  people  are  better  than  Congress. 

The  ideas  you  suggest  respecting  Commerce  with  the  Levant 
&  Constantinople  are  very  important  &  if  a  treaty  can  be  formed 
that  shall  secure  for  us  an  easy  access  to  those  Regions,  our  people 
will  rate  its  value  full  as  high  as  they  ought,  for  they  outstrip 
Dutchmen  &  Jews  in  the  love  of  trade  &  its  profits  ;  they  will 
also  see  in  such  a  measure  the  difference  between  english  & 
french  sincerity.  I  don't  yet  understand  the  policy  of  G.  B.  in  re- 
lation to  Hispaniola,  but  to  me  it  appears  evident  that  they  ought 
to  seize*that  Colony  from  France  effectually  &  forever — the  Com- 
merce of  England  with  the  two  Indies  &  the  U.  S.,  upon  principles 
of  liberality  toward  us,  might  be  maintained  superior  to  competi- 
tion or  hostility,  &  if  the  advantages  were  to  be  used  with  modera- 
tion, might  be  permanent.  In  a  word  Hispaniola  shou'd  be 
independent  &  this  Independence  guaranteed  by  G.  B.  &  acknowl- 
edged by  France  at  the  peace  :  if  Royalty  is  restored  or  estab- 
lished, this  wou'd  be  a  reasonable  indemnity,  but  if  the  Monster 
called  Republic  continues  it  is  indispensable  to  strip  him  of  this 

possession  or  there  wou'd  be  no  security  in  his  neighborhood 

Yours 

G.  C. 


544  RUFUS  KING.  [i799 

H.  Dundas  to  R.  King. 

Somerset  Place,  18th  Feby.,  1799. 
Sir: 

I  postponed  answering  the  letter  I  had  the  honor  to  receive 
from  you  a  few  days  ago,  in  order  that  I  might  make  enquiry  how 
far  the  detention  of  the  Ships  Kensington  and  Iphigenia  had 
taken  place  in  consequence  of  any  special  order  on  the  part  of 
the  Directors.  I  do  not  find  this  to  have  been  the  case,  and 
therefore  take  the  liberty  of  suggesting  to  you  the  propriety  of 
addressing  yourself  to  Lord  Grenville  on  the  Subject,  as  some  of 
the  most  material  points  contained  in  your  Letter  can  only,  with 
regularity,  be  treated  of  through  the  channel  of  his  office. 
I  have  the  honor  to  be  &c  &c. 

Henry  Dundas. 


R.  King  to  Lord  Grenville. 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  Feby.  19,  1799. 
My  Lord  : 

I  take  the  liberty  to  send  your  Lordship  enclosed  copies  of  a 
Letter  that  I  lately  wrote  to  Mr.  Dundas  and  of  his  answer.  Your 
Lordship  will  perceive  by  the  Letter  to  Mr.  Dundas  my  motives 
for  addressing  myself  to  him  upon  a  subject  that  it  seems  accord- 
ing to  strict  form,  can  only  be  treated  of  with  the  Department  in 
which  your  Lordship  presides. 

Under  these  circumstances  it  has  appeared  to  me  adviseable  to 
present  the  subject  to  your  Lordship  exactly  in  the  form  in  which 
it  was  before  Mr.  Dundas,  rather  than  to  give  to  the  application 
the  shape  of  another  Letter  of  the  same  purport,  addressed  to  your 
Lordship.  I  flatter  myself  that  your  Lordship  will  agree  with  me 
in  the  Interpretation  of  the  Stipulations  of  our  Treaties,  and  I 
will  only  add  my  request  of  your  Lordship's  interference,  in  order 
that  these  Ships  with  their  Cargoes,  with  as  little  delay  as  possible, 
may  be  discharged. 

With  the  most  perfect  consideration  &  Respect  &c  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  545 

G.  Cabot  to  R.  King. 

Feby.  22d,  1799. 

My  dear  Sir  : 

In  your  letter  of  the  19th  Oct,  which  is  this  moment  received, 
you  express  some  discontent  with  a  sentiment  in  one  of  mine  to 
Gore  on  the  affairs  of  South  America — I  cannot  trace  in  my 
memory  any  of  my  ideas  on  that  subject  except  the  general  one 
of  an  open  trade  which  may  be  enjoyed  by  us  &  the  English  ;  if 
any  thing  better  is  attainable  you  know  my  readiness  to  approve 
it. 

Congress  will  soon  close  its  session  &  considering  the  singular 
temper  with  which  it  was  addressed  at  the  commencement  I  feel 
thankful  that  our  affairs  are  no  worse — the  strange  expression 
that  France  might  at  her  option  renew  the  intercourse  of  com- 
merce &  friendship  with  us  has  caused  much  inquietude  among 
our  best  men  but  I  believe  you  may  rely  that  the  system  of  the 
last  session  will  be  pursued  &  that  the  spirit  of  the  country  is 
sustained  notwithstanding  this  inauspicious  circumstance. 

We  are  to  be  sure  very  much  exposed  to  the  arts  of  France  if 
they  wou'd  practise  them  in  a  masterly  manner  but  Fortune  has 
often  counter-balanced  our  blunders  &  I  trust  will  not  wholly 
desert  us  now  ; — we  ought  to  have  declared  war  or  at  least  author- 
ized universal  Reprisals  &  prohibited  personal  Intercourse — I 
have  urged  the  adoption  of  these  measures,  but  among  my  mas- 
ters a  majority  cou'dnot  be  interested  in  its  favor — so  like  a  good 
subject  I  acquiesce  &  hope  that  after  the  lying  &  intriguing  of  one 
more  anxious  summer,  our  Govt  will  be  able  to  do  what  its  own 
dignity  &  the  public  good  imperiously  &  plainly  demand,  &  if  the 
cursed  French  Republic  shall  then  subsist  I  hope  we  shall  be 
prepared  to  resist  its  arts  &  its  arms  until  it  sinks — this  will  hap- 
pen from  the  weight  of  its  own  vices  if  from  nothing  else. 

Altho'  /have  been  unwilling  to  commit  to  paper  the  details  of 
our  affairs  which  wou'd  be  the  most  interesting  to  you  yet  I  pre- 
sume you  are  always  sufficiently  informed — indeed  your  own  re- 
flections must  often  be  as  satisfactory  as  positive  testimony  ;  you 
must  have  discerned  the  cause  of  an  apparent  inconsistency  in 
the  sentiments  of  some  of  our  greatest  men — a  man  can  hardly 
venture  to  palliate  still  less  to  vindicate  the  inconsistency  of 
another  without  being  guilty  of  inconsistency  himself — it  is  unfor- 

VOL.  II. — 35 


546  RUFUS  KING.  [i799 

tunate  that  a  man  shou'd  mistake  obstinate  adherence  to  error  for 
consistency  of  opinions. — G.  cou'd  offer  no  apology  for  his  stay 
but  his  declaration  "  that  he  believed  there  was  sincerity  "  &  who- 
ever repeats  the  apology  &  sanctions  it  is  obliged  to  persist  in 
declaring  that  it  may  be  true. 

I  hear  nothing  further  of  the  secession  of  our  Commrs.  at  Phila., 
therefore  conclude  the  story  is  misunderstood  &  that  the  embar- 
rassment tho'  unpleasant  is  not  so  important  as  was  reported. 

Your  sincere  &  faithful  friend 

G.  C. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State.     No.  27. 

London,  March  1,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

It  was  customary  for  the  Privy  Council  to  grant  special  permis- 
sions for  the  Exportation  of  Copper  in  Sheets  and  Bolts  to  the 
United  States  upon  my  certificate  that  the  Ships  were  American 
and  the  Masters  Citizens. 

During  the  last  Summer  from  an  apprehended  scarcity  of  Cop- 
per, I  was  informed  that  no  such  permission  would  in  future  be 
granted  except  upon  my  certificate  that  the  Copper  was  ordered 
by  and  intended  for  the  public  service  of  the  United  States,  and 
several  orders  of  this  sort  have  been  executed.  But  permission 
having  lately  been  refused  on  the  application  for  Copper  for  the 
Frigate  building  at  Charleston,  South  Carolina,  I  wrote  a  letter  to 
Mr.  Fawkner,  Clerk  of  the  Privy  Council,  stating  the  disappoint- 
ment to  which  we  should  be  exposed  by  such  refusal,  especially 
with  the  expectations  we  had  been  authorized  to  entertain  on  this 
subject,  and  desiring  him  to  renew  the  request  for  permission  to 
export  the  requisite  Copper  for  the  Frigate  building  at  Charles- 
ton. I  annex  his  answer  by  which  it  appears  that  for  the  present 
we  are  not  likely  to  obtain  any  farther  supply  of  Copper  from  this 
Country. 

We  are  still  without  mails  or  news  from  the  Continent.  Your 
No.  35  of  15th  December  is  the  last  that  I  have  received  from 
you. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem,  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  547 

W.  Fawkner  to   R.  King. 

Council  Office,  Whitehall,  26th  February,  1799. 
Sir: 

(Mr.  F.  acknowledges  receipt  of  application,  &c,  &c,  and  says  :) 
'  I  am  directed  to  acquaint  you  that  their  Lordships,  desirous  as 
they  may  be  to  afford  assistance  to  the  Government  of  the  United 
States,  in  forwarding  their  armament  against  a  power  equally  hos- 
tile to  both  Countries,  are  sorry  that,  from  the  very  high  price  of 
Copper,  and  the  great  demand  for  that  article,  for  the  Navy  and 
Manufactures  of  this  Kingdom,  they  are  under  the  necessity  for 
the  present  of  refusing  to  permit  the  Export  of  any  Copper 
Sheathing  or  Nails  in  any  case  whatsoever,  even  to  the  Powers 
that  are  in  alliance  with  his  Majesty,  and  actually  engaged  in  the 
War  against  France  ;  and  I  am  to  add  that  this  subject  is  of  so 
pressing  a  nature,  that  their  Lordships  have  reason  to  believe  that 
it  will  soon  be  brought  under  the  consideration  of  Parliament. 

I  have  the  honor,  &c. 

W.  Fawkner. 


T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

Department  of  State,  March  6,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.     .     .     The  Constellation,  Captain  Truxton,  has   taken    the 

French  Frigate  L'Insurgente,  and  carried  her  into  St.  Kitts.     She 

was  one  of  the  two  Frigates  which  came  with  General  Desfour- 

neaux  to  Guadaloupe,  in  December  last,  and  is  one  of  the  fastest 

sailing  frigates  in  the  French  Navy.     L'Insurgente  had  50  men 

killed   and   30   wounded.      The   Constellation,    6    killed   and  3 

wounded.     We  have  not  yet  an  official  account ;  but  there  is  no 

doubt  of  the  fact. 

T.  P. 


CHAPTER  XXXIII. 

Pickering  to  King — Proposed  Negotiation  with  France  regretted — King  to- 
Pickering — On  current  Events — Cabot :  Nomination  of  Minister  to  France 
condemned — Secy,  of  State — St.  Domingo  will  be  independent — Insurrec- 
tion in  Pennsylvania  against  direct  Tax — President  gone  to  Quincy — King 
to  Lord  Grenville — Protest  against  Outrage  on  the  Baltimore  by  Capt. 
Loring — To  Count  Woronzow — Commercial  Treaty  with  Russia — To  Lord 
Grenville  demanding  a  sealed  Package  addressed  to  him  and  detained  by 
the  Court  of  Admiralty — To  Secy,  of  State — Conference  with  Lord  Gren- 
ville relative  to  Capt.  Loring — Also  one  relative  to  Contraband  of  War — 
Impressment  of  Seamen  and  other  Points  in  Dispute — Count  Rumford  to 
King — Military  Suggestions — King  to  Secy,  of  State — Premature  in  naming 
a  Commissioner  to  Russia — Plans  of  Russia  and  England  to  cut  off  the 
Trade  of  Neutrals  with  France — LaFayette — Irish  Affairs — Joseph  Hale 
to  King — Reflections  on  Mr.  Murray's  Appointment  to  Holland — King  to 
Troup — On  the  Prize  Courts  of  England — To  Pickering — His  Son  as  Sec- 
retary— Recommends  C.  Gore  as  Minister  to  Constantinople — To  J.  Mc- 
Henry  relative  to  Count  Rumford — To  O.  Wolcott  respecting  Arms  sent 
to  the  United  States — To  Count  Rumford. 

T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

Private. 

Philadelphia,  March  6, 1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  nomination  to  negociate  with  the  French  Government  was 

exceedingly  regretted  by  every  friend  to  the  President  and  to  the 

United  States.     I  do  know  an  exception.     A  committee  of  the 

Senate    (Sedgwick,    Stockton,    Read,   Bingham  and    Ross)   were 

prepared  to  report  against  the  nomination  of  Mr.  Murray  on  the 

morning  of  the  25th  ulto.  when  the  President  sent  in  his  second 

Message,  putting  the  negociation  in  Commission,  and  postponing 

its  commencement  until  the  receipt  of  the  assurances  required  by 

his  Message  of  the  21st  of  June  last.     This  palliated  the  evil  in 

the  only  possible  way  in  which  it  could  be  lessened.     This  latter 

548 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  549 

nomination  was  readily  approved.  Mr.  Ellsworth  (painful  as  the 
acceptance  will  be)  will  not  decline  the  Mission  :  there  has  not 
been  time  to  ascertain  Mr.  Henry's  mind.  The  only  negociation 
compatible  with  our  honor  or  safety  is  that  begun  by  Truxton  in 
the  capture  of  L'Insurgente. 

We  shall  recover  from  the  shock  of  Murray's  nomination  ;  no 
preparation  for  war  is  lessened.  .  .  .  Congress  have  substantially 
provided  for  all  the  measures  suggested  in  the  reports  of  the  Sec- 
retary of  War  and  of  the  Navy  ;  and  amid  every  untoward  event, 

my  motto  is  "  Nil  Desperandum." 

Yours  most  truly 

T.  P. 

P.  S.  The  President  has  just  signed  a  Proclamation  for  a  gen- 
eral fast,  in  which  are  these  expressions  :  "  As  moreover  the  most 
precious  interests  of  the  United  States  are  still  held  in  jeopardy 
by  the  hostile  designs  and  insidious  arts  of  a  foreign  Nation  as 
well  as  by  the  dissemination  among  them  of  those  Principles  sub- 
versive of  the  foundations  of  all  religious,  moral  and  social  obli- 
gations, that  have  produced  incalculable  mischief  and  misery  in 
other  Countries,"  &c,  and  in  the  subjects  of  prayer  to  the  Deity 
"  that  he  would  (make)  succeed  our  preparations  for  defence  and 
bless  our  armaments  by  land  and  by  sea." 

All  this  you  will  say  is  not  very  consistent  j  true,  but  the  evil  of  the 
nomination  may  thus  be  counteracted ;  both  meastires  are  exclusively 
the  President 's  own  acts*     .     .     . 


R.  King  to  Col.  Pickering. 

Private. 

London,  March  9,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  avail  myself  of  the  offer  of  a  Passenger  in  the  Packet  to  send 
you  the  Dispatches  of  Mr.  Adams  and  Mr.  Murray  received  by 
the  last  Hamburgh  Mails.  As  fourteen  or  more  mails  arrived  at 
the  same  time,  and  Mr.  Murray's  Letters  to  me  do  not  mention 
whether  his  Dispatches  are  originals  or  duplicates  I  have  no 
means  of  distinguishing  the  one  from  the  other.  Tho'  we  have 
the  Newspapers  containing  Mr.  Gerry's  subsequent  correspond- 

*  Italics  in  cipher. 


550  RUFUS  KING.  [i799 

ence,  and  your  excellent  and  useful  Report  to  the  President,  I 
am  still  without  any  Letters  from  you  since  the  middle  of  Decem- 
ber. This  I  the  more  regret,  as  we  have  heard  of  the  seism  of  the 
Commission  under  the  6th  Article  of  the  English  Treaty,  and  are 
totally  ignorant  of  the  Points  of  disagreement.  I  have  carefully 
abstained  from  saying  a  word  respecting  the  outrage  of  Captain 
Loring  upon  our  Flag,  preferring  to  wait  till  I  should  be  in  full 
possession  of  the  Case.  According  to  everything  I  hear,  this 
Government  will  probably  be  disposed  to  give  us  satisfaction. 

Notwithstanding  our  great  impatience  on  account  of  the  inter- 
ruption of  the  Communication  with  the  Continent,  we  seem  to  be 
in  equal  uncertainty  respecting  the  Recommencement  of  the  war, 
since  the  arrival  of  the  mails  as  we  were  before.  The  same  hesi- 
tation, the  same  jealousies  and  the  same  temporising  System,  from 
which  so  much  ruin  has  already  proceeded,  continue  to  prevail 
at  Vienna  &  Berlin.  Mr.  Grenville  arrived  at  the  latter  place  on 
the  17th  ulto.,  but  it  is  much  to  be  feared  that  he  came  too  late. 
I  hope  to  be  able  to  write  you  more  particularly  upon  this  topic 
tomorrow  or  the  day  after.  I  shall  [put]  you  this  year  to  a  little 
additional  Expence  in  order  to  obtain  information  from  France  ; 
and  as  foreign  Postage  is  paid  here,  and  the  Dispatches  of  some 
of  our  Ministers,  which  pass  thro'  my  Hands  are  large  and  heavy 
my  Postage  account  will  be  proportionally  increased. 

I  see  no  evidence  of  an  effectual  change  towards  us  or  others  on 
the  part  of  France  ;  great  and  increasing  numbers  of  our  valuable 
Ships  are  captured  and  condemned  by  them  ;  I  have  heard  of  the 
release  of  one  from  Dieppe,  and  of  one  or  two  others  suffered  to 
proceed  when  met  by  their  Privateers.  It  is  confidently  said  that 
certain  vessels  under  Danish,  Swedish  and  American  Flags  have 
safe  conducts  from  the  French  Directory  :  if  so,  we  can  account  for 
their  being  permitted  to  pursue  their  voyages  when  met  by 
Privateers. 

While  writing  I  have  received  your  Dispatches  to  the  6th  of 
February.  At  present  I  can  only  mention  their  receit.  I  am 
apprehensive  that  B.  S.  &  B.  will  be  disappointed  in  not  receiving 
Remittances  as  they  are  considerably  in  advance  to  the  Spoliation 
Fund. 

Very  truly  and  faithfully  yours, 

R.  K. 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  55 1 

G.  Cabot  to  R.  King. 

March  10,  1799. 

My  dear  Sir  : 

You  will  partake  of  all  the  unpleasant  sensations  which  have 
been  excited  by  the  nomination  of  a  minister  to  the  french  Re- 
public*— this  measure  was  unexpected  and  unknown  to  every 
member  of  the  Govt,  until  announced  to  the  Senate — Surprise, 
indignation,  grief  &  disgust  followed  each  other  in  quick  succes- 
sion in  the  breasts  of  the  true  friends  of  our  country,  &  a  flat 
negative  wou'd  probably  have  been  given  by  the  Senate  if  the 
modification  had  not  taken  place  which  you  will  see  in  the 
enclosed  paper  &  which  mitigates  the  evil  it  cou'd  not  wholly 
prevent.  The  origin  of  this  extraordinary  proceeding  is  not  ex- 
posed &  perhaps  ought  not  to  be,  but  may  be  sought  in  the  weak- 
nesses to  which  the  best  of  men  are  liable — Egotism — vanity — 
wounded  pride — Gerryism — distrust  of  men  who  lay  too  much 
stress  on  the  public  welfare  as  opposed  to  personal — implacability 
toward  those  who  maintain  that  it  was  more  important  to  keep 
the  sceptre  from  the  hands  of  a  known  Enemy  than  to  place  in 
the  hand  of  any  one  in  preference  to  another  well  tried  faithful 
friend — these  topics  are  sufficiently  familiar  to  you  &  your  mind 
will  be  driven  to  them  for  the  causes  of  this  afflicting  incident  : 

*  In  Life  and  Works  of  John  Adams ,  vol.  ix.,  p.  249.  In  the  5th  Letter  to 
the  Boston  Patriot,  Mr.  Adams  says:  "They"  (the  gentlemen  of  the  Senate 
sent  to  confer  with  him  on  the  nomination  of  Mr.  Murray  to  France)  *  "  then  in- 
quired, why  I  had  not  nominated  Mr.  King.  I  answered  that  if  Mr.  King  had 
been  in  Holland,  I  certainly  should  not  have  thought  of  any  other  character. 
But  he  was  our  Ambassador  to  England,  then  at  war  with  France,  and  it  would 
be  considered  by  France  as  an  insult  to  send  them  our  Ambassador,  who,  as 
soon  as  he  had  accomplished  his  business  was  to  return  to  England  and  carry 
with  him  all  the  information  he  might  have  collected  in  Paris.  That  the  French 
government  would  suspect  me  of  a  design  to  send  them  a  spy  from  the  Court 
of  St.  James.  That  I  presumed  Mr.  King  at  that  time  would  not  be  pleased  to 
be  removed  from  England  to  France  for  perpetuity  or  permanence,"  &c,  &c. 

1  A  committee  of  the  Senate  of  which  Mr.  Sedgwick  was  chairman  was  sent  to 
endeavor  to  persuade  Mr.  Adams  to  withdraw  the  nomination  of  William  Vans 
Murray  on  the  18th  of  February,  1799,  as  Minister  to  the  French  Republic. 
Mr.  Adams  refused  to  withdraw  him,  but  on  the  25th  of  February,  1799,  he 
nominated  in  addition  to  him,  two  more,  Messrs.  Ellsworth  and  Patrick  Henry, 
to  be  Envoys  Extraordinary  and  Ministers  Plenipotentiary  to  the  Republic  of 
France. 


552  RUFUS  KING.  [i799 

at  present  there  is  a  disposition  to  let  the  subject  subside,  but 
it  is  so  easy  to  render  it  mischievous  that  I  am  full  of  fears  lest  it 
shou'd  be  used  with  success  to  divide  us  anew  &  by  combining 
many  of  the  Federalists  and  half  federalists  with  real  jacobins 
form  a  strong  majority  whose  power  will  be  directed  to  crush 
those  who  have  been  foremost  in  supporting  the  national  dignity, 
but  who  like  Aristides  are  too  much  praised  by  some  to  be  ever 
forgiven  by  others.  The  new  nomination  of  Ellsworth  &  Henry 
I  conceive  to  be  a  real  relinquishment  of  the  original  measure  ; 
but  still  it  is  pernicious  to  turn  the  mind  again  toward  negotiation 
after  it  was  reconciled  to  the  true  doctrine  that  in  Resistance  alone 
there  is  safety. 

We  blunder  along  &  Providence  keeps  us  from  falling — you 
will  see  some  consolation  in  the  enclosed  paper  which  if  it  is  the 
first  you  receive  will  be  worth  the  postage, — in  this  hope  I  send  it. 

Yours  faithfully, 
G.  C. 

R.  King  to  the  Count  de  Woronzow. 

Private. 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  Mar.  n,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  received  answers  from  Philadelphia  to  my  Letters  in 
which  I  communicated  the  conversation  that  passed  between  you 
and  me  on  the  subject  of  a  better  understood  and  more  intimate 
connection  between  our  Countries. 

The  President  as  well  as  his  Ministers  seem  pleased  with  the 
suggestion,  and  I  am  persuaded  will  most  cheerfully  do  what 
depends  on  us  to  fulfil  so  desireable  an  object. 

Nothing  was  accurately  determined  when  the  Packet  sailed  : 
should  the  President  be  desirous  that  the  Negotiation  should 
take  place  in  London,  he   will  most  probably  confide  it  to  me,* 

*  Pickering  to  Hamilton  ( Works  of  Hamilton,  vol.    vi.,  p.  398),  Feby.  25, 

1799. 

"  .  .  .  We  have  all  been  shocked  and  grieved  at  the  nomination  of  a  min- 
ister to  negotiate  with  France.  There  is  but  one  sentiment  on  the  subject 
among  the  friends  of  their  country  and  the  real  supporters  of  the  President's 
administration.  Pains  have  been  taken  to  ameliorate  the  measure  by  throwing 
it  into  a  commission.  But  the  President  is  fixed.  The  Senate  must  approve 
or  negative  the  nomination.  In  the  latter  event  perhaps  he  will  nominate  com- 
missioners. I  beg  you  to  be  assured,  that  it  is  wholly  his  own  act,  without  any 
participation  or  communication  with  any  of  us.     It  is  utterly  inconsistent  with 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  553 

and  I  will  not  say  how  truly  gratified  I  should  be  to  cooperate 
with  you,  in  a  work  that  I  flatter  myself  would  not  only  be  dura- 
ble, but  mutually  advantageous  to  our  respective  Countries. 

I  know  that  the  idea  of  negotiating  the  Treaty  in  a  third  place, 
proceeds  from  considerations  entirely  compatible  with  the  most 
perfect  respect  for  his  Imperial  Majesty  ;  and  should  the  plan  of 
conducting  the  negotiation  here  be  finally  adopted  by  the  Presi- 
dent, I  shall  feel  myself  anxious  until  I  learn  that  it  will  likewise 
be  agreeable  to  the  Emperor. 

Though  I  have  no  information  of  any  decision  of  the  President 
upon  this  Subject,  I  have  thought  it  due  to  the  frankness  and 
friendship,  that  I  have  always  received  from  you,  to  send  you 
this  private  Note,  and  I  beg  you  to  be  assured  of  the  very  great 
esteem  and  respect  with  which  I  have  the  honor  to  be 

Your  obt.  and  faithful  Servt., 

Rufus  King. 

R.  King  to  Lord  Grenville. 

London,  March  11,  1799. 

The  Undersigned,  Minister  Plenipotentiary  has  received  the 
order  of  the  President  of  the  United  States  *  to  transmit  to  Lord 
Grenville  in  order  that  the  same  may  be  laid  before  His  Britannic 

his  late  nominations  of  Mr.  King  to  negotiate  a  commercial  treaty  with  Russia, 
and  of  Mr.  Smith  to  negotiate  a  like  treaty  with  the  Porte.  Both  these  objects 
will  now  be  defeated.     .     .     ." 

*  J.  Adams  to  T.  Pickering,  Secretary  of  State. 

Quincy,  June  7th,  1799. 
Sir: 

I  return  you  all  the  letters  of  Mr.  King  and  Mr.  Humphreys,  which  were 
inclosed  with  your  letter  of  May  30th.  Encourage  Mr.  King,  I  pray  you,  in 
your  letters  and  instructions  to  him,  to  persevere,  with  all  the  decision  which 
may  be  consistent  with  decency  and  politeness,  in  denying  the  right  of  British 
men  of  war  to  take  from  our  ships  of  war  any  men  whatever,  and  from  our  mer- 
chant vessels  any  Americans  or  foreigners,  or  even  Englishmen.  There  is  no 
principle  under  heaven  by  which  they  can  justify  taking  by  force,  even  from 
an  American  Merchant  Vessel,  even  a  deserter  from  their  army  and  navy,  much 
less  private  seamen.  If  they  have  a  right,  we  have  the  same.  I  know  not 
whether  the  exercise  of  it  would  not  be  most  useful  to  us.  Their  merchant 
ships  are  more  numerous  than  ours,  and  they  have  more  foreigners,  Swedes, 
Italians,  Portuguese,  Spaniards,  Danes,  Dutch,  &c. ,  than  we  have.  If  our 
men  of  war  had  a  right  to  take  them,  we  might  easily  man  our  navy  ;  but  the 
thing  has  no  principle. 


554  RUFUS  KING.  [l799 


Majesty,  the  annexed  Pieces,  which  contain  the  Reply  made  by 
the  American  Consul  at  the  Havannah,  of  the  outrage  or  insult 
upon  the  American  Flag  and  Nation,  committed  by  the  Com- 
mander of  his  Majesty's  ship  of  war,  the  Carnatic. 

According  to  this  Report  which  has  been  fully  confirmed  by 
that  of  the  Commander  of  the  American  ship  of  war,  the  Carnatic, 
commanded  by  John  Loring  Esquire,  in  company  with  two  other 
British  ships  of  the  Line  and  two  Frigates,  on  the  morning  of  the 
seventeenth  of  November,  on  the  high  seas,  fell  in  with  a  number 
of  American  Merchant  Ships  under  the  orders  and  protection  of 
the  Baltimore,  a  twenty  Gun  Ship  of  war  belonging  to  and  bear- 
ing the  Flag  of  the  United  States  and  bound  to  the  Port  of 
Havannah. 

After  it  was  ascertained  that  the  Baltimore  was  an  American 
National  Ship  of  War,  Captain  Loring  required  of  her  Comman- 
der to  surrender  to  him  such  of  her  Crew  as  did  not  possess  Cer- 
tificates of  American  Citizenship  ;  and  on  this  being  refused  by 
the  means  of  his  superior  force  took  out  of  the  said  Ship  Balti- 
more fifty  five  of  her  crew  and  carried  them  on  board  the  Carna- 
tic. Fifty  of  these  seamen  were  afterwards  returned  to  the 
Baltimore,  but  the  other  five  were  detained  and  carried  away  by 
the  said  Captain  Loring,  who  not  content  with  this  act  of  violence, 
added  to  it  the  indignity  of  a  demand  of  the  wages  alleged  to  be 
due  to  these  seamen. 

The  undersigned  is  persuaded  that  it  cannot  be  necessary  to 
employ  much  time  in  showing  the  injustice  and  insolence  of  this 
unparalleled  proceeding.  No  Nation  holds  higher  the  honor  of 
its  Flag  than  England  ;  none  cherishes  more  assiduously  the 
Rights  of  its  Navy  ;  none  therefore  is  more  capable  to  appreciate 
the  insult  that  has  been  received  or  the  satisfaction  that  ought  to 
be  given. 

The  Undersigned  notwithstanding  thinks  himself  obliged  to 
remark  that  had  the  whole  crew  of  the  Baltimore  been  composed 
of  British  Subjects,  the  reverse  whereof  was  the  fact,  they  were  in 
the  public  service  of  the  United  States,  by  voluntary  engagement, 
a  reason  constantly  assigned  and  received  for  the  refusal  to  dis- 
charge American  Citizens  serving  in  his  Majesty's  Navy,  tho' 
such  discharge  is  demanded  by  respectable  and  authorized  agents 
of  the  American  Government. 


1799]  LIFE   AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  555 

Besides  no  principle  of  maritime  law  is  more  clear,  no  national 
Right  more  perfect,  than  those  which  mutually  secure  to  the 
ships  of  war  of  friendly  Nations,  sailing  upon  the  main  ocean,  an 
exemption  from  search  and  detention,  and  for  still  stronger 
Reasons  from  such  acts  of  violence  as  were  committed  on  the 
present  occasion  ;  if  the  conduct  of  the  Commander  of  the  Car- 
natic  can  be  justified,  the  like  conduct  of  an  American  Ship  of 
war  must  be  lawful  ;  it  is  needless  to  suggest  the  consequences. 

The  undersigned  entertains  too  high  a  respect  for  the  equity 
and  justice  of  his  Majesty  to  believe  for  a  moment  that  a  proceed- 
ing so  overbearing  and  offensive  toward  a  nation  with  which  his 
Majesty  lives  on  terms  of  harmony  and  friendship,  can  be  seen 
with  any  other  than  sentiments  of  displeasure,  &  of  marked  dis- 
approbation. He  therefore  entertains  no  doubt  of  an  early  com- 
pliance with  the  demand  of  the  President  of  the  United  States, 
that  orders  be  given  for  the  exemplary  punishment  of  the  said 
John  Loring,  Commander  of  the  Carnatic,  and  for  the  immediate 
return  of  the  men  taken  from  the  Baltimore  and  detained  on  the 
Carnatic. 

The  undersigned  feels  great  satisfaction  in  adding  that  this  is 
the  only  instance  of  irregularity  on  the  part  of  his  Majesty's  naval 
officers  towards  those  of  the  United  States,  and  he  flatters  him- 
self that  his  Majesty's  prompt  and  public  animadversion  upon 
that  first  delinquency  will  not  only  prevent  a  repetition  thereof, 
but  moreover  operate  to  strengthen  and  to  preserve  the  mutual 
good  will  and  Harmony  that  so  happily  subsist  between  the  two 

countries.* 

Rufus  King. 

R.  King  to  Lord  Grenville. 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  March  12,  1799. 

Mr.   King  presents  his   compliments   to   Lord   Grenville,  and 

takes   the  liberty  to  inform  his  Lordship  that  a  sealed   packet 

addressed  to  Mr.  King  in  his  public  character,  of  the  contents  or 

importance   of  which   he  is  entirely   ignorant,    has    lately    been 

brought  into  the    Registry  of  the  Court   of   Admiralty,  by   the 

King's   Proctor,   where   it   is  still   detained. 

*  The  documents  which  accompany  this  note  contain  the  details  respecting 
the  outrage. 


556  RUFUS  KING.  [1799 

That  this  packet,  if  found  on  board  a  ship,  detained  for  adju- 
dication, should  have  been  sent  with  other  Papers  to  the  Admi- 
ralty is  not  very  extraordinary,  but  that  an  officer  of  that  Court 
should  think  it  his  duty  to  detain  it,  is  not  altogether  reconcile- 
able  with  what  seems  due  to  the  Minister  of  a  friendly  Nation 
accredited  to  and  residing  near  his  Majesty. 

Mr.  King  feels  himself  obliged  to  complain  of  this  indecorum 
(which  is  by  no  means  mitigated  by  the  circumstance  of  its  pro- 
ceeding from  a  quarter  where  the  Laws  of  Nations  are  presumed 
to  be  professionally  understood  and  discussed)  and  the  more  so 
as  according  to  his  information  it  is  but  a  few  weeks  since  by 
the  direction  of  an  officer  of  the  same  Court,  a  public  Dispatch 
from  the  Minister  of  the  U.  S.  at  Paris  to  the  American  Secretary 
of  State,  after  having  been  intercepted  and  long  detained,  was 
printed  and  appeared  among  the  Papers  exhibited  as  Proofs  in  a 
prize  cause  before  the  Lords  of  Appeal. 

Mr.  King  will  not  permit  himself  to  doubt  that  on  the  recep- 
tion of  this  Complaint  Lord  Grenville  will  take  immediate  meas- 
ures for  the  delivery  of  the  Packet  now  detained  and  for  the 
correction  of  a  Practice  so  derogatory  from  the  Rights  of 
Embassy. 

T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

"  Department  of  State,  March  12,  1799. 
"  Dear  Sir  :  " 

Mr.  P.  acknowledges  the  receipt  of  R.  K.'s  "  letters  1 1 
and  12,  dated  Dec.  7  and  11.  Their  arrival  was  fortunate, 
as  Dr.  Edward  Stevens,  appointed  our  Consul-General  for 
St.  Domingo,  is  on  the  point  of  departing  for  that  Island." 

He  incloses  several  papers  to  Mr.  K.,  among  others  his 
Instructions  to  Dr.  Stevens,  and  says  : 

"  We  expect  that  Toussaint  will  put  an  end  to  the  depredations 
on  our  Commerce  and  thereby  enable  the  President  to  open  the 
trade  with  that  Island.  I  hope  Col.  Grant,  who  is  going  thither 
from  Great  Britain  is  a  discreet  person,  and  that  both  his  disposi- 
tion and  Instructions  will  induce  him  to  cultivate  a  good  under- 
standing with  Dr.  Stevens.     .     .     ." 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  557 

T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

Private  and  Confidential.     In  Cipher. 

Philadelphia,  March  12,  1799. 

My  public  letter  of  this  date  will  inform  you  of  the  Proceedings 
of  our  Government  respecting  St.   Domingo.     We  meddle  not 

with  the  politics  of   the   Island.     T 1  will  pursue  what  he 

deems  the  interest  of  himself  and  his  countrymen  ;  he  will  prob- 
ably declare  the  Island  independent.  It  is  probable  that  he 
wished  to  assure  himself  of  our  commerce  as  the  necessary  means 
of  obtaining  it.  Neither  moral  nor  political  reasons  could  induce 
us  to  discourage  him  ;  on  the  contrary  both  would  warrant  us  in 
urging  him  to  the  Declaration.  Yet  we  shall  not  do  it.  We  go 
no  further  than  the  Act  of  Congress  directs.  We  shall  never  re- 
ceive from  the  French  Republic  indemnification  for  the  injuries 
she  has  done  us.  The  commerce  of  St.  Domingo  presents  the 
only  means  of  compensation,  and  this  I  have  no  doubt  we  shall 
obtain.  We  fear  no  rivals.  Toussaint  respects  the  British  ;  he 
is  attached  to  us  ;  he  knows  our  position,  but  a  few  days'  sail 
from  St.  Domingo,  and  the  promptitude  with  which  we  can  sup- 
ply his  wants.  He  cannot  form  a  black  (Colony)  ;  the  blacks 
are  too  ignorant.  The  Government  must  be  military  during  the 
present  war,  and  perhaps  for  a  much  longer  period.  The  com- 
merce of  the  United  States  and  of  other  nations  (for  you  will  ob- 
serve we  aim  at  no  exclusive  privileges)  will  amply  supply  all 
their  wants,  and  take  off  all  their  produce.  So  that  there  will 
not,  and  ought  not  to  be,  any  inducements  to  withdraw  the  Blacks 
from  the  cultivation  of  the  Island  to  navigation  ;  and  confined 
to  their  own  Island  they  will  not  be  dangerous  neighbours. 
Nothing  is  more  clear  than,  if  left  to  themselves,  that  the  Blacks 
of  St.  Domingo  will  be  incomparably  less  dangerous  than  if  they 
remain  the  subjects  of  France  ;  she  could  then  form  with  them 
military  corps  of  such  strength  in  a  future  war,  as  no  European 
or  other  white  force  could  resist.  France  with  an  army  of  those 
black  troops  might  conquer  all  the  British  Isles  and  put  in  jeop- 
ardy our  Southern  States.  Of  this  the  Southern  Members  were 
convinced,  and  therefore  cordially  concurred  in  the  policy  of  the 
Independence  of  St.  D.,  if  T 1  and  his  followers  will  it.     Mr. 


558  RUFUS  KING.  [i799 


Read  was  the  only  exception  to  this  opinion,  and  his  opinions 
are  sometimes  unaccountable.  Mr.  Liston  appears  to  be  also 
equally  convinced  of  the  policy  of  that  independence,  as  it  would 
respect  the  British  Isles.  For  as  he  observes,  the  radical  evil  is 
already  done,  and  becomes  irremediable,  in  France  making  the 

Blacks  free.     T 1  will  command  50  or  60,000  Black  troops,  if 

necessary  ;  they  are  jealous  of  France,  that  she  intends,  if  possi- 
ble, to  bring  them  back  to  their  former  slavery.  This  jealousy  is 
incurable.  We,  therefore,  confidently  reckon  on  the  Indepen- 
dence of  St.  Domingo.  Rigaud  is  a  subordinate  chief,  and  a 
Mulatto.  This  race  in  the  Island  are  but  a  handful,  not  above 
one  eighth  of  the  population  of  the  Blacks,  and  must  be  crushed 
if  they  resist  the  will  of  T 1. 

It  has  been  impossible  yet  to  make  out  your  instructions  to 
negotiate  with  Russia,  or  those  of  Mr.  Smith  for  the  Porte.  They 
will  be  further  retarded  by  the  Insurrection  in  Northampton 
County  in  Pennsylvania.  Some  people,  generally  very  ignorant, 
have  resisted  the  Commissioners  and  Assessors  of  the  Direct  tax. 
The  inclosed  Proclamation  gives  the  facts.  A  military  force  will 
in  a  few  days  march  to  apprehend  the  Principals.  It  is  fortu- 
nate, seeing  some  opposition  has  been  threatened,  that  it  hap- 
pened so  near  the  seat  of  Government,  and  where  the  deluded 
creatures  will  be  so  easily  subdued.  They  are  Germans  and  the 
most  ignorant  in  the  State. 

In  the  midst  of  the  great  Executive  business  arising  out  of  the 
late  Session,  and  with  an  Insurrection  begun,  the  President  has 
left  the  Seat  of  Government.  Yesterday  he  started  for  Quincy 
where  I  expect  he  will  remain  these  eight  months  !  Of  one 
thing,  however,  I  am  happy  to  inform  you — before  his  departure 
after  a  serious  consultation  with  all  of  us,  it  was  concluded  unani- 
mously that  certain  terms  should  be  demanded  of  France,  with- 
out which  no  Treaty  should  be  made.  These  terms  are  what  we 
have  a  clear  right  to,  and  our  interest  and  honor  oblige  us  to  in- 
sist on.  Yet  I  very  much  doubt  whether  France  will  yield  them. 
I  am  morally  sure  she  will  not  ;  and  this  has  put  us  all  much  at 
our  ease. 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  559 

R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State.     No.  28. 

London,  March  14,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Immediately  on  the  receit  of  your  numbers  37  &  40,  I  pre- 
pared and  sent  a  Memorial  to  Lord  Grenville  on  the  subject  of  the 
Outrage  committed  upon  our  Flag  by  Capt.  Loring  ;  annexed  you 
have  copies  of  this  Memorial  *  and  of  the  answer  that  I  have 
received. 

In  a  Conference  that  I  have  since  had  with  his  Lordship  on  the 
subject  of  the  embarrassment  of  our  Trade  from  the  want  of  pre- 
cision in  the  Clause  of  our  Treaty  that  enumerates  the  articles  of 
Contraband,  I  adverted  to  the  affair  of  Capt.  Loring,  and  ex- 
pressed my  hope  that  his  Conduct  would  be  animadverted  upon 
in  a  manner  that  should  correspond  with  the  aggravation  of  the 
offence,  and  the  friendly  disposition  of  our  two  Countries. 

His  Lordship  after  mentioning  the  old  affair  of  the  Nautilus 
and  another  of  a  later  date  of  which  I  had  seen  no  particular 
account,  added  that  justice  required  that  they  should  receive 
Captain  Loring's  Report,  to  obtain  which  measures  would  be 
immediately  taken  ;  but  that  he  would  not  conceal  from  me  that 
the  Publication  of  the  Instruction  of  our  Secretary  of  the  Marine 
to  the  Commanders  of  our  Ships  of  war,  placed  our  demand 
respecting  Captain  Loring  in  a  situation  somewhat  different  from 
what  it  would  have  stood,  had  not  that  Instruction  been  published  ; 
that  they  owed  and  would  do  justice  to  all  Nations,  but  the  man- 
ner of  doing  it  would  naturally  vary  according  to  the  circumstan- 
ces attending  the  demand  of  it,  and  that  what  might  be  proper  in 
this  respect,  when  satisfaction  was  required  in  the  ordinary  man- 
ner by  a  friendly  Nation,  must  appear  humiliating  if  granted  under 
circumstances  of  menace. 

This  remark  led  to  a  conversation  of  which  I  shall  send  you  a 
Report  when  I  give  an  account  of  what  passed  on  the  Subject  of 
the  Article  respecting  Contraband. 

With  perfect  Respect  and  Esteem  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

P.S.  Lord  Grenville's  answer  is  not  yet,  as  I  supposed,  reed. 
A  copy  shall  be  sent  as  soon  as  it  comes  to  hand.f 

*  March  11,  1799.  f  See  copy  March  21,  1799. 


560  RUFUS  KING.  [1799 

R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State.     No.  29. 

London,  March  15,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Contraband  of  War. 

In  the  Conference  with  Lord  Grenville  mentioned  in  my  last,  I 
stated  to  his  Lordship  the  great  embarrassments  and  losses  of  our 
Navigation  arising  from  the  seizure  and  detention  of  our  vessels, 
having  on  board  Nails  and  oznaburgs,  for  the  Spanish  Colonies, 
and  intimated  that  I  was  authorized  to  arrange  with  him  an 
additional  Article  to  our  Treaty,  by  which  the  Articles  of  Con- 
traband should  be  more  precisely  denned,  or  to  concur  in  such 
other  effectual  measure  as  would  secure  our  trade  from  the 
injury  to  which  it  is  exposed  from  the  want  of  a  more  precise 
enumeration  of  the  articles  agreed  to  be  Contraband.  His  Lord- 
ship replied  that  it  would  be  necessary  for  him  to  institute  an 
Enquiry  on  this  head  and  desired  that  for  such  purpose  I  would 
send  him  a  Note  of  the  articles  supposed  by  us  to  be  erroneously 

included  in  the  Catalogue  of  Contraband  ;  at  the  same 

time,  that  they  should  find  it  important  to  insist  upon  the  compre- 
hension of  whatever  was  essential  to  Ship  Building,  they  should 
have  no  wish  to  include  articles  not  fairly  of  that  character.  We 
conversed  upon  the  manner  of  forming  a  new  article,  should  it  be 
found  necessary  :  I  promised  to  send  the  Note  his  Lordship  had 
requested,  and  the  subject  was  postponed. 

Impressing  of  Seamen. 

I  then  mentioned  our  dissatisfaction  with  the  continuation  of 
the  practice  of  taking  out  of  our  Ships,  met  on  the  main  Ocean, 
such  of  their  crews  as  did  not  possess  Certificates  of  American 
citizenship  ;  denying,  as  I  had  often  done  in  former  Conferences 
upon  the  Subject,  any  right  on  the  part  of  Great  Britain  upon 
which  this  practice  could  be  founded  ;  and  suggesting  that  our 
Ships  of  war  by  permission  of  our  Government  might  with  equal 
right  pursue  the  same  practice  towards  their  Merchantmen. 

That  not  only  Seamen  who  spoke  the  English  Language  and 
who  were  evidently  English  or  American  Subjects,  but  also  all 
Danish,  Swedish,  and  other  foreign  Seamen,  who  could  not  receive 
American  Protections,  were  indiscriminately  taken  from  their  vol- 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  56 1 

untary  service  in  our  Neutral  Employ  and  forced  into  the  war  in 
the  Naval  Service  of  Great  Britain. 

That  on  this  subject  we  had  again  and  again  offered  to  concur 
in  a  Convention  which  we  thought  practicable  to  be  formed,  and 
which  should  settle  these  Questions  in  a  manner  that  would  be 
safe  for  England  and  satisfactory  to  us. 

That  to  decline  such  Convention,  and  to  persist  in  a  practice 
which  we  were  persuaded  could  not  be  vindicated,  especially  to 
the  extent  to  which  it  was  carried,  seemed  less  equitable  and 
moderate  than  we  thought  we  had  a  right  to  expect. 

Lord  Grenville  stated  no  precise  principle  upon  which  he  sup- 
posed the  practice  could  be  justified,  and  the  conversation  upon 
this  point,  like  many  others  on  the  same  Subject,  ended  without 
a  prospect  of  satisfaction.  The  French  and  Spaniards  and  every 
other  Nation  might  pursue  the  same  conduct  as  rightfully  as  Great 
Britain  does.  With  respect  to  foreign  Seamen  in  our  Employ,  this 
Government  has,  if  I  recollect,  yielded  the  point ;  but  their  officers 
continue  the  practice.  We  are  assured  that  all  Americans  shall 
be  discharged  on  application  for  that  purpose,  and  that  Orders  to 
this  effect  have  been  given  to  their  Naval  Commanders  :  but  this 
is  far  short  of  satisfaction — indeed  to  acquiesce  in  this  is  to  give 
up  the  right. 

Copt.  Loring. 

Recurring  to  the  affair  of  Capt.  Loring,  and  to  the  observation 
of  his  Lordship  respecting  it  at  the  beginning  of  our  Conference, 
I  remarked  that  the  instruction  to  which  he  had  alluded  was  in 
itself  proper,  that  it  enjoins  no  more  than  what  we  had  each  the 
right  to  do,  and  what  I  presumed  every  British  Naval  Officer 
would  think  it  his  duty  to  do  ;  that  the  affair  of  Capt.  Loring  had 
called  for  it,  and  as  the  Service  was  new,  it  was  of  consequence  to 
our  Officers  to  be  informed  of  their  Duty  in  this,  as  in  other 
important  and  delicate  points. 

Its  publication  had  not  taken  place  by  order  of  the  Government, 
but  being  sent  with  other  Papers  to  the  House  of  Representatives 
in  compliance  with  the  request,  it  had  in  this  manner  come  before 
the  public. 

That  with  respect  to  what  his  Lordship  had  said  concerning 

VOL.  II. — 36 


562  RUFUS  KING.  [l799 

the  Case  of  the  Nautilus  and  another  of  a  later  date,  with  which 
I  was  not  particularly  acquainted,  but  which  I  understood  to  have 
happened  within  our  Territory,  I  could  not  admit  that  the  Cases 
were  parallel.  Besides  in  respect  to  the  affair  of  the  Nautilus, 
his  Lordship  would  recollect  the  answer  that  was  given  to  our 
complaint  of  the  contemporaneous  conduct  of  Capt.  Home  ;  if 
one,  so  the  other  should  be  put  out  of  view  ;  and  that  I  could  not 
believe,  were  the  cases  the  same,  that  it  would  be  thought  a  wise 
Policy  to  propose  to  balance  one  complaint  against  another.  His 
Lordship  interrupted  me  by  saying,  that  nothing  could  be  more 
remote  from  his  intention  ;  but  that  he  did  not  see  the  connec- 
tion of  the  Cases,  and  Mr.  Liston  had  very  properly,  on  this 
occasion,  reminded  you  of  their  Proposal  to  form  an  Article  for 
the  surrender  of  Deserters. 

I  continued  by  observing  that  my  own  opinion  had  been  to 
defer  the  Article  respecting  Deserters,  until  we  could  agree  in  one 
concerning  the  Seamen  employed  in  their  and  our  Service,  and 
that  most  probably  in  both  the  cases  to  which  he  alluded,  it 
was  for  want  of  such  agreement  that  they  had  found  occasion  of 
complaint. 

That  with  regard  to  the  Cases  mentioned  by  his  Lordship  and 
that  of  the  Baltimore  there  was  this  difference  :  the  jurisdiction 
in  the  one  was  exclusive,  and  in  the  others  divided  :  that  a 
National  Ship  sailing  on  the  ocean  carried  with  her  and  is  covered 
by  the  jurisdiction  of  her  Nation  ;  but  when  she  enters  the  Ports 
and  Territories  of  a  foreign  friendly  Nation,  she  loses  a  portion 
of  that  entire  Dominion  and  retains  only  so  much  thereof,  and 
no  more  than  is  necessary  to  maintain  her  Discipline  and  interior 
Police.  To  that  extent,  and  no  greater  is  the  Nation  where  she 
enters  supposed  to  yield  her  a  portion  of  its  Jurisdiction,  retain- 
ing the  residue. 

That  this  Rule  would  apply  to  foreign  armies  passing  thro'  the 
Territories  of  a  Friendly  Power,  and  that  I  presumed  that  numer- 
ous precedents  would  be  found  to  this  Effect.  His  Lordship 
concluded  by  saying  that  he  had  ordered  a  Search  to  be  made 
into  the  usage  of  European  Nations  in  respect  to  men  of  war, 
which  resort  to  and  make  use  of  the  Ports  of  friendly  foreign 
Powers  ;  that  his  belief  was  that  it  would  be  found  that  the  Com- 
mander's word  must  be  taken  whether  there  were  any  Persons  of 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  563 

the  Nation,  whose  Territories  we  had  entered,  among  the  Crew 
and  that  no  examination  was  permitted. 

The  next  day,  at  the  Queen's  drawing  room,  the  first  Lord  of 
the  Admiralty,  Lord  Spencer,  in  a  very  obliging  manner  expressed 
to  me  his  regret  at  hearing  that  they  were  likely  to  receive  from 
me  a  complaint  against  one  of  their  officers.  I  said  what  I 
thought  suitable  to  the  friendly  manner  in  which  his  Lordship 
expressed  himself,  and  then  observed  that  I  had  sent  a  memorial 
to  my  Lord  Grenville  complaining  of  the  conduct  of  Cap.  Loring. 
He  replied  that  it  had  not  yet  reached  the  Admiralty.  I  then 
intimated  to  his  Lordship  what  had  passed  between  me  and  Lord 
Grenville  and  expressed  a  hope  that  the  circumstance  of  the 
publication  alluded  to  by  Lord  Grenville  would  not  be  seen  in  a 
light  never  intended,  and  that  no  past  circumstance  would  be 
allowed  to  embarass  our  attainment  of  satisfaction  in  this  very 
extraordinary  Case.  His  Lordship's  reply  was  liberal  and  friendly, 
but  sufficiently  guarded. 

Case  of  the  Ship  Aurora. 

Mr.  King  remarks  that  he  had  not  yet  had  leisure  to  examine 
it. 

Insurance  Cases. 

To  my  memorial  on  this  Subject,  and  it  is  one  of  considerable 
importance,  I  sometime  since  received  a  note  from  Lord  Gren- 
ville, inclosing  the  opinion  of  the  Law  Officers  of  the  Crown,  which 
states  that  the  Questions  could  only  be  decided  in  the  competent 
Tribunals,  and  that  the  executive  Power  could  not  influence  the 
Decisions,  and  that  it  was  not  usual  for  Parliament  to  interfere 
to  alter  the  Rights  of  Individuals  in  respect  to  their  contracts. 
To  this  Note  I  immediately  replied,  in  order  to  show  that  the 
opinion  of  the  Crown  Lawyers  might  be  perfectly  correct,  and 
still  nothing  to  the  purpose,  as  we  did  not  request  the  interfer- 
ence of  Parliament  to  alter  the  Rights  of  Individuals  in  respect 
to  their  Contracts,  but  for  the  purpose  of  protecting  such  rights 
and  to  prevent  their  being  altered  by  a  proceeding  subsequent  to 
and  without  the  Contracts,  and  which  against  justice  it  was  pro- 
posed to  make  use  of  to  defeat  them.     I  have  received  no  further 


564  RUFUS  KING.  [i799 

answer,  nor  do  I  know  that  I  shall  ;  tho'  I  hear  that  the  Lord 
Chancellor  entertains  an  opinion  favorable  to  our  Case — a  cir- 
cumstance of  importance  should  it  go  before  the  House  of 
Lords. 

6th  Article  of  the  Treaty. 

Mr.  Liston  has  sent  no  account  of  the  interruption  of  the  Com- 
mission under  the  6th  Article  of  the  Treaty,  and  I  am  not  with- 
out hopes  that  the  business  may  be  arranged  without  being 
sent  here.  We  have  had  our  share  and  a  great  deal  of 
trouble  in  getting  along  with  the  Commissioners  under  the  7th 
Article,  which  still  promises  a  satisfactory  issue,  and  I  shall  be 
sorry  to  have  anything  to  do  with  the  6th  Article.  You  will  not 
from  thence  infer  that  I  think  we  should  submit  to  the  interpre- 
tation of  that  article  intimated  in  your  No.  42.  So  far  from  its 
being  my  opinion,  I  would  sooner  relinquish  the  benefits  of  the 
7th  Article  than  acquiesce  in  an  interpretation  of  the  6th,  so 
grossly  abusive.  We  must  proceed  with  Temper  and  take  care 
that  we  are  right,  and  as  to  the  consequences,  let  them  take  their 
course. 

High  Court  of  Admiralty. 

Since  the  appointment  of  Sir  William  Scott  in  this  Court,  the 
business  proceeds  with  great  dispatch,  tho'  I  hear  that  Sir  Wil- 
liam's decisions  manifest  an  extension  instead  of  a  greater  limi- 
tation of  the  Rights  of  Belligerents  in  respect  to  Neutrals. 

In  a  number  of  recent  condemnations  that  have  taken  place 
for  Breach  of  Blockade,  the  Judge  has  laid  it  down  as  incontro- 
vertible Law,  that  a  Blockade  is  a  legal  interdiction  of  all  Trade 
inwards  and  outwards  of  the  Place  blockaded.  That  all  vessels 
with  their  Cargoes  seized  in  the  attempt  to  enter,  after  Notice, 
and  all  vessels  with  their  Cargoes  seized  coming  out,  provided 
such  Cargoes  were  laden  after  notice,  are  liable  to  condemnation  ; 
and  that  all  vessels  entering  during  the  Blockade  and  seized  when 
coming  out,  are  also  liable  to  condemnation,  the  penalty  of  con- 
fiscation attaching  itself  to  all  Vessels  which  break  the  Blockade. 

I  am  also  informed  that  the  Judge  has  intimated  an  opinion 
that  seems  strong  and  vigorous  in  respect  to  neutral  vessels,  which 
with  a  view  to  the  French  Decrees  and  Regulations  possess  Cer- 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  565 

tificates  issued  by  French  Consuls  resident  in  neutral  Countries, 
purporting  that  the  Cargoes  of  such  vessels  are  not  of  the  growth 
or  fabric  of  the  British  dominions. 

That  the  possession  of  such  Certificates  may  evince  an  unbe- 
coming submission  to  the  injustice  of  France,  and  one  too  not 
particularly  friendly  to  Great  Britain,  may  be  true,  but  that  they 
incur  the  forfeiture  of  the  ship  or  cargo,  is  an  opinion  that  cannot 
be  made  out  or  maintained  by  those  Laws  which  alone  ought  to 
influence  the  Decisions  of  Prize  Courts  ;  and  if  persisted  in  will 
tend  to  prove  what  has  so  often  been  alleged  that  the  Judges  of 
these  Courts  too  frequently  make  the  Law,  instead  of  expound- 
ing it. 

I  don't  hear  that  Sir  William  Scott  has  yet  given  an  opinion 
upon  the  Question  of  a  Trade  carried  on  by  a  neutral  between 
the  French  and  Dutch  Colonies,  and  their  respective  Mother 
Countries,  nor  has  the  Court  of  Appeals,  tho'  pressed  to  it,  yet 
decided  that  question. 

Arms. 

I  am  rejoiced  to  learn  from  your  last  Dispatches,  that  we  have 
a  fair  prospect  of  manufacturing  at  home  Muskets  as  well  as 
Cannon  to  any  extent  that  our  affairs  may  require.  If  this  hap- 
pens a  real  and  most  important  Benefit  will  have  arisen  out  of 
the  difficulties  which  have  prevented  our  obtaining  arms  from 
abroad  :  for  no  Nation  is  really  independent  that  does  not  make 
at  home  every  sort  of  arms  and  Military  Stores.  I  observe  that 
money  is  appropriated  for  the  establishment  of  National  Foun- 
deries.  Considering  the  numerous  Founderies  in  different  parts 
of  our  Country,  would  it  not  have  been  far  more  ceconomical  and 
better  to  have  collected  the  requisite  information  for  the  use  of 
these  Founderies,  and  to  have  employed  them  to  cast  our  Cannon, 
giving  liberal  prices  till  the  business  was  well  understood  and 
established  ?  The  practice  of  this  Country  on  this  point  as  well 
as  that  of  the  Fabrication  of  small  arms,  is  in  favor  of  this  policy. 
Founders  perfectly  acquainted  with  the  business  may  easily  be 
obtained. 

As  in  some  measure  connected  with  this  subject,  I  annex  the 
copy  of  a  Letter  from  Count  Rumford  to  me,  and  referring 
to  a  private  Letter  from  me  to  you  for  my  sentiments  respecting 


566  RUFUS  KING.  [l799 

the  Count,  I  shall  await  your  reply  to  enable  me  to  send  him  an 
answer  to  this  Letter. 

Copper. 

I  understand  that  it  is  in  contemplation  to  take  off  the  Duty 
on  the  importation  of  foreign  Copper  ;  what  Effect  that,  when 
added  to  the  discontinuance  of  the  Copper  Coinage,  may  have  in 
respect  to  the  permission  to  export  Copper  in  Sheets  and  Bolts, 
I  can't  at  present  decide.  The  English  mines  yield  annually 
about  seven  thousand  tons  of  Copper  ;  those  of  Sweden,  which 
next  to  those  of  England  are  I  believe  the  most  considerable  in 
Europe,  do  not  yield  more  than  one  thousand  tons.  The  famous 
Anglesey  mines  fail,  but  from  the  high  price  of  Copper  the  old 
and  deserted  Cornish  mines  are  now  worked  ;  so  that  there  is 
reason  to  expect  the  quantity  annually  produced  in  England,  will 
be  as  great  as  before  the  failure  of  the  mines  of  Anglesey.     I 

don't  find  that  Copper  is anywhere  so  well  or  at  all  in  Sweden 

or  Denmark. 

Maryland  Bank  Stock. 

I  can  only  repeat  what  I  have  again  and  again  been  obliged  to 
write  on  this  Subject.  I  from  time  to  time  flatter  myself  with  the 
belief  that  I  am  near  the  attainment  of  my  object,  when  new  and 
trifling  Difficulties  spring  up  and  defeat  my  expectations.  The 
Chancellor  is  now,  and  for  some  weeks  past  has  been,  so  unwell 
as  to  decline  Business  ;  when  he  re-engages  in  the  affairs  of  his 
office,  I  shall  renew  my  Efforts.  I  still  hope,  but  dare  not,  after 
so  many  disappointments,  promise  ultimate  success. 

Laws  against  Neutrals. 

By  this  opportunity  I  send  you  a  copy  of  the  Message  of  the 
Directory  to  the  Councils  on  the  subject  of  Privateering.  The 
Report  upon  this  Message  has  not  yet  been  made,  or  if  it  has  I 
have  not  yet  seen  it.  The  discussion  still  continues  in  the  Coun- 
cil concerning  the  time  when  the  Law  respecting  neutral  Vessels 
having  on  board  Goods  of  the  growth  or  fabric  of  England  shall 
be  deemed  to  have  commenced  its  operation. 

The  Council  of  500  resolved  that  it  should  operate  from   the 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  567 

day  of  its  Publication  in  the  Bulletin.  The  Debates  before  the 
Ancients,  instead  of  confining  themselves  to  the  Question,  turn 
chiefly  upon  the  Policy  of  the  Law  itself,  and  judging  from  the 
Members  who  condemn  the  Law,  one  would  be  inclined  to  be- 
lieve that  it  would  be  repealed.  The  Message  of  the  Directory 
holds  a  language  more  moderate,  as  well  as  more  artful,  than 
formerly  concerning  the  Trade  of  neutrals  ;  but  it  is  supposed 
that  the  Council  of  five  hundred  has  too  direct  and  considerable 
an  interest  in  the  Laws,  as  well  as  in  the  mode  of  Trial  that  now 
prevails,  to  consent  to  alter  the  one  or  the  other. 
With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem  &c  &c 

Rufus  King. 


Count  Rumford  to  R.  King. 

Copy. 

Brompton  Row,  13  March,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  send  you  herewith  a  small  Pamphlet  which  will  explain  to 
you  the  causes  which  have  rendered  it  impossible  for  me  to  go  to 
America  this  Spring,  as  I  had  intended.  I  have  not  however 
given  over  the  idea  of  visiting  that  Country,  at  some  future 
period  ;  very  far  from  it.  I  really  hope  and  expect  to  be  able  to 
go  there  next  Spring,  and  will  most  certainly  do  so  if  it  should  be 
possible,  provided  you  should  continue  to  advise  it  and  encourage 
me  with  a  hope  of  a  kind  reception. 

I  beg  you  would  do  me  the  honor  to  present  one  of  the  inclosed 
Pamphlets  to  his  Excellency  the  President  of  the  United  States, 
and  accompany  it  with  my  best  respects  and  most  cordial 
wishes  for  his  health  and  happiness  and  future  prosperity  of  the 
United  States. 

The  model  of  a  Field  Piece  on  a  new  and,  I  believe,  on  an  im- 
proved construction  which  I  have  destined  as  a  Present  to  the 
United  States  I  shall  pack  up  and  send  to  you  in  order  to  its  be- 
ing shipped  to  America  as  soon  as  I  shall  get  it  from  his  Royal 
Highness,  the  Duke  of  York,  who  has  desired  to  have  a  copy  of  it. 

You  will  recollect  that  in  a  conversation  we  had  at  your  house, 
on  the  great  importance  to  the  United  States  of  the  Speedy  Es- 
tablishment of  a  Military  School  or  Academy,  I  took  the  liberty  to 


568  RUFUS  KING.  [l799 


say  that  to  assist  in  the  Establishment  of  so  useful  an  Institution, 
I  should  be  happy  to  be  permitted  to  make  a  present  to  the 
Academy  of  my  Collection  of  Military  Books,  Plans,  Drawings 
and  Models.  I  now  repeat  this  offer  and  with  a  request  to  you  that 
you  would  make  it  known  to  the  Executive  Government  of  the 
United  States,  and  that  you  would  let  me  know  as  soon  as  may 
be  convenient  whether  this  offer  will  be  accepted. 

I  have  the  honor  to  be  with  the  most  sincere  regard  &  Esteem 
&c  &c 

RlJMFORD. 

R.  King  to  the  Secretary  of  State.     No.  30. 

London,  March  16.  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  am  somewhat  fearful  that  we  are  a  little  premature  in  naming 
a  Commissioner  to  negotiate  a  Commercial  Treaty  with  Russia*  in- 
asmuch as  we  are  not  yet  ascertained  of  the  sentiments  of  the 
Russian  Cabinet,  either  in  respect  to  the  Negotiation  or  the  Place 
of  conducting  it  ;  everything  that  has  passed  on  that  Subject 
having  been  a  personal  Conversation  between  me  and  the  Russian 
Envoy  at  this  Court. 

I  have  lately  written  him  a  private  Note  intimating  that  I  had 
received  answers  to  my  Letters,  in  which  I  communicated  to  you 
our  Conversation,  and  tho'  nothing  was  decided,  that  I  had  some 
reason  to  believe  that  the  proposed  Negotiation  would  be  agreeable 
to  the  President,  and  that  if  it  should  be  carried  on  here,  it  was 
quite  probable  that  the  President  would  commit  it  to  my  Hands. 

He  answered  that  he  was  pleased  with  the  information  and 
that  he  would  immediately  write  to  his  Court  upon  the  subject, 
stating  what  he  said  as  proceeding  from  our  personal  Conversations, 
and  that  he  hoped  a  Treaty  might  be  concluded  and  that  we  might 
respectively  keep  Ministers  at  Peter sburgh  and  Philadelphia. 

I  learn  that  the  Governor  General  of  Canada  is  to  be  changed, 
and  that  Admiral  Vaudeport  is  to  be  succeeded.  Neither  of 
the  Successors  in  these  commands  are  yet  chosen.  I  expressed 
to  Lord  Spencer  my  hope  that  the  Admiral  would  be  a  man  of 
prudence  and  of  a  temper  calculated  to  preserve  harmony  and 
good  will  between  us,  and  he  assured  me  that  he  thought  the  ap- 

*  Italics  in  cipher. 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  569 

pointment  an  important  one.  I  shall  take  an  early  occasion  to 
speak  with  Mr.  Dundas  respecting  the  character  of  the  Governor 
General  of  Canada. 

Simcoe*  should,  and  I  presume  will,  not  be  the  man  ;  tho'  he 
throws  the  blame  off  from  himself  respecting  the  Proceedings  of 
1793,  still  his  opinions  about  America  disqualify  him  for  that 
Command. 

We  are  impatient  for  the  expected  Letters  from  Hamburgh,  as 
the  affairs  of  the  Continent  are  at  a  crisis.  The  last  mail  which 
left  Cuxhaven  on  the  nth  brings  an  account  not  altogether  au- 
thentic, tho'  much  credited,  that  the  Directory  had  declared  war 
against  Austria,  and  that  the  French  army  had  actually  crossed 
the  Rhine  at  Kehls.  Mr.  Grenville  in  a  private  Letter  from  Berlin 
to  his  brother,  says  tho'  he  cannot  send  the  intelligence  officially, 
that  it  is  generally  believed  at  Berlin.  Great  hopes  have  been 
entertained  that  Prussia  could  be  induced  to  combine  with  Eng- 
land and  Russia;  but  if  Austria  is  engaged,  such  is  the  jealousy 
between  her  and  Prussia,  that  the  latter  will  probably  remain 
Neutral. 

It  is  a  day  or  two  ago  that  I  was  told  by  one  who  had  it  from 
the  Duke  of  Clarence  that  among  other  projects  to  be  produced  by 
Mr.  Grenville  at  Berlin  was  one  to  be  executed  by  England  and 
Russia  to  cut  off  all  the  Trade  of  Neutral  Nations  with  France  and 
her  Dominions.  A  report  of  the  same  sort,  with  the  addition 
that  the  United  States  are  to  join  England  and  Russia  for  this  pur- 
pose is  in  circulation  among  a  lower  Rank  in  society.  I  don't 
know  the  degree  of  credit  due  to  the  whisper  ;  but  Rumours  of 
this  sort  are  not  frequently  destitute  of  all  Foundation. 

Towards  the  last  of  January  La  Fayette  went  into  Holland  ;  I 
have  not  heard  of  his  return  ;  he  could  not  go  there  except  by 
permission,  and  nothing  is  done  in  Holland,  repugnant  to  the 
views  of  the  French.  Some  foreign  Journals  say  he  has  returned 
to  France,  where  his  wife  has  been  for  some  months  past,  and 
conjectures  of  various  kinds  are  made  in  consequence  of  this  in- 
formation. Some  assert  that  he  has  made  his  Peace  by  his 
American  Popularity,  and  that  he  will  be  sent  Minister  to  Phila- 
delphia to  heal  the  differences  between  the  two  Countries,  and  to 
prepare  the  way  for  the  next  Presidential  Election  ;  but  this  is 
*  See  letter  to  R.  King  May  I,  1800,  by  J.  G.  Simcoe. — Ed. 


570  RUFUS  KING.  [i799 

all  so  much  an  affair  of  conjecture  that  I  relate  it  merely  as  such. 
The  present  Directory,  or  at  least  a  majority  of  them,  have 
within  eighteen  months  spoken  in  the  harshest  manner  of  La 
Fayette,  and  were  they  or  their  Government  to  be  interpreted  in 
the  way  we  construe  others,  we  should  not  for  a  moment  lend  an 
Ear  to  such  a  tale. 

The  apprehension  of  another  attempt  of  the  French  upon  Ire- 
land gains  strength,  and  the  internal  disorder  of  that  country  is 
such  as  leaves  little  doubt  that  the  United  Irishmen  are  again 
preparing  for  the  reception  of  the  French.  A  new  Directory  is 
supposed  to  exist,  which  regulates  the  motions  of  the  disaffected, 
tho'  in  a  manner  so  secret  as  to  elude  detection.  Martial  Law  is 
again  authorized  by  the  Irish  Parliament  and  the  most  vigorous 
measures  employed  for  the  Safety  of  the  Kingdom. 

I  will  obtain  the  names  of  the  Irish  State  Prisoners  whose 
Pestilential  Flight  to  the  United  States  was  fortunately  arrested. 
They  amount  to  Ninety,  and  a  list  of  their  names  is  easily 
procured. 

I  omitted  at  the  time  to  inform  you  that  at  the  particular  desire 
of  Lord  Cornwallis,  communicated  to  me  through  the  Duke  of 
Portland,  I  consented  that  one  of  these  State  Prisoners,  by  the 
name  of  Lynch,  brother  to  a  merchant  of  the  same  name  in  New 
York,  should  be  permitted  to  go  to  New  York,  for  which  place 
he  sailed  some  months  since.  He  was  represented  to  me  as  of 
inferior  consequence  as  a  Conspirator,  and  by  no  means  likely  to 
be  mischievous  among  us.  It  is  proper  that  you  should  know 
the  fact,  that  he  may  be  identified  and  remembered. 

With  perfect  Respect  and  Esteem  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

Joseph  Hale  to  R.  King. 

Boston,  March  16,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Before  this  comes  to  hand,  you  will  probably  be  advised  of  the 
nomination  of  our  Minister  at  The  Hague  as  Minister  Plenipo.  to 
the  French  Republic  ;  of  the  surprise  &  agitation  thereby  pro- 
duced among  all  good  men  ;  of  its  being  specially  committed  by 
the  Senate  ;  of  a  large  majority  therein  resolved  upon  a  negative  ; 
&  of  the  subsequent  modification  of  this  extraordinary  measure 
by  adding  Mr.  Ellsworth  &  Patrick  Henry,  making  of  the  three 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  57 1 

a  joint  commission  &  restricting  the  departure  of  the  two  latter 
until  suitable  assurances  are  received  from  the  Greal  Nation. 

You  will  perhaps  have  been  informed  that  the  gun  act  embra- 
cing a  right  to  recapture  foreign  vessels,  prizes  to  the  French,  was 
lost  by  this  executive  measure  ;  that  however  the  Federal  tone 
was  at  length  so  far  restored  as  to  produce  the  adoption  of  the  re- 
port on  the  Sedition  &  Alien  acts,  &  of  three  accompanying  resolves 
imparting  the  inexpediency  of  repealing  those  acts  &  any  of  the 
acts  relating  to  the  military,  naval,  or  fiscal  arrangements  ;  that 
the  act  for  raising  24  instead  of  12  Regiments  was  passed  ;  also 
that  for  encreasing  the  salaries  of  the  heads  of  departments  &  that 
to  empower  the  President  to  retaliate  should  the  French  decree 
be  put  in  execution. 

I  now  take  the  liberty  to  inclose  via  Dublin,  the  President's 
proclamation  for  a  Fast  to  prove  to  foreigners  that  our  Execu- 
tive has  not  &  does  not  mean  to  abandon  the  system  of  defence 
against  France  by  any  mean  compliances.  It  may  not  be  im- 
proper to  add  that  the  nomination  of  Mr.  Murray  is  said  to  have 
been  made  with  a  view  to  outmanoeuvre  the  arch  Talleyrand  & 
by  no  means  intended  as  an  overture  at  conciliation  ;  or  to  hold 
up  the  prospect  of  peace.  It  has  more  than  once  happened  that 
weakness  of  intellect  is  reconcileable  with  soundness  of  intention. 
— The  bad  tendency  of  the  measure  will  it  is  presumed  produce 
no  very  serious  effects  in  the  interior.  The  influence  abroad  is 
very  justly  deprecated.  With  a  blockhead  at  St.  James  to  repre- 
sent our  Country  our  fears  would  be  inexpressible.  Even  a  man 
of  the  best  talents  will  find  employment  for  them  all  on  this  oc- 
casion. Yet  the  measure  candidly  viewed  ought  not  to  lessen  the 
friendship  or  excite  the  jealousies  of  the  British  Cabinet.  Their 
most  solid  interests  unquestionably  dictate  a  liberality  &  candour 
particularly  in  this  instance. 

Your  most  obed.  servt. 

Joseph  Hale. 

R.  King  to  R.  Troup. 

London,  Mar.  16,  1799. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

If  practicable  I  will  procure  for  you  some  information  respect- 
ing the  Process,  &c,of  the  Prize  Court  of  this  Country.  There  is 
no  book  extant  that  gives  any  satisfaction  upon  this  Subject.  The 


572  RUFUS  KING.  [l799 

present  judge  of  the  H.  C.  of  Admty.  is  a  man  of  uncommon 
abilities  ;  I  don't  recollect  much  of  his  Predecessors,  but  I  am 
inclined  to  think  him  the  ablest  Judge  that  has  presided  in  that 
Court.  His  Predecessors  can  have  no  reason  on  earth,  as  Lord 
Kenyon  says,  to  complain  of  this  opinion.  You  must  not  infer 
from  hence  that  Sr.  Wm.  Scott  does  not  condemn  neutral  Ships 
and  Cargoes,  for  I  am  quite  apprehensive  that  he  will  in  this  as  in 
most  other  respects  hold  the  same  distinguished  Pre-eminence 
over  his  Predecessors.  I  have  taken  some  pains  to  enquire  of 
those  who  ought  to  understand  the  mode  of  proceeding  in  the 
Prize  Court,  but  my  enquiries  have  been  made  to  little  purpose  ; 
for  here  as  in  all  other  Cases  of  Knowledge  passing  by  Tradition, 
the  reports  of  the  initiated  are  not  only  imperfect  but  various. 

The  College  of  Doctors,  who  alone  are  counsellers  or  Speakers 
in  this  Court,  does  not  consist  of  more  than  twenty  members,  who 
perpetuate  themselves  by  the  admission  of  new  Brothers.  These 
are  persons  educated  at  one  of  the  Universities,  where  they  must 
have  resided  Eleven  years  before  they  could  have  received  the 
Degrees  which  form  the  indispensable  qualification  for  an  admis- 
sion into  the  College  of  Doctors  Commons,  where  they  rarely 
arrive  before  they  have  attained  thirty  years  of  age.  Give  us  good 
Lord  peace  in  our  Days,  is  not  one  of  the  prayers  of  this  Brother- 
hood. It  does  not  appear  that  the  laborious  acquisition  of  what 
has  been  written  in  poetry  and  prose,  in  English,  French  &  Latin 
upon  the  Law  of  Nations  is  of  much  consequence  or  necessary 
to  become  a  Doctor.  Indeed  Genet  is  not  the  only  one  who 
despises  those  worm-eaten  authors.  I  shall  have  a  great  deal  to 
tell  you  &  Hamilton  &  Harrison  and  others,  that  you  will  think 
passing  strange  !  Between  ourselves  I  have  seen  much  less  reason 
to  discredit  our  own  Courts,  and  lawyers,  and  learning  and  blind 
Justice,  as  well  as  somewhat  less  to  admire  those  of  foreign  Lands 
than  my  simplicity  had  lead  me  to  think  I  should  !  ! 

We  hear  and  at  present  believe  that  the  directory  has  declared 
war  agt.  Austria.  Ireland  is  again  in  a  dreadful  condition  & 
in  daily  apprehension  of  another  attempt  at  invasion  from 
France.     .     .     . 

Yrs. 


1799]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  573 

R.  King  to  Colonel  Pickering. 

Personal  and  Private. 

London,  March  16,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

It  would  have  been  quite  agreeable  to  me  to  have  received 
your  son  as  my  Secretary,  had  Mr.  Dandridge  chosen  to  have  ac- 
cepted of  his  late  Military  appointment ;  I  took  occasion  imme- 
diately on  the  receit  of  your  friendly  Letter  on  this  subject  to 
speak  to  Mr.  Dandridge  respecting  his  appointment  in  the  army 
and  to  say  that  in  case  he  thought  of  returning  to  America,  I 
should  be  inclined  to  receive  your  Son  as  his  successor  ;  observ- 
ing to  him  at  the  same  time  that  I  had  reason  to  be  satisfied  with 
him,  his  staying  with  me,  or  returning  would  be  left  entirely  to  his 
choice. 

He  told  me  that  his  application  for  a  military  appointment  was 
made  before  he  had  any  expectation  of  coming  into  my  family, 
that  he  found  the  Dutch  Climate  disagree  so  much  with  his  health, 
that  he  was  obliged  to  resolve  upon  a  return  home,  and  as  an  em- 
ployment when  he  came  there  had  sought  a  Commission  in  the 
Army,  but  that  he  had  relinquished  the  idea  of  the  army  as  soon 
as  he  joined  me,  and  should  not  resume  it,  if  I  had  no  objection 
to  his  remaining  with  me. 

Under  these  circumstances  I  shall  not  forward  the  letters  on  this 
Subject  to  Mr.  Smith  and  your  Son,  as  I  entirely  agree  with  you 
that  it  may  be  of  considerable  advantage  to  him  to  spend  some 
time  here  before  he  engages  in  his  profession.  I  brought  my 
youngest  Brother  with  me  with  this  view,  and  he  returned  home 
after  remaining  about  a  year  with  me. 

If  you  will  allow  your  Son  to  come  here,  tho'  for  the  reason 
above  stated  I  cannot  secure  him  a  Salary,  as  my  Secretary,  I 
shall  be  happy  in  receiving  him  as  one  of  my  Family  and  he  may 
consider  my  house  and  table  his  own  in  like  manner  as  tho'  he 
was  my  Secretary.  In  this  proposal,  which  is  not  offered  as  a 
token  of  civility,  I  shall  be  grateful  if  you  agree. 

With  sincere  regards  &c.  &c 

Rufus  King. 


574  RUFUS  KING.  [i799 

R.  King  to  Colonel  Pickering. 

Private  and  Confidential. 

London,  Mar.  16,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

If  the  President  should  think  of  sending  a  minister  to  Con- 
stantinople for  the  purpose  of  negotiating  a  commercial  Treaty,  I 
know  of  no  one  that  I  think  more  capable  of  conducting  the  nego- 
tiation than  my  early  and  worthy  friend  Mr.  Gore.  I  have  some 
reason  to  believe  that  such  a  mission  would  not  be  disagreeable 
to  him,  and  it  is  but  strict  justice  to  observe  that  the  patience, 
diligence  and  ability  with  which  he  has  conducted  the  affairs  of 
the  by  no  means  pleasant  Commission  of  which  he  is  a  member, 
give  him,  exclusive  of  his  respectable  personal  Qualifications, 
some  title  to  the  public  notice  and  favor.  Whether  you  will  ap- 
preciate the  advantages  to  our  Trade  that  would  be  gained  by 
such  a  Treaty  I  can  only  conjecture  ;  nor  do  I  know  that  any 
means  are  or  will  be  likely  to  be  taken  in  order  to  ascertain  the 
Disposition  beforehand  of  the  Porte  upon  this  Subject.  I  don't 
think  we  should  take  any  ostensible  step  unless  we  are  previously 
ascertained  of  a  favorable  Disposition  at  Constantinople.  You 
will  observe  that  I  think  we  have  been  a  little  hasty  in  regard  to 
Russia  ;  tho'  I  have  not  much  doubt  that  this  Power  will  consent 
to  negotiate,  expecting  perhaps  that  the  negotiation  be  carried  on 
at  Petersburgh. 

With  great  truth  I  am,  dear  Sir,  your  faithful  Sert. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  James  McHenry,  Esq. 

London,  March  16,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  annex  the  copy  of  a  Letter  from  Count  Rumford,  formerly 
Sir  Benjamin  Thompson,  to  me  upon  a  subject  somewhat  inter- 
esting. I  am  persuaded  that  the  establishment  of  an  American 
Military  Academy  is  an  object  of  the  first  importance  to  us. 
Count  Rumford  founded  one  in  Bavaria  that  enjoys  a  very  high 
reputation,  and  I  have  reason  to  believe  that  he  would  receive 
very  great  pleasure  in  communicating  to  us  the  result  of  his  ex- 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  575 


perience  on  this  Subject.  I  have  not  seen  his  Military  Books, 
Drawings,  &c,  but  am  informed  that  they  are  inestimable.  The 
Cannon  he  proposes  to  make  a  present  of  to  the  United  States  is 
a  perfect  model,  and  will  serve  to  assist  in  the  Casting  and  Mount- 
ing Field  Artillery.  I  have  sent  a  copy  of  the  Count's  Letter 
likewise  to  Col.  Pickering,  and  must  wait  for  the  President's  in- 
structions, thro'  him  or  you,  in  what  manner  I  shall  answer  it. 
Count  Rumford  proposes  to  return  with  the  view  of  residing  a 
part  of  his  time  in  his  Native  Country.  On  this  Subject  I  take 
the  liberty  of  referring  you  to  a  Letter  from  me  to  Col.  Pickering, 
and  will  only  add  that  it  would  undoubtedly  be  encouraging  and 
grateful  to  him  to  receive  an  answer  from  the  President,  thro'  me 
or  in  any  other  way,  that  he  will  be  received  in  a  kind  and  friendly 
manner. 

I  have  not  for  a  long  time  received  any  Letters  from  you  ;  nor 
do  I  know  that  you  have  received  your  Books,  Medals,  &c,  that  I 
have  at  different  times  sent  you.  I  shall  by  the  earliest  oppor- 
tunity send  you  the  Dies  which  have  been  ready  these  four 
months. 

I  am  always  happy  to  hear  of  and  from  you,  and  beg  you  to 
accept  the  assurance  of  my  Sincere  Esteem  &  Respect. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  O.  Wolcott,  Esq. 

London,  March  16,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  was  in  hopes  to  have  heard  from  you  by  the  last  packet,  and 
to  have  received  your  opinion  respecting  the  arms  sent  by  Pit- 
cairn  from  Hamburgh  to  New  York.  You  know  that  I  have  had 
considerable  apprehension  that  their  quality  would  disappoint  us. 
I  don't  know  what  is  the  quantity  Pitcairn  has  engaged.  The  in- 
terruption during  the  winter  has  been  such  as  to  cut  off  all  cor- 
respondence. Not  having  an  immediate  Demand  for  the  whole  of 
the  money  in  the  hands  of  the  Mess.  Barings,  I  have  requested 
them  to  pay  Mr.  Williams  about  ^5000,  to  assist  him  in  the  pros- 
ecution of  our  prize  Cases  ;  this  saves  us  from  borrowing  here  for 
that  purpose,  which  we  shall  be  obliged  to  do  unless  we  receive 


576  RUFUS  KING.  [i799 

further  Remittances.  I  have  also  lately  ordered  the  Mess.  Barings 
to  remit  Pitcairn^7ooo.;  the  exchange  is  much  in  our  favor,  the 
Bills  at  two  and  a  half  and  three  usances,  which  I  have  desired 
might  not  be  discounted,  except  as  the  money  should  be  wanted. 
This  step  has  been  influenced  by  the  Persuasion  that  circum- 
stances were  at  hand  that  would  materially  affect  the  exchange 
between  this  and  Hamburgh,  and  the  Bills  being  at  long  sight 
will  in  a  great  measure  preserve  us  from  Casualties.  I  shall 
send  you  soon  the  late  Reports  of  the  Committee  on  Finance  and 
such  other  publications  relative  to  that  subject  as  have  lately  ap- 
peared. Send  me  in  return  your  Reports  and  Statements  to  Con- 
gress. Without  I  obtain  them  I  am  not  able  to  answer  a  thousand 
questions,  that  it  is  of  use  to  us  should  be  answered,  and  correctly. 

Yours  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Count  Rumford. 

London,  Mar.  17,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

That  your  numerous  and  respectable  friends  in  this  Country, 
should  be  gratified  by  the  postponement  of  your  voyage  to 
America  is  extremely  natural.  But  I  foresaw  such  advantages 
from  your  return  among  us,  to  our  various  public  institutions, 
many  of  which  are  but  now  beginning  to  establish  themselves, 
that  I  cannot  refrain  from  expressing  to  you  my  sincere  regret 
that  it  is  likely  to  be  so  long  deferred.  I  console  myself  however 
with  your  obliging  assurance  that  it  is  not  entirely  relinquished. 

Though  I  think  I  might  before  hand  thank  you  in  the  Presi- 
dent's name  for  the  many  valuable  tokens  of  friendship  that  you 
kindly  offer  us,  I  have  preferred  to  send  your  Letter  to  the  Secre- 
tary of  State,  with  a  request  it  might  be  laid  before  the  President 
in  order  that  I  may  receive  his  Instructions,  in  what  manner  I 
shall  answer  it.  I  beg  you,  my  dear  Sir,  to  pardon  the  delay  that 
has  occurred  in  my  acknowledgment  of  the  receit  of  your  Letter, 
which  has  been  occasioned  by  pressing  Engagements,  and  to  be 
assured  of  the  sincere  Regard  &  Esteem,  &c,  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  577 


Lord  Grenville  to  R.  King. 

Downing  Street,  March  21,  1799. 

Lord  Grenville  presents  his  compliments  to  Mr.  King  and  has 
the  honor  to  acknowledge  the  receipt  of  his  memorial  of  the  nth 
of  this  month  relative  to  the  conduct  of  the  Commander  of  his 
Majesty's  ship  Carnatic. 

The  Government  of  the  U.  S.  may  be  assured  that  the  King  is 
always  solicitous  to  respect  the  Rights  and  Honor  of  those  powers 
with  whom  his  majesty  entertains  the  relations  of  friendship  ;  that 
the  instructions,  which  by  his  majesty's  orders  are  given  to  the  com- 
manders of  his  fleets  or  ships  of  war,  affirm  the  strictest  attention 
to  this  principle,  particularly  in  the  case  of  the  ships  of  war  of  any 
of  those  powers  ;  and  that  his  majesty,  desirous  at  all  times  to 
manifest  his  friendship  towards  the  U.  S.,  will  certainly  see  with 
displeasure  any  act  which  may  have  been  committed  by  any 
officer  in  his  majesty's  service  in  derogation  of  the  attention  and 
respect  due  to  their  flag. 

With  regard  to  the  particular  facts  mentioned  in  Mr.  King's 
memorial  the  most  immediate  inquiry  will  be  instituted  into  them 
that  the  distance  of  the  service  upon  which  the  Commander  of  his 
majesty's  ship  Carnatic  is  now  employed  will  allow,  and  on  the 
result  of  this  inquiry  his  majesty  will  pursue  with  delay  such 
measures  as  the  case  may  appear  to  require  in  conformity  to  the 
principles  above  stated. 

VOL.  II.— 37 


CHAPTER  XXXIV. 

King  to  Jay — Domestic  and  foreign  Affairs — Sedgwick — Nomination  of  Mur- 
ray— Virginia  and  Kentucky  Resolutions — Troubles  of  Commission  under 
sixth  Article — King  to  Secretary  of  State — French  Movements — Louisiana 
— Blindness  which  prevents  a  general  Confederacy  against  France — Lord 
Grenville  and  King — On  Outrage  by  Capt.  Loring — Blockade  of  the  Ports 
of  Holland — King  to  Lord  Grenville,  advising  recasting  eighteenth  Article 
of  the  Treaty  of  Amity,  etc.,  to  obtain  more  Precision  of  Terms — Naval 
Stores — To  Wm.  Smith — Mission  to  Russia  and  the  Porte — Count  Rumf  ord 
— Hindman — Result  of  the  Elections — King  to  Secretary  of  State — Modifi- 
cations of  French  Regulations  against  American  Commerce — French  mili- 
tary Operations  in  the  Tyrol — To  Jay — Muskets  bought  in  Hamburg  for 
New  York — Troup — Disgust  at  Murray's  Nomination — Insurrection  in 
Pennsylvania — King  to  Sir  Joseph  Banks — United  States  Mint  and  Coins 
— To  Lord  Grenville — Specification  of  proposed  Alterations  in  eighteenth 
Article. 

Rufus  King  to  John  Jay.* 

London,  March  18th,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  opposition  of  Virginia,  and  of  her  offspring,  Kentucky, 
appears  bolder  and  more  considerable  than  I  had  apprehended. 
The  reform  that  seems  to  have  taken  place  in  the  Carolinas  is, 
however,  a  consoling  and  important  circumstance.  I  have  been 
inclined  to  believe  that  the  Congressional  election  was  the  princi- 
pal object  of  those  inflammatory  proceedings,  which  discredit  and 
injure  us  abroad,  and  when  passed,  that  these  States  would  display 
less  turbulence. 

According  to  present  appearances,  the  war  must  recommence 
between  France  and  Austria,  if  it  has  not  already  begun  ;  but  that 
an  honest  and  solid  confederacy  against  France  is  likely  to  take 

*  Life  of  John  Jay,  vol.  ii.,  p.  296. 

578 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  579 

place  between  the  great  powers  is  more  than  I  dare  even  to  expect. 
Russia  is  uncommonly  zealous.  Passawan  Ouglou  has  accepted 
pardon  and  promotion  ;  and  it  is  just  now  said,  how  accurately  is 
another  point,  that  Russia  and  Austria  are  to  lay  aside  their  mu- 
tual jealousy,  and  to  consult  and  act  together  for  their  common 
safety. 

The  commercial  condition  of  England  is  extremely  prosperous 
and  notwithstanding  the  hazardous  and  really  dreadful  situation 
of  Ireland,  this  country  is  united  in  an  uncommon  degree,  and 
appears  resolved  to  persevere  in  the  war.  The  minister,  at  the 
opening  of  his  budget,  estimates  the  total  income  of  all  the  peo- 
ple of  Great  Britain  at  a  hundred  million  per  annum  ;  and  it  is 
confidently  expected  that  the  taxes  of  this  year  will  considerably 
exceed  one-third  of  this  sum. 

The  Directory  lately  hold  a  language  respecting  America  more 
moderate,  but  not  less  artful  and  dangerous.  Whether  any  change 
in  their  privateering  laws  will  be  made,  I  think  uncertain  ;  if  my 
conjectures  respecting  the  views  of  the  Directory  are  correct,  these 
laws  will  be  now  modified,  or  at  least  for  a  time  suspended.  After 
the  experience  we  have  had,  it  will  be  humiliating  if  we  are  de- 
ceived by  the  artifices  that  will  be  practised  among  our  people. 

Obedt.  &  faithful  Servt. 

Rufus  King. 


T.  Sedgwick  to  R.  King. 

Stockbridge,  20th  March,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  You  will  have  seen  the  nomination  of  our  friend  Mr. 
Murray  as  Minister  to  the  french  republic,  and  its  consequences. 
The  immediate  document  to  which  the  President  refers,  the  Let- 
ter from  Talleyrand  to  Pichon,  which  in  the  President's  opinion 
affords  "  a  plausible  appearance  of  probability "  (a  degree  of 
evidence  I  do  not  perfectly  comprehend,)  of  french  sincerity,  is 
published.  That  letter  refers  to  one  of  the  date  of  the  4th  fruc- 
tidor.  It  is  unfortunate  that  the  fructidor  letter  asserts  the  claim 
of  france  to  treat  only  with  those  "  who  are  truly  american,  not 
seduced  by  Great  Britain,  neither  friendly  to  royalty  nor  inimical 
to  france."     No  good,  it  is  stated,  can  be  expected  by  a  negotia- 


580  RUFUS  KING.  [i799 

tion  in  other  hands  ;  and  that  fairness  requires  that  he  should 
warn  the  government  of  the  U.  S.  of  "  these  rocks."  Nothing 
has,  at  any  time,  been  communicated  to  our  government  more 
arrogant  &  offensive.  In  my  opinion,  and  in  this  the  federal 
sentiment  is  unanimous,  our  honor  and  of  course  our  interest,  re- 
quired, that  the  scene  of  negotiation  should  have  been  the  United 
States,  and  nothing  should  have  induced  us  to  relinquish  this 
ground  but  severe  calamity.  Nothing  could,  in  my  belief,  have 
been  more  unfortunate  than  this  measure.  After  infinite  embar- 
rassments we  had  attained  a  point  of  all,  on  this  side  open  and 
declared  hostility,  the  most  desirable,  and  which  should  not,  but 
on  great  consideration,  have  been  relinquished.  The  state  of  our 
affairs  as  well  at  home  as  in  Europe  required  a  firm  adherence  to 
the  system  which  had  been  adopted  ;  and  we  must  fear  the  effect 
which  may  be  produced  on  the  proposed  negotiation  with  Russia 
and  the  Porte. 

Our  funds,  notwithstanding  all  the  depredations  on  our  com- 
merce, are  productive  beyond  the  expectation  of  any  body.  The 
surplus  of  permanent  revenue,  the  last  year,  after  satisfying  all 
permanent  appropriations,  exceeded  two  millions  and  a  half. 
Credit,  from  the  effect  of  the  last  loan,  appears  sound  and 
effective  ;  there  having  been  nearly  three  times  the  proposed 
amount  subscribed  in  one  day.  The  Jacobins  say  that  it  is  clear, 
from  the  result,  that  the  terms  proposed,  by  the  Secretary,  were 
excessive,  for,  it  is  argued,  if  eight  per  cent  will  produce  15 
millions  surely  seven  would  have  secured  the  proposed  amount. 
But  the  facts  authorize,  conclusively,  the  proposed  terms.  The 
basis  of  his  calculation  was  the  actual  market  rate  of  interest 
ascertained  by  the  price  of  the  various  species  of  stock.  No  other 
principle  could  have  been  adopted. 

The  conduct  of  the  Legislature  of  Virginia,  and  its  Satellite 
that  of  Kentucky,*  you  must  have  considered  attentively.     The 

*  The  reference  here  is  to  the  celebrated  Virginia  resolutions  of  1798,  prepared 
by  Madison  for  the  Virginia  Legislature  and  by  Jefferson  for  the  Kentucky 
Legislature,  presented  by  Nicholas,  passed  in  the  latter,  and  known  as  "the 
Kentucky  Resolutions."  They  resolved  that  the  United  States  were  united  by 
a  compact,  the  Constitution,  to  which  each  State  acceded  as  a  State,  its  co- 
States  forming  the  other  party  ;  "  that  every  State  has  a  natural  right,  in 
cases,  not  within  the  compact,  to  nullify,  of  their  own  authority,  all  assumptions 
of  power  by  others  within  their  limits."     This  principle  was  summed  up  by  Mr.. 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  58 1 

conduct  of  the  national  government  was  openly  denounced  as 
hostile  to  liberty,  proceeding  by  usurpation,  insidiously  to  estab- 
lish a  Tyranny,  in  violation  of  the  constitution  &  of  oaths.  If 
these  charges  were  true,  resistance  was  not  only  justifiable  but  a 
duty,  and  hence  they  were  preparing  for  it  by  arming  the  People. 
Their  address  to  their  constituents  is  a  justificatory  memorial, 
little,  if  at  all,  short  of  a  declaration  of  war.  The  effects  of  this 
strange  production  were,  in  some  degree,  counteracted  by  the 
address  of  the  minority,  a  masterly  performance,  for  which  we  are 
indebted  to  the  pen  of  General  Marshall,  who  has,  by  it,  in  some 
measure,  atoned  for  his  pitiful  electioneering  epistle.  But  what 
has  been  infinitely  more  beneficial  is  the  firm,  dignified  &  patriotic 
conduct  of  the  other  State  legislatures,  whose  unanimity  will  in 
some  degree  redeem  our  character,  disgraced  by  Virginia  democ- 
racy ;  and  has,  we  are  informed,  arrested  the  progress  of  the  de- 
signs of  the  leaders  in  that  state. 

I  ought  to  have  told  you,  for  the  honor  of  our  executive  ad- 
ministration, that  none  of  the  ministers,  nor,  I  believe,  any  body 
else,  was  consulted  by  the  President  relative  to  the  nomination  of 
Murray. 

The  Secretary  of  State  has,  I  presume,  informed  you  of  the 
unhappy  divisions  which  exist  among  the  commissioners  on  the 
subject  of  the  British  debts.*     From  all  I  know  it  is  pretty  cer- 

Nicholas  in  these  words  :  "  That  the  several  States  who  formed  that  instrument 
(the  Constitution)  being  sovereign  and  independent,  have  the  unquestionable 
right  to  judge  of  its  infraction  ;  and  that  a  nullification  of  those  sovereignties, 
of  all  unauthorized  acts,  done  under  color  of  that  instrument,  is  the  rightful 
remedy." 

Though  the  doctrine  was  denounced  at  the  time  by  other  States,  to  which 
Virginia  appealed  to  support  her  in  declaring  the  acts  of  Congress — among 
others,  and,  chiefly,  the  Alien  and  Sedition  laws — unconstitutional  and  to  take 
the  "  necessary  and  proper  measures  to  maintain  unimpaired  the  authorities, 
rights,  and  liberties  reserved  to  the  States  respectively  or  to  the  people,"  the  as- 
sertion of  these  principles  has  since  been  on  several  occasions  the  cause  of 
danger  to  the  country,  and  was  the  ground  on  which  the  rebellion  of  1861  was 
pretended  to  be  based.  The  crushing  of  that  settled  forever  the  principle  that 
the  United  States  is  not  a  compact  of  States,  with  reserved  rights,  but  a  "  gov- 
ernment of  the  people,  by  the  people,  and  for  the  people." — Ed. 

*  "  The  commission  sitting  at  Philadelphia  under  the  sixth  article,  the  ap- 
pointment of  the  fifth  commissioner  or  umpire  of  which  had  fallen  to  the 
British,  was  by  no  means  so  harmonious  (as  the  7th  at  London).     Claims  of  all 


582  RUFUS  KING.  [*799 

tain  that  a  secession  must  take  place  on  the  part  of  our  gentle- 
men. I  hope  no  very  mischievous  effects  will  ensue.  In  any 
event,  however,  I  believe,  all  dispassionate  men  will  concur  in 
opinion  that  great  indiscretion,  if  nothing  more,  has  marked  the 
conduct  of  the  commissioners  on  the  part  of  G.  Britain. 

There  have  been  serious  embarrassments  experienced  in  every 
part  of  our  country  from  three  causes,  overtrading  externally,  the 
plunder  of  our  commerce,  and  speculating  internally.  The  latter 
has  been  most  severely  &  extensively  felt.  It  has  pervaded  every 
part  of  our  country  from  the  Potomack,  &  more  especially  from 
the  Hudson  to  the  eastward.  The  rage  for  acquiring  property 
by  other  means  than  industry  and  economy  was  not  confined  to 
towns  but  extended  to  almost  every  neighborhood  in  the  country, 
&  the  effects  have  been  such  as  might  have  been  expected.  The 
only  remedy  has  been  applied,  and  altho'  a  severe  one,  it  is 
already  in  the  towns,  and  will  be  in  the  country  effectual.  Many 
are,  and  more  must  be  ruined  ;  but  the  essential  interests  of  the 
country  will  not  be  injured,  nor,  ultimately,  its  strength  or  re- 
sorts had  been  filed,  including  many  by  expatriated  Tories,  for  the  value  of 
their  confiscated  property,  to  the  amount,  in  the  whole,  of  twenty  four  millions 
of  dollars  ;  and  the  ground  taken  by  the  majority  of  the  commission  was  such 
as  threatened  a  very  heavy  burden  to  the  United  States.  There  was  a  differ- 
ence in  the  commission  both  as  to  the  allowance  of  interest  while  the  war  con- 
tinued and  as  to  the  classes  of  persons  entitled  to  claim  under  the  treaty.  The 
British  majority  of  the  commissioners  were  disposed  to  hold  the  United  States 
responsible,  in  the  first  place,  for  all  unpaid  debts,  and  to  throw  upon  them  the 
burden  of  proving  that,  had  due  diligence  been  used,  these  debts  might  have 
been  collected.  The  American  commissioners  maintained,  on  the  other  hand, 
that  as  the  United  States  were  only  responsible  for  those  debts  the  recovery  of 
which  had  been  prevented  by  legal  impediments,  it  rested  on  each  claimant  to 
show  that  due  diligence  had  been  used,  and  that  the  recovery  of  his  debt  had 
been  prevented  by  legislative  obstacles,  or  by  the  debtor's  becoming  insolvent 
during  the  continuance  of  such  obstacles.  After  much  discussion,  some  of  it 
very  warm,  and  before  one  claim  had  been  definitely  adjudicated,  the  Ameri- 
can commissioners,  with  the  approbation  of  their  government,  prevented  any 
awards  by  their  withdrawing.  When  this  became  known  in  England,  the 
British  government  withdrew  their  members  from  the  board  sitting  there  ;  and 
both  commissions  thus  came  to  a  full  stop.  But,  notwithstanding  this  interrup- 
tion, both  governments  expressed  their  anxiety  to  carry  out  the  treaty  in  good 
faith  ;  and  Sitgreaves  was  soon  after  dispatched  to  England  to  co-operate  with 
King  in  obtaining,  if  possible,  some  explanatory  article  on  the  subject  of 
British  debts." — Hildreth,  History  of  the  United  States,  2d  ser.,  ii.,  p.  339. 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  583 

sources  impaired.  The  pursuits  of  sober  industry  were  never 
better  rewarded — commerce  is  generally  protected  ;  and  there 
never  was,  probably,  a  time  when  it  was  more  lucrative.  Human- 
ity will  regret  that  so  many  men,  should  by  an  excessive  ardor  to 
become  rich,  have  plunged  themselves  into  serious  difficulties, 
from  which  they  will  be  able  by  severe  &  long  exertion  only,  if 
at  all,  to  extricate  themselves  ;  but  the  greatest  mischief,  politi- 
cally considered,  is  that  in  too  many  instances  ruined  speculators 
commence  zealous  patriots. 

The  salary  Act  compared  with  what  ought  to  have  been  done 
is  certainly  a  paltry  measure,  but  considered  as  the  best  that  could 
possibly  be  done  it  is  of  immense  importance — The  measure  had 
been  defeated  in  the  house  by  the  votes  of  some  who  especially 
acted  on  the  federal  side — when  it  was  revised  in  the  senate,  it 
was  necessary,  that  it  should  be  done,  on  a  scale  which  would 
insure  the  assent  of  those  men.  This  information  is  due  to  the 
character  of  the  Senate,  in  general,  to  my  own  in  particular,  as  I 
originated  the  measure  there. 

It  is  with  extreme  pain  that  I  anticipate  becoming  again  a 
member  of  the  house.  It  was  my  ardent  wish,  &  I  thought  my 
firm  determination  to  have  retired  forever  from  public  life,  but  an 
adherence  to  that  resolution  was,  under  the  circumstances,  impos- 
sible. Another  two  years  will,  I  hope,  afford  a  better  prospect. 
With  much  sincerity  I  am  my  dear  Sir,  your  friend 

The.  S. 

R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State.     No.  31. 

London,  Mar.  21,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  Packet  is  still  detained  in  order  that  I  might  receive  Lord 
Grenville's  answer  to  my  memorial,  respecting  Capt.  Loring  ;  if  it 
is  sent  in  season  I  shall  annex  it  to  this  Letter. 

The  crossing  of  the  Rhine  by  the  French  armies  on  the  first 
instant,  and  a  correspondent  movement  that  probably  took  place 
at  the  same  time  against  Tuscany,  were  the  preludes  to  the  declara- 
tion of  war  that  followed  against  the  King  of  Hungary  and 
Bohemia  and  the  Grand  Duke. 

Thus,  as  all  impartial  observers  foresaw,  the  temporizing  at 
Vienna  during  which  Switzerland  and  Piedmont  and  Naples  have 


584  RUFUS  KING.  [1799 

been  overturned  and  France  at  her  leisure  has  recruited  and  re- 
established her  armies,  has  been  worse  than  useless,  has  been  the 
loss  of  favorable  moments  and  of  precious  occasions. 

As  yet  we  have  no  intelligence  from  Vienna  of  the  temper  with 
which  this  explosion  has  been  received,  nor  do  I  think  it  by  any 
means  certain  that  Prussia  will  even  now  heartily  unite  her  strength 
in  an  honest  confederacy,  which  alone  can  bring  back  France 
within  those  limitations  the  safety  of  Europe  requires.  We  are  in 
hourly  expectation  of  the  news  of  a  battle  between  Jourdain  and 
the  Arch  Duke.  The  rapidity  of  the  advance  of  the  French  col- 
umns sufficiently  announce  their  expectation  of  reaching  the 
Austrians  before  they  are  entirely  prepared. 

We  have  the  French  papers  to  the  15th,  but  I  see  nothing  in 
them  directly  relative  to  us,  and  the  new  objects  that  must  now 
engage  their  attention  will  for  the  present  most  likely  put  us  and 
our  affairs  out  of  view. 

I  send  you  a  copy  of  Carnot's  answer  to  his  denunciation  by 
his  colleagues  :  there  seems  no  doubt  that  it  is  an  authentic  per- 
formance. Our  late  Envoys,  or  at  least  General  Pinckney,  be- 
lieved that  Carnot  entertained  more  equitable  opinions  concerning 
the  United  States  than  the  majority  of  his  colleagues. 

This  answer  discloses  his  project  respecting  Louisiana  ;  and  if 
such  views  were  entertained  by  him,  whom  we  believed  the  most 
just  and  moderate,  can  we  suffer  ourselves  to  doubt  the  intention 
of  his  colleagues  ?  Is  there  the  slightest  reason  to  suppose  they 
have  changed  their  purposes  ?  Ought  we  not  rather  to  believe 
that  it  has  been  confirmed  by  the  manner  in  which  we  have 
opposed  it  ?  And  can  we  persuade  ourselves  after  such  an  op- 
position that  we  shall  escape  the  alternative  of  war  or  submis- 
sion ? 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State.     No.  32. 

London,  March  22,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Lord  Grenville's  answer  was  not  in  season  for  the  mail  of  yes- 
terday ;  I  have  since  received  it  and  a  copy  is  annexed  to  this 
Letter  which  will  probably  overtake  the  Mail  at  Falmouth.     Our 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  585 

information  from  Berlin,  by  the  Hamburgh  post,  confirms  the 
opinion  that  Prussia  resolved  on  the  system  of  neutrality  the 
moment  that  France  renewed  the  war  against  Austria.  Mr. 
Grenville's  mission  must  consequently  fail,  and  the  war  will  be 
prosecuted  upon  unequal  terms  and  with  the  greatest  vigour 
against  a  partial  and  disjointed  confederacy.  The  25,000  Rus- 
sians, who  have  for  some  time  been  in  the  neighborhood  of 
Vienna,  are  on  their  march  for  Italy  where  the  combined  army 
will  be  commanded  by  the  Russian  General  Suwarrow.  The  first 
blow  has  been  unfortunate  to  the  confederates  ;  the  whole  of  the 
Austrian  Corps  that  occupied  Coire  in  the  Country  of  the  Grisons 
having,  it  is  said  by  surprize,  been  made  Prisoners  by  the  French 
under  Massena.  I  should  be  happy  to  believe  that  this  first  suc- 
cess is  not  likely  to  be  followed  by  future  and  more  important 
victories.  One  is  tired  with  beholding,  and  with  endeavoring  in 
vain  to  account  for  the  blindness  that  even  yet  prevents  an 
honest  and  general  confederacy  against  the  overbearing  Power  of 
France. 

With  the  most  perfect  Respect  and  Esteem  &c  &c 

Rufus  King. 


Lord  Grenville  to  Mr.  King. 

Downing  Street,  March  21,  1799. 

Lord  Grenville  presents  his  compliments  to  Mr.  King,  and  has 
the  honor  to  acknowledge  the  receipt  of  his  Memorial  of  the  nth 
of  this  month,  relative  to  the  conduct  of  the  Commander  of  his 
Majesty's  Ship  Carnatic. 

The  Government  of  the  United  States  may  be  assured  that  the 
King  is  always  solicitous  to  respect  the  Rights  and  Honor  of  those 
Powers  with  which  his  Majesty  entertains  the  relations  of  friend- 
ship :  that  the  instructions  which  by  his  Majesty's  order  are  given 
to  the  Commanders  of  his  Fleets  or  Ships  of  war  enjoin  the 
strictest  attention  to  this  principle,  particularly  in  the  case  of  the 
Ships  of  war  of  any  Such  Power  ;  and  that  his  Majesty  desirous 
at  all  times  to  manifest  his  friendship  towards  the  U.  S.,  will  cer- 
tainly see  with  Displeasure  any  act  which  may  have  been  com- 


586  RUFUS  KING.  [1799 

mitted  by  any  officer  in  his  Majesty's  service  in  derogation  of  the 
attention  and  respect  due  to  their  Flag. 

With  regard  to  the  particular  facts  mentioned  in  Mr.  King's 
memorial,  the  most  immediate  enquiry  will  be  instituted  into 
them,  that  the  distance  of  the  service  upon  which  the  Commander 
of  his  Majesty's  Ship  Carnatic  is  now  employed,  will  allow,  and 
on  the  Result  of  the  Enquiry,  his  Majesty  will  pursue  without  de- 
lay such  measures  as  the  Case  may  appear  to  require  in  conformity 
to  the  Principles  above  stated. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State.     No.  33. 

London,  March  22,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

It  has  occurred  to  me  since  closing  my  Letter  of  this  date,  that 
in  consequence  of  the  Enquiry  ordered  to  be  instituted  into  the 
conduct  of  Capt  Loring,  it  may  be  adviseable  to  obtain  and  send 
to  me  proofs  more  direct  and  regular  than  those  included  in  the 
Report  of  the  Consul  at  the  Havannah.  I  judged  it  proper  to 
strengthen  the  statement  of  the  Consul  by  alleging  in  my  me- 
morial, as  I  was  authorized  to  do  by  the  purport  of  your  Num- 
ber ,  that  the  same  was  confirmed  by  the  subsequent  Report 
of  the  Commander  of  the  Baltimore.  It  would  have  been  more 
regular  to  have  drawn  up  a  Statement  from  the  Report  of  the 
Commander  of  the  Baltimore,  which  should  have  been  signed  by 
him  and  his  principal  officers,  and  addressed  to  the  Secretary  of 
the  Marine. 

I  submit  to  your  consideration  whether  this  should  not  yet  be 
done.  It  may  be  sent  to  me  to  be  used  if  the  Result  of  the  En- 
quiry, that  has  been  ordered,  should  render  it  important.  My 
apprehension  is  that  Loring  will  excuse  himself  by  *  saying  and  at- 
tempting to  prove  that  the  Commander  of  the  Baltimore  acquiesced  in 
and  cofisented  to  all  that  was  done. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

*  Italics  in  cipher. 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  587 

R.   King  to  Secretary  of  State.     No.  34. 

London,  March  23,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  last  evening  received  a  note  from  Lord  Grenville,  a  copy  of 
which  is  annexed,  announcing  a  Blockade  of  all  the  Ports  of  Hol- 
land. I  think  I  have  before  informed  you  that  the  High  Court 
of  Admiralty  here  consider  a  Blockade  as  an  interdiction  of  all 
Trade  inwards  and  outwards  of  the  Blockaded  Port,  an  interdic- 
tion to  be  enforced  by  the  confiscation  of  all  Vessels  with  their 
Cargoes  seized  in  the  attempt,  after  notice,  to  enter  into  or  come 
out  of  the  same  ;  the  only  exception  is  in  favor  of  Vessels  coming 
out  of  the  Blockaded  Port,  and  which  entered  the  same  before 
the  Blockade  commenced  ;  and  even  in  this  case  the  Cargo  to  be 
exempt  must  have  been  received  on  board  before  notice  that  the 
Blockade  existed. 

Actual  notice  is  given  by  the  men  of  war  of  the  nation  estab- 
lishing the  Blockade,  when  the  same  is  presumed  to  have  been 
unknown  at  the  place  from  whence  the  Neutral  Vessel  cleared  ; 
but  such  notice  is  not  deemed  to  be  necessary  when  the  Blockade 
was  known  at  the  place  of  clearing. 

I  suggest  for  your  consideration  whether  after  formal  notice,  as 
in  the  present  case,  it  will  not  conduce  to  the  security  of  our 
Trade,  that  the  Collector  of  our  Ports  should  officially  be  ad- 
vised thereof,  with  Instructions  not  to  grant  clearances  for  such 
Blockaded  Ports.  Such  Clearances  are  granted  for  Amsterdam, 
notwithstanding  the  notice  given  to  us  of  the  Blockade  of  the 
Texel,  and  altho'  it  is  done  in  the  hope  of  escaping  the  French 
Privateers,  it  on  the  other  hand  exposes  our  vessels  to  be  sent  in 
here  for  adjudication. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem,  &c,  &c 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Lord  Grenville. 

London,  March  25,  1799. 
My  Lord  : 

With  a  view  to  greater  precision  it  might  be  advantageous  to 

recast  the  whole  of  the   18th  Article  of  our    Treaty  of   Amity, 

Commerce  &  Navigation  ;  but  this  would  require  more  time  and 


588  RUFUS  KING.  [i799 

attention  than  could  perhaps  at  this  moment  be  spared  from  other 
and  more  urgent  engagements,  or  than  would  consist  with  the 
speedy  attainment  of  the  particular  object  of  the  Conference  that 
I  lately  held  with  your  Lordship  on  this  Subject. 

Referring  therefore  to  some  future  period  the  general  subject,  I 
submit  to  your  Lordship's  consideration  the  proposal  that  I  am 
ordered  to  make  in  respect  to  a  more  exact  definition  of  the 
Articles  of  Naval  Stores,  which  according  to  the  intention  of  the 
Parties,  and  the  Law  of  Nations,  ought  to  be  esteemed  as  Contra- 
band of  War. 

Our  Treaty  after  enumerating  certain  articles  as  arms  and  im- 
plements serving  for  the  purpose  of  war,  adds,  "  and  also  Timber 
for  Shipbuilding,  Tar  or  Rosin,  Copper  in  Sheets,  Sails,  Clamp 
and  Cordage,  and  generally  whatever  may  serve  directly  to  the 
Equipment  of  Vessels,  unwrought  Iron  and  Firplanks  only  ex- 
cepted." 

It  is  in  consequence  of  this  great  comprehension  of  the  last 
Clause  of  this  Paragraph,  that  the  Ships  of  the  United  States, 
trading  to  the  Dutch  and  Spanish  Colonies,  are  subjected  to  great 
Loss  and  Damage  by  seizure  and  detention  for  having  on  board 
either  Iron  Nails  of  various  sizes  which  seem  directly  and  chiefly 
for  the  construction  of  houses  and  other  buildings  in  the  said 
Colonies  and  for  the  making  of  Sugar  Casks,  Boxes,  &  other 
Packages  ;  or  Oznaburghs,  an  inferior  sort  of  their  coarse  linen 
and  used  chiefly  for  Negro  Clothing. 

Nails  of  this  description  are  of  a  size  that  cannot  supply  the 
place  of  Spikes  which  are  directly  for  Ship  Building ;  and  Ozna- 
burghs is  wholly  unfit  for  the  Sails  of  Vessels  even  of  the  lowest 
Tonnage  that  frequent  the  Ocean.  Notwithstanding  this  differ- 
ence between  Sail  Cloth  and  Oznaburghs,  and  between  Spikes  and 
House  Nails,  as  well  as  between  their  respective  uses,  the  one  is 
confounded  with  the  other  by  the  British  Cruizers  in  the  West 
Indian  Seas. 

In  order  to  avoid  the  interruption  and  loss  arising  from  this 
error,  we  propose  by  way  of  an  additional  article,  to  agree  upon 
the  enumeration  of  those  articles  which  alone  should  be  deemed 
to  serve  directly  for  the  equipment  of  Vessels,  or  upon  an  enu- 
meration of  such  as  shall  not  be  so  considered  ;  or  if  it  shall  be 
proposed  to  exchange    Declarations,    to  be  followed  by  corre- 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  589 

spondent  Instructions  to  your  Ships  of  war,  Cruizers  and  Courts 
of  Admiralty,  to  except  the  Articles  above  mentioned  from  the 
Catalogue  of  Articles  deemed  to  be  Contraband  of  War. 

In  any  of  these  modes  the  object  at  which  we  aim  may  be 
attained  ;  the  choice  is  submitted  to  your  Lordship  in  the  per- 
suasion that  the  end  is  one  that  must  receive  your  Lordship's 
Approbation. 

With  perfect  Consideration  &  Respect  &c,  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  W.  Smith. 

London,  March  26,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Farther  consideration  serves  to  strengthen  my  first  impression 
respecting  the  step  that  has  been  taken  in  regard  to  Russia  and 
the  Porte.  I  thought  it  a  little  premature,  and  I  still  think  that  it 
will  require  some  management  in  order  to  give  to  it  a  turn  that 
may  not  embarrass  us.  There  has  been,  as  you  will  probably 
recollect,  an  awkward  circumstance  concerning  our  Consular  ap- 
pointment to  Russia ;  this  would  have  been  easily  overcome,  and 
the  coincidence  of  the  opinion  of  Russia  &  of  the  United  States 
in  respect  to  France  would  have  gone  far  to  smooth  the  way  to 
the  attainment  of  the  object  of  the  President's  late  appointment. 

The  negotiation  with  the  Porte  is  an  affair  of  still  more  interest ; 
and  in  my  opinion  it  must  be  a  preliminary  measure  to  ascertain, 
thro'  some  friendly  quarter,  the  disposition  of  the  Turkish  Gov- 
ernment before  you  or  any  other  public  character  appear  there  : 
indeed  I  understand  that  this  practice  is  invariably  adopted.  I 
don't  know  whether  the  subject  has  been  mentioned  in  your  cor- 
respondence with  our  Government,  but  it  has  constantly  been 
treated  of  in  mine  for  two  years  past — not  the  manner  of  conduct- 
ing the  negotiation,  but  the  importance  of  a  Treaty  with  the  Porte, 
as  well  in  respect  to  the  advantage  and  extension  of  our  Com- 
merce, as  to  the  Security  that  it  would  give  to  our  Treaties  with 
the  Barbary  Powers. 

Previously  to  the  return  to  Constantinople  of  the  Turkish  Am- 
bassador, whom  I  found  here  on  my  arrival,  and  who  was  a  quiet 


59<D  RUFUS  KING.  [l799 


good  old  man,  I  had  several  conversations  with  him  upon  the 
Subject  of  a  commercial  Treaty,  and  on  his  going,  gave  him  a 
short  memoir,  drawn  up  chiefly  with  a  view  of  shewing  the  advan- 
tages which  such  a  Treaty  would  give  to  Turkey. 

Upon  the  coming  of  the  present  Ambassador,  who  is  a  more 
intelligent  man,  who  shewed  his  exact  knowledge  by  saying,  when  I 
was  first  presented  to  him,  that  he  was  glad  to  see  a  man  who 
came  from  the  country  of  Diamonds  and  of  Gold  !  !  !  !,  I  took  an 
early  occasion  to  renew  the  Conversation  with  him,  but  with  more 
caution  as  I  was  unable  to  discover  his  sentiments. 

As  soon  as  we  received  the  advice  of  Lord  Nelson's  victory,  it 
appeared  to  me  that  a  favorable  occasion  was  about  to  offer  itself 
for  me  to  take  measures  for  the  conclusion  of  a  Treaty  with  the 
Ottoman  Empire  ;  and  in  the  very  next  conference  I  had  with 
Lord  Grenville,  I  mentioned  the  project  to  him,  entirely  as 
from  myself,  and  observed  that  the  influence  that  England  must 
acquire  by  the  victory  of  the  Nile,  that  with  her  favor  and  the 
good  will  of  Russia,  which  we  had  no  reason  to  suppose  would 
be  withheld,  we  might  probably  succeed  in  establishing  a  Treaty 
that,  exclusive  of  some  commercial  advantages,  would  be  of  value 
to  us  by  giving  stability  to  the  Treaties,  which  at  great  expence 
we  had  lately  concluded  with  the  Barbary  Powers  :  his  Lordship 
answered  that  he  could  beforehand  assure  us  that  we  might  rely 
upon  the  influence  and  good  office  of  the  King  in  the  course  of  our 
negotiation. 

About  the  same  time,  a  conversation  took  place  between  me 
and  the  Russian  Ambassador,  which  began  on  his  part,  relative  to 
a  Treaty  between  Russia  and  the  United  States,  in  the  course  of 
which  I  said  possibly  we  might  desire  to  avail  ourselves  of  the 
present  moment  to  negotiate  a  commercial  Treaty  with  the  Porte, 
in  the  course  of  which  negotiation  the  influence  of  Russia  would 
be  of  great  service  to  us  :  his  answer  was  such  as  I  could  have 
desired  ;  but  the  whole  was  merely  a  personal  conversation,  and 
ended  by  a  mutual  promise  to  send  to  our  respective  Govern- 
ments a  report  of  it.  It  was  in  November  last  that  I  reported  to 
Col.  Pickering  as  well  my  conversation  with  Lord  Grenville  as 
with  the  Russian  Ambassador. 

In  a  Letter  of  the  6th  of  February  he  barely  mentioned  the 
matter  as  one  of  importance,  that  was  under  consideration  :  My 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  59 1 

next  intelligence  is  the  appointment  announced  in  the  News- 
papers. 

I  went  immediately  to  the  Turkish  Ambassador  in  order  to 
give  the  intelligence  in  his  mind  a  turn  that  might  prevent  em- 
barrassments. I  told  him  of  the  conversation  I  had  had  with  Lord 
Grenville,  and  of  his  answer  :  that  I  had  reported  the  same  to  my 
Government,  as  well  as  the  conversation  I  had  before  had  with 
him  and  with  his  Predecessor  :  that  according  to  our  Forms,  the 
Senate  must  approve  the  appointment  of  Ambassadors  ;  that  the 
Senate  was  not  a  body  in  permanent  session,  but  like  the  English 
Parliament  commonly  assembled  only  in  the  Winter  ;  that  it  is 
therefore  often  necessary  that  an  appointment  should  be  made  a 
longtime  beforehand,  and  that  notwithstanding  the  news  that  you 
were  appointed,  which  I  believed  tho'  I  had  no  regular  informa- 
tion of  it,  still  all  the  customary  measures  would  be  observed  in 
order  to  manifest  our  respect  to  the  Sultan  and  to  ascertain 
whether  it  would  be  agreeable  to  him  to  receive  our  Ambassador  : 
and  tho'  I  was  not  authorized  to  speak  to  him  on  the  subject,  yet 
perhaps  he  would  think  it  adviseable  to  send  an  account  of  our 
conversation  in  order  that  unfavorable  impressions  might  be  pre- 
vented, adding  that  I  had  only  to  desire  that  he  would  not  state 
the  conversation  so  as  to  give  the  idea  that  any  answer  was 
expected. 

He  told  me  that  he  would  pursue  the  course  I  recommended 
which  I  believe  he  will  do  :  he  then  said  his  Predecessor  had  spoken 
with  him  on  the  Subject,  and  that  after  his  arrival  at  Constanti- 
nople he  had  made  some  favorable  communications  to  the  Reis 
Effendi  concerning  it.  He  said  that  in  August  last  he  mentioned 
the  Subject  to  Lord  Grenville,  and  added  that  if  England 
approved,  who  was  their  Great  Ally  he  thought  it  would  be 
favorable. 

He  then  enquired  particularly  respecting  you,  your  age,  Profes- 
sion, former  Employment  and  political  opinions.  I  answered  that 
you  were  about  38  or  40  (too  young  a  man  would  not  do),  a 
Gentleman  of  fortune,  a  man  of  Letters,  always  employed  in  great 
affairs  and  a  distinguished  member  of  Congress,  answering  to 
Parliament,  lately  come  abroad  and  for  the  first  time,  a  pronounced 
friend  of  order  and  an  enemy  of  the  Philosophy  and  Politicks  of 
France.     The  answer  shewed  that  all  this  pleased,  and  he  en- 


592  RUFUS  KING.  [1799 

gaged  to  report  the  whole,  and  if  he  received  anything  on  the 
Subject,  to  communicate  it  to  me.  I  shall  wait  for  my  Letters 
before  I  say  anything  further  to  Lord  Grenville. 

I  have  thought  it  adviseable  to  send  you  this — and  shall  cheer- 
fully assist  in  collecting  such  books  and  information  as  may  be 
useful  to  you. 

With  respect  to  myself,  I  am  persuaded  that  my  nomination  has 
been  made  on  the  supposition  that  the  Treaty  with  Russia  would 
be  negotiated  here  :  this  cannot  be  done,  and  I  presume  the 
business  will  pass  into  other  hands. 

I  send  you  a  letter  from  Murray,  who  complains  that  he  shall 
never  again  hear  from  Philadelphia,  that  Dispatches  from  the 
Secretary  of  State,  which  I  forwarded  passed  his  letter  on  the 
way.  I  received  notice  a  day  or  two  since  that  all  the  Ports  of 
Holland  are  blockaded  by  the  English  Fleets.  The  war  has, 
according  to  our  accounts,  recommenced,  and  the  first  affair  has 
been  against  the  French.  But  I  am  afraid  to  expect  what  I  hope 
for,  so  often  and  great  have  been  our  former  Disappointments. 

Nothing  interesting  from  Philadelphia.  We  have  to-day  a  Re- 
port that  Truxton  in  the  Constellation  has  taken  the  Insurgente 
French  Frigate  after  an  action  of  two  hours,  and  carried  her  into 
Martinique.     The  Report  wants  confirmation  and   I  hope  will 

have  it. 

I  am  with  great  Respect  &  Esteem 

Your  faithful  friend 

Rufus  King. 


T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

Private. 

Philadelphia,  Ap.  2,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  Count  Rumford  will  be  cordially  welcomed  to  his 
native  land.  I  showed  your  letter  concerning  him  to  the  Presi- 
dent. Count  Rumford's  works  are  read  with  avidity.  A  man 
whose  studies  and  labours  are  directed  to  the  service  of  mankind 
must  meet  a  friendly  and  honorable  reception  wherever  real  worth 
and  excellence  can  be  duly  estimated. 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  593 

Wm.  Hindman  to  R.  King. 

Talbot  County,  Maryland,  Aprl.  8th,  1799. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

I  presume  You  have  heard  that  Mr.  Joshua  Seney  (whom 
You  must  have  known  in  Congress)  defeated  Me  at  the  last 
Election  ;  the  Fatigue  &  Exposure  He  underwent  in  his  Exertions 
to  give  Him  Success  occasioned  his  Death — I  did  not  again  come 
forward  as  a  Candidate — The  Contest  lay  between  Jacobin  Jo. 
Nicholson  (who  I  am  sorry  to  say  carried  his  Election,  He  had 
however  only  a  Majority  of  74)  &  Federalist  Jno.  Goldsborough  ; 
had  the  latter  declared  Himself  sooner  than  He  did,  He  would 
have  been  elected. 

In  One  of  my  Letters  to  You,  I  gave  You  a  hasty  Statement 
of  the  new  House  of  Representatives,  (which  it  is  expected  will 
be  more  fcederal  than  the  last  was)  perhaps  the  enclosed  list  may 
be  more  correct.  The  last  Congress  died  gloriously,  I  never 
knew  the  fcederal  men  hang  better  together,  &  act  with  more 
Firmness  than  at  the  last  Session.  I  wish  the  new  Congress 
with  their  Accession  of  Fcederalism  may  do  as  well. 

The  last  Information  I  had  from  Virginia  was,  that  Genl. 
Marshall  would  be  elected  ;  if  so,  it  will  be  complete  Victory 
over  the  Jacobinic  jeffersonian  Junto  ;  &  many  Gentlemen  have 
been  so  sanguine  as  to  think  there  will  be  returned  from  that 
State  7  or  8  fcederal  Members  ;  the  People  there  are  certainly 
fcederalising  very  fast. 

I  have  great  Hopes  that  our  Friend  Sedgwick  will  be  the 
next  Speaker,  his  Merits  are  great,  He  behaved  nobly  in  consent- 
ing to  be  chosen  to  the  House  of  Representatives,  to  keep  out 
the  late  insignificant  Member  from  that  District,  or  some  other 
who  might  be  equally  bad  &  contemptible. 

I  rejoice  much  to  hear  of  the  late  French  Disasters,  I  sincerely 
pray  They  may  speedily  be  shut  up  within  their  own  Territory, 
or  extirpated  from  the  Face  of  the  Earth. 

I  was  elected  last  Winter  to  a  Seat  in  our  State  Senate,  which 
I  have  accepted. 

Yours  very  sincerely  &  affy. 

Wm.  Hindman. 

VOL.  II.— 38 


594  RUFUS  KING.  [1799 

R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State.     No.  35. 

London,  April  12,  1799. 

Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  received  another  Note  from  Lord  Grenville  on  the  sub- 
ject of  the  Blockade  of  the  Dutch  Ports.  We  are  now  informed 
that  all  the  Ports  of  the  United  Provinces  are  in  a  state  of  vigour- 
ous  Blockade.  The  former  notice  of  which  I  sent  you  a  copy 
with  my  last  Letter  respected  the  Ports  of  Holland  only. 

Tho'  I  have  carefully  watched  the  French  papers,  I  have  not 
yet  seen  any  Report  of  the  proceedings  of  the  Council  upon  the 
Message  of  the  Directory  mentioned  in  my  No.  14.  A  master 
of  one  of  our  ships  who  arrived  here  a  few  days  past  from  France 
brought  the  copy  of  a  Letter  written  and  published  in  English 
in  Paris  by  Dupont,  formerly  Consul  at  Charleston,  to  the  Com- 
missary of  the  Directory  with  the  Court  of  Cassation.  This 
Letter  purports  to  be  written  at  the  Desire  of  the  Commissary, 
and  in  order  to  explain  the  kind  of  papers  ordinarily  given  to 
American  vessels.  The  explanations  are  tolerably  correct,  and 
the  Letter  throughout  is  in  favor  of  the  Restoration  of  all  Ameri- 
can Vessels  and  Cargoes  captured  on  account  of  a  supposed 
irregularity  in  their  papers.  Most  probably  you  will  have  seen 
Copies  of  this  Letter  before  this  reaches  you,  as  there  can  be  no 
doubt  that  it  was  written  for  the  purpose  of  appearing  in  our 
newspapers. 

This  Letter  seems  also  to  have  had  some  relation  to  the  late 
Arrete  of  the  Directory  of  the  18th  of  March,  a  copy  of  which 
taken  from  the  Redacteur  of  the  23d  ultimo,  is  annexed.  It  is 
not  obvious  what  the  Alteration  is,  that  is  professed  to  be  made 
by  this  arrete,  in  that  of  the  2d  of  March  1797.  We  complained 
that  any  other  Paper  than  the  ship's  Passport  was  demanded  and 
justified  ourselves  in  doing  so  by  the  Treaty.  The  present  arrete 
applies  to  us  in  common  with  all  Neutrals,  the  Regulations  of 
1744  and  1778,  and  consequently  lays  the  Treaty  out  of  the  ques- 
tion. It  is  true  that  the  Regulations  of  1744  and  1778  do  not 
require  any  precise  form  in  the  Roles  d'Equipages  and  it  maybe 
intended  to  leave  the  Liberals  at  liberty  to  admit  our  ship's 
Articles  as  the  Roles  d'Equipages  required  by  their  regulations. 

We  have  received  American  Newspapers  containing  the  two 


1799]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  595 

Messages  of  the  President  respecting  another  Mission  to  France  ; 
and  about  ten  days  before  a  mail  from  the  West  Indies  brought 
us  an  account  of  the  capture  of  the  French  Frigate  l'lnsurgente 
by  the  Constellation. 

With  perfect  Respect  and  Esteem  &c,  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State.     No.  36. 

London,  April  16,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

In  a  former  Letter  I  have  taken  notice  of  a  Resolution  of  the 
Council  of  Five  hundred  adopted  upon  a  reference  from  the 
Tribunal  of  Cassation,  and  which  declared  that  the  Law  author- 
izing the  Capture  of  Neutral  Vessels  having  on  board  Articles  of 
the  growth  and  fabric  of  Great  Britain  should  operate  from  the 
date  of  its  passage.  This  Resolution  has  been  the  subject  of  long 
and  elaborate  discussion  in  the  Council  of  Ancients,  where  it  was 
finally  rejected  according  to  the  late  French  Papers  by  a  large 
majority  on  the  first  of  March.  The  Tribunal  of  Cassation  was 
divided,  a  part  of  the  Members  being  of  opinion  that  the  Law  was 
to  take  effect  from  the  day  of  its  Passage,  and  the  residue  con- 
tending that  previous  notice  should  be  given  to  all  Neutral 
Nations  before  their  Vessels  could  be  affected  by  it.  The  two 
Councils  are  also  divided  upon  this  question  :  the  immediate 
consequence  must  be  a  delay  in  pronouncing  Sentences  by  the 
Tribunal  of  Cassation.  I  have  no  means  of  judging  how  the 
Question  will  finally  be  settled. 

We  have  Paris  Papers  to  the  18th  instant  ;  There  seems  no 
longer  any  Doubt  that  Joardain  after  several  severe  actions  in 
Suabia  has  been  driven  back  by  the  Arch  Duke  ;  and  that 
Massena  has  not  been  as  successful  as  was  for  some  time  sup- 
posed in  his  repeated  Efforts  to  penetrate  from  the  Grisons  into 
the  Tyrol. 

The  French  Papers  state  that  their  Army  has  entered  the 
Dominion  of  Tuscany,  and  that  the  Grand  Duke  has  retired  to 
Vienna.  I  have  not  a  word  from  France  respecting  the  Capture 
of  the  Insurgente  Frigate,  nor  of  our  appointment  of  another 


596  RUFUS  KING.  [i799 

Mission  to  the  Directory,  tho'  the  news  of  both  these  events  was 
probably  known  at  Paris  on  the  6th  or  7th  instant. 

With  perfect  Respect  and  Esteem  &c  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  John  Jay. 

London,  April  19,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

By  my  Letter  of  the  7th  of  December,  I  informed  you  that  I 
had  given  orders  to  Mr.  Pitcairn,  our  Consul  at  Hamburgh,  to 
purchase  three  thousand  German  Muskets  for  the  State  of  New 
York.  Under  date  of  the  25th  ulto,  he  informed  me  that  he  had 
accordingly  engaged  two  thousand  five  hundred  Muskets  at 
26/6  d.  sterling  each.  Under  date  of  the  5th  instant  he  informs 
me  that  on  the  10th  he  should  be  called  on  for  part  and  in  one 
month  for  the  remainder  of  the  Payment  for  these  arms,  and  on 
the  12th  he  adds  that  the  2500  Muskets  for  New  York  were  prin- 
cipally received,  and  that  he  should  give  me  information  when 
they  are  shipped.  As  the  funds  are  not  yet  arrived,  I  authorized 
him  to  draw  on  the  house  of  Bird,  Savage  and  Bird,  who  will 
accept  his  Bill  in  the  expectation  that  the  Remittances  will  come 
to  hand  before  their  acceptance  falls  due. 

The  Muskets  will  be  shipped  from  Hamburgh  in  Vessels  bound 
to  New  York,  and  Insurance  may  be  made  accordingly,  tho'  the 
name  or  names  of  the  Vessel  or  Vessels  are  not  known. 

With  great  Respect  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

R.  Troup  to  R.  King. 

New  York,  19th  April,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  I  am  almost  afraid  to  write  to  you  about  the  State  of 
our  political  affairs.  We  have  experienced  a  sad  reverse  in  the 
temper,  ardor  and  zeal  of  our  fellow  citizens.  The  late  nomina- 
tion of  the  President  for  the  purpose  of  renewing  negotiations 
with  France  has  given  almost  universal  disgust.  This  measure, 
besides  the  intrinsic  unfitness  of  it,  was  secret  and  without  advice, 
which  has  also  contributed  to  render  it  more  disgusting.     There 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  597 

certainly  will  be  serious  difficulties  in  supporting  Mr.  Adams  at 
the  next  election  if  he  should  be  a  candidate. 

The  army  is  progressing  like  a  wounded  snake.  Last  year  its 
progress  was  obstructed  by  the  President's  retiring  to  Braintree. 
He  is  now  there  and  likely  to  continue  there  during  the  whole 
season.  All  the  measures  of  the  government  are  retarded  by  this 
kind  of  abdication.  The  only  apology,  in  my  opinion,  for  the 
present  abdication  is  that  Mrs.  Adams  was  left  sick  last  Fall  at 
Braintree  and  that  she  has  ever  since  continued  there.  General 
Maitland,  who  lately  arrived  here  on  the  supposed  St.  Domingo 
business,  has,  we  understand,  been  delayed  and  embarrassed  by 
the  President's  absence  in  the  objects  of  his  Mission,  the  result  of 
which  has  not  yet  transpired. 

The  insurrection  in  Pennsylvania  may  be  considered  as  quelled. 
All  the  ringleaders,  very  few  excepted,  are  apprehended  and 
in  prison.  Their  conduct  has  been  dastardly  and  without  con- 
cert. *     .     .     . 

Burr  is  again  a  candidate  for  the  Assembly  and  I  believe  he 
will  succeed.  He  is  acquiring  much  influence  and  is  disposed  to 
profit  by  it.  The  last  winter  he  procured  a  bill  to  pass  for  incor- 
porating a  company  by  the  name  of  the  Manhattan  Company. 
Its  ostensible  object  is  to  bring  water  to  the  city  ;  but  its  real 
object  is  to  furnish  new  projects  and  means  for  speculation.    The 

*  This  insurrection  was  caused  by  a  resistance  against  the  direct  tax,  which 
was  ordered  by  the  late  Congress,  to  increase  the  revenues  of  the  government  ; 
among  the  articles  to  be  taxed  were  houses,  of  which  the  classification  was 
made  by  measuring  the  windows.  The  officers  appointed  to  do  this  work  were 
resisted  in  several  of  the  counties,  and  the  Marshal,  under  "the  warrants 
from  the  District  Court  of  Pennsylvania  "  was  unable  to  execute  his  writs  against 
the  rioters.  "  The  President  immediately  issued  a  proclamation  requiring  sub- 
mission to  the  laws.  He  called  upon  the  Governor  of  Pennsylvania  for  a 
detachment  of  militia,"  which  was  granted.  "  No  opposition  was  made  to  the 
troops  and  Fries  and  some  thirty  others  were  secured  and  carried  to  Philadel- 
phia. Fries  was  indicted  for  treason  .  .  .  and  was  found  guilty.  The 
court  held  that  to  resist  a  law  by  force,  with  intent  to  defeat  its  execution  alto- 
gether, amounted  to  levying  war.  But  as  it  appeared  after  verdict  that  one  of 
the  jury,  previous  to  being  impanelled,  had  expressed  his  opinion  that  Fries 
ought  to  be  hung,  a  new  trial  was  granted.  Several  of  Fries'  companions  were 
found  guilty  of  misdemeanor."  Fries  was  tried  a  second  time  and  found  guilty, 
but  was  pardoned  by  the  President. — Hildreth,  Hisiojy  of  the  United  States,  2d 
ser.,  vol.  ii.,  pp.  312-366. 


598  RUFUS  KING.  [1799 

capital  of  the  company  is  to  consist  of  two  millions  of  dollars. 
The  shares  are  $50.  each  ;  and  the  capital  may  be  applied  to  any 
monied  operations  whatsoever.  The  charter  is  to  be  forfeited  if 
the  company  within  ten  years  does  not  supply  the  city  with 
water.  .  .  .  Burr  governs  everything  by  a  decided  majority 
amongst  the  directors.  .  .  .  The  most  respectable  mercantile 
and  monied  interests  are  decidedly  opposed  to  the  measure  ;  and 
they  attach  much  blame  as  well  to  the  Council  of  Revision  as 
to  the  Assembly  and  Senate.  I  have  no  doubt  that  if  the  com- 
pany carry  their  schemes  into  effect,  they  will  contribute  power- 
fully to  encrease  that  bloated  state  of  credit,  which  has  of  late 
essentially  injured  us,  by  repeated  and  heavy  bankruptcies.  It  is 
given  out  that  we  are  to  have  a  new  bank  established  by  the  Com- 
pany and  that  they  will  also  embark  deeply  in  the  East  India 
Trade — and  perhaps  turn  their  attention  to  marine  insurance.  .  .  . 
Mr.  Gouverneur  Morris  is  at  Morrisania.  .  .  .  He  is  in  excellent 
health  and  is  very  happy  to  see  his  friends,  to  whom  he  is  all  hos- 
pitality. His  wines  are  of  superior  quality  and  given  with  great 
liberality.  His  attachments  to  his  own  country  and  government 
have  encreased  by  what  he  has  seen  in  Europe.  .  .  .  He  seems 
determined  to  remain  a  farmer,  and  not  again  to  embark  in  pub- 
lic life.     .     .     . 

God  bless  you. 

Rob.  Troup. 

R.  King  to  Sir  Joseph  Banks. 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  Ap.  21,  1799. 
Sir: 

I  have  too  much  pleasure  in  obeying  your  commands  to  delay 
my  reply  to  your  polite  and  obliging  Note  of  yesterday.  By  a 
Law  for  the  Establishment  of  our  Mint  passed  in  1792,  we  settled 
the  proportionate  Value  of  Gold  to  Silver  in  the  Coins  of  the  U. 
S.  at  15  to  1,  according  to  quantity  in  weight  of  pure  Gold  or 
pure  Silver. 

By  the  same  Law  the  standard  of  our  gold  coins  is  established 
to  be  eleven  parts  fine  to  one  part  alloy,  the  alloy  to  be  composed 
of  silver  and  copper  in  such  proportions  not  exceeding  one  half 
silver,  as  should  be  found  convenient  ;  and  the  standard  of  our 
silver  Coins  to  be  fourteen  hundred  and  eighty  five  (1485)  parts 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  599 

fine,  to  one  hundred  and  seventy  nine  (179)  parts  alloy  ;  the  alloy 
to  be  wholly  of  copper. 

Our  Gold  Coins  are  Eagles,  half-Eagles  and  quarter-Eagles  ; 
the  Eagle  is  of  the  value  of  Ten  Dollars,  and  contains  270  grains 
of  standard  gold,  of  which  247  grains  and  \  part  of  a  grain  are  of 
pure  Gold.  The  half-Eagles  and  quarter- Eagles  express  the 
Proportions  of  the  Eagle  they  respectively  contain. 

Our  Silver  Coins  are  Dollars,  Half-Dollars,  quarter-Dollars, 
Dimes  &  half-Dimes.  The  Dollar  (which  corresponds  in  value 
with  the  Spanish  milled  Dollar,  current  in  the  U.  S.  at  the  Estab- 
lishment of  our  Mint)  contains  416  grains  of  standard  silver,  of 
which  371  Grains  and  a  \  part  of  a  Grain,  are  pure  silver  ;  the 
Half-Dollar,  quarter-Dollar  &  Dime  &  half-Dime  respectively  con- 
tain the  half,  the  quarter,  the  tenth  and  the  20th  part  of  the 
standard  silver  Dollar. 

The  Dollar  is  our  money  unit ;  the  money  of  account  of  the 
U.  S.  is  expressed  in  Dollars,  dimes,  cents  &  mills,  corresponding 
to  units,  tenths,  hundredths,  thousandths  ;  and  the  public  ac- 
counts, Proceedings  of  the  Judiciary  of  the  U.  S.  are  kept  and 
had  in  Conformity  to  this  Regulation. 

With  perfect  Respect  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

R.  King  to  Sir  Joseph  Banks. 

Gr.  C.  Place,  21st  April,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  am  sorry  that  I  have  not  a  piece  of  each  denomination  of  our 
Coins  to  offer  you  ;  but  I  take  the  liberty  to  send  and  beg  you  to 
accept  as  Specimens  of  our  Coinage,  a  half-Eagle,  a  Dollar  and  a 
quarter-Dollar.  I  add  to  them  three  medals  as  samples  of  a  large 
number  that  by  order  of  our  Govt.,  and  under  my  direction  were 
last  year  struck  by  Boulton,  for  the  purpose  of  being  distributed 
among  the  Indians  within  our  Territory.  A  small  ring  is  soldered 
to  the  edge  of  the  medal  by  which  according  to  the  Indian  cus- 
tom, it  may  be  suspended  as  an  Ornament  of  Dress. 

The  Devices  *  have  been  chosen  with  a  Reference  to  our  En- 

*  The  Devices  were  made  by  the  Painter,  John  Trumbull  at  the  request  of 
Mr.  King.  Mr.  Trumbull  was  at  this  time  in  London,  a  member  of  the  Com- 
mission under  the  7th  Article  of  the  Treaty  with  Great  Britain. 


600  RUFUS  KING.  [^799 

deavours  to  change  the  manners  of  the  Indians,  &  as  far  as  prac- 
ticable to  civilize  them.  For  this  purpose,  we  at  stated  periods 
deliver  to  them  seeds  of  various  kinds,  Cattle,  Sheep  &  the  differ- 
ent implements  of  Agriculture. 

With  perfect  Respect  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Lord  Grenville. 

Gt.  Cumberland  Place,  30th  April,  1799. 

Mr.  King  presents  his  Compliments  to  Lord  Grenville,  &  has 
the  honor  to  acknowledge  the  rect.  of  his  Ldp's.  Note  of  the 
2  2d  inst.,  enclosing  a  specification  of  such  Nails  as  are  understood 
not  to  be  included  in  the  Catalogue  of  Articles  deemed  Contra- 
band of  War.  Mr.  K.  is  not  certain  that  the  proposed  Specifica- 
tion includes  the  different  Sorts  of  Nails  used  for  Housebuilding 
and  various  other  purposes  other  than  Shipbuilding  in  Gt.  Britain, 
as  the  rose  headed  Nail,  &  perhaps  others  are  omitted  ;  &  he  is 
the  more  apprehensive  that  any  description  by  mere  names  will 
be  insufficient,  as  different  names  are  given  to  nails  of  the  same 
sizes  in  the  U.  S.  and  Engd.,  the  American  names  being  generally 
taken  from  the  uses  to  whh.  the  nail  is  apply'd,  or  from  the  price 
per  hundred  or  per  thousand  ;  other  names  differing  from  those 
of  Engd.  &  the  States  may  be  given  to  the  same  nails  in  the  Brit- 
ish Colonies  &  the  article  intended  to  be  explanatory  may  itself 
require  explanation. 

To  avoid  this  want  of  precision  Mr.  King  takes  the  Liberty  to 
suggest  instead  of  the  enumeration  or  a  Specification  as  has  been 
proposed,  that  it  shd.  be  agreed  that  all  Iron  Nails  under  the  size 
of  Spikes  or  Deck  Nails  should  be  excepted  from  and  not  in- 
cluded within  the  provisions  of  the  18th  article  of  the  Treaty  of 
Amity,  Commerce  &  Navigation  between  the  U.  States  &  Gr. 
Britain. 


APPENDIX  I. 


The  kindness  of  Mrs.  Daniel  Kilham  Dodge,  of  Brooklyn, 
N.  Y.,  enables  the  Editor  to  publish  here,  though  properly 
belonging  to  the  previous  volume,  some  letters,  found  in 
March,  1894,  in  an  old  trunk  of  her  husband's  great  uncle, 
Daniel  Kilham,  of  Newburyport,  Massachusetts.  They  are 
letters  between  Dr.  Kilham  and  Rufus  King,  and  throw  some 
new  light  upon  the  public  affairs  of  the  day  and  illustrate 
Mr.  King's  private  as  well  as  public  life. 

R.  King  to  D.  Kilham. 

Boston,  Feby.  18th,  1784. 
Dear  Kilham  : 

By  the  Gazette  you  learn  that  the  def.  Treaty  is  at  last  ratified 
by  Congress.  The  General  Court  are  now  agitating  the  propriety, 
and  calculating  the  expence  of  some  public  exhibitions  of  Joy, 
accompanying  the  proclamation  of  the  peace  completed.  Some 
say  it  has  become  an  old  story,  others  reply  that  granting  the  fact 
it  will  bear  telling  again  and  again.  How  the  question  will  be 
determined  is  perhaps  immaterial  ;  but  the  spirit  which  governs 
very  generally  here,  is  very  pitiful  and  I  fear  will  prove  prejudicial. 

Notwithstanding  a  liberality  of  sentiment  upon  some  subjects 
and  a  general  toleration  of  almost  all  opinions,  except  political, 
prevail,  yet  is  it  certain,  that  there  is  not  a  great  deal  still  to  be 
corrected  ?  The  ability  of  the  country  is  substantial — her  debts 
are  trivial,  but  there  is  a  parsimony  which  many  in  office  call  Re- 
publicanism, that  casts  an  ill  feature  upon  all  public  doings.  This 
mistaken  sentiment  of  political  economy  checks  all  public  grants 

601 


6o2      LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE   OF  RUFUS  KING. 

to  the  servants  of  Government ;  and  in  effect  discourages  men  of 
abilities  from  qualifying  themselves  for  national  departments  ;  of 
consequence  the  state  is  badly  served.  When  justice  is  withheld 
from  those  who  have  ably  and  faithfully  served  the  public,  little 
is  to  be  expected  from  such  a  government  in  favor  of  the  arts  and 
sciences  :  and  the  prevailing  spirit  above  referred  to,  I  fear,  will 
wholly  suppress  an  institution  which  I  could  wish  at  least  at- 
tempted ;  I  mean  that  of  a  Botanical  Garden  at  Cambridge. 

By  a  letter  from  St.  John,  the  French  Consul  at  N.  York,  ad- 
dressed to  President  Willard  and  Doctr.  Holyoke,  as  Pres.  of  the 
Academy,  it  appears  that  the  King  of  France  in  aid  of  such  an 
institution  has  directed  his  minister  to  communicate  to  the  Uni- 
versity of  Cambridge  in  Massachusetts  that,  as  a  testimony  of  the 
Respect  he  bears  to  that  University  and  to  enable  them  to  effect 
a  purpose  ornamental  as  well  as  beneficial,  he  will,  by  their  per- 
mission, cause  to  be  sent  and  transported  to  them  annually,  at  the 
proper  season,  free  from  every  charge,  the  annual  seeds  and  plants 
of  his  own  Royal  Gardens,  of  every  description.  No  answer  has 
been  as  yet  made.  It  strikes  many  persons  agreeably,  and  it  is 
supposed  that  the  purpose  would  be  very  extensively  practical  at 
Cambridge.  Amongst  a  few  friends  I  have  heard  the  subject  can- 
vassed— and  my  own  sentiments  have  been  flattered  in  the  fre- 
quent observation  of  others,  that,  should  the  distribution  be 
attempted,  it  would  be  most  safely  trusted  to  your  protection  and 
guidance.  Could  a  fund  be  established  that  would  give  an  indepen- 
dent annuity  to  a  man  of  genius  and  letters,  for  his  attention  to  such 
an  institution,  I  should  feel  most  happy  in  seeing  you  in  such  a 
character.  I  have  some  sentiments  upon  the  practicability  that  I 
will  waive  until  we  meet.  Perhaps  the  matter  is  not  so  Utopian  as 
you  may  imagine.  I  am  anxious  to  attempt  something  for  the 
medical  professors.  I  wish  altho'  it  is  small,  that  it  may  succeed 
— something  like  a  general  infirmary  at  Cambridge,  to  be  under 
your  care  &c — this  last  idea  you  will  receive  in  confidence — 
Should  you  meet  with  good  Parson  Bass  congratulate  him  for  me 
on  this  intelligence,  viz 

"  His  holiness  the  Pope  has  caused  to  be  written  to  Congress  a 
letter  congratulatory  upon  the  peace  and  independence  of  the 
United  States,  and  to  convince  them  of  the  sincerity  of  his  con- 
gratulations, informs,  that  as  the  English  Church  have  a  special 


APPENDIX.  603 


union  with  their  civil  government  in  the  King  of  the  one  being 
the  head  of  the  other,  and  as  a  difficulty  from  that  source  may  be 
in  the  way  of  a  regular  ordination  of  Ministers  of  the  Gospel  in 
the  United  States  thro'  the  English  Bishops,  he  offers  to  ordain 
such  person  or  persons  as  Congress  shall  designate  as  Bishop  or 
Bishops  in  the  United  States  by  the  true  apostolic  imposition  of 
hands — and  agreeable  to  such  ritual  as  Congress  may  adopt." 

This  information  is  true — I  expect  in  a  few  days  a  copy  of  the 
Letter.  But  your  time  nor  friendship  can  be  no  apology  for  me 
adding, — except  that  I  am  with  the  utmost  sincerity  your  friend  & 

Hum.  Servt. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  D.  Kilham. 

Trenton,  12th  Dec,  1784. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  been  here  so  short  a  time,  that  I  can  say  very  little  to 
you  upon  the  subject  of  our  general  affairs  ;  wait  a  little  time, 
and  I  will  give  you  a  general  state  of  them.  This  place  for  the 
residence  of  Congress  has  many  inconveniences  and  a  motion  was 
a  few  days  since  made  to  adjourn  to  Philadelphia,  but  passed  in 
the  negative.  We  shall  however  adjourn  I  think  from  this  place, 
either  to  the  city  of  New  York  or  to  Philadelphia. 

We  have  before  us  a  serious  remonstrance  from  the  Spanish 
Agent  against  our  navigating  the  River  Mississippi  ;  they  deny 
the  right  under  our  treaty  with  the  Court  of  London,  and  say  that 
any  American  Vessel  which  may  come  into  that  River  will  be 
confiscated. 

This  is  a  subject  that  alarms  the  Southern  States,  and  will 
require  a  considerable  degree  of  delicacy  and  firmness  to  be  con- 
ducted with  safety. 

No  account  from  the  British  Court  favors  the  idea  of  a  cordial 
amity  towards  the  United  States,  and  the  detention  of  the  Forts 
on  the  western  frontier  is  probably  under  positive  instruc- 
tion. 

With  esteem  and  friendship, 

R.  King. 


604      LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE   OF  RUFUS  KING. 

R.  King  to  D.  Kilham. 

New  York,  March  8,  1785. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  I  wish  to  know  how  you  proceed  in  your  affairs  :  how 
is  honest  Nat.  Carter  ?  Does  he  think  of  me  ever  as  he  smokes 
his  pipe  ?  If  he  does,  pray  tell  him  that  I  am  gratified,  that  my 
idea  associates  with  agreeable  objects  ;  for  such  alone  pass  the 
mind  of  a  hearty  smoker.  You  will  oblige  me  in  mentioning  me 
to  Swett  that  I  am  truly  interested  in  his  friendship  and  pros- 
perity. I  think  he  deserves  as  much  as  he  has  a  prospect  of 
obtaining,  and  his  prospect  is  good  in  the  situation  where  he  is. 
When  I  shall  be  fortunate  in  meeting  him  and  you  again,  which  I 
hope  is  not  far  distant,  I  think  I  can  remark  to  him  some  ideas 
which  will  be  to  his  benefit. 

Smith  I  suppose  gives  you  a  dinner  twice  or  thrice  in  a  winter 
— you  take  your  supper  with  him,  hear  a  German  battle  and  ogle 
Miss  Hannah  once  a  week.     .     .     . 

With  real  esteem, 

R.  King. 


R.  King  to  D.  Kilham. 

New  York,  Ap.  26,  1785. 

Yours  of  the  30th  of  March  was  received  this  evening  ;  it  is 
written  in  the  stile  of  friendship  and  with  the  most  obliging  ex- 
pressions of  attachment  ;  accept  in  return  my  most  sincere  ac- 
knowledgments, and  rely  upon  this,  that  my  friendship  is  founded 
on  so  long  an  acquaintance,  and  so  full  a  conviction  of  ingenuous 
merit,  that  I  shall  not  soon  relinquish  it.     .     .     . 

You  obligingly  inquire  of  my  affairs  ;  I  reply  that  I  never  have 
spent  any  period  of  my  life  with  so  close  an  application  to  busi- 
ness, or  with  so  few  amusements  as  since  I  left  you.  In  a  situa- 
tion the  duties  of  which  may  subject  me  to  public  examination, 
and  with  some  little  ambition,  I  have  been  desirous  of  pursuing  a 
conduct  that  would  not  hazard  me  in  the  first  view,  nor  dishonor 
me  in  the  second.  As  to  my  victim  condition,  that  you  say  is  re- 
ported, I  assure  you  that  there  could  no  report  be  circulated  con- 


APPENDIX.  605 


cerning  me  that  would  be  less  true.  At  present  I  think  it 
improper  to  bow  to  beauty  or  bend  to  fortune.  So  negligent 
have  I  been  on  this  subject,  that  upon  my  honor  I  assure  you  that 
I  think  of  neither  except  when  I  think  of  home. 

Adieu  yours  affectionately, 

R.  King. 


R.  King  to  D.  Kilham. 

New  York,  July  25th,  1785. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

I  have  yours  of  the  ninth  instant  for  which  accept  my  thanks. 
Little  is  to  be  immediately  expected  remedial  of  the  embarrass- 
ments which  almost  the  whole  of  the  American  Commerce  is  ex- 
posed to.  The  Gentlemen  in  trade,  almost  universally  through 
the  States,  are  uneasy  and  complaining.  It  has  been  the  fashion 
to  suppose  all  grievances  originated  with  the  British  nation  ;  but 
in  this  instance  much  of  the  pressing  difficulty,  of  which  constant 
complaint  is  making,  is  to  be  carried  to  the  account  of  the  exces- 
sive importations  made  on  credit,  and  the  mismanagement  of  the 
importers  in  the  sale  of  their  merchandize. 

Congress  it  is  said  must  have  additional  powers  or  commerce 
will  be  totally  ruined  ;  do  those,  who  make  this  observation,  know 
the  difficulties  of  effecting  what  only  costs  them  a  breath  to  ex- 
press ?  Have  they  considered  the  mode  of  effecting  their  wishes? 
Do  they  know  that  one  third  of  the  States  are  individually  inter- 
ested in  opposing  any  commercial  treaty  or  negotiation  whatever  ? 
Have  they  heard  the  Southern  States  remark  that  their  countries 
yielded  a  plentiful  and  valuable  export  in  their  Indigo,  Rice, 
Wheat,  &  Tobacco — that  the  freer  the  trade  the  more  valuable  to 
the  State  possessing  these  staples — that  the  more  numerous  the 
nations  are,  who  come  to  their  countries  to  buy  their  produce,  the 
greater  the  competition  among  the  purchasers,  and  consequently 
the  higher  the  price  at  which  the  produce  will  sell  ;  whilst  the 
quantity  of  goods  in  different  hands  suitable  for  their  market  may 
be  purchased  at  a  lower  price  than  if  the  laws  of  trade  restricted 
any  power  or  nation  in  their  intercourse  ? 

These  are  some  of  the  difficulties  which  will  authorise  an  opin- 
ion that  little  can  at  present  be  expected  from  Congress.     The 


606      LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE   OF  RUFUS  KING. 

Eastern  States  will  consent  to  vest  powers  in  Congress  competent 
to  a  regulation  of  foreign  Commerce,  but  the  Southern  States  will 
never  consent  to  regulations  which  will  effect  what  the  Northern 
States  desire.     .     .     . 

Adieu  your's  affectionately, 

R.  King. 

Supplement — Mr.  Adams  was  received  with  the  usual  cere- 
monies and  honors  at  the  British  Court  on  the  first  of  June.  We 
have  dispatches  from  him,  informing  only  of  his  reception  &c.  &c. 
— his  private  interview  with  the  King  must  have  been  curious. 
What  he  will  negotiate  time  must  manifest.  Young  Mr.  Adams 
arrived  here  a  few  days  since,  having  left  his  father  about  the 
middle  of  May  on  his  departure  for  London.  As  late  as  the  last 
of  May  the  drought  had  continued  to  be  most  severe  ;  the  corn 
will  be  short  in  Europe,  the  herds  are  greatly  diminished  for  want 
of  forage,  and  the  apprehension  is  great  as  common  in  populous 
countries  that  the  human  race  will  suffer  from  famine. 

This  remark  may  be  drawn  from  this  information,  that  if  the 
United  States  had  energy  sufficient  to  prevent  the  supply  of  pro- 
visions to  the  West  Indies  and  wheat  to  Europe,  we  should  be 
able  to  negotiate  commercial  treaties  on  more  advantageous  terms 
than  at  present. 

R.  King. 


R.  King  to  D.  Kilham. 

New  York,  Aug.  24,  1785. 
My  dear  Friend  : 

.  .  .  When  I  shall  meet  you  is  wholly  uncertain  ;  I  fear  not 
so  soon  as  I  could  desire.  I  am  in  a  situation  which  perplexes 
me  ;  was  I  a  man  of  moderate  fortune,  I  would  follow  my  present 
pursuit  ;  for  I  think  I  could  do  it  with  honor  and  with  a  prospect 
of  some  service  to  my  country  ;  but  if  this  opinion  should  prevail, 
I  must  abandon  my  profession  ;  by  this  I  could  live  with  con- 
venience, in  peace  and  without  hazard  ;  leaving  this  quiet  pros- 
pect, I  find  much  at  hazard  and  little  certainty  except  constant 
vigilance  of  numerous  enemies,  for  Parties  will  exist.  I  am  unde- 
termined. 


APPENDIX.  607 


At  present  adieu  ;  love  me  as  I  love  you  ;  think  for  me  ;  you 
are  my  friend,  you  know  every  thing  concerning  me  and  can  judge 
perhaps  more  justly  than  I  myself  can. 

Again  adieu, 

R.  K. 


R.  King  to  D.  Kilham. 

New  York,  Oct.  10th,  1785. 
Dear  Kilham  : 

.  .  .  I  thank  you  for  your  last  of  the  nth  of  September.  I 
find  that  some  of  my  friendly  admonitions  to  you  were  unneces- 
sary. I  am  perplexed  with  your  opinion  upon  my  subject — Pol- 
iticks or  Peace.  I  do  assure  you  that  I  balance.  Even  in  my 
profession  I  could  better  my  prosperity  by  removing  from  New- 
buryport.     But  I  think  I  never  shall  remove. 

I  can  only  bid  you  adieu. 

R.  King. 


R.  King  to  D.  Kilham. 

New  York,  Oct.  12th,  1785. 
My  dear  Friend  : 

.  .  .  I  have  nothing  politically  important  to  communicate. 
The  subject  of  commercial  embarrassments  is  exhausted — Con- 
gress have  no  powers — and  their  recommendations  are  nugatory. — 
A  Treaty  of  commerce  has  lately  been  concluded  between  Prussia 
and  the  United  States.  This  Treaty  contains  some  articles  in 
favor  of  humanity  and  for  the  protection  of  the  weak,  which  are 
new  and  without  precedent  between  any  nations.  But  Prussia  un- 
derstands the  principles  of  war  better  than  those  of  commerce. 
The  Treaty  gives  an  important  friend  to  the  United  States,  so  far 
as  paper,  ink  and  seals  can  convey,  but  will  in  a  very  small  de- 
gree advance  their  commerce  or  riches.  A  negotiation  is  upon 
the  tapis  with  Spain — but  the  progress  is  cautious  and  slow — and 
when  the  business  will  terminate,  no  mortal  can  conjecture. 
England  will  form  no  Treaty  of  commerce  in  her  present  exas- 
perated temper.  The  loss  of  America  and  the  difficulties  in  Ire- 
land irritate  the  nation  to  an  extreme  degree.     However  well  the 


6o8      LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE   OF  RUFUS  KING. 

King's  ministers  may  be  upon  the  subject  of  a  commercial  Treaty, 

they  will  not  dare  proceed  under  present  circumstances. 

Unless  the  several  States  vest  power  in  Congress  to  regulate 

commerce,  or  will  themselves   agree  in  some  uniform  measures, 

no  Treaty  can  ever  be  expected — the  reasoning  of  the  British  upon 

this  subject  is  so  obvious,  that  I  will  not  state  it  to  you. — But 

enough — I  bid  you  farewell  for  this  time 

And  am  your 

R.  K. 
This  is  currente  calamo. 

To  this  letter  Dr.  Kilham  gave  the  following  answer : 

"Both  yours  of  the  10th  &  12th  are  come  to  hand  and  are 
favors  indeed.  .  .  .  The  Treaty  with  Prussia  was  new  to  me. 
It  is  always  happy  when  I  find  a  Prince  who  recollects  the  cause 
of  humanity.  .  .  .  What  are  the  advantages  expected  by  the 
mercantile  interest  of  this  country  from  a  treaty  of  commerce 
with  G.  B.  I  cannot  conceive.  Will  she  stipulate  a  repeal  of  her 
navigation  laws  ?  Will  she  oblige  herself  by  treaty,  which  is  an 
irreversible  law,  to  admit  us  to  a  free  commerce  in  her  W.  I. 
Islands,  where  she  will  not  admit  us  by  an  Act  of  her  Legislature, 
revocable  at  pleasure  ?  We  have  nothing  to  give  her  which  she 
esteems  an  equivalent  for  those  favors  ;  and  to  expect  her  to  en- 
tertain a  partiality  for  our  interest  in  opposition  to  her  own,  we 
must  be  young  indeed.  We  must  devise  to  make  her  less  neces- 
sary to  us  by  becoming  our  own  manufacturers  notwithstanding 
the  two  mighty  objections  of  want  of  people  and  high  price  of 
labor.  The  observation  is  so  obvious  as  to  be  almost  frivolous 
that  if  our  population  is  small  the  consumption  of  manufactures 
must  be  proportionally  so.  Our  population  is  quite  sufficient  for 
a  proper  division  of  labor  and  that  is  all  that  can  be  requisite. 
When  there  are  a  sufficient  number  of  subjects  for  every  species 
of  industry,  they  ought  to  be  introduced  by  Government,  for  by  in- 
creasing the  species  of  industry  there  will  be  an  increase  of  the  gen- 
eral ?nass  of  industry,  for  many  children  and  infirm  persons,  out 
of  the  whole  variety,  will  find  something  to  which  they  may  apply 
themselves. 

The  high  price  of  labor  operates  equally  against  exporting  as 
against  manufacturing  and  is  the  reason  why  many  cargoes  are 
sold  abroad  for  less  than  they  cost. 


APPENDIX,  609 


R.  King  to  D.  Kilham. 

New  York,  Deer.  8th,  1785. 
My  dear  Friend  : 

.  .  .  The  unaccountable  policy  of  the  commercial  powers 
of  Europe  concerning  the  Barbary  powers  renders  it  necessary 
that  America  should  also  pay  tribute  to  these  Pirates. 

I  am  very  grateful  to  my  friends  for  any  inquiry  they  may  make 
about  me  or  my  affairs,  and  hope  before  many  months  elapse  to 
convince  them  in  person  of  the  sincerity  of  this  declaration.  Not 
even  the  Ladies  of  this  city,  agreeable  as  many  of  them  are 
shall  with  all  their  Frailties  detain  me.  I  am,  I  thank  God,  no 
prisoner — my  system  will  not  admit  the  idea.  Both  you  and  I 
have  passed  that  feverish  age,  which  leads  to  indiscreet  attach- 
ments and  subjects  the  reason  to  the  passions. 

You  ask  me  what  are  my  habits  of  business,  of  amusement  ;  you 
know  my  disposition  upon  the  general  pursuits  of  life,  by  having 
observed  my  practices.  I  have  too  much  pride  to  be  an  ignorant 
man  ;  and  that  constant  industry  to  understand,  and  form  dispo- 
sitions of,  the  complicated  and  various  business  before  Congress, 
is  to  me  a  pleasure  and  amusement. 

The  amusement  of  leisure  men  here  lies  in  the  frequent  and 
elegant  private  Routs  or  parties  given  by  the  Ladies  and  Gentle- 
men of  the  city.  In  addition  to  these  a  public  assembly  and 
concert  alternately  every  fortnight.  A  company  of  players  fur- 
nish the  pleasures  of  a  theatre  three  nights  every  week.  I  con- 
fess this  last  amusement  is  very  agreeable,  and  that  I  partake  of 
it  more  frequently  and  with  more  satisfaction,  than  of  any  other 
which  this  gay  City  affords. 

This  is  not  a  letter  from  the  Delegate,  but  from  your  friend 
and  is  confidential.     I  embrace  you,  adieu  ! 

R.  King. 

R.  King  to  D.  Kilham. 

New  York,  March  5th,  1786. 
My  dear  Friend  : 

.  .  .  Our  domestic  affairs  are  greatly  embarrassed,  the  sub- 
ject of  revenue  is  intricate  even  in  the  simplest  forms  of  Govern- 
ment ;  but  complex  as  our  federal  Government  is,  all  questions 
of  revenue  are  complicated  in  the  highest  degree.     A  late  act  of 

vol.  II. — 3Q 


6lO      LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE   OF  RUFUS  KING. 

Congress,  stating  some  of  their  money  engagements,  and  their 
means  of  complying  with  them,  is  a  plain  statement  and  refers  to 
the  determination  of  the  States  a  question  infinitely  important  to 
the  existence  of  the  Confederacy.  The  doctrine  of  Expedients 
has  brought  us  thus  far  ;  but  expedients  serve  only  to  postpone, 
and  not  to  remove,  the  evils  which  for  a  time  they  alleviate.  They 
are  therefore  improper  and  impolitic  in  a  Republic,  where  the 
people  determine  on  all  governmental  acts,  and  consequently 
ought  not  only  to  know,  but  also  to  feel,  every  evil  which  sur- 
rounds them.  A  false  delicacy  has  sometimes  governed  the  pub- 
lic acts  of  Congress  ;  an  apprehension  has  been  formerly  enter- 
tained that  foreigners  would  not  sufficiently  honor  and  esteem  us 
if  they  knew  our  real  situation.  This  has  been  a  mistaken  policy 
— America  was  respectable  in  arms,  she  was  admired.  But  peace, 
so  far  from  advancing  her  fame,  has  diminished  her  former  repu- 
tation ;  and  there  are  few  nations  whose  public  credit  is  at  so  low 
an  ebb  as  our's.  The  only  method  of  repossessing  what  we  have 
lost,  is  by  giving  true  information  to  the  people  and  submitting  to 
their  judgment  the  promotion  and  establishment  of  their  own 
Glory  and  Honor.     .     .     . 

I  am  authorized  to  affirm  that  I  am  with  the  purest  esteem  and 

regard  your  sincere  and  obliged  friend, 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  D.  Kilham. 

New  York,  Apr.  5th,  1786. 
My  dear  Kilham  : 

Have  you  wholly  forgotten  me — if  this  is  the  case  the  event 
which  I  wish  to  communicate  will  afford  you  no  pleasure,  but  like 
many  pieces  of  uninteresting  intelligence  will  be  read  and  thought 
of  no  more.  I  will  not  believe  this  to  be  the  case,  since  the  very 
information  will  be  an  apology  why  I  have  not  been  so  diligent  a 
correspondent  as  you  had  good  right  to  expect.  The  lady  to 
whom  six  days  since  I  was  married  has  merits  to  demand  your 
esteem  ;  and  when  you  know  her,  which  I  hope  will  soon  be  the 
fact,  will  convince  you  that  I  ought  to  be,  what  I  really  am,  ex- 
tremely happy. 

I  cannot  be  particular  ;  time  will  not  permit  it,  and  perhaps 
the  patience  of  friendship  would  be  exhausted  with  the  detail.     I 


APPENDIX.  6ll 

hope  and  expect  to  take  you  by  the  hand  in  June,  when  we  will 
put  and  answer  questions  till  we  are  mutually  satisfied. 

Pray  present  my  respects  where  they  are  due — my  gratitude  to 
my  fellow  townsmen  was  never  more  lively  than  at  this  moment ; 
to  them  I  am  indebted  for  an  unmerited  partiality  and  with  them 
I  hope  to  spend  a  life  not  destitute  of  grateful  recollection. 
Adieu  my  dear  friend — I  embrace  you. 

R.  King. 

R.  King  to  D.  Kilham. 

New  York,  June  17,  1786. 
Dear  Kilham  : 

I  was  pleased  with  the  instructions  of  Newburyport  to  their 
Representatives,  but  much  more  so  when  I  found  you  was  chair- 
man of  the  committee  which  reported  them  for  the  town's  adop- 
tion. They  have  been  reprinted  in  all  the  newspapers  this  way, 
and  have  received  the  approbation  of  liberal  men.  .  .  .  You 
never  have  mentioned  a  word  in  any  of  your  letters  concerning 
Doctor  Swett ;  by  the  Gazette  account  of  the  medical  Society,  I 
am  satisfied  in  finding  his  name  mentioned  among  the  living.  I 
earnestly  wish  he  may  long  continue  their  friend  and  physician. 
When  you  see  him,  be  good  enough  to  tell  him  that  there  is  a 
Doctor  White  in  Congress  from  North  Carolina  who  has  fre- 
quently mentioned  to  me  his  acquaintance  with  Doct.  Swett  at 
Edinburgh.  White  is  a  very  clever  fellow  and  loves  good  Bur- 
gundy as  well  as  his  friend  Swett. 

I  have  nothing  new  to  mention  to  you,  except  that  it  is  an  un- 
pleasant thing  to  be  the  daily  witness  of  the  humiliating  situation 
of  the  federal  government ;  without  power,  destitute  of  revenue, 
pledged  for  engagements,  and  without  ability  to  execute  them. 

Adieu. 

R.  King. 

R.  King  to  D.  Kilham. 

New  York,  Oct.  29,  1786. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Two  posts  have  arrived  and  I  heard  not  a  word  from  any 
member  of  the  General  Court.  You  must  be  impressed  with  the 
sentiment  that  we  are  extremely  anxious  to  be  informed  of  every 


6l2      LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE   OF  RUFUS  KING. 

step  taken  by  the  Legislature  at  this  critical  juncture  of  the  Gov- 
ernment. What  measures  you  will  pursue  to  preserve  the  Com- 
monwealth, it  is  your  duty  diligently  to  inquire.  Wisdom  and 
Fortitude  ought  most  highly  to  distinguish  the  present  Assembly. 
Upon  what  they  do,  or  omit,  in  an  eminent  degree  must  depend 
the  national  safety.  The  evil  is  of  great  magnitude,  and  the 
remedy  must  be  equally  extensive  and  wholly  efficacious.  I  con- 
fess that  I  was  greatly  surprized  when  in  Boston  to  find  such 
apathy  among  the  people  when  the  Government  was  convulsed 
and  the  existence  of  the  Commonwealth  was  in  danger.  Very  few 
men  appear  to  be  informed  (or  if  informed  continue  silent)  of  the 
dangerous  principles  avowed  by  the  leaders  of  the  Insurgents. 

These  men  publicly  avow  the  opinion — that  all  America,  which 
was  formerly  under  the  British  Government  and  now  within 
the  United  States,  was  acquired  by  the  people  of  the  United 
States,  and  by  their  joint  exertions  ;  that  all  men  being  by 
nature  equal,  the  Property  ought  to  be  equally  divided  among  all 
the  citizens  of  the  United  States  ;  and  that  upon  the  principles  of 
this  acquisition,  and  the  dissolution  of  the  Government  existing 
before  the  Revolution,  all  debts  contracted  before  that  period  are 
annihilated  and  any  attempts  to  inforce  their  payment  are  attempts 
for  plunder  and  robbery. 

I  have  the  best  authority  for  affirming  that  these  pernicious 
principles  are  cherished  and  industriously  propagated  by  the  lead- 
ers of  the  Insurgents.  If  when  opinions  so  fatal  to  the  Common- 
wealth are  openly  taught  and  justified,  they,  who  by  their  office 
are  bound  to  watch  for  the  safety  of  the  Government,  content 
themselves  with  limited  applications  and  detail  reforms,  when  the 
evil  is  general,  and  the  disease  has  possessed  itself  of  the  vitals, 
there  is  good  reason  to  despair  of  the  Commonwealth  and  to  give 
up  all  to  Anarchy  and  confusion. 

Farewell  yours  sincerely 
Rufus  King. 

R.   King  to  D.  Kilham. 

New  York,  Nov.  19,  1786. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

Your  account  of  the  proceedings  of  the  General  Court   has 

afforded  me  much  more  information  than  I  had  received  from  any 


APPENDIX.  613 


other  quarter ;  pray  continue  to  write  to  me,  as  you  must  be  con- 
vinced of  the  anxiety  I  entertain  concerning  the  public  affairs  at 
this  very  critical  juncture.  I  will  write  to  B.  T.,  but  I  wish  you 
had  been  particular  in  suggesting  the  points  that  I  should 
dwell  upon. 

I  can  hardly  suppose  it  possible  that  he  should  entertain  any 
Ideas  unfavorable  to  public  or  private  credit.  As  to  the  griev- 
ances of  the  People,  so  loudly  and  generally  complained  of,  I 
confess  myself  in  opposition  to  the  opinions  of  those  who  unite  in 
these  complaints.  Grievances  can  not  be  suffered  in  a  Govern- 
ment constituted  as  our  Government  is.  The  laws  are  the  acts 
of  a  majority  of  the  people — every  citizen  by  the  nature  of  the 
social  compact  is  bound  to  submit  to  this  majority — the  execution 
or  administration  of  such  laws  are  not  grievances.  If  the  laws 
are  incautiously  or  unwisely  enacted,  and  the  majority  think  so, 
they  may  be  annulled  by  the  new  Legislature — the  operation  of 
a  law,  inconvenient  or  unwise  in  itself,  can  continue  but  a  single 
year,  because  it  will  be  repealed,  if  the  majority  unite  in  opinion 
that  it  is  inconvenient  or  unwise.  No  law  would  be  passed  which 
would  be  so  enormous  or  bad,  that  it  would  be  intolerable  for  one 
year  ;  what  reason  is  there  then  for  the  complaints,  and  rash  pro- 
ceedings of  the  present  opponents  of  our  Government  ? 

I  will  not  add  upon  this  subject — you  have  fully  considered 
and  are  extremely  capable  of  examining,  the  subject — my  re- 
marks must  therefore  be  either  erroneous,  or  unnecessary  because 

they  have  before  passed  in  your  mind. 

Farewell 

R.  King. 

We  have  not  yet  made  a  Congress.  Who  will  be  President  is 
yet  uncertain  ;  probably  Mr.  Nash  of  No.  Carolina,  or  Mr.  Jno. 
Langdon  of  New  Hampshire  should  the  latter  come  on. 


R.  King  to  D.  Kilham. 

New  York,  Jan.  28,  1787. 
Dear  Kilham  : 

.     .     .     Nothing  has  taken  place  in  the  general  affairs  of  the 
Union  since  I  saw  you  of  any  consequence  except  the  measures 


6 14      LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE   OF  RUFUS  KING. 

that  you  are  well  acquainted  with.  Indeed  Congress  separated 
in  October  and  have  not  since  been  organized.  Seven  States  will 
probably  be  represented  tomorrow,  when  possibly  we  may  elect 
a  President.     I  pray  you  to  write  me.     .     .     . 

Farewell,  be  assured  that  I  am  most  affectionately  yours, 

Rufus  King. 


Dr.  Kilham  writes  to  Mr.  King  about  the  same  date. 

"  I  think  the  proceedings  of  the  Gt.  in  its  present  sessions  must 
give  you  the  greatest  pleasure,  &  the  present  spirit  I  doubt  not 
will  be  a  remedy  superior  to  the  great  misfortunes  we  have  actu- 
ally suffered,  and  to  prevent  the  of  Rebellion.  They 
passed  an  act  disqualifying  all  who  have  acted  as  non-commis- 
sioned officers  or  privates  from  holding  any  civil  or  military 
or  town  offices  for  a  term,  and  conditioned  also  from  being  elec- 
tors in  the  choice  of  any  of  these  offices.  This  we  hope  will 
be  a  security  against  corruption  in  the  approaching  election. 
Gen.  Lincoln  is  to  be  continued  with  a  force  of  iooo  or  1500  men 
in  the  disaffected  counties  till  the  peace  shall  appear  to  be  per- 
fectly restored  and  confirmed.  The  time  being  nearly  expired  for 
which  the  first  drafts  were  made,  they  are  to  be  replaced  by  them- 
selves or  others,  and  good  funds  are  provided  for  their  subsist- 
ence and  payment.  This  last  circumstance  is  the  most  material. 
Gentlemen  of  property  are  growing  prudent  and  begin  to  insure 
by  advancing  liberally,  and  the  dishonest  part  of  the  Legislature 
begin  to  discern  that  faith  is  as  necessary  in  politics  as  in  religion. 

"  After  the  spirit  of  Rebellion  is  completely  subdued  the  busi- 
ness will  be  half  done  ;  a  spirit  of  obedience  and  industry  is  to 
be  restored  which  is  the  greatest  object  of  Legislation. 

"  I  have  learned  by  the  Gazette  that  Congress  have  assembled. 
The  affairs  of  the  Union  are  daily  growing  more  serious.  I 
should  be  much  gratified  to  know  what  order  will  be  taken  on 
them.  In  my  last  I  wrote  you  on  the  subject  of  the  Con- 
vention. I  hope  to  have  your  opinion  before  you  receive  this. 
To  me  the  difficulties  appear  unsurmountable." 


APPENDIX.  615 


R.  King  to  Daniel  Kilham. 

New  York,  Nov.  25,  1787. 

It  is  a  long  time  since  I  heard  anything  from  you.  Permit  me 
to  inquire  of  you  how  the  public  opinion  stands  relative  to  the 
measures  of  Government  in  the  suppression  of  the  Rebellion  ? 
How  goes  Electioneering  ?  Men  and  measures  are  now  very  inti- 
mately united.  Displace  men  and  you  disapprove  measures  such 
men  supported. 

Farewell 

R.  King. 

On  the  reverse  of  this,  without  date,  is  the  following  in 
Dr.  Kilham's  handwriting  : 

"  I  have  of  late  been  absent,  therefore  did  not  receive  your's  of 
25th  ult.  till  you  must  have  learnt  the  public  opinion  on  the 
subject  of  your  enquiry. 

"  You  will  perceive  by  the  new  Elections  that  the  public  are 
dissatisfied  &  very  unhappy  &  so  long  as  the  people  remain  their 
own  governors  and  mistake  the  cause  of  their  misfortunes  they 
must  continue  so.  In  this  country  there  will  be  almost  a  total 
change  of  Senators — those  most  probably  elected  are  Mr.  Good- 
hue, Mr.  Coffin,  Mr.  Wood,  Mr.  Osgood  ;  some  of  whom  have 
never  been  men  in  any  public  office.  There  will  undoubtedly 
be  as  great  changes  in  the  House,  but  what  they  will  be  is  yet  too 
early  to  determine.  Many  draw  the  most  unfavorable  conclu- 
sions from  these  circumstances.  I  do  not.  If  the  people  are 
pleased  with  their  governors  they  will  more  patiently  submit  to 
the  government,  and  it  is  essential  that  a  free  people  should  be 
satisfied  with  their  Rulers.  After  the  present  change  the  people 
I  wish  may  begin  to  be  composed,  but  if  not,  though  I  believe  G. 
himself  scarcely  knows  by  what  operation  it  is  to  be  effected, 
some  material  change  must  take  place  in  our  national  government. 
So  many  men  &  so  much  property  can  never  be  without  some 
government,  &  if  they  are  very  corrupt  and  very  licentious,  it 
must  be  an  absolute  one,  which  G.  avert — I  expect  to  hear  from 
you  in  B."     (No  signature.) 


6l6      LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE   OF  RUFUS  KING. 

APPENDIX   II. 

Endorsed  in  Rufus  King's  handwriting : 
"Conference  with  Ld.  Grenville  Aug.   ioth,  1796." 

According  to  Ld.  Grenville's  appointment  I  waited  on  him  at 
11  o'ck  A.M. 

I  stated  to  him  that  I  brought  with  me  Dispatches  altogether 
favorable  to  a  firm  Friendship  &  perfect  Harmony  between  our 
two  Countries  and  that  my  endeavours  would  be  directed  to  this 
object. 

After  shewing  him  my  second  Commission  authorizing  a  con- 
tinuation of  Mr.  Jay's  Negotiation,  &c,  I  observed  that  the  objec- 
tion to  the  XII  Article  was  the  limitation  of  the  Tonnage,  and 
the  Restriction  not  to  export  from  the  U.  S.  certain  enumerated 
articles — that  altho'  formerly  perhaps  f  of  our  Vessels,  employed 
in  the  W.  In.  Trade  were  at  or  under  70  tons,  that  now  perhaps 
not  one  in  Eight  of  our  Sea  Vessels  were  of  so  small  a  Tonnage — 
that  the  duration  of  the  article  wd.  not  in  Prudence  permit  the 
building  of  New  Vessels,  and  besides  that  they  wd.  be  un- 
profitable as  nearly  the  same  men  and  expenses  would  navigate 
a  vessel  of  perhaps  100  tons,  and  that  in  the  carrying  of  Lumber 
the  Freight  wd.  not  be  an  object  in  a  vessel  of  that  Tonnage. 

That  in  respect  to  the  Restriction  not  to  export  the  enumerated 
articles,  we  had  thought  we  might  agree  in  applying  it  solely  to 
such  as  were  reed,  from  the  Br.  Islands,  and  that  our  system  of 
Drawbacks  wd.  execute  the  Stipulations — but  that  on  a  fuller 
consideration,  we  had  found  that  if  we  entered  into  this  Stipula- 
tion with  G.  B.  the  other  Powers  holding  W.  In.  Cols.  wd.  expect 
us  to  form  a  similar  Stipulation,  the  consequence  of  wh.  would 
be  to  reinstate  the  Article  in  its  originally  objectionable  shape. 
That  we  thought  the  regulations  of  little  consequence  to  G.B.  in- 
asmuch as  we  shd.  rarely  take  from  them  any  articles  except  their 
Rum  ;  their  other  productions  being  ordinarily  higher  in  their 
price  than  in  the  neighbouring  Islands.  Besides  all  the  coloniz- 
ing Powers  had  for  the  last  half  Century  opened  their  W.  In.  Cols, 
in  time  of  war  without  any  such  Restriction  and  that  it  would  be 
better  to  suffer  the  Commerce  to  stand  on  its  ordinary  Footing 


APPENDIX.  617 


which  wd.  give  us  a  share  of  it  in  time  of  war,  than  to  form  a 
Stipulation  that  would  contain  the  Restraints  proposed. 

Lord  Grenville  said  that  the  limitation  of  the  tonnage  was  de- 
sired by  them  on  the  same  principle  as  they  wished  a  Restraint 
agt.  our  re-exporting  W.  In.  Produce — that  they  wished  to  pre- 
vent our  becoming  the  carriers  of  their  W.  In.  Produce  to  the 
different  European  Powers — that  they  had  not  been  sensible  that 
so  few  of  our  vessels  were  of  the  proposed  tonnage — that  it  would 
be  requisite  that  he  shd.  confer  on  these  Points  with  those  at  the 
Head  of  the  Trade  and  Colony  Systems,  &c.  &c. 

I  then  observed  that  no  subject  was  so  embarrassing  as  that  of 
our  Seamen — and  that  I  hardly  knew  how  to  express  myself  re- 
specting it — that  I  fear  our  claims  might  be  wide  of  each  other, 
and  that  the  true  mean  wd.  be  difficult  to  agree  in.  His  Lordship 
said  that  he  was  sensible  of  the  Difficulty  ;  that  placing  himself 
on  our  side  it  was  obvious,  and  he  requested  me  to  take  his  Place 
for  a  moment  in  order  to  perceive  the  motives  which  influenced 
them — that  their  Navy  was  their  safeguard — that  their  Admirals 
and  Admiralty  Board  were  constantly  complaining  that  the  navy 
was  decaying  from  the  Embarrassment  experienced  in  manning 
their  Ships — that  the  British  Seamen  were  escaping  the  public 
service  by  engaging  in  the  American  Employ  and  challenging  the 
Protection  of  the  American  Flag. 

I  said  that  my  Ideas  were  far  from  settled  on  any  precise  plan 
— that  we  thought,  after  fair  reflection,  and  a  full  view  of  the 
situation  of  the  claim  of  G.  B.,  that  we  were  entitled  to  pass  the 
High  Seas  without  interruption — that  when  we  came  within  the 
Br.  Jurisdiction  a  right  of  Examination  in  order  to  obtain  Br. 
Seamen  wd.  not  be  contested — that  in  the  Ports  of  the  Kingdom 
some  Embarrassment  might  result  from  the  Examination,  yet  it 
wd.  be  much  less  than  would  be  the  Case  in  the  Colonies  where 
the  exercise  of  this  Claim  was  very  injurious  to  our  Citizens,  and 
ruinous  in  some  cases  to  our  Merchants. 

That  if  we  could  by  convention  adjust  these  Points  in  a  fair 
and  reasonable  manner,  it  would  wonderfully  tend  to  promote 
Friendship  &  Good  Will  between  us. 

That  a  Plan  of  Protection  had  been  adopted,  (here  I  explained 
to  Ld.  G.  the  Tenor  of  the  late  Law,  which  his  Lordship  appeared 
to  have  in  some  degree  misconceived  and  to  have  thought  very 


6l8      LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE   OF  RUFUS  KING. 

lightly  of)  but  the  ex  parte  Representations  would  be  of  little 
avail  to  compose  the  public  opinion  entertained  on  either  side  : 
hence  the  advantage  of  an  adjustment  by  Convention  :  that  the 
Proofs  after  all  would  constitute  the  real  Difficulty.  We  did  not 
desire  to  withdraw  from  their  Duty  their  people,  in  order  to  en- 
gage them  in  our  Employ  ;  our  only  wish  was  to  secure  our  own 
People  from  being  forced  out  of  our  Ships,  whereby  they  were 
injured  and  our  Commerce  exposed  to  infinite  Embarrassment. 

Lord  Grenville  said  that  with  respect  to  an  exemption  from 
examination,  &c,  on  the  High  Seas,  unless  great  latitude  was 
given  to  their  Doctrine  of  the  four  Seas,  &c,  the  Position  would 
differ  from  what  they  had  practiced,  and  as  they  supposed  with- 
out injustice  to  for.  stations  —  that  they  man  their  Navy  by 
cruising  with  their  Frigates  in  the  chops  of  the  Channel  where 
they  met  their  Merchantmen,  which,  as  soon  as  they  have  come 
near  their  Ports,  usually  suffer  their  seamen  to  go  on  Shore,  leav- 
ing only  the  Officers  &  a  Boy  or  two,  with  Protections  on  board 
to  Navigate  the  Vessel. 

It  was  understood  between  Lord  G.  &  me  that  this  conversa- 
tion shd.  be  viewed  as  only  breaking  the  Subject,  that  he  shd. 
consult  with  Lord  Spencer  and  his  Colleagues,  and  that  instead 
of  writing  we  shd.  freely  converse  on  this  and  such  other  Topics 
as  shd.  come  up,  and  shd.  we  advance  towards  any  Result,  that 
then  it  shd.  be  put  in  Paper. 

Lord  Grenville  here  adverted  to  our  late  Law  authorizing  the 
appointment  of  an  Agent  to  reside  in  their  VV.  Ind  ;  he  said  he 
wished  this  measure  had  been  considered,  and  if  it  should  have 
been  found  proper,  that  Instructions  shd.  have  been  given  to  their 
Governors  &c  respecting  it — that  at  present  it  was  not  allowed  to 
any  Nation  to  send  an  Agent  into  yr.  colonies,  that  looking  at 
their  laws,  he  apprehended  that  their  Governors  wd.  not  think 
themselves  authorized  to  permit  the  Residence  of  such  a  charac- 
ter, and  he  felt  uneasy  lest  the  sending  away  of  such  agent  should 
be  unfavorably  construed  in  America.  I  suggested  the  expedi- 
ency of  an  early  attention  to  the  subject,  promised  a  copy  of  the 
Law  and  intimated  the  idea  of  an  Instruction  wh.  shd.  allow  such 
agent  to  reside,  say  in  Jamaica,  there  to  receive  applications  from 
Amer.  Seamen  &c,  confining  his  agency  to  a  correspondence  with 
the  Govr.,  who  shd.  in  this  respect  have  authority  to  enquire  of 


APPENDIX.  619 


their  Navy  officers.  This  arrangement  suggested  itself  from  Ld. 
G's  having  said  that  a  secret  correspondence  between  such  Agent 
and  the  Admirals,  Captains  &  seamen  would  undiscipline  their 
Navy. 

We  were  here  interrupted  by  a  Messenger  with  Letters,  wh. 
Lord  Grenville  on  opening  found  to  come  from  the  D.  Portland's 
office,  being  dispatches  of  the  11  &  18  June  from  Lord  Dor- 
chester.    He  read  them  and  said  he  wd.  send  me  copies.     They 

stated  Cap.  Lewis'  arrival  at  Quebec,  his  dispatches  from 

and  his  arrangements  to  give  up  the  Posts  immediately,  wh.  he 
says  Cap.  Lewis  desired  might  be  delayed  till  our  Troops  arrived 
to  receive  them.  The  last  letter  mentions  Lewis'  Departure  from 
Quebec  &  the  order  being  issued  to  the  several  Posts  by  the  Adj. 
Genl.,  duplicates  of  wh.  were  given  to  Cap.  Lewis  for  the  delivery 
of  the  Posts  to  the  American  Detachments. 

I  mentioned  to  Ld.  Grenville  that  it  would  be  satisfactory, 
could  I  have  it  in  my  Power  to  say  when  I  wrote  to  America  that 
the  Commissioners  on  their  and  our  part  had  formed  their  Board 
and  that  the  preparatory  arrangements  were  in  train  for  their 
commencing  business.  He  replied  that  Mr.  Hammond  had  reed, 
his  instructions  to  have  the  Commission  to  yr.  Commrs.  prepared, 
and  he  had  signed  an  order  for  the  placing  the  Great  Seal  to  it, 
but  that  Mr.  H's  departure  wh.  was  sudden,  had  produced  some 
delay  ;  that  the  measure  shd.  advance,  and  if  the  Commissioners 
could  agree  to  meet  on  Saturday  or  Monday,  he  wd.  endeavor 
that  Dr.  Nicholl  &  Mr.  Anstey  should  be  previously  furnished 
with  their  commissions. 

I  then  asked  his  Lordship  whether  he  had  any  Evidence  of  the 
authenticity  of  the  Letter  published  a  day  or  two  since,  as  from 
the  Directory  to  M.  Barthelemi,  announcing  the  determination  to 
stop  neutral  cargoes  bound  to  Br.  Ports,  &c,  &c.  He  said  he  be- 
lieved it  authentic,  but  had  no  other  than  the  same  Evidence  that 
was  before  the  Public,  that  he  had  intended  to  have  spoken  to  me 
about  it,  indeed  he  had  been  desirous  of  writing  to  me  in  order 
that  I  might  have  it  in  my  power  to  contradict  the  allegation  that 
G.  B.  had  issued  any  order  of  the  tenor  alleged  in  the  letter  in 
question,  but  that  he  did  not  know  how  to  take  notice  of  a  Docu- 
ment of  the  authenticity  of  whh.  he  was  not  fully  and  regularly 
ascertained  ;  but  that  he  expected  shortly  to  hear  from  the  King's 


620      LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE   OF  RUFUS  KING. 

minister  at  Basle,  when  if  the  Document  proved,  as  he  believed  it, 
true,  he  would  write  me  a  letter  on  the  subject. 

He  added  on  my  enquiry  that  no  new  order  had  been  issued  on 
the  subject  of  captures,  &c. 


APPENDIX  III. 

The  great  importance  of  the  proper  adjustment  of  the 
questions  involved  in  the  settlement  of  the  claims  of  Ameri- 
can citizens  against  Great  Britain,  under  the  7th  article  of 
Jay's  treaty,  is  sufficient  warrant  for  giving  here  the  long 
dispatch  of  Mr.  King  to  the  Secretary  of  State,  showing 
both  the  ability  and  excellent  spirit  with  which  the  case  was 
stated  and  maintained  by  Mr.  King  and  responded  to  in 
the  same  temper  by  Lord  Grenville  and  the  Lord  Chancellor. 
The  consequence  was,  as  will  be  seen,  that  the  proceedings 
of  the  Commission,  which  had  been  interrupted  and  seemed 
likely  to  come  to  an  end  without  accomplishing  the  purpose 
for  which  the  Commission  was  appointed,  were  renewed  and 
continued,  with  one  slight  break,  until  the  claims  were  set- 
tled to  the  satisfaction  of  both  governments. 

In  the  letter  of  January  14,  1797,  to  the  Secretary  of  State, 
Mr.  King  refers  to  the  embarrassments  which  had  occurred 
in  the  proceedings  of  the  Commissioners  in  London,  under 
the  7th  article  of  the  treaty  with  Great  Britain,  and  which 
had  been  happily  removed,  and  promised  a  more  detailed 
report  of  the  occurrences.  This  report,  with  that  of  an  ad- 
ditional conversation  with  Lord  Grenville  on  the  subject,  is 
presented  in  this  appendix. 

R.  King  to  the  Secretary  of  State. 

London,  Feby.  26th,  1797. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Having  already  informed  you,  that  the  embarrassments,  which 
have  been  experienced  by  the  Commissioners  under  the  7th  arti- 
cle of  the  Treaty  with  this  country  had  been  satisfactorily  removed, 


APPENDIX.  62 1 


it  may  seem  useless  that  I  should  send  you  a  particular  report  on 
that  subject.  But  as  the  provisions  of  the  6th  article  are  analo- 
gous to  those  of  the  7th,  the  proceedings  which  have  taken  place 
respecting  the  latter  may  have  some  influence  in  giving  a  con- 
struction to  the  former,  and  hence  the  propriety  of  your  being 
made  acquainted  with  them. 

The  repeated  objections  to  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Commission- 
ers, having  about  the  middle  of  December  brought  the  board  to  a 
stand,  I  considered  it  to  be  my  duty  to  ask  of  Lord  Grenville 
a  conference  upon  the  subject,  which  took  place  on  the  16th  of 
December  in  the  following  manner. 

I  have  desired  this  conference,  my  Lord,  in  order  to  state  from 
the  communications  of  the  American  Commissioners  what  I  under- 
stand to  be  the  situation  of  the  Questions  that  have  been  brought 
before  them  ;  it  is  my  duty  to  report  the  same  to  my  Government  ; 
but  it  is  previously  proper  to  ascertain  with  precision  how  far  the 
proceedings  under  the  directions  of  the  King's  Advocate  General 
are  to  be  considered  as  having  received  the  approbation  of  his 
Majesty's  Government,  and  whether  they  are  to  be  followed  up 
in  the  consequences  to  which  they  lead.  A  case  of  each  class 
into  which  the  American  claims  divide  themselves  has  been 
brought  before  the  Commissioners  by  Mr.  Bayard,  the  American 
agent.  These  cases,  pursuant  to  a  rule  of  proceeding  adopted  by 
the  Board,  have  been  severally  notified  to  Mr.  Gostling,  the  King's 
Proctor,  who  has,  in  each  case,  given  in  an  answer  denying  the 
jurisdiction  of  the  Commissioners.  Thus  in  the  class  of  cases, 
which  have  been  decided  in  the  High  Court  of  Appeals,  Mr.  Gost- 
ling replies  that  the  Commissioners  have  no  jurisdiction,  because 
the  sentence  of  that  Court  is  definitive  :  in  the  class  depending  be- 
fore the  High  Court  of  Admiralty,  and  before  the  High  Court  of 
Appeals,  that  the  Commissioners  have  no  jurisdiction,  because 
the  claimants,  if  entitled,  may  obtain  compensation  in  the  ordi- 
nary course  of  justice  ;  in  the  class,  in  which  unsatisfactory  De- 
crees have  been  rendered  in  the  lower  Courts,  and  against  which, 
for  various  reasons,  appeals  have  not  been  claimed,  or  prosecuted, 
that  the  Commissioners  have  no  jurisdiction  because  it  has  been 
from  the  neglect  of  the  claimants,  that  they  are  unable  to  obtain 
compensation  in  the  ordinary  course  of  justice. — The  consequence 
of  which  replies  appears  to  be  that  there  is  no  case  in   which  the 


622      LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE   OF  RUFUS  KING. 

Commissioners  can  act. — The  Commissioners  on  the  part  of  his 
Majesty's  Government  have  moreover  intimated  an  opinion  that 
it  was  their  duty,  in  every  case  in  which  the  King's  Proctor  should 
deny  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Board,  to  abstain  from  deciding  such 
question  of  jurisdiction,  and  to  refer  the  cases  to  their  Government 
for  instruction  ;  and  that,  in  case  a  majority  of  the  Board  of 
Commissioners  shall  differ  from  them  in  this  opinion,  it  would  be 
lawful  for  them  to  withdraw  and  thereby  incapacitate  the  Board 
from  deciding  such  Question. 

I  am  not  prepared,  said  Lord  Grenville,  to  answer  officially 
upon  this  subject.  I  have  read  over  the  Papers  presented  to  the 
Commissioners  by  Mr.  Bayard,  and  the  answers  of  Mr.  Gostling, 
and  they  are  in  circulation  preparatory  to  a  meeting  of  the  Council, 
where  the  subject  must  be  considered  before  I  can  give  you  a 
regular  answer.  I  have  no  difficulty,  however,  in  communicating 
to  you  my  way  of  thinking  upon  most  of  the  points.  Without 
making  professions,  I  may  be  allowed  to  say  that  I  have  an 
earnest  desire  that  this  Business  should  proceed  in  a  satisfactory 
manner.  I  labored  much  in  forming  the  Treaty  with  America, 
and  I  have  considered  it  as  an  act  that  was  likely  to  afford  me 
much  pleasure  and  some  reputation.  I  must,  therefore,  wish  the 
removal  of  every  obstruction  that  can  in  any  way  defeat  the  ob- 
ject of  my  labor  ;  but  we  are  obliged,  sir,  to  pay  great  deference 
to  every  thing  connected  by  law,  or  usage,  with  our  national 
marine,  which  forms  our  national  safeguard.  England,  therefore, 
holds  high  those  maxims  of  the  Law  of  Nations,  which  respect 
maritime  questions,  and  she  has  always  maintained  what  this  Law 
sanctions,  that  every  nation  has  a  perfect  right  by  her  own  Tri- 
bunals to  decide  questions  of  Prize.  Her  Supreme  Court  for  the 
trial  of  such  questions  is  composed  of  characters  distinguished  for 
their  learning  and  respectable  for  their  rank  ;  it  is  the  Highest 
and  most  honorable  Court  of  the  Nation,  excepting  only  the 
House  of  Lords.  It  is  natural,  therefore,  that  we  should  en- 
deavour to  preserve  all  possible  respect  for,  and  by  every  suitable 
means  prevent  the  existence  of  a  doubt  concerning,  the  justice  of 
this  Court.  I  am  fearful,  continued  Lord  Grenville,  that  these 
questions  have  been  unadvisedly  raised  ;  a  few  which  might  have 
been  omitted,  have  given  birth  to  reflections,  that  with  a  little  more 
caution  would  not  have  existed.     Mr.  Bayard  should  not  have 


APPENDIX.  623 


alleged,  an  illegal  and  unjust  decree  of  the  High  Court  of  Appeals, 
as  the  ground  of  his  applications  to  the  Commissioners.  In  cases 
of  Costs,  Demurrage,  Freight,  &c,  in  which  there  have  been  no 
appeals,  and  in  which  the  omission  or  delay  can  be  accounted  for  ; 
in  cases  under  the  order  of  the  6th  of  Novr.  ;  in  cases  where  new 
evidence  can  be  procured  ;  in  cases  where  a  general  opinion  pre- 
vailed that  it  would  be  of  no  advantage  to  appeal  ;  and  possibly 
in  other  cases,  there  would  be  a  propriety,  said  Lord  Grenville, 
that  the  Commissioners  should  afford  relief.  In  respect  to  the 
cases  in  which  the  Decrees  of  the  High  Court  of  Appeals  were 
not  satisfactory,  it  is  now  somewhat  difficult  to  form  a  correct 
opinion.  Had  no  question  arisen,  it  would  be  much  less  embar- 
rassing. It  would  seem  to  be  an  extraordinary  situation  for 
England  to  place  herself  in,  to  appear  before  the  Commissioners 
to  contest  a  precise  charge  of  illegality  and  injustice  in  the  Decree 
of  the  High  Court  of  Appeals,  and  upon  a  re-examination  of  the 
matter  of  such  Decrees  to  see  them  reversed.  Would  not  the  rule 
that  each  Nation  has  an  exclusive  right  of  deciding  maritime 
questions  be  weakened  thereby  ?  Might  not  foreign  Nations, 
hereafter,  impeach  the  justice  of  our  High  Court  of  Appeals  and 
adduce  in  support  of  their  charge  a  decision  of  these  Commis- 
sioners reversing  its  Decrees  ?  It  must  not,  however,  be  under- 
stood that  the  King's  Government  will  of  course  support  the  pleas 
offered  by  Mr.  Gostling.  The  Government  employ  him  as  their 
Proctor,  who  in  imitation  of  the  lawyer  of  other  clients,  will  en- 
deavour to  make  the  best  defense  for  his  principal,  and  in  doing 
so  may  offer  a  plea  that  the  Commissioners  will  perhaps  adjudge 
a  bad  one.  The  conduct  of  our  Commissioners,  continued  Lord 
Grenville,  appears  to  have  been  cautious  and  prudent,  the  right  to 
withdraw  is  perhaps  countenanced  by  that  part  of  the  7th  Article 
that  requires  the  presence  of  one  commissioner  at  least  of  each 
side  ;  thus  leaving  with  the  respective  Governments  a  power,  by 
instructing  their  Commissioners  to  withdraw,  to  prevent  the  deci- 
sion of  any  question  not  intended  to  be  submitted  to  them.  Thus 
if  ihe  Lot  should  give  to  Great  Britain  the  fifth  Commissioner 
under  the  6th  Article,  and  these  Commissioners  should  attempt 
to  draw  within  their  jurisdiction  questions  clearly  without  the 
same,  perhaps  the  American  Government  might  instruct  their 
Commissioners  to  withdraw  and  thereby  in  such  cases  arrest  the 


624      LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE   OF  RUFUS  KING. 

proceedings  of  the  Board.  Under  all  circumstances,  said  Lord 
Grenville,  it  may  be  adviseable  to  defer  for  the  present  giving  any 
information  to  your  Government  upon  this  subject.  I  shall  proba- 
bly be  able  to  answer  officially  in  the  course  of  a  week  and  the 
Packet  will  sail  in  the  beginning  of  January  :  If  you  think  it  requi- 
site in  the  present  posture  of  the  Business  to  write  to  your  Gov- 
ernment, I  must  also  write  to  Mr.  Liston. 

I  am  quite  content,  my  Lord,  to  defer  writing  in  hopes  that  it 
will  become  unnecessary  ;  I  will  however  ask  your  Lordship's  at- 
tention to  a  few  short  observations  at  this  time  ;  and  I  will  begin 
by  observing,  that  I  am  persuaded,  and  might  add  that  I  know, 
that  the  few  objectionable  points  which  are  found  in  Mr.  Bayard's 
memorials  to  the  Commissioners,  did  not  originate  with  us  ;  they 
were  suggested  by  and  added  at  the  instance  of  Doct.  Nicholl, 
one  of  your  Commissioners,  and  of  this  fact  I  will  take  care  to 
furnish  your  Lordship  with  satisfactory  proof.  We  adopted  the 
language  of  the  Treaty,  which  was  sufficient  for  our  purpose,  and 
were,  therefore,  without  inclination  or  motive  to  impute  injus- 
tice to  the  High  Court  of  Appeals.  We  well  understood  that  the 
Commissioners  were  not  to  be  considered  in  the  precise  light  of 
an  appellate  Court,  having  authority  to  reverse  the  Decrees  which 
have  been  rendered  in  any  of  his  Majesty's  Courts  of  Admiralty, 
or  to  order  the  restoration  of  the  thing  which  had  been  condemned 
by  them.  The  Remedy  of  the  Treaty,  instead  of  such  restoration, 
is  a  compensation  in  money  for  the  loss  of  it,  which  supposes  the 
sentence  of  condemnation,  as  between  the  original  parties,  to 
stand  unreversed,  and  the  property  vested  accordingly.  We,  how- 
ever, never  doubted,  nor,  in  our  opinion,  does  the  language  of  the 
Treaty  permit  a  doubt,  that  we  may  demand  compensation,  in 
money  to  be  paid  by  his  Majesty's  Government  for  losses  and 
damages  sustained  by  reason  of  the  condemnation,  as  well  as  on 
account  of  the  irregular  capture  of  our  ships  and  cargos.  Without 
going  into  a  particular  examination  of  the  Article,  I  can  not  sup- 
pose that  any  difference  of  opinion  will  exist  upon  its  true  con- 
struction in  this  respect.  Disclaiming  the  opinion  that  the 
Commissioners  can  reverse  the  Decrees  of  your  Courts  of  Ad- 
miralty so  as  to  affect  the  title  to  the  property  held  under  them, 
we  conceive  that  every  question  to  be  decided  by  the  Commis- 
sioners is  between  different  parties,  and  that  their  awards  will 


APPENDIX.  625 


operate  not  against  the  original  Captors,  but  upon  the  King's 
Treasury. 

But,  my  Lord,  I  am  not  surprized  that  difficulties  of  this  sort 
have  arisen  without  ascribing  improper,  much  less  impure,  motives 
to  Doctr.  Nicholl,  from  whom  they  have  proceeded,  or  to  any 
others  of  the  learned  corps  to  which  he  belongs.  I  will  take  the 
liberty  to  observe,  that  I  have  apprehended  a  strong  and  sys- 
tematical, as  well  as  a  skilful  and  persevering  opposition  to  any 
interpretation  of  the  Treaty,  which  will  remove  the  many  Ameri- 
can Causes  depending  in  the  Courts  of  Admiralty  and  submit 
them  to  an  extraordinary  and  more  summary  Tribunal.  It  is 
natural  enough  that  this  should  happen — three  or  four  hundred 
Causes,  prudently  managed,  would  prove  very  profitable,  and  for  a 
long  time  so.  This  is  a  delicate  suggestion,  and  I  rely  upon  your 
Lordship's  candor  for  my  apology.  Of  one  fact,  we  can  give  your 
Lordship  the  strongest  assurances,  which  is,  that  we  have  no  pref- 
erence of  mere  forms  ;  that  which  shall  be  efficacious  to  pro- 
cure for  us  the  compensation  we  claim  and  expect,  and  which 
shall  be  most  satisfactory  to  you  will  be  most  agreeable  to  us. 

Lord  Grenville  entered  into  no  farther  observations  on  the  sub- 
ject and  concluded  the  conference  by  expressing  a  wish  that 
I  would  have  a  conversation  upon  the  subject  with  the  Lord 
Chancellor. 

On  the  next  day  I  met  the  Lord  Chancellor  at  the  Duke  of 
Portland's,  who  told  me  that  he  was  desirous  of  conversing  with 
me  respecting  Questions  which  had  arisen  relative  to  the  powers 
of  the  Commissioners.  On  my  replying  that  I  should  be  happy 
to  meet  him  at  any  time  that  he  should  appoint,  he  named  the 
next  morning.  I  accordingly  waited  on  him,  when  he  began  by 
observing,  I  have  been  reading  Mr.  Bayard's  &  Mr.  Gostling's 
papers,  and  I  do  not  think  either  of  them  such  as  they  ought  to 
be.  It  was  not  necessary  for  Mr.  Bayard  to  allege  formally,  that 
the  Decree  of  the  High  Court  of  Appeals  was  illegal  and  unjust, 
in  order  to  make  out  a  case  proper  for  the  examination  of  the 
Commissioners.  It  seems  to  me,  therefore,  that  Mr.  Bayard 
should  take  back,  or  amend,  or  prefer  in  a  different  form  his 
claim,  so  that  it  should  adopt  and  follow  the  terms  of  the  Arti- 
cle ;  and  on  the  other  side,  these  general  demurrers  of  Mr.  Gost- 
ling  are  absurd    and    he    must    take    them  back.     The  reasons 

VOL.    II. — 40 


626      LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE   OF  RUFUS  KING. 

assigned  by  him  against  the  Jurisdiction  of  the  Commissioners,  or 
in  bar  of  the  claim,  are  the  very  cases  which  it  was  intended 
should  be  examined  and  decided  by  the  Commissioners.  I  told 
the  Lord  Chancellor  that  his  observations  confirmed  me  in  my 
opinions,  and  then  stated  to  him  the  observations  which  I  had 
made  to  Lord  Grenville.  Having  with  me  an  abstract  of  the 
Papers  of  Mr.  Bayard  and  Mr.  Gostling,  I  referred  to  several  of 
the  cases,  and  the  Lord  Chancellor  concurred  in  the  remarks  that 
I  made  respecting  them.  Adverting  to  the  Case  of  the  Betsy, 
Furlong  Master,  in  which  the  High  Court  of  appeals  had  con- 
firmed the  condemnation  in  toto,  I  suggested  that  this  was  under- 
stood to  be  a  case  in  which  upon  every  principle  the  claimants 
ought  to  be  compensated  ;  and  saying  this,  I  asked  the  Chancellor 
in  what  manner  and  on  what  allegations  it  could  in  his  opinion  be 
brought  before  the  Commissioners — He  replied  that  the  Decree 
might  have  been  proper  as  between  the  captor  and  claimant, 
though  the  claimant  might  thereby  have  suffered  loss  and  damage, 
on  account  of  which  according  to  the  stipulation  of  the  Treaty, 
he  may  have  a  fair  demand  upon  the  King  for  compensation  ; 
that  therefore  it  might  be  alleged  that  on  all  the  circumstances 
of  the  case,  the  claimant  was  under  the  Treaty  entitled  to  com- 
pensation for  loss  and  damage  from  the  King's  Treasury. 

I  said  that  I  was  apprehensive  that  the  Corps  of  civilians  would 
embarrass  us.  He  replied  that  he  thought  he  had  seen  in  that 
question  a  dislike  to  the  article  and  to  the  proceedings  of  the 
Commissioners  ;  but  that  if  Mr.  Gostling  persisted  in  his  Demur- 
rers, they  must  change  him.  I  again  alluded  to  an  opposition 
from  Doctor's  Commons,  and  added  that  I  had  understood  that 
they  expressed  themselves  pretty  strongly  upon  this  subject — some- 
times intimating  an  opinion  that  the  order  of  the  King  for  pro- 
longing the  time  within  which  appeals  could  be  claimed  was 
illegal,  and  at  others,  going  still  farther  and  declaring  that  the 
King  had  no  right  or  power  to  make  a  Treaty,  stipulating  what  is 
contained  in  the  7th  Article.  The  Chancellor  said,  this  was  go- 
ing very  far  indeed — that  he  however  was  not  a  stranger  to  the 
character  of  Doctor's  Commons,  that  he  had  himself  found  some 
trouble  with  them,  and  related  a  decision  that  had  lately  taken 
place  in  the  Probate  of  a  will  which  appeared  extraordinary  ;  he 
added  that  Sir  William  Scott  was  undoubtedly  a  fair  and  honora- 


APPENDIX.  62 7 


ble  character,  and  in  his  belief  would  be  disposed  to  give  the 
natural  and  proper  course  to  the  business  that  should  be  brought 
before  the  Commissioners.  I  expressed  my  hope  that  this  would 
be  the  case  and  observed  that  the  complaints  of  our  merchants 
and  the  commercial  injuries  which  we  sustained  induced  Mr. 
Jay's  mission — that  we  have  always  conceived  that  these  cases  were 
to  be  fairly  and  liberally  examined  and  that  those  who  have  suf- 
fered were  to  be  fully  compensated — that  in  respect  to  the  amount, 
great  or  small,  if  just,  it  was  due  ;  and  the  sum  was  of  small  con- 
sequence compared  to  a  liberal  settlement  which  should  inspire 
harmony  and  a  friendly  correspondence  between  the  two  coun- 
tries. The  Chancellor  replied  that  these  reflections  were  cer- 
tainly just.  I  suppose,  said  he,  the  sum  will  be  large,  but  that  is 
of  no  importance.  He  then  expressed  a  desire  to  see  our  Com- 
missioners, and  concluded  by  asking  me  to  send  him  a  formula, 
such  as  I  would  approve,  to  be  used  by  Mr.  Bayard  in  presenting 
our  claims  to  the  Commissioners. 

On  the  following  day  I  sent  him  the  formula  ;  and  likewise 
sent  to  Lord  Grenville  a  copy  of  a  letter  written  to  me  by  Messrs. 
Gore  and  Pinkney,  explaining  the  manner  in  which  the  objec- 
tionable part  of  Mr.  Bayard's  memorials  had  been  adopted.  My 
note  to  Lord  Grenville  likewise  supplied  an  omission  that  had 
occurred  on  my  part  in  the  conference  I  had  had  with  him.  The 
following  is  a  copy  of  the  note  : 

Mr.  King  presents  his  compliments  to  Lord  Grenville,  and  in  order  that  the 
origin  of  the  form  employed  by  Mr.  Bayard  in  presenting  the  claims  of  the 
American  citizens  to  the  Comms.  under  the  7th  Article  of  the  Treaty  between 
his  Britanc.  Majesty  and  the  United  States  may  be  fully  understood,  he  takes 
the  liberty  for  his  Lordship's  information,  to  inclose  the  copy  of  a  letter  on  the 
subject,  that  he  has  received  from  Messrs.  Gore  &  Pinkney  the  Amer.  Comrs. 
In  reviewing  the  conference  which  Mr.  King  had  the  honor  to  hold  with  Lord 
Grenville  on  Friday,  it  occurred  to  him  that  he  had  omitted  to  state  to  his  Lord- 
ship an  opinion  that  he  has  supposed  to  be  correct,  respecting  a  point  of  some 
importance  which  his  Lordship  may  have  seen  in  a  light  somewhat  different 
from  that  in  which  it  has  appeared  to  Mr.  King. 

Mr.  King  alludes  to  the  intimation  of  an  opinion  on  the  part  of  the  British 
Commissioners  that  in  every  case  in  which  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Board  of  Com- 
missioners should  be  questioned  by  his  Majesty's  Proctor,  it  would  be  proper  that 
the  Board  should  refer  such  question  to  the  decision  of  the  two  Nations  and  in 
the  meantime  forbear  to  act  respecting  such  case — and  that  if  after  the  sugges- 
tion of  a  question  of  jurisdiction  by  his  Majesty's  Proctor,  the  Board  should  at- 


628      LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE   OF  RUE  US  KING. 


tempt  to  proceed,  it  would  be  justifiable  in  the  British  Commissioners  to  with- 
draw and  thereby  prevent  the  Board  from  acting  on  any  question  that  should 
arise  in  such  case.  The  provision  in  the  Treaty  which  requires  the  presence  of 
at  least  one  Comr.  of  each  party  to  make  a  Board,  is  supposed  to  authorize  this 
course  of  proceeding  ;  and  a  supposed  case  of  an  obviously  improper  extension 
of  jurisdiction  has  been  stated  as  one,  that  would  require  to  be  thus  arrested. 

Without  detaining  his  Lordship  with  a  recital  of  the  numerous  references,  and 
endless  negotiations  that  must  result  from  this  practice,  it  seems  pertinent  to 
observe,  that  neither  of  the  reasons  appear  sufficient  to  excuse,  much  less  to 
authorize,  so  hazardous  a  course.  It  was  essential  to  the  impartiality  of  the 
Board,  and  conformable  to  common  usage  in  private  submissions,  that  one  of 
the  arbitrators  named  on  each  side  should  be  present  at  the  examination  and 
discussion  of  every  question  :  but  has  it  ever  from  hence  been  inferred,  that  the 
arbitrators  of  either  party  could  with  propriety  be  withdrawn  in  order  to  arrest 
the  hearing  and  defeat  the  decision  of  the  question  submitted  ;  or,  is  this  the 
only,  and  therefore  the  proper,  mode  of  avoiding  the  inconveniences  of  the  de- 
cision of  a  question,  not  submitted,  or  without  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Commission- 
ers ?  The  decision  of  a  question  not  submitted,  or  without  the  jurisdiction  of  the 
Comrs.  would  be  utterly  void  and  in  no  degree  obligatory.  If,  for  example,  the 
Board  should  receive  a  complaint,  and  award  the  payment  of  money  in  the  case  of 
a  capture  that  happened  since  the  exchange  of  the  Ratification  of  the  Treaty,  or 
before  the  commencement  of  the  existing  war,  as  such  award  would  be  plainly 
without  jurisdiction  in  the  Board,  it  would  be  void,  and  his  Majesty's  Govern- 
ment would  not  be  bound  to  pay  the  money  so  irregularly  and  illegally  awarded  ; 
and  so  in  every  case  in  which  the  Commissioners  should  make  a  decision  with- 
out, or  beyond  the  limits  of  their  jurisdiction  ;  and  in  this  principle  which  seems 
incontrovertible  in  public  as  well  as  in  municipal  law,  is  found  a  perfect  security 
against  every  irregularity  of  this  sort  that  can  be  imagined  or  apprehended.  Mr. 
King  has  taken  the  liberty  to  present  these  hasty  reflections  to  Lord  Grenville, 
which  he  omitted  when  this  topic  was  the  subject  of  their  late  conversation  :  as 
that  was  understood  to  be  not  official,  Mr.  King  requests  the  favor  of  Lord 
Grenville,  to  receive  these  observations  as  a  part  of  that  conversation  which  was 
omitted. 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  Dec.  18th,  1796. 

Nothing  further  occurred  till  the  26th  of  Dec,  when  on  the  in- 
vitation of  the  Lord  Chancellor,  Messrs.  Trumbull,  Gore  and 
Pinkney  accompanied  me  to  his  Lordship's  house  ;  who,  after  the 
customary  salutations,  observed  that  he  had  gone  over  all  the 
cases,  except  one,  which  had  been  presented  by  the  Commission- 
ers ;  and  that  he  thought  these  cases  would  divide  themselves  into 
three  classes. 

The   First,    including  the  cases    of   condemnation  in  the  High 
Court  of  Appeals, 


APPENDIX.  629 


The  Second,  including  the  cases  in  which  there  have  been  Decrees 
of  restoration,  but  without  costs  and  damages  and  if  con- 
demnation without  freight  and  costs. 

The  Third,  including  the  cases  in  which  the  right  of  appeal  had 
been  lost. 

In  respect  to  the  first  class,  the  Lord  Chancellor  said  that  the 
Decrees  must  stand  ;  that  they  settled  the  property  and  could  not 
be  affected  by  any  act  of  the  Commissioners.  There  may  have 
been  sufficient  reasons  for  the  Court  of  Appeals  to  condemn  as  the 
questions  stood  before  them — and  nevertheless  there  may  exist  a 
fair  and  equitable  claim  upon  the  King's  Treasury,  under  the  pro- 
visions of  the  Treaty  for  complete  compensation  for  the  losses 
sustained  by  such  condemnations. 

The  like  observation  is  applicable  to  the  second  class  ;  the  de- 
cree of  restoration  in  the  opinion  of  the  claimant  was  just,  but  he 
thinks  it  did  not  go  far  enough  and  claims  Costs  and  Damages  ; 
and  the  decree  of  condemnation  in  certain  cases  has  been  legal, 
but  the  claimant  expected  freight ;  the  captures  under  the  order 
of  the  6th  of  Novr.  fall  within  this  class.  Here  the  captors  had 
colour  of  authority  to  seize  and  send  in  for  adjudication  :  the 
Court  would  restore  the  property,  but  would  not  condemn  the 
captors  in  Costs  ;  and  yet  it  will  be  just  that  the  claimants  should 
receive  his  Costs  and  Damages. 

In  respect  to  the  Third  Class,  the  Court  of  Appeals  were  obliged 
in  some  instances  to  refuse  the  appeal,  because  a  limited  time 
having  been  allowed  to  prefer  the  appeal,  and  that  time  having 
expired,  the  captors  thereby  acquired  Rights,  not  within  the  dis- 
cretion of  the  High  Court  of  Appeals  to  impair.  Still  the  claimant 
may  be  able  in  a  satisfactory  manner  to  account  for  his  not  having 
come  seasonably  forward  with  his  appeal.  This  is  undoubtedly  a 
case  within  the  provisions  of  the  Treaty.  The  property  will  not, 
it  cannot,  be  restored  ;  but  the  full  value  thereof  may  be,  and  in 
such  cases,  must  be  paid  out  of  the  King's  Treasury. 

The  Commissioners  are  not  a  Court  of  Appeals,  above  our  High 
Court  of  Appeals  :  they  are  however  competent  to  re-examine 
questions  decided  by  the  High  Court  of  Appeals  as  well  as  all 
other  cases  described  in  the  Treaty  ;  and  they  can  give  redress, 
not  by  reversing  Decrees,  already  passed,  and  restoring  the  iden- 


630      LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE   OF  RUFUS  KING. 

tical  property,  but  by  ascertaining  the  amount  of  the  Loss  or 
Damages  that  the  claimant  has  sustained  and  awarding  the  pay- 
ment thereof  to  be  made  by  his  Majesty's  Treasury.  The  Chan- 
cellor continued  by  saying,  he  had  examined  the  case  of  the 
Betsey — Furlong,  Master  ;  there  is  no  reason,  said  the  Chancellor, 
assigned  by  the  Judge  of  Bermuda  sufficient  for  the  condemna- 
tion. The  circumstance  of  this  capture's  being  made  as  the  vessel 
was  coming  out  of  Guadaloupe  (which  Island,  Admiral  Jarvis,  in 
a  letter  he  wrote  upon  the  subject,  declares  to  have  been  blockaded 
from  the  date  of  the  arrival  of  his  Majesty's  fleet  in  the  West  In- 
dies) did  not  authorize  the  Vice- Admiralty  to  condemn  her,  nor 
for  this  cause  &  any  of  those  alleged  by  the  Vice-Admiralty  Judge, 
could  the  High  Court  of  Appeals  have  affirmed  the  decree  of  con- 
demnation. The  question  of  Blockade  is  one  of  fact  ;  there 
cannot  be  a  blockade  by  construction  :  the  capture  must  be  by 
the  fleet,  or  ship,  which  makes  the  blockade  ;  and  the  vessel  must 
be  in  the  act  of  attempting  to  enter  the  blockaded  place — A  vessel 
on  her  voyage,  and  at  a  distance,  but  intending  to  go  to  a  place 
blockaded,  is  not  for  such  intention  liable  to  capture,  but  two 
points  which  were  new,  and  which  the  claimants  could  not  be  pre- 
pared to  meet,  were  made  before  the  H.  C.  of  Appeals  ;  one  was, 
that  Patterson,  one  of  the  claimants,  was  a  British  subject  ;  the 
other,  that  another  of  the  owners  was  domiciliated  at  Guadaloupe. 
Now  if  the  claimants  are  able  to  controvert  these  points,  and  can 
shew  the  allegations  not  to  be  true,  the  Commissioners  will  cer- 
tainly award  compensation  for  their  Loss  and  Damage  to  be  paid 
out  of  his  Majesty's  Treasury.  The  Chancellor  added  that  he 
thought  the  Formula  that  I  had  sent  him  was  a  proper  one  ;  that 
in  his  opinion,  it  would  be  adviseable  that  Mr.  Bayard  should  take 
back  his  memorials  and  prefer  others  ;  and  that  Mr.  Gostling 
must  take  back  his  Demurrers.  Upon  its  being  suggested  that 
the  same  embarrassments  might  arise  in  future,  if  upon  every  ob- 
jection to  the  competency  of  the  Commissioners,  a  reference  must 
be  made  to  the  respective  Governments  for  their  Instructions,  in- 
stead of  such  questions  being  decided  by  the  Commissioners 
themselves,  the  Chancellor  said  that  the  doubt  respecting  the 
authority  of  the  Commissioners  to  settle  their  own  jurisdiction 
was  absurd  ;  and  that  they  must  necessarily  decide  upon  a  case's 
being  within,  or  without,  their  competency. 


APPENDIX.  63I 


Soon  after  this  conference  with  the  Lord  Chancellor,  Parlia- 
ment adjourned  for  the  Christmas  Holidays,  and  the  business  of 
the  Commissioners  remained  suspended  till  the  24th  of  January, 
when  by  appointment  I  met  Lord  Grenville  at  his  office,  who  in- 
formed me  that  he  had  experienced  much  uneasiness  on  account 
of  the  delays  which  had  taken  place  in  the  business  of  the  Com- 
missioners ;  but  they  had  not  been  able  sooner  to  come  to  a 
decision  respecting  the  subject  of  our  former  conferences.  He 
now  hoped  that  the  Commissioners  would  go  on  with  farther  in- 
terruption. He  had  sent  for  (he  said)  their  Commissioners  and 
had  told  them  "  that  it  was  the  opinion  of  the  King's  Govern- 
ment that  they  should  proceed  in  examining  and  deciding  every 
question  that  should  be  brought  before  them  according  to  the  con- 
viction of  their  consciences  ;  in  doing  which  they  would  examine 
cases  already  decided  and  award  on  them  and  all  others  according 
to  the  Provisions  of  the  Treaty,  which  it  would  likewise  be  their 
duty  to  consider  and  interpret." 

Lord  Grenville  added,  that  they  had  thought  it  would  not  be 
adviseable  to  put  any  thing  in  writing,  as  that  would  have  the  ap- 
pearance of  a  new  or  explanatory  article  ;  and  he  thought  there 
would  not  arise  any  future  embarrassment.  I  replied,  that  I  was 
happy  to  perceive  that  the  business  would  now  proceed  ;  that  I 
had  no  desire  that  anything  should  be  in  writing  :  but  as  many 
persons  were  interested  in  the  questions  depending  before  the 
Commissioners,  and  as  a  rumour  had  gone  abroad  that  the  busi- 
ness had  for  some  time  been  at  a  stand,  which  rumour  would  un- 
doubtedly reach  America,  I  should  think  it  proper,  in  order  that 
no  inconvenience  should  proceed  from  these  reports,  to  state  the 
result  of  the  Conferences  that  I  had  had  with  him  ;  I  added  that 
so  confident  had  I  been,  that  ultimately  there  could  not  be  a  dif- 
ference of  opinion,  that  I  had  already  ventured  to  say  that  I  was 
persuaded  that  every  embarrassment  would  be  removed — and 
concluded  my  reply  by  saying  that  I  should  have  great  pleasure 
in  being  able  in  consequence  of  what  had  now  passed,  to  write  to 
my  Government  that,  agreeable  to  my  former  intimation,  1  was 
authorized  to  say  that  the  Commissioners  would  in  future  proceed 
to  consider  &  decide,  according  to  the  provisions  of  the  Treaty, 
every  question  that  should  be  brought  before  them.  I  thought 
the  occasion  a  suitable  one  to  insinuate  an  opinion  respecting  the 


632      LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE   OF  RUFUS  KING. 


instruction  of  that  part  of  the  Treaty  which  limits  the  time  within 
which  claims  must  be  presented  to  the  Commissioners  ;  after 
speaking  of  a  letter  that  I  had  written  to  his  Lordship  complain- 
ing of  the  delays  of  Sir  James  Marriott's  Court,  which  Lord 
Grenville  observed  was  in  train  to  bring  the  subject  under  con- 
sideration, I  said  that  I  sincerely  hoped  the  High  Court  of  Ap- 
peals would  also  proceed  with  greater  expedition  than  hitherto 
they  had  done  ;  that  for  various  considerations  it  was  much  to  be 
desired  that  the  many  American  Cases  now  before  the  Court,  as 
well  as  those  which  may  soon  be  expected  to  be  there,  should  be 
decided  by  them,  in  preference  to  the  Commissioners.  But  the 
limitation  of  time  within  which  our  claims  must  be  presented  to 
the  Commissioners,  necessarily  limits  the  time  during  which  the 
Court  of  Appeals  can  have  the  custody  of  these  causes  ;  and  all  of 
them,  undecided  by  the  Court,  upon  the  last  day  for  the  reception 
of  claims  by  the  Commissioners,  will  undoubtedly  be  removed 
before  that  Board,  who  would  thereafter  be  fully  competent  to 
examine  and  decide  them.  As  the  Commissioners  could  not,  in 
like  manner  with  the  Court  of  Appeals,  decree  the  restoration  of 
the  property  by  the  captors,  but  must  award  compensation  in 
money  to  be  paid  by  the  King's  Treasury,  the  Government  have 
an  interest  that  may  perhaps  urge  the  H.  Court  of  Appeals  to 
make  greater  dispatch.  'T  is  true  the  Commissioners  may  order 
assignments,  which  will  put  the  Government  in  the  place  of  the 
claimants,  and  enable  them  to  pursue  the  captors,  but  they  will 
be  exposed  to  the  inconveniences  of  an  advance  of  the  money  to 
the  claimants,  and  will  have  the  trouble  and  uncertainty  of  a 
recovery  from  the  captors. 

Lord  Grenville  made  no  observation  upon  this  construction, 
and  observed  only  that  he  hoped  the  business  would  be  accelerated 
from  other  considerations,  meaning,  as  I  conceived,  the  obliga- 
tions of  the  Court  to  administer  justice  without  delay.  I  replied, 
that  I  had  thought  it  proper  to  intimate  at  an  early  stage  of  the 
business  these  reflexions,  and  that  I  sincerely  united  with  his 
Lordship  in  hoping  that  no  unnecessary  delay  would  be  ex- 
perienced hereafter  in  the  proceedings  of  the  High  Court  of 
Appeals. 

The  result  of  the  Conferences  I  communicated  to  our  Commis- 
sioners, who  now  met  their  colleagues  in  a  temper  correspondent 


APPENDIX.  633 


to  that  which  had  been  shown  by  the  Government  upon  this 
occasion. 

The  Memorials  of  Mr.  Bayard  and  the  Demurrers  of  Mr. 
Gostling  have  been  withdrawn,  and  the  Commissioners,  in  conse- 
quence of  the  renewed  application  of  Mr.  Bayard  have  already 
decided  several  important  cases  ;  and  I  am  in  hopes  will  hereafter 
proceed  without  experiencing  a  renewal  of  the  embarrassments 
which  for  some  weeks  entirely  arrested  their  proceedings. 

Dr.  Nicholl  in  our  behalf  and  Sr.  William  Scott  in  behalf  of  the 
Br.  Government  have  likewise  recently  gone  through  the  cases  of 
costs  and  damages,  which  have  been  provisionally  submitted  to 
their  decision.  I  have  not  yet  received  from  Mr.  Bayard  a  list  of 
those  cases,  but  from  eight  or  ten  cases  that  I  have  seen,  I  am  in- 
duced to  believe  that  these  have  been  such  as  will  be  pretty 
satisfactory. 

With  perfect  respect,  I  have  the  honor  to  be,  Dear  Sir, 

Your  obt.  &  faithful  Servt. 

Rufus  King. 

R.  King  to  Lord  Grenville. 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  18  Dec,  1796. 

Mr.  King  presents  his  compliments  to  Lord  Grenville.  .  . 
In  reviewing  the  conferences  which  Mr.  King  had  the  honor  to 
hold  with  Lord  Grenville  on  Friday  last,  it  occurred  to  him  that 
he  had  omittted  to  state  to  his  Lordship  an  opinion  that  he  had 
supposed  to  be  correct,  respecting  a  Point  of  some  importance, 
which  his  Lordship  may  have  seen  in  a  light  somewhat  different 
from  that  in  which  it  has  appeared  to  Mr.  King. 

Mr.  King  alludes  to  the  intimation  of  an  opinion  on  the  part  of 
the  British  Commissioners,  that  in  every  case,  in  which  the  Juris- 
diction of  the  Board  of  Commissioners  should  be  questioned  by 
his  Majesty's  Proctor,  it  would  be  proper  that  the  board  should 
refer  such  question  to  the  Decision  of  the  two  Nations,  and  in  the 
mean  time  forbear  to  act  respecting  such  case  :  and  that  if  after 
the  suggestion  of  a  question  of  Jurisdiction  by  his  Majesty's 
Proctor,  the  board  should  attempt  to  proceed,  it  would  be  justifi- 
able in  the  British  Commissioners  to  withdraw  and  thereby 
prevent  the  board  from  acting  on  any  question  that  should  arise 
in  the  Case.     The  Provision  in  the  Treaty  which  requires  the 


634      LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE   OF  RUFUS  KING. 

presence  of  at  least  one  Commissioner  of  each  party  to  make  a 
board,  is  supposed  to  authorize  this  course  of  Proceeding  ;  and  a 
supposed  Case  of  an  obviously  improper  extension  of  Jurisdiction 
has  been  stated  as  one  that  would  require  to  be  thus  arrested. 

Without  detaining  his  Lordship  with  a  recital  of  the  endless 
References  and  numerous  negotiations  that  must  result  from  this 
practice,  it  seems  pertinent  to  observe  that  neither  of  the  reasons 
appear  to  be  sufficient  to  excuse,  much  less  to  authorize,  so 
hazardous  a  course. 

It  was  essential  to  the  impartiality  of  the  board  and  conform- 
able to  common  usages  in  private  submissions,  that  one  of  the 
arbitrators  named  on  each  side  should  be  present  at  the  Examina- 
tion and  Decision  of  every  question.  But  has  it  ever  from  hence 
been  inferred  that  either  party  could  with  propriety  be  with- 
drawn in  order  to  arrest  the  business  and  defeat  the  Decision  of 
the  question  submitted  ?  or  is  it  the  only,  and  therefore  a  proper 
mode  of  avoiding  the  inconveniences  of  a  Decision  not  submitted 
to  or  without  the  Jurisdiction  of  the  Commissioners  ? 

The  decision  of  a  question  not  submitted  or  without  the  Juris- 
diction of  the  Commissioners  would  be  utterly  void  and  in  no 
degree  obligatory.  If,  for  example,  the  board  should  receive  a 
Complaint  and  award  the  payment  of  money  in  a  case  of  capture 
that  happened  since  the  exchange  of  the  Ratifications  of  the 
Treaty,  or  before  the  commencement  of  the  existing  war,  as  such 
an  award  would  be  plainly  without  Jurisdiction  in  the  board,  it 
would  be  void  ;  and  his  Majesty's  Government  would  in  no 
degree  be  bound  to  pay  the  money  so  irregularly  and  illegally 
awarded.  And  so  in  every  case  in  which  the  Commissioners 
should  make  a  decision  without  or  beyond  the  limits  of  their 
Jurisdiction  ;  and  in  this  principle  which  seems  incontrovertible 
in  public,  as  well  as  in  municipal  Law,  is  found  a  perfect  security 
against  every  irregularity  of  this  sort,  that  can  be  imagined  or 
apprehended. 

Mr.  King  has  taken  the  liberty  to  present  these  hasty  Reflec- 
tions to  Lord  Grenville,  which  he  omitted  to  do  when  this  Topic 
was  the  subject  of  their  late  Conversation  :  as  that  conversation 
was  understood  to  be  not  official,  Mr.  King  requests  the  favor  of 
Lord  Grenville  to  receive  these  observations  as  a  part  of  that 
conversation  which  was  omitted. 


APPENDIX.  635 


APPENDIX  IV. 

THE   REBELLION   IN   IRELAND   IN    1 798. 

The  means  of  communication  between  the  United  States  and 
England  were  so  uncertain  and  dependent  on  the  time  occupied 
by  sailing  vessels  between  the  two  countries — several  months 
often  intervening  between  the  sending  of  a  despatch  and  the 
reception  of  an  answer — that,  as  has  been  said  in  the  course  of 
this  correspondence,  Mr.  King  was  obliged  on  many  occasions  to 
exercise  the  discretion  he  was  permitted  by  his  government  to  use, 
when  the  necessity  of  prompt  decision  and  action  forbade  his 
awaiting  definite  instructions.  The  new  questions  constantly 
arising  in  the  troubled  and  almost  daily  changes  occurring  in 
European  politics,  and  especially  as  they  affected  American 
interests,  could  only  be  met  by  general  instructions  from  the 
United  States  ;  while  much  must  be  left  to  the  minister  in  Eng- 
land, requiring  his  careful  watchfulness  and  wise  judgment.  It 
was  requisite  that  he  should  not  only  have  the  confidence  of  his 
government  in  his  ability,  judgment  and  fidelity  to  his  country's 
welfare,  but  that  he  should  maintain  in  a  courteous  but  decided 
manner  the  positions  which,  either  as  directly  instructed,  or  acting 
upon  his  own  convictions  of  duty,  he  felt  himself  called  upon 
to  take.  While  under  these  circumstances,  Mr.  King  was  ever 
vigilant  of  events,  and  kept  his  government  fully  informed  on  the 
special  business  of  the  mission,  he  gained  the  confidence  of  those 
with  whom  he  had  to  deal,  by  his  intelligent  handling  of  the 
questions  before  them,  by  the  honesty  and  integrity  of  his  char- 
acter, and  by  the  conviction  that  he  sought  only  the  best 
interests  of  his  country,  whose  history,  people,  and  wants  he 
thoroughly  understood. 

Among  the  matters  he  was  unexpectedly  called  to  decide  was 
one  which  presented  entirely  new  features,  for  the  settlement  of 
which  no  instructions  could  have  been  prepared.  It  was  conse- 
quent upon  the  suppression  of  the  rebellion  in  Ireland,  the  dis- 
posal of  the  leaders  in  that  unfortunate  and  unwisely  planned 
revolt  against  the  English  government.  Before  engaging  in  the 
examination  of  the  record  of  Mr.  King's  agency  in  preventing  the 
British  government  from  sending  the  leaders  to  banishment  in 


636      LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE   OF  RUFUS  KING. 


the  United  States,  it  will  be  well  to  ascertain  and  show  why  he 
acted  as  he  did  ;  and  to  do  so  it  will  be  proper  to  bring  forward 
some  matters,  relating  to  the  earlier  history,  in  which  he  had  taken 
a  conspicuous  part. 

It  has  been  shown  in  the  correspondence  how  he  had  been  im- 
pressed with  the  crafty  and  impudent  designs  of  France,  through 
her  emissaries  from  abroad  and  treacherous  sympathizers  at  home, 
to  bring  his  country  under  the  control  of  that  government,  and  to 
excite  the  people  against  the  wise  administration  of  Washington 
by  discrediting  the  motives  under  which  he  acted.  While  reck- 
lessly striving  to  win  the  people  over  to  French  ideas,  they  de- 
nounced the  treaty  recently  made  with  England  as  a  violation  of 
our  treaties  with  France,  and  an  insult  to  her.  Mr.  King,  whose 
especial  instructions  in  conducting  his  mission  were  to  settle  the 
commercial  relations  with  England,  found  that  the  hostility  be- 
tween that  country  and  France  was  constantly  a  hindrance  to 
reaching  any  definite  results.  France,  while  professing  to  be  a 
friend,  was  plundering  our  vessels,  insulting  our  ambassadors,  and 
using  all  the  arts  of  a  subtle  diplomacy  to  blind  the  eyes  of  the 
American  people,  and  endeavouring  to  engage  them  in  the  war  she 
was  waging  against  England.  While  England,  to  protect  her  own 
interests,  and  claiming  that  her  action  was  due  to  French  decrees 
and  aggressions,  in  part,  embarrassed  the  commerce  of  the  United 
States,  suffering  her  naval  officers  to  detain  and  capture  American 
vessels,  engaged  in  legitimate  commerce,  permitting  her  admiralty 
courts  to  condemn  them  on  the  most  frivolous  pretences,  and 
impressing  American  seamen  in  her  seaports  and  from  American 
vessels. 

The  recent  insult  to  the  envoys  in  France,  and  the  duplicity 
with  which  the  rulers  sought  to  cover  their  plans,  only  increased 
Mr.  King's  horror  and  disgust  at  the  demoralizing  tendency  of 
French  principles,  and  to  the  possible  danger  to  his  own  country 
from  the  dissemination  of  them, — a  feeling  and  conviction  which 
were  not  likely  to  be  changed  by  the  views  of  those  with  whom 
he  consorted  in  England,  but  were  strengthened  by  the  efforts 
there  made  to  resist  the  machinations  of  France  to  bring  the 
English  people  also  under  her  control. 

Ireland  was  the  only  side  on  which  England  could  be  attacked 
with  any  hope  of  success  ;  and  the  disturbed  condition  of  that 


APPENDIX.  637 


island,  seeking  to  gain  independence,  gave  to  the  French  an  op- 
portunity of  embarrassing  England  by  plotting  with  the  discon- 
tented Irish  to  wrest  their  island  from  her  control  and  establish  a 
hostile  government  upon  it.  Formidable  as  was  the  threatened 
danger  to  England,  the  plans  of  assistance  were  unsuccessful. 
The  expeditions  were  injudiciously  planned,  inefficiently  carried 
out,  through  the  watchfulness  of  the  British  navy  and  the  want 
of  proper  support  on  the  Island,  and  failed  to  accomplish  their 
purpose.  The  rebellion  was  overcome  at  last  by  the  power  of 
England,  and  the  leaders  were  captured.  The  government,  how- 
over,  consented  to  spare  their  lives,  which  had  been  forfeited  by 
their  acts,  on  the  condition  that  they  should  be  transported  to,  or 
voluntarily  emigrate  to  some  other  country.  Choosing  the  latter 
course  they  selected  the  United  States  as  that  to  which  they  would 
go.  Upon  the  first  hint  of  such  a  disposition,  and  of  the  inten- 
tion of  the  British  Government  to  send  them  there,  Mr.  King  felt 
himself  called  upon  to  protest  against  any  such  action  on  the  part 
of  the  government,  for  reasons  which  are  contained  in  the  corre- 
spondence elsewhere  presented,  but  are  here  brought  together  for 
a  full  justification  of  his  action,  viewed  in  the  aspect  of  the  times. 
On  May  11,  1798,  Mr.  King  wrote  to  the  Secretary  of  State  : 

"  .  .  .  Ireland  is  in  a  wretched  state  ;  martial  law  prevails  throughout 
the  country,  and  every  day  supplies  new  proofs  of  the  intimate  connection  that 
subsists  between  the  Chiefs  of  the  Malcontents  and  the  Directory.  .  .  . 
Several  persons  have  been  taken  up  and  confined.  .  .  .  The  government 
are  said  to  have  obtained  proofs  of  a  conspiracy  formed  by  some  of  the  Mem- 
bers of  the  Corresponding  Societies  to  assist  the  French  in  case  of  a  descent, 
to  set  fire  to  London,  .  .  .  The  trial  of  O'Connor  and  the  other  persons 
indicted  for  Treason,  will  come  on  the  week  after  next ;  after  which  the  Gov- 
ernment will  publish  the  proofs  of  the  conspiracy." 

Again,  on  June  14th,  he  directed  the  Secretary's  attention  to 
the  probable  early  suppression  of  the  rebellion,  and  to  the 
opinion 

"  that  thousands  of  the  fugitive  Irish  will  seek  an  asylum  in  our  country. 
Their  principles  and  habits  would  be  pernicious  to  the  order  and  industry  of 
our  people,  and  I  cannot  persuade  myself  that  the  Malcontents  of  any  country 
will  ever  become  useful  citizens  of  our  own." 


638      LIFE   AND   CORRESPONDENCE   OF  RUFUS  KING. 

After  saying  that  in  this  communication  he  had  discharged  his 
duty,  he  remarked  that  it  belonged  to  others  to  decide  what  was 
to  be  done. 

In  a  private  letter  to  Mr.  Pickering,  of  July  19,  1798,  Mr.  King 
recalled  to  him  the  intimation  of  his  official  letter  of  the  14th  of 
June,  and  said  : 

"  I  perceive  that  members  of  the  disaffected  Irish  will  be  expelled  and  that 
they  will  be  disposed  to  plant  themselves  among  us.  It  was  the  practice  of  the 
Emigrants  from  Scotland  to  bring  with  them  Certificates  from  the  religious 
societies  to  which  they  belonged,  of  their  honesty,  sobriety  and  generally  of 
their  good  character.  Why  should  we  not  require  some  such  document  from 
all  [italics  by  the  Editor]  Emigrants,  and  it  would  be  well  to  add  to  the  testi- 
monial that  the  person,  to  whom  it  was  granted,  was  not  expelled  from  his 
country  and  had  not  been  convicted  of  any  crime.  I  am,  I  confess,  very 
anxious  upon  this  subject.  The  contrast  between  New  England  and  some 
other  parts  of  the  United  States  is  in  my  view  a  powerful  admonition  to  us  to 
observe  greater  caution  in  the  admission  of  Foreigners  among  us.  If  from  the 
emigrations  of  past  time  we  have  suffered  inconvenience,  and  our  true  national 
character  has  been  disfigured,  what  are  we  to  expect  from  the  Emigrants  of  the 
present  day." 

Again,  on  the  28th  of  July,  he  writes  to  the  Secretary  of  State  : 

"  In  Ireland  the  rebellion  is  at  an  end,  a  general  amnesty  with  a  few  excep- 
tions, will  soon  be  proclaimed  ;  many  of  the  inferior  chiefs  will  be  permitted  to 
go  into  exile.  I  have  before  intimated  the  probability  of  such  a  measure  and 
hope  the  President  will  have  power  to  exclude  from  our  country  all  such 
foreigners,  whose  residence  among  us  would  be  dangerous." 

The  same  views  are  repeated  in  a  letter  to  Colonel  Hamilton, 
July  31,  (p.  376  of  this  volume)  and,  on  the  3d  of  August,  he 
wrote  the  private  note  to  Colonel  Pickering  a  portion  of  which 
follows. 


Private. 


London,  3d.,  Aug.,  1798. 


.  It  appears  from  the  accounts  from  Ireland  that  nearly  100  persons, 
including  Lawyers,  Physicians,  Merchants  and  others,  who  have  been  engaged 
as  Chiefs  in  the  late  Rebellion  are  to  go  into  Exile  for  Life.  A  Bill  for  this 
Purpose  has  been  brought  into  the  Irish  Parliament.     Although  I  do  not  hnow 


APPENDIX.  639 


it  to  be  the  intention  of  the  Exiles,  I  have  many  reasons  to  suspect  that  they 
expect  to  find  an  asylum  among  us. 

I  do  my  duty  in  apprising  you  of  the  probability  of  the  Measure,  it  belongs  to 
others  to  make  those  Regulations  that  will  enable  the  President  to  take  care  of 
the  public  safety. 

Yrs.  &c. 

R.K. 

Having  thus  discharged  his  duty  in  reporting  to  his  government 
the  facts  above  noted  and  awaiting  instructions,  he  writes  on  the 
5th  of  September  of  an  ill-conceived  landing  of  French  troops,  on 
the  2 2d  of  August,  at  Killaloe  in  Ireland,  with  military  stores  from 
three  frigates,  which  had  driven  back  a  corps  of  British  troops,  but 
against  which  Lord  Cornwallis  had  gone  with  a  considerable 
force.  Without  speaking  further  of  this,  or  of  a  subsequent  ex- 
pedition from  Brest  to  the  Irish  coast,  which  was  broken  up  by 
the  capture  of  the  vessels  engaged  in  it,  or  giving  any  further 
details  of  the  events  which  led  to  the  putting  down  of  the  re- 
bellion and  the  surrender  of  the  leaders,  he  says  in  a  letter  to  the 
Secretary  of  State  September  13,  1798  : 

"  The  Invasion  of  Ireland  has  ended  in  the  Surrender  of  the  Invaders.  As 
yet  we  have  no  returns  of  their  numbers  nor  of  that  of  the  Irish  who  joined 
them  ;  both  are  supposed  to  be  inconsiderable.  The  Reports  of  the  Secret 
Committee  of  the  Irish  Parliament,  which  I  send  to  you,  fully  disclose  the  prin- 
ciples and  views  of  the  leaders  of  the  Rebellion.  These  are  so  conformable  to 
those  which  have  prevailed  in  France,  so  false  and  so  utterly  inconsistent  with 
any  practicable  or  settled  Government,  that  I  have  taken  occasion  to  express 
my  wishes  that  the  United  States  might  not  be  selected  as  the  country  to  which 
any  of  the  State  Prisoners  should  be  permitted  to  retire." 

The  letter  to  the  Duke  of  Portland  will  show  the  manner  in 
which  Mr.  King's  "  Wishes  "  were  communicated  to  him,  and  the 
answer  of  the  Duke  will  show  how  they  were  received. 

R.  King  to  the  Duke  of  Portland. 

Private. 

Margate,  Sep.  13,  1798. 
My  Lord  : 

The  publication  of  the  Reports  of  the  Secret  Committee  of  the 

Irish  Parliament  relative  to  the  late  Rebellion  seems  to  put  beyond 

all  doubt  the  object  and  expectation  of  its  Leaders  ;    the  pnnci- 


640      LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE   OF  RUFUS  KING. 

pies  and  opinions  of  the  men  are  in  my  view  so  conformable  to 
those  which  have  unhappily  prevailed  in  France,  so  dangerous,  so 
false  and  so  utterly  inconsistent  with  any  practicable  and  stable 
form  of  Government,  that  I  feel  it  to  be  a  duty  to  my  Country  to 
express  to  your  Grace  my  earnest  wishes  that  the  United  States 
may  be  excepted  from  the  countries  to  which  the  Irish  State 
Prisoners  shall  be  permitted  to  retire. 

I  certainly  do  not  think  that  they  will  be  a  desirable  acquisition 
to  any  Nation,  but  in  none  would  they  be  likely  to  prove  more 
mischievous  than  in  mine,  where  from  the  sameness  of  language 
and  similarity  of  Laws  and  Institutions  they  have  greater  oppor- 
tunities of  propagating  their  principles  than  in  any  other  country. 

I  have  on  many  occasions  been  sensible  of  your  Grace's  friend- 
ship for  my  Country  :  but  at  this  period  of  national  alarm,  when 
all  that  has  been  best  and  most  wisely  settled  by  our  common 
ancestors  is  attempted  to  be  torn  up  and  subjected  to  new  specu- 
lations and  experiments,  your  Grace  can  afford  us  no  stronger 
or  more  valuable  token  of  your  regards  than  by  an  interference 
with  his  Majesty  that  shall  prevent  any  of  the  Irish  State  Pris- 
oners (who  appear  to  be  the  converts  and  agents  of  the  new 
School  of  Philosophy  and  Politicks)  from  seeking  an  asylum  in 

America. 

With  most  perfect  Consideration  &c  &c. 

Rufus  King. 
Duke  of  Portland  to  Rufus  King. 

Private. 

London,  Saturday  22d  Sept.,  1798. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  sincerely  beg  your  pardon  for  having  so  long  delayed  an 
answer  to  the  Letter  you  did  me  the  honor  of  writing  to  me  on 
the  13th  inst,  on  the  Subject  of  the  Countries  to  which  the  Irish 
State  Prisoners  shall  be  permitted  to  retire. 

It  is  unnecessary  that  I  should  trouble  you  with  a  detail  of  the 
difficulties  and  objections  which  will  embarrass  the  choice  of  a 
proper  residence  for  them  ;  and  much  more  so  I  trust  that  I 
should  assure  you  of  my  entire  concurrence  in  the  opinions  and 
wishes  which  the  Consideration  of  the  Subject  has  led  you  to 
express.      I   can  assure   you    with  the  most   perfect    confidence 


APPENDIX.  64I 

that  the  King  will  never  permit  any  of  the  persons  in  question 
to  set  his  foot  in  the  Territory  of  any  State  in  amity  with  his 
Majesty  by  whom  there  is  any  reason  to  suppose  that  such  a 
visitor  would  be   objected  to. 

I  cannot  but  be  flattered  by  the  manner  in  which  you  express 
your  sense  of  my  conduct,  tho'  you  really  do  me  no  more  than 
justice  ;  and  I  will  therefore  take  the  liberty  to  add  from  myself, 
that  from  the  knowledge  that  my  particular  situation  has  furnished 
me  with,  of  the  sentiments  and  declarations  of  these  Prisonerz, 
ever  since  their  confession,  the  country  of  the  United  States  is  the 
last  in  the  World  which  I  should  wish  to  see  become  their  resi- 
dence. Believe  me,  Sir, 

with  very  sincere  regard  &  Esteem 
Your  faithful  and  most  obt.  Servt. 

Portland. 

October  6,  1798,  sending  to  the  Secretary  of  State  copies  of  his 
correspondence  with  the  Duke  of  Portland,  Mr.  King  says  : 

"  Though  they  are  both  private  letters,  I  have  not  thought  it  proper  to  omit 
communicating  them  to  you.  There  are  occasions,  and  this  is  one  of  them,  of 
delicacy,  as  well  as  of  importance,  and  in  which  we  can  only  act  from  our  own 
view  of  what  the  public  welfare  appears  to  require  :  I  flatter  myself  in  this  in- 
stance it  will  not  be  thought  either  that  my  opinion  was  ill-founded,  or  that  the 
step  it  gave  rise  to  was  impolitic." 

The  next  communication  to  the  Secretary  of  State,  October  19, 
1798,  says  : 

"  The  newspapers  continue  to  announce  that  preparations  are  making  to 
send  the  Irish  State  prisoners  to  the  United  States.  I  wrote  another  letter  to 
the  Duke  of  Portland  upon  the  subject,  a  copy  of  which  is  annexed,  and  like- 
wise a  copy  of  his  Grace's  letter  to  Lord  Cornwallis  that  has  been  sent  to  me 
and  which  will,  I  presume,  relieve  me  from  any  further  concern  on  that  head." 

R.  King  to  His  Grace,  the  Duke  of  Portland. 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  Oct.   17,  1798. 
My  Lord  : 

I  am  concerned  to  trouble  your  Grace  again  on  the  subject  of 
the  exile  of  the  Irish  State  Prisoners,  especially  after  the  friendly 
assurances  your  Grace  has   had   the   goodness   to  give  me  and 

VOL.    II. — 41 


642      LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE   OF  RUFUS  KING. 

which  have  induced  me  to  believe  that  they  would  not  be  per- 
mitted to  go  to  America.  But  the  late  accounts  from  Ireland 
which,  I  hope  inaccurately,  state  that  preparations  are  making  to 
send  them  to  the  United  States,  give  me  much  anxiety  least  I 
have  omitted  any  further  Step  that  might  have  been  expected  or 
proper  in  order  to  prevent  it.  It  is  true  that  the  President  of  the 
U.  S.  has  power  to  deny,  and  in  my  opinion  will  refuse,  them  a 
Residence  among  us,  provided  he  is  apprized  of  their  names  and 
delinquencies  ;  but  of  these  he  may  be  ignorant,  especially  as  I 
have  expressed  to  him  my  expectation  that  they  would  not  be 
permitted  to  go  to  America.  If  his  Majesty's  Government  is  still 
free  to  decide,  I  must  repeat  my  earnest  hope  that  these  delin- 
quents may  not  be  permitted  to  proceed  to  the  United  States.  If 
the  permission  of  Government  has  already  been  given,  I  take  the 
Liberty  to  ask  of  your  Grace  a  List  of  the  names  and  a  Descrip- 
tion of  the  Persons  of  those  of  the  State  Prisoners  who  are  to  be 
sent  into  my  Country,  in  order  that  I  may,  if  possible,  in  season, 
apprize  my  Government  of  the  measure. 

It  is  quite  possible,  and  I  still  hope,  that  these  Publications  are 
altogether  erroneous ;  in  this  case  I  must  beg  your  Grace's  par- 
don for  having  thus  unnecessarily  troubled  you  on  a  Subject  that 
thro'  your  obliging  interference  had  already  been  satisfactorily 
decided. 

With  the  most  perfect  Esteem  and  Respect,  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King 

Duke  of  Portland  to  the  Lord  Lieutenant  of  Ireland. 

Copy. 

London,  17th  Oct.,  1798. 
My  Lord  : 

The  systematick  attempts  which  have  been  constantly  making 
by  the  French  Government  to  overturn  the  present  Constitution 
of  the  United  States  have  naturally  rendered  the  American  Min- 
ister particularly  attentive  to  every  circumstance  which  bears  the 
appearance  of  contributing  in  any  degree  to  the  accomplishment 
of  that  design.  In  the  publication  therefore  of  the  terms  upon 
which  the  lives  of  the  Irish  traitors  were  spared,  he  thought  he 
saw  that  his  country  was  threatened  by  a  prospect  of  the  intro- 
duction not  only  of  principles  of  that  dangerous  tendency,  but  of 


APPENDIX.  643 


missionaries  of  the  most  alarming  description,  and  those  appre- 
hensions being  increased  and  confirmed  by  newspaper  reports 
and  extracts  of  private  correspondence,  he  wrote  me  the  Letter, 
of  which  I  enclose  your  Excellency  a  copy,  to  which  I  returned 
the  answer  which  you  will  receive  enclosed,  by  which  your  Ex- 
cellency will  see  what  has  passed  between  him  and  me  upon  this 
subject.  But  that  your  Excellency  may  have  no  doubt  of  the 
sentiments  of  the  King's  confidential  servants  upon  the  question 
generally  of  the  right  which  our  State  possesses  to  transport  its 
subjects  into  the  Territories  of  another,  I  am  to  inform  you  that 
we  are  clearly  of  opinion  that  no  such  right  exists  according  to 
the  Law  of  Nations,  and  consequently  that  his  Majesty  has  not 
the  power  to  banish  any  one  of  his  subjects  to  the  Dominions  of 
any  other  State  or  to  authorize  him  to  settle  or  to  land  them  with- 
out the  consent  of  that  State  having  been  first  specifically  ob- 
tained. It  is  unnecessary  therefore  for  me  to  enter  into  the 
Policy  of  this  measure  ;  but  I  must  not  abstain  from  adding,  that 
if  the  question  of  right  was  uncontrovertibly  established  to  be 
the  reverse  of  what  I  have  stated  it  to  be,  considering  the  actual 
circumstances  of  the  United  States  and  their  relative  situation  to 
this  country  and  France,  his  Majesty  wd.  not  permit  any  step  to 
be  taken,  which  could  give  the  United  States  any  sort  of  umbrage 
or  offence,  and  this  step  less,  if  possible,  than  any  other,  from  the 
effects  it  might  be  capable  of  producing  on  that  Government,  and 
the  injury  which  might  result  from  it  to  the  general  happiness  of 
mankind.  The  paragraph  which  I  have  seen  within  these  two  or 
three  last  days,  purporting  the  immediate  departure  of  your  State 
Prisoners  for  America  have  made  me  feel  it  necessary  for  me  to 
write  thus  fully  to  your  Excellency  upon  this  subject  and  to 
acquaint  you  that  it  is  his  Majesty's  commands  that  not  one  of 
the  Traitors,  whose  lives  have  been  spared  upon  condition  of 
being  banished  from  Ireland  and  passing  the  remainder  of  their 
days  in  the  dominion  of  a  State  in  amity  with  his  Majesty,  shall 
be  suffered  upon  any  account  whatever  to  go  to  or  reside  within 
the  Territories  of  the  United  States  until  his  Majesty's  express 
permission  for  that  purpose  shall  have  been  signified  to  your 
Excellency  by  one  of  his  Majesty's  principal  Secretaries  of  State. 

I  have  the  honor  to  be  &c.  &c. 

Portland. 


644      LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE   OF  RUFUS  KING. 

In  a  letter  to  Hamilton,  Nov.  9,  1798,  Mr.  King  says  : 

"  You  will  see  that  I  have  prevented  the  sending  to  you  of  about  fifty  Irish 
State  prisoners,  who  were  at  the  head  of  the  rebellion  in  Ireland,  and  closely 
connected  with  the  Directory  at  Paris.  Probably  our  patriots  will  think  my 
conduct  presumptuous.  In  the  present  posture  of  affairs,  I  could  have  no 
hesitation." 

Wm.  Bingham  to  R.  King. 

"  Sept.  30,  1798. 

"  I  deprecate  the  consequence  of  the  insurrection  in  Ireland — if  successful, 
as  it  regards  England, — if  otherwise,  as  regards  this  country.  In  which  case 
we  shall  have  immense  emigrations  of  an  ignorant  and  deluded  class  of  people, 
who  will  make  a  merit  of  resisting  every  Government  they  live  under.  I  can- 
not see  how  we  can  shut  our  doors  against  their  admission — a  late  law  has  ren- 
dered a  longer  residence  necesssary  to  naturalization,  but  this  will  not  prevent 
their  seeking  an  asylum  here,  altho'  it  will  deprive  them  of  the  power  of  influ- 
encing elections." 

Wm.  Bingham  to  R.  King. 

"Dec.  8,  1798. 

"  I  entirely  agree  with  you  in  the  danger  that  may  arise  from  the  emigration 
of  so  many  Irish  insurgents  to  this  country  ;  amongst  whom  it  appears  there 
are  many  professional  characters,  who  will  be  able  to  make  an  impression  on 
society,  much  greater  than  the  common  class  of  disaffected  Irish.  They  will 
join  the  party  in  opposition  to  the  Government  and  will  vent  their  resentments 
against  Great  Britain  by  attacking  those  who  are  disposed  to  be  on  friendly 
terms  with  her.  They  will  be  discontented  and  therefore  disorganizing  char- 
acters whose  residence  among  us  cannot  be  otherwise  than  injurious  in  the  present 
moment  of  political  agitation." 

The  manner  in  which  the  President  received  the  above 
communication  and  approved  of  the  action  of  Mr.  King,  is  shown 
by  the  following  extract  from  a  letter  of  the  Secretary  of  State. 

T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

"  5  Feb.,  1799. 

"  Your  timely  interference  to  prevent  the  emigration  of  the  Irish  traitors  to  this 
Country  is  extremely  acceptable  to  the  President — And  if  removed  to  any  other 
Country  many  of  them  probably  will  find  their  way  hither  and  therefore  not 
only  a  list  of  their  names  but  a  description  of  their  persons  &  ages  would  be 
very  useful  to  us  if  attainable." 

March  16,   1799,  Mr.  King  writes  to  the  Secretary  of  State  : 

"  I  will  obtain  the  names  of  the  Irish  State  prisoners,  whose  pestilentias 
flight  to  the  United  States  was  fortunately  arrested.  They  amount  to  ninety 
and  a  list  of  their  names  is  easily  procured. 


APPENDIX.  645 


"  I  omitted  at  the  time  to  inform  you  that  at  the  particular  desire  of  Lord 
Cornwallis  communicated  to  me  through  the  Duke  of  Portland,  I  consented 
that  one  of  these  State  prisoners,  by  the  name  of  Lynch,  Brother  to  a  merchant 
of  the  same  name  in  New  York,  should  be  permitted  to  go  to  New  York,  for 
which  place  he  sailed  some  months  since.  He  was  represented  to  me  as  of 
inferior  consequence  as  a  conspirator,  and  by  no  means  likely  to  be  mischievous 
among  us.  It  is  proper  that  you  should  know  the  fact  that  he  may  be  identi- 
fied and  remembered." 

Henry  Jackson  to  R.  King. 

Dublin,  22d  July,  1799. 
Sir: 

I  am  one  of  the  many  that  has  been  implicated  in  this  unfortunate  country 
and  having  obtained  the  Lord  Lieutenant's  permission  to  go  to  America,  pro- 
vided I  go  with  your  consent,  I  beg  leave  to  refer  you  to  the  American  Con- 
sul in  this  city  for  my  general  character. 

I  have  been  for  many  years  in  the  Iron  Trade  and  lately  sold  part  of  my 
Works  for  ^"26.250 — and  there  remains  yet  to  be  disposed  of  what  has  cost  me 
upwards  of  ^10,000 — a  principal  part  of  that  sum  I  have  vested  in  American 
defer'd  stock  and  American  Bank  Shares.  The  whole  of  this  property  I  intend 
removing  to  America  with  my  family  as  soon  as  possible.  I  have  long  had  a 
predilection  for  the  American  form  of  Government,  but  my  being  so  engaged 
in  manufactures  in  this  country  prevented  my  removing.  Should  I  meet  with 
a  situation  to  my  liking  I  hope  to  make  my  knowledge  of  the  Iron  Manufac- 
ture and  Foundry  business  an  acquisition  to  any  part  of  the  Country  I  may 
settle  in. 

The  Joseph,  belonging  to  New  York,  is  now  here  and  intends  sailing  the 

loth  of  next  month  ;  if  I  am  so  fortunate  as  to  get  a  favourable  answer  to  this 

application,  I  intend  going  by  her.     I  take  the  liberty  of  sending  this  open  to 

Joseph  Wilson  Esq  to  be  forv/arded. 

I  am  with  great  respect  &c. 

Hen.  Jackson. 

Mr.  Wilson  enclosed  this  in  a  letter  dated  July  24,  1799,  to  Mr. 
King — in  which  he  speaks  in  strong  commendation  of  Mr.  Jack- 
son as  to  his  moral  and  business  qualifications,  founded  on  an 
acquaintance  of  fifteen  years. 

Mr.  King's  answer  to  this  letter  follows. 

R.  King  to  Henry  Jackson,  Esq. 

Brighton,  Aug.  28,  1799. 
Sir: 

I  ought  to  inform  you  that  I  really  have  no  authority  to  give,  or  refuse  per- 
mission to  you  or  any  other  foreigner  to  go  to  the  United  States  :  the  admission 
and  residence  of  Strangers  in  that  country  being  a  matter  that  by  a  late  Law 
exclusively  belongs  to  the  President.     It  is  true  that  the  Government  of  that 


646      LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE   OF  RUFUS  KING. 


country  in  the  course  of  the  last  year,  in  consequence  of  my  interference  gave 
me  an  assurance  that  a  particular  description  of  persons  in  Ireland,  who  it  was 
understood  were  going  to  the  United  States,  should  not  be  allowed  to  proceed 
without  our  consent  ;  this  restraint  would  doubtless  be  withdrawn  in  favor  of 
individuals  against  whose  emigration  I  should  not  object  ;  and  I  conclude  that 
it  is  upon  this  supposition  that  you  have  taken  the  trouble  to  communicate  to 
me  your  desire  to  go  and  reside  in  the  United  States.  Without  presuming  to 
form  an  opinion  on  the  subject  of  the  late  disturbances  in  Ireland,  I  entertain 
a  distinct  one  in  relation  to  the  political  situation  of  my  own  country.  In  com- 
mon with  others  we  have  felt  the  influence  of  the  changes  that  have  successively 
taken  place  in  France,  and  unfortunately  a  portion  of  our  Inhabitants  has 
erroneously  supposed  that  our  civil  and  political  institutions,  as  well  as  our  na- 
tional policy  might  be  improved  by  a  close  imitation  of  the  models  of  France. 
This  opinion,  the  propagation  of  which  was  made  the  duty  and  became  the 
chief  employment  of  the  French  agents  resident  among  us,  created  a  more  con- 
siderable division  among  our  people,  and  required  a  greater  watchfulness  and 
activity  from  the  Government,  than  could  beforehand  have  been  apprehended. 
I  am  sorry  to  make  the  remark,  and  shall  stand  in  need  of  your  candour  in 
doing  so,  that  a  large  proportion  of  the  emigrants  from  Ireland,  and  especially 
in  our  middle  States,  has  upon  this  occasion  arranged  itself  upon  the  side  of  the 
malcontents  ;  I  ought  to  except  from  this  remark  most  of  the  enlightened  and 
well  educated  Irishmen  who  reside  among  us,  and  with  a  few  exceptions  I  may 
confine  it  to  the  indigent  and  illiterate,  who,  entertaining  an  attachment  to  free- 
dom, are  unable  easily  to  appreciate  those  salutary  restraints,  without  which  it 
degenerates  into  anarchy.  It  would  be  injustice  to  say  that  the  Irish  emigrants 
are  more  national  than  those  of  other  countries,  yet  being  a  numerous,  tho'  very 
minor  portion  of  our  population,  they  are  capable,  from  causes  it  is  needless 
now  to  explain,  of  being  generally  brought  to  act  in  concert,  and  under  careful 
leaders  may  be,  as  they  have  been,  enlisted  in  mischievous  combinations  against 
our  Government.  This  view  leads  me  to  state  to  you  without  reserve  the  hesi- 
tation that  I  have  felt  in  your  case  ;  on  the  one  hand  we  cannot  object  to  the 
acquisition  of  Inhabitants  from  abroad  possessing  capital  and  skill  in  a  branch 
of  business,  that  with  due  caution,  may  without  risque  or  difficulty,  and  with 
public  as  well  as  private  advantage,  be  established  among  us  ;  but  on  the  other 
hand  if  the  opinions  of  such  Inhabitants  are  likely  to  throw  them  into  the  class 
of  malcontents,  their  fortune,  skill  and  consequent  influence  would  make  them 
tenfold  more  dangerous,  and  they  might  become  a  disadvantage  instead  of  a 
benefit  to  our  country.  You  must  be  sensible  that  I  possess  no  sufficient  means 
of  forming  an  opinion  respecting  your  sentiments,  but  the  motives  which  lead 
me  to  interfere  with  your  Government  to  restrain  the  Emigration  of  the  Persons 
above  alluded  to,  oblige  me  to  observe  a  due  caution  on  the  present  occasion. 
At  the  same  time  I  desire  not  to  act  with  illiberality  and  should  be  unwilling 
to  bring  upon  my  country  the  slightest  imputation  of  inhospitality.  What  Mr. 
Wilson  has  written,  so  far  as  it  goes,  is  satisfactory  ;  and  on  the  whole  I  have 
concluded  after  this  unreserved  communication,  which  I  hope  will  be  received 
with  the  same  candour  as  it  is  made,  to  inform  you,   authorizing  you   to  make 


APPENDIX.  647 


use  of  the  information,  that  I  withdraw  every  objection  that  may  be  supposed  to 
stand  in  the  way  of  your  being  permitted  to  go  to  the  United  States,  adding 
only  my  earnest  wish  that  you  may  carry  with  you  an  unbiassed  mind,  may  find 
the  state  of  the  Country,  as  I  believe  you  will,  favorable  to  your  views  of 
business,  and  its  Government  deserving  your  attachment. 

I  must  beg  your  Excuse  for  the  great  delay  that  has  occurred  in  sending  you 
this  answer,  which  I  assure  you  has  arisen  from  other  causes  than  the  want  of 
due  respect  to  your  letter. 

With  great  Consideration,  &c,  &c, 

Rufus  King. 

Mr.  King,  under  the  existing  circumstances,  could  not  have 
acted  otherwise,  as  he  says,  than  he  did.  It  was  not  a  question 
simply  of  interfering  to  prevent  Irishmen  from  emigrating  to 
America,  as  was  afterwards  charged  against  him,  but  of  his  duty  to 
look  after  the  interests  of  his  country  and  after  those  chiefs  whom 
he  characterized  as  imbued  with  French  principles  and  would  be 
leaders  in  propagating  them  among  his  own  people,  who  were  at 
that  very  time  so  largely  under  similar  influences  and  causing 
much  embarrassment  to  the  Government.  It  was  the  leaders 
that  he  would  keep  out,  men  who  had  made  trouble  in  their  own 
country  and  were  not  likely  to  be  quiet  in  a  country  where  speech 
was  free  and  where  much  discontent  was  in  the  air.  The  Con- 
gress also  had  passed  Alien  and  Sedition  laws  (whatever  may  be 
thought  of  their  wisdom),  which  clearly  indicated  the  sentiment 
of  the  country  and  the  determination  that  French  principles  and 
disorganizing  ways  should  be  checked  by  even  such  questionable 
means.  Mr.  King  therefore  must  be  judged  by  the  circumstances 
and  conditions  in  which  he  was  placed,  which  show  that  he  acted 
wisely,  for  those  very  men  who  found  their  way  over  became 
leaders  among  those  who  opposed  the  government.  It  was  not 
Irishmen  because  they  were  Irishmen,  that  he  objected  to  ;  for 
he  well  knew  the  services  of  Irishmen  and  their  descendants  in 
the  War  of  the  Revolution  and  in  the  councils  of  the  nation — his 
own  associates  in  public  affairs, — but  he  feared  the  present  leaders, 
for  he  knew  the  principles  they  avowed  and  by  which  they  had 
been  governed,  in  carrying  out  what,  as  men  aiming  at  liberation 
from  what  they  deemed  the  oppression  of  the  British  rule,  they 
believed  they  had  the  right  to  do.  It  was  the  principles  avowed 
and  the  associates  to  whom  they  allied  themselves  that  made 
those  men  at  that  time  dangerous  citizens  for  the  United  States. 


648      LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE   OF  RUFUS  KING. 

As  will  be  seen  in  subsequent  periods  of  his  life,  indeed 
throughout  his  public  life,  this  action  was  the  source  of  bitter 
hostility  to  him  and  his  family  whenever  they  were  candidates 
for  public  office.  In  the  year  1806,  and  in  1816,  when  he  had 
been  put  forward  for  election  as  Governor  of  the  State  of  New 
York,  Mr.  King  wrote  for  publication  an  answer  to  charges,  with 
which  the  newspapers  were  filled,  a  vindication  of  his  action  in 
this  matter,  based  upon  the  grounds  above  noted,  as  will  be  seen 
when  the  events  of  those  years  are  under  consideration. 

In  the  Life  of  Hamilton^  J.  C.  Hamilton,  vol.  vii.,  p.  156,  we 
find  this  expression  of  opinion  by  him  in  1819 — a  writer  who 
was  not  inclined  to  say  anything  favorable  to  Mr.  King. 

"  The  oppressed  and  infuriated  Irish  also  sought  an  asylum  here  from  their 
poverty  and  their  wrongs.  Long  suffering  from  misrule,  this  impassioned  peo- 
ple were  led  to  regard  established  government  as  an  abuse.  Craftily  prejudiced 
with  the  belief,  that  neutrality  was  subservience  to  England,  and  that  Federal- 
ism meant  more  than  a  love  of  the  Constitution,  of  law  and  liberty,  they  were 
soon  marshalled  in  the  Democratic  ranks,  of  which  they  became  and  have  con- 
tinued a  most  efficient  part.  .  .  .  The  great  mass  of  the  Irish  were 
prompted  by  misguided  prejudices.  Warm  in  their  affections,  faithful  in  their 
trusts,  their  women  constituting  a  part  of  every  household,  holding  its  children 
in  their  arms  and  watching  over  their  infancy  ;  their  men  building  the  cities, 
and  the  public  works,  and  ranging  themselves  among  the  first  in  battle  for 
American  rights,  to  them  the  gratitude  is  large.  But  among  them  were  their 
political  offenders,  who,  abandoning  their  fealty  to  England,  placed  their  affec- 
tions on  France  and  became  her  active  partisans.  .  .  .  The  Democratic 
societies  organized  by  Genet,  had  been  denounced  by  Washington  and  were 
suppressed.  An  association  was  now  proposed  and  entered  into,  better  suited 
to  the  bolder  character  of  these  recent  emigrants.  .  .  .  '  The  American 
Society  of  United  Irishmen'  was  founded,  'of  all  such  and  such  only  as 
had  suffered  in  the  cause  of  freedom,  or  who  by  their  zeal  for  the  rights  of  man- 
kind had  rendered  themselves  distinguished  and  worthy  of  trust.'  The  mem- 
bers were  bound  by  a  test  oath,  '  organized  with  military  gradation  and  preci- 
sion ;  pledged  to  act  with  energy  and  union  ;  to  act  upon  instant  warning— 
what  was  this  monster  other  than  a  conspiracy  against  the  government.'  Ham- 
ilton characterized  it  as  threatening  '  an  internal  invasion,'  and  4  its  existence 
was  the  leading  and  all  sufficient  motive  for  the  enactment  of  a  law  for  the 
removal  of  aliens,'  '  judged  dangerous  to  the  peace  and  safety  of  the  United 
States,'  &c." 

Among  other  evidences  that  the  conduct  of  Mr.  King  was  sus- 
tained by  those  whose  opinion  he  regarded,  is  a  letter  from  Mr. 
G.  Cabot,  February  16,  1799.     He  says  : 


APPENDIX.  649 


"  If  the  seditious  were  hardy  enough  to  denounce  you  for  the  great  service 
you  have  render'd  the  country  in  shutting  its  doors  against  Irish  Desperadoes, 
you  would  still  have  reason  to  be  content,  for  the  praises  of  the  good  would  be 
increased  in  proportion  to  the  clamours  of  the  vicious  ;  but  I  believe  the  meas- 
ure is  so  generally  approved  that  Faction  will  hardly  dare  to  condemn." 


APPENDIX  V. 

Miranda. 

To  understand  better  the  circumstances  which  gave  rise  to  the 
project  with  which  the  name  of  Miranda  is  connected,  the  follow- 
ing narrative  may  be  given.  The  dependencies  of  Spain  in  South 
America  were  very  restive  under  the  government  of  the  mother 
country,  and  especially  after  the  success  of  the  American  Revolu- 
tion, and  many  ardent  spirits  in  these  colonies  of  Spain  sought  to 
obtain  for  them  their  independence.  Among  those  who  were 
most  prominent,  was  Francisco  de  Miranda,  a  native  of  Caracas, 
who  had  studied  and  observed  in  the  United  States  the  system 
under  which  they  were  living,  and  who  had  in  previous  years 
"  disclosed  his  views,  among  others,  to  Hamilton,  upon  whom  he 
fixed  his  eyes  as  a  coadjutor  in  the  great  purpose  of  his  life.  Nor 
was  Hamilton  slow  to  perceive  its  importance  and  its  ad- 
vantages." *  There  was  no  active  co-operation  at  that  time,  and 
Miranda  betook  himself  to  Europe,  and  endeavored  to  engage 
some  of  the  European  nations  in  his  plan,  but  without  success. 

Taking  advantage  of  a  threatened  war  between  England  and 
Spain,  he  had  communicated  with  the  British  Ministry  with  a  view 
to  effecting  the  liberation  of  the  South  American  colonies  of 
Spain  ;  but  was  disappointed  by  the  restoration  of  good  feelings 
between  the  two  countries,  though  he  had  been  listened  to  with 
favor.  Soon  after  he  had  gone  to  France,  hoping  to  reap  some 
benefit  from  the  revolutionary  ideas  of  the  leaders,  obtained  a 
commission  in  the  French  army,  and  under  Dumouriez  served 
with  some  distinction.  With  a  change  of  rulers  there,  he  was 
banished  from  France  and  took  refuge  in  England,  then  engaged 
in  a  war  with  France,  hoping  again  to  get  a  hearing  from  the  min- 
istry, and  to  show  that  as  Spain  was  the  close  ally  of  France,  they 

*  Life  of  Hamilton,  vol.  vii.,  p.  212. 


650      LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE   OF  RUFUS  KING. 

might,  by  engaging  in  his  scheme,  cripple  the  latter's  resources. 
We  find  that  he  was  successful  in  obtaining  a  hearing,  and  we 
have  in  the  following  letters  of  Mr.  King  to  the  Secretary  of  State 
the  evidence  of  the  position  he  occupied  in  England. 

On  February  7,  1798,  Mr.  King  wrote,  in  cipher,  a  letter  to 
the  Secretary  of  State  : 

"  I  have  had  some  reason  to  believe  that  the  prospect  of  our  being  engaged  in 
the  war  has  renewed  the  project  that  on  more  than  one  occasion  has  been  meditated 
against  South  America.  I  think  I  am  not  mistaken  in  this  conjecture.  Mi- 
randa, who  was  certainly  engaged  in  this  scheme  at  the  time  of  the  affair  of  the 
Nootka,  and  who  since  has  served  under  Dumouriez  in  France,  came  to  this 
country  a  few  weeks  since.  He  has  been  with  the  ministry  and  is  here  by  their 
desire  or  with  their  permission  :  the  object  is  the  complete  Independence  of 
South  America  to  be  effected  by  the  co-operation  of  England  and  the  U.  S." 

On  February  26th,  he  again  writes  in  cipher  to  the  Secretary  of 
State.     No.  65  : 

"  Two  points  have  within  a  fortnight  been  settled  in  the  English  Cabinet 
respecting  South  America.  If  Spain  is  able  to  prevent  the  overthrow  of  her 
present  Government  and  to  escape  being  brought  under  the  entire  controul  of 
France,  England  (between  whom  and  Spain,  notzuithstanding  the  war,  a  certain 
understanding  appears  to  exist)  will  at  present  engage  in  no  Scheme  to  deprive 
Spain  of  her  possessions  in  Sth.  America.  But  if,  as  appears  probable,  the  army 
destined  against  Portugal,  and  which  will  march  thro  Spain,  or  any  other 
means  which  may  be  employed  by  France,  shall  overthrow  the  Spanish  Govern- 
ment,  and  thereby  place  the  resources  of  Spain  and  of  her  Colonies  at  the  disposal 
of  France,  England  zvill  immediately  commence  the  execution  of  a  Plan  long 
since  digested  and  prepared  for  the  compleat  independence  of  So.  America. 

If  England  engages  in  this  Plan,  she  will  at  Philadelphia  propose  to  the  U.  S. 
to  co-operate  in  its  execution.  Miranda  will  be  detained  here,  tinder  one  pretence 
or  another,  until  events  shall  decide  the  Conduct  of  England.  The  Revohiiion 
of  Spain  is  decreed ;  the  attempt  will  be  made,  and  the  success  is  scarcely  doubt- 
ful. The  President  may  therefore  expect  the  overture  of  England,  and  will,  I 
am  persuaded,  act  upon  it,  under  the  influence  of  that  wise  and  comprehensive 
Policy,  which,  looking  for zvard  to  the  Destinies  of  the  New  World,  shall  in  the 
beginning  by  great  and  generous  Deeds  lay  deep  and  firm  the  foundations  of 
lasting  accord  between  its  rising  Empires.  If  possible,  I  will  bring  together 
and  seasonably  arrange,  and  send  to  you  such  information,  as  I  have  been  able 
to  procure  upon  this  interesting  and  very  consequential  Subject,  having  found 
out  and  acquired  the  confidence  of  certain  Jestuts,  natives  of  So.  America,  who 
with  a  view  to  its  independence  are,  and  for  several  years  have  been,  in  the  ser- 
vice and  pay  of  England.     I  have  conversed  with  them  and  seen  the  Reports* 

*  It  is  probable  that  these  "  reports  "  are  the  document  referred  to  by  Mr. 
Charles  Francis  Adams  in  his  Life  of  John  Adams,  vol.  i.,  523,  and  published 


APPENDIX.  65 1 


which  they  have  prepared  for  their  Employers.  These  communications  throw 
much  light  upon  the  population,  the  Resources,  the  oppression  and  the  Tei?iper 
and  character  of  the  Spanish  Americans.     .     .     ." 

It  will  be  seen  that  the  plan  suggested  and  prepared  in  England 
was  that,  "  if  England  engages  in  this  plan,  she  will  at  Philadel- 
phia propose  to  the  U.  S.  to  co-operate  in  its  execution."  Mi- 
randa was  to  be  detained  until  England  decided  upon  her  course, 
and  then  "  the  President  may  expect  the  overture  of  England." 
In  the  meantime  Mr.  King  promises  that  he  will  gather  and  send 
to  the  Secretary  such  "  information  as  I  have  been  able  to  pro- 
cure," and  states  some  of  the  sources  from  which  he  has  obtained 
it.  There  is  no  evidence  that  this  matter  was  previously  known 
in  America,  or  even  thought  of,  so  as  to  set  the  plan  of  co-opera- 
tion in  motion,  and  yet  Mr.  C.  F.  Adams,  in  his  Life  of  John 
Adams*  insinuates  that  Mr.  Hamilton  had  the  idea  of  this  co- 
operation in  view  as  early  as  January  24,  1798,  at  which  date  Mr. 
Adams  consulted  his  cabinet  as  to  the  coarse  proper  to  be  taken, 
in  case  the  commissioners,  who  were  in  France,  failed  to  accom- 
plish the  objects  for  which  they  were  sent.  Mr.  Hamilton  was 
not  in  the  cabinet,  but  was  consulted  by  the  friends  with  whom 
he  generally  acted  in  the  Federal  party,  and  Mr.  C.  F.  Adams 
says  that  the  only  one,  Mr.  McHenry,  who  answered  in  writing,  so 
far  as  appears,  drew  his  ideas  upon  the  subject  from  Mr.  Hamil- 
ton. In  this  paper  Mr.  McHenry  suggests  among  other  things 
that  "  authority,  in  case  of  a  rupture,  be  given  to  the  President  to 
provide  '  by  such  means  as  he  may  judge  best,'  ships  of  the  line, 
not  exceeding  ten,  the  suspension  of  the  treaties  with  France,  an 
immediate  army  of  sixteen  thousand  men  and  a  provisional  one 
of  twenty  thousand  more."  It  was  also  proposed,  instead  of  mak- 
ing an  alliance  with  Great  Britain,  which  would  not  be  wise,  or 
entering  into  a  formal  treaty  with  her,  to  give  instructions  to  Mr. 
King  to  "sound  Great  Britain  as  to  a  plan  of  co-operation  in  case 
of  open  rupture,  pointing  the  co-operation  to  the  Floridas,  Louisi- 
ana, and  the  South  American  possessions  of  Spain,  if  rupture,  as 

in  full  in  an  appendix  G.     It  is  dated   Paris,    Dec.    22d,   1797.     Mr.  J.   C. 
Hamilton,   in  his  Life  of  Alexander  Hamilton,  vii.,   213,   refers  to  the  same 
document,  as  furnishing  "  early  in  the  following  month  the  general  terms  of  the 
agreement  arranged  with  Pitt." 
*  Vol.  i.,  p.  515. 


652      LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE   OF  RUFUS  ICING. 

is  probable,  should  extend  to  her  "  ;  lodging  authority  with  the 
British  Minister  for  all  these  purposes.* 
Mr.  Adams  says  : 

"  The  recommendations  are  almost  identically  those  which  appear  in  Mr. 
Hamilton's  private  letters  to  Mr.  Pickering.  But  in  addition  to  this  the  paper 
closed  with  some  suggestions  which  show  a  coincidence  even  more  marked  with 
the  peculiar  policy  which  that  gentleman  was  at  the  time  advocating  in  his  cor- 
respondence." 

Now  in  the  letters  from  Mr.  Hamilton  to  Mr.  Pickering,  and  of 
the  latter  to  Mr.  Hamilton,  which  are  from  March  17th  to  April 
9th  f  inclusive,  there  is  not  one  word  about  a  plan  for  anything 
more  than  a  general  co-operation  with  Great  Britain  in  case  of  a 
rupture,  without  a  hint  of  making  use  of  the  vessels  to  be  bought 
or  hired,  or  of  the  troops  to  be  raised,  in  endeavoring  to  set  free 
the  Spanish  possessions  in  America.  They  are  not  even  men- 
tioned, except  that  Mr.  Pickering  says  that  despatches  had  been 
received  which  rendered  it  probable  Spain  had  ordered  the  evacu- 
ation of  the  posts  about  New  Orleans,  probably  thinking  to  do 
us  a  grateful  thing  before  surrendering  Louisiana  to  France. 
On  March  17th  Mr.  Hamilton  says  that  the  serious  condition  of 
affairs  calls  for  a  "  temperate  but  grave,  solemn,  and  firm  commu- 
nication by  the  President  to  Congress"  in  consequence  of  the  com- 
munications which  had  been  received  from  the  commissioners  in 
France,  and  recommends  generally  the  same  provisions  suggested 
by  Mr.  McHenry  ;  but  there  is  not  one  word  about  Spanish  posses- 
sions in  it  ;  nor  is  there  a  hint  about  them  in  a  letter  from  him  to 
Mr.  King,  cited  by  Mr.  J.  C.  Hamilton  as  "  probably  March, 
1798,"  nor  in  two  other  letters  to  Mr.  King  of  "  May,  1798,"  and 
May  12,  1798,  in  the  former  of  which  he  says  : 

"It  is  a  great  while  since  I  have  received  a  line  from  you,  nor  have  I 
deserved  one  ;  the  vortex  of  business  in  which  I  have  been,  having  kept  me 
from  writing  to  you.  At  this  moment,  I  presume,  you  will  not  be  sorry  to 
know  my  opinions  as  to  the  course  of  our  public  affairs."  \ 

Mr.  Hamilton  in  his  letter  to  Mr.  Pickering,  March  17th,  closes 
with  these  words  : 

*  Life  of  Alexander  Hamilton.,  i.,  516. 

f  Hamilton  s  Works,  vol.  vi.,  pp.  269  to  279. 

X  Ibid.,  p.  287. 


APPENDIX.  653 


"  In  my  opinion,  bold  language  and  bold  measures  are  indispensable.  The 
attitude  of  calm  defiance  suits  us.  It  is  vain  to  talk  of  peace  with  a  power  with 
which  we  are  actually  in  hostility.  The  election  is  between  a  tame  surrender 
of  our  rights  or  a  state  of  mitigated  hostility.  Neither  do  I  think  that  this  state 
will  lead  to  general  rupture,  if  France  is  unsuccessful ;  and  if  successful,  there 
is  no  doubt  in  my  mind,  that  she  will  endeavor  to  impose  her  yoke  upon  us."  * 

Thus  far,  whatever  may  have  been  Mr.  Hamilton's  wishes  or 
hopes  respecting  the  South  American  colonies  of  Spain,  no  written 
expression  appears,  and  the  next  communication  from  Mr.  King, 
relative  to  this  matter,  is  found  in  the  letter  in  cipher  to  Messrs. 
Pinckney,  Marshall,  and  Gerry,  the  commissioners  in  Paris,  April 
2,   1798. 

On  the  same  date  Mr.  King  wrote  to  the  Secretary  of  State,  in 
cipher  : 

11  Dear  Sir  : 

"  General  Miranda  has  informed  me  that  his  associate  and  Countryman  Mr. 
Caro,  is  about  to  return  to  So.  America,  and  that  he  will  take  Philadelphia  in 
his  way,  in  order  to  deliver  to  the  President  a  Letter  that  the  General  has  for 
that  purpose  committed  to  his  care. 

"  Having  been  made  acquainted  with  the  object  of  Mr.  Caro's  voyage,  I  take 
the  liberty  of  introducing  him  to  you  and  of  requesting  that  you  will  assist  him 
in  the  delivery  of  the  Letter  with  which  he  is  charged  for  the  President. 

"  With  perfect  Esteem  &  Respect, 

"  Rufus  King." 

On  April  6,  1798,  a  further  communication  is  made  by  Mr. 
King  to  the  Secretary  of  State,  also  in  cipher,  in  the  following 
words  : 

"  South  America  must  soon  pass  through  a  Revolution  ;  we  have  an  immense 
interest  in  the  Event,  as  well  as  in  the  manner  in  which  it  shall  be  effected. 
In  a  former  Letter,  I  have  communicated  to  you  the  views  and  intentions  of 
England,  who  will  not  provoke  the  Revolt  in  Case  Spain  shall  be  able  to  save 
herself  from  a  Revolution  and  keep  the  French  out  of  Portugal:  and  thd  there 
seems  little  probability  that  this  will  be  the  case,  England  since  the  arrival  of 
Miranda  here,  but  without  his  knowledge ,  has  informed  Spain  not  only  that  she 
will  not  countenance  or  assist  the  Spanish  Colonies  in  becoming  independent,  but 
that  she  will  join  her  in  resisting  the  Endeavours  of  others  to  accomplish  it,  pro- 
vided that  Spain  will  oppose  the  views  of  France  against  her  own  Dominions 
and  those  of  Portugal.  At  the  same  time  that  this  communication  has  been 
made  to  Spain,  an  Expedition  has  been  prepared  and  the  correspondent  arrange- 

*  Hamilton  s  Works,  vol.  vi.,  p.  271. 


654      LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE   OF  RUFUS  KING. 

ments  at  Trinidad  have  been  ordered,  for  the  purpose  of  beginning  the  Revolution 
of  So.  America  ;  in  this  event,  as  I  have  before  intimated  to  you,  England  will 
at  Philadelphia  open  herself  to,  and  ask  the  co-operation  of,  the  United  States. 
Miranda  who  is  impatient  zuith  the  Delays  that  he  experiences,  as  well  as  igno- 
rant of  the  provisional  Decisions  of  this  Cabinet,  has  concluded  to  send  his  Friend 
and  associate,  Mr.  Caro,  to  Philadelphia  with  a  Letter  for  the  President ;  and 
I  have  given  him  a  Letter  to  identify  him  and  introduce  him  to  you.  Conjectur- 
ing the  intentions  of  Fratice,  and  knowing  zuith  precision  those  of  England,  we 
shall  be  the  belter  able  in  season  to  consider  and  regulate  the  conduct  that  it  shall 
be  proper  for  us  to  pursue." 

Mr.  J.  C.  Hamilton  quotes  from  the  Edinburgh  Review,  xiii., 
291,  a  paragraph  from  a  letter  to  Mr.  Hamilton  from  Miranda, 
dated  April  6,  1798  : 

"  This  will  be  delivered  to  you,  my  dear  and  respectable  friend,  by  my  com- 
patriot, Don  .  .  .  charged  with  despatches  of  the  highest  importance  for  the 
President  of  the  United  States  ;  he  will  inform  you  confidentially  what  you 
would  desire  to  learn  on  this  subject.  It  appears  that  the  moment  of  our  eman- 
cipation approaches,  and  that  the  establishment  of  liberty  over  the  whole  Con- 
tinent of  the  new  world  is  confided  to  us  by  Providence.  The  only  danger  that 
I  foresee  is  the  introduction  of  French  principles,  which  would  poison  liberty 
in  her  cradle  and  finish  by  destroying  also  yours." 

To  the  same  M.  Caro,  Miranda  committed  a  letter  to  President 
Adams,  which  is  here  given,  taken  from  the  Life  and  Woi'ks  of 
John  Adams,  viii.,  569  : 

F.  de  Miranda  to  John  Adams. 

A  Londres  ce  24  Mars,  1798. 

Monsieur  le  President. — C'est  au  nom  des  colonies  Hispano-Americaines, 
que  j'ai  l'honneur  d'envoyer  a  votre  Excellence  les  propositions  ci-jointes.  Elles 
ont  ete  presentees  egalement  aux  Ministres  de  sa  Majeste  Britannique,  qui  les 
ont  reeu  tres  favorablement,  en  temoignant  beaucoup  de  satisfaction  d'avoir  a 
agir  dans  un  cas  pareil  avec  les  Etats  Unis  de  l'Amerique.  Et  il  me  semble 
que  le  delai  que  j'eprouve  (affligeant  reellement,  dansun  moment  aussi  pressant) 
resulte  precisement  de  l'attente  ou  le  gouvernement  Anglais  paroit  etre,  de  voir 
TAmerique  du  Nord  decidee  a  rompre  definitivement  avec  la  France  ;  par  le  de- 
sir  qu'ellea  de  faire  cause  commune,  et  de  co-operer  ensemble  a  l'indepen- 
dance  du  continent  entier  du  Nouveau  Monde. 

Comme  l'esprit  de  justice,  generosite  et  atachement  de  mes  compatriotes 
vers  les  Etats  Unis,  se  trouve  mieux  exprime  dans  le  document  qui  me  sert  de 
pouvoir,  autant  que  d'instruction,  j'ai  voulu  y  joindre  une  copie  complete.  Per- 
suade que  cette  demarche  amicale  et  franche  servira  plus  efficacement  a  ac- 
celerer  la  decision     .     .     .     comptant  toujours  sur  la  reserve  indispensable, 


APPENDIX.  655 


dans  tout  ce  qui  ne  regarde  pas  directement  les  Etats  Unis.  Si  quelque  article 
de  ceux  qui  sont  contenus  dans  cette  instruction  (ou  toute  autre  chose  qui  soit 
relative)  eut  besoin  d'explication.  D.  Pedro  Josef  Caro,  un  denies  compatriotes, 
commissaire  aussi  des  colonies  Hispano-Americaines,  et  charge  de  vous 
remettre  celle-ci,  pourra  satisfaire  amplement  et  completemment  a  tout.  * 

Sa  mission  apres  avoir  recu  les  ordres  de  V.  E.,  est  de  se  rendre  sans  delai 
au  continent  Hispano-Americain  afin  d'instruire  nos  commettans  et  com- 
patriotes de  l'etat  actuel  des  negotiations  a  nous  confiees,  ainsi  que  la  situation 
politique  de  l'Europe.  Je  vous  prie  de  vouloir  bien  lui  faciliter  tout-ce  dont  il 
auroit  besoin  pour  cet  important  objet,  et  pour  se  rendre  incessamment  a  la 
province  de  Santa  Fe  de  Bogota. 

Je  ne  vous  dissimule  pas,  Monsieur  le  President,  mes  inquietudes  sur  l'entree 
prochaine  des  troupes  Franeaises  en  Espagne.  Crainte  qu'un  movement  con- 
vulsif  dans  la  metropole  ne  produise  pas  des  secousses  anarchiques  dans  les 
colonies  ;  et  que  l'abominable  systeme  de  la  France  ne  s'introduise  chez  nous, 
faute  d'avoir  pris  des  mesures  promptes  et  efficaces  pour  l'empecher.  DU 
avertant.  Enfin  j'espere  que  le  petit  secours  dont  nous  avons  besoin  pour 
commencer,  et  qui  se  reduit  a.  six  ou  huit  vaisseaux  de  ligne  et  quatre  ou  cinq 
milles  hommes  des  troupes,  nous  les  trouverons  facilement  tant  en  Angleterre 
que  dans  l'Amerique  .  .  .  Mes  souhaits  seraient  que  la  marine  fut  Anglaise 
et  les  troupes  de  terre  Americains.  Veuille  la  Providence  que  les  Etats  Unis 
fassent  pour  ses  compatriotes  du  Sud  en  1798,  ce  que  le  roi  de  France  fit  pour 
eux  en  1778  !  Je  me  felicite  tou jours  de  voir  a  la  tete  du  pouvoir  executif  Ameri- 
cain  cet  homme  distingue,  qui  par  son  courage  rendit  son  pays  independant,  et 
qui  par  sa  sagesse  lui  donna  apres  un  gouvernement  bien  balance,  en  sauvant 
ainsi  la  liberte.  Nous  profiterons  sans  doute  de  vos  savantes  lecons,  et  je  me 
rejouis  de  vous  apprendre  d'avance  que  la  forme  de  gouvernement  projete  est 
mixte,  avec  un  chef  hereditaire  du  pouvoir  executif  sous  le  nom  d'  Ynca,  et,  ce 
que  j'aime  davantage,  pris  dans  la  meme  famille  :  un  S/nat  compose  de  families 
nobles,  mais  non  hereditaire  ;  et  une  Chambre  des  communes  elue  parmi  tous 
les  autres  citoyens  qui  auront  une  propriete  competente.  Telle  est  l'esquisse  de 
la  forme  du  gouvernement  qui  parait  reunir  la  majorite  des  suffrages  dans  le 
continent  Hispano-Americain,  et  qui  empechera  sans  doute  les  consequences 
fatales  du  systeme  Franco-Republican,  que  Montesquieu  appelle  la  liberte 
extreme. 

En  vous  addressant  directement  ces  propositions,  j'ai  cru  mettre  toute  la 
reserve  requise  dans  une  affaire  aussi  extraordinaire  qu'importante.  J'ai  l'hon- 
neur  en  outre  d'y  joindre  un  etat  de  la  population,  produits,  exportation  et 
consommation  de  l'Amerique  Espagnole,  qui  etant  fait  sur  des  notices  les  plus 
exactes,  ainsi  que  les  plus  recentes,  m'a  paru  meriter  votre  attention. 

Avec  les  sentimens   de  la  plus  haute    consideration  et  de  l'estime  la  plus 

parfaite,  j'ai  l'honneur  d'etre,  &c. 

Francisco  de  Miranda. 

*  M.  Caro  did  not  come.  Being  in  great  haste  to  return  home,  he  sent  a 
letter  to  Mr.  Pickering,  Secretary  of  State,  May  10,  1798,  asking  him  to  deliver 
the  documents  to  the  President. 


656      LIFE   AND   CORRESPONDENCE   OF  RUFUS  KING. 


The  letter  of  Miranda  to  the  President  did  not  reach  America, 
as  will  be  seen,  until  the  20th  of  August.  In  the  meantime  Mr. 
King  on  May  12th  wrote  to  Mr.  Hamilton  : 

"  Nothing  but  vigor  and  energy  will  save  our  country.  Unanimity  cannot 
be  expected.  .  .  .  The  people  of  America  will  support  their  government, 
if  that  government  acts  with  decision  ;  if  it  appeals  to  the  pride,  the  patriotism, 
and  the  honor  of  the  nation  !  But  if  it  temporizes,  if  it  wastes  itself  in  words, 
if  it  stops  short  of  the  only  course  that  remains  for  its  adoption,  consistently 
with  the  public  safety,  the  next  election  will  convulse  the  country,  and  may,  as 
the  Directory  intend  and  expect  it  shall,  give  the  government  to  those  who 
will  deliver  us  up  to  the  same  ruin  that  continues  to  desolate  Europe.  .  .  . 
I  received  a  short  letter  from  you  a  few  days  since  without  date,  which  gave 
me  great  satisfaction,  as  it  authorized  the  hopes  that  public  opinion  was  sounder 
than  that  of  its  representatives.  War  will  increase  the  public  taxes.  These 
are  unpleasant  subjects  for  meditation  ;  the  passions  must  be  attended  to,  they 
must  have  an  object — there  is  a  great  one.  I  can't  explain  myself.  I  have  had 
no  occasion  for  reserve  with  the  Secretary  of  State,  because  I  can  write  to  him 
in  cipher."  * 

On  July  14th  f  Mr.  King  in  a  letter  to  Mr.  Hamilton  sketches 
the  condition  of  affairs  in  Europe  with  the  remark  that 

*'  the  struggle  is  left  to  England,  who  certainly  maintains  it  with  increased 
zeal  and  resolution.  For  some  months  past  we  have  not  a  word  about  peace. 
.  .  .  In  this  state  of  things,  we  are  (for  so  I  consider  our  situation)  forced 
into  a  war  of  defence.  Have  you  received  a  former  letter  of  mine  on  this  sub- 
ject ?  It  is  of  infinite  importance  that  we  are  not  deceived  by  ourselves  or 
others.  We  must  do  more  than  merely  defend.  I  still  think  that  the  object 
that  I  have  before  suggested,  demands  all  our  consideration  and  energy.  Don't 
suppose  that  I  would  combine  fortunes  with  those  of  others.  On  the  contrary, 
whatever  our  interest  may  require  in  regard  to  a  co-operation  with  others  I  am 
averse  to  indissoluble  engagements  with  any  one.  The  Continent  of  Europe 
cannot  be  saved,  but  this  is  no  reason  why  America  should  perish  likewise. 
France  is  the  only  nation  that  projects  enterprises,  or  succeeds  in  putting  them 
into  execution  ;  all  others  are  puzzled  in  a  perpetual  effort  to  find  out  and  de- 
feat the  plans  of  France,  without  concerting  and  attempting  to  execute  one  that 
might  give  to  France  the  disadvantage  of  defence.  If  we  follow  this  course,  I 
dread  the  issue." 

On  31st  July,  1798,  in  a  letter  to  Col.  Hamilton,  Mr.  King, 
after  adverting  to  the  firmness  of  the  English  Government  in  its 
course  towards  France,  and  his  opinion  that  in  consequence  the 

*  Works  of  Hamilton,  vi.,  285.  f  Ibid.,  vi.,  3. 


APPENDIX.  6  $? 


people  will  be  more  and  more  likely  to  support  it  in  the  measures 
to  be  taken,  says  : 

"  This  opinion  should  be  taken  in  connection  with  an  observation  (the  import- 
ance of  wh.  appears  to  me  the  greater  the  oftener  I  consider  it)  that  I  have 
suggested  in  more  than  one  of  my  late  letters.  The  composition  of  addresses 
and  the  forming  of  volunteer  associations  who  will  have  nothing  to  do,  are  for 
the  present  well ;  but  they  will  cease  to  be  novelties  and  soon  become  tiresome  ; 
and  to  be  secure  you  must  have  some  sufficient  object  that  will  interest  and  em- 
ploy the  passions  of  the  nation.  The  mere  defensive  system  of  the  enemies  of 
France  has  been  the  principal  cause  of  her  success,  and  if  we  adopt  the  error 
we  shall  be  exposed  to  greater  risque  than  by  a  bold  and  active  system,  which, 
exclusive  of  being  the  most  certain  means  of  safety,  would  promise  the  acquisi- 
tion of  great  and  lasting  advantages. 

"  The  Destiny  of  the  new  world,  and  I  have  a  full  and  firm  persuasion  that  it 
will  be  both  happy  and  glorious,  is  in  our  hands.  We  have  a  right  and  it  is 
our  duty  to  deliberate  and  act,  not  as  secondaries,  but  as  Principals.  The  object 
and  the  occasion  are  such  as  we  ought  not  in  respect  to  ourselves  and  others  to 
suffer  to  pass  unimproved." 

This  letter  was  not  acknowledged  by  Mr.  Hamilton  until 
October  2d,  when  he  says  : 

"  Mr.  R.  delivered  me  your  letter  of  the  31st  July.  The  opinion  in  that  and 
other  of  your  letters  concerning  a  very  important  point,  has  been  acted  upon 
by  me  from  the  very  moment  that  it  became  unequivocal  that  we  must  have  a 
decisive  rupture  with  France.  In  some  things  my  efforts  succeeded,  in  others 
they  were  disappointed  ; — in  others  I  have  had  promises  of  conformity  to  lay 
the  foundation  of  future  proceeding  ;  the  performance  and  effect  of  which 
promises  are  not  certainly  known  to  me.  The  effect,  indeed,  cannot  yet  be 
known."  * 

As  before  stated,  Miranda's  letter  of  March  24th,  and  docu- 
ments with  it,  reached  the  Secretary  of  State  on  August  20th, 
as  appears  by  a  letter  from  him  to  the  President,  of  the  2ist,f 
with  which  he  also  inclosed  Mr.  King's  letters  of  February  2 2d 
and  April  6th  : 

"  Sir: 

"  I  inclose  a  letter  which  I  received  last  evening  under  cover  from  M.  Pedro 
Josef  Caro,  accompanied  by  a  letter  from  Mr.  King,  intended  as  an  introduc- 
tion to  M.  Caro  ;  but  the  latter  having  missed  a  passage  to  the  United  States, 
in  the  British  cutter  which  sailed  from  Falmouth  for  New  York  on  the  20th  of 

*  Works  of  Hamilton,  vi.,  362. 

\  Life  and  Works  of  John  Adams,  viii.,  5S3. 

VOL.  II.— 43 


658      LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE   OF  RUFUS  KING. 


April,  and  circumstances  requiring  his  arrival  in  South  America  with  as  little 
delay  as  possible,  he  forwarded  the  packet  to  me.  A  copy  of  the  translation 
of  his  letter  to  me  I  have  the  honor  to  inclose. 

"Under  the  same  cover  were  inclosed  two  letters,  one  for  Colonel  Hamil- 
ton,* the  other  for  General  Knox,  which  I  forward  by  this  post  to  those 
gentlemen." 

The  inclosed  letter  of  M.  Caro  is  dated, 

"  Falmouth,  10  May,  1798. 

"Sir — The  annexed  letter  of  the  Hon.  Mr.  King  to  you  will  serve  as  a  cre- 
dential in  my  favor  in  presenting  myself  to  you  with  the  important  mission  it 
announces.  An  unforeseen  accident  has  frustrated  my  voyage  hence  to  your 
Continent  in  his  Majesty's  Cutter,  which  sailed  for  New  York  on  the  20th  April 
last  ;  and  a  combination  of  circumstances  requiring  my  arrival  in  South  America 
with  as  little  delay  as  possible,  I  have  received  instructions  immediately  to 
depart  by  the  shortest  route  of  the  leeward  islands,  and  am  ordered  to  com- 
municate it  to  the  government  through  the  medium  of  you,  by  transmitting  the 
pamphlet  which  I  inclose,  and  should  have  conveyed  personally.  I  pray  you 
to  deliver  it  into  the  hands  of  His  Excellency  the  President ;  and,  as  eventually 
some  answer  may  be  practicable  in  so  interesting  a  business,  General  Francis 
de  Miranda,  our  compatriot  and  principal  agent  of  all  Spanish  America  in 
union,  a  person  extremely  well  known,  and  in  particular  to  the  Hon.  Mr. 
King,  whose  intervention  is  as  to  both  parties  safe  and  secret,  will  remain  in 
London. 

"  I  also  hope  you  will  have  the  goodness  to  receive  the  first  tribute  of  my  re- 
spects in  the  Spanish  language  and  style,  as  I  am  unable  to  render  it  in  Eng- 
lish and  that  you  will  not  confide  the  secret  to  interpreters  who  are  not  known." 

In  reference  to  the  letter,  inclosed  in  M.  Caro's  package,  to 
Colonel  Hamilton,  sent  by  Mr.  Pickering  to  him,  Mr.  Picker- 
ing says  August  22,  1798  : 

"  Not  to  miss  a  mail,  I  wrote"  you  one  line  today  and  inclosed  a  letter  from, 
I  suppose,  General  Miranda.  If  its  contents  give  rise  to  any  questions  which 
it  will  be  prudent  for  you  to  ask,  and  for  me  to  answer  by  the  mail,  it  may  be 
done  ;  otherwise  the  information  may  be  suspended  until  we  meet." — Hamil- 
ton's Works,  vi.,  343. 

There  does  not  appear  to  be  any  answer  to  this. 

Alexander  Hamilton  to  Rufus  King. 

New  York,  Aug.  22,  1798. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

You  will  be  no  doubt  fully  instructed  of  the  measures  which  have  taken  place 
on  the  part  of  our  government  and  you  will  have  seen  in  the  numerous  addresses 
to  the  President  a  confirmation  of  the  opinion  I  gave  you  respecting  thedisposi- 

*  Letter  of  February  26,  1798. 


APPENDIX.  659 


tion  of  this  Country.  From  both  you  will  have  derived  satisfaction  though  you 
should  not  think  we  are  yet  where  we  ought  now  to  be.  But  console  yourself 
with  the  assurance  that  we  are  progressive  in  good.  The  indications  are  to  my 
mind  conclusive  that  we  are  approaching  fast  to  as  great  unanimity  as  any 
country  ever  experienced  and  that  our  energies  will  be  displayed  in  proportion 
to  whatever  exigencies  shall  arise. 

I  have  received  several  letters  from  General  Miranda.  I  have  written 
answers  to  some  of  them,  which  I  send  you  to  deliver  or  not  according  to  your 
estimate  of  what  is  passing  in  the  scenes  where  you  are.  Should  you  deem  it 
expedient  to  suppress  my  letter,  you  may  do  it  &  say  as  much  as  you  think  fit 
on  my  part  in  the  nature  of  a  communication  through  you. 

With  regard  to  the  enterprise  in  question,  I  wish  it  much  to  be  undertaken, 
but  I  should  be  glad  that  the  principal  agency  was  in  the  U  States — they  to  fur- 
nish the  whole  land  force  necessary.  The  command  in  this  case  would  very 
naturally  fall  upon  me — and  I  hope  I  should  disappoint  no  favorable  anticipa- 
tion— The  independency  of  the  separated  territory  under  a  moderate  govern- 
ment, with  the  joint  guarantee  of  the  co-operating  powers,  stipulating  equal 
privileges  in  commerce,  would  be  the  sum  of  the  results  to  be  accomplished. 

Are  we  yet  mature  for  this  undertaking  ?  Not  quite — But  we  ripen  fast,  and 
it  may  (I  think)  be  rapidly  brought  to  maturity,  if  an  efficient  negotiation  for 
the  purpose  is  at  once  set  on  foot  upon  this  ground — Great  Britain  cannot  alone 
ensure  the  accomplishment  of  the  object.  I  have  some  time  since  advised  cer- 
tain preliminary  steps  to  prepare  the  way  consistently  with  national  character 
and  justice.  I  was  told  they  would  be  pursued,  but  I  am  not  informed  whether 
they  have  been  or  not.* 

Yrs.  Affecly. 

A.  H. 

A.  Hamilton  to  General  Miranda. 

New  York,  August  22.  1798. 
Sir  : 

The  sentiments  I  entertain  with  regard  to  that  object  have  been  long  since 
in  your  knowledge.  But  I  could  personally  have  no  participation  in  it,  unless 
patronised  by  the  Government  of  this  Country.  It  was  my  wish  that  matters 
had  been  ripened  for  a  co-operation  in  the  course  of  this  Fall  on  the  part  of  this 
Country.  But  this  can  now  scarcely  be  the  case.  The  Winter  however  may 
mature  the  project  and  an  effectual  co-operation  by  the  U  States  may  take 
place.  In  this  case  I  shall  be  happy  in  my  official  station  to  be  an  instrument 
of  so  good  a  work. 

The  plan  in  my  opinion  ought  to  be  a  fleet  of  Great  Britain,  an  army  of  the 
U.  States. — a  government  for  the  liberated  territory  agreeable  to  both  the  Co- 
operators,  about  which  there  will  be  probably  no  difficulty.     To  arrange  the 

*  This  letter  was  received  by  Mr.  King  on  October  20,  1798,  as  appears  by 
his  letter  of  that  date. 


660      LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE   OF  RUFUS  KING. 


plan  a  competent  authority  from  Great  Britain  to  some  person  here  is  the  best 

expedient. — Your  presence  here  will  in  this  case  be  extremely  essential. 

We  are  raising  an  army  of  about  Twelve  thousand  men.     Genl.  Washington 

has  resumed  his  station  at  the  head  of  our  armies. — I  am  appointed  second  in 

command. 

With  esteem  and  regard 

I  remain  Dr.  Sir, 

Yr.  very  Obt.  Servt. 

A.  Hamilton. 

In  the  meantime  Mr.  King,  on  August  17th,  communicates 
in  cipher  to  the  Secretary  of  State  the  following  report  of  a 
conference  with  Lord  Grenville : 

Our  conference  here  took  a  turn  to  the  probability  of  the  Revolution  of 
S.  America  *:  He  was  fuller  and  more  explicit  than  he  had  been  on  any  former 
occasion,  always  understanding  that  my  conversation  on  this  subject  was  personal 
and  wholly  unauthorized.  The  digression  which  treated  of  the  practicability 
and  of  the  means  of  effecting  the  measure,  tended  to  shew  to  me  that  they  have 
at  times  considered  and  combined  with  their  views  of  a  future  connection  with 
the  United  States,  the  independence  of  the  Spanish  Continental  Colonies.  I  did 
not  perceive,  nor  do  I  believe  it  to  be  the  case,  that  they  have  any  recent  infor- 
mation of  the  present  temper,  disposition  or  plans  of  these  Colonies,  a  knowledge 
more  easily  procured  from  the  United  States  than  from  Europe  and  which  is  in- 
dispensably requisite  to  the  success  of  an  enterprize  to  accomplish  the  Revolution. 
He  spoke  of  the  government  to  be  established  in  these  as  a  Revolution  ;  he  thought 
our  System  would  attract  and  receive  their  approbation,  and  made  some  remarks 
upon  the  apprehension  to  be  entertained  on  account  of  their  genius  and  charac- 
ter, which  especially  in  Peru,  was  said  to  be  highly  animated  and  full  of  en- 
thusiasm, and  concluded  by  observing  that  he  was  more  and  more  confirmed  in 
the  opinion,  that  none  but  Englishmen  and  their  descendants  knew  how  to  make 
a  Revolution. 

On  the  same  date,  General  Miranda  wrote  another  letter  to  the 
President,  Mr.  Adams,  f  in  which  he  says  : 

"  Depuis  le  depart  de  ma  depeche,  les  circonstances  sont  devenues  plus 
favorable  encore.  Les  evenemens  survenus  et  en  Europe  et  aux  Etats  Unis 
rendent  merae  la  separation  des  colonies  Hispano-Americaines  indispensables  ; 
d'autant  plus  qu'elles  sont  decidees  a  ne  pas  devenir  les  agens,  encore  moins  les 
sujets,  de  la  republique  Francaise.  .  .  .  Je  vois  avec  plaisir  que  l'Angleterre, 
sentant  enfin  que  son  salut  et  son  bonheur  futur  dependent  absolument  d'une 

*  Italics  in  cipher. 

\  Life  and  Works  of  John  Adams,  viii.,  581. 


APPENDIX.  66 1 


alliance  et  d'un  attachement  intime  avec  l'Amerique,  est  resolue,  en  deposant 
tout  esprit  de  jalousie  et  de  monopole  commercial,  a  co-6perer  avec  vous  en 
faveur  de  cet  important  objet,  dont  le  succes  assurera  non  seulement  le  bonheur 
reciproque,  mais  encore  la  gloire  immortelle,  des  trois  parties  interesse'es. 

"  Mr.  King,  votredigne  ambassadeur  aupres  desa  Majeste  Britannique,  etqui 
joint  ici  a  tant  de  titres  de  l'estime  generate,  entrant  dans  tous  les  details,  vous 
communiquera  les  renseignemens  qui  vous  seront  necessaires,  tant  a  l'egard  de 
l'Europe  qu'  a  l'egard  de  l'Amerique  du  Sud.  Nos  interets  etant  les  memes, 
et  mes  commettans  ayant  mis  toute  leur  confiance  dans  leurs  compatriotes  du 
Nord,  j'ai  cru  ne  pouvoir  mieux  remplir  leurs  desirs  qu'en  agissant  d'accord  avec 
lui,  sans  la  plus  legere  reserve,  et  avec  une  confiance  mutuelle. 

"  Puisque  votre  reponse  doit  en  quelque  sort  decider  le  sort  de  l'Amerique 
meridionale,  et  combler  les  souhaits  de  mes  compatriotes,  jevousprie,  Monsieur 
le  President,  de  vouloir  bien  me  la  faire  parvenir  le  plutot  qu'il  vous  sera  possi- 
ble." 

"F.  de  Miranda." 

These  letters  were  not  received  in  America  until  the  following 
October,  on  the  3d  of  which  month  the  President  wrote  to  T. 
Pickering,  Secretary  of  State,  from  Quincy  : 

"Dear  Sir  : 

"  Inclosed  is  a  duplicate  of  a  letter  from  Miranda,  with  some  estimates.  Read 
it  and  think  of  it.  A  number  of  questions  and  considerations  occur.  We  are 
friends  with  Spain.  If  we  were  enemies,  would  the  project  be  useful  to  us  ?  It 
will  not  be  in  character  for  me  to  answer  the  letter.  Will  any  notice  of  it,  in 
any  manner,  be  proper  ?  "  * 

It  does  not  appear  that  the  Secretary  ever  answered  these  ques- 
tions, "  and,"  Mr.  C.  F.  Adams  says,  "  the  grand  plan  thus 
perished  by  inanition."  f  Of  course,  without  the  President,  no 
efficient  action  could  be  taken.  But  the  fact  is  that  the  com- 
munication from  the  British  Government,  to  that  of  the  United 
States,  of  which  Mr.  King  had  spoken  as  a  preliminary  to  any 
arrangement,  was  not  ever  made  ;  the  whole  correspondence  had 
been  unofficial,  except  that  of  Mr.  King  to  the  Secretary  of  State, 
as  to  the  possibility  and  probability  of  co-operation  between  the 
two  countries,  and  that  of  General  Miranda  with  the  President  and 
Mr.  Hamilton,  Miranda  himself  being  earnest  and  sanguine,  and 
believing  that  Great  Britain  seriously  contemplated  the  expedition 
which  he  desired  and  which  perhaps  at  one  time  it  apparently  did. 

*  Life  and  Works  of  yohn  Adams,  viii.,  600. 
\  Ibid.,  ii.,  532. 


662      LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE   OF  RUFUS  KING. 

For  had  it  not  done  so,  how  could  Mr.  King  have  written  in  a 
private  letter  to  Mr.  Hamilton,  as  he  did  on  October  20th  ? 

"  My  dear  Sir  : 

"  I  have  received  your  letter  of  the  22d  August,  with  the  enclosure  that  has 
been  delivered  as  directed.  On  that  subject  things  are  here  as  we  could  desire. 
There  will  be  precisely  such  a  co-operation  as  we  wish  the  moment  we  are 
ready.  The  Secretary  of  State  will  show  you  my  communication  on  this  sub- 
ject. Though  I  have  not  a  word  from  him  respecting  it,  your  outline  corresponds 
with  what  has  been  suggested  by  me,  and  approved  by  this  government.  For- 
tunately some  months  past  I  obtained  a  fac  simile  of  the  latest  map  of  the  coun- 
try. It  has  been  now  two  months  in  the  hand  of  an  engraver,  who  has  engaged 
to  deliver  the  copies  in  January.  This  government  has  considerable  informa- 
tion respecting  the  interior,  as  well  as  concerning  the  condition  and  dispositions 
of  the  inhabitants,  though  I  apprehend  it  is  not  of  a  recent  date.  What  we 
know  is  favorable  ;  but  if  we  are  to  be  betrayed  by  France,  the  glorious  oppor- 
tunity will  be  lost.  I  am  gratified  on  receiving  your  opinion  of  the  good  con- 
dition of  our  public  affairs,  but  I  do  not  feel  confident  that  we  are  as  safe  as  you 
appear  to  think  we  are.  It  is  fraud,  not  force,  I  fear.  ...  A  Paris  paper 
of  the  8th  instant,  which  is  the  latest  that  takes  any  notice  of  the  United  States, 
says  :  Les  dernieres  lettres  de  Bordeaux  assurent  qu'ily  est  arrive  un  courier  ex- 
traordinaire porteur  d'ordres  pour  remettre  l'embargo  sur  les  navires  Ameri- 
caines.  Voila  done  la  guerre  inevitable  avec  ce  peuple,  du  moins  toutes  nos 
correspondances  coincident." 

In  a  private  letter  to  Mr.  Pickering,  October  20,  1798,  Mr.  King 
says  : 

"  You  are  silent  concerning  South  America  *y  I  have  again  and  again  touched 
upon  it  ;  I  have  wished  to  say  much  more,  but  I  have  not  thought  it  prudent. 
As  England  is  steady,  she  will  furnish  a  fleet  and  military  stores,  and  we  should 
furnish  the  army.  A  map  of  the  cozmtry  that  some  time  since  I  procured,  is  in 
the  hands  of  the  engraver  ;  the  copies  will  be  delivered  in  January." 

R.  King  to  A.  Hamilton.-^ 

London,  March  4,  1799. 

Our  opinions  do  not  differ  upon  a  very  important  subject  that  has  more  than 
once  been  mentioned  in  our  correspondence.  I  am  entirely  ignorant  of  the  sen- 
timents of  the  President,  though  I  have  again  and  again  treated  of  it,  and 
sometimes  with  earnestness,  in  my  dispatches.     This  silence  gives  me  some 

*  Italics  in  cipher. 

f  Works  of  Hamilton,  vol.  vi.,  402. 


APPENDIX.  663 


inquietude.*  Mr.  G.  will  send  you  the  reflections  that  have  occurred  to  him, 
and  will  also  explain  the  motives  for  putting  them  into  your  hands.  I  cannot 
at  this  distance  decide  upon  the  expediency  of  publishing  these  reflections,  but 
I  am  much  inclined  to  recommend  it,  as  all  our  conjectures,  explained  and 
confirmed  by  everything  we  see,  enjoin  us  to  look  for  safety  only  in  our  own 
courage  and  upon  our  own  continent. 

With  perfect  regard  and  attachment,  &c. 

R.  King  to  A.  Hamilton. 

London,  March  9,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

By  Mr.  Erskine,  whom  I  have  introduced  to  you,  I  send  you  a  copy  of  the 
famous  Map  of  So.  America  that  Fayden  has  lately  engraved.  It  is  a  facsimile 
of  the  Spanish  map  so  carefully  concealed  at  Madrid. 

Fayden  is  employed  in  another  map  upon  the  same  scale  of  the  Spanish  Ter- 
ritories North  of  the  Isthmus  ;  it  will  be  less  accurate  and  authentic,  but  such 
as  it  is  it  will  supply  a  desideratum.  I  am  from  many  considerations  restrained 
from  saying  what  ought  to  be  said  and  must  not  be  delayed  respecting  this  im- 
portant Country.  I  am  entirely  convinced,  if  it  and  its  resources  are  not  for 
us,  that  they  will  speedily  be  against  us. 

Spain  and  Portugal  are  completely  in  check  ;  and  the  game  may  be  termi- 
nated with  them  at  the  pleasure  of  France.  The  next  step  is  plain  and  will  be 
by  and  by  unavoidable.     What  do  we  expect,  what,  without  infatuation,  can  we 

expect  of  France  ?     Why  then  any  further  Reserves  ? 

Yrs.  truly 

R.  K. 

It  does  not  appear  that  anything  further  was  done  in  Miranda's 
business.  Tired  of  awaiting  the  decision  of  Great  Britain  to 
commit  itself  to  and  engage  in  his  scheme  of  revolution,  finding 
also  that  the  earnestness  of  England  varied  with  the  success  or 
disaster  of  France  in  her  affairs  on  the  Continent,  and  being 
straitened  in  means,  he  desired  to  come  to  America,  possibly  to 
see  if  he  might  meet  with  a  more  favorable  reception.  On  the 
21st  of  January,  1799,  Mr.  King  applied  for  a  passport  for  him  to 
leave  England  for  the  West  Indies,  which  was  not  granted  to 
him,  and  again  on  the  1st  of  August  he  addressed  a  private  note 
renewing  his  request,  to  Mr.  Huskisson,  Under  Secretary  with 
Mr.  Dundas,  which,  with  Mr.  King's  note  to  General  Miranda 
and  one  to  Mr.  Pickering,  are  here  given  : 

*  The  only  notice  of  the  President's  opinion  is  to  be  found  in  his  letter  to  Mr. 
Pickering,  Secretary  of  State,  on  October  30,  179S,  which  does  not  appear  to 
have  been  communicated  to  Mr.  King. 


664      LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE   OF  RUE  US  KING. 

R.  King  to  W.  Huskisson,  Esq. 

Private, 

G.  C.  P.,  Aug.  i,   1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

It  is  not  without  reluctance  since  the  receit  of  your  note  of that  I  renew 

the  subject  of  a  Passport  for  General  Miranda  ;  my  sole  inducement  proceeds 
from  the  extreme  embarrassment  in  which  I  see  him,  and  from  which  he  has 
no  means  of  extricating  himself  while  he  remains  in  England. 

It  is  not  suitable  that  I  should  enter  into  or  even  entertain  an  opinion,  on 
the  policy  of  granting  or  denying  a  Passport  for  Trinidad  ;  besides  that  point 
is  decided.  He  now  desires  a  Passport  to  leave  England  to  go  to  the  U.  S., 
and  as  I  have  no  reason  to  think  his  going  there  would  be  disagreeable  to  the 
American  Government,  I  take  the  liberty  of  asking  you  to  submit  to  Mr.  Pitt, 
this  request  of  the  requisite  permission  for  him  to  leave  England  for  the  U.  S., 
and  that  you  will  at  the  same  time  explain  to  him  that  my  interference  origi- 
nates in  the  knowledge  of  the  pecuniary  Embarrassments  of  General  Miranda, 
and  of  his  utter  want  of  resources  to  enable  him  any  longer  to  subsist  in  this 
country. 

With  Sentiments  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

Rufus  King  to  General  Miranda. 

Brighton,  Sept.  1,  1799. 
Dear  General  : 

I  have  just  received  a  note  from  Mr.  Dundas,  informing  me  that  on  applica- 
tion to  Lord  Grenville,  a  Passport  will  be  granted  to  you  to  leave  England  for 
the  U.  S.  of  America.  As  you  may  wish  to  take  immediate  measures  on  the 
Subject  of  your  Passage,  I  do  not  suffer  the  Post  to  return  without  sending  you 
this  agreeable  information. 

We  shall  be  at  home  on  Wednesday  or  Thursday,  when  I  shall  have  the  pleas- 
ure of  seeing  you  in  Cumberland  Place.  I  charge  myself  with  the  completion 
of  your  wishes  respecting  the  Passport. 

Ever  &  with  great  truth  yours  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

Rufus  King  to  Col.  Pickering. 

London,  Sept.  9,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  take  the  liberty  to  introduce  to  you  the  Bearer  General  Miranda  to  whose 
name  and  reputation  you  cannot  be  a  Stranger  :  few  persons  have  had  greater 
opportunities  of  seeing  the  different  Countries  of  Europe,  of  observing  their 
various  institutions,  or  of  being  acquainted  with  their  distinguished  Statesmen 
and  Men  of  Letters. 


APPENDIX.  665 


Numerous  and  favorable  as  these  occasions  have  been  for  the  acquisition  of 
extensive  and  useful  information,  you  will  perceive  by  conversing  with  the 
General,  that  he  has  not  suffered  them  to  escape  unimproved. 

As  he  proposes  to  pass  some  time  at  Philadelphia,  I  shall  be  particularly 
obliged  to  you  to  receive  him  with  the  kindness  and  respect  due  to  a  man  of 
uncommon  Talents  and  rare  acquirements. 

With  the  greatest  Truth  and  Attachment  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

Note— Mill  Hill,  Middlesex,  Oct.  18,  1799. 

Miranda  could  not  obtain  permission  to  leave  England  for  the  U.S. — this 
letter  will  not  therefore  be  delivered. 

The  detail  with  which  this  proposed  adventure  of  Miranda  has 
been  given,  is  to  meet  a  suggestion  made  by  Mr.  C.  F.  Adams,* 
that  "  Mr.  King's  public  and  private  papers,  not  yet  before  the 
world,  must  throw  a  flood  of  light  on  these  transactions."  They 
are  now  before  the  public,  and  certainly  do  not  warrant  the 
charge  that  Mr.  Hamilton  at  the  time  of  making  the  suggestion 
for  "  a  more  extensive  force  than  was  needed  merely  for  defence," 
was  doing  more  than  to  prepare  for  an  emergency  that  might 
arise  under  the  strained  relations  with  France.  Whatever  was 
done  was  to  be  done  under  the  direction  and  with  the  consent  of 
the  government,  though  he  might  justly  look  forward  to  the  com- 
mand of  an  expedition,  should  one  be  organized,  "  to  attack 
where  we  can.  France  is  not  to  be  considered  as  separated  from 
her  ally.  Tempting  objects  will  be  within  our  grasp."  f  The 
Floridas  and  Louisiana  were  "  tempting  objects." 

There  was  no  opportunity  for  testing  any  plans  he  may  have 
had,  for  the  action  of  the  President,  Mr.  Adams,  in  determining  to 
send  another  Envoy  to  France,  to  meet  what  he  considered  the 
advances  of  the  French  Government  towards  a  settlement  of  the 
questions  between  the  two  countries,  put  an  end  to  all  active 
movements  on  the  part  of  the  United  States. 

As  regards  the  conduct  of  Mr.  King  in  urging  this  co-operation 
between  England  and  the  United  States,  there  can  be  no  doubt 
of  its  having  been  the  result  of  the  strong  desire  to  punish  France 
by  decisive  measures,  for  her  perfidy  and  atrocious  acts  against 
the  United  States,  that  prevented  him  from  foreseeing  that  such 


*  John  Adams's  Works,  i.,  525. 
f  Hamilton's  Works,  v.,  184. 


666      LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE   OF  RUFUS  KING. 

co-operation,  as  was  proposed,  was  really  to  ally  the  country  with 
a  foreign  power  against  a  mutual  enemy,  and  that  such  an  alli- 
ance would  have  been  full  of  danger  to  the  United  States.  It  is 
the  more  extraordinary  because  his  correspondence  will  show  how 
little  confidence  he  had  in  the  certainty  that  the  British  Govern- 
ment would  act  against  her  own  interests,  were  peace  in  Europe 
restored.  The  United  States  would  have  been  left  alone  to  carry 
out  the  plan,  which  must  have  failed,  and  failure  under  the  cir- 
cumstances would  have  justified  the  friends  of  France  in  their 
clamor  against  the  government. 


\ 


/ 


