Rufus King
State: Massachusetts
Signed Constitution: True
Surviving papers tier: rich
Best public-domain source note: The Life and Correspondence of Rufus King (ed. C. R. King, 6 vols, PD)



===== Rufus King - The Life and Correspondence of Rufus King (ed. C. R. King, 6 vols, PD) (vol. 1) =====
Source: https://archive.org/download/lifecorresponden01king/lifecorresponden01king_djvu.txt

I^^^^P^fc^^^^aMtahgw

jntoerstta of d*
4d California «

/

THE LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

OF

RUFUS KING

VOLUME IV.

1801-1806

Of this Letter-press Edition
750 Copies ha ve been Printed for Saie

No. Jo

August, 1897

.CALIFQB^

(fcuftASl /6ny>

Kur

Rufus King

From a painting by Gilbert Stuart, 1820

THE LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

OF

RUFUS KING

COMPRISING HIS LETTERS, PRIVATE AND OFFICIAL

HIS PUBLIC DOCUMENTS AND

HIS SPEECHES

EDITED BY HIS GRANDSON

CHARLES R. KING, M.D., LL.D. (Trin.)

FELLOW OF THE COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS, PHILADELPHIA, AND

MEMBER OF THE NEW YORK AND PENNSYLVANIA

HISTORICAL SOCIETIES

VOLUME IV.
1801-1806

NEW YORK
P. PUTNAM'S SONS

&\t Ihtuktrboeher ^mss
ffc.i.

:^

COPYRIGHT, 1897
BY

CHARLES R. KING

Ube "ftnCcfeerbocfeer Qveee, "Hew Kortt

PREFACE TO THE FOURTH VOLUME.

^ This fourth volume presents the correspondence to the
time of the close of Mr. King's mission to Great Britain,
and gives an account of several interesting events which
occupied attention, and in which he was an interested actor.
He returned to the United States finding the friends with
whom he had been closely associated before his departure
for Great Britain out of power, the political principles upon
which they had founded the government discredited and
supplanted by others of which they saw the dangerous
tendency ; a condition of things which made many loyal
men suggest disloyal expedients. Mr. King was not of
these but was, indeed, an earnest opposer of their plans; and
when he came home untrammelled by personal connection
with the political animosities which prevailed, he was put for-
ward by the leaders as the representative of the old Federal
Party, but only to be defeated. The circumstances connected
with these efforts to recover power will be found explained
in the correspondence. The relations with his friend Alex-
ander Hamilton ; his connection with the duel which de-
prived the country of its leading statesman ; his interest
in seeing provision made to relieve the family, whose head
had been taken away ; are all clearly stated, showing the
warmth of his friendship, and the earnestness with which he
sought to avert the consequence of this sad event.

The threatened attempt of some of the New England
men to seek relief from the political troubles of the time by
severing the Union, received, as will be seen, his positive
rebuke, as it had received that of Hamilton and of other
sound men of the Federal party. It was not in that way
VI PREFACE TO THE FOURTH VOLUME.

that relief was to be found, but by a steadfast adherence to
their principles and earnest appeals to the patriotism of the
people. Without going into detail to show the events of the
period covered by the correspondence, it may be proper to
say that the Louisiana purchase occupies a considerable
space, in which Mr. King in his letters to Mr. Livingston
lays down clearly, in reference to the pending negotiation
with France, the principle, since named the Monroe doctrine
— that the United States would look with disfavour upon the
attempt of any European nation, but Spain, to colonize on
its borders. There is another subject which enlisted the
warm sympathy of Mr. King during his residence in England,
the liberation of the Spanish American colonies from the
parent state. Full correspondence relative to this will be
found in this volume, extending over several years, and in
which its projector Genl. Miranda earnestly sought his help,
especially, when, despairing of the often promised help from
the British Government he came to the United States to en-
list, if possible, the assistance of the Government and of indi-
viduals to enable him to carry out his plans. Mr. King, much as
he desired to help him, could not do so, because the expedition
could only be carried out by an infringement of the laws of
the United States. The result proved his wisdom ; the
parties who were instrumental in sending it out were, in-
dicted, though not convicted, and the venture disastrously
failed.

In all the matters adverted to in the following paper, are
evinced the intelligent understanding, sound judgment, wise
foresight and prudent counsels which mark the life of Mr.
King and the love of his country which was never shaken
however much its welfare was threatened.

CONTENTS OF VOL. IV.

CHAPTER I.

PAGE

Affairs in the U. S.— Ames to King— Federal Views— King to Gore—
peace_King to Madison— Detention of Vessels charged with break-
ing Blockade of Havre— King to Madison— Public Sentiment about
the Peace— Patience in conducting Negotiations with England— Con-
versation with Addington regarding them — The Latter thinks the
Peace will be permanent— Mr. Otto— His Integrity and Discretion
—King to Addington— Statement relative to 6th Article— King to
Madison— Diplomatic Changes— Cabot to King— Looks for Storms,
others more hopeful— King to Lord Hawkesbury— Vessels detained
for breaking Blockade— G. Morris to King— On the Peace— King
to Lord Grenville— Statement of Latter in H. of Lords, charging
Misrepresentation and Perjury by a Foreign Minister— Lord Gren-
ville to King— Said it did not reflect on his Character or Conduct-
King to Secretary of State— Spain ceded Louisiana to France^-No^
Allusion to Louisiana in the Negotiations between France and Eng-
land—L. Littlepage to King— Louisiana^King— Conference with
Lord Hawkesbury, relative to 6th Article— French Expedition to St.
Domingo — Also concerning Louisiana./ 1

CHAPTER II.

Dinner at Addington's— Otto and Talleyrand— Wilberforce on Slave
Trade and on Pitt— Anecdote about Expedition to Egypt— Lord
Molesworth in Denmark— King to Lord Pelham— Complaint against
McDonough, English Agent at Tripoli— Inciting War against the
U. S.— Lord Pelham's Answer— His Conduct unauthorized— He is
to be removed— King to Lord Hawkesbury— Presses for a Settle-
ment of Negotiations— King to Secretary of State— Expeditions to
^ St. Domingo— Otto to be Minister to the U. S.— King to R. R. Liv-
ingston—Congratulations on his Arrival at Paris— Troup to King-
Depressing Effect of the Peace— Duel of Hamilton's Son— Anecdote
of Talleyrand and La Foret— Gambling in English Stocks— Genet
wrote his own Instructions— Sir William Parker instead of curbing,

vii

Vlll CONTENTS.

permitted Depredations by his Officers on American Commerce —
King to Eaton — Presents to the Bey — King to Addington — Delays in
Negotiations — J. Q. Adams to King — The Peace will cause Incon-
venience— King to Hamilton — Letter of Condolence — Sedgwick to
King — Democratic Influence increased in New England — Jefferson's
Removals have not hurt his Influence — Rupture with England feared
by Jefferson's Friends — They aim at the Destruction of the Judiciary
— King to Lord Eldon — Presses for a Settlement of Negotiations. . 20

CHAPTER III.

Hale to King — Comments despondingly on the President's Message —
Ames to King — On the Message — Virginia to Control — The Peace
will not calm Agitation in U. S. — King to Secretary of State — Ves-
sels detained for breaking Blockade of Havre released by Executive
Interference — Lord Dunmore's outrageous Conduct in Virginia —
Conversation with Lord Hawkesbury-^French Expedition to St. Do-
mingo-^Louisiana — French desire to colonize to get rid of per-
turbed Spirits — Bonaparte an extraordinary Character — King to Sec-
retary of State — St. Croix Boundary — Prize Courts in the West Indies
— Impressed Seamen — Peace has stopped Impressments — Outrages
against Commerce continue — W. Pinkney's Congratulations on sign-
ing Convention relative to 6th and 7th Articles — Gore to King — On
his Trials while negotiating — King — Signature of the Convention —
King to Secretary of State — Sends the Convention — Mode of paying
Claims — Maryland Bank-Stock Claim soon to be settled — King
to Madison — History of the Negotiation — Discouraging Delays —
Looked only to his Duty — King to Secretary of State — Congress at
Amiens probably result favorably to Peace — Mutiny in the Fleet for V'
the W. Indies. . 38

CHAPTER IV.

King to Madison — Asks Permission to travel on the Continent — King to
J. Adams — Sending a Copy of the Convention just signed — King to
Marshall — Explanation of the Convention — King to Secretary of
State — Cession of Louisiana — Lord Hawkesbury's Views — King to
R. R. Livingston — Cession of Louisiana — Not to be referred to at
Amiens — Great Britain does not wish it — King suggests a temperate
Statement against it with France — J. Q. Adams to King — Discus-
sion of the President's Message — Treasury Report pleasing — Prob-
able Action of the Administration — Aim for Popularity — King to
Secretary of State — Conference with Lord Hawkesbury relative to
the Footing of our Navigation on Return of Peace — To discontinue
countervailing Duties — Harmony of England and continental mari-

CONTENTS.

IX

time Nations will not be re-established by the Peace— King to Lord
Hawkesbury — Expediency of abolishing alien tonnage Duty — King
to Secretary of State — Treaty not yet signed— Fleet from Brest not
yet sailed for St. Domingo— Sweden acceded to Convention of Pe-
tersburg—Probable Change of Ministry unfounded— Madison to King
—Appointment of G. W. Ewing as Consul— King to Parker— Send-
ing his Son James to School at Paris 53

CHAPTER V.

King to Vansittart, Secretary of State, and Madison— Discriminating
Duties on commercial Intercourse — England prepared to abolish
them— Commission under 7th Article resumed their sittings— Sedg-
wick to King— Condition of Affairs in the U. S. as affected by Jef-
erson's Election— Ames to King—View of the Future not cheering—
King to Madison— Delay of Negotiations at Amiens— Believes Peace
will be concluded— Napoleon at Lyons appointed himself President
of the Italian Republic— King to Secretary of State— McDonough,
British Agent at Tripoli, exculpates himself from Charges against
him — Debate on Bill to suspend tonnage and countervailing Duties
— Definitely settled by France to send a Colony to Louisiana, unless
Affairs in St. Domingo prevent— King to Secretary of State— Ardor
for Peace abating in England— Fleets to be put in Order.— Still be-
lieves there will be Peace chiefly advantageous to France— King to
Secretary of State— Erving's Appointment— King to Secretary of
State— Negotiations at Amiens still unsettled— Public Opinion in
England seems to favor Rupture 68

CHAPTER VI.

Presents to Bey of Tunis sent — King to Livingston — Louisiana — To pre-
vent the sailing of the French Fleet — Iron or Gold—Former impos-
sible— Gold might buy Louisiana by fair Purchase with Cash —
Would the People consent ?— Suggests other Means — Nothing will
be done at Amiens — General Suggestions — Monroe Doctrine — King
to Livingston — Explains the Convention between United States and
England — Spaniards have fifteen Millions of Dollars in West Indies
to buy Provisions for the combined Fleets— Hawkesbury to King-
Announces the Signature of the Definitive Treaty — Lord Lansdowne
on Louisiana — In the Discussions relative to it before the Treaty of
Peace of 1783, he wished England to retain it— Cabot to King-
Congratulates him for the Convention — Murray to King — Return
Home and Reception — No Chief among the Federalists — Recom-
mends him to stay Abroad — King to Troup — Does not feel any Fear
of Reception of Convention by intelligent and reasonable Men — Con-

CONTENTS.

trasts France and England in Ability to raise Money— King to Sec-
retary of State— Definitive Treaty conforms in the Main to the Pre-
liminaries—If no secret Articles, Indemnity to the Prince of Orange
not given— Effect of Treaty in England— King to Secretary of State
—Has suggested the Appointment of Mr. Merry as Successor to Mr.
Liston

CHAPTER VII.

Troup to King— Congressional Acts— G. Morris on Judiciary Bill— Burr
has lost Ground-Toast at a Dinner— Jefferson the Idol-Business
dull— Cabot to King— Distrusts French Fleets-Does not fear French^
Settlement in Louisiana— Ames to King— France's Project of getting,
Louisiana can only do Good— Joy at Adjustment with Great Britain
of the Negotiation about the Debts— J. Hale to King— Glad he will
remain in London— Federalists more confident— Louisiana Project
will operate well— King to Lord Hawkesbury— Cession of Louisa
ana Effect on the Navigation of the Mississippi— How far is Eng-
land concerned in the Cession-McHenry to King-Effect of Peace
on the United States— Measures of the Administration criticised—
King to Vansittart— United States should pay no higher Duties to
export British Manufactures than other Nations— King to Secretary
of State— Definitive Treaty ratified— Sweden joins Russia and Eng-
land in annulling the System of armed Neutrality-King to Secretary
of State, United States Funds— Means taken to secure their Safety
and proper Disbursement, especially in Prize Cases— The Govern-
ment having now made other Arrangements, he shall no longer re-
gard the pecuniary Affairs under his Control— J. Marshall to King
—Congratulates him on his Settlement of the Debt Claims. .

CHAPTER VIII.

King to Secretary of State— Bill imposing Duties on Exports and Im-
ports passed-King to Secretary of State-Has asked Lord Hawkes-
bury for a confidential Statement of Views of the British Govern-
ment about Louisiana Cession— Lord Hawkesbury to King— Confi-
dential Answer— King to Hamilton— Louisiana Cession— Troup to
King— American Politics— Cabot to King— Sees Danger in the Euro-
pean Peace— France ambitious, restless— King to Low— His Opinion
of Samuel Williams-King to Secretary of State-Debate on the
Peace— Convention between Great Britain and Russia— King to Sec-
retary of State-Embarrassment with Trade through French Laws
—Affairs of Bird & Co. embarrassed— King to Dr. Drury— Wishes
his Sons advanced as much as possible— Drury to King— Does not
102

CONTENTS. XI

PAGE

advise pushing them — Course at Harrow — Hamilton to King — He
should return Home — Reasons given — General Opinion of Affairs in
the United States — Troup to King — Affairs in United States, espec-
ially relative to Burr 119

CHAPTER IX.

King to Secretary of State— Received President's and Senate's Approba-
tion of the Convention — Sedgwick to King — Glad he will return
Home — Federalism improving — District of Maine— King to Low —
Confidence in Government Funds — King to Madison — Thanks for
Permission to visit France, etc. — Will leave Mr. Gore Charge with-
out Expense to the Public — King to Secretary of State— Commis-
sion under 7th Article proceeding satisfactorily — Has postponed
Discussion of the Repeal of countervailing Duty on Tobacco — King
to Erving — Claims of Seamen for Relief — King to Lord Hawkesbury
— Has received the Convention ratified, etc. — King to Secretary of
State — Loan by Holland paid in Part to France to release Claims of
the Prince of Orange — King to Lord Hawkesbury — Demanding Re-
lease of impressed Seamen — King to Livingston — Floridas possibly
not ceded — Free Navigation of the Mississippi essential to United^
States— Floridas must belong to us— Interesting Suggestion relative
to them — Should not enter into a Guaranty as to their Possession by
Spain — King to Secretary of State — Ratifications of Convention ex-
changed— King to Secretary of State — Morocco declared war against
the United States — Agricultural Prospects in England bad — King to
Troup — Going to the Continent — King to Secretary of State — In-
forming him of his Expenditure relating to the Publication of Robin-
son's Admiralty Reports and why incurred 137

CHAPTER X.

King to Livingston — Has sent in his Resignation — King to Marshall —
Plan of Settlement by the Convention completed before he received
the Views of the new Administration, though approved by it — Has
resigned his Office — King to R. Southgate — Has resigned his Office
—King to Secretary of State— Resigns his Office and asks to return
Home in the Spring in a Frigate— King to Madison — Desires to re-
turn in a public Vessel, etc. — King to Secretary of State — Conference
with Lord Hawkesbury on Maryland Bank-Stock and West India
Trade— Hoped to settle these before he left— Louisiana, etc.— Gore V
to Lord Hawkesbury — Boundaries between Territories of United
States and Great Britain — Troup to King — Burr ruined in Politics
and Fortune — Sedgwick to King — Politics — Burr 152

Xll CONTENTS.

CHAPTER XI.

PAGE.

Journey of King to the Continent of Europe — Few Details of it — Gore to
King — Correspondence, and about the Latter's Sons — King to Caze-
nove — Complaint of Livingston against Talleyrand — King to Erving
— He had received no Faculty to grant Passports to American Citi-
zens— Mr. Gore has — How Slaves captured after an Insurrection in •
Virginia in 1800 might be disposed of — President Jefferson to King
— Suggesting sending them to Sierra Leone, Africa — Also expressing *
his Satisfaction with Mr. King's Course in England — And his Desire
for peaceful and friendly Relations with Great Britain — Gore to the
President — Answers the Letter to King, giving the Refusal of the •
Company to receive the Blacks — J. Q. Adams to King — Condition
of Affairs in the U. S. — Strength of the Administration increasing. . 163

CHAPTER XII.

George III. to King — On his not being presented to Bonaparte in Paris
— Also Precautions taken when riding on cold Days — Cabot to King
— Affairs in Massachusetts — Murray to King — Talk of King as Can-
didate for the Presidency — Democrats blame him in Maryland as
neglecting the Bank-Stock. — T. Paine — Hotels refused to receive
him — W. Hindman to King — Proposed Presidential Nomination —
Maryland Bank-Stock — King to Livingston — Insecurity of the Peace
— King to Secretary of State — War might be renewed — No Concert
with Austria and Russia — Cabinet sees no material Change in Con-
tinental Powers to warrant War — Difficulties relative to Malta and
unsettled commercial Intercourse with France, etc — King to Eaton
— Hargrave's Charges for Commission in purchasing Jewels, etc. , for
Bey, not Right — Wilberforce to King — Distrusts the Ministry —
King to Addington — Urges Settlement of Maryland Bank-Stock
Question — King to Secretary of State — France the Arbiter of Peace. 179

CHAPTER XIII.

Troup to King — State of Parties — King to be run for President or Vice-
President — King to Parker in Paris — Inquiry about Schools for his
elder Sons — King to Secretary of State — In new Bill to be intro-
duced in Parliament Duties will remain the same except on foreign
Oils — Change in Corn Laws — King to Erving respecting Charges —
King to President of United States — Resumes the Subject of Trans-
portation of Slaves to Sierra Leone — Little Hope of Success in ob-
taining Permission to send them there — Thanks him for his Apprecia-
tion of his Services, etc. — King to Erving — No Danger that Mr.
Williams will embarrass him or injure the Public — King to Madison

CONTENTS. xiii

—Acknowledging Refusal of a public Vessel for his Return and ask-
ing for Letters of Recall before April ioth— Madison to King-
Cause of Refusal— Reasons given by the President for this Refusal—
The Decision really a wise one. ...... 102

CHAPTER XIV.

Troup to King— Spanish Officers at New Orleans violating the Treaty—*'
Jefferson's Message an Opiate— King to Vansittart— Duty on Oil
proposed would materially injure U. S. in withdrawing skilled Sea-
men—King to Wilberforce— Urges granting Permission to send
emancipated Slaves to Sierra Leone— Wilberforce to King— Import-
ance of cultivating Friendship between their two Countries — Mary-
land Bank-Stock— King to Lord Hawkesbury and Sir Stephen Cot-
trell relative to contagious Fever on Board of Vessel to carry Ameri-
can Seamen to the U. S.— King to Erving, on the same Matter-
King to Gallatin— Exchange with Holland and England— How best
to make Remittances— King to Lord Hawkesbury— Claims equal
Participation in the West India Trade— King to Governor of Mary-
land, relative to Communications about the Bank-Stock— J. Jay to
King— Domestic Afflictions have prevented writing— Sedgwick to
Hamilton— Federalists should hold the State Governments— King
for Governor of New York— King to Secretary of State— No further
Progress in Settlement of pending Questions— French Troops pos**
sibly going to Louisiana— King to Lord Hawkesbury— His Govern-
ment wishes Settlement of Questions with England— King to Secre-
tary of State— Failure of Bird, Savage, and Bird— King to Gallatin
— Same Subject— Propositions to Sir Francis Baring. . . .203

CHAPTER XV.

King engages a Country House near New York— King to Vansittart—
Demands Restoration of Wines and Spirits, Remains of Stores on
Merchant Vessels seized by the Customs' Officers— King to Bird, Sav-
age and Bird— How Balances to be settled— King to Sir F. Baring-
Terms of Money Arrangement— Baring to King— Answer— King to
Livingston— Monroe appointed Envoy, etc., to France— King to
Gallatin— Arrangement with Sir F. Baring as Financial Agent of the
U. S.— King to Secretary of State— Northeast Boundary Line — King
to Livingston— Relative to the Closure of the Port of New Orleans7
—King to Livingston— The King's Message to Parliament looks to
War— Measures taken— Effect on the U. S.— Especially with refer-
ence to Louisiana— King to Lord Hawkesbury— Vessels of U. S.
from New Orleans denied Entry because a Spanish Port*-Asks him
to remove this Impediment— King to Secretary of State— Expedition

XIV CONTENTS.

PAGE

to Louisiana will not proceed — King to Secretary of State — War
more probable — France's Demands — England's Preparations — King
to Secretary of State — England's Answer — Malta — Cabot to King —
Affairs in U. S. — Regrets King's Return — King to Secretary of
State — France's Answer to England — War inevitable. . . . 220

CHAPTER XVI.

King to Livingston — France's Alternative War or Evacuation of Malta
— For Latter England requires Security — King's Successor not yet
named — King to Secretary of State — Question before the Commis-
sioners under 7th Article relative to awarding Interest during its Sus-
pension— King to P. Sansom — Acknowledges Kindness from Ameri-
can Merchants — King to Secretary of State — France's Answer to
Lord Hawkesbury — Vindicating Conduct of France — England will
continue to occupy Malta — War will probably ensue — King to Liv-
ingston— Neither France nor England would care to begin the
Assault — King to C. Abbot — How to preserve Public Records —
King to Secretary of State — No Change — War inevitable — England
without Ally — In Case of War, England should seek to benefit Neu-
tral Commerce — Mr. Addington said England might attempt to oc-
cupy New Orleans — King objected — Might involve Misunderstand-
ing— King to Livingston — England will not Evacuate Malta — Affairs
so critical, hopes his Successor will arrive before his Departure —
King to Secretary of State — French Answer called Evasion — De-
cision for War remains for France 233

CHAPTER XVII.

King to Lord Hawkesbury — Convention for Boundaries — King to Liv-
ingston— Notes between England and France — Hopes he has definite
Principles respecting Louisiana in Case of War — Gallatin to King —
Arrangements with Barings satisfactory — King to Secretary of State
— Maryland Bank-Stock — Ownership settled — King — Memorandum-
Book — Taking Leave of the King — Conversation with Lord Hawkes-
bury respecting Contraband — Notes and Negotiations between Eng-
land and France — Ambassadors of each receive their Passports —
Early Information communicated by King to English Government —
Dinner at the Duke of Portland's — Not England but Bonaparte has
shown bad Faith in the non-Execution of the Treaty — Conference
with Addington — England would be satisfied with the Cession of
Louisiana to the U. S. — Russian Offer of Mediation refused — Con-
ferences with Lord St. Vincent relative to Impressment — No satis-
factory Result obtained — Last Conferences between England and
France — Ambassadors of each receive their Passports — King to Earl

CONTENTS. XV

PAGB

St. Vincent— Regrets the Failure of Negotiations to put an End to
Impressment— Gore to King— Confirms this Failure— King to Secre-
tary of State — Condition of Negotiations relative to Impressment
— Neutral Flag — Colony Trade— South America — King to Lord
Hawkesbury — Communicates Purchase of Louisiana*-Lord Hawkes-
bury to King — Response to above — The King's Pleasure at the In-
telligence— Complimentary Remarks on the whole Course of King's
public Mission 245

CHAPTER XVIII.

King sails from England— Reasons for asking Permission to return Home
— Suggested to Madison the Revision of the Commercial Treaty
with Great Britain— No Notice taken of it— No new Work entrusted
to him — King to Hamilton, asking his Opinion as to his return —
Hamilton to King — Thinks it advisable — Presence Home useful —
Party in Power hostile to the Interests of the Country — He may suffer
in their Disrepute, holding Office under them — King to J. Marshall
and to Dr. Southgate, announcing his Resignation — King continues
to press pending Questions for Settlement — N. E. and N. W. Boun-
daries of the U. S. — Impressment — The State of Maryland's Bank-
Stock — King left without appointing a Charge d' Affaires, not having
been instructed to do so — Gore to Madison — Will look after the
Affairs of the U. S. until King's Successor arrives — Gore to King —
Explains his Reasons for this Conduct — Gore to King — Defends him-
self from a Charge of delaying Proceedings of the Convention — Re-
fuses to grant Passports — Monroe has received his Commission — Boys
well— King to John Adams— State of Affairs when he left London, 264

CHAPTER XIX.

Arrival in New York and Reception by Citizens— Cabot to King — Wel-
come Home — Confidence in England — Louisiana's Cession a goocT
Thing for France — Madison to King — Not Necessary as a Tribute of
Respect — Written Communications sufficient — Gallatin to King —
Baggage free from Duty — Thanks for his Manner of transacting the
Business of his Department — Jay to King — Congratulations on his
Return— Hale to King— Congratulations, etc.— J. Q. Adams to King
— Thanks for Favors rendered in London — Cabot to King — Pleased
with Firmness of British Government— J. Adams to King— Thanks
for sending Papers— His Conduct in England satisfactory to him and
honorable and beneficial to his Country — King to Gore — Cession of
great Importance giving Control of the Mississippi — Offer to go to
Washington — Sedgwick to King — Wishes to see him Governor of
N. Y. — Gov. Mercer to King — Thanks him for Zeal, Ability, and

XVI CONTENTS.

Perseverance in Maryland's Behalf— Gore to King — State of Com-
mission's Work — Monroe expected — Public Dinner to King — King
to Gore — Does not yet know his Successor — Gore to King — Rebellion
in Ireland — English Confidence rises — Monroe arrives in London —
King to Gore — Livingston or Monroe to succeed him — The Papers
say Doubts arise as to the Utility and Prudence and Constitutional-
ity of the Louisiana Purchase — King to Gore — Hears Nothing more
of his Successor — Washington not a safe Residence in Summer — Yel-
low Fever in N. Y. — Objections to certain Articles in the Louisiana
Convention 27§

CHAPTER XX.

Gore to King— Congratulates him on his Arrival in N. Y.— Boys well-
Affairs in Europe— Monroe knows little that passes in London — Gore
to King— Miranda desires to quit England for Trinidad— Affairs in
Europe — Trouble with Ewing— King to Gore— Astonished by Eng-
land enrolling the Militia— No reliable Opinions of Congress rela-
tive to Louisiana — Search for a Farm — Gore to King — His Boys in
England — Livingston's Memorial — South America — St. Domingo —
Gore to King — Boys' Behaviour excellent — Anticipates a gloomy
Winter — England duped by Spain — Monroe has received no Dis-
patches since his Arrival in London — Gore to King — Wishes he
might settle near Boston — Miranda— Gore to King— Merry sails un/
instructed relative to St. Domingo — Monroe thinks it a good Place
for emancipated Negroes — Threatened Invasion of England — Liv-
ingston to King — Has as yet no Advices from U. S. of Reception of
the Convention by the Government — Regrets that it has not yet been
considered— State of Europe— Has not yet received his Cong/. . 296

CHAPTER XXI.

Gore to King— Miranda to be dispatched to Trinidad— Breach between
Monroe and Livingston— Monroe in England— English Fears of Ful-
ton's Boat — Colony Trade — King to Gore — Approves of Gore's Con-
duct in Connection with his Commission — Light in which Louisiana
Treaty is viewed in the U. S. — Livingston's Memorial indiscreet —
Monroe should have explained the Sentiments of his Government —
Gore to King— Schools in France for his Boys— Volunteers in Eng-
land training— Russia may interfere for Spain— Louisiana— ^Monroe
—Madison does not notice his Communications — Maryland Bank-
Stock— Miranda not permitted to sail— No new Treaty with G. B. at
Present — King to Gore— Louisiana Treaty ratified — Conduct of Spain
causes much Speculation— He knows little of public Affairs— King
to Pickering — Slavery in Louisiana, should not Effort be made toj

CONTENTS. xvii

prevent it ? — Would alter the Constitution to confine Representation
and Taxation to free Inhabitants — King to Gore — Proceedings in
Congress — Jerome Bonaparte in America — Account of their Friends
— King to Gore — Government will take Possession of Louisiana — "^
Gore to King — Claims an Outfit — Alarm of Invasion subsiding — ^
Monroe presents a Memorial on Impressment of Seamen. . . 313

CHAPTER XXII.

Boundaries Convention with England — Madison to King — King to Madi-
son— Answer removing Objections — Madison to King — Mr. Merry's
etiquette Claims — Gore to King — Personal — Louisiana — Bonaparte's
Invasion of England — Livingston's Position — Ingersoll to King —
House in New York — King to Ingersoll — House rented and occu-
pied— Gore to King — Cornwallis watching Brest — King's Views rela-
tive to Louisiana — King to Gore — Invasion of England — Louisiana
Convention — Col. Burr and the Federalists — Miranda — Merry — Gore
to King — Merry and sombre Dispatches — Lord Hawkesbury's Opin-
ion— Government seem to consider this a studied Affront — Erving
told Memorials were not received from Consuls — Gore to King —
The King's Sickness — Maryland Bank-Stock adjusted — Gore about
returning Home 329

CHAPTER XXIII.

Grievances and Suggestions of certain Federalists for a Separation of the
New England States — Proposal to nominate King for Governor of
the State of New York — Hamilton to King — Urging him to allow
himself to be nominated — King to Hamilton — He declines — Plan of
Separation of the Northern States — Pickering — Cabot — Wolcott —
Conversation with King about a Separation — J. Q. Adams — Conversa-
tion with King on the Same — Hamilton's Views adverse to the Plan
— Pickering to King — Louisiana— «Judge Pickering's Trial — Picker-
ing to King — Plan of Separation — King to Pickering — Protection of
Seamen — Cabot to King — Experiment of Separation of the States. . 346

CHAPTER XXIV.

Settlement of the Accounts of King during his Mission — Letters from the
Secretary of Treasury, A. Gallatin — Secretary of State, J. Madison
— Auditor of Treasury, R. Harrison — R. King 372

CHAPTER XXV.

Burr disappointed — Sought Revenge by Death of Hamilton — King's Con-
nection with the Duel between them — Charges against him of Cold-

XVU1 CONTENTS.

ness of Heart and of not endeavoring to prevent the Duel examined
and disproved — King to C. King, denying a Statement by Dr. Mason
— C. King to R. King — Interview with Dr. Mason — Report Incor-
rect— W. Wallace to King — Result of the Duel — Pendleton to King
— Hamilton mortally wounded — Correspondence with Gen. Clarkson
relative to the Duel — Pitcairn to King — Deplores the Death of Ham-
ilton 389

CHAPTER XXVI.

Embarrassment of General Hamilton's pecuniary Affairs — G. Morris's
Statement — King to Friends in Boston — They proposed giving Lands
bought of T. Pickering to the Heirs of General Hamilton — Deed
for them to be given by the Purchasers — King to Cabot — Statement
of the Debts and Subscription in New York — Gore to King — Deeds
made out — J. A. Hamilton's Account — Letter to Major Popham —
King to Gore — Plan to purchase Hamilton's Estate — Gift of Land
by Gen. Schuyler to his Daughter — Share of her Father's Estate —
Charge against King in the Alexandria Expositor — King's Letter to
Editor — Copy of the Article — J. Crowe, England, to King — Denies
the truth of the Article — Dinsmore, Editor, to King — Will publish a
Refutation — King to Dinsmore — Wishes no Apology, but the Truth
published. 403

CHAPTER XXVII.

King's Journey to Boston and District of Maine — Dinners at Salem and
Newburyport and Portland — Return to Boston — Public Dinner there
— Elections of Presidential Electors and for a Senator of the United
States from New York — King defeated in Both — W. L. Smith to
King — Friendly Wishes — Livingston to King relative to French
Negotiations — Lafayette to King — Introducing General Moreau —
Miranda's Project. 417

CHAPTER XXVIII.

Gore to King — About Pinkney of Md. — King to Gore — Personal — J. A.
Smith to King — Mission to Russia — On public Affairs in U. S. —
C. King to King — Hard Winter — Personal — Pickering to King —
Trial of Judge Chase — King to Pickering — Judge Chase — Senate
Business — Pickering to King — Arguments of Chase's Counsel — Ran-
dolph's Speech on Georgia Claims — St. Domingo Bill-*Pickering to
King — Acquittal of Judge Chase — Pickering to King — Nomination
of Attorney General — Burr's retiring Speech — King to W. Hope —
Desires to place his Second Son in his House — King to Samuel

CONTENTS. xiX

Chase — Congratulations on the Result of his Trial — Chase to King —
Thanking him and stating Points in the case and the Attack on the
Judiciary — Gore to King — Federalism will soon disappear — Living-
ston to King — With Letter from Talleyrand relative to a Collection
of Works of Art to be placed in the Museum at N. Y. — King to Gore
—Current Events — Lord Suffolk to King — British Affairs — Gore to
King — Commercial Ventures ........ 436

CHAPTER XXIX.

King to Gore — Miranda about to sail — Monroe's Failure in Spain — Yellow
Fever in N. York — King at Rockaway — His Son James — Pitcairn to
King — Seizure of American Vessels — Gore to King — British Interfer-
ence with Trade of U. S. — Would it have been so, if King had been
in England? — W. Vaughan to King — War in Disguise — Neutral's
Rights — King to Gore — New Coalition in Europe — Effect on Ameri-
can Trade — Wilberforce to King — Sends War in Disguise — Acting
on the System recommended indispensable to England — Miss O.
Southgate — Opinion of King — King to his Sons in Paris — King to
Morris — Celebration of 25th November — Pickering to King — Treaty
with Tripoli — Gore to King — Miranda cannot expect Help — Boston *
Merchants fear Depredations on Commerce — Suggest King as Minis-
ter to England — Gore to King — President's Message — Breck to King
— Bank of U. States — Pickering to King — No great Measures before
Congress — King to Gore — Merchants alarmed — Proposal to urge his
Appointment to England — King to Pickering — President's Foreign
Policy 454

CHAPTER XXX.

Gore to King — Negotiations with England — King as Minister — Pickering
to King — Logan's Motion relative to St. Domingo Trade — Parker
to King about his Sons — Napoleon's change of Rulers in Europe —
King to Gore — England's Pretensions about Colonial Trade — Affairs
in Washington — Troup to King — Clinton carries the Council — Tracy
to King — Report on Spoliation — King to Pickering — Desires to
know the Plan of Government — Public Anxious — Pickering to King
— Might as well search for Plan in Chaos — Detail of Opinions in
Washington, relative to Florida Purchase — Pickering's own Views —
Objected on Ground of the Immorality and Impolicy of the Measure —
Pickering to King — Arguments against the Purchase of Florida as
proposed in the secret Appropriation Bill — Jefferson incapable of
managing Affairs in Trouble — Negotiations with Great Britian —
King to Pickering — Disclaims the Authorship of the Answer to War
in Disguise — Troup to King — Coalition of Clinton and the Burrites . 475

XX CONTENTS.

CHAPTER XXXI.

Pickering to King — Answer of "War in Disguise" by Morris — Anecdote
relative to and Criticism of Answer — Tracy to King — Speculations
about Answer — Fatal Effects of Democracy — King to Pickering —
Miranda — Denunciations by the President's Friends — Tracy to King
— Armstrong elected — Pickering to King — Sends Capt. Lewis' Nar-
rative— Remarks thereon — Smith's Bill to encourage Shipping and
Navigation — Asks King's Views — King to Pickering — European
News — Estimate of England — Pickering to King — Caramelli — Mir-
anda— King to Pickering — Sundry Subjects — Pickering to King —
Death of Pitt — Relaxation of British commercial Regulations —
Might make satisfactory Arrangements with G. B. — Speculations
upon Monroe and Madison, as to the next Presidency — King to Pick-
ering— Disapproves of Bills on Non-importation of British Products —
Gore to King — Animadversions against the Government — Gore to
King — Reasons for re-entering public Life — Pickering to King —

"y Armstrong's Application of the Louisiana Fund — N. Webster to
King — Should Legislatures express Opinions on the Conduct of the
Government ........... 49°

CHAPTER XXXII.

Miranda to King — Expects to embark for Trinidad — Asks for Help — King
says unauthorized — Further Communications — King to Madison —
Communicates confidentially Miranda's Plans — Miranda sails for N.
York — Vansittart to King — England's Dealings with Miranda — Pre-
sent Views of public Men in England — King to Secretary of State —
Sends him Vansittart's Letter for the President to read — Miranda to
Gore — Account of his Preparations to sail for Trinidad — Urging him
to assist him — King to Gore — Miranda's Arrival in N. York and his
Plans — Madison to King, acknowledging Receipt of his Letters —
Miranda to King, urging him to ask his Friends to contribute Money
for him — Declined by King — Miranda to King — He sails — Estimate
of Mr. King's Action in the Matter — Help in Congress invoked by
Miranda's Friends against Prosecution — King to Gore — How his
Name mixed with the Enquiry — King to Vansittart . . . .5*7

CHAPTER XXXIII.

Tudor to King— Carrying Ice to the W. Indies— Dr. Romeyn to King —
Election as Manager of the American Bible Society— King to
Romeyn — Declines the Office, though approving the Object of the
Society — Action of the Episcopal Church to circulate the Bible with
the Common Prayer Book — Gore to King — Pinkney to London to

CONTENTS. XXI

PAGE

assist Monroe — King receives Degree of LL.D. from Dartmouth,
Williams, and Harvard Colleges — Trustee of Columbia College — S.
Smith to King — Death of his Son — Tudor to King — Failure of
Application relative to Ice Monopoly — Speculations on European
Affairs — Williams to King — British and American Commissioners
said to have made a Treaty — King on an Outrage against personal
Liberty, in the Case of Alexander, a Lawyer in N. Orleans arrested *
by Gen'l Wilkinson .......... 533

Appendix I — Bribery in Politics 551

Appendix II — Interview between Gallatin and King — 1803 . . .553

Appendix III — Mary King to C. King 556

Appendix IV — King to Hamilton 558

Appendix V — Louisiana. Rights under the Convention of Purchase . 559

Appendix VI — Louisiana. Value of the Acquisition and Effect on the

Political Union 567

Appendix VII — Cession of Louisiana. The Price, Merits of Negotiating

Ministers, and Policy of Purchase 571

Appendix VIII — To page 407. Hamilton's Estate .... 575

Appendix IX — To page 485. Miranda and the Sailing of the Leander . 577

Appendix X— Review of the Foreign Relations of the United States . 586

THE LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF
RUFUS KING.

CHAPTER I.

Affairs in the U. S.— Ames to King— Federal Views— King to Gore— Peace-
King to Madison— Detention of Vessels charged with breaking Block-
ade of Havre— King to Madison— Public Sentiment about the Peace-
Patience in conducting Negotiations with England— Conversation with
Addington regarding them— The Latter thinks the Peace will be perma-
nent—Mr. Otto— His Integrity and Discretion— King to Addington—
Statement relative to 6th Article— King to Madison— Diplomatic Changes
—Cabot to King— Looks for Storms, Others more hopeful— King to Lord
Hawkesbury— Vessels detained for breaking Blockade— G. Morris to
King— On the Peace— King to Lord Grenville— Statement of Latter in
H. of Lords, charging Misrepresentation and Perjury by a foreign Min-
ister—Lord Grenville to King— Said it did not reflect on his Character or
Conduct— King to Secretary of State— Spain ceded Louisiana to France-
No Allusion to Louisiana in the Negotiations between France and Eng-
land—L. Littlepage to King— Louisiana— King Conference with Lord
Hawkesbury, relative to 6th Article— French Expedition to St. Domingo—
Also concerning Louisiana.

At the beginning of this fourth volume it is well to look
over the state of affairs in the United States, tho' perhaps
this has only an indirect interest in shaping the actions
of Mr. King abroad, for his now long residence in England
prevented him from taking any personal share in the cur-
rent events at home. His correspondence with old personal
and political friends, however, kept him well informed on

VOL IV— I

RUFUS KING. [1801

what was passing among them, and he was thus enabled to
understand the changes in political matters that were daily
taking place, and especially with regret to learn that the
principles of the government, which he had so faithfully
sought to establish, were gradually changing under the new
administration in a way that boded no good to the country.
Among these most valued and intelligent correspondents was
Fisher Ames, who gives, in the first letter presented below,
a clear statement of the affairs in the country and a well-
considered view of the opinions of their old federal friends
under the changes which were taking place, which they
deprecated but could not check.

F. Ames to R. King.

Boston, October 27th, 1801.
Dear Sir :

While Mr. Gore * is on the Continent, I may be allowed to
address a letter to you, and if I could give either clear or comfort-
ing information about our affairs I might hope that my letters wd.
be acceptable to you without that excuse. But Democracy rides
the high horse. Bradley is chosen a Vermont Senator, yet they
say the assembly of that State is federal. Others say that all
goes there by barter and that offices are trucked off to Feds &
Jacobins without much discrimination, provided the high-con-
tracting parties find their individual amount in it. Royal Tyler is
a Judge of their Supreme Court, Israel Smith Ch. Justice. A
motley bench which ought to try per mediatatem.

N. Jersey is said to be democratic. Delaware has a demo.
Governor chosen by the people. Connecticut still shews a bold
face, and vaunts of its Federalism which I fear is losing ground —
yet so slowly that the pendulum may swing back again before the
Demos get the majority. N. Hampshire still chuses Gilman, yet
their " intriguans " intend to run Langdon as soon as the full-

* During the suspension of the sitting of the Commission under the Seventh
Article of the Treaty with Great Britain, Mr. Gore, a member of the Commit-
tee, made a visit to the Continent of Europe.

i8qi] life and correspondence.

ness of time has come — which is expected to be next spring.
Here, Govr. Strong will be rechosen, but the most zealously fed-
eral parts of the state are leavening and souring with the same
fermentation that in other parts has passed beyond the vinous
almost to the putrid. Where Jacobinism triumphs, it is probable,
it's numbers do not increase— but it's insolence does,— and the
Feds in those places yield the ground to them with less contest
than formerly. So that on a fair calculation of force, we are weak
indeed. New England ought to be roused and all our efforts
ought to be directed to saving the remnants of federalism ; our
life and being would be lost, if the skill of our masters had been
equal to the felicity of the conjuncture when they conquered us.
They had only to promise well— indeed they did— and to keep on
promising smoothly, which they have not done, easy as the task
was. Instead of it, they write foolish letters of excuse for them-
selves and inculpating the Feds as a Sect. There is hardly any-
thing that a skilful statesman may not do, but there is very little
he can say. This prating vain letter* has certainly alarmed the
Feds, who consider it as a manifesto announcing a violent
Jacobin administration. And the knowing ones among the
Jaco'. think it stiff. Already they whisper that little B. alone
has the needed energy of character, and party for him will
be form'd whenever it can be employed with effect. In the
mean time he will push his Captain forward to do obnoxious
things, and when resentments are concentered on him, then per-
haps he will think the Feds despairing of victory will' only seek
revenge. To secure which, he will be wanted. It is indeed evi-
dent that a govt, too democratic in it's structure, or a people too
democratic in their notions to support any energetic form, will
breed endless factions. We have hoped that our system was, as
Mr. Jefferson says very sagely, the strongest in the world and that
we are the people the fittest in it for such a system. I presume
not to decide so grave a question. I think however our experi-
ence soon will. In New York the rights & the property of the
city and state are subject to the vice and folly and poverty of the
society. The like will be brought about in every other state as
in Pennsylvania unless the quill shall be found a weapon of power

* Probably Jefferson's New Haven letter.

RUFUS KING. [180:

enough to counteract the progress we have commenced. Even
that weapon will be wielded by champions who do not think all
is at hazard. The popular consolation still is as much as ever
that all goes well — Prosperity smiles on everybody — Wealth in-
creases, and the New men promise to make great savings. The
displacing a few exasperates a few hundreds, who soon forget
their anger and the circumstances and occasion of it. Those
who affect great concern for the people will be the men to have
popular power committed to them and newspaper writers will fail
as formerly in the attempt to make the understanding of those
who will not reason an overmatch for the blind impulses of those
who can only feel. Accordingly as I see the propensities of
things, as I estimate the feebleness of the means to hinder their
further and fatal decline, judge whether I am sanguine as to the
effect of Federal Gazettes. Yet I think despair ought not to be
confessed — still less circulated. Soon if the evil apprehended
should be deemed inevitable, which is rather more than my belief
— yet a certain manner of meeting it is necessary — otherwise it
will come with aggravation. We must openly and zealously and
with all our skill labor to prevent it. We must honestly and
faithfully cling to the Govt and Constitution and to the rules of
virtue and real patriotism to the last ; so that our fall, if fate de-
crees it, shall be incontestibly due to our political adversaries,
not to ourselves. As what is best and what is practicable are
points depending on events, and not to be foreseen or decided
before they happen, we shall thus stand ready to act as may be
proper — we shall keep ourselves united with the public sentiment
and when danger is obvious, the good and able will feel an im-
pulse as strong as we vainly wish to inspire beforehand. There-
fore the Gazettes are now of importance and the Feds are
preparing this kind of ammunition in Pennsylvania, N York &
Boston. Such gazettes will keep alive all the yet surviving respect
for principles, and if the Jacos. in Congress are not callous may
check their most outrageous designs. It is however obvious to
me that charges of violating the constitution affect the Jacos. very
little, while you know that the Feds when in power were exceed-
ing affected by them — even when palpably false and frivolous —
as if the Feds were rather cowards who feared to be indicted for
breaking the Constitution, not really lovers of it who will not

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 5

suffer any others to do it. The bold liberties taken with the
power of displacing and appointing are abuses if not infractions —
yet as the Jacos. care little for principles and as the Feds are
averse to making a great clamor for what to most persons will
appear a little thing, I do not expect much check from that
source. On the contrary, I expect a repeal of the late Judicial
Law and an ousting of the new Circuit Judges will be received
with patience by all, and with approbation with some federalists.
If repealing a law will deprive a Judge of his office and salary,
there will be no independence of the Judiciary on the Legislature.

As to the views and plan of politics of the ruling party in re-
spect to foreign nations and to their own ultimate objects all is
but conjecture. Probably one great man is a Democrat and
thinks the extremes of Democratic principles are wise principles.

Madison certainly knows better and yet there ever was a strange
vein of absurdity in his head. But the second has no such non-
sense, Jacobinism now uses and urges Democracy, as it did in
France — We are now in the Roland & Condorcet act of our
Comedy — Whether we go on to the Danton and Robespierre acts
depends on time and accident and not on the discernment energy
or force of the Feds. This I sometimes hope ; Jacobins will not
hold power contentedly only for fair honest purposes and they
cannot proceed to use it to any very profitable extent for any
other, without rousing a late opposition that would delay if not
prevent the crisis — They cannot oppress and rob without our
knowing ; and the oppressed will not be coaxed. Excuse my
running on thus into infinite space. I stand again on old firm
ground when I assure you of my cordial regard with best respects
to Mrs King —

Yours &c.

R. King to C. Gore, Paris.

London, Oct. 30, 1801.
. . . The K.'s speech & the addresses you will see in all the
papers. Sheridan has in a sentence expressed a very just notion
of the public opinion ; " the peace everybody is glad of, but no-
body proud of." There will be an animated Debate in both
houses on Tuesday next. ... In respect to our affairs here,

RUFUS KING. [1801

they remain as they were when I last wrote to you. At present
we cannot gain a hearing — every one is armed with weapons of
attack or defence for the Battle of next week. This over, per-
haps we may again find a moment for our affairs. . . .

R. K.

R. King to Mr. Madison.

Private.

London, Oct. 31, 1801.
Dear Sir :

It is confidently believed that a considerable Expedition com-
posed of land and sea forces is preparing in France and will soon
proceed to St. Domingo and perhaps to the Mississippi. Should
Toussaint resist, our commerce may experience fresh embarrass-
ments in the West India Seas. On this account among others
the presence of our Minister at Paris, becomes more and more
desirable.

To my surprise the Ship Frederick of New York, the first of
our vessels detained upon the charge of having broken the
Blockade of Havre de Grace, was two days ago tried and con-
demned in the High Court of Admiralty. I had been assured
that the trial of these vessels should stand over, until the Cabinet
should find time to consider the subject, and I had, moreover,
reason to expect that an intimation would be given to the Judge,
that under all circumstances these vessels, at least such of them
as had not been warned, ought to be discharged. As soon as I
heard of this sentence, I called on Sir Wm. Scott (to whom I had
already sent a copy of my correspondence with Lord Hawkesbury
concerning the Blockade of Havre) who told me that not having
received the communication he had expected from the Govern-
ment when the case of the Frederick came on, he intimated the
expediency of suffering it with such other cases as were in similar
circumstances, to stand over ; that the King's advocate who on a
former day had stated an expectation that he might receive par-
ticular instructions respecting these cases, signified his readiness
to acquiesce, but that the claimant's counsel pressed for a trial,
and he could do no otherwise than condemn the vessel and cargo.
The other vessels will not be tried before the Cabinet has decided

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. J

whether it will interfere ; and that this decision may no longer be
delayed I have required Lord Hawkesbury explicitly to inform
me whether it is intended to make the cases of these vessels a
subject of ministerial consideration. Should the Cabinet inter-
fere, the vessels will be discharged with their cargoes ; if it de-
cline, or delay to do so, I shall put my correspondence with Lord
Hawkesbury into Mr. Erving's hands with directions to deliver it
to the advocate of the claimant to be used on the Trials.

With great respect &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to James Madison, Esq.
[Private.)

London, Nov. 2d, 1801.
Dear Sir :

The Newspapers, among which is the Porcupine, the paper of
the new opposition, which Mr. Dawson's repeated disappoint-
ments enable me to add to those I had before delivered to him,
afford a pretty just view of the public sentiment concerning the
Peace. Mr. Sheridan in a single sentence has happily expressed
this sentiment — " It is a Peace everybody is glad of, and nobody
proud of." Of the old Ministry Mr. Windham (the friend of
Burke, and the Legatee of his opinions respecting the French
Revolution) in one house, and Lord Grenville in the other, will
censure the Preliminaries ; but a very large majority of both
houses will approve them : there are notwithstanding some able,
reflecting and influential men, both in and out of Parliament, who
behold with deep concern the decided superiority that France has
obtained over all her adversaries, and which in their opinion en-
dangers the repose and independence of every State in Europe.
The Peace according to these gentlemen is only the end of the
first Punic war ; and tho' they may not live to see the last, they
make no secret of their apprehension that it will prove fatal to
the independence of their country. I have this morning seen
Mr. Addington, and had an opportunity of explaining to him the
extraordinary situation of the negotiation respecting the 6th Arti-
cle. The light in which he sees the subject, encourages me to ex-
pect that the business will yet take a satisfactory turn ; in the

RUFUS KING. [1801

meantime I am pressing Lord Hawkesbury for a definitive
answer.

I am no stranger to the feelings which would be gratified by a
more peremptory mode of discussion ; but having from a pretty
thorough acquaintance with the subject, become strongly im-
pressed with the policy of our getting rid of a controversy which
nobody seems willing to examine and in which we have to en-
counter much interested misrepresentation ; I am led to doubt
the suggestion of every measure that would afford a Pretext to
decide the Question, upon which we are at issue upon any other
than its true principles ; and it is to considerations of this sort,
that I must refer myself, for the justification of the yet unex-
pected stock of Patience, with which I have pursued the settle-
ment of this unpleasant discussion.

With sentiments of sincere Respect &c.

Rufus King.

On the 2d of November a conversation * upon the state
of the American negotiations was held with Mr. Addington,
which was followed the next day by a private note to him
from Mr. King presenting the steps by which it had reached
its present condition. This note is dated on the 3d, and
follows. Mr. King states that the conversation then turned
to politics.

Mr. A. was evidently contented with the state of parties. The
King was at first staggered but finally acquiesced by saying as he
had no allies upon the Continent the best must be done that
could be. The Prince of Wales had written to him that he
should have his full support, and Lord Camden, who some days
ago appeared decided to oppose, had just written to him, to say
he shd. go out of town on Tuesday when the Preliminaries are to
be discussed and that he shd. give Mr. Addington his support.

Speaking of Windham, he did credit to his integrity, sincerity
and disinterestedness, and added that he shook hands with him at
court with the observation of Sir Wm. Temple " friends here but
enemies at Breda," alluding to the debate upon the Preliminaries,
to which Windham replied enemies nowhere.
* Memorandum Book.

l8oi] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE.

Of Ld. Grenville Mr. A. spoke with displeasure, and was willing
to impart his and the Marquis of B.'s opposition to factions and
interested views. Lord Grenville was already tired of retirement
&c. ; but he miscalculated & his views are understood. It was
utterly inconsistent that he who negotiated at Lille should censure
the minister who had concluded the Peace. Lord Radnor was a
particular man, he shd. a priori have inferred his opposition.
Lord Carnaervon was a wild and irregular character. The whole
Bench of Bps. with the exception of Rochester would support
him. He felt that he deserved support. If the war had gone on,
could he have abridged the power of France, could he have de-
livered any of the Dominions which had fallen under its govern-
ment ? If not, why prolong the war, especially when he found he
could not make another campaign without bringing upon his
country an additl. permanent burthen of two millions annually.
Add to that, the probability that France wd. have completely
overrun Spain and Portugal and made irruptions into other
States. For it wd. have been necessary even for Bonaparte to
have employed his army abroad in order to get rid of the expence
of maintaining it at home.

That on the whole, he was in hopes the Peace wd. be perma-
nent, and he did not perceive anything in the relative condition
of the countries wh. made it more likely than on former occasions
to be of short duration. If it shd. not continue wd. not G. Br.
be better able to measure herself apart with France, than she wd.
have been had the war continued another year or two, which wd.
have enormously increased the public burthen and weakened and
exhausted those resources upon wh. the public safety must depend
in the event of a future war.

Speaking of the Negotiator, he thanked me for the character I
had early given him of Mr. Otto, and said he had found it to be
perfectly merited. That the King had lately expressed himself
favourably respecting him and intimated a wish that he might be
the Ambassador here. Mr. A. then said two circumstances re-
specting him were highly creditable to his integrity and discretion
—one that he certainly did not gamble in the stocks and the other
that he had not any intercourse with the discontented people of
G. Britain. Jos. Bonaparte he expected wd. be the Ambassador.

IO

RUFUS KING. [1801

R. King to Mr. Addington.

Private.

Nov. 3, 1801.

Mr. King sends him a statement of the " Origin, Changes
and present state of the Negotiation concerning the 6th
Article of the American Treaty of 1794-"

1799, December. As soon as the Commission in America under
the Sixth Article of the Treaty of T794, discontinued its meetings,
the American Government proposed to that of Great Britain an
explanatory Article for the regulation of its future Proceedings.

1800, April. The British Government declined agreeing to the
proposed explanatory Article, but offered to accept a Sum of be-
tween one and two millions in satisfaction of the Debts contracted
before the Peace of 1783 ; to abolish the American Commission,
and take upon itself the distribution of the Money among the
British Creditors. This offer was not accompanied by a proposal
in like manner to convert the American Claims under the Seventh
Article of the Treaty of 1794 into a definite sum ; on the contrary,
it was explicitly declared that the Commission in London, charged
with the examination of these Claims, should be suspended only
until a settlement could be made respecting the Commission in
America.

1800, August. The Government of the United States declined
the proposal of giving a sum in satisfaction of the Debts, and
offered a Sum in satisfaction of the Claims of the Creditors upon
the American Government, leaving the Creditors to pursue the
recovery of their debts in the ordinary Course of the Judiciary.

At this Stage the British Government inquired if the American
Minister were authorized to convert the American Claims upon
the British Government into a definite Sum, and abolish the
Commission in London in like manner as it was proposed to
abolish that in America ; and on receiving an explicit answer in
the negative, a discussion was immediately commenced for the
purpose of ascertaining the Sum to be given in satisfaction of the
Claims upon the American Government, and most certainly with
the mutual expectation that, this Sum being agreed upon, the
Commission in London would be free to proceed in ascertaining
the amount of the American Claims upon the British Govern-
ment.

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. \\

1801, August. After a tedious discussion, this sum has been
mutually ascertained and settled, as well as the Terms of its Pay-
ment ; It follows, therefore as a matter of course, and good faith
requires, that the Commission in London should be at Liberty to
proceed in the execution of its duties.

R. King to James Madison, Esq.

Private.

London, Nov. 5, 1801.
Dear Sir :

The War having ended has given occasion to a review of the
diplomatic Corps of this Country, but few of which have lately
been in service ; and I hear that Mr. Liston will be sent to Hol-
land, instead of returning to America. Mr. Jackson, who was
Secretary of Legation at the Hague and at Madrid before the
war, and who was named Ambassador to the Porte soon after its
commencement, but did not proceed to Constantinople, has been
appointed Min. plenipo. to France and will reside at Paris during
the Congress at Amiens.

As soon as the definitive Treaty shall be concluded, Lord
Whitworth (formerly in Russia) will go as Ambassador to Paris,
and Mr. Jackson as Mr. Liston's successor to America.

With great Truth &c.

Rufus King.

G. Cabot to R. King.

Nov. 6, 1 801.
My Dear Sir :

Perhaps there never were six months of more perfect tran-
quillity than we have last enjoyed ; yet like the Seaman who
calls a Summer day in the winter Season a weather breeder I look
for Storms. I am however less solicitous than formerly about all
these things. While I hoped, & believed it possible, to save our
country from the terrible evils of Democracy I was full of anxiety,
but perfectly convinced as I am now, that no human means cou'd
have prevented them I reconcile myself, as Nature kindly dis-
RUFUS KING. [1801

poses us, to all unavoidable events. — We are going the course
decreed by the Author of man for every popular State. . . .

Our friend A. lately put into my hands a letter for you which
I thought so good as to deserve transcribing that it might have
two chances of arriving — my son therefore made a copy which I
now enclose. — You will see by it that he adheres to the good old
maxim of never despairing of the Commonwealth yet if you observe
his details I think you will determine that his faith is not only
without evidence but in fact against it. Indeed I sometimes
believe that a few hundred of such men as he is, properly dis-
tributed thro' our Country, might save it, but we have only one
in this quarter & not many elsewhere. After all I have said to
chill your hopes I ought to say that the more enlightened part of
our society think more justly & more alike than at any former
period & from thence some good expectations are formed.

Yours truly,

G. C.

R. King to Lord Hawkesbury.

Great Cumberland Place, Nov. ii, 1801.
My Lord :

I had the honour on the 28th ulto. to recall to your Lordship's
recollection the several representations which I had before made
to you in behalf of the American Ships and Cargoes, detained in
their passage to the Port of Havre de Grace ; the greater part of
these vessels has been nearly three months in the Ports of Eng-
land, during which time the Crews, tho' engaged on war wages,
have been kept together in daily expectation of an answer from
your Lordship to my repeated applications in their favour.

As I cannot consistently with a due regard to the Interest and
Rights of the Owners of these Ships and Cargoes, recommend to
their Masters to remain here with their respective Crews, at the
enormous expence which attends their detention, without a cer-
tainty that their cases will be examined without farther delay, I
take the liberty again to request your Lordship's answer to the
representations I have made on their behalf.

With great consideration &c.

Rufus King.

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 3

G. Morris to R. King.

MorrisaniA 13 Novr., 1801.

Dear Sir :

I am much oblig'd by yours of the twentieth of last December
which I ought sooner to have acknowledged but my Hermitage
offers nothing to communicate to a Man in the Great World.

I never believed that the Northern League would last long.
Indeed I ventured to predict the speedy Dissolution of it and to
ground some Reasonings as to our affairs on that Position. I do
not now believe that Peace will soon be made. Necessity, or the
Feebleness of Soul which calls Difficulty by that Name, may pro-
cure the assent of the British Ministers to an armed Truce under
the Semblance of Peace ; but if they leave France in Possession
of her present Dominion and Authority they reduce their Country
to the Rank of a secondary, perhaps a dependent Power. This
seems so evident that it is wonderful Buonaparte did not propose
an uti possidetis as the Ground Work of a Treaty. If it be said
that War is necessary to him, one would think he might turn his
Arms North Eastward : for if Austria, Russia and Prussia have
not the Good Sense to aid England in restoring the Ballance of
Power, the two first might be induced to agree with the first
Consul on eating up the last. No more convenient Morsel could
be found nor any which would better cut up into Indemnities.
But whether the War shall now continue or the Parties agree to
take a short breathing Time ; one of two things seems inevitable ;
either that a Grand Alliance be formed against France, as at the
Beginning of the last Century, or that all other Powers submit to
her Domination. The part we may act must depend much on
Circumstances, but I question whether our present Administra-
tion (tho' quite as able as the last) be equal to the Business,
which they will probably have to manage. I hope they may, and
rely much on the scriptural Assurance that Heaven tempers the
Wind to the shorn Lamb. . . .

Believe me ever and truly yours

Gouvr. Morris.

14 RUFUS KING. [1801

R. King to Lord Grenville, &c. &c.

Gr. Cumberland Place, Nov. 14, 1801.
My Lord :

In the Morning Chronicle of to-day your Lordship is stated to
have said in the debate of last evening in the House of Lords,
that while you were in his Majesty's service " a foreign Minister
had by misrepresentation, and the most flagrant perjury, been in-
structed to complain of the conduct of a British official of high
reputation, and on enquiry it was found to be most grossly false,
and the charge scandalous." It having been my duty during my
residence in this country, as the Minister of the United States, to
prefer various complaints founded upon proofs of delinquency
against certain of the King's naval officers, I take the liberty of
requesting your Lordship to inform me, whether the complaint
alluded to by your Lordship, in the House of Lords, was made by
the Minister of the U. S. and if so, that you would have the good-
ness to mention the date of the complaint, and the Tribunal be-
fore which the falsehood and perjury ascribed to it were
established.

With high consideration and respect, &c.

Rufus King.

Ld. Grenville to R. King.

Camelford House, Nov. 14, 1801.
Dear Sir :

If an accurate report were made of what I said last night in the
House of Lords, you would, I am sure, see, what I trust you would
readily believe even without this assertion of it, that no part of
my speech did, or could, in the smallest degree reflect on your
character, or conduct, to both which I have always borne, both in
public and in private, the testimony of that sincere esteem and
respect which I feel towards you.

Having said this, which was no less due to my own feelings
than to your's, you must allow me to add that I cannot think it
consistent with my duty as a Peer of Parliament to enter into any
particular explanations with a foreign Minister, respecting an un-

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 5

authorized publication in a newspaper, of opinions supposed to
have been delivered by me in my place in the House of Lords.
I have the honor to be with sincere respect & regard
Dear Sir your most faithful & most obedient humble Servant.

Grenville.
Rufus King Esq. &c, &c, &c.

This letter is thus endorsed in R. King's handwriting.

Lord Grenville, Nov. 14, 1801 — In consequence of this
answer I deemed it expedient to consult with my corps, and after
stating the subject to Count Woronzow, who was of opinion that
this Reply was satisfactory and that I could not require of Ld.
Gr. to enter into fuller explanations, I concluded to suffer the
Business to stop here — purposing however to express any opinion
to Ld. Gr. of the unfitness of his Language when I next meet
him.

Having myself heard his Speech, I know it to have been as
exceptional as stated in the Morng. Chronicle.

R. King to Secretary of State. No. 42.

London, Nov. 20, 1801.
Sir :

If the annexed copy of the Treaty * between France & Spain,
respecting the establishment of the Prince of Parma in Tuscany,
be genuine, of which I have no reason to doubt, you will perceive
the value which these Powers seemed to have placed upon
Louisiana ; the cession whereof to France is confirmed by the
5th article of this Treaty.

I am in hopes that I shall be able to obtain and send you a
copy of the Treaty ceding Louisiana to France ; this would
enable us to determine whether it includes New Orleans and
the Floridas.

There is doubtless an understanding between England and
France in respect to the expedition now nearly ready to proceed
to Saint Domingo ; and I think I am not mistaken in the belief,
whatever may be the intentions of France in respect to the
occupation of Louisiana, that no part of the Forces now collect-
* See p. 19 of this volume for Article 5.

1 6 RUFUS KING. [1801

ing, and which are going to St. Domingo, will be employed for
this purpose.

It is not a little extraordinary that during the whole negotiation
between France and England, not a word was mentioned on
either side, respecting Louisiana, though this Government was
not ignorant of the views of France in this quarter.

With perfect respect & Esteem &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Lord Eldon, &c.

Great Cumberland Place, Nov. 22, 1801.
My Lord :

With view of explaining the origin and progress of the discus-
sion in which I have now for upwards of two years been engaged,
on the subject of the Sixth Article of our Treaty of 1794, I have
drawn up the enclosed Paper,* which I ask the favour of your
Lordship to peruse.

I wished to have made it shorter, but could not without omit-
ting what appeared to be material to the elucidation aimed at. If
I be not altogether mistaken the Point upon which the Business
continues to be delayed, will appear to your Lordship, from the
perusal of this Paper, in a light somewhat different from that in
which you have before seen it, and I am willing to hope that it
may have some influence in bringing the affair to a satisfactory
conclusion. With perfect consideration & respect &c.

Rufus King.

P.S. I shall be obliged to your Lordship to put the Paper into
Lord Hawkesbury's hands after you shall have read it.

Lewis Littlepage to R. King.

Private.

Philadelphia, 28th of Novbr., 1801.
Dear Sir :

I have never forgotten the important conversation which passed
between us the last time we met in St. James's Park. In a con-
versation which I had with the President about a week past, I

* The paper alluded to above, covers nearly six pages of folio.

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 7

mentioned the affair in question to him. He told me he had been
informed of it for four months, that it would be unfortunate, but
what were the means of prevention ? That question you may-
suppose, I was ill prepared to answer, totally ignorant as I am, of
the politics and resources of my own County. I have here met
with our Vice President Col. Burr, with whom I spoke a little on
the same subject. He assured me that he had long studied it,
had conversed upon it with Toman and Talleyrand, in this
Country, had his opinion irrevocably fixed upon it, but could not
declare to me what that opinion was, except in presence of the
President. So far for external politics. With respect to our
internal affairs the President thinks himself sure of a Majority
in both houses. With respect to changes he is less precipitate
than many expected. I believe he does not mean to descend to
the lower offices. I was happy to hear him speak in high terms
of you, and can assure you his opinion of you is general in this
Country. I am surprised at the conditions of Peace between
England and France. For Heaven's sake let me know how it
came to pass.

I have the honor to be with high respect &c
Sir, &c

Lewis Littlepage.
Endorsed by R. King

" Ans'd Mar. 22nd private ; (probably 1802)
Subject generally state of Exped'n to Louisiana — in wh. Eng.
will not interfere and concern'g wh. the public welfare must be
promoted or risqued by our own Exertions or omission."

Mr. King having asked for a conference with Lord
Hawkesbury it took place on Nov. 25, 1801.*

I began by saying I had desired to see him chiefly with regard
to the negotiation about the 6 & 7 articles ; stated my solicitude
for its conclusion, and that I must present a note upon the subject
in case it was not likely soon to be again taken into consid'n.

He said the Chancellor was much engaged in his Court, but
that he hoped soon to have an opportunity of conversing with
* Memorandum Book.

VOL. IV.— 2

1 8 RUFUS KING. [1801

him, &c ; and then repeated what Hammond had before men-
tioned to me, that Lord Grenville said he had agreed to nothing
wh. committed the Government, and moreover that the Commis-
sion under the 7 art. going on was a circumstance wh. wd. natu-
rally have an influence (which it had not had as Lord H.
observed) in deciding upon the sum for wh. the 6 article shd. be
commuted.

I told his Lordship that I had drawn up a paper upon this sub-
ject wh. was in the Chancellor's hands with a request that it shd.
be sent to him, & that I felt persuaded that it w'd shew the
business in its true light and prove that the discussion upon the
6 art. proceeded upon the basis of that article's being commuted
and the 7 article's being executed.

I then enquired concerning the Expedition to San Domingo,
preparing in the French Ports. Asked if it wd. proceed before
the definitive Treaty ; if its object were approved by Eng. and
whether Louisiana formed a part of it.

He replied that an understanding existed with respect to the
Expedition to St. Domingo ; intimated that the Expedition cd.
not wait for the defin. Treaty. On the subject of Louisiana not

\a word had passed during or since the negotiation with France
abo. Louisiana — he would not speak positively and what he did
say was confidential, but he shd. rather conclude that no part of
the Expedition now preparing was destined for Louisiana. Spain
had certainly ceded Louisiana. But he did not exactly compre-
hend the Territory included under that Term.

I said by Louisiana without other words one wd. understand
only lands west of the Mississippi ; but we apprehended the
Floridas and New Orleans likewise to be ceded. We then turned
to a map and I pointed out to L. H. the boundaries of Louisiana
as I understood them making the Mississippi on the East and the
River Norde on the West the limits. He asked where New
Orleans was and I pointed it out to him, and also explained the
ancient claim of the Limits of Louisiana and such as was ad-
vanced before the 7 years' war — adding that the Treaty of Paris
in 1762* gave the countries east of the Mississippi to England,
leaving Louisiana solely on the west of that River. I then
enlarged upon the value and importance of Louisiana to Fr.,
provided New Orleans & the Floridas were added. His Lord-

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 1 9

ship seemed to have never considered the subject, and remarked
that it must be a very long time before a country quite a wilder-
ness could become of any considerable value.

I observed that we saw the subject in a different light and were
desirous that this region shd. remain in the quiet hands of Spain,
and then asked if Spain shd. continue to desire it, as well as we,
and we shd. employ such influence as we might have to engage
France to relinquish the cession, whether England wd. cooperate
at Amiens by using her influence in favour of the restoration of
this country to Spain. Lord H. said he wd. give me no answer
on that point, adding what he had before asserted that they had
taken no notice of the cession & he would not think that it wd.
soon become of importance.

Speaking of the act of cession, he said that they had seen a
copy of it & on my asking for a copy he said he wd. give it to me.
(He sent me the copy of a Treaty between Fr. & Sp. of March
1801, securing Tuscany to the Prince of Parma, and wh., re-
ferring to the cession of Louisiana, confirms it *

* Traite signe a Madrid le 21 Mars 1801 par le Prince de la Paix et Lucien
Bonaparte.

The fifth Article of this Treaty reads thus : " Ce Traite etant en consequence
de celui deja conclu entre Le Premier Consul et S. M. E. par le quel le Roi cede
a la France la Possession de la Louisiane les Parties Contractantes conviennent
4'effectuer le dit Traite et de s'arranger a l'egard de leurs Droits respectifs."

CHAPTER II.

Dinner at Addington's — Otto and Talleyrand — Wilberforce on Slave Trade
and on Pitt — Anecdote about Expedition to Egypt — Lord Molesworth in
Denmark — King to Lord Pelham — Complaint against McDonough, Eng-
lish Agent at Tripoli — Inciting War against the U. S. — Lord Pelham's
Answer — His Conduct unauthorized — He is to be removed — King to
Lord Hawkesbury — Presses for a Settlement of Negotiations — King to
Secretary of State — Expeditions to St. Domingo— Otto to be Minister to
the U. S. — King to R. R. Livingston — Congratulations on his Arrival
at Paris — Troup to King — Depressing Effect of the Peace — Duel of Ham-
ilton's Son — Anecdote of Talleyrand and La Foret — Gambling in English
Stocks — Genet wrote his own Instructions — Sir William Parker instead of
curbing, permitted Depredations by his Officers on American Commerce —
King to Eaton — Presents to the Bey — King to Addington — Delays in Ne-
gotiations— J. Q. Adams to King — The Peace will cause Inconvenience —
King to Hamilton — Letter of Condolence — Sedgwick to King — Demo-
cratic Influence increased in New England — Jefferson's Removals have
not hurt his Influence — Rupture with England feared by Jefferson's
Friends — They aim at the Destruction of the Judiciary — King to Lord
Eldon — Presses for a Settlement of Negotiations.

Nov. 27. 1801.
Nov. 27. 1801.* Dined at Mr. Addington's with eight or ten
individuals, his personal friends he called them ; Otto & myself
the only strangers. In my morning ride I fell in with Mr. Addi-
son ; we rode together and conversed on different subjects. . . .
He said, speaking of Mr. Otto, what he had before told me that
his conduct had been most excellent and correct ; for him and
his colleagues to have acted with fairness in respect to the funds
was precisely their duty : but Otto had not been precisely in the
same situation, yet he was persuaded that he had abstained with
as much discretion and as entirely as they themselves had. I
* Memorandum Book.
1801J LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 21

observed that it was certainly very creditable to Otto, but that it
had surprised me that Talleyrand had not made use of his knowl-
edge to job in the Eng. funds. Without replying, Mr. Addington
in a sort of ejaculation, said he was glad Lord Cornwallis had left
Paris for Amiens ; as he believed things wd. do better at a dis-
tance from that Man ! (Talleyrand)

One of two inferences may be made from these words — either
that Talleyrand was not trusted by Bonaparte in the negotiation
carried on by Otto in London and might not be in that to be
entered upon at Amiens ; or that the ex-Bishop had already
gained an influence over Lord Cornwallis. Sitting by Wilber-
force at Dinner I glanced at the latter interpretation which I
thought he assented to — and in a loose conversation- with Ham-
mond I perceived the same idea was admitted by him. But Otto
some time since told me that certain of his dispatches were sent
with unbroken seals to Bonaparte.

Wilberforce told me that he had not much hopes, that the
Article abolishing the Slave Trade would be inserted in the de-
finitive Treaty. Lord Cornwallis knew & cared little about it,
but wd. act fairly, whereas Malmesbury, knowing the King's opin-
ion, like a mere courtier as he was, wd. be sure to defeat any
hopes wh. might exist in its favour. Addington was well enough
disposed, as well as others of his colleages, but Hawkesbury par-
took of his Father's sentiments on this topic and he had fairly
told him that so long as he entertained these principles he W.
would never look upon him with the friendship he desired to do.
Wilberforce seemed to think (in wh. I believe he is quite mistaken)
that Bonaparte was disinclined or lukewarm, on account of his
wife, who is a Creole !

MR. PITT.

Wilberforce spoke in high terms of Mr. Pitt and especially with
regard to his disinterestedness and support of the new Ministry —
adding that before he went out of office, he sent for him W. and
explained his intentions, as well in regard to his own resignation
as the forming of one new Ministry, asking him what he thought
of his project. W. replied that he approved of it and encouraged
him to persevere. Pitt replied that he was glad to receive his
approbation especially as others had told him the new min. wd.

22 RUFUS KING. [1801

not do, and desired him to counteract that opinion. Mr. P.r
said, Wilberforce, is the only one of the old ministry who wd.
have made the Peace the new Ministry has done and he has acted
nobly in supporting them.

Speaking of the Expedition to Egypt he lamented that they had
been so misled by Canning's foolish Book (referring to the
Preface and Notes to Bonaparte's intercepted Letters). Had
Menou been an able instead of a weak General, they shd. have
been defeated & disgraced at Aboukir : and after all Providence
had saved them, for poor Abercrombie (who was certainly brave
and whose gallant death shd. cover all his errors) was most com-
pletely surprised by the French in the morning in which he was
mortally wounded !

Anecdote.

Lord Molesworth, the Eng. Envoy in Denmark, wrote an acct.
of that Country which unveiled the tyranny of its Government.
Scheel, the Dan. Envoy in Eng., complained to King William of
this Publication and demanded reparation &c. The King who
was attached to Lord Molesworth evaded the complaint of Scheel
who renewed his representation and added that for such like
offense committed by the Dan. Envoy in England, his Dan.
Majesty wd. cut off the offender's head and send it to the offen-
der's ally.

King William good humouredly expressed his acknowledgments
and said that such were not the laws of England and that he wd.
command Lord Molesworth to put in his book what were the
laws of Denmark upon this subject.

King to Lord Pelham.

Great Cumberland Place, Nov. 28, 1801.
My Lord :

It seems not the least extraordinary of the wonderful things of
the age in which we live, when reforms of almost every sort, and
in every direction, have been aimed at, and powerful Leagues to
effect them have been formed and dissolved on all sides, that no
one has thought of a confederacy to repress the piratical practices

i8oi] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE.
of the States of Barbary, which, at the very doors of the great
Nations of Europe, have for so many Centuries laid them with the
rest of the commercial world, under Contribution.

It is true Great Britain, on account of her naval superiority,
feels this Evil but lightly ; but were it permitted to others to ex-
press an opinion on this head, it might be said, that the reason
why she does not feel it more heavily is precisely that which
should free her, as well as the rest of the World, from feeling it
at all.

For these Reflections, I ought, however, to crave your Lord-
ship's indulgence, though in Truth they are not altogether foreign
to the particular object of this Letter, which serves to communi-
cate to your Lordship the enclosed complaint against the British
Agent residing at Tripoli. The Bey of Tripoli has lately declared
War against the United States, which, in consequence thereof,
have been compelled to send a squadron of Frigates into the
Mediterranean to protect their Commerce and curb the cruisers
of this Regency.

Bryan McDonough, the British Agent at Tripoli, has, as we are
informed, materially contributed by his misrepresentations and
influence over the Bey, to engage him to make war upon the United
States. In addition to the information derived from the American
Consuls at Tripoli and Tunis, Commodore Dale, Commander of the
American Ships in the Mediterranean, after particular inquiry
confirms, in the fullest manner, the complaint against McDonough.

It will naturally occur to your Lordship, that this complaint,
from its nature, does not admit of exact Proof, since it is from
various and connected circumstances only that we are enabled to
satisfy ourselves, in cases of this sort, that our suspicions are well
founded : in the present instance, however, although we cannot
accompany the complaint against his Majesty's Agent at Tripoli,
with such Proofs as would judicially establish his Guilt, it is my
duty to state to your Lordship that the evidence of delinquency
is such as to convince us that the war in which we are engaged
with Tripoli has been excited by the false and unfriendly represen-
tations of this agent, if not chiefly produced by his mischievous
influence over the mind of the Bey. How far his malignant
views may have been promoted by his abuse of his public charac-
ter is matter of conjecture ; but there can be no doubt that his

24 RUFUS KING. [1801

influence, whatever it may have been, must have arisen principally
from his official situation.

Relying, as we do, upon his Majesty's friendship and Justice,
I flatter myself that this complaint will meet with a ready and
impartial consideration ; and that his Majesty will not only mani-
fest his displeasure at this highly criminal and injurious Proceed-
ing, but that he will moreover give explicit instructions to his
Consuls and agents throughout the States of Barbary, to pursue
for the future a conduct in respect to the United States and their
affairs, conformable to the harmony and good understanding that
so happily subsists between our respective Countries.*

With the most perfect consideration &c &c

Rufus King.

Lord Pelham to R. King.

Whitehall Dec, 5, 1801.
Sir:

I have received the honor of your Letter, dated 28th. ulto., in-
closing a Copy of one from Mr. William Eaton, Consul for the
American States at Turin, to Mr. Magra, his Britannic Majesty's
Consul General at the same place, in which the conduct of Mr.
Bryan McDonough at Tripoli is stated as highly reprehensible.

It is, I should hope, unnecessary to assure you that any con-
duct observed by Mr. McDonough hostile to the interests of the
American Government in the Barbary States is totally unauthor-
ized, and that every possible disposition is felt by the British
Government to preserve in every quarter that harmony and good
understanding, which so happily subsists between it and the
United States of America.

Were Mr. McDonough likely to continue in his present station,
the circumstances of the charges against him (although the
authenticity of them rests merely on the assertion of Mr. Eaton)
should certainly undergo a full investigation, but as he is almost
immediately to be superseded, such investigation is unnecessary.
Lest, however, from any accidental cause, his supercession should
not take place as soon as it is intended, a Letter shall be imme-
diately written to him, cautioning him against persisting in the

* To this is appended a report from Com. R. Dale, stating the charges
against B. McDonough.

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 25

conduct he is charged with, and his successor shall be fully ap-
prized of the friendly sentiments, entertained by the British
Government towards the American States.

I have the honor to be &c

Pelham.

R. King to Lord Hawkesbury.

Private.

Great Cumberland Place, Nov. 30, 1801.
My Lord :

If your Lordship will advert to the really unpleasant situation
in which I am placed by the great and continued delay of the
settlement concerning the 6th article of our Treaty, I am per-
suaded you will be disposed to do justice to my encreased solici-
tude upon the subject. Preserving always a due confidence in
the assurances which have given me reason to expect a satisfac-
tory conclusion of this affair, I have from month to month and
from year to year (for it is near three years that the business has
been depending) endeavored to satisfy my Government in respect
to this unusual and inconvenient Delay.

Having nothing to add, or to alter upon a subject we have so
fully considered, and as I thought settled, I may without further
apology, appeal to your Lordship's impartiality for my justifica-
tion in claiming, as it is my duty to do, a final decision of this
affair. The season of the year offers but few opportunities to
America ; the regular mail for New York will be made up in the
course of this week, and I am anxious to give to my Government
positive and explicit information upon this subject. I will only
add, that I shall be happy to be enabled to say, that the business
is finally and satisfactorily closed.

With perfect respect &c, &c,

Rufus King.

26 RUFUS KING. [1801

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 43.
Sir:

London Nov. 30 1801.

It is understood that Lord Cornwallis will leave Paris for
Amiens in the course of a day or two, and as soon as the Minis-
ters of France, Spain, Portugal and Holland shall arrive there,
that the negotiation of the definitive Treaty will be commenced.
As the principal Points were settled in the Preliminaries, and
those of inferior note have been since discussed at Paris, the pre-
vailing opinion seems to be that not much time will be required
to bring the negotiation to a conclusion.

The expedition to St. Domingo has not yet sailed ; but as Eng-
land has really a squadron of ten or twelve ships of the Line,
which is to be sent immediately to the Jamaica station, it is sup-
posed that the French Expedition will proceed as soon as it shall
be ready and without waiting for the definitive Treaty.

Mr. Otto has received notice that he will be sent as Minister
Plenipotentiary to the United States, tho' in consequence of Mr.
Jackson's appointment as Minister Plenipotentiary of England at
Paris during the Congress at Amiens, Mr. Otto may receive a
corresponding appointment here, so that neither he nor Mr. Jack-
son, who will probably succeed Mr. Liston in America, will be at
liberty to leave Europe before the spring.

Nothing decisive has yet taken place respecting the 6th and 7th
Articles of our Treaty with this Country ; I shall, however, be
able to send you more explicit, and, I am willing to hope, more
satisfactory information upon this subject, in the course of the
next month.

I have called Lord Hawkesbury's attention to the subject of
the Trade between the English West Indies and our Ports, which,
without timely regulations, may be liable to great embarrassment
upon the return of Peace ; but he is at present so engaged, that I
have not yet been able to bring the subject fairly under consider-
ation : I shall resume at the first moment I perceive a favorable
opening to do so.

Notwithstanding the fine and abundant Harvests of this Coun-
try, Corn continues to be dear and in the opinion of all judges

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 2J

will so far maintain the high price that the ports will be open
throughout the year.

With perfect Respect & Esteem, &c, &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Robert R. Livingston, &c, &c.

London, Dec. 3, 1801.
Dear Sir :

The French papers having announced your arrival at L'Orient,
in the early part of the last month, I conclude that you have be-
fore this time reached Paris, and therefore avail myself of the
earliest opportunity to offer you my cordial congratulations on
your mission, and to express my earnest hope that its success may
in every respect correspond with the favourable anticipations, in
which the public, as well as all those who have the satisfaction of
knowing you, have beforehand indulged themselves.

The return of Peace will serve to render your residence in
Europe more agreeable, not only by the good humour and polite-
ness it may be expected to reestablish, but by relieving you from
the endless detail of business, in which you would have unavoid-
ably been engaged by a continuation of the war.

The distance between us is so inconsiderable, that I promise
myself the pleasure of frequently hearing of your welfare ; and
Mrs. King, who unites with me in sincere regards to Mrs. Living-
ston, likewise joins me in the offer of our services in any way in
which they may be made useful to you or any part of your family.
With great Respect & Esteem, &c, &c.

Rufus King.

R. Troup to R. King.

New York, 5th December, 1801.
Dear Sir :

. . . We received the account of peace between Great
Britain and France in this city on the 20th ulto, via Boston. It
instantly operated almost like the hand of death upon all busi-
ness. I had two auctions on that day on hand at the Coffee
House : one of Sir Wm. (Pulteney's) real property in this city ;

28 RUFUS KING. [1801

the other of lands in my hands as an executor of an insolvent
estate. There were several other auctions depending. All was
knocked up, instead of being knocked down ! Not a hid was
given ; every thing was buzz and confusion in the Coffee House.
Ships have fallen. Wheat, corn and flour have been constantly
on the fall ! In short all business dull and nearly at a stand. I
hear however, of no bankruptcies, and much serious mischief does
not seem to be apprehended. . . .

For twelve days past the city has been much agitated with a
duel * between Hamilton's oldest son Philip and a Mr. Eacher — a
brother lawyer of mine and a violent and bitter democrat. . . .
Young Hamilton was mortally wounded and soon after died.
Never did I see a man so completely overwhelmed with grief as
Hamilton has been. The scene I was present at, when Mrs.
Hamilton came to see her son on his deathbed (he died about a
mile out of the city) and when she met her husband and son in
one room, beggars all description ! Young Hamilton was very
promising in genius and acquirements, and Hamilton formed high
expectations of his future greatness ! ... At present Hamil-
ton is more composed and is able again to attend to business ;
but his countenance is strongly stamped with grief. Eacher has
not since made his appearance at the bar. There is a general
current of opinion agt. him, except amongst the violent demo-
crats. Very truly yours,

R. T.

Talleyrand and La Foret. f

London, Dec. 7, 1801.
Otto called upon me in the evening to mention that he had
received credentials as Min. Plenip. to this Court, and to make
inquiry respecting the mode of dress, presentation, &c. After
going over this subject we talked of various others and among
them I spoke of the reputation he had established by keeping his
secret so well and not gambling in the Eng. funds during the
negotiation, and then observed that tho' I understood him well
enough and could account for his discretion, which was so very

* See vol. iii., p. 33. f Memorandum Book.

l8oi] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 29

commendable, I could not tell how Talleyrand & La Foret,
especially the first, were kept back and restrained, for they must
have known all that was doing. Otto made no scruples about
Talleyrand's character and likewise admitted that La Foret was
fond of money and liked speculation, &c. In America he was
always engaged in little bargains and calculating. Indeed it must
be owing to something of this sort that he had been sent to
Munich as minister — a place no ways equal to that he held in the
Post office. But he was Talleyrand's man and agent and very
likely had been engaged in some affair wh. made it expedient to
send him away from Paris. As to the negotiation here it was
curious, early at the time of the proposed armistice. The first
proposition which he received from France to be made to the
Brit. Govt, arrived at 3 o'clock p.m.; before 8 o'clock it was
known in the City, or rather he knew it was there known as soon
as 8 o'clock, and might have been sooner known, & the purport
of it appeared in the Morning Post ; all this before he had made
his communication to the Brit. Govt. In his very next dispatch,
Otto said, he took notice of this circumstance, justified himself
and expressed surprise how the intelligence should have got air.
In a future stage of the discussion, the purport of an important
dispatch was actually known on the Exchange of London and
produced a rise of 2 per cent in the funds before he, Mr. Otto,
received it. In his next dispatch to his Govt, he stated this ex-
traordinary fact and protested against the injury to his own char-
acter, wh. wd. immediately proceed from it. In reply he was told
that there could have been no disclosure thro' any of the officers
of the Bureau, as the dispatch was written by Mr. Talleyrand
himself and not trusted to any of his Secretaries. After this
complaint, Otto remarked, an attempt was immediately made and
persisted in to take the business out of his hands, and that under-
standing the motive, he had to employ the best means in his
power to prevent the success of the intrigue.

During the late negotiation the Parties were doubtless re-
strained by the resistance they had before met with ! ! ! Otto
said he had been offered a share in a concern by wh. Talleyrand
was to gain ^200,000 Stg, himself ;£ 100,000 Stg, and the English
concurred, he knew not how much, but he had peremptorily
refused.

30 RUFUS KING. [1801

Genet.

Otto told me that Genet was the author of his own instructions,
wh. he published in America ; being a favorite of Brissot, who
with the Commee. of his day was engaged in a thousand affairs,
he was desired to draw a sketch of his own Instructions, wh. were
brought at a late hour of the day, read over with haste & signed.
Besides Genet was a known Royalist and in all his conduct in
America played a part ! ! !

Admiral Sir William Parker.

This Admiral was sent to Halifax, as Lord Spencer told me,
because he was believed to be a prudent officer and would curb
the plundering spirit of the squadron stationed on our coast.

Instead of his conduct corresponding with this character, he
turned out to be an avaricious and disobedient Commander — and
during his command increased, instead of curbing, the depreda-
tion on American trade. Captain Pelew of the Cleopatra was one
of the most vexatious of those under Parker's command. On my
complaint, Lord Spencer recalled Pelew, but Parker instead of
obeying and sending him home, gave him leave to make a cruise
after Spaniards in the West Indies and Gulf of Mexico, where he
ran the Cleopatra ashore and was obliged to return to Halifax,
where her repairs cost upwards of ^8,000 Stg.

Parker also under the pretence of sending seven or eight re-
fractory soldiers who were condemned at Halifax to serve in the
fields as convicts or slaves in Jamaica, sent the America, a 74,
with them to the West Indies with orders to cruize for Spaniards
in the Gulf of Florida, where she was lost. Parker for these in-
stances of disobedience and for sending the America off her
station, was lately brought to a Court Martial at Portsmouth and
acquitted ; owing as Nepean told me to the base spirit of gain,
with wh. the majority of the court was influenced— a spirit, said
he, which has done us more mischief than can be imagined, wh.
not only excited the resentment of for. and neutral States, but
occasioned the Mutiny wh. well nigh ruined the Brit. Navy.

The system of secrecy as to the votes of the members of a
Court Martial must be done away with as it serves to protect

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 3 1

base men and cover base principles. An Act of Parliament
must be made for this purpose and Sir Wm. Scott had engaged to
go into a thorough reform of the Prize Courts in order thro' them
to check these depredations.

R. King to William Eaton, Tunis.

London, Dec. 10, 1801.
Sir:

The Jewels for the Bey being finished, and Mr. Hargraves pur-
posing to embark in an English Frigate, which sails in a day or
two, for Algiers, I have concluded to send them to you by him,
without waiting for the arms, which, though in great forwardness,
will not be completed in less than two months. Randall &
Bridge, the King's Jewellers, who have executed this commission,
have assured me that the Jewels should be most carefully and
securely packed, so that I hope you will receive them speedily,
and in good condition ; the invoice of these articles you have
enclosed. As soon as the arms are finished, they shall likewise
be forwarded to you. The Cloths, as I have before advised you,
have been shipped and will, I expect, reach you before Mr.
Hargrave's arrival.

The Cloths and Silks first sent, tho' unsuitable for the purpose
for which they were purchased, may sell for sufficient to reimburse
their cost and charge, especially as the silks were supplied at
reduced prices.

Mr. McDonough will no longer remain at Tripoli ; his succes-
sor will be instructed to observe in respect to the United States
and their affairs a conduct conformable to the good understand-
ing and harmony subsisting between the United States and Great
Britain. With great respect &c &c

Rufus King.

R. King to Mr. Aldington.

Private.

Gr. Cumberland Place, Dec. 11, 1801.
Dear Sir :

Will you do me the favour to inform me whether the business,
concerning which I have but too perseveringly resorted to you,

32 RUFUS KING. [1801

has yet been decided by the Cabinet ? The delays which have so
long prevailed, are doubtless such as belong to, and are usual in
affairs of this nature. Experience has taught me that I had
formed erroneous estimates of these matters, and I am now con-
vinced of what I suspect others have long since been, that I con-
sulted my zeal rather than my prudence, when I was prevailed
upon to engage in a service, for which every day of my life shows
me my own incapacity. I however console myself that a little
more time and patience will bring me my relief. I entreat you,
my dear Sir, to pardon these observations, which are by no means
designed to draw from you the slightest notice of the occasion of
them, but merely to excuse myself in your good opinion for the
endless trouble that it has been my misfortune (for such I shall
always think it) to give you.

I am, Dr. Sir, your obliged & faithful Svt.

R. K.
Note. Ansd. There had been a decision of the Cabinet, which
Lord Hawkesbury would communicate.

J. Q. Adams to R. King.

Quincy, 11 December, 1801.
Dear Sir :

Since I wrote you last, (13 October) I have been to the city of
Washington, and brought home my wife and child — We have
spent a fortnight here with my father, and in a few days expect to
get settled in Boston.

At New. York, on my return home, I first heard of the peace
concluded between France and England, which was very unex-
pected here, as it appears to have been, even in London. Its in-
fluence upon our affairs public and private will no doubt be
important and not in every respect favourable. Much partial
inconvenience is to be foreseen ; but if the enterprise and in-
dustry of our country is checked in one quarter, I believe it will
soon make its way in another. The prices of goods have gener-
ally fallen, and some unremunerative stagnation of commerce must
ensue. Our merchants and ship-builders, however, anticipate a
temporary advantage from the want of vessels in France, where

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 33

they hope to find a good market for many of their supernumerary
ships.

Our internal affairs continue to present an aspect of great tran-
quillity. The Session of Congress must have commenced, but we
have not yet received the President's speech.

About a fortnight since, General Hamilton's eldest son was
killed in a duel with a Mr. Eacker. He is said to have been a
young man of great promise.*

Faithfully your's

John Quincy Adams.

The letter of condolence of Mr. King to his friend, Gen-
eral Hamilton, written on January 12, 1802, is here given,
though out of date.

R. King to Hamilton.

Both as a friend and a father I do most unfeignedly partici-
pate and condole with you in the heavy affliction that has fallen
upon your family. It would be altogether vain for me to have
recourse to the usual topics of consolation. In so severe a
calamity it must be sought for among the treasures of your own
mind, which nature has so eminently endowed ; and after a while
it will likewise be found in the promising branches of your
family which remain, to recall to your remembrance as well as to
console you for the loss you have suffered.

With most faithful regard & attachment, &c.

T. Sedgwick to R. King.

Stockbridge, 14 December, 1801.
My Dear Sir :

. . . I am retired to private life and as yet I am rejoiced

that I am so. The little prospect of benefit which I saw from

any thing that I could do, the injury which my private concerns

* In the Life of Hamilton, vol. vii., p. 499, an account of this duel, with the

circumstances which led to it, is given. The young man was only nineteen

years of age, but warmly interested in the political questions of the day, the

discussion of which involved his father's name and character, and brought on

the quarrel which resulted in his death.
VOL. iv — 3

34 RUFUS KING. [1801

sustained by my absence, and the importance of my presence to
the welfare of my family, at the same time afforded cogent motives,
& justified, in my opinion, a conformity of conduct to them.

I confess to you, my dear sir, that I have been disappointed in
the effect produced in New England by the election of Mr. Jef-
ferson. I did believe that his known hostility to the federal
measures, which are essential to its prosperity, & not less so his
enmity to those institutions which habit, and as I supposed prin-
ciple had endeared to the people, would, at the same time, have
checked the progress of democracy, lessened the number of its
adherents, and infused into the well disposed a spirit of union
among themselves, & of exertion against their adversaries ; but,
instead of this, democratic influence has increased, as I believe,
in every state. This, as I think, is owing, more than to any other
cause, to the spirit of avarice, which has been fostered not only
by the general course of public events, but by the measures of
the government, and the addresses which have openly & con-
stantly been made to this odious, degrading & sordid passion.
Every puny prater who talks much of the interest of the people,
the necessity of public economy, and the importance of calcu-
lating every public measure on the principle of taking the least
portion possible of " the fruits of labor from the mouth which
earns it," is sure of an affectionate reception from the people.
Even well meaning men, perceiving the effects of these delusive
professions, have employed them, as instruments to acquire popu-
larity. Hence every warm, and generous, and manly sentiment
is stifled ; and hence national degradation on one hand, and the
glory of our country, on the other, have become unmeaning &
unintelligible expressions. The decrease of public burdens is
represented, as certain, from the election of Mr. J.

There is another circumstance which is equally discouraging.
The aristocracy of virtue is destroyed ; personal influence is at
an end. No length nor degree of popular service, neither the
most shining talents, nor the most and disinterested conduct, give
anything like weight and authority to character. What means
are there, then, of regaining power by the federalists ? When-
ever the federal systems shall be broken, and the feebleness which
must result from a complete relaxation shall be felt, the people
may remember those men whose wise counsels have once saved

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 35

them from ruin & again place the government in their hands. . . .
But should the blunders & folly of the Philosophers consign them
again to insignificance, how long will the federalists be able to
defend themselves against those means which have been found
sufficient for the destruction of their influence ? . . .

I do not think that Mr. J n has lost any influence by his re-
movals from office. There is nothing more mischievous & mon-
strous than the principle, and it is avowed, on which this conduct
rests. It is, palpably, rendering the aggregate of the emoluments
of all the offices, holden at the pleasure of the president, a mass
of electioneering corruption. And yet there is a wonderful tran-
quillity prevailing on the avowal and practice of this conduct.
There was a time when the resentment of the people of Connecti-
cut would have been roused, almost to frenzy, by removing such
men as Chester, Goodrich and Whittlesey, from important offices,
to fill them with such as Thirley, Bishop and Wolcott, let the
motive have been whatever it might ; but on this occasion, tho' a
most detestable motive is declared, no great degree of sensibility
seems to be excited among even good men ; and so far from
ruining the President's influence, the number of Jacobin voters at
the last congressional election, in that state, was greater than at
any former election.

Amidst all the unpleasing reflections which are presented to
the mind there is one which, to me, affords consolation. You
will not be removed. There is nothing, unless I am greatly de-
ceived, that the leaders of that party, a certain little great man
excepted, view with more horror than a rupture with G. Britain.
Yet do they consider that dreaded event as not improbable.
They will, therefore, avoid everything that may furnish evidence
to charge them with an intention to produce it. They will not,
therefore, remove a federalist from, to send a democrat to, the
court of London. And I do most sincerely hope, tho' there is
not on earth a man whom I more wish to see, that it may not be
too disagreeable to you to continue there.

But what will be the course of conduct which this administra-
tion will pursue ? As I have told you heretofore it will be the
object of Mr. Jefferson's ambition to reduce in practice the
administration of this government to the principles of the con-
federation. . . .

36 RUFUS KING, [1801

The revenue is so abundant that, even, should all our expenses
be continued, it will probably be supposed that some of the most
unpopular taxes may be repealed. Perhaps the salt duty will be
considered as the most grateful sacrifice. . . .

There is nothing which the party more anxiously wish than the
destruction of the judicial arrangements made during the last
session, because of the impediments which that throws in the way
of their rapid progress to the ultimate goal of democratic reform.
It is certain that a demolition of this system is contemplated by
the President ; for the Secy, of state has written to the. marshals
or clerks of all the eastern districts, & I suppose of all the dis-
tricts, to report to him, the number of actions which have been
determined in those courts, & the number now depending — the
object undoubtedly is to show how much money is paid for how
little business. Yet it is said, with what truth I know not, that
some of the party are of opinion that the Judges who are ap-
pointed cannot be displaced by a repeal of the law. This, I
believe, is certain that a repeal will not be attempted, unless it
can be assured beforehand that a majority in both houses can be
obtained, in favor of the measure. I am not, myself, satisfied
that a repeal of the law would be unconstitutional, for that would
imply that a rational reform of the judicial, under circumstances
which might reasonably be expected, would be impracticable ;
but I shall be happy if such doubts, however founded, shall pre-
vent so inauspicious a procedure. . . .

What will be the result of peace in Europe I know not — in
this country the effect must have a considerable influence on
almost all descriptions of persons. Except those whose depen-
dence for support is on salaries, there will be a general decrease
of the means of expense, and a consequent reduction of the prices
of all property. How far this will create discontent, and what
will be the direction of it, you can conjecture.

I am ever sincerely yours.

R. King to Lord Eldon.

Great Cumbd. Place, Dec. 17, 1801.
My Lord :

I take the liberty to send you enclosed a Draught of the pro-
posed convention as it was settled in our former Conferences

l8oi] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 37

with the addition of a new article founded upon the demand that
the payments on your side should be made by Installments corre-
sponding with those to be made in America.

With perfect Respect &c.

R. K.

R. King to Lord Eldon.

Great Cumbd. Place, Dec. 21, 1801.
My Lord :

I called in Downing Street today in hopes that Lord Hawkes-
bury would be prepared to give me a definitive answer concerning
the Draught of the Convention which by your Lordship's permis-
sion I took the liberty to send you. But as he had not seen it he
could say nothing upon the subject. Will you have the goodness
to send the Draught to Lord Hawkesbury, with such alterations
as you may think proper to make upon it.

Being desirous to finish this affair before the interruption of
the Holidays, I pray you to pardon the solicitude with which I
pursue it.

With great Respect & Esteem, &c, &c.

Rufus King.

CHAPTER III.

Hale to King — Comments despondingly on the President's Message — Ames
to King — On the Message — Virginia to Control — The Peace will not calm
Agitation in U. S. — King to Secretary of State — Vessels detained for
breaking Blockade of Havre released by Executive Interference — Lord
Dunmore's outrageous Conduct in Virginia — Conversation with Lord
Hawkesbury— French Expedition to St. Domingo — Louisiana — French
desire to colonize to get rid of perturbed Spirits— Bonaparte an extra-
ordinary Character — King to Secretary of State— St. Croix Boundary —
Prize Courts in the West Indies — Impressed Seamen — Peace has stopped
Impressments— Outrages against Commerce continue— W. Pinkney's Con-
gratulations on signing Convention relative to 6th and 7th Articles — Gore
to King— On his Trials while negotiating— King— Signature of the Con-
vention—King to Secretary of State — Sends the Convention— Mode of
paying Claims— Maryland Bank Stock Claim soon to be settled— King to
Madison— History of the Negotiation — Discouraging Delays— Looked only
to his Duty— King to Secretary of State— Congress at Amiens probably
result favorably to Peace — Mutiny in the Fleet for the W. Indies.

The two following letters will show the views of leading
Federalists inspired by the Message of President Jefferson
to Congress, and are therefore full of interest, conveying, as
they did to Mr. King, the gloomy forebodings that filled
their minds as to the future of the country under its new
rulers.

Joseph Hale to R. King.

Boston, Dec. 19, 1801.
Dear Sir :

We yesterday received the enclosed message. This mode of
testifying his homage of respect to the National Legislature, the
President has preferred to that which custom & habit had already
sanctioned. Would to God ! that in this manner only his admin-
istration were distinguished from that of his predecessors !

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 39

The Genevan & American Philosophers you will find more bold
in experiment than wise & intelligent as statesmen. In their
visionary brains the amount of our revenue by import is calculated
even to a cent for preceding years. Its surplus is to astonish the
citizens. The armistice lately signed at London is to produce
general & perpetual harmony between Nations. Our government
is only to state its claims upon other nations to have them at once
recognized & improved. The wild principles of uproar & misrule
which have given elevation & political consequence to our exist-
ing administration are philosophically speaking to produce tran-
quillity & subordination in an inverse ratio to their tendency
towards anarchy & confusion. Our nation is to derive conse-
quence from being stript of every national attribute & from the
sovereignty & independence of the several estates. Our National
credit is to be supported by withdrawing the sources of revenue
by which alone it can be maintained. The independence of our
Judiciary is to be confirmed by being made wholly subservient to
the will of the legislature & the caprice of Executive visions.
The farmer at the toil of his ploughshare is to learn military tac-
tics & when diking his meadows the principles of fortification.
To crown all, a National character is to be derived from freely
admitting to the rights of citizenship the " unhappy fugitives "
from law & justice of every other nation upon earth. Such is my
brief comment upon the inclosed text. Gloomy apprehensions
may have rendered me unfit to give an opinion upon the subject.
Your knowledge & experience will, I hope for the welfare of our
country, enable you to entertain more agreeable reflections than
at this moment irresistibly impress my mind. As under adverse
prospects we are inclined to seek consolation, so in the present
instance I am disposed to repose with a degree of confidence on
the habits & principles of New England & the virtue, intelligence,
& patriotism of men of talents & influence throughout our coun-
try. Their temperate, still voice may for a time be drowned in
the clamours of democratic frenzy, but their energies must & will
eventually impress & correct the public sentiment & acquire ad-
ditional momentum from the unreasonable tho' natural checks &
opposition of weak & unprincipled men.

Your friend & obed servt.

Joseph Hale.

40 RUFUS KING. [1801

•F. Ames to R. King.

December 20th, 1801.

My dear Sir :

The new President's speech is out, he calls it a message. This
difference is pretended to be important to save time, money and
ceremony. Is not this philosophy, dignity &c &c. The message
announces the downfall of the late revision of the Judiciary ;
economy, the patriotism of the shallow and the trick of the am-
bitious— It proposes that Congress shall legislate in every case to
the very rim and outside edge of its power — lest executive dis-
cretion should take its place and usurp its powers. Therefore
the items for appropriation are to be designated specifically. In-
stead of laying down rules of conduct, Congress is to apply these
rules in detail and is to be president, as to army, navy and taxes,
the U. S. Gov't has little to do, and is to be dismantled like an
old ship. For it is evident that the state gov'ts are to be ex-
hibited as alone safe and salutary. Thus Congress is to do every-
thing instead of the heads of departments. Committees instead
of Cong. The sovereign people are to be excited to controul
these and Virginia is to be as strong as the union is made weak.

I am full of commentary on this ample text, but you will not
need my help to make your own. Those who lean for support on
one state, and on exciting the passions of the people to weaken
every obstacle to the domination of that state, will understand
their part. You will see a broad hint about the carrying Trade.
Expect Madison's resolutions over again and the pretty plan of
the Report on the privileges and restrictions of our Commerce.

You will see perhaps by some of the Mass'tts papers that the
Farmer, alias Atty General U. S., alias Lincoln is outrageously
agt. the federalists and the whole body of the Clergy and
denounces the wrath of The People unless they abstain from
their evil ways. The peace (between France and England) will
not calm the agitations of this country : its terms present France
as an object both of terror & admiration. Unless Buonaparte
shd. die, her exorbitant power will be consolidated so as to over-
turn Europe first, then the World. But his life is precarious. I
am surprised at the kind of admiration lavished by wise men on
this adventurer ; allow him heroism — allow him genius — yet his

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 4 1

admirers invest him with qualities which he has given little evi-
dence that he possesses. Political sagacity is ascribed to him as
if he excelled Pitt and Thugut and all the old statesmen of old
Govts. The vis major requires very little of it. . . . I can-
not conceive of a long duration of peace, when all that exists is
prodigious and out of nature. Ambition sees no obstacles and
it's victims can have no shelter. Is not Europe as much a prey
as Italy was to Rome after the war with Pyrrhus ? Spain, Portu-
gal, Holland and Italy are so many provinces of France.

This state affords no matter of news. It is quiet, but soon to
be agitated by the intrigues to bring in Gerry Governor. The
National Egis, a paper at Worcester, is set up for that end.
Lincoln is said to have formed, as well as promoted, the plan, but
when there was a call for money, he was off. It is hoped by print-
ing frothy nonsense in that county to revolutionize the state.
What sense we have is no match for our prejudice and nonsense,
and soon or late, the contest will turn against us. I omitted to
say that the Farmer in his Egis modestly and consistently rails
agt. the Palladium as a gazette that is supported by the Federalists,
and the Clergy.

Yrs &c

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 45.

London, Dec. 23, 1801.
Sir :

In consequence of a letter written by lord Hawkesbury to Sir
John Nicholl, the King's Advocate, a copy of which is annexed,
a sentence of restitution has been given by the High Court of
Admiralty in favour of all the American Ships and Cargoes, de-
tained on their passages to Havre de Grace, except the Ship
Frederick and Cargo, of New York, whose Agents, contrary to
my instructions, brought on her trial before the interference in
her favour, which we had reason to expect on the part of this
Government. As an appeal has been made in this case, perhaps
the sentence of condemnation may be reversed in the Court of
Appeals.

These cases are not more remarkable on account of the Execu-

42 RUFUS KING. [180I

tive intervention, by which a restitution has been attained, than
for the singular circumstance that the Claimants' best interests
and wishes have been against their own success ; inasmuch as a
recurrence to the insurance offices would have been a less loss
than will now attend the adventures from the fall of markets in
consequence of the Peace.

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c

Rufus King.

To His Majesty's Advocate General.

Copy.

Downing Street, November 23, 1801.
Sir :

Mr. King, the American Minister at this Court, having repre-
sented to me that several American Vessels, destined for the Port
of Havre, have been recently captured off that Port, and that the
Owners of these Vessels and their Cargoes were from special cir-
cumstances ignorant of the Blockade of the Port and of the
notification thereof, at the period of their departure from the
Ports of the United States, and of their respective captures ; I
have it in command to desire you to signify to the Judge of the
High Court of Admiralty, that considering the ignorance of the
Blockade of Havre de Grace (notwithstanding the notification
thereof) under which the American Vessels lately taken, were
going to that Port, and the special circumstances which have
occasioned such ignorance ; and considering also the communi-
cations which had passed upon the subject between Mr. King,
the Minister of the United States and his Majesty's Servants
previous to the capture of those Vessels, it is his Majesty's
pleasure that all the Rights and Interests which may belong to
him in such captured Vessels and their Cargoes shall be given up
and released, and that the proprietors thereof, who were really so
ignorant of the Blockade shall be relieved as far as by law they
may from any penalties to which their property would otherwise
be exposed on account of its being destined to a Blockaded
Port.

I have the honour to be &c

Hawkesbury.

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 43

Lord Dunmore.*

Sir Andrew J. Hammond, who commanded the naval force on
board of wh. Lord Dunmore, with Gov. Eden of Maryland, took
refuge told me that not 4 Genn. of the Country joined Lord
Dunmore, indeed he said he remembered none but Warmely ;
that the negroes carried off were about 700 ; that those who
adhered to Lord Dunmore were chiefly Scotchmen from the
shores of Virginia. When he left the Chesapeake on Sir Wm.
and Lord Howe's arrival at N. York, he had near 150 transports
with Lord Dunmore and his adherents on board ; that Dunmore
wished to have burned and destroyed the country ; that he re-
sisted it and proposed to him the plan to leave the Chesapeake
and to send his Lps. adherents to St. Augustine, Bermudas &
Halifax, wh. he did.

That owing to the attacks of the Provincials he cd. not water
the Transports and was obliged to go up the Potomac with all the
empty casks he cd. collect to take in fresh water. It was on this
expedition, which was solely for water, that Dunmore wanted to
land and burn Brent or Brett's house on the Potomac. This he,
Hammond, resisted till the Provincials assembled on the shore
and fired upon & wounded two or three of his men and killed one
as they passed in their boats from ship to ship. Dunmore then
renewed the proposal of landing, to wh. he consented, & Lord
Dunmore landed with about 1000 men, drove the Provincials
killing 18 or 20, burned Brent or Brett's house, &c, and laid
waste the country for five miles round, reembarking in the evg.
with a trifling loss. In the night a boat came to them from
Alexandria, offering to pilot them and serve as guides to burn
Alexandria & Gen. Washington's house. Dunmore was eager to
embark at 12 o'clock that night ; he opposed, said the burning of
houses & towns wd. not serve to reconcile America & Engd., and
to Dunmore's great mortification informed him that so far from
permitting the expedition agt. Alexandria, he wd. the next morn-
ing weigh anchor and return down the Chesapeake, wh. he said
he did tho' not more than f of the water casks had been filled.

Afterwards he said that Genl. Washington whom he knew per-
sonally & had before passed a week or more with him at Mount
Vernon, sent his Aid de Camp Hamilton to thank him for his
forbearance and moderation when near Alexandria.
* Memorandum Book.

44 RUFUS KING. [1801

Hawkesbury.*

Dec. 26, 1801.

Called on Ld. Hawkesbury and delivered to him the draught of
a Convention including the articles before settled concerning the
6th. Article of the Treaty of 1794, & an addl. one respecting the
Commission under the 7th. Article. I had before sent him this
last article, but now delivered the entire draught. He said he
wd. take the earliest opportunity to see Ld. Eldon, and on my
explaining the objections to the awards being paid into the Bank
&c, as had been proposed, he appeared to acquiesce and approve
the modification I had suggested.

The conversation took a turn towards general politics. He
asked my opinion of the success of the Fr. Exp. to St. Domingo,
wh. gave me an opportunity to speak of the force sent ; wh. he
said they were told by the Fr. Govt, would be 15 ships of the line
and 20,000 troops. I said the best hopes of success were placed
in managing Toussaint, who was ignorant, superstitious and as
far as one cd. judge a suitable character for the experiment ; un-
less the Fr. went this way to work they wd. fail, &c. Lord H.
said that there were difft. opinions among their best informed
men ; Maitland & he believed a majority of opinions inclined to
this conclusion. '

He asked me if I had heard any thing farther from Paris re-
specting Louisiana. — I answered in the negative, except that I
had heard the Govt, had been offered to Massena at the same
time that the Embassy to Petersburgh and Constantinople were
offered to him.

Ld. H. said that the French wd. make great exertions to im-
prove & extend their colonies ; that during the negotiations
they always insisted upon the necessity of their having extensive
colonies at the close of the war, as Eng. had at the close of her
civil war ; and whither they might send their perturbed spirits,
&c. Lannes had been sent to Portugal, Macdonald to Copen-
hagen and doubtless Massena wd. be persuaded to go to Con-
stantinople, &c. Ld. H. then enquired if I thought Otto wd.
remain here, adding if Bonaparte was sincere for peace, &c, it
wd. be the best proof he cd. give to leave Otto here. Besides

* Memorandum Book.

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 45

London wd. not be a proper place to send Massena or any others
of wh. he may be jealous, as from its proximity it wd. be convenient
to carry on, and with the utmost safety, any conspiracy agt. him.
It was impossible to say what the situation of France is to be ;
whether the old family would be restored or a new dynasty estab-
lished. Bonaparte was as strong and as well prepared as he or
any one could be. St. Cloud which was repairing was one of the
strongest military posts about Paris. All Europe at present held
the same language ; all are rejoiced at peace ; it is popular every-
where and the minds of men in every Cabinet and State, fatigued
with the cares and efforts of war, are anxious for repose, so that
from without Bonaparte has nothing to apprehend. . . .

Bonaparte was certainly an extraordinary character ; he has
satisfied his ambition as a warrior, and was now aiming at repu-
tation as a statesman. His views were turned to commerce,
manufactures, finance &c ; success in these pursuits peace. At
present he has great difficulties on acct. of the state of credit,
public and private ; and his most pressing labour must be to
overcome these difficulties ; they certainly were formidable and
one must wait to see the effect of his plans.

William Pinkney to R. King.

Bath, J any 9, 1802.
Dear Sir :

I have had the pleasure to receive your letter of yesterday and
have communicated the gratifying intelligence contained in it to
Mr. Trumbull.

I offer you my sincere congratulations on the successful close
of the business, the whole course of which must have been to
you a trial of patience,* for which nothing but the actual issue
could compensate.

* Mr. Gore, who was in Paris awaiting the decision as to the reassembling of
the Commission under the 7th Article, had written to Mr. King, Oct. 15, 1801.
I have known too intimately the trials which your patience has experienced in
this unnecessarily protracted negotiation, and your repeated sacrifice of per-
sonal feeling to public duty, not to appreciate the weight of this new disap-
pointment, the more aggravated as it could not have been suspected by the
most jealous distrust. Should the business fail now, it will display such a
character in one party as to leave no doubts in the other of its future conduct,
& of the relation, which the two countries must ever bear to each other.

46 RUFUS KING. [180 1

As it is stipulated that the Commission under the 7th Article
is to recommence immediately, I presume that it will be proper
that the absent members of the Board shd. repair with as little
delay as possible to London. My own wish, indeed, wd. have
been to remain here a few weeks longer for the benefit of the
waters. . . .

Will you allow me to enquire whether it has been found practi-
cable to introduce into the Convention a clause relative to the

Bank Stock ?

With unfeigned Esteem.

Wm Pinkney.

January (probably 8th) 1802.

* Ld. Hawkesbury, having notified Mr. King that the
draught of the Convention, having been agreed upon, shd.
be engrossed and ready for signature the next day, he de-
sired him to meet him then at his office for the purpose of
signature. Mr. King says :

On my arrival at the hour assigned, Mr. Hammond desired me
to go into the room of Mr. Rolliston, the first Clerk, who had
prepared two copies, & Lord Hawkesbury being engaged, I
collated the copies with Mr. Rolliston, who put Lord Hawkes-
bury's & my seals to them. As he was about to affix the seals I
asked him if he had received any instructions how to place them,
he answered no, but that they should be placed on a line. I ac-
quiesced and the seals were so placed. Mr. Hammond then joined
us and we went into Lord Hawkesbury's room, where we signed
in the presence of Hammond, his Lordship signing first. I then
mentioned that it was of no consequence, but I was not sure that
the signatures and seals had not, as on former occasions, been
one above the other & not on a line. Hammond immediately
turned to the Treaty of 1794 and found that such had been the
mode of execn. Lord Hawkesbury did not appear to think the
difference of consequence, & I immediately said it was an affair
of no importance — as between us and them there cd. be no dis-
pute about questions of this sort, any interference of Pretensions

* Memorandum Book.

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 47

wd. doubtless relate to more interesting concerns. Lord Hawkes-
bury treated the subject as of no significance— and the third and
fourth copies, which were not signed until two or three days
afterwards, were executed in like manner as the first.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 48.

London January 9, 1802.
Sir:

At length I am able to send you a Convention which I yester-
day signed with Lord Hawkesbury, respecting the 6th & 7th
Articles of our Treaty of 1794. The Commutation of the 6th
article of the Treaty of 1794, and the confirmation so far as it
respects the future operation of the 4th Article of the Treaty of
Peace remain as they were settled in October last : and I have
nothing to add to my former reports upon these Points. The
Claim upon us to consent to a commutation of the 7 th Article
has been given up, and it is agreed that the Commissioners shall
reassemble and proceed in the execution of their duties, accord-
ing to the provisions of the Article, except only that instead of
their demands being made payable at such times as they should
appoint, the same shall be payable in three equal instalments,
corresponding with those to be paid in America.

As our Claims are to be ascertained by the Board of Commis-
sioners, which has heretofore added interest up to the day on
which its awards were made payable, and which is at liberty to
do so in respect to their future awards, the payment by instal-
ment's may not be thought a material disadvantage, the main
point, that of ascertaining the amount of our claims being satisfac-
tory secured. Having already burdened my correspondence
with pieces and reports upon these Subjects, which I fear have
been thought both tedious and uninteresting, I do not add, by
way of supplement, a particular account of what has passed since
the date of my No. 40, especially as the discussion has related
solely to the Commission in London, the agreement respecting
which is too explicit to stand in need of explanation.

48 RUFUS KING. [1801

Two Copies of the Convention have been executed, one of
which will be enclosed with the original of this Letter ; two more
copies are preparing and will in like manner be executed as
originals, and endorsed with the Duplicate and Triplicate hereof.
I shall likewise send you copies of Lord Hawkesbury's full
powers as soon as they can be prepared ; those which I made
use of are dated June 10, 1796.

Lord Hawkesbury has agreed to send a copy of the third
article of the Convention to the British Commissioners ; in like
manner, I shall send a copy of it to the American Commissioners ;
and as they are all upon the spot, they will be at liberty to resume
their business without farther delay. It will perhaps be thought
most convenient that the Ratifications should be exchanged here.

The Lord Chancellor has assured me that the Maryland Claim
shall speedily be decided in his Court ; a measure, it seems,
deemed necessary to enable the Crown to signify its pleasure
respecting the Bank Stock. Although the disappointments we
have met with on this Subject must weaken our confidence in the
course we have been pursuing, I think it would be impolitic at
present to change it ; the claim, which in my conviction is most
just, shall continue to receive my unremitting attention.
With Perfect Respect & Esteem &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to James Madison, Esq.

Private.

London January II, 1802.
Dear Sir :

Although for the reason suggested in my official correspondence
I have omitted to send you an account of what passed respecting
the Viand VII Articles of the Treaty of 1794, subsequent to Mr.
Dawson's departure, I have on reflection thought it might be satis-
factory and perhaps useful that I should in this way supply the
omission.

Lord Grenville on being consulted by Lord Hawkesbury having
given an explicit opinion that he had in no respect pledged the
Government concerning the settlement of the 6th & 7th Articles
of the Treaty of 1794, and that the execution of the latter article

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 49

according to its provisions would be a measure which ought to
have a material influence on the ascertainment of the sum to be
accepted for the abolition of the former, I prepared and sent to
Mr. Addington a concise view of the origin, progress and present
situation of the Negotiation, corresponding with a more detailed
Statement which I likewise sent to the Lord Chancellor, and a
copy of which is annexed. Special considerations induced me to
prefer this manner of making the representation, to one that
would have been more regular, and which I remained at liberty
to make, should circumstances require it. In subsequent con-
versations with Mr. Addington, I had reason to be satisfied with
the steps I had taken ; for he told me that he saw the subject in
its true light and was ready to admit that to those who were
ignorant of personal characters, the objection if persisted in,
would unavoidably have the appearance of a mere expedient. To
him as well as Lord Hawkesbury I took pains to explain the
mutual advantages of a friendly settlement, and the impossibility
that I could consent to change the footing upon which the ques-
tion was now placed.

The business remained in this situation until the middle of
December, when Lord Hawkesbury informed me that having
again been considered by the Cabinet, it had been decided to
close the affair of the Convention upon the Terms which had
already been settled, and to agree that the Commissioners under
the 7th Article should proceed, provided their awards instead of
being payable as they should appoint should be payable by
instalments corresponding with those to be paid in America ; and
the money deposited in the Bank of England, to be applied on
account of the American instalments, which, to an equal amount,
should be converted into a fund to satisfy the awards in favor of
American claimants.

After taking time to consider this communication, it appeared
to me to offer the means of bringing the business to a conclusion ;
taken together it amounted to this proposition, that they would
accept ^600,000 payable by instalments in lieu of the 6th Article,
in the execution of which they had a majority of voices, and con-
sent to the execution of the 7th Article according to its Pro-
visions, in which we have a majority of voices ; provided the
payments to be made by them should be at the same time as

50 RUFUS KING. [1802

those to be made by us. The two Commissions having been
considered as reciprocal checks upon each other in the hands of
the respective Governments, the converse of this arrangement
will test its merits and determine whether we ought to have re-
jected it. I thought not ; but disliked the mode in which the
end aimed at was to be attained, and therefore prepared an article
which, by making the awards payable by instalments to the
Claimants, should attain the same end in a more convenient
manner. The sum of the awards would be greater or less than
^600,000 ; for it was not likely to be precisely that sum ; if less,
a balance must still be remitted from America ; if more, in every
instalment of every award, the American Claimant would have to
receive part of his instalment in America and the balance in
England. Besides the trouble of the accounts which must be
kept upon this plan, it would create considerable inconvenience,
and perhaps injustice ; for all the American Claimants had been
called upon to execute Powers of Attorney and appoint Agents to
conduct their claims in England, and with much trouble and some
expence had complied with this demand. These Claimants, in
some cases, had deceased ; in others, become insolvent ; and in
not a few instances (including perhaps cases of insolvency) having
anticipated the awards in their favour, had authorized their attor-
nies to reimburse their advances out of the monies which might
come into their hands from the awards ; besides the plan con-
tained no provision in respect to awards in favour of British
subjects.

Upon stating these objections to the Lord Chancellor, he ex-
pressed his preference of the article which I had prepared, and
which was finally adopted. Another objection, which it was not
necessary for me to mention to the Chancellor, had its influence
upon my mind ; I mean the appearance which this arrangement
would have produced, that the two countries had mutually re-
leased each other and had agreed to pay their own Sufferers, an
appearance that might have encouraged the Sufferers by French
Depredations to call upon Congress to indemnify their losses.
What Congress would be inclined to do upon such application it
is in every respect unfit for me to conjecture ; tho* in forming a
contract in behalf of the public, it was my duty to take care that
its deliberations should not be embarrassed by even the appear-
ance of a Precedent, should the supposed case arise.

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 5 1

I take the liberty of adding a word or two to my former com-
munications concerning the II. Article. What is to be deemed a
bona fide Debt, in the sense of the last clause of that Article, will
not depend upon a reference to what was once so, but is a judicial
question within the competence of our Tribunals to determine,
and which must consequently be decided by those general and
acknowledged Principles, by which the Decisions are in similar
cases uniformly governed. If I be not mistaken, it is here under-
stood and expected that the affairs of the old Debts is finally
settled as between the two Governments, and with that share of
Prudence which it behooves the Tribunals of every country to
observe in questions affected by national stipulations, I am per-
suaded that we shall hear no more of them.

Having for many years thought the settlement now accom-
plished to be a measure of national importance, and one that had,
in some degree, become indispensable to do away prejudices that
interested and disappointed men had raised against our public
faith, I may, I hope, be permitted, in a private letter to you, to
observe that I have pursued this negotiation with zeal and per-
severance, notwithstanding the mass of misrepresentation, preju-
dice and error with which it has been encumbered. I have done
so in circumstances often discouraging and sometimes apparently
desperate ; cheering myself always with these reflections, which I
have somewhere met with, that it is the duty of every one en-
trusted with what concerns the welfare of his country, in the
midst of Despair to perform all the offices of Hope. How far
what is done has been well done remains to be determined. If
the President and Senate approve, I shall have nothing to regret.
With sincere regard and esteem &c. &c.

Rufus King.

Mr. King, having finally accomplished the work which he
had so sedulously sought, under so many difficulties and dis-
couragements, to bring to an end, naturally closes his private
letter to Mr. Madison with a reference to these difficulties, in
the overcoming of which he had been so patient and had been
encouraged by a deep sense of duty. Those who have fol-
lowed the correspondence on the subject will see how ably,
clearly, and yet courteously, Mr. King met and finally over-

52 RUFUS KING. [1802

came the studied delays interposed by the British Ministers,
and the frivolous pretexts for postponing action. It cannot
be doubted that the personal respect in which he was held
contributed largely in bringing about the result.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 49.

London, Jan. 12, 1802.
Sir:

. . . There is reason to believe the business of the definitive
Treaty is going on in a conciliatory way, and as soon as the
variety of inferior points, brought forward by the Parties to the
Preliminaries, shall have been discussed and decided, that the
definitive Treaty will be completed. The consent of this Govern-
ment to the sailing of the French expedition to St. Domingo is
in itself a measure of such importance, as can leave no doubt of
its opinion respecting the issue of the Congress at Amiens.

It is true that an English squadron of equal force to that of
France was to have proceeded to the West Indies about the same
time, that the French squadron sailed, and that it was prevented
only by a Mutiny of the crews of several of the ships, which had
been ordered upon the Service. This Squadron which had been
collected upon the Western coast of Ireland, has returned to
Portsmouth, where a Court Martial is now sitting for the trial of
the Ringleaders of the Mutiny. These to the number of ten or
twelve will probably suffer ; after which the Squadron will pro-
ceed to Jamaica whither a number of other ships have been sent
in consequence of the Mutiny, and which will be relieved upon
the arrival of those originally destined for that Station. The
Mutiny is said to have arisen from an aversion to the West Indies,
as an unhealthy service, joined to the desire of being paid off and
discharged at the end of the war. It is somewhat remarkable
that the Ringleaders in the revolt are all Englishmen, a distinc-
tion that in the former Mutinies, belonged as exclusively to the
Irish. . . .

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c.

Rufus King.

CHAPTER IV.

King to Madison — Asks Permission to travel on the Continent — King to J.
Adams — Sending a Copy of the Convention just signed — King to Marshall
— Explanation of the Convention — King to Secretary of State — Cession of
Louisiana— Lord Hawkesbury's Views — King to R. R. Livingston — Cession
of Louisiana — Not to be referred to at Amiens — Great Britain does not
wish it — King suggests a temperate Statement against it with France —
J. Q. Adams to King — Discussion of the President's Message — Treasury
Report pleasing — Probable Action of the Administration — Aim for Popu-
larity— King to Secretary of State — Conference with Lord Hawkesbury
relative to the Footing of our Navigation on Return of Peace — To discon-
tinue countervailing Duties — Harmony of England and continental mari-
time Nations will not be re-established by the Peace — King to Lord
Hawkesbury— Expediency of abolishing alien tonnage Duty — King to
Secretary of State — Treaty not yet signed — Fleet from Brest not yet sailed
for St. Domingo — Sweden acceded to Convention of Petersburg — Proba-
ble Change of Ministry unfounded — Madison to King — Appointment of
G. W. Ewing as Consul — King to Parker — Sending his Son James to
School at Paris.

R. King to James Madison.

Private.

London, January 12, 1802.
Dear Sir :

From the month of May till September or October, including
what is here called the long vacation, very little business can be
done in London, it being the custom of almost all official char-
acters to pass the Summer in the Country and to visit London as
seldom as they can.

I am not aware that anything very pressing will in the course
of the Summer, especially if the Peace be definitely settled, be
likely to require my Services ; and I should like, if I could do so
without interfering with my official duties, to employ the time in
seeing a little of France and some parts of the neighbouring
54 RUFUS KING. [1802

Countries. This I should not think of doing, if my visit to Wash-
ington shall be thought advantageous nor in any event without
the permission of the President.

With Sincere Esteem, &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to His Excellency John Adams.

London, January 12, 1802.
Sir:

I have the honour to send you enclosed the copy of a Conven-
tion which I have signed with Lord Hawkesbury concerning
the 6th & 7th Articles of the Treaty of 1794. As the discussions
which have led to this result were begun and conducted under
your instructions, I feel it to be my Duty, as well as a mark of
Respect that is due to you, to send you this Copy by the same
opportunity that I avail myself of to transmit the original to the
Department of State.

No one knows more thoroughly than you do the source of those
Difficulties, often discouraging, & sometimes disgusting, which
continue to encumber our negotiations with this Government ;
the affair of the Debts of all others was the most likely to revive
feelings and prejudices not yet extinguished, and which have been
suffered to do so much real disservice to both Countries ; I have
notwithstanding persevered and waded through — whether meri-
toriously or otherwise, is a question that I must refer to those
whose Province it is to decide.

With entire respect and the most sincere attachment &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Chief- Justice Marshall.

Private.

London, J any. 12, 1802.
Dear Sir :

It was more than six months after you left the Department of
State before I received your last official letter, which was accom-
panied by a private one of nearly the same date. I ought sooner
to have acknowledged its receipt but I have been waiting in hopes
that I should be enabled to inform you, which I have now the

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 55

satisfaction of doing, that the difficulties respecting the execution
of the 6th & 7th Articles of the Treaty of 1794 had been settled.
I have signed a Convention with Lord Hawkesbury by which
England agrees to accept ;£ 600,000 payable in three equal instal-
ments of one, two and three years next after the date of the Ex-
change of Ratifications, in satisfaction of her claims under the
6th Article, which is abolished ; and moreover consents that the
Commissioners under the 7th Article shall immediately reassemble
and proceed in the discharge of their duties according to the
Provisions of the Article, excepting that instead of the awards
being made payable at such times as they might appoint, the same
shall be payable in three equal instalments corresponding with
those to be paid by the U. S. The Second Art. of the Conven-
tion is in these words, "Whereas it is agreed by the 4th Article of
the definitive Treaty of Peace, concluded at Paris on the 3d day
of September, 1783, between his B. M. and the U. S. that
creditors on either side should meet with no lawful impediments
to the recovery of the full value in Sterling money of all
bonafide Debts theretofore contracted, it is hereby declared that
the said 4th Article, so far as it respects its future operation, is
hereby recognized, confirmed and declared to be binding and
obligatory on his B. M. & the said U. S., and the same shall be
accordingly observed with punctuality and good faith, and so as
that the said Creditors shall hereafter meet with no lawful impedi-
ment to the recovery of the full value in Sterling money of their
bonafide Debts."

This Article was inserted for the purpose of enabling the Eng-
lish minister to meet the complaints of the creditors against the
sum we are to pay, by referring them to their judicial remedies.
We could have no objection to it, provided it was so drawn up as
not to enlarge the legal operation of the Article it recognizes.
Upon this point I have no doubt. It confirms the future opera-
tion of the 4th Article, or in other words, limits its operation to
what is now a legal subject for it to operate upon ; what is now a
bona fide Debt, that is what is a legal subject, will not depend
upon a reference to what once might have been so, but is a ques-
tion of judicial competence, and must consequently be decided
by those general and acknowledged Principles by which similar
cases are decided. Here it is understood and expected that the

$6 RUFUS KING. [1802

affair of the Debts is finally settled as between the two Govern-
ments ; and with that share of Prudence which the Tribunals of
every country are disposed to observe in questions affected by
National stipulations, I am persuaded we shall hear no more of
them. Being pressed for time to complete my official Dispatches
in season for the Packet, I will only add to this hasty communi-
cation the assurance of sincere regard & respect, with which

&c,

Rufus King.

P.S. I have sent to the S. of S. a full and exact report of
every material occurrence which happened in the course of a
difficult and tedious discussion respecting this settlement.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 50.

London, Jan. 15, 1802.
Sir :

I have before mentioned to you that the cession of Louisiana
(of which it seems to me, we can have doubt, notwithstanding
what may be said to amuse us) was not once a topic of Enquiry
or discussion in the negotiation of the Preliminaries ; and for the
same reason that it was not heard of on that occasion Lord
Hawkesbury has * recently informed me that it had not been and
could not be mentioned at Amiens. It is impossible for me to
suspect collusion in this affair and my persuasion, after the most
careful attention, is that England abstains from mixing herself
in it, precisely from those considerations which have led her to
acquiesce in others of great importance to the Balance of Europe,
as well as her own repose, and upon which she has been altogether
silent.

The expedition to St. Domingo did not sail without previous
explanations between London and Paris ; its destination was
understood to be exclusively to that colony ; at present it is
conjectured should the situation of St. Domingo not require the
whole force, that a part of it will be sent to take possession of
New Orleans.

* Italics in cipher.

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. $?

I have sent to Mr. Livingston a Copy of the Paper enclosed in
my No. 42.,* and shall give to him whatever information upon
this and other interesting subjects it may be in my power to do.

As the object and words of the 2nd Article of the Convention
will be sought for and examined with care and attention, it occurs
to me upon the revision of my former communications to suggest
a single observation in addition to those heretofore made. If the
second article of the Convention had been entirely omitted, the
4th Article of the Treaty of Peace would have remained in full
force and operation ; the adoption of the second article of the
Convention limits its force and operation in respect to subjects
upon which it once might have so operated, but upon which from
various causes it can and ought not in future to operate ; this
reflection pursued in its detail will place the article in its true
light.

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to R. R. Livingston.

London, Jan. 16, 1802.
Dear Sir :

If you have received my letter of the 5 th, the enclosure, the
authenticity whereof I have no reason to doubt, will cast some
light upon the subject of your last. During the negotiation of
the Preliminaries, I conversed again and again with the Prime
Minister and Secretary of State for Foreign Ajfairs concerning
the cession of Louisiana, who f assured me that the measure was in
their view of much importance, and one which they could not see
but with great concern ; nevertheless that they were unable to
interfere respecting it, for the same reason which compelled them
to silence concerning other important objects, affecting the equi-

* Vol. iv., p. 15. The Copy of the Paper referred to was in some way
omitted on page 15. The 5th article of that Treaty is in these words :

" Ce Traite etant en consequence de celui deja conclu entre Le Premier
Consul et S. M. E. par lequel Le Roi cede a la France sa Possession de la
Louisiane les Parties Contractantes conviennent d'effectuer le dit Traite et de
s'arranger a l'egard de leurs Droits respectifs.''

The previous treaty to which reference is made was signed Oct. 1, 1800.

f Italics in cipher.

1/

58 RUFUS KING. [1802

librium of Europe, and the welfare of Great Britain j and I am
disposed to credit the assurances made to me that the cession was
neither a subject of enquiry nor discussion during the negotiation
of the Preliminaries.

I have since more than once conversed with the same Persons,
with the view of impressing upon them the great importance in a
variety of respects of this cession, especially as it will affect the
security of their colonies, and offers the means of rearing up and
extending the commercial marine of France, the only sure foun-
dation upon which she can raise a navy that will be able to cope
with that of England. Reflections and views of this sort have
produced a revision of the Question, but with no other effect than
to confirm the decision before made ; and you may infer with
confidence that not a word has been or will be said upon the sub-
ject at Amiens.

In the explanations which took place concerning the Expedi-
tion that has lately sailed from France, it was here understood
that it was to be wholly confined to the West Indies : the answer
to my Enquiries was to this effect ; lately however an opinion
gains strength that a part of the force, should the situation of St.
Domingo permit, will be sent to New Orleans. I have been ex-
plicitly told that no such authentic information has been here re-
ceived, and that it is not likely to happen before the definitive
Treaty is concluded. On the whole I am persuaded that G.
Britain will see with much concern the accomplishment of this
cession ; that it is her interest, and that therefore she will be dis-
posed, to throw impediments in the way of its being completed,
but that she will use no open measure of opposition, nor such as
would afford a Pretence to involve her in new difficulties.

Unless Spain is besotted and blind indeed she must desire with
anxiety to avail herself of every assistance to get rid of the cession
of Louisiana. Mr. P — y has without doubt taken the earliest
opportunity to explain the light in which the measure is viewed
by us and he might with confidence infer the disinclination re-
specting it of G. Britain.

Whether it can now be prevented is a question of considerable
difficulty ; but in whatever concerns the welfare of one's country,
we are called upon even in circumstances of despair to perform
the Duties of Hope. My principal reliance would, I confess, be

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 59

placed upon a temperate, plain, and explicit representation to the
French Government, which should expose without reserve, and, if
the first essay should authorize it, in great detail the extent of the
mischiefs, which we may be made to suffer from the completion
of the cession, accompanying the same by assurances of our earnest
desire to live in friendship and harmony with France, and to cul-
tivate and extend commercial relations between the two Coun-
tries, and concluding with a direct insinuation that foreseeing as
we do the pernicious influence of the measure upon our political
and social happiness, it will be impossible for us to see it carried
into operation with indifference ; or afterwards to preserve unim-
paired the Confidence we wish to do, in the friendship of a
Nation, towards which we cherish the grateful Remembrance of
important services.

If France value our friendship, or if she care nothing about us,
except as her own interest requires, to prevent our too intimate
connection with her Rival, the development before hand, of what
we believe will be the consequence of measures in the accomplish-
ment of which she is engaged, may have the effect to prevent them.

But I have to entreat your Pardon for any suggestions on my
part upon Subjects which your superior Judgment and experience
are much more capable than mine to conduct.

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c.

Rufus King.

J. Q. Adams to R. King.

Boston, January 18, 1802.
Dear Sir :

. . . Our political atmosphere still remains serene. Since
the meeting of Congress, it appears there is a large majority in
the House of Representatives, and a decided, though small one
in the Senate, favourable to the views of the Executive. The
measures recommended by the President at the opening of the
Session, are all popular, in all parts of the union — But they are
all undergoing a scrutiny in the public newspapers more able and
more severe than they will probably meet in either house of Con-
gress. A writer in the New-York evening post, said to be General
Hamilton, has undertaken particularly to point out great and

60 RUFUS KING. [1802

comprehensive errors of system in the message, and his doctrines
find great approbation among the federalists, and among all those
who consider themselves as the profound thinkers of the nation.
These papers, will without doubt be transmitted to you by your
friends at New York, and they, with the President's Message and
the Report from the Secretary of the Treasury, will give you the
fairest view of what our Administration and our opposition are at
this time. As to Congress there has yet been no subject of de-
bate before them, which has called forth any energy of opposition,
The apparently leading ministerial members are General Smith,
Mr. Giles and Mr. Randolph. The Vice-President has not yet
made his appearance, being detained by necessary attention to
his private concerns at New York.

The report from the Treasury exhibits a pleasing view of the
present state of our finances. It is merely a statement, and
avoids with caution the proposal of any measures. The Presi-
dent however has drawn from it the inference that our internal
taxes ought to be repealed. This measure will probably be
carried into effect. The established system of naturalization, and
the judicial courts will have the same fate. Of all these changes
the advantages are immediate, obvious, popular, and trifling.
Their probable inconveniences are remote, are therefore not dis-
cernible to the short sight of the million ; and are of the most
weighty consequence. As popularity is the fundamental principle
both of our legislature and Executive, they will be satisfied to
provide for the occasions of the day, and leave the future times
to take care of themselves.

With the highest regard and esteem, I am, dear Sir, faithfully

yours,

John Q. Adams.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 51.

London, Feb. 5, 1802.
Sir :

Having carefully examined what would be the footing of our
Navigation with the British Dominions upon the return of Peace,
I was quite prepared for, and indeed by several conversations

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 6 1

with Mr. Addington, and other members of the Administration,
had already brought under consideration, the Subject of your
Letter, of the ioth of December, which I received a few days ago.

Immediately after its receipt, I intimated to Lork Hawkesbury
my desire to confer with him, respecting the points to which it
relates, and upon his naming a day for this purpose, I prepared
and sent him the paper a copy of which is annexed. Yesterday
I received a duplicate of your letter of December 22nd, which has
enabled me to be more explicit than I otherwise should have
been, in my conference of this morning with Lord Hawkesbury.
I began it by observing that during the continuance of the war,
which had the effect to procure to our vessels some preference
over others, we had not called their attention to the inequality of
their Laws in respect to the Commercial intercourse between the
two countries : but as the war was now at an end, we could not
delay calling upon them to revise these Commercial Regulations,
in order that they may be made comfortable to the respective
Rights of the two Countries.

The revision of certain Branches of these Regulations being
more urgent than that of others, and the countervailing Duties
upon articles imported into Great Britain in American Vessels
appearing to be the most urgent, I confined my observations
chiefly to this point ; explaining to Lord Hawkesbury my mo-
tives for doing so, and after suggesting some further reflexions in
addition to those contained in the paper I sent to him, I proposed
that they should agree

either

To discontinue the countervailing Duties on Articles imported
from the United States in American Vessels, as soon as the differ-
ence of Duties on articles imported into the United States in
American and British Vessels shall be abolished,

or

To repeal the countervailing Duties upon imports and impose
Duties upon all articles exported from Great Britain to the United
States in American Vessels, corresponding with the difference of
Duties, payable upon the importation of the like articles into the
United States in American and British vessels.

Lord Hawkesbury admitted that the only legitimate purpose of
the countervailing Right reserved to Great Britain, was to equal-

62 RUFUS KING. [1802

ize the advantages and disadvantages of the vessels of the two
countries in their commercial intercourse ; he said not a single
word in vindication of the manner in which this right had been
exercised ; and after intimating a preference of the first of the
two propositions which I had made, he said he would submit the
subject immediately to the Cabinet, and apprize me of its decision
with as little delay as possible.

The American Mail was to have been despatched to-morrow,
but upon my expressing to Lord Hawkesbury my hope that a few
days only would be requisite to enable him to give me an answer
upon the subject of our Conference, and my solicitude to trans-
mit it to you by the Packet, he said he would order the Packet to
be detained.

The few words which I said concerning the Tonnage Duty were
in every respect conformable to the observations on that subject,
in the paper sent to Lord Hawkesbury ; and the more I con-
sider it, the more am I satisfied we shall find the advantage of
establishing Light-house Duties so as to be distinct from the
public Revenue.

Lord Hawkesbury assured me that the subject of the West
India Trade should be immediately put in a train for examination.

I have but one observation to add ; it is this, that the return
of Peace will not reestablish cordial harmony and good humour
between this Country and the Maritime Nations of Europe,
among which a general opinion prevails, whether correctly is
another point, that the commercial and financial Prosperity of
England is in too great a degree at the expence of her neighbours.

These sentiments may lead to restrictions and embarrassments
upon the European commerce of this country, which will not fail
to make its Trade with us an object of still greater value and im-
portance than it is already known and confessed to be.

Difficulties of this sort are anticipated, and the Government
consoles itself with the expectation of a progressive increase in
the sale of its Manufactures in America.

The inference from these remarks is, that the present time is a
favourable one to press for the consideration and admission of
our past claims to a fair and equal share of the advantages
to be derived from the Navigation and Trade between the two
countries.

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 63

The Regulations upon this subject should in the first instance
be temporary and ex parte ; in this way they may be adjusted to
the reciprocal Rights of the Parties, and then become matter of
national Stipulation.

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c

Rufus King.

R. King to Lord Hawkesbury.

Great Cumberland Place, Feby. 9, 1802.
My Lord :

On revising my letter from the Secretary of State, I perceive
that the same idea has suggested itself there, which your Lord-
ship intimated to me yesterday, I mean the expediency of abol-
ishing our Alien Tonnage Duty as well as 10 per cent upon our
import Duties on goods imported in foreign vessels, the counter-
vailing Duties here being likewise abolished ; and I therefore take
the liberty of suggesting to your Lordship the expediency, that
your act be so drawn up as to authorize the repeal of either or
both of your countervailing Duties, upon due notice of a corre-
sponding act on our part.

I have reason to conjecture that such has already been the
tenour of the Act of Congress, and on the presumption that an
entire abolition of all discrimination is mutually our true policy,
I beg to express a wish that your Act may be prepared in con-
formity with the suggestion now made.

With perfect Respect &c

Rufus King.

R. King to Secretary of State.

London, Feb. 9, 1802.
Sir :

The definitive Treaty is not yet signed, but the preparations
which are here making to reduce the war establishments, suffi-
ciently evince the expectation of the Government upon this sub-
ject. The virtual annexation to France of the Italian Republic,
notwithstanding the manner and character of the measure, will
not be an impediment to the conclusion of Peace on the side of

64 RUFUS KING. [1802

England, and Austria and the residue of Italy have no voice at
Amiens.

I do not learn what the Peace establishment of this country is
likely to be ; the point can scarcely yet be decided, though every
one agrees that it will be larger than formerly, and especially at
Sea. There will be a squadron of from 20 to 25 Sail of the Line
at Jamaica, during the continuance of the French land and naval
forces in that quarter ; The expedition from Brest sailed on the 15
of Deer., and on the 28th it had encountered three successive Gales
without being able to clear the Bay of Biscay. Admiral Gravina,
who put into Ferrol, parted with the fleet on the 28th, when only
13 of 32 sail were together. Another ship has since reached
Cadiz in distress, and the naval officers here believe that the ex-
pedition must have suffered very considerably.

The Fleet is said not to have been provisioned for more than
four months, indeed considering the number of soldiers it carried,
it could not well contain provisions for a longer period. Whether
Toussaint submits or resists, it seems probable that the greater
part of these Ships must proceed to the United States for repairs
and provisions soon after they reach St. Domingo ; and possibly
a detachment of the English Fleet may follow them ; of this you
will before hand be able to judge from the preparations that will
have been made for their reception.

Denmark, as I have already informed you, has acceded to the
Convention of Petersburgh : Sweden at first hesitated, then
ordered her Minister here to notify to this Court her intention to
accede, afterwards hesitated again, and instructed her Minister
to ask certain explanations of England in respect to the seizure
of her Convoy, and the catalogue of Contraband ; and upon re-
ceiving for answer that her accession to the Convention of Peters-
burgh must precede all discussion upon these points, it is now
said, she will accede. Prussia has not acceded ; and having
nothing to gain by it, will not be likely to do so.

You may perhaps have observed in the late Continental, as well
as in the English Papers, paragraphs stating a concert between
England and France to repress the piratical practices of the Bar-
bary Powers ; but there is not the smallest foundation for these
reports, and I have reason to be satisfied that so far from a
change of former views in this respect, not an intimation even

802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 65

upon this subject has been made by either Government to the
other.

The rumours circulated in the English Papers, of another
change of Ministers appear to be equally unfounded ; the present
administration continues to be popular ; as yet they have imposed
no new burthens upon the country, and although the ardour
which was so general in favour of Peace has somewhat abated,
and men begin to speak with freedom of the great uncertainty
of its duration, still those, who made it, did so with honest views
and in compliance with the public wishes, and on this account are
thought deserving of applause and support. It is doubtless true
that the Peace, joined to the prolonged negotiations at Amiens,
has produced a great stagnation of business in all the commer-
cial Towns of the Country, and it is said that the last Quarter's
Revenue will fall considerably short of its former sum ; but these
embarrassments may prove to be only temporary, and after a
while men may resume and adjust their affairs, according to the
new order of things which Peace may establish.
With perfect Respect & Esteem &c

Rufus King.

R. King to Daniel Parker, Paris.

London, Feby. 12, 1802.
Dear Sir :

Our friend Mr. Gore having explained to you my desire to send
one of my sons to a school in the neighbourhood of Paris, about
which he took much pains to inform himself, I feel particularly
grateful to you for the permission to place him under your imme-
diate care. It has been my endeavour to impress upon his mind,
that he is in every respect to regard you as he would me, and to
use the same freedom in communicating to you whatever he
ought and has been accustomed to communicate to me. My
object is that he should obtain a solid education, and as I am
pursuing the same plan with his two elder brothers here, I shall
be enabled to compare and judge of their respective progress.

Mr. Des Cassaignes, who does me the favor to take the charge
of my son in his journey to Paris, will conduct him to your

VOL. IV.— 5

66 RUFUS KING. [1802

house ; and it is my desire, after you shall have permitted him to
go and pay his duty to Mr. Livingston and Family, that he may
.without loss of time be sent to school. As he knows but little
French and his school fellows and masters may know as little
English, he will for a few weeks suffer some embarrassment, and
on this account I take the liberty of begging you occasionally to
call & see him.

In respect to clothes, pocket money and whatever else regards
the economy of the school, my wish is that he may be put upon a
footing with his companions, and in no respect beneath them. . .

With unfeigned regards,

Rufus King.

It would appear that the journey to his school at Bag-
neux was a pleasant one and that he immediately deter-
mined to study his surroundings, for the following letter,
the first he wrote to his father, shows that he certainly was
curious. He was not then eleven years old.

Bagneux, ce 9 Ventose, 1802.
Dear Papa :

I hope you and Mamma are both pretty well, as I am.

I came here on Thursday and begin to like it very well. For
the two first days we had but soup and eggs for dinner with some
bread and wine and water, and after dinner five walnuts ; but
to-day we had meat and eggs and after dinner we had each a
cake. To-day we went to church (the protestants do not go).
I turned myself catholic and in going into the church I dipped
my finger in the Holy water, and touched my forehead and then
my belly and then my two breasts, then I went into the church
and the parson preached in French and Latin, and throwed
frankincense about the church and the parson took a sponge
upon a stick and throwd Holy water upon all in the church,
and then on going out of the church we put our fingers in the
Holy water, which was in a brass bowl in the beginning of
the church. Give my love to Mamma (who I hope is well) and
Edward and the little boy.

I remain, Dear Papa, your affectionate Son

James King.

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. §j

The tone of his letters, of which many are preserved, give
evidence that he at once entered cheerfully upon his new
situation among strangers, whose language and habits were
so different from those he had been accustomed to, and his
father had the gratification to learn from friends in Paris and
his teachers that his conduct and diligence were all that
could be desired.

CHAPTER V.

King to Vansittart, Secretary of State, and Madison — Discriminating Duties
on commercial Intercourse — England prepared to abolish them — Com-
mission under 7th Article resumed their sittings — Sedgwick to King —
Condition of Affairs in the U. S. as affected by Jefferson's Election —
Ames to King — View of the Future not cheering — King to Madison —
Delay of Negotiations at Amiens — Believes Peace will be concluded —
Napoleon at Lyons appointed himself President of the Italian Repub-
lic— King to Secretary of State — McDonough, British Agent at Tripoli,
exculpates himself from Charges against him — Debate on Bill to suspend
Tonnage and countervailing Duties — Definitely settled by France to send
a Colony to Louisiana, unless Affairs in St."TJomingo prevent — King to
Secretary of State— Ardour for Peace abating in England — Fleets to be put
in Order. — Still believes there will be Peace chiefly advantageous to
France — King to Secretary of State — Erving's Appointments — King to
Secretary of State — Negotiations at Amiens still unsettled — Public Opin-
ion in England seems to favor Rupture.

R. King to Nicholas Vansittart, Esq.

Private.

Great Cumberland Place, Feb. 12, 1802.
Sir:

It will probably require three months to exchange the com-
munications upon which our respective Governments can found
their definite acts abolishing the discriminating Duties upon our
commercial intercourse. It unfortunately so happens that these
months will exclude the season, in which a considerable portion
of our annual crops of Tobacco are shipped for a market ; and
as a great number of our vessels are now out of employ, it will
increase the embarrassments of their owners, if they are unable
to engage in the carriage of Tobacco, as will be the case if your
countervailing Duty upon this article be continued.

While the war lasted, we did not complain, although we enter-
1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 69

tained the same opinion as I have expressed to you concerning
the inequality of these Duties. If our acquiescence has been in
some small degree beneficial to you, we have on that account no
motive to regret it ; but it would in return be a considerable
relief to us in the present situation of our navigation, if a clause
could be inserted in the Bill proposed to be brought into Parlia-
ment immediately repealing so much of the countervailing Duties
as regards the article of Tobacco. There can be no doubt that
the whole of these discriminating Duties upon our respective Im-
ports will be done away, and I am' persuaded that we shall
receive the anticipated repeal of the Duties on our Tobacco as
another and liberal proof of your disposition to promote a friendly
and harmonious intercourse between the two Countries. Should
any difficulties arise in the execution of our present views, of
which I have no apprehension, the subject will always remain
under your control.

With perfect Respect &c,

Rufus King.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 53.

London, Feb. 13, 1802.
Sir :

I am authorized to inform you that the British Government
will without hesitation accede to a proposal for the abolition of
all discrimination of Duties, affecting the Navigation and com-
mercial intercourse between our and their Territories, and in
consequence of what has passed upon this subject, a motion has
already been made in the House of Commons by Mr. Vansittart
of the Treasury to bring in a Bill authorizing his Majesty, at any
time after the passing of the act, by an order of Council, or by
Proclamation, to cause the countervailing Duties upon American
Vessels and upon Articles imported on American Vessels, or
either of them, or any part of the same, or of either of them,
wholly to cease, or to be suspended for such period or periods as
may be deemed expedient. We may count with certainty upon
the passage of the Bill to a Law, and that the extent of repeal
will be made to depend upon our own choice.

I have suggested the equity and importance of an immediate

JO RUFUS KING, [1802

suspension of the countervailing Duty upon Tobacco, and the
Bill is so drawn up, as leaves the Government at liberty at any
time to take it off, in particular cases by an order in Council, or
to suspend it generally by proclamation. I have however re-
ceived no assurance that this will be done, and we consequently
must not be disappointed if it should be refused. I will resume
the subject should a favourable occasion offer to do so ; in the
meantime, individuals may, upon the circumstances of their cases,
ask for a remission of this Duty.

Perhaps a future day will be named in our Law, or in the
proclamation which the Law may authorize, upon which our dis-
criminating Duties shall cease ; due notice of such measure
would become the grounds for a correspondent abolition of the
Duties here.

I annex the Copy of a Letter sent by Lord Hawkesbury to the
British Commissioners under the 7th article of the Treaty of
1794. A copy of the Convention which I have lately signed with
his Lordship, has in like manner been communicated by me to
our Commissioners ; in consequence of these communications,
the Board will immediately reassemble and proceed to business.
With perfect Respect & Esteem &c

Rufus King.

Copy.

Downing Street, nth Feby., 1802.
Gentlemen :

I herewith transmit to you the copy of a Convention concluded
by me and Mr. King on the 8th of January last, explanatory of
the 6th-& 7th articles of the Treaty of Amity, Commerce and
Navigation with the United States ; and I have to signify to you
his Majesty's pleasure that you propose to the Commissioners on
the part of the United States of the Board of which you are
members, to reassemble and proceed with you in the execution
of the Duties imposed upon you by the provisions of the 7th
article of the said Treaty and by the third article of this Conven-
tion.

I am, &c

Hawkesbury.
To Maurice Swabey, LL.D. )
and John Anstey, Esq. S

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. fl

R. King to James Madison.

Private.

London, Feb. 13, 1802.
Dear Sir :

I may and perhaps ought to say to you that I have found very
proper dispositions in conversing with the different persons con-
nected with the subject respecting the abolition of the discrimi-
nating Duties upon our Navigation and Commerce. No .one
defends the unequal operation of the present Law. All prefer
abolition to revision. But the proposition to transfer their
countervailing Duties from the imports from, to the exports to,
the United States has no friends, notwithstanding the exact
equality of the measure in reference to the object for which
equality is sought ; if they impose the same discrimination upon
the Exports as we place upon the Imports, the operation in
regard to Navigation would be equal : if we carry, they would
receive the Duty, if they carry, we should receive it. Two objec-
tions are made to this transfer : the first, that it is against their
ordinary policy to impose Duties on their Manufactures ; the
convoy Duty was an exception justified by peculiar circumstances
and has ceased with the war ; the second, it would load their
book of Rates with mere fractional proportions of a foreign
Tariff, and moreover embarrass not only the business of the
merchants, but that of the Custom house more than the sum of the
Duties would justify. In respect to the abolition of discrimina-
tions on both sides, it will depend upon us whether it be complete
or partial. Perhaps it will merit to be well considered whether
we ought not to impose Light-house Duties according to the
usage of other nations, and preserve our Tonnage Duties, at least
until something shall be ascertained in respect to the West India
Trade.* Of this, however, I flatter myself I need have no serious
apprehension, since the more I have considered the Question, the
more I am satisfied of the justice and ultimate success of our
claim.

With sentiments of very sincere Respect &c

Rufus King.

* Upon this subject, I mean the West India Trade, I am solicitous to under-
stand the views of the President, least I should happen to cross them by being
ignorant of them.

J 2 RUFUS KING. [1802

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 54.

London, Feb. 18, 1802.
Sir:

I annex a copy of the Bill which has been prepared and
brought into Parliament by Mr. Vansittart concerning the
countervailing Duties upon our Ships & Cargoes : and I now
have reason to expect that the Privy Council will issue an order,
suspending the countervailing Duty on Tobacco for six months as
soon as the act is passed impowering them to do so. I shall not
omit sending you the earliest information in my power of the
decision of the Privy Council upon this point.

The Commissioners under the 7th article of the Treaty of
1794, have reassembled and are proceeding in business.
With perfect Respect &c

Rufus King.

T. Sedgwick to R. King.

New York, 20th. Feby., 1802.
Dear Sir :

. . . In the letter which I wrote you before the close of the
last session I ventured to predict that you would not be recalled,
partly because, I thought, and I do still think, that our rulers
like you best at a distance, and partly because they deem your
presence at the court of London a shield of the party, in the
event of a rupture, which, I know, they, then, thought probable,
and dreaded. The same motives, will, I think, continue to in-
fluence their conduct.

There are several of the measures of the administration which
have been injurious to their influence, and, in fact stayed its pro-
gress in the eastern states, and I think have had, tho' in a less
degree, a similar effect in this state. Among these are their re-
movals from office which in some instances have been extremely
injudicious. The officers removed in Connecticut were among
the men the most popular and respectable in that state ; the sub-
stitutes had nothing to recommend them but a noisy activity
against the federal administration.

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 73

. . The repeal of the judicial act of the last session will,
I am confident, have a more extensive effect. You know the
character of Mr. Lansing & Mr. Lewis the chancellor & ch.
Justice of this state. They are both zealous, and one, at least,
a malignant supporter of Democracy. They have declared, and
seem not to wish to have their opinions kept secret, that the re-
peal, without providing a substitute, is unconstitutional. The
opinion of these gentlemen must have considerable influence.
Indeed all men who have been misled by an attachment to re-
fined theory, and who really wish a security of property and per-
son, will be shocked by the establishment of a precedent which
renders the judiciary, the only instrument of this security, de-
pendent on, and subservient to, the prevailing faction in the
legislature : and the more so when they reflect that this measure
is in direct violation of the constitution, & not only so but estab-
lishes a principle of complete consolidation of all national &
state authority. For if the legislature may do this there can be
no established defence against legislative usurpation. Establish
this principle, and at the same time an executive practice of ren-
dering the emoluments of all the officers in the U. S. a mass of
corruption at elections, and there is nothing left which can ren-
der the government an object of affection to virtuous and
intelligent men.

The Democrats are in considerable degree indebted for their
success to their address to the sordid & despicable passion of
avarice ; and the President was not unmindful of his obligation
to it, in his address to the legislature — to alleviate the burdens
of his beloved constituents forms a prominent feature of his Mes-
sage ; but he is rather unlucky in the means which he recom-
mends for that purpose ... In his desire to abolish the
internal revenue he has two principal objects i. a particular re-
gard to the interest of the southern & western states, & 2. chiefly
breaking down all the internal Machinery of the government,
which, I presume, he considers as destroying the "lilliputian
ties," as he predicted in that very decent letter which he wrote
to his friend Mazzei. The cant expressions of the party now are
the external and mutual relations of the states, which they seem to
consider as the objects, exclusively, of national regard. This
Theory will, I presume, decrease the number of their partizans

74 RUFUS KING. [1802

in New England. I am persuaded, and, principally, from my
knowledge of the people of that country, that Democracy will,
there, become less and less powerful during the present ad-
ministration.

I have the best evidence that Burr is completely an insulated
man at Washington ; wholly without personal influence. Had
he any influence it would be exerted to prevent a repeal of the
internal taxes — an impoverished treasury is inconsistent with the
vast objects which he has contemplated. It is a measure to
which Gallatin, from his official situation, must be opposed, but
he is too cunning to oppose, openly, the ardent wishes of his
Master. The measure is hostile to the interests of the eastern
states & I therefore doubt whether the repeal will take place,
tho' our friends in Congress seem to entertain no doubt on the
subject. I most sincerely wish the jacobins success, upon this
occasion, because I am persuaded that it will prove injurious to
their influence.

Should the internal revenues be repealed I am apprehensive
that, under the present management, it will be found that the
import and tonnage duties will be inadequate to the public exi-
gencies. The value of exported produce must measure the
amount of expenditure ; the pressure which will take place, re-
sulting from the establishment of habits which can no longer be
gratified, will increase emigration to the frontiers, and emigrants
contribute almost nothing by the consumption of imports. Hence,
I think, there will be some decrease of revenue, & if there be, a
deficit is inevitable. Should this event happen I know they rely
on obtaining loans which they suppose may be effected with
great facility, by the accumulation of capital and the difficulty of
employing it profitably. . . .

From the whole view which I am able to take of the political
state of our country, and the past conjectures I can form of
future probabilities, I am induced to believe that Mr. Jefferson
will not be re-elected. But whether his successor will be abetter
or a worse man is to me doubtful. The popular tide as far as I
am able to discern it, seems to set towards that description of
men who have heretofore possessed the public confidence. Be-
fore the present rulers got into power, they and their adherents
assured, with great confidence, the people, that the public records

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 75

would afford complete evidence of the peculations of the feder-
alists. They are now in possession of those records. Reports
have been received, by the legislature, from the heads of all the
departments, and not a single fact has been exhibited to ground
a charge either of folly or wickedness, agt. their predecessors.
As nothing of this sort has appeared it is concluded nothing will,
because it is obvious that any pretext of this kind would have
been seized on with avidity as well to justify their own malignant
charges, as to ruin forever, their adversaries. . . .

I am sincerely & affectly. yours.

F. Ames to R. King.

Boston, February 23, 1802.
My dear Sir :

. . . That, the ascendancy of France, we are told, is to be
displayed on our borders, and that in exchange for \ St. Domingo,
she is to have Louisiana. Our Southern brethren are expected to
wince when this happens. I deduce no hopes from the event.
Factions always hate & dread their domestic rivals more than
foreign enemies. \ Virginia has the spirit of domestic restlessness
and arrogance that abhors restraint, and of state ambition that
wd. impose it, of laziness that will not earn, of luxury that will
not retrench, of a debtor that will not pay. Great states are
strong factions, and a feeble govt, is of course their victim and
their instrument — at present their trophy.

To repeal the Judicial Law to save a small sum shocks many
who could swallow the claim of a constitutional right to repeal it.
It is understood to be the declaration of the bellum inter-
necionum agt. the best institutions of the late administrations.
Gouv. Morris's speeches are justly admired and have had effect
on thinking men — i. e. on 600 of 6 millions.

Truth however niters through the stone & reaches the folks
standing below, drop by drop. The mint is voted out. Govt,
seems to be clearing the ships for action, by throwing every thing
of value overboard

Our General Court has rejected a motion in one house by
Hichborn in the other by Morton for an address to the Presi-

y6 , RUFUS KING. [1802

dent. The majority was so small it shows an unsound state of
the public opinion in this state. Still as it clearly proves the
Jacobins to be a minority, this disclosure of their weakness tends
to keep them weak. On inquiry I cannot find that they are gain-
ing ground. Still it is to be supposed that those who address the
popular passions will in the end prevail against those who pre-
sume on their sense & virtue. Gov. Strong's re-election is
probable, though of course the virtuous Gerry will contest it.
Robbins is the most conspicuous candidate for the Lt. Governor's
place, vacant by the death of Mr Phillips. We make turnpikes
and busy ourselves with local objects. Virginia rides the great
horse. . . .

No doubt you are a watchful and anxious spectator of our
affairs. It is beyond human foresight to predict the events that
await us. We are hastening towards changes, which forebode
other changes and so on to the end of the Chapter. We are not
at present under a Theocracy, and if we were, our propensity to
worship strange Gods would involve us in trouble.
I am with esteem & affection
Yrs

R. King to James Madison.

Private.

London, Feb. 27, 1802.
Dear Sir :

Hitherto it has been confidently asserted and generally believed
that the Negotiations at Amiens would end in a definitive Treaty ;
but within the last ten days some persons have imagined that
they perceive symptoms of doubt and hesitation upon this sub-
ject. These however ought not to induce an opinion that the
peace will fail to be concluded. The prolongation of the nego-
tiation, besides being disadvantageous to this Country by retard-
ing its plans of Finance, and creating embarrassments in its com-
mercial affairs, expose it to all the casualties which may in the
mean time happen, and which may be of a nature to have an in-
fluence upon its results. The News Papers which copy from
each other, and propagate every sort of error, pretend to enlighten
the Public in respect to the points which occasion this delay.
Altho' I can do no more than deal in conjectures as to the dis-

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 7 f

cussions at Amiens, I feel pretty confident that I run no risque
in assuring you that they bear no resemblance to the Reports of
the News Papers. It is no more true that France has any
thoughts of ceding Martinique for the advantage of Spain, than
that England has acquiesced in, opposed, or said a word about
the cession of Louisiana and the Floridas. My persuasion still is
that the Treaty of Amiens will be concluded, tho' I am by no
means confident that it can be of long duration.

It is time to have heard from Vienna concerning the late trans-
actions at Lyons ; but probably they will wait till they have
sounded the sentiments of Petersburgh before they disclose their
own. A little Time must remove the Veil, which it has been
attempted to throw over the proceedings at Lyons and, if what is
confidently asserted to have passed there, be true, the whole is
worthy only of the highest reprobation. For what other senti-
ments can we feel should it turn out, so far from Buonaparte
having been chosen President of the Italian Republic, that he
placed himself in that office as he had before done in another, by
the use of his Bayonets. The Fact is believed to have been that
the Italian Deputies proceeded to the election, and actually chose
for their President their countryman Melzi and not Buonaparte,
who so far from being the object of their preference had not as
many votes by 30 as Berthier : the moment the scrutiny was fin-
ished, and the result pronounced within the Consulta, a body of
Buonaparte's Guards, prepared for the occasion, marched into the
Hall and remained there until this choice was annulled and
Buonaparte appointed in the place of Melzi, who was then named
and called upon to accept the office of Vice President !
With great esteem &c,

Rufus King.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 55.

London, March 5, 1802.
Sir :

. . . Lord Pelham a few days ago shewed me a letter from
Mr. MacDonough, the British agent at Tripoli, exculpating him-
self from the charge of having excited the Bashaw of that Regency
to make war upon the United States. He explicitly denies the

78 RUFUS KING. [1802

charge and encloses a certificate to the same effect, signed by the
Bashaw himself. Mr. MacDonough having thought it necessary
to solicit this certificate from the Bashaw, will serve to shew him
that his hostility to the United States may not be agreeable to
Great Britain.

The Bill authorizing the Crown to suspend the Tonnage and
Countervailing Duties upon American Ships & Cargoes is still
before Parliament, but will without doubt pass in a few days.
The Debate to which it has given rise, so far as regards General
Gascoigne, one of the members from Liverpool, appears to have
been for mere electioneering purposes ; and with respect to Dr.
Laurence and Mr. Wyndham the occasion however unconnected
was made use of as an opportunity to talk about the negotiation
at Amiens and the dangerous Dominion of France.

I have seen a letter dated Paris, Feb. 26, which says it is defini-
tively settled to send a colony to Louisiana and Florida. General
Bernadotte is to have the direction and command of it ; prepara-
tions are making for the first expedition, whose departure will
perhaps depend upon the accounts expected from St. Domingo.
It is asserted that the Indian Nations adjoining to Florida have
agents now here for the purpose of making Treaties with this
Country to unite themselves with the troops and settlers that may
be sent from hence. The Establishment of this Colony is a
darling object and will be pursued with ardour and upon a great
scale, unless the affairs of St. Domingo shall for the moment de-
range the plan. Louisiana, Guiana and the Desert Island of
Tristan d'Acunha are each spoken of as places to which the
rebellious and intractable Negroes and people of Color may be
sent from St. Domingo and the other French Colonies.
With perfect Respect & Esteem &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 56.

London, Mar. 8. 1802.
Sir:

It is ascertained that Austria is highly dissatisfied, as justly
she may be, with the issue of the meeting at Lyons, where Buona-
parte is said to have employed the same means to carry his pur-

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 79

pose, as has before proved efficacious at St. Cloud. Here too
the ardour in favour of Peace has a great deal abated, and its
security become the subject of increased solicitude and Doubt.
The obstacles which have delayed the conclusion of the defini-
tive Treaty, and which have been accompanied by an unexampled
stagnation of the Trade of this Country, have much contributed
to this temper of the public mind. Every one ascribes these in-
conveniences to France, whose Chief is asserted daily to disclose
views inconsistent with the repose and independence of every
part of Europe.

In this state of dissatisfaction and uncertainty, instructions
have been sent to all the Naval Arsenals to prepare the Ships of
war for actual service ; the Channel Fleet will immediately sail,
and in order to bring the Negotiation to an immediate issue,
these demonstrations are accompanied by an explicit Demand on
the part of England that the definitive Treaty on the Basis of the
Preliminaries be signed without any further Delay ; if this be not
done in a week, it is believed that Lord Cornwallis will leave
Amiens & the war recommence.

I have all along believed, as even in the present critical pos-
ture of affairs I am still disposed to do, that Peace will be con-
cluded ; because I have not supposed that England would depart
from the Preliminaries ; and France, whatever may be her future
views, has the most powerful inducement to conclude a Treaty
that will require her to restore nothing ; but will oblige England
to evacuate Egypt and Malta, to make restrictions in Spain and
Holland, and to give back to France all her colonies with 20.000
Seamen now in her possession.

The advantages seem indeed to be all on one side, and so con-
siderable as to leave no doubt concerning the decision of France,
unless the Tone and Circumstance of the Demand on the part of
England shall be such as to put all consideration of interest out
of the question.

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c,

Rufus King.

80 RUFUS KING. [1802

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 57.

London, Mar. 9, 1802.
Sir:

As your Letters * to me concerning Mr. Erving's appointments
do not explicitly state the President's intention in respect to his
being employed as an Assessor to the Commission under the Seventh
Article of the Treaty with this Country, I desired him to send to
the Board an Extract of his Instructions, which define his Duties ;
and which would be sufficient to shew the President's expecta-
tions on this point. I at the same time wrote a letter to the
Board copies of which and their answer you will find annexed.
With perfect Respect & Esteem &c

Rufus King.

These copies are omitted ; but the Commission declining
with all proper respect to receive Mr. Erving as an assessor
in their board, " the nature of that appointment and its
Duties as prescribed and required by the Board " being
incompatible, in their judgment, with " the office of agent
for claims and that of their mercantile assessor," in answer
to their notification of this decision, Mr. Erving replies:
" I feel it proper, expressing an acquiescence in your deter-

* J. Madison to Rufus King.

Department of State,

Washington, 27th July, 1801.
SIR :

G. W. Erving, Esquire, who will have the honour to hand you this Letter, is
the Gentleman who, as I informed you sometime ago, has been appointed our
Consul for London. The President has also assigned him to be the successor
of Mr. Williams in the agency relative to claims and appeals, and to act in the
character formerly filled by Mr. Cabot in connexion with the Board of Com-
missioners under the 7th Article of the British Treaty. For his services in
those two agencies, with the eventual addition of that held by Mr. Lenox, in
case it should become vacant, he will be allowed at the rate of two Thousand
Dollars per annum after the resumption of business by the Board of Commis-
sioners, and until that event happens, only half the sum. He will communi-
cate his instructions to you, and I must request you to afford him such informa-
tiou and advice to facilitate the execution of his various Trusts, as may be in
your power.

With highest consideration &c

James Madison.

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 8 1

mination, to withdraw from your further consideration my
Pretensions to the office in question."

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 58.

London, Mar. 13, 1802.
Sir :

We have no farther intelligence concerning the Negotiations at
Amiens since the date of my last. The same degree of uncer-
tainty with the same apparent indifference, in respect to the issue
of the discussion continues to exist. Mr. Addington in a pretty
free conversation told me that* during the last fortnight his mind
had balanced whether to wish the conclusion or rupture of the
negotiation j that he was every day receiving Letters expressive of
the same indecision from all parts of the kingdom j that they should
continue to act with good faith and were ready to sign a definitive
Treaty, on the Basis of the Preliminaries, provided it be done
without any further Delay.

The Fleets are prepared and preparing for sea, and if the nego-
tiation fail, the war will on both sides be resumed with increased
activity & zeal. I am not sure that my former reasoning in re-
spect to the decision of France may not be in some degree erro-
neous. In ordinary times and in a more settled condition of
things it would be correct, but it is quite possible, notwithstanding
the advantageous terms of Peace upon the basis of the Prelimi-
naries, that the First Consul may believe, that war will afford more
efficacious means of promoting and securing his personal views
and authority than can be derived from Peace. This Country too
may believe that war is preferable to the only Peace now to be ob-
tained. In either case there will be no Peace.

From the very great body of Forces both by Sea and Land in
the West Indies, we may apprehend the most serious interruption
of our Trade in those Seas, should the war be renewed. I have
made this subject the topic of conversation with the Ministry,
and should the negotiations fail, will do all in my power to procure
to our Navigation a just and friendly treatment from this country.
With perfect Esteem & Respect &c

Rufus King.

* Italics in cipher.

VOL IV— 6

CHAPTER VI.

Presents to Bey of Tunis sent — King to Livingston — Louisiana — To prevent
the sailing of the French Fleet — Iron or Gold — Former impossible — Gold
might buy Louisiana by fair Purchase with Cash— Would the People con-
sent ? — Suggests other Means — Nothing will be done at Amiens — General
Suggestions — Monroe Doctrine — King to Livingston — Explains the Con-
vention between United States and England — Spaniards have fifteen Mil-
lions of Dollars in West Indies to buy Provisions for the combined Fleets
— Hawkesbury to King — Announces the Signature of the Definitive
Treaty — Lord Lansdowne on Louisiana — In the Discussions relative to it
before the Treaty of Peace of 1783, he wished England to retain it —
Cabot to King — Congratulates him for the Convention — Murray to King
— Return Home and Reception — No Chief among the Federalists — Recom-
mends him to stay Abroad — King to Troup — Does not feel any Fear of
Reception of Convention by intelligent and reasonable Men — Contrasts
France and England in Ability to raise Money — King to Secretary of
State — Definitive Treaty conforms in the Main to the Preliminaries — If no
secret Articles, Indemnity to the Prince of Orange not given — Effect of
Treaty in England — King to Secretary of State — Has suggested the Ap-
pointment of Mr. Merry as Successor to Mr. Liston.

Allusion has been made * to a treaty with the Bey of
Tunis which required certain presents to be given to him.
These, at the request of Mr. Eaton, the United States Agent
at Tunis, were procured in London by Mr. King, the Govern-
ment having sanctioned his doing so. In a letter to Mr.
Eaton of March 12, 1802, notifying him that the presents
have been sent to him, Mr. King says they are

" of superior skill and richness . . . which Mortimer who is at
the head of the trade assures me are beyond any thing of the sort
ever before made ; and so indeed they ought to be considering
the sum of money which they cost us. You will doubtless be in-

* Vol. iii. , pp. 246-52, 256, 329, 337, 355.
1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 83

clined to allow us all the consideration and favour which the
lustre and value of the presents give us a claim to expect ; at
any rate these properties ought to have the effect to wipe away
any suspicion, or unpleasant conjectures which the time required
to prepare them may have excited."

It is of these articles that Mr. King writes in the follow-
ing letter:

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 59.

London, Mar. 20, 1802.
Sir:

Mess. Bird, Savage & Bird will send to the Department of the
Treasury the several accounts of the Persons who have prepared
the Present for Tunis, and in order that you may be fully ap-
prized of the manner which I have adopted to forward the articles
to Tunis I take the liberty of annexing copies of my letters upon
the subject. We have no accounts from Mr. Hargraves since he
left Algiers, where he arrived safe in the English Frigate which
carried him from this Country. Early in February Mr. Eaton
was at Leghorn, whither he had gone on account of his health,
but he expected soon to return to Tunis.

Nothing decisive has occurred since the date of my last respect-
ing the negotiations at Amiens ; it is however understood that the
discussions are drawing to a close ; and the public opinion (espe-
cially since the arrival of the accounts of Toussaint's opposition
in St. Domingo) seems to be that the definitive Treaty will be
speedily concluded.

The Bill respecting the Countervailing Duties has passed the
House of Commons in the shape in which it was introduced ; it
is going through its stages in the other House, and will be com-
pleted in a few days.

With perfect Respect & Esteem, &c,

Rufus King.

The rumors relative to the cession of Louisiana by Spain
to France had been reported by Mr King, as has been seen,
as early as March 29, 1801, to his Government in a letter in

84 RUFUS KING. [1802

which he expressed his regret that the country had not in
France " a minister of talents and entitled to confidence " to
make "a plain and judicious representation on this subject
to the French Government." From time to time more
positive information was sent by him, and finally, on No-
vember 20, 1 801, he transmitted to the Secretary of State
the text of a secret treaty between France and Spain, made
in March, 1801, and confirmatory of another secret one made
on October 1, 1800, ceding Louisiana to France, and also
the fact that the British Government objected for many
reasons to such a transfer.

The appointment of Mr. R. R. Livingston as Minister to
France, and the instructions given to him on September 28,
1801, before sailing for his post, indicated the anxiety of the
Government to prevent, if possible, the consummation of
this transfer, of which it was not yet certain ; but saying, if
the cession had been made, that

" sound policy will require, in that state of things, that nothing
be said or done which will unnecessarily irritate our future neigh-
bours, or check the liberality which they may be disposed to
exercise in relation to the trade and navigation through the mouth
of the Mississippi ; every thing being equally avoided, which may
compromit the rights of the United States beyond those stipulated
in the treaty between them and Spain."

Mr. Livingston, in writing to the Secretary of State, Jan-
uary 13, 1802, speaks of

" the secrecy and duplicity practised relative to this object (the
French minister denied that the cession had been made) as an
evidence to him that they apprehend some opposition, on the
part of America, to their plans. I have, however, upon all occa-
sions, declared that as long as France conforms to the existing
treaty between us and Spain, the government of the United
States does not consider herself as having any interest in oppos-
ing the exchange." *

* Annals of Congress, 1802-3, p. 1020. This whole correspondence rela-
tive to the Louisiana Treaty will be found in an Appendix to the Annals of

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 85

With such views, with the continued refusal on the part
of France to declare herself upon the matter, and the silence
of his own Government,* Mr. Livingston could not be ex-
pected to act with much vigor; and on March 24, i8o2,f
he writes to the Secretary of State that :

" I have but one hope left as to defeating this cession ; it con-
sists in alarming Spain and England. The Spanish Minister is
now absent ; but I have not failed to show, in the strongest light,

Congress, 1802-3, on P- 1003, and subsequent ones. It contains the President's
message to the Senate, communicating the Convention with France and the ac-
companying correspondence.

* It may be interesting in this connection to see what were the views of the
Government at Washington, July 24, 1801, as shown in the instructions of
that date in the following letter to Mr. King, copied from the Instructions to
Ministers.

Department of State

Washington, 24th July, 1801.
Rufus King, Esq.

&c.

Sir : y

The cession of Louisiana from Spain to France, as intimated in your letter
of March 29 had been previously mentioned from several quarters, and has
since been repeated from others as an arrangement believed to have taken
place. Although no official or regulation confirmation of the fact has been
received, it is more than a probability and has been the subject of instructions
to Mr. Pinckney the Minister of the United States at Madrid, as it will also be
to Mr Livingston the Minister going to Paris. They will both make use of the
proper [sic] to prevent a change of our Southern and Southwestern neighbours,
that is to say the means of peace and persuasion. Should Great Britain inter-
pose her projects also in that quarter, the scene will become more interesting,
and require still greater circumspection on the part of the United States. You
will doubtless be always awake to circumstances which may indicate {sic} her
views, and will lose no time in making them known to the President. Consid-
ering the facility with which her extensive Navy can present itself on our front,
that she already flanks us on the North, and that if possessed of Spanish coun-
tries contiguous to us, she might soon have a range of settlements in our rear,
as well as flank us on the South also, it is certainly not without reason that she
is the last of Neighbours that would be agreeable to the United States.

With sentiments etc.

James Madison.
f Annals of Congress, 1802-3, P- 1024.

86 RUFUS KING. [1802

to the Minister of Britain the danger that will result to them from
the extension of the French possessions into Mexico, and the
probable loss of Canada, if they are suffered to possess it. I
have requested Mr. King to press this subject, also, as opportunity-
offers."

Mr. King had been fully possessed of the views of the
British Ministry, which had never favored the cession, but
yet had been unwilling to permit it to enter into the dis-
cussions at Amiens. Uninstructed as he had been by his
own Government he had, however, formed positive opinions
as to the complications which must arise under the changed
condition of affairs, and in the following letter to Mr. Liv-
ingston, March 23d, expresses them clearly and with the
firm conviction that in some way the threatened complica-
tion of our relations with France must be averted.

R. King to R. R. Livingston, Paris.

London, March 23, 1802.
Sir :

We cannot doubt that the acquisition of Louisiana has for a
long time been an object with France, nor that the cession had
been made, and the projected expedition resolved on before you
left America. Supposing this to have been the case, without
being quite sure that it was so, after again and again considering
its injurious effects upon our political and social happiness, and
how we ought to meet it, I long since satisfied my own mind of
the course which I have ventured to suggest to you, believing
that it would be alike suitable to either condition of the Business ;
since, if undecided, it would be the most likely means to procure
its announcement, and if resolved upon, the best calculation to
lessen and defeat its mischiefs. It would be to little purpose
that I should recapitulate the views in which I have seen the
subject, and which have led me to the conclusion that I have
embraced, especially as your mind seems to me to have taken the
same range with my own. I prepared a letter to you upon this
subject, which has lain by me some time for a convenient oppor-
tunity to Paris, but which on revision I do not now think worth
the trouble of your perusal.

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 87

The sole questions which remain are, can the expedition be
prevented and if not, how should we treat it ? Perhaps the only
unconnected and ex parte means, of Protection in our Power, are
Iron and Gold. Notwithstanding the sanction to be derived from
the example of almost every nation, as well as from justice and
reason, which so far from refusing to States the faculty of inquir-
ing concerning the dismemberment and increase of the Terri-
tories of their neighbours, make it their duty to do so, I suspect
that the first of these means, if deemed even expedient, would be
thought defensible only upon Principles too metaphysical and un-
ascertained, and therefore, that it may be laid out of the question.

Although we may have no contemptible opinion of the efficacy
of the latter means, there are considerable, and, perhaps, insupera-
ble difficulties in the way of its employment. I should not ap-
prove, nor tolerate for a moment any underhand measure, or such
as could not be openly avowed, and explained to our own people
as well as to the rest of the world ; but we may, if we deem it our
interest, without impropriety attempt to acquire the legitimate
Title to Louisiana and the Floridas. If these belonged to us, we
should, I hope, be as ready to defend them with arms in our
hands, if necessary, as we should be to defend Charleston, New
York, or Newport. But shall we be willing to pay down a sum of
money large enough to acquire them ? For if the Title can be
obtained in no other way than that of a direct purchase, a large
sum of money will alone procure it. No set off of claims ; no
balancing of accounts ; no prospect of future advantage will have
any beneficial influence in our favour ; it must be actual money
and a great deal of it which can serve our purpose. Great as the
benefit would be to us of uniting to our Territories New Orleans
with the entire left bank of the Mississippi and extending our
Southern frontier to the ocean, I confess that I see little in the
principles, to which we propose to devote ourselves, and by which
our affairs are to be regulated, which authorises us to expect that
a measure of such magnitude, and which would impose imme-
diate and considerable Burthens upon our People, would be likely
to be received with favour. It cannot be denied that economy is
wisdom in States as well as individuals ; but by the former as well
as the latter, it requires to be rightly understood, not to become
a vice instead of a virtue.

88 RUFUS KING. [1802

If we can succeed by neither of these means, our Government
may perhaps think it worth consideration, whether the new State
of things in the West Indies may not lead to the accomplishment
of its wishes. The settlement of Guadaloupe and St. Domingo
seems likely to call for more men and money than were at first
thought necessary, and may occasion the suspension of the expe-
dition to Louisiana. France can more easily supply men than
Money or Provisions ; the last must be purchased from the United
States ; but how are they to be paid for ? I can imagine but two
ways, either by the dollars accumulated in the Spanish Colonies,
or by Bills upon France. Spain with great reluctance will open
her coffers to her allies and will invent a thousand devices to
avoid it ; tho' if no other resource exist she will be obliged to do
so. Our merchants will not sell their Provisions for Bills on
the French Treasury without a satisfactory Guarantee ; and our
Government will not become the guaranty unless it promote our
interest in doing so. Is it too visionary a speculation for us to
think of obtaining the cession of New Orleans and the Floridas
from France by assisting her to obtain the supplies she wants for
her Fleet in the West Indies ? or is there any thing in the nature
of the war that should restrain us from doing so ?

A Project of this sort would deserve to be received with favour
at Madrid as it offers the only means of sparing the Spanish
Treasure in America, and preventing what must there as else-
where be the subject of apprehension. I mean the occupation of
Louisiana by France. To the French too, it holds forth the
means of immediate and important relief in circumstances of
difficulty and without any other inconvenience than that of giving
a new and different direction to their colonizing enterprizes.

I am obliged to you for your reflections upon the subject of
Louisiana ; they ought to be received with all the consideration to
which their justness and importance entitle them. But what I
have before informed you upon this subject, and which I con-
firmed in a short letter of yesterday, I have no reason to believe
has been in the least degree ill-founded. The consequences of
the cession were fully explained before the signature of the Pre-
liminaries ; and have been more than once restated and pressed
since the meeting at Amiens, but the answer has been uniformly
the same, and such as gives us not the slightest occasion to hope

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 89

even that anything has been or will be done concerning it at
Amiens. We must, therefore, depend upon ourselves and upon
our own exertions, and in case they do not prevent the measure,
the next enquiry, is how we should treat it.

On this subject, I have heretofore * expressed to you my opinion,
which I do not perceive sufficient reason to induce me to change.
France is one of the Great Powers which influence and in some
sort control the affairs of the whole earth ; and on this account
it seems to be the Duty of those, who have any part to act in the
concerns of other States to study the Genius and endeavour to
understand the character of this restless & powerful nation,
which can only be opposed with success, when openly opposed.
I do not mean an opposition of force, but that moral resistance
which consists in the frank explanation of the injuries we foresee
and apprehend, and the declaration beforehand of what we con-
ceive to be our own Rights and Duties, should it become neces-
sary to assert and perform them. No policy in my opinion has
so often proved to be pernicious as that of shutting our eyes upon
what we cannot avoid seeing, and of putting off exertions to pre-
vent injury, and thereby leaving the public welfare either to the
government of chance, or in the hands of the adversary ; a
mode of administration which always amounts to a confession of
weakness, and which places the public safety not in the safeguard
of the public virtue and courage but in the moderation of
ambition and power.

With this way of thinking, I would lose no time in telling
France our apprehensions, at the same time that I assured her of
our earnest desire to live in harmony and friendship ; I would
inform our own People that I had done so ; and I would more-
over endeavour by all suitable means to familiarize them with
those measures to which the defence of the public welfare may
compel us to resort. The Truth should not be disguised from
ourselves or others ; that we are the first Power in our own hemi-
sphere, and that we are disinclined to perform the part of the
second. Sentiments of this sort openly and unostentatiously ad-
vanced and propagated would, if I mistake not, have the double
effect to check measures to divide us, from whatever quarter they

* January 16, 1S02, vol. iv., p. 59.

90 RUFUS KING. [1802

may proceed, and to enable us to defeat them, should they be
attempted.

I have to crave your indulgence for this unreserved and confi-
dential communication of opinions which are, I apprehend,
somewhat at variance with those that are entitled to our respect
and obedience. I should however add that I have been too
often disappointed in things I have most firmly believed, to be
over confident in my own opinions ; and I should rejoice should
the course marked out to you, and from which I should not
deviate, were I in your place, prove more advantageous than I
can at present believe it will do.

With Perfect Respect & Esteem, &c.

Rufus King.

It will be seen that Mr. King in his free communication
with Mr. Livingston had entered into a discussion of the
methods by which the interests of the United States, result-
ing from this cession, could be secured either " by Iron or
Gold," as the new arrangement must be broken up. But
more important and noteworthy is the alternative he sug-
gests as a method by which the French Government may be
influenced to listen to our claims. Not a disposition to
avoid offending them, but a positive declaration of a de-
termination to prevent the dangers, not apprehended from
Spain's possession of Louisiana, but probable from its trans-
fer to a more active, enterprising, and restless country. In
other words, a declaration of the principle upon which rests
what is now called the Monroe doctrine. Upon a careful
reading of the portion of the letter, beginning with the
words, " On this subject I have heretofore expressed to you
my opinion," etc., it will be found clearly and positively
suggested that the French Government shall be told that
the United States being

" the first power in our own hemisphere, we are disinclined to
perform the part of the second. Sentiments of this sort openly
and unostentatiously advanced and propagated would, if I mis-
take not, have the double effect to check measures to divide us,

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 9 1

from whatever quarter they may proceed, and to enable us to
defeat them, should they be attempted."

It does not appear that this view was taken either by the
Minister or his Government, but it shows what Mr. King
would have done had he been in the position to act, and
the estimate he placed upon the bold assertion of the in-
trinsic power of the nation to make itself felt in the decision
of questions relating to its own interests, — a power which
he felt was stronger and better recognized than when he
entered on his mission. Nor was he mistaken, though it
took many years before Mr. Monroe distinctly avowed the
principle on which the whole country now, in 180^6, unani-
mously insists.

It is not a little curious, that Mr. Monroe was the negoti-
ator with Mr. Livingston to make the Conventions with
France for the purchase of Louisiana, and that the chief
overt act to interfere with the principle was made in France's
attempt to conquer Mexico, while the United States was
engaged in the civil war of the Rebellion — an attempt
nearly successful at the time, but checked and positively
settled by the Mexicans themselves.

R. King to R. R. Livingston.

London, Mar. 24, 1802.
Dear Sir :

I have omitted to return you my thanks for your congratula-
tions on the subject of the Convention concerning the Debts.
Your construction of the II article is unquestionably the true one.
As I am not aware that any opinion has prevailed that either the
execution of the 6th article of the Treaty of 1794, according to
its Provisions, or a commutation of our Engagements under it,
(into a definite sum of money) would have exempted the Debtors
from the suits of their Creditors, I cannot suppose that any dis-
appointment can arise from the limited recognition of the IV
article of the Treaty of Paris. The United States engaged to
pay the Debts which could have been recovered at the close of
the war had there been no lawful impediments, and which, by

\S*

92 RUFUS KING. [1802

reason of such impediments, were not recoverable at the conclu-
sion of the Treaty of 1794. In respect to all Debts recoverable
at the conclusion of this Treaty, the Creditors were at liberty to
pursue their judicial remedy, and had no Claim before the Com-
missioners, their cases being expressly excepted. In respect to
these Creditors, therefore, it was no more than justice to declare
that the Provisions of the Treaty of Peace in their favour, so far
as regards their future operation, shall remain in force. The
Terms of the recognition of the IV article of the Treaty of Peace,
limits its operation so as to exclude all claims which once might,
but now cannot according to the course of the Judiciary, be le-
gally established ; for these claims, we make compensation, and
for the others, leave the Creditors to their judicial Remedies.

This Government has communicated the Convention to the
Creditors, who have met and, as I am informed by their Chair-
man, determined to petition Parliament for the difference between
the ^600,000 and the 5 millions which they assert to be the
amount of their Claims ; and in order to pave the way for their
Petition, they use no reserve in saying the settlement has been a
political one on the part of Government and at their expense,
and that they have a just demand to be indemnified out of the
public Exchequer. I observe that meetings are held among our
merchants to petition Congress for compensation for Losses by
French Captures, and I conjecture that these Petitions will meet
with much the same reception as those of the British Creditors to
their Parliament.

I have lately learned, and from good authority, that the
Spaniards have 15 Millions of Dollars embarked at the Havanna
and Vera Cruz which I am inclined to conjecture will be ordered
to St. Domingo, under the pretext of being sent to Europe with a
detachment of the combined Fleet. When they reach St. Do-
mingo such will be the necessities of the army and navy that the
Dollars will be taken to buy Provisions and in lieu of their
Draughts given upon the National Treasury. . . .

We are in expectation that the definitive Treaty will be com-
pleted in a very few days ; nobody seems now to apprehend its
failure.

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c &c

R. K.

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE.
R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 60.

London, Mar. 20, 1802.
Sir:

I have the satisfaction to send you the annexed copy of Lord

Hawkesbury's note announcing the Signature of the Definitive

Treaty, and have the honour to be,

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c

R. K.

Copy.

Lord Hawkesbury presents his compliments to Mr. King, and
has the honour to inform him that Mr. Moore is arrived with the
Definitive Treaty of Peace, which was signed at Amiens at 4
o'clock on the 27th instant by his Majesty's Plenipotentiary and
the French, Spanish and Batavian Plenipotentiaries.

Downing Street, March 29, 1802.

Louisiana.*

March 26, 1802.

Lord Lansdowne, to whom I some days ago spoke concerning
the cession of Louisiana & the Floridas, told me that it was his
desire to have retained the Floridas and New Orleans : that with
this view, in the preliminary articles first prepared in 1783, he
agreed to give up Gibraltar and to receive in lieu of it Minorca,
Martinique or Gaudaloupe and the Floridas ; that the stipula-
tion in favour of Great Britain for the free navigation of the
Mississippi was made in reference to the project of retaining the
Floridas, but that a cry arose agt. the cession of Gibraltar, the
King refused his sanction to it and it was therefore retained and
the Floridas, Martinique and Minorca given up.

The stipulation about the Mississippi, being included in a dif-
ferent article, was retained when that to wh. it related was struck
out.

Jay & Franklin wished Eng. to seize the Floridas after the sig-
nature of the Provisional Articles and before the Preliminaries ;
* Memorandum Book.

94 RUFUS KING. [1802

but objected to troops being sent from N. York on this service as
Fr. & Spain would deem it collusive.

Franklin threatened Oswald to retain and sell the German
prisoners unless the negroes were restored or paid for, saying
they had carried off & sold the negroes we had bought and that
it would be as just to sell the Germans they had bought.

Geo. Cabot to R. King.

March 27, 1802.

My dear Sir :

I have seldom received so much pleasure from news concerning
you as that which is just now arrived. Your silence had been un-
usually long & from various circumstances I was led to believe
that you were in some sort of perplexity which prevented you
from giving me the pleasure to which I was accustomed. As I am
totally uninformed of the terms of your Convention & as I shou'd
always desire to be informed of the instructions under which you
acted I can make no observations of any worth on the subject ;
yet I see much evidence that you have done what very few, if any
other man, cou'd have done for us ; that you have done better
than the Country had a right to expect after its ungenerous &
capricious conduct ; that you have done so well as to gratify all
your friends & confound all our Enemies. But will your Conven-
tion be ratified ? this is a question my jealousy asks of me. I
answer that probably it will, notwithstanding it tends to a final ex-
tinction of all the animosities between the two Nations ; because
at this moment our Master dreads & detests the Master of the
French who despises him in turn & therefore no business of fra-
ternity can proceed. Such at least is my opinion, lit would be a
useless labor for me to attempt giving you a minute account of
our affairs — or indeed any account, for you probably know more
of them than I do. We make a constant progress in the way we
are destined to go, yet I must say that the Leaders outrun their
Followers. The very able discussions of the Judiciary Question
& great superiority of the Federalists in all the debates & public
writings have manifestly checked the career of the Revolutionists.
Six months ago I trembled for the coming Elections in N E — but

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 95

it appears that N. H. has recovered a little of its old good poli-
ticks & chosen Oilman by a great majority, & we think in Massa-
chusetts the public opinion is much meliorated. These checks if
only temporary are of great value. T\. .

I was in hopes that the blacks in St. Domingo wou'd long occupy
& finally defeat the french arms, but appearances indicate that
they will be beaten. The armaments like all others from France
must be supported by other Nations. Force & Fraud will draw
from Spaniards & Americans }th of the supplies.
Your faithful & affte friend

G. C.

William Vans Murray to R. King.

Cambridge, E. S. Maryland, 5th April, 1802.
My dear Sir :

. . . We arrived after a passage of eleven weeks at Wash-
ington, where I was civilly & coldly received. My outfit paid me
& no questions asked me ! So the flutter which my intended
Tableau de la negotiation had put me into was kindly spared.
Wl. & G. behaved to me in all the business I had with them in a
fair & candid way.

The principle of proscription goes on searching its game even
in the smallest X road post offices. The principle of depletion
& disorganizing in all things connected with the most ancient
opinions, the constitution & its out works & the well settled
system of the past administrations goes on with a destructive
zeal. Internal Taxes — Judicial Sanctity — all are to be handled
& overset, but as I write to you I ought to restrain myself from
invective — whatever may be our opinions mutually.

There is an abundance of imitation, but it is in the small way
& cannot afford a cure. There is a hope & it seems to me the
only one well founded, that they will divide & quarrel. Already
it is believed that B. gives umbrage to the Philosopher by his as-
piring temper. So we ought to expect a division in your State of
which the Feds., if not themselves miserably divided, may avail
themselves & the nation. It may be hoped that the Feds, will
gain wisdom by suffering. To be in a minority is a new situa-
tion to them. Hitherto they have been a majority & have had a
Chief & that Chief in Power ; now in the minority. I do not

g6 RUFUS KING. [1802

know that they, as a united party, acknowledge any Chief ; & yet
have more need than ever of the energy which a Chief gives. It
is true there are some strong men in Congress, but a chief should
not be there — & there is none there. I saw but few of the public
men at W. It is such a Town-in-country that there is not prop-
erly Society & contact ; but I assure you that I have not heard of
any one man since my return as Chief. It will always happen as
it did after the death of Alexander among his Captains. In fact
we are in a strange situation.

It will give you pleasure to know that by allowing me my outfit
to Paris (which I claimed) my situation is greatly bettered, as my
estate is in land & bad rents & it would have been a terrible
thing for me to sell near the whole to pay my debts, which
the outfit nearly did. I live with my brother in the Country &
mean to build this autumn on a farm. My friends of this county,
which is Federal, wish me to go into public life. This I decline :
for I feel as if I had precisely escaped ruin ; and all my embar-
raisments were a suite of 13 year's public life, of one sort or other,
in which my affairs became turned upside down.

What can you expect from a man placed in so very active a
place as I am, but useless repinings at the present degraded state
of public affairs ? and yet my dear Sir I wish to hold some little
converse with you, & to show you by a letter that I am grateful
for your remembrance of so sterile a correspondent.

We all rejoice that Govt, has, united with the claim your
country has upon you, kept you at your post. If I expect it, it is
because they have great credit among all the enlightened men for
this forbearance from the evil we believe they would do by your
removal. So I beg you — as I once before did, to stay where
you are, at least for some few years.

Affectionately yrs.

W. V. Murray.

R. King to R. Troup.

London, April 6, 1802.
Dear Sir :

. . . There is a rumour, may it prove to be well founded ! ,
that a motion to repeal the internal taxes has been negatived in the
H. of R. Should they be continued and an independent judiciary

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 97

preserved, I shall not despair of the public welfare. In four or
five weeks we shall hear of the arrival of the Convention concern-
ing the Br. debts, as well as whether the same be approved by
Congress. In respect to the opinion of intelligent and reasonable
men, I have no concern, but we cannot be sure that their opinion
will be the general one, and I am therefore solicitous to hear how
the settlement is thought of by those whose province it is to judge
of its merits.

Peace is definitively made and will be ratified in a few weeks.
The new ministers continue to stand well with Parliament and the
country ; and such are the Resources, and confidence of monied
men, that the new loan of 25 millions has been made on as low
terms as the loans of the first year of the war, when enthusiasm was
high, and the first Debt and Taxes not a moiety of their present
amount. Singular indeed in this respect is the contrast between
France and England : in one any considerable loan cannot be
raised on any Terms, in the other the minister has but to ask and
receive. In the former, mistress as she is of the greater part of
Europe, the 5 pr. cents are at 55, while here after a long expensive
and unsuccessful war the 3 per cents are at 75 and will probably
soon reach 80.

Yrs. &c,

R. King.

P. S. Mrs. Ludlow's Baggage not having reached town I have not
seen the opinions of Kent and her brother. I shall read them
with attention before I say anything upon the subject, except
that I have contended and with effect and advantage that the
sentence of a foreign Tribunal in matters of Prize, is not in all
cases conclusive.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 61.

London April 7, 1802.
Sir :

The Moniteur of the 26th past contains the definitive Treaty
dated the preceding day. Lord Hawkesbury's Letter to the
Foreign Ministers says that it was signed on the evening of the
27th. By reason of the urgent manner in which the Negotia-

VOL. IV. — 7

98 RUFUS KING. [1802

tion was pressed to a conclusion by England, or some such cause,
the several articles were settled on the 25th, and the respective
Plenipotentiaries signed on that day an agreement that they
would sign the Treaty, the articles whereof had been so agreed
upon, as soon as copies could be prepared. The French Govern-
ment has chosen to consider this first signature as the conclusion
of the Treaty, and dated the copy inserted in the Moniteur
accordingly.

In the main the definitive Treaty seems to adhere pretty closely
to the Preliminaries ; in such articles as have undergone modifi-
cations, it is not obvious that the alteration is favourable to the
views of this country. Malta, notwithstanding the string of propo-
sitions relative to its constitution, will be liable to the influence of
France and open to her enterprize. The clause which authorizes
France to prefer a claim for the support of Italian, German and
Russian Prisoners enables her to balance the claim of England
for the maintainance of French Prisoners : this is however an
article of form rather than of substance, as I do not find that
there is any instance of money being paid or received on similar
occasions.

If there be no separate article, which is not believed to be the
case, designating the manner in which the Prince of Orange is to
be indemnified, the article of the Definitive Treaty relating to
that subject, differing as it does from the Treaty of Basis, seems
more likely to prove prejudicial than advantageous to this country ;
and the more so, as it is understood that in the very room where
the Definitive Treaty was signed, and immediately afterwards, the
French and the Dutch Minister signed a separate Convention by
which the Batavian Republic is declared to be exempted from
contributing anything towards the indemnities to be paid to the
House of Orange.

But the principal objection which Lord Grenville, and those
who think with him, will be likely to urge against the Definitive
Treaty is the omission so contrary to former usage to recognize
and confirm in a manner accommodated to the present state of
Europe those antient Treaties which are asserted to be the
Foundation of its public Law.

* 786 and others are likewise much dissatisfied with the cession
* Not deciphered.

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE.
of Louisiana to France ; speaking with me concerning it a day or
two ago he said Ceylon, Trinidad and the Cape were as nothing
in comparison to Louisiana and the Floridas ; and on my ex-
pressing my surprise that 128. 55. 28 should have known of the
cession and yet advised the Peace, he said that 128. 55. 28 viewed
the cession in the same light that he did, but that he knew
nothing of it until after the conclusion of the Preliminaries.

The Minister lost no time, after the signature of the Definitive
Treaty, in making his Loan and opening the Budget. 25 millions
have been borrowed at the moderate interest of ^3.18.2 per
centum. The Income Tax, which with certain exceptions re-
quired the tenth of each man's income, is to be repealed, and the
56 millions for the redemption of which it stands pledged will be
funded. The new Taxes, taken at Four Millions, are to be levied
thus — an addition to the Duty on Malt, Hops and Beer of two
millions : an addition to the assessed Taxes, one million ; and a
Duty on the Imports and Exports of Great Britain of one million.
Coupled with these measures are two others worthy of particular
attention ; one a proposition to give a new shape and direction
to the Sinking Fund of 1786, as well as to abandon the principle
adopted during the late war, of providing a fund equal to the
hundredth part of every new Debt, to be invariably applied in
redeeming it ; the other, a motion by the Minister to continue
the Law authorising the suspension of Cash payments by the
Bank. The funds have risen considerably, and there seems to
be very little opposition to the new Taxes. I shall not be inat-
tentive to those which may affect our Trade ; tho' so far as re-
gards the Tax on Exports our Treaty is entirely silent.

The Law respecting the Countervailing Duties received the
King's assent on the 24th of last month ; as it finally passed in
the form of the Bill of which I sent you a copy, it is not necessary
that I should send you a copy of the Law. From the uncertainty
whether Congress will be inclined to repeal the discriminating
Duties paid in our Ports, I shall not press for the order of Coun-
cil, taking off by way of anticipation and immediately the counter-
vailing Duty on Tobacco, in the Ports of this country.
With perfect Respect & Esteem

Rufus King.

100 RUFUS KING. [1802

R. King to Secretary of State.
No. 62.

London, April 10, 1802.
Sir:

Some months ago I informed you that Mr. Jackson* would
probably be sent to the United States as Mr. Listons successor ;
Mr. Merry had been previously thought of and indeed named
for this mission. As I have had the opportunity of knowing both
these Gentlemen during my residence here, it was not without some
regret that I heard of the intention to appoint Mr. Jackson in
lieu of Mr. Merry. From this information I have been led to
make further Enquiry respecting their reputation and the result
has served rather to encrease than lessen my solicitude. Mr.
Jackson is said to be positive, vain and intolerant ; he is more-
over filled with English prejudices in respect to other countries,
and as far as his opinions concerning the United States, seems
more likely to disserve than benefit a liberal intercourse between
them and his own country.

On the other hand, Mr. Merry appears to be a plain, unas-
suming and sensible man, having lived for many years in Spain,
is in almost every point of character the reverse of Mr. Jackson,
who were he to go to America would go for the sake of present
employment, and with the hope of leaving it as soon as he could
receive a similar appointment in Europe while Mr. Merry wishes
for the Mission with the view of obtaining what he believes will
prove to be an agreeable and permanent residence.

With these sentiments I have believed it to be proper to en-
deavour in every unexceptionable way in my power to discourage
and throw impediments in the way of the mission of Mr. Jackson,
and in a late conversation with Lord Hawkesbury, he offered me
what I thought a fair occasion of expressing my sentiments upon
this subject. His Lordship received my observations in good part
and promised to consider what I had said to him before any defi-
nite step should be taken in the Business. I have followed up
the opposition in other quarters which I thought likely to have
an influence with decision, and am not without Expectation that
Mr. Jackson will be relinquished.

* Italics in cipher.

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 101

As the explicit designation of a particular character, who would
be agreeable, is matter of greater delicacy than to object to an
Individual who might have been spoken of, I have rather confined
myself to the latter course, in doing which, however, I was enabled
indirectly and by way of contrast to Mr. Jackson's disqualifica-
tions to describe qualifications which seem to be almost peculiar
to Mr. Merry.

Annexed I send you copies of my letter to Lord Hawkesbury,
and of his answer declining to recognize Mr. Lewis as Consul of
the United States at Calcutta. A like answer has in a similar
case been lately given to the Envoy of Portugal. Conversing
with one of the Directors of the East India Company concerning
Mr. Lewis' appointment, he told me that before the late war
France had been solicitous to place a Consul at Calcutta ; that
from a persuasion that a Consul would be employed as a political
instead of a commercial agent, they had declined his admission ;
that the request would, however, probably be renewed, and in
case an American Consul should be admitted, a French one could
not be refused.

With perfect Respect & Esteem, &c

Rufus King.

CHAPTER VII.

Troup to King — Congressional Acts — G. Morris on Judiciary Bill — Burr has
lost Ground — Toast at a Dinner — Jefferson the Idol — Business dull — Cabot
to King — Distrusts French Fleet — Does not fear French Settlement in
Louisiana — Ames to King — France's Project of getting Louisiana can only
do Good — Joy at Adjustment with Great Britain of the Negotiation about
the Debts — J. Hale to King — Glad he will remain' in London — Federal-
ists more confident — Louisiana Project will operate well — King to Lord
Hawkesbury — Cession of Louisiana, Effect on the Navigation of the Mis-
sissippi— How far is England concerned in the Cession — McHenry to
King — Effect of Peace on the United States — Measures of the Administra-
tion criticised — King to Vansittart — United States should pay no higher
Duties to export British Manufactures than other Nations — King to Secre-
tary of State — Definitive Treaty ratified — Sweden joins Russia and
England in annulling the System of armed Neutrality — King to Secretary
of State, United States Funds — Means taken to secure their Safety and
proper Disbursement, especially in Prize Cases — The Government having
now made other Arrangements, he shall no longer regard the pecuniary
Affairs under his Control — J. Marshall to King — Congratulates him on his
Settlement of the Debt Claims.

R. Troup to R. King.

CNew York, 9th April, 1802.
My dear Sir :
- . . . The federal party is still completely down ; though some
think it in the attitude of rising. Every corner of the govern-
ment has been ransacked to find out an officer to be removed in
order that his place might be filled with one of Jefferson's sect ;
and as things now stand that sect is in full possession of the
government.

The repeal of the judicial bill, for the purpose of getting rid of
our friend Judge Benson and others, has excited a very powerful
sensation in the minds of the leading federalists throughout the
union. . . Some of our friends in Congress have much distin-
1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 103

guished themselves on this subject. Mr. Gouverneur Morris is
much celebrated for his eloquence. The democratical paper at
Washington pronounced his speech to be the grandest display of
eloquence ever exhibited in a deliberative assembly ! Mr. Bayard of
Delaware, Mr. Hemphill of Penna., Mr. Dana of Connecticut and
several other federalists in the House of Representatives have
also been much eulogized. Giles and Randolph of Virginia are
the leaders of the House of Representatives, and their speeches
develop the views and motives of Jefferson's sect more than any
others. . . Congress are now engaged in repealing almost all the
internal taxes, and the whiskey drinkers particularly will be in
spirits. Virginia literally dominates. Jefferson is the supreme
director of measures — he has no levee days — observes no cere-
mony— often sees company in an undress, sometimes with his
slippers on — always accessible to, and very familiar with, the
sovereign people. Madison is in a deep decline, and it is thought
he will soon quit his office.

Burr has lost ground very much with Jefferson's sect during
the present session of Congress. He played a cunning and ridicu-
lous game whilst the repealing of the judicial bill was before the
Senate. A few weeks ago whilst the federalists were at a public
entertainment, celebrating General Washington's birthday, he
made his appearance among them — asked whether he was an
intruder — he was answered in the negative, and treated with
becoming civility. Soon afterwards he asked for permission to
give a toast— it was granted — and he gave " The union of all
honest men:' This was generally received by the federalists as an
offer on his part to coalesce. It has been attempted to be kept
secret ; but it has got into circulation, and it has created heart
burnings with some of Burr's party. Hamilton says there is a
cabal going on at Washington between Burr and some of the
federalists. Latterly it is represented that Burr has run to the
other side again and is manifesting great violence. He has been
not a little abused in the course of the winter in the democratic
prints. It is said there is no cordiality or concert between him
and Jefferson, and that they are not in the habit of approximating
each other.

Jefferson is the idol to whom all devotion is paid ; and Burr
will doubtless be dropped at another election, if they can do it

104 RUFUS KING. |_l8°2

without endangering Jefferson. In this state all power and all
the offices are also engrossed by the democrats. No opposition
is likely to be made for some time to come. Our system is just
where it is by nature destined to be — in the hands of demagogues,
and I think it will not be an easy work to rescue it from them.
Hamilton is in utter despair of the system ! and he looks forward
to a serious commotion, and that at no very remote period !
There is a deadly enmity between Burr and the Clintonians. If
Burr should be taken up by the federalists, and brought forward
for any conspicuous office, Hamilton and many of us will secede
from the federal party and remain passive spectators. We think
there can be no coalition with him without a desecration of all
that is virtuous and all that is honorable in character. . . .

There is great complaint here of the dulness of all kinds of
business, owing to the peace. We have had very considerable
failures in Baltim., Philadelphia, and some not inconsiderable
ones here. More are likely to follow. It is a consolation amidst
the calamities that are befalling the merchants, the lawyers in the
circle of your friends are doing well, altho' of late they have
suffered, with other classes, a diminution of business. Hamilton
is closely pursuing the law, and I have at length succeeded in
making him somewhat mercenary. I have known him latterly to
dun his clients for money, and in settling an account with me the
other day, he reminded me that I had received a fee for him in
settling a question referred to him and me jointly. These indi-
cations of regard to property give me hopes that we shall not be.,
obliged to raise a subscription to pay for his funeral expenses. . . \

R. T.— l

G. Cabot to R. King.

April 13, 1802.

My Dear Sir :

Our people distrust the French, & the Armament at St. Domingo
will not be easily supplied by fair means ; still however they
must be supplied as all french Armaments are by the people of
the Countries to which they come & such of their Neighbours as
dare not resist them ; they will get something by finesse & ma-
neuvring, something by gross fraud & the remainder of their
wants they will supply by force. Our intelligence has been gen-

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 105

erally that the Army of Le Clerc made progress, & was confident
of success, but knowing as we do the policy of the French to put
the best face on such affairs until they are obliged to abandon
them, it is not impossible or improbable that the Blacks will main-
tain their liberty.

The meditated expedition to Louisiana causes some anxiety to
the great men of the South who guide our national affairs, but
after some thought I am of opinion that more good than evil will
ultimately come of it. Moral good & I may say political so often
springs from physical evil & political troubles that these may be
often ascribed without superstition to the kindness of a Guardian
Providence We must suffer all the miseries internal discord, dis-
union & anarchy inflict if we are not irresistibly combined by the
superior iufluence of a common interest in repelling an external
Enemy. It may therefore be a blessing to the United States to
have a french Establishment in Louisiana as strong as France can
make it. All the local & relative circumstances consider'd, it is
demonstrable that we have nothing to fear from mere force. — I
admit thz possibility of another sort of influence which might work
irreparable mischief, but on a calculation of chances I see such a
preponderance of those which are favorable that I look to the end
of this project with great confidence that it will (after much suf-
fering perhaps) promote our permanent good.
( You will see with pleasure the state of our Election in this
Quarter. I have no great reliance on a steady correctness of
public opinion but undoubtedly Jacobinism has declined a little
for the last six months. The superiority of the Federal char-
acters in Congress & the Newspapers evidently depresses & some-
times silences their opponents who have the national government
absolutely in their hands. How far those now in power will be
able to carry the people is more doubtful than was thought a few
months ago. It is perfectly understood that the principle of the
Admin, is the popular passion ; whatever mischief this will sanction
may be expected ; but where this can not be had they will stop.
We are men and acting on french principles, but as we are not
french men, the French Philosophers make some mistakes con-
cerning us. . . .

Yours with aff & fidelity

G. C.

106 RUFUS KING. [1802

F. Ames to R. King.

Dedhem, April 13, 1802.

Dear Sir :

. . . I do not despair of G. B. and of course I trust some-
what in the chances of the world's escaping from the fangs of
french domination. The ambitious project of getting Louisiana
can do nothing but good. We need as all nations do the com-
pression on the outside of our circle of a formidable neighbor —
whose presence shall at all times excite stronger fears than dema-
gogues can inspire the people with towards their govt. The
object of popular aversion and dread has been only govt. France
if she could float here and anchor on our coast has no terrors
equal to our near prospect of anarchy first and then Jacobin
despotism. We ought to rejoice in a new position of things in
which courage toil and suffering might avail to extricate us from
imminent evils — instead of that smooth and swift descent down
the precipice that we have been making for a year past. . . .

Great joy is felt here on occasion of the adjustment made with
G. Britain of the spoliation and treaty debts. It is well known
and truly felt and acknowledged that your and Mr Gore's resi-
dence in London has been infinitely serviceable to the U. S.
This consideration ought to keep you both quiet a little longer in
a situation that the newspapers have said you were weary of and
about to quit. God bless you when you return with the sight of
a country grateful, free and secure of it's freedom on fixed

principles.

With great regard &c

Yrs

Fisher Ames.

J. Hale to R. King.

Boston, 13 April, 1802.
Dear Sir :

. . . In mine advising you of the patriot Erving's appoint-
ment I believe I indulged gloomy & indignant feelings &
even urged your return home. My indignation at that & many
other measures of the philosopher is not & I hope never will be
abated. Your continuance however in your present important
station for twelve or eighteen months to come, more mature
reflection induces me seriously to hope. The London papers

802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. \QJ

advise of your determination to resign. The paragraphs upon
this subject I feel confident have not been authorized by you.
On the other hand my conjecture has fixed their source in the
aforesaid patriot E.

_The philosopher's message at the opening of the session I
transmitted to you. His recommendations have been very implic-
itly followed. The results hitherto have been grateful to the feel-
ings of the wise & virtuous. In New Hampshire & Massachusetts,
particularly the latter, the sect have been utterly confounded by the
emphatic voice of the people against them. Even the Chronicle
after stating the votes (as far as ascertained) to be 20,000 for
Strong & 13,000 for G., piously ejaculates, " the will of the people
be done " ! The confidence & impudence of the sect prior to
the 1 st Monday of this month you would scarcely credit. Their
present chagrin & mortification you may easily conceive of. We
are creditably informed that right principles & correspondent
feelings are not confined to New England & that in Maryland a
most happy change has taken place in the public minljj The
Louisiana project must operate much good. If you see the fed-
eral papers at the northward handling that project as of little
moment ; if you find them puffing Bonaparte & even the Gen-
eral Bernadotte, be not alarmed. Should matters come to a
serious issue, upon yankees principally will the nation depend for
its support, and you know they will not be wanting in spirit &
energy. But when called upon for exertions in favor of the
Nation, they expect to be treated in other respects as part of the
Nation, whose rights & interest they are ever ready to maintain.

It is more to be hoped than expected that the delays attending
the settlement of the definitive treaty will give more stability to
the peace. The present state of the Continental powers however
promise no more upon this head, than their suffering & exhausted
state will necessarily induce. The sect & even the philosopher
openly inveigh against Bonaparte. They are chagrined beyond
measure that he shows so little gratitude for their past attachment.
One source of apprehension is therefore removed, and at present
there is not much reason to fear that we shall be thrown into the
arms of France, should the present European armistice end.
Your friend & obed. Servt.

Joseph Hale.

108 RUFUS KING. [1802

R. King to Rt. Hon. Lord Hawkesbury.

Confidential.

London, April 91, 1802.
My Lord :

By the Treaty of Alliance concluded at Paris in 1778, between
the United States of America and France, the latter renounced
forever the possession of every part of the Continent of America,
lying to the East of the course of the Mississippi. This renuncia-
tion confirming that which had been previously made in the
Treaty of 1763 between Great Britain and France, authorized the
expectation that France, content with her widely spread domin-
ions, would abstain from seeking an extension of them in this part
of the American Continent : an expectation that appeared the
more reasonable inasmuch as the motives to such extension
could not be satisfactorily reconciled with a just regard to the
Rights and security of those Powers between which this portion
of America is divided, and by which the same is at present
possessed.

Contrary nevertheless to expectations which have been enter-
tained on this subject, if credit be due to uniform and uncontra-
dicted Reports, the Government of France has prevailed upon his
Catholic Majesty to cede to France both the Provinces of Lou-
isiana and the Floridas, and having thus acquired a station at the
mouth and on both sides of the Mississippi, may be inclined to
interfere with and interrupt the open Navigation of the River.

By the Treaty of Peace concluded at Paris in 1783, between the
United States of America and Great Britain, it is mutually stipu-
lated that the Navigation of the River Mississippi, from its source
to the ocean, shall forever remain free and open to the subjects
of Great Britain and the citizens of the United States of America.
Without enlarging upon the great and peculiar importance of this
Navigation to the United States, a large and increasing portion
of whose people can conveniently communicate with each other
and with foreign countries by no other route, I take the liberty
thro' your Lordship to request that the British Government will
in confidence explain itself upon this subject ; and especially
that it will explicitly declare whether any communication has
been received by it from the Government of France or Spain

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. IO9

respecting the said cession ; or whether his Britannic Majesty has
in any manner acquiesced in, or sanctioned the same, so as to
impair or affect the stipulations above referred to concerning
the free navigation of the Mississippi ; In a word, I intreat your
Lordship to open yourself on this occasion with that freedom
which, in matters of weighty concern, is due from one friendly
nation to another, and which in the present instance, will have
the effect to do away all those misconceptions that may otherwise
prevail in respect to the privity of Great Britain to the cession in
question.

With the highest consideration and respect &c,

Rufus King.

J. McHenry to R. King.

Baltimore, April 27, 1802.
Dear Sir :

Perhaps, for the present, it may be as well to suspend doing
anything relative to the engravings of the Indian Medals, that I
took the liberty to request you to have executed for me. My
object was, to have used them in a collection of my own public
papers, that I had contemplated throwing together, in a small
volume. I have not relinquished this design, but as some of the
pieces may require notes, and as the publication is intended more
for private than public gratification, I am in no hurry to carry it
into effect. Mr. Jefferson, I am told, ordered a new set of
medals for the Indians, with new devices and emblems. Would
to God that he had confined his revolutionary genius to things of
no greater importance, we should have had less, to-day, to appre-
hend for the fate of the Constitution and our Country.

The ultimate effects of peace, upon our Merchants and the
Country at large, are not yet fully developed. There have been
several failures in most of our trading Cities, and there is a dimi-
nution of foreign trade everywhere visible. We calculate upon a
decrease in our importations from the East Indies, proportionate
to the articles we received from that quarter, and exported during
the war. We calculate upon the total loss of that part of our
trade, with the French and Spanish Islands and the Spanish
main, which arose out of, and had its existence in, the late war.
In short, we calculate upon the commerce of the U. S. rapidly

HO RUFUS KING. [1802

and with few exceptions reverting to, and flowing only in those
channels in which it flowed previous to the war ; of course the
excess of our shipping, beyond what this trade will require, if not
purchased by Europeans, must rot in our ports, and our com-
merce in foreign products and manufactures, be confined, princi-
pally if not wholly, to what we shall want for our own use or
consumption, and our exports, to such part of our productions
and industry as shall be wanted by foreign nations. If you can
open new or other sources of trade to our merchants, you will be
a greater benefactor to your Country, than were you to teach our
farmers to raise two blades of grass from a stem which at present
produces but one. Perhaps more correct reflections upon her
interests may induce Great Britain to favor your operations,
should they be directed (as I presume they are) to liberalize (if I
may so express myself) the trade of this Country with her various
foreign possessions. According to my humble conceptions, it
would be wisdom in Great Britain, were she to open the doors of
her Colonies, to our trade, much wider than her system of
restraints and monopoly would advise or dictate. But no person
understands this subject better than yourself, or is better qualified
to make upon others, the proper impressions. I shall only observe,
that a good commercial treaty, at this juncture, when our trade is
either annihilated or stranded, in almost every quarter, in which
it has so lately flourished, would come most opportunely to the
American merchant and people.

[jjmust refer you to your other correspondents for a general
view of the state of politics, and complexion of public opinion as
relative to the capacity of the existing administration, to manage
wisely the affairs of this Country. Here and there, in this State,
may be observed symptoms of incipient distrust in the adminis-
tration, and disappointment of some of the acts and proceedings
of Congress. I do not however augur, from these partial appear-
ances, any sudden change for the better in the democratic part of
our representation in Congress, or check to the career of the ad-
ministration, altho' the probability is, that there will not be want-
ing matter, to encrease the bulk of these discontents until they
become instrumental in the production of good.

Connecticut in this great and trying crisis has behaved nobly,
both in and out of Congress. Massachusetts is slowly resuming

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. Ill

her ancient consequence and imposing posture. Rhode Island
begins to inquire, whether she is in the right path. Tho' little
favourable to federalism can be predicted relative to New York
and New Jersey, these states must not be considered as irretriev-
ably lost. Pennsylvania still clings to democracy ; she is said to
be not quite content with some of her demagogues, but at the
same time, not sufficiently dissatisfied with them, to dismiss them
from her councils or confidence. Of the Southern states, I can
say little. Accounts from them_are various. I believe the safest
rule is to look to the Eastward. \ . .

Your faithful & humble servant

James McHenry.

R. King to Nicholas Vansittart, Esq.

Great Cumberland Place, Ap. 29, 1802.
Sir :

As several points upon which we have touched in our conver-
sations respecting the Bill before Parliament, imposing certain
Duties upon Exports and Imports and the Tonnage of Vessels,
were the subject of discussion when the Convoy Duties were im-
posed, I take the liberty to send you the copy of the Report
which I made to my Government of the conference which on
that occasion I had with Mr. Pitt, thinking this as satisfactory a
mode, as any that I could adopt, of communicating to you the
objections then made against certain of the Provisions of the
Convoy Duty, and which so far as respects the Principle of the
Export Duties, now proposed to be laid, are equally applicable
to the present as to the former Bill.

Without repeating what has been already said, I will beg of you
to give all the weight which it deserves to the obvious and just in-
fluence to be deduced from the Spirit and Tenor of our Treaty
of Amity &c, and according to which, as we think, we are not
liable to pay a higher Duty for Permission to export your manu-
factures than is paid by your other customers. Agreeably to the
proposed Tariff, the consumers of British manufactures, living in
Europe, will pay only half per cent for permission to export the
same, while we who live farther off, and who consequently pay
higher freight and Insurance, are required to pay double that rate,
or one per cent for the like Permission.

112 RUFUS KING. [1802

It is true that the difference will not be as considerable as
under the Convoy Law ; but it is not against the greater or less
degree, but against discrimination altogether that we contend.
When the objection was formerly pressed, it was replied, as you
will perceive by the enclosed Report, that the Duty being taken
in reference to Convoys, which would cost more in long than in
short voyages, was for this reason not inequitable. Whatever
force there might have been in this reply, it must be admitted to
have no influence whatever in reference to the discrimination
now proposed, the effect of which in regard to American and
European Purchasers of British manufactures is, that each having
purchased goods upon the same terms and of the same amount,
the former is called upon before he leaves the Warehouse to pay
for the Government Permission to carry away his Purchase, double
the sum demanded of the latter for a like permission ; and if the
Americans be supposed to purchase British manufactures of the
value of Six Millions annually, and it be likewise admitted that
the Europeans purchase to the same amount, the former will an-
nually pay according to the proposed discrimination ,£30,000
sterling more than the latter ; or in other words, for permission
to export the same quantity of Goods, the British Government
will require the European purchaser to pay only £30,000, at the
same time that it obliges the American Purchaser to pay Sixty
Thousand.

This discrimination is at the same time too plain to leave any
doubt of the sentiments which it must unavoidably excite ; and I
cannot but flatter myself that, upon a reconsideration of the sub-
ject, it will be thought both just and prudent that every sort of
discrimination and preference should be abolished.

With great Consideration & Respect &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 63.

London, Ap. 30, 1802.
Sir:

The definitive Treaty having been duly ratified, Peace was
yesterday proclaimed with the accustomed formalities. Measures
are already taken to reduce the Army and Navy to a peace estab-

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 13

lishment ; and as the warrants and orders to impress Seamen have
been recalled, we may expect the discontinuance of farther appli-
cations from American Seamen, detained against their consent in
the British Service.

Mr Lenox has closed his agency, and according to your in-
structions delivered over to Mr Erving the Papers of his office.
As this Agency arose out of the Transactions of the war, it will,
I presume, cease with the war. The Consuls being authorized to
afford during Peace the Relief due to our deserted and distressed
Seamen within their respective Consulate, a special Agency for
the purpose will be unnecessary.

Sweden has finally acceded to the Convention concluded in
June last between Great Britian and Russia. Lord St. Helens,
the English Ambassador at St. Petersburgh, after communicating
this intelligence in a letter to Lord Hawkesbury of the 2nd in-
stant, an extract whereof has been published by this Government,
adds, "I have moreover the satisfaction of being enabled to
assure your Lordship that the Swedish Ambassador, Baron de
Stedingk, has been distinctly informed by the Count de Kots-
chonbey, the Russian Minister for Foreign Affairs, that as the
motives which had occasioned the late revival of the System of
the Armed Neutrality were now happily done away with, that
System is considered by this Court as completely annulled and
abandoned, not only as a general code of maritime Law, but
even in its more limited meaning of a specific engagement between
Russia and other Confederates."

Lord Hawkesbury has recently informed me that Mr. Merry,
and not Mr. Jackson, will be sent to the United States as Mr!
Liston's Successor. Mr. Merry has taken Mr. Jackson's place as
Minister Plenipotentiary at Paris for the purpose of exchanging
the Ratifications of the Definitive Treaty ; and I understand that
he will probably be sent to Madrid on a particular service before
he embarks.

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c.
vol. Iv.-8 RuFUS KlNG*

114 RUFUS KING. [1802

R. King to Secretary of State.
No. 64.

London, May 3, 1802.
Sir:

In order that the pecuniary affairs of the United States might
be managed with economy and that I myself might be free from
unnecessary accountability in respect to the public money dis-
bursed in this country, I settled an arrangement with Mess. Bird,
Savage & Bird, who were recommended to me by my Predecessor,
which I communicated to the Department of State immediately
after my arrival here.

By this arrangement these Gentlemen agreed to receive all such
public money, and to apply the same according to the directions
which should from time to time be given to them. For the col-
lection, custody and disbursement thereof, they were to charge no
commission, but in case they should be occasionally called upon
for advances, exceeding the money in hand, they were at liberty
to charge interest at the rate of five per cent from the date of
such advance till its reimbursement ; and in order that we might
not be paying interest for advances in one branch of the public
Expenditures, while another was in Cash, no loans were to be
made, nor interest paid, except for such sum as the aggregate of
the whole Expenditures exceeded the total amount of the money
in hand. These loans were reimbursed as soon as farther re-
mittances were received ; and by this course on the one hand
the public service was liable to no disappointment from the fail-
ure or want of punctuality in Remittances, and on the other this
security and accommodation were obtained upon terms both
reasonable and convenient. No part of the public Funds, in any
instances, remained in my possession, the Bills of exchange, as
soon as received, having in all cases been sent to Mess. Bird,
Savage & Bird for collection. According to my Instructions, as
well as from the nature of the case, a superintendence and con-
trol over these Funds, were annexed to my office, and hitherto
the duty has been duly discharged.

Although I have received no particular Instructions upon the
subject, I had no sooner looked into the business of the Prize
cases depending in the Tribunals of this country, and with the

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 15

prosecution whereof the public had charged itself, than I per-
ceived the expediency of adopting immediate measures for the
purpose of securing the money which might be recovered for the
several Claimants, and of obtaining a reimbursement of the Ex-
penses, which the Government had already incurred, and would
be liable to incur, in the prosecution of the claims.

With respect to the first ; as the public Agent received a salary
it appeared to me unfit that he should charge the claimants
with a Commission ; and as many disagreements existed not only
in relation to the several proportions of claims belonging to more
than one person, but disputes of a still more difficult nature in
cases of Bankruptcy and Insolvency, and in which the money was
liable to be, and in some instances had been, attached in the
Agent's hand, to await the decisions of the English Tribunals, I
instructed the Agent in no case to charge the Claimants a Com-
mission and took measures that all monies recovered from the
Captors or the British Government (after deducting the costs
which had been advanced by the United States) should be paid
directly into the Bank of England and placed to my credit in
my official capacity. This precaution put an end to all further
suits, as by reason of my office I could not be made a party to
them. I executed a Power of Attorney authorizing the public
Agent to draw for the money thus standing to my credit in the
Bank of England in order that the same might be paid over to
the claimants, and prepared and sent him special Instructions
concerning the discharges which he should require of them.

In regard to money standing on account of Costs, which had
been incurred by the public, I ordered that the same should in all
cases be paid over to Bird, Savage & Bird, and credited to the
funds for the prosecution of appeals.

This arrangement had the advantage of being a convenient
check upon the important accounts of the public Agent. The
Bank account will show that no part of the money thus placed
to my credit has been drawn for except by the Agents, nor by
them except in favour of the claimants. Messrs. Bird, Savage &
Bird's accounts joined to that of the Agent will likewise shew the
sums which have been detained on account of Costs incurred by
the Public, as well as the manner in which such sums have after-
wards been disposed of.

Il6 RUFUS KING. [1802

I have thought it proper to trouble you with this communica-
tion instead of referring you to my early correspondence with the
Department of State upon this subject ; and I am led to do so
principally in consequence of an embarrassment which has
lately happened by the refusal of Messrs Bird, Savage & Bird
to advance to Mr. Lenox the money requisite to enable him to
reimburse the advances which have been made for the relief and
protection of our Seamen up to the first day of this month.
According to his Instructions, Mr. Lenox furnished me with a
statement of the money wanted for this purpose ; and agreeably
to my Instructions and the plan which had been settled with
Messrs Bird, Savage & Bird, I wrote a letter to them requesting
that they would pay to Mr. Lenox ;£8oo., the amount of his
Estimate. These Gentlemen paid to Mr. Lenox ;£ 250., being the
amount of the last year's Remittances for this service, but refused
to advance the difference in pursuance, as they allege in their
letter to me, of direct instructions from the Department of the
Treasury, which require them to limit their disbursements, by
the sums remitted to them, and forbid them on any occasion to
make advances on the public credit.

As these Instructions have had the effect to transfer the
superintendence and control of the public Expenditures in this
country from the Minister to the Agents of the Treasury, without
enquiring whether the reform is likely to prove advantageous
to the public, there can be no hesitation on my part in
acquiescing in it, and accordingly I shall not in future, without
special instructions, regard our pecuniary affairs here, as in any
sort under my control and direction.

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c.

Rufus King.

J. Marshall to R. King.

Richmond, May 5, 1802.
Dear Sir :

This fortunate accomplishment of the long & difficult negotia-
tion with which you were charged, is peculiarly gratifying to those
who unite a knowledge of the embarrassing circumstances attend-

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 11/

ing it, to a real wish that your embassy may be as honorable to
yourself as it has been useful to your country.

You have effected what, in America, has been heretofore
deemed impracticable. You have made a treaty with one of the
great rival Nations of Europe, which is not only acceptable to all,
but the merit of which is claimed by both parties. The advocates
of the present administration ascribe to it great praise, for having,
with so much dexterity & so little loss, extricated our country
from a debt of twenty-four million of dollars in which a former
administration had involved it ; while the friends of the ancient
state of things, are not slow in adding the present happy accomo-
dation to the long list of their Merits.

Yet amidst this universal approbation so correctly given to an
adjustment of differences which unquestionably deserve it, the
mortifying reflection obtrudes itself, that the reputation of the
most wise & skilful conduct depends, in this our capricious world,
so much on accident. Had Mr. Adams been reelected President
of the United States, or had his successor been a gentleman
whose political opinions accorded with those held by the preced-
ing executive, a very different reception, I still believe, would
have been given to the same measure. The payment of a specific
sum would then have been pronounced, by those who now take
merit to themselves for it, a humiliating national degradation, an
abandonment of national interest, a free will offering of millions
to Britain for her grace & favor, by those who sought to engage
in a war with France, rather than repay, in part, by a small loan
to that republic, the immense debt of gratitude we owe her.

Such is, & such I fear will ever be human justice !

When I recollect the advantage actually gained by Great
Britain, in having obtained the fifth commissioner, I am truly
surprized at the sum agreed on. I believe it is as much, & not
more than, in strict justice, ought to be paid, but, after the im-
pressions made by the late board of commissioners I really appre-
hended strict justice to be unattainable ; & I think, not only, that
great credit is due to the American Negotiator for having reduced
this enormous claim to a reasonable amount, but that, all circum-
stances considered, some sentiment of respect should be felt for
the moderation & equity of the English Minister.

The national tribunals, I hope will continue to manifest, in the

Il8 RUFUS KING. [1802

exposition of the treaty of peace, " that share of prudence," which
is required by justice, & which can alone preserve the reputation
of the nation.

Public opinion in this quarter of the union has sustained no
essential change. That disposition to coalesce with what is, now,
the majority in America as well as in this state, which was strongly
display'd by the minority twelve months past, exists no longer.
It has expired. But the minority is only recovering its strength
& firmness. It acquires nothing

Our political tempests will long, very long, exist, after those
who are now toss'd about by them shall be at restj

Your obedt. Servt.

J. Marshall.

CHAPTER VIII.

King to Secretary of State— Bill imposing Duties on Exports and Imports
passed— King to Secretary of State— Has asked Lord Hawkesbury for a
confidential Statement of Views of the British Government about Louisi-
ana Cession— Lord Hawkesbury to King— Confidential Answer— King to
Hamilton— Louisiana Cession— Troup to King— American Politics— Cabot
to King— Sees Danger in the European Peace— France ambitious, rest-
less—King to Low— His Opinion of Samuel Williams— King to Secretary
of State — Debate on the Peace — Convention between Great Britain and
Russia— King to Secretary of State— Embarrassment with Trade through
French Laws— Affairs of Bird & Co. embarrassed— King to Dr. Drury —
Wishes his Sons advanced as much as possible — Drury to King — Does not
advise pushing them— Course at Harrow— Hamilton to King— He should
return Home — Reasons given — General Opinion of Affairs in the United
States— Troup to King— Affairs in United States, especially relative to
Burr.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 65.

London, May 5, 1802.
Sir:

The Bill imposing Duties on Exports and Imports and the
Tonnage Duties has passed the House of Commons, and will
doubtless go through the House of Lords, and receive the Royal
assent, without alteration : if it be yet printed, I will enclose a
copy thereof with this Letter.

In respect to the Duties on Imports, the Bill, in effect, revives
the correspondent Provisions of the Convoy Act, with the addi-
tion in most cases, of a fifth to the Duties imposed by that act.
The Tonnage Duties as well as the Duties upon Goods exported
to any part of Europe are the same as under the Convoy Act :
the Duties upon Goods exported to America and other places out
of Europe are reduced to half the rates imposed by the Convoy
Act ; and with regard to articles excepted from the payment of
Duties inwards and outwards, as well as to the regulations for
120 RUFUS KING. [1802

warehousing certain Goods, and allowing Drawbacks in case of
re-exportation, the like provisions are contained in the present
Bill, as were inserted in the Convoy Act.

In consequence of the large quantity of Cotton lately imported
from the United States and the superior quality of a portion of
the Georgia Cotton, it was proposed to put a higher Duty upon
our cotton than upon that of Turkey, which is of an inferior
quality. But on conferring with the officers charged with the
settlement of these Duties, the discrimination has been given up,
and without distinguishing between Sea Island and other cotton
of the United States, as had at first been proposed, the duty is
reduced to the lowest rate or to that imposed upon the Cotton of
Turkey : and as all other Cotton will pay higher Duties than that
of the United States and Turkey, ours will stand upon a compar-
atively good footing in this market.

As the proposed Tonnage Duty upon our Vessels is as low as
upon the Vessels of any other country, and applies to British
equally with foreign Vessels, so far as respects discrimination
there is nothing to complain of.

With regard to the proposed Export Duty, after several confer-
ences with Mr. Vansittart of the Treasury, to whom I was referred
by Lord Hawkesbury to discuss the subject, and in which I
urged, but without success, the abolition of all discrimination
between the Purchasers of British Manufactures, I thought it my
duty to write him a letter * upon the subject, a copy whereof is
annexed ; if his answer should be received in time, a copy of it
shall also be subjoined.

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c

Rufus King.

R. Troup to R. King.

New York, 6 May, 1802.
My dear Sir :

, . . Burr has gone south on an ostensible visit to his

daughter, who married a man named Alston, and is settled in

Charleston. The real object of the visit is well understood, and

it is supposed to occasion at least a sigh to Jefferson. I think,

* Letter 29th April, p. in.

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 121

however, and such is the general opinion, that Jefferson has not
a formidable rival in Burr. The Clintonian party, which is
warmly attached to Jefferson, in this State is much more influen-
tial than Burr's party ; and the Clintonian party hate Burr as
much as the Jacobins in France hate Bonaparte. In this city the
Clintonians and Burrites are at dagger's points. Their feuds at
our late election were a subject of no small gratification to our
zealous federalists. The Clintonian and democratic printer in
this City during the winter has blackguarded Burr without re-
serve. At Washington it is understood he has played a little
cunning and trimming game. Jefferson and his friends think
they know him profoundly. . . .

In this State federalism begins to rise from its tomb, as evi-
denced by the recent election. . . . The violence of Clinton
and his adherents and the violence also of Jefferson in removals
from office have excited a powerful public sentiment against their
administration. By the bye, Mrs. Montgomery^cajls Jefferson's
administration a philosophical experiment. . . . \

Your convention is ratified. A few days ago Congress was
occupied with a bill to carry it into effect. It is very grateful to
all parties. Mrs. Montgomery says the chancellor writes in very
strong terms of approbation of your conduct. There is not the
least probability of your recall. The democrats are changing
their tone with respect to France, and particularly with respect
to Bonaparte. It is certain that the chancellor has not been
pleased with his reception. I should not be surprised if violent
hatred was to succeed the violent love for the Great Nation.
Bonaparte is universally cursed. Louisiana and the Islands are
a subject of great heartburning with Jefferson and his adherents ;
at length their eyes are beginning to open. Our captains of ves-
sels and merchants have been most infamously treated by Le
Clerc at St. Domingo. The general opinion here is that the con-
quest of Toussaint and his followers will be a lengthy, expensive
and bloody job. If the war in Europe should recommence, Le
Clerc will be defeated, and probably compelled to quit St. Do-
mingo, if he can.

w Mr. Jay is in the deepest retirement and his name is scarcely
ever mentioned. . . . Hamilton is devoted to the law — is
making money faster than ever. . . . Mr. Rensselaer, the

122 KUFUS KING. [1802

Patroon, is to be married in the course of two or three weeks
to Miss Paterson, a daughter of Judge Paterson of New
Jersey. . . . ~^

Yours

R. T.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 66.

London, May 7, 1802.
Sir:

Among the few great principles of national policy worthy
of fixing the attention of our Statesmen, I am willing to hope
there is not one, concerning which there is greater unanimity of
opinion than in that which enjoins upon us all to do our utmost
in every way and upon all occasions, to maintain and perpetuate
the union of our country.

With this persuasion, though the subject may not be thought
to be included among the duties of my mission, I have not been
able to remain inattentive or indifferent to the cession of Louisi-
ana and the Floridas to France, because I have viewed it as a
measure calculated, and possibly intended, to weaken and divide
us, I have already communicated to you what passed between me
and the Ministers of this Country in relation to this cession, dur-
ing the negotiation for Peace ; but as these communications were
merely verbal, and as it appeared to me to be of some importance
that they should be distinctly and formally confirmed, as well as
that they should be ascertained of the sentiments of this Govern-
ment in respect to this cession, I prepared and sent to Lord
Hawkesbury a confidential Letter * upon the subject, a copy
whereof, together with a copy of his answer, is annexed. I will
only add that I have reason to be satisfied that the cession of
Louisania and the Floridas is considered by all the late Ministry,
as well as by all other men of influence in this country, as a
measure of the greatest consequence, and which must have an
unavoidable influence upon the duration of Peace.

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c

Rufus King.

* April 21, 1802, page 108.

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 123

Lord Hawkesbury to Rufus King, Esq.

Confidential.

Downing Street, 7th May, 1802.
Sir :

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your confiden-
tial Letter of 21st ultimo.

It is impossible that so important an Event, as the cession of
Louisiana by Spain to France, should be regarded by the King in
any other light than as highly interesting to his Majesty and to the
United States ; and should render it more necessary than ever that
there should subsist between the two Governments that spirit of
confidence which is become so essential to the security of their
respective Territories and Possessions.

With regard to the free Navigation of the Mississippi, I conceive
that it is perfectly clear, according to the Law of Nations, that in
the event of the District of Louisiana being ceded to France, that
Country would come into the possession of it, subject to all the en-
gagements which appertained to it at the time of cession, and that
the French Government could consequently allege no colourable
pretext for excluding his Majesty's subjects, or the citizens of the
United States from the navigation of the River Mississippi.

With regard to the second Question in your Letter, I can have
no difficulty in informing you, that no communication whatever
has been received by his Majesty from the Government of France
or Spain, relative to any Convention or Treaty for the cession of
Louisiana or the Floridas, and I can at the same time most truly
assure you that his Majesty has not in any manner, directly or in-
directly acquiesced in or sanctioned this cession.

In making this communication to you for the information of the
Government of the United States, I think it right to acquaint you
that his Majesty will be anxious to learn their sentiments on
every part of this subject, and the line of policy which they will
be induced to adopt in the event of this arrangement being car-
ried into effect.

I have the honor to be with great consideration

Hawkesbury.

124 RUFUS KING. [1802

R. King to General Hamilton.

Secret and confidential.

London, May 7, 1802.
Dear Sir :

As I know of no measure from abroad which is capable of such
extensive and injurious effects as the cession of Louisiana and the
Floridas to France it has been a subject of my unremitting solici-
tude and attention from the moment of our first suspicions con-
cerning it. Its importance was fully and frequently developed to
the ministers of this country before the conclusion of the Pre-
liminaries and during the negotiation at Amiens ; but no expla-
nation was demanded of France, lest it should embarrass the
conclusion of Peace.

Mr. Pinckney absurdly enough is offering to purchase the Floridas
of Spain, which has already disposed of them. Mr. Livingston
can obtain no answer whatever to his repeated notes on this sub-
ject at Paris, while we learn for a certainty that an Expedition to
be commanded by Bernadotte is already prepared in the Ports of
France, and will go directly to the Mississippi unless the bad
state of the affairs of St. Domingo should alter its destination.

In these circumstances I have thought it prudent to ask this
Government to explain itself upon this important measure, and I
send you in entire confidence Copies of my Letter and of the
answer which I have received and transmitted to the Department
of State.

In Thornton's last Dispatches which I have seen, he repeats a
conversation between him and the President, in which the latter
is represented to have said that this cession would inevitably
change the political System of the United States in respect to
their foreign Relations ; inasmuch as it would lead to jealousies,
irritation and hostility ; and, alluding to the northwest boundary
of the United States, suggested the expediency of an immediate
settlement of it by an agreement to close the boundary by taking
for that purpose the shortest line between Lake Superior and any
part of the Mississippi.

With sincere regards &c.

Rufus King.

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 25

G. Cabot to R. King.

May 11, i3o2.
My dear Friend :

I congratulate you on the success of your Convention which is
approved by men of all parties. We are this moment told that
the Definitive Treaty is signed at Amiens but many of us see as
much danger in the peace as we apprehended in the war ; for
myself I decided early that there cou'd be no security in paper
promises against a nation of conquerors — with the power which
France possesses she cannot possibly be at rest j all experience of
human nature forbids the expectation that she will cease from her
exertions until she is compelled by force or shall conquer the
remains of civilized States. It might be very troublesome to us
but wou'd probably be happy for other nations if France shou'd
assail us so rudely as to unite us internally in a determined re-
sistance— we cou'd not injure her by any force of our own but we
cou'd defend ourselves with certainty if united & cou'd do so
much toward sustaining those who are able to injure her that she
cou'd have no hope of success.

\^The Sect " which now governs has lost much reputation since
the meeting of Congress ; the want of principle has not been
more manifest than the want of talents & weight of character.
So much time & labor has been employed in search of faults
without finding any in the Members of the old administrations
that men are irresistibly led to the conclusion that the charges
against them were false which were circulated while they were in
power.— From Maryland to New Hampshire inclusively the
career of Jacobinism is arrested & in most places the tide of
opinion sets the other way. You know we were all deteriorating
last year, the progress is everywhere checked, in most places
stopped, & in many the course changed. There has never been
a period when the Federal Cause was maintained with more good
sense and dignity than since its leaders & advocates have been
in the minority. I am fully persuaded that the Federalists have
a more salutary influence than they cou'd have had if the Presi-
dential Election had issued according to their wishes — they can-
not effect a positive act but they prevent almost every bad one
that is meditated & those which pass in spite of opposition still
have one good effect that of strengthening the federal cause — all

126 RUFUS KING. [1802

this needs no further explanation, so I pray God to preserve you
many years !~\

G. C.

R. King to N. Low.

London, May 15, 1802.

Dear Sir :

. . . I am glad you happened to ask my opinion respecting
Mr. Samuel Williams, who has been removed from the orifices of
Consul and Agent for the prosecution of claims and appeals.
Indeed I almost reproach myself for not having mentioned him
to you after I heard of his removal. I am inclined to hope that
the public as well as individuals, whose concerns were entrusted
to Mr. Williams, may be faithfully served by his successor ; but
sure I am they are not likely to be better served : for I am con-
vinced the public has not had in its employ a more attentive,
intelligent and faithful Officer than Mr. Williams. I have known
him well for more than twenty years (or, as our friend Genl.
Knox would say, upwards of a quarter of a century). He was
my contemporary at College, has been known to me ever since,
and was removed from Hamburgh to London at my request, on
account of his peculiar fitness for the employ, and I would con-
fide my business and property to him, as I am persuaded you and
others may do, with the most unreserved confidence in his In-
tegrity and Talents.

He is a man of property, has been regularly bred to business
and is established in London. I may add that he has the unani-
mous testimony of the Board of Commissioners, which his late
colleague, Mr. Cabot, also possessed, of having neglected nothing
in performing his duties in connection with them. I think it no
more than mere justice to Mr. Williams to say thus much, and to
add my consent that you should communicate the same to any
person who may desire to be acquainted with his reputation.
With perfect Regard & Esteem

Rufus King.

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. \2J

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 67.

London, May 17, 1802.
Sir :

As Lord Grenville's speech against the Definitive Treaty of
Peace, and Lord Hawkesbury's in vindication of it, will both be
printed under their respective correction, and as these will con-
tain more exactly than I could give them the arguments made use
of in the two Houses of Parliament when the Treaty was under
consideration, it is unnecessary that I should do more than state
the division which was strong in both Houses in support of the
Treaty ; the opposition had only 16 in the Lords, and 20 in the
Commons. As soon as these discourses are published I will take
care to send you copies of them.

Herewith you will receive a copy of the Convention and ad-
ditional articles between Great Britain and Russia, together with
the acts of accession of Denmark and Sweden. The explanatory
article, concerning the Colony Trade, taken in connection with
Lord Grenville's speech, which I formerly sent you, on the Rus-
sian Convention, is worthy of attention ; as the article consenting
to as free a Trade between the Colonies and the North of Europe
as may be carried on between them and the United States, is a
departure from a contrary system which it has been the view of
the past administration to establish and may become the founda-
tion of doing away the discrimination in favour of direct trade
between the United States and Great Britain, sanctioned by the
last Treaty between Great Britain and Russia.

I likewise enclose a copy of the Law just passed, imposing Duties
upon Imports and Exports, and upon the Tonnage of Vessels.

Mr. Eaton, who returned to Tunis on the istof March, informs
me that the Tagan, cloths and Jewels had all arrived in safety,
and proved highly acceptable to the Bey ; and Mr. Gavino in a
letter dated on the 5th ultimo, acknowledges the receipt of the
arms prepared by Mortimer and Company, which arrived at
Gibraltar on the second of the same month, and were to be put
on board the first American Frigate touching there and bound up
the Mediterranean.

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c.

Rufus King.

128 RUFUS KING. [1802

R. King to Secretary of State.
No. 68.

London, May 26, 1802.
Sir:

Considerable solicitude has prevailed among the British manu-
facturers and merchants concerning their Trade with France, and
her late Allies, founded upon the Belief that France would ex-
clude either wholly, or in a very great degree, the Manufactures
of this country. The prohibitory laws of France, passed during
the war, have been declared to be in force, and were it not for a
recent and extraordinary Law, which puts into the hands of the
Chief Consul, provisionally, the whole Regulation of Commerce^
as well in respect to the Imports, as to the admission and exclu-
sion of foreign Manufacturers, no English Fabrics could be, as at
present very few are, imported into France ; the want of some-
thing ascertained and uniform upon this subject has operated to
discourage all regular and advantageous Commerce between the
two Countries.

This inconvenience has without doubt been already felt on both
sides, and in consequence thereof we are told that France has
made an overture, not to enter into a commercial Treaty, but to
digest and agree in certain understood and reciprocal Regulations
to be established by Law, and according to which the Trade be-
tween the two countries should be carried on for a limited time.
A Proposition of this sort is under consideration here, and seems
likely to become the foundation of a new experiment to regulate
the mutual Dealings of these Rival Countries. Unless, however,
a Law be immediately passed vesting in the Executive here, as
has been done in France, the power of regulating the commercial
intercourse between France and Great Britain, the subject must
be referred to a new Parliament, as it is believed that the present
Parliament will be dissolved in the course of three weeks, in order
that the General Election may take place without interfering with
the Harvests.

Circumstances have lately occurred in addition to the refusal
of Bird, Savage and Bird to advance to Mr. Lenox the money to
enable him to clear off his public accounts, which have created in
my mind a suspicion that their affairs may not be altogether free

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 129

of embarrassment, altho' their fortune may turn out to be solid
and ample, and the disappointments, incurred at the close of the
war, may not ultimately and materially affect them, I think it my
duty to apprize you in confidence of my apprehensions that pos-
sibly this may not be the case.

With perfect Respect and Esteem,

Rufus King.

R. King to Dr. Drury.

Dear Sir: London, June 3, 1802.

My confidence in the discipline and course of education ob-
served at Harrow leaves me nothing to desire in this respect, and
I ought perhaps to beg your excuses in expressing to you a wish
that may possibly appear to interfere with the regularity of this,
course ; but as my sons are advancing towards an age in which it
would suit my views in respect to the completion of their educa-
tion, that they should advance in the school as fast as their ac-
quirements will permit (to hurry them faster, I know would be
disadvantageous), I have thought I might without impropriety
take the liberty of intimating this reflection to you, in doing which
I persuade myself that I shall not be understood, either as sup-
posing my sons to have more pretensions than their companions
in general, or as being behind where they might have been ex-
pected to be. My wish is that they should receive all the advan-
tages to be received from going through Harrow previously to
their leaving England, which it is my intention that they shall
do when they separate from your instruction.
< Whether they will then be sent to a University upon the Con-
tment * or only pass a year or two abroad and afterwards return
to America to complete their education, will depend upon circum-

*The following from a note book, with extracts from Gibbon's Memoirs
shows Mr. King's views about the English Universities of that day :

"Mr. Gibbon has written much to prove the danger, as well as the inutility
of sending young men to the English Universities. His sentiments, joined to
the opinion of Knox, which agree with my own reflections, have decided me
against sending any of my children there. I must make diligent enquiry con-
cerning the Universities upon the continent." See also vol. iii n «0

VOL. IV. — 9 ' t" JJUl

130 RUFUS KING. [1802

stances of which I am not at present master. As they are Amer-
icans, their education must not be entirely abroad, and were I not
desirous of giving them an opportunity to obtain the modern
languages at an age most convenient and safe for this acquisition,
I should send them home immediately from Harrow.
With most perfect respect

Your obliged & obedt. Servt.

Rufus King.

Dr. Drury to R. King.

Harrow, 4th June, 1802.
Dear Sir :

It will always afford me the sincerest pleasure to fulfil the
wishes of those parents, who honour me with their confidence, to
the utmost of my power and to take care that their children have
that degree of attention to their morals and improvement, which
duty prescribes ; and a sufficient stimulus to industry and com-
petition to call forth the powers of their minds. But we must be
cautious how we push them beyond their strength. Your sons
possess most amiable and docile minds, their understandings are
sound and good, but neither of them have shown as yet that supe-
riority of genius wh. would allow me to place them higher in the
school with any probable advantage to themselves. The younger
is more forward for his age than many who are below him, and it
is fortunate that his apprehension is so far quicker than his broth-
er's as to enable him to proceed with him in the same class,
[there was only little more than one year between them] and of
course of the same employments. At Xmas next they will be in
the same remove in which most of those authors are read, which are
used in the sixth or head Form. If I could carry my own ideas
always into execution, no boy should attain this situation before
the age of fourteen [they were 14 & 13]. But this I have found
impossible, the different ages at which the young people are sent
to Harrow and the very different state of their proficiency, when
they come, as well as the variety of their capacities have proved
obstacles to my design ; but the experience of more than thirty
years has convinced me that this rule, as a general one, would
prove more safe than an earlier elevation to the higher Forms of

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 131

the school. . . . With regard to your sons, I could wish
when they leave Harrow, if they choose to pursue classical stud-
ies, they may want no aid beyond their own industry to perfect
this branch of study, and this they will accomplish if your con-
venience and engagement will allow them to conclude their school
education at Harrow.

Most respectfully and faithfully yours

Joseph Drury.

On April 8, 1802, Mr. King wrote to his friend General
Hamilton a letter, of which the following is the concluding
portion, showing at that time his desire to return home.*
This letter is here given in connection with the answer.

R King to A. Hamilton.

London, April 8, 1802.
Dear Sir :

. . . I do not enter upon the situation of Europe since the
peace. It would be too long a labor to do so. While the war
lasted, constant and endless occasions presented themselves to
employ myself here in the benefit of our countrymen, and I flat-
ter myself for the public advantage.

The revision of our commercial treaty has been a service to
which I have all along looked as the conclusion of my mission, f
As, however, I have no reason to suppose it likely soon to take
place, I am not much inclined to remain here a mere figurant,
and am therefore seriously thinking of my return. Without de-
ciding anything on this point, I confidentially ask your opinion

* Works of A. Hamilton, vol. vi., p. 538.

f In a private letter to Mr. Madison, Secretary of State, Oct. 8, 1801 (vol.
iii., p. 522), Mr. King had expressed his desire " to assist in the revision of our
treaty with this country " and said, as it might require conference, with refer-
ence to treaties with France also, " should the President confide the negotia-
tion here to me, might there not be considerable advantage in my receiving
permission to pass a fortnight with you at the Seat of Government or with Mr.
Livingston here or at Paris ? "

To this suggestion, no answer had been sent to him, indicating clearly that it
was not the President's intention to confide the negotiation to him.

132 XUFUS KING. [1802

respecting it. This I have not done except in the present
instance.

Very faithfully

Rufus King.

Before returning, I am desirous to pass a few months upon the
continent.

A. Hamilton to R. King.

New York, June 3, 1802.
My Dear Sir :

I have been long very delinquent towards you, as a correspond-
ent, and am to thank you that you have not cast me off altogether
as an irretrievable reprobate. But you know how to appreciate
the causes, and you have made a construction equally just and
indulgent.

In your last you ask my opinion about a matter delicate and
important both in a public and in a personal view. I shall give it
with the frankness to which you have a right, and I may add that
the impressions of your other friends, so far as they have fallen
under my observation, do not differ from my own. While you
were in the midst of a negotiation interesting to your country, it
was your duty to keep your post. You have now accomplished
the object and with the good fortune not very common of having
the universal plaudit. This done, it seems to me most advisable
that you return home. There is little probability that your con-
tinuance in your present station will be productive of much positive
good. Nor are circumstances such as to give reason to appre-
hend that the substitute for you, whoever he may be, can do
much harm. Your stay or return therefore, as it regards our trans-
atlantic concerns, is probably not material : while your presence
at home may be useful in ways which it is not necessary to par-
ticularise. Besides it is questionable whether you can continue
longer in the service of the present administration with what is
due as well to your own character as to the common cause. I am
far from thinking that a man is bound to quit a public office
merely because the administration of the Government may have
changed hands. But when those who have come into power are

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 33

undisguised persecutors of the party to which he has been at-
tached and study with ostentation to heap upon it every indig-
nity and injury — he ought not in my opinion to permit himself to
make an exception or to lend his talents to the support of such
characters. If in addition to this, it be true that the principles
and plans of the men at the head of affairs tend to the degrada-
tion of the Government and to their own disgrace, it will hardly
be possible to be in any way connected with them without sharing
in the disrepute which they may be destined to experience.

I wish I had time to give you a comprehensive & particular map
of our political situation. But more than a rude outline is be-
yond my leisure, devoted as I am more than ever to my profes-
sional pursuits.

You have seen the course of the Administration hitherto, espe-
cially during the last session of Congress, and I am persuaded
you will agree in opinion with me that it could hardly have been
more diligent — in mischief. What you will ask has been and is
likely to be the effect on the public mind ?

Our friends are sanguine that a great change for the better has
been wrought and is progressive. I suppose good has been done
— that the Federalists have been reunited and cemented —
have been awakened and alarmed. Perhaps too there may be
some sensible and moderate men of the adverse party who are
beginning to doubt. But I as yet discover no satisfactory symp-
toms of a revolution of opinion in the mass.

Nor do I look with much expectation to any serious alteration
until inconveniences are extensively felt or until time has pro-
duced a disposition to coquet with new lovers — Vibrations of
power, you are aware, are the genius of our Government.

There is however a circumstance which may accelerate the fall
of the party. There is certainly a most serious seism between the
Chief and his heir apparent ; a seism absolutely incurable, be-
cause founded in the breasts of both in the rivalship of an insa-
tiable and unprincipled ambition. The effects are already
apparent and are ripening into a more bitter animosity between
the partizans of the two men than ever existed between the
Federalists and Antifederalists.

Unluckily we are not as neutral to the quarrel as we ought to
be — You saw how far our friends in Congress went in polluting

134 RUFUS KING. [1802

themselves with the support of the second personage for the
presidency. The Cabal did not terminate there. Several men,
of no inconsiderable importance among us, like the enterprising
and adventurous character of this man, and hope to soar with
him to power. Many more through hatred to the Chief and
through an impatience to recover the reins are linking themselves
with the Vice-Chief, almost without perceiving it and professing
to have no other object than to make use of him ; while he
knows that he is making use of them. What this may end in,
it is difficult to foresee.

Of one thing only I am sure, that in no event will I be directly
or indirectly implicated in a responsibility for the elevation or
support of either of two men, who in different senses, are in my
eyes equally unworthy of the confidence of intelligent or honest
men.

Truly, my dear Sir, the prospects of our Country are not bril.
liant. The mass is far from sound. At headquarters a most
visionary theory presides. Depend upon it this is the fact to a
great extreme. No army, no navy, no active commerce — natural
defence, not by arms but by embargoes, prohibitions of trade, &c.
— as little government as possible within — these are the pernicious
dreams which as far and as fast as possible will be attempted to
be realized. Mr. Jefferson is distressed at the codfish having
latterly emigrated to the southern Coast lest the people there
should be tempted to catch them ! and commerce of which we
have already too much, receive an accession. Be assured this is
no pleasantry, but a very sober anecdote.

Among Federalists old errors are not cured. They also con-
tinue to dream though not so preposterously as their opponent.
All will be very well (say they) when the power once more gets
back into Federal hands. The people convinced by experience
of their error will repose a permanent confidence in good men.
Risum teneatis ? Adieu.

Yrs. ever —

A. H.

P. S. The bearer our acquaintance — Wm. Bayard continues
worthy of high esteem & regard.

A. H.

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 135

R. Troup to R. King.

tNEW York, June 6, 1802.
Dear Sir :
- . . . The fatigue occasioned by the constant sitting of our
courts exhausted us all very much. I find that Hamilton's health,
notwithstanding the quickness and enormous strength of his mind,
is impairing, as well as mine. This man's mind, by the by, seems
to be progressing to greater and greater maturity ; such is the
common opinion of our bar ; and I may say with truth that his
powers are now enormous ! and the only chance we have of suc-
cess is now and then when he happens to be on the weaker side :
and yet he is always complaining that he does not get his share of
judgments and decrees ! Our new Chancellor (Lansing) is at-
tentive and honest, but his mind is narrow and piddling ; and he
is utterly destitute of those liberal and comprehensive views,
which are suited to the Court over which he presides. It is a
great source of consolation, however, to such as do not admire
(and I confess myself of this number) the republican system, that
our Supreme Court and Court of Chancery respect the rights of

property.

We are now in profound tranquillity. The peace has drawn
after it a diminution of business of all sorts. . . The fall of
our produce and our late open water have not affected the prices
of lands, but they have materially injured payments. . . .

We poor fallen federalists are indulging our expectation that
the sun of federalism is beginning to rise again. In Massachu-
setts and Connecticut larger majorities for the federalists appeared
at the State elections than in those of last year. In this State we
have also gained— but in my opinion not more has appeared than
demonstrates the existence of life ; what two or three years will
produce is beyond conjecture. ...

The Clintonians and Jeffersonians are at open hostility with
the Burrites. This will be evident from the pamphlet accompany-
ing this letter. Burr is now at Savannah doing what he can to
render Jefferson more popular and promote his re-election. That
you may understand the pamphlet better, I have also sent you
herewith the history of Adams' administration. The rancour be-
tween these parties is indescribable. The cant of the Clintonians
and Jeffersonians is that we have coalesced with Burr— which is

136 RUFUS KING, [1802

an infamous falsehood — as far as our friends in this State are con-
cerned ; though we have reason to think that Burr has been
caballing with some of our friends to the southward. The high
probability is that Burr is a gone man, and that all his cunning,
enterprise and industry will not save him. The pamphlet ex-
hibits a just picture of Burr's character. The history of Adams'
administration is a paltry and rascally thing ; the author is a
British renegade. . . .

Coleman is very zealous and devoted to the federal cause ; but
his paper is that of the scholar and the gentleman. . . TV

Yours

Rob. Troup.

CHAPTER IX.

King to Secretary of State— Received President's and Senate's Approbation of
the Convention — Sedgwick to King — Glad he will return Home —
Federalism improving — District of Maine — King to Low — Confidence in
Government Funds — King to Madison — Thanks for Permission to visit
France, etc. — Will leave Mr. Gore Charge without Expense to the Public —
King to Secretary of State— Commission under 7th Article proceeding
satisfactorily — Has postponed Discussion of the Repeal of countervailing
Duty on Tobacco — King to Erving — Claims of Seamen for Relief — King
to Lord Hawkesbury — Has received the Convention ratified, etc. — King
to Secretary of State — Loan by Holland paid in Part to France to release
Claims of the Prince of Orange— King to Lord Hawkesbury— Demanding
Release of impressed Seamen — King to Livingston — Floridas possibly not
ceded — Free Navigation of the Mississippi essential to United States —
Floridas must belong to us — Interesting Suggestion relative to them —
Should not enter into a Guaranty as to their Possession by Spain — King to
Secretary of State — Ratifications of Convention exchanged — King to Secre-
tary of State — Morocco declared war against the United States — Agricul-
tural Prospects in England bad— King to Troup— Going to the Continent
— King to Secretary of State — Informing him of his Expenditure relating
to the Publication of Robinson's Admiralty Reports and why incurred.

R. King to Secretary of State.
No. 69.

London, June 10, 1802.
Sir :

I have duly received your Letter of Ap. 7th, communicating the
President's approbation of the Convention respecting the 6th and
7th Articles of the Treaty of 1794 ; and by private accounts of a
later date, we have the farther satisfaction to hear that the Senate
has likewise added its sanction.

In respect to the Countervailing Duties, I have nothing to add
I38 RUFUS KING. [1802

to my former communication ; their continuance or repeal is a
question submitted to the decision of Congress. The press of
Business towards the close of the Session of Parliament employs
the whole time of the Ministers ; at present therefore I do not
think it expedient to resume the subject of our West India Trade.
As soon as a convenient opening offers I will recall it to Lord
Hawkesbury's attention.

By this opportunity I send you a copy of the Report of the
Committee of the House of Commons, respecting the vaccine in-
oculation, a discovery of the highest interest to humanity ; also a
statement of the national Debt together with the calculations con-
cerning the late modification of the Sinking Fund. By the first
ship bound to the Chesapeake, I will send you a copy of the late
Enumeration of this Country, so far as it has been completed ;
the Supplement shall be forwarded as soon as it is printed. As
our Census is a subject of much enquiry, I shall be obliged to you
to send me a dozen copies of the former as well as of the late
Census, some of which I wish to deposit in the public Museums
and Libraries.

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c.

Rufus King.

T. Sedgwick to R. King.

Wiscasset, in Maine, 15 June, 1802.
My dear Sir :

I have just now had the pleasure to receive your letter of the
6th of April for which I am much obliged to you. No part of it
has given me more pleasure than the intimation it gave of your
intended return. As the convention you made is ratified, I am
of opinion your presence will be more useful here than in Eng-
land. Strange as it might appear to a superficial observer, it is
nevertheless true that an adjustment of all differences with G. B.
was ardently desired by J n and his friends, even before the ces-
sion of Louisiana afforded additional motives to it. I never had
a doubt, therefore, that any reasonable terms would be accepted.

In my last letter, as well as I can recollect, I predicted that the
policy of the President would weaken his adherents in New Eng-
land. This prediction is verified by the elections, at least in this

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 39

state ; our legislature being more federal than it has been since
the adoption of the constitution, and as far as I am informed
composed of better materials. In New Hampshire, it is true that
Governor Gilman was elected by a smaller majority than this the
preceeding year, but I am assured that the defection was owing
more to local than national causes.

Till now I have never been in this district, and have been
astonished at the progress of improvement which is everywhere
apparent. The increase of population has everywhere been con-
siderable, but the accumulation of wealth incomparably greater.
Portland, Bath, this place, & several others, have become flourish-
ing trading places, but none more so than the village of Kenne-
bunk. I have indeed been astonished at the appearance which
every part of the country that I have seen exhibits. But among
all that I have seen here none has been more pleasing than two
of your nieces ; of the name of Southgate, whom I saw at Port-
land, and one of whom is now here.

I would never have abandoned the govt, personally but from
the most complete conviction that the people would make an
experiment of democracy. Under this conviction I could per-
ceive no reason for sacrificing my comfort to objects of the
attainment of which I despaired. On my retiring I was certain
that inaction would render me unhappy, and therefore began
anew the practice in my profession. This soon became disgust-
ing to me, and I was inclined to accept the office of Judge
merely to avoid the evils of idleness. Whether I shall continue
in it is as yet uncertain. Should I quit it I shall never again
return to the bar but try what I can do in the cultivation of land.

Farewell,

Theodore Sedgwick.

R. King to N. Low.

London, June 15, 1802.
Dear Sir :

... I observe your doubts in respect to the funds : but my

confidence is not yet lost and I therefore desire you to continue

your investments on my account. The funds may be less secure

than they ought to be, and the prices such as to yield but little

140 RUFUS KING. [1802

more than 6 per cent. Nevertheless Property invested in the funds
requires so little trouble and the annuity is paid with so much
regularity, and the capital is at all times so easily converted into
money, and in portions suiting one's convenience, that to people
disliking business and the care of managing property, the funds
will with us, as everywhere else, in general be preferred to other
property. . . .

R. King.

R. King to James Madison, Esq.

Private.

London, June 16, 1802.
Dear Sir :

I am much obliged to you for your Letter of Ap. 7. and beg of
you to present my respectful acknowledgments to the President
for the permission he has given me to visit France and some of
the neighbouring Countries.

As yet I have not formed any plan upon this subject, and shall
wait for the return of the Convention before I do so ; perhaps I
may pass a few weeks at Paris, in July or August, but do not
think it probable that I shall go farther from my post.

It is some months since the return home of my Secretary Mr.
John Pickering ; I have expected as his successor my nephew
Mr. H. Southgate, who will probably arrive in the course of the
summer. Since Mr. Pickering left me, Mr. John Munro of Scot-
land, who has been employed in my office for several years, has
done the duties of my Secretary ; and as I have been fully satis-
fied with his fidelity and attention, I have allowed him the pay.
If I avail myself of the President's permission to extend my
voyage beyond Paris, or for more than three or four weeks, I
shall leave my friend Mr. Gore, (one of the Commissioners under
the 7th Article of the Treaty of 1794) Charge des affaires during
my absence ; in this case you will understand that his agency
will be attended with no expence to the public.

With very great Respect & Esteem &c.

Rufus King.

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 141

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 70.

London, June 20, 1802.
Sir :

I have duly received the duplicate of your Letter of May the
first ; the original has not yet reached me, owing probably to the
Packet's detention at Halifax on her way to Falmouth. As soon
as she arrives, I will take immediate measures to complete the
Convention by exchanging the Ratifications.

The Commission under the 7th Article of the Treaty of 1794,
is proceeding in a satisfactory manner ; upwards of fifty cases
which were prepared for hearing soon after the suspension of the
Commission, have been so far decided since the recommencement
of its business that they wait only for the date of the Exchange
of the Ratifications of the Convention in order that their respec-
tive Sums maybe computed and fixed. The question of Interest,
about which nothing has been said since the reassembling of the
Board, will occur when these computations are to be made. As
the claims preferred by British Subjects for captures alleged to
have been illegal amount altogether to a considerable sum, and as
it is conjectured that many of these claims are destitute of any
just foundation, it is desirable that they should receive an early
consideration and decision : this will also happen as soon as the
Ratifications are exchanged.

Mr. Cabot's assistance will, I am persuaded, prove a material
advantage to the American Claimants, and, at the same time, no
small relief to the Commissioners ; as his knowledge of the course
of our Trade, and of the peculiar manner in which certain
portions of it are carried on, enable him to give explanations that
are familiar to mercantile men, but without which there would be
some difficulties in deciding many of the cases before the com-
mission.

Although I understand that the Board has been apprized of the
annual allowance to be received by Mr. Cabot, during his service
in connexion with the Commission, I purpose to write a letter to
the Commissioners communicating to them agreeably to your
letter to me, that to induce Mr. Cabot to return and resume his
functions in this country, the President has been pleased to allow
him an annual salary of 1500 Dollars.

142 RUFUS KING. [1802

In respect to the Countervailing Duties upon our ships and
Cargoes entering the Ports of Great Britain, I can only repeat
what I have already remarked to you that their discontinuance
partially or wholly having been entirely, and as I thought liber-
ally submitted to the decision of Congress, I do not perceive that
I can with propriety resume the subject until Congress shall have
come to some decision concerning it. The intention of suspend-
ing immediately the countervailing Duty on Tobacco was upon
the idea that the discriminating Duties had been or certainly
would be repealed in America : but as soon as I perceived that
such repeal had become doubtful on account of the unexpected
opposition the proposal met with, I thought it due to a candid
course of Proceeding, to intimate my doubts upon this point to
the British Minister ; and in consequence thereof it was deter-
mined by the Treasury to postpone the suspension until more
precise information of the views of Congress should be received.
With Perfect Respect and Esteem,

Rufus King.

R. King to George W. Erving, Esq.

Great Cumberland Place, June 21, 1802.
Sir:

As the answer invariably given to former applications respect-
ing Seamen, representing themselves to be American Citizens, but
who have no document to prove their citizenship, would without
doubt be repeated in answer to any further and formal demands
in their favour, I doubt of the expediency of making the applica-
tion suggested by you in favour of the seamen, whose discharge as
Americans has been refused, but who have been released in con-
sequence of the late reduction of the naval forces of this country.

Mr. Lenox informed me that he delivered to you a List of
detained Seamen of this description ; by comparing the names of
those who have applied to you for succour with the List, you will
be enabled to ascertain how many of the applicants are of this
class. I request you to make the comparison, and inform me of
the result : as in case the number is very considerable, I would
take an opportunity of informally speaking to Lord St. Vincent
upon the subject. I am, Sir,

Your obedient Servant,

Rufus King.

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 43

R. King to G. W. Erving, Esq.

Randells, Surry, July i, 1802.
Sir:

To guard against unfounded claims for relief, as well as to
check the Repetition of those which are correct, it has heretofore
been deemed indispensable to keep an alphabetical and descrip-
tive list of all seamen representing themselves to be Americans
and claiming succour from the U. S. The Description should at
least express the town and State, and if foreign born, the place of
their nativity, together with the proof of Citizenship, and the
name of the man of war from which they have been discharged.
Such a list, if collated with that left with you by Mr. Lenox,
would without trouble and immediately supply the information I
wished for, to enable me to determine upon the expediency of the
application you have advised to be made to the Admiralty ; and
I request that you will in future keep such a list. Without greater
precision in respect to the number and national character of the
persons, representing themselves to be American Seamen, lately
discharged from the naval service of this Country, I am not
inclined to apply to the admiralty for the purpose of engaging it
to defray the expence of their passage to America ; but if you
should continue to be satisfied of the citizenship of these persons,
and the means designated for their return home be insufficient, I
recommend to you to call upon Mr. Nepean and confer with him
upon the subject ; this being in my opinion a better course,
whether we regard the success or failure of the attempt, than to
make the application in writing. It will however be advantageous
that you should ascertain, as far as practicable, the number of
American Seamen who have been lately discharged and who
desire to return home ; and if you could make out, even with a
little trouble, a List of their names, I am persuaded it might
promote the accomplishment of your object.

With due respect &c,

Rufus King.

R. King to Lord Hawkesbury.

Leatherhead, Surry, July 5, 1802.
My Lord :

I have the Satisfaction to inform your Lordship, that 1 have

just received the Convention, which we signed in January last,

144 RUFUS KING. [1802

duly ratified on the part of the President of the United States,
together with Instructions to exchange the same for the like Rati-
fication on the part of his Majesty.

It affords me additional pleasure to be authorized to add, that
although the Subject might have been deferred to a future Session
of Congress, the President conceiving that its immediate Con-
sideration would be a satisfactory Evidence of the disposition of
our public Councils, lost no time in laying the Convention before
Congress, which has made the requisite appropriations to carry
the same into effect. Whenever it shall be convenient to your
Lordship, I will wait upon you to complete this Business by ex-
changing the Ratifications.

With perfect Consideration, &c,

Rufus King.

R. King to Secretary of State.
No. 71.

London, July 5, 1802.
Sir:

The loan lately obtained by the Dutch Government, and for
which a rate of profit is secured to the Lenders hitherto unknown
in that frugal and industrious Country, and which it is thought may
have a disadvantageous effect upon its money operations in future,,
has for some time past excited a good deal of curiosity, the public
being at a loss to conjecture the purpose to which so considerable
a sum could be destined. It is now believed that Fifteen Mil-
lions of Guilders, part of this loan, have been paid to procure
from France a release of the claims of the Prince of Orange,
which he himself would have given up for half the sum : this pay-
ment explains the separate engagement signed at Amiens by the
French and Dutch ambassadors relative to these Claims.

The plan of indemnities about which the Princes of Germany
have been so long amused, is supposed to be settled, between
France, Russia and Prussia, and without the assistance of Austria.
We are told that the Prince of Orange is to receive his indemnity
in Germany, and that Austria will consult her prudence and
acquiesce in a statement made under the influence of France,,
and sanctioned by her most powerful neighbours.

802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE.
The commercial Negotiation between this country and France
has hitherto made very little, if any, progress, and at present it
seems altogether uncertain whether any arrangement upon this
subject will be completed. In the meantime France is active in
extending and strengthening her influence in every quarter, as
well as in concerting projects, and executing plans both at home
and abroad, which do not seem capable of being explained in a
manner consistent with the sincerity of her professions concerning
the Peace of Europe.

Mr. Otto is still here, waiting for his successor, who is not
expected to arrive before the middle of September : this delay will
probably operate to postpone Mr. Otto's journey to America till
the ensuing Spring.

With perfect Respect & Esteem, &c,

Rufus King.

R. King to Lord Hawkesbury.

Great Cumberland Place, July 12, 1802.
My Lord :

I have received the orders of the President of the United States
to lay before your Lordship the enclosed Evidence of the mis-
conduct of O'Brien, Esq., Commander of His Majesty's

Frigate Emerald, in the impressment on board the American
Schooner Sea-flower, of Philadelphia, and upon the high seas, of
William Munro and Lindsay Addison, Citizens and Seamen of the
United States. Referring to the reflexions upon the Subject,
which I have heretofore submitted to your Lordship's considera-
tion, and which derive new force from the reestablishment of a
general peace, I take the liberty to request your Lordship's im-
mediate interference in order that the said Munro and Addison

may be forthwith discharged, and orders given to the said

O'Brien, Esq., as well as to all others, his Majesty's Naval Officers,
carefully to abstain from the like irregularities in future.

Acknowledging, as I am instructed to do, the equitable and
friendly sentiments of his Majesty's Government towards that of
the United States, and which are fully and sincerely reciprocated
by the latter, I flatter myself that your Lordship's influence will

146 RUFUS KING. [1802

not be wanting in favour of a regulation which, without injury to
Great Britain, is due to the rights of the United States as well as
essential to the Security of their Commerce.

With great Consideration & Respect, &c,

Rufus King.

R. King to Robert R. Livingston, Esq.

London, July 12, 1802.
Dear Sir :

I have had the honour to receive your letter of June 30th.
Whether either or both the Floridas have been ceded seems alto-
gether matter of inference and conjecture, as no document we
have seen offers any direct evidence upon the subject. The
same reasons which have led me to suppose it probable that the
Floridas would not be reserved by Spain after Louisania passed
into the hands of France, induce me to think that West Florida
would not be kept if East Florida be ceded with Louisiana. The
chief object, and almost the only one, which has made the Floridas
of any value to Spain, must cease with the cession of Louisiana,
and as the Floridas in themselves are rather a burthen than a
benefit to Spain, I cannot but think, whether they have or have
not been ceded, that France, being mistress of Louisiana, will
acquire, whenever she chooses to do so, a Title to the Floridas
also. If so France, and not Spain, is the Power with which every
efficient discussion should be made concerning these Provinces.
As the free Navigation and use of the Mississippi is a Right above
all computation to the United States, New Orleans and the
Floridas would on this account, as well as others, prove a most
valuable acquisition ; and according to my creed they must and
will ultimately belong to us. If so, every step we take should
have a reference to this negotiation, and notwithstanding we
cannot at all times advance towards the attainment of our object,
Prudence should restrain us from whatever may serve to obstruct
or defeat the accomplishment of our purpose. Upon these princi-
ples we ought to give no explicit sanction to the transfer of these
Provinces from Spain to any other Power, nor enter into any
engagements jointly with others concerning them ; for altho' we
may at present be content that they should remain in the posses-

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 47

sion of Spain, it is by no means plain that it would be consistent
with sound policy for us to give money in order that they may be
left in this situation. If doubts may however exist upon this
point, there surely can be none that it would be repugnant to
every principle of policy which might, or is likely to, influence
our Government to form a Guaranty jointly with France or any
other Power, to secure the possession of these Provinces to Spain
or any other Nation, inasmuch as such Guaranty might not only
prove an impediment to our acquiring them ourselves, but proba-
bly would involve us in a disadvantageous war on that account.
If these Provinces remain in the possession of Spain, as we wish
they may, it cannot be long before all the continental Colonies of
that nation will imitate the example we have given them. Having
had the means of a good deal of information upon this subject,
concerning which so little is known, and so much concealed, I feel
confident that this crisis cannot be at a great distance. Aware
that such is the situation of the Colonies, Spain has been solici-
tous and pressed the point with zeal, tho' unsuccessfully, upon
Mr. Pinckney in the year 1795 t0 procure from us a Guaranty
of her American Possessions. Should another war break out
between England and France, as we cannot doubt will be the
case in the course of a few years, Spain as heretofore will become
a party of it, and it is quite probable that England may succeed
in the attempt to take possession of New Orleans and the
Floridas ; either of these events would constitute the casus
foederis, and we should consequently be called upon to fulfil our
Guaranty.

On account of the peculiar situation of these Provinces, and
independent of our views as to the acquisition of them, we should
therefore abstain from entering into any Guaranty concerning
them ; a species of stipulation it can never be our interest to
enter into with any of the great commercial Powers of Europe,
since it is one rarely, if ever, to be formed except by a Power in
a condition not only to construe, but to enforce the observance
of her construction of the engagement.

From the tenor of these observations, which, tho' hastily writ-
ten, are so far as regards their principal object the fruit of much
consideration, you will infer my dislike of a purchase, except for
ourselves, as well as my repugnance to a Guaranty under any

148 RUFUS KING. [1802

circumstances. As I write to you without any reserve and upon
a subject whose limits are not yet fully explored, and concerning
which opinions may therefore be supposed to vary, you will I am
sure excuse the little ceremony which I have observed in the ex-
pression of my sentiments, the justness whereof, I shall on all
occasions be inclined to distrust, if they happen to be in opposi-
tion to your more weighty opinion.

With great and sincere Respect, &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Secretary of State.
No. 72.

London, July 16, 1802.
Sir :

As soon as I received from Mr. Fenwick the President's Ratifi-
cation of the Convention, I gave notice thereof to Lord Hawkes-
bury, and we yesterday exchanged the Ratifications, and mutually
executed the usual Certificates thereof. Two original Copies of
the British Ratification have been delivered to me together with
duplicate Certificates of the exchange. I shall commit them to
the charge of Mr. Christie, late a Representative in Congress from
Maryland, who will deliver them to you in Washington. The
duplicate Ratification and Certificate of Exchange shall be for-
warded by the next good opportunity. I have taken the liberty
to ensure Mr. Christie that whatever expence he may incur in the
performance of this service will be readily reimbursed by you.
With perfect respect and esteem, &c,

Rufus King.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 73.

London, July 19, 1802.
Sir :

I yesterday received a letter from Commodore Morris, dated
United States frigate Chesapeake, Gibraltar Bay, June 25,
announcing the unexpected declaration of war against the United

802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE.

I49

States by the Emperor of Morocco. I have given notice of the
event to our Consuls in this country, to the end that all American
Vessels in the Ports thereof may make use of such precautions in
favour of their security, as those having the charge of them may
deem expedient. Whether this unjust Proceeding has arisen out
of the civil commotions which for some time past are understood
to have prevailed in Morocco, or from some other cause, I am
altogether ignorant, having no exact information either concern-
ing the internal condition of Morocco, or of the State of our Rela-
tions with this Power. The declaration, however, will serve as
another proof, if another be wanting, that our security against the
Barbary Powers must depend upon Force and not upon Treaties,
upon Ships of war instead of presents and subsidies.

The early part of the Summer having been uncommonly dry,
the crop of Hay will be very short ; and the weather during the
last four weeks (the Hay season for the South of England) having
been cloudy and wet, the Crop which has been cut is not only short
in quantity but ill cured. Old Hay has in consequence thereof
risen in the London market from five to eight Guineas the load of
eighteen hundred ; and altho' the Wheat and other Grain have
promised a plentiful Harvest, the continuance of rainy weather
begins to excite serious concern lest the Corn should suffer from
mildew and other injuries to which it is exposed.
With perfect Respect and Esteem, &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to R. Troup.

London, July 19, 1802.
Dear Sir :

. . . Mrs. King and I think of going for a few weeks to

France. . . Though I have not fixed upon any precise time, I

am much inclined to return home. My children too are growing

too old to remain abroad. After visiting Paris, I must come to a

decision on this subject.

Adieu, yours &c,

Rufus King.

150 RUFUS KING. [1802

R. King to James Madison, Esq.

Private.

London, July 21, 1802.
Dear Sir :

As an item in my contingent account relates to the Publication
of Robinson's Admiralty Reports, it may be thought proper that
I should say a word or two in explanation of this expense.

It has not, as you may well know, been the practice of this
country to publish Reports of the decisions of its prize Tribunals ;
and while a pretty general opinion has prevailed that England
administers the Law of Nations in matters of prize with great
rigour, Englishmen have uniformly asserted that these Tribunals
have manifested greater moderation in that respect than those of
any other Nation. So long as the decisions of the English prize
Courts remained unpublished, this Disagreement would continue
to exist, and so long likewise foreign States would remain without
precise notion of the maxims of Public Law by which these
Tribunals profess to regulate their Decisions.

Upon Sir William Scott's appointment as Judge of the High
Court of Admiralty, being alike distinguished for Learning and
Integrity, and desirous of extending his reputation beyond the
limits of his own country, it occurred to me that the opportunity
was a favourable one to endeavour to promote the publication of
the Reports of his Court, the natural effect whereof upon such a
mind as Sir William Scott's seemed likely to be in favour of a
mild interpretation of the Laws of War and Peace, and what
appeared to me of much importance, such a publication would have
a Tendency to procure for this important branch of public Law
a fixed character in place of the uncertain and contentious Repu-
tation it has hitherto possessed : by going into the hands of mer-
chants and men of business, these Reports would moreover enable
them to avoid such adventures as might be liable to interruption.

I accordingly conversed with Sir William Scott upon the sub-
ject ; at first the proposal encountered difficulty chiefly on account
of the contrary usage ; this objection was finally yielded, and Sir
William Scott acquiesced, provided Government would consent
and a suitable Reporter could be found to undertake the work. I
then applied to the Minister and suggested such arguments as
seemed to me likely to engage his attention, and, after a time, the

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 151

Government gave its consent and nothing remained but to find a
Reporter.

As these Reports were not expected to be called for by profes-
sional men, who are the principal purchasers of the Common Law
Reports, it was apprehended that the demand might not be suf-
ficient to reimburse the expenses of publication, and to obviate this
objection, recourse was had as usual in cases of this character to
last subscriptions. Considering the utility of the publication and the
part I had taken to promote it, I thought it expedient to subscribe
for Fifty Copies. These have been sent from time to time, and
in the order of their publication, to the Department of State,
except the five copies which I have distributed among the Ameri-
can Ministers in Europe and some other public Characters.

Upon this explanation which ought to have been, and I believe
was, given to your Predecessor at the time of the subscription, I
flatter myself the President will not disapprove of this small Ex-
pense. As but few cases remain undecided in the High Court of
Admiralty, which expects, as I hear, to get through the whole of
its Business in the course of a few weeks even, I presume that
these Reports will not be extended far beyond their present size.
I have suggested the advantage of adding to them an appendix,
containing the Form of all Instruments used in the process of
the Prize Courts ; and as Sir William Scott has given Direction to
the Registrar to supply Doctor Robinson with all such copies as
he may require for this purpose, I am in hopes this useful addi-
tion will be made.

These Reports are supposed to undergo the revision and cor-
rection of the Judge before they are put to press.

With Sentiments of Sincere Respect & Esteem &c.

Rufus King.

CHAPTER X.

King to Livingston — Has sent in his Resignation — King to Marshall — Plan of
Settlement by the Convention completed before he received the Views of
the new Administration, though approved by it — Has resigned his Office —
King to R. Southgate — Has resigned his Office — King to Secretary of
State — Resigns his Office and asks to return Home in the Spring in a Frig-
ate— King to Madison — Desires to return in a public Vessel, etc. — King to
Secretary of State — Conference with Lord Hawkesbury on Maryland
Bank-Stock and West India Trade — Hoped to settle these before he left —
Louisiana, etc. — Gore to Lord Hawkesbury — Boundaries between Terri-
tories of United States and Great Britain — Troup to King — Burr ruined in
Politics and Fortune — Sedgwick to King — Politics — Burr.

K. King to R. R. Livingston.

Private and personal.

London, Aug. 4, 1802.
Dear Sir :

Although I had nothing of interest to say, I should have writ-
ten to you by Mr. V. R. Livingston had he not left us a day or
two sooner than he expected. Having ever since the conclusion
of the war thought seriously of returning home, 1 have lately de-
cided to do so, and in my official letter of this date, have resigned
my office, and requested to be relieved in season to embark early
next Spring. As I think it possible that you may be inclined to
pass some time in this country before you return to America, and
in that case might consent to be transferred from your present
Residence to this country, I take the earliest moment to inform
you of my determination to return home, in order that you may
be apprized of the vacancy, which my resignation will create.
Mrs. King and I availing ourselves of the leave of temporary
absence which I have received, propose in the course of next
week to embark for Holland, from whence we may pass entirely
1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 153

thro' the Low Countries on our way to Paris, where we think of
spending five or six weeks in September and October.
With Sentiments of great Regard & Esteem &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to John Marshall, Esq.

Private.

London, Aug. 5, 1802.
Dear Sir :

I have duly received and beg you to accept my acknowledge-
ments for your obliging Letter of May 4. Notwithstanding I do
think the settlement of the British Claims, circumstanced as they
were, honourable and advantageous to us, as well as the evidence
of a conciliatory disposition on the part of the English adminis-
tration, I am with you entirely persuaded that it would have
met with a different reception at home, had the administration
remained in the hands of those from whom it has been lately
removed.

In a private letter to you, connected and influential as you have
been in the promotion of this adjustment, I may without impro-
priety say that if there be any merit in this settlement, it is in
every respect due to those who projected and approved the plan
which led to it. For not only every material point of the negotia-
tion was completed, but the precise form finally accepted had
been offered as an ultimatum before I had any knowledge of the
opinion of the present Administration. I would not insinuate
that any sentiments, unfavourable to the settlement which has been
made, were entertained by the present Administration ; on the
contrary, it approved of what had been done here, and I think
sincerely desired to see the Business closed upon the terms
which had been offered. I earnestly wish that on other and still
more important concerns, its sentiments had been equally correct,
as they have been in respect to this Business ; but I must disre-
gard opinions formed with solicitude, and after careful reflexion,
not to hesitate in believing this to have been the case ; and it is
for this reason, among others, that upon mature consideration of
my duty to the public, as well as of what I owe to myself, I have
thought it incumbent upon me to resign my Mission and ask leave
to return home.

154 RVFUS KING, [1802

Although I am quite sensible that this is a measure of no sort
of importance in a public view, the interest which you have so
kindly taken in what personally concerns me, induces me to make
you this communication and not without the hope that it will
receive your approbation.

With Sentiments of the highest Respect & Esteem &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Robert Southgate, Esq.

London, August 5, 1802.
My dear Sir :

. . . I had continued to expect the arrival of my nephew
Horatio. I rather inferred from what he (Mr. Boyd) told us,
that both he and you had relinquished the plan of his coming to
England.

I engaged only a temporary secretary, and now shall not think
of looking for another, as I have in my official letter of this date
resigned my mission and requested to be relieved in season to
return home early next Spring.

It was my wish to have returned some time ago, but being en-
gaged in a negotiation of considerable difficulty and importance,
I have not been able until now to do so with propriety. The
negotiation which detained me being completed, and nothing of
importance remaining in the discussion whereof I can hope to be
useful, I think myself free to resign my office ; a measure that
will I hope receive the approbation of my friends. . . .
I remain with Sincere Esteem &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Secretary of State.
No. 74.

London, Aug. 5, 1802.
Sir:

It is now six years that I have resided in this country. When
I left America it was not my expectation to be absent more than
four years. So long as the war continued I did not think of re-
turning home, believing that my residence here might be of some

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 55

public advantage. When the preliminaries of peace were signed,
I found myself engaged in a negotiation of considerable Difficulty
and importance which restrained me from asking the President's
leave to resign my mission. The negotiation being since com-
pleted, and nothing very material remaining to be discussed in
which I can flatter myself with being able to render any important
service, I have to request that the President would be pleased to
accept the resignation of my office and permit me to return home.
The season is already too far advanced to leave time to receive
the President's permission before the commencement of the long
nights and stormy season of the present year. I am not there-
fore solicitous to be relieved before the month of April next as
my family is large and I am moreover desirous to carry home
with me my library, furniture, carriages and other bulky articles,
it would be a great accommodation to me if the President would
allow me a passage in a frigate or other national vessel, which at
the same time would relieve my family from any concern in re-
spect to the cruizers of Morocco, or any other piratical state, and
save me from the heavy charges which I must otherwise incur in
returning home after seven years' residence in the most expensive
Country of Europe.

With perfect Respect & Esteem,

Rufus King.

R. King to James Madison, Esq.

Private.

London, August 5, 1802.
Dear Sir :

In my official letter of this date, I have taken the liberty to
ask the accommodation of a passage home for myself and family
in one of the public ships. Should the President consent, the
same Vessel might bring out my successor, and carry me back.
At first I thought, that a frigate returning home from the Mediter-
ranean might without inconvenience receive orders to touch here
and take me on board ; but upon inquiry I find, that, coming
from that quarter, she might be liable to perform quarantine,
which would occasion a long detention, as well as great expence.
The chief purpose of this letter is to request the favour of you,

156 RUFUS KING. [1802

to inform me, as early as you can with convenience, of the Presi-
dent's determination in order that I may be able seasonably to
make my arrangements concerning my baggage, which I must
endeavour to diminish in case I shall be obliged to hire a vessel
to carry me home. I have likewise to ask the additional favour
of you, to apprize my Agent, Mr. Nicholas Low of New York, of
the President's decision, so that in case I cannot be accommo-
dated by a Passage in a public ship, he may execute a provisional
order I have given him to prepare and send from New York a
Vessel to carry me and my family home.

With Sentiments of great Respect and Esteem,

Rufus King.
P. S. In case I go home in a public ship, I should like to be
allowed to carry in her a few sheep of the Breeds most esteemed
here, and perhaps my carriage and horses ; the latter are free
and I have reason to believe that I should find no difficulty in
obtaining permission to export a small number of the former
whose properties are certainly superior to those of our country.

R. King to Secretary of State.
No. 75.

London, Aug. 10, 1802.
Sir :

As I am about to avail myself of the President's permission to
pass a few weeks upon the Continent, I have thought it expedient
to endeavour previously to ascertain the sentiments of this Gov-
ernment concerning the Trade and Navigation between the
United States and the British Colonies in the West Indies, as well
as to press for a final decision respecting the Maryland Bank
Stock. For these purposes I asked a conference of Lord Hawkes-
bury in a note, the copy whereof is annexed. His Lordship
received me at the time I had proposed, but I regret that I am
not able to send you a more satisfactory Report of what passed
on this occasion.

In respect to the Bank Stock Lord Hawkesbury said he had
lately received a communication from the Chancellor concerning
it, and that measures should be taken to effect a transfer of the

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 57

Stock to the Crown, when it would be in a situation that would
enable him to receive the King's pleasure respecting it. He
intimated that he had understood there were other claims beside
that of the State of Maryland, but so far as he expressed any
opinion, it seemed to be that there would be no difficulty of
importance in the way of a satisfactory settlement; after the
Stock had been transferred to the Crown. I repeated to his
Lordship arguments which had been urged upon his Predecessor,
and tried, tho' without success, to obtain from him an explicit
engagement, that the Stock should be transferred to me after its
transfer to the Crown.

Respecting the West India Trade, his Lordship said after a
short conversation explanatory of our expectations, that he could
give me no explicit information whether, or how far, they should
be able to accede to our claims ; the fact being, as he observed,
that not only on account of the constant succession of more
pressing concerns, which his Majesty's Ministers had been called
upon to decide, but from the unsettled as well as uncertain Con-
dition of the West India Colonies, they had not been able to go
into the consideration of the Regulations which it might be
deemed expedient to adopt ; that they were yet also to learn the
real Situation of Saint Domingo, as well as of some other impor-
tant Colonies ; and that as any change in their former system
would in some sort depend upon the probable condition not only
of their own but of other Colonies, they must wait a little longer
before they could form a safe opinion upon this important
subject.

I remarked to Lord Hawkesbury, that on account of our just
claim to an equal participation in a Trade as necessary to them as
to us, as well as from the tenor of the article agreed to by England,
but refused by America in the Treaty of 1794, we had not ex-
pected that a recurrence would be had at the end of the war to
the exclusive system which had prevailed before ; that any con-
siderable delay in the decision of this point would operate in the
same way as a decision in favour of the old system, which, as his
Lordship must know, we considered as unequal and injurious ;
that my apprehension, therefore, was in case of such delay, we
should think ourselves obliged to meet the disadvantages to which
our Navigation is liable under the former System by Regulations

158 RUFUS KING. [1802

which would impose the like Disadvantages upon the British
Navigation : these Countervailing Regulations would prove mutu-
ally, tho' I could not admit that they would be equally, incon-
venient, and might moreover have the effect to disturb the
harmonious and beneficial intercourse it was the common interest
of the two Countries to promote.

His Lordship made no distinct answer to these Remarks, con-
tenting himself to repeat in substance what he had before observed,
concerning the pressure of affairs of greater Interest, and the
uncertain Situation of the West India Colonies.

As I found that I had not obtained any precise assurance upon
the subject, which probably has not yet been discussed in the
Cabinet, I observed that notwithstanding the question might not
appear to be of equal importance with others which continue to
engage the attention of the English Ministry, it nevertheless had
excited, and might again excite, a lively interest in the United
States ; that the subject had employed much of my attention ;
and I had sometimes flattered myself with the hope that I should
during my residence here, be enabled to assist in the equitable
and satisfactory settlement of it ; that I expected to terminate
my mission and return to America early in the next Spring and
that it would afford me some satisfaction to be authorized to
inform you that both this Business and the other regarding the
Maryland Bank Stock should be decided before my departure.

Lord Hawkesbury replied that he could not officially assure me
that this should be done ; but that according to his personal view
of the subjects, he foresaw no reason likely to delay the Decision
of them beyond the time I had mentioned. This vague reply,
and which binds to nothing, ended our Conference upon these
Topics.

Lord Hawkesbury then enquired of me if I had received any
late intelligence concerning the Expedition to Louisiana ; on my
answering in the Negative, he said, according to their advices the
French Expedition was in preparation and that it would certainly
proceed. I, in turn, asked his Lordship, how far he gave credit
to the rumour which had of late been circulated that France was
preparing a formidable Expedition against Algiers ; he answered,
that the project existed, and that the army would be marched into
Spain, and embarked in the Spanish Ports, and that Spain, tho' it

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 59

was understood that she has recently concluded Peace with
Algiers, would nevertheless be expected to aid the French with
Provisions, Ships and perhaps money. I did not ask whether
England was likely also to be embroiled with Algiers in conse-
quence of the late capture of one or two English Vessels by the
Cruizers of this Regency ; having understood that it is here
admitted that the Papers of these Vessels were irregular, and
that the demand of England would be confined to the liberation
of the Crew, leaving the Vessels as forfeited to the Captors.

Before leaving Lord Hawkesbury, I took occasion to observe
that although my absence would be only for a short time, to
guard against any inconvenience which it might possibly occasion,
I would take the liberty before my departure of introducing to
him, Mr. Gore, one of the Commissioners under the 7th Article
of the Treaty, who wd. act as our Charge des affaires during my
absence. His Lordship replied that he should be happy to receive
Mr. Gore, and I shall accordingly present him in that character
to Lord Hawkesbury before I leave town. My plan is to embark
at Harwich about the 15 th instant for Holland, from thence to go
to Brussels, and then either directly to Paris, or turning to my
left and travelling a few days on the Borders of the Rhine, to
proceed to Paris thro' some of the more Eastern Provinces of
France. As it is the invaluable Specimens of the fine arts more
than the men and manners of Paris, which I am desirous to see, a
few weeks residence there will satisfy my curiosity. I do not
therefore think of prolonging my absence beyond the middle of
November, when the New Parliament will meet, and my return
hither may be a fortnight sooner.

With perfect Respect & Esteem,

Rufus King.

C. Gore to Lord Hawkesbury.

Great Cumberland Place, Aug. 24, 1802.
Sir :

Mr. Gore presents his compliments to Lord Hawkesbury, and
has the honour to inform him, that since the departure of Mr.
King, he has received for this Gentleman Instructions and a full
power from the President of the United States to adjust by ami-

l6o RUFUS KING. [1802

cable Negotiation with the Government of his Britannic Majesty
whatever remains unsettled as to the Boundaries between the
Territories of the two Nations.

Mr. Gore takes the liberty of proposing to his Lordship to com-
municate to him, whenever he shall be at leisure to attend thereto,
the views of the President of the United States, in order that his
Lordship may give to the subject such consideration as he may
think its importance requires, and that having a distinct knowl-
edge thereof, his Lordship may, on the return of Mr. King, be
enabled to concur in such measures for defining and settling the
Boundary lines between the two countries, as shall appear most
conducive to their mutual interests and future harmony.

Mr. Gore flatters himself that Lord Hawkesbury will see,
in this Proposal of the President, a new Proof of the sincere and
earnest desire of the Government of the United States to live in
friendship with that of his Majesty, inasmuch as it invites to an
adjustment by amicable negotiation of not only whatever may now
be the occasion of inquietude between the Parties, but also of
everything, as far as can be foreseen, which may interrupt in
future that good understanding so essential to the interests and
happiness of both Nations.

R. Troup to R. King.

New York, Aug. 24, 1802.
Dear Sir :

. . . Burr in my opinion is acting a little and skulking part.
Although Jefferson hates him as much as one demagogue can
possibly hate another who is aiming to rival him, yet Burr does
not come forward in an open and manly way agt. him. On the
contrary Burr still attempts to cause it to be believed that he is a
sincere supporter of Jefferson and administration ; and this we
are told is to be the complexion of Burr's intended paper. The
duel between Clinton and Swartout has been a precious morsel to
us poor fallen — and hungry federalists.*

We calculate generally that Burr is ruined in politics as well as
in fortune. Saving a few particulars not interesting, the view of
* See Hildreth's Hist, of United States, 2d ser., vol. ii., p. 468.

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. l6l

his political conduct is a just one. His manceuvering for the
Presidency is past a doubt with us all ; and was so before the
view made its appearance. Hamilton has often said he could
prove it to the satisfaction of any court and jury. No mortal can
yet calculate the present state of public opinion. Federalism is
looking up. At the last 4th of July the toasts everywhere given
prove that Hamilton is regaining that general esteem and confi-
dence, which he seems to have lost, and his standing is very much
our political thermometer. Was an election now to be held either
for Governor or President, it is my opinion we should lose. What
may be the progress of opinion towards a new order of things, it
is impossible to calculate with even tolerable precision. . . .

Yours,

Robt. Troup.

T. Sedgwick to R. King.

Stockbridge, 24 Aug., 1802.
Dear Sir :

. . . The last letter which I addressed to you was from
Wiscasset. Maine has improved, is improving, and will, I think,
continue to improve, beyond what you can easily imagine. The
gentlemen of that country may be compared, without disgracing
them, to those of any other part of New England. In politics
they have good principles and a good spirit. In Massachusetts,
generally, the political tide, is setting, strongly, in a right direc-
tion, and I have no doubt will, for some time, continue and in-
crease. . . .

As well as I can conjecture from the best information I have
been able to obtain, the measures of the administration have not
increased, but, on the whole, impaired the popularity of the Presi-
dent and his friends. With the better part — those whom we
esteem — from facts, which you understand, there exists a most
profound contempt of his understanding and a perfect abhorrence
and detestation of his morals. The opinion which, among this
class of people universally prevails, that he is hostile to the chris-
tian religion has produced a firm union among the clergy, who
possess an influence in New England that will be felt. In this
part of the U. S. it is not to be feared that either democracy or

VOL. IV. — II

l62 RUFUS KING. [1802

Jacobinism will prevail. In New York, I am inclined to believe,
that, at least, the progress of Clintonianism, for as far as that fac-
tion prevails it is neither democracy nor jacobinism, is brought to
a stand. But the great line of division by which parties are
separated in other states is more obscurely marked there than any-
where else — the people are more under the dominion of personal
influence. And it is impossible at present to predict in what the
rupture between Burr and the Clintons will ultimately terminate.
Burr's intentions, the means he possesses, and the instruments
which he will employ are at present unknown. But it is known
that many active and ardent spirits are enlisted in his service, and
servilely devoted to him ; and that his party comprises in it
nearly all the needy and desperate adventurers in the community.
Such a party, so united, and with such a leader, is not to be de-
spised, however inconsiderable the number at present. The
breach between Burr, the Clintonians & the Livingstons, is, in all
probability, irreparable. What direction Burr will take will depend,
wholly, on the opinion he shall form of the means of promoting
his present aggrandizement . . . You will receive a warm wel-
come from your friends, and from no one more than myself. I
am sensible that your residence where you are may be of much
benefit to our country. I know, too, that your presence here
would be of immense importance. Where you will render the
best service, you are the most competent judge. Of this, I think,
you may be certain that your return will depend on your own
pleasure. You will not be recalled. . . .

Your sincere friend,

Theodore Sedgwick.

CHAPTER XI.

Journey of King to the Continent of Europe— Few Details of it— Gore to King
—Correspondence, and about the Latter's Sons— King to Cazenove— Com-
plaint of Livingston against Talleyrand— King to Erving— He had received
no Faculty to grant Passports to American Citizens— Mr. Gore has— How
Slaves captured after an Insurrection in Virginia in 1800 might be disposed
of— President Jefferson to King— Suggesting sending them to Sierra Leone,
Africa— Also expressing his Satisfaction with Mr. King's Course in
England— And his Desire for peaceful and friendly Relations with Great
Britain— Gore to the President— Answers the Letter to King, giving the
Refusal of the Company to receive the Blacks— J. Q. Adams to King-
Condition of Affairs in the U. S. — Strength of the Administration
increasing.

Availing himself of the permission granted to him by the
President, Mr. King prepared to visit the Continent of Eu-
rope and pass through its western portions until he reached
Paris. At no other period during his residence abroad as
Minister to Great Britain could he have left his post in Lon-
don, for the state of war between that country and France,
and the hostile aspect of the latter towards the United
States, would have prevented his visiting those States
which were more or less involved in the active operations of
the war. Peace had now, however, been declared between
the rival nations and intercourse was again free. His press-
ing work in England had been accomplished to the satisfac-
tion of his government ; and although there was much to be
done to arrange the still unsettled questions between the
United States and Great Britain and to strengthen the good
feeling between the two countries, it was not probable that
for some months anything could be effected, for the public
164 RUFUS KING. [1802

men of England were accustomed at that time of the year
to take a period of rest and relaxation from business. Be-
sides these considerations, the relations between France
and the United States were on a better footing, although
France had recently consummated what seemed an un-
friendly act, and one by which the future welfare of the
United States might be endangered, in accepting the cession
of Louisiana from Spain.

Under these circumstances Mr. King felt that he could
properly and satisfactorily carry out his wish to see the
western countries of Europe before his return home, and en-
joy the pleasure he was so fitted to receive of spending a
few months in lands celebrated for their beautiful scenery,
in studying the habits of the people with whose history he
was so familiar, and in examining the works of art and monu-
ments in their cities, terminating his journey by a short
sojourn in Paris, where so much was to be seen, so many
distinguished men were assembled, and where the First Con-
sul had firmly established himself.

He first provided for the conduct of the business of the
United States in London by appointing his friend Christo-
pher Gore, one of the Commissioners under the 7th Article
of the Treaty of 1794, as Charge d' Affaires during his ab-
sence, having notified the Secretary of State that this " would
be without expense to the public." Having thus arranged
his affairs, he started from London and embarked at Harwich
on August 15th, in a vessel for Helviotsluys, which place
he reached the next day after a short and comfortable pas-
sage. His party consisted of " Mrs. King, Smith and Inger-
soll,"* with two servants and travelling carriage," as he says

* Mr. Charles J. Ingersoll of Philadelphia, then a young man, had for some
time been on intimate terms with Mr. King and his family in London. A
warm attachment sprang up among them, due largely to Mr. Ingersoll's bright-
ness of manner, intelligence, and at that time congeniality of views with those
of Mr. King, who had a sincere regard for him. These kind feelings continued
during Mr. King's life, of which there are many evidences in his Correspon-
dence. In his Recollections, p. 16, in the prefatory chapter, Mr. Ingersoll says :
"After Rufus King, American Minister in England, performed his initiatory

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. l65

in a Diary which, though meagre in details, was kept only
until he left Brussels. Though it records little that would
be particularly interesting to reproduce here, the pages show
the interest he took in the new scenes, in habits so different
from those of his own country and of the English people
whom he had so recently left, and in the buildings and
works of art in Holland, with the latter of which he was not
much impressed. We have nothing of the Rhine along
which he travelled, nor of Switzerland with its alpine scenery
and its sturdy liberty-loving people, nor of Eastern France
through which he journeyed to Paris, where he arrived about
the 15th of October and which he left in the middle of
November, reaching London on the 17th. He and his party
seem to have enjoyed their tour, to have met with no inter-
ruptions or mishaps, and to have returned to England in

health.

During the whole period of his absence a constant corres-
pondence was maintained between Mr. Gore and himself,
but unfortunately few of Mr. Gore's letters are preserved
and none of Mr. King's. The former kept him informed
about the business of the Legation, consisting of communi-
cations with the British Ministry, especially relative to the
boundaries of the United States, for the adjustment of which
a commission was sent to Mr. King during his absence, and
for the early settlement of which Mr. Gore made an earnest
plea, as likely to promote mutual benefit and the future peace
of the two countries.

But the most interesting portions of his letters to Mr. and
Mrs. King were those relating to the boys, whom they had
left in England at school and under the loving care of Mr.
and Mrs. Gore. They had not been blessed with children,
but they always seemed to look upon the children of their
old friends as if they were their own and took them to their

and important accessorial part in the attainment of Louisiana, I went in his
diplomatic family from London to Paris in 1802, . . . returned with Mr.
King from England to America, with the first intelligence of its (Louisiana's)
acquisition."

1 66 RUFUS KING. [1802

hearts as they had taken their parents before them. Nothing
that interested the boys escaped their care and attention and
every little incident of their lives at school or during the
holidays, which were passed with Mr. Gore, was treasured
up to be reported to their absent friends as accounts they
would be anxious to receive and which would cheer them
during the separation.

Writing of the Harrow boys, who were with him, he says :
" They recite sixty or seventy lines of Virgil every morning —
billiards, shooting and riding occupy the residue of the day.
Their health is perfectly right, & both a la physique & a la morale
they are in every respect, as we or you would desire them to
be. . . . Frederick (the baby) whom I have just been tossing
in the air and spanking, for he is literally a sans-culotte, daily
improves in strength, good humour and smiles."

In a note to one of Mr. Gore's letters the Harrow boys say :

" We have been out to day shooting Moor Hens ; we killed
three and by the first of September, if we had dogs, we should be
able to shoot even partridges."

Having procured a dog, Mr. Gore writes that on their first
going out for game, September 2d :

" John shot a partridge & a pigeon & Charles a partridge &
pigeon ; there seems some question whether the latter's partridge
had not been dropped before, but on the whole, after fair discus-
sion & mature deliberation it is concluded that Charles is justly
entitled to the merit of having killed a partridge & pigeon."

The following quotations will show the way in which Mr.
Gore continued to write about the children and to comfort
their parents :

" The children are all well. Mrs. Gore who came to town last
night (Oct. 15th) saw Edward, en passant, and takes him to Ran-
dalls (their country place) to-day. Frederick's teeth in front,
that is to say two, are very distinct & apparent. His health is firm
& he will soon walk. He is quite an aspiring youth, for he is ever
on tiptoe to attain a commanding view — to humble himself to the

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 167

level of his feet is all that is necessary for him to move like other
boys. If you do not return soon it is not absolutely certain that
we shall not have him in jacket and breeches. John & Charles
say they study hard and expect to be in the Shell at Christmas
when they shall have a fag. I doubt whether enough has been said
to convince you how very properly the boys conducted during
the vacation. They are entitled to every mark of remembrance
which their mother promised & she will not, I am sure, forget to
bring all and more than they expected, as tokens of her regard
and satisfaction in their good behaviour."

The object in giving these extracts is to show that the
home life of Mr. and Mrs. King was one which manifested an
affectionate and cheerful intercourse, that showed itself in
the manner in which their children were taught obedience
to them, confidence in their parents, and respect to those
about them. It could, therefore, and must have been a
source of satisfaction to know that their absence produced
no change, and that the same docile and winning manners
won the warm commendation of their friends as they had
among their teachers.

It has been said that there are no letters of Mr. King's
during his tour on the Continent giving an account of his
journey. There are, however, two which, though a little out
of date here, and written while in Paris, relate to public
matters, and are here given.

R. King to Mr. Cazenove, Paris.

Paris, Oct. 23, 1802.
Sir :

It was my purpose to have gone last evening with Mrs. King to
pay our Compliments to Mr. and Mrs. Talleyrand, and at the
same time to have said a word or two to you concerning the affair
you communicated to me on the part of Mr. T. Unfortunately
we were detained till too late an hour by some friends who called
upon us in the early part of the evening.

I have just been at Mr. Talleyrand's office, but he has not
arrived in town, and I must therefore send you this note to say in

1 68 RUFUS KING. [1802

regard to the communication you made to me on Thursday, that
as I do not perceive that my interference would be likely to prove
beneficial, I must ask the favor of you to regard what has passed
between us as though it had never happened.

With unvaried Sentiments of Esteem &c. yours

R. K.

At the head of this letter Mr. King writes as follows, to
explain the matter to which the letter refers :

" Mr. Livingston being twice postponed, and others who came
later to the audience chamber of Talleyrand received before him,
wrote a note complaining of this indignity and notifying his
determination to confine himself to written communications with
the Department of for. affairs. Talleyrand draughted an answer
in wh. he complains of the captious compt. of Livingston, wh. he
ascribes to his want of Experience and having begun late in life
the diplomic. career, and expresses a hope that the Pr., whose
knowledge of diplomacy he foresees, wd. see no reason to justify
his minr. This letter Talleyrand gave to Cazenove to show to
me, with a request that I wd. interfere to persuade Livingston to
recall his complt. &c. I communicated this overture to Mr. L.,
and it was our joint opinion that I should decline any inter-
ference."

R. King to G. W. Erving, Esq., Consul of the United States

at London.

Paris, Oct. 17, 1802.
Sir :

I have just received your Letter of the 19th instant and lose no
time in sending you my reply, to say that you appeared to have
misconceived the nature and object of your Correspondence with
the Alien office, which neither required, nor gave to you any,
much less the exclusive, faculty of granting Passports to Ameri-
can Citizens upon their entry, and residence within, or their de-
parture from the limits of your Consulship. Indeed the late
modification of the Alien Law, the purport whereof was commu-
nicated to the several American Consuls, especially changed the
measures of Police respecting Aliens which had before existed,

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 69

and in a great measure, if not altogether, dispensed with your
farther interference. It will doubtless be sufficient to prevent the
steps you have supposed yourself authorized to adopt in respect
to the Passports which may have been granted by Mr. Gore, that
you should know that Mr. Gore is charged with the affairs of the
United States in England during my absence, and that he finds
of course among the ordinary authorities of this character that of
granting Passports to American Citizens.

I am, Sir, with due respect &c.

R. K.

The admirable letters of Mr. Gore to Mr. King and his
communications with Lord Hawkesbury and Mr. Madison
might well find a place here, but as they are long, and gen-
erally relate to matters which, though then brought into
notice, were not settled at that time, they must be passed
over. There was, however, one subject of deep interest
with reference to which, during Mr. King's absence, he had
to take an active part. Mr. Jefferson, in a letter to Dr.
Rush, September 23, 1800,* had written, "you will hear of
an attempt at insurrection in this State (Virginia). I am
looking with anxiety to see what will be its effect in our
State. We are truly to be pitied." The insurrection was
put down, and the leaders were captured and imprisoned.
A question arose as to what should be done to them, and
the Legislature had brought before them some resolutions
relative to the matter, but postponed them until a future
time. They were, however, referred to Gov. Monroe, who,
on June 15, 1801, communicated them to the President, Mr.
Jefferson, and again, on November 17, called his attention to
them. In the answer to this letter, Mr. Jefferson, Novem-
ber 24, 1 80 1, wrote :f

"That the publication of these resolutions might have an ill
effect in more than one quarter. In confidence of attention to
this I shall indulge greater freedom in writing. Common male-

* Jefferson? s Works, vol. iv., p. 336.
f Ibid., vol. iv., p. 419.

1 70 R UFUS KING. [ 1 80 2

factors, I presume, make no part of the object of that resolution.
Neither their numbers, nor the nature of their offences, seem to
require any provisions beyond those practised heretofore, and
found adequate to the suppression of ordinary crime. Con-
spiracy, insurgency, treason, rebellion, (among the description of
persons who brought on thus the alarm, and on themselves the
tragedy of 1800) were doubtless in the view of everyone ; but
many perhaps contemplated, and one expression of the resolution
might comprehend, a much larger scope. Respect to both
opinions makes it my duty to understand the resolution in all the
extent of which it is possible."

Without following him in the details of the letter, it may
be stated that he suggests that in some way these persons
might be placed in colonies in lands at home, or even
abroad, and discusses various plans by which they might be
removed, with the objections that might be urged against
them. Among places proposed, he writes : *

"On our western and southern frontiers Spain holds an im-
mense country, the occupancy of which, however, is in the Indian
natives, except, a few insulated spots, possessed by Spanish
subjects. It is very questionable, indeed, whether the Indians
would sell ? Whether Spain would be willing to receive these
people ? and nearly certain that she would not alienate the sov-
ereignty, &c." f

He speaks also of the West Indies, and finally says that
"Africa would offer a last and undoubted resort, if all others
more desirable should fail us."

With this statement of the serious question which was
troubling the people of Virginia, and incidentally the other
States where slaves abounded, we are prepared for the fol-
lowing letter, which the President wrote to Mr. King on

* Jefferson's Works, vol. iv., p. 420.

f Mr. Jefferson, at this time, evidently ignored or thought little of the infor-
mation of the reported cession of Louisiana and, as it was supposed, of the
Floridas to France, sent to him by Mr. King on June 1 and August 24 of 1801.
—Editor.

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. \J\

July 13, 1802, asking his co-operation in obtaining from the
Sierra Leone Company permission to transport " the slaves
guilty of insurgency " to their colony, and giving his views
upon this interesting matter ; at the same time, affording
him an opportunity " to assure you (Mr. King) of his perfect
satisfaction with the manner in which you have conducted
the several matters confided to you by us." *

T. Jefferson to R. King.

Washington, July 13, 1802.
Dear Sir :

The course of things in the neighboring islands of the West
Indies appear to have given a considerable impulse to the minds
of slaves in different parts of the United States. A great dispo-
sition to insurgency has manifested itself among them, which, in
one instance, in the State of Virginia, broke out into actual insur-
rection. This was easily suppressed ; but many of those con-
cerned (between twenty and thirty, I believe) fell victims to the
law. So extensive an execution could not but excite sensibility
in the public mind and begat a regret that the laws had not
provided, for such cases, some alternative combining more mild-
ness with equal efficacy. The Legislature of the State at a sub-
sequent meeting took the subject into consideration, and have
communicated to me through the Governor of the State, their
wish that some place could be provided, out of the limits of the
United States, to which slaves guilty of insurgency might be
transported ; and they have particularly looked to Africa as offer-
ing the most desirable receptacle. We might, for instance, enter
into negotiations with the natives, on some part of the coast, to
obtain a settlement ; and, by establishing an African Company,
combine with it commercial operations, which might not only
reimburse expenses, but procure profit also. But there being
already such an establishment on that coast by the English Sierra
Leone company, made for the express purpose of colonizing
civilized blacks to that country, it would seem better, by incor-
porating our emigrants with theirs, to make one strong, rather
than two weak colonies. This would be more desirable because

* Jefferson's Works, vol. iv., pp. 442-44.

172 RUFUS KING. [1802

the blacks settled at Sierra Leone having chiefly gone from the
States, would often receive among those we should send, their
acquaintances and relatives.

The object of this letter therefore is to ask the favor of you to
enter into conference with such persons private and public as
would be necessary to give us permission to send thither the per-
sons under contemplation. It is material to observe that they are
not felons, or common malefactors, but persons guilty of what
the Safety of Society, under actual circumstances, obliges us to
treat as a crime, but which their feelings may represent in a far
different shape. They are such as will be a valuable acquisition
to the settlement already existing there, and well calculated to
co-operate in the plan of civilization.

As the expense of so distant a transportation would be very
heavy, and might weigh unfavorably in deciding between the
modes of punishment, it is very desirable that it should be les-
sened as much as practicable. If the regulations of the place
would permit these emigrants to dispose of themselves, as the
Germans and others do who come to this country poor, by giving
their labor for a certain time to some one who will pay their pas-
sage ; and if the master of the vessel could be permitted to carry
articles of commerce from this country and take back others from
that, which might yield a mercantile profit sufficient to cover the
expenses of the voyage, a serious difficulty would be removed. I
will ask your attention therefore to arrangements necessary for
this purpose.

The consequences of permitting emancipations to become ex-
tensive, unless the condition of emigration be annexed to them,
furnish also matter of solicitation to the Legislature of Virginia,
as you will perceive by their resolution enclosed to you. Al-
though provision for the settlement of emancipated negroes might
perhaps be obtainable nearer home than Africa, yet it is desirable
that we should be free to expatriate this description of people
to the Colony of Sierra Leone, if considerations respecting either
themselves or us should render it more expedient. I will pray
you therefore to get the same permission extended to the recep-
tion of these as well as the first mentioned. Nor will there be a
selection of bad subjects ; the emancipations, for the most part,
being either of the whole slaves of the master, or of such indi-

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 73

viduals as have particularly deserved well ; the latter is most
frequent.

The request of the Legislature of Virginia having produced to
me the occasion of addressing you, I avail myself of it to assure
you of my perfect satisfaction with the manner in which you have
conducted the several matters confided to you by us ; and to ex-
press my hope that through your agency we may be able to re-
move everything inauspicious to a cordial friendship between this
country and the one in which you are stationed ; a friendship
dictated by too many considerations not to be felt by the wise
and the dispassionate of both nations. It is therefore with the
sincerest pleasure I have observed on the part of the British gov-
ernment various manifestations of just and friendly disposition
towards us. We wish to cultivate peace and friendship with all
nations, believing that course most conducive to the welfare of our
own. It is natural that these friendships should bear some pro-
portion to the common interests of the parties. The interesting
relations between Great Britain and the United States are certainly
of the first order ; and as such are estimated and will be faith-
fully cultivated by us. These sentiments have been communi-
cated to you from time to time in the official correspondence of
the Secretary of State ; but I have thought it might not be unac-
ceptable to be assured that they perfectly concur with my own
personal convictions both in relation to yourself and the country
in which you are. I pray you to accept assurances of my high
consideration and respect.

This letter of the President was received by Mr. Gore,
who upon ascertaining its contents, under his authority as
Charge d'Affaires during Mr. King's absence, immediately
took steps to obtain the information asked for in it, and in
a letter to the President explains the result of his inves-
tigations.

C. Gore to His Excellency Thomas Jefferson.

London, io Oct. 1802.
Sir:

In consequence of being left by Mr. King in charge with the
affairs of the United States, and of his desire that I should inspect

174 RUFUS KING, [1802

all letters directed to him, I opened that from yourself under date
of the 13 of July, and which was received on the 13th ultimo.

This, sir, I must pray you to accept as an apology for having
broken its seal, and if my subsequent conduct shall appear an
intrusion, you will do me the justice, to impute it to the most
respectful motives, combined with an earnest desire to promote
the object of the Letter, if in no other way, at least in obtaining
and forwarding all such information as could be procured here,
and might help to advance the wise and humane plan, you have
so benevolently contemplated of opening a path for the emanci-
pation of the Blacks, on such terms as may prove beneficial to
themselves and not injurious to others. I was the more induced
to act in this business from the belief that Mr. King would not be
here to attain any information in season to reach the United
States until late in the winter.

Lord Hawkesbury, to whom I thought proper first to mention
the subject, professed a warm desire to do everything in his
power to promote your views, but at the same time the affair
must rest entirely with the Directors of the Sierra Leone Com-
pany and that he was really fearful their late experience had been
such as to deter them from the admission of characters like those
alluded to.

I then took an opportunity of conferring with Mr. Thornton,
Chairman of the Court of Directors, and stated to him the Reso-
lution of the Legislature of Virginia, and your idea of the best
mode of carrying the same into effect with such arguments, so
far as I could think of any, in addition to those contained in
your letter, to show that the admission of the Blacks from the
United States might under such regulations as wisdom and
prudence should prescribe, prove an addition and strength and
benefit to their colony. But the establishment has suffered much
from the maroons, who have been permitted to go there from
Jamaica, and the Directors consider that the rise of their colony
has been rather impeded than advanced by the Blacks from Nova
Scotia. They have been lately obliged to apply to Parliament
for pecuniary aid, and to ask assistance of troops, to keep in
check the restless and disturbed spirits already there. The mili-
tary force is not so great as they wish for, and they entertain seri-
ous apprehensions if it be sufficient to protect the well disposed,

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 75

and repress the constant disposition manifested in many of the
Colonists to revolt and overturn the existing Government.

These reasons appear to have great weight in Mr. Thornton's
mind against the policy of admitting such settlers, as would be
most likely to come from the United States. He has however
come to no determination against the measure, but promises to
advise with his friends and see if any expedient can be devised
by which the danger to be feared from acceding to the proposal
may be guarded against.

It is possible that on Mr. King's return he may be able to sug-
gest such reasons as shall induce the Directors to lend a favour-
able ear to the plan. He is intimate with some of the most influ-
ential of them, and if aught can be added to the strong motives
they profess, and I have no doubt sincerely, to do every thing
acceptable to the exalted character, at whose instance the propo-
sition has been made, it may be expected from the personal
influences of this gentleman. Although from the considerations
mentioned, which with others are to be seen in the State of the
Colony, as described in the memorial to Parliament, and the
report of the Committee, I do not think there is much reason to
hope, that an incorporation of the Blacks of the United States
with those of Sierra Leone, can be reconciled in the minds of the
Directors to the Safety and prosperity of the Establishment.

I am indebted to Mr. Thornton for the Papers referred to, and
which you will find gave an accurate statement of that colony, the
evils most to be guarded against, with the means thought neces-
sary for its security, and the expenses of the Establishment. As
these Papers are scarce and contain information which may be
valuable on this subject, I have taken the liberty to enclose them
with this letter.

Should an occasion occur which may promise advantage to the
proposal from any endeavours of mine, you may rely on their
being cheerfully and faithfully exerted to that end, and if farther
information can be procured which in my judgment may be use-
ful in this interesting business before the arrival of Mr. King, I
pray you, sir, to be assured that I shall derive great pleasure in
forwarding it.

I have the honour to be with perfect Respect,

C. Gore.

176 RUFUS KING. [1802

J. Q. Adams to R. King.

Boston, 8 October, 1802.
Dear Sir :

We have enjoyed during the summer an extraordinary degree
of tranquility, and since the session of Congress terminated in
May, no public event of material importance has happened. The
newspapers have been chiefly rilled with personal attacks upon
the President and Vice-President, coming from different and per-
haps opposite quarters ; all arising originally from divisions in
their own party. These divisions have occasioned animosities of
no small inveteracy between individuals. You have doubtless
been better informed of the transactions at New York than it
would be in my power to inform you. The warfare there has
been between the friends of Mr. Burr, and those of the Clinton
family. In Virginia the principal batteries have been pointed
at Mr. Jefferson, by a Scotsman, named Callender, of whom you
have probably heard heretofore.* He writes under the influence
of personal resentment and revenge, but the effect of his publica-
tions upon the reputation of the President has been considerable.

What the consequence of these internal feuds in the ruling
party will be is not yet apparent. But independent of them and
considered as a single party in opposition to the federalists, the
strength of the present administration is continually increasing.
It has obtained and preserves an irresistible preponderance
in thirteen of the sixteen State legislatures, and the resistence
in the three others scarcely maintains its ground. In both
houses of Congress the majority is already decisive, but at
the ensuing Congress, will be much larger. The division in the
Senate is now nearly equal. But for the next two years, there
will be nearly two thirds of the partizans of the present govern-
ment. In the State of Pennsylvania their ascendancy is so great
that the federalists have scarcely dared to name a candidate in
opposition to Governor McKean's re-election ; federalism is
indeed in that state so completely palsied, that scarcely a trace of
it is to be discovered except in here and there a newspaper edited
by New England men.

This party triumph is not enjoyed with moderation. The basis

* For an account of Callender and his work see Hildreth's Hist, of the United
States, 2d ser., vol. ii., p. 453 et sea.

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, iyy

of it all is democratic popularity, and the leaders are all sensible
how sandy a foundation it is. Strong as the fabric appears they
are constantly trembling lest its corner stones should fail : and as
their principal alarm is lest the old administration should recover
favour in the eyes of the people, the great engine of party, with
which they endeavour to fortify themselves, is slander upon their
predecessors. This they continue under every shape and on all
occasions. Nor are these exertions unsuccessful. They carried
the system to such a pitch that even a Committee of the National
house of Representatives, called a committee of Investigation, at
the close of the session made a report, the manner and form of
which were both highly exceptionable to every maxim of common
justice and honour. This report was hurried through the house
with as little regard to decorum as it was made. It has since
been analysed and refuted by several publications in various parts
of the Union, but most effectually by a pamphlet of Mr. Wolcott,
which will doubtless be sent you by some of your friends ; and
which will shew you a fair specimen both of our Administration
and its Opposition.

The concern of the Republicans, as they stile themselves, is the
result of consciousness, rather than of real dangers. The power
of the Administration rests upon a support of a much stronger
majority of the people throughout the Union than the former
administrations ever possessed since the first establishment of the
Constitution. Whatever the merits or the demerits of the former
administrations may have been, there never was a system of
measures more completely and irrevocably abandoned and
rejected by the popular voice. It never can and never will be
revived. The experiment, such as it was, has failed, and to
attempt its restoration would be as absurd, as to undertake the
resurrection of a carcass seven years in its grave. The alarm of
the pilots at the helm is therefore without cause. What they take
for breakers are mere clouds of unsubstantial vapour. The only
risque to which they are exposed is the shallowness of their
waters. Their system is so short sighted, and so contracted, that
it will never stand a popular test even of twelve years, and the
people whom almost unbounded prosperity could not attach to
their predecessors, will not learn from adversity to be better
pleased with them.

VOL IV — 12

178 RUFUS KING. [1802

The yellow fever made its appearance at an earlier period than
usual, in many of our cities. It has not hitherto spread so exten-
sively, as upon former occasions ; but it has been as malignant in
the cases which have happened as it was ever known. A Dysen-
tery of extreme violence has likewise prevailed in the western
part of this Commonwealth and the neighbouring part of Con-
necticut. The approach of the Winter season gives us hopes of
relief from these scourges. But the summer has been so long
protracted that at the moment I write this, Fahrenheit's thermo-
meter stands at 82 and has been higher in the course of the day.
The harvests throughout the Country have been plentiful.
Your very obedt. Servt.

John Quincy Adams.

CHAPTER XII.

George III. to King-On his not being presented to Bonaparte in Paris-Also
Precautions taken when riding on cold Days-Cabot to King-Affairs in
Massachusetts-Murray to King-Talk of King as Candidate for the Presi-
dency-Democrats blame him in Maryland as neglecting the Bank Stock.-
T Paine-Hotels refused to receive him- W. Hindman to King-Pro-
posed Presidential Nomination-Maryland Bank Stock-King to Living-
ston-Insecurity of the Peace-King to Secretary of State-War might be
renewed-No Concert with Austria and Russia-Cabinet sees no material
Change in Continental Powers to warrant War-Difficulties relative to
Malta and unsettled commercial Intercourse with France, etc-Kmg to
Eaton-Hargrave's Charges for Commission in purchasing Jewels, etc., for
Bey not Right— Wilberforce to King-Distrusts the Ministry-King to
Addington-Urges Settlement of Maryland Bank-Stock Question-King
to Secretary of State— France the Arbiter of Peace.

In Dr. Lieber's Letters there is an anecdote about Mr.
King, which indicates his prudence during his stay in Paris.
His journey to the Continent, and Paris particularly, was not,
as he tells us, to see men and manners but to enjoy the invalu-
able specimens of the fine arts collected in that city. It is
evident, however, that the high position he held as the rep-
resentative of his country in England, opened to him an
entrance to the society of the most distingushed men in
France, of which his correspondence gives us no hint, farther
than that he and his wife were guests at Talleyrand's house
and that he met Lafayette while in Paris. There is nothing
to show the conferences which he must have had with Mr.
Livingston, especially relative to the cession of Louisiana—
which was a matter of deep interest and anxious considera-
tion, and which must have been discussed between them.
He did not seek to come in contact with the First Consul,
l8o RUFUS KING. [1802

and indeed, as the anecdote here given shows, declined to be
presented to him.
Dr. Lieber says:*

" I give you an anecdote which will be interesting to the Chair-
man of Foreign Affairs. President King tells me that when his
father Rufus King was American Minister in London, he paid a
visit to Paris after the peace of Amiens, where Fox likewise went.
Fox went to see Consul Bonaparte. The latter desired that King
would have himself presented, or the Chief Officers of the Consul
told King that they would gladly present him. King, who was
then engaged in making a treaty with England, declined because
he knew that Bonaparte was very disagreeable to George III. and
he thought he had no right to do anything that could interfere
with his relation to the British court or ministry. When he
returned to England and went to court, George III. went up to
him and said, ' Mr. King I am very much obliged to you ; you
have treated me like a gentleman, which is more than I can say
of all my subjects.'

" I give the words exactly as President King gave them to me
and he says he gave the words to me exactly as he could remem-
ber them, the anecdote being in lively remembrance in the family.
He thinks he can now repeat the very words in which his father
told the affair immediately after his return from court and that
they are the tpissima Verba of George III."

It will not be out of place to reproduce here another
anecdote of George III. which was often spoken of in Mr.
King's family. It was more particularly mentioned by his
son, Gov. John A. King when on a very cold day on
November 25th he had come from Albany to New York to
review the troops there. He had been out all the morning
in his uniform without an overcoat, and when one of his
aides expressed his astonishment at this, he said to him, " I
remembered King George's advice to my father and have
put on an extra shirt," as he was accustomed to do when he
went out on horseback on cold days.

* Extract from a letter from Dr. Lieber to Charles Sumner upon a diplomatic
question in 1863, — Dr. Lieber's Letters.

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. l8l

G. Cabot to R. King.

Nov. 6, 1802.
My dear Sir :

The failure of the Federalists in the Election of J. Q. Adams
may be attributed to negligence or rather weariness. They were
sufficiently numerous in the District to have given 500 majority :
but the failure of Mr. Pickering proves the decline of good influ-
ence in that district. On the whole I think it certain that Democ-
racy gains strength in number & loses or rather has lost much
among the sensible.

. . . Some of our Jacobin writers have abused you &
charged you with avowing monarchical sentiments in letters to
me : they are systematic in all these labors to render odious every
man who they foresee may rise to important stations & is not of
their sect. . . .

I am glad you concluded to pass over to France & see for
yourself what remains to be seen. I want you to see the disgust
which must prevail there at everything Democratic after having
made the world mad with the love of it. I want to see if weary
of Bonaparte's power they are ripe for new changes : tell me what
you see & think on these subjects when you return to England.

Ever faithfully yours,
G. C.

Wm. V. Murray to R. King.

Baltimore, 12 Nov., 1802.
Dear Sir :

We know of your intention of returning — of the policy of that
I say nothing. Your last negociation on the debts gave a satis-
faction which had nothing surprising in it but that it should please
both parties. The leading Demos, even spoke, I learn, in high
terms of it. For some time the Feds, have talked of running you
& Genl. Pinckney as P. & V. P. fairly & side by side. It is be-
lieved that this has alarmed the Demos. : for lately at Annapolis,
where our Legislature is now in Session, some of the subalterns,
echoes of the chiefs, have undertaken to blame you on account
of the Bank Stock which they say you neglect. We know better.
Their object is to prejudice you I presume in this state, where I
may be allow'd to assure you that you are in great esteem. As

182 RUFUS KING. [1802

this letter may reach you before your taking of Leave I thought
it right to tell you this, that no formality of proof on your part
which wd. enable the Feds, to give an answer to such a report,
shd. it be stirred next election, might be omitted and out of
reach.

Our papers will show you to what an excess abuse runs — The
Louisiana affair staggers many of the more thinking Demos. &
materials seem to accumulate in favour of the Fed. Side.

Smith lately informed me that you were on your way to Paris
— I rejoice that before you return you will have seen that singu-
lar people at home — I am too unwell & weak to write to G. by
this ship which sails I learn early in the morning.

Tom Paine arrived here 12 days since — few of the respectable
Demos, visited him — He was arrested for 50 Louis lent him by a
very respectable Irish gentleman (O'Mealy) of this place while
Tom was confined by Robespierre — He went on a week since to
the Fed. city where the boarders of the Tavern where he alighted
refused to remain in the house if Tom were admitted to the
public table. The Tavern where I am, Evans, the best in Town
I hear, refused to admit him because the frequenters of it mani-
fested the same spirit — He will do no harm — & perhaps some
good.

He was I learn civilly received by the P. whom I suspect he
will much embarass.*

Yours respectfully,

Wm. V. Murray.

Wm. Hindman to R. King.

Baltimore, Nov. 21, 1802.
My Dear Sir :

Inclosed is the Speech of our Governor to the Legislature in
which You will discover Yourself implicated — From the Informa-
tion I have collected, it appears to Me that the present ruling

* One of the first acts of the President is the permission given to Paine in a
letter to him, March 18, 1801. He writes : " You expressed a wish to get a
passage to this country in a public vessel. Mr. Dawson is charged with orders
to the captain of the Maryland (which had carried Mr. Dawson to Havre with
the newly signed Convention with France) to receive and accommodate you with
a passage back." — Jefferson's Works, vol. iv., p. 371.

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 183

Party in the United States, dreading your Return before the
ensuing presidential Election (altho some Time ago lavish in
your Praises, & highly approbating your ministerial Conduct) are
determined as far as in their Power to destroy You in the good
Opinion of your Countrymen, and particularly in the State of
Maryland, (which may hold the Balance at the next Election for
President,) where You heretofore stood very high, & in which I
hope there will be no Change ; for the Purpose of accomplishing
their diabolical Purpose, They are now industriously circulating
a Report, " That You have not exerted Yourself to procure the
Bank Stock for the State of Maryland, that You have neglected
its Interest, & if You had used Your Endeavors the Stock would
have been secured long ago." — This I am persuaded is not true —
It would be extremely desirable to your Friends, who are anxious
that you should be the next President, & at the same Time
greatly promote the Federal Interest, if this Party could be put
down by a Communication to the Secretary of State proving this
Report to be altogether without Foundation either by obtaining
the Stock or making it appear that every Exertion had been
made by You for that Purpose.

I hope You will excuse the Liberty I have taken in this Busi-
ness, I have been actuated by a Love to my Country & Yourself.

I wish You and your Family a happy Return to your native

Country.

Yr. very Hble. Servt.

Wm. Hindman.

R. King to His Excellency Mr. Livingston.

London, Nov. 24, 1802.
Dear Sir :

I cannot write to you with confidence respecting the critical state
of public affairs ; in a few days I may be able to do so. The
speech and addresses of the two Houses pledge the country to
nothing precise, tho' they are sufficient evidence of the insecurity
of Peace ; if to these be added the orders which have been sent
in every direction to retain such of the Conquests made during
the late war, as have not been surrendered, and the military and
naval preparations making throughout the country, the proba-
bilities seem to be greater in favour of War than Peace.

1 84 RUFUS KING. [1802

In relation to our affairs, so far as we may suppose the war
would affect them, the chance in favour of its happening is such
as should lead us to suspend all measures, the conclusion of which
might be advisable upon the supposition of the continuance of
Peace. I shall repeat the observation with which I began, that I
have not yet had sufficient opportunities to form as correct an
opinion upon this most interesting and important subject as I
hope to be able to do very shortly. Knowing your solicitude, I
have, however, thought it prudent to send you these observations
together with the renewal of the assurances of

Esteem and Respect with which, &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 76.

London, Nov. 26, 1802.
Sir :

Mr. Gore has acknowledged the receipt of such letters from the
Department of State as have been received during my absence,
and his correspondence will have given you exact informa-
tion of all that has hitherto been done towards the accom-
plishment of the several objects of the President's instructions.
I shall immediately resume the business that has been so well
commenced, and as well from the nature of the subject as from
the temper and disposition that are understood to prevail in re-
spect to America, I am inclined to hope that we shall experience
no material difficulty in effecting a final and satisfactory adjust-
ment of our Boundaries.

At the date of Mr. Gore's last letter there seems to have been
much solicitude on the subject of Peace ; the sympathy of the
nation was at that time strongly excited by the conduct of France
toward Switzerland, and a verbal insinuation was made by the
English Minister at Paris, that the King would not see with indif-
ference the interference of France in the internal affairs of that
country. This step was accompanied by orders to stop the
farther reduction of the land and naval forces, and, as is believed,
to retain provisionally instead of giving up, according to the Treaty

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 85

of Amiens, the conquests which England had made during the
war. These measures, which little pains were taken to conceal
or explain, were supposed both at Paris and London to have been
adopted in consequence of a concert formed with the two Imperial
Courts, and therefore occasioned serious apprehensions lest Europe
should again and immediately be involved in a new and disastrous
war.

Things remained in this situation till the meeting of Parlia-
ment, and the King's Speech, which it was expected would re-
move or confirm these apprehensions, was waited for with much
impatience. On the one hand it offers no assurance of the con-
tinuance of Peace, while on the other it is too vague to authorize
a conclusion that England desires or may expect an early renewal
of the war. Neither the speech nor the addresses give any satis-
factory explanation of the measures which had been adopted ;
but the Debates of Parliament, which I attended, though
cautiously managed by the Ministers, cast some light on the
subject ; and from them combined with other circumstances, it
appears that no concert has been established either with Austria
or Russia ; that although the State of the Swiss is matter of deep
regret, it will not influence England, unsupported as she is by a
single ally, to engage in a war that could not rescue the Swiss
from the power of France ; and that moreover no such material
change has, in the opinion of the Cabinet, taken place in the
relative condition and strength of the Powers of the Continent
since the Treaty of Amiens as would justify England in renewing
the war.

Upon the supposition that such are the opinions of the Cabinet,
it is to the Treaty of Amiens, and not to certain political events
that have since occurred, that we must seek for an explanation of
the conduct of England in the increase of her Forces and in the
orders which she is said to have dispatched to retain such of her
Conquests as have not been surrendered.

There are several points connected with the Treaty of Amiens,
some or all of which may have had an influence in producing the
measures alluded to ; these are the Government of Malta, the
commercial intercourse which it was expected the peace would
restore between Great Britain and France, and the indemnity
promised to the Prince of Orange.

1 86 RUFUS KING. [1802

As the difficulties which have arisen independent both of
France and England in carrying into effect the Article respecting
Malta, are such as to render farther time or stipulations neces-
sary to secure the purpose aimed at by the parties, it is natural
that things should remain as they are until these difficulties can
be adjusted ; there is therefore nothing extraordinary in England
continuing to occupy Malta ; still, however, France may press
for a literal performance of the engagement of England, and this
joined to other motives may induce England to increase rather
than diminish her Forces.

Though the Definitive Treaty did no more than restore peace,
it was generally expected, as incident to a state of peace, that a
commercial intercourse would be opened between the two coun-
tries subject to duties as well as partial exclusions. So far as
regards the Trade from France to Great Britain, peace has replaced
the same upon the footing it stood before the last commercial
Treaty, while in France the Laws passed during the War, prohib-
iting the importation of every sort of Goods of the Growth or
Fabric of the British dominions, and making them liable to con-
fiscation if found within the French Territories, are not only-
maintained, but enforced with so much Rigour that a number of
British Vessels, driven into the Ports of France in distress and to
escape the perils of the Ocean (such is the English account) have
been confiscated together with their Cargoes ; and the only answer
given to the complaints of the English Minister at Paris has been
that in these, as in other cases of Judicial cognizance, the Laws
must have their course. This evidence of the views of France,
whose interference has produced a similar, tho' not equally ex-
tensive, prohibition of English Manufactures in Spain, has excited
much discontent ; and in a Nation so highly commercial as Eng-
land, cannot fail of having an effect upon its public councils : yet
neither these tokens of inhospitality, nor the business of Malta
would justify the provisional Detention of the Conquests which
England had agreed to surrender.

The preliminaries were severely censured by the Grenville
opposition, as in no respect more deficient than in the entire
omission of a Proviso for the Prince of Orange. The Definitive
Treaty contains an express stipulation in his favour ; and the hon-
our of England is perhaps bound to enforce its due observance.

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 8?

It will be remembered that France entered into an engagement,
(as it is believed for a sum of money received from Holland) on
the very day of the conclusion of the Definitive Treaty to release
the Dutch from contributing towards the indemnities of the Prince
of Orange. England, without doubt, remonstrated against the
bad faith of this Transaction and probably was assured that ample
Indemnities would be found in Germany ; instead whereof the
Compensation that has been offered by the Diet, under the recom-
mendation of the initiating Powers, falls far beneath the just
claims of the Prince of Orange, and, in the opinion of most per-
sons, does not exceed a tenth even of their amount. It is there-
fore natural enough to conjecture that seeing the inexecution of
the Treaty in a point of much importance to an ancient and fallen
Friend, as well as material to her own honour, England may have
given notice of her having resolved to suspend the farther execu-
tion of the Treaty on her part, until she sees a just and faithful
performance of it on the part of France and her allies ; a Suppo-
sition the more probable by the orders being made to exclude the
Dutch colonies, which alone were likely to be affected — Martinique
and St. Lucie being already surrendered.

You will perceive that this Speculation goes upon the idea that
orders have really been given to arrest the farther execution on
the side of England — a fact tho' generally believed, not yet
acknowledged. If the manifest ill-humour that exists, arises
alone or principally from this cause, well grounded hopes ought
to be entertained that Justice will be rendered to the Prince of
Orange, and the Treaty of Peace suffered to go into complete
operation.

With perfect Respect and Esteem &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to His Excellency Mr. Livingston.

London, Nov. 29, 1802.
Dear Sir :

I have duly received your Letter of the 17th ; a Note I wrote
to you from Calais will have acknowledged the receipt of your
Letter dated the day after we left Paris.

My sentiments in regard to the continuance of Peace are some-
what changed since my Letter of the 24th, which went by a

1 88 RUFUS KING. [1802

Messenger ; and notwithstanding I still find it difficult to recon-
cile the Discourses of Ministers with the Fact mentioned in that
Letter I am more inclined than I was to believe that the views
here are pacific. . . .

I have seen and conversed with the Bearer of your Letter of
the 17th ; the situation of St. Domingo may give us farther time ;
nothing else seems likely to delay the measure we have so much
at heart to promote.

Faithfully & with great Esteem &c,

Rufus King.

R. King to Mr. William Eaton, Tunis.

London, November 29, 1802.
Sir:

My absence from England for the last three months has delayed
my answer of your letter of July 6, respecting Mr. Hargraves'
claim of a commission upon the cost of the articles prepared in
this country, and sent as a Present to the Bey of Tunis. So far
as relates to the personal care and assistance of Mr. Hargraves in
the transportation of the Jewellery from Algiers to Tunis, he has
undoubtedly a claim to be compensated ; for the transportation
of the cloths and arms, the residue, and by far the greatest portion
of the present he can have no such claim. In regard to the order-
ing the articles here, and the superintending their execution, I am
not a little surprized at Mr. Hargraves' pretension, which most
certainly he never could have thought of making to me, who had
put the whole business in Train, under the most exact Instruc-
tions, before his arrival in England. It is true, on the refusal of
the Bey to accept the cloths first sent by Mawhood & Co., and
our determination to send cloths of the first instead of inferior
quality (which was likewise resolved upon before Mr. Hargraves'
arrival) I desired Mr. Hargraves to call at the Store of Mawhood
& Co, and give his advice in the choice of the cloths ; as these
were to be superfine, this advice could be of no service, except in
the selection of colours, a matter of some though not of great
importance. He did, I believe, occasionally visit Mortimer and
Rundell and Bridge, who prepared the arms and Jewels, but I

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 1 89

think you may with safety refer to Mr. Hargraves for the fact,
that his advice and instructions were in no sense of any im-
portance. Mr. Hargraves certainly manifested a disposition to
be useful to us in any way that his knowledge and aid should be
wanted ; but I really never had a notion that he thought himself
entrusted by you or me with the superintendence or charge of
this business ; and my finally entrusting him with the Jewels,
was on his repeated solicitations and an alteration of my first
intentions.

On the whole if Mr. Hargraves receives one hundred Guineas,
I should think him liberally paid ; had he intimated to me his
expectation of being paid for his advice and assistance, I should
have entirely excluded him from any concern in the Business ;
the Jewels might have been sent by a different route, and with
very little, if any, addition to the premium of Insurance.

With much Respect &c.

Rufus King.

W. WlLBERFORCE TO R. KlNG.

Bromfd., Tuesday, Dec. 6, 1802.
My dear Sir :

I believe you are an early man (which my Health does not
suffer me to be) & perhaps you would breakfast with me some
morning on your way to town. I never breakfast before J after
10, and seldom go from home before 12. So that if you should
do me the favor of calling on Wednesday morning, you would
find me here. ... I but too much concur with you concern-
ing ye probability of the renewal of ye war, & for that very reason
am anxious that preparations should be made for it. It is here (to
speak openly) that I distrust our Minrs. I fear they are not
acting up to the gt. exigencies of our situatn. It may be strong
language ; but if they were I should have no great fears as to the
Issue — as it is, my Expectations are very gloomy.

Believe me always, my dear Sir, with cordial esteem & regard,

Yours very sincerely,

W. WlLBERFORCE.

I90 RUFUS KING. [1802

Right Honourable H. Addington.

Private.
Randalls near Leatherhead, Surry, Dec. 7, 1802.

Dear Sir :

Upon the Experience I have had of the Efficacy of your
interference of bringing to a decision Questions which had been
long depending, I may I hope be allowed to ask your assistance
to hasten the conclusion of an unsettled affair, that justice, and,
if I may be permitted to say so, good policy require should be
finished without farther delay.

I refer to our claim of the Maryland Bank Stock, a subject
with which you are not wholly unacquainted, and which has been
depending, sometimes as a judicial and at others as a diplomatic
question ever since the year 1783. The title to the stock may be
stated in a few words : it was purchased by the Colony of Mary-
land with money levied by a tax upon its inhabitants, and placed
in the names of agents in London, who before the American war
received and applied the Dividends according to the instructions
of the Colony : the war interrupted the correspondence between
Maryland and its Agents ; in the Treaty of Peace, by which the
Independence of Maryland and the other colonies, the King
" relinquished all claims to the Government, Property and terri-
torial Rights of the same (i.e. the Colonies) and every part
thereof." Before the Treaty the stock was the Property of Mary-
land, and by the Treaty, which consents to the dissolution of the
Colony Corporation, or in other words to the Independence of
Maryland, the King in express words relinquished all claims to
whatever was the Property of Maryland, and consequently to the
stock in question. How it has ever been supposed that this
stock accrued to the King upon the Dissolution of the Corpora-
tion of Maryland, when he not only consented to this Dissolution,
but in the act of consent transferred to Maryland any claim he
had to the stock, is to me utterly incomprehensible.

I have thought, sir, that you would excuse me for troubling you
in this business, especially when I assure you that it has been the
occasion of Dissatisfaction in an important part of my country, as
well as the subject of such reiterated application on my part, as I
never could have reconciled with my respect for others or myself,

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. I9I

to have made, but from a strong conviction of its peculiar im-
portance. I expect soon to return to America, and it is no
affectation on my part, when I tell you that I shall feel some
embarrassment with the sentiments and opinions which I have
sent before me, if this stock should not be transferred before
my Departure.

With sincere Respect and Esteem &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 77.

London, Dec. 18, 1802.

From whatever cause the Language and measures of the Eng-
lish Ministers in the month of October proceed, it is now evident
that they produced no beneficial effect upon the Government of
France, and that the Temper then manifested, had it been per-
sisted in, would have involved the Nation in a new War. But
the tone was soon lowered ; the orders supposed to have been
given to retain certain possessions that were to be surrendered
have been recalled, and with the exception of Malta, concerning
which farther negotiations are said to be requisite to give effect
to former Stipulations, every thing will be delivered up according
to the Provisions of the Treaty of Peace. The Discourses of the
Ministers, together with all that has transpired in the Debates in
Parliament manifest the pacific wishes of the Nation, and France,
in regard to this country, continues to be as exclusively the Arbiter
of Peace, as she was of the continuance of War. The augmenta-
tion of the land and naval forces of Great Britain will not regain
her influence upon the Continent, and the measure has probably
been adopted to secure the Dominion of Ireland, which recent
information proves to be as extensively disaffected as at any
period of the war, rather than to promote the object referred to in
my last Dispatch.

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c.

Rufus King.

CHAPTER XIII.

Troup to King — State of Parties — King to be run for President or Vice-Presi-
dent— King to Parker in Paris — Inquiry about Schools for his elder Sons —
King to Secretary of State — In new Bill to be introduced in Parliament
Duties will remain the same except on foreign Oils — Change in Corn Laws
— King to Erving respecting Charges — King to President of United States
— Resumes the Subject of Transportation of Slaves to Sierra Leone — Little
Hope of Success in obtaining Permission to send them there — Thanks
him for his Appreciation of his Services, etc. — King to Erving — No
Danger that Mr. Williams will embarrass him or injure the Public —
King to Madison — Acknowledging Refusal of a public Vessel for his
Return and asking for Letters of Recall before April ioth — Madison to
King — Cause of Refusal — Reasons given by the President for this Refusal
— The Decision really a wise one.

R. Troup to R. King.

New York, 12 Dec. 1802.
Dear Sir :

. . . The papers contain proofs thus far exhibited of Burr's
manoeuvres for the Presidency. A new pamphlet containing
farther proofs against him is on the tapis and will be out as soon
as Burr turns his back on this city on his way to Washington.
. . . The democratical party is gaining strength through the
Union generally. The late election for members of Congress in
Massachusetts shows an evident growth of democracy. ... In
Pennsylvania federalism seems to be annihilated. In Jersey the
parties in the Legislature are upon a tie. ... In this State,
it appears to me, that democracy since the last election has not
decreased. The quarrel between Clinton and Burr will not mate-
rially divide the party. Burr is a gone man ; he is expelled from
the Jeffersonian party, and I believe he never will possess any
material weight in the political scale. Jefferson is really in the
1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 193

dust in point of character, but notwithstanding this, he is looked
up to and venerated as the Gog and Magog of his party. Things
are according to the natural destiny of the government and I see
no reason to suppose they will alter. . . .

The project on foot here seems to be to run you at the next
election for Vice-President or President — which of the two is not
determined. You will therefore have to prepare yourself for fur-
ther political contests. . . .

I delivered your message to Benson, but he declines visiting
Paris till Bonaparte is made either King or Emperor. He does
not like the democratical title of First Consul.

God bless you.

R. King to Dan'l Parker, Paris.

London, Dec. 13, 1802.
Dear Sir :

As you will naturally suppose that I am solicitous concerning
the education of my children, you will, I am persuaded, excuse
the trouble I am about to give in requesting that you will have
the goodness to pursue the enquiries we proposed to make respect-
ing the plan of education lately submitted to the public by M.
Thurot and associates. . . . My object is to endeavour to
unite as far as practicable the peculiar advantages of English and
French education, each good as well as deficient, but united
probably nearer than anything else is a perfect system ; and the
enquiries I am now making are for the purpose of enabling me to
decide whether such an establishment exists at Paris as would be
likely to fulfill my expectations in regard to French instruction,
and as would moreover consent to receive my two elder sons upon
the terms on which alone I should be willing to send them there.

In a few months they will respectively have completed their
15th and 14th years. Their standing at Harrow, a public school
near London, corresponds with their ages, and in about two and
a half or three years, they will probably be at or near the end of
the school, or in other words will have laid the foundation of a
classical education. My belief is that they would be able to at-
tain this station by being at Harrow only one half of each of these

VOL. IV.— 13

194 RUFUS KING. [1802

years ; that is to say, during the two terms which include the six
months commencing the middle of January ; the remaining six
months from the middle of July to the middle of January, of
which fourteen weeks are included in two vacations at midsummer
and Christmas, I could send them to Paris. Although they have
some knowledge of French and can read it without much difficulty,
they would require the first half year to become sufficiently familiar
with the language to proceed with ease and advantage in some
branches of instruction ; in the meantime, however, they would be
taught music, drawing, and, what is more important, mathematics ;
they could likewise continue their Greek and Latin exercises and
might begin with Spanish, which I wish them to know early and
thoroughly.

* Not only the instruction but the discipline is an object of much
importance, both as regards the cultivation of morals and the
protection of the pupils from the vices and habits to which their
age exposes them. With this explanation of my views, will you
confer with Mr. Barlow and ask him to unite with you in making
such enquiries of M. Thurot or any better establishment, as will
enable you to give me your opinion and advice. I would send
my sons in July next.

With sincere regards, &c, I am yours,

Rufus King.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 78.

London, Dec. 19, 1802.
Sir:

In the Bill that after the holidays will be brought into Parlia-
ment for the consideration of the Customs, the Duties upon
articles imported from the United States will stand nearly as they
do at present, except that it has been proposed to raise the Duty
upon Oil coming from any foreign Country from ^28.3.1 to
^31.10. I have had one or two Conferences upon the subject
with the Department of the Treasury, and am now preparing a
Representation upon which their Lordships will decide before

802]

LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 195

the Draught of the Bill is completed. The British St. Malo
fishery produces more oil than is consumed in the country, and
fhe proposed augmentation of duty is vindicated by alleging that
Spermaceti oil having of late years considerably receded mpnce
it has become requisite to raise the Duty upon .t m order that .t
may be, according to its first intention, prohibitory

Until recently there has been no discrimination of Duties upon
foreign fish oils ; notwithstanding the Spermaceti Oil is so much
better and dearer than the brown oil, the duty has operated to
exclude the latter, while the former, by reason o its superior
quality and price has found here a precarious market Foreign
oTs are not only meant to be excluded from the British Market,
but the Bounties given to the British whale Fisheries mus hke-
wise secure them a preference in the foreign Markets The con-
ferences with the Treasury have therefore embraced these several
Regulations ; and tho' I have not much expectation of any
such reduction of the Duties as will allow our Oils, except in ex-
traordinary circumstances, to be consumed m Great Britain I
have the satisfaction to inform you that foreign Oils of every sort
will hereafter be allowed to be deposited here under similar Reg-
ulations to those which regard our Rice and lobacco. This
system will likewise be made to comprehend our F our, wheat
and other species of corn, as well as some other articles such as
Furs Lumber &c. of inferior importance. The deposit of the
chief articles of our Exports upon safe and convenient Terms in
the Ports of this country, a system altogether different from that
of Importation and Exportation under Duties and Drawbacks,
will afford a considerable advantage to our Merchants, who may,
thro' their correspondents here, distribute as before their Cargoes
throughout the different markets of the continent ; and if the
state of the English market admit it, they may on payment of the
Duties, likewise dispose of them for the consumption of this

C°Therynew regulation of the Corn Trade, which * connected
with this system, will likewise merit our attention. When wheat
is under 5 4, the quarter, the duty on Importation will be 24/3-
When 5 i and under 54, the duty will be 2/6 ; and when 54 and
upwards, the duty will be /«. If the Foreigner does not choose
to import and pay the duty, he may deposit his wheat in the pub-

I96 RUFUS KING. [180 2

lie Warehouses for exportation or home consumption ; in the
latter case it will be liable to pay the second rate of duties, altho'
the price may be 54/, or above, unless the King, by Proclamation
permits the same to be taken out of the Warehouses and sold on
payment of the lowest Duty.

As yet the notice specifying the countervailing Duties upon
goods imported in American vessels, has not been formed, and is,
I understand, delayed to learn whether it is likely that our dis-
criminating Duties will be repealed. There has been no intima-
tion of an intention to extend the countervailing Duties to the
System of Deposits. I have not yet examined, tho' you may think
it worthy of consideration, how far the extension of this plan of
depositing instead of importing our Productions may have an
influence upon the question of the Expediency of the repeal of
the discriminating Duties on our side and the countervailing.
Duties on the side of this country.

With great Respect & Esteem &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Geo. W. Erving, Esq.

Randall's, Surry, Dec. 20, 1802.
Sir:

As I shall stay in town on Tuesday night, I request that you
will call upon me between 9 and 10 o'clock on Wednesday
morning, in order that I may understand with precision what
proportion of the money received by Mr. Williams in the
Mart'que Cases you think yourself authorized according to former
usage to claim for the United States. My Letter to you on this
subject was founded upon the representation you had made to
me that the deductions, according to former usage, ought to ex-
ceed 1 per centum ; but as Mr. Williams states explicitly that it was
not the usage to deduct more than one per centum in addition
to the taxed costs and average sum allowed by the Board of
Commissioners, I desire you will furnish me with Evidence that
a larger proportion was retained by your Predecessor.
I am, sir, your ob. St.

R. K.

802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE.
R. King to His Excellency, the President of the U. S.

London, Dec. 20, 1802.
Sir :

Mr. Gore having during my absence acknowledged the receipt
of your letter to me, and at the same time transmitted to you
copies of his Correspondence with the President of the Sierra
Leone Company, I have only to resume the subject where he
left it.

The idle and disorderly character of the slaves, who deserted
their Masters and joined the British army in America, and who
constitute the greater part of the Inhabitants of Sierra Leone, has
produced an unfavorable opinion of our slaves in general, which
it is not easy to correct, and which unfortunately operates against
the adoption of the Plan we have offered to the African Company.

Hitherto the colony has done but little towards defraying the
Expenses of its Protection, which are so considerable that the
Company feels the burthen and is unwilling to consent to any
measure that may chance to increase it. I have taken some pains,
but hitherto without success, to do away what has appeared to me
an unfounded apprehension on this subject and to engage the
company to adopt our Proposition. I have not yet pressed for a
decision, having reason to believe that it might be in the negative.
At present I am recommending a modification of the plan to be
tried in the first instance as an experiment and upon a small scale,
and ultimately adopted upon a larger one, if found to be free
from the inconveniences that are apprehended. Though I cannot
encourage the expectation that the Company will agree to the
Proposal upon any terms, I am not without hope that it may consent
to receive a limited number of our negroes by way of experiment.

There is no prospect whatever of our being able to combine
the Transportation of these slaves with any beneficial plan of
Trade. It would be an important point gained could we obtain
permission to send them to Sierra Leone, and the Expense of
their passage would be small in comparision with the advantage
of their banishment.

I cannot close this Letter without begging you to be assured
that I am truly sensible of your obliging appreciation of the
manner in which I have performed the Duties of my office in

I98 XUFUS KING. [1802

this Country. The like zeal and industry will continue to be
employed during the residue of my mission, and I shall, more-
over, be ready after my return home to give to the Department of
State any such information as it may be supposed my residence
here has enabled me to acquire.

With distinguished consideration &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Geo. W. Erving, Esq.

Great Cumberland Place, Dec. 22, 1802.
Sir:

It having been the practice of your Predecessor to retain only
one percentum of the sums recovered in the Martinique cases,
there seems to be no good reason for claiming more, and I there-
fore recommend to you to receive from Mr. Williams at this rate
in the Martinique Cases referred to in your Letters of the 13 and
20. instant.

In regard to the ascertainment of the former usage in reim-
bursing the Public advances in these and other Cases, concerning
which you repeat your apprehension that Mr. Williams may, as
the private agent of the claimants, pursue a course embarrassing
to you, and injurious to the public, it does not appear to me that
the public interest is in any degree likely to be disregarded by the
American Commissioners with whose assistance the measures to
procure this reimbursement were concerted and who will have it
in their power to enforce their observance. I think it moreover
due to Mr. Williams to add, what a knowledge of the capacity and
zeal with which he served the public as your Predecessor author-
izes me to do, my full persuasion that so far from embarrassing
your agency, he will continue to afford you such information and
aid as his Experience and knowledge of the business enable him
to do, and as will materially contribute to the discharge of your
agency with satisfaction to yourself, and advantage to the public.

With much respect &c.

Rufus King.

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 99

R. King to James Madison, Esq.

Private.

London, Dec. 31, 1802.
Dear Sir :

I have duly reed, your letter of Oct. 9. and am obliged to you
for the early reply you have sent me, as well as for the like com-
munication you were good enough to make to my agent in New
York. As I expect the Vessel coming to me from America, will
be here and ready for me and my family to embark by the 10th.
of April, I am making the requisite preparations, and hope I may
not be disappointed in receiving my Letters of Recall in season,
to enable me to leave England immediately after that date.
With sentiments of Respect & Esteem &c.

R. K.

On January 3, 1803, to anticipate a little, Mr. Low writes
that he has made an arrangement for a ship of which the
captain is to provide such provisions and stores as may be
required, with the permission, if Mr. King desires it, for other
passengers than his family. The contract was that the vessel
shall be ready on the 10th of April, " to receive his family
and servants with his furniture, carriages, horses, sheep, cow
and other articles/'

On August 5, 1802, Mr. King wrote to Mr. Madison a
private letter saying that in his official letter to the Secre-
tary of State of the same date, resigning his office and re-
questing permission from the President to return home, he
had asked for the accommodation of a passage home for
himself and family in one of the public ships, which might
be returning home or which might bring out his successor
and carry him back. It is to the answer to that letter, by
Mr. Madison, privately, on October 9, 1802, which contains
the refusal to grant this request of a public conveyance that
Mr. King refers above. Mr. Livingston * had been sent out
recently in the Boston Frigate to Havre, and it was natural
for Mr. King to think that a similar privilege might be ex-

* See letter of R. Troup, vol. iii., p. 526, for the reasons.

200 RUFUS KING. [1802

tended to him, who had so long and satisfactorily served his
country and who supposed that his successor would be ap-
pointed before the next April, the time he named for the
termination of his embassy. What reasons were assigned
in this letter for the refusal of the request cannot be here
given, for the letter cannot be found. But in the official
files of the Department of State there is a letter from the
Secretary of State, which follows, and gives the reasons.

Washington, Department of State, Dec. 16, 1802.

Rufus King, Esq.:

Having in a private letter under cover of one to Mr. N. Low of
New York * communicated the result of yours on the subject of
your return to the United States in a national ship and having
had nothing to add to my last several letters on other subjects, I
have thus long delayed an official answer to your letters numbered
from 64 to 75 inclusive, I now acknowledge the receipt of them
and inclose the permission which you ask to return to the United
States. Your successor is not yet named.

The satisfaction which the President has derived from the
manner in which you have pursued the several objects committed
to you, and which I am authorized to repeat to you on this occa-
sion, makes him the more regret that the particular accommoda-
tion you wished for the repassage of your family could not be
afforded. Considering the actual situation and calls for the pub-
lic vessels not laid up, the only chance of such an arrangement
lay in the returns from the Mediterranean and that chance is
frustrated by the Quarantine regulations in Great Britain to
which vessels from that quarter are subject. . . .
With Great Respect &c.

James Madison.

* " Mr. N. Low, Mr. King's Agent in New York, writes to him on Oct. 23,
1802, that, having been absent from New York, he finds on his return a letter
from Mr. Madison of 9th inst. with one inclosed for you (which you have
herewith) from which I learn that a Government ship will not be sent for you ;
and as you depend in this event upon one being sent for you from hence, you
may be assured that it shall be done upon the best terms that may be, . . .
to be ready to receive you and your baggage at London on the 10th of April
next."

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 201

The appointment of a successor to Mr. King* was not
made, as stated above, or even suggested during this year,
and thus the contingency of one being sent out in a public
ship, on which Mr. King might return, did not occur. But
the President's own views of such an employment of a
public ship may be learned from a letter f addressed by him
to Gov. Monroe, January 13, 1803, informing him of his

* Mr. C. J. Ingersoll, in his Recollections, p. 353, writing of the appoint-
ments of foreign Ministers under Mr. Jefferson, says :

" But no step was taken for the appointment of another Minister to England,
superseding Rufus King, although differing entirely from the President's poli-
tics, and having been six years resident in London as American Minister. I
believe Mr. Jefferson has left, now published, his opinion that four years is
about the proper duration of an American Mission in Europe ; with Mr.
King's, when his had lasted six years and he considered seven a reasonable
period, President Jefferson never interfered to put an end to it, but left the
time to Mr. King, whose valuable services, particularly in the Louisiana acqui-
sition, were officially avowed by Mr. Livingston in his correspondence with
their government."

f "lam particularly concerned that, in the present case, you have more than
one sacrifice to make. To reform the prodigalities of our predecessors is under-
stood to be peculiarly our duty, and to bring the government to a simple and
economical course. They, in order to increase expense, debt, taxation and
patronage, tried always how much they could give. The outfit given to min
isters resident to enable them to furnish their house, but given by no nation to
a temporary minister, who is never expected to take a house or to entertain,
but considered on the footing of a voyageur, they gave to their extraordinary
ministers by wholesale. In the beginning of our administration, among
other articles of reformation in expense, it was determined not to give an outfit
to ministers extraordinary, and not to incur the expense with any minister of
sending a frigate to carry or bring him. The Boston happened to be going to
the Mediterranean, and was permitted, therefore, to take up Mr. Livingston
and touch in a port of France. A frigate was denied to Charles Pinckney, and
has been refused to Mr. King for his return. Mr. Madison's friendship and
mine to you being so well known, the public will have eagle eyes to watch, if
we grant you any indulgences out of the general rule : and on the other hand,
the example set in your case will be more cogent on future ones, and produce
greater approbation to our conduct." — Jefferson's Works, vol. iv., p. 455.

That the decision of the President was a correct one, though not for the
reasons given in this letter, can hardly be questioned : the Government was
relieved from the necessity and embarrassment of deciding such a question in
the future, and left it to those appointed to make such arrangements as each
might desire.

202 RUFUS KING. [1802

nomination and confirmation of it by the Senate, as Envoy
Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary to France and
Spain to assist Messrs. Livingston and Pinckney in their
negotiations about Louisiana. He earnestly pressed his
acceptance of the mission, and deprecated his refusal, telling
him at the same time that he could not send him in a public
ship.

CHAPTER XIV.

Troup to King— Spanish Officers at New Orleans violating the Treaty— Jef-
ferson's Message an Opiate— King to Vansittart— Duty on Oil proposed
would materially injure U. S. in withdrawing skilled Seamen — King to
Wilberforce— Urges granting Permission to send emancipated Slaves to
Sierra Leone— Wilberforce to King— Importance of cultivating Friendship
between their two Countries — Maryland Bank Stock — King to Lord
Hawkesbury and Sir Stephen Cottrell relative to contagious Fever on
Board of Vessel to carry American Seamen to the U. S.— King to Erving,
on the same Matter— King to Gallatin— Exchange with Holland and
England— How best to make Remittances— King to Lord Hawkesbury —
Claims equal Participation in the West India Trade— King to Governor
of Maryland, relative to Communications about the Bank Stock— J. Jay to
King — Domestic Afflictions have prevented writing — Sedgwick to Hamil-
ton—Federalists should hold the State Governments— King for Governor
of New York— King to Secretary of State— No further Progress in Settle-
ment of pending Questions— French Troops possibly going to Louisiana-
King to Lord Hawkesbury — His Government wishes Settlement of Ques-
tions with England— King to Secretary of State— Failure of Bird, Savage,
and Bird— King to Gallatin— Same Subject— Propositions to Sir Francis
Baring.

R. Troup to R. King.

New York Jan. 8, 1803.
Dear Sir :

. . . Congress have not yet engaged, so far as the papers
inform us, in any important measures. It is said that a few days
ago they were deliberating with close doors, and it is conjectured
that the violation of our Spanish Treaty by the Spanish officers
at New Orleans was the subject.* Jefferson's milk and water
communication on this subject is not generally liked. From ap-
pearances the nation would not be opposed, and particularly the

* See Hildreth's Hist, of U. S.y 2d Ser., v. ii., p. 471.
204 RUFUS KING. [1803

Kentuckians and Tennesseans, to prompt and strong measures.
What the government will do is a problem.

Jefferson's message to Congress at the opening of the session
is an opiate to the nation. There is as yet no promising appear-
ance of his declension in popularity ; and as he and all his
satellites continue in their demagoguish career I have little doubt
that they will retain their places ; and there seems to be little
reason to conclude that it will be wise at the next election to
attempt to disturb them. By the by, they begin openly to avow
that it will probably be our interest to draw still closer our
ties of amity with Great Britain.

Our merchants are rising up pretty generally against our meet-
ing Great Britain on the ground of abolishing the countervailing
duties ; and it is said that remonstrances will go to Congress
against the measure. . . .

God bless you and grant you and your family a short and pleas-
ant passage home, where your friends will be very happy to meet
you again, and amongst them none will be happier than, Dear
Sir,

Your very humble servt.

Robt. Troup.

R. King to Nicholas Vansittart Esq.

Randalls, Surrey, Jan. 8, 1803.
Sir:

After the conversation we lately had upon the subject, I will
not trouble you at much length respecting the proposed augmen-
tation of Duty upon foreign Spermaceti Oil. Under the Old
System of Duties our whale fishery has not increased, while yours
has extended itself so as to be able to supply more than your own
consumption, which our united fisheries a few years back were
unable to do. Under these Circumstances it is proposed to raise
the duty on foreign Spermaceti Oil from £22. 3.1. to .£31.10 the
Ton. The obvious effect of this measure will be to depress our
whale fishery by the entire exclusion of our Spermaceti Oil from
your market, where it sometimes finds in small quantities a pre-
carious sale : the proceeds of these sales are laid out in the pur-

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 205

chase of British manufactures. Live and let live is a maxim in
Trade, and in the present case may mean a little more than it
usually does, for I cannot persuade myself, with the connexion
that naturally exists between us, and seeing as we must the efforts
that France is making to acquire a control over the maritime
strength of the North of Europe, as she already has done over the
South, that the Decrease of American Seamen can be indifferent
to Great Britain ; and if it be not, I should hope for the sake of
a common interest that you would not from light motives be
willing to sanction any measure that would produce this effect.

I will not recall to your recollection by way of complaint, the
various modes of encouraging your whale fishery, which, with
whatever views adopted, have had the effect to withdraw from
our service numbers of our most intelligent and useful ad-
venturers.

As we have no laws prohibiting the transfer of their skill and
persons to a foreign State, they were free to accept your invita-
tion and we could only regret their preference.

But it would be matter of greater concern, should these meas-
ures be followed up by a Regulation which would still farther de-
press our whale fishery, that cannot be beneficial to your Revenue,
and which is not wanted as a Protection to a Branch of Industry,
that has already not only established itself, but continues to thrive
under an encouragement that has brought it to maturity.

With sentiments of Respect & Esteem &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to William Wilberforce, Esq.

Randalls, Jan. 8, 1803.
Dear Sir :

Will you give me leave to recall to your recollection my request
that you would converse with your neighbor, Mr. Thornton, con-
cerning the permission we have applied for to send certain of our
negroes to Sierra Leone. Although I really cannot suppose the
plan in its full extent liable to the objections that I understand
have been made to it, and which are founded upon the presumption
that our negroes are all of the same idle and disorderly charactei
as those who joined the English army in America, and who were

206 RUFUS KING. [1803

afterwards abandoned to, and infested by, the vices of a succes-
sion of garrison towns, yet I am not disposed to urge a project
upon merely speculative reasons. Instead therefore of the first
proposal, suppose the Company should consent to our sending to
its colony a limited number of negroes by way of experiment.
If benefit instead of injury should be the result of the Experi-
ment, the Permission would be continued ; if otherwise, it would
be refused. The Negroes we may send are only such as may
hereafter be manumitted by their Masters, and those who shall be
detected in attempting to excite Insurrections among their fellow
slaves. The former will include our most meritorious slaves, and
the latter will not be the idle and the vicious, and these would not
possess sufficient influence over their associates to become Leaders
in Schemes of Insurrection.

I don't think it requisite, since I know your way of thinking in
this respect, to enlarge upon the advantages to our respective
Countries that may be derived from those occasional good offices
and tokens of regard which, in small as well as important con-
cerns, have so much influence in extending the intercourse and
strengthening the friendship of Nations ; these are reflexions
with which your mind is familiar and which I am persuaded you
will apply as far as may be reasonable to the object of this letter.

With great truth and regard &c.

Rufus King.

W. WlLBERFORCE TO R. KlNG.

Private.

Broomfield, Tuesday, nth Jan., 1803.
My Dear Sir :

Your letter having been written on Saturday, did not reach
London until yesterday, and owing to a mistake, I have only this
day received my letters of yesterday. I lose no time in assuring
you that I will not fail to impress in the strongest manner I am
able on Mr. A. the extreme Importance of cultivating that friend-
ship betwn. the two countries so desirable, on all accounts, for
both. I will endeavour to enforce the same consideration on
Lord H.y, but I am not on the same confidential terms with him

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 207

as with Mr. A, and cannot so easily create an opportunity for
full and unreserved Discussion. I have a natural and fair plea to
urge in vindication of my Solicitude on this Subject besides the
Interest I take in it on general grounds as an English M. of
Parlt. anxious abt. the welfare of his country. The commercial
connection betn. the American and Yorke. merchts. has long
called my particular attention to the state of America and to what-
ever may tend to cement our union with her.

Before I heard from you I had been thinkg. of requestg. you
to refresh my Memory on the affair you mentioned to me in wh.
the State of Maryland was principally concerned. In the multi-
tude of topics we discussed during your kind Visit, I did not
recollect what you stated on that Head with sufficient distinct-
ness to enable me to reason from it satisfactorily — at ye same
time being a matter in its nature public, it furnishes on that ac-
count a peculiarly fit instance of the course of proceeding which
ought to be pursued by our Govt, with a view to the effect before
stated as so desirable. May I beg you to let me have a Statement
of the Maryland case either in writing or verbally. . . .

I cannot conclude without assuring you that I am gratified by
every mark of your confidence and that you may be assured of
my bearing in mind the Secresy and ye Discretion which that
confidence may justly claim & of my endeavouring to turn it to
good account by promoting that end which in common we have
in view. . . .

With cordial Esteem and Regard, yours very sincerely,

W. WlLBERFORCE.

R. King to the Duke of Portland.

Great Cumberland Place, Jan. 12, 1803.
My Lord :

I lose no time in making my acknowledgments to your Grace

for the Communication that I have just received thro' Sir Stephen

Cottrell concerning the vessel employed to carry a number of

American Seamen to the United States, and which has been for

some time detained at Falmouth on account of a contagious fever

that broke out among the Passengers. Sir Stephen has engaged

208 RUFUS KING. [1803

to send me Copies of the Report of the Physician, together with
such other Papers as will explain the malignant character of the
Disease : these being forwarded to the U. S. will enable the Gov-
ernment to adopt timely precautions against the Contagion,
should the fever again break out during the Passage.

With Sentiments of the highest Respect &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Sir Stephen Cottrell.

Great Cumberland Place, January 13, 1803.
Sir:

I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your Letter of
yesterday, respecting the Ship Mary employed to carry American
Seamen to the United States, and at present under quarantine at
Falmouth. In addition to the Reports of the quarantine Physi-
cian, I have endeavoured to inform myself of the actual condi-
tion of this Vessel, as well in respect to her ability to perform the
voyage, as to the quantity of Provisions remaining for the sub-
sistence of the Passengers and Crew ; and am sorry to learn from
Mr. Erving, the American Consul in London, and who engaged
the Vessel to perform this Service, that although he has doubts
of the sea-worthiness of the Ship, as well as of the sufficiency of
the Provisions, he is unable, by reason of the present situation of
the Vessel, to obtain such information on these points as both
humanity and justice seem to require. In these circumstances I
take the liberty to request thro' you the interference of his
Majesty's Council for the purpose of obtaining exact information
upon these two points, so necessary to be ascertained previously
to the Mary's being permitted to proceed on her Voyage. The
same motives which recommended the communication on this
subject that his Grace the Lord President so obligingly directed
to be made to me, will I am persuaded approve the measure it is
the aim of this application to accomplish.

With perfect Respect &c.

Rufus King.

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 20O

R. King to Geo. W. Erving, Esq., Agent for Seamen.
Great Cumberland Place, January 13, 1803.

OlR \

Pursuant of our conversation of last Evening, I have sent a
letter to Sir Stephen Cottrell, for the purpose of obtaining an
order of Council to prevent the Ship sailing until her sea-worthi-
ness and the sufficiency of her Provisions can be ascertained ;
this will without doubt be done.

But I infer from a conversation I have had with Sir Stephen
Cottrell that the Council will be likely to do no more than to give
orders to the Quarantine Officers at Falmouth to allow the Ship
to be visited by such persons as shall be employed to make the
proposed Survey ; and that it will be expedient that Mr. Fox
should engage a suitable person to perform this service. I apprise
you of this circumstance, in order that you may write to Mr. Fox
to have the Survey made.

I am, Sir, your obedt. servt.

R. K.

R. King to Albert Gallatin, Esq., Secretary of the
Treasury, U. S.

« % London, Jan. 13, 1803.

I have duly received your Letter of Nov. 16, together with one
from the Treasurer of the 18. of the same month, enclosing Mr.
Glassford's Bill of Exchange upon the Lords Commissioners of
the Treasury of this Country for Seventy thousand Pounds Ster-
ling. The Bill was presented on the 10th instant, has been dul)r
accepted, and shall be disposed of according to your direction.

The Exchange between London and Amsterdam has for some
time been growing more favourable to the former, and bills on
the latter, as you will perceive by the annexed note of the rate of
Exchange, are at this time above par.

In addition to the ordinary Remittances from Holland to Eng-
land, in payment of the manufactures of the latter, considerable
sums are, and will continue to be, remitted to the English Pro-
prietors of Estates in the Dutch Colonies ; the produce whereof
is now obliged to go to Holland, and this circumstance among

2IO RUFUS KING. [1803

others has had its effect in turning the Exchange in favour of
England.

I shall have sufficient time before the Bill upon the Treasury-
falls due to make such enquiries as may be requisite to enable me
to engage a House of Reputation to transact our money concerns
in this country. In doing this it will be my aim to reduce the
compensation to the lowest rate at which we can expect our busi-
ness to be done, by a House whose solidity and credit are above
all doubt.

You are doubtless apprised of the embarrassments of the Bank
of Amsterdam during the late war, whose stock in consequence
thereof suffered great depreciation : that all foreign Bills of Ex-
change were acquitted in current Guilders instead of Bank money
as had been the usage. Towards the close of last September the
city of Amsterdam published a Paper founded upon a Report of
the commissaires of the Bank, announcing that the deficit had
been entirely supplied by a Tax for this purpose paid by the city
of Amsterdam ; that the Guaranty of the city being thus satisfied
and the Bank completely re-established, it had become expedient
to re-establish the ancient Law respecting the acquittance of Bills
of Exchange and therefore that it had been resolved :

" Art. I. That the value of every Bill of Exchange which shall
be drawn or negotiated in this city of the 30th of the month of
October approaching, upon places situated out of the Republic,
and the amount of which shall be 300 florins and upwards shall
be acquitted in the Bank of this city.

" II. That all Bills of Exchange upon, or payable in this City
of the value of 300 florins and upwards, drawn from places situ-
ated in the French Republic, Great Britain, Spain, Portugal and
Italy, shall be paid in Bank after the 31st Jany, 1803.

" III. That every Bill of Exchange which conformably to the
Articles I. and II., is to be acquitted in Bank, and shall be proved
to have been done so in any other manner, shall be held to be ac-
cepted, and each of the two contravening Persons shall pay a fine
of 3 per cent, upon the total sum of these payments made out of
the Bank.

" IV. That payments of Bills of Exchange will not be consid-
ered good but conformably to the 1st and 2d Articles, the usage
introduced for some time of writing in Bank to oneself for

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 211

another, as well as that of regulating the payment of it in current
money, shall cease at the periods mentioned in the said Articles :
the Resolution of the Council of Commerce of the 6th of October
1796 being in that respect revoked by the present."

The Bank florins in which Bills from this Country are now
payable have risen and are now 5 per cent, above the current

money.

With great Respect,&c,

Rufus King.

R. King to Lord Hawkesbury.

Great Cumberland Place, Jany. 18, 1803.
My Lord :

Referring to the observations transmitted to your Lordship in
my Letter of the 3d of Feby past, explanatory of the principle
upon which we claim an equal participation of the Trade between
the United States and the British West Indies, I take the liberty
to recall the subject to your Lordship's recollection as one that
has been long under consideration, and upon which I have
received orders to require the Decision of his Majesty's Govern-
ment.

If contrary to the maxims by which the Trade of the Colonies
was formerly regulated, new circumstances have rendered it ex-
pedient to open an intercourse between them and foreign States,
it is this measure and not the admission of such foreign States to
a share in the Trade, which breaks in upon a system that could
no longer be maintained with advantage.

Such intercourse being opened, each party is alike competent
to make Laws for its Regulation, and as neither can claim or ex-
pect to do so exclusively of the other, such Regulation becomes
fit matter for mutual Explanation and agreement.

In conformity with this principle, an Article respecting this
Trade was prepared and inserted in the Treaty of 1794, although
afterwards excluded at the instance of the United States by
reason of its inequality.

Should the United States in imitation of the example set them
by Great Britain pass a Law applying the same rule to British
Vessels, which the law of Great Britain applies to those of the
United States, the effect would be that neither British nor Amer-

212 RUFUS KING. [1803

ican vessels could carry on the Trade : but on Flour, Corn, Timber,
Staves and other articles, of first necessity to the Colonies, which
must be received from the United States, the American vessels
would carry them to some Port or Island in the West Indies,
belonging to a third Power, whither the British vessels would go
to receive the same ; carrying thither to purchase them such
articles of Colonial produce as are allowed to be exported to the
United States. In this way an Entrepot would be established in
the West Indies for the mutual sale and purchase of these com-
modities, and as the Question principally regards the Navigation
of the two Countries, it is evident that the effect of these exclusive
Regulations would be more beneficial to the United States than
to Great Britain, inasmuch as the voyage from the United States
to the Place of Deposit in the West Indies would be longer and
consequently would afford more employment than between the
said place of Deposit and the British West Indies.

Notwithstanding the Equity of such a Law on the part of the
United States and the probable advantage it would secure to their
navigation we have no hesitation in preferring an amicable and
equal participation of the Trade, to the certainty of even acquir-
ing an unequal share of it, by a measure of retaliation, which,
being resorted to in one branch of Trade, may by one or both
sides be extended to others, and in the end might have the effect
to disturb the harmony, as well as the extensive and mutually
beneficial intercourse between the two countries.

Whether it may be deemed more convenient to alter the exist-
ing Law on the part of Great Britain, so as to allow the Trade
in question to be carried on equally by American and British
Vessels, or to enter into a compact for this purpose, as was in-
tended by the Treaty of 1794, is not a point of material difficulty ;
tho' in the nature of the subject, a preference seems due to an
adjustment by mutual stipulation : in either mode as a security
against the Extension of this Trade beyond the Limits, which it
may be*desired to give it, it might be provided that the return Car-
goes of American vessels should be carried directly to the United
States, and that they should moreover be purchased as well as
limited by the proceeds of Cargoes imported in American Vessels.
With distinguished Consideration &c.

Rufus King.

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 213

R. King to His Excellency, the Governor of Maryland.

London, Jan. 18, 1803.
Sir:

Having lately seen your Excellency's Message of November
last to the General Assembly of Maryland, I was a little surprised
at that part of it which refers to a verbal message stated to have
been delivered by Mr. Christie from me to the Executive of
Maryland ; and I think it alike due to your Excellency and
myself to take the earliest opportunity to correct a representation
that has arisen without doubt from a misapprehension of the
object and perhaps the tenour of the communication that I made
to Mr. Christie. Not having had the honour of a direct corre-
spondence with the Executive of Maryland concerning the State
interest in the Bank of England, I might have doubted the pro-
priety of my commencing it, especially as the subject had been
repeatedly given me in charge by the President, and my commu-
nications respecting it had been regularly made to the Department
of State, and, I presume, thro' it to the Executive of Maryland.
Knowing however the solicitude which existed in Maryland
respecting this property, so long, and I may add, so unreasonably
detained, I thought it probable that Mr. Christie's friends, upon
his return from England, would make enquiries of him concern-
ing it, and therefore took an opportunity before he left London
to explain to him its precise situation ; but without any expecta-
tion that the explanation would or could assume the shape of an
official communication to the Executive of Maryland. Being
unacquainted with the purport of Mr. Christie's communication,
I can say nothing of its accuracy, and the sole object of this
Letter is to beg you to be assured that I should have made a
direct and written communication to the Executive of Maryland,
had it been my intention to have made any direct and written
communication whatever. With great Respect &c.

Rufus King.

John Jay to R. King.

Bedford, 20 Jany, 1803.
Dear Sir :

I ought to have written to you long ago, but a series of occur-
rences have for two years past left me little Leisure for epistolary-
correspondence. I allude to Mrs. Jay's long and painful Illness,

214 RUFUS KING. [1803

and (when she appeared to be fast recovering) her unexpected
Death. The Vicissitudes in my own Health, the Removal of my
Family to this place, and the many things to be done for their
Accommodation, the gradually increasing Indisposition of my
Son, who is now on the Ocean going to Italy to avoid the Winter
here, &c, these are afflicting Circumstances ; but considering
where and what we are, Troubles of one kind or other are to be
expected and to be borne with Patience and Resignation.

My Expectations from Retirement have not been disappointed ;
and had Mrs. Jay continued with me, I should deem this the most
agreeable part of my life.

The post once a week brings me our Newspapers, which, with
those you are so kind as to send me, furnish a History of the
Times. By this History, as well as those of former times, we are
taught the Vanity of expecting that, from the Perfectibility of
human nature and the Lights of Philosophy, the Multitude will
become virtuous & wise, or their Demagogues candid and honest.
As G. Morris says " what is, is " and we must make the best of
it. For the present they probably reason so in France. It would
not however surprize me if future Irruptions from that Volcano
should again desolate some of the neighbouring Countries. View-
ing the French Revolution as a Tragedy I am inclined to think,
that we have only seen the first act concluded. You may live to
see the next j but I shall doubtless by that time be removed to a
Theatre of a different kind.

Not having had leisure to visit New York since my Removal
from Albany to this place, I cannot give you any particular Infor-
mation relative to our mutual Friends there. Judge Benson is
again at the Bar, and I regret it. If these are not upside down
Times, they certainly are up and down Times — but Athens the
City of Philosophers, and Rome the City of everything, saw and
felt much worse. With great Esteem and Regard I am

Dear Sir

Your most obt. Servt.

John Jay.

Mr. Sedgwick, January 27, 1803,* writes to General
Hamilton among other things :

* Hamilton's Works, vol. vi., p. 553.

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 215

It is very important that the federalists should retain and
acquire the possession of the State governments wherever in their
power. For this reason, and indeed for many others, I am glad
Mr. King is about to return home. With wisdom and prudence,
I think it is probable that he may be placed at the head of the
government of New York. He may there do infinitely more
good than in the inefficient office of Vice-President. General
Pinckney must in all events be considered as our candidate for
the first office. I have been inexpressibly disgusted with some of
our friends who have suggested that we ought to consider him
only as designed for the second. There is, however, another
consideration on the subject which ought to be considered as
conclusive. We shall most certainly not succeed at the next
election, nor is it, in my mind, desirable that we should. Should
Mr. King be holden up for this office, it would lessen at least the
probability of his success for the government of New York.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 79.

London, Jany. 28, 1803.
Sir :

No farther progress has yet been made in the discussion of the
Boundaries : from one or two conversations that I have had with
Col. Barclay, who has returned to town, I perceive that his opinion,
whatever influence it may have, will be favourable to such a
settlement of the Eastern Boundary as would be satisfactory to
us : the chief difficulty in the Settlement that I foresee at present,
respects the Island of Campo Bello which to avoid questions of
interfering jurisdiction arising from its being Westward of the
suitable Boundary-Line, should belong to Massachusetts. If it
should be ceded, I shall have no hesitation to agree to a confir-
mation of the Titles of the Settlers, derived from Nova Scotia. But
the Minister may hesitate about a cession. Lord Hawkesbury
some weeks ago sent an Instruction to the Attorney General to
take measures to effect the Transfer of the Maryland Bank Stock
to the King, in order that his majesty might be enabled to dispose

2l6 RUFUS KING. [1803

of it in such a way as he should think fit ; and as Hilary Term
has commenced, I presume the transfer will shortly be made to
the Crown. On this subject I have lately seen in the News Papers
the Message of the Governor of Maryland to the General Assem-
bly of that State, and take the liberty to annex to this Letter the
copy of one that I thought myself called upon, in consequence of
this Message, to write to Governor Mercer.

In my last conversation with Lord Hawkesbury respecting the
intercourse between the United States and the British Colonies
in the West Indies, he desired me to write him a Letter upon that
subject, in order that he might submit it to the consideration of
the Cabinet, and I accordingly sent him the Letter, a copy of
which is adjoined.*

Although I have received no answer to the Letter to Mr. Van-
sittart, a copy whereof is likewise annexed,* respecting the pro-
posed augmentation of Duty upon Spermaceti Oil, he told me a
few days ago that unless they found stronger opposition from the
Board of Trade than was expected, the Treasury would be dis-
posed to abandon the proposed increase of Duty. . . .
With perfect Respect & Esteem &c.

R. K.

P. S. At Paris, they say Victor will proceed with his troops
directly to Louisiana ; here it is believed that the General with
the Etat Major and a few troops may go to Louisiana, but that
the greater part of the forces will be landed in St. Domingo.

R. King to Lord Hawkesbury.

Private.

London, Feby. 1, 1803.
My Lord :

There are three subjects upon which I have received orders to

press for the final determination of his Majesty's Government

before I leave England. These are the Maryland Bank Stock,

the Boundaries and the Intercourse between the U. S. and the

British Colonies in the West Indies. As I expect to embark in

* The length of these letters prevents their insertion here. — Ed.

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 2\*J

the Month of April, your Lordship must be sensible that no
further time is to be lost in taking measures to bring these points
to a decision, if it be intended that they shall be adjusted before
my departure.

With perfect Respect &c.

R. K.

R. King to Messrs. Bird, Savage, and Bird.

London, Feby. 7, 1803.
Gentlemen :

I received at a late hour last Evening a Letter from your Mr.
H. M. Bird, communicating the information that your House
will be obliged to stop payment this morning and that the U. S.
are your Creditors for a considerable sum.

Having casually heard from the late American Consul, Mr.
Williams, that he had lately accepted Bills for several Thousand
Pounds payable to your House on account of the U. S., I cannot
doubt that you will be of opinion with me that these Bills, being
held in Trust, should be delivered to me in order that they may
be collected and applied to the Service of the U. S. and I there-
fore request you to deliver the same to the Bearer, John Munro.

With due Respect &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Secretary of State.
No. 80.

London, Feby. 7, 1803.
Sir :

Last Evening (Tuesday) I received a note from Mr. Bird, in-
forming me that his House would be obliged to stop payment
this morning, and that the United States are Creditors for a con-
siderable sum. The former Consul, Mr. Williams, having casu-
ally informed me that he had lately accepted Bills for several
Thousand Pounds, payable to Bird, Savage & Bird, for the service
of the United States, I have written them a Letter requiring that

218 RUFUS KING. [1803

they would deliver up to me all Bills of Exchange that have been
remitted to them and which they hold in trust for the United
States. I have not yet received their answer but as they have
without doubt been pressed in their affairs, I fear there is little
probability of recovering these Draughts, which may have been
already discounted.

In consequence of this failure, I shall be under the necessity of
making the best arrangement in my Power with some other House
for the payment of the appointments of the several agents of the
United States in this country.

Mr. Livingston in a Letter dated at Paris the 3rd instant,
informs me that he had just received accounts from Mr. Graham
at Madrid that the Spanish Government has passed a most extra-
ordinary decree by which all American Vessels coming from the
United States are denied entry into any of the Ports of Spain
until they shall have duly performed Quarantine in some foreign

Port.

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 81.

London, Feb. 9, 1803.
Sir:

As I apprehended might be the case, Bird, Savage & Bird have
answered my demand for the surrender of the Bills of Exchange
lately remitted to them, by saying they were unable to deliver
them up, as they had been discounted before their failure. I
have requested them to prepare and send me their accounts,
including all receipts and payments up to the day on which they
stopped, and I hope to receive them in season to forward by the
mail of this month which will not be dispatched before the 12th.

Having understood the assigned reason for the failure to be
the delay that has attended the Remittances on account of large
debts due in America, I shall direct Mr. Erving, the Consul to
attend the first meeting of the Creditors, when a State of the
affairs of the House is to be exhibited. By this means we may
ascertain the names and debts of the American Debtors, and by

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 219

the priority due to the United States, I presume the Treasury
will be able to secure the speedy and full recovery of the Debt
due from this House.

With great Respect & Esteem &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to A. Gallatin, Esq.

London, Feb. 9, 1803.
Sir:

My Letters to the Secretary of State will apprise you of the
failure of the House of Bird, Savage & Bird, and their accounts
which I expect to forward by the mail of this month, will enable
you to take immediate measures for the recovery in America of
the considerable balance that I understand to be due to the
United States.

It is fortunate that the large Bill upon the English Treasury
was sent to me instead of this House. The Bankers in Holland
recommend to me to invest its amount when received in a Bill at
3 months. I am making inquiries here upon this subject and
shall adopt what may appear to me the most advantageous mode
of remittance.

I have had several conversations with Sir Francis Baring with
the view of settling the Terms upon which his House (which is
perhaps the most solid House in England) would undertake our
money agency in this Country. He will receive and collect Bills
of Exchange and remit the proceeds to Holland for one half per
centum ; this is as low as the Business could be done by inferior
Houses. I have pressed him to receive and sell our funded stock
and to remit its proceeds upon the same Terms. This he declines
doing, but would transact this part of the Business for one per
centum. The proposition I last made him, and which he has
under consideration, is to allow one per centum on the sale of
stocks and the remitting of the proceeds, including the Brokerage
upon the sale of the Stocks, which I understand to be as much as
a quarter per centum.

With great Respect &c.

Rufus King.

CHAPTER XV.

King engages a Country House near New York — King to Vansittart — Demands
Restoration of Wines and Spirits — Remains of Stores on Merchant Vessels
seized by the Custom's Officers — King to Bird, Savage & Bird — How
Balances to be Settled — King to Sir F. Baring — Terms of Money Arrange-
ment— Baring to King — Answer — King to Livingston — Monroe appointed
Envoy, etc., to France — King to Gallatin — Arrangement with Sir F.
Baring as Financial Agent of the U. S. — King to Secretary of State —
Northeast Boundary Line — King to Livingston — Relative to the Closure
of the Port of New Orleans — King to Livingston — The King's Message to
Parliament looks to War — Measures taken — Effect on the U. S. —
Especially with reference to Louisiana — King to Lord Hawkesbury —
Vessels of U. S. from New Orleans denied Entry because a Spanish Port
— Asks him to remove this Impediment — King to Secretary of State — Ex-
pedition to Louisiana will not proceed — King to Secretary of State — War
more probable — France's Demands — England's Preparations — King to
Secretary of State — England's Answer — Malta — Cabot to King — Affairs in
U. S. — Regrets King's Return — King to Secretary of State — France's
Answer to England — War inevitable.

Mr. King, in anticipation of his return home had written
to Mr. N. Low to procure for him a ready furnished house
in the country to which he might go on his arrival at New
York. He had received an answer, that one ready furnished
was out of the question. " You seem to have forgotten the
state of things in this country, when you direct a ready
furnished house to be engaged." Search, however, was
made and on Feb. 2, 1803, Mr. Low wrote to him.

" I have succeeded beyond all calculation in obtaining for you
a ready furnished country house . . . with the privilege of
making it your first winter residence, which it is mine and the
opinion of your friends here that you will do."
1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 221

The house was situated in Greenwich about two miles
and a half from the City Hall, belonging to a Mr. Andrew
Smith, who was about to make a voyage, with his family, to
India.

R. King to Nicholas Vansittart, Esq.

Great Cumberland Place, Feb. 16, 1803.
Sir :

I take the liberty to sd. you enclosed a letter that I have re-
ceived from the Master of the American Ship Iri$% a regular
Trader between New York and London, complaining of the seiz-
ure of several small quantities of wine and spirits, being the
remains of Sea-stores provided for the use of the passengers and
crew. I likewise enclose the copy of a letter which I wrote to
Mr. Rose in the year 1799 upon this subject ; on this occasion
Mr. Rose assured me that he would either by a clause to be in-
serted in an Act of Parliament, or in some other way take
measures to prevent a repetition of their Proceedings. The ships
employed as regular Traders between the United States and Great
Britain, derive no small portion of their earnings from the passen-
gers who pass and repass in the prosecution of their commercial
concerns ; and it seems as reasonable that the requisite stores for
their accommodation should be provided in America where they
are cheaper than in England, as that the Provisions for the crew
should be there laid in.

If the captains be held to report all such stores, the quantity of
which may be limited and to deposit them on his arrival at the
Custom House, they might be delivered back previous to his sail-
ing and the Revenue thereby secured against fraud.

I ask the favour of you to give an order for the restoration of
the Stores of the Iris, and moreover to procure the establishment
of some safe and convenient Regulations upon this subject, appli-
cable to further cases, not only in the Port of London, but in that
of Liverpool and others with which we have frequent intercourse.

With great respect, &c.

R. K.

P.S. — Since writing the above I have received a second letter
from the Captain of the Iris, asking my interference to relieve

222 RUFUS KING, [1803

him from the embarrassment to which he may be liable in conse-
quence of the discovery of some Chocolate and other articles in
the possession of the Ship's Steward. On this subject I can say
no more than that I have reason from the good character of the
Master to believe him ignorant and innocent of this transaction,
and therefore flatter myself that he may not be made liable to ex-
pense or embarrassment.

R. King to Messrs. Bird, Savage, and Bird.

Great Cumberland Place, Feby. 13, 1803.
Gentlemen :

It is quite indifferent to me whether you balance my private
account by a transfer from the Diplomatic Fund on account of
the current quarter's salary, or allow me to pay you the Balance
in Cash, which I am ready to do. Perhaps it will be most cor-
rect, because it will correspond with the fact, that you should
balance my account as well as those of the other agents of the
United States by suitable transfers for this purpose from the pub-
lic accounts to which they respectively belong.

In regard to Mawhood & Co's claims, as you took no discharge
from them (which if you were in Cash, I think you ought to have
done) it remains to be paid : but the transaction should appear
by proper entries in the Debtor and Creditor sides of the account.

I agree with you in opinion that it will be proper to bring the
balances of the several accounts into a general account which may
show the real Balance due to the United States.

Be good enough to send me my Book with these accounts duly
entered, in order that I may be able to examine them before they
are finally made up.

I remain, Gentlemen, your obed. servt.

Rufus King.

R. King to R. R. Livingston.

London, 23 Feb. 1803.
Dear Sir :

Having just seen a Letter from Mr. Thornton, the British
charge- des affaires at Washington dated January n, which states

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 223

that the President had just nominated Mr. Monroe, Envoy Extra, and
Minister Plenipotentiary to France and Spain to treat with either
or both concerning the Mississippi. No mention is made of my

Successor.

Yours faithfully

Rufus King.

R. King to Albert Gallatin, Esq.

London, Feb. 25, 1803.
Sir:

The annexed copy of my correspondence with Sir Francis
Baring & Co., will sufficiently explain the Terms upon which
I have in your behalf agreed with this House to transact such
Business as may be committed to it by the Department of the
Treasury or any other Branch of the Government of the United
States.

My Letter of the 9th instant is erroneous in stating that this
House would consent both to sell the funded Debt and remit the
Proceeds for a commission of one per cent. This error arose
from a misconception, on my part, of the tenour of a conversa-
tion on this subject that I had with Sir Francis Baring, and which
was corrected by subsequent conferences ; the offer having been
confined to the mere Sale of the funded Debt, exclusive of Bro-
kerage and the Commission for remitting the Proceeds to the
Continent.

I have taken pains to inform myself of the Terms upon which
similar Business is done between our Merchants and those of this
Country ; and the result is a persuasion that this arrangement is
not only safe and reputable, as it regards the solidity and charac-
ter of the agents (points of considerable importance) but more-
over that the Terms are as low as the like Business has been done
between individuals ; the more general custom appearing to have
been a charge of half per cent on remittances from America and
half per cent more on remitting the Proceeds to any part of the
Continent ; and in respect to the Sale of Stocks, I have not found
that it has in any instance been done for less Commission than
one per cent, exclusive of Brokerage, and in most cases the Com-
mission has been from two to two and a half per cent. One half

224 RUFUS KING. [1803

per cent is understood to be the regular and common charge for
making remittances from this Country to the Continent.

The failure of Mess. Bird, Savage and Bird made it requisite
to have recourse to some other House to receive and pay the ap-
pointments of the public agents of the United States in this
Country. I received offers from several respectable Commer-
cial and Banking Houses to transact the Business on the same
Terms as had been done by Bird, Savage and Bird ; but as Sir
Francis Baring & Co were willing to do it upon the like Terms,
and were moreover to be employed as the Bankers of the United
States in a more important concern, I had no hesitation in giving
them a preference. . . .

With great respect &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 82.

London, Feb. 28, 1803.
Sir:

I have duly received your Letters of the 16 and 23 December.
By Lord Hawkesbury's desire I have conferred with Col. Barclay
respecting the continuation of the Boundary thro' the Bay of
Passamaquoddy, who has made no objection to the line we have
proposed, tho' he appears to think that it would be improper to
cede to us the Island of Campo Bello unless the cession should
be desired by the Inhabitants. No objection has been made to
our Title to Moose Island and at present I foresee nothing to
impede a settlement of this Boundary, except the difficulty of
engaging the Ministers to bestow upon the Subject sufficient time
to understand it. With regard to the line between the Source of
the St. Croix and the North West corner of Nova Scotia, I have
no reason to suppose there will be any objection to its being
ascertained in the way we have proposed.

Not having been able to fix the attention of Lord Hawkesbury
upon the Subject, I am not able to give you any information con-
cerning the line between the North West corner of Nova Scotia
and the head of the Connecticut River, or between the Lake of
the Woods and the Mississippi.

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 22Z

As soon as I have informed myself of the practical interpreta-
tion of the Law, which it is supposed impedes the importation of
the cotton and other produce of the Western Country, I will make
such application to the Government as may be proper to remove
the impediments. . . . General Victor is still detained in
Holland, and it is said the Expedition will proceed to Louisi-
ana in a few weeks.

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to R. R. Livingston.
Dr Sir . London, Mar. 4, 1803.

I have seen a letter from one of the Senators, dated Washing-
ton Jan'y 10, that says a message had been sent to the H. of
Reps., but not to the Senate, which was received with closed
doors, and was understood to communicate the answer of the
Gov'r of New Orleans to Gov. Claiborne's Letter.

The answer insinuates that the shutting of the Port by the in-
tendant was not in compliance with an express order of the King
of Spain, but a measure resulting from general Instructions for
the Government of the Colonies on the return of Peace ; that be-
ing shut, it would not be proper, nor in his power, to open the
Port without the express orders of the Crown; and as the
deposit would be inconvenient to the Colony, that it would be unjust
to construe the Treaty so vigorously as to claim it as a Right.
The writer observes that he has not seen the letter which is
kept secret, but that he has rec'd good information as to its
purport.

I do not learn that any communication has been made to Con-
gress of the Representations or Exertions you have made upon
this Subject, an omission that seems to me, in several respects to
be of much importance.

We have newspapers from New York to the 28 Jan'y. The en-
closed scraps were sent me in a letter ; when I receive my Papers
I will forward them to you. A Gentleman of New York in a
lettevoL0IvhiSI5C°rreSp0ndent here' says the Vice President will visit

226 RUFUS KING. [1803

the western country and the Mississippi Territory next Spring, and
insinuates that it is not improbable that he may hereafter reside
there. Yrs. most sincerely,

R. King.

R. King to R. R. Livingston, Esq.

London, March 11, 1803.
Dear Sir :

The Newspapers will have given you the message of Tuesday
from the King to Parliament ; the two Houses have without dis-
sent offered in reply the usual assurances of support which are
made at the commencement of a war. I attended the House of
Commons, but the conversation which passed, for there was no
debate, cast no light upon the discussion depending with France.
The Mins'r merely said that a full disclosure shd be made in case
no satisfactory settlement shd not be attained. The Message has
been followed by a general Impress of Seamen, the calling out of
the Militia, and by Proclamation recalling all Br. Seamen in for.
service, and offering bounties to such as shall voluntarily enter
into the Navy.

Without puzzling oneself to discover the exact points in dis-
cussion, the temper manifested on both sides, and the Eclat which
each has chosen to give to its measures, will make it difficult to
accomplish a Reconciliation. It seems to me that the Ministry
here cannot go back, if so the decision rests with Bonaparte.
From the reference which the message has made to the arma-
ments in Holland, it is pretty natural to conclude that a fleet of
observation will immediately appear in the Channel, and that de-
tachments, or small squadrons will watch the arsenal Ports of
both France and Holland ; if so, the Expedition to Louisiana
must remain in Port, until the questions in discussion are decided.
How far our affairs will be beneficially effected by this unex-
pected, tho' very natural course of things, is more than I am able
to determine, and I shd be thankful for the assistance of your
Sentiments to enable me to form a satisfactory opinion respecting
this Point. Should we like to see the English in N. O. not with
the view of keeping it, but to prevent its going into the hands of
France ; or perhaps to assist us in acquiring a title to, and the
possession of it ? If you are authorized to negotiate a purchase,

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 227

would not the occupation by the English benefit your bargain, it
being well and previously understood, that if we obtain the Title,
they would give us the Possession ? All this is mere speculation,
and more, it is very hasty and occurs as I write. But crude as it
is, it may be worth consideration. You see I write in confidence
and without the least reserve ; I need not say that it is merely be-
tween you and me. Most faithfully,

R. K.

R. King to Rt. Honorable Lord Hawkesbury.

Great Cumberland Place, Mar. 12, 1803.
My Lord :

The Cotton, Flour, and other Articles, the produce of the
Western States of America, and which are brought down the Mis-
sissippi, are according to a Treaty between the United States and
his Catholic Majesty, deposited at New Orleans from whence the
vessels of the United States receive and carry the Same to
the Ports of America or to those of some foreign State.
American Vessels laden with Cotton, and other Articles, the pro-
duce of these Western States, and which were taken on board at
New Orleans have of late, upon their arrival in this Country, been
denied an Entry upon the ground that they came from a Spanish
Port.

Without objection to the Law, which forbids a foreign Ship to
import into Great Britain the produce even of her own country
except the same be brought directly from the Ports of the country
to which she belongs, it is evident that the Prohibition does not
in its principle or object apply to the Case of Vessels in the cir-
cumstances of those just mentioned ; and without detaining your
Lordship with Reflexions to elucidate this truth, I take the liberty
of submitting the case to your Lordship's consideration and of re-
questing your interference in such way as may be proper for the
purpose of removing the Impediments which prevent the entry of
American Vessels coming from New Orleans and laden with
Articles of the growth and manufacture of the United States.
With great consideration, &c.

Rufus King.

228 RUFUS KING. [1803.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 84.

London, Mar. 16, 1803.
Sir:

Couriers last evening arrived at the French Ambassador's from
Paris, and at the same time a Messenger from Lord Whitworth ;
they left Paris after the communication of the King's Message to
Parliament of the 8th inst. had been received there. General
Andreossi and the Dutch Ambassador both told me to-day that
for the purpose of taking away the pretext of war (as they ex-
pressed themselves) arising out of the Colonial Expeditions,
prepared in the Dutch and French Ports, the Expedition to
Louisiana has been countermanded and will not now proceed.

The answer from Paris, it is understood, possesses a sincere
desire of Peace, demands the immediate fulfilment of the Stipula-
tions of the Treaty of Amiens, and precise explanations why the
Evacuation of Malta has been hitherto delayed. It likewise
alludes to the King's Message, and insinuates that it is impossible
to imagine that it can be here believed that the proposed arma-
ments can have any influence upon the determination of France.
With perfect Respect & Esteem, &c.

Rufus King.

G. Cabot to R. King.

Boston, March 10, 1803.
My dear Sir :

My spirits sink when I look upon the picture you have given
of Europe in your several letters of 3d & 4th January. I scarcely-
recollect a period in the course of the war when the destructive
power of France was so much to be feared. It seems to me that
only two nations remain whose aid would be effectual if it cou'd
be directed to the support of the British Empire against the
dangers that assail it. I mean Russia & the U. S.; the former
has less powerful motives for giving it than the latter, for Russia
is not only invincible but almost invulnerable from the want of
Civilization.

It ought to be the policy of England to refrain from the Com-
bat (if she can safely) until some substantial cooperation can be
secured. I hope you won't think me extravagant if I say that

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 229

this Country wou'd be a competent ally if we were once fully
engaged ; but we shall not engage if we can avoid it : we shall
rather pay tribute for being permitted to remain neutral while
others are destroyed whose safety is necessary to our own. Such
at least must be the conclusions which every man will draw from
the measures of our Govt. & especially the mission of the french
hearted Monroe.

All good men regret that you are about to leave the place you
have filled so well for seven critical years ; few however wonder
at it & not many can disapprove your determination. From
something you said I infer that you contemplate a visit to this
part of the Country after your arrival ; I pray ardently that this
may be realized as I am persuaded you will receive some pleasure
& communicate a great deal ; I hope you will come early &
allow yourself ample time to see your well-ripened friends lei-
surely. The Louisiana business interests the public very much
but I have long ago settled my opinion upon it & endeavored to
propagate it, which is that " France will not push us to a war at
this time." I ground this upon the obvious policy of avoiding to
create for G. B. the only important ally she needs & can hope
for, & on the other side the certainty that we shall take no part
against France if we can avoid it, but may be foolish & even base
enough to favor the views of France against the only power in
the World able &, from interest, necessarily disposed to assist
in defending us. If however it shou'd happen that France has
grown too arrogant to make these calculations & shou'd treat us
as she does her neighbours, she may provoke us to a resistance
which wou'd be happy for this Country & perhaps for many
others. I pray you to receive my best wishes for a favorable
passage home. I remain always your sincere friend

George Cabot.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 85.

London, Mar. 17, 1803.
Sir :

War seems more and more probable, and it appears to me in-
evitable. Holland will be immediately involved, and Spain and
Portugal must obey the commands of France. The day after the

23O RUFUS KING. [1803

King's Message to Parliament was communicated to the French
Government, Bonaparte delivered to Lord Whitworth a Paper (a
copy of which I have seen) stating

1st. That the Expedition preparing in the Dutch Ports was, as
all the world knew, destined for America, but, in consequence of
the Message, that it had been recalled and would not proceed.

2d. That if the armament announced in the Message be not
satisfactorily explained, or if it take place, that France would
march 20,000 men into Holland.

3d. That the forces debarked in the Ports of Holland would
be reinforced and assembled on the coast of Flandres.

4th. That the French army will be immediately put on a war
establishment.

5th. That camps will be formed on the coasts of France
between Dunkirk and Boulogne.

6th. That an army would enter Switzerland.

7th. That an army would march into Italy and occupy Tarento.

8th. That England must not expect, under the cover of an
armament, to avoid the execution of the Treaty of Amiens.

The greatest activity continues to prevail in the military and
naval Departments ; it is understood that the Squadrons in the
West and East Indies & in the Mediterranean will not immediately
require reinforcement, and that a respectable fleet will soon
appear in the Channel and on the Coast of Ireland. The regular
Army on foot in Great Britain (exclusive of the forces in Ireland,
Egypt, Malta, Gibraltar and the Colonies) consists of 27,000 In-
fantry and 12,000 Cavalry, and it will be reinforced immediately
by 37,000 of the militia which have been called out.

I don't yet hear of Mr. Monroe's arrival, tho' I learn from Mr.
Livingston that he is daily expected in France. Mr. Merry is
preparing to embark for the U. S. and is pressed by his Govern-
ment to be ready to leave England the first week in April.

With perfect Respect. R. K.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 86.

London, Mar. 19, 1803.
Sir :

Orders are sometime past given to evacuate Egypt and the
English forces have at this time probably left that Country. The

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 23 1

independence of Malta, by the Treaty of Amiens is placed under
the protection and guarantee of Great Britain, France, Spain,
Austria, Russia and Prussia. Austria has acceded, Russia con-
sents to accede, provided the Maltese language be abolished, to
which France agrees, and Prussia is ready to assume the guaran-
tee, when that alone is wanted to give effect to the Stipulation
respecting Malta. This view is necessary to enable you to form
a correct opinion of the demand which the French Ambassador
has just made for the Evacuation of Malta, and of Lord Hawkes-
bury's answer which was received by the French Ambassador on
the 15 th, and as soon as it could be translated sent to Paris,
where it is expected to have arrived last evening or this morning.

The answer begins by laying down the maxim of the Law of
Nations that " Conventio omnis intelligitur rebus sic stantibus,""
and after declaring that the consideration of things, as settled by
the public Treaties of Europe, and the restitutions to be made
pursuant to the Treaty of Amiens, was a principal and essential
reason with his Britannic Majesty for entering into that Treaty,
and without which it would not have been made, it enumerates
the changes that have since happened without the privity and
consent of Great Britain, and which have so materially altered the
relative condition of the Powers that are Parties to the Treaty of
Amiens : this recapitulation is followed by a reference to the
publication of Sebastiani's Report of his Mission to the Barbary
Powers, Egypt & Syria as well as to the Exposition of the affairs
of France, sent by Bonaparte to the Legislative Body, both of
which are stated to contain sentiments injurious to the Reputa-
tion and Honour of the British Nation. The answer concludes
by insinuating that Great Britain, in these circumstances, might
justly refuse to proceed in the farther execution of the Treaty of
Amiens, instead whereof his Majesty desirous of the continuance
of Peace, and willing to offer to France still farther proofs of his
moderation, is ready to enter into such mutual discussions and
explanations with France, as in the present posture of affairs may
be calculated to secure the just Rights of the two Nations and to
maintain the Repose of Europe.

Instead of a mere discussion, respecting the interpretation of the
Treaty of peace of Amiens, or the execution of any of its articles,
this answer renders the subject so intricate that even in a different
Temper from that which now exists, the Parties would find great

232 RUFUS KING. [1803

difficulty in adjusting their respective Pretensions. The French
Ambassador expects to receive the Reply of his Government on
the 22. The military preparations proceed here without the
smallest relaxation, and every appearance indicates to my mind
the Expectation of War.

I have the honour to be &c.

R. K.

CHAPTER XVI.

King to Livingston — France's Alternative War or Evacuation of Malta — For
Latter England requires Security — King's Successor not yet named — King
to Secretary of State — Question before the Commissioners under 7th Article
relative to awarding Interest during its Suspension — King to P. Sansom —
Acknowledges Kindness from American Merchants — King to Secretary of
State — France's Answer to Lord Hawkesbury — Vindicating Conduct of
France — England will continue to occupy Malta — War will probably ensue
— King to Livingston — Neither France nor England would care to begin
the Assault — King to C. Abbot — How to preserve Public Records — King to
Secretary of State — No Change — War inevitable — England without Ally —
In Case of War, England should seek to benefit Neutral Commerce — Mr.
Addington said England might attempt to occupy New Orleans — King ob-
jected— Might involve Misunderstanding — Hopes his Successor may arrive
before his Departure — King to Livingston — England will not Evacuate
Malta — Affairs so critical, hopes his Successor will arrive before his De-
parture— King to Secretary of State — French Answer called Evasion — De-
cision for War remains for France.

R. King to R. R. Livingston, Esq., Paris.

London, Mar. 23, 1803.
Dear Sir :

I have received your Letters of Feb. 24 and March 8 & 15.
Except the last I think I have written to you by every Messenger,
since my Letter of the nth the words of the Communication
respecting the Expedition for Louisiana were, " the message (of
the King) speaks of the expedition of Helveotsluys ; all the world
knows it was destined for America, and about proceeding to its
Destination, mais d'apres le message de S. M. l'embarquement et
le depart vont etre contremandes."

Bonaparte gave Lord Whitworth the alternative of war or the
Evacuation of Malta on the 13th instant. I refer to the scene at
234 XUFUS KING. [l8o3

the Drawing Room.* Lord Hawkesbury's note of the 15 in
answer to General Andreossi's demand of the Evacuation of Malta,
states that Sebastiani's Report and other information disclose the
views of France upon the Turkish Empire and "that the King
cannot consent to evacuate Malta unless substantial security be
provided for those Objects which in present circumstances would
be endangered by that measure " — in other words the King will
evacuate on the provision of such security ; if the Turkish Empire
be those objects which wd. be endangered by the Evacuation of
Malta and the possession of this Island . . . by G. Britain
be deemed security against the danger, would not the possession
of it by some other Power who would be able to defend it, and
be likely to resist the views of France, afford the substantial
security that the note requires ? if so, would not the possession
by Russia fulfil this purpose ? The only material doubt which
offers, arises from the presumed fact that France would at Amiens
have agreed to this arrangements had England proposed it. Still
as the holding of Malta by England is thought a security against
the views of France upon Turkey, and the note in effect offers to
evacuate upon the provision of substantial security against the
dangers with which the Turkish Empire is threatened, it is diffi-
cult to imagine any other security than that of giving Malta to
Russia and obtaining her Guarantee of the Integrity of the
Dominion of the Turk.

The tenour of the note as here cited may be depended upon ;
the reflexions which follow are of less importance, and I have
submitted them to you, as the grounds upon which I am less san-
guine than I have been that the present discussion would end in
war.

With great Truth &c.

Rufus King.

I have a letter from the Secy, of State of Jany. 29, which in-
forms me my successor had not then been named and that the
time fixed for my leaving England might arrive before any ar-
rangements for the vacancy can have their effect !

* See letter of R. R. Livingston to the President, March 12, 1803. Annals of
Congress, 1802-3, App. P« ni5.

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 23$

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 87.

London, Mar. 25, 1803.
Sir :

It is now nearly a fortnight since Lord Hawkesbury informed
me that he had lately ascertained that the American Commission-
ers under the 7th article of the Treaty of Amity and Commerce,
with the concurrence of the 3d Commissioner, conceived them-
selves authorized to allow Interest upon the Claims before them
for the time during which the Proceedings of the Comn. had been
suspended ; that as the Suspension had taken place in conse-
quence of that of the Commission in America, it did not appear to
him that the Board here had authority to allow Interest for this
portion of time ; that he made me this Communication in hopes
that we might agree in the just interpretation of the Powers of
the Commissioners, as it would be disagreeable particularly at the
juncture of affairs when he was speaking, again to arrest the Pro-
ceedings of the Commissioners. I replied that the Subject was
both unexpected and new ; that it should receive my immediate
consideration, and that I would take the earliest opportunity in
my power of conversing with him respecting it.

After maturely reflecting upon the objection which originates
with and was entertained by Dr. Swabey before the conclusion of
the Convention, in virtue of which the Board has resumed its
Proceedings, I informed Lord Hawkesbury that I was ready to
meet him ; but owing to the discussions going on with France he
has not yet appointed a day to receive me : in the mean time the
Commission proceeds in examining and deciding the cases before
it, leaving open the ascertainment of the amount of the respective
Claims. As the first instalment of the ^600,000 to be received
by Great Britain is payable in July, and as from the nature of the
Negotiation with France I may not be able to meet Lord Hawkes-
bury soon, it has appeared to me proper to apprise you of this
objection to the Powers of the Commissioners which may be fol-
lowed up by a suspension of the Proceedings.

With perfect Respect &c.

R. K.

236 RUFUS KING. [1803

R. King to Philip Sansom, Esq.

Great Cumberland Place, Mar. 28, 1803.
Sir :

Being much pressed for time between my public engagements
and the objects to which I am obliged to attend before I leave
this country, I am afraid it may not be in my power immediately
to wait upon all the members of the Committee of American mer-
chants ; tho' I shall endeavour to do so before my departure.

In the mean time I take the liberty of presenting to you and
them my respectful acknowledgments for the distinguished kind-
ness and honour the Committee have conferred upon me, and I
avail myself of the opportunity likewise to thank them for the in-
formation and assistance that on various occasions I have received
from them during my residence in this country.

With sentiments of great personal Esteem and Respect, &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 88.

London, Mar. 28, 1803.
Sir :

My No. 86 communicated the tenour of Lord Hawkesbury's
note of the 15th to the French Ambassador : the conclusion of
the note refers to the demand of France for the Evacuation of
Malta and declares " that the King cannot consent to its Evacua-
tion unless substantial security be provided for those objects
which in present circumstances would be endangered by that
measure."

Yesterday morning the French Ambassador received a Courier
with the answer of his Government which was delivered to Lord
Hawkesbury in the course of the day. It contrasts the blessings
of Peace with the miseries of war, and professes on the side of
France a sincere desire to maintain the enjoyment of the former ;
it denies the existence of any such naval and military preparations
as are spoken of in the King's Message to Parliament, and in re-
spect to the changes which are said to have taken place in the
relative condition of France since the Treaty of Amiens, it affirms

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 237

that the Forces and influence of France have not been increased.
With regard to Sebastiani's Report, the answer justifies its publi-
cation as a necessary vindication of the reputation of the First
Consul against the false and criminal imputation cast upon it in
the History of the Campaign of Egypt published in London by
Sir Robert Wilson, an officer in the service of his Britannic
Majesty.

The answer seeks no Explanation of the substantial security
upon the provision of which Lord Hawkesbury's note offers by
implication to Evacuate Malta, but concludes with saying the first
Consul does not take up the Gauntlet thrown down by his Britan-
nic Majesty, and in respect to Malta, the Treaty of Amiens has
definitely provided for its Evacuation by England and its Re-
stitution to the Order of St. John.

It is natural to infer from this conclusion that the French Am-
bassador has orders to reiterate his demand upon this point ; the
English Cabinet will refuse as before ; and as the English Forces
occupy Malta, the war will probably be declared and commenced
on the side of France.

The first Consul has given notice at Berlin, in case of war with
Great Britain, that he shall take possession of Hanover, occupy
Hamburgh and close the Elbe.

With perfect Respect, &c.

R. K.

R. King to R. R. Livingston, Esq.

London, Mar. 29, 1803.
Dear Sir :

The essential clause of Lord Hawkesbury's Note of the 15, and
which is cited in my last Letter, by implication declares that Eng-
land is ready to evacuate Malta upon certain conditions, which
are not however explained ; in other words the Note insinuates
that altho' it has become impossible to execute the Provisions of
the Treaty of Amiens, England is nevertheless willing to discuss
with France the Terms upon which the Evacuation shall be
made.

Whether the Reflexions contained in my last letter are well
founded in respect to the Terms must now remain matter of mere

238 RUFUS KING. [1803

conjecture, inasmuch as the answer of the French Government
which has been just delivered, declines all inquiry and discussion
concerning them and refers itself to the Treaty of Amiens, as
marking out the only course to be pursued on that subject.

The Parties seem therefore to be at issue ; but as England
possesses the object of disagreement will France follow up her
demand that it should be surrendered by a declaration of war
to enforce it ? If not, will England do more than continue to re-
tain Malta and go on with preparations to meet the consequences.
This doubt suggests a curious state of things, but one that could
not be of long duration : both Parties would expect War while
each would prefer to receive rather than to give the assault ; in
this situation the commencement of the war would be an affair of
accident, as well as Malta of mutual recrimination.

I am not sure that it may not now be the Intention of France
to proceed as tho' the armament of England had not been made.
The first Consul is not obliged to renew or enforce his demand
respecting Malta. The English armament may proceed without
danger to France, which may continue to dispatch Expeditions to
the Colonies, leaving it to England to begin the war, should she
choose to do so by interrupting them.

This speculation, for it is no more, agrees with the Rumour of
yesterday and to-day from Holland, that the Expedition for
Louisiana is again resumed, notwithstanding it was declared, as I
have explained to you, that it was countermanded in consequence
of the King's Message.

Yours faithfully,

R. K.

P. S. I entreat you to observe great caution on this subject, as
a conjecture that your information comes from me would place
me in delicate circumstances.

R. King to Right Honble. Charles Abbot.

Great Cumberland Place, March 31, 1803.
Sir:

Enquiring of Mr. Planta of the British Museum the best mode
of preserving public Records, he gave me the first information I

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 239

had received of the Report on this subject drawn up under your
direction and lately printed by order of the House of Commons.
As we are beginning already to suffer in America from negligence
and want of care in preserving our Records and public Reports,
and as the subject at this Time engages the attention of our Gov-
ernment, it would be of great advantage to us to possess the in-
formation contained in this Report : but as it is not published, I
hope you will pardon my taking the liberty of asking you to per-
mit me to receive two copies of this Report.

I have to make you my best acknowledgments for the Pieces re-
specting the population act, with which you were kind enough to
supply me. Unfortunately during my absence last summer my
Secretary sent some of these pieces to America, so that my set
wants the Enumeration of Scotland, the Parish Registers, and the
observations on the Result of the Population act.

I am almost ashamed to trouble you again upon this subject
and the more so as it is out of my power to make you a return of
equivalent value. I take the lib'ty, however, to send you a copy
of the last census. I hope to receive in a more convenient form a
few copies of this and the former census, one of which, by your
permission, I will send to you.

P. S. I have found and added the first census.

With great Respect & Esteem, &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 89.

London, April 2, 1803.
Sir :

Nothing farther has occurred since the date of my last ; no
answer has yet been given to the note of the French Ambassador,
whic hdeclines all discussion respecting Malta. Lord Hawkes-
bury's answer will probably be delivered to-day ; it will without
doubt persist in the Determination communicated in his first note,
and may disclose new and additional reasons in its support. If,
as is said to be the case, the First Consul has lately made an over-
ture to Russia for a partition of the Turkish Empire, the facts

240 RUFUS KING. [1803

may be urged on this occasion notwithstanding the refusal of
Russia to listen to the Proposal.

I still continue to believe the war unavoidable, in which Eng-
land can have no expectation of a single ally. The System of
Russia is pacific with less attachment, however, to France than to
England. Austria is not yet recovered from the blows by which
she was driven from the contest ; and Prussia will be inclined to
adhere to her past Policy. Although Denmark and Sweden have
been much dissatisfied with England, France contrary to her
usual policy, has done nothing to secure their confidence ; while
England has been endeavouring to reestablish her ancient friend-
ship with these States ; for this purpose, she has given assurances
that what is called the two Swedish Convoys shall be restored or
paid for. The first which consisted of 17 Vessels was condemned,
and the Envoy of Sweden has given in his claim for compensa-
tion, which amounts to sixty thousand pounds sterling ; the
claim for the second consisting of 21 Vessels, and which I think
is not yet presented, will be about ninety thousand pounds sterling.
By cultivating the friendship of these Powers, England expects with
the good will of Russia to keep the Baltic open, against the efforts
that France will again make to close it. Portugal will be com-
pelled to exclude the English trade, and Spain with all Italy must
obey the orders that shall be given her.

I have sought occasion both with ministers and other leading
men, since the discussion with France, to indicate the disadvan-
tage which England has heretofore brought upon herself by the
system of warfare she has been accustomed to pursue, and which
has been chiefly directed against the Colonies of her enemy,
which after being acquired at the expense of much blood and
treasure in addition to the vexation of the commerce of Neutral
Nations, have been commonly restored, enriched by English
capital, at the conclusion of Peace. Instead of a warfare, liable
to these objections, and which has moreover furnished an oppor-
tunity to France to appear as the friend and Protector of Neutral
States, a system might be suggested that would not only avoid
these disadvantages, but would materially contribute to the future
prosperity of Great Britain. No Neutral Commerce would be
interrupted by it, on the contrary it would serve to encrease and
extend it, and when the object was once obtained, no Treaty of

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 24 1

Peace could restore things to their former state. This conversa-
tion has been everywhere understood and well received, and it is
my firm belief, if the war break out, that Great Britain will im-
mediately attempt the emancipation and independence of South
America.

In a late conversation with Mr. Addington* he observed to me,
if the war happen, it would perhaps be one of their first attempts
to occupy New Orleans. I interrupted him by saying, I hoped
the measure would be well weighed before it should be attempted ;
that true it was we could not see with indifference that Country
in the hands of France, but it was equally true that it would be
contrary to our views, and with much concern that we should see
it in the possession of England. We had no objection to Spain
continuing to possess it ; they were quiet neighbours, and we
looked forward without impatience to events which, in the
ordinary course of things, must, at no distant day, annex this
Country to the United States. Mr. Addington desired me to be
assured, that England would not accept the Country, were all
agreed to give it up to her ; that were she to occupy it, it would
not be to keep it, but to prevent another power from obtaining it,
and in his opinion, that this end would be best effected by its
belonging to the United States. I expressed my acquiescence in
the last part of his remark, but observed that if the country should
be occupied by England, it would be suspected to be in concert
with the United States, and might involve us in misunderstand-
ings with another Power with which we desired to live in Peace ;
he said if you can obtain it well, but if not, we ought to prevent
its going into the hands of France, tho' you may be assured, con-
tinued Mr. Addington, that nothing shall be done injurious to the
interest of the United States. Here the conversation ended.

I have lately received your letter of January 29th, and as soon
as Lord Hawkesbury shall have named a time to receive me,
which I have requested him to do, I will explain to him, in con-
versation, the President's views relative to the Mississippi.

Considering the critical state of affairs, it is much to be wished
that my successor may arrive before my departure. I shall delay
taking my leave to the last moment ; and should the posture of

* Italics in cipher.
VOL. iv.— 16

242 RUFUS KING. [1803

affairs in my opinion require it, I will risk the expense of detain-
ing my vessel beyond the time in which I have engaged to em-
bark ; in any event, I shall not leave London before the last week
of the present month.

With perfect Respect,

R. K.

R. King to His Excelly. R. R. Livingston.

London, Ap. 8, 1803.
Dear Sir :

I have duly received your letter of the first instant. Notwith-
standing the vagueness of Lord H's note of the 15th, a defect
sometimes received as proof of diplomatic prudence, the result
will probably shew that the note contained a fixed determination
not to execute the Treaty of Amiens, so far as respects Malta ;
for I am more and more persuaded that in the opinion of the
Cabinet, Malta itself is the only security for those objects that
would be endangered by the evacuation. In my last letter, I
alluded to a verbal communication which has been probably suc-
ceeded by a written one to the same effect, and there is reason to
think, that in the conversation it was plainly insinuated that the
keeping of Malta by England was the only security she would
receive for the objects of her solicitude. If so, and Bonaparte
adhere, as you suppose he will, to his purpose not to permit any
discussion respecting Malta, " puis que la Traite d' Amiens a
pourvue £ tout," the die may be regarded as thrown, and the
results cannot be delayed many days. The reply of Bonaparte
may be war, if it be to gain time, it will be war from hence. Lis-
ton writes that in his opinion, the Expedition for Louisiana will
not proceed in the present uncertain state of affairs ; and I am
inclined to believe, should it attempt to proceed, that it might
meet with opposition ; England would interrupt the expedition to
Louisiana, if she believe the war inevitable : and if instead of
Louisiana it should be bound to Martinique, the garrison whereof
is too weak to defend it, she ought likewise to stop it.

I have sent frequent and, as far as I have been able, faithful
and full accounts to our Govrt. of the tenour and probable issue
of the discussions between this Country and France, and shall con-

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 243

tinue to do so until my departure, respecting which I am a little
embarrassed, as I have broken up my establishment, shipped my
effects, and in a few days shall be under a heavy demurrage if I
detain my ship. On the whole so critical and important is the
state of affairs that I shall probably detain my vessel a short time
in hopes my successor may arrive, or in the interim that Recon-
ciliation or war may put an end to the present uncertainty.*

It is much to be regretted that my successor has not been more
seasonably named and at his post, as it would have been more
easy to have entered upon the duties while I remained, than after
my departure. Besides the commencement of a new war is most
important in respect to our Trade which shd be the object of
earnest attention by our Minister here in order to prevent the
mistakes which interest or omission may supply in the orders &

instructions to the naval officers.

Faithfully yrs.

R. K.

p.S. — I think you may with confidence act upon the opinion
that England will not evacuate Malta. I am deceived, or their
point is decided ; all must therefore depend on the First Consul
who must abandon the Treaty of Amiens so far as respects Malta,
or take war. Respecting the change of Ministers, which is spoken
of as ignorantly and inconsistently as the question of War and
Peace, I don't think anything has been settled ; if it be war, I am
of opinion that Pitt, perhaps Lord Melville, but neither Grenville
nor Windham, will be employed. Addington and Hawkesbury
will remain, and who also may be more of a Problem : that is a
mere personal speculation, as I really have no clue, if one even
exist, to lead me to the last.

I wish to explain to you an interesting conversation I have
lately had respecting New Orleans, but I am really pushed by so
many personal concerns, joined to some few of a public nature,

* Mr. Livingston in a letter to the Secretary of State of April II, 1803, writ-
ing of the probability of the renewal of the war and of the possible effect upon
the negotiation relating to Louisiana of the interference of Great Britain, says :
" I have written to Mr. King, pressing him to stay until a successor is ap-
pointed. The moment is so critical that we cannot justify being without a
Minister in England, and he is a very useful one." Annals of Congress,
1802-3, Appendix, p. 1127.

244 RUFUS KING. [1803

that I scarce find time to write to you the scraps, which always
in haste I send to you, but with which I should not embarrass you,
except that from all I know and conjecture, it is of considerable
importance that you should know all that is passing.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 90.

London, April 9, 1803.
Sir :

The Question of Peace or War may at this moment be decided.
Lord Hawkesbury's note in reply to the refusal of France to ad-
mit of any discussion respecting Malta, is dated the 3d & was dis-
patched the 4th instant.

It expresses the King's regret that the French Government
had declined giving the satisfaction and explanation he had de-
manded, and that it had accompanied this Evasion by a renewed
demand of the Evacuation of Malta. In these circumstances, the
note states that the King had deemed it expedient to order his
Ambassador at Paris to ascertain whether the French Govern-
ment persists in its refusal, or whether it will without delay give
the satisfaction and explanation that may be calculated to main-
tain Peace between the two Nations.

Lord Whitworth's note to Mr. Talleyrand is probably now before
the First Consul, who must recede from the ground he has taken
with so much eclat, or receive a declaration of war.

With perfect respect, etc.,

R.K.

CHAPTER XVII.

King to Lord Hawkesbury— Convention for Boundaries— King to Livingston-
Notes between England and France— Hopes he has definite Principles
respecting Louisiana in Case of War— Gallatin to King— Arrangements
with Barings satisfactory— King to Secretary of State— Maryland Bank Stock
— Ownership settled— King— Memorandum Book — Taking Leave of the
King — Conversation with Lord Hawkesbury respecting Contraband —
Notes and Negotiations between England and France— Ambassadors of
each receive their Passports— Early Information communicated by King
to English Government— Dinner at the Duke of Portland's— Not England
but Bonaparte has shown bad Faith in the non-Execution of the
Treaty— Conference with Addington— England would be satisfied with
the Cession of Louisiana to the U. S.— Russian Offer of Mediation refused
—Conferences with Lord St. Vincent relative to Impressment— No satis-
factory Result obtained— Last Conferences between England and France-
Ambassadors of each receive their Passports— King to Earl St. Vincent-
Regrets the Failure of Negotiations to put an End to Impressment— Gore to
King— Confirms this Failure— King to Secretary of State— Condition of
Negotiations relative to Impressment— Neutral Flag— Colony Trade-
South America— King to Lord Hawkesbury— Communicates Purchase of
Louisiana— Lord Hawkesbury to King— Response to Above— The King's
Pleasure at the Intelligence— Complimentary Remarks on the whole Course
of King's public Mission.

R. King to Rt. Hon. Lord Hawkesbury.

Great Cumberland Place, April 10, 1803.
My Lord :

I have the honour to send you enclosed the Draught of a Con-
vention concerning the Boundaries of the United States, drawn up
according to the Tenour of our Conferences on this subject, and am
With great consideration &c.

R. King.

The Draught covers nine pages of foolscap paper.
246 JZUFUS KING. [1803

R. King to R. R. Livingston.

London, April 12, 1803.
Dear Sir :

I have before communicated to you the two last notes exchanged
between France and this country ; the French note dated Mar.
29. concludes en resume, " que le premier Consul ne veut pas
retirer le defit de la guerre fait par l'Angleterre (referring to the
armament) et qu'il ne peut y avoir discussion sur Malte, puis que
la traite* d'Amiens a pourvu a tout." The English Reply dated
the 3d instant declares u that his Majesty perceives with great
regret that the French Govt, continues to withhold all satisfac-
tion and explanation on the points respecting which he had com-
plained, and at the same time it evades all discussion concerning
the same, that it repeats the requisition that Malta be forthwith
evacuated by his forces. In duty to himself and to the interest
of his People, his M. has in these circumstances deemed it expe-
dient to give Instructions to his Ambassador at Paris to ascertain
distinctly whether the fr. Gov. is determined to withhold all satis-
faction and explanation on the subject of his Complaints, or
whether it is disposed without delay to give the satisfaction and
explanation that in the present state of affairs shall be calculated
to lead to an arrangement in respect to the disagreements sub-
sisting between the two countries." Possessing these extracts,
you will judge as well as I am able to do of the probable issue.
General Andreossi last evening received a courier with Dispatches
acknowledging the receipt of L. H's. note of the 3d, and saying
only that they were dans un pourparler with Lord Whitworth for
the purpose of hearing what he had to say.

Should the war take place, as I still think it must if the first
Consul persist in respect to Malta, it is to be hoped you will have
authority to assume a principle in regard to Louisiana which at
all times, but more easily in time of war between England and
France, we can and ought to assert and maintain. To the coun-
try West of the Mississippi we have no claim ; from the country
East of it, in virtue of the irrevocable renunciation of France and
the duty we owe to ourselves and posterity, we have the Right to
exclude her forever ; and it is only by adhering to this principle,
that we shall be able to preserve the Union and protect the
Independence of our Country. Yours &c.

R. King.

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 247

Albert Gallatin to Rufus King.

Treasury Department, Washington, April 28, 1803.
Sir:

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your favors
dated 9th & 25th Feby. & 4th March 1803.

The terms upon which the House of Sir Francis Baring & Co.
have consented to transact the business of this Department in
London, as stated in your correspondence with them, annexed to
your letter of February 25, are satisfactory ; and I fully approve
of the agreement made by you in my behalf, and communicated
to them in your letter of 23. February.

Permit me to express my acknowledgments for the trouble you
have taken in effecting this negotiation, and for the favorable issue
which has resulted from your attention to the remittance of the
;£ 70,000 to Holland. . . .

With great respect your obed. Servt.

Albert Gallatin.

On May I, 1803, Mr. King addressed a letter to the Sec-
retary of State1 giving an account of the state of the Nego-
tiation relative to Bank of England stock, belonging to the
State of Maryland, and which he said at that time, with
accrued interest, amounted to £187,507.12. He writes :

" I have now the satisfaction to send you the copy of a letter
that I have received from Lord Hawkesbury, in which the King
engages, in the event of its being decided that the title to this
stock has accrued and belongs to the Crown, that the same shall
be transferred to the State of Maryland, together with the accumu-
lations proceeding from the re-investment of the dividends."

He states, however, that as late as the 27th April, though
all the other claims had been settled, objections still were
maintained by Mr. " Harford, devisee of Lord Baltimore,
claiming as Lord Proprietor of the Province of Maryland,
and, as such, entitled to all forfeitures." Mr. King says that

Annals of Congress, 1802-3, App. p. 999.

248 RUFUS KING. [1803

a settlement might then have been made had he been willing
to have " engaged to transfer to Mr. Harford ten thousand
pounds bank stock." This, for reasons he gives, he declined
to do, and therefore suggests that Mr. Chase, the agent of
Maryland, be instructed how to proceed to settle all the
claims,

though it may require some time to complete the business ; but
it is a satisfaction that we hitherto have not enjoyed, that no
future change in the Court of Chancery, or in the Ministry can
alter the decision of the one or precise engagement of the other.

It would have given me great pleasure to have seen the close
of a business that is of great importance to the State of Mary-
land, and which has so constantly as well as zealously engaged my
attention ; but the entanglements of an intricate suit in chancery,
early and unfortunately thrown into an embarrassing situation, are
reached with difficulty by diplomatic means ; there have, more-
over, been some difficulties in our way which neither patience nor
industry has hitherto been able to surmount. We may now, I think,
put our opponents at defiance, as we at length stand on secure
ground, and with a little more patience may reckon with confi-
dence upon the attainment of the object. I shall leave with the
papers of the Legation such a view of the subject as I hope may
enable my successor with little trouble to hasten the conclusion
of this long protracted business.

There is here an interruption of the correspondence of Mr.
King, but a memorandum book supplies much interesting
matter during the closing days of his mission, which is here
given as it was written from day to day.

London, May 4, 1803.
Taking Leave.

Having sent a copy of my letter of recall to Lord Hawkesbury
and requested him to apprize the King of my intention to take
my leave ; and Sr. Stephen Cottreli having by direction of Lord
Hawkesbury waited upon me to settle the mode of my going to
St. James, I had my audience of leave after the levee of to-day —
The Spanish Envoy had his audience to deliver his credentials
before my audience.

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 249

The Ceremony on entering the King's closet was the same as
at my first audience. My harangue was in these words :

u Sir, Having received the permission of my Govt, to return
home, as will be confirmed to your Majesty by my letter of recall,
I am instructed to avail myself of this occasion to renew to your
Majesty the assurance of the continued and sincere disposition of
the U. S. to cherish and perpetuate the good understanding and
harmony happily subsisting between your Majesty and them.

" It is the purpose of my Govt, to continue the residence of a
Min. Plenipotentiary near your Majesty, whose arrival may soon
be expected, and who will confirm to your Majesty the assurance
that I have just now repeated.

" Accustomed as I had been to view with respect the British
nation, its laws and its monarchy, my residence here has served
to enlarge and strengthen this sentiment, and I shall return to
my country with increased veneration for a Government which,
under your Majesty's guidance, fulfills the obligations of good
faith and justice towards other nations, while it secures in the
highest degree to your Majesty's people those civil and moral
advantages, the enjoyment of which constitutes the chief end of
human society.

" I have a word more to add, which so far as regards myself
requires your Majesty's indulgence, I have to offer your Majesty
my respectful acknowledgments for the manner in which on all
occasions you have received and considered me : and I should be
unwilling to omit the opportunity of expressing to your Majesty
my obligations to the noble personage (Lord Hawkesbury) who is
present as well as to his noble and honourable colleagues for the
candour, good faith and liberality with which they have dis-
cussed and decided whatever has concerned the interest of my
country."

The King heard me with attention and replied :

" I must say, Mr. King, that I am sorry for your departure. I
know nothing of the character, indeed I do not know the name,
of your successor ; but be he who he may, I fear I shall have
reason to regret your absence ; for your conduct here has
been so entirely proper, both as it regarded the interest of your
own Country and of this, as to have given me perfect satisfaction.
In regard to the assurance you make me in behalf of the States, I

250 RUFUS KING. [1803

receive it in good part ; and declare to you in return that on my
side I wish for friendship and a constant good understanding with
America. I have never had but one opinion on this subject since
the event which separated us and I assure you now, that I will
never change it. It is to our mutual advantage to be friends, and
I foresee nothing that is likely to make us otherwise."

The conversation which followed was relative to the present
critical posture of affairs with France. The King showed great
firmness as well as confidence ; said that his first duty was to
ascertain the justice of his cause ; and being satisfied on this
point, he should have no uneasiness for the event.

It may have been during this conversation or some other
about this time, that the king, in speaking with Mr. King
relative to his return home, asked him what he intended to
do with his boys, who were at Harrow ? The answer must
have been one stating the course he adopted of leaving them
to finish their studies at Harrow, and then send them to
Paris to learn French, mathematics, etc., for the king an-
swered him, "All wrong, Mr. King; boys should be edu-
cated in the country in which they are to live."

Mr. King reports the following conversation as having
occurred on May 4, 1803:

Conversing with Lord Hawkesbury respecting the Swedish
Convoy and the Treaty between Sweden and Great Britain, Lord
Hawkesbury said it was certainly expedient to revise the article
concerning contraband, which as it now stands makes naval
Stores and Provisions contraband.

In respect to naval Stores he certainly did think them contra-
band, while he was clearly convinced that Provisions were not so,
except in case of blockade or siege, when they became with all
other goods contraband. But though he considered naval Stores
contraband, still in a case like that of Sweden, whose staple
articles were naval Stores it was a rigorous interpretation to con-
fiscate naval Stores and he sh? therefore think it a reasonable
practise to make use of the milder doctrine of pre-emption. I
expressed my approbation of his opinions and remarked that
what created the greatest embarrassment, in Treaties relative to

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 25 1

contraband, was their want of precision : the description should
be minute and every article should be named, as the rule is one
of practise among unlearned men, who should be under no diffi-
culty in distinguishing the lawful from the unlawful or contraband
goods. Lord H. assented.

Memorandum, May 6, 1803.

The ultimatum delivered by Lord Whitworth required him to
leave Paris on Tuesday evening May 2d, unless France should
have signed a minute by which she agreed :

1. To the military possession of Malta for 10 years by Eng-
land ;

2. To the cession to England of the Island of Lampedosa ;

3. To the complete evacuation of Holland by the French
forces.

On Tuesday forenoon Talleyrand answered Lord Whitworth's
demand by a note declaring :

1. That the Island of Lampedosa not belonging to France,
the First Consul could neither object nor consent to the cession
of it to England.

2. That the occupation of Malta for 10 years being contrary to
the Treaty of Amiens was inadmissible. Were it not so, the con-
sent of Holland and Spain, parties to the Treaty of Amiens, would
be requisite ; and even after they should have consented that the
guarantying Powers should be consulted.

3. Holland would be evacuated as soon as England shall have
executed the Treaty of Amiens, &c.

Before this answer of Talleyrand was delivered, a messenger
was dispatched to Andreossi the French Ambassador in London
for the purpose of apprizing him of its purport, and moreover to
state, if Lord Whitworth should not be satisfied, as it was sup-
posed he would not be, with the answer, that at the last hour and
when according to his Ldp's. previous demands his passports
would be delivered to him, Talleyrand would send him a note
requesting a meeting on the next (Wednesday) morning, when
Talleyrand would offer the First Consul's consent that the mili-
tary possession of Malta (notwithstanding the departure from the

252 RUFUS KING. [1803

Treaty of Amiens) should be given either to Russia, Austria or
Prussia at the choice of England. The same messenger brought
orders to Andreossi to demand his Passports grounding the
demand upon Lord Whitworth's having done so at Paris ; but to
say he should not use them unless Lord Whitworth quitted Paris, as
he had intimated his intention of doing on the evening of the 2d ;
in that case Andreossi was instructed to leave London and be at
Dover by the time Lord Whitworth should reach Calais.

After Andreossi had received the Messenger which was on
Friday morning he sent a note demanding his Passports and ex-
plaining the occasion as well as the manner in which he should
obey them. The note stated also that Portalis, the Secy, of
Legation, would remain to assist the French in returning to their
country and in taking the charge of the Ambassador's effects.

At 4 o'clock I called in Downing Street, where a Cabinet coun-
cil was sitting in consequence of Andreossi's note. Hammond,
whom I saw, told me they had received no messenger from Lord
Whitworth and were ignorant whether any answer has been given
to their ultimatum, having no dispatch from him later than Mon-
day. I then communicated to them the purport of the answer as
well as the intention of detaining Lord Whitworth with a new
proposition. He assured me they were entirely ignorant of these
transactions and views, and then asked me to allow him to
communicate in confidence to Lord Hawkesbury what I had
communicated to him to which I consented. This he did and
afterwards brought me Lord H's thanks, saying I had done him
the greatest kindness that it was possible for him to have received.
The opinion manifestly as regarded the new proposition was, that
Lord W. would follow his orders and disregard it. Both
Andreossi and Schimmelpenninck thought so and regarded the
proposition as an indescretion useless and destructive of the
principle upon which until now the Treaty of Amiens had been
maintained.

Mr. Addington's communication to Parliament on Friday
evening of Andreossi's having demanded his Passports and of his
expectation that he should make them a communication respect-
ing the negotiation on the following Monday (May 9.) was
accompanied with a manner which proved his expectation that
the war had been decided upon.

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 2$$

Mr. Addington moved an adjournment on Friday, May 6th,
over Saturday to Monday, May 9, when he expected to make his
communication. This was opposed by the old opposition, as well
as the new, and the House divided 185 for and 95 against the ad-
journment.

On Saturday, May 7, a messenger arrived at 4 o'clock a.m.,
with Lord Whitworth's dispatch, communicating Talleyrand's
last proposition, which Lord W. had thought sufficient to divert
him from the execution of his orders to leave Paris on Tuesday
evening. A Cabinet council was held immediately, and another
messenger dispatched with the result — which was an adherance to
the former demand, except that instead of requiring the explicit
consent of France that England should keep Malta 10 years, the
stipulation should be that she should keep it till measures should
be concerted for its complete independence, with a limitation in
a secret article that this possession should not exceed 10 years.

Lord Whitworth was ordered to leave Paris in 36 hours after
receiving this dispatch, unless the terms were complied with.

Duke of Portland's Dinner.

May 8, 1803.

The Duke, Mr. Addington, Lord Pelham, Lord Hawkesbury,
Lord Eldon, Lord Rosselyn, Sir Wm. Scott, Mr. King, Mr. Ham-
mond, Young Mr. Ingersoll & myself and Mr. Merry.

Mr. Addington & Lord Hawkesbury both told me that in the
event of war, instead of exposing the King to the charge of bad
faith, they should be able to show that Bonaparte had resolved
to break his engagements made at Amiens, and that their de-
mands were justified as the necessary means of compelling him to
observe his stipulations.

They should be able to prove, on their side, a sincere and solici-
tous disposition, as well as corresponding endeavours, to execute
the stipulations respecting Malta, and on the side of Bonaparte
not only a disinclination, but a series of efforts by dispersing the
langues,* sequestering their property in France and promoting its

* One of the conditions of Russia under which she would consent to a joint
occupation of Malta was "provided the Maltese language be abolished, to
which France agrees.— Life and Correspondence ofRufus King in his letter to
the Secretary of State, March 19, 1803, vol. iv., p. 231.

254 RUFUS KING. [1803

sequestration elsewhere effectually to defeat and render of no
importance the execution of this article of the Treaty. Not only
these facts would be fixed upon him, but their aim and object
would be demonstrated, for Bonaparte himself, in a conference
he had demanded and held with Lord Whitworth, had observed
to him that he judged it proper himself, in order that he might
not hear the same thing from any other, to state to him that
France must have Egypt ; that he had no wish nor hope to go to
war to obtain it, preferring a peaceable acquisition of it ; but that
Egypt must be acquired by France was not to be disguised. He
should hope that England would not renew the war, but in case
she did, that nothing short of invasion would be resorted to ;
that undoubtedly the chances were against success — they might
fail 99 times in a hundred, but the last would be fatal.

This avowal coupled with the opposition given to the execution
of the Treaty of Malta (Amiens, relative to Malta ?) by endeav-
ouring to defeat the end of the stipulations, coupled with the
practices which could be fastened on Bonaparte in respect to
the Ionian Islands, and coupled with Sebastiani's Report, demon-
strated a settled intention and plan of bad faith, already begun
to be put in execution, not less dangerous to the repose of Europe
and the essential interest of England than it is calculated to de-
preciate and degrade the character and station of England in the
face of the rest of Europe.

Both H. & A. intimated an opinion that Lord Whitworth ought
to have left Paris on the preceding Tuesday. Hawkesbury was
more reserved than Addington on this point : the latter said the
true course for Lord Whitworth would have been to have
answered Mr. Talleyrand's proposition by saying, your courier,
sir, will travel faster than I shall be able to do, I therefore pro-
pose to you to forward your new proposal to your Ambassador at
London ; it not being a compliance with our demands I must
obey my orders and leave Paris.

Russian Mediation.

May 10, 1803, Tuesday.
A Russian messenger arrived today — also an English messen-
ger from Petersburgh.

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 255

May 11, 1803, Wednesday.
The Russian Ambassador had to-day a long conference with
Lord Hawkesbury. The object was to offer the mediation of his
court between England and France. Ld. Hawkesbury replied
that England having taken precise ground in the negotiations,
which upon a well considered view had appeared essential to the
national honour and interest to be maintained, in this state of
affairs there seemed little prospect of any advantage to be ex-
pected from the interference of any other Power, though it would
be satisfactory if such interference would have the effect to en-
gage France to yield to those terms without which there would
be no security for the continuance of peace.

Conference with Addington.

May 12, Thursday.

Met Mr. Addington by appointment : who after disclosing the
state of the negotiation (a messenger having arrived, who left
Paris on Tuesday, the day after Ld. W. had received his last in-
structions) and expressing his surprise that Ld. W. had not left
Paris in the first instance on the 2d of May, said he would posi-
tively leave it in 36 hours after the delivery of his note unless
their terms were yielded.

I then spoke to him respecting the probable cession of Louisi-
ana by France to the U. S. He declared his hope that it had
been done. I alluded to the provisional expedition to occupy N.
Orleans. He said that would be wholly out of view if we ac-
quired it, and on this point was very explicit that England would
be satisfied if the U. S. obtained Louisiana.

I mentioned the embarrassment of our navigation arising out
of the want of sufficient clearness and precision in the orders
given to the Br. men of war and privateers, as well as from the
incapacity of the W. India Courts of Prize. He replied that
both these subjects should be carefully attended to in case of
war. I discussed fully the subject of the impressment of seamen
on the high seas. He seemed to agree with me and said he
would confer again with Lord St. Vincent who hesitated in agree-
ing to my proposal that no such impressment should be made by
either side.

256 RUFUS KING. [1803

Conference with Lord Hawkesbury.

1 2th May, 1803.
Most of the points discussed with Mr. Addington were touched
upon with Lord Hawkesbury, who expressed similar opinions con-
cerning them which were entertained by Mr. Addington. Signed
with L. H. the Convention relating to the Boundaries of the U.
S. L. H. seemed pleased with the prospect I held out to him that
Louisiana would be ceded to the U. S.

May 13th, Friday.

Conference with Lord St. Vincent respecting the impressment
of seamen on the high seas ; went over the various topics calcu-
lated to shew to him first the little importance of the principle as
not more men than would man a single ship are procured in this
way during a war, and the practice is one which creates irritation
and bad humour in the U. S. and tends to indispose them tow-
ards England, &c. &c.

He stated various qualifications and among others that the
search and impressment should be made only when a vessel
last sailed from a Br. Port.

I replied that they might make such laws as they liked and in-
stitute the means of enforcing these laws, to prevent their seamen
being carried out of their country by for. vessels, and if so it
would not be requisite to search for them on the ocean ; they
might forbid any seaman to be shipped in the Br. Dominions by
a foreign vessel except with the privity and consent of some
proper officer, who might be charged to prevent the shipping of
Br. subjects. The officers of a for? merchant might be liable to
penalty and the ship herself infected by taking away Br. seamen.
In a word so far as respects their being carried away they might
become prohibited like certain goods, &c.

Lord St. Vincent promised to think further on the subject and
to confer with Lord Hawkesbury again. He assured me no new
prize commissions should be issued to the W. Ind. judges and that
measures should be taken without delay to organize the two new
courts. He also promised to watch over the new orders for the
purpose of rendering them as clear and precise as possible. He
expressed his satisfaction at the probability that Louisiana has
been or will be ceded to the U. S.

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 2$?

WAR.

May 14, 1803, Saturday.

At xii o'ck to-day a messenger arrived in 40 hours from Paris
with dispatches from Lord Whitworth, who had on the evening
of the 1 2th received his Passports and was to leave Paris imme-
diately after the messenger.

The French Ambassador likewise received a courier and will
probably leave London to-morrow.

Sunday, May 15, 1803.
The messenger dispatched by Lord Whitworth on the day he
left Paris was charged with the communication of the Russian
mediation which had been before announced here.

In the course of the day Andreossi received two or three
couriers. One of them was charged with a dispatch instructing
Andreossi, in case no act of hostility had taken place to insinuate
thro' the Batavian Ambassador, who might make the suggestion
as merely a speculation of his own, that the First Consul might
perhaps leave Malta in the hands of the English for 10 years pro-
vided France should be permitted to occupy Tarento, Otranto,
and such positions in the Kingdom of Naples as she possessed
at the signature of the Treaty of Amiens.

If Hawkesbury listened to the overture, Andreossi was to then
appear, and, not as instructed to do so, but presuming on the
desire of the First Consul to avoid the war, to take on himself to
sign a convention the draught whereof was sent him and which
corresponded with the insinuation to be made by the Dutch
Minister— but in case Ld. Hawkesbury rejected the overture,
no trace was to remain of the overture.

Schimmelpenninck (the Batav. Ambass.) accordingly opened
the subject under the strictest engagements of privacy to Ld.
Hawkesbury, who said it was nothing new, having before been
insinuated to Ld. Whitworth by Jos. Bonaparte, and that it was
quite inadmissible : that he would, however, communicate with
Addington, and in case he differed from him, it should be laid
before the Cabinet ; in which event Schimmelpenninck was to be
informed of it. As he received no such information, it is pre-
sumed that Addington and Hawkesbury agreed and no reference
was made to the Cabinet. The last French courier that arrived

VOL. IV.— 17

258 RUFUS KING. [1803

to-day brought a letter from Ld. Whitworth who was on his
journey and intended to reach Calais to-night — where he will
probably await for Andreossi's arrival at Dover, in order that
they might both cross the channel at the same time.

Monday, May 16, 1803.
Andreossi left London this morning at 5 o'clock. At midnight
last night a messenger arrived from Lord Whitworth with a note
sent after his departure from Paris and received on his route offer-
ing Malta on the same terms which the Dutch Ambassador had
insinuated as his own suggestions. A Cabinet council was
assembled to-day, which refused the offer on the same ground
which France had done in respect to Lampedosa, and a messen-
ger was dispatched to meet L. W. either at Calais or this side
with the answer.

R. King to Earl St. Vincent.

Private,

Great Cumberland Place, May 15, 1803.
My Lord :

It seems that the die is cast ; and as the war is now unavoid-
able, I should return to my country with additional satisfac-
tion could I carry with me the proposed Agreement of England
relative to the impressment of Seamen on the High Seas. Did I
not know that the object in itself is of small, very small impor-
tance to this Country, I should hesitate in urging it, notwithstand-
ing the great embarrassment it has produced, and will continue
to create in America.

It would be indiscreet in me to press these Reflexions in favour
of a liberal policy between two countries, whose best Interests,
like their Language and Laws, are the same : but as I must leave
London on Tuesday, I take the liberty to ask your Lordship in a
private Note, to inform me whether it be probable that the
arrangement I have so much at heart can be made ?

With sentiments of the most sincere respect & Esteem
I have the honour to be &c.

Rufus King.

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 259

C. Gore to R. King.

London, Great Cumberland Place,

20 May, 1803.
Dear Friend :

We have nothing new in London. Hammond says he is in
hourly expectation of hearing of some captures, and that nothing
can be done at present relative to the Convention about Seamen.
This he told me yesterday afternoon. He thinks the Govern-
ment here has not made so strong a case as he expected, but
when questioned as to the defects of the case he could not specify
them : he will doubtless be more precise after he has seen his
noble neighbour. He does all that belongs to his political char-
acter in not siding with the Administn. On Monday night we
(R. Pinkney & myself) go to the House, where it is presumed
the debate will occupy two nights. But before then I hope and
trust you will be on your way rejoicing with a fair wind & safe
ship. . . . Yours ever,

C. Gore.

The following letter, though written in New York at a
later date than those among which it is placed, relates to
events which occurred before Mr. King sailed, and therefore
properly belongs here.

R. King to Secretary of State.

New York, July, 1803.
Sir :

I take the liberty to add a few miscellaneous articles by way
of supplement to my last dispatch.

As soon as war appeared to me inevitable, I thought it advis-
able to renew the attempt to form an arrangement with the British
Government for the protection of our seamen ; with this view I
had several conferences both with Lord Hawkesbury and Mr.
Addington, who avowed a sincere disposition to do whatever might
be in their power to prevent the dissatisfaction on this subject
that had so frequently manifested itself during the late war. With
very candid professions, I, however, found several objections in
discussing the subject with the first Lord of the Admiralty. Lord
Hawkesbury having promised to sign any agreement upon the

26o RUFUS KING. [1803

subject that I should conclude with Lord St. Vincent, I en-
deavored to qualify and remove the objections he offered to
our project : and finally the day before I left London, Lord St.
Vincent consented to the following regulations :

1. No seaman nor seafaring person shall, upon the high seas
and without the jurisdiction of either party, be demanded or
taken out of any vessel belonging to the citizens or subjects of
one of the parties, by the public or private armed vessels or men
of war belonging to, or in the navy of the other party ; and
strict orders shall be given for the due observance of this engage-
ment.

2. Each party will prohibit its citizens or subjects from clan-
destinely concealing or carrying away from the territories or
colonial possessions of the other, any seamen belonging to such
other ports.

3. These regulations shall be in force for five years and no
longer.

On parting with his Lordship I engaged to draw up, in the
form of a convention, and send him these articles in the course
of the evening, who promised to forward them, with his approba-
tion, to Lord Hawkesbury. I accordingly prepared and sent the
draught to his Lordship, who sent me a letter in the course of
the night, stating that on further reflection he was of opinion that
the narrow seas ought to be excepted, they having been as his
Lordship remarked, immemorially considered to be within the
dominions of Great Britain ; that with this correction, he had
sent the proposed convention to Lord Hawkesbury, who, his
Lordship presumed, would not sign it before he should have
consulted the Judge of the High Court of Admiralty, Sir William
Scott.

As I had supposed from the tenor of my conferences with Lord
St. Vincent, that the doctrine of mare clausum would not be re-
vived against us on this occasion, but that England would be
content with the limited jurisdiction or dominion over the seas
adjacent to her territories, which is assigned by the law of nations
to other States, I was not a little disappointed on receiving this
communication : and, after weighing well the nature of the prin-
ciple and the disadvantage of its admission, I concluded to
abandon the negotiation, rather than to acquiesce in the doctrine
it proposed to establish.

1803J LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 26 1

I regret not to have been able to put this business on a satis-
factory footing, knowing as I do its very great importance to both
parties ; but I flatter myself that I have not misjudged the inter-
ests of our own country, in refusing to sanction a principle that
might be productive of more extensive evils than those it was our
aim to prevent.

Neutral Flag.

As it is possible that another attempt will be made during the
present war to establish the rule that free bottoms make free
goods, I ought not to omit the communication of the following
anecdote :

Soon after the British armament in March past, Bonaparte sent
his aid-de-camp-du-roi to Berlin, to announce his determination
to occupy Hanover, and close the Elbe against England, in the
event of war. The Prussian Cabinet, a thing very rarely done,
immediately dispatched a courier with orders to Baron Jacobi,
the Prussian Ambassador at London, to apprize the English
Government of the views of France, to impress the dissatisfaction
with which Prussia had learned them, and to offer to protect
Hanover and the North of Germany, provided England would
give her consent to the principle that free ships should make free
goods. The English Cabinet immediately replied, that the Ger-
man Empire is bound to protect the rights of its several members ;
that Hanover must therefore look to Germany, and not to Eng-
land, for support ; and, in respect to the proposed rule that free
ships should make free goods, that no advantage nor service
could be named which would be sufficient to engage England to
give it her sanction. In any circumstances this would be the
opinion of England ; in the present instance, if I mistake not, the
proposition was believed to have come, indirectly, from Paris.

Colony Trade.

In a very late conversation with Mr. Addington respecting the
colony trade, he insinuated the probability that events might
happen in the course of the present war, alluding, as I under-
stood, to South America, that would enable England to form with
us such commercial arrangements as would be satisfactory. As

262 RUFUS KING, [1803

Mr. Addington meant to be obscure, I could only conjecture his
meaning ; and my inference was, in case of the independence of
South America, that the colony system must everywhere be aban-
doned— an opinion not peculiar to Mr. Addington, but one that
is entertained by the principal members of the late English
Ministry.

South America.

When the preliminaries of the late peace were signed, an expe-
dition, fully prepared, was in readiness to set sail for the purpose
of assisting the inhabitants of the province of Caraccas in throw-
ing off obedience to Spain. Trinidad was retained by England,
chiefly with the view of furthering this revolt ; and if Spain be
drawn into the war, which she will be unable to avoid, the expe-
dition to the Caraccas will be revived. No probable change of
the Ministry of England will change this intention, for it is known
to be the opinion of the first men of the nation that the secondary
object of the present war, and one that must give England cour-
age as well as resources to go on with the struggle, is the entire
independence of South America.

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Lord Hawkesbury.

London, May 15, 1803.
My Lord :

In the present critical posture of affairs, I lose no time in com-
municating to your Lordship, for his Majesty's information, that
a treaty was signed at Paris on the 30th of April past, by the
Plenipotentiaries of America and France, by which the complete
sovereignty of the town and territory of New Orleans, as well as
of all Louisiana, as the same was heretofore possessed by Spain,
has been acquired by the United States of America.

In drawing up this treaty, care has been taken so to frame the
same as not to infringe any right of Great Britain in the naviga-
tion of the river Mississippi.

I flatter myself that this communication will be received with
satisfaction, and regarded as a new proof of the disposition of the

i8o3l LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 263

United States to observe towards His Majesty a spirit of amity
and confidence, important at all times, and more especially so in
present circumstances, to the harmony and mutual prosperity of
the two countries.*

Lord Hawkesbury to Mr. King.

Downing Street, May 19, 1803.
Sir :

Having laid before the King your letter of the 15th of this
month, in which you inform me that a treaty was signed at Paris
on the 10th of last month by the plenipotentiaries of America and
France, by which the complete Sovereignty of the Town &
Territory of New Orleans, as well as of all Louisiana has been
acquired by the U. S., I have received his Majesty's commands
to express to you the pleasure with which his Majesty has re-
ceived this intelligence, and to add that his Majesty regards the
care which has been taken so to frame this Treaty as not to in-
fringe any right of Gr. Britain in the Navigation of the Mississippi
as the most satisfactory evidence of the disposition on the part of
the Government of the U. S., correspondent to that which his
Majesty entertains to promote and improve the harmony and
good understanding which so happily subsists between the two
countries and which are so conducive to their mutual benefit.

I have it also in command to assure you, Sir, that the senti-
ments which you have expressed in making this communication
are considered by his Majesty' Government as the additional
proof of the cordiality and confidence which you have uniformly
manifested in the whole course of your public mission, and which
have so justly entitled you to the Esteem and Regard of his
Majesty's Government. I desire you to accept of the assurances
of distinguished consideration with which I have the honour to
be, Sir, yr. mo. ob. Servt.

(Signed)

Hawkesbury.

* Annals of Congress, 1802-3, App., p. 11 50.

CHAPTER XVIII.

King sails from England — Reasons for asking Permission to return Home —
Suggested to Madison the Revision of the Commercial Treaty with Great
Britain — No Notice taken of it — No New Work entrusted to him — King
to Hamilton, asking his Opinion as to his return — Hamilton to King —
Thinks it advisable — Presence Home useful — Party in Power hostile to the
Interests of the Country — He may suffer in their Disrepute, holding Office
under them — King to J. Marshall and to Dr. Southgate, announcing his
Resignation — King continues to press pending Questions for Settlement —
N. E. and N. W. Boundaries of the U. S. — Impressment — The State of
Maryland's Bank Stock — King left without appointing a Charge d' Affaires,
not having been instructed to do so — Gore to Madison — Will look after
the Affairs of the U. S. until King's Successor arrives — Gore to King — Ex-
plains his Reasons for this Conduct — Gore to King — Defends himself from
a Charge of delaying Proceedings of the Convention — Refuses to grant
Passports — Monroe has received his Commission — Boys well — King to
John Adams — State of Affairs when he left London.

The following brief memorandum records the close of
Mr. King's mission to England, though he did not sail until
the 2 1 st of May.

"May 1 8th. Left London for Cowes this morning. Lord
Whitworth arrived at Dover and Andreossi crossed from there to
Calais."

It was a momentous date in the history of Europe, mark-
ing as it did the absolute rupture of the peace of Amiens by
the return of the Ambassadors of England and France to
their respective countries, an event in which the United
States were deeply interested in many ways. France had
just sold Louisiana to them, and England was to renew her
commercial Treaties with a power which was not only her
rival but had shown, even under adverse circumstances, a
1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 26$

determination to demand for herself a fair share of the com-
merce of the world, and especially of the islands of the
West Indies, which lay so near to her. How earnestly and
in many respects successfully Mr. King had exerted himself
to establish the rights and claims of his country the corre-
spondence which has been given will clearly show. But it
may not be amiss here to review somewhat the work he had
done and to advert to the reasons which led him to ask for
permission to return home at a time when his country
seemed most to want the services of an able and experienced
Minister.

Having served in several capacities in the early history of
his country after the establishment of its Independence, in
the Continental Congress, the Convention for the formation
of the Federal Constitution, and the Senate after the forma-
tion of the Government, by which services he became thor-
oughly informed as to the history of his country, and was
largely instrumental in establishing the Government on a
firm basis, Mr. King felt a desire to employ his talents on
another field in which he believed that he might benefit his
country. The Treaty made by Mr. Jay with Great Britain,
excellent as under the circumstances it was, had defects
which it was felt and decided must be met and removed,
and other questions which must necessarily arise between
two commercial nations, one of which had long enjoyed
almost absolute control and the other seeking for its own
people to share some of the profits of commerce, had to be
discussed and placed upon an amicable footing.

Under the circumstances, Mr. King intimated to his friend
General Hamilton that he thought he could be of use to his
country in a Mission to Great Britain if the President should
see fit to appoint him Minister. President Washington,
though at first objecting, not on account of any doubt as to
his qualifications for the position, but because he was un-
willing to name one who had been accused of holding what
were called monarchical opinions, finally made the appoint-
ment of Mr. King as Envoy Extraordinary and Minister

266 RVFUS KING. [1801-

Plenipotentiary to Great Britain. It is only necessary, as
has been said here, to recall the zeal, ability, and firmness with
which he performed the duties of his office to the entire satis-
faction of Presidents Washington, Adams,and Jefferson, to the
great advantage of his country, and with the confidence and
respect of the Government of Great Britain for the courtesy
and great ability with which he discussed the serious ques-
tions that constantly presented themselves. Conscious that
he would be able to meet intelligently the new aspects of
international relations, and perhaps to settle for many years
the policy of the two countries in their commercial inter-
course, he had, at an early date, reminded the adminstration
of Mr. Jefferson of the approaching time for a revision of
the Commercial Treaty between the two countries.

On October 8, 1801, he wrote a private letter to Mr.
Madison, then Secretary of State,* saying among other
things :

" It was my earnest hope, when I came hither, that I should
have had, before this period, an opportunity to assist in the revi-
sion of our treaty with this country. We have sufficiently seen,
and become acquainted with its operation during war ; and the
time is come when it is to be tried as a rule of mutual conduct in
peace. If I be not mistaken, it will be found our interest on
every account to aim at its revision as soon as possible. The
Treaty with France may also require to be revised : ought we not
to lay down a common basis for these Treaties and endeavour to
form them so as to act upon common and not interfering Princi-
ples ? To do so will require concert in the projects, as well as in
the negotiations. Should the President confide the negotiation
here to me, might there not be a considerable advantage in my
receiving his permission to pass a fortnight with you at the seat
of Government, or with Mr Livingston here or at Paris ? If the
subject have not been fully discussed with Mr. L. before his em-
barkation, the conferences in America would be most useful.
Upon the supposition that our affairs still depending here be
satisfactorily closed, I might embark in March directly for the

* Rufus King's Life, etc., vol. iii., p. 522.

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 267

Chesapeake, pass a fortnight in Washington, and returning by New
York be here again in July."

It does not appear that any answer was ever sent to this
suggestion, and therefore Mr. King must have been satisfied
that, with the exception of pending questions, his services
would not be called for. As an evidence of this he wrote
to his friend, General Hamilton, on April 8, 1802*:

" The Revision of our commercial treaty has been a service to
which I have along looked as the conclusion of my mission. As
however I have no reason to suppose it likely soon to take place,
I am not much inclined to remain here a mere figurant and am
therefore thinking seriously of my return. Without deciding any-
thing on this point, I confidently ask your opinion respecting it.
This I have not done except in the present instance."

This opinion General Hamilton gives on June 3, i802,f
as follows :

" In your last, you ask my opinion about a matter delicate and
important, both in a public and in a personal view. I shall give
it with a frankness to which you have a right ; and I may add,
that the impressions of your other friends, so far as they have
fallen under my observation, do not differ from my own. While
you were in the midst of a negotiation, interesting to your coun-
try, it was your duty to keep your post. You have now accom-
plished the object and with the good fortune, not very common,
of having the universal plaudit. This done, it seems to me, most
advisable that you return home. There is little probability that
your continuance in your present station will be productive of
much positive good. Nor are circumstances such as to give
reason to apprehend that the substitute for you, whoever he may
be, can do much harm. Your stay or return, therefore, as it re-
gards our transatlantic concerns, is probably not material ; while
your presence at home may be useful in many ways which it is
not necessary to particularize. Besides it is questionable whether
you can long continue in the service of the present administration,
consistent with what is due as well to your own character, as to
* R. Kings Life, etc., iv., p. 135. \Ibid., iv., p. 136.

268 RUFUS KING. [1801-

the common cause. I am far from thinking that a man is bound
to quit a public office merely because the administration of the
Government may have changed hands. But, when those who
have come into power are undisguised persecutors of the party to
which he has been attached and study with ostentation to heap
upon it every indignity and injury, he ought not, in my opinion,
to permit himself to be made an exception or to lend his talents
to the support of such characters. If, in addition to this, it be
true that principles and plans of the men at the head of affairs
tend to the degradation of the Government and to their own dis-
grace, it will hardly be possible to be in any way connected with
them, without sharing in the disrepute which they may be destined
to experience."

He was thus confirmed in the decision, which he had an-
nounced to Mr. Sedgwick on April 6, 1802, but he does not
appear to have taken any steps to make it known until in
his official letter to the Secretary of State on August 5th.
In this he says * :

" It is now six years that I have resided in this country. When
I left America it was not my expectation to be absent more than
four years. So long as the war continued I did not think of re-
turning home, believing that my residence here might be of some
public advantage. When the preliminaries of peace were signed,
I found myself engaged in a negotiation of considerable difficulty
and importance, which restrained me from asking the President's
leave to resign my mission. The negotiation being since completed
and nothing very material remaining to be discussed in which I
can natter myself with being able to render any important service,
I have to request the President to accept the resignation of my
office and permit me to return home."

On the same date, August 5, i8o2,f Mr. King wrote to
John Marshall that though the present administration ap-
proved and desired the business settled by the convention
closed upon the terms which had been offered, and of which
every material point was completed before he knew the
opinion of the present administration,

* R. Kings Life, etc., iv., p. 155. \ Ibid., iv., p. 153.

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 269

" I earnestly wish that on other and still more important con-
cerns, its sentiments had been equally correct, as they have been
in respect to this business ; but I must disregard opinions formed
with solicitude, and after careful reflection, not to hesitate in be-
lieving this to be the case ; and it is for this reason, among others,
that upon mature consideration of my duty to the public, as well
as of what I owe to myself, I have thought it incumbent on me to
resign my Mission and ask leave to return home,"

an action which he hopes will receive Mr. M.'s approbation.
To Dr. Southgate, his brother-in-law,* August 5, 1802, he
also communicates his decision :

" It was my wish to have returned some time ago, but being
engaged in a negotiation of considerable difficulty and importance,
I have not been able until now to do so with propriety. The
negotiation which detained me being completed, and nothing of
importance remaining in the discussion whereof I can hope to be
useful, I think myself free to resign my office."

In all of the letters the same reason is given by Mr. King,
showing that though not now recalled, as the President's
advisers \ had urged that he should be, he understood that

*R. King's Life, etc., iv., p. 144.

f Mr. J. C. Hamilton in his Life of Alexander Hamilton, vol. vii., p. 584,
makes the following note :

11 Monroe to Jefferson, Richmond, April 30, 1801. ' On my return I found
Col. Taylor and some other respectable characters attending the Courts, and
from him and one or two others, who spoke of it, I understood it was in their
opinion generally expected and wished, that our present Envoy at London should
be withdrawn. They think nothing is done unless that is done ; that as every
calamity foreign and domestic we have experienced from Great Britain, a per-
son known to be friendly to her interests, acquainted with our interior, able to
guide her councils and plan her measures against us ought not to be left there
under the present Administration.' This letter, in Monroe's autograph, is
stated not to have been sent. Giles also wrote to Jefferson from the same place,
June 1, 1801. ' The ejected party is now almost universally considered as
having been employed in conjunction with Great Britain, in a scheme for the
total destruction of the liberties of the people. . . . The continuation of
Mr. King in London, it is apprehended, may be attended with unpleasant
effects.' He then urged an absolute repeal of the whole judiciary system, ter-
minating the present officers, and creating an entire new system."

270 RUFUS KING. [i8oi~

the administration of Mr. Jefferson did not intend to confide
to him the discussion or settlement of any other questions
between the two countries than those already pending, and
that, therefore, he not only could be of no further service
abroad, but felt that he was not in harmony with the Presi-
dent and his advisers, and, therefore, he resigned his
position.

It may be said, however, that as he had promised in his
letter to the President, expressing his sensibility of the Pres-
ident's "obliging appreciation of the manner in which I have
performed the duties of my office in this country," " that the
like zeal and industry will continue to be employed during
the residue of my mission," Mr. King continued to be
actively engaged in bringing to a conclusion the matters en-
trusted to him. Among others was the business of endeav-
oring to determine with the British Government the
Boundaries of the Northeastern and Northwestern parts
of the United States. After many conferences with Lord
Hawkesbury, he sent him a draught of a convention on the
subject, which was signed by him and Lord Hawkesbury on
May 12, 1803, and communicated by the President to the
Senate on Oct. 24th, with the papers relating to it, for their
advice and consent as to its ratification. This was not given
until February 9, 1804, excepting, however, the 5 th Article.*
They refused to remove the injunction of secresy, as to its
publication.

The most serious question remaining open was that of the
Impressment of American seamen by authority of the Brit-

* The 5th Article related to the Northwest point of separation between the
two countries. By the Treaty of Peace this was agreed to be the northwest cor-
ner of the Lake of the Woods. In the official despatch, No. 98, May 15th,
1803, communicating to the Secretary of State the fact of the Signature of the
Boundaries' Convention, Mr. King says relative to the 5th Article :

" The Source of the River Mississippi nearest to the Lake of the Woods,
according to Mackenzies* Report, will be found twenty nine Miles to the
Westward of any part of that Lake, which is represented to be nearly circular.
Hence a direct line between the North Westernmost part of the Lake and the
nearest source of the Mississippi, which is preferred by this Government, has
appeared to me equally advantageous with the Lines we had proposed."

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 27 1

ish Government in the ports of Great Britain and from
vessels on the high seas. From the first day of his entering
upon his mission, Mr. King, under his instructions, had
urged the removal of this serious grievance and had at vari-
ous times earnestly, but unavailingly, pressed the British
Ministry to put a stop to these proceedings, which threat-
ened to destroy the harmony and good-will between the two
nations. Upon the establishment of peace between England
and France, by the Treaty of Amiens, the demand for sea-
men to man the British navy being less pressing, there had
been less complaint made of this unwarrantable action. But
Mr. King, ever alive to the interests of his country and fear-
ing that a renewal of the war between England and France
might be attended with a repetition of those outrageous
proceedings, determined to endeavor, before he sailed for
home, to make a convention with Great Britain by which
she might renounce the claim she made to search for and
take her native citizens and those she claimed to be such,
wherever she might find them, whether in the commercial
or naval service of the United States.

He accordingly, as has been seen, called the attention of
Lord St. Vincent to a careful consideration of the subject
and seemed to have brought it to a satisfactory conclusion,
for a period of five years at least, believing firmly that his
mission would be crowned with this most gratifying result.
But at the last moment before he sailed, his lordship inter-
posed an objection to even that settlement by claiming that
there should still be a right of search " in the narrow seas "
about Great Britain. With this restriction, Mr. King pre-
ferred to abandon further proceedings as his own judgment
was opposed to such a partial settlement.* Indeed, though

* Mr. Jefferson in a letter to the Secretary of State says : "With respect
to the impressment of our seamen I think we had better propose to Great Britain
to act on the stipulations which had been agreed to between that Government
and Mr. King, as if they had been signed ; I think they were, that they would
forbid impressments at sea, and that we should acquiesce in the search of their
harbors necessary to prevent concealments of their citizens. Mr. Thornton's
attempt to justify his nation in using our ports as cruizing stations on our

272 RUFUS KING. [1801-

several years after, the exercise of this claim was the main
ostensible cause of the War of 1812 with Great Britain, peace
was made without obtaining the abandonment of the alleged
right by that Government although the practice was discon-
tinued and finally abandoned.

Mr. King had made frequent and persistent demands upon
the British Government for the surrender to the State of
Maryland certain shares of the Bank of England, which had
belonged to that Colony before the War of the Revolution,
which had been held by trustees in England, but which were
finally claimed to belong to the crown, escheated when the
charter of the Colony was dissolved by the war. He ob-
tained from Lord Hawkesbury the promise that they should
be paid over to the State of Maryland as soon as certain
claims of Lord Baltimore's trustees were settled by law.
Mr. King sailed before the decision, declaring them to be
invalid, was rendered, after which the Government paid the
money to the State of Maryland.

Not having been instructed by his Government, and in
daily expectation of the arrival of his successor as minister,
Mr. King made no appointment of a Charge d'Affaires, so
that until the arrival of Mr. Monroe, there was really no
official representative of the Government in London except
the Consul who had received no authority to perform other
than the ordinary duties of his orifice. Mr. Gore explains
this action in a letter to Mr. Madison, the Secretary of
State.

London, June 4, 1803.
Sir:

Your letter of the 6th April last came to hand on the 26th
instant, a few days after the departure of Mr. King, who, you will
have learnt, not conceiving it to be the intention of the President,
did not name any charge d'affaires on leaving the court.

friends and ourselves, renders the matter so serious as to call, I think, for an
answer. That we ought in courtesy and friendship to extend to them all the rights
of hospitality is certain, that they should not use our hospitality to injure our
friends or ourselves, is equally enjoined by morality and honor." — Jefferson's
Works, iv., p. 501, August 25, 1803.

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 273

Perceiving however from the estimate of expenses that it was
possible several months might elapse before the arrival of a
Minister, I thought it suitable to mention to Lord Hawkesbury,
that it was to be inferred from your communication to me, that
the President had contemplated Mr. King's naming some person
to take charge of our affairs here, and that I feared a longer time
might pass before the United States would be represented than
was expected by their government. This I did with a view of
preventing any misconception that otherwise might, by possibility,
arise from the absence of the usual Representative of our Gov-
ernment in this country, and also to inform him that under these
circumstances, I should, until the arrival of a person authorised
to act in a character of a Minister, take the liberty of making to
him such Representations in behalf of our Government, or citi-
zens, as the affairs might require, in cases where delay would be
materially inconvenient.

To which he replied in terms of great civility and professed a
perfect readiness to receive every communication I should make
on these subjects and to give the same all the attention that their
nature and importance might require. . . .

The salary of Mr. Munro and the contingent charges incident
to the business, will be all the Expense to which the U. States will
be liable ; these I flatter myself will be approved by the Presi-
dent, whom, Sir, I pray you to assure that my Endeavours will be
faithfully exerted to diminish as much as possible the incon-
venience to the Government and Citizens of the United States,
arising from this vacancy in the legation, which it would seem, by
your letter, was not contemplated by the Government.

With perfect respect &c.

C. Gore.

C. Gore to R. King.

London, June 5, 1803.
My Dear Friend :

A few days after your departure, I received a letter of the 6th

April from Mr. Madison, directed to myself, relative to measures

adopted by himself and Mr. Gallatin to supply the deficiency in

the diplomatic fund occasioned by the failure of Bird's house ;

VOL. IV. — 18

274 KUFUS KING. [1801-

and enclosing an estimate of the expenses &c, under the follow-
ing head, " Remittances to be made to London computed for 9
months" (here followed the details). In part of the letter he
says " to enable the person left in charge of our affairs on the de-
parture of Mr. King to apply to the British Government for reim-
bursement of what we paid towards the expenses of the late Board
at Philadelphia beyond our proportion I enclose," etc. . . .

Several letters also on the subject of these remittances came from
Mr. Gallatin and one from Mr. Madison on the 19th of April,
directed to you, and in case of your absence to me. This latter
one from M. also contained the estimate before referred to. I
enclose you a copy of my letter to Mr. M., which will explain to
you the course I concluded, after some reflection, to pursue. My
brother Pinkney from whom as you know I had something to ap-
prehend, had it been thought advisable to accede to your pro-
posal, was consulted and he approves of the conduct thought
proper to adopt. He imputes this fa$on, as the french would
say, of acting in the Government to a promise either express, or
so strongly implied as to amount to the same thing, from the
President, or Mr. M., or both, to name Erving charge here, on
your taking leave ; which, on more mature consideration, they
had thought proper to abandon, and thus have involved them-
selves in a dilemma, that possibly they had hoped might have
been avoided by your naming me ; though this event they cer-
tainly had no reason to expect. I learn from another quarter
that E., in contemplation of your naming me and my undertaking
to act, had prepared a regular protest, which he had intended to
publish against such unwarrantable assumption of a character by
you and me contrary to the will and disposition of the Government
•of the U. S.

The course I have adopted appears to me under all the exist-
ing circumstances it was my duty to pursue, and which I do not
think the Government or my friends can censure. If they do, I
feel justified myself, and that is a consolation to be secured at all
events. It was stated to me that if I chose to assume the char-
acter, there would be no objection here. But I absolutely de-
clined, and prayed it to be so distinctly understood. This forms
no part of my communication to Mr. M., and you will of course
suffer it to rest with you, who know all my feelings and inclina-

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 27$

tions on this and every other subject. Lord Hawkesbury invited
me to his dinner yesterday and I attended that after having first
paid my respects at court. In the line of etiquette and ceremony,
this is all I shall probably ever feel it necessary to do. To some
people it might be matter of , great importance to know that the
King and Queen made very particular enquiries after them and
professions of good will ; you may estimate them at what rate you
please, but this was the fact.

Pinkney and myself heard the debate on the proposed address
in answer to the King's message informing the house of the
departure of Ld. W. from Paris. Mr. Pitt was brilliant and exceed-
ingly delighted the house. Hammond thought if you could have
entertained an idea how great it was, you certainly would have
remained to hear it. Fox did not speak till the second night,
and it was by far the best speech I ever heard him deliver, and in
my opinion the most pernicious that he or any other man could
have uttered. No doubt remains that the Doctor intends to carry
on the Government without Mr. Pitt, who, as far as I can judge,
does not seem to me to have injured the present administration,
or to have benefitted his own party by the debate on Friday
night. Lord H. evidently advanced himself in the public opinion
by his reply. . . .

The following extracts from a letter from Mr. Gore to his
friend Mr. King will show something of the condition of
affairs in London after his departure and before the arrival
of a successor.

C. Gore to R. King.

London, July 2, 1803.

. . . We have nearly finished our awards ; I mean all that
will be ready for us before the 15th of July ; which will comprise
the whole of the cases, except about 20., and I do not yet despair
of completing these and returning this autumn. Eustis has given
me to understand that my character has been culumniated at
Washington for the disposition I have manifested to protract the
commission ; that it would have been earlier closed had it not

276 RUFUS KING. [1801-

been for me, and that Pinkney was determined to get through the
Southern cases & return home. In some philippic, which he
made at the Board, I did say that I felt it my duty to remain &
close the commission, at the same time saying that it was unnec-
essary for me to remark that no diligence or exertion of mine
would be wanting to bring the business to as speedy a termination
as possible. I do not believe that such a base and unfounded
slander as this could have intentionally originated in him. You
know better than any man, but no one can tell all the contest I
have had in my own mind for the last five years, between a sense
of duty which, according to my judgment, constrained me to
remain and endeavour to perfect what I had undertaken, and a
desire to return, a desire prompted by the strongest interests,
which called me home, and rendered extremely ardent by con-
stantly experiencing the mortification and disgust of so inglorious
a station. I do not know on reflection, a single thing I could
have attempted, which has not been to expedite the business, &
least of all did I expect such an imputation ; however it gives
me no pain, so perfectly satisfied am I not only of its falsehood,
but also that no man of common honesty will ever give it currency
& that none of common sense can give it credit. . . .

Lord H. sent me notice some time since that passports would
be granted at the alien office to such of our citizens as desired to
go to France, on receiving one from me. On this I requested
Hammond that the alien office might be directed to grant them
on Erving's, & informed him, H, explicitly that I could not and
should not grant any. When Lord H. sent me notice of the
blockade of the Elbe, he included a desire that I would notify the
same to our consuls, which I accordingly did. Erving replied to
me that he should receive no official communication whatever from
me, & that he had written to Lord H. requesting his Lordship to
signify to him if this was a communication from his Majesty's
Govt. I understand from P. that such was his determination,
had I been left charge d'affaires by you.

Young Mercer informs me he has a letter from Govr. Monroe,
informing him that the Governor has received his commission as
Minister &c. to this court, and that he will be here in a few days ;
and that Livingston is also about to pay a visit to this coun-
try. .. .

803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 2J7

The boys from whom I received letters yesterday, are perfectly
well. We shall go to their Speechday, which is next Thursday.
James, from whom we heard about ten days since, was then in
good health & spirits. London is become quite empty ; to us it
has been so ever since your departure. My wife writes to Mrs.
King, and I pray you to offer to her and Edward my affectionate
regards & to believe me

Ever your assured friend

C. Gore.

R. King to John Adams.

At Sea, 22 June, 1803.

Sir—

On the 16th of last month the King of Great Britain sent
a message to Parliament announcing the termination of the dis-
cussions with France, and calling on them to support him in his
determination to employ the power & resources of the nation in
opposing the spirit of ambition and encroachments of the Govern-
ment of France. Letters of marque had been issued against
France, and I conjecture that orders have likewise been given to
detain the Ships of Spain & Holland, until it be ascertained
whether these powers would be able to maintain their neutrality.
The King's Message was ordered to be taken into consideration
on the 23d. We sailed from Cowes on the 21st so that I can give
no account of the sense of Parliament. I take the liberty to
send you the English declaration and a copy of the correspon-
dence which was laid before Parliament.

With great respect I remain &c

Rufus King.

P. S. The English Ambassador had returned to London from
Paris, & the French Ambassador had left England before we did

CHAPTER XIX.

Arrival in New York and Reception by Citizens — Cabot to King — Welcome
Home — Confidence in England — Louisiana's Cession a good Thing for
France — Madison to King — Not Necessary as a Tribute of Respect —
Written Communications sufficient — Gallatin to King — Baggage free from
Duty — Thanks for his Manner of transacting the Business of his Depart-
ment— Jay to King — Congratulations on his Return — Hale to King — Con-
gratulations, etc. — J. Q. Adams to King — Thanks for Favors rendered in
London — Cabot to King — Pleased with Firmness of British Government —
J. Adams to King — Thanks for sending Papers — His Conduct in England
satisfactory to him and honorable and beneficial to his Country — King to
Gore — Cession of great Importance giving Control of the Mississippi —
Offer to go to Washington — Sedgwick to King — Wishes to see him Gov-
ernor of N. Y. — Gov. Mercer to King — Thanks him for Zeal, Ability, and
Perseverance in Maryland's Behalf— Gore to King — State of Commission's
Work — Monroe expected — Public Dinner to King — King to Gore — Does
not yet know his Successor — Gore to King — Rebellion in Ireland — English
Confidence rises — Monroe arrives in London — King to Gore — Livingston
or Monroe to succeed him — The Papers say Doubts arise as to the Utility
and Prudence and Constitutionality of the Louisiana Purchase — King to
Gore — Hears Nothing more of his Successor — Washington not a safe
Residence in Summer — Yellow Fever in N. Y. — Objections to certain
Articles in the Louisiana Convention.

Mr. King reached New York after a long voyage on the
last day of June, as we are informed by the announcement
in the Evening Post of Friday, July I, 1803.

" The honourable Rufus King, our late Minister to the Court of
Great Britain, arrived yesterday with his family in the John
Morgan from London. He came on shore in the afternoon and
was met, on landing, by a large number of our most respectable
citizens, who had assembled to welcome his safe return to his
native country. No expressions of respect towards this gentleman
can do justice to his eminent talents and the unremitted attention
1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 279

with which he has so assiduously guarded the rights and watched
over the interests of our nation. May he long enjoy in the grati-
tude of his fellow citizens the reward of his great and useful
services."

Among the gratifying evidences of welcome to America,
none could have given Mr. King more pleasure than the
following from his old friend and constant correspondent :

George Cabot to Rufus King.

Boston, July 1, 1803.
My dear Friend :

We hear from New York that Mr. King is arrived and confirms
our accounts of war ; the first gives me unmingled pleasure — the
last excites a mixed sentiment of joy and anxiety. I have con-
stantly believed that the struggle between France and England
must continue until the power of the former is effectually
abridged, or the latter falls.

You can judge best of the issue, but after every allowance for
the immense advantages of force on the side of France, with all
continental Europe at her disposal, and the wishes of all the fools
and knaves throughout the universe on her side, I entertain great
hopes and confidence in the final success of England. She has
means and motives sufficient which I trust will not be unavailing
for want of talents to employ them. . . . The cession of
Louisiana is an excellent thing for France. It is like selling us a
Ship after she is surrounded by a British Fleet : it puts into safe-
keeping what she could not keep herself, for England could take
Louisiana in the first moment of war without the loss of a man.
France could neither settle it nor protect it ; she is therefore rid
of an encumbrance that wounded her pride, receives money and
regains the friendship of our populace.

I pray you to make my best regards acceptable to Mrs. King.
I think you too wise to seek public honors, & I hope you are too
patriotic to shun them if they seek you.

Your faithful and affectionate friend

George Cabot.

ir

280 RUFUS KING. [1803

P. S. An expression which I well remember in a letter from
you after your visit to Paris, leads me to expect the pleasure of
seeing you here — I know nothing of the objection which may
exist to your executing such an intention, and I can assure you it
would give infinite pleasure to a great many people here &
especially to me.

Mr. King, as a letter to Mr. Gore informs us, wrote on
July 2d to Mr. Madison, the Secretary of State, informing
him of his arrival and offering to go to Washington if re-
quired to report to the Government. He received a reply
which is here given and in consequence of it did not make a
visit to the capital. It is quite probable that he did not par-
ticularly desire, under all the circumstances, to go to Wash-
ington, and he certainly felt relieved when he found that he
was not required to make the visit there.

Jas. Madison to R. King.

Private.

Washington, July 5, 1803.
Dear Sir :

I reed, by the mail of last evening yours of the 2d instant. I
do not know that any rule has been established which requires
public ministers on their return to the U. States, to repair to the
seat of Government. Where no public considerations make such
a visit important, and it would be inconvenient to the individual,
it could not reasonably be exacted as a mere tribute of respect.
In your case it is readily conceived that your time must be claimed
by private arrangements ; and altho' personal explanation might
not be without a value, it does not occur that they would turn on
any points, on which your written communications are not, or
will not be sufficient. The ideas of the President on the subject
accord with those here expressed, and I have the pleasure to add
that he appears to be too well satisfied of your respectful dis-
positions, by manifestations already given, to need any farther
testimony which might be afforded by a trip to the seat of
Government.

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 28 1

I have seen the Secretary of the Treasury as you wished. He
will take into consideration the subject referred to him, with
every favorable disposition, which his construction of the law will
permit.

Very Sincerely & respectfully I remain Dr. Sir

yr. most obedt. hble. servt.
James Madison.

Your letter of June 22, with the several other letters & papers
forwarded at the time have been duly reed. A letter from Havre
of May 15, promises, by a vessel which was to sail for N. York a
few days after, despatches from our Minister at Paris, by a confi-
dential Bearer. The 19th of April is the date of the last which
have yet come to hand.

It is evident from this that Mr. King prepared, while on
board ship, a report of the final days of his mission, which
he forwarded to Washington at once upon his landing in

New York, and to which on the July he added the

supplement which appears on the 259-262 pages of this
volume.

Albert Gallatin to R. King.

Treasury Department, July 6th, 1803.
Sir :

I had the honor to receive your letter of the 2nd instant, and
have directed the Collector to permit the entry of your baggage
&c, as free from duty. Although some doubt was at first enter-
tained on that subject, I feel a conviction that this decision is con-
sistent with the spirit, & not forbidden by the letter, of the law.

Permit me to embrace this opportunity of returning my sincere
thanks for the manner in which you transacted the business of
this Department, with which, foreign as it was to the duties of
your mission, I was obliged to trouble you.

I have the honor to be with great respect

Sir, your obedt. Servt.
Albert Gallatin.
The Honble. Rufus King
New York.

282 RUFUS KING. [1803

John Jay to R. King.

Bedford, July 6, 1803.
Dear Sir :

By the last post we were informed that you and your family had
arrived at New York in good Health. I congratulate you very
sincerely on this agreeable Termination of a long absence from
your country. From the Recommencement of Hostilities in
Europe, I fear you have left London too soon ; but that consider-
ation loses a part of its weight from the Reflection that if proper
counsels prevail, your Presence here will not be unproductive of
advantages.

A series of circumstances, not very important and yet not unin-
teresting, have ever since my Removal to this place, made it in-
convenient for me to leave it. Many inducements urge me to
visit New York & the pleasure of seeing you is now added to the
number. I hope and expect the circumstances alluded to will not
be of much longer duration.

Be pleased to present my best Compts. to Mrs. King.

With great Esteem & Regard I am, &c.

John Jay.

Joseph Hale to R. King, N. Y.

Boston, July 7, 1803.
Dear Sir :

Permit me to congratulate you on your safe return to New
York ; although the existing state of Europe requires on our part
a different representation at the Court of St. James than I appre-
hend we shall possess, presuming upon the probable character of
your successor there. In wealth & in various improvements you
will find the U. S. to have made great advances since you left us.
I wish it could be added that they had equally advanced in politi-
cal wisdom. Our retrograde movements in that respect are the
more to be regretted when we contemplate the actual state of
Europe.

By this Post you will receive from me our Anniversary Oration
by a Son of Judge Sullivan. We think well of the performance,
although it recommends uniting with England against France ; it

1803I LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 283

is even in that view more correct than the memorial imputed to
our Minister at St. Cloud. If the Oration reaches you, the post-
age will not be expensive, as one side of the package is left open.
Its sentiments in general you will not disapprove.

Be pleased to present my best respects to Mrs. K., and believe
me, Dear Sir,

With the highest respect and attachment &c.

Joseph Hale.

Mr. Payne is married & gone with his Lady to Balls-town
Springs.

J. Q. Adams to R. King.

Dear Sir : Boston, 8 July, 1803.

I have just received your favour of the 5th inst, inclosing two
letters from Lord & Lady Carysfort, for your care of which and
the parcels which accompanied them, please to accept my best
thanks. The parcels may wait for a convenient and safe oppor-
tunity ; and one of them being a brittle article, will require care
in the conveyance.

I enclosed some weeks since, a letter from you enclosing a list
of the debtors to Bird, Savage & Bird, in this country ; and in-
formation of the great obligation for which I was indebted to you,
with Mr. Gore and Mr. Williams, in taking up for my honour the
bills I had drawn upon that house. About two months ago, I
made a remittance to Mr. Williams, adequate to discharge the
whole of his advances for me on that occasion. Whether it will
ever be in my power to repay his and your act of friendship, in
taking the heavy charge of the bills, and saving me from the ad-
ditional burthen of protest damages I know not ; but that I shall
ever retain a grateful sense of your kindness I do know, and hope
you will never have reason to doubt.

I am happy to have this occasion of congratulating you upon
your return to our native country, where I hope you will find a
residence still more agreeable and satisfactory than that of the
period you have past in Europe. With my best regards to Mrs.
King, I remain,

Dear Sir, faithfully yours

John Quincy Adams.

284 RUFUS KING. [1803

G. Cabot to R. King.

Boston, July 9, 1803.
My dear Sir :

I received from you at the beginning of this week, the Decla-
ration of the British Government & their correspondence with
France, and I take great pleasure in observing that so much dig-
nity & firmness as well as moderation, has been displayed by the
British Ministry. Had I known the secrets however I shou'd have
trembled lest matters shou'd have been given up, which would
have been of more consequence than all the conquests of Great
Britain and 20 sail of the line besides. Malta is the spot intended
by Providence, for G. B. to enable her to cover Egypt, the Levant
and Adriatic — to watch Toulon and observe the whole Mediter-
ranean. Nothing should tempt G. B. to yield it to France, while
France remains so formidable. . . .

Our jacobins have already indulged their French feelings — they
allow that the success of England — at least in defending herself —
is necessary to keep France from troubling us ; yet such is their
profligacy and their hatred that they would rather risk the liberty
of our country, than see the English beat the French.

I hear very seldom lately from our friend Hamilton, whom you

know I love excessively ; when you see him, I pray you tender

him my affectionate regards, & believe me ever with sincere

attachment

Your faithful,

George Cabot.

John Adams to R. King.

Quincy, July 10, 1803.
Dear Sir :

I duly received his Britannic Majesty's Declaration and a List
of Papers presented to Parliament, with the kind Letter you did
me the Honor to write me on the twenty-second of same. With
great sincerity, I thank you, Sir, for this instance of your polite
attention to me, and for a great number of others of a like kind
during your Embassy in England. I was so situated that I could
not acknowledge the Receipt of many Pamphlets of an interesting
nature, which you were so good as to send me.

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 285

Your conduct during your whole residence in England, so far
as it ever came to my Knowledge, was so entirely satisfactory to
me and so highly honorable and beneficial to your Country, that
I cannot but regret the necessity you found yourself under to re-
turn. This however does not prevent Mrs. Adams from joining
with me in most cordial Congratulations with you and Mrs. King
on your fortunate voyage and perfect health.

I ought not to conclude this Letter without expressing to you
my most hearty Thanks for your Friendship to my son. With
great Esteem,

I am, Dear Sir, your obliged Friend &c.

John Adams.

R. King to C. Gore, London.

New York, July 10, 1803.
My dear Friend :

We are not yet removed to our own house owing to the diffi-
culty and delay in receiving our baggage, &c. from the ship ; but
as Mr. Gallatin has given an order that all our effects shall be
delivered free of duty, and we expect the ship will be discharged
of her cargo tomorrow, we shall in a few days, as we expect, be
in our own house. I regret to have sold my house in town, as I
cannot buy a smaller and less convenient one for the money I re-
ceived and as I want it to put my furniture in ; we have put
every thing in a fire proof store, where it must remain till I settle
myself. I adhere to the project of a country establishment and a
small house in town ; but I will not be in a hurry about either.

The glass is above 80, and we are very sensible to the heat,
more so than formerly. ... As yet the city is healthy and
we hear nothing of yellow fever here or elsewhere.

Govt, has not yet received any despatches from Paris relative
to Louisiana — the last dates from thence are April 19. My im-
perfect Report is all they know of the Business in this Country.

As far as I learn the opin. of our friends here, they regard the
Cession as an event of gt. importance, especially as it gives us
the control of the Mississippi. I don't perceive that any impor-
tance is annexed to the acquisition west of the River ; the subject
is little understood and the pour and the contre not yet discussed

286 RUFUS KING. [1803

— on the whole it seems agreed on all sides that the measure
will operate in favour of the present administration ; whose au-
thority and popularity extend themselves in every quarter. In
this State, I understand that the federalists failed everywhere in
the late Election ; and even in Connecticut & Massachusetts they
are gradually losing credit — at least such is here the opinion
among even our friends. . . .

I offered to go on to Washington if required, and I received a
civil answer wh. leaves me at liberty to stay at home. So far as
regards myself personally they are desirous to receive and treat
me with kindness and even distinction.

Once more yrs.

Rufus King.

T. Sedgwick to R. King.

Boston, July 12, 1803.
My dear Sir :

Among the congratulations which you will receive, on your ar-
rival, none are more sincere than those I have the pleasure to give
you. Many public as well as private considerations conduce to
render this a pleasing event ; and among them the expectation,
and I am confident it is well founded, that I shall enjoy the satis-
faction, within twelve months, of saluting you as Governor of
New York. However improbable this event may appear to you, I
have no doubt that it is in the power of your friends, or in other
words the friends of sound principles, to secure it ; and to men
of that description, there is nothing which they ought to deem
more desirable. Perhaps the station may not be an object of
your wishes, tho' I think there is none in our country which can
afford to a disposition such as yours so many sources of gratifica-
tion. Whatever may be your own feelings, I hope you will think
that you are so much of public property that your friends have a
right to dispose of you at their pleasure.

When I began this letter, I had intended only to have given
you, what indeed you cannot want, assurances of the continuance
of my esteem & friendship, and I insensibly expressed my senti-
ments on a subject, on which I have long & anxiously reflected.
I am now on my way from the eastward where I saw two of your

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 287

brothers, and was much pleased with both. Assure Mrs. King
that I cordially sympathize with her in the pleasure she enjoys in
returning to her native city & in seeing the improvements which
have taken place in her absence.

I am sincerely & affectly. yours

Theodore Sedgwick.

Gov. John T. Mercer to R. King.

In Council Chamber, Annapolis,
July 12, 1803.
Sir :

The Letter you did me the honor to address to me of the 10th
of May last, enclosing a Copy of your Communications to the
Secretary of State, under the 1st of May, has been duly received
and communicated to the Council ; and permit me to offer to you
my sincere thanks for the zeal, ability and perseverance which
you have manifested in prosecuting the just claims of the State.
Your communication will be submitted to the Legislature at the
commencement of their next Session — from the expression of
their sentiments, those acknowledgments can only be derived,
which coming from the immediate Representatives of the People,
must prove most satisfactory to yourself.

I have the honor to be with much respect

Your obedient Servant

John T. Mercer.

C. Gore to R. King.

London, July 13, 1803.
My dear Friend :

. . . We were at Harrow on the 7th, Speech day, and found
the boys in perfect health & spirits. They come to London a
fortnight hence. I have not heard from James for a long time.
Barlow, whose cause is now decided and favourably for him, will
go for Paris shortly, that is to say, when he receives his award,
which may be within ten days, & by him we shall write.

Our awards are made to the number of 291, and to-morrow we
shall execute those that are ready, which are 13 more. These

288 RUFUS XING. [1803

will bring the amount of cases awarded on beyond 300. The
number of awards will be about 500 ; and the remaining cases
will be about thirty : of these all are decided by the Board and
referred to the merchants excepting eight. Some of them, though
only provisionally, not being yet reported on by the Registrar and
merchants. The aforementioned eight will be referred within a
few days. The British cases are to be acted on next week. We
want about seven or eight reports from the Courts, and there are
five or six cases only pending. The money will be ready & paid
at the treasury either on the 15th, or within a day or two after. I
sometimes have strong hopes of being able to quit this autumn,
and have bespoke the refusal of the Galen's cabin ; but the objec-
tion to closing are in reality considerable, and there is not every-
where a strong disposition to remove them.

Monroe is expected here daily as your successor. Pinkney has
received instructions and authority to act as agent of the Mary-
land Bank Stock Concern, from the State of Maryland, and
credentials from the Prest. of the U. States to act also in his
name on this behalf. P. tells me as his belief, that M. is to come
here, be received, appoint a charge d'affaires & then go to Spain.
The papers tell you all, at least as much as I could about the
Russian mediation &c. The Spirit of the country is evidently
and generally rising ; and it is already much beyond the temper
of the administration — Mrs. Gore enjoys her health tolerably
considering that we are confined to London. We miss you and
Mrs. King more and more every day. We are in many respects
alone — I can truly say that in many things & on many topics I
have none to communicate with, for though with these that are
here I agree in part, yet not in all, & for a free communication on
many subjects this is necessary. I am heartily tired, and never
felt more anxiety to be away than at this moment. My wife de-
sires her affectionate regards, and I pray you present mine and
hers to yours & Edward.

Yrs. truly

C. G.

Miss Burnley is dead.

The expression of welcome made to Mr. King on his
arrival at New York was renewed some days afterwards by

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 289

a public dinner in his honor, of which the following account
was given at the time :

New York, July 13, 1803.*
A select company of the most respectable citizens, without re-
gard to political distinctions, principally merchants, amounting to
about 200, gave a public dinner to our late Ambassador at the
Court of Great Britain as a mark of respect.

Mr. King gave as a Toast " The City of New York— Prosperity
and harmony to its citizens." — After his retiring, Mr. Varick
offered the following toast, which was drunk with six cheers.

Rufus King— May foreign nations ever recognize in the
American Envoy the firm Patriot, the able and dignified
Statesman.

R. King, New York, to C. Gore, London.

July 22, 1803.
Dr. Sir :

To day & yesterday the heat, which has been excessive since
the beginning of the month, has moderated and we cease to be in
the fluid state in wh. we have been during the last fortnight. Al-
though we have been a week at housekeeping, we are not yet
settled, and another week will be requisite before we shall begin
to feel at home. As the coloured woman we brought with us, and
who was to cook for us, very soon rebelled, and has been dis-
missed, we have taken a French cook, who is to go to market and
cook our dinners. His soups are good and should no grave ob-
jections on the score of finance arise, we may do very well with
him, we give him $20. a month &c— Every one tells us that the
real difficulty proceeds from the ill manner in which you are
served by your servants, and from what I have already seen it is
plain that servants are not only worse here than with you, but
much worse than 10 years ago here.

Edward & Frederick are well ; the latter has suffered a little
from the heat, but is now recovered. Mrs. K. also is well and
already growing fat. I have been very sensible to the heat, but
by keeping at home and quiet as much as possible, I have been
well.

* The Evening Post, July 13, 1803

VOL. IV.— 19

29O RUFUS KING. [1803

I find a little embarrassment for the want of my books, &c. and
as my term where I am is short, I think it not prudent to open
my trunks, and the more so, as I have no room or place to put my
books up, and looking round for houses and enquiring their prices
and rents, I feel sorry that I sold my house ; tho' I did not like it,
yet it would have been very convenient for me on my first return
and until I could have actually set myself down more to my mind.

I can send you no news, except that it is known that the
Louisiana purchase is to cost us 15. mill. Dol. — 3,750,000
whereof is to be paid to our own people. Our friends say the
money is no object. But I am sure that the Govt, may feel not a
little embarrassed with this part of the Business — the view we
entertained of the acquisition in England seems to be that wh.
our friends here have adopted ; that we do not want Territory
over the River & that the Floridas and New Orleans ought to
satisfy us. . . .

Gen. Smith of Baltimore was here a few days ago, and assured
me that he had no knowledge who is to be my successor at Lon-
don : This is the case with all those I meet with. But a common
persuasion seems to destine Mr. Livingston or Mr. Monroe for
the Mission to London. I hear nothing further of our friend
Pinkney's appointment. ... I wrote a private letter to
Madison saying I did not know the usage, whether our Minstrs.
were expected to visit the seat of Gov. on their return, intimated
that I desired not to be deficient in respect, and that I wd. cheer-
fully proceed to Washington, if he was of opinion that my omit-
ting to do so wd. be thought in the slightest degree disrespectful
— I reed, a very satisfactory answer, which dispensed with my
journey.

Yrs.

R. K.

C. Gore to R. King.

London, July 29, 1803.
My dear Friend :

It is with real sorrow that I have to inform you of the rebellion
breaking out in Ireland, and at a time the most unexpected. All
persons had flatter'd themselves, that the country was radically

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 29 1

mended ; even the old opposition, that was fond of exaggerating
rather than diminishing the evils England had to contend with,
was constrained from the evidence of their friends, who visited
that island, to believe that Irishmen were gratified with the
change, and were sincerely & heartily disposed to resist the com-
mon enemy. The newspapers give you the particulars of the
tragical scene of Dublin, and rumour leaves no room to doubt,
that the first accounts will be found short of the real horrors, that
disgrace these wretched people.

The true English spirit continues to rise, and I have a confi-
dence that this and their resources will prove equal to the tre-
mendous conflict they are entering upon. The northern powers
are remonstrating with acrimony, as I learn, against the shutting
of the Elbe, and Monroe told me yesterday that the Weser was
also blockaded, but I see no account of it in the papers, neither
do I learn that it is true from others.

This gentleman arrived here about a week since. Before his
arrival I received a letter from Parker, saying M. had a strong
wish to live in the house you occupied, that he might be near us,
and of his great respect and warm desire to live on the most cor-
dial terms &c, &c, &c. All this I trust was duly estimated. The
day after I learnt that he was in town, I paid him my respects,
stated to him what I knew of the business of the Legation &c,
and the next day sent him the letters, which had been received
since your absence, and apprized him that all the papers belong-
ing to the embassy, and left by you, were here. The day before
yesterday he returned the visit, & on the same day we dined to-
gether at Mr. Hope's. Sir T. B. was there. He said that Bing-
ham, who was at Tunbridge Wells, had written to desire that they
would be particularly attentive to M. An answer was returned
that they always were to Americans of distinguished character,
whatever was their party. B. came to town yesterday to pay his
respects. He did not, till he met M. in Paris, know he was so
able & so moderate a man. I cannot waste a sheet of paper on
this son of Wealth, but suffice it to say, he admires France &
Frenchmen, thinks England weak and foolish in the extreme in
going to war, and that nothing but the earnest desire of the
present administration to unsheath the sword, occasioned the
contest.

292 RUFUS KING. [1803

The boys are here in perfect health & good spirits. They are
not yet absolutely settled at the Abbe's,* but will be next week ;
they have already slept there and will take their beds with him
to-night. We wrote to James today — Mrs. Gore sends to Mrs.
King his last letter.

I ought to have told you what you will know without, though,
that if Mr. M. asks for any information which I can afford, it will
be cheerfully given — if not, I shall by no means intrude myself,
or my opinions upon him. I most seriously feel your absence.
There is not in England a man with whom I can talk confiden-
tially, and even on subjects that perhaps do not admit of any
great difference of opinion, one is obliged to be on their guard,
lest misconstructions should be made. Our board must adjourn
to the first Monday of December. There are a few cases yet be-
fore the courts ; and our brethren will not consent to act on them
until that process is ended. We have sent a list of the awards to
the Govt., and every individual in whose favor they are made, and
submitted to them the propriety of printing it. The number of
awards is 467 — of cases 300. The amount of these is ;£ 1.083.990.
3.8. ; forty two cases remain to be acted upon, all of which, except
about half a dozen have been referred to C. & P. for report : such
as are perfect in relation to the judicial remedy, absolutely ; and
such as are not, provisionally.

I may possibly go to France. After the motive of gratifying
my wife, I have very few to go there, but then none exist to de-
tain me here, and many make me desire to be absent. The Brit-
ish treasury paid on the day, viz. 15. July, and the few we have
to make I entertain no doubt will be paid, the first instalment on
presentation & the others when due.

My affectionate regards to Mrs. King & the children, ever
Sincerely yours

C. G.

R. King to C. Gore, London.

Dear Sir: New York, Aug. 12, 1803.

. . . I have satisfactorily ascertained that Mr. Livingston or
Mr. Monroe, as may be settled between themselves is to succeed
* They were here during the vacation to study French.

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 293

me at London. . . . Monroe is authorized to buy the Flori-
das of Spain or whoever is the owner, provided he can make the
purchase in a certain sum in 6 pr cents. It is expected as I hear
that the Impost will be sufficient to pay the Interest of this adn.
to the public Debt without new Taxes. — A loan will be made to
raise the money to pay the Debt owed by France to our own peo-
ple and which we have assumed. It is matter of speculation why
this Debt was not payable in 6 pr cent stock instead of money.
It was without doubt the expectation of Govt, here that such
would have been the arrangement, and the creditors would have
had no ground of complaint.

I am so little in the way of hearing what pub. opinion is that I
can tell you nothing precise respecting the Purchase of Louisiana.
In the papers that I see, I observe some doubts are beginning to
arise both as to the utility and prudence of the measure, and it
would not surprise me if a considerable difference of opinion
should exist in the Senate & H. of Reps.

The measure must be the subject of very extensive future ex-
amination, provided, as I understand to be the case, an amend-
ment of the Constitution will be requisite to enable Congress to
receive the ceded territory into the Union. . . .

R. K.

Rufus King to C. Gore, London.

New York, Aug. 20, 1803.
My dear Sir :

. . . I do not think you could, without impropriety, cer-
tainly not without public inconvenience, have declined to act as
far as you have consented to do — if your own feelings had not
forbidden it, I should have seen nothing remiss in your assuming
the character which the Gov. supposed you to fill. I hear noth-
ing more of my successor * — tho' as I have before informed you,
I do conclude that Livingston or Monroe will go to London.
Since the indiscreet publication of the unsound as well as unwise
and impolitic memorial of the former (I allude to the memorial
respecting Louisiana presented to Bonaparte in September

* This seems very extraordinary, as Mr. Monroe was actually in London,
acting as Minister, on the 18th of July. See Mr. Gore's letter, August 24, 1803.

294 RUFUS KING. [1803

last) his situation there will be less agreeable than otherwise it
might have been ; and in regard to Monroe, P. Porcupine will
make him uneasy & in some degree put him out of good com-
pany, by republishing with comments an article from his unwise
and stupid performances. If Mr. Jefferson would do as he
ought, he would appoint you as my successsor. . . .

Washington is at this season deserted — from the fixed opinion
that no one from the North or from the high country of the
South, can pass the months of August and September there with-
out intermittent or bilious fever. Mr. Gallatin informs me that
no considerable progress is made in building the City, and were
the Govt, in New York or Phil, it would not think of moving to
Washington. To leave it, however, is another matter. Our City
continues to be scourged with the yellow fever : it is probable
that upwards of 20.000 of the Inhabitants have retired to the
country & the quarters of the city, where the influence is sup-
posed to have most prevailed, are evacuated, and in consequence
of their Removal, fewer cases happen than otherwise wd. take
place — hitherto not more than 18 new cases, nor more than 9
deaths have taken place any one day ; but from the severity of
the attack in a plurality of cases, the Effects of the Disease are
more and more alarming than formerly. Men in perfect health to
all appearance, and who are engaged in their business as usual, are
seized and die in the course of 40 hours. The same disagree-
ment & hesitation, as to the mode of treatment which have here-
tofore existed among our physicians, continue to prevail, & the
patients unhappily have less confidence of recovery in conse-
quence of this bad state of things. I have no hope of the fever
ceasing before the frost ; but as the City will daily become less
populous, I am in hopes that the total mortality may not be very
great, tho' we have many weeks of suffering to endure before the
setting in of the frost. Our other cities are healthy and free from
fever. . . .

R. King.

P. S. So far as I hear little is said abt. Louisiana. The article
wh. secures to French & Spanish produce & manufactures arriving
in French or Span. Bottoms the Privilege of paying no higher
Duties than the like Articles wd. pay, if imported in Amer. Bot-

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 20,5

toms, confirms the Privilege to the Ports within the ceded coun-
try, and limits its duration to twelve years ; it moreover restrains
the U. S. from giving the same advantages during the twelve
years to any other Country. Perhaps the article is as impolitic,
as I believe it to have been an unnecessary, one, but I cannot
think an unjustifiable one, since the Treaty with Eng. must be
supposed to refer to the Territories of the U. S. at its date, and
since, moreover, the Privilege must be regarded as a part of the
Price to obtain the cession ; it wd. have been more wise to have
communicated the article to G. B. in the first instance, but I am
persuaded she will see it in its true light. . . .

CHAPER XX.

Gore to King — Congratulates him on his Arrival in N. Y. — Boys Well — Affairs
in Europe — Monroe knows little that passes in London — Gore to King —
Miranda desires to quit England for Trinidad — Affairs in Europe — Trouble
with Ewing — King to Gore — Astonished by England enrolling the Militia
— No reliable Opinions of Congress relative to Louisiana — Search for a
Farm — Gore to King — His Boys in England — Livingston's Memorial —
South America — St. Domingo — Gore to King — Boys' Behaviour excellent —
Anticipates a gloomy Winter — England duped by Spain — Monroe has re-
ceived no Dispatches since his Arrival in London — Gore to King — Wishes
he might settle near Boston — Miranda — Gore to King — Merry sails unin-
structed relative to St. Domingo — Monroe thinks it a good Place for eman-
cipated Negroes — Threatened Invasion of England — Livingston to King —
Has as yet no Advices from U. S. of Reception of the Convention by the
Government — Regrets that it has not yet been considered — State of Europe
— Has not yet received his Cong/.

C. Gore to R. King.

London, August 24, 1803.
My dear Friend :

We rejoice sincerely that you arrived safely and in so short a
passage. From the winds here, apprehensions were entertained
that your patience would have been put to a greater trial. Our
weather has been extremely hot, and since the middle of June, we
have had scarcely any rain. The Boys are quite well ; they are
at the Abbe" Ruffini's. They with Williams & Cabot dine here to-
day, and Cabot sails in the morning. They do perfectly well, and
really merit the esteem & regard of all who know them. They
dined here in company with Monroe & his family a few days
since, and afterwards accompanied us to Vauxhall.

M., you will see, is determined to quit this country. I think
there can be no doubt that Spain & France completely dupe this
wise administration. Bernadotte is assembling troops on the
1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 297

frontiers of Spain, & this latter power announces that unless
France arrests these measures, she will raise 80,000 men, and
formal notice of this threat is given here. The Spanish money
arrives, and Mr. Addington really fears that some portion of it
finds its way into France. A Fleet is said to be fitting out at
Ferrol, supposed to be destined to Ireland. Yet England is de-
sirous to keep Spain neutral, who lulls this Government by saying,
if she is compelled by Bonaparte to furnish the succours con-
tracted for by treaty, she will do that & nothing more ; and
that she will not commute this obligation for money, which has
been requested ; so I presume she will have the ships, men and
money. We hear that Spain has sold Porto Rico to Denmark ;
doubtless with the consent, if not at the instance, of France.
Hopes are indulged that Russia may be induced to take a part
against France, but whether on good grounds I do not know.
France is preparing to seize the Grecian isles and Turkey is her
object. Austria has hitherto refused to lend herself to the views &
desires of the Consul, in respect to her ports in the Adriatic ; but
whether she will be able to persist in her refusal is quite uncer-
tain. If she do, it may serve as a pretence for the withdrawal of
the French army from the channel and the coasts on the North
Seas ; and it is not impossible that this mighty chief may need
some apology for such a measure, considering the force and front
that G. Britain is determined to display. The insurrection in Ire-
land was undoubtedly of French manufacture, and there are great
causes for alarm in that quarter. There are some accounts to-day
of a new plotting discovered in Paris, — you have the story in the
papers.

Our Board has decided all the British Complaints except one,
which is continued for evidence. What we have awarded against
the U. S. will amount to about 100,000 dollars. There are about
8 or 9 cases, waiting for exports from the Admiralty, & three de-
pending in the courts. These will be awarded on, or dismissed in
December, and in February or March, the Commission will be
finally closed, and we shall return home in the Spring and my
most earnest wishes would be gratified if we were to live within a
dozen miles, if not in the same town with you & Mrs. King. You
can have no conception how much we miss your society, and how
completely insulated I am becoming, if nothing worse. The

UN1VE

298 RUFUS KING. [1803

Monroes receive our civilities & he appears, when in his company,
disposed to be attentive and kind. We dined yesterday at Pink-
ney's, but the Minister's connections will be entirely different
from ours. He has seen Hawkesbury twice, once on his arrival
and on his introduction to the King. He has also seen Ham-
mond once. His arrival here was 18th July, I suspect he knows
nothing that passes here, and appears to have a sort of creed that
it is improper to know what is passing in relation to the European
powers, unless the U. S. are directly interested. He will there-
fore have a quiet time in England, for you know they do not press
their knowledge, no more than their civility on any man. Bid well
saw James well a few days since. The obstacles to quitting
France & coming to England are so many, that I think we
shall remain in London until we embark for Boston. Mrs. Gore
unites with me in affectionate regards to Mrs. King & the boys.

Ever yours
C. Gore.

C. Gore to R. King.

London, Aug. 30, 1803.
My dear Friend :

Hammond, whom I saw yesterday, tells me it is not true that
Porto Rico has been ceded to Denmark, that a negotiation was
on foot between Spain and another northern power for such a
cession, but it is now at an end. He thinks that Bonaparte is bad
with most of his Generals, and that his opponents increase upon
him. But as you know, incredulity on some subjects is not the
greatest defect of certain men, you may judge what weight to
give to such accounts, they doubtless have their emissaries in all
parts of France, and some who are very obnoxious to Bonaparte,
even in Paris ; and they believe that his efforts to prepare for the
invasion are much slackened. Spain convinces England, that
she intends to remain neuter & endeavours, perhaps not without
effect, to produce a belief that she is capable of maintaining this
character against France. Miranda saw Vansittart and H. Ad-
dington yesterday, and it was agreed then that the former should
write a letter, merely professing his desire to quit England on
their paying him five years pension, which, for that consideration,

803] UFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 299

is to be renounced forever. Some Captain of a frigate is to offer
him a passage for himself, & two friends to be landed at Trini-
dad, where he is to take his people and go wherever he pleases.
He hopes to find two vessels from the U. S. with musquets &c.
&c. I told him that to procure the men he talks of will not be
easy, to obtain the articles is very sensible, provided he has some
mercantile friends there to make the speculation. He writes you
again having already written by our friend Cabot. When he was
yesterday with Vansittart & Healy, they had received the extract
from Mr. Livingston's memorial, which speaks of the tyranny of
G. B., and the union of France and America to form a maritime
code, which should depress this evil spirit of England. They were
outrageous, according to his account, against the U. S. for giving
vent to so odious a sentiment. But he had in his pocket the
Philadelphia Gazette, containing the memorial and some strictures
on this offensive paragraph, & availed himself of the occasion,
which it proffered, of showing that the same opinion was enter-
tained in America, as in England, of what they complained — and
this, as he thinks, much abated their wrath. So he believes that
his having borrowed from me this paper and making such use of
it, has really done great good to the U. S. H. on Saturday, men-
tioned it to me, and we read the paper together. His expressions
of the writer were such as you would suppose, but he very wisely
refrained from attributing any importance to it, & I assured him
it would be as unpopular with us as here. I must tell you one
anecdote, though you will be careful not to mention it, — Ful-
ton wrote to Boulton & Watts for one or two steam engines to be
shipped to Brockholst Livingston in New York, who would pay
for them, the engines to be made according to directions of Joel
Barlow. The Government here took it into their heads to believe,
these were intended for Fulton's diving machines, that are to blow
up the British Navy, the dockyard &c. &c. at Portsmouth of which
they have some, certainly not strongs apprehensions ; and Boulton
& Watts do not ship the machines, lest the destination of N.
York should be only a trick, and so soon as the vessel carrying
them should be in the channel, they might be transhipped for
France and affixed to these terrible instruments of destruction.
I told him that L. & Fulton were jointly concerned in the con-
struction and patent for constructing and using a boat, that was

300 RUFUS KING. [1803

designed to work against the stream, and I entertained no doubt
that this was the real purpose of the engines desired. He said,
however, B. & W. had orders not to ship them. Their suspicions
will be increased on reading the memorial. Barlow sailed for
France about a week since & carried some letters for James.

A gentleman told me to-day he had seen a letter from Gentz, the
author, now at Vienna, which says that if E. had had a skilful man
at Berlin, when the French troops marched for Hanover, they might
have been stopt by Prussia ; that in the Cabinet it was absolutely
decided one evening to resist the French by an army of 50,000
men, that the King went in the night to some chateau to sleep and
altered his disposition before morning ; that a clever Englishman
at that court might have prevailed on this power to have inter-
fered in the preservation of Hanover. Gentz says that he has
travelled over all the northern parts of Europe ; that England is
every where unpopular ; and an universal stupor prevails among
all the powers of the continent, which is created by the vigour
and quickness of the Consul's motions. The spirit which is
awakened in the people at large will do much agt. the imbecility
of the ministry. Dumourier and Pichegru are here ; & there is
some reason to believe an attempt will be made to invade France.
Dumourier, I learn, is disgusted with the want of spirit in the ad-
ministration, and I think whatever may have been their original
intention, it would be so unpopular that they will not dare to em-
ploy him. Miranda declines to see Dumourier.

I enclose you herewith a statement which in a great measure
explains itself. My principal reason for troubling you with it is
that it is not improbable that Erving may, among his friends at
least, circulate some stories about this business. You will readily
conceive that my wish is only to correct any false impressions he
may attempt to impose, & will of course never make any other
use, than to such ends, of this statement.* . . .

Truly, & ever yours

C. Gore.

* The statement written by William Pinkney, the associate of Mr. Gore in
the Commission of claims under the 7th Article of the Treaty with Great Brit-
ain, is a long one, and although in some points other than those immediately
referring to Mr. Gore it also concerns Mr. King's relations with Mr. Erving,
it is not possible to print it here, nor even that furnished in the letter of Mr.
Gore himself, which covers many pages. They were sent to Mr. King by his

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 3OI

C. Gore to R. King.

London, August 31, 1803.
My dear Friend :

Since writing the letter that accompanies this I have thought

you would expect a more detailed account of the affair, to which

the inclosure alludes, than is contained therein. Notwithstanding

the reflection that this is due from me to you, and that I am sure

you take a deep interest in whatever concerns my character &

conduct, it is not without some pain I again bring this loathsome

subject to my mind, as it presents to me the Maryland worthies

and Captain Lewis, who it seems are the advisers of this man

& by whose advice, contrary to that of Monroe & Pinkney,,he

thought himself bound to act. . . .

friend not to vindicate the line of conduct he had adopted, but to give him a
true statement of the facts and of what he had done, of the correctness and
propriety of which Mr. Gore had no doubt, nor did he suppose his friend would
have, as he was well aware of the animus of Mr. Erving towards him and
others. Mr. Erving, disappointed in not receiving the consideration and influ-
ence which upon his arrival in England he had expected, had shown himself
antagonistic to Messrs. King, Williams, and Gore, whom he had not been able
to make to yield to his pretensions — possibly warranted on his part by the
belief that the administration would look favourably on his pretensions and
acts.

With Mr. Gore in particular he had reason to feel himself somewhat ag-
grieved, who, with the other members of the Commission, had refused to allow
him to interfere, in a way which his instructions from home would seem to war-
rant ; and because that gentleman had been appointed charge des affaires during
Mr. King's absence on the continent, when he asserted his right to act for the
U. S., he being Consul in London ; and now that Mr. King had left England
without appointing a charge des affaires, as it afterwards appeared that the
Government at home expected him to do, he was ready to take umbrage at any
act of Mr. Gore's indicating a desire to look after the interests of the country
in England and to give to or receive information from the ministry which
might under the circumstances seem proper. Mr. Erving having received some
communications from friends in the U. S., stating that Mr. Gore had calumni-
ated him in letters written to his correspondents in America, was greatly
incensed, demanded an explanation, and finally sent a challenge to Mr. Gore
through the parties named in Mr. G.'s letter, contrary to the advice of Messrs.
Pinkney & Monroe, which he promptly declined under the obligation of the
position he held, as well as for other reasons. This is an outline of the matter
which is given here chiefly as due to Mr. Gore's high character and as calling
forth from Mr. King, as will be seen in his letter, high encomiums as to his
integrity, ability and manliness.

302 RUFUS KING. [1803

R. King to C. Gore, London.

New York, Sept. 6, 1803.
My dear Sir :

. . . We have papers to the 2 2d July, which announce Mr.
Monroe's arrival in London : I make you my compliments on
being relieved from the employment which might have detained
you in London more constantly and longer than you would have
desired.

. . . I am staggered with the general arming which appears
to be making in England. I don't see clearly that this mob of an
army will be able to resist the enemy agt. whom it is to be put in
motion ; a regular army of 200,000 or 150,000 wd. in my poor
opinion be more to be relied upon than the nation en masse : in
point of economy the army would likewise be preferable, for if all
the men of the nation are to be drilled and trained, as the news-
papers state it to be the project that they shall be, I should appre-
hend the manufacturers would suffer and the agriculture be
neglected. In so complicated a machine, its ordinary movements
should be changed with infinite caution, since what may seem the
remedy of one inconvenience, may become the cause of a still
greater and more alarming one. There may be a militia, includ-
ing the whole people in America and I believe such to have been
once the situation of Switzerland ; but these would be no author-
ities to justify a universal militia in England : and my greatest
fear is, if the nation be armed, that the unavoidable consequence
will be the change of the monarchy for a Republic — two armies
of 60,000 each, with an army of Reserve of 30,000 would defeat
and destroy any body of French that can be landed in England ;
and were I responsible, I shd. feel more safe with this force than
with the whole nation in arms. We here wish the attempt to
invade may be made, because we believe it will certainly fail, and
that the failure will increase the confidence, reputation and
security of England.

Owing to the continuance of the fever which continues to pre-
vail in our unfortunate city, we are cut off from the usual inter-
course with our neighbours, so that I see but few persons &
those my neighbours. Hence I cannot send you any opinion wh.
can be relied upon respecting the probable sentiments of Congress
concerning the Louisiana cession. An intelligent Connecticut

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 303

man told me some time since that the cession would be disliked
by New England, and I shall not be surprised if the Eastern Dele-
gates or Senators oppose the Ratification. I understand that the
President has no thoughts of opening the western side of the
River for settlement, tho' past experience has taught us, that
nothing but a cordon of troops will restrain our people from
going over the River and settling themselves down upon the west-
ern bank. This has, as I hear, been already done, there being as
many as 4,000 Inhabitants settled upon the Missouri 40 or 50
miles west of the Mississippi. These will increase and after a
while set up a new State. The Plan is to persuade the Indians
which remain within the U. S. to exchange their present territo-
ries for Lands to be assigned to them over the Mississippi, and
perhaps a suitable spot may be marked out as the Sierra Leone
for the negroes. Notwithstanding the satisfaction of the negotia-
tors with their performance, I believe the Govt, is and will be
embarrassed with the cession, which may become the immediate
cause of very important political events among the states.

I don't make much progress in the purchase of a farm. The
fever has turned the attention of many persons toward the neigh-
bouring country and the farmers who are in easy circumstances
raise the price of their lands — a farm of 270 acres, of which 200
are ploughed land and meadow, & the residue woodland, with
such buildings as wd. be sufficient for a farmer, but upon which I
should be obliged to build for my family residence &c, is valued
at 30,000 dol. ; three years ago it might have been purchased for
25000, or 22500 dols. The situation is good,* being on the Sound
19 miles from New York on the Postroad, which is but a short
mile from the Farm house. I have not been to see it, and con-
sidering the price do not know that I shall. . . .

I am not only unsuccessful in finding a farm or wintry retreat,
but have equal difficulty to obtain a house to suit us, tho' to say
the truth this is a moment quite unfavourable to search for
one. . . .

Yours very truly,

R. K.

* Hunter's Island on Long Island Sound.

304 RUFUS KING, [1803

Mr. King wrote a letter to Mr. Vansittart in London,
Sept. 8, 1803, which gives his opinions on several topics
among which in his memorandum Book are the following.

U. S. will be neutral and impartial — no doubts of this policy —
Eng. an interesting spectacle — an invasion desirable, as its defeat
will give confidence and reputation at home and abroad.

C. Gore to R. King.

London, Sept. 6, 1803.
My dear Friend :

We yesterday received yours of the 2 2d July, whereby we learnt
you were at housekeeping, and meeting the usual troubles of all
countries, but probably much greater with us than in any other,
where there is equal wealth and luxury — I mean that of servants.
It is clear that I shall regret having sold my house, for not only
it will be difficult to purchase to my mind, but by what they
write me from Boston, building is nearly double what it was in
1800, when I was there. My intention is to take nothing home,
but what is absolutely necessary, and which will form part of my
baggage. . . .

The boys are perfectly well & happy & behave well. The
Abbe* goes with them to plays, to the circus, &c. & amuses him-
self as well as them. They were with us on Saturday, and we
took them to the little theatre in the Haymarket that evening.
The rule is that they dine here on Saturday, stay that night &
Sunday to dinner, & return to Holborn in the evening, on
Wednesdays, also dining with us, and whenever else we have any
company, as I wish to mix them in good society, as much as is
convenient with their studies ; though I consider the great object
of their being at the Abbe's in the holidays is that they may be
amused, if not profitably, at least without injury. The project
will attain this end and probably give them some taste for French
& Spanish, and drawing. Williams is affectionate towards them,
and treats them with attention, and I have a firm persuasion that
their morals will remain pure & their minds be improved. I
am sorry to be confirmed in my opinions of the education of our

l8o3] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE.
youth. The only chance for a happy result to the political conflicts
our country is destined to undergo, before she settles down into a
permanent government & established character, is in the moral
habits, sober & just views of the rising generation— and unless
the basis of these be laid in early youth, they are scarcely ever
attained.

Livingston's memorial occasions much disgust here : but possi-
bly this may be received with pleasure by, at least, one man, and I
am told he will be given up by the adminis'n, but it is difficult
for me to see whom they intend to set up as V. P. unless it be
him. Sumpter acts as Secretary to the minister— of course any
cause of difference between these wise negotiators is not likely to

be allayed. I learn through that Livingston made another

memorial, wherein he proposed a scheme by which the U. S.
should provide a certain number of ships of the Line, to be under
the control of France and fight for the freedom of the seas. This
may be the mere creature of S's imagination, or it may have been
an indiscretion of L. It is, however pretty evident that a portion
of the followers of the present Government intend to ruin L.
The gentleman here assumes no merit to himself, but ascribes all
to the superior wisdom and discernment of the President, whose
plans they very humbly executed. I have thought that this
admin, will endeavour to bargain away the lands west of the Mis-
sissippi for those which Spain holds east of that river, and obtain
some money also. This would certainly free them from the evils
of this purchase both as respects the lands owned & the cash to
be paid, and give to the U. States all they want. I thought the
other day to sound M. as to S. A. and observed to him that it
could not be long before that country would throw off the yoke
of Spain. He considers this not improbable, but seems impressed
with the idea, that they have not sense enough to form a free
government, and thinks Spain will be quite willing to grant us ex-
clusive privileges in trade to her settlements, and prepare herself
by degrees for the dropping of S. A. from her dominions. Perhaps
one may conjecture from these hints the views of the Govn. in
this respect, and how easily some men may be duped.

I could not refrain from conversing with him on the new state
of things, which the possession of St. Domingo by the Blacks
would produce in the U. States, and suggested to him whether it

VOL. IV. — 20

306 RUFUS KING. [1803

would not be wise that there should be a concurrent effort on this
subject, so important to both. He received my remarks, or ap-
peared to receive them with some interest, but from what I per-
ceive and hear of him, and what we know of the English character,
there is no great probability of their conferring much together.
You understand, for I think I before told you, that our negotia-
tors consider Louisiana as running E. of the River M. to the
Rio Perdido, and so taking all the coast from that E. boundary to
the river M., and of this they notified Spain. From what I learn
the Government is more in fear for Ireland than of an invasion
here. All the French, Italian, and Swiss are to be sent off accord-
ing to the proclamation of the King. You will see a curious
paragraph by the printers of the London Courier, in which it is
stated that some person offered to become a fellow labourer, pro-
vided Bonaparte's character could be supported.

My affectionate regards to Mrs. King and the boys. I am pur-
chasing books & preparing to return home — and this is all my
occupation. I have done walking & in this great city am almost
literally without society & certainly without friends.

Yours,

C.G.

C. Gore to R. King.

London, Sept. 18, 1803.
My dear Friend :

The boys went to Harrow on Thursday morning in good health
and spirits, having passed their holidays very much to their own
& our satisfaction. Their behaviour has been altogether such
as we could have wished. I shall consider it due to the friendship
that subsists between us, to give you information, if I observe any-
thing amiss or of a wrong tendency in them ; so that you may
Test perfectly satisfied with the truth of my report. They have
promised that should any misfortune occur, of any sort or kind,
the same shall be communicated to me directly, and I have the
pleasure of believing that they will in any event, have an entire
confidence in me. We are (now the boys have gone to Harrow)
literally alone. Sometimes we see the Pinkneys. Mrs. Gore has
been unwell and confined to the house for ten days past with a

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 307

cold, that has affected her like the influenza. The M.s are in
Wigmere street, and them we never see except by an accidental
meeting. The Trumbulls are at Brighton or Worthing. If Mrs.
Gore can muster strength and spirits enough, we shall probably
make an excursion, for some days, into the country, before the
winter sets in. This will, I am sure, be the most unpleasant &
gloomy season that we have ever passed in Europe, and I every
day regret more & more that we could not return this autumn.
On ten thousand occasions we shall miss you & Mrs. King, and
we shall be continually reminded of the happiness we enjoyed, by
feeling the want of your society and the utter impossibility of in-
demnifying ourselves by any new connections. My great occupa-
tion now is in increasing my library, and rendering it as complete
as my means will allow.

It is generally believed, and by the Government, that an at-
tempt will be made to invade this country and at no very distant
day. Any diversion in favour of England, on the part of any of
the Continental powers, is not expected. Great apprehensions are
entertained for the safety of Portugal, and the ministry here
probably begin to feel that that they have been duped by Spain.
. . . The Spanish messenger, that went from hence with some
new project, was not permitted to pass through France. He
landed at Calais but was ordered to reimbark & was relanded in
England. So that if the declaration of war is to depend on the
return of this messenger, a considerable time must yet elapse, be-
fore that event takes place. But it is hardly possible that B.
should refrain from compelling S., even if she be indisposed, to
take some step directly & openly hostile, before the delivery of
any project from this Government.

. . . Mr. Monroe has received no dispatches from Washing-
ton since his arrival here ; * and I learn through P. that he has
seen Lord H. only at his first visit, when presented to the King,
and at the Levee, and when he wanted to introduce him (Pinkney)
to his Lordship, as agent for the Maryland Bank Stock. Ques-
tions relative to the impress of our seamen constantly arise, and,
it is said, some violences have been committed on our citizens in
the Thames. How they intend to regulate the commerce between
the two Countries after October does not appear. One would
* He arrived in London July 1 8th.

308 RUFUS KING. [1805

think there should be a harmony as to the measures to be pursued
by G. B. in relation to St. Domingo, but no doubt our Govern-
ment will be indisposed to take any step in concert with G. B.,
lest it should give umbrage to France — although their own safety
is directly concerned in the manner in which E. shall arrange
with the Blacks on the Island. Mr. M. will probably be in-
structed to ask some explanation of our admin, on the offensive
paragraphs of L's memorial.

Our affectionate regards to Mrs. K.

C. Gore to R. King.

London, Sept. 22, 1803.
My dear Friend :

I yesterday received your favour to 2nd August, and though I
do not see the probability of our living so near together, as I trust
would conduce to the mutual happiness of ourselves & family, I
do assure you that your wishes to that end afford me the highest
gratification, and there is no object to attain which I would sacri-
fice so much. The little I saw when at home — my knowledge of
the pursuits and occupations, the attainments and objects of am-
bition of those with whom I must be associated on my return,
afford me some idea of the reflections, which cannot fail to crowd
on my mind. While I have not the means, I assure you, I have
as little desire to vie with my neighbours in their modes of enno-
bling themselves, or pursuing enjoyment. The great eating par-
ties with all the accompaniments of conversation & amusement,
that attend them in any great town, never had, at least since I
was thirty years of age, any charm for me ; and now they would
be a task, at which I am very unwilling to labour. On the other
hand, the society of a few friends, who have had considerable
converse, both with the world and with books, is the most en-
viable pleasure of life. Had other men filled the chair of gov-
ernment, I should have been gratified to have represented it at
this court for a few years, at the end of which term, I could have
retired to my farm at Waltham, with what would to me have been
an independence, though very far from what our monied aristoc-
racy deem a competence. As the case is, I shall take my place at
the Bar for a few years in the expectation of maintaining myself,

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 309

while I am building my house at Waltham, and procuring one at
Boston, which shall be small. This does not suit all my feelings,
but on the whole I believe it the best course for me to pursue.
My Library will be rather more than double what it was when
you left us, and with such additions as I shall make during my prac-
tice for four or five years, I hope to have a comfortable resource for
age. Now we have land in plenty, and rather reasonable in the
neighbourhood of Boston & in my neighbourhood, and did not
political considerations, and what I know is more, considerations
in regard to your children, fix you immovably in N. York, I
should hope to prevail on you to remove to us, before you pur-
chase. You should have any of my lands and we could be within
a quarter of an hour's walk of each other, and the education of
your younger children would be better in Massachusetts, I trust,
than in N. York. The Commission being closed, and as I never
shall undertake another business with such a variety of embar-
rassments, & where the certainty of being responsible only for
evils & disappointments, and of deriving no credit from success
was so clear, I shall in future be without solemn looks or depressed
feelings. . . .

Portugal bends to France, as does every part of the Continent,
and you may be assured the Govt, here expects to have the contest
singly to bear against the accumulating power of Bonaparte &
that they also believe an attempt at invasion will soon be made.
M.pranda], who writes you by this oppor'y has renewed assurances
from Govt., that he shall go out in a frigate within a month, and
have advanced to him cash to prepare himself ; before that time
they expect to be at war with S.

Mrs. Gore who is yet quite indisposed unites with me in affec-
tionate regards to Mrs. K. & the children. You say nothing of
Hamilton, Jay or Benson. Are they yet in your vicinity ?

Yours truly &c. &c. C. Gore.

C. Gore to R. King.

London, Sept. 30th, 1803.
My dear Friend :

Mr. Merry sailed from Portsmouth on the 28th instant, and
my letters by him you will probably receive before this. I some-

3IO RUFUS KING. [1803

time since suggested to him the propriety of his knowing the
views and intentions of the administration in regard to St.
Domingo, and whether the measures they might adopt for the
purpose of restraining or limiting the evils that threaten'd their
colonies from the existence of a settlement of free blacks near
them, would not be most likely to produce the effect desired by
the concurrence of our Government, so far as it could concur.
He opened the subject to Lord H. who told him that he thought
it important now it was suggested, but really it never before en-
tered his mind. Monroe, as I believe I mentioned to you, told
me in a conversation I made with him, that he thought it would
be a good place for the Southern States to send their free negroes,
and those whom they thought fit not to punish capitally. This
latter gentleman has received no letters from the Government
since his arrival here ; and of course has no instructions relative
to the renewal of the treaty or proposing any substitute. Merry
goes out without any instructions on the subject, but is directed
to ask of our Government some explanation of Livingston's
memorial, so far as it relates to checking their tyranny on the
seas. For two days past a squadron of small ships have been
bombarding Calais and attempting to destroy some boats which
are there, or are endeavouring to pass to Boulogne, but with
what success we do not learn. It is certain, in the mind of all
persons, that Bonaparte will make an attempt to throw a body of
troops on this Island, but the nation is so well prepared, that per-
haps it might be advantageous not only for G. B., but for the
world, that he should succeed in debarking 30 or 40,000 men,
especially if a like number were destroyed in the channel. The
nations of the Continent seem to view the struggle without in-
terest, certainly without any on the part of this Kingdom. The
changes that have been made in Portugal, have all been in favour
of France ; and little doubt is now affected by any that all the
resources of Spain & Portugal in Europe will soon be at the com-
mand of Bonaparte. An expedition is believed to be fitting at
Ferrol for Ireland, & it is supposed that Augereau will have the
command. It is said that there is a general expectation on the
Continent that England will be conquer'd — and yet they expect to
preserve their independence ! It is certainly a time when bravery
and wisdom seem to have deserted all cabinets but the French.

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 3II

You observe I am speaking of Europe — what you say is reported
of Bonaparte's making grants prior to the cession, is certainly
very much in character.

Yours affectionately, C. Gore.

Robt. R. Livingston to R. King, New York.

Paris, 14th Oct., 1803.
Dear Sir :

I did not receive your last letter from England till about one
month ago ; the receipt of it gave me the more pleasure as I was
somewhat hurt that you should quit your harbour without giving
me a farewell shot. You know that Mr. Monroe has taken your
station ; the intercourse being interrupted I hear very little from
him & I am sorry to add that I hear as little from the United
States. The high opinion that is here entertained of our treaty,
& the compts. I receive would make me vain enough to believe
that silence at home gave consent, were I not happily roused from
my golden dream, by the kind offices of the Boston floppers (for
their's are the only papers I have lately reed.) who tell me that I
am a fool, a lunatic, a minion & a great many other things equally
well calculated to cure me of vanity, & to raise the reputation of
the country which has for upward of thirty years successively
employed me in high and confidential offices. I am sorry the
sense of the country in their legislature has not been taken upon
this important question of the treaty at a much earlier day ; for
such are the fluctuations of European politicks, that if the treaty
secures advantages, which I trust it does, the sooner we put
ourselves in possession of them the better. Things remain here
much as you left them ; the most active preparations still go on
for the attack on England and Ireland & there is every reason to
believe that they are sincerely intended, with whatever hazard
they may be attended. Perhaps prudence would direct this
government to content themselves with appearances, since the
expenses to which England puts herself in preparation are im-
mense & must be ruinous in the long run ; but on the other hand
France has to fear changes in the state of Europe — for no nation
can be indifferent to the fate of England in which that of many

312 RUFUS KING. [1803

others must be involved. Russia has renewed her proffered
mediation ; the Court of St. James say they are ready to accept
it, but that no mediation founded on the basis of the treaty at
Amiens can be admitted. France is more moderate in her reply
and appears disposed to accept any reasonable modifications of it.

From Mr. Gelston, to whom I have written, you will learn that
we are at war with the Emperor of Morocco, & that Capt. Bain-
bridge has taken one of his corsairs of 22 guns. The Turkish
Empire seems crumbling into dust, the mamlukes have driven the
crescent out of all Egypt except Alexandria, & they are in their
turn likely to be driven out by Abd-el-hahal, who is at the head
of 400,000 men overrunning Asia and alike destroying Jews and
Mahometans & Christians in the name of the one living God,
whom alone he professes to worship, independent of all forms or
creeds heretofore received. As he makes converts wherever he
goes, either by the word or by the sword, there is no calculating
the extent of his powers.

This, my dear Sir, is an eventful age, and I think we are very
ungrateful if we do not thank God for having placed us out of
the reach of fires that are scorching and consuming the rest of the
world. But man is not perhaps made to be perfectly happy here,
& for this reason where he has no real evils, he has the address to
form imaginary ones, in which, I think, our countrymen are not
behindhand with the rest of the world. ... I have not yet
obtained my conge, but as an office forms a contrast to hell, at
least in one point, I presume I shall find no difficulty in getting
out of it.

With much esteem & regard &c,

Rob. R. Livingston.

CHAPTER XXI.

Gore to King — Miranda to be dispatched to Trinidad — Breach between Monroe
and Livingston— Monroe in England— English Fears of Fulton's Boat-
Colony Trade— King to Gore — Approves of Gore's Conduct in Connection
with his Commission — Light in which Louisiana Treaty is viewed in the
U. S. — Livingston's Memorial indiscreet — Monroe should have explained
the Sentiments of his Government — Gore to King — Schools in France for
his Boys — Volunteers in England training — Russia may interfere for Spain —
Louisiana — Monroe — Madison does not notice his Communications — Mary-
land Bank Stock — Miranda not permitted to sail — No new Treaty with
G. B. at Present— King to Gore— Louisiana Treaty ratified— Conduct
of Spain causes much Speculation — He knows little of public Affairs —
King to Pickering — Slavery in Louisiana, should not Effort be made to
prevent it — Would alter the Constitution to confine Representation and
Taxation to free Inhabitants — King to Gore — Proceedings in Congress —
Jerome Bonaparte in America — Account of their Friends — King to Gore —
Government will take Possession of Louisiana — Gore to King — Claims an
Outfit — Alarm of Invasion subsiding — Monroe presents a Memorial on
Impressment of Seamen.

C. Gore to R. King.

London, 21st Octr., 1803.
My dear Friend :

. . . Our acounts from N. York, which are to the 8th Septem-
ber, painfully convince us of the ravages of the yellow fever, and
that no abatement can be expected during the coming season.
I have heard that some hopes were entertained of a return of Con-
gress to N. York or Philadelphia. Should such an event have
been calculated on, the sickness of your city at the present will
be a powerful argument against the choice of that. The acquisi-
tion of Louisiana takes from Washington its character of central,
and probably the Southern gentlemen may carry us deeper into
the ancient dominion ; though I confess it is not very important
314 fiUFUS KING. [1803

to my mind, for at the rate we are proceeding it is not certain we
shall remain united much longer.

It is said an Embargo is imposed on all vessels bound to
Portugal or Spain, and I presume the ministry is at length driven
to the necessity of accepting the war against the latter of these
powers. J/ [iranda] has absolute assurances from the Govern-
ment that he shall be dispatched shortly to Trinidad. I saw a
note from Vansittart to M ; saying that they only waited for
Nepean to recover a little strength (he is quite sick) four vaguer
vos affaires. The administration has applied to Sir Francis
Baring to be the medium, thro* whom every thing is to be arranged,
prepared & shipt for the expedition. Fullarton is here. M. was
to see him again last evening ; he has already had one conversa-
tion with him, F. visiting him before he saw the ministers. When
every thing is settled, M. will write you, and this will be in a few
days.

The breach, I think, widens between Monroe & Livingston.
The former supposes the latter detains his letters in Paris and
assumes all the merit of the Louisiana Convention, while he
humbly refrains from appropriating any to himself, but every thing
to the superior wisdom, determined yet prudent conduct of the
President. He however is said to deny that any other causes
than these had the least influence on Bonaparte and that peace or
war in Europe, the result would have been the same ! ! Ham-
mond, whom I see frequently, and who always receives me kindly
and confidentially, told me a few days since that neither he nor
Ld. H. had seen Monroe, but twice since his arrival in England, ex-
cept at the Levee, and that all his time was passed in sucking in
wisdom from Consul E., and a few other democrats. He has no
secretary now. Alston, the young painter, visited him for a pass-
port : he replied that being without a secretary & so extremely
pressed for time, he could not conveniently attend to making out
one, and desired him to go to the Consul. But as the young man
is going on the continent, he is informed that one from the Minis-
ter is at least more useful, if not absolutely necessary to his
safety. Indeed I believe they take & detain the Consular certifi-
cate at the Alien office on embarking. So far as I learn any thing
of M., I am satisfied he has neither the inclination, nor capacity to
do the smallest good here ; neither do I believe it consistent with

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 315

his idea of propriety that he should even know what is passing in
E. or on the Continent. I do not express these opinions to any
one else, for besides it being otherwise improper, they would be
imputed to very different motives than the real ones.

I think Hammond has some very odd fears relative to Fulton's
boat & its power of blowing up the British Navy. H. says he has
learned from several quarters that L. and his family received
very large grants of land prior to the sale, but I do not believe it.
Bingham (who, by the way, thinks his conversations with Talley-
rand effected the Convention) does not suppose that conveyances
of land were made to any individuals prior to the cession, but you
know he gives himself credit for full as much knowledge as the
world thinks him entitled to. Alexr. Baring, who is now with you,
will be more likely to know than any one here. The Commission
at^Paris is at a stand, the Commissioners not being able to con-
strue the convention, and waiting for instructions from the
Government. The cause why our citizens are to be paid in specie
rather than in stock, may be found in the character & connections
of the creditors — at least a censorious world will say so.

I am now filing my opinion on the colony trade, and having
come across an old paper of yours with some remarks on this
subject, I shall take the liberty to offer them as my own, they
concurring with my sentiments & better expressed than I could
expect to do myself. 1 sent you the Times by a ship lately bound
for N. York, and when opport. offers, will send you a further file.
The Editors of this paper have become outrageously ministerial.
The pieces on the late negotiations shall likewise be forwarded.
With affectionate attachment to Mrs. King & the children, I

Remain faithfully yours.

C. Gore.

R. King to C. Gore, London.

New York, Oct. 24, 1803.
My dear Friend :

. . . I congratulate you that your Business is so nearly fin-
ished that you are able to look forward with confidence to your
return early in the Spring. ... In regard to the insinuation
that it seems has been made at Washington, that you were inclined

316 RUFUS KING. [1803

to prolong your residence unnecessarily in England, and wh.
could have proceeded only from the malignity and envy of some
falsehearted Jacobin, I wonder that you suffered it to engage a
second thought. The truth is, my Dr. Sir, that you are too honest
& too virtuous, that you have too much regard for your own repu-
tation and your duty to the Public, not to be the object of Jacobin
hatred and persecution ; and I am only surprized that you do not
consider the proofs of this hatred, as the highest evidence of your
own integrity rather than as that sort of attack agt. which a good
man feels impelled to defend himself. Be persuaded that we live
in times, when it behooves a man to make his election between the
upright performance of his duty to God & his Country, with the
persecution of triumphant Jacobinism, and the corrupt and de-
grading violation of these sacred duties, with the Hosannas of this
abominable sect. No man who knows you or whose good opinion
is an object of desire, wd. believe this insinuation.

Here as far as I am able to judge, those who know anything of
the Proceedings of your Board, consider them as highly honour-
able to yr. character and, except that your prudence has naturally
contributed to remove Jacobin complaints agt. England, even the
privileged cast do not revile you in my hearing. . . .

I don't enclose the President's message, as it will have reached
Engd. before my letter. The prominent point respects Louisiana ;
the cession whereof is ascribed to " the just Discernment of the
Enlightened Government of France " instead of that posture of
things which wd. have prevented its occupation by France until
she shd. have first acquired the consent of England. As § of the
Senate are of the faithful sect, there can be no question abt. the
Ratification, unless some scruple shd. arise abt. the constitutional
powers of Congress to admit a new State (which the Treaty re-
requires) including territory not within the limits of the U. S.
But this scruple, if it exists, will be so managed that France may
have no occasion to be dissatisfied. As the Treaty has not been
published, the Public know little of its Provisions, and hence the
newspapers have (as I am informed for I see but one or two) been
on all sides pretty silent. Little and indeed less has been said in
its favor than agt. it. I believe that I have before insinuated a
doubt whether the Govt, has seen this treaty in the advantageous
light in which it has been regarded by the Envoys ; tho' this

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 317

hesitation will not prevent its acceptance, any more than the claim
of merit that will be bottomed upon its being concluded. There
is no doubt that parts of the Govt., if not the whole, think a
better bargain might and ought under existing Circumstances to,
have been made, and it is quite possible that the chief agt. on our
part may not receive those testimonies of satisfaction that he may
think his almost exclusive due. Whether this may be so or not,
it is understood that he has asked leave to come home next spring
and from the manner in which the family here is treated by their
chiefs, it wd. not be surprizing shd. he return dissatisfied and that
he and his name might shew a disposition to return to their former
Party. Should this be the case, if I mistake not, the ruling party
wd. give them up willingly, feeling themselves strong enow to
shake them off ; and rid themselves of their numerous claims for
office.

I don't know what important object, if any, is to engage the
attention of Congress during the present Session. It seems that
the proposition to amend the Constitution so as that the votes for
President & Vice President may be distinguished, is to be sub-
mitted to the several State Legislatures without delay, and I am
told that such is the composition of these Legislatures that it is
likely that this alteration will be approved by the constitutional
proportion of them. . . .

The memorial to which you refer in a late letter, was to say the
least, a most indiscreet effusion — and considering the avowed
opinion of our own Govt, relative to the principles of the Northern
confederation as well as the decision wh. G. Britain has shown in
opposition to these pretended Rules or Principles, prudence must
condemn the utterance of sentiments so false and obnoxious as
some of those contained in Mr. Ls. memorial.

If Monroe has done his duty, he has anticipated all complaint
by such observations, authorized by the tenour of the instructions
of the Present Govt, to the Legation at London, as would without
a formal disavowal, satisfy the Eng. Cabinet that these exception-
able expressions and sentiments were not dictated by his Govt.
If he has not done this, it wd. not surprise me if our Gt. were
called upon for an explanation upon that head. I hope this may
not happen, as it wd. involve the Govt, in a dilemma from which
it wd. be extremely difficult to extricate itself, and shd. the sub-

318 RUFUS KING. [1803

ject be pushed too briskly, it is possible that the Govt, might
think itself forced to avoid what it wd. never attempt to enforce,
if left to itself.

I have some thoughts of going on to Washington this autumn,
but shall know so few people there, and have so little pleasure in
hearing the croakings of those I do know, that I think it proba-
ble that my natural indolence will prevail. Were you snug at
Waltham, I do really believe that the earnest desire we have to
see you and Mrs. Gore would overcome all my indolence and that
we should post off without a week's delay to embrace you. Our
family is well and we all write in affectionate regards to you and
yours.

Faithfully and always yr.

R. K.

C. Gore to R. King.

London, Nov. i, 1803.
My dear Friend :

Our last letters from you are of the 6th Sept., and then the
yellow fever was continuing its ravages. Since then we learn of
it at Philadelphia and Alexandria. You will see by the papers
that the vaccine inoculation is supposed by some to prevent
any one taking the plague. For this year I hope the country by
the present day is free. Here the weather is extremely cold &
without rain. We have scarcely known twenty-four hours rain
since July came in, & some accounts say the wheat is light,
which certainly was to be expected from the dryness of the
season. . . .

The Volunteers are training and those of London have been
reviewed, as P. Porcupine says by the King & Mr. Sheridan.
They amounted to upwards of 30,000, and I have no doubt that
these and the other volunteers about the country, should Bona-
parte be enabled to execute his threats of invasion, would fight
well and bravely for their King & their own independence :
but should he not soon come, the spirit will flag & they be-
come sick of their new trade. Ulterior consequences, and cer-
tainly of a very serious nature are to be apprehended, as you justly
remark from such an immense body, though the system, you will

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 319

see, is materially changed from what it was on Mr. Addington's
introduction. There are now probably somewhere about 400,000
volunteers in this Kingdom, and of this number it is not impossi-
ble many may have, on some future day, very different views
from the Monarch, the Nobles & the rich commoners. This is
an evil, however, entirely overlooked at the present day in the ex-
treme hour of a French invasion. Yet, I think the temper of the
nation is now sanguine & confident of success. The merchants
here are really, I believe, desirous of the attempt being made, but
it is very much, I fear, in the mercantile idea — horce momento
cita mors venit aut victoria laeta. They are uneasy at the embar-
rassments thrown in the way of their commerce, and think that,
should Bonaparte be defeated in his projected invasion, their
manufactures & the produce of their colonies would find a sure
market, & the returns flow regularly back. When we calculate
the chances against him, it is scarcely possible to believe he will
attempt crossing the channel, yet every thing indicates this to be
his intention. From Brest & Ferrol it is expected he will make
the attempt to throw a large force into Ireland.

Vessels were prohibited sailing to Portugal & Spain for some
days. It was then said, this was merely to prevent their sailing
without convoy, & the restriction has been taken off. Probably
on reflection it was found nothing Spanish or Portuguese could be
detained here, while the measure would be ground of a retaliation,
that would be extremely injurious to the British subjects, who
have considerable property there. I rather suspect there was
some gaucherie in the business. Accounts are daily expected
from Spain & Portugal which will no longer leave to England an
option in her relative state to these two powers. The papers this
evening, just come in & which you will have, seem to render it
possible that Russia may interfere in behalf of Spain. If so, I
pity M. [iranda], for in such case my belief is this Govt, could do
nought. . . .

Our friends are now busy on the great subject of Louisiana ;
a subject which I am sure will soon change, and in a very material
view, the relations of the different States. I have already under-
stood, that the Eastern States are now contemplated as of no
weight in the scale, and of course not entitled to any influence.
Every thing that the present administration wishes to effect may

320 RUFUS KING. [1803

be done through the Western States, now fast bound by the ties
of gratitude. The wealth of the Southern & Western States will
soon leave us far in the rear on that score, as we already are on
that of population.

A deep misfortune undoubtedly will be felt from the rude &
uncultivated minds of those, who will soon have such a prepon-
derating influence in our federal politics. Wise men should turn
their thoughts to what is to be the next chapter in our ever vary-
ing systems : for I really believe that the present is nearly read
through, a few, but very few verses remain ; and those, probably
like some of the old testament ones, full of hard names. Mr.
Monroe, I hear for I never see him, is without a Secretary.
Your former Sec. has much leisure now and could assist the
Minister & himself too, but nothing I presume would induce him
to take the man you or I employed. I frequently am told of the
complaints he makes at being obliged to fill a few passports — it is
only a few, for most of those who require them, unless going on
the continent, are taught to confide in the Consuls.

Notwithstanding I wrote Mr. Madison several letters, giving to
the Government an exact state of what was passing here & on the
continent, so far as I knew, which accounts have all proved true,
also in answer to several things committed by them to my charge,
yet I have received not a line from any member of the adminis-
tration. This was in some measure the more necessary, as Erving
here wrote me an impertinent letter on my communicating to
him, by desire of Lord Hawkesbury, the blockade of the Elbe,
and also one to L? H. to know whether he might rely on the in-
formation which Mr. Gore had pleased to communicate. A copy
of this letter, as well as those impudent notes he wrote you & me,
last autumn, on the subject of passports, I am told, he sent to the
Government. Civility, I think, would have dictated to the Secry.
the fitness of some reply to my letters, all these circumstances
considered ; I am further told that he was prepared, had you left
any person charge d' affaires, to have made a formal & public pro-
test against the act, and against the pretension of such charge.
These are trifles, but among friends, they are interesting. They
show the impudence of some men & the strange opinions of others,
for P. told me he thought the minister on quitting had no authority
to name a charge* d' affaires ; so it is presumable this intention was

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 32 1

duly reflected on, advised and determined. The Govt, of the
United S. & of Maryland have united in empowering P. to nego-
tiate & settle the Bank Stock business, leaving him no discretion
to offer more for the settlement of the claim of the man who re-
fuses to acquiesce, than the amount of Russel's demand, which
sum the State is willing should be appropriated to this object, as
it is relieved from that. No answer has yet been obtained from
the discontented man — I forget his name — and they have not
been able to see the Atty. Genl. P. in his new character has been
formally introduced to Lord Hawkesbury by Monroe. His
powers were received before M's arrival. I trust he will see
reason, why greater progress has not been made in the business
in time past. ...

Yours ever & faithfully,

C. Gore.

Trumbull has returned to Bath, where he purposes remaining
until Dec. He has written me, making very affectionate enquiries
after your health, &c. He is a good fellow & worthy of a better
fate, but when a man arrives at years of discretion, & chooses for
himself, he can blame no one.

2 1 st Nov. Mr. Addington declines, for the present, giving his
permission to the expedition of M., but promises that so soon as
Spain makes the war, it shall proceed. Nepean shews him letters
by which it appears, that several ships of the Line are fitting out
at Carthagena, for the purpose of joining the French at Toulon ;
and others, from whence it amounts to an high probability, that
an armament is preparing at Ferrol to make the attempt from
thence for the invasion of Ireland. But he, A., mistrusts all in-
formation from the admiralty relative to Spain, because the Navy
is anxious for a Spanish war. Things therefore are at a stand
in regard to S. A. . . . Davidson prepares all that is necessary
for the expedition & Nepean says in a very few weeks after
Mr. A. shall give his sanction, the business shall proceed, and
news is anxiously looked for from Spain, which shall even con-
vince the incredulous Doctor. It is understood that a large
sum was raised in Lisbon, and chiefly from British Merchants
there, by which Lannes was induced to pledge his master's word
that Portugal should not be invaded for six months. Miranda

VOL. IV.— 21

322 RUFUS KING. [1803

desires me to say to you that he has agreed to the suspension
of his project ; and remains here, because he supposes such a de-
rangement has taken place in N. York, owing to the yellow fever,
that no dependance can be made on anything from thence ; and
that he hopes to hear from you. On the whole I think he can
depend on no effort in his behalf here until Spain makes the war,
or some opposition shall drive the minister from his pacific pur-
poses. Spain has sent 1600 men to reinforce her troops either at
Carthagena or La Vera Cruz.

You will see Cobbett in his last paper goes upon the idea that
there was some foundation for the communication in some of the
papers relative to the discussion on the subject of a new treaty
between the U. S. & G. B. . . . I saw H. on Saturday ; he says
they never see or hear of M., & so far as regards their office, he
might as well be in Virginia. He thinks that if our Govt, have any
wishes relative to the commercial relations of the two countries,
it becomes them to make the proposal. Every one must know
that E. is now too much occupied with what is much more inter-
esting, to advance any propositions. He supposes some Jacobin
made those insertions in the newspapers to answer some purpose.
Cobbett, you see, presumes that this Govt, did for the purpose of
preparing the country for great sacrifices or a rupture. I under-
stand from another quarter, that it is supposed to be exceeding
wise policy, to let France see that we suffer our treaty with
G. B. to die, & that we have no wish of making another, so we
may attain favour in the eyes of Bonaparte. H. has information
that Hayley is about sailing from N. York with a vessel, fitted for
a privateer, with guns in her hold, and, after she is out, to place
her guns on deck & cruize against the English. As he is going to
France, Tom Paine is to be his passenger. They are in great
hopes of taking him in which all good men will wish them success.
English goods now find a market on the Continent, & large quan-
tities are shipt thither. Many Frenchmen come to London &
purchase largely with cash. Mrs. Mallet yesterday informed Mrs.
Gore that the minister was certainly going home this ensuing
Spring. He will not come here previous to his embarking, I pre-
sume. Some person reports from Paris, that he denies all merit
in the gentleman here in obtaining the late convention, and this
very publickly, & assumes the whole to himself, imputing it

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 323

entirely in his superior address and wisdom. Merry, as I told
you, had orders to remonstrate against his famous memoire.
Lord H. directed him to communicate the reply to you. . . .
My affectionate regards to Mrs. King.

Yrs. truly & ever,

C. Gore.

R. King to C. Gore, London.

New York, Nov. i, 1803.

My dr. Sir :

There being a large and willing majority of both Houses of
Congress of the true sect, the measures of the Ex. will receive no
impediment. Great is the Prophet, and in the whole earth there
is none to be likened unto him, is the language of the faithful ! ^
The Louisiana Treaty has been ratified and the H, of R. is
engaged in preparing such laws respecting it as are called for by
the President, and this in contempt of the Remonstrance of the
Spanish Minister, who declares that the Conditions on wh. Spain
promised to cede not having been performed, the Country is still
her property.

The Conduct of Spain is the occasion of various and unsatisfac-
tory speculations. Some believe that France having the offer of a
better price from Spain is at the bottom of the Opposition ; others
allege that Spain is encouraged by G. Br., while the majority, not
regarding Spain as an independent power and looking on the
French Govt, as enlightened, honest & powerful, rely upon it that
the opposition will not be persisted in.

As I know nothing about it, the subject engages no part of my
attention ; and, to say the truth, I consider the state and tendency
of the Country such that an upright and prudent man, to be
happy, shd. know little of our public affairs. You and I cannot
alter certain opinions which we entertain and wh. are confirmed
bv experience, as well as by those authorities which our educa-
tion and habits enable us to consult. With those opinions we are
proscribed by those whose best interests and happiness wd. be
promoted by their observance ; hence the course which a wise
man shd. in these circumstances pursue is too clearly marked out
to be neglected.

324 RUFUS KING. [1803

It is our Duty to seek those models with which past time
abounds, and to imitate their Conduct in retirement, rather than
to engage in the desperate strife of factions. . . .

Our fever is nearly or quite over. The Bankers, public officers,
&c, are returning to town, and in the course of the week the town
will be full again. We remain where we are some weeks longer,
and until we can open and put up our furniture.

Yr. assured Friend,

Rufus King.

R. King probably to Col. Pickering.

New York, Nov. 4, 1803.
Dear Sir :

Congress may admit new States, but can the Executive by treaty
admit them, or, what is equivalent, enter into engagements binding
Congress to do so ? As by the Louisiana Treaty, the ceded terri-
tory must be formed into States, & admitted into the Union, is it
understood that Congress can annex any condition to their ad-
mission ? if not, as Slavery is authorized & exists in Louisiana,
and the treaty engages to protect the Property of the inhabitants,
will not the present inequality, arising from the Representation of
Slaves, be increased ?

As the provision of the Constitution on this subject may be re-
garded as one of its greatest blemishes, it would be with reluctance
that one could consent to its being extended to the Louisiana
States ; and provided any act of Congress or of the several states
should be deemed requisite to give validity to the stipulation of
the treaty on this subject, ought not an effort to be made to limit
the Representation to the free inhabitants only ? Had it been
foreseen that we could raise revenue to the extent we have done,
from indirect taxes, the Representation of Slaves wd. never have
been admitted ; but going upon the maxim that taxation and
Representation are inseparable, and that the Genl. Govt, must re-
sort to direct taxes, the States in which Slavery does not exist,
were injudiciously led to concede to this unreasonable provision
of the Constitution. On account of the effect upon the public
opinion, produced by alterations of the fundamental Laws of a
Country, we should hesitate in proposing what may appear to be

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. $2$

beneficial ; but I know no one alteration of the Constitution of
the U. S. which I would so readily propose, as to confine repre-
sentation and taxation to the free inhabitants. . . .

Yr. obt. & faithful Servt.

Rufus King.

R. King to C. Gore, London.

New York, Nov. 20, 1803.
My dear Friend :

. . A day or two since I saw one of the members of the
H. of R. who is here on leave of absence ; he is of the ruling sect,
and says all is going on well, that the Spanish Ambassador's re-
monstrance will retard nothing in the measures for occupying
Louisiana, and that the Ambassador himself says no opposition
will be made by the Govt. ; if so this business will produce no im-
mediate Embarrassment.

We yesterday had a Rumour that Mr. Dawson is named Govr.
of the new acquisition ; but whether this be so, I know not.
Already as I hear in Connecticut as well as the upper part of this
State, they are beginning to talk of moving to Louisiana, the
country which will produce sugar & cotton & corn, &c. &c. ! ! !
and there can be no doubt that the project of reserving the Lands
west of the Mississippi tor posterity will be defeated by the Emi-
grants of the Eastern and Western States.

The proposed amendment to the Constitution respecting the
Election of President & Vice President has passed the House,
and is before the Senate where its fate is sd. to be doubtful. Mr.
Adams is supposed to approve the alteration, with an alteration
the purport whereof is not mentioned. Mr. Dayton proposes to
abolish the office of V. President, & what other schemes may be
proposed is more than I know.

In the order of important communications I shd. inform you
that citizen Jerome Bonaparte arrived here last Evening : he has
passed some months at Baltimore, a fortnight at Philadelphia, and
how long he is to honour us with his residence is not foretold.
At Baltimore he was on the point of being married to a daughter
of Mr. W. Patterson, but fortunately the young lady was persuaded
to make a visit to Virginia. The young Prince is said to spend a

326 RUFUS KING, [1803

great deal of money which the Span, ambassador is good enough
to supply.

To pass from trifles to what is really interesting, I have a word
to say respecting some of our friends, Mr. Jay lives retired upon
his farm at Bedford, W. Chester, 50 miles from Town, which he
has not visited these last two years. We expect to see him here
this winter. Excepting the solitude of his situation I hear he lives
much at his ease and enjoys tolerable health. . . .

Benson is the same man I left him, except a little older, he
has been at Boston during the fever, says all our friends are well
there except Ames, of whom he gives but an indifferent acct.
Having himself formerly reed, advantage by a voyage to Amster-
dam, he recommends to Ames to go to the E. Indies for his
health !

Hamilton is at the head of his profession, and in the annual
rect. of a handsome income. He lives wholly at his house 9.
miles from town so that on an average he must spend three hours
a day on the road going and returning between his house and
town, which he performs four or five days each week. I don't
perceive that he meddles or feels much concerning Politics. He
has formed very decided opinions of our System as well as of our
administration, and as the one and the other has the voice of the
country, he has nothing to do but to prophecy !

G. Morris, who has laid out over 50 or 60 M Dollars in build-
ings and alterations at Morrisania lives much to his own taste en
garfon, receives his friends on Sundays, keeps a good look and
can talk as decidedly and agreeably, provided you have no theory
to defend or suggest, as anyone. . . .

Owing to the fever, which has wholly disappeared, we have
seen very little of the manners and society of our city since
our return ; but I think I have such a glimpse already as by
a sort of anticipation enables one to form a pretty correct opinion
of them. Jay is a recluse, a rigorous one, and tho' not precisely
from the same motives, I am not sure that I shd. not prefer the
like Retreat in preference to the enjoyment of our City Society. . . .
With affectionate regards &c

R. K.

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. Z27

R. King to C. Gore, London.

New York, Dec. 7, 1803.
My dr. Sir :

Our last letters from you were by Mr. Merry, who after a rough
passage over the ocean and a tedious one up the Chesapeake,
reached Washington last week. I wish he may find himself tol-
erably comfortable there, as otherwise his reports will be shaded
with the discontents he may himself feel.

The Spanish minister delivered a memorial respecting the sur-
render of Louisiana, expressing the disinclination of his court
to comply. The Govt, has notwithstanding determined to take
possession and a force sufft. to do so, even in case of opposition,
is ordered to march. I, however, understand that it is not probable
that any opposition will be made. Except the occasion and con-
versation that one hears respecting this cession, we have no domes-
tic object which engages the pub. attention. "Whether you are
invaded in Engd., or will be invaded during the Winter, is a fruitful
source of dispute. I arn a believer that you have not been invaded,
and that it is not the purpose of Bonaparte to invade England, but
that his real object is Ireland.

Our commerce and navigation are checked rather than in-
creased by the war. The shutting up of Hamburgh and the Reg-
ulations of France abt. Eng. Manures & Produce, are embarrass-
ments to our trade. Freights are very low. . . .

Your faithful friend
R. K.

C. Gore to R. King.

London, December 7, 1803.
My dear Friend :

... I have a friendly letter from Col. Pickering, in answer
to one written him on the subject of our outfit * and it has relieved
my mind from the only anxiety it has suffered, on that subject ;

* In a previous letter Mr. Gore had written that at the instigation of Mr.
Pinkney an application would be made to the Government by the Commissioners
under the 7th Article of the Treaty of Peace for the payment to them of an
outfit. He had joined in this particularly because of the wants of Mr. P. who
44 had been encouraged to believe the Government would acknowledge its
propriety and accede to the request." Mr. G. would of course benefit by it if
granted.

328 RUFUS KING. [1803

for all my fears were, that our own friends might disapprove of
the application. As to the final issue of the claim, or the manner
in which the Government & its friends shall please to regard and
treat it, I have not the smallest concern. Pinkney would never
have forgiven me, had I not joined in the request, and thinking
as he did upon the subject, he might have had just cause to blame
my declining to submit the justice" of the claim to the Govern-
ment. I enquired of Mr. Hammond to-day, if there were any
reason to believe that Russia*was about to change her politics ?
His reply was that they had not the least intelligence from which
they could draw any inference. The alarm of invasion seems fast
subsiding, though no doubt is entertained of the intention to in-
vade Ireland from Brest, should Admiral Cornwallis be blown off.
The manner in which this Admiral has kept his station does not
afford Bonaparte a very" good j prospect, and perhaps he is now
raising a pretext by the levy 'of 'contributions in the Northern
States and petty powers,|for the diversion of his forces from the
sea. . . .

Mr. Monroe has lately presented a very temperate memorial on
the subject of seamen impressed. Not a word has ever passed
relative to a renewal of the oldjtreaty,"or the making of a new one.
This I understand not from M., whom I have seen only once,
though we are on very good terms these three months. M was here
this morning, and desired Mrs. G. to tell me that his affairs were
in good train, but I know nothing further — undoubtedly every-
thing depends on thejdetermination that may be made, whether
peace shall continue to subsist between the two countries. . . .

Ever yours

C. Gore.

CHAPTER XXII.

Boundaries Convention with England — Madison to King — King to Madison —
Answer removing Objections — Madison to King. Mr. Merry's etiquette
Claims — Gore to King — Personal — Louisiana — Bonaparte's Invasion of
England. Livingston's Position — Ingelsoll to King — House in New York
— King to Ingersoll — House rented and occupied — Gore to King — Corn-
wallis watching Brest — King's Views relative to Louisiana — King to Gore
— Invasion of England — Louisiana Convention — Col. Burr and the Feder-
alists— Miranda — Merry — Gore to King — Merry and sombre Dispatches —
Lord Hawkesbury's Opinion — Government seem to consider this a studied
Affront — Erving told Memorials were not received from Consuls — Gore to
King— The King's Sickness— Maryland Bank Stock adjusted— Gore about
returning Home.

The Convention for the eastern and northwestern boun-
daries which had been negotiated by Mr. King with the
British Government, was laid before the Senate for advice
and consent as to its ratification. Some doubt was felt in
that body as to whether it conflicted with the Louisiana
treaty, the signature of which was of an earlier date than
that of the Boundary Convention. Mr. Henry Adams gives
an account of the facts concerning this hesitation which the
following letters will show to be incorrect so far as Mr. King
is concerned. Speaking of Mr. Merry, he says :

"At the moment when he was, as he thought, socially mal-
treated, and when he was told by Madison that America meant
to insist on her neutral rights, he learned that the Government
did not intend to ratify Rufus King's boundary convention. The
Senate held that the stipulations of its fifth article respecting the
Mississippi might embarrass the new territory west of the river.
King knew of the Louisiana cession when he signed the treaty ;
330 RUFUS KING, [1803-

. :

but the Senate had its own views on the subject, and under the
lead of General Smith preferred to follow them, as it had done in
regard to the second article of the treaty with France, Sept. 30,
1800, and as it was about to do in regard to Pinckney's claims
convention, Aug. 11, 1802, with Spain. Merry was surprised to
find Madison, instead of explaining the grounds of the Senate's
hesitation, or entering into a discussion of the precise geographi-
cal difficulty, contented himself with a bald statement of the fact.
The British Minister thought this was not the most courteous way
of dealing with a treaty negotiated after a full acquaintance with
all the circumstances, and he wrote to his government to be on its
guard, &c, &c."

Mr. Madison could not give the reasons why the Senate
refused to ratify the Convention, because that body refused
to withdraw the injunction of secrecy, and therefore they
were unknown to him. As regards Mr. King's knowledge
of the cession of Louisiana at the time when he signed the
Convention, his answer to the Committee of the Senate, of
which John Quincy Adams was Chairman, inquiring about
the fact, explicitly denied it and thus removed that objec-
tion to its ratification.

James Madison to R. King.

Washington, Dec. 4, 1803.
Dear Sir :

I cannot better fulfill the object of the Committee of which Mr.
Adams is chairman, than by enclosing you his letter to me accom-
panying it. Writing from my house, where a copy cannot be con-
veniently taken, I am induced to avoid delay by sending you the
original which I ask the favor of you to return with your answer.
With great esteem I remain

Your most obedt. servt.

James Madison.
[Endorsed by R. King.]

Copy of letter referred to :

Sir:

Some difficulty having arisen in the Senate, in considering the
expediency of advising and consenting to the ratification of

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 331

the Treaty of limits, between the U. S. & G. B., signed on the
1 2th of May, 1803, a comtee. of that body has been appointed to
enquire and report upon the subject.

The difficulty arises from the circumstance that the Treaty
with the French republic^containing the cession of Louisiana,
was signed on the 30th of April twelve days earlier than that
with G. Br. and some apprehension is entertained that the Boun-
dary line contemplated in the 3rd art. of ye. latter, may by a
possible future construction be pretended to operate as a limita-
tion to the claims of territory acquired by the U. S. in the former
of these Instruments.

But as the Ratification, if it can be effected, without unneces-
sary delay is a desirable object, it has occurred to the committee
that Mr. King, may possibly have it in his power to give informa-
tion which might remove the obstacle ; I have therefore in behalf
of the comtee. to ask whether from any information in possession
of your Department, or wh. may be obtained, in such manner as
you may deem expedient, it can be ascertained whether the 3rd
art. of the Treaty with G. Br. was concluded with any reference
whatsoever to that with the Fr. Rep., or with any Right or claim
wh. the U. S. have acquired by it.

I am, etc.,
[Signed.] J. Q. Adams.

Copy of a letter from Mr. King :

New York, Dec. 9, 1803.
Sir :

The draft of the convention with Great Britain respecting
boundaries, having been settled in previous conferences, was
drawn up and sent by me to Lord Hawkesbury on the nth of
April ; on the 12th of May the convention was signed without the
alteration of a word of the original draft ; and on the 15 of May
the letter of Messrs. Livingston & Monroe (a copy of which was
annexed to my No. 100) announcing the treaty of cession with
France, was received and communicated by me to Lord Hawkes-
bury. At the date of the signature of the convention with Great
Britain, I had no knowledge of the Treaty with France and have
reason to be satisfied, that Lord Hawkesbury was equally unin-

332 RUFUS KING. [1803-

formed of it. It results that the Convention was concluded with-
out any reference whatsoever to the Treaty of Cession with
France. With much respect &c.

[Signed.] Rufus King,

Secretary of State.

James Madison to R. King.

Private.

Washington, Dec. 18, 1803.
Dear Sir :

I have reed, and communicated to the Committee of the Senate
the information contained in your favor of the 9th which clearly
shows that the Convention of May 12, with G. Br. is not to be
construed by any reference to that of April 30, with France.

I am mortified at troubling you on a subject which more than
any other is in itself unworthy the attention of either of us, but
which is obtruded on mine by sensibilities in others which neither
public prudence nor social considerations will allow to be dis-
regarded. Since the arrival of Mr. Merry & his lady,* several
points of ceremony have started up, with respect to which it will
be convenient to learn the usage abroad, particularly in England,
where your station must have involved some acquaintance with
it. Will you allow me then to ask the following questions :

1. On the arrival of a foreign minister, is the first visit paid by
him or the ministers of the country ? 2. To which is the prece-
dence given in scenes of a more public ceremony and of ordinary
hospitalities ? 3. Is the order of attention precisely the same in
the case of ladies, as of their husbands ?

* " The President's contempt of courtly niceties caused some trouble in dip-
lomatic circles. Merry, the new British Minister, took deep offense at the
President's republican humors. Proceeding in full dress at an appointed hour
to make his first official call, in company with the Secretary of State, he found
the hall of audience empty, and instead, came upon the President in a narrow
entry, from which he had to back out in order to get introduced ; Jefferson,
appearing, to his amazement, in a slovenly undress, with slippers down at the
heel and Connemara stockings. When he and his wife dined afterwards at the
White House Jefferson took to the table, not Mrs. Merry, but the lady nearest
him, the wife of the Secretary of State. This he conceived to be a new insult
and, notwithstanding Monroe's wife was similarly treated at London, he de-
clined further social hospitalities from the President, and when the latter made

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 333

Our wish would be to unfetter social intercourse as well as
public business as much as possible from ceremonious clogs, by
substituting the pell mell ; but this may be rendered difficult by
the pretentions & expectations opposed to it. And as it is proper
that we should not be behind other nations either in civility or
self-respect, it is well to know the manner in which other nations
respect both us and themselves. This information will be per-
tinent, whether a reciprocity in the object, or the right possessed
in every country be exercised of establishing a practice for itself.

To enable you to give the apter shape to your answer to the
third enquiry, it may be proper to remark, that it refers among
other particulars to that long used at the President's as well as
elsewhere, of selecting the lady first handed to the table. In
general this mark of civility has been shown to the ladies of for-
eign Ministers ; but was it seems disapproved of and at one time
varied by the last President. The practice of the present has
been different, without however adverting to precedents, or rather
supposing it to be conformable to them, and without an intimation
of discontent anywhere, till the late occasion, which has produced
it from several quarters.

I will thank you not to delay your answer longer than you con-
veniently may require. I would have preferred waiting till I have
the promised pleasure of seeing you here, but that you make the
weather a condition of your visit, and that some occasion may
in the mean time arise, on which the information asked may be
apropos. With great respect & esteem I am, Dear Sir,

yr. mo. obedt. Servt.

James Madison.

overtures to arrange the difficulty administered an airy rebuke. D'Yrujo, who
had acquiesced nearly three years in the President's practice, made common
cause with Merry on this point. An explanation to the British Ministry fol-
lowed. Merry's wife was thought to be the chief agent in producing what was
a mere misunderstanding." — Note in Schouler, Hist, of U. States, vol. ii., p. 81.

Mr. Henry Adams, Hist, of U. S., vol. ii., pp. 360 et sea., gives a full
account of these matters and of the effect of his treatment on Mr. Merry, who
deeply resented the slight which he considered had been put upon him, and it
will be seen that his dispatches to his government reflected his feelings and
gave an idea that the administration of Mr. Jefferson was determined to make
more decided demands upon England for the settlement of pending questions.

See also Mr. Madison's letters to Mr. Monroe, Letters, &c.t of James
Madison, vol. ii., pp. 188, 195.

334 XUFUS KING. [1803-

Mr. Henry Adams, Hist, of U. States, vol. ii., p. 365, after
quoting Mr. Jefferson's " Canons of Etiquette to be observed
by the Executive," says: " Such according to Rufus King,
whose aid was invoked on this occasion, was the usage in
London." It is hardly probable that this is correct, and the
Editor is at a loss to know from what source Mr. A. derived
his information. A careful search for an answer by Mr.
King to the letter of Mr. Madison, has been made but none
can be found in the public correspondence or in that in the
Editor's possession. As Mr. Madison's letter is marked
private, the answer was probably also private.

C. Gore to R. King.

London, December 20, 1803.
My dear Friend :

. . . The Minerva arrived from Boston about a week since,
and it is almost settled that we embark in her. She will probably
quit this the beginning of March. . . . We exceedingly re-
joice at your promise of visiting us next summer, and be assured
we shall not rest satisfied without a performance. There are no
persons whom it would afford us such sincere pleasure again to
meet, and my own affairs & professional pursuits will not permit
me for a year or two to move far from town. It is unnecessary
for me to say that nothing would tempt me to engage in public
life, under those who now rule our country, for nothing is more
certain than that they would not employ me. Yet I may be
permitted to remark, that so different are all their notions & con-
duct from what I conceive wise & honest, that were their dispo-
sitions towards me exactly the reverse of what I know them to
be, mine could not change, and of course I could not move in
their train. . . .

It is to me inconceivable how men, entertaining a proper sense
of duty, could proceed with such intemperate haste in ratifying
the Louisiana treaty. That with Spain was, without any question,
executory, so far as related to the cession of the country to
France, and surely, they, who were about to oblige the U. S. to
the payment of a large sum & the performance of other stipula-

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 335

tions, ought to see that France had the right to convey. One
would expect that such rash & imprudent measures could not
fail to discover to the people, whose affairs they thus mismanage,
their utter incapacity to preside over the concerns of a great
nation.

The expectation of Bonaparte's attempt to invade England
daily lessens. The papers, which I send by this ship will (besides
showing you, in the Courier, the opinion entertained of the Presi-
dent's message) communicate the intelligence of a misunderstand-
ing between Bavaria & Austria. Nothing more is yet known than
the simple fact, as related in the papers. Whether it proceeds
from the hasty & imprudent temper of the Elector, or from the
intrigues of France to occasion a quarrel between those powers,
and avail herself of this occasion to find plunder for her troops
on the continent, and an apology for quitting the coast, is all
matter of conjecture. It is said by some who pretend to know,
that the character of England is rising and that of France falling
in the eyes of Europe ; that these nations begin to see the justice
of the British cause, and that the war is entirely owing to the
ambition of the Consul. If such an alteration of sentiment has
really been produced, in my opinion it is owing to a conviction
on the part of those, who have changed their judgment, that
Bonaparte can not execute his threats on England, & is therefore
determined to turn his arms on them. . . .

A letter came here a few days ago from Swan to young Mr.
Higginson whom you know, saying that the Virginia faction
thwarted all Mr. L's views ; that never was anything more abomi-
nable than the attempt of M. to assume any share of the merit in
gaining Louisiana ; that the Government only supported the
claim of the latter to avoid the charge of misspending the public
money in sending him out ; and, finally, that the Federalists
ought to support him L. as Vice President at the next election,
and begging him H. to write out so to his friends in America. From
what is said in another quarter here, I have little doubt but the
present administn. intend to discard him & his connections. It
will rely entirely on Southern & Western influences for continuing
in power and leave the Northern & Eastern States to perish for
their ingratitude in poverty & disgrace. . . .

Truly yours C. Gore.

33^ RUFUS KING. [1803-

A letter from Mr. Charles J. Ingersoll, who had been on
very intimate social relations with Mr. King and his family in
London during the former's residence in Europe, shows that
he had not forgotten those from whom he had received much
kindness. It is dated Dec. 6, 1803.

" I am told you have bo't a house and are settling down in the
Broadway. As you may suppose I often look towards you with
pleasure and gratitude ; and for some weeks past I have been
about enquiring of you and yours.

" J'espere que madame se trouve a son aise dans la nouvelle
maison, et qu'elle l'a meuble' et garni a son gout. I tender the
homage of my most respectful consideration to Edward who I
hope has found a Vauxhall in New York. Little Master Gore by
this time, I guess, can ask for his bread and butter.

" I am jogging along my professional path ; my father nudges
me along, and the Governor has given me a publick room adjoin-
ing the Court, where I have established my desk and armchair ;
so that they say I do tolerably well. The U. S. Government looks
to me like a salt monster, 180 miles too big ; * if it don't vanish I
flatter myself it must dissolve.

" Our State rulers threaten to toss away that excrescence on
civilization, the bar ; and Counsellor Ingersoll declares he '11 go
to New York — all the eminent lawyers have their eyes on one city
or another to remove to in case of extremes." . . .

R. King to Chas. J. Ingersoll.

New York, December 21, 1803.
Dear Sir :

When we have but little to do, we are prone to lose our habits
of regularity, and I can offer you no better excuse for my delay
in replying to the obliging letter that I lately received from you.
I am glad to hear that you have seriously taken an office and en-
gaged in business, as I am firmly persuaded you will succeed to

* A thought probably prompted by the publication by the President about
this time of the existence of a mountain of pure rock-salt in Louisiana " 180
miles long & 45 wide and 400 feet high," as one of the precious benefits derived
by the purchase of that Province.

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 337

your satisfaction and acquire distinction, if you have patience and
will persevere.

During our fever, we resided at Greenwich : about three weeks
ago I gave up my house there and removed to town, having taken,
not purchased as you had heard, Mr. Peter Livingston's house in
Broadway. My lease will expire on May day, before which I
must seek another habitation. Mrs. K. enjoys her health as she
was accustomed to do before we went abroad, and better than at
any period during our absence. Little Fritz bore the summer
well and will, we hope, carry his rosy cheeks thro' the winter.
Edward, who has for want of something better been a day
scholar in a French school near my house in the country, is just
preparing to go to Mr. Harris, a clergyman of good education
and accustomed to the instruction of boys, who will receive him
into his family. He lives a few miles out of town, so that I should
have no apprehension in his remaining with him in the event of
another fever.

We often hear from our sons in England, who are, I flatter my-
self, doing as well as I have any right to expect. From James
(in Paris) we do not receive frequent accounts ; our last letter
was written in September when he was well and happy. I had
thought of bringing him home next spring, but I am so little satis-
fied with our academies here, that I have determined to leave him
abroad some time longer.

As no one is more out of politics than I am, you must expect
nothing from me on this interesting topic : I have talked about
going to Washington in the course of the winter, but as I am snug
by my fire side, with my books about me, I suspect my voyage
will begin and end in talk.

With sincere regard &c &c

Rufus King.

C. Gore to R. King.

London, December 23, 1803.
My dear Friend :

. . . Col. Livingston left there (Paris) but not having given
his address, it is very probable I may not see him. Notwithstand-
ing what the papers chose to say on the subject, there is no
probability that Talleyrand has confided anything to him. On,

VOL. IV.— 22.

338 RUFUS KING. [1803-

Wednesday, Hammond did not believe that he was in England ;
the papers said he arrived on Monday. The Courier will an-
nounce the arrangement of the misunderstanding between Austria
& Bavaria. Some of the gales have been tremendous, but, with
the persevering spirit of a true Eng. Bull-dog, Cornwallis keeps
his station off Brest. An idea is entertained that should the fleet
come out, the British will waste their time and powder on the
armed ships & that in the mean while the transports will be able
to proceed with their troops. It is, however, said, that the in-
tention is to pay the principal, if not their whole, attention to
destruction of the transports. Occurrences daily happen, which
go far to support an idea of the utter impracticability of crossing
the channel hostilely in these flat bottom boats.

Affectionately yours

C. Gore.

Dec. 29. . . . It is understood that some of Cornwallis*
squadron have been obliged to come into port. The storm on
Christmas day was extremely violent. I do not know the grounds,
but by the appearances abroad, it would seem that the Admin,
really expect the attempt at invasion will be shortly hazarded.

yours as ever

C. G.

With this letter of Mr. Gore's, the correspondence for the
year 1803 closes. Mr. King, as he says, was out of politics
and was quietly enjoying the pleasure of social intercourse
among the friends about him and the company of his books.
But he seems to have been interested in the discussion of
the different points suggested by the acquisition of
Louisiana. Several papers are found among his manuscripts,
which are given in an appendix. They appear to have been
written for publication, but if they were published, they
-cannot be traced. As however they present his views rela-
tive to the extent of the Territory purchased, based upon a
critical examination of its history, and to the question of
the wisdom of the purchase, they will be given as they are
found.

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 339

R. King to C. Gore.

London, Jany. 4, 1804.
My dear Friend :

. . . I am a little sceptical concerning the invasion of Eng-
land although Bonaparte would play a deep game by doing nothing
except to garnish the coast with his Battalions, & to build flat
bottom Boats. I do not think this Fabian mode of war is in his
character, and therefore conclude that a grand Project will some-
where be attempted. Perhaps when the Eng. fleets are driven off
the Enemy coasts, the Dutch & French & Ferrol fleets will
attempt a combined operation by the invasion of Ireland. Per-
haps the show is in the West, and the real efforts are making in
the East to pass an army into the Morea by crossing the Adriatic
. . . These are however mere Speculations and of the worst
sort as they are not founded upon any kind of information.
. . . I can only hope as I earnestly do, that no sinister Event
may endanger the security of the nation where you are, which
may be regarded as the principal and almost the sole Barrier
agt. an Evil that menaces every Country.

Things here go on in the order which those who direct them
wish, and are pleased with. The Louisiana Business will be
carried into effect according to the provisions of the Treaty.
Already we have accounts of the delivery of the Colony to the
French Prefect, who has notified the inhabitants that he expects
the American Commissioners at N. Orleans and shall surrender
the Country to the U. S. This will be done and we shall enter
peaceably into the Possession & Government.

You will see in the news papers the debates respecting the
Constitutionality of certain of the Articles of the Treaty.
Whether the Govt, will admit the force of the objections, and
submit an amendment to the States, by which Congress may be
authorized to carry the Treaty into effect or recommend to
Congress to do so as the Constitution stands, is more than I am
able to decide, and is a question if I mistake not with which those
who have to determine it are not a little embarrassed.

In our quarter, the western acquisition, by which I mean the
Territory over the River, is not liked and I think it seems to be
pretty generally wished that the Govt, would exchange it for the
Floridas. This in my view would be the best mode of avoiding

340 RUFUS KING. [1803-

the otherwise great Difficulties of various kinds which will be sure
to arise. From the tenor of the President's message at the open-
ing of Congress, this will not be done, as he talks of the uses of
this Region to which our Posterity are to apply it. If our Govt, be
even willing, the consent of France must be had, before we can
make this Exchange, or in any way dispose of this Country ;
a Right inconvenient to us and of no honest value to France, and
reserved therefore for mischievous ends.

As to the next Election, there can be no doubt that the Pr.
will be re-elected — a Vice President of the same Politics is also
sure to be chosen, if the amendment of the Constitution takes
Place of wh. there can scarcely be doubt. Whether it will be
Col. Burr or some other Person is not mentioned. The former
Genan. is in a deep minority with his Party here, and is making con-
siderable efforts to better his situation, as the London servants
say ; but if the Federalists are steady he must fail ; on this point
however after what happened at the election at Washington
one can never feel at ease. I sent you the Examination : the
object of which is to repel the charge that Col. Burr intrigued
with the Federalists to become President — or in other words to
reconcile himself to the Democrats who have suspected him. It
is curious that at the moment of this publication, and ever since,
the friends of Col. Burr are making overtures to the Federalists
to elect him Governor of this state in opposition to Gov. Clinton.
Such are the inconsistencies that some men can practice and such
the intellect of the Community which they must despise. . . .

We hear that there is some Buzz at Washington concerning
Merry's Reception. The day and hour were appointed for his
first audience, and he was attended by the Sec'y of State. Mr.
Jefferson rec'd him in his slippers, and altogether in an undress !
— at least such is our report. . . .

I write to the boys, who are now at the Abbe's, and shall again
propose to them to talk with you concerning their future profes-
sions. I should like, were it practicable, to decide immediately
which of the three boys I shall put into the House of Sir F.
Baring, as in this case I should wish you to converse with Sir
Francis respecting the subject before your embarkation. Genl.
M (iranda) has I conclude left England before this date. If the
question is at length settled with Spain, as it shd. have been

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 34 1

months ago, he may yet see his wishes accomplished. He & you
know my sentiments on this subject, which nothing can alter. I
do not write to the Genl., because I am expecting to hear of him
in another quarter. Should he make a beginning, the news wd.
electrify this country, which contains an immense number of indi-
viduals who would be ready to take up their Bed and walk.

Yrs. affectionately,
R. K.

C. Gore to R. King.

London, February 8, 1804.
My dear Friend :

Since I last wrote we have received your favours of Nov. 20 &
Dec. 7 and January. 4. The boys left us about a fortnight ago for
Harrow. They were perfectly well, and so conducted themselves
during the vacation. John at present seems inclined to the pro-
fession of law, & Charles, so far as he has any predilections, to
that of a merchant. . . .

What you feared has certainly come to pass. M's dispatches
are truly of a very sombre hue. The reception of the Prest., the
details of leading into dinner, &c. &c. were as particularly re-
counted, as the wounded pride of the Lady, or the injured dig-
nity of the Minister could possibly require. The want of
accommodation there, high prices, bad 01 rather no markets, lead
them to view the seat of our philosophic empire, if not the
philosophers themselves, with great disgust. The Convention
you subscribed here, the President declined for a time to ratify,
making a reservation of Louisiana. Now it is said, he will ratify,
making a reservation of any rights that may have accrued to us,
by the cession of this country. H. says he hopes to God the
admin, here will not take the ratification so made. It is fur-
ther believed, that Monroe has orders to propose an arrangement
of the business of seamen, by a convention, in which G. B.
shall agree, that the American Flag shall protect all persons who
sail under it. The Under-Sec. is outrageous, but his superiors,
operated upon much as are some other great men in the West, may
act according to existing circumstances, though my persuasion is
that they will not yield that point.

Feb'y 9. Yesterday Pinkney & myself dined at Ld. Hawkes-

342 RUFUS KING. [1803-

bury's. His Lordship there took me aside & mentioned the
unpleasant accounts they had received from Washington. I de-
clared my regrets that anything should arise to afford occasion
therefor, that it would be a pity if circumstances, in themselves
really trifling & of no public consequence, should be suffered to
produce a coolness between the Govt, of the U. S. and the Rep.
of his Majesty ; that without pretending to judge as to the real
weight or importance, that should be ascribed to what he alluded,
I was sure he would concur with me in the opinion, that wisdom
dictated a total disregard of personal considerations & trivial cir-
cumstances in weighing the just and important relations of two
countries situated as were the U. S. & G. B., especially at this
highly interesting & convulsed state of Europe. While he agreed
with me in these reflections, he said Mr. M. (erry) had taken
particular pains to enquire of Mr. Liston & Mr. Hammond, what
was the etiquette observed when they were in the U. S., that he
might neither claim nor expect more respect or attention than
was the custom. I only replied that surely Mr. M. did appear to
me to go out with a disposition favourable to the harmony & inter-
ests of the two nations, and that I hoped that if Mr. M. saw that
whatever course had been adopted was alike to all the foreign
ministers, both himself & his Majesty's Govt, would not feel in it
any particular cause of dissatisfaction, & at least not to suffer it
to have more influence than its intrinsic importance demanded.
I was sorry to find however that it has &• will have considerable
weight in the minds of this Govt. Without particularising, it is
certain he principally referred to the leading into dinner & seating
at table. In this silly business, they probably see here a disposi-
tion to affront England, and it will with others, increase a grow-
ing discontent with us. He then remarked to me about your
convention, and said explicitly that the Government, if it came
back as they had reason to fear, would not consent to a ratifica-
tion. Dinner was announced and we parted, he saying that he
would ask another opportunity of conferring further on these sub-
jects before my departure. If he should I will surely do every-
thing in my power to soften & diminish the growing prejudice
against our Government, the effects whereof we shall feel when-
ever G. B. is more at her ease in her European relations. After
dinner, at which were several of the foreign Ministers, and two or

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 343

three of the nobility, he called on me to take some wine & said
he would give one toast, by my consent, which was Mr. King.
This was drunk & such remarks made afterwards on the subject
of it, as were gratifying to all (how relished by P. I cannot say)
but they were such as would insure your condemnation by all
the Democrats of our country.

Some few weeks ago, Erving, as Consul, sent a memorial to
Lord Hawksbury relative to a vessel that was here in distress,
with a request that the cargo, which was oil & in a leaky state,
might be unladen &c, &c, and saying that the parties had applied
to Mr. Monroe for his interference, who after examining the sub-
ject & finding it purely commercial, referred them to the Consul.
A note was returned saying that it was the invariable usage of the
office to receive no memorials from Consuls, that if Mr. Monroe
would make any application relative to the interests of his Gov-
ernment, or its citizens, it would be attended to with all "the
promptness that its nature required, and especially in the case al-
luded to. Monroe made no application, and the man's oil, I
presume, goes on wasting. They conceive here that it is Jeffer-
son's intention to disgust all foreign ministers at Washington, and
by degrees insinuate Consuls into the business at foreign courts,
and when these Genln. shall retire from our Government, leave all
affairs to be transacted by Commercial Agents. This may be his
scheme, especially as it would be cheaper & by multiplying certifs.,
he might impose all the expense on the merchants trading to the
different countries.

Genl. M. is still here, waiting the decision of the Government
in relation to Spain. Possibly an original error in not consider-
ing it as a party in the war, is the cause of the present delay & of
all the subsequent errors.

. . . We shall probably sail in the beginning of March. We
are to execute our last awards on Saturday next. Two cases yet
hang in the Courts, one in the admir'ty, & the other before the
Lords : these Swaby has consented to decide that I may not lose
my passage. . . .

Ever & affectionately yours

C. Gore.

344 RUFUS KING. [1803-

Thomas Jefferson to R. King.

Washington, Feby 17, 1804.
Sir :

I now return you the M.S. History of Bacon's rebellion with
many thanks for the communication. It is really a valuable mor-
sel in the history of Virginia. That transaction is the more
marked as it was the only rebellion or insurrection which had ever
taken place in the colony before the American revolution. Neither
its cause nor course have been well understood, the public records
containing little on the subject. It is very long since I read the
several histories of Virginia, but the impression remaining in my
mind was not at all that which this writer gives ; and it is impos-
sible to refuse assent to the candor & simplicity of his story. I
have taken the liberty of copying it, which has been the reason
for the detention of it. I had an opportunity of communicating
it to a person who was just putting into the press a history of Vir-
ginia, but still in a situation to be corrected. I think it possible
that among the antient MSS. I possess at Monticello, I may be able
to trace the author. I shall endeavour to do it the first visit I
make to that place ; and if with success, I will do myself the
pleasure of communicating it to you ; from the public records
there is no hope, as they were destroyed by the British, I believe,
very completely, during their invasion of Virginia. Accept my
salutations and assurances of high consideration and respect.

Th. Jefferson.

C. Gore to R. King.

London, February 19, 1804.
My dear Sir :

By the newspapers which I have put on board the Oneida Chief
you will see that the King is seriously indisposed. I learn that
the stories about his having the dropsy are altogether untrue, but
he is violently mad. It has been coming on for some time, and
said to have been occasioned at first by drinking cold water, when
very warm. The night before last he slept seven hours, awoke
perfectly collected, took his medicines & eat his food as he should
do. From this some hopes are entertained that he may recover,
but I doubt if they be very strong. . . .

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 345

The Maryland Bank Stock is through the Chancery & the costs
adjusted. So it only remains to pass from the crown, which will
be impeded by the King's malady. We execute our last awards
to-day & close next week. . . .

Yours ever & affectionately

C. Gore.

C. Gore to R. King.

London, February 29, 1804.
My dear Friend :

I have only time to say that we expect to leave town on Satur-
day for Gravesend, where we embark. Our commission closed
with perfect harmony on the 23d inst. I can only say that per-
sonally I have been treated by Ld. H. & Hammond with great
kindness & attention. The King is better ; this, I understand
from those who wish it, and those who think the public good may
be promoted by a different dispensation of Providence. . . .

C. Gore.

CHAPTER XXIII.

Grievances and Suggestions of certain Federalists for a Separation of the New
England States — Proposal to nominate King for Governor of the State of
New York — Hamilton to King — Urging him to allow himself to be nomi-
nated— King to Hamilton — He declines — Plan of Separation of the North-
ern States — Pickering — Cabot — Wolcott — Conversation with King about
a Separation — J. Q. Adams — Conversation with King on the Same — Ham-
ilton's Views adverse to the Plan — Pickering to King — Louisiana — Judge
Pickering's Trial — Pickering to King — Plan of Separation — King to Pick-
ering— Protection of Seamen — Cabot to King — Experiment of Separation
of the States.

At the close of a letter from Mr. King to Mr. Gore, Sep-
tember 6, 1803, p. 303 in this volume, he remarks: " Not-
withstanding the satisfaction of the negotiators with their
performance, I believe that Govt, is and will be embar-
rassed with the cession [of Louisiana], which may become
the immediate cause of very important political events
among the States." It was not long before the correctness
of this opinion was manifested by the debates in the Senate
and House on the provisions for carrying out the Conven-
tions and by subsequent events.

The constant troubles with the Spanish authorities at New
Orleans, interfering with the navigation of the Mississippi
and the commerce of the western portions of the United
States, induced Mr. Jefferson to endeavor by purchase to
become possessed of New Orleans and the adjacent districts,
and thus secure the free navigation of the river. Mr. Liv-
ingston, who was sent to France as Minister, when he found
that Louisiana had been transferred to that country, en-
deavored to accomplish the purchase ; but to his astonish-
ment he was in the end offered the whole of Louisiana, with
1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 347

New Orleans, at a price which seemed not too large. The
First Consul's necessities suggested the offer, the treaty of
purchase was made and, when received in the United States,
was accepted by the President and ratified by the Senate.
So far all seemed well, although the objections made to the
ratification by the Federalists showed that the action was
hasty and that the provisions of the Conventions were such
as involved serious constitutional questions. The President
himself had believed that an amendment to the Constitution
would be required to make this addition, with its peculiar
provisions, to the territory of the United States ; but his
friends in the Senate had set aside the scruples and ratified
the agreement.

When, however, it became necessary to make the appro-
priations for the payment and to provide a government for
the new territory, the objections to the Conventions were
again brought forward, and a stern opposition was made by
the Federalists on the broad constitutional question, and
especially upon the clause in the Convention that " the in-
habitants of the ceded territory should be incorporated in
the Union of the United States " with all the rights and
privileges of the citizens of the United States. They con-
tended that there was no power which " was competent to
such an act of incorporation " ; that therefore " this could
not be effected without an amendment of the Constitution,"
an amendment which would require " the assent of each in-
dividual State and all of them to admit " a foreign country
as an associate in the Union." Besides they contended
that the New England States by the admission of this
territory, with the government of it in the control of the
administration and its friends, chiefly in Virginia, would be
cut off from their proper influence in the affairs of the nation.
Their opposition was of no avail ; the money was appropri-
ated, the territorial government established, no constitutional
amendment was adopted, and Virginia and the republican
party carried their measures.

But the end was not here. Another amendment to the

34^ RUFUS KING. [1804

Constitution had been passed through the same Congress,
providing for a change in the manner of electing the Presi-
dent and Vice-President. Two candidates for the office of
President had hitherto been voted for: the one receiving the
highest vote was to be President and the other Vice-Presi-
dent. The election of Mr. Jefferson had been placed in
jeopardy by this provision, and his friends, who had de-
cided upon his re-election and a possible succession of
other Virginians, determined, if possible, to prevent any in-
terference with their plans, and brought forward the amend-
ment by which the candidates for each office should be
designated and the choice of President could only be made
from among those voted for as such.

To this strong and earnest objections were made by the
Federalists, who contended that by this provision it would be
impossible ever to elect a Federal president,* as by a com-
bination of the larger States, they could control the election
and thus the smaller States would have their privileges cur-
tailed, privileges which under the existing balances of the
Constitution they might enjoy. This and other reasons
were ably presented as objections to the proposed change,
but it was passed by the same dominant party through
Congress, and was ratified by a sufficient number of the
States to make it valid. Its wisdom has not yet been proved
though it still continues to be the law.

As if to rouse the Federalists still more and to make them
afraid that every balance of the Constitution might be de-
stroyed, the attempt to tamper with the judiciary and to re-
duce it also to a political machine was the next step adopted
by the friends of the administration. In the debates which
took place in the impeachment of two of the judges of the
U. States Courts, it was openly suggested that even the

* Indeed, Mr. Cooke of Tennessee avowed that this was one of their objects.
He said " that the majority of the Republicans might obtain the man of their
choice, and, with certainty, prevent the election of either a President or Vice
President from the Federalists." Mr. Taylor of Virginia suggested that the
proposed amendment would finally destroy the minority.

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 349

Supreme Court, the only department the administration
could not control, the buttress of the Constitution, should
be subjected to the power of Congress, by changing
the tenure of office which made the judges independent of
the other departments. Happily the threatened change
was averted and that court still maintains its high and inde-
pendent character.

A considerable number of the leading Federalists, Messrs.
Pickering,* Tracy, Griswold, and others, who had already
been outraged by the removal of their friends from office,
saw danger in these various movements and endeavored to
arouse their friends to resist further encroachments upon the
Constitution by the party which now dominated the country.
They truly loved their country, and were among those who
had laid its foundations so as to secure, as they believed, its
prosperity, but they thought it best that the New England
States, to which they belonged, should, for self-protection,
separate themselves from those who were threatening, by
other measures also, to destroy their proper share in the
benefits of the Union. They, therefore, took measures, by
correspondence and concert of action, to endeavor to brings
about a separation, but felt that without the assistance of
New York, they could not hope to succeed. They, therefore,
sought the assistance of Aaron Burr, who had been re-
jected by his party f and offered himself to them, to accom-
plish their object. He had been nominated as a candidate
for the office of Governor of New York and it was hoped by
many Federalists, that with their help he might be elected
and thus be ready to forward their schemes, which he seemed

* See T. Pickering's letter, March 4, 1804, R. King's Life, p. 363.

f Schouler, Hist, of U. S., vol. ii., p. 59, says: "At a dinner in honor of
the event [the peaceful acquisition of Louisiana] on January 27, 1804, at
Stelle's Hotel, Capitol Hill, which the Republican Members of Congress and
high officials generally attended, ' the general applause indicated that Jefferson
would be put forward for a second term, while Burr, who was one of the guests,
would be dropped. Not long after, at a caucus of the Republican Senators and
Representatives (February 28th), Jefferson was nominated for President unani-
mously, with George Clinton as his associate for Vice-President."

350 RUFUS KING. [1804

inclined to do. Happily he was defeated and the hope of
assistance through him by the plotters was destroyed.

But this was not the only drawback to the success of their
plans. They found positive objections and a refusal to
entertain their propositions by those Federalists, Messrs.
Hamilton, King, Cabot, and others, whom they looked upon
as the head of that party, and whose assistance it was neces-
sary to obtain, and as a consequence the whole scheme fell
through.

Before proceeding with the correspondence relative to the
details of the proposed separation of certain States from the
Union, it may be well to bring forward the narrative of cer-
tain events, which, to a certain extent, have been hinted at.
In a letter of January 27, 1803,* addressed by Mr. Sedgwick
to General Hamilton, in anticipation of Mr. King's return
home, he spoke strongly of the advisability of holding the
Federal control of the State governments and recommended
the nomination of Mr. King to the office of Governor of the
State of New York, to which he thought it possible he
might be elected, and in which he might " do infinitely more
good than in the inefficient office of Vice-President. Gen-
eral Pinckney must in all events be considered the candidate
for the first office. . . . Should Mr. King be holden up
for this office (the Vice-Presidency), it would lessen, at least,
the probability of success for the government of New York."

The friends of Mr. King continued, however, to desire his
election to the office of Vice-President, for at a public
dinner of the Federalists in Washington on February 22,
1804, at which Mr. Pickering presided, Messrs. Pinckney
and King were by consent nominated as their candidates
for the Presidency and Vice-Presidency, but without desig-
nation as to which should have the precedence ; though at a
subsequent and much later meeting Mr. Pinckney was
named for the first office.

In the meantime, Mr. Clinton having been chosen as the
Republican candidate for the Vice-Presidency, Mr. Burr was

* R. King's Life, vol. iv., p. 215.

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 35 1

left out in the cold. The New York Governorship was still
unsettled, and he hoped, as had been said, by the help of the
dissatisfied Federalists, to succeed in reaching it. The Fed-
eralists who remained loyal to their party views desired, as
had been suggested by Mr. Sedgwick a year before, a candi-
date upon whom they could unite and bring back those who
were wandering away to the support of Mr. Burr. It would
appear from the two following letters, that Mr. King, un-
consulted, was proposed as their candidate.

The letter of General Hamilton was written from Albany,
where he was engaged in defending the liberty of the press
against the construction of the judge that he alone could
decide whether an article was libellous or not, and the jury
could only determine the question of publication. He con-
tended that the dictum " the greater the truth, the greater
the libel," was contrary to the " genius of our civil institu-
tions and manifestly a palpable outrage on human rights,
common justice, and even common sense, . . . that the
liberty of the Press consists in publishing with impunity the
Truth with good motives and for justified ends, whether it
related to men or measures. ... If the intent be a
subject of enquiry, the giving of the Truth in evidence is
requisite as a means to determine the intent."

While this important trial of an editor was going on, the
canvass for candidates for Governor occupied the minds of
those assembled in Albany and it was carried on with great
warmth : the letter given shows how earnestly Hamilton
sought to avert the calamity which was threatening in the
nomination of Burr by the aid of the Federalists.

A. Hamilton to R. King.*

Albany, February 24, '1804.
My dear Sir :

! You will have heard before this reaches you of the fluctuations
ancT changes which have taken place in the measures of the reign-
ing party, as to a candidate for Governor ; and you will probably
also have been informed that pursuant to the opinions expressed
♦See also Hamilton's Works, vi., 559.

352 RUFUS KING. [1804

by our friends before I left New York, I had taken an open part
in favour of Mr. Lansing.

It is a fact to be regretted, though anticipated, that the federal-
ists, very extensively, had embarked with zeal in the support of
Mr. Burr ; yet an impression to the contrary and in favour of Mr.
Lansing had been made & there was good ground to hope that a
proper direction, in the main, might have been given to the cur-
rent of federalism. The substitution of Mr. Lewis has essentially
varied the prospect ; and the best informed among us here agree
that the Federalists as a body could not be diverted from Mr.
Burr to Mr. Lewis by any efforts of leading characters, if they
should ever deem the support of the latter expedient.

Though I have no reason to think that my original calculation
was wrong, while the competition was between Clinton & Burr,
yet from the moment the former declined, I began to consider the
latter as having a chance of success. It was still however my re-
liance that Lansing would outrun him ; but now that Chief Justice
Lew\s is the competitor, the probability of success in my judg-
ment inclines to Mr. Burr.

Thus situated two questions have arisen ; 1st, whether a federal
candidate ought not to be run as a means of defeating Mr. Burr,
and of keeping the federalists from becoming a personal faction
allied to him ; 2nd, whether in the conflict of parties as they now
stand, the strongest of them disconcerted and disjointed, there
would not be a considerable hope of success for a Federal candi-
date.

These questions have received no solution in scarcely any one's
mind ; but it is agreed that if an attempt is to be made, you must
be the candidate. There is no other man among us, under whose
standard either fragment of the democratic party could as easily
rally. It is enough to say, you have been absent during the time
in which party animosities have become matured and fixed, and
therefore are much less than any other distinguished federalist an
object of them.

To detach the Federalists from Burr, they must believe two
things — one, that we are in earnest as to our candidate, and that
it is not a mere diversion ; the other, that there is some chance of
success. All believe, & some leading democrats admit, that if
either of the two democratic rival parties should come to expect
a defeat, they would arrange themselves under your banners. 1

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 355,

Reflect well on all these things and make up your mind, in case
you should be invited to consent. I have not time to enlarge.

Yrs very truly

A. Hamilton.

Mr. King's letter was written on the same day as the above
in New York, and explains itself.*

R. King to Genl. Hamilton, Albany.

Feby. 24, 1804-..

Dr. Sir :

Mr. D. B. Ogden called upon me a few minutes past, and as I
understood from him that he purposes writing to you by the mail,
of this Evening, I think it proper, in order to avoid any miscon-
ceptions of the tenour of our conversation, to repeat to you the
purport of what I said to him, viz — " Whether it will be expedient
to offer a federal candidate for the Govr. is a point upon which,,
from the want of information concerning the relative strength,
and disposition of parties, and the consequent probability of suc-
cess, I professed myself (to Mr. D.) quite unable to judge.

"With respect to my being the fedl. candidate, altho' I would
not say that my mind was absolutely decided, as I had never con-
sidered the subject, the objections to my consenting appeared to>
me to be unsurmountable."

faithfully &c.

Rufus King.

In resuming the consideration of the plan proposed by-
some of the leading Federalists in Congress to bring about
the making of a northern Confederacy, the intention is to-
state only the facts which connect the name of Mr. King-
with it and to show that he would have nothing to do with
the movement for a separation of the States.

* Mr. J. C. Hamilton in Hamilton's Life, vii., 778, with his usual unwilling-
ness to give Mr. King credit where he can avoid it, says — " the nomination of
a federal candidate, in the person of King, was thought of, but the idea was
not pursued." He does not say that he declined allowing his name to be used
notwithstanding the strong appeal made to him.

VOL. IV.— 23

I

354 RUFUS KING. [1804

It would seem that the first knowledge of it was from a
letter of Timothy Pickering, March 4, 1804,* m which after
showing that the acquisition of Louisiana and the legislation
consequent upon it, would throw the power of the Govern-
ment forever in the control of the Southern and slave-hold-
ing States and thus shut out New England from its proper
influence in the Union, he therefore urged that steps
be taken without delay to counteract this danger and form,
with the addition of New York and New Jersey, a separate
government.

Without expressing any opinion as to the wisdom or feasi-
bility of the measure, Mr. King on March 9th, f acknowl-
edged the receipt of his letters with the remark that " the
views they disclose ought to fix the attention of the real
friends of liberty in this quarter of the Union, and the
more so as things seem to be fast advancing to a crisis."

In a letter from Mr. Cabot, Boston, March 17, 1804,^: to
Mr. King, he says :

" An experiment has been suggested by some of your friends to
which I object that it is impracticable, and, if practicable, would
be ineffectual. The thing proposed is obvious and natural, but
it would now be thought too bold and would be fatal to the advo-
cates as public men : yet the time may soon come, when it will be
demanded by the people of the N. & East, and then it will un-

* R. King's Life, iv., p. 363 ; given also in Lodge's Cabot, p. 447.

See also letter of Pickering to King, March 3d, p. 359.

f R. King's Life, iv., p. 366.

Henry Adams, History of the United States, ii., p. 178, says: "Of all
Federalist leaders, moderate and extreme, Rufus King, who had recently
returned from London, stood highest in the confidence of his party. He was
to be the Federalist candidate for Vice-President ; he had mixed in none of
the feuds which made Hamilton obnoxious to his former friends, and while
King's manners were conciliatory, his opinions were more moderate than those
of other party leaders. . . ." Rufus King was as cautious as Pickering.
He acknowledged this letter in vague terms of compliment, saying that Picker-
ing's views "ought to fix the attention of the real friends of liberty in this
quarter of the Union, and the more so as things seem to be fast advancing to
a crisis."

% R. King's Life, iv., p. 369.

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 355

avoidably take place. I am not satisfied that the thing itself is
to be desired. My habitual opinions have been always strongly
against it and I don't see in the present mismanagement motives
for changing my opinion."

There does not appear that any answer was given or pre-
served to this letter, but on March 19, 1804, the following
papers are found in the handwriting of Mr. King, endorsed
"O. Wolcott, Conversation Spring 1804."

" March 19, 1804.

u The opposition or at least the dissimilitude of Interests be-
tween the Northern & Southern States is such, and the present and
increasing preponderance of the power of those of the South is
such that the balance between North and South, which secured
to the former an equal share of influence & honours, an equal
encouragement of industry, and the like Protection of Property,
with the latter, is altered and permanently settled in favour of the
Southern States. As in all similar cases power will be increased
for the benefit of the Possessors, and the Northern States are des-
tined to be ruled, and not only so but ruled unjustly and for the
advantage of the Southern States.

" Hence the necessity of a division of the confederacy. Patience
wd. lead to delay— the mercenary character of the Northern Peo-
ple, fearful for their commerce, timid for their money in the funds,
recommend Procrastination. In the mean time Jacobinism ex-
tends itself and the means of successful opposition to Virginia is
lessened. Commerce wd. be equally successful & the pub. Cred-
itors wd. be equally secure. In July 1803 the public Debt due
east of Pennsylvania amounted to $32,160,000 & to this a proper
proportion of the Dutch Dt. shd. be added, & assumed. The
Louisiana Dbt. shd. be left to those for wh. benefit it was made.

" Means have been taken to rouse the three N. En. States M.,
N. H. & Conn, to begin — but they are slow, cautious &c. ; the
Demos, in Cong, from the North are dissatisfied but obedient to
Virginia, and so they will be until they are from home told to do
otherwise. They are also destitute of Talents, and incapable of
influence. Eustis & Bradbury may be attached to Burr ; but
both of them more attached to their own projects. Eustis has lost
reputation with all sides : his object is to be collector of Boston.

35^ RUFUS KING. [1804

Bradley profligate &c. — Burr's views unknown — believed to be
supported in N. Yk. by Persons hostile to Virginia : if so, and he
becomes Govr., N. Yk. may be united with the Northern States
in the Project of Separation : his sentiments on this point un-
known (met him accidentally in the Nat. Library, an interview
proposed by him at N. Yk.) altho' a bad man perhaps the Feder-
alists shd. support him, as the evil daily extends itself & his
Election seems the only chance of rescuing N. Yk. from Virginia —
but if Burr gains N. Yk. merely to gain the Presidency— the
support and success wd. be subject of Regret for the southern
power being as stated, the occasional possession of the Presidency
wd. do no good, might do harm.

" The only remedy is separation — will Burr agree and pledge
himself to this object.

"April 5

" According to the proposal of the Library Mr. Griswold visited
Burr April 4 : the purport of the Conversation was that he must
go on democratically to obtain the Govt. — that if he succeeded,
he shd. administer the Govt, in a manner that wd. be satisfac-
tory to the Federalists — no particular explanation was made on
this head — in respect to the affairs of the Nation, Burr said that
the Northern States must be governed by Virginia, or govern Vir-
ginia, and that there was no middle mode — that the Democratical
members of Congress from the East were in this sentiment, some
of those from N. York (Phelps, Thomas, Paterson & Root) and
some of the Leaders in Jersey and likewise in Pennsylvania.

" Griswold said the Federalists to the Eastward would be solici-
tous to understand the policy of N. Yk, they might be active or
passive according to the opinion they should form on this point —
it was to this enquiry, that Burr replied, that he shd. administer the
govt, in a manner satisfactory to the Federalists ! I could not
learn that Griswold engaged anything on his side, limiting himself
as I was given to understand, to mere enquiry : but according to
what has been told me, I conclude that Griswold wishes Burr
success agt. Lewis, believing by his means to rescue N. Yk. from
the Jeffersonian Politicks ! ! ! "

"April. 5. 1804

" Informant. O. W. Before Congress adjourned Phelps and one
or two other of the democratical members of Congress from

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 357

N. Yk went to the President to know of him whether he regarded
Burr as a Republican ; & referring to the pending Election of
N. Yk for Govr., whether the Presidt. wd. disapprove of Col.
Burr's being supported by the Republicans ; or in other words
whether those who shd. support Col. Burr for Govr. wd. be re-
garded favourably ; or entitled to the favour of the President ?
Jefferson replied that he considered Burr to be a Republican, that
it was a division among republicans and that therefore Republicans
might with Equal Propriety support or vote for either Candidate.

" Yesterday, Ap. 4, an interview took Place between Phelps and
DeWitt Clinton ; Phelps recited the opinion of Jefferson respect-
ing the candidates for Govr. Clinton stated that Gen. Jno. Smith
having heard of the interview between Phelps and Jefferson, had
gone to require a farther Explanation — that Jefferson in this in-
terview admitted that in substance he had stated what Phelps had
reported ; but added that this. Opinion was given upon the idea
of a mere division among the Republicans — that if the federalists
took a part, it wd. materially alter the case and that the candidate
opposed by the Feds shd. be supported by the Republicans ! ! !

" The interview between Phelps & DeW. C. broke up with
mutual recriminations and dissatisfaction."

Informt. O. W.

"Ap. 5.

" Genl. Varnum, one of the Demo, members of Cong, from Vir-
ginia has been surrounded by the Burrites on his way thro' N. Yk
to Mass. Concerning the caucus held at Washington to agree on a
Vice President, the Genl. stated that during the session a corre-
spondence was opened between Dawson and another member
from Virginia and DeWitt Clinton — that one or two of the New
York members were privy to this correspondence — the object
whereof was to engage Gov. Clinton to become the Vice Presi-
dent— his consent was in this way obtained, without any previous
communication with the Eastern demo, members ; when a meet-
ing of all the demo, members was called to agree in the Choice of
a V. Pr. — when met this consent of Gov. Clinton was announced,
— the Eastern members complained that the business had gone
thus far without their having been consulted, and moved to ad-
journ the meeting. The Virginians opposed it, and the assembly
took a Ballot ; the result whereof has been published.

\

358 RUFUS KING. [1804

" Some days after the Eastern Demo, members (those East of
N. Yk) met and deputed Varnum to the Virginians to express
their disapprobation of the Proceedings which had taken place
without their privity, and to declare that as the Engagement had
been made without their consent, they left the contract to be ful-
filled by the Virginians who had formed it."

In the reply of Mr. J. Quincy Adams to thirteen citizens
of Massachusetts, in 1829, the following remarks are found : *

" The information concerning the project communicated to me
at Washington, in the spring of 1804, corresponded in the main
with that detailed by Mr. Plumer. . . . The session closed
on the 4th of March, 1804, and I shortly afterwards returned to
spend the summer at Quincy. On my way thither, I was detained
several days at New York, during which I frequently visited Mr.
Rufus King, who had recently returned from his first mission to
England. On the 8th day of April, I called and passed great part
of the evening with him in his Library. I found there, sitting
with him, Mr. Timothy Pickering, who shortly after I went in,
took leave and withdrew. As he left the house, Mr. King said to
me, ■ Colonel Pickering has been talking to me about a project
they have for a separation of the States and a Northern Confeder-
acy : and he has also been this day talking of it with General
Hamilton. Have you heard anything of it at Washington ? ' I
said I had, much, but not from Colonel Pickering. 'Well,' said
Mr. King, ■ I disapprove entirely of the project ; and so, I am
happy to tell you, does General Hamilton.' I told Mr. King that
I rejoiced to hear that this was his opinion, and was equally grati-
fied to learn it was that of General Hamilton, — that I was utterly
averse to the project myself and much concerned at the counte-
nance I had heard it was receiving at Connecticut and at Boston.
It was the acquisition of Louisiana which had been the immediate
incentive to the plan. I had much conversation with Mr. King
on that subject ; and I found his opinions concerning it concur-
ring with my own ; and, I understood from him, not differing
from those of General Hamilton. We agreed, and lamented that
one inevitable consequence of the annexation of Louisiana to the
* New England Federalism, by H. Adams, p. 147.

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 359

Union would be to diminish the relative weight and influence of
the Northern section ; that it would aggravate the evil of the slave
representation, and endanger the Union itself, by the expansion
of its bulk and the enfeebling extension of its line of defence
against foreign invasion. But the alternative was — Louisiana and
the mouths of the Mississippi in the possession of France, under
Napoleon Bonaparte. The loss of sectional influence, we hoped
and believed, would be more than compensated by the extension
of national power and security. A fearful cause of war with
France was removed. From a formidable and ambitious neighbor,
she would be turned, by her altered and steadily operating inter-
ests, into a natural ally. Should ever these anticipations fail, we
considered a severance of the Union as a remedy more desperate
than any possible disease." *

Such was the position of affairs, when the New York
election took place on April 25th and Burr was defeated.
Henry Adams says : f

" Pickering & Griswold saw their hopes shattered by the New
York election. They gained at the utmost only an agreement to
hold a private meeting of leading Federalists at Boston in the
following autumn J ; and as Hamilton was to be present, he prob-
ably intended to take part only in order to stop once for all the
intrigues of these two men. Such an assemblage under the com-
bined authority of Cabot, King, and Hamilton could not have
failed to restore discipline."

The history of this unwise project, so far as General Ham-
ilton is concerned, is summed up in a conversation, five days

* Mr. John Quincy Adams (p. 227, New England Federalism) further says :
" So secret was it (the project) that, although during that session of Congress
I was sitting at the side of Mr. Plumer in the Senate of the United States and
contracted with him an intimate friendship which continues to this day, yet I
never knew that he had been made acquainted with the project at the time, far
less that he had favored it, until after the note of preparation sounded last
autumn in the Boston newspapers, preliminary to the summons of the Confed-
erates addressed to me."

\Hist. U. S., ii., p. 186.

\ Life of Plumer, p. 299.

3.60 RUFUS KING. [1804

before his duel, with Colonel Trumbull, who had been dining
with him. Mr. J. C. Hamilton * says :

" After dinner, when they were alone, Hamilton turned to Trum-
bull, and, looking at him with deep meaning, said: ' You are going
to Boston. You will see the principal men there. Tell them from
me as my request, for God's sake, to cease these conversations and
threatenings about a separation of the Union. It must hang
together as long as it can be made to.' "

In his celebrated letter to Sedgwick, written on the eve of
iiis duel, Hamilton says :

" I will here express but one sentiment, which is that Dismem-
berment of our Empire will be a clear sacrifice of great positive
advantages, without any counterbalancing good ; administering
no relief to our real disease which is Democracy ; the poison of
which, by a subdivision, will only be more concentrated in each
part, and consequently the more virulent.

" King is on his way to Boston, where you may chance to see
him, and hear from himself his sentiments."

The death of General Hamilton seems to have arrested
further attempts to enlist the sympathy of leading Federal-
ists. There is no report of what took place during Mr.
King's visit to Boston, nor whether any general conference
was held there as had been proposed.

T. Pickering to R. King.

Washington, March 3, 1804.
Dear Sir :

As long ago as the 4th of November last, you were so obliging
as to notice my Letter concerning Louisiana. The ruling party
— * <io not now pretend that the Louisianians are Citizens of the U.
States. They do not venture to say — they have never said — that
the Government had a Constitutional power to incorporate that
new & immense Country into the Union ; yet they will not give
* Life of Hamilton , vii., 822.

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 36 1

themselves the trouble to alter the Constitution for that purpose.
It appears very evident that in a few years, when their power shall
be more confirmed, and the implicit obedience of the people has
been habitual, they will erect States in that Territory and incor-
porate them into the Union. Mr. Adams had not arrived when
the Treaty was ratified, but he approved of it and of the conse-
quent appropriation for the purchase-money ; fondly believing
that an amendment to the Constitution, to embrace that new ob-
ject, would have been a mighty easy thing. He presented a Reso-
lution really for that purpose ; but after lying some time, it was
called up and even contemptuously rejected ; his own, Mr. Hill-
house's and mine being the only votes in its favour. It is further
evident, that the Constitution will henceforward be only a con-
venient instrument, to be shaped, by construction, into any form
that will best promote the views of the operators. In the name of
the Constitution they will commit every arbitrary act which their
projects may require ; or they will alter it to suit their purposes.
I begin to think it would be better if we had none. * The leaders
of the populace wanting the sanction of a constitutional power
might then be more cautious in their measures.

We have commenced the consideration of the Impeachment of
Judge Pickering of Portsmouth (I presume you know that he is
not a relative of mine) for high crimes and misdemeanors. Proc-
ess was served upon him in January and he was summoned to
appear at the bar of the Senate yesterday. Mr. Harper delivered
to the President (Mr. Burr) a letter from himself, and a petition
(admirably drawn) from Jacob L. Pickering the Judge's son. In
his letter Mr. Harper suggested Judge Pickering's insanity, and
that he appeared not as his attorney, and could not enter an ap-
pearance for him, but at his son's request, to support the facts
stated in his petition ; which described Judge Pickering to have
been insane at the times when he held the district courts men-
tioned in the articles of impeachment ; and as still insane and so
infirm in body as to be utterly incapable of being brought at this
time, in person, to the Bar of the Senate, and tendered affidavits
to substantiate these facts : praying also that the trial of the im-
peachment might be postponed. Mr. Harper asked if he might
be permitted to speak in support of the petition.

The managers on the part of the House of Representatives ob-

362 RUFUS KING. [1804

jected. They wished the non-appearance of the Judge might be
recorded as a default. The Senate retired (conformably to a pre-
vious arrangement) to an adjoining room to consider this point.
After near an hour spent in loose debate, they came to this con-
clusion only, that they would return to their Chamber, and that
the President should inform the managers, that the Senate had not
come to a determination ; and that when they had they would
give due notice thereof to the House of Representatives.

To-day we met again, and with closed doors, discussed the ques-
tion. All the Jeffersonians who spoke were for denying the prayer
of the petition and the hearing of counsel in support of it, declar-
ing that Judge Pickering ought to plead, or that his friends should
put in a plea for him, if not guilty ; and that under this plea, all the
evidence they proposed to offer, to prove his insanity, might be
given. Some of them supposed, or pretended to think, that if he"7
was proved to be insane, he might be found guilty. Mr. Tracy re-
plied, with a poignancy which would have excited a proper feeling
in men unhackneyed in the measures of a party malignant and
cruel as death. He remarked that intelligence was essential to the
commission of a crime, and that no court would pronounce an in-
sane person guilty of high crimes and misdemeanors, who were
not themselves insane. Still, however, they all persisted to argue
against the hearing of counsel on the petition until near four
o'clock when the court adjourned.

In this debate (I am sorry it was not public) there were mani-
fested a virulence and rancour which shocked every man, who had
any feelings of justice or humanity. Let this party progress in
the course they have travelled for two years past, and before Mr.
Jefferson's second Presidency expires, I shall not be surprised, if
I live so long, to see bloody victims of their ambition, inexorable
malice and revenge. One or two Marats or Robespierres, with
half a dozen congenial spirits, would carry along enough of the
half moderates to make a majority in the Senate to concur in any
measures ; and by similar means they would be forced through
the House of Representatives, ftould Senators vote by ballot,
Judge Pickering would not, being proved insane, be convicted of
any crime ; but voting viva voce, many have not honest fortitude
enough to say nay to any measure which is supposed to involve
popularity, and I do not know what will be the result. The late

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 363

amendment to the Constitution would hardly have been adopted
by a majority ; much less by two thirds of the Senate, if their votes
had been given by ballots^

The British Convention for settling Boundaries, which you
took some pains to negotiate, and which was signed the 12th of
May, you would naturally suppose must have been readily ap-
proved by the Senate ; seeing it conformed to your instruction ;
and was, in fact, made by our own Government ; and especially
after the President, in his message at the opening of the Session,
had informed Congress and the world, that the terms of the Con-
vention were entirely satisfactory to both parties. But the Presi-
dent altered his mind ; the Senate followed of course ; and the
advice to ratify was, with the exception of the fifth article, which,
you will recollect, respected the Northwestern boundary. And
yet in a paper which he sent me, (occasioned with an accidental
written correspondence between us) speaking of the Treaty of
Cession of Louisiana, to the U. States, he said expressly " But
this Treaty was not known to the negotiators of either party at
London nor could the rights acquired by it be affected by arrange-
ments instituted and compleated there merely for the purpose of
explaining and supplying provisions in the Treaty of 1783."
Why then suspend the 5th Article ? why not ratify absolutely ?
Mr. Jefferson is not contented with the immense extent of Louis-
iana as held by the French. Its northern boundary not having
been explicitly defined (tho' undoubtedly it reached to the utmost
range of the Mississippi and Missouri) he wants to carry it to the
parallel of the 490 of North Latitude. To effect this end, he
certainly supposes the suppression of the 5th Article will contri-
bute. For this object your entirely satisfactory convention is put
in jeopardy. He thinks, however, or pretends to think, that G.
Britain will readily agree to the other articles ; and he doubtless
supposes they will negotiate to his wishes relative to the northern
boundary of Louisiana. Some of his magnanimous partisans in the
Senate have openly avowed the propriety of pushing G. Britain
now on any points we desire to gain ; because her present critical
situation will dispose her to yield (as they imagine) what in a time
of peace she might refuse ! This avowal was made this week,
when we were discussing Sam. Smith's wise bill for the protection
of the seamen of the U. States ; and which the Senate (doubtless

364 RUFUS KING. [1804

on the hint from the oracle) had the grace to reject, by postpon-
ing it to next December. A like bill before the House of Repres.
must meet the like fate. It is understood the President is negoti-
ating on this Subject.

In this debate S. Smith told us that you were once on the point
of signing a convention relative to American seamen — or rather
seamen on board of American vessels ; when it was suddenly de-
clined by the British Ministry. In a former debate, he said that
the British Ministry had consented to renounce all impressments
from our vessels, except within the narrow seas. Apropos. What
do the British mean by the words " narrow seas " ?

I shall be much obliged by your giving me any information
which it may not be improper to communicate on the subject of
impressing our seamen ; or, if any part be confidential, you will
so mark it. The Act of Congress, presenting the certificates to
be given to seamen, is defective. I have had some thoughts of
offering a bill for amending it ; and to introduce some guards to
prevent the disreputable modes of obtaining proofs of citizenship,
whereby all certificates, even of our native seamen, are rendered
suspicious. Any hints on this head will be gratefully received.

Faithfully yours
T. Pickering.

T. Pickering to R. King.
Dear Sir • Washington, March 4, 1804.

I must request you to consider this as a continuation of my
letter yesterday.

\ I am disgusted with the men who now rule us and with their
measures. At some manifestations of their malignancy I am
shocked. The coward wretch at the head, while, like a Parisian
revolutionary monster, prating about humanity, could feel an in-
fernal pleasure in the utter destruction of his opponents. We
have too long witnessed his general turpitude — his cruel removals
of faithful officers, and the substitution of corruption and base-
ness for integrity and worth. We have now before the Senate a
nomination of Meriweather Jones of Richmond, Editor of the
Examiner, a paper devoted to Jefferson and Jacobinism ; and he
is now to be rewarded. Mr. Hopkins, Commissioner of Loans, a
man of property and integrity, is to give room to this Jones. The

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 365

Commissioner may have at once in his hands thirty thousand dol-
lars, to pay the public creditors in Virginia. He is required by
law to give bond only in a sum of from five to ten thousand dollars ;
and Jones' character is so notoriously bad, that, we have satisfac-
tory evidence, he could not now get credit at any store in Rich-
mond for a suit of clothes ! Yet, I am far from thinking if this
evidence were laid before the Senate, that his nomination will be
rejected ! I am therefore ready to say "come out from among
them and be ye separate." Corruption is the object and instru-
ment of the Chief, and the tendency of his administration, for the
purpose of maintaining himself in power & for the accomplish-
ment of his infidel and visionary schemes. The corrupt portion
of the people are the agents of his misrule ; corruption is the
recommendation to office ; and many of some pretentions to
character, but too feeble to resist temptation, become apostates.
Virtue and worth are his enemies, and therefore he would over-
whelm them. )

^The collision of democrats in your State promises some amend-
ment. The administration of your Government cannot possibly
be worse. The federalists here in general, anxiously desire the
election of Mr. Burr to the chair of New York ; for they despair
of a present ascendency of the federal party. Mr. Burr alone,
we think, can break your democratic phalanx, and we anticipate
much good from his success. Were New York detached (as un-
der his administration it would be) from the Virginia influence,
the whole Union should be benefited. Jefferson would then be
forced to observe some caution and forbearance in his measures.
And if a separation should be deemed proper, the five New Eng-
land States, New York and New Jersey would naturally be united.
Among those seven States there is a sufficient congeniality
of character to authorize the expectation of practicable harmony
and a permanent union ; New York the centre. Without a sepa-
ration, can those States ever rid themselves of negro Presidents
and negro Congresses, and regain their just weight in the political
balance ? At this moment the Slaves of the middle and southern
States have fifteen Representatives in Congress ; and they will
appoint 15. Electors of the next President & Vice President ; and
the number of slaves is continually increasing. You know this
evil. But will the Slave States ever renounce this advantage Y

366 RUFUS KING. [1804

As population is in fact no rule of taxation, the negro representa-
tion ought to be given up. If refused, it would be a strong
ground of separation ; tho' perhaps an earlier occasion may oc-
cur to declare it. How many Indian wars, excited by the avidity
of the western and southern States for Indian Lands, shall we
have to encounter? and who will pay the millions to support
them ? The Atlantic States. Yet the first moment we ourselves
need assistance and call on the western States for Taxes, they
will declare off, or at any rate refuse to obey the call. Kentucky
effectually resisted the collection of the excise ; and of the $37,-
000 direct tax assessed upon her so many years ago, she has paid
only $4,000, & probably will never pay the residue. In the mean
time we are maintaining their representatives in Congress for gov-
erning us, who surely can much better govern ourselves. When-
ever the Western States detach themselves they will take Louis-
iana with them. In thirty years, the white population in the
Western States will equal that of the 13 States, when they declared
themselves independent of G. Britain. On the Census of 1790,
Kentucky was entitled to two Representatives ; under that of 1800
she sends six.j

The facility with which we have seen an essential change in the
Constitution, proposed and generally adopted, will perhaps re-
move your scruples about proposing what you intimate respect-
ing Negro representation. But I begin to doubt whether that or
any other change we could propose, with a chance of adoption,
would be worth the breath, paper and ink, which would be ex-
pended in the acquisition. Some think Congress will rise in 15
or 20 days * * *

Ever your faithful and obedient

T. Pickering.

I do not know one reflecting Nov. Anglian, who is not anxious
for the great event at which I have glanced. They fear, they
dread the effects of the corruption so rapidly extending ; and
that if a decision be long delayed, it will be in vain to attempt it.
If there be no improper delay, we have not any doubt but that
the great measure may be taken without the smallest hazard to
private property or the public funds ; the revenues of the North-
ern States being equal to their portion of the public debt. Leav-
ing that for Louisiana on those who incurred it.

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 367

R. King to T. Pickering.

New York, Mar. 9, 1804.

Dear Sir :

I have duly received, & beg you to accept my acknowledg-
ments for your letters of the 3d & 4th instant — the views which
they disclose ought to fix the attention of the real friends of
Liberty in this quarter of the Union, & the more so as things
seem to be fast advancing to a crisis — to save the post I can do
little more than acknowledge the receipt of your letters — by the
mail of tomorrow or Monday I will send you a copy of my De-
spatch to the Sec'y of State respecting the effort I made to con-
clude a convention concerning seamen.

Perhaps you will recollect a long letter from Lord Grenville to
me, pointing out the defects of our Law for granting Protection
to seamen : it was sent to the Dept. of State while you were in it,
and according to my Recollection, was so very particular as to
shew the only ex parte regulations that the Br. Govt, would be
likely to respect.

As to our native seaman, there would I suspect, be little diffi-
culty in framing such rules as might effectually protect them —
and if nations alone were in question, the Northern States would
find little embarrassment, as they do not depend upon for-
eign seamen to carry on their trade.

But the Southern States could not carry on their trade without
the aid of foreign seamen ; and Great Britain will not consent
that our naturalization of her seamen shall exempt them from
being recalled & obliged to serve & defend their native country.

Were I in your place, I should leave it to the friends of the
present Govt, to do what they can to obtain what we were unable
to accomplish — it is perhaps all that the federalists can do, to op-
pose improper acts ; leaving the origination of all Laws, especially
those which affect the Executive Power & Responsibility to the
Legislative Agents of the President — The packet brings us no
news from Engd. Monroe, towards the close of Novr. presented
a temperate memorial on the subject of seamen : no answer has
been given : except this Comn. the Department for For. af-
fairs knew nothing of Monroe — no negotiation is on foot respect-
ing the old treaty, and I conjecture that this memorial about the

368 RUFUS KING. [1804

impressment of seamen is the only act of our minister at London
since his arrival.

faithfully yr. obt. ser*

Rufus King.

P. S. ' I am unable to give you any correct opinion respecting
the election of Govr. The Federalists with the exception of cer-
tain individuals, will pretty generally vote for Burr — this will not
be enough — and what portion of Demos will join him, I know not
— pray how did it happen that he had not a single vote at Wash-
ington for Vice President.

R. King to T. Pickering.

New York, Mar. 10, 1804.
Dear Sir :

Enclosed I send you the extract promised in my last, and I
likewise add copies of my letters to the Secy of State in answer
to an enquiry that your colleague Mr. Adams in behalf of a Comee.
of the senate requested Mr. Madison to make of me. The pro-
ject of a Convention respecting seamen had it taken effect,
would have been beneficial but less extensively so than we may
be apt to suppose ; inasmuch as a large, by far the larger pro-
portion of seamen taken out of our employ, are impressed within
the territorial Limits of G. Br. — which instead of being restrained
by the convention wd. have rec'd an implied sanction.

That allegiance is unalienable, and seamen liable to impress-
ment are two points about which English Lawyers & Statesmen
entertain no doubt — and I shall be disappointed if the Eng.
Govt, even consent to limit its authority, or tie up its hands in
these respects, within its own proper jurisdiction.

The late Bill will I fear have a mischievous instead of a benefi-
cial effect : and joined to other circumstances may produce to
our trade greater embarrassment than of late it has suffered.
Very much depends upon the existence of good humour between
G. Br. & the U. S. Many hundred naval officers are intrusted
with the power of the nation ; these all look for favor & promo-
tion, and are careful to find out the sentiments & temper of their

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 369

government towards Foreign Nations — & the opinions they form
in this respect have a material influence in the exercise of their
several powers. Circumstances therefore of apparently small im-
portance, but which are of a nature to produce irritation or dis-
turb a satisfactory state of things, may lead to mischievous conse-
quences— and tho' England has too powerful an interest to involve
herself seriously with the U. S. yet the difference between a favour-
able & temperate exercise of her Rights as a Belligerent, and a
vigorous and harsh one, would be most terribly felt throughout
our Commercial Cities. Nothing will be obtained by menacing
because nothing ought so to be obtained from a great Nation. I
have somewhere seen a very precise definition of what the English
mean by the narrow seas, at this moment I do not recollect the
exact limits — they include however the sea according to my
memory, between the Continent and Great Britain, and the claim
is, I think, extended north almost, or quite to the northern point
of Norway — St. George's channel which is carried far southward
is likewise within the narrow seas, so that a vessel arriving from
America with the purpose of entering the Baltic by the route of
the Br. Channel, would be within the narrow seas, according to the
Eng. construction of their limits, from the time of her making
soundings till she reached the Categat. When Ld St Vincent
proposed to me the addition by which the narrow seas should be
excepted so as that within these limits our vessels might be visited
& searched for British seamen, I remarked to him that all parts
of the high seas within the territorial jurisdiction of G. Br. had
been excepted in the proposed article, and that the narrow seas
were or were not within their jurisdiction ; if they were not, the
exception ought not to be made. His reply was that the express
exception of them would remove doubts which might otherwise
be raised.

As this exception would have subjected our vessels trading
with the North of Europe as well as those trading with Holland
& some parts of France to the most embarrassing visits in search
of British seamen, I preferred leaving the subject on its present
footing to a Convention which wd have afforded no little protec-
tion to our seamen.

Very faithfully yr obtd sert.

Rufus King.

370 RUFUS KING. [1804

G. Cabot to R. King, New York.

Boston, March 17, 1804.
My dear Sir :

In reply to your inquiry respecting the opinion of our Legisla-
Nl V ture on the subject of Louisiana, I cou'd only speculate. The
~"^ session is ended & no one attempted to discover what was thought
or what might be done. We add thousands to our possessions,
but have long since discarded the idea of security. The many do
not think at all, and the few think only to despond. Indeed
most men are compelled to admit that our evils must be borne until
their intoler ability generates their cure. Most of those which we fear
must therefore happen before a remedy can be prescribed. An
experiment has been suggested by some of our friends to which I
object that it is impracticable, and, if practicable, wou'd be inef-
fectual. The thing proposed is obvious and natural, but it would
now be thought too bold and would be fatal to the advocates as
public men ; yet the time may soon come when it will be de-
manded by the people of N. & East, and then it will unavoid-
ably take place. I am not satisfied that the thing itself is to be
desired. My habitual opinions have been always strongly against
it, and I do not see in the present mismanagement motives for
changing my opinion.

J It is doubtless true that we are not so perfectly mad in N. E.
as the people in some other States, especially those of the South ;
but here we are altogether democratic in our principles ; and those
principles of necessity place power in the worst hands. If the
favourable aspect of our State Politics seems to contradict my
opinion, I confess that those principles have not yet produced all
the mischief to which they tend ; but at the same time I insist
that our appearance is deceptive, being better than the reality
and the reality better than can be well maintained. You see
good men in high office here contrary to the natural operation of
democratic elections ; but those men hold their powers upon the
sole condition that they will not use them, and the moment they
shall dare to exercise them with vigor, they will cease to be popu-
lar, and of course cease to fill the high offices they now hold.

There is an unusual apathy among the Federalists here. They
have lost more of their vivacity than of their numbers ; I fear
they lose some of these. Our national admintn. may destroy

804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 371

Judiciaries and Constitutions and make new ones without exciting
much sensibility ; but if they had involved us by their folly and
baseness in a war with G. B. I believe N. E. might be roused to
do anything which her leading men shou'd recommend. Some
distinct general cause of evil like this and fairly imputable to the
wickedness or ignorance of those who govern wou'd be fatal to
their power or to the Union of the States. We are loyal to the
National Govt., and can bear every species of public dishonor,
but the moment our loyalty appears to be made the instrument of
our impoverishment, we shall be disposed to act with effect in de-
fence of all that is dear to us. . . .

We are now going on according to the course of nature and
shall follow those who have gone before us from bad to worse 'till
suffering or the fear of suffering, generally and deeply felt, stimu-
late us to do better. Indeed I expect no essential improvement
in our systems, but from suffering, from fear, or from force. I
think no material change can be made, except by those whom
we call Jacobins. Good men wou'd not, if they had opportunity,
establish any system of sufficient force to protect itself : the vio-
lent and unprincipled are more likely to make a govt, independent
of popular consent than their betters?)

I beg you however not to infer that because I think we cannot
do things impossible, that I would not attempt every possible
good, or that I do not think any great good can be accomplished.
So far would that be from the truth, that I firmly believe we owe
much of what we enjoy and of what we hope for, to the influ-
ence of the federal party. We are a minority and unable to con-
quer the vast body which keeps the field, but we are so powerful,
that he is compelled to confine his movements to a narrow com-
pass, lest he should give us an advantage over him. We have
therefore the most commanding motive to preserve to our party
all the weight we can by adhering to the principles on which it is
formed and keep it well combined and well informed ; prepare
to think and act alike on every important occasion. In this way
we prevent some mischief entirely and mitigate what we cannot
wholly avert, and shall be able to soften every catastrophe in the
political Drama, which must happen, and turn them to the best
account. . . .

Your faithful & affec. friend.

G. C.

CHAPTER XXIV.

Settlement of the Accounts of King during his Mission — Letters from the Sec-
retary of Treasury, A. Gallatin— Secretary of State, J. Madison — Auditor
of Treasury, R. Harrison — R. King.

On March II, 1804, Mr. King wrote the following letter
to the Secretary of State, which explains itself.

R. King to Secretary of State.

New York.
Sir:

As my mission abroad had no other connection with the money
department of our Government than what arose from the pay-
ment and receipt of my annual appointments, I made it a point,
carefully, not to have the custody or to become accountable for
any money belonging to the public. Hence I have concluded
that I have no accounts to settle with the Treasury. As, how-
ever, this Department keeps its accounts in such manner as it
may deem expedient, I am not sure that it may not have accounts
with my name. On this subject I took the liberty to speak to the
Secretary of the Treasury, when he was in this quarter during the
last summer, and he was so obliging as to say that he would look
into the question on his return to Washington. From the variety
of his engagements I apprehend the subject has escaped his recol-
lection, and I am therefore under the necessity of begging you to
inform yourself and me whether there is any unclosed account
with me, either in your Department or that of the Treasury.
With sentiments &c.

Rufus King.

The Secretary, on March 29, 1804, writes that this letter
was received and sent to Mr. Gallatin, who promised to at-
1804I LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 373

tend to the matter, and communicated the result of his
examination as follows :

A. Gallatin to R. King.

Treasury Department, April 20, 1804.
Dear Sir :

I did not forget that I had promised to attend to the situation
of your public account, if, upon enquiry I found that any charges
existed on the Treasury books against you. But the pressure of
business during the session of Congress and a wish to obtain Mr.
Baring's accounts which were necessary to give a full view of the
subject have prevented an investigation until this time.

It appears that there are two accounts opened against you ;
one, called the general account, includes all the payments made
to you or on your account either at the Treasury or by Messrs.
Bird, Savage and Bird, and by Sir Francis Baring and Co. ; the
other relates to the payments to or on account of Major General
Lafayette.* . . . You have, as yet, received no credit on either
of those two heads, it being the usage that the party should state
an account and transmit it to the Auditor with such vouchers and
explanations as he may possess and think necessary. The items
of salary need only be stated and the Secretary of State will in-
form whether the dates and allowances claimed are the proper
ones. In respect to the items of postages, stationery or other
contingencies each should strictly be accompanied with receipts
or other vouchers, but Mr. Harrison informs me that they are not
very strict on that subject with foreign Ministers, from the
impracticability in most cases to obtain on their return home
those receipts, &c, which are demanded in the settlement of
domestic accounts. Such as you may have you will of course
transmit ; but I apprehend no difficulty whatever in the imme-
diate settlement of that first branch of the account as soon as you
shall have stated and transmitted it.

In respect to the second division of that general account, and

* Mr. Gallatin here gives the items of these two accounts, upon which he
comments in the letter. The first amounted to $78,978.32, and the second to
$2698.18. Two of these items — the payments to Wilson and Chisholme — he
does not see ** to what appropriation to charge them." They amount to
j£i02.7 sterling.

374 RUFUS KING. [1804

which consists of payments made by your order, it appears to me
that from the face of the accounts it results that the money did
not go through your hands, unless it be for the first item, . . .
and even in these it is probable that it did not. If so, no receipts
are necessary nor any other voucher, but to show the authority
under which, or the reason why you directed the payment. All
the items composing that branch of the account are charged
provisionally, as requiring explanation. . . .

The other account of disbursements for Lafayette is settled
and you stand charged with $4,895.09, being the amount paid, by
your orders, beyond the sum granted by Congress. You may on
that subject give any explanation you may think proper : but I do
not perceive the possibility of giving you credit for the sum with-
out the special interference of Congress. Whether or how an
application should be made for that purpose will be a matter of
future consideration. . . .

With sincere Respect & Esteem &c.

Albert Gallatin.

In the course of the letter, Mr. Gallatin says :

" I only mean to point out the manner in which you should
state your account and claim credit ; the receipts and vouchers
should be transmitted to the Auditor, with such explanations as
may be wanted, but in the course of the settlement I will with
great cheerfulness assist in removing difficulties and in explaining
to you what objections are made, and what may be required from
you to remove them."

In accordance with the suggestions of this letter Mr. King
transmitted, May f, 1804, to the Auditor of the Treasury
an account specifying the items due to him and claimed by
him — amounting in all to $94,136 (being £18,981.15.4,) in
dollars at 4.44 cents to the pound sterling " according to
which he received and paid out." By this account he
claimed as due to him $856.30.

On the original paper, retained by Mr. King (a copy he
says was sent to the Auditor) is the following Remark, sent
most probably as an explanation :

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 375

" Remark — By turning to the accounts of Messrs. Bird, Savage
and Bird and of Sir Francis Baring and Co, it will be perceived
that the credit side of this accouut (with the exception of nine
thousand dollars received from Mr. Pickering *) is wholly taken
from a transcript of these accounts ; the same is likewise the fact
in respect to the whole contingent account on the Debtor side :
the fact being that the only account which Mr. King has, either
of the contingent account or of the payments made to him by the
Bankers, is his Bankers' book."

There is a letter to the Auditor of the Treasury (in the
copy of which the date is not given), in which Mr. King ex-
plains his mode of providing for the care of the public
money during his mission in England :

Sir :

The Secretary of the Treasury has been good enough at my re-
quest to furnish me with copies of several accounts in my name
from the Books of your Department. Before I submit to your
consideration any observations upon the items of these accounts
it may be proper that I should state to you how far I consider
myself personally accountable in respect to the public money ex-
pended in England during my mission to that country. As the
custody of public money formed no part of my official duty, and
as for this reason, as well as others, I was unwilling to be its
keeper, my earliest attention after my arrival in England was
directed to the choice of a Banker, who would receive, keep and
disburse whatever money should be remitted for the public ser-
vice in that country.

Messrs. Bird, Savage and Bird having been employed as Bank-
ers of the United States during the time of my Predecessor, Mr.
Pinckney, upon his recommendation I settled with them the terms
upon which their agency should be continued. This agreement
was reported by me to the Secretary of State in my dispatch No.
4, Sept. 7, 1796, and sanctioned by letters to me dated Sept. 30
and Oct. 26, 1796.

According to this arrangement all remittances on account of
the public service in England were immediately upon the receipt
of the Bills put into the hands of the Bankers for collection, who

* His outfit.

376 RUFUS KING. [1804

kept and paid out the money so collected to the persons author-
ized to receive the same. On the failure of Bird, Savage and
Bird, the house of Sir Francis Baring and Company, with the ap-
probation of the Secretary of the Treasury, was substituted in
their place ; and by strictly adhering to this system, I myself
never had the custody of a shilling of public money during my
residence abroad. In common with the Commissioners under the
seventh article of the British Treaty, and other persons in the pub-
lic employ, I applied for, and received from the Bankers, my
quarterly appointments, and for these receipts and these only can
I with any justice admit myself to be personally responsible.

By my direction money was advanced by the Bankers for the
prosecution of appeals in the Prize Courts, for the purchase of
presents to the Barbary Powers, in payment for military stores,
Military Books, and Indian Medals, for copper supplied to the
mint, for the support of General Lafayette and for other public
purposes. In some cases these disbursements were made pur-
suant to express instructions, in others by virtue of the discretion
which was supposed to appertain to my office.

At the same time that with all deference to the opinion of
others I think myself bound to decline all accountability for
money that I never received. I am ready to afford every expla-
nation in my power concerning any payment made by the
Bankers upon my recommendation. . . .

In carrying this out, Mr. King then enters upon a con-
sideration of certain specific charges made by him and of
which he claims the payment.*

* Payments to General Lafayette.

It will probably be recollected that General Lafayette, after being imprisoned
by the Prussians at Magdeburgh, was turned over to the imperialists and
confined in an Austrian dungeon. As soon as this information reached
America the President General Washington wrote a letter to the Emperor of
Germany (which was sent to the American Minister in London, and delivered
to the Imperial Ambassador there, who forwarded it to the Emperor) soliciting
that Lafayette should be released and allowed to come to the U. S. Toward
the autumn of J797 the Imperial Minister at Hamburg by order of his Court,
gave notice to Mr. Williams, the American Consul there, that Lafayette would
be released, that he would be escorted to Hamburg and delivered over to the
American Consul, on condition of his embarking for America in eight days.
Coming out of prison and being wholly destitute of means to provide for him-

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 377

After examining the account, the Auditor of the Treasury
sent a communication to the Secretary of State, Mr. Madi-
son, specifying certain charges made by Mr. King, and
asking whether or not they were to be allowed. The Secre-
tary, on June 20th, answered the inquiry, saying that certain
of these were to be admitted as proper, but that others
could not be admitted to his credit. Among them was the
payment of money to Genl. Lafayette beyond the appro-
priation by Congress, one to Philip Wilson to enable him to
return home, and certain payments for contingencies, post-
ages, &c, and a change of a few days relating to the term
on which his mission expired. The letter says :
self and family a passage to America, the General ordered his aide-de-camp
Cardignan to apprize me of his situation, and to ask for money to enable him
to convey himself and family to the United States.

Considering the General's connexion with the U.S., the application of the
President to the Emperor for his release, and his discharge and delivery to
the American Consul on condition of his proceeding to America, I did not
hesitate in consenting to give orders to the Bankers of the U.S., to advance
the sum requisite for this purpose. When General Lafayette arrived at Ham-
burg, the season was so far advanced that he concluded to remain with his
family during the winter in Holstein, and Cardignan in his behalf applied to
me that the proposed advance to enable Lafayette to proceed to America
should be made and applied for his subsistence in Holstein during the winter.
This was agreed to with an intimation that the whole sum to be advanced would
not exceed a thousand or twelve hundred pounds sterling.

Lest I might act under an erroneous impression in respect to the proper limits
of discretion on this occasion, my dispatch no. 47 dated Sep. 5, 1797, nearly
four months before the first advance was made to Lafayette, I acquainted the
Secretary of State with my intention and after it was decided that the General
and family would pass the winter in Holstein, I wrote a private letter to the
Secretary of State, of which the following is an extract :

1 4 There remains only about ,£200, of the fund destined for the use of La-
fayette : this is already called for, and the necessities of this unfortunate char-
acter will require advances (to what extent I cannot ascertain) for the subsistence
of himself and family during the winter. I have before mentioned to you that
I should, if required, make such advances as may be requisite for this purpose,
as well as to enable him to remove to America ; and I think I am not mistaken
in my belief that the President will approve this exercise of discretion."

Receiving no instructions upon the subject between Christmas 1797 and the
middle of May 1798, several advances were made by the bankers to General
Lafayette, amounting to about .£1200. sterling. The paper marked D. is a
Voucher for these advances — General Lafayette's receipt. — See R. King's Life,
ii., 223 et seq.

378 RUFUS KING. [1804

" From the above it follows that some of the charges under the
head of contingencies are inadmissible and it will therefore be
necessary to specify the latter so as to exclude the inadmissible
charges. Mr. King may also be requested to specify them with
as much more minuteness as he finds it in his power to do." . .

R. Harrison to R. King.

Treasury Department, Auditor's Office,
June 22, 1804.

Sir:

In order that you may be fully informed of the present situa-
tion of your accounts which were returned to me yesterday, I
have now the honor to enclose three papers marked A, B, & C.
The first contains a statement of the points it was judged proper
to refer to the Secretary of State. The second his decision on
these points, and by the last you will perceive that, before a
settlement can be effected, it has become necessary that you
furnish another account of your contingent expenses with all the
minuteness your materials will permit, and, more especially, so as
to exhibit distinctly the amount of each payment for Stationery,
Presentation fees and Christmas presents ; or so as to exclude, in
a word, everything except Postage, Newspapers, Pamphlets and
the printing of necessary papers ; these being the only charges
which can be allowed consistently with the regulations long since
established.

With respect to the overpayment to General La fayette, it is
totally unconnected with the accounts now under consideration ;
and I presume it must stand as it does until relief shall be af-
forded by an Act of Congress.

Expecting to hear from you as soon as your convenience will
permit, I have the honor to remain with sentiments of high con-
sideration &c. &c. R. Harrison.

R. King to Secretary of State.

New York, June 27, 1804.
Sir:

The auditor of the Treasury has sent me a copy of your opinion
concerning several questions, which it seems have arisen in the
examination of my account with the United States, and I take

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 379

the liberty of enclosing to you my answer to the auditor with a
request that you will be so obliging as to send it to him after you
have read it. I must and do feel real concern in dissenting from
your sentiments on this occasion, especially as my own may be
thought liable to the influence of personal interest. But as we
form as well as act upon our opinions respecting our own affairs,
equally as concerning those of others, and as it is within the
President's competence to allow the charge, I flatter myself that
I may rely upon his and your impartiality to give to the following
observations respecting the presents made to the under Officers
and Servants of the Court the weight to which they may be en-
titled.

It is the custom at the Court of London, on the first presenta-
tion of a foreign Minister, as well as at every Christmas during
his residence, to make presents in money to the amount of about
^30 sterling on each occasion to the under Officers and Servants
of the Court. This contribution no foreign Minister declines
giving ; and it is not a personal, but official tribute, on the pay-
ment whereof there is no option as in the case of ordinary ex-
penses ; I may safely add my conviction that there is not a single
foreign Minister to whom this extra charge is not allowed by his
Government. I enclose a list * of these Pensioners of the Corps
diplomatique in London and submit it to the President's equity
to determine, whether I shall be required to reimburse to the
Public the payments which I made to them.

Whether these charges were made by my Predecessor is more

* List of persons lo whom the present against their respective names is given
by all foreign Ministers on their first presentation at St. James.

The King's Valets de chambre, in the Levee rooms, 4 Guineas. The King's
footman, 2 do. — The Sergeant porter of the Court. 1. do. — The 7 Gentlemen
porters-i. do — The six Marshalmen, 1 do — The underporters at St. James, 1.
do— The yeomen of the Guards 2. do.— The Queens porter and underporter.
1^ do. — The Queen's footman 2. do. — The Prince of Wales porter and footman
i\ do. — The Grooms of the King's bedchamber, who give notice of Court
mournings, 1. do — The chamberkeepers at the Secretary's office 2. do — The
porter at do. 1 do — The servants of the Master of Ceremonies 1. do — The ser-
vants of the assistant Master 1. do — in all, ^26.5.

The same persons receive Christmas presents in one or two instances less
than those named on the presentation, but Christmas presents are given to the
servants of the Prime Minister, and of the Secretary of State, so that the
Christmas present exceeds by 2 or 3 Guineas the present on presentation.

380 RUFUS KING. [1804

than I know, but admitting they were not, his omission should not
prejudice his Successors. It may be recollected Mr. Pinckney
was absent on a mission to Spain, during which his expenses were
paid and his regular appointments as Minister at London con-
tinued. Besides the expenses of the Mission during my time
were increased at least by a quarter beyond what they were in the
time of my Predecessor. These reflexions are made not solely
for my own sake, but for the sake of any gentlemen, who with the
present salary may be my Successor, and their object is to estab-
lish the just distinction that exists between official and personal
expenses, and to prevail upon the President to free me and my
Successors from the former.

With perfect Consideration & Respect &c, &c,

Rufus King.

R. King to R. Harrison, Auditor.

New York, June 27, 1804.
Sir :

I have had the honour to receive your letter of the 22nd in-
stant, together with the opinion of the Secretary of State concern-
ing the several points which were referred to his consideration.
As I am to infer from the tenour of your letters that your Depart-
ment possesses no discretionary power in respect to these points,
I ought not to waste your time by any observations concerning
them. I may however be permitted to observe that the diplomatic
account, which always included my contingent account, was every
year, according to my instructions, transmitted by the Bankers to
the Secretary of State, and for the purpose, as I always supposed,
of being annually examined and settled. No observation was
ever made to me concerning the items of, or manner of stating
this account, and I therefore concluded, especially as every item
is within the President's competence to allow, that from year to
year it had received the approbation of those whose province it
was to judge of it.

Had the slightest intimation been given to me that the particu-
lars now asked for would be expected, I should have endeavoured,
however inconvenient, to obtain and preserve as far as practicable
the means of enabling myself to comply with the demand. As I

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 38 1

have before stated to you this account was faithfully made out and
examined by me once in every year, but as no care was taken to
preserve the memoranda from which the same was drawn up, it is
not now in my power to specify the amount of each particular
article, or to furnish a separate statement of my yearly expense
for copy-books, paper, pens, wax, wafers &c included under the
name of stationery.

The charges for presentation and Christmas presents to the un-
der officers and servants of the Court, which are official expenses,
that no foreign minister can with credit decline, are already sepa-
rately stated in the account transmitted to you. If it be deemed
fit that I should put my hand into my own pocket to reimburse to
the public money that without advantage to me has gone into the
pockets of others, there will be no difficulty in ascertaining the
amount. As the money advanced for poor Wilson's passage has
no relation to my private account, I will only add that since the
allowance of Wilson's expenses from Lisbon to Norfolk, for he
was obliged to put into Lisbon on his passage, it may seem that
this change should be disallowed.

Very faithfully and with great Respect &c

Rufus King.

To finish this subject the following letters, though some-
what out of sequence as to date, will show that a settlement
of Mr. King's accounts was reached without any material
change.

J. Madison to R. King.

Department of State, July 13, 1804.
Sir :

I have had the honor to receive your letter of the 29th ult.,
enclosing one to the Auditor which was handed to him. The
President having directed that your charges for presentation and
Christmas presents and for stationery be admitted to your credit
in the books of the Treasury, the letter of which a copy is en-
closed was transmitted to the Auditor as his guide. The enclosed
extract from the accounts of Messrs. Bulkleys, late Bankers at
Lisbon, will evince that no charge for the relief afforded to Philip

382 RUFUS KING. [1804

Wilson and his family was admitted to their credit, for the same
reason which operates against that claimed by you.*
I have the honor to be &c &c

James Madison.

As stated in the letter, the auditor was directed to allow
these claims. The Secretary's letter was answered by Mr.
King as below.

R. King to Secretary of State.

Waltham near Boston, July 24, 1804.
Sir:

Owing to my absence from New York, I had not the honour
of receiving your letter of the 13th before yesterday. Although
the suspended items in my account are in my judgment equitable
charges, yet as they seem not to be included within the contingent
expenses heretofore allowed, I feel myself duly sensible of the
President's liberality in the direction which he has authorized to
be sent to the Treasury Department on this subject, and beg the
favour of you, Sir, to present to him my respectful acknowledge-
ments. In regard to the allowance that I supposed to have been
made at the Treasury on account of Ph. Wilson's expenses, I have
probably misapplied the information given to me by the late Sec-
retary of the Treasury, Mr. W. who, on my speaking to him re-
specting the advance made for Wilson in London, told me that
there was a precedent for its payment, as he well remembered that
on Wilson's arrival at Norfolk, certain expenses attending his pas-
sage were allowed and paid. Whether this payment was to the
Master of the ship, or to enable Wilson to get on from Norfolk to
Philadelphia, or on some other account, I am ignorant. Knowing
of the Lisbon expenses, I concluded it was to them Mr. Wolcott
referred.

But I have already given you too much trouble on this unim-

* " That there is no existing provision in America by which our advances
can be reimbursed." This claim for ^52. was based upon a subscription to a
fund to enable Philip Wilson & family, who had been impoverished in unsuc-
cessfully prosecuting a claim in London, to return home. The minister, as
such, subscribed the above amount for that purpose. His vessel was driven
into Lisbon.

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 383

portant point. I will only add that should this small disbursement,
as well as the more considerable one to General Lafayette appear
to the President to have been made from motives that merit his
approbation, I should hope that he will not think it inexpedient to
recommend to Congress to cover the same by a suitable appro-
priation.

In cases of private persons, it behoves them to petition Con-
gress for relief ; but officers of the United States and accountable
to and removable by the President naturally look to him for pro-
tection in all cases of expense, when without authority they may,
nevertheless, have exercised a sound discretion.

Yours &c

Rufus King.

Thos. T. Tucker, Treasurer United States, to R. King.

Treasury of the United States, Washington, October 6, 1804.
Sir :

Enclosed you will find my Draft No. 7138, on Jonathan Burrall
Esq for 339.-^ Dollars, being the amount of Warrant No. 32,
Issued by the Secretary of the Treasury, on receipt of which be
pleased to favor me with an acknowledgment.

I am with great respect Sir, your Obedt. Servt.

Th. T. Tucker, Treasurer Un. States.
Rufus King Esq.

Boston, Oct. 17, 1804.
Sir :

I have duly received your Letter of Octr. 6 enclosing your
Draft No. 7138 on Jonathan Burrall Esq for 339tW Dollars
payable to my order, stated to be the amount of Warrant No. 32,
issued by the Secretary of the Treasury, and being I presume a
Balance due to me upon the settlement of my accounts in the
Department of the Treasury.

I have the honour to be with great Respt.
Sir, your ob. Servt.

Rufus King.
Th. T. Tucker, Treasurer U. S.

384 RUFUS KING. [1804

On the original account sent to the Auditor of the Treas-
ury, there is the following in R. King's handwriting :

Nov. 7, 1804 — Allowed balance . $339.51

Suppd. deduction P. Wilson . . 233.32
Salary from 23d inst of 20th May to

18th ins of 20th say 5 days a 24.65 123.25 696.08

Unknown disallowances . . . 160.72

The amount sent to him by draft is thus accounted for.
It is therefore probable that the disbursement to Lafayette
was allowed by the President.

The three letters which follow, though somewhat out of their
order as to dates, are in several ways interesting and are here
inserted :

F. Baring to R. King.

London, i March, 1804.
My dear Sir :

I cannot suffer our friend Mr. Gore to leave the country with-
out conversing with you by the only means in my power ; indeed
I have long felt a propensity to begin a correspondence which
was in a great measure superfluous whilst Mr. Gore remained. I
am just returned from Bath & from paying my last respects &
duty to our friend Bingham ; a melancholy task & still more
melancholy reflexion that such a man should be cut off in the
prime of life. I never saw a more firm manly mind, nor (if I may
use the word) more stern integrity ; solely occupied with the con-
sideration of what was correctly right, without suffering the
slightest bias or partiality to operate upon his mind. And though
my sons do not enjoy some advantages which the Customs both
of America & of England sanction, yet I can say most sincerely
that they as well as myself are perfectly satisfied and that we shall
ever hold his memory in the highest respect & reverence. He
was surrounded by the families of his two daughters & Lord
Lansdowne, whose attentions to him were incessant ; indeed noth-
ing was omitted that could have been supplied.

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 385

I am returned to a most busy, anxious, I may say a most
gloomy scene both at home & abroad — both indeed are so bad
that it is with reluctance I touch upon either. You know per-
fectly well the carte du pays of things as they are, or rather were.
Some, who were tired of the system of divide et impera, formed a
coalition upon general principles of opposition to the Minister,
but of equal reserve as to the consequences. Windham & Gren-
ville, who are for war, unite with Fox & Grey, who are for peace.
Windham, whatever we may think of his head, has character. But
we now find the stern, austere Grenville will bend to anything for
the sake of peace. Every man must lament that Fox with the
best talents should yield so easily to a connexion which can neither
be satisfactory nor reputable to himself. Grey embarks from
friendship for Fox, for every great pugilist must have his bottle-
holder. Sheridan is at sea & I fear his necessities, more than
anything else, have governed his conduct. The Prince has given
him a place which is about a single drop of water, in the ocean.
I have no confidence in this union ; it will neither do for the
Court or people, and cannot stand alone.

In what manner this junto will try their strength remains to
be ascertained, as existing circumstances will shut many mouths
most probably will prevent any distinct plan from being formed.
Pitt keeps aloof of connection, but is always on the ground and is
much beyond the other competitors in sagacity. Since the King's
illness the prince has only consulted with Thurlow, whose rough
outside may easily be mistaken for what it is not : he will make
no such mistakes as Roslyn did on a former occasion, which is so
far safe. L. Moira commands in Scotland where he has distin-
guished himself by talents both civil and military ; he will no
doubt act a conspicuous part under a new head. L. Lansdowne
is on his road from Bath, but will not arrive till the end of the
week ; of course he has not made up his mind. In 2 or 3 days
the whole must develop itself, but I must write en avance or I
shall lose the opportunity.

With regard to Invasion, I cannot think it will pass away & un-
der such tremendous preparation guided by such a Man ; it is
folly to be presumptuous. It is true the french will have great,
very great obstacles to encounter ; but it is too much to say these
obstacles will not be forced ; it is equally so to say they may not be

386 RUFUS KING. [1804

evaded under a combination of favorable winds & circumstances.
If you think I am nervous, I will freely confess to you that I wish
the attempt should be made ; for if it shall not be made, the military
force assembled is so enormous that the whole of the North of
Europe is in danger, & I think it essential for the safety of the
World, that Europe should enjoy more repose & have longer
time to recruit before the flame burst out on the Continent, &
which it must do ere long. When I urged the safety of the world
to Bingham, he never would admit that America under any cir-
cumstances could possibly be in danger ; my opinion is, as it al-
ways has been, that Britain was the bulwark to America, & that
the downfall of one would be followed by the destruction of the
other. Indeed I cannot discover in what manner Universal Em-
pire is to be prevented, if the power of France, say the unity of
that power, remains intact, for its impulse is irresistible.

You will perceive what interesting events are on the point of
developing themselves at the moment I write. — The internal
government of this Country — Invasion or no Invasion — & on the
latter circumstance depends continental war. In every event I
hope we shall remain at peace with America. I shudder as much
at a war with Scotland or Ireland, as with America. I only fear
too much influence on the part of the people, whose passions con-
stantly absorb & make them forget their interest, or even common
sense. I am thoroughly confident in the pacific disposition of the
rulers on your side, but in America, as well as in England, our
Sovereign Lords & Masters, the Mob, must be obeyed. I could
travel over much more ground with you, but I think to have
stated the multum in parvo in times so pregnant with events, &
yet at the moment so completely uncertain in every description
or point of view whatever, I therefore shall conclude with the
assurance of my being with great regard

My dear Sir, your most truly faithful humble Servant,

F. Baring.

C. Gore to *R. King.

Boston, April 17, 1804.
My dear Friend :

L'd. H., I mentioned to you before had invited me to a con-
ference previous to my departure, proposed by a note to me to

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 387

call at his office one day. As he said nothing further of Merry's
rank &c, I was of course silent. It is their determination to keep
things on the same footing with us, as the Treaty placed them,
unless any commercial regulations of ours should render a different
account necessary on their part, which I think they apprehend
more than they have reason for. As to the war, he seemed to
think it was impossible for Bonaparte to avoid making an attempt
to invade England after the immense means he had collected,
and the enormous expence he had incurr'd, although he believed
that his only hopes of success were in Ireland, and to that end
probably were intended his preparations ag't. England. It is
thought (said by him to be known) that no powers on the conti-
nent would engage in the contest, unless France should make an
attempt on the Morea, or on Egypt, in which case Russia had
declared she would resist with all her force — and in this declara-
tion & a conduct conformable thereto G. B. confided. I passed
an hour & a half with him, and at the latter part of the time, the
L'd. Chancellor entered, who assisted at the conversation. By
them I was treated with great kindness and apparent confidence.
The latter gentleman visited me before I quitted. They both
desired their Regards & Respects to you. A coalition has been
formed between Mr. Fox, L'd. Grenville, Windham, &c, which,
however, does not embrace Mr. Pitt. The only object of this coali-
tion, as I was told by Mr. Coke, was to oppose the present
administration & to endeavour to attain their dismissal from
office. . . .

J. Madison to R. King.

Department of State, Washington, 24 May, 1804.
Sir:

An occasion has occurred, in relation to a demand set up by
the proctors, who have conducted the American suits, in London,
on account of captures, to request the favour of your stating how
far they are supported in it by any promise made by you. It seems
that suitors in the Prize court have a right to cause their proctor's
bill to be taxed, which produces a deduction, supposed to average
about fifteen per cent ; but they allege that by way of encourage-

388 RUFUS KING. [1804

ment to their attentions, you promised them that they should be
paid the full amount of their bills in the American causes, in
which the Government of the U. States are responsible to pay
them, without resorting to taxation. Mr. Ewing being about to
make a final settlement with them has referred the determination
of this part of their claims to instructions from the Department
of State. Requesting an answer as soon as your convenience
will admit. I have the honor to remain Sir your most obed't
Serv't,

James Madison.

R. King to J. Madison.

New York, May 29, 1804.
Sir:

In answer to your letter of the 24inst, I have the honour to
state that no engagement was ever made by me that the long bills
of the Proctors' should be paid. In consequence of an instruc-
tion that I gave to the agent Mr. Bayard to require that the Proc-
tors' bills should be regularly taxed, several of them came to me
to represent what they called the usage on this subject, and to urge
me to authorize or promise them payment on their long or un-
taxed bills. My answer was explicit that I could make no en-
gagement to this effect, but that the demand must be referred to
the Govt, of the U. States, whose decision would perhaps be
influenced by the satisfactory or unsatisfactory adjustment of
the American Claims.

With great Respect &c.

Rufus King.

P. S. The payments from time to time made to the Proctors
were on account, leaving the question concerning their long bills
open for the President's decision. I do not recollect whether the
taxed or long bills were admitted by the Commissioners. My
impression is that the taxed bills only were received. Mr Gore or
Mr. Cabot can ascertain this point.

CHAPTER XXV.

Burr disappointed — Sought Revenge by Death of Hamilton — King's Connect-
ion with the Duel between them — Charges against him of Coldness of
Heart and of not endeavoring to prevent the Duel examined and disproved
— King to C. King, denying a Statement by Dr. Mason — C. King to R.
King— Interview with Dr. Mason — Report Incorrect — W. Wallace to King
— Result of the Duel — Pendleton to King — Hamilton mortally wounded —
Correspondence with Gen. Clarkson relative to the Duel — Pitcairn to King
— Deplores the Death of Hamilton.

Aaron Burr, who had been the recipient of his party's
favors, and had nearly reached the office of President, found
himself deserted, as has been seen, by his former friends, and
moved by his ruling passion, . ambition, sought to obtain
through the agency of a large portion of the federalists, who
believed themselves outraged by the acts of the President and
his friends, a return to that power from which he hoped
much in the future. It was very evident to him, when
again defeated, that the leading opponent he had was Alex-
ander Hamilton. There can be no doubt that he felt that
he could not overcome or destroy his influence and that he
stood in the way of any political advancement. There was
but one way in which he could get rid of this obstacle to his
success and that was to remove it by a duel, which would put
an end to one or the other, and as history records he took
means to insure the death of his adversary by careful
practice.

Mr. Jabez Hammond in his History of Political Parties in
New York{\., 210), presents very clearly the effect upon Mr.
Burr of the result in the election of Governor in that State.*

* " The result of the New York election [that of Mr. Lewis by a very large
majority] had entirely prostrated the political prospects of Col. Burr. He was
390 RUFUS KING. [1804

It is not proposed to present a full and particular account
of the circumstances and correspondence relative to the
duel which removed the leading statesman of the day from
the sphere of usefulness in which his energy and consum-
mate ability had so long benefited his country, and which
brought upon his adversary the universal scorn of all parties
and a bitter retribution which he little looked for. As the
name of Rufus King, the warm and trusted friend of
Hamilton, has been connected with history of this event,
and at times with a criticism which he did not deserve, it
is due to him that a true statement of his position should
be given.

irrevocably cast off from the republican party in the nation ; and the event of
the contest in this State had proved that his friends were not sufficiently numer-
ous when connected with the federalists, or so many of them as would join his
standard, to sustain him here. Should the federalists as a party ever gain the
ascendency, the prospect of which was extremely unpromising, he knew by
what had recently occurred, that he would have no hopes of promotion from that
party. His political fortunes therefore seemed totally wrecked and irretrievably
ruined. In reflecting upon the cause of that ruin, he undoubtedly regarded
Gen. Hamilton as the principal agent. If at any time he had expected the
aid of the federal members of congress to elect him president in preference to
Mr. Jefferson, he had there met the opposition of Mr. Hamilton ; for on that
occasion Mr. Bayard of Delaware and Mr. Morris of Vermont, two of Mr.
H's friends, had given the election to Mr. Jefferson. In the late contest
when his political life was at stake, the same opponent had there stood in his
way ; and to his denunciation and great and commanding influence, Mr. Burr
charged the defection and desertion of so large a portion of federalists from
their party. These considerations must have produced in the gloomy and
despairing mind of Mr. Burr a settled determination that he would have
revenge — a revenge that nothing short of the life of Hamilton would satiate.
It is impossible for me to account for the duel which took place after this
election, between Burr and Hamilton, upon any other principle. It is true,
that had the answer of Gen. Hamilton to the first communication of Burr been
more guarded and more conciliatory in its tone and manner, it might have put
Burr more clearly in the wrong, and furnished positive and decisive evidence
that from the commencement he premeditated and determined on a mortal
contest. But he knew that Gen. Hamilton from youth had been a military
man, and that he was sensitively alive to his honor as a soldier ; and a careful
review of the correspondence as it was actually conducted will convince all
candid men that Burr, when he wrote the first note, was resolved that the issue
should be nothing less than the death of one of the parties."

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 39 1

In the Life of jfosiah Quincy by his son Edmund Quincy,
published in 1868, p. 84, there is given an extract from a
Journal of Mr. J. Quincy while in New York in November,
1805, on his way to Washington to take his seat in Congress.
He mentions the hospitable entertainment he received
there and speaks of a number of eminent men he met.
Among them was Mr. Pendleton, who was General Hamil-
ton's second in the duel, and whom he questioned about it:

" I asked Mr. Pendleton * whether in the opinion of Mr.
Hamilton's friends Mr. King had conducted with propriety in
leaving New York, previous to the duel, after having been par-
ticularly consulted by Hamilton on the subject. Mr. Pendleton
answered that the facts were that Hamilton did consult King
and that early. He was that 'judicious friend,' of whom Ham-
ilton speaks in one of his letters. After having thus been con-
sulted some time previously to the time fixed for the duel, King
commenced a journey. I know that this conduct of King
has been considered as indicating great coldness of heart in King.
It certainly does nothing else. A man who had felt deeply the
public and private stake which was put at risk, could not, it has
been said, have left the vicinity until the final decision, particu-
larly after the marks of confidence he had received from Ham-
ilton. On the contrary, Mr. King says he could have done
nothing by staying— that the duel was inevitable. From politi-
cal considerations, he might wish to be at a distance from the
scene."

In this statement, published sixty-three years after it was
recorded, it would seem as if the family of General Hamil-
ton censured Mr. King for taking his journey, arranged for
sometime before the duel, and that Mr. Pendleton remarked
that it " has been considered as indicating great coldness
of heart. It certainly does nothing else," because he left
the vicinity while the affair was still pending. It does

* " I was led to this inquiry because a brother-in-law of mine, Washington
Morton, a young man of strong passions, who had married Miss Schuyler
(sister of Mrs. Hamilton) had spoken very indignantly of the conduct of King,
giving the impression that such was the feeling of his wife's family."

392 RUFUS KING. [1804

not appear that the feelings of the family upon the matter
were indicated by anything but the opinion of his brother-
in-law, who had married Mrs. Hamilton's sister, " a young
man of strong passions, who had spoken very indignantly
of the conduct of King." It may have been true, and yet
what constitutes " coldness of heart " is a matter of opinion ;
and the fact might have been that Mr. King, finding his
remonstrances could have no effect, preferred not being
present — but not, as Mr. Pendleton suggested, that he might
" from political considerations, wish to be at a distance
from the scene" Mr. King never showed an unwillingness
to meet any responsibility, and no personal or political con-
siderations as to the future would have been entertained
for a moment.

The facts are that Mr. King, who had not visited his
friends and family in Massachusetts since his return from
Europe, had decided to do so in the summer of that year,
and to follow out a suggestion made to him on April 22d
by Mr. Gore.

" We sincerely regret your suffering under the ague and fever,
and most truly hope it has now left you. We shall anxiously
await your coming hither, which we pray you not to delay longer
than the season renders necessary. June and July are pleasant
months here. In August you can visit your family and friends
at the Eastward and return to us in September and to New York
in November."

There can be no doubt that his arrangements, when
travelling was not so expeditious or comfortable as in these
days, had been somewhat in accordance with this plan,
which he carried out. In the meantime the trouble arose
in which he was consulted by General Hamilton. The deci-
sion to accept a challenge was made by the latter, and
when it was given on the 27th June and accepted on the
28th the time for the duel was not fixed. In the Re-
marks, which were offered by Mr. Pendleton to Mr. Van
Ness as from General Hamilton, but not accepted by him,
the closing paragraph is in the following words :

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 393

" If the alternative alluded to in the close of the letter (of the
27th) is definitely tendered, it must be accepted ; the time, place
and manner, to be afterwards regulated : I should not think it
right in the midst of a Circuit Court to withdraw my services from
those who may have confided important interests to me, and ex-
pose them to the embarrassment of seeking other counsel, who
may not have time to be sufficiently instructed in their cases. I
shall also want a little time to make some arrangements respecting
my own affairs." *

There was, therefore, as this condition was explained by
Mr. Pendleton and accepted, no certainty when the duel
would take place. In fact it did not occur until the nth of
July. With this uncertainty before him, having it is pre-
sumed arranged his journey, and with the feeling that noth-
ing more could be done to avert what he deprecated, it is
not necessary to believe that there was no anxiety on the
part of Mr. King, or unconcern as to the result that would
warrant the accusation of "great coldness of heart." It
cannot be supposed that there was not entire sympathy and
understanding between the two men, for Hamilton in his
last letter to Sedgwick speaks of King as on his way to Boston.

But whatever some may think about his absence from
New York at the time of the duel, there is another charge
against Mr. King, " that he was blamed for not endeavoring
to prevent this fatal duel," made in the Autobiography of
Charles Biddle, published in 1883.+ ft mav De sa^ tnat
Mr. Biddle held Aaron Burr in high regard, as this record
shows, while on the other hand he had few kind words to
say of his political opponent, Alexander Hamilton, except
as to his great abilities. He says, p. 309 :

" If General Hamilton had not opposed Colonel Burr, I have
very little doubt he would have been elected Governor of New
York, and if he had it would have been a fortunate circumstance
for the country, as well as for themselves and their families.

* Life of Hamilton, vii., 815.

f An examination of this charge and refutation of it were made and published
by the Editor of the present Life, in the Magazine of American History, vol.
xi., p. 212. This account will be freely used here. — Ed.

394 RUFUS KING. [1804

" In this unfortunate affair, Mr. Rufus King was blamed, I
think deservedly, for not endeavoring to prevent this fatal duel.
He is the moderate judicious friend General Hamilton alludes to
in the paper enclosed in his will."

This was not written at the time of the duel, " but some
years after, when time had softened bitter feelings," mani-
festing that there were even then some who still entertained
the opinion that Mr. King might have prevented the duel,
that he did not exert his influence with General Hamilton,
and that he suffered in the minds of honorable men in
consequence.

As this was the first publication, in a work of acknowl-
edged character, of the charge, it is due to Mr. King that it
should be corrected and refuted. He certainly was the
warm and faithful friend of General Hamilton, a friendship
dating from before the days when they sat together in the
Convention for the formation of the Constitution of the
United States, and, apart from personal esteem and friend-
ship, he too well knew and prized the valuable services and
the ability of that distinguished man to leave unused any
influence he might have to avert the calamity, which he
must have anticipated as the result of a hostile meeting ;
and it is known that he had been consulted. General
Hamilton has stated this fact in the paper left by him.

Happily Mr. King has, in a paper which will be found
below, made a statement, in his own handwriting and signed
by him, which gives an account of his agency in the matter
and shows how shocked he was, at the time it was written in
1819, that the charge above referred to was made — a charge
he appears never before to have heard.

R. King to Charles King.*

Jamaica, L. I., Ap. 2, 1819.
Dear Sir:

To my surprise and regret, I have been informed that Dr.
Mason in a late conversation at a dinner table stated in reference

* His son.

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 395

to the duel between Genl. Hamilton and Colonel Burr, in which
the former was mortally wounded, that it was in my power to have
prevented the duel, and that evidence of this fact could be pro-
duced ; a statement which had the effect of creating the belief
that I approved of and promoted the duel.

I request that you will take an early opportunity of calling on
Doctor Mason and in my behalf assuring him that the reverse of
the alleged fact is the truth, and that so far from approving and
promoting the duel, I disapproved of it and endeavoured to pre-
vail on Genl. Hamilton not to meet Col. Burr.

Ask Doctor Mason to furnish you with the evidence to which
he referred and upon which he thought himself justified in mak-
ing the foregoing statement. Say to him, moreover, on my part,
that I willingly believe, after receiving this communication, that
he will take greater pleasure in correcting than he could have ex-
perienced in stating a charge that is wholly unfounded.
With affectionate Regards, I am faithfully yrs.

Rufus King.

On the margin of a copy of the letter given above is writ-
ten by Mr. King :

" Remark. Mr. Bogert gave me this information, which he
received from a gentleman present at this dinner, who was im-
pressed by Dr. M.'s statement that I encouraged the duel. Mr.
Bogert more than once conferred with this person, in order accu-
rately to understand the tenor of Dr. M.'s charge, and the im-
pression of it upon the person in question. Mr. Bogert has seen
and approves of this letter as correct in its recital of what was
communicated to him. R. K."

On the reverse of the original letter appears the fol-
lowing :

C. King to R. King.

Wednesday Ev'g, April 7, 1819.

I received this letter on the 5th of April and in the course of
that day called at Dr. Mason's house and was informed by Mrs.

396 RUFUS KING. [1804

Mason that the Dr. was in the country, arranging his library.
Being engaged on the 6th, I deferred repeating the call 'till this
afternoon (the 7th) when I saw Dr. Mason, and informing him
that I called on the part of my father, who had heard a report
which was very unpleasant to him, presented him with this letter,
as the best mode of explaining the object of my visit. He
read it attentively and returned it to me with the observation,
" that there was no truth at all in the report to which it referred."
He then went on to explain " that at the dinner table of Mr.
Richards, Mr. H. W. Warner alluding to the duel of Genl. Ham-
ilton and Col. Burr mentioned Mr. Pendleton as the calm and
judicious friend, to whom Genl. Hamilton referred, as having
taken his advice previous to the duel. Dr. Mason remarked here-
upon that he understood that friend to be Mr. King — but that
this remark was unaccompanied with any other, or any comment
— that Mr. Warner had within a day or two called upon him in
much agitation, that they had talked over the subject, and Mr.
Warner had left him prepared to give Mr. Bogert such an expla-
nation of what really passed at the dinner already alluded to, as
would do away the unjust inferences that appeared to have been
drawn from it. I expressed the pleasure I felt at this statement
and entered into a detail of what really took place between my
father and Genl. Hamilton at their interview on the subject of this
unfortunate duel, specifying particularly that the only point, upon
which Genl. Hamilton asked my father's opinion was whether he,
Genl. Hamilton, was bound to give a definite answer to Burr's
enquiry, as to whether he, Hamilton, had at any time or in any
place expressed opinions unfavourable or derogatory to Col.
Burr ; to which my father answered decidedly, No ; that if Mr.
Burr would specify any particular fact, then and then only, it
would be proper for Genl. Hamilton to deny or affirm it — that
such should be the tenor of Genl. Hamilton's reply to Burr.
That preparatory to and during the discussion of this question,
the main one, of whether Genl. Hamilton should under any cir-
cumstances accept a challenge from Mr. Burr arose, and that my
father decidedly advised that he should not ; but that Genl. Hamilton
having stated that his mind was made up on this subject, as also
to throw away his fire, if they should meet, my father then en-
deavoured to prove to him, that if he, Mr. H., would persist in

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 397

fighting, he owed to his family and the rights of self-defence to
fire at his antagonist.

Dr. Mason replied that these circumstances were new to him,
but that the letter I had shewn to him, communicated what he
did not know, but what he was rejoiced to find, that my father
dissuaded Genl. Hamilton from fighting — as his letter stated he
did. I hereupon rose, to take my leave, expressing the pleasure
I felt that a report which could not but be disagreeable to my
father and unjust to Dr. Mason, had been so satisfactorily ex-
plained— to which Dr. Mason rejoined that he was also well
pleased at it ; and that no man in the country would rejoice
more than himself to see my father occupying that station in the
country which was justly due to him.

I immediately returned home (about half past six o'clk P.M.)
and committed the result of this interview to writing.

Chas. King.

On the back of the rough copy of a letter to General Clark-
son, p. 399, is the following, either sent or proposed to be sent,
to some intimate friend and in R. King's handwriting :

" You cannot my Dr. Sir, hold in greater abhorrence than I do
the Practice of Duelling. Our lamented friend was not unac-
quainted with my opinion on the subject, but with a mind the
most capacious and discriminating that I ever knew, he had laid
down for the gov. of himself certain rules upon the subj. of
Duels, the fallacy of which wd. not fail to be seen by any man
of ordinary understanding ; with these Guides, it is my delib-
erate opinion, that he could not have avoided a meeting with Col.
Burr, had he even declined the first Challenge."

On the same page also in R. King's handwriting is the
following :

I regard it as a violation of our civil, our moral and our relig-
ious Duty. I go farther and do not consider it as even proof of
Courage.

It cannot be necessary to search for other proof of the
falseness of the charge, to which allusion has above been
made, of indifference to the welfare of his friend, and that

398 RUFUS KING. [1804

at the solemn moment of deciding what course should be
pursued, Mr. King, when friendship could speak with such
commanding voice, was wanting in the counsel he should
give.

There are several other letters, bearing upon the subject
of the duel, which will present some interesting features
and are given below.

Wm. Wallace, New York, to R. King, Hartford, Conn.

July 11, 5 p. m., 1804.
My dear Sir :

This morng. we were all alarmed at a report of Col. Hamilton's
being killed in a duel with Col. Burr. Knowing that such a re-
port would interest you, I seize the present opportunity to say
" a meeting took place between those gentlemen this morng., the
cause said to be political, the consequence a wound (supposed
mortal) on Col. Hamilton. He received the shot of his antago-
nist, it is said with the determination of not returning the first
fire. He was brought to Mr. Bayard's at Greenwich, where Mr.
Low and I were at 12 o'clock. He was still alive but I conceive
there is nothing further than a possibility of his recovery. We
have not heard from him since that time. A general sense of
regret prevails. We have nothing else since your departure.

Yours &c &c,

Wm. Wallace.

Nath. Pendleton to R. King, Boston.

N. Y., Thursday, July— 1804.

My dear Sir :

Before you receive this our dear and excellent friend Hamilton
will be no more. He & Col. B. met yesterday morning at seven
o'clock on the Jersey shore. Genl. H. persisted in the resolution
he had taken before you left us to receive & not return the first
shot. Unhappily Mr. B's first shot was fatal. It passed between
the two lower ribs of the right side, and lodged near the spine,

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 399

and in its passage, the surgeons say, it must have passed through
the lungs or the liver. He was brought over to Mr. Bayard's
where he continues. I have just left him, and the Doctors say
he cannot outlive the day.

I have not time now to communicate any of the reflections
that crowd upon my mind on this most extensive public and pri-
vate calamity. It has occasioned a strong public sensation which
will be much increased when he is dead.

I am my dear Sir with esteem

your obedient servant,

Nath. Pendleton.

Gen. M. Clarkson to R. King.

New York, August 20, 1804.
My dear Sir :

Since the late melancholy event which has deprived us of our
friend Hamilton, a report has reached me, that yourself in con-
junction with Mr. Pendleton and myself had given it as an opin-
ion that a duel was unavoidable ; a report of this nature (as I
abhor the practice) has occasioned me great uneasiness, and as I
was only a hearer of what you related to me and had no other
agency in the business, you will much oblige me by a line to this
effect. I promise you that no other use shall be made of the let-
ter but only to show it to two persons from whom I received the
information — who I am very solicitous should be rightly informed
on the subject. Previous to the fatal event the silence you im-
posed on me was most scrupulously attended to ; but which agi-
tated my mind exceedingly ; immediately upon my hearing of its
having taken place, I directly went to our friend, who I found
had already requested that I should be sent for. The scene
which I witnessed has almost been too much for me, and the idea
now suggested has not contributed to my repose. Let me re-
quest, my dear Sir, to hear from you as soon as possible.
Your sincere friend & obedt. Servt.,

M. Clarkson.

P. S. We are endeavoring to obtain by subscription some
property for the children of our friend ; is anything of a similar
nature likely to be done in Boston ?

400 RUFUS KING. [1804

R. King to Gen. Clarkson.

Waltham near Boston, Aug. 24, 1804.
My dear Sir :

I lose no time in replying to yr. letter of the 20th which I
received last Evening — considering the reserve that I have ob-
served on this subject of national affliction, I was truly surprized
that any such Rumour as that you mention should have got into
circulation upon my authority. No persons can be justified by
any observation that you ever made to me, or that I ever made
to another, in reporting that you had given an opinion that a
Duel between our lamented friend and Col. Burr was unavoidable.

It was not until the challenge had been given and accepted,
that I mentioned the affair to you and that under an injunction
of secrecy. Knowing our friend's determination to be passive,
my mind was agitated with strong forebodings of what has hap-
pened, and tho' the Correspondence was closed by an agreement
of the Parties to meet each other, I nevertheless mentioned the
subject to you, and asked if you could perceive any mode of
interference. Your answer, expressive of much sorrow, was in
the negative. I did not however, infer from this answer that in
yr. opinion our friend might not have declined a meeting with
Col. Burr, but merely by the acceptance of his adversary's chal-
lenge, that the interference of third persons was precluded.
With sentiments of Resp. & Esteem &c.

(Signed) R. King.

P. S. You are at liberty to make any use of the above that you
may deem proper.

2nd P. S. There exists in this quarter a difficulty that may disap-
point our hopes of pecuniary succour for the family of our lamented
friend. I allude to the misunderstanding that existed between him
and Mr. Adams. Should we fail in procuring money, I understood
that certain persons who purchased a tract of land in Pennsyl-
vania of Col. Pickering and for which they paid him $25,000,
will be disposed to convey the lands to the family of the de-
ceased. This would be a valuable property at a distant day, but
cash only will pay debts.

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 401

This letter, of which only a copy is preserved, was prob-
ably written to Genl. Clarkson, as it refers to Mr. King's
letter to him of Aug. 24.

Dear Sir :

Mrs. Hamilton having written to Mr. Cabot to endeavour to
procure for Alexander a situation in a respectable commercial
house, Mr. Higginson has readily consented to take him ; and
until a suitable family can be found to take Alexander as a
boarder, Mr. Higginson will receive him into his own family.
This will give to the young man an opportunity of becoming ac-
quainted with the respectable persons of the town, and with such
young men as are of the best reputation.

In my answer to your letter of the 20th, I omitted to say any-
thing concerning either Mr. Pendleton or myself in respect to the
report to which your letter alludes. I have no recollection that
Mr. Pendleton ever expressed to me any opinion whether General
H. could, or ought to, decline a meeting with Col. Burr. I very
well remember that he entirely agreed with me of the inconsistency
of the General's determination to receive the fire of his adversary
and to throw away his own.

No person can view with deeper abhorrence than I do the prac-
tice of duelling, and our lamented friend was not unacquainted
with my opinion upon this subject.

With sincere Regards yr. ob. & faithful Servt.

(Signed) Rufus King.

J. Pitcairn* to R. King.

Hamburg, Sept. 25, 1804.
We hear from America, that Genl. Armstrong succeeds Mr.
Livingston, so that in pleasing the Virginians, the family may be
preserved to the party. All men acquainted with America
learned with sorrow & indignation the death of General Hamil-
ton— few in any age had richer gifts from nature, and none ever
made a more diligent & effectual use of them for the benefit
of his Country. Times were favourable ; they showed his manly
integrity, his disinterested character, and various Genius, in fair

* Mr. Pitcairn had been for many years U. S. Consul at Hamburg.

VOL. IV-26.

402 RUFUS KING. [1804

views, and considering him as an important labourer in rearing
the new Constitution and in founding public credit, he takes high
rank among the ornaments and benefactors of mankind. His
murderer must be wretched ; no civilized land is to him an
asylum ; should the laws hunt him from America, he would find
abhorrence & Contempt meet him on every European shore.

Your very obedient Servant

Jos. Pitcairn.

CHAPTER XXVI.

Embarrassment of General Hamilton's pecuniary Affairs — G. Morris's State-
ment— King to Friends in Boston — They proposed giving Lands bought of
T. Pickering to the Heirs of General Hamilton — Deed for them to be
given by the Purchasers— King to Cabot— Statement of the Debts and
Subscription in New York — Gore to King — Deeds made out — J. A. Ham-
ilton's Account — Letter to Major Popham — King to Gore — Plan to pur-
chase Hamilton's Estate— Gift of Land by Gen. Schuyler to his Daughter
— Share of her Father's Estate — Charge against King in the Alexandria
Expositor — King's Letter to Editor — Copy of the Article — J. Crowe,
England, to King — Denies the truth of the Article — Dinsmore, Editor, to
King — Will publish a Refutation — King to Dinsmore — Wishes no Apology,
but the Truth published.

The last years of the life of General Hamilton had been
devoted to the more diligent pursuit of his profession, in
order that he might be able to make provision for his family.
And yet when an examination into his affairs was made after
his death, it was found that his estate was seriously embar-
rassed. In the Diary and Letters of Gouverneur Morris,
vol. ii., pp. 458-9, he writes, July 14, 1804:

" Mr. Hammond, who dined with us, desired me to think of
some means to provide for poor Hamilton's family. Mr. Gracie
and Mr. Wolcott called for the same purpose. I had already
mentioned the matter to Mr. Low, who seems to think a subscrip-
tion will not go down well, because the children have a rich
grandfather. . . ."

Together with others of General Hamilton's friends, Mor-
ris spent much time endeavoring to arrange his affairs, which
were in sad disorder :

" Our friend Hamilton [he wrote to Robert Morris] has been
suddenly cut off in the midst of embarrassments which would
404 RUFUS KING. [1804

have required years of professional industry to set straight : a
debt of between fifty thousand and sixty thousand dollars hang-
ing over him, a property which in time may sell for seventy thou-
sand or eighty thousand, but which, if brought to the hammer,
would not, in all probability, fetch forty ; a family of seven
young children. We have opened a subscription to provide for
these orphans, and his warm-hearted friends, judging of others
by themselves, expect more from it than I do."

M. Clarkson to R. King.

" New York, Aug. 20, 1804.
" . . . P. S. We are endeavoring to obtain by subscription
some property for the children of our friend. Is any thing of a
similar nature likely to be done at Boston ? "

Whether or not this intimation was the first that Mr.
King received of the purpose of General Hamilton's friends,
he writes as follows to some friend in New York asking him
to act for him :

R. King to

(Copy of a Letter.)

" Waltham near Boston, July 23, 1804.
"My dear Sir :

" Being detained on the road, we did not reach this place till
yesterday. The same cause that retarded our journey prevents
my proceeding at present on a visit to Boston ; having been
severely attacked by an intermittent, I am compelled to give an
exact attention to the restoration of my health. I hope however
in three or four days that I shall be able to venture into town.
In the mean time I have delivered your letter to me to my friend
Mr. Gore, who has gone this morning to town with Judge Ben-
son. They will confer with Cabot, Higginson and Otis upon the
subject. At present I can give no opinion concerning the be-
nevolent object that is aimed at. It is, however, on every account
fit that I should authorize you, as I now do, to do in my behalf
at New York as you may think suitable and to this I give you
carte blanche. "

It is altogether probable that when he was able to go to
Boston and during the month or more he remained there,

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 405

Mr. King took occasion to speak of, and urge a co-operation
of the Boston friends of General Hamilton in, raising money
for the benefit of the children of one whom they all loved.
There is in the postscript of the letter to General Clarkson,
of the 24th August, an evidence of this, and of the generous
gift of lands by Mr. Cabot and other citizens of Boston,
should it be impossible to raise money.

" . . . 2d P. S. There exists in this quarter a difficulty that
may disappoint our hopes of pecuniary succours for the family of
our lamented friend. I allude to the misunderstanding that
existed between him and Mr. Adams. Should we fail in procur-
ing money, I understand that certain persons who purchased a
tract of land in Pennsylvania of Col. Pickering, and for which
they paid him $25,000, will be disposed to convey the lands to
the family of the deceased. This would be a valuable property
at a distant day, but cash only will pay debts."

Not long after this Mr. King left Boston for a visit to his
family in Maine, and during the time he passed with them
the suggestion of the gift of lands was acted upon. The
history of this gift is connected with a previous act of esteem
for a political as well as personal friend. Mr. Timothy Pick-
ering had become interested in certain lands in Pennsylvania,
and not very long before, in 1801, had determined to go and
live upon them, having little or no other means of support.
Gratitude for the work he had done in connection with the
early years of the Government of the United States, the
desire to enable him to continue his services, instead of
burying himself in the wild lands, and personal regard and
esteem led a number of his friends in Boston to buy his
lands for a fair price and thus enable him to live where he
could still exert his influence. The consequence was that a
subscription was opened and funds in shares of $100 each
were taken by some thirty or more persons to the amount
of $25,000, for which the lands were to be conveyed to them.
The deeds for these lands had not been made out ; and all
those who had contributed the money

406 RUFUS KING. [1804

. j.

u engaged to pay into the hands of the Honorable George Cabot,
Thomas Davis and Theodore Lyman, Esqrs., the sums of money
set against our respective names to be by them applied to the
benefit of the children or family of General Hamilton in any
manner they shall judge proper . . . and authorize the said
Timothy Pickering Esq. to convey by a quit-claim deed to such
person or persons as shall be named to him for that purpose, by
the aforementioned gentlemen."

This was stated to be done " in remembrance of the exalted
worth and pre-eminent services of the late General Hamilton —
his extraordinary and truly patriotic exertions, which contributed
so much to save our country from the greatest impending calam-
ities ; his able, disinterested and successful efforts to inculcate
the wisdom, justice and advantage of all those maxims of juris-
prudence, which render sacred the rights of property and which
are inseparable from true liberty, and especially recollecting that
the devotion of his time and talents to these public interests has
operated to deprive his family of a common share of those pe-
cuniary advantages, which his labors, if applied to them, would
have easily made abundant ; we, therefore, whose names are sub-
scribed, do testify in some degree our sense of departed excel-
lence and our gratitude for benefits conferred on our country."

Mr. King evidently received particular information in
reference to the action of gentlemen in New York, for on
his return to Waltham he wrote to Mr. Cabot :

R. King to George Cabot.

" Oct. 10th, 1804.
"According to the schedule of General Hamilton's estate,
drawn up by himself a few days before his death, it appears that
his property consists altogether of new lands, situate in the west-
ern part of New York, and of a house, nine miles from the city.
The new lands cost fifty-five thousand dollars and the country
house and grounds about twenty-five thousand. The General's
debts amount to fifty-five thousand dollars ; and as the estate is
unproductive, and the debts bear interest, it is the opinion of
judicious persons that, with the most prudent management, the
estate will be barely sufficient to pay the debts. Mrs. Hamilton
is a daughter of General Schuyler, who has a family of eight or

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 407

nine children. The General is supposed to have a good real
estate, but not much personal property : so that little expectation
can be entertained of any considerable succor from this quarter,
either for the maintenance of General Hamilton's family or for
the education and advancement of his children. To the sorrow-
that every virtuous mind has felt for this distinguished patriot, it
is painful to add the reflection that his young and helpless family
must depend for their support, not upon the earnings of their
father — for he served the public — but upon the contributions of
a few individuals who admired his unequalled worth. The sub-
scription for this purpose at New York amounted to upwards of
sixteen thousand dollars when I last heard from thence (which
was before my journey to the eastward) and it was expected that
a considerable addition would be made to this fund."*

* Mr. James A. Hamilton in his Reminiscences, published in 1869, makes
the following statement on p. 78 :

" At a dinner party in New York, shortly after the close of the Revolution-
ary War, at which were present Messrs. G. Morris, John Jay, R. Harrison,
John Delafield, Robert Lenox, Nicholas Low, I. O. Hoffman, and Alexander
Hamilton, the question was discussed whether the purchase of wild lands or of
lots in the suburbs of the city would be the more profitable investment. John Jay
was in favor of New York, and made purchases there, and as his means enabled
him to hold his lots, his speculation made him rich. Hoffman also bought land
in the vicinity of the city. Some of the others, including my father, took the
opposite view, and invested in the lands in the northern counties of the State.
The wild lands were purchased at a few cents the acre, but they were not settled
very rapidly. After the death of Hamilton, it was found, as I have already
said, his means were not equal to the payment of his debts, and several of his
friends advanced money for that purpose, taking those lands in payment.

" Having learned that Major William Popham, one of the gentlemen who
had shown that kindness to my father, was at an advanced period of life in poor
circumstances, I addressed him the following letter : "

New York, October 14, 1824.
My Dear Sir,

I was this day for the first time informed by a person, who became acquainted
with the circumstance at the time it occurred, that you advanced one hundred
dollars to pay my father's debts. The gratitude that is due to you from every
member of his family for this generous act can never be effaced. You must,
therefore, believe that I do not send you the enclosed cheque for the same sum
in the hope of cancelling what is due to you, but in obedience to the sacred in-
junction of my father, and because under present circumstances it may promote
your convenience.

I requested Mr. Pendleton, one of my father's executors, to inform me of the

UN

>JTY

*^U FOR Nibs

408 RUFUS KING. [1804

On the 10th of November a letter was addressed to
Colonel Pickering, by the trustees appointed above, stating
that

" the design which was formed to transfer to the heirs of General
Hamilton the lands purchased of you in 1801 is now accom-
plished, so far as depended on the acts of those purchasers,"

and that it only remained to make out the conveyances to
the executors of General Hamilton's will or to other persons,
as might be agreed on.

C. Gore to R. King, New York.

" Boston, November 25th, 1804.
"The papers that respect the transfer of property to poor
Hamilton's heirs went on yesterday. After this land was con-
veyed, Lyman and Davis thought proper to propose to some
others to subscribe Cash ; I mean those who were not interested
in the land. Our friend Cabot objected because he thought it
would be unavailing : but the former gentlemen, thinking it right

arrangements made to pay my father's debts, for at that time I was young [he
was 16 years old]. He informed me with reluctance that my father's lands in
Scriba's Patent had been taken by certain gentlemen in this city, whose names
he would not mention, at prices wThich, he said, were perhaps more than they
were worth at the time. These gentlemen hoped with the amount thus raised
and the sums due my father, to pay his debts and leave the Grange clear
to his family.

I mention this to show you that I have not been indifferent to this very delicate
matter, and that if in my course through life, I should come in collision with
any of these persons (with you, I am happy to say, I am sure I have not) to
whom I am indebted for these or similar acts of generous devotion to my
father's memory, it has been in ignorance, and must always be to me a subject
of deep and mortifying regret.

With great regard, your friend and obedient servant,

James A. Hamilton.

It cannot be that this is an account of the same transaction which has been
recorded ; there is not even a suggestion in it of any security or equivalent for
the money subscribed to pay the debts : it was a free gift so far as can be ascer-
tained. That there may also have been a transfer to others of the Scriba
patent lands, which cost General Hamilton "fifty-five thousand dollars," is
possible, but no account of it appears — unless in the public records, where the
names of the parties to whom the lands were transferred, could have been found.

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 409

that these should be applied to made their address to and

, both of whom refused to give a farthing. Lloyd who

offered the subscription paper says he is sure that he made such
remarks to M., as will render his journey to rather un-
pleasant ; agreed to the merits of the deceased Statesman

and his claims on the public, but observed his children needed
his money as much."

The Trustees on November 26, 1804, addressed a letter to
the executors of the last will and testament of General
Hamilton in which they state the circumstances under
which the conveyance of lands at their disposal was to
be made, and say,

" As we are entrusted with the nomination of the persons to
whom the property shall be conveyed, we cannot hesitate to
name the Executors of General Hamilton's will, leaving it with
them to name others, if they thing it expedient, and also to ar-
range with Col. Pickering the time and circumstances of making
the conveyance."

The communication closed with an expression of their
" poignant sorrow " for the death of General Hamilton, and
their " strong sympathy for those who were by nature
attached to him."

The Executors answered in a letter dated November 29,
1804, accepting the trust committed to them, with expres-
sions of their high appreciation of " their act of muni-
ficence."*

As a result, the lands were secured to the children of
General Hamilton, and as Mr. Charles W. Upham in his
Life of Timothy Pickering says in closing the account of
this transaction, " the act itself and all the parties to it,
deserve to be kept in perpetual remembrance."

The following portion of a letter, though a little out of
date, speaks of the purchase of the Estate of General Hamil-
ton in the City of New York.

* Vol. iv., pp. 36 to 41.— Life and Letters of George Cabot, by Henry Cabot
Lodge, pp. 304-310.

4IO AUFUS KING. [1804

R. King to C. Gore.

New York, Jany 10, 1808.

. . . I believe that I some time since mentioned to you the
plan we had set on foot to purchase at its cost Genl. Hamilton's
estate. As we have been solicitous to confine the purchase to
this City, the time that has elapsed without completing it, has
been longer than we expected. It is, however, nearly completed
and so far as to be beyond the chance of failure. By this meas-
ure his family will secure abt. 20.000 Dol., that would have been
lost without it. The Estate from Genl. Schuyler is less than the
public expected. From what I hear Mrs. H's share will not in
its present state yield her an annuity of more than 750 Dols ;
whether it can be converted into a more productive fund is mat-
ter for enquiry. After Hamilton's death, Gen. Schuyler (having
before made his will) executed a Deed of gift, which purports to
have been signed, sealed and delivered before the subscribing wit-
nesses of about 7 acres of his homestead to Mrs. Hamilton. The
Deed was not given to Mrs. Hamilton, but remained in the
Genl.'s possession, and was found among his papers. The
Exec'rs have examined the witnesses, who say they were re-
quested to be witnesses of the execution of the Deed in question,
that they were so, but that they were not informed of the purport
of the Deed, and did not see it delivered. — Upon this evidence
one or two lawyers at Albany have given an opinion that the in-
strument is a nullity. The property is worth 18 or 20 thousand
Dollars. The Eldest son has informed Mrs. H. that he will
release any claim on his part to the 7 acres, Mr. Rensselaer will
do the same in behalf of his son. What the other heirs will do is
unknown.

That the delivery of a Deed is essential to its validity, will not
be contradicted, but what amounts to a delivery is the question.
Without much confidence in my own opinion, I am inclined to
think that a deed executed as this has been, is well executed and
that it will pass the Estate ; its remaining in the possession of the
Grantor is immaterial, provided it was duly executed by him.
Farewell & always affectionately, Rufus King.

An article appeared in the Alexandria Expositor on 19th
March, 1804, making a statement from an English corre-

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 411

spondent of certain opinions expressed by Mr. King shortly
before his return home from England. The letters which
follow will show how utterly unfounded it was.

R. King to Editor of "Alexandria Expositor."

Waltham near Boston, Aug. 22, 1804.
Sir:

By turning to your paper of the 19th of March past, you will
find the publication to my disadvantage, which was the occasion
of a letter which I wrote to Mr. Crowe, and to which I have
lately received the enclosed answer. Being absent from home,
it is not in my power to send you a copy of my letter, which
however merely covered the Editorial Article of your paper of
Mar. 19, and claimed of Mr. Crowe's justice an explicit denial
of the Comn. I am represented to have made to him. It cannot
be my desire to draw Mr. Crowe's or any other Gentleman's name
before the public, nor to give to this affair an air of importance
that does not on any acct. belong to it, but as men of exact
notions may have thought unfavorably of me, in consequence of
this publication, I am persuaded that you will not hesitate, as far
as may be in your power, to correct the misrepresentation.

With sentiments of respect, I am, Sir, yr. obedt. Servt.

Rufus King.

P.S. Mr. King leaves it altogether to the choice of the Editor
of the Expositor, to make the correction by an Editorial Article,
or the publication of this and Mr. Crowe's letter.

The letter from Mr. King was dated March 29th, 1804.

R. King to James Crowe — near Norwich, England.

Sir:

I take the liberty to send you inclosed the Extract of a letter
said to have been received in this country from a person in the
neighbourhood of Norwich, and which has been recently pub-
lished in the Expositor, a newspaper printed at Alexandria,
Virginia.

The object of this publication, so far as regards me will not be

412 RUFUS KING. [1804

misunderstood by men of correct sentiments, and I owe it equally
to them and to myself, to remove the impression to my disadvan-
tage it is calculated to produce.

As the observation, said to have been made to you, was never
made by me to you, or to any other person, I am confident that
you will take pleasure in doing me the justice to declare that I
never made to you the observation ascribed to me in this publi-
cation, nor any other of like import. To guard against accident
I send you this letter in duplicate ; and request the favour of
you, for the same reason, to return me duplicates of your answer,
addressed to Mr. Samuel Williams, 13 Finsbury Square, London,
who will without delay forward the same to me.

With sentiments of Esteem and Respect, &c.

Rufus King.

Copy of the editorial article of the newspaper called the
" AlexandriaExpositor (for the Country) March 19, 1804."

" While the United States, under the fostering influence of a dem-
ocratic Administration, are hastily progressing to a state of Pros-
perity and happiness the world never before witnessed, G.Britain
is feeling the greatest distress. It would seem almost impossible
for a native citizen of this country to form a correct idea of the
wretchedness of her state, or the manifold evils arising from the
profligate frame of her Government. It is the nature of evil to
increase itself until the mass overcomes human forbearance ; the
violent passions are let loose, and all the ties of civil society are
for a period dissolved. Happy will it be for Great Britain, if she
profits by the examples afforded by the last thirty years, now
that so large a proportion of her subjects are in arms. She cer-
tainly may be free the moment she wills it ; and it is not impos-
sible but the ebullitions of a moment may annihilate her kings
and her Nobles, her unfrocked and her ermined oppressors, and
elevate her people into men, who having rights, " know, and
knowing, dare maintain them." Anxiously we wish for so great,
so glorious an event. This wish seldom absent, is now more
deeply impressed, in consequence of letters we received by the
Princess Augusta Packet ; they are dated the latter end of No-
vember, some extracts from which we shall lay before our read-

804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 413

ers ; they will pretty plainly exhibit the state of the public mind
in England. It will also be seen that Mr. King was a little san-
guine in his expectations when there. We imagine he is not
quite so much so now. Mr. Crowe, the gentleman to whom he
expressed them, is a man of large fortune, who resides within two
miles of the City of Norwich, and of a family intimately connected
with that of the Editor of the Expositor s.

First Extract.

(After mentioning the price of corn, the situation of the volun-
teers, and other particulars relating to England, the extract
finishes in these words.)

" In such calamitous times, I have thought it best to have all
my children around me, that they may want no protection I can
give them. The scarcity of money is another evil. In taking a
hundred pounds a man does not receive a single guinea, and to
crown the whole, the wheat crops were much injured by the
mildew. I hope Mr. Jefferson continues to possess the con-
fidence he so justly merits in your nation, though I was a little
alarmed at hearing that Mr. King, your late Ambassador here,
told Mr. James Crowe that he was going back to America in
hopes of being elected President. I understood he spoke as if
he was sure of his election. I hope, however, he will be
disappointed."

Part of 2. Extract to designate the writer.

" No place is more inconvenient than Norwich by the present
state of things. The volunteers seem to feel themselves the
tools of their officers, who expect by their excessive zeal to earn
some of the good things which Government has to bestow : nor
do they like to be paraded about for the amusement of the
Ladies, or to gratify the vanity of their new made Colonels, who
never shot anything but Partridges ; and at London I assure you
they do not like to be marched about at 6 o'clock in a morning
and late at night. Some time since they refused the services of
many they would now accept. I had that honor when at Nor-
wich, for declining which I heartily thanked them many times
since, and I assure them that I never will be so foolish again as
to offer my services."

414 RUFUS KING. [1804

Jas. Crowe to R. King.

Lakenham near Norwich 9th May 1804.
Sir:

I have the honor of your letter of 29th March last enclosing
an Extract of a letter published at Alexandria in the newspaper
called the Expositor of 19th same month. I have had them some
days by me, wishing before I should send you an answer, to
ascertain, if possible, the means by which the Editor made so
strange a mistake, and as the printed letter pointed at the person
from whom it appeared to be derived, I went to him yesterday
and he readly acknowledged sending occasionally to the Editor,
intelligence from which sometimes articles had been inserted in
his paper ; but that he thinks he could not have insinuated any-
thing which could have conveyed the Idea u that I had heard you
say, you were going to America in hopes of being elected
President " nor did he understand from me I ever had any con-
versation with you on the subject.

About the time, Sir, you were leaving England, it was reported,
that on your return from your Embassy, you would probably be
appointed to a high situation in your own Country, and I re-
member observing to the person above alluded to — that I was
glad to hear it, for I thought you worthy even of being elected
President of the United States, or words to that effect. Nothing
else passed and certainly I never said to him, nor to any other
person, that you told me you had any hopes of being President ;
and I do solemnly and in the most unequivocal manner declare,
that so far from your having told me you had any expectations
of being chosen President, I don't recollect ever having heard
you say one word respecting American affairs ; either as they
concerned yourself, or any other individual, or any party in that
State, or anything relative to the Government or political views
of that Country.

I beg, Sir, you will make any use you think proper of this
letter and believe me to be with the highest respect and regard
Your most obedient humble Servt.

Jas. Crowe.

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 415

R. Dinmore to R. King.

Alexandria, 31 Aug. 1804.
Sir:

Your communication enclosing Mr. Crowe's letter of 9th May
last, I had the honor of receiving this morning. The justice you
require shall be immediately rendered and the Correspondence
published in an early Expositor, of which I will send you a
Copy.

I sincerely wish, Sir, you had either written me previous to
your letter to Mr. Crowe, or sent that Gentleman the entire
Expositor of the 19th March last. It would have prevented an
application I see Mr. Crowe made to my father, under the im-
pression that I received the information from him ; for Mr. C.
says " as the printed letter pointed at the Person from whom it
appeared to be derived, / went to him yesterday." The letter, Sir,
from which the extract was given, was not from my father but
from a relation who lives 21 miles from Mr. Crowe. Consequently
no information relative to the report could be procured by Mr. C.'s
enquiry.

Had you, Sir, first honored me with a line on the subject, I
would at once have given up my authority which would have
directed Mr. Crowe's enquiry, had you then thought it necessary
to write to him ; and as the report was published here during the
Session of Congress, I would have laid the letter itself before
any of your friends then in this Neighbourhood. This I shall
always be willing to do, as I have the letter now by me from
which the Extract was made.

Had Mr. C. received the whole article, he would have seen that
it contained Extracts from letters from three different Correspon-
dents, & I think from the internal evidence, would have known
the quarter from whence it was derived ; as he only received the
Editorial Article, his application was misapplied.

I am satisfied, Sir, you will expect no apology from me, for the
insertion into the Expositor, of the Extract alluded to. I con-
ceived my information correct, tho' I have now no doubt of its
originating in mistake ; I therefore published it, nor believing, as
I do, that the welfare and happiness of the Citizens of the U.S.
are essentially dependent on the re-election of Mr. Jefferson,

41 6 RUFUS KING. [1804

should I have felt justified in concealing Intelligence I deemed
so important.

I remain, Sir, with sentiments of respect &c, &c.

R. Dinmore.

P. S. As it is my intention to publish the above with your &
Mr. Crowe's letters, I have not identified my authority, which I
shall now do. The letter was written by my Brother, at whose
house Mr. C. generally resides, when he visits his Taham Estate.
As it might injure my Brother in England, was I to publish
him as my Authority, I prefer doing it in a part of my address
to you, which I shall not insert in the Expositor ; but I conceive
you will admit that I had some grounds for supposing my infor-
mation Correct.

Should not the above letter prove satisfactory, I will readily give
you any other which you may think more so.

R. King to R. Dinmore, Alexandria.

Portland, District of Maine, Sep. 16, 1804.
Sir:

I have duly received your letter of the 31st past. My sole aim
has been to effect the refutation of the publication to my preju-
dice contained in your paper of the 19th March, and as this will
be done by the publication of Mr. Crowe's letter to me, I can
have no motive to expect an apology from you or the publication
of anything that might prove injurious to any other person.

It is however proper that I should correct the error into which
you have fallen in supposing that only the Editorial remarks of
your paper of March 19th were sent to Mr. Crowe ; the fact
being that the entire article, including the whole of the extracts
of your correspondent's letter, was transmitted ; and the para-
graph of Mr. Crowe's letter that you have cited shows that these
extracts were before him.

As the observation, ascribed to me, is stated by your corre-
spondent to have been made to Mr. Crowe, it seemed to me that
it was to him, and to him only, that I could with fitness apply
for the disavowal that he has so fully supplied.

I am, Sir, with Respect, &c.

Rufus King.

CHAPTER XXVII.

King's Journey to Boston and District of Maine — Dinners at Salem and New-
buryport and Portland— Return to Boston— Public Dinner there— Elections
• of Presidential Electors and for a Senator of the United States from New
York— King defeated in Both— W. L. Smith to King— Friendly Wishes-
Livingston to King relative to French Negotiations — Lafayette to King —
Introducing General Moreau — Miranda's Project.

Allusion has been made to a journey by Mr. King to New
England in the summer of 1 804. After many years of absence
in England, he desired to renew his former relations with
his friends, especially in Boston, and to visit his family, all
of whom lived in the District of Maine. He had given an
intimation of his intention to Mr. Gore, who had recently
returned from England, and whom he looked upon, justly, as
his warmest and most confidential friend, as the correspond-
ence with that gentleman so clearly shows. Mr. Gore had
suggested to him at what season such a visit could be made
most agreeably :

" June & July are pleasant months here (in Boston) ; in August
you can visit your family and friends at the Eastward, and return
to us in September, and to New York in November."

Following these suggestions, he appears to have made his
arrangements to start on his journey, with his friend Judge
Egbert Benson, early in July. He passed some days in
Hartford, Connecticut, where the members of the Alsop
family, his wife's relations, lived, and he also had many
political and personal friends. No record of his visit there
is found ; nor of his arrival in Massachusetts, until we learn

VOL. IV.— 27 4X7

41 8 RUFUS KING. [1804

through a letter, July 23d, from Waltham, Mr. Gore's home,
to a friend in New York, that,

" being detained on the road, we did not reach this place till yes-
terday. The same cause that retarded our journey prevents my
proceeding at present on a visit to Boston ; having been severely
attacked by an intermittent, I am compelled to give an exact at-
tention to the restoration of my health."

He is announced in the Columbian Centinel as having
arrived in Boston on July 25th, with Judge Benson ; and by
a correspondent of the Gazette of the United States, from
Boston, on July 27th, as having been, with Judge Benson,
present at the demonstration of respect to Alexander Ham-
ilton, when Harrison Gray Otis delivered a memorial ad-
dress. Again, on August 18th, the Centinel says:

" The School Committee visited the Public Schools of Boston,
accompanied by Hon. Mr. King, Mr. Gore and a number of offi-
cial characters ; all of whom were gratified with the exercises.
Afterwards they were refreshed at an elegant dinner at Fanueil
Hall."

These are the only facts connected with this first visit to
Boston which are recorded, though there were many sub-
jects to be talked about of the deepest interest. An account
to interested friends of his life and mission abroad, the very
serious questions which had been started by former asso-
ciates relative to the outrageous acts of Jefferson's adminis-
tration, with the threat that these could be counteracted in
their influence only by a separation of the Northern and
Southern States for self-preservation ; the steps to be taken
to relieve the children of their acknowledged leader, General
Hamilton, from the pecuniary embarrassment consequent
upon his death in the midst of his active professional
career, — these and other topics would occupy many days of
earnest conversation, and enable those with whom he was
brought in contact to feel the influence of his calm judgment

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 419

and clear foresight. It was well known that General Ham-
ilton and he were both earnestly opposed to even the
thought of a disruption of the Union as a remedy for the
evil effects of a rampant democracy, but with many warm
and able federalists deprecated a resort to such an extreme
measure ; and when it is remembered that a large portion of
the federalists were for other reasons alienated from the
extreme men by personal hostility, the task of counteracting
a decided though ill-considered plan was at the same time
one which required firmness and prudence, which Mr. King
would exercise the more positively, as he had been put for-
ward as the head of the party by his nomination as their
candidate for the Vice-Presidency, — an office for which at
that time leading men were named.

Besides, he was passing his time at Waltham, the home
of those to whom he was sincerely attached, Mr. and Mrs.
C. Gore ; an attachment to the former dating from the
beginning of his professional career, and which had been
strengthened as they grew older by constant and confiden-
tial intercourse, recognizing, as both did, in each other, the
purity of character, the correct lives, the perfect harmony in
their political views, the love of the country they both rep-
resented at home and abroad, an instinctive unity of high
motives in the conduct of their public and private affairs,
and the love of a domestic and quiet and family life, where
affection ruled, and where example influenced. Both, too,
had loving assistants in their wives to brighten their homes,
to welcome their friends, and, in Mr. King's case, to help
him to bring up their children in obedient and willing recog-
nition of a parent's love and guardianship. To Mr. and
Mrs. Gore there had not been granted the blessing of chil-
dren ; but their warm hearts adopted those of their lifelong
friends, and whenever the opportunity occurred, to the end
of their lives, they never failed to show to these children,
even when grown to manhood, the same tender care, earnest
sympathy, and warm attachment, that they began to exer-
cise in their childhood.

420 RUFUS KING. [1804

Much, therefore, these friends had in common to enable
them to enjoy the recalling of the persons they had met, and
of the events which occurred during their residence in Lon-
don, both in important official positions, often embarrassed
by circumstances which they could not control, but with the
consciousness that they had both contributed to sustain the
dignity of their country and raise it to a higher plane by a
conscientious and faithful and able performance of the duties
laid upon them. They had with them also a friend in Judge
Benson, into whose willing ears and appreciative mind they
could pour out the reminiscences and suggestions of bright
and accurate observers.

Leaving the hospitable home of Mr. Gore, Mr. King ap-
pears to have made a visit to Salem, for on September 3d,

"the Hon. Mr. King, late Minister to the Court of St. James
. . . dined at General Derby's in company with a number of
respectable public and private characters." *

On August 29th, the following letter had been addressed
to Mr. King:

Newbury port, Aug. 29, 1804.
Dear Sir

The citizens of Newburyport learn with great satisfaction that
you are now on a visit to this your native State, while they have
a lively conviction of your eminent public services, they cherish
the most affectionate remembrance of you as their Fellow Towns-
man. Having learned that you are about passing to the East-
ward, they solicit the honour of your company at a publick
Dinner and ask you to name a day for that purpose which shall
be most accommodated to your convenience. In their behalf,
Dear Sir, your faithful & affectionate servants,

Moses Brown,
Dudley A. Tyng,
Edward Rand,
Ebenezer Stocker,,
William Faris.

* Columbian Centinel, September 4, 1804.

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 42 1

It cannot be doubted that Mr. King, touched by the tone
of tender remembrance, gladly accepted this invitation to
meet the old friends, among whom his professional studies
were made under Theophilus Parsons, his first causes were
tried, and by whom he had been sent, his first political em-
ployment, to the General Court of Massachusetts. It was
the city which, when undecided as to his removal from the
State to New York, he said he loved better than any spot
on the earth.

The dinner took place on Tuesday, September 5th, 1804,
and is thus noticed in the Newburyport Herald of Septem-
ber 7th.

" On Tuesday last arrived in town, the Hon. Rufus King, Esq.,
on a journey to the eastward, and on Wednesday the gentlemen
of the town provided for him an elegant entertainment at Wash-
ington Hall, where sociality and good humor attended, and
where a number of patriotic toasts and enlivening songs crowned
the repast with the most refined and unlimited enjoyment. Far
is it from us to delineate the virtues of the man, to honor whom
this entertainment was given ; it would be weakness to attempt
it, but the love and respect which his presence inspired was so
great, that every tongue was ready to exclaim, as Franklin observed
of Washington, — If my country bestowed a sceptre he is worthy
of it."

Though evidently on his way to Maine, there cannot be
found any facts to show how Mr. King passed his time
among his friends there, until he returned to Boston, a period
of more than a month, except the following account of a
reception at Portland : *

44 The Hon. Mr. King in company with the Hon. Egbert Ben-
son, has been received at Portland, in his native district, with the
most expressive marks of affection and esteem. The inhabitants
on Saturday last gave an entertainment in honor of these eminent
Statesmen."

* The Centinel, October 6, 1804.

422 RUFUS KING. [1804

On his arrival at Boston, his friends welcomed him with
what the papers announce as a " Tribute of Respect," a
public dinner.

TRIBUTE OF RESPECT.*

We are happy to learn, that the gentlemen of this town intend
giving a Public Dinner to the Hon. RUFUS KING, Esq., late
American Minister at the Court of London, in testimony of their
esteem for his exalted talents, and public and private worth. It
has been inquired why this step was not taken previous to his
visit to the District of Maine ? We can answer, there was no
place, either suitable or convenient for such a purpose — The
capacious Rooms at Concert Hall, where Entertainments of the
kind, can alone be given, were in a state of repair at that time,
and are now but just compleated.

The Dinner, we understand, will be given tomorrow.

A detailed account of this dinner is given in The Repertory \
from which the following is copied. The toasts, f which are

* New England Palladium, Tuesday, October 16, 1804.

f 1. Our Public k Ministers. In future as formerly, may our first interests be
confided to our first characters.

2. The Administration of WASHINGTON and ADAMS. The Morning
and Evening Stars of our national glory.

{After his Excellency had retired.)

3. Governour STRONG. May the excellence of his character silence the
malice which it cannot appease.

4. The State of New York. Too respectable to be the Dupe of Virginia,
may she again associate with those who are faithful to the publick liberty.

5. The CLERGY. Devoted to the best interests of humanity — may they
ever feel the calumnies of the impious to be their proudest eulogy.

6. Our Navy. May its strength protect our Commerce and its glory con-
found its enemies at Washington and Tripoli.

7. Our little Army. May it never have to bear reproach from the brave, nor
always to take it from the base.

8. HAMILTON. May our Country find indemnity for his loss, in the value
of his Counsels.

9. Union among honest Men. If it cannot displace Knaves, may it disarm
them.

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 423

here presented in the note, clearly show the tone of opinion
upon the current events, among a large proportion of the
old Federalists.

TRIBUTE OF RESPECT.

On Wednesday last a sumptuous and elegant publick dinner
was given at Concert Hall to the honourable Rufus King, our late
minister to the Court of Great Britain — This welcome to a distin-
guished citizen was manifested in a style of unusual cordiality
and splendour.

The company consisted of about two hundred. Among the
guests were his Excellency the Governor (who arrived in town

10. The Country of our Fathers. May its Spirit keep it safe and its justice
keep it free.

11. The Press. May it always correct publick opinion, never corrupt it.

12. Publick Opinion. May it be sufficient shield for Honest men and a
scourge for knaves.

13. May those Yankees who cannot endure Federal sunshine, go to Louisi-
ana for MOONSHINE.

14. May Slaves cease to be represented by freeman and may the Representa-
tives of freemen never act the part of Slaves.

15. The liberty that men seek when they are wise, and respect when they are
honest.

16. Gun Boat No. 1. If our gun boats are of no use upon the water, may
they at least be the best upon earth.

17. May we cultivate and defend the soil we already possess, without paying
or fighting for what we can neither cultivate nor defend.

VOLUNTEERS.

By the Hon. Mr. KING. The town of Boston, first to assert, may it be the
last to surrender the rights of freemen.

By Judge BENSON. The approbation of the worthy, the testimonial of
worth.

(After Mr. KING had retired.)

The Hon. RUFUS KING— whose eminent services have contributed to pre-
serve peace and amity between Countries naturally allied by sentiment and
interest.

(After Judge BENSON had retired.)

The Hon. Judge BENSON— once the ornament of the bench and always the
delight of his friends.

The Louisiana Jubilee. May it not prove to be the celebration of all foots
day.

424 RUFUS KING. [1804

that morning,) his Honour the Lieut. Governour and other publick
characters. Judge Benson and other strangers of distinction and
the reverend Clergy — The hon. Stephenson Higginson Esq. was
president, and the hon. J. C. Jones, Samuel Parkman and J.
Lyman Vice Presidents — The Hall which has been enlarged and
repaired was furnished with the most brilliant decorations, and
the whole entertainment was conducted with a sympathy of sen-
timent and " flow of soul " worthy " of men " who are conscious
that the object of their politicks and principles has ever been
" When leagu'd together, to maintain the cause
Of true religion, liberty and laws."

The bitterness of party feeling was shown in the opposi-
tion papers in Boston, and especially in the Independent
Chronicle, which on October 22d contained the following :

" As the Junto cry out ' Washington and Adams,' how comes it
about that neither Mr. Adams nor his son dined at Mr. King's
entertainments ? The fact is the old gentleman begins to find
out how far he has been duped by the Junto." *

The Yankee section of the Union. May those who began the battle guard
against being cheated out of the fruits of the Victory.

British Influence. May those who seek that secret find it, where it alone
exists — In the Ancient Dominion.

Mountains of Salt — to pickle Mammoths, and catch gulls in our new Em-
pire.

The remedy of impeachment, for obstinate Judges who will neither " die nor
resign." May the Inventors be obliged to swallow their own Medicine.

JAMES A. BAYARD. When men in power declare that such worth and
talents shalt not have place, may the people indignantly respond THEY
SHALL ! !

Our Farmers, on the Sea Coast, may their Cornfields be defended against
Gun boat No. 3.

May the grass, on WASHINGTON'S grave never again be blighted with
hypocritick tears.

Our brave tars suffering in Tripoli— Alas ! we fear that in the honey moon of
our connection with Louisiana, our Captive brethren are forgotten.

BONAPARTE. May he learn justice from the British Government, and
meekness from ours.1

* Schouler, in his History of the United States, vol. ii., p. 60, says, " King
on his return from Europe was honored in Boston by a banquet decidedly Anti-
administration in character, from which the Adamses took care to absent
themselves."

1 The Repertory, Boston, Friday, October 19, 1804.

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 4^5

Mr. Adams felt himself called upon to deny that his ab-
sence was intentional, and the answer he had given to the
Committee who had invited him to be present was pub-
lished in the Columbian Centinel.

" J. Adams presents his compliments to the Committee of ar-
rangements— Friendship for Mr. King and respect for the Com-
pany would have been more than sufficient to have induced him
to have accepted with pleasure the obliging invitation to the din-
ner in honor of a gentleman whose wisdom, independence and
integrity have done so much honor and real service to his Coun-
try ; but the present ill state of his health constrains him to deny
himself and to entreat the gentlemen to accept of his apology."

With respect to John Quincy Adams he set out for Wash-
ington on the evening previous to the dinner, for the meet-
ing of Congress early in November.

A Kingly FESTIVAL.

It is a singular apology, that in the whole town of Boston there was no room
elegant enough to entertain Mr. KING, and that the federalists had to wait 3
or 4 months after his arrival before they could give him a dinner. The truth
is, when Mr. King visited the place of his nativity ; a few federalists thought
fit to honor him with a social festival, and this little domestic circle was noticed
in the papers, as a reprimand, to the "Junto" for suffering him to remain so
long in Boston without public notice. The Junto felt the " rap over the
knuckles," and on his return had no other way to get off, than depreciating the
town of Boston, by declaring to the world, there was no hall elegant enough to
entertain him. Now be it known, that in the town of Boston, there is a large
and commodious Hall, well known by the name of " FANEUIL HALL " — A
hall sacred to liberty ! The hall in which the constituted authorities of the
town give their annual entertainment — The hall in which the Governor, Coun-
cil, and House of Representatives formerly dined on an election day — The hall
in which WASHINGTON was entertained when he visited Boston. But it
seems, the Essex-Junto, (who stile themselves Washington federalists^) thought
that Faneuil Hall was not elegant enough to introduce a man whose appellation
had any analogy to the title of KING ; a Hall whose walls had often resounded
in detestation of monarchy, was degrading to the character they were entertain-
ing. Or rather the Junto were sensible, that their toasts were so different from
the sentiments inculcated by John Hancock and Samuel Adams, they were
afraid the very stones and bricks of the building would rise up in judgment
against them. They were conscious of their apostacy, from first principles,
and dreaded lest the portrait of FANEUIL should resume a bodily vigor, and
with a patriotic ire drive from the sanctuary of liberty, the revilers of those sen-

426 RUFUS KING. [1804

timents which added to the REVERENCE of the EDIFICE; It is with

regret we observe, that Mr. King and Mr. Gore have been, through the subtlety
of the Junto, the vehicles to abuse the present administration. These gentle-
men it might be supposed, would have seen through the design of this insidious
party. *

A public dinner was given at Faneuil Hall in honor of
Mr. John Adams on October 31st, his seventieth birthday,
and Mr. King was one of the invited guests. Among the
volunteer toasts offered was the following :

" The Hon. Rufus King, whose talents and prudence have pre-
served the best interests of his country. May he receive ample
reward in the confidence of its best citizens."

Such are the only accessible memoranda of the visit to
the eastward, from which he soon after returned to New
York. The Legislature of that State met early in November,
for the purpose of choosing electors for the Presidential
election, and a Senator of the United States to fill a vacancy
caused by the appointment of General Armstrong as Minister
to France. The electors chosen were persons representing
the friends of Messrs. Jefferson and Clinton ; and the votes
for Senator were given to Mr. Samuel L. Mitchell, the Fed-
eralists supporting Mr. King as the opposing but unsuccess-
ful candidate. Thus in the same year he was suggested as
the best and most available candidate of the Federal party
for Governor of the State of New York, for the Senate of
the United States, and for the Vice-Presidency. The addi-
tional fact that his long absence from the country had kept
him aloof from personal engagement in the factional strifes
of the time, and his known moderate and conservative
views, rendered him more likely to be a successful candidate
for those high offices than any other Federalist who could
be named ; but they had lost their power, and other men
and other measures prevailed.

* The Independent Chronicle, Boston, October 22, 1804.

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 427

Wm. Loughton Smith to R. King.

Philad., Oct. 18, 1804.
Dear Sir

. . . (Referring to his brother, J. A. Smith, then abroad in
Europe) He will be much disappointed in learning the real state
of our politics, and the little prospect of an early change ; still,
little congenial as I am on this head, I am not without hopes of
one day witnessing the event he so fondly anticipated, & the
realizing of which will not only afford the greatest joy to my
brother & myself, but to every true and unprejudiced American.

In the mean time, we must continue to cherish and inculcate
good principles, &, while we endeavour to tolerate the present
things, say meliora spero. The loss of Washington, Hamilton,
and, I must add, my respected friend, Mr. Izard, endears to me
still more the few real worthies, who remain. You cannot be
ignorant that all the respectable men throughout the Continent
look to you & Genl. Pinckney as their political saviours, and that
all their measures are predicated on a wish of, and directed to,
the attainment of your future elevation to the Chief Magistr.
Great public considerations are thus superadded to those of per-
sonal regard which have bound me to you ever since I had an
opportunity of knowing you, and impel me to request you to take
good care of yourself and keep out of all those scrapes which
may endanger a life so precious to us. I am glad to find that
our friend Pinckney is at the head of the Anti-Ludling Memorial-
ists, and I trust that your sentimts are equally pacific. It was my
intention to have progressed further north this summer, at least
as far as New York, but Hamilton's death & your absence, with
other causes, contributed to change my design.

With my best respects to Mrs. King and renewal of my warmest
wishes for your happiness, . . .

Your affectionate frd.

Wm. Loughton Smith.

R. R. Livingston to R. King, N. Y.

Paris. 22 Oct. 1804
Dear Sir

. . . When I come out, which will not be till the next

Spring as I propose to spend the winter in Italy and shall leave

428 RUFUS KING. [1804

this as soon as I can resign our business to Genl. Armstrong, who
has arrived at Nantz but is not come up to Paris, ... I hope
to close my mission with an important concession on the part of
this government, which has always hitherto been refused, that of
having consuls in their Islands. Mr. Talleyrand & two other of
the ministers have promised me to use their influence that it be
granted by the Emperor, and I doubt not that it will be done.
This will be a great check upon their West India pirates.

Mr. Monroe was in Holland, & I expect him here today on his
way to Spain, where I believe our affairs do not stand so well as
might be wished, but as they will not quarrel with us I think that
by a little firmness & address they may be re-established. There
will probably be a change in the Batavian Republick : my friend
Shimelpenninck will be placed at the head of it. The prepara-
tions for the coronation are immense ; it will, perhaps be the
most superb festival that Europe has ever seen. The Pope sets
out on the 3d. Nov. to perform the ceremony. . . .

Your most obd. hum. servt.

R. R. Livingston.

Gen. Lafayette to R. King.

La Grange 26 November 1804
My dear Sir

While on your European Embassy you were admiring the
prodigies of General Moreau, or feeling for His Virtues, you
could neither fear for France the Misfortune, nor expect for the
United States the Honor of his present Situation. My Senti-
ments on the Occasion with Respect to Both Countries and to
Him, I leave you to judge, and I know you will consider these
few lines By Him as a welcome Expression of the grateful Affec-
tionate Regard of

Your Sincere Friend

Lafayette.

The probable breaking-out of war between England and
Spain suggested to Miranda, who was ever hopeful of ac-
complishing the freedom of the American Colonies from the
Spanish yoke, that an opportunity was now presented for

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 429

him to engage the assistance of Great Britain in his work.
That country was always ready to use any method of crip-
pling an enemy, but, as the letter from Miranda shows, was
not inclined to take many risks in doing so. Mr. King had
evidently been to a certain extent cognizant of Miranda's
plans, as the following letter will show :

R. King to C. Gore.

Jany 4, 1804

" Genl. M (iranda) has I conclude left England before this
date. If the question is at length settled with Spain, as it shd
have been months ago, he may yet see his wishes accomplished.
He & you know my sentiments on this subject, which nothing
can alter. I do not write to the General, because I am expecting
to hear of him in another quarter. Should he make a beginning,
the news wd. electrify this country, which contains an immense
number of individuals, who would be ready to take up their bed
and walk."

Mr. Gore writes to Mr. King from London, February 10,
1 804 :

" Gen1. M. is still here waiting the decision of this government
in relation to Spain — Possibly an original error in not considering
it as a party to the war is the cause of the present delay and of all
the subsequent errors."

Miranda to R. King.*

Tres reserve.

Londres jo (sic) Febr. 1804
MON DIGNE ET CHER AMI

C'est avec un plaisir infini que je reeois votre Paragraphe dans
la Lettre de Mr. Gore date a New York le 4 Janvr. dernier. Ma
Lettre du 21. Sept. passe est la derniere que je vous ai £crit ; et
comme ni la rupture avec l'Espagne a eu lieu encore, ni j'avois

Very Confidential.
* MY WORTHY AND DEAR FRIEND

It has given me infinite pleasure to receive your paragraph in the letter from
Mr. Gore, dated the 4th of January last. My letter of 2 rst of Sept. past, is the
last that I have written to you ; and as neither the rupture with Spain has yet

430 RUFUS KING. [1804

recu aucune nouvelle de votre part, Je n'ai pas cru apropos de
faire mon mouvement encore. Je n'ai pas besoin de vous dire les
sotises que Mr. A. — a fait depuis cette epoque, vous en aurez
juge mieux que personne. — Venons a ce qui nous regarde plus de
pres.

Voici l'arrangement que nous avons conclu ce matin avec Mr.
Vansittart. Vargas (qui est ici) doit partir sous 15 jours pour la
Trinidad afin de preparer les choses &c et je dois le suivre un mois
apres, dans un Batiment arm£, portant en meme terns les muni-
tions, armes et habillemens qui seront necessaires pour cora-
mencer par nous-memes ; ce pays-ci se reservant de venir a notre
secours apres. C'est tout ce qu'on peut faire avec des pareilles
gens, et a moins que nous ne soyons pas boulevers^s dans l'inter-
mede, par l'invasion dont nous sommes menaces.

Je compte en tout cas avec vos secours ; et dans cette supposi-
tion J'ai dressi la notejointe, afin que Mr. Gore a Boston, et vous a
New York puissent nos envoyer ce qui est le plus essentiel dans le
commencement, et selon les stipulations qui nous paraitront plus
raisonables. La Maison de Brown et Cie a Trinidad, m'a £crit
se chargeant de tout volontier, enfin selon les choses progressent
vous aurez de mes nouvelles. L'ami G — vous remettra deux
Livres de ma part, qui ont paru, depuis votre depart ; Tun par
Volney concernant les E. U d' Amerique 2. v. 8 vo., l'autre avec
de tres belles vues de Paris, qui amuseront peutetre Mad. King,
2 v. 4to par Holcroft.

Vale,

M .

taken place, nor have I received any news from you, I have not deemed it fit-
ting to make as yet my movement. I need not speak to you of the sottises

that Mr. A has made since that period ; you can understand them better

than any one else. Let us consider what concerns us more immediately.

The following arrangement was concluded this morning with Mr. Vansittart.
Vargas, who is here, is to leave in 15 days for Trinidad in order to prepare
things &c, and I am to follow him a month afterwards in an armed vessel, car-
rying at the same time the munitions, arms and equipments which will be
necessary to commence by ourselves ; this country reserving to itself to come to
our assistance afterwards. This is all we can do with such people, and pro-
vided we should not be overwhelmed by the invasion with which we are now
threatened.

I count in all events upon your help, and in this expectation I have written
the joint note, in order that Mr. Gore at Boston and you in New York may send

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 43 1

Mr. Gore wrote on April 17, 1804:

" Boston.

" As to Miranda's affair, I shall not mention a word of it until
I learn that his friend is gone out, for I think it would be prema-
ture, and I will thank you not to say anything unless, or before,
you hear from me again. He ought to have sent another letter
to me in the Downs, and from his not doing it, I fear some new
difficulty occurred with the Brit. Gov*. From what I wrote you
last autumn * you will see how he was deceived ; but as I never
told him, it could not be reasoned upon."

Again on April 20th Mr. Gore encloses in a letter to Mr.
King one from M. Vargas, in which, after wishing Mr.
Gore a pleasant voyage home, he requests him to send a
letter which he encloses to a M. Bonaventure Sire, a mer-

us whatever may be most essential in the beginning, and according to such
stipulations as may appear to us most reasonable. The house of Brown and Co.
at Trinidad has written to me as willing to take charge of every thing. Finally
as matters progress you shall hear from me. L'ami G. will deliver to you two
books from me, which have appeared since you left ; one by Volney concerning
the U. S. of America 2. v. 8vo ; the other with very beautiful views of Paris,
which will perhaps amuse Mrs. King, par Holcroft.

Vale, M

The articles wanted are the following — 20,000 good Muskets with Bayonets ;
gun powder and ammunition for ditto in superabundance — Cast iron Artillery
& ammunition for ditto, Bar Iron and Sheet Lead and a proportion of steel side
arms. For which articles payment will be given when landed on the Coast at
the rate of one hundred or one hundred and fifty per cent over and above prime
cost, of those articles in the United States of America.

Advantages offered to the Trade — Every Vessel bringing in the proportion
of one thousand muskets, (or other of the above articles in lieu thereof) for every
hundred Tons burthen, shall be entitled to the benefit of paying only one half
the customary duties on the cargoes they may bring for sale into the country —
with the advantage also of a deduction of one half the usual exportation duties,
upon all the articles, the produce of the country, which they may choose to
carry away.

All descriptions of Goods to be equally admissible into the country.

M A.

London 12 March 1804.

N. B. The Vessels to be directed to call upon the House of Mess Wm.
Brown &° Co., at Puerto cTEspagne, on the Island of Trinidad for instruction.

* R. King's Life, iv., pp. 298, 299, 305, 314, 319, 321.

432 RUFUS KING. [1804

chant in New York, who was also to receive certain letters,
books, and linen articles, and deliver them to Mr. Gore,
who is requested by M. Vargas to send them a l'lsle de la
Trinity, addressed to Mr. Vargas, to the care of Colonel
Rutherford, Surveyor-General of that island.

Mr. Vargas also says that he had passed in New York,
where he had been, under the name of Fermin Sarmiento,
by which name he is to be spoken of there, especially in
case that it may be necessary to ascertain the address of M.
Sire through the Spanish Consul, who is under no circum-
stances to be informed of the place of residence of M.
Vargas, but to be led to believe he is still in London.

In his letter Mr. Gore says :

"Vargas said they (the papers) were very interesting docu-
ments relating to S. America. Should any be procured, pray
forward them as desired."

C. Gore to R. King.

Boston May 3, 1804
My dear Sir

The particular object of this Letter is to enquire, if you have
chosen to say, or propose to any person, to do anything relative
to the Business on which M. wrote you. My reason for enquir-
ing is that I have a prospect of doing somewhat here and possibly
advantageous to myself. And the Manner or Extent, at least,
will depend on knowing whether any thing, or what may be
undertaken from another Quarter. Pray have the goodness to
answer me by return of Post, and believe me truly & ever yours

C. Gore.

C. Gore to R. King.

Boston May 15, 1804
My dear Sir

The most that has passed here, relative to the subject of my
last letter, has been like what you state to have taken place in
New York. Mr. S. H. is disposed to enter upon the Business, so
soon as anything shall have been done to render it certain that
they, who have so long fed our Friend with Hopes, intend to

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 433

promote his Wishes by a Conduct suitable to their own Interest,
& promising an Attainment of the Object. The sailing of V.
with the promised Supplies would, in my mind be strong, if not
conclusive Evidence of this Intention ; but I do not know, that
this would be satisfactory to S. H. ; yet my opinion would prob-
ably have weight with him. I have an intention, in some degree,
to be interested in the adventure, though without incurring much
Risque. I will, however, come to no conclusion, on any part of
the subject, without consulting with you.

Williams has sent me Duplicate of some Letters, originals
whereof he has forwarded, under cover to you, by the Juliana.
When received, you will please to open them & retain for your-
self all that relate to this Concern. . . .

With affectionate Regards &c.

C. Gore.

There is an intermission of correspondence on this matter
until the autumn of 1804, when Mr. Gore writes:

C. Gore to R. King.

Boston, Nov. 25, 1804.
My dear Friend :

. . . I was rejoiced to read the account of the Spanish war,
and immediately renewed my conversation with those Friends I
had before spoken to on the business, and as formerly, they were
disposed to undertake it with Spirit, and were willing to pay to
me 25 or 20 per cent of the net Profits, if any should be made on
the adventure : and I had contemplated making a journey to
N. Y., if you thought it adviseable, with the view of attempting a
similar arrangement there. If I could assure myself, free from
all hazard, enough to build me two Houses, say 50,000 Dollars I
would go there with the Cargoes, should that be deemed neces-
sary ; but this I would not attempt, except on the condition that
such a sum was secured to me before my Departure. However
all this for the present, at least, is passed by. A Letter which
was in our paper yesterday and dated in London, says that a
Merchant told — the Letter writer — that Lord Hawkesbury recom-
mended to him a Caution in trading to Spain, as the future rela-
tions between G. B. & S. were very uncertain. The writer of this
letter was S. Williams. . . .

Ever, C. G.

VOL. IV.— 28

434 RUFUS KING. [1804

In a letter of January 10, 1805, Mr. King writes this post-
script in answer to Mr. Gore's letter of November 25, 1804,
not having written during the interval, as he says :

P. S. As I must take a second sheet for a cover, I may as well
say a word or two on a subject touched upon in a former letter
from you. I refer to the Spanish war and the measures that may
grow out of it. You have seen the Eng. accounts of the capture
of the Span. Frigates : since the date of that ace*, we have no news
from Engd. Unless Spain be advised by Bonaparte to subscribe
to her own disgrace, which would not surprize me, the war at this
moment exists.

I will suppose it so ; and that the Expedition has actually
sailed for Trinidad, of which we must receive the earliest accounts.
Yet I do not foresee an immediate state of things that promises a
golden shower to those who become adventurers. If war has
been declared, it will have been first known in London, where
there are individuals ready to accompany and who will be en-
gaged to accompany the Expedition with a supply of every thing,
except perhaps provisions, that will be wanted. If so supplies of
the same sort from this country will be late, and in competition
with those from England. Besides it seems to me that something
must be begun before any steps that are not those of hazard, that
are not parts of the enterprize, can be undertaken. As to arms,
ammunition and military stores, if the Expedition be set forward
in time of war, as seems to be the probable case, there will be no
motive on the part of England to stint supplies of this sort, any
more than of goods of an innocent character. Any supplies,
therefore, that in the present want of exact information, may be
sent from this country, will be sent at a considerable risque of
loss, instead of gain. From this little sketch you will discern
the state of my opinions respecting this subject ; but admitting,
as I am ready to do, that I see the business not in its true light,
and that great advantages will be gained by the first supplies sent
from hence, I feel too clearly convinced of the justness of my
decision in another part of your letter, to express an equal defer-
ence for even your dissent from me. I allude to your going per-
sonally, with the supplies that may be sent.

On no consideration that could be promised, should you con-

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 435

sent to go. But I am satisfied that you have, even before now,
discarded the thought, if it has occurred since it first presented
itself to you. If, however, you should seriously think of it again,
before you decide give me an opportunity of being more full in
support of my opinion.

Adieu.

Such, up to the above date, are some of the facts concern-
ing Miranda's efforts, which indicate Mr. King's interest in
this plan to revolutionize the Spanish colonies in South and
Central America, and how little dependence could be placed
on the promises of Great Britain ; the Ministers holding out
hopes and arranging plans, but putting off their execution.

CHAPTER XXVIII.

Gore to King — About Pinkney of Md. — King to Gore — Personal — I. A. Smith
to King — Mission to Russia — On public Affairs in U. S. — C. King to
King — Hard Winter — Personal — Pickering to King — Trial of Judge Chase
— King to Pickering — Judge Chase — Senate Business — Pickering to King —
Arguments of Chase's Counsel — Randolph's Speech on Georgia Claims —
St. Domingo Bill — Pickering to King — Acquittal of Judge Chase — Picker-
ing to King — Nomination of Attorney General — Burr's retiring Speech —
King to W. Hope — Desires to place his Second Son in his House — King
to Samuel Chase — Congratulations on the Result of his Trial — Chase to
King — Thanking him and stating Points in the case and the Attack on the
Judiciary — Gore to King — Federalism will soon disappear — Livingston to
King — With Letter from Talleyrand relative to a Collection of Works of
Art to be placed in the Museum at N. Y. — King to Gore— Current Events
— Lord Suffolk to King — British Affairs — Gore to King — Commercial
Ventures.

C. Gore to R. King.

Boston, January i, 1805.
My dear Friend :

It is long time since I heard from you by letter, though we learn
through Mr. Wallace that you & yours enjoy good health. Mrs.
Gore is as well as I have known her for many years ; & for myself,
I am more like to die of a plethora than any other disorder. For
this is quite the season of feasting, and a man, who has his living
to obtain, cannot refuse the intended kindnesses of his friends,
although he may perish in the acceptance. As for exercise, that
is for the present out of the question. The streets and roads are
covered with ice, and a man walks at the hazard of his limbs and
perhaps of never walking again.

. . . Pinkney* sent me the newspapers, which contain the

* William Pinkney had been his associate on the Commission for the settlement
of American Claims under Jay's Treaty, and afterwards appointed by the State
of Maryland to look after its claims for the Maryland Bank Stock, which, after
many efforts for a settlement made by Mr. King, still remained undecided
when he left England.
1805] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 437

Compliments of Language & Substance, wherewith his Country-
men regaled his ears & purse. It is impossible to avoid observ-
ing the studied silence as to him, who really obtained the Boon
for Maryland and as to everything relative to our Commission.
The latter, if brought into view, might have reflected honour on
the last Administration, and to have given the due acknowledge-
ment, to the Former, might have rendered justice to a Character,
whom they wished to keep out of sight. . . .

Affectionately yours,

C. Gore.

R. King to C. Gore.

New York, Jany. 10, 1805.
My dear Friend :

Having nothing either personal or public to say, I have for
several weeks omitted to write to you ; we are happy to know
from your letter that Wallace brought us that Mrs. Gore enjoys
such excellent health, and that yours also is better than while you
were in the course of violent exercise. With the exception of
Frederick (his youngest son) and myself who have heavy colds,
we are all well. Mrs. King was never better, notwithstanding the
inclemency of the season prevents her accustomed exercise. The
Frost has prevented me from riding, and I begin, or fancy I do,
to feel the want of exercise. ... *

I. Allen Smith to R. King.

Constantinople, January 22d, 1805.
My dear Sir :

I have just been favoured with your letters and duplicates of
the 10th and 2 2d of August & regret that I was so unfortunate as
to lose that of April to which you allude. The President's resolu-
tion respecting a mission to Russia is what I always expected ;
but I should have reproached myself had I neglected in writing

* The concluding portions of this letter, except some information as to his
views relative to the education of his younger sons, will be found on p. 410 rel-
ative to the Hamilton affairs and p. 434 relative to Miranda.

438 RUFUS KING. [1805

to you to touch on a subject, which appeared to me of importance
to my country or to have satisfied, within myself, a sentiment of
gratitude which I had so much reason to feel. Although per-
suaded that the Court of Russia would receive with pleasure a
minister from the U. States, and that no period could be more
favourable for such a mission than that of the administration of the
Chancellor Vorontion, I studiously avoided ever expressing my-
self on this subject to any one, until my arrival at Astracan,
resolving to return through Russia, I took the liberty of mention-
ing it in a letter to you, & afterwards to my Brother, on my arrival
at Constantinople. I have therefore the satisfaction of having
done nothing more than what appeared to me to be my duty & of
having been ready to sacrifice my own pursuits and pleasures to
the service of my Country. . . .

I read with infinite regret the report you give me of the condition
of our public affairs. I consoled myself, after having been so long
a witness of the Evils which reign in Europe, with the idea that I
should find reason and moderation in America ; and I see with
great disappointment & sorrow, that a people whom I thought the
most capable of forming accurate notions on the important sub-
ject of liberty, have not yet been convinced, even after the ex-
perience of the French Revolution, that the shortest and beaten
road of Tyranny, is that which leads through Democracy. I per-
fectly agree with you, that, however gloomy the prospect, we
ought not to despair ; but that men of honesty and energy of
character should redouble their exertions to stem the current of
revolutionary principles in a country, which above all others has
enjoyed most the blessings of Justice & of equal laws. We re-
ceived them by inheritance from England, the only country in
Europe that possessed them, we had the courage to maintain
them and it would be folly, wickedness, and absurdity to infringe
them.

I cannot too earnestly intreat you, my dear Sir, to continue to
me the advantage & pleasure of hearing from you, for I have lost
nothing of that interest which I ought to feel for the welfare of
our Common Country, or of that profound respect & sincere at-
tachment with which I have the honour to be

Your most obliged Humb1 Serv*

I. Allen Smith.

1805] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 439

T. Pickering to R. King.

Washington, Feby. 15, 1805.
Dear Sir :

CX think I lately inclosed to you Judge Chase's answer to the
articles of impeachment. In that he referred, as you will have
seen, to several documents. These were this morning laid on our
tables. In this and one other packet, I enclose a copy.

The virulence of the party prosecuting and the aggravated evi-
dence of angry irritated opponents, had thrown some light clouds
over the Judge's character ; but in the course of the trial, I am
inclined to think that these will be dissipated. I am now dis-
posed to believe after hearing the testimony of the witnesses for
the prosecution, and some of those produced by the Judge, that
they will not find 23 senators hardy enough to condemn him.

I think John Randolph's opening Speech, as given in the Wash-
ington Federalist, is substantially correct. But the words con-
cerning the four district Judges (Peters, Bedford, Winchester
and Griffin) were more opprobrious than they appear in that paper.
Those Judges, he said, were " men of weak and feeble temper,
and of intellects" (making a considerable pause) "perhaps as
feeble." And that by pardoning John Fries, Mr. Adams "had
atoned for marry failings ; for mercy, like charity, covered a mul-
titude of sins." ;

With great respect & esteem I am yours

T. Pickering.

Rufus King, Esq.

Cyrus King to R. King.

Pepperellville, Feby. 17, 1805.
My dear Brother :

* . . . The distresses which you mention of the Poor from
the severity of the winter must be great and afflicting, especially
in a part of the country where hard winters are not frequent. In
this inhospitable region (as to Climate), where we are accustomed

* The blank refers to the receipt of a sum of money, sent by Mr. King to his
brother Richard. C. King had been educated by his brother Rufus, and was
his first secretary during the latter's mission to England.

440 RUFUS KING. [1805

to a much greater severity of weather, but few ever experienced so
hard a winter as the present ; storms of snow have been unusually
frequent and the frost intense.

I am happy to learn from you the health and welfare of your
amiable family which will always be dear to me. Our friends in
this part of the country are in general well. . . .

In gratitude and affection, I am dear Brother

Cyrus King.

Rufus King to T. Pickering.

N. York, Feby. 18, 1805.
Dear Sir :

FT give you many thanks for the copy of Judge Chase's reply,
which you were good enough to send to me. I have read it with
great interest and attention ; and I may add with equal satisfac-
tion. I am gratified that the Judge has prepared his answer in
the manner he has done, as whatever may be the result of his
trial, impartial men both now and hereafter will possess the authen-
tic means of deciding for themselves. We have heard of a rude
and disorderly debate in the H. of R. concerning the Georgia
Claim ; & some persons have conjectured that a serious division
would arise among the Democrats — nay, that it already exists, and
that Judge Chase's best hope of acquittal proceeds from it. Who
is to be the Attorney General & what delays his appointment?
does this indirectly wait for the conclusion of Chase's trial ?)
What has been the fate of the convention concerning boundaries
made with England ? has she consented to our proposed omission,
or does the business rest in the same state, as when the Senate
dismissed it? What is likely to become of your St. Domingo
Bill ; concerning which trade I am sorry to see that Mr. Merry
has intimated even opinions, that the laws & usages of nations do
not in my belief authorize. England seems to be doing for you
your business with Spain ; as in case of a war between those two
nations, we shall have little trouble to adjust our demands with
the latter.

With truth & attachment

I remain, dear Sir, yr. obed*. Serv*.

Rufus King.

1805] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 441

T. Pickering to R. King.

Washington, Feby. 24, 1805.
Dear Sir :

(i have received your letter of the 18th. The trial of Judge
Chase has progressed so far, that his counsel will finish his defence
tomorrow ; Mr. Harper closes. Luther Martin, in behalf of his
" honourable friend " the Judge, occupied the whole of yesterday,

5 J hours ; and then told the court he was too much exhausted to
conclude his argument ; assuring them, if the indulgence were
granted, he would take up but little of their time on Monday.
The Court (Senate I ought to call it ; Mr. Giles having, in our
preliminary proceedings, banished the word Court) the Senate
granted Mr. Martin's request. I regretted very much the appar-
ent necessity of this indulgence ; fearing he would occupy so
much of our time on Monday as to mar the defence of Mr. Har-
per, addressed to a court and audience (I mention the Audience,
because a numerous body of respectable people may have an
influence on judges, some of whom, tho' they have not the fear of
God, yet have the fear of man before their eyes) half-exhausted.
But I understand that Mr. Martin is enjoined, and has engaged,
positively to conclude by noon. Mr. Harper, I am told, will
speak not more than three hours ; but I much doubt the possi-
bility of his compressing within that space all he will deem im-
portant on so copious a theme. The two last Articles of the
impeachment are reserved for him (the proceedings at Newcastle

6 Baltimore) and he will notice any points which in the dis-
courses of the other counsel on the six first articles were either
omitted or too lightly touched.

There was on the part of John Randolph uncommon rudeness
in the H. of R., in the debate on the Georgia claims ; but that
will not have the smallest influence on the impeachment. The
indecent replication of the H. of R. to Judge Chase's answer was
subsequent to the abusive, impudent speech of Randolph on the
Georgia claim ; and in that replication the whole pack united as
usual. However, I am persuaded they sincerely wish they had
not meddled with Judge Chase. The testimony of the multitude
of witnesses has placed the Judge's judicial acts in a fair and legal
point of view. The managers, with a better cause, would contend
but feebly with such able counsel as appear for Judge Chase, and

442 RUFUS KING. [1805

with so paltry an one, you may rely upon it, they make a very
shabby figure. For the points of law, Rodney is their Goliath.
The managers, I learn, expect to make all their speeches in one
day — say Tuesday ; or at farthest to finish on Wednesday morn-
ing. I expect the decision of the Senate will immediately follow
without any discussion.

We know not who is to be the attorney General, nor why the
appointment is delayed ; unless it be the difficulty of finding one
of the orthodox sect of competent abilities. John Thompson
Mason of Georgetown (brother of Stephens Thompson Mason)
might have received the appointment, I have heard ; but an
uncle, without a child, lately deceased, has left him a very large
estate ; and not enjoying very good health, he declines the office.]

The British Convention is where the Senate were last year told
it would be, if they persisted in their idle amendment. Even its
name has not been lisped during the whole session, either by
President or Senator.

The St. Domingo Bill — that is the bill for clearing armed mer-
chant vessels, passed the Senate last Friday. The first section
is all that resembles the original bill, which came up from the H.
of R., and that is ameliorated. The master and owner are to give
bonds with sureties, in double the value of the vessel and her
tackle, that her arms shall not be used in any unlawful act, but
merely in self defence in case of involuntary hostility. The pe-
nal section, for punishing offences committed abroad, as if com-
mitted at home, is struck out ; and its continuance is limited to
the end of the next session of Congress. Samuel Smith intro-
duced a section requiring bonds of the master and owner, that a
vessel armed & cleared for any other port than the West Indies,
should not proceed thither unless from stress of weather. We
endeavoured to get this expunged, but failed. The Bill passed
by a great majority — 20 to 8 — . I remarked to S. Smith that the
bill did not reach the complaint of the French Minister, which
went to a total discontinuance of the trade to St. Domingo. The
French (he answered) do not now desire it ; the French Minister
has told me so ; it was only a point of honour ! —

Your two Senators voted for the bill. I also was very sorry to
see Mr. Merry's letter on this subject ; and not a little surprized
at its apparent imbecillity.

1805] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 443

Your Senator Smith has presented a bill to grant to Aaron Burr
the privilege of franking letters for the rest of his life.*
With very great regard, &c.

Timothy Pickering.

T. Pickering to R. King.

^~ Washington, March 1, 1805.

\ Dear Sir :

I have much pleasure in announcing to you the acquittal of
Judge Chase, this day. The Senators were called, alphabetically,
by the President, on which each rose, when the President pro-
pounded the question, on each article in the forms following.
" How say you ? Is Samuel Chase guilty or not guilty of a high
crime or misdemeanour as charged in the article of impeachment
now (or last read) ? " The Senator answered guilty or not guilty, f

Your two Senators uniformly said not guilty\

In great haste adieu

T. Pickering.

T. Pickering to R. King, N. York.

Washington, March 2, 1805.
Dear Sir :

fin your late letter, I think you asked me why the nomination

of an Attorney General was delayed ? I could not then tell ;

now it seems apparent. Yesterday, you will find by my letter of

that date, Judge Chase was acquitted, and at the moment I began

this letter, Robert Smith was nominated to be attorney general.

Had Judge Chase been convicted on the articles of impeachment,

doubtless Smith was to have been placed on the Bench. Crownin-

shield of Salem was at the same time nominated to be Secretary

of the Nav^Tj

The House of Representatives made short work with the Burr-
postage-Bill — they yesterday postponed it to the first day of De-
cember next.

The Vice-President just now took leave of the Senate, in a
concise & apparently extempore speech, marked by that good

* This was granted by Congress, after some hesitation in the H. of Reps.
f The detail of the votes, given in this letter, will be found in the Annals of
Congress, 1804-5, pp. 665-669.

444 RUFUS ICING. [1805

sense which you know he possesses. The Senate have unani-
mously passed a vote of thanks, in perfectly appropriate terms,
testifying the impartiality, dignity and ability with which he has
presided over their deliberations. I presume the Committee who
are to present the vote of thanks, will ask for his address, and
that both will be published.

Very truly yours,

T. Pickering.

R. King to Sam. Chase.

CoJ>y.

N. York, March 6, 1805.
Sir:

We have this morning been made acquainted with the issue of
the prosecution agt. you by the H. of R., and I cannot suffer a
mail to be despatched witht. offerg. you my sincere and cordl.
Congrats, upon the decision wh. has been pronounced. Whatever
may be due to the zeal and abilities of yr. Counsel, who without
doubt have acquitted themselves in a manner worthy of the gt.
charge they were bound to protect, I shall always believe that
much very much of that influence and authority wh. have over-
awed and confounded the settled purpose of yr. Enemies, must
be ascribed to the courageous, able, and convincing ansr. you
yourself gave to the charges preferred agt. you ; an answer wh.
not only possesses the highest merit, as a learned and satisfactory
vindication of the just and necessary power of the judiciary, but
which must remain an everlasting Record of the unworthy mo-
tives of yr. Persecutors.

Accept with my Congrats., the assurance of the distingd. con-
sidn. & Respect with which I have the honour to be, Sir, your
most ob. & faith, ser R. K.

Sam. Chase, Balt., to R. King.

13th March, 1805.

My dear Sir :

I am honored and gratified by your Congratulations on my ac-
quittal by the Senate of the Impeachment by the House of Repre-
sentatives. It has ever been my wish to obtain and preserve the

1805] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 445

Esteem & Confidence of the virtuous and sensible part of my
Fellow-Citizens. The approbation of characters like you, Sir,
affords me peculiar Pleasure and is a great Consolation to Me,
under the cruel persecution I have suffered. My answer was
principally intended as a Justification of my official Conduct to
judicial and professional Gentlemen. I can assure you that the
Evidence produced on the trial fully supported my answer in all
its parts ; and disclosed many facts that had escaped my Memory,
and will, I expect, convince every impartial man of the Rectitude
and propriety of my conduct, in the very instances charged to be
criminal. It was not alleged in any article of Impeachment, that
I had attempted to pack a Jury on the trial of Callender ; but the
Managers calling a witness for this Purpose, I consented to the
Inquiry, although I have no doubt the Senate would not have
admitted such evidence without my Consent. You will find on
perusing the trial, that this base attempt was entirely repelled.
fTn support of the 8th Article the Managers examined a Witness
to prove that in my Charge to the Grand- Jury at Baltimore, I
made a direct attack upon the present Executive, for Imbecility
in office ; for, promoting his own Interest in preference to that of
the public ; and for obtaining his Election by undue means — no
such fact was stated ; nor had I any notice of it ; but I made no
objection ; if I had, it would have been said that I was afraid of
it. I proved that the evidence was not true by a Dozen of Wit-
nesses of the very first Reputation. The name of the Managers'
Witness is John Montgomery, a democrat, a leading member of
the House of Delegates of this State. To my counsel I am
greatly obliged for the very able legal and constitutional Defence
they made for me ; for the whole labor rested on them, as I was
unable from indisposition to take any Part ; and to the Justice of
my Case and their abilities I impute my acquittal. I am in a
peculiar Manner indebted to my Friend Mr. Harper for his pro-
fessional assistance in preparing my answer, and for his Conduct
of my defence. It affords me great Pleasure to add, that a more
fair and impartial trial, conducted with greater Dignity, never
took place in any country. The trial is now in the press in this
City, & I expect will be the most accurate. I am sure you will
receive great Pleasure from the perusal of it.

The conduct of my accusers, in refusing to pay the Expenses

446 RUFUS KING. [1805

of the Witnesses summoned by my Direction, you will observe in
the votes of the House of Representatives 60 agt. and only 18 for
payment of them.

You will see by the amendment proposed by Mr. Randolph, to
the Constitution, that an attempt will be made to make the Judi-
ciary altogether dependent on a Majority of the two Branches of
the Legislature ; and by the amendment proposed by Mr. Nichol-
son, that the Senate are to become a mere diplomatic Corps, de-
pendant on the several State Legislatures. I can conceive no two
measures more radically destructive of our Constitution. I can
only oppose them by my Wishes ; my age, infirmities & the
wicked Prosecution I have suffered, have determined me never
to take any Part in any public Measure whatsoever j

I pray you, Sir, to accept my best Wishes for your Health and
prosperity & believe, that I am with every sentiment of Respect
& Esteem

Your affectionate & most obedient Servant,

Samuel Chase.

It was a matter of much anxiety to Mr. King to make
such an arrangement for the future education of his two sons,
who had now passed eight years at Harrow, and were then
in Paris, at the school of M. Thurot, engaged in studying
mathematics, French, and Spanish. The younger son,
Charles, had decided that he would prefer the life of a mer-
chant ; the older one, John, selecting that of a lawyer. The
first suggestion was to place Charles in the house and under
the care of his friend Sir Francis Baring; but, as will be
seen, though this gentleman had willingly consented to re-
ceive him, Mr. King had thought it better for such reasons
as he deemed wise, to send him to Amsterdam, under the
care of Messrs. Hope, and for this purpose he wrote di-
rectly to Mr. Labouchere in London, asking him to take an
interest in the arrangement and in the care of his son, and
to Mr. W. Hope—

1805] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 447

R. King to W. Hope.

New York, March 9, 1805.
Dear Sir :

Before as well as since I left England, T have had communica-
tion with our friend, Sir Francis Baring, concerning my second
son, who has now nearly completed his 16th year, and whom I
propose to educate a merchant. At first I thought of placing
him in London, and Sir Francis consented to receive him into
his house. But such are the amusements and vices of that great
metropolis, that I have hesitated in leaving him there, remote as
he would be from my Superintendence, and by the advice of Sir
Francis I am led to prefer placing him at Amsterdam, where there
are fewer amusements, more industry and firmer habits of Busi-
ness, provided I can there meet with a suitable situation for him.
In a late letter from Sir Francis, he informs me thro' Mrs. Labou-
chere, he would consult you and her husband upon this subject :
but as the intercourse between Holland and England is inter-
rupted, and considerable time may elapse before I can learn your
opinion thro' that channel, I have presumed upon our former ac-
quaintance to address myself directly to you.

The chief objects of my solicitude are the promotion of the
health and morals of my son and his education as a merchant.
Should you consent to receive him into your house, he would be
where I wish him to be educated, and could I indulge the hope
that he might be so associated with your sons, as to be admitted
also into your family, I should think I had attained for him the
advantage and security which a good father must be sedulously
anxious to provide.

In case it should be inconvenient for you to gratify my wishes
on either or both these points, I am persuaded of your disposition
to assist me with your friendly opinion and advice concerning the
best means of attaining my object. My case differs essentially
from what it would be were I an inhabitant of your City ; for
altho' the education of my son would then depend on his connec-
tion with some commercial House, he would live in my family
and be under my observation and control ; and it is an arrange-
ment that shall supply this constant care and superintendence
about which I am most embarrassed. Perhaps Messrs. Willinks,
or Van Stopworts, whom I know, or some other respectable

448 RUFUS KING. [1805

House would consent to receive my son ; but even then I should
be at a loss where to find that care and protection without which
a youth is liable to fall into error and misfortune.

Hitherto I have made no application to any other people on
this subject, preferring first to receive your answer, which I beg
the favor of you to send me as early as shall be convenient. Be
pleased to present my respectful compliments to Mrs. Hope, in
which Mrs. King desires to unite hers, and be assured that I am
with sentiments of great Respect and Esteem &c

Rufus King.

C. Gore to R. King.

Boston, March 10, 1805.
My Dear Friend :

. . .\_Our election has begun, or rather the preparations for
it, and an unusual degree of Heat seems to be excited, more
especially as the moral & official character of one of the Candi-
dates is most vehemently attacked, which occasioned a cudgelling
between the son of the Judge & the Printer ; and this Rencounter
seems to have demanded from the latter a reiteration and justifi-
cation of what had been before asserted. We have hopes that
Strong may be again elected ; but this is by no means certain.
Our House will be probably democratic, and I do not believe the
Senate will be any better ; and They, who are Federalists, are not
very skilful or able in supporting their cause. Probably a great
mistake was made last autumn in changing our Rep. to Congress,
for although it would not have been proper for the Federalists to
have supported the existing Member, yet their success has sent
one, who cannot render any service to the cause, & brought one
here, who can afford much support to his own Party, and taken
Him from a scene, where He could not fail of becoming an Op-
ponent to the Administration, although not a convert to those
who formerly held their Places. We appear to me to be changing
very fast, & the little Federalism that is left, will soon be no more.
We may rise to something else, but not to that. I had a letter
the other day from Pinkney, who says that He is almost deter-
mined to settle in Annapolis, that He may be elected into their
State Legislature, and endeavour to stop the Torrent. From this

805] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE.
and other Parts of his Letter, it is probable he does not side with
the present Administration. We hear nothing of Trumbull;
Does He proceed successfully ? . . **"71

We have been somewhat alarmed here the last week at the Pos-
sibility of a Peace. Our Merchants are very anxious that Great
Britain should not impair her Dignity, or hazard her security, by
any pacific negotiations for the Present

As ever yours

C. Gore.

R. R. Livingston to R. King.

Paris, 7th April, 1805.
Dear Sir :

I have the pleasure to enclose to you an extract of a letter from
the Minister of foreign affairs written to me by order of the Em-
peror & King just as he was about leaving Paris for Milan. This
was accompanied by the work he mentions, and which I shall
bring with me and deposit in the gallery of the Society for fine
arts. You will find this a very princely present, which will be from
its nature I hope not only useful to our young painters and sculp-
tors, but to such other of our fellow citizens as are occupied in
works of taste. The architect, the silversmith, the cabinet maker
&c. will find models in their respective professions that cannot
fail to impress their taste. It consists in twenty four volumes in
fol. of prints & a number of portfols. containing paintings in oil
& water colours, most of them copies from antiques & from Ra-
phael ; several views of Constantinople, Cairo, &c. I shall have
them carefully packed & hope they may arrive safe. If this ex-
tract, which is inclosed, should find its way into the paper, which
it probably will, I pray you not to suffer it to be perverted &
mutilated, as everything relative to me from here has been by
false translations, but to have the goodness to anticipate these by
publishing the original with such a translation as you shall find
accurate. Though this present together with a portrait of the
Emperor very richly set with diamonds was made me on my re-
turn from Italy, and six months after I had taken leave formally,
and of course held no office, I have thought myself bound to send
a copy of the letter (which contains no reference to my former
public character) to Mr. Madison & to submit the disposition of

VOL. IV.— 29 r

450 RUFUS KING. [1805

these gifts to the Government, if they should suppose they come
within the spirit, tho' they are certainly not within the letter of
the constitution. It is under this restriction that you must re-
ceive that part of it which is d esignedorthe society.

I hope to sail about the 10th of May & to bring James with
me. We all beg to be presented to Mrs. King. I am Dear Sir
with much esteem & regard &c.

Rob. R. Livingston.

Extract accompanying this letter :

" Extract of a letter from his excellency Monsieur de Talley-
rand ne. Germinal, au 13.

* J'ai cru qu'il vous serait particulierement agr^able de pouvoir
favoriser dans votre pays le gout des arts, et dans cette vue, J'ai
l'honneur de vous envoyer une collection de l'ancienne et de la
nouvelle calcographie des Peres et Freres Piranesi. Les desseins
graves et colores seront convenablement places au Museum de
New York et attesteront l'interet que vous nous avez inspire pour
tout ce qui peut contribuer a l'instruction et a l'agrement de vos
jeunes compatriotes.

Je vous prie Monsieur de recevoir l'assurance de ma haute
consideration. Sign6,

C. M. Talleyrand.
Son Excellence Monsieur Livingston.

The Evening Post, June 22d, 1805, gives the following ac-
count of this collection :

" This rare and valuable collection, which Mr. Livingston brings
with him consists of 24 vols, with folios of prints, together with
several Portfolios containing copies in oil and water colours
from Raphael and from antiques, Views from Constantinople,
Cairo, &c. &c. The work will not only be useful to painters and
sculptors, to many others.

* I have thought that it would be particularly agreeable to you to be able to
promote the taste for arts in your country, and with that view I have the hon-
our to send you a collection of the ancient and the new calcographie of the
Peres et Freres Piranesi. The engraved and coloured designs will be most
properly placed in the Museum of New York, and will shew the interest you
have manifested to us for everything that might contribute to the instruction and
gratification of your young compatriots.

1805] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 45 1

R. King to C. Gore.

New York, May 2, 1805.
My dear Friend :

. . . I cannot help regretting that Robbins and Cobb are
likely to fail in yr. election, in part on their accounts personally,
but chiefly as their failure may be reed, as certain evidence that
Strong will follow them into retirement. To you who think and
feel as I do, it wd. be superfluous to express my sentiments on
this most interesting subject. I will only say that it wd. be an
honest consolation to hope even that an amendment is likely
to happen ; but to do so would be folly.

I do not very well understand the state of Parties in England,
still less the views of the Northern Powers ; as to Peace, it can-
not take place at present, without humiliation to France or Eng-
land ; and neither is in a disposition to submit to it. I can well
enough comprehend the views of Bonaparte in making the over-
ture ; and the answer of England was both discreet and, as I sup-
pose, decisive. But the affair continues to be talked of, and the
politics of Russia are to me mysterious ; still I do not believe
there can be peace in the present relative condition of the Parties.

Where the secret Expedn. is bound I can't divine ; perhaps to
So. Amer. ; but from the tenour of the debates in Parliament, I
hesitate in believing so, tho' where else unless to the Cape of
Good Hope I cannot conjecture.

Pray are you about to engage in any venture abroad ? tell me
your projects, perhaps I may solicit a concern. I must endeav-
our to do something wh. shall help my Revenue, so fast do the
disbursements increase. We are here very expensive and the
passion grows stronger, as well as becomes more diffused. In
Boston too I suspect you find a difference between the present
and past times.

We have no letters from the boys since they arrived at Rotter-
dam (on their way to Paris), but hope soon to hear that they are
safe and settled with Thurdt. Livingston intended to embark in
Apl., but as he was at Rome late in Jan'y, I think he will not leave
France before May, so that we shall not see James earlier than
June. I am greatly at a loss what to do with Edward, there being
no good school near here, and I don't much like to send all my
children so far from us as we may be forced to do. . . .

Always yours R. K.

45 2 RUFUS KING. [1805

C. Gore to R. King.

Boston, May 8, 1805.
My dear Friend :

I had still some intention of hazarding some adventure abroad.
My expenses here are considerably greater than the same comforts
would have cost me a few years since. . . . With this view
(to increase his means) I have contemplated making some ship-
ments ... to Holland or England. The last year most
of the articles shipt from hence, either of West India or E
India produce, netted a profit of 25 per cent ; and it is not im-
probable that I may embark in some project of this sort in the
course of the present or next month. Should this or any other
scheme have the appearance of being successful, I will communi-
cate it and shall be happy in your taking any share or part. . . .

Yours truly

C. Gore.

Lord Suffolk to R. King.

London, May 20, 1805.
Dear Sir :

Indisposition for a considerable time, and a wish to have ad-
dressed my answer to you in that Rank and Station, which I hope
you will one day fill, have hitherto prevented my answering your
obliging letter, for the contents of which I was prepaid from an
answer given by Gen'l Washington on the same subject some
years since ; for though the Validity of a part of the claim was
acknowledged by him, he was of opinion that Restitution
could never be obtained. I was willing to make one more effort
for the sake of two natural children, whom my brother left be-
hind him, to whom a considerable share was left by will, if any
part of the property could have been recovered, but which I shall
now consider as entirely out of the question.

In this country we have had a very warm political session with
most of the great Talents on the side of opposition ; which you will
be convinced of when I mention the names of Mr. Fox, Mr. Grey,
Sheridan, Whithead, and a young man who has greatly distin-
guished himself Ld. Henry Petty, and of Irish members Mr.
Grattan and Mr. Ponsonby. These are oppos'd by the single

1805] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 453

Talent of Mr. Pitt, for as to his coadjutors (such as Ld. Castle-
reagh and Mr. Canning) they as frequently hurt as benefit his
cause. In the House of Lords there is equal deficiency, now
that Ld. Melville is, I believe, on the Eve of Impeachment, he
has no one that can be compar'd to Ld. Grenville. But political
Talent seems to me out of the question. I believe it to be the
wish of Mr. Pitt only to make use of minor characters whom he
can easily rule and direct. This may go on for some time, but it
is in my opinion not a system to be permanent. Much will de-
pend on the health of the King, who certainly looks extremely
well, but is now so lethargick, that at a review of near 2000
artillery a few days since, notwithstanding all the noise of cannon,
&c, he was frequently asleep, and cou'd with some difficulty be
rous'd.

Such our internal situation ; as to the external, you are much
better acquainted with and can much better appreciate it than I
can pretend to form a Judgment of what will be the Result of this
eventful war in which we are engag'd. Shall not therefore hazard
any sentiment how soon, or in what manner it is likely to termi-
nate ; but with many thanks for the trouble I have given you and
many wishes for your welfare & happiness

I remain, Dear Sir, your oblig'd & faithful servant,

Suffolk.

All my family join in kind remembrance to you & Mrs. King.

CHAPTER XXIX.

King to Gore — Miranda about to sail — Monroe's Failure in Spain — Yellow Fever
in N. York — King at Rockaway — His Son James — Pitcairn to King — Seizure
of American Vessels — Gore to King — British Interference with Trade of U.S.
— Would it have been so, if King had been in England ? — W. Vaughan to
King — War in Disguise — Neutral's Rights — King to Gore — New Coalition
in Europe — Effect on American Trade — Wilberforce to King — Sends War
in Disguise — Acting on the System recommended indispensable to England
— Miss O. Southgate — Opinion of King — King to his Sons in Paris — King
to Morris — Celebration of 25th November — Pickering to King — Treaty
with Tripoli — Gore to King — Miranda cannot expect Help — Boston Mer-
chants fear Depredations on Commerce — Suggest King as Minister to Eng-
land— Gore to King — President's Message — Breck to King — Bank of U.
States — Pickering to King — No great Measures before Congress — King to
Gore — Merchants Alarmed — Proposal to urge his Appointment to England
— King to Pickering — President's Foreign Policy.

R. King to C. Gore.

Rockaway, Sept. 15, 1805.
My dear Friend :

Yesterday I received a letter from M dated . . . July 13.

"Apres des inconsequences et des retards inconcevables et in-
supportables, nous voila sur le point de partir — je compte de
m'embarquer dans le courant de ce mois, et de vous envoyer
quelqu'un, ou de vous voir moimeme, &c, J'envoye ce meme avis
a notre ami G "

Probably you have a letter by the same conveyance. Lest this
should not be the fact, I send you the above extract. I apprehend
from the earnestness with which succour is urged, that the means
with wh. he is furnished are most inconsiderable, — perhaps he is
merely sent out in a ship going to the Island of Tr., and that his
chief hopes of assistance are derived from the posture of our affairs
with Spain. It will soon be better understood, by the further
communication that is promised, till when, though the affair may
be matter of reflexion, nothing can be done. We know nothing
1805] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 455

except what the News Papers tell us concerning our relations with
Spain. Monroe has returned to England, his mission having
totally failed. The objects of negotiation were the enlargement
of C. Pinckney's Spanish Convention, so that it might include the
cases of French captures, the sale and condemnation of which
were had in Spanish ports and the settlement of the limits of
Louisiana.

To the first Spain is understood to have answered that she could
not interfere with proceedings had under the authority of France,
and to the latter that we had possession of Louisiana already, its
limits westerly being the ancient French Possessions and easterly
the Mississippi and eastern shore of New Orleans — backing this
reply with extracts of dispatches from Talleyrand to Cevallos,
which show that France agrees with Spain on both points.

It is likely that Monroe held a lofty language in his communi-
cations with the Span. Court, but supported as they are by France,
he has been treated with contempt. What will be the conduct of
our magnanimous administration remains to be seen. My own
belief is, notwithstanding the superior value of West Florida, and
the time that has been made use of, that our present cabinet will
do nothing. If so, and M. be without adequate succour from
England, he will do nothing.

Our afflicted city is nearly depopulated, and we are aprehensive
that we shall not be able to visit our homes until the 10th of
Novr. Until yesterday Mclntyre and our other servant have been
in town ; He is now with us together with our other servants ex-
cept the Cook, who is a frenchman, not much apprehensive of the
fever, and who, moreover, has some connexion in the City that he
does not like to have known. We are all well, and what Mrs. G.
will think wonderful, Mrs. K. has become a bather ; she has
bathed three mornings and intends going on. I think it will be
of service to her general health, especially after the alarm that has
attended her first attempts has entirely subsided — in a great meas-
ure it has already left her.

We received yesterday a well expressed and satisfactory letter
from James, dated at Dr. Gardiner's.* He seems well pleased,
and assures me that he is duly sensible of diligence and attention.
I need not express to you, my dear friends, how anxious we natur-

* In Boston.

45^ RUFUS KING. [1805

ally are concerning the success of our children ; you, who more
than any others, know our way of thinking, our hopes, and our
solicitudes, will enter into our views and feelings, and do whatever
may best conduce to the education of the child we have placed
near you. He is at present without vice and, with a fine temper,
is not deficient in understanding. Treat him in every respect as
your friendship for us may recommend. He will be sensible to
your kindness ; as well as obedient and respectful to your control.
We feel none of the anxiety arising from absence, since we are
convinced that James is in every respect as safe and as advan-
tageously placed under your observation and instruction as he
would be under our own. With affectionate regards in which
Mrs. K. joins me to Mrs. G., I am most faithfully yours,

R. K.

JOS. PlTCAIRN TO R. KlNG.

Hamburg, 25th Sept., 1805.
Dear Sir :

The French Minister, de Bourienne, formerly Secretary of
State and still friend of Bonaparte, has since June ruled here
with unlimited sway ; he lately caused a ship belonging to Mr.
Keith of Virginia to be seized and obtained an order from
Bernadotte to sell her, alleging that she belonged to Reuben
Smith, another American, whom he accused of enlisting men for
the British foreign troops. He rejects all proof that the vessel
belongs to Keith, and has brought her under French colours from
Cuxhaven to Hamburg, at the time the French evacuated that
place. Mr. Forbes our consul here has endeavoured to get pos-
session of her by the ordinary course of Law, and by demand as
American Agent. To this moment he has not succeeded ; but
no one will buy her, and they will on the final leaving of Hanover
be obliged to let her go, or destroy her. As 't is probable this
matter will come before our Government I thought you would be
glad to know the particulars. . . .

With perfect esteem and gratitude, dear sir
Your obed. Servant

Jos. PlTCAIRN.

1805] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 457

C. Gore to R. King.

Boston, October 7, 1805.
My dear Friend :

. . . The Galen has arrived here from England, and con-
firms the accounts heretofore received of the Disposition of the
Brit. Ministry to limit our Trade within very narrow Bounds.
Indeed the Spirit that was evidenced in the capture of the Essex,
Orne, with the natural consequences of her condemnation, ought
to lead our merchants to expect the sending in for Examination
all their vessels having on board the Colonial Produce of the
Enemies of England. I do not see that any evidence on board
the ship can show what the British Courts demand to be proved,
viz, that it was not the intention of the Importer from the Colony
to ship the article to Europe.

Before a Decision had taken place on the Essex's cargo, it is
possible the thing might have been placed in such lights by an
intelligent Minister, as to have prevented the Decree. Mr.
Monroe was not in England then.

Our Merchants are anxious for their Property, and irritated at
a Conduct in the British, which they think not only unjust, but
perfidious. They believe if you had been in London, a different
State of things would have existed : and they are now sagaciously
asking if Mr. J. would ask you to go there, and if he did, whether
you would consent. Perhaps there is a like probability of either.

Yours truly

C. G.

William Vaughan to R. King.

London, Oct. 9, 1805.
Dear Sir :

. . . . I beg your acceptance of a pamphlet that has just
made its appearance here, that will from its subject and the part
you took on the question while minister from the United States,
prove more interesting to you. It is entitled War in Disguise or
the frauds of the neutral flags. It is attributed to a Mr. Stevens,
a lawyer of some repute and ability, who has been in the West

458 RUFUS KING. [1805

Indies and who has considerable practice in Appeal Causes. It
may perhaps be rather considered as the brief of an advocate
than as the decision of a Judge. I do not conceive that Sir
Wm. Scott will adopt it indiscriminately as his model either as to
its Temper or its conclusions, though it is probable that the
Question about the Rights of Navigation of Neutrals in war to do
what they cannot do in peace will be more narrowed in its prin-
ciples in this war than in the last.

Though you are removed from the theatre of war and of infor-
mation, you will not remain an uninterested spectator as to what
is going forward on the Continent respecting the new war &
new coalition. The proclamation of the different powers will
show their creed or intentions, and may be considered as the
articles of an immense partnership with the heads at an immense
distance from each other, and where their capital and enterprize
must depend on minor agents. All parties are rushing to one
point rather more equipped for a march than for an engagement
as yet until every man is at his post. Success will be various, but
the result is yet to be known. Great hopes are entertained about
Russia. . . .

With great respect your mo. ob. humb. servt.

Wm. Vaughan.

R. King to C. Gore.

Jamaica, L. I., Oct. 28, 1805.
My dear Friend :

We came hither about a week since, and as the weather has
been favourable and the health Comtee. have invited us all back,
have sent a servant or two to town to prepare our house. . . .

Our latest News from Europe makes it probable that a new
Coalition has been formed ; it is to be hoped the allies have been
secret as well as active, for unless Austria be herself well prepared,
and moreover seasonably as well as vigorously supported by
Russia & England, she will be sure to suffer severely by the irrup-
tion of the French Armies. Recollecting the separate views of
the former Coalition, the want of common object, honourable to
the Allies, and not humiliating to France, we may expect a mani-

1805] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 459

festo from the new Coalition, correcting the former Error and
such as shall deserve the approbation & good wishes of all other
nations. If the Coalition are successful this autumn or make any
serious impressions on the Power of Bonaparte, England will be-
come haughty and elated, and in this temper I shall fear most
serious depredations on our Trade. In respect to the late deci-
sion of the Court of Appeals I have not yet seen so correct a
Report of it as enables me to form a precise opinion of its Extent ;
if it go no further than to restrain the Exportation of Colonial
Produce in the vessel in which the same was imported, unless an
intermediate voyage shall have been performed by her, the abridge-
ment wd. not be very important ; but if the negative proof, which
you mention be demanded, there can be no security in sending
Colonial Produce from the U. S. to Europe ; this wd. be so ex-
travagant and so unjust that I cannot suppose the Principle is,
has been, or will be insisted upon. Another reason why I discredit
the operation of this Doctrine is derived from the disjointed and
feeble condition of the Br. Cabinet at the date of the Decision :
a new Principle of this comprehensive nature w? not be adopted
by feeble, ill-assorted and recently connected men — and my
present persuasion is that the mere touching, and passing a
Colonial Cargo thro* our Custom House, and then proceeding
with the same ship & Cargo to Europe, has been considered as too
slight a security ag* Fraud, and that the decision has been such as
to put an end to this particular mode of trade. . . .

Always & faithfully yrs.

R. K.

Mr. Wilberforce to R. King.

Umdon House, New Birmingham, Nov. 7, 1805.
My dear Sir :

Before I enter upon the Subject, which gives occasion for my
now addressing you, let me assure you, with perfect sincerity,
that I retain a lively sense of the pleasure & advantage I have
often derived from your Society, during your too short residence
in this country, and that I shall ever continue to feel a warm
interest in your happiness & welfare. I heartily wish this letter

460 RUFUS KING. [1805

may find you in fl. enjoyment of domestic comfort, the best of
this world's blessings, and of good health ; and while I am on
this head, let me beg my best respects to Mrs. King and any of
your younger ones who may remember me.

The object of my now writing to you, is to recommend to your
serious perusal a pamphlet lately published in this country en-
titled War in disguise, or ye frauds of ye Neutral Flags. To
you, who from personal experience as well as general knowledge,
are so thoroughly versed in all that concerns this subject, I
scarcely need go on to state the general tenor of the Pamphlet,
its very title will make that sufficiently clear. Neither will I
anticipate any of its contents. I will however state what I know
will convey to your mind an impression of its being a work of
ability, and allowing for the bias, to which we are all liable from
self interest, of its sound principles also, that it has received the
warm approbation of Sir Wm. Scott. I will frankly confess to
you that I was strongly prejudiced against the conclusions which
I understood it was the author's object to establish, from a fear
lest their practical adoption might at least weaken that cordiality
between our country & yours, which to you, who know my moral
as well as my political principles & feelings, I need scarcely say,
it has been ever, & still is, my earnest wish to cultivate and im-
prove. But serious Reflection has forced on me the persuasion,
that our acting (I will not affirm too hastily to what precise extent)
on the system recommended by the work in question, is, according
to all human appearances, indispensable & necessary not only to
our interest, but to our very existence. I happen to know that
the Pamphlet was written rapidly, tho' by a man long & familiarly
acquainted with his subject, & the part in which it appears to me
the most defective, is that wherein it states the consequences of
ye continuance of ye present system, to our maritime greatness.
Much more might have been said on that head ; which however
your acquaintance with History will readily supply. I shall be
very anxious to hear what reception the Doctrine meets with on
your side of the Atlantic. The self-interested will of course en-
deavour to raise a cry ; but if men of sound principles and deeper
views, men of Judgment, Equity & Impartiality admit that Jus-
tice warrants and Self Defence enforces our Govt's adopting the
measures (in ye. main) prescribed by ye writer in question, their

1805] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 461

opinion will more, I trust, than counterbalance the sentiments &
efforts of men of a different description. But how does this very
state of things bring to my recollection & enforce on my feelings
the important truth, on which you & I have often expressed our
concurrence that Govts, which wish to cultivate a friendly con-
nection between the countries to which they respectively belong,
would do well to be assiduous in embracing every fair opportunity
of testifying this Disposition. They would meet with more ready
& implicit credit when they affirm that they are actuated by simi-
lar Inclinations, on occasions which are less clear, and where they
may be supposed to be more likely to be under the influence of
Self Interest.

But, my dear Sir, you know us Englishmen, such as we are,
our good qualities and our bad ones, & I would venture to affirm
that your Residence in this Country may have produced impres-
sions concerning the personal character of my countrymen which
Books alone never would supply & thereby enable you to account
for instances of conduct otherwise inexplicable. It will give me
pleasure to hear of your welfare, & if any of your friends should
visit this country, I should feel a gratification in rendering them
any good offices in my power & doing any thing I might be
able to make their stay among us agreeable. Once more I remain,
my dear sir, with great esteem and Regard, &c.

W. WlLBERFORCE.

P. S. You will, I am persuaded, be glad to hear that I have the
happiness (I thank God) to enjoy great domestic comfort. I have
now 5 children, but Mrs. W.'s health is but very indifft. since her
last confinement. Our friend Montague & his nums. flock are all
well. Lord Harrowby has taken his eldest son with him to Ber-
lin as an introduction to business. He does great credit to his
domestic education in every way. . . .

C. Gore to R. King.

Boston, 9 Nov., 1805.
My dear Friend :

I received from you Extracts of two letters of Genl. M., who, I
fear, would not find any so well disposed to promote his views
now, as last year. Losses & Disappointments render our mer-

462 RUFUS KING. [1805

chants more cautious & timid & their Sanguine Expectations, in
the year past, have probably much diminished their means.

Our last accounts from Europe would incline us to hope that
Great Britain had foreseen & in some measure prepared for the
state of things that now exists on the Continent. How far Austria
may have provided to meet or divert the Forces of France is left
altogether to Conjecture. Should the Coalition be successful, our
Trade would undoubtedly feel the depredating Spirit of the
British Cruizers, and the Fears of our merchants will be dread-
fully realized. Judge Croke, at Halifax, seems disposed to catch
at the smallest Pretence, for passing Decrees of Condemnation :
and many of the Decisions in England go but too far in counte-
nancing the Rules he seems to have adopted. The Case of the
Essex was a vessel loaded with the Produce of old Spain, bound
from the U. States to Havannah. It seemed that she went from
Salem to Barcelona & bound thence to the E. Indies, meeting
some accident, or not being able to procure Dollars, she re-
turned to Salem, landed her Cargo, which was on Shore for
several months, but not finding a market, the owners shipt it in
the same ship for the Havannah. Vessel & Cargo condemned
on the ground, that it was all one voyage, the foregoing circum-
stances notwithstanding, To say the least, they manifestly require
different Evidence of the Intentions of the Owner, relating to
Colonial Produce, shipt from the U. S. in its original Importation
than formerely— and in case of the Importer into the U. S.,
transhipping it to Europe, they demand Evidence of his Inten-
tion which, it would seem to me, cannot be on board the Vessel ;
and I should fear that every Ship having on board Colonial Pro-
duce, might be lawfully seized by British Cruizers — and indeed
we have a case stated, if correctly, that confirms this Idea. A
vessel, bound from Norfolk with Sugars, whh. her owners pur-
chased there, was seized in the Channel & ordered for London ;
after she was in Possession of her Captors, she ran against Dover
Pier & bilged, so that the sugars were all lost. The Vessel was
tried and acquitted, but no Damages given ; There might have
been other circumstances in the Case, not related, which may
have justified the Denial of Damages, but as reported it goes the
Length I have mentioned.

Our Government, with the various Claimants on their Spirit

1805] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 463

and their negotiating Talents, will have a plentiful Source of Em-
barrassment. If they could only use some of the Complaints to
excite and keep up an irritable State of the public mind against
G. B., it would (be) an excellent medicine for their political Pur-
poses. But I think the Administration will be fearful of en-
couraging this Temper, lest it should go beyond their Views, and
carry them into Scenes, to which their Talents and pecuniary
Resources, as they have lowered and cramped the latter, should
prove incompetent. .

Ever truly yours,

C. Gore.

The following letter, though out of place as to date, from
Octavia Southgate, niece of Mr. King, gives her impressions
of him on July 1st, 1804.*

" The family I am now in, however have reconciled me very
much to this place. I am about 4 miles from New York, at Mr.
Murray's. You heard me mention this family as uncommonly
amiable. To me they supply in a great measure the loss of my
own. I am delighted at having an opportunity of spending a
week with them in this way. Aunt (King) has been drinking tea
with us this evening. She tells me they commence their journey
this week. They are very solicitous for me to go with them ; but
Elisa will so soon follow them, that I don't think it will be so
pleasant. . . . Aunt King will suit you exactly. She is a
charming, easy soul and I am sure she will be your favorite
among your Aunts. Uncle pleases me more every day. He has
laid by his accustomed majesty — to tell you the truth, for a long
time I looked up to him as a superior being ; his presence awed
and charmed me. I gloried in him and felt a sensible pride

* The editor is indebted for this letter to Mrs. Emily E. Ford, of Brooklyn,
N. Y., who thus writes : "Ina letter from Octavia Southgate to her brother
Horatio, who married for his second wife Mary Webster, my aunt and fourth
daughter of Noah Webster, I found this passage, relating to her uncle." The
journey, to which reference is made above, is that which was taken by Mr.
King to New England and to visit his relatives there. This is another evidence
of the fact that it was planned before the duel of Hamilton was decided upon.
See R. Kings Life, vol. iv., p. 390.

464 RUFUS KING. [1805

whenever I looked at him, but the idea of loving him never
entered my head ; He always was attentive to me and appeared
to be pleased to see me ; but he always called me Miss South-
gate j but since I went to Long Island with them he is totally
changed. He speaks to me in the most affectionate terms, calls
me his daughter and introduces me to all strangers as his niece.
I now confess him to be when he pleases, a man of the most in-
sinuating manner I ever knew/'

Mr. King, who had long desired to make his permanent
residence in the country, near New York, bought, on the
20th November, 1805, from Mr. Christopher Smith's estate,
a farm of about sixty acres of arable land with about 30
additional acres of woodland near by, at Jamaica, Long
Island, fronting on the main road between Brooklyn and
Jamaica, to which he removed with his family on May 20,
1806. It is probable that his attention was drawn to this
place by the fact that Mr. Alsop's estate held a mortgage
upon the property, and also because of the proximity to a
village where the Episcopal church, good schools, and a
post office were of easy access and in a healthy part of the
country. He speaks of these things in his letter to his sons,
alluding also to the advantages afforded on Long Island for
those who loved, as he did, hunting and game. It has al-
ways been believed that his wife's instance decided him in
making the purchase and residing there permanently.

It may here be said, though a little before the time, that
he immediately began to make improvements in the house,
and in the autumn of the following year to plant trees, fruit
and ornamental, and shrubs. The pine and fir trees were
sent to him through his friend Mr. Sheaffe, of Portsmouth,
from New Hampshire, and are said to be among the first
planted in that part of Long Island.*

* Mr. King, as his eldest son wrote of him, was a careful, and therefore a
successful planter of trees and shrubs, in both of which he took great delight.
He was also a good botanist, and loved the song of birds, which soon began to
frequent his thrifty plantation, where they ever found shelter and protection.
Some large oaks now stand near the house, the acorns of which he planted.

1805] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 465

R. King to his Sons, Paris.

New York, Nov. 24, 1805.
My dear Sons :

Within a few days past we have reed, your letters of the begin-
ning of Sept. : John's letter is dated before the distribution of
Prizes, Charles' the day after. Today Mr. LeRoy, father of the
young gentleman of this name, who is with you, sent me the fol-
lowing extract of a letter from Mr. Cazenove, who resided with
M. Talleyrand when we were in Paris — viz.

6. Septembre, 1805.
" J'ai assiste hier a la distribution des prix a la pension de Mons.
Thurot : la compagnie etait tr£s nombreuse, presidee par un
Senateur qui a remis les couronnes aux vainquers, et composee
des Parens et des amis de cette belle jeunesse, qui etait assise en
Amphitheatre au fond de la salle. Ceux qui avaint gagne des
prix sortaient des rangs, et au son de la musique s'avancaient
vers l'Estrade ou les Maitres et les Professeurs placaient les
couronnes. Cette Ceremonie tr6s solenelle et attendrissante
eveille a un haut degre" l'emulation des Etudians. Dites a Mons.
King (en me rappelent a son souvener) que j'ai eu grand plaisir
de voir ses fils s'avancer a plusieurs reprises pour recevoir des
palmes qu'ils avaient merite ; leur noble & agr^able figure et
maintien £taient remarques de toute l'assemblee : ils joignaient
au regard assure* et la tete elev^e d'un etre qui se sent, la modestie
et la douceur que caracterisent tant leur pere. Sans exageration
le genie et la probity leur sortaient de tous les Pores."

I am really unable to describe to you the Emotions of Pride &
satisfaction, which I have received from your letters and the Re-
port of Mr. Cazenove. We have read them over and over again ;
and mother wears them in her Bosom ! Go on my deserving and
beloved Sons, continue to excel, and you will thereby not only
give to your Parents the richest and best reward of their tender
and affectionate Cares, but be sure to obtain the success and
applause among your Countrymen, which good and great men so
ardently desire. I have communicated to Mr. & Mrs. Gore, and
to some other of our intimate friends the distinction you have
acquired, and as Mr. Le Roy will show Mr. Cazenove's letter to

VOL. IV. — 30

466 RUFUS KING. [1805

his friends, I anticipate the Congratulations of my friends and
acquaintance on the reputation you have gained.

Within a few days past I have purchased a place in the Coun-
try. It is about 12 miles from town, at Jamaica on Long Island.
The house is not fashionable, but convenient, the outhouse good
and the Grounds consisting of about 50 Acres, sufficient to give
me Pasture for my Cows and hay for my Horses. In addition
there is at half a miles distance between thirty and forty acres of
Woodland. In the village of Jamaica is a Church & Post Office,
and family supplies are plentiful, good and various. A Stage
goes & returns every day between Jamaica & Brookline, the town
on Long Island opposite to New York, between which there is a
Ferry. Long Island is the finest sporting country perhaps in
America ; besides which the roads are good & the Rides pleasant,
& numerous.

How happy shall we be when the Time arrives of the reunion
of our family ; how greatly will the pleasure be enhanced, should
our Sons return with pure morals, cultivated minds and polished
manners !

I shall write to Mr. Parker in a day or two ; in the mean time
present to him my Regards — if I can find any one going to Paris,
I will send you such of the vols (I believe 3) of Washington's
Life as are published.

Adieu my dear sons,

(signature burnt).

P. S. The fever disappeared early in this month — not more
than 254 died this year of this malady. We returned to town
about the 10th. having passed almost 4 months on Long Island.
My new house is well forward and will be finished so that we
may occupy it next autumn, during the winter we suspend the
work. Mr. Chs. Williams called on us as he passed thro' town.
It was a satisfaction to see him, as he had so lately seen you.

Rufus King to Gouverneur Morris.

Sunday, 1 o'clk, Nov. 24, 1805.
Dear Sir :

I have received and will immediately forward your notes to
the Mayor & Genl. Morton. The military will be disappointed
that we have not given their invitation a preference ; they say
they shd. not have made a dinner but on the appearance that the

1805] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 467

Corporation wd. this year decline giving one, and it being proba-
ble that others have decided as we have, I have intimated to
Genl. Stevens, who has just left me, that we may, perhaps, have
it in our power to make him a visit after leaving the Hall * ;
Moreau is expected this evening, will stay with Genl. Stevens,
who desires that you & I will dine with him on Tuesday.

faithfully yrs

Rufus King.

P. S. Gore is not returned, I have no room unoccupied, but
we shall find one for you. Another year we will order things
better.

%

. Gore to R. King.

Boston, 25 Nov., 1805.
My dear Friend :

. . . I am afraid that Miranda will meet with Disappoint-
ment, if He expect much Assistance from this Quarter. Had he
been associated, as he hoped, considerable aid might have been
counted upon here. In addition to the natural want of Confi-
dence, that arises from his Exertions being single & unsupported,
there is a general Gloom among mercantile men & indisposition
to adventurous Speculation, from the severe Losses they are daily
experiencing by the British Captures. The last accounts from
England bring accounts of the Condemnation of Property where
the only Grounds could have been that it had been imported &
exported by the same Persons ; for the Vessel was changed. The
goods had been ashore several months, and advertised for sale in
this Market, and there was not the smallest Pretence that the
Property was other than neutral. In the Gazette of this Day,
you will see a statement of the Principles said to have been
adopted in the Admiralty Court, under an account of the Capture
& Release of the Ship Three Thomas. This was written by
Samuel Cabot's son, & is noted in the Letter as a Quotation ; we
suppose it to have been so stated by S. Williams.

* Diary and Letters of Gouverneur Morris, ii., 470, November 25, 1805.

" After dinner, Mr. King and I visit a party to which we were invited — a
large dinner given to General Moreau.

" Miranda has been down, and, as we expected, met with no encouragement.
He is now engaged in a project which would be wise if backed by this country,
but appears wild in its present form." — Diary and Letters of Gouverneur
Morris, ii., 470, November 25, 1805.

468 RUFUS KING. [1805

Some of our coolest men, such as William Gray of Salem,
David Sears & the like of this Town, are extremely violent. The
times are becoming as portentous in our Relations with Great
Britain, as when Mr. Jay went to England. However, They, one
& all, say if you were to go there, you could arrange every thing
satisfactorily. I mention this, for I should not be surprized if
the Voice were so loud & so general as to impose on Mr. J. the
necessity of naming you, and on yourself an irresistible Duty of
complying. It has been suggested here to send on a Deputation
of Merchants to Washington, for the Purpose of inducing the
Government to adopt some rational measures of securing our
Rights, and preventing National Disgrace by the measures, which
some will be disposed to resort to with the real or pretended view
of attaining our Ends. If such a Deputation should be deter-
mined on, the Merchants have requested me to make one to
represent their case, &c. &c. I have declined and shall continue
to decline such an Errand, for reasons which must be obvious to
you ; and I am not aware that any personal considerations can
be suggested to my mind, or any Prospect of rendering public
Service, that will or ought to induce me to alter my opinion. I
offer them, & sincerely, to afford all the Aid in my Power to en-
lighten their minds, or direct their Views, should the measure of
sending the Deputation be persisted in. Something must be at-
tempted here, otherwise the Violence of some of our best men
will lead them into courses, productive of incalculable Evils to
the country, and especially to themselves. They will afford a
Handle to others to do that, which will disgrace our national
character, offer an apology to G. B. to possess herself of our un-
protected Property, & Seamen, and finally involve us in War, or
base and unworthy Concessions. . . .

faithfully & ever yours

C. Gore.

T. Pickering to R. King.

Washington, Dec. 5, 1805.
Dear Sir :

. . . I am told that the President talks boldly ; yet it seems
to me the expression " which party can do the other the most
harm " does not look extremely warlike.

1805] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 469

We have not yet had any treaties laid before us. That with
Tripoli must of course be ratified ; yet considering the high prob-
ability that the operations of Eaton & the Ex-Bashaw would, if
pursued, have placed the U. States on elevated ground, I am in-
clined to think that the administration now wish that Mr. Lear,
by an untimely negotiation, had not stopped their progress. But
Lear's conduct appears to me perfectly of a piece with the spirit
of the administration, who tho' not desirous of benefiting by
Hamet Bashaw's interest and efforts among his countrymen, were
evidently ready to abandon him to his fate, if the support of
his claims to the throne of Tripoli, should be found incon-
venient. . . .

With respect & esteem &c

T. Pickering.

C. Gore to R. King.

Boston, Deer. 10, 1805.
My dear Friend :

. . . We rejoice that you have a Place in the Country, which,
to the citizens of N. York, seems now a necessary accommoda-
tion. Had it been consistent with the Interest of your Family
to have been this way, it would more have gratified us. . . .

Your letter of the 29th came a Day or two after the arrival of the
Genl's (Miranda) Friend. I introduced him to those most likely
to enter into his views, and most capable of promoting them. He
had several meetings with them, but they declined doing any
thing, and were probably more averse from reflecting on some of
the Genl.'s Associates, than even the Hazard of the Enterprise.

We, this Day, have the President's Message, and while some of
our Friends conclude, He pledges Himself to the attempt of ob-
taining, by all means, a disavowal of the Principles, on which G.
B. interrupts our Trade, others suppose, that He merely intends
to insist on G. B.'s allowing us to do that which she herself does,
and that as G. B. will accede to this, He will appear with a great
Parade of compulsory measures to have forced a compliance with
his own Propositions from England. They suppose that he limits
the Grievance to our not being permitted to carry, to the Spanish
Possessions, that which she suffers to be transported from New
Providence, Jamaica or Trinidad.

470 RUFUS KING, [1805

I cannot but think He has committed Himself further, and
brings forward what is alluded to, merely as instances of the In-
consistency & absurdity of the new Principles, as he calls them,
"founded neither in justice, nor the Usage or acknowledgment of
Nations" The avowal & Practice whereof impose on us the obliga-
tion of providing an effectual &r* determined Opposition, by a peace-
able Remedy, which may lead to Force.

As to the Spanish affair, it would seem to me, that being well
assured from the situation of his Cab. & his allies, that some terms
will be offered, whh. He can accept. He was desirous of having
it appear that his own Conduct, and not his other Relations pro-
duced the result He foresees.

Our merchants are evidently anxious & alarmed ; for they have
immense Property afloat, and the late Decisions in England afford
them no grounds of Tranquillity ; although the Gentlemen there
report from Mr. Monroe, as is said, that Great Britain will not go
beyond what she did the last War. The Condemnations, how-
ever, speak a very different Language, & the Insurance offices in
this Town, suffer heavy losses in consequence of these Decisions.
I think the sufferers are not so vociferous or wild in their Projects
of compelling a compliance from G. B. as they were. I am more
afraid of what the Southern Merchants may wish done, than of
our People, yet we are not entirely free of those Errors which
would involve us in Loss, Disgrace, War or mean Submission, or
both. . . .

Yours ever & faithfully,

C. Gore.

There is no copy of the letter below alluded to. It is to
be regretted for it would have shown what was the current
opinion relative to the subject of the Management of the
Bank.

Sam. Breck to R. King.

Philadelphia, Dec. 16, 1805.
Dear Sir :
. The letter that you was so obliging as to write to me on the
1 2th inst. I duly received, and to which I now, with pleasure, re-
turn an answer. The opinion you offer respecting the Parent
Bank here, and the Branch at New York, is similar to those which
have been expressed by other gents, of your City and therefore

1805] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 47 1

leave no doubt of the necessity of a change j indeed, as it regards
the former, it has been a rule of the Stockholders in order to
strengthen the Bank here, to leave out annually the greater part
of the Directors required by our charter, that live at a distance,
& to fill vacancies with others not Inhabitants of this City ; of
course, at the ensuing election nearly all the Gentn. Directors
of the Parent Bank, who reside in New York, will be changed for
others of the City ; a measure that has been found necessary to
pursue in order to secure a competent number of Directors here
at all times, but particularly during the summer months, when our
citizens are so unhappy as to be afflicted with sickness and to
avoid which many of them retire to their country houses ; thus
you see from the small number of Stockholders within the United
States, it will often happen that men out of business, and but
little acquainted with Bank concerns, are chosen Directors and,
however unpleasant this circumstance may be, we are positively
without a remedy !

But as it respects Branch Directors, the same necessity does
not exist ; yet, even there, we have to encounter another difficulty
not easily surmounted ; for who will inform the Directors of the
Parent Bank of the individual that ought to be displaced at the
Branch ? indeed that is a point of such delicacy as to deter any
Gentn. from involving himself in a dispute with another ; but,
under the rotation system, I have been told, the Directors were
named by those of the Parent Bank residing in New York, and
by our Board generally adopted. How far under present circum-
stances, they may choose to recommend a change the Gentn.
soon to be elected will decide. Yet I cannot but be anxious lest
a serious misunderstanding should take place that may excite an
opposition to the renewal of our charter, soon to be required
of the Government, the chief of which, I believe, has not the
most cordial regard for the Institution, and, therefore, may be in-
fluenced by its enemies. It is fortunate however, that except at
New York the greatest harmony prevails & the affairs of all the
offices of Discount & Deposit are perfectly well managed.

As our mutual friend Mr. Wolcott has expressed sentiments on
this subject similar to yours I wish, if you think proper, that the
contents of this letter may be communicated to him.
With Sincere regards,

Sam. Breck.

472 RUFUS KING. [1805

T. Pickering to R. King.

Washington, Dec. 18, 1805.
Dear Sir :

. . . No great measure has yet been proposed in Congress,
or even intimated ; & I am pretty well satisfied that none is
intended ; the supposed strong language of the President, & the
vapouring of his Gazette notwithstanding. If Bonaparte's suc-
cess continue, nothing certainly will be attempted against
Spain ; and if the latter yield any of her pretensions, it will be
by command of the former, for an adequate consideration to be
paid by the U. S.

Very truly yours

T. Pickering.

Rufus King Esq.

Rufus King to C. Gore.

Secret.

New York, Dec. 25, 1805.
My dear Friend :

The same commercial solicitude and alarm that sometime since
manifested themselves with you, have lately taken Possession of
the body of Merchants here. A memorial is preparing to be
signed by Merchants of all Persuasions, and which is to be pre-
sented by a Deputation to the President and the two houses of
Congress.

The object, as I understand, is negotation — some of our
friends have expressed their wishes to me that I would not de-
cline, if asked, to go to England. I have suggested to them the
Difficulty that now would probably attend my negotiation, and
the little Hopes that a satisfactory Result could be obtained —
that independent of these considerations it was not likely that the
Extive would adopt any measure which wd. imply a deficiency
in its own Party : or that should admit that any Person could
anywhere do more or better than the Gentleman now in England.

Tho' I have not either assented or dissented, I should feel very
great hesitation were the measure proposed to me in a manner in
other respects free from difficulty ( a thing that seems to me very
improbable ) in consenting to accept the mission. The question
involves interests difficult to be reconciled, if not in direct oppo-

1805] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 473

sition. However possible it might have been at a period of Peace
when these Interests were less visible, and the Passions less likely
to be influenced by them, to have marked out and settled a Rule
that might have been satisfactory ; the situation is totally changed,
and we must encounter every disadvantage that is incident to the
subject, in now attempting to effect an arrangement that would
satisfy us. I have thought I ought to apprize you of what is here
doing, as well as of the impression of my own mind. The last
accounts from Washington confirm my first Belief that as nothing
was intended to be done, so nothing will be done concerning the
subjects about wh. the message was supposed to say, & mean, so
much. The Confidential Communication related wholly to Mr.
Monroe's fruitless negotiations in Spain. Not a word has been
said, and no communication made, respecting England.
Very faithfully & always yours,

R. K.

G. (ouveneur) M. (orris) is here, having just returned from W. —
" be ye fed, and be ye clothed," for you are Hungry & Naked —
was the language used to him, but good wishes and their realiza-
tion are not the same thing.

R. King to T. Pickering.

New York, Dec. 26, 1805.
Dear Sir :

I duly received your kind letters of the 5th & 18th together
with the pieces which accompanied them. Your opinion agrees
with my first impressions on reading the message, which seems to
say much without binding to anything.

The change that occurred after Mr. Monroe quitted Madrid,
has without doubt influenced Spain to give way in some impor-
tant point, preserving her adherence to the chief ones. If the
Policy succeeds, she will lose nothing, but gain time, which is all
in present circumstances that she desires. How much of Policy
and national Reputation there may be in acquiescing in this
course is a Question that you, who have the whole subject before
you, are best able to determine.

474 RUFUS KING. [1805

I am somewhat surprized that you have had no communication
concerning England ; since it is not to be supposed that our
minister there has been silent, when Doctrines have been pro-
mulgated and acted on, which unavoidably lead to the Prostration
of our foreign commerce and the revenue we derive from it.

Should any communication be made to you on this subject, I
should be particularly obliged to you to know it, provided the
same can be done without impropriety. Our merchants are be-
coming very uneasy in respect to these Pretensions of England ;
which are of a nature to render insecure our valuable trade in
colonial Productions. A pamphlet * lately reed, here from Eng-
land (a copy of which I have heard was forwarded to Mr. Madi-
son) the object of which, I cannot doubt, has tended very much
to increase our commercial solicitude.

Yours most faithfully

Rufus King.

* Entitled " War in disguise."

CHAPTER XXX.

Gore to King — Negotiations with England — King as Minister — Pickering to
King — Logan's Motion relative to St. Domingo Trade — Parker to King
about his Sons — Napoleon's change of Rulers in Europe — King to Gore —
England's Pretensions about Colonial Trade — Affairs in Washington —
Troup to King — Clinton carries the Council — Tracy to King. Report on
Spoliation — King to Pickering — Desires to know the Plan of Government
— Public Anxious — Pickering to King — Might as well search for Plan in
Chaos — Detail of Opinions in Washington, relative to Florida Purchase —
Pickering's own Views — Objected on Ground of the Immorality and Impolicy
of the Measure — Pickering to King — Arguments against the Purchase of
Florida as proposed in the secret Appropriation Bill — Jefferson incapable
of managing Affairs in Trouble — Negotiations with Great Britian — King to
Pickering — Disclaims the Authorship of the Answer to War in Disguise —
Troup to King — Coalition of Clinton and the Burrites.

C. Gore to R. King.

Boston, January, 13, 1806.
My dear Friend :

. . . We have had the New York Memorial, which is var-
iously thought of by our Friends : some of whom are not
very discreet, even if their opinions are correct — to which I am
not inclined to subscribe. All desire that a negotiation should be
attempted, and many believe it would succed, if confided to, and
undertaken by the only man in whom all Parties would be
satisfied. Though I think it not probable such a measure will
even be proposed under circumstances that will render it accept-
able, I have a feeling that it would be successful. It is almost
certain that in a Coalition formed of such various materials,
joined to the common accidents of War, many months cannot
pass in which a wise, discreet and vigilant minister would not find
an opportunity of pressing American Claims with Effect. . . .
Our friend Ames, you have seen, was appointed President of
Harvard College, but notwithstanding the Corporation agreed
that the Professor of Divinity should offer all the prayers, he
declines the duties and the honour.

Faithfully & always yours, C. Gore.
476 RUFUS KING. [1806

T. Pickering to R. King.

City of Washington, Jan. 13, 1806.
Dear Sir :

You will have noticed in the papers Dr. Logan's motion for
interdicting the trade to St. Domingo. This occasioned a call
(made, if I do not forget, by him) for documents on the Subject.
This morning the inclosed communication from the President was
laid on our tables, printed by order of the Senate : whether the
presentation and short debate on Logan's original motion excited
Genl. Turreau's attention, or that a hint was given him by Logan,
I know not ; but the General's second letter is of a date subse-
quent to the call for papers. The style of his letter as well as
Talleyrand's, is sufficiently Bonapartean ; and I apprehend there
is here sufficient pliability to yield whatever the " master " of our
sister Republic shall demand.

As the President must have received Talleyrand's letters long
ago, & Turreau's by the middle of October, why did he not bring
the subject before Congress ? Why was no answer sent to
Turreau during a period of two months & a half ? Did he wait
for such a man as Logan to bring forward a measure that might be
unpopular with the general mercantile interest? Or had he
instructed Armstrong to represent to the French Government that
the interest of France required a continuance of our commercial
intercourse with St. Domingo ? concluding to wait the result, be-
fore he made any communication to Congress, should the latter
be found necessary ?

Congress have yet absolutely done nothing; the House of Repre-
sentative are again sitting with closed doors. I find that federal
members have every day listened to John Randolph with unmixed
pleasure, in opposition to the mean dastardly democrats of N.
England ! This will furnish our interpretation of a declaration
in the Aurora, which arrived here last evening : That a man
high in office was in conflict with Randolph, and that one or the
other must fall — or words to this effect. Jefferson certainly
must wish for a supple leader in the House. Randolph has too
much pride to follow implicitly his dictates. But no one yet
appears with abilities to take his place.

Very truly yours,

T. Pickering.

1806] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 477

D. Parker to R. King

Paris, Jan. 25, 1806.
Dear Sir :

In my letter of the 15 Oct I informed you of the disaffection
of both John and Charles to the Pension of M. Thurot, and I
found from the information of M. Thurot that it had become
absolutely necessary to remove them. Their great dissatisfaction
arose from the regulations of the school, finding themselves
obliged to conform to rules which they thought suitable to chil-
dren and not to young men, who in England had great latitude both
in time and expences. They became not only dissatisfied, but
disgusted, and notwithstanding my intreaties and their profession
to comply with them, I found it was not in their power, and that
no progress whatever was to be expected from them in any branch.
Under these circumstances I was extremely perplexed and em-
barrassed. Your letter of Aug. 10., which I received through
Mess. Hope & Co on the 10th Deer greatly relieved me. . . .
Charles arrived in Amsterdam in the beginning of January. . .
I found John averse to enter any Pension whatever, and he com-
municated to me your letters to him, in which you informed him,
that he must enter and pass thro* a College in America previous
to his entering on the study of the Law. This information
decided me to recommend his returning immediately to New
York. I hope you will approve of this determination. . . .
I hope that under your own eye, both John and James will be-
come all you can wish. They have talents to fit them for the
first employments. Charles has a fine genuis, great spirit and
activity, and will make a fine man. Thus you have everything to
hope for from your sons, to whom you have been the best of
fathers.

The great Political events that have been crowded within the
compass of four months, have filled Europe with amazement.
By the Moniteurs which I send by your son for your use and
that of Mr. Livingston, you will find an historical account of
these events. Mr. Haugwitz, the Prussian Minister, is expected
in Paris this day ; the Emperor and Mr. Talleyrand in the course
of 4 or 5 days ; it is expected that negotiations of great mo-
ment will be immediately opened in Paris & many well informed
persons expect a general Peace ; I have not these expecta-

478 RUFUS KING. [1806

tions ; I cannot see any probability of a peace between England
and France at present ; if England can secure the continuance
of her connections with Russia, she will, perhaps wish to con-
tinue the War, and seek an indemnity by capturing the Spanish
Colonies. She must lose her influence on the continent of Europe,
except with Russia & Sweden. This Government will, in all
probability control the remainder. The Electors of Bavaria &
Wirtemberg are made kings, & their Territories much increased.
Eugene Beauharnois is declared Successor to the Crown of Italy,
& has married the eldest daughter of the King of Bavaria. It
is reported that Joseph Bonaparte will be made King of Naples,
that Lucien Bonaparte has divorced from his wife, & will
marry the Queen of Etruria, that his brother Louis will be chief
magistrate of Holland, that Madame Bonaparte, the mother of
the Emperor, is made a Souverain Princess, & is to receive the
Duchies of Parma, Placentia & Guastella in Italy, with remain-
der to the Prince & Princess Borghese. Thus Europe is par-
celled out, as a private man would divide his own inheritance.
Such is the astonishing power & greatness of one man. . . .
With assurance of constant attachment and Respect,

Dan Parker.

R. King to C. Gore.

New York, January 26, 1806.
My dear Sir :

The dissatisfaction here & South of us in respect to G. Br,
increases rather than abates : the losses already sustained are
considerable, but without a new shape of the Rule, few new
losses will hereafter occur, as the Business is fitted to the Rule.
But unless the political Situation of England restrain her Gov.
the Rule will be new modified and extended so as in effect to
put an end to a Trade in Colonial Articles between the U. S. and
Europe. On this subject I had no Opinion to form, having several
years ago convinced myself that the Pretension of England is
not justifiable. If it be put on the Ground of self Defence, or
strict necessity (which consistently with the conduct of G. Britain
in trading herself with her Enemies cannot be done) even this
Law is no justification, since it does not authorize the confisca-
tion of a Friend's Goods — on the contrary, whenever it allows the

1806] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 479

Seizure, it enjoins the taker to make restitution or indemnifica-
tion. But you understand the Question as well as my Sentiments
concerning it, so that I omit any further observations, except to
say that I have of late revised my former Reflexions, which has
in manner changed them ; and being impartial, I the more won-
der that some of our friends with you, whose Judgments are worthy
of all respect, should so materially differ from us.

The Pamphlet printed at Washington, said to be Mr. Madison's,
shews the unsoundness of the Eng. Doctrine. A reply is here
nearly finished to " War in Disguise " which has the same object
in view. The late messages of the Pr. to Congress, disclosing
the Instructions &c to Mr. Monroe, seems to be a throwing up
of his hand, and a reference of the Business to Congress. This is
the more likely to be the real Purpose, as it will shift the Responsi-
bility from the Ex. to Congress. The House has been in con-
clave a fortnight and sent the Result to the Senate as a Secret.
Tho' we do not know what this measure is, we know what it is
not, and that it does not concern G. Britain. The mandate from
France to interdict the St. Domingo Trade will be obeyed ; tho'
the Law will be nugatory unless more efficient than the Bill.
Spanh. affairs remain as at the beginning of the Session ; and the
Success of Bonaparte will render the settlement more difficult.

A Petition is going round the town to the Pr., calling on him to
disavow the Principal, laid down by Genl. Armstrong in the case
of Nicklin & Griffith. I hear that all parties sign it. The Bill
respecting Amer. seamen introduced into the Senate by Mr.
Wright is too contemptible to pass into a Law, be the Resent-
ment what it may. . . .

Always yrs. R. K.

R. Troup to R. King.

Albany, 3 Feb., 1806.
Dear Sir :

. . . Our State concerns continue to be an object of con-
sent with the demagogues of the day. Demagogues Clinton &
Co. by the superiority of their manoeuvres, have carried a council
of appointment against the wishes & efforts of Demagogues Lewis
& Co. This council, the partizans of Clinton say, will be a club
of Hercules in his hands and will enable him to break in pieces
the Livingston faction. At present, appearances indicate a ma-

480 RUFUS KING. [1806

jority in the Senate for Lewis. No doubt is entertained that
Nicholas has set himself in decided opposition to Clinton ; and
I have it from private but authentic source that Nicholas has
given Clinton a severe reprimand for his cabals. Can we be
otherwise than in the most prosperous and happy condition when
the patriotism of a Virginia demagogue induces him to attempt
cooling the ardor of a Northern demagogue whose incessant
labors are exclusively directed to the public good?]

With the most sincere regard &c

Robt. Troup.

Uriah Tracy to R. King.

Washington, 6th Feby, 1806.
Sir:

Inclosed is a paper,* which you will peruse with interest, be-
cause of its intrinsic importance & because it has had the sanc-
tion of a Com. tee of the Senate.

I make no comments upon any part of the paper, excepting the
last f containing the non-importation part. This I voted against
in Com.tee and am most decidedly opposed to its principles. I
wish to treat with G. Britain, & not to throw any nonsensical im-
pediments or irritation in the way of treating. If we do anything
in the meantime, while attempting to treat, I would strengthen
our defensive strength at least, if not offensive.

I am, Sir, respectfully your friend obed servt.

Uriah Tracy.

R. King to T. Pickering.

N. York, Feb. 7, 1806.
Dear Sir :

We are, as we ought to be, inquisitive & anxious concerning
the Plan, or system of measures, that the nation may pursue in

* Genl. Smith of Md., Report of Com. on that part of the Resn. & Message
Jan. 15th relating to Spoliations &c.

f " That it is expedient to prohibit by law, the importation into the United
States of any of the following goods, wares, or merchandize, being the growth,
produce, or manufacture of the United Kingdoms of Great Britain and Ireland,
or their dependencies : . . . The said prohibition to commence from the
day of unless previously thereto equitable arrangements shall be made

between the two governments, on the differences subsisting between them ;
and to continue until such arrangements shall be agreed upon and settled."

1806] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 48 1

the present posture of our affairs ; for it is scarcely credible that
the public honor and safety, instead of being well guarded by
well concerted and prudent arrangements, should be suffered to
become the sport of the casual, intemperate and inefficient meas-
ures of inexperienced individuals : and yet the several messages
of the Pr. look as if every subject were to be submitted to Con-
gress, without the disclosure of the views of the Executive ;
which by the letter and spirit of our Govt., is charged with our
foreign affairs. Your Bill respecting 100,000 Militia, together
with the Bill presented by Mr. Wright, and the Resolution offered
by Mr. Gregg, are so far as I am informed justly appreciated in
this quarter. Some persons here have supposed that Congress
will be able to agree in no precise measures — that the Executive
will be undecided and filled with solicitude and that Col. Burr,
who is always prompt as well as decisive, will avail himself of
this miserable state of things, to decide for the President, as well
as to provide for himself.

If the President and his friends are reduced thus low, they are
weaker and baser than I could possibly have imagined.

Always faithfully &c

R. K.

P. S. We are upwards of 70 days without authentic European
news. The posture of affairs at Christmas past will afford Data
on which to reason, and we must expect news to that date soon.

Col. Pickering to R. King.

City of Washington, Feby 8, 1806.
Dear Sir :

It was natural to suppose that thinking men would feel, not
curiosity, but anxiety concerning the measures contemplated by
the Government, in the present momentous situation of our
affairs ; and before receiving this evening your letter of the 7th,
I had determined to communicate to you as full a detail as was
practicable of what was going on.

As to a M plan or system of measures," you might as well
search for it in chaos itself as at the seat of government. About
three or four weeks ago, I dined at the President's. Adverting
to subjects before Congress, tho' I believe more especially to our

VOL. IV. — 31

482 RUFUS KING. [1806

disputes with G. Britain, he said there was such a diversity of
opinions among members, and they had so many plans, he
doubted whether a majority would agree in any one. I am in-
clined to think this opinion correct. I feel very confident that
neither a general non-intercourse, nor a general or specific non-
importation will be agreed to. The Southern planters will not
suffer their tobacco, rice & cotton to lie on their hands, when
Britain presents the fairest & best market. And they are not so
silly as to suppose (as do some of our honourable legislators) that
Great Britain will continue to receive into her ports, all the pro-
ductions of the U. States, while we shut ours against the manu-
factures & productions of her dominions. This brings into view
the resolutions reported to the Senate on the 5 th, a copy of
which I enclose. (Genl. Smith's Resn.) Mr. Gregg's you will
have seen in the newspapers. Those brought into the Senate
were laid on our tables on the 6th. . . . but really I have
not had time to attend to the subject till this evening ; as I meant
to accompany the communication with a long letter of informa-
tion on the subjects which have excited your anxiety.

All America has heard of the closed doors of the House of
Representatives ; and the fruit of their discussion being a Bill, it
was sent to the Senate, with a confidential message to declare its
object — none being expressed in the Bill itself ; except that its
title stated it to be, to provide for expenses for foreign inter-
course ; and that the body of the bill appropriates two million of
dollars to enable the President (at whose disposal the money is
placed) to commence with more effect (as the confidential mes-
sage of the House informed us) a negociation for the purchase of
all the Territory belonging to Spain on the Atlantic & the Gulph
of Mexico, and eastward of the Mississippi, that is to say the two
Floridas. I disclose no secret ; for Saml. Smith told us last Friday
(when the bill was passed) that though the doors of Congress had
been closed, the subject of their deliberations was well known :
and here, we all know that the Spanish minister Yrujo is perfectly
informed concerning it ; and no doubt his letters are now far on
the ocean for the information of his government. It is full two
weeks since I was told that he said " We should not get the Flor-
idas for two, nor for five, nor for seven million of dollars " ; and
the matter being thus known to Spain, there can be no use in the

1806] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 483

attempt to keep it a secret at home — unless it be to conceal from
the sovereign people the impolitic and unjustifiable projects of
their beloved chief Servant.

This bill (or rather the resolution on which it was founded)
was the subject of John Randolph's determined opposition — sar-
castic reproaches on its advocates, and of strains of eloquence —
never before heard from him in that House : such is the report of
members. Barna Bidwell was the midwife to deliver the Presi-
dent of this brat & present it to the House. In the course of its
nursing, it was said that the President had a desire towards it &
wished it might be fostered & grow to maturity. The like inti-
mations were given in the Senate by some of the Ministerial
members.

Mr. Tracy, Mr. Hillhouse & Mr. Bayard were the principal
opposers of the bill. They dwelt chiefly on the violation of the
Constitution by such a pretended appropriation. For, they
observed, that nothing in the bill being designated, except the
the expenses of foreign intercourse, the President could not
apply a dollar of the money to buy land. The words themselves,
as well as uniform practice, had given a definite meaning to
" foreign intercourse." It was true, they observed, that a similar
appropriation had been made three years ago, (act of 26th Feby.
1803) but the President himself had told us, that not a dollar of
it had been expended. Tracy & Bayard offered several amend-
ments, in order to express the object explicitly, or by plain con-
struction, and render lawful the application of the money
appropriated. But clear statements and cogent reasons availed
nothing. For the leaders, met, as it would seem, by an unex-
pected opposition, held a caucus and fixed a majority to vote
for the bill, without the alteration of a word ; for they were
apprehensive, if it went back to the House, that it would now be
wholly rejected. It was carried there by a majority of about 14 ;
but many, it was said, had repented. In the Senate 17 voted for
it ; 3 fled the final question ; and one, who it was understood
would in the end have voted against it, was gone from the city ;
eleven gave their nays. So it may be considered as having passed
by a majority of only two or three. The opposition in the Senate
delayed its passage for about a week ; altho' one member more
than once told us that the President wished it to be speedily

484 RUFUS KING. [1806

passed and another added that he wanted it to "send off." One
member said he should advise the P. to let the bill be dropped ;
for he could go to market better without than with it. The Pres-
ident thought otherwise ; he had kept himself out of sight (tho'
the suggestions of his friends showed he was behind the curtain),
that if the project failed or proved disastrous, he might be screened
from responsibility.

Genl. Sumter (whom you will recollect) spoke on Friday (the
day it passed) against the bill. He spoke like a sensible, military
man, as one well acquainted with the nature of the country pro-
posed to be purchased ; with the difficulty of defending it, and
said that at present " we were better without it." I should wrong
him, were I not to add, that his sentiments were delivered with
perfect propriety & modesty, and with a sincerity that could not
fail to have affected every hearer. But the bill had been decreed,

Mr. Tracy (I should have mentioned) as well as Mr. Bayard,
and especially the former, took a view of the actual State of the
Treasury — the measures for defence to be provided for, — the
insufficiency of funds, and the probable defalcation of revenue in
the current year. But back-door influence is generally capable
of surmounting all obstacles in the Senate. This body, by its
constitution was (I presume) expected to act with superior inde-
pendence ; but doubtless it is much more obsequious than the
House. Its connection with the President is closer, and the
paucity of members composing it renders it liable to be assailed
with vastly greater ease and effect.

As I have not yet committed my own observations, in opposing
the bill, to paper, I will do it now, while they are within my recol-
lection ; and I will thank you to preserve this letter ; as I may
possibly have occasion to recur to its details, and I cannot go
through the labor of taking a copy.

I should first mention what leaked out from the President's
adherents in the Senate, in ordinary conversations. That advice
had been received from Paris stating, that if our Government
wished to acquire the Floridas, the Government of France would
procure the cession to be made. By information from the agents
of Nicklin and Griffith at Paris, it appeared that a negotiation
was already commenced : with an intimation that in this way
only they and others would obtain the arrears due from the

l8o6] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 485

French Government. Saml. Smith, speaking of Armstrong's
letter to Marbois, on the claim of N. & G., said, in my hearing,
that James Swan had presented a claim for half a million of
dollars, and Capt. Barney one for upwards of a hundred thou-
sand dollars : that neither of these two claims were within the
provisions of the convention ; and yet were admitted. That
it was known that the Livingston family had early purchased
a number of good claims and one to a large amount from Barney.
Reprobating Armstrong's conduct in the case of Nicklin &
Griffith, Smith said, that as soon as it was known to the Presi-
dent, he caused the Secretary of State to write to Armstrong
to correct, or pointedly disapproving, the procedure.

Mr. Hillhouse, in the course of his observations on the Secret
Bill, mentioned the information that a negociation for the pur-
chase of the Floridas had already been instituted at Paris, and
that in this way, merchants hoped to get their arrears ; and said
that from the manner in which this business was proceeding, it
was evident the two millions proposed to be appropriated, were
to be applied in douceurs.

Genl. Adair from Kentucky (a new member and apparently
thoughtful and stable) objected against the bill on the strong
ground of its unconstitutionality ; because from information he
had received & relied on, tho' he could not divulge it, he had no
doubt that the purchase of Louisiana had cost us five millions
extraordinary in consequence of the previous appropriation of two
millions, and the like effect would follow that proposed in the
bill before us ; because he thought it highly improper to pay
-any money before the treaty, if one should be formed, was ap-
proved of by the Senate. Suppose, said he, that this bill should
pass by a small majority, less than two thirds — that the two
millions should be expended ; and the treaty be finally rejected
by the Senate ; the two millions would be lost.

Mr. Tracy, (taking up the suggestion of Adair) expatiated a
little farther. He said the idea of the French Government pay-
ing the monies due to American merchants was fallacious ; that
we had better have undertaken to pay them ourselves ; that
France undertaking to pay them caused the addition of the five
millions, and that her stipulating to pay only 3 J millions, occa-
sioned a loss of one and a quarter million to the U. States ; and

486 RUFUS KING. [1806

that the like preposterous course of proceeding, repeated under
the present bill, would occasion a similar loss.

I had myself viewed the purchase of the Floridas under the
same aspect in which they had been presented by General Sumter
and he had anticipated some of my observations.

But I must go back a little, one member asked how the money
could be employed in bribery ? the President would take care
to whom he entrusted it, and he was to account for it ! another
member asked, where was the room to admit the charge of
bribery ? The President would take care to preserve it ; and as
to the purchase, France would acquire a good title and convey the
same to us.

I objected on two principal grounds — the immorality and the
impolicy of the measure. It was admitted on all hands that the
purchase was to be effected through the French Government.
But France was not the proprietor ; why then negotiate with
Mr. Talleyrand ? — perhaps the ablest, certainly the most corrupt
minister in Europe ; who possest a princely fortune, acquired in
a similar way, and by rendering half the princes of Europe his
tributaries. Gentlemen asked how there could be any bribery
in this case ? I desired them to recollect the proceedings under
the convention for paying the debts due by France to our mer-
chants. The 10th article was ostensibly cautious to prevent the
admission of improper claims — claims not within the description
of the convention : and yet, at the close, opened a wide door to
corruption. That this instrument was doubtless drawn up by
Talleyrand himself, or at least, this article ; for therein it was
provided that if any claim examined by the American boardr
was not approved by them or by our agent, yet if the French
Bureaux should think it ought to be liquidated, it was, indeed
to undergo the revision of the American board, be by them
reported to the American Minister — and by him to the Minister
of the French Treasury, who was finally to decide. That this par-
ticular provision was doubtless inserted by Talleyrand, on pur-
pose to admit unfounded claims on his own terms. I reminded
them of General Armstrong's extraordinary and disgraceful letter,
holding out principles which could not be ascribed to error of
understanding. That if a fair bargain was in this case intended,
we would go to Madrid to negociate for the purchase — not to

1806] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 487

Paris, that hot-bed of corruption. That it was known, however,
by the uniform conduct of Spain from the first purchase of Lou-
isiana, that she was extremely averse to let any part of it, or of
the Floridas come into the hands of the U. States. That she
had protested against the treaty of 1803 ; and in her opposition
gave the copy of a note from St. Cyr, the French ambassador
at Madrid in 1792, in which he, in the name of the first Consul,
solemnly declared that France would never transfer Louisiana
to any other power than Spain herself. That altho' she at
length ceased her opposition, she had not relinquished her claim.
That we knew from the communication before us, that in case
of a rupture with Spain, France would take part in the war : and
hereafter, whenever a convenient opportunity offered to renew
her claim to the Floridas, Spain would do it, and on the ground
of duress, under the actual state of things ; which a future monarch
of France might be well disposed to listen to ; and on our com-
plaint, might justly retort — you knew it was a corrupt and a
forced transfer — We knew perfectly well, that if we applied to
Spain herself, no consideration which we could offer would
induce her to cede to us those provinces ; and therefore it was
that recourse was to be had to the authority of France to enforce
the sale.

That the value of the Floridas was by no means commensurate
with the monies they would cost. The President had informed us
(in a pamphlet accompanying the Louisiana treaty in Oct. 1803)
that except about thirty miles square in West Florida, next the
Mississippi, and wholly or chiefly above the isle of New Orleans,
and some narrow strips on the margins of rivers, the residue of
both the Floridas was mere sand — with indeed plenty of pine
trees and some pasturage for cattle. On this I remarked : That
West Florida, if settled and improved at all, would be almost
wholly occupied by emigrants from the U. States, and that the
products of their lands would go to the market at New Orleans,
and consequently be as beneficial to us as if their territory were a
part of the U. States. That if at any time the Spanish Govern-
ment forbade this commerce and sent up vessels to W. Florida,
on the Mississippi, we might levy a duty upon them equal to
what they should demand of our vessels going up the Mobille :
for I had been able to discover nothing in any treaties, which

488 RUFUS KING. [1806

would give Spain a right to navigate the Mississippi from the sea
up to West Florida, seeing we were now the proprietors of both
banks of the river. In answer to one Gentleman, who had sug-
gested that the Floridas were necessary for our commerce between
the Atlantic States & Louisiana, on account of the harbours, I re-
marked, that the harbours were few, and one only, as far as I had
been informed, afforded deep water — that was Pensacola. That
as well by the common duties of national hospitality, as our treaty
of 1795 with Spain, our vessels, in case of necessity, would always
find shelter in those ports both in peace and in war — unless that
war should be with Spain herself ; in which case we should go
and take possession of those harbours and of the Floridas them-
selves : and that this would cost fewer lives and less treasure than
would be necessary to maintain the garrison in time of peace.
Besides that, if we owned the Floridas, the forts would only
accomodate small garrisons — for we should not incur the expense
of large works & numerous garrisons ; and consequently, in the
first moments of a rupture with Spain or any other naval power
we should easily be dispossessed.

I have more to add but the time fails me, and you will not re-
gret the interruption of a long, & I fear tedious detail, I will re-
new it without much delay. In the mean time, I hardly need
intimate to you that this communication is confidential. I have
made it as a matter of public duty towards one who has sustained
so great a share in the Councils and diplomacy of our country, in
the present interesting, perhaps I may say perilous, posture of our
affairs ; when the men at the helm have neither spirit nor practi-
cal talents to form & direct those plans and operations, which the
situation of the country demand for securing its just rights and
safety. I shall be solicitous to know that this letter gets safely to
your hands.

Respectfully yours,
T. P.

T. Pickering to R. King.

Senate Chamber, Feby. 11 1806.
Dear Sir :

In my letter of the 8th I mentioned an inclosure of certain
Resolutions reported by Genl. Smith to the Senate, which, in my
haste to seal my letter for the mail of the 9th, I omitted. They

l8o6] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 489

are now inclosed, together with the motions of Mr. Clay, repre-
sentative from Philadelphia, of Mr. Nicholson of Maryland and
Mr. Crowninshield from Salem. With these Mr. Gregg's should
be connected. The whole manifest the confusion of ideas prev-
alent in the National Councils ; and confirm a sentiment in my
last, that you might as well expect to find a system in chaos itself,
as in our enlightened Government. If the President had any
plan, which he would assume the responsibility to propose, I
have no doubt of his securing a majority to adopt it.

I have not yet found time to resume my narrative of Congres-
sional proceedings begun in my last.

With great Respect & Esteem &c

T. Pickering.

R. King to T. Pickering.

N. York, Feby. 14, 1806.
Dear Sir :

Though I fear I am too late for the mail, I send you a line to
say, I have duly reed, and that I am greatly obliged to you for
your letters of Feby. 8 & 11. Except one friend Wolcott, I con-
verse freely with no one on these subjects.

Yrs. always

R. King.

T. Pickering to R. King.

Confidential.

City of Washington, Feby. 13, 1806.
Dear Sir :

I have not until this evening, found an opportunity to resume
my narrative of occurrences on the passage of the Secret Bill :
and so many days have elapsed, I do not precisely recollect at
what point I closed my former letter. I must therefore pray you
to pardon any repetitions, as well as defects of order in the
details of both letters.

General Sumter had anticipated the observations I had intended
to offer to show that it was not necessary, nor expedient, at pres-
ent, that we should become the proprietors of the Floridas by
purchase ; but I had not extended my views so far as Genl. Sum-

490 RUFUS KING. [1806

ter, who said "we were better without them than with them."
But it was evident, & so I expressed my opinion, that their poses-
sion was not necessary for the present security of our trade to
New Orleans : that every harbour on the coast of these provinces
was open to our vessels seeking shelter from storms, or from an
enemy ; that in time of peace, we should certainly not incur the
expense of extensive and strong fortifications at the several ports ;
and consequently these would fall instantly before any naval power
with which we should be engaged in war ; that it would cost
fewer lives & less money to attack and take them in a future war,
if necessary for the security of our commerce ; and if worth taking,
we should then make adequate provision for holding them : that
the country in general was nearly a barren sand, excepting the
margins of some rivers, and a tract of about 30 miles square
lying on the Mississippi above the Isle of New Orleans : that the
products of the latter could naturally descend to the town of New
Orleans, and enter into the commerce of our merchants ; that any
restraints on the navigation of the Mobille, which the Spaniards
impose, might be counteracted by equal restraint on their naviga-
tion of the Mississippi, seeing we owned both banks of the river •
that in the hands of the Spaniards, the Floridas served, as Genl.
Sumter had remarked, as a frontier to Georgia and the Mississippi
Territory. It had been also observed by others in the debate
that we were rendered feeble by the dispersion of our population,
and should rather circumscribe than extend our territory.

I noticed the information we derived from the documents re-
ceived from the President, showing the designs of the French
Ministry, to keep open the means of dissension between the U. S.
and Spain, that their interference might again become necessary.
In consequence of the pressing applications of Monroe and Pinck-
ney at Madrid, the Spanish Minister at Paris had presented a
" querulous " note to Talleyrand, desiring the French Govern-
ment to declare its interpretation as well of the Treaty of St,
Ildephonso, as of that by which France ceded Louisiana to the
U. S. in respect to boundaries ; but that Genl. A. said no answer
had been given and he believed none would be given : excepting
in regard to West Florida, to which' Talleyrand said explicitly we
had no pretence of title : that in fact by the treaty of St. Ilde-
phonso, Spain had only retroceded Louisiana : and France had

1806] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 49 1

in 1762 ceded to Spain only the island of New Orleans on the East
side of the Mississippi ; that his silence in respect to the western
boundary of Louisiana (whence the President inferred that our
claim was not denied) was calculated merely for another job.
While we claimed to the Rio Bravo, Spain insisted that we had
no right westward of a line which beginning in the Gulf of Mexico,
between the rivers Carecut or Carcuse and the Armenta or Mar-
meatoo, ascends towards the north between the Adulo and Nachi-
toches, until it cuts the Red River ; and thence the boundary
remained to be ascertained by commissioners ; leaving us (as Mr.
Jefferson expressed it in his message) only " a string of land on
the West side of the Mississippi : " altho' the President two years
ago informed me that "he had traced the rightful bounds of Lou-
isiana, by authentic documents so far as Spain was concerned."
And we knew that these " rightful bounds " extended westward as
far as the Rio Bravo ; for our Ministers at Madrid had insisted
on that extention and pronounced the counter-claim of Cevallos
" absurd " ; while the latter said that he had supported the rights of
Spain, as far as the line afore described, " by irrefragable argu-
ments." (By the way tho' the President told us that he had com-
municated every document necessary to enable us to form a
correct judgment on this subject, he had not communicated to us
his instructions to Monroe and Pinckney-^nor the facts or evi-
dences on which they advanced our claim — nor their arguments in
its support — nor the counter facts, evidence & arguments of
Cevallos : to obtain them I offered a resolution to request the
President to furnish us with them ; but it was negatived).

In the course of my observations, I said that we had been told
that the great object in purchasing Louisiana, by extinguishing
all causes or occasions of collision, was to ensure to us perpetual
peace j and yet two years had not elapsed before this very pur-
chase had brought us, apparently, to the verge of hostilities ; and
I was persuaded that the forced Purchase of the Floridas by the
authorities of France, which was the object of the Bill, would lay
the foundation of a future dispute and war with Spain, unless we
would again buy it off. We know from the close alliance of
France and Spain, as well as by the explicit declaration of Talley-
rand, that in case of a rupture France would take part with Spain ;
and when quite at leisure might even stimulate a rupture for the

492 KUFUS KING. [1806

very purpose of aiding Spain in order to resume the possession
of Louisiana and the Floridas by conquest. St. Cyr, when, in
1802, at Madrid he assured the Spanish Government in the name
of the First Consul, that France would never " alienate Louisi-
ana," gave as a reason — and the sole reason — why France desired
the retro-cession of Louisiana, that she respected a possession
which had constituted a part of the French Territory."

I have now given you the substance of what occurred in the
Senate upon the Secret Appropriation Bill. As I said in my letter
of the 8th, I communicate this information to you, as a public duty,
thinking that under such an administration as we now have
measures evil and unwarrantable in themselves, and which debase
the character of the Country and thereby put even its safety in
jeopardy, ought not to be locked up in the President's Cabinet,
and in the breasts of a set of men, the greater part of whom have
neither discernment to see wherein lie the real interest, the honor
and safety of the country, nor independence and spirit to support
them. Possessed of the facts I have stated, you will be better able
to form correct opinions of events. Should these be inauspicious
— should they threaten great public mischief it is possible you
may suggest some expedient to divert it. Whoever knows Mr.
Jefferson, knows that he is utterly incapable of keeping the helm
in a storm, or even in a merely clouded horizon. Even democrats
in themselves but just above contempt despise him. His weak-
ness, timidity and inordinate desire of preserving his popularity
have, as I expected, induced him to avoid responsibility by asking
counsel of Congress : or, if dictating any measure, by doing it
behind the curtain. " Thus low are reduced the President and
his friends ; " " and therefore weaker and baser than you could
possibly have imagined."

I think he will not trust Armstrong with the disposition of the
two millions. As probably he may place very high confidence in
Monroe, the latter may be directed to go from London to Paris ;
and thus give a pleasanter opening to an extraordinary mission to
negotiate a treaty with the British Government. This hitherto he
has avoided, (a treaty) : I have supposed lest he should hazard
popular odium — remembering the baleful effects of Mr. Jay's
treaty — doubtless excited by him and his partizans to aid in
pulling down the federal administration. But I little suspected

1806] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 493

that this motive would have been avowed by any of his friends.
Sam Smith however this day made the precious confession !

The Senate were discussing the second resolution reported to the
Senate by Smith, to "request the President to enter into arrangements
with the British Government, for the purpose of adjusting all our
differences with that power " The word treaty had been squeam-
ishly avoided by the Comtee. though that was what they meant by
arrangements, and Smith repeatedly used treaty in the course of
his observations in favour of the adoption of the resolution.
Among other reasons, he remarked, that calling to mind the
dissatisfaction occasioned by a former treaty, the President might
feel a reluctance to enter into another with Great Britain ; but
that the sense of the Senate, deliberately expressed, by adopting
the resolution, might remove the embarrassment. This was the
sentiment tho' not given in his words, which I do not recollect :
but he was perfectly understood and excited a smile among the
few federal members. I had intended to mention the same reason
and express my willingness to take that share of responsibility,
which would fall on a Senator from a great commercial State ; es-
pecially as its chief merchants, in their memorial, had prayed for
such a mission to London. I had considered how I should do
this in the most delicate manner ; but was very happy to be antici-
pated by General Smith.

This second Resolution, on different pretences, is much op-
posed ; and, after being discussed an hour or more, on two
different days, still remains undecided ; and yet, I believe that
its opposers desire a negotiation with G. Britain for the objects
expressed in the resolution.

My Colleague (who with Tracy, Baldwin, Logan, Mitchell, S.
Smith and Anderson was the Committee as I believe I mentioned in
my former letter) is an advocate for the third resolution — the
non-importation of enumerated articles ! But there are so many
projects on this subject, I trust none of them will be adopted.
That many country members (as is the fact) should be advocates of
the measure, and even shortsighted merchants — may elicit no
surprise : but really I did not expect that a man of the enlight-
ened mind of Mr. A. would have entertained such an idea.
John Randolph, observing my townsmen Crowninshield quite
fierce for Gregg's motion, said to one of my friends in the House,

494 RUFUS KING. [1806

" That he (Crowninshield) was like a hog swimming over a river
who would cut his own throat." It seems to be a known fact that
a hog, when swimming, strikes his neck with his hoofs ; and, if
obliged to swim far, will actually cut through the skin at the
throat and eventually kill himself.

Last evening I received, under your cover, an answer to "War
in Disguise." I hastily ran through it this morning and shall read
it again deliberately. I presume you did not mean that the
author should be concealed from me. Some things appeared to
be placed in a strong point of view, others to demand further, or
a more expanded elucidation to be well understood by the bulk of
readers. Authors who have a clear and comprehensive view of
their subject are apt to presume too much on the discernment of
their readers. This, in a popular work, must always be unfortu-
nate. You will not judge it improper if I venture to make a few
observations upon the pamphlet, — if on second perusal any perti-
nent ones should occur.

Very truly yours

T. Pickering.

R. King to T. Pickering.

N. York, Feby. 17, 1806.
Dear Sir :

This acknowledges the receipt of your letter of the 13th, those
of the 8 and 11 have been acknowledged. I make haste, as the
French say, to correct an impression, if it exist, that I am the
author of the answer to War in Disguise. I know the author pre-
sumed the stile would make him known to you : as I sent a copy
of this pamphlet to Mr. Tracy, and another to Mr. Madison, I
pray you to take an opportunity of saying, in my behalf to each
of these gentlemen what I have just said on the subject to you,
lest from the mere transmission, it sh'd be supposed that I am the
author, a merit that belongs to another.

Yrs Rufus King.

R. Troup to R. King.

f Albany, Feb. 11, 1806.

Dear Sir :
-... We have nothing new here, but a report that the Clin-
tonians and Burrites have formed a coalition : this report is

1806] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 495

generally believed. De Witt Clinton has undoubtedly broken
peace with the Livingstons and he is preparing for a Bonapartean
campaign at the next election. The issue of the contest from
present appearances will be fatal to the Livingstons, as I fear
Bonaparte's late campaign has been to the House of Lorraine.
Lewis is as light as the drum in his speech, and he does not
appear to possess a single talent for managing the corrupt party
he is connected with. This by the by does him no dishonor. It
verifies however the remark often made, that no man who aims
at independence of conduct will long bask in the sunshine of the
people's majesty. Judge Benson will tell you the precious
confessions which Lewis is constantly making when alone with the
federalists. I have listened to them until my contempt for the
government has been lost in pity for the man ! \

With the most sincere regard

Robt. Troup.

CHAPTER XXXI.

Pickering to King — Answer of ' ' War in Disguise " by Morris — Anecdote relative
to and Criticism of Answer — Tracy to King — Speculations about Answer
— Fatal Effects of Democracy — King to Pickering — Miranda — Denuncia-
tions by the President's Friends — Tracy to King — Armstrong Elected —
Pickering to King — Sends Capt. Lewis' Narrative — Remarks thereon —
Smith's Bill to encourage Shipping and Navigation — Asks King's Views —
King to Pickering — European News — Estimate of England — Pickering to
King — Caramelli — Miranda — King to Pickering — Sundry Subjects — Pick-
ering to King — Death of Pitt — Relaxation of British Commercial Regula-
tions— Might make satisfactory Arrangements with G. B. — Speculations
upon Monroe and Madison, as to the next Presidency — King to Pickering —
Disapproves of Bills on Non-importation of British Products — Gore to King
— Animadversions against the Government — Gore to King — Reasons for
Re-entering Public Life — Pickering to King — Armstrong's Application of
the Louisiana Fund — N. Webster to King — Should Legislatures express
Opinions on the Conduct of the Government ?

T. Pickering to R. King.

City of Washington, February 20, 1806.
Dear Sir :

This morning I had folded a letter to you, written for the sole
purpose of apologizing for the distant surmise that you wrote the
Answer to War in Disguise. Afterwards while at breakfast I
received your favour of the 17th, telling me that you were not
the author. Mr. Tracy, sitting next to me, I put your letter into
his hands.

In fact I had reluctantly yielded to the conjecture that you
were the author, in consequence of the confident assertion (as I
had heard) of Dr. Mitchell, and the opinions, or, literally, fears
of others. The style was so different from yours, I admitted it
only as merely possible. Very soon, however, we were generally
satisfied that it was the child of G. M. His features are im-
pressed on every sheet. With a brilliant and cultivated mind, he
has a coarseness of sentiment which is incompatible with dignity.
1806] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 497

The chasteness of your taste and your diplomatic habits were
utterly irreconcilable with the production in question.

We have for a month been at work upon the St. Domingo Bill ;
during which time it has passed the Senate by ayes 21, noes 8. I
have heretofore intimated to you the perfect obsequiousness of
the Senate. Its advocates affected to be influenced merely by
motives of policy, as well with respect to our own black popula-
tion, as to France — and good faith : while in fact the terrors of
Bonaparte's arm, (openly avowed by Wright) undoubtedly influ-
enced the measure. Should he fall, or be Burgoyned, the Bill
may die in the House of Representatives. . . .

Adieu.

T. Pickering.

T. Pickering to R. King.

City of Washington, February 20, 1806. Thursday Evening.
Dear Sir :

The call for the mail obliged me to close abruptly my letter o.
this date.

Of the character of the humour in the answer to War in Dis-
guise, perhaps the following anecdote may furnish a pretty correct
idea.

I have the pleasure of lodging under the same roof with all the
Senators and Representatives from Connecticut, as well as a part
of the Representation from Massachusetts and New Hampshire.
We had just read, in Coleman's paper of the 8th, his Literary
Notice of the answer to ''War in Disguise." "The strain of
ridicule (said he) in pages 63.4. is equal to anything we ever met
with, and which we defy the greatest of the British advocates to
read without downright laughter, at the absurdity of the arguments
here exposed."

Just then I opened your packets containing the Answer. Im-
mediately I turned to those pages & read ; expecting a burst
of laughter, the pleasure, in such cases, being always the more
poignant when numbers participate. I read ; but no one was
moved ; each gazed at the other with disappointed expectation.
I supposed I had not understood the passage & so failed in the
reading. At that moment Tracy came in. I read it again : and

VOL. IV.— 32

498 RUFUS KING. [1806

still they remained unmoved. " Why don't you laugh ? " said I
to Tracy : "You did not tell me when to laugh," was his answer !

Upon a second reading of the Answer to War in Disguise,
more exceptionable passages appear than on the first perusal.
The words and passages, liable to criticism are numerous ; and
tho' the same expressions might be admitted in conversation, they
are great blemishes in a work of this kind. It was evidently
written in haste ; and with a little pains might have been cor-
rected ; but is not the disposition of the author adverse to a'
patient examination ? I presume he did not submit the pamphlet
to the correction of any of his friends. And if he did, to point
out errors and faults is an ungracious task, which perhaps not
one in a hundred would venture to perform, unless towards a very
intimate friend ; and a friend, too, sufficiently ingenuous and
modest to receive correction without taking offence.

Does not the author quibble, where he says (p. 12) that the
" Masterly acquaintance of the Judge (meaning I presume, Ld.
Mansfield) with the law of Nations, was known and revered by
every State in Europe," is one thing ; and " that his decisions Were
celebrated for their equity and wisdom, is another and a very dif-
ferent thing ? " Is it possible to conceive how his masterly
knowledge could be (not admired but) revered, unless it was dis-
played in wise and equitable decisions ?

p. 19. "Slily," applied to Sir Wm. Scott. It would be impos-
sible for me, (like the author of the answer) to feel " a high
respect " for any man, however great his talents, if he were sly or
meanly artful. If the author meant only that Sir William had
artfully confounded, he is chargeable with a vulgarism in using
the word slily.

pages 22. 23. 24. These pages being simply filled with asser-
tions and questions do not carry conviction to the mind — at least
not to mine. I cannot discern any force in the author's reasoning
from the contraband trade of smugglers, and it is not possible that
his own fancy was dazzled with the lively (or to preserve the
metaphor), the sparkling antithesis which, in p. 24, concludes his
questions.

" With every superiority at sea his heart could wish" These
last words are too much in the conversation style to be intro-
duced into a disquisition on the law of nations.

1806] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 499

p. 27, " Yankees," too, being a nickname should not have found
admission into grave discourse.

The ludicrous criticism on " possessing a monopoly which had
been destroyed," might have been spared. When an author's
meaning cannot be misunderstood, the inaccurate use of a word
seems not to be a fit subject of ridicule. The British might cor-
rectly possess a monopoly of which they had deprived their enemy.

These are specimens of the faults which have struck me. It is
much to be regretted that so fine a composition as " War in Dis-
guise " had not received an answer written with equal elegance,
dignity & precision.

Very truly yours

Timothy Pickering.

Uriah Tracy to R. King.

Washington, March 12, 1806.
Sir :

My health when I passed thro' New York, & ever since, has
been so frail that I have written scarcely to any person, but to
my family. I have to thank you for the answer to War in Dis-
guise, for which I am indebted to your goodness.

This answer was at first attributed to you, tho' I was not of that
opinion. I always supposed that Gov. Morris wrote it. There is
merit in it and I regret that more time was not taken to increase
its merits. Madison's Book, I suppose you have seen, that was
written in a hurry, this answer was written in a hurry, and,
unfortunately for us everything done among us has been done in a
hurry, which respects Neutral Rights. I had indulged a hope
that you, or some man equally acquainted with the subject, & who
was not in a hurry ', would have favored us, either with an answer
to War in Disguise, or with a dissertation upon our Neutral
Rights ; with a Statemt., such as the subject is capable of, and
not composed in a hurry, as to style or argument.

As the subject is now before the public, it is all adapted to a
mob ; Neutral Rights are invaded is the cry Sayou must rally round
our rights.

500 KUFUS KING. [1806

I most sincerely wish that the time may come, and that I may
live to see it, when we shall understand our rights of every
description, & possess the proper spirit to defend them. Now
neither the one, nor the other, has any existence.

Our administration is far behind the people at large, both in
understanding &in spirit. I mean that distinct understanding of
the subject, which might be expected from men in an elevated
station, and that spirit which ought to be the portion of all, or
our nation is truly in a bad way.

Sneaking behind, to avoid all hazard to darling popularity ;
shrinking from all official & reasonable responsibility ; a language
unintelligible, capable of constructions to meet any event, are a few
of the leading traits of character of our President, administratn.
and also of the majority of both the Legislative branches.

Now, Sir, a Nation, under such circumstances, if the manly,
independent spirit of former days was predominant, would extri-
cate itself from such a set of impediments, would indignantly
spurn from them such leaders & rally round men who were both
able & willing to behave with propriety. But here is the dis-
tressing fact : our Country has, by the debauching'force of party,
by the fatal effects of demoralizing Democracy, by the babyish
nonsense of peace, peace, the watchword of Democrarcy ; by the
fatal encouragemt which vice has received by the ruling party
for five years past, & the discouragement which virtue has, during
the same time, reed, from the brow-breatings of vicious scoun-
drels, thus supported & encouraged, by all these and more, our
country is unhinged, is let down to such a degree, that no manly
exertion can be expected.

I know that this is croaking ; but when truth will justify in
this, & in no other conclusion, ought we to shut our eyes to the
truth however humiliating ?

I am a sick man, & allowance must be made for the view I take
of any subject, as I look thro' a medium, jaundiced not only to
my bodily vision, but to my mind's eye. If you can set me right,
you who are in health & see things without the conflicts, in which
I am daily engaged, I shall most cordially thank you.

I am now in the Senate Chamber & the Senate are debating
upon the nomination of John Armstrong, as a Commissr., with
James Bowdoin, to treat with Spain for territory, boundaries,

iSo6] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 50I

spoliations, &c. &c, ; whether we shall midwife him or not, is not
certain, but as he is proved to be a very great rascal, I think he
must be appointed ; from the same principle, which induced the
nomination by that immaculate Executive, who has sent us this
nomination after knowing every fact, damning fact, which instead
of a new nomination, ought to have instantly produced a recall.
" // is a hard winter, my masters, when bear eats bear." This
moment \ past 3 p.m., the question of John Armstrong's appoint-
ment is postponed until to-morrow.

Yrs. Sincerely

Uriah Tracy.

R. King to T. Pickering.

New York, March 13, 1806.
Dear Sir :

Mr. Wolcott some days ago told me that he would write to Mr.
Tracy on the subject of the Leander & Miranda's expedition, and
as I presume you would see this letter, and preferred for particu-
lar reasons, not to write myself, I have said nothing to you of this
Project.

The late news from Bordeaux, and which you will have seen in
the N. Papers, and according to which Bonaparte remains master
of the Continent, has dissipated the Rumours concerning Miran-
da's views, which have for some weeks engaged the public atten-
tion. There are Persons here who hesitated in giving credit to
this French news : but the armistice, if not a most gross fabrica-
tion, is conclusive ; it cannot be many days before we shall have
arrivals from Eng. that will give us intelligence down to February,
including the speech and debates at the opening of parliament.

Within a day or two we have heard much of your decisions,
and particularly of the denunciation of the Executive by its former
friend Mr. Randolph. As to Measures, so far as I can observe
the public, none are expected, or at least none that will be either
advantageous or honorable to the Country. Every man you meet
seems ashamed of the feeble, hypocritcal and mean Proceedings
of the Executive. With sentiments of sincere esteem & respect
I remain, dear Sir, your obed. & faithful servant

Rufus King.

502 RUFUS KING. [1806

U. Tracy to R. King.

Washington, March 17th, 1806.
Sir:

Ecce iterum Crispinus — This day the Senate have expended in
a debate upon John Armstrong's Nomination : as I stated to you
last week, perhaps no man's character & conduct ever met with a
more thorough investigation, & nothing is more clear, than that
the Senate, a very considerable majority of them, are sick, quite
sick of the man, & really wish the nomination at the devil, and
many go further, and send the nominator after the nomination ; &
these good Democrats too. The vote now taken 3 o'clock p.m.>
and stands thus, for Armstrong fifteen votes, against him fifteen
votes — so the Vice president had to decide it & he decided it in
favor of John Armstrong. So John Armstrong is appointed.

Yours sincerely,

Uriah Tracy.

Both New York Senators & the Vice Pres. were in favor of
Armstrong : so the three votes of New York carried him !

T. Pickering to R. King.

City of Washington, March 19th, 1806.
Dear Sir :

Yesterday I sent you, in 5 packets (I think that was the num-
ber) a pamphlet the subject of which has probably engaged as
great a share of the President's attention, as all the concerns of
the " good old States " (as Randolph called them) whether con-
sidered in respect to their internal or external relations. You
will see noticed the various Indian languages radically different.
When I last dined with him (5 or 6 weeks ago) he said he had
already ascertained about a hundred. When some of my fellow
lodgers dined with him soon after, that number was materially
reduced. I believe there are 15 or 16 noticed in Capt. Lewis*
Narrative. Mr. Jefferson's object (I should say one of his objects)
in his Louisiana inquiries, I take to be, that, if so many original
languages exist in America, and if we calculate how many ages
must elapse before one original language could be radically
changed ; it will follow that the Mosaic account of the creation

1806] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 503

and the chronology founded thereon must be extremely erro-
neous ! . . .

I will inclose you a bill brought into the Senate by Saml. Smith
" For the encouragement of the Shipping & Navigation of the U.
States." The third reading is to be on the last day of this month ;
it being postponed for the purpose of gaining information. In-
dependently of the general knowledge you possess on this subject,
I remember you had occasion officially to turn your attention to
our commercial intercourse with England, while you were in
London.

I pray you therefore to favour me with your sentiments on the
provisions of this bill ; and at as early a day as may be. At
present it can be of little or no consequence, for scarcely a
foreign ship enters our ports ; and it seems premature to make
regulations now, to operate on commerce after peace shall take
place, when in our commercial relations such very material
changes may take place. Have we not as much carrying trade as
we can manage ? or if not, would it be expedient to increase it
largely (if it were possible for this bill to produce that effect) see-
ing the event of peace might pretty suddenly deprive us of an
essential portion of it. Besides I take it, what we should most
desire of England, France and Spain, would be the permanent
admission of the products and manufactures of our own country
in our own vessels, into the ports, especially the colonial ports, of
those nations.

In explaining the grounds of his bill, Mr. Smith said, that all
the European nations, excepting England and France, did per-
mit us to carry to them the products and manufactures of other
countries, as well as our own. At the present moment all the
products and manufactures of G. Britain & her dominions are pro-
hibited an entrance into France & Spain, & I do not know but
some other dependent countries of France. Have the goodness
to communicate to me as early as may be, your views of the sub-
ject. What will be the effects of this measure, if adopted ? what
its advantages ? what its disadvantages ?

With sincere respect and esteem &c.

T. Pickering.

504 RUFUS KING. [1806

R. King to T. Pickering.

New York, March 20, 1806.
Dear Sir :

In a few lines I wrote yesterday to Mr. Tracy, I communicated
the purport of the only important news from England. Yester-
day by a short arrival from Bordeaux we have later news both
English and French than had been received from England. I
inclose to you the morning Paper which announces all I know
concerning a state of Europe, that, in my view, is the most extra-
ordinary & menacing to the freedom and Independence of man-
kind that has existed in modern times.

As no nation is more reasonable more docile, more loyal than
England, when wisely governed, so none has greater firmness,
longer patience, nor higher courage than our ancestors ; and not-
withstanding it has pleased the Almighty to take from them,
almost at the same moment, their first Statesman, their most for-
tunate Admirals, and their ablest General, I feel a strong presenti-
ment and hope that the high spirit and ancient glory of the Nation
will enable them to contend against, & finally to triumph over
their gigantic adversary.*

* These sentiments repeat the estimate he formed of the English people dur-
ing his residence in England, as evinced by the following in his handwriting —

It is equally difficult here as in America to form satisfactory opinions respect-
ing the events which are passing in Europe ; and the reason is this, that no ex-
act views, no assured object, no settled system of Politicks, exist in this, or any
other of the Great Powers of Europe. The whole is a miserable shifting from
expedient to expedient — a course varying with every new incident, — a struggle
for an ill understood and inexplicable End. The nearer I see these great na-
tions, the less respectfully do I consider them. At a distance where informa-
tion was less accurate, and the space for conjectural interpretation much wider,
we entertained ourselves in searching for the solution of events which instead
of being foreseen or influenced by premeditated causes, have been the mere re-
sult of those blind and ill managed efforts which continue to astonish and de-
stroy mankind. I am not deceived in my estimate of England. They are a
nation of immense resources, of ancient pride, of powerful habits in favor of
their Government, of infinite credulity, of unbounded confidence, and destitute
of a single mind capable of making a proper use of these National Faculties at
a period more important and interesting to human happiness than has before
existed.

It is certain that the objects, for which the war has been prosecuted have
varied so often, that those at the helm here can assign no national motive at
any one period, that will justify the prosecution of the war at another. I had

1806] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 505

The new Ministry unites the Strength and Talents, as it does
the Parties and Confidence of the Nation.

With sincere regards, I remain, Dr. Sir Yr. faithful Servant
Rufus King.

T. Pickering to R. King.

Washington, March 31, 1806.
Dear Sir :

I inclose a Report of the Senate concerning Hamet Caramelli.
It is drawn, substantially, by Bradley, and agreed to by all the
comtee. (as Tracy tells me) except Baldwin * A variety of facts
and circumstances, but which I cannot attempt to enumerate, in-
duce my belief that Lear's conduct originated in the basest mo-
tives. His reported treachery to Washington, in communicating
(withdrawing from their sacred deposit) papers to Jefferson, has
laid the latter under obligations. Mr. J. in his message on
Hamet's case, attempted, with much labour, to vindicate Lear ;
but in vain : he stands condemned by every man who can think
and act independently.

Dr. Thornton (whom Wolcott knows) who is charged with that
breach of duty in the department of State, which relates to the
issuing of Patents, last December told Genl. Eaton a variety of
things relating to Miranda's project, and asked Eaton if he would

believed that England went into the war in order to preserve her own Govt, but
if there ever existed the danger that we have imagined on that head, which I
am inclined now to doubt, it has ceased to be worthy of attention.

The English people are in no danger of imitating the French from choice —
when I speak of the people, I mean to exclude the efficient body of the nation
— I equally exclude the philosophers and the indigent. Laying them aside as
this nation can do, there remain the vigor, the strength and the great Body of
the nation — inclined to preserve order, interested in upholding their Govt, and
animated with a generous devotion & courage to defend their country agt. do-
mestic as well as for. Foes. It is true that the suffrage is far from being equal
here, and the Election is not in this view an infallible rule to ascertain the pub-
lic opinion — yet with proper allowances the return of the Members of Parlia-
ment gives a pretty sure guide whereby we may infer the national sentiments —
making every possible allowance, the late Election, which we are confidently
told diminished the opposition, diminutive in members as before it was, the in-
ference is altogether favorable to the attachment of the nation to the existing
order of things and demonstrates their disposition amid reverses and misfor-
tunes to uphold the Authorities of the Constitution.

* See Annals of Congress 1805-6 for the history of this claim, pp. 48. 185.

$06 RUFUS KING. [1806

engage with Miranda in an expedition to Spanish America?
"Yes (said Eaton) if the Government will give us a commission/*
Thornton said that several millions of dollars were raised by the
Spanish Colonists and that a large sum had been lodged in New
York to meet the expenses of the expedition. That the Colonists
were prepared and waited only for Miranda to hoist the flag of
Independence to rise and throw off the Government of the
mother country.

Dr. Thornton is not a little of a visionary — and allowances are
to be made ; but I am persuaded that his testimony would throw
light on the subject, and be useful to Col. Smith & Ogden on
their trials — which we hear are to take place next month.

Respectfully yrs.

T. Pickering.

R. King to T. Pickering.

New York, Mar. 22, 1806.
Dear Sir :

I am particularly obliged to you for the President's Message,,
communicating the Discoveries in Louisiana. . . .

II The Sty," to use Randolph's phrase, is as I hear very noisy
on the subject of Armstrong's appointment, which is regarded as
an avowal and justification of his Conduct. There are several
subjects on which I should be glad for information. The dis-
closures that your debate may have made respecting Armstrong
is one of them. Was it at all explained how Armstrong was au-
thorized, or what motive induced him, to assume the extraordin-
ary power he has employed in the distribution of the 4 MiL
Dollars ?

We have seen Eaton's letter to the Secy of the Treasy., which
states that the Treaty with Tripoli contains an article by which
the Bashaw engaged to deliver up the wife and children of his
Brother, and that in order to obtain this stipulation, which was
to satisfy the ex-Bashaw, Lear gave a Defeasance, by which the
article became void.

It is also rumoured that the Treaty was submitted to the Sen-
ate for Ratification, without a communication of the Defeasance.
On these and other interesting Points concerning our foreign
affairs, I should be obliged by exact information, as I have it in

1806] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 507

contemplation after the close of your Session to make a Review
of our foreign Relations.

On examination of the English News, I am not without consid-
erable Hope that the new ministry will inspire new vigour as well
as confidence into the Nation. If the ministers can agree in the
Cabinet, the administration will be more powerful and more pop-
ular than has existed since the Ministry of Lord Chatham : in
such event, indeed in any event, the Folly and Rashness of your
Resolutions and projects at Washington, will be more fully ex-
posed.

The men who promote these measures are equally ignorant of
the character of Englishmen, and the interest of America. With-
out these miserable provocations Mr. Monroe, if he has abilities,,
may avail himself of the present juncture ; with them, neither he
nor any other person can succeed.

Very faithfully yrs

Rufus King.

T. Pickering to R. King.

Washington, March 24, 1806.
Dear Sir :

I have been favoured with your letter of the 20th. We had
heard of the death of Mr. Pitt. It did not alarm me. For tho*
I consider the independence of the U. States as absolutely de-
pendent on the ability of England to maintain hers, against all the
efforts of Napoleon, yet I have at no time entertained an exalted
opinion of Mr. Pitt as a Statesman to plan and direct great military
enterprises ; and to select and in defiance of all opposition to call forth
the requisite talents to execute them. With an eloquence powerful
perhaps as his father's, did he not want much of that vigour which
enabled the latter successfully to execute the bold project he
conceived ? With great talents, I expect more efficiency in Lord
Grenville. Perfectly relying on your judgment of the preeminent
talents, strength and popularity (founded on a personal know-
ledge of the men) I rejoice that such a ministry has been formed.
It furnished just ground for the confident hope you express (in
which I cordially join) " that the high Spirit and ancient glory of
the Nation will enable them to contend against and finally tri-
umph over their [and the World's] gigantic adversary."

508 RUFUS KING. [1806

But what will be the effect on our commerce ? It is said (by
the way of Bordeaux) that the British are releasing all American
vessels. Will this relaxation continue ? I trust not. It com-
menced prior to Mr. Pitt's decease : probably influenced by the
Catastrophe of the Continental War. The Captures and con-
demnations may not instantly be renewed. Lord Grenville* and
his associates will deeply consider the subject as essentially con-
nected with a continuance of the War. Doubtless their meas-
ures may be influenced very much by those of Bonaparte. If the
latter commands the Ports of the Continent, from the Baltic to
the Adriatic, to be shut against the commerce of Britain (and he
has only to command to be obeyed) doubtless the British will
interdict the commerce of neutrals, at least with all the belliger-
ent nations. Necessity will be declared to be the ground of the
interdiction. And will it not be an adequate plea? It will be
done openly, frankly, boldly ; and such time being given that
neutrals shall not complain of being taken by surprise. In a
word the principles of War in Disguise will be adopted : " and if
we feel no wish to succour our parent State, when fighting for her
liberty and her existence," shall we not " at least desist from
wrongs [or measures] which augment her dangers and frustrate
her defensive efforts " ? I, for one, shall bid her God speed.
When she is spending, liberally spending, her blood and treasure,
in fact for our safety and independence, shall we be restive, be-
cause she denies us an accumulation of profit beyond that which
arises from our regular, permanent course of Trade ? If we had
an administration that regarded anything in comparison with its'
own immediate personal interest and popularity and the indul-
gence of its hateful passions, satisfactory arrangements, I am
fully persuaded, might be made with Great Britain. But I do
not believe these will be attempted thro' any other agent than the
miserable minister now at that Court. Would you believe it?
A very few days only had elapsed, after Mr. Pitt's death, and
when the new Ministers had scarcely taken their seats in their
offices, before Mr. Monroe applied for his answer to his letter (or
remonstrance) to Lord Mulgrave ! this is the out-door informa-
tion.! Yet this is the man who is to be the next President of the

* You will recollect his Lordship's decided sentiments on neutral commerce
in his celebrated Speech on the Treaty with Russia in 1801.

f P. M. This out-of-door report is incorrect. The President sent Monroe's

1806] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 509

U. S. ; the man whom Mr. Nicholson lately pronounced (in the
House of R.) second to no one in the United States, and who
appears (from all I hear) to be the favourite of Mr. Randolph.
Hence the contempt with which you will have observed he has
treated Mr. Madison — the competitor of Monroe for the Presi-
dency. This I take to be a great, if not a principal cause of the
schism among the democrats. Bidwell, Varnum and the major-
ity of the democrats from the great States of Massachusetts, New
York and Pennsylvania are the friends of Madison. Randolph
and his special adherents are the friends of Monroe : and while
these two divisions of democrats are thus early canvassing for the
next President, the actual President is exploring the wilds of
Louisiana — its salt plains — its rock or mineral salt — its immense
prairies — in which he has discovered the earthly paradise — its
numerous tribes and remnants of tribes of Indians & how many
languages they speak — the hot springs & the warm mud-puddles
in their vicinity — and the wonderful phenomena in one of a small
or " very minute shell fish " in shape resembling a muscle, but
having four legs ; and in another " a vermes about half an inch
long, moving with a serpentine or vermicular motion " !

Should Monroe be our next P., Randolph, I presume, must be
his prime-minister, and Nicholson Secretary of the Navy. Gal-
latin (whom R. lately eulogized) must remain Secy of the Treas-
ury ; for they have no Southern man of ability and industry to
fill his place. They would not be much embarrassed to find a
successor to Mr. Dearborn — Confidential — at present. On Satur-
day while the doors were closed, Mr. Randolph said, that about
the middle of December, he called on Mr. Madison, who told
him that the French Government had forbidden our negotiating
directly with Spain : that we must negotiate thro1 the medium of the
French Govt., which wanted money, and that we must give it. Ran-
dolph added "I had not much confidence in him (Madison) be-
fore, and from that time I have had none " : at that moment,
with an indignant motion, throwing his hat across the hall !
Adieu T. Pickering.

You will connect this anecdote with the affair of the secret ap-
propriation of 2 millions.

original letter dated Jany. 28 to the two Houses — in which he mentions that he
shall soon apply for an answer. The letter was returned to the President ; the
doors were closed ; but nothing important was announced.

$IO KUFUS KING. [1806

R. King To Pickering.

New York, Mar. 25,1806.
Dear Sir,

I yesterday received Mr. Gallatin's Report and Genl. Smith's
proposed navigation Law, which you obligingly sent to me, and
today I have reed, the Report of the Commn. concerning the
Tripolitan affairs, and the last part of Mr. Randolph's speech.

If I may conjecture the conduct of Congress from what in my
own opinion I think it should be at the present moment, they
will at once suspend the Resolutions, Bills & Debates, until they
receive accounts from England of the Temper and views of the
new ministry towards the U. S. I can suppose a system, which,
if adopted by the new ministry, would require the best under-
standing and Harmony with America, and which would therefore
offer a most favorable opportunity for the satisfactory adjust-
ment of our intercourse with that country. In this state of things,
it would be impolitic and extraordinary, if Congress, instead of
giving the Executive an opportunity to effect such arrangement,
should adopt any measures that might defeat an advantageous
settlement of our concerns.

In respect to the Bill offered by Genl. Smith, were the time a
proper one for its discussion, I am by no means satisfied that it
would be advantageous. If, as I conjecture to be the fact, England
at no time imports into the U. States any Goods not the growth
or manufacture of her own Dominions, it would be of no effect as
respects her, and in reference to other countries, whose ships
sometimes resort to our Ports, if they have no such Regulation,
our adoption of it might suggest to them the expediency of their
doing it also ; and should this be done, we, being carriers of
articles not produced nor manufactured at home in a larger pro-
portion than they are, should be sufferers in a like proportion.

Suppose the law generally adopted, the question between us
and England will be immediately settled ; for we shall not be
able to import Sugar, Coffee, Teas, India Goods, &c, which now
make so considerable a share of our exports. I must close, as I
fear I may miss the Post.

Yours &c

Rufus King.

1806] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 51 1

C. Gore To R. King.

Boston, March 26, 1806.
My Dear Friend :

I was really gratified by the Receipt of your last Letter, for
although I had no apprehensions that you had acted incautiously,
and knew that you had communicated to the Government Intelli-
gence of Miranda's Plan, yet it was unknown to me that you
possessed their acknowledgment of having received this infor-
mation. Their Baseness and meanness seem only to be ex-
ceeded by their extreme weakness. That any of our Coun-
trymen can still submit to remain the Dupes of such Imbecillity
affords new evidence of the Degradation to which Democracy will
sink its adherents. Another Testimony of the Contempt of our
Chief for Public Opinion we have in the Appointment of Mr.
Armstrong. [James Lovel, some time since, wrote Mr. Jefferson a
congratulatory Letter on the appointment of Austin to the Loan
Office ; saying it was the highest Evidence that could be offered
of the Supremacy of the Executive of the U. States ; for a man
more universally and more deeply despised than Austin, did not
exist in this part of the Country, and that a Government, which
could name & keep in Office, a Character, known to be so base,
must be stronger than any Despotism within his knowledge.

We are now in the Fever Heat of our annual Election, and
such are the Charges against Sullivan, & so well supported, that
no man who has the least Regard to Property or Reputation, one
would think could vote for him ; and yet he will probably have
more than 30,000 Votes.

I shall endeavour to keep out of the Legislature, but I am afraid
it will not be in my Power. The last year we obliged many to go
into the House of Representatives, and had we not chosen 26,
we should have had a Democratic House, of course a Democratic
Senate and a Democratic council. I do not know that our chance
is better this year, and that any Reason exists why the same
means should not be resorted to.

The Supreme Court is now in Session, and Sedgwick, as usual,
swearing he will resign : possibly He has declared this so fre-
quently and so publickly that hewill be compelled to do it, con-
trary to his more mature judgment?\

The dreadful Fate of the Coalition leaves nothing to be hoped

512 RUFUS KING. [1806

for from the Continent of Europe, against the Despotism of Bona-
parte. The Views & Intentions of England, under the new ad-
ministrations, for any intelligence we obtain, are the mere Subject
of Conjecture. Our merchants are afraid of a Peace and well
they may be, for notwithstanding many Losses & Embarrassments,
their Voyages were generally prosperous. Their Shipments of
W. India Produce netted them a profit of a sum from 25 to 50
per cent. . . .

Ever and faithfully yrs.

C. Gore.

C. Gore To R. King.

Boston, 15 April, 1806.
My Dear Friend :

. . . While we endeavour to derive Consolation from reflect-
ing on some Errors on the part of the Federalists, and attempt to
impute to those the present gloomy Prospect, it is impossible not
to perceive, in the existing State of things, under all the circum-
stances of the Times and the great Difference in the Pretensions
of the Candidates to the Confidence of Mankind, the most
damning Proofs of the Triumph of Vice over Virtue, and the
same Presages of a total Prostration of the Rights of Freedom &
of Property to the insatiable Lust of abase & cowardly Despotism,
owing its Origin & Support to the meanest and most degraded
Passions of the human Heart.

You may wonder that, with a full view of the present & future
State of our affairs, I would enter into public Life again. In the
first Place, I conceived it would be impossible to avoid a Seat in
the House, if I insisted in declining the Duty of a Senator. If it
were possible for the Federalists to retain the name and Forces
of the Government, in the Crisis which cannot be very distant, it
might be of incalculable Benefit to the Cause of Order : and
it appeared to me of great importance that Men of Consider-
ation should not resign the Government into the Hands of a
different Class, unless they were confident that great Good would
result from suffering our Institutions to be destroyed by the
Weakness of our Party, or the Violence of the Democrats. In
fine, and what was perhaps of more weight in my own mind, it
appeared to me that we ought not by deserting our Friends &

1806] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 513

our Country in the Hour of peril, to surrender a claim to their
confidence when our Advice & Experience maybe of use to them
& ourselves, and by such Desertion reserve for a future Day the
bitter Reflection that had we not shrunk from Exertion, we might
have prevented or softened the existing calamities.

We see by the Papers that the Govt, is base & mad enough to
persist in persecuting the Persons concerned in Miranda's Enter-
prise. I cannot but think this is one of the Rocks on which our
Chief and his aids are likely to wreck their Pretensions to Confi-
dence, and I look with much Interest to the Denouement of the
Business. Congress affords, as the Stories are told to us, a most
disgraceful Picture of Imbecillity, Outrage & Meanness ; and what
is truly unfortunate to our Reputation at least no man appears
to state to the Public, or on the Floor of the House, the Principles
on which our Conduct ought to be regulated, and to expose in a
just & proper manner the flagitious and degrading Behaviour
of our Government.

Farewell, ever & truly yours

C. Gore.

T. Pickering to R. King.

Washington, April 19th, 1806.
Dear Sir :

Some time ago I promised to give the information you re-
quested respecting the application of the Louisiana fund by
General Armstrong.

It was stated by Genl. Smith (while Armstrong's nomination
was before the Senate), that our Government knowing, or ex-
pecting, that the fund would not be equal to all the claims upon
it, proposed to the French Government that all the claims should
be examined, and the sums due ascertained, before any payments
were made ; and that if the whole amount surpassed the fund of
$3,750,000, the loss should be averaged. To this, he said, the
French Government would not agree ; insisting that the bills
should be drawn as fast as the liquidations were made, conform-
ably to the Convention. This must refer to the 9th Article ; in
which you will see the English translation is not of the same im-
port as the French original; this being "a mesure que," &c—

VOL. IV.— 33

514 RUFUS KING, [1806

which is translated " In proportion." In a variety of places you
will observe it to be a very careless and faulty translation. You
will also notice the unpardonable negligence of Livingston &
Monroe in the preamble of this Convention, the object of which
is declared to be, to comply with the second & fifth articles of
the Treaty of Sept. 30, 1800, altho* the second was expunged be-
fore that Treaty was ratified. By the 4th article of the same
Treaty, it was stipulated that " property captured and not yet
definitely condemned," should be mutually restored ; but in the
fifth article of the Louisiana Convention, this stipulation was
either carelessly neglected, or purposely set aside by this clause,
"The said 5th Article (of the Treaty of 1800) does not compre-
hend prizes, whose condemnation has been or shall be confirmed."

But notwithstanding the refusal of the French Govt, to admit
the deficiency of funds to be averaged upon all the claims, and
its determination that the bills should be drawn as fast as the
liquidations were made, yet our enquiries produced the informa-
tion, that Mr. Livingston did not draw a. single bill ; and that
tho' Mr. Armstrong arrived in Paris in the autumn of 1804, yet
he drew no bills until May 1805.

Since Armstrong's nomination to Spain has been approved, we
have had laid on our tables a document exhibiting the draughts
he has made and the times of drawing. The supplementary
documents showing the sums allowed for the embargoed vessels,
you will see was occasioned by the disagreement between Mar-
bois and Armstrong as to the persons in whose favour the bills
ought to be drawn ; in which matter Armstrong was doubtless in
the right ; the original powers being given to Fenwick by the
masters of the vessels, at the period when the embargoes took
place ; and who. or whose representations, ought not, at this late
day, to receive the property of the Merchant owners. An Act has
recently been passed to authorize the Sec'y of the Treasury to
pay these claims. . . .

It is said Wm. Pinkney (late one of our Commissioners in
London) is to be appointed Minister Plenipotentiary to Great
Britain — Monroe to return in the Fall.

4 p.m. Mr. Pinkney has been nominated in conjunction with
Monroe to negotiate on our differences with the British Govern-
ment. I have just got the message and will give you the words :

1806] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 5 15

Monroe & Pinkney are nominated "to be Commissioners Pleni-
potentiary & Extraordinary for settling all matters of difference
between the United States and the United Kingdoms of Great
Britain and Ireland, relative to wrongs committed between the
parties on the high seas or other waters, & for establishing the
principles of navigation & commerce between them."

5 p.m. The Senate have struck out (on the second reading)
the two sections of the bill for repealing the duty on salt, and
allowing a bounty to our fisheries and salted provisions. As the
bill passed the House so triumphantly (about 84 to 11) I pre-
sumed it would, on the same popular ground, be passed by the
"Senate. The votes 16 to 9.

Very truly yours,

T. Pickering.

Noah Webster to R. King.

New Haven, May 5th, 1806.
Sir:

The circumstances of the United States are critical and seem
to require some union of sentiment & concert of measures among
the real friends of public safety & National character. I have
seen the spirited & appropriate resolution of the federal gentle-
men, on the occasion of the outrage lately committed by the
British ship in N. York Harbor, but have not yet heard of the
issue of the election in the city — an issue which I deem important.

I take the liberty however to request your opinion on the ex-
pediency of attempting to procure some expression of the public
sentiments of this State. Our Legislature will meet next Thurs-
day, & there can be no doubt of their readiness to take any
step in the present crisis, which on deliberate consultation shall
be deemed prudent. The federal strength in Massachusetts, if
not totally overwhelmed, is extremely impaired, & Connecticut
alone stands firm with a commanding majority. The great ques-
tion seems to be whether the time has arrived, when the current
of public opinion in favor of the present administration can be
arrested & turned. Can the folly, the imbecility, & the corrup-
tion which have reduced us to a most deplorable condition, be
made to appear with such evidence as to silence and confound
the adherents of the present administration ? Is there any thing

$l6 RUFUS KING. [1806

now existing which can change or commence a change of the
confidence of that class of people in their leader ?

As a general rule it is clear that the Legislatures of the States
should not interfere with the measures of the national Govern-
ment. But are there not emergencies when such interference is
not only right but indispensable ? And to what point of public
danger & national humiliation must we be reduced before an
expression of the public will, by the constituent members of the
confederation becomes expedient or justifiable ?

I have not time to suggest the views I have of the subject.
The opinions of gentlemen here are various on this question, &
it deserves to be considered in all its aspects before any other
step is taken. I have thought it so important as to ask your
opinion, &, if you please, the opinions of other influential gentle-
men in New York, whether at the approaching session of our
Legislature, it is best to express the opinions of that body on the
extraordinary measures of the general government, which appear
to me to have actually yielded up our Independence — in violation
of the highest duty imposed on the administrators of that Govt,
by public confidence and the constitution.* Your answer ad-
dressed to me at Hartford will oblige

Sir your most obed. Servt.,

Noah Webster.

* Endorsed by R. K. " Ansd. that nothing should be done without ap-
proval by Ellsworth, The Govr., &c."

CHAPTER XXXII.

Miranda to King — Expects to embark for Trinidad — Asks for Help — King says
unauthorized — Further Communications. — King to Madison — Communi-
cates confidentially Miranda's Plans — Miranda sails for N. York — Vansit-
tart to King — England's Dealings with Miranda — Present Views of public
Men in England — King to Secretary of State, Sends him Vansittart's Letter
for the President to read — Miranda to Gore — Account of his Preparations
to sail for Trinidad — Urging him to assist him — King to Gore — Miranda's
Arrival in N. York and his Plans — Madison to King, acknowledging
Receipt of his Letters — Miranda to King, urging him to ask his Friends
to contribute Money for him — Declined by King — Miranda to King — He
sails — Estimate of Mr. King's Action in the Matter — Help in Congress in-
voked by Miranda's Friends against Prosecution — King to Gore — How
his Name mixed with the Enquiry — King to Vansittart.

Miranda wrote to Mr. King, August 23, 1803, from
London :

" La conduite ou la betise, mon chere ami, va son train ici —
de maniere que je suis decide a partir par le premier convoi, avec
ou sans secours (for Trinidad). Leur conduite me parait a cette
heure suspect, et Dieu scait si elle n'est pas perfide ! Ainsi je
vous conjure au nom de votre patrie et de la mienne de nous faire
parvenir des secours au plutdt — Le point ou il faut les diriger
est l'isle de Trinidad."

What he asked for were ships loaded with flour and, most
urgently, four thousand muskets with bayonets, ammunition
for them, priming powder, pikes — and a hundred or two hun-
dred brave Americans. On the same sheet under date of
August 30, he says that he has finally made a definite arrange-
ment with the Government to transport him in a frigate to
Trinidad, has received from it a small sum of money, and that
he has had promised money and men at the Island. He
therefore earnestly entreats Mr. King to have forwarded to
him
518 RUFUS KING. [J8o5

■. sans faute deux batimens Americains pour le moins, avec
quelques armes, et quelques dizaines (sinon des Centaines) de
braves enfans de Colombia."

He encloses a statement of the cost of 5000 men with
necessary arms &c, for one year, about 4J millions of
dollars, &c.

On the back of this letter, " Rec. Oct. 8th 1803," is endorsed.
N. B. The writer has no authority to make to me these proposi-
tions ; nor have I inclination to comply with them. Indeed, I
could not were I inclined, such supplies being contrary to Law.
(Signed) Rufus King Oct. 9, 1803.

Several letters relative to Miranda's affairs both from Mr.
King and Mr. Gore will be found on pages 429 to 435 of this
volume. But as nothing new occurred to change the rela-
tions of Great Britain with Spain, Miranda made no new
communications to Mr. King until on July 13, 1805, he writes,
that after " inconceivable and unsupportable delays he was
about to sail for New York," and asking him to inform those
who had promised to assist him M that the time for action
had arrived." In a postscript dated August 8th, he saysr
"the time for our departure is fixed for the 15th of this
month."

Mr. King communicated this letter " in secret " to the
Secretary of State.

Copy.
R. King to J. Madison, Secy, of State.

Secret.

Jamaica, L. I., Oct. 15, 1805.
Sir:

You will probably recollect that soon after my return to Eng-
land, I communicated to you the extract of a letter that I had re-
ceived and which related to an object respecting which we cannot
be indifferent. For some time past I have heard nothing farther
on the subject. A few days since, however, I received a letter
from the same person dated London August 8, the following,
extract of which I have thought it expedient confidentially to com-
municate to you.

:8o5] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 519

" Apr£s des inconsequences et des retards inconcevables et in-
supportables, nous voila sur le point de partir. . . . Je compte
m'embarquer dans le courant de ce mois." " P. S. C'est pour le
15 de ce mois (A6ut) que notre depart est fixe."

Whether any adequate succour has been furnished by England
or favorable expectations are derived from a supposed state of
things between the U. S. & Spain is what at present I have no
satisfactory means of deciding. I may, however, shortly receive
more exact information.

With sentiments of Respect & Esteem &c.

Rufus King.

Miranda, tired, as has been seen, of waiting for the assis-
tance he had hoped to receive from England, sailed for
America, to ascertain there what arrangements he could
make to forward his plans. He arrived in New York on
Nov. 9, 1805, bringing with him a long letter dated Aug. 14,
from Mr. N. Vansittart to Mr. King, giving him a general
view of the past relations with Miranda and of the state of
ministerial and public opinion in England relative to the
liberation of the Spanish Provinces.

N. Vansittart to R. King.

London, Aug. 14, 1805.
My dear Sir :

I have often blamed myself for my long omission in writing to

you as well as to some other valuable friends who are abroad, but

have found myself embarrassed, not only by the frequent pressure

of business and other avocations, but perhaps in a, still greater

degree by the uncertainty of my own situation. It would have

appeared reserved and perhaps unkind to have said nothing of

my own position and views, and yet for the last eighteen months

I could scarcely have given any account of myself which would

not have misled my correspondent at the time the letter could

reach him. I should have been happy in writing to a friend

whose good opinion I so much value to have entered into such

an explanation as to show that this uncertainty has not arisen from

any unsteadiness in my principles, or inconsistency in my conduct,

520 RUFUS KING. [1805

but has been the unavoidable result of the circumstances in which
I have been placed, had not the occasion of my writing been of a
very peculiar kind and connected with circumstances of much
greater importance than the fortunes & estimation of any individual.

This will be delivered to you by our common friend, Genl.
Miranda, who has at last embarked with scarcely any other means
than the resources of his own mind in the execution of the great
plan which for so many years he has meditated for the liberation
of his country.

You are, I believe, as well acquainted with the prospects of
support held out to him long ago in this kingdom as well as on
some occasions by certain continental powers, as well as with the
preparations made for that purpose by the English Government
for a short time preceding the signature of the last peace. But I
presume you have not heard that soon after the renewal of the
war, I obtained leave to make a private provision of Arms, Cloth-
ing & Stores for 5000 men as a preparation in case a rupture
with Spain should take place. The Government however enter-
taining a hope (on grounds which never appeared satisfactory to
me and which I shall not now discuss) that the neutrality of
Spain might be preserved, directed the articles which had been
collected to be applied to other currrent services previous to the
change of administration which took place last year. You will
learn from Genl. Miranda what has since passed between him and
the members of the present ministry. He had for some time after
the commencement of hostilities with Spain reason to hope for
active & cordial assistance, but the attention of the Government
has been so much engaged with different, & I fear, unattainable
objects that he has at last determined in utter despair of their
taking any decisive steps, to try what can be effected by such
resources as America can furnish and may be willing to afford
him either as an enterprize sanctioned by public authority or
undertaken by individual adventures.

You will be the best judge what support he will be likely to
meet with in America, and your influence will be of the utmost
importance to him. You are also by your long residence in
England, and your intimacy with men of different sentiments and
parties, no inadequate judge how far such a plan, supposing the
execution of it to be successfully commenced would derive en-

1805] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 52 1

couragement and aid from this country. But on that subject I
will shortly state the best opinion I have been able to form. Our
mercantile body are naturally anxious for an extension of trade
and look with great anxiety to a removal of the restraints which
in a great degree exclude them from the rich market of S. Amer-
ica ; and a great body of our most reasonable and judicious men
consider a well combined system of independence as the best and
only effectual security to preserve those immense territories from
falling, like the mother country, under the dominion of France
and furnishing resources sufficient to enable that ambitious and
domineering power to complete the subjugation of Europe. They
therefore consider this country as bound to support such an
attempt not only as a justifiable measure of hostility but on the
strictest principles of self defence.

On the other hand there are not wanting men of great weight
and authority, who have such a dread and abhorrence of any
thing which bears the name or approaches to the semblance of
revolution that they think all such ideas ought in the most pointed
manner to be discountenanced, if not directly resisted. It is vain to
argue with them, that the natural and inevitable course of events
leads to separation of populous and rapidly increasing Colonies
from a feeble, decrepit and degraded government ; that we might
as well attempt to stop the tide, as to stop the progress or long
secure the subjection of countries so circumstanced, but that it is
in some degree in our power to select the time and influence the
direction of their great change, and by rendering it more easy and
more beneficial to secure the gratitude and attachment of the new
Power, whose formation we could not prevent, for they will
answer that the effects of the change are so uncertain, and the
evils attending may and probably will be so terrible that we ought
on no account incur the guilt and risque the consequences of co-
operating to produce it.

Of the great parties which divide our State, I have good reason
to believe that the leaders of the present ministry incline to the
first opinion ; as it appears from circumstances within my own
knowledge, that they had not long since a serious intention of fur-
nishing Genl. Miranda with the succours he required, and only
relinquished the plan from an unwillingness to divert the force
which they judged to be necessary from other objects which they

522 RUFUS KING. [1805 1

considered more immediately important. The sentiments of the
late Administration sufficiently appear from the conduct they
pursued at the close of the last war, but I must do them the jus-
tice to add that on the conclusion of Peace every idea inconsistent
with the strictest discharge of the duties of amity towards Spain
was entirely relinquished.

With the sentiments of the opposition parties I am less inti-
mately acquainted ; but I have always understood Mr. Fox and
his friends to be favorable to emancipation of S. America, and
it seems conformable to the general tenor of their principles that
they should be so. Lord Grenville not long since took an oppor-
tunity in the House of Lords to declare vehemently against it, to
the surprize of many persons who had understood him to express
different sentiments in private on former occasions.

But whatever may be the sentiments of particular men previous
to the attempt, I have no doubt that obvious views of great na-
tional advantage will occasion nearly a general concurrence in its-
favor in case of a prosperous commencement, and that unless
Peace should be concluded and a question of public faith occurr
the general disposition of the country will in a manner compel
almost any government to give a vigorous support to the enter-
prize.

In one important respect it will derive unavoidable assistance
from our forces, viz. that both our blockading squadrons in Europe
and our fleets in the West Indies will be nearly as vigilant and
useful in intercepting any succours which the Spaniards or French,
may attempt to send to the Colonies as if they were stationed for
that express purpose.

You will perceive, my dear Sir, that I have addressed you
throughout not only with the freedom of a friend, but the senti-
ments of an Englishman, from a firm conviction, that in this in-
stance (and I believe if rightly understood in every other) the
views and interests of this Country and the United States must
be indissolubly united. Believe me, my dear Sir,

With great Esteem, very Sincerely yours,

N. Vansittart.

Mr. King has endorsed on this letter

" Reed, by Miranda Nov. 10th, sent inclosed to Mr. Madison for
the Pres. Perusal Nov. 25, received from Mr. Madison Deer. 5th. "

1805] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 523

Copy.
R. King to J. Madison, Secretary of State.

Private.

New York, Nov. 25, 1805.
Sir :

I had the honour to write to you on the 15th of last month, since
when I have received by General Miranda, who has arrived here,
a letter from Mr. N. Vansittart, a member of the British Parlia-
ment, and who was likewise a member of the late Administration
of Mr. Addington. Mr. Vansittart being a man of distinguished
probity and in a situation to understand fully the subject on
which he writes, I send you his letter for the President's perusal,,
requesting that it may afterwards be returned to me.

With great respect, &c.

R. King.

It will thus be seen that whatever agency Mr. King may
have had in assisting Miranda, there is no evidence of his
willingness to engage in an enterprize undertaken against a
friendly nation without the knowledge of his own govern-
ment. He was certainly warmly interested in the proposed
liberation of the Spanish South American Colonies, and had
been for years ; but it does not appear that he contemplated
a successful issue without the leadership of Great Britain to
cripple the resources of her great enemy and, as Mr. King
thought, of his own country, which France would obtain
through her power over the Spanish Colonies — Spain being
then a mere puppet in the hands of France.

Miranda wrote to Mr. Gore from New York 27 Nov.,
1805, the first direct communication after his arrival there.

Vous avez appris sans doute, mon cher ami, que je suis arrive
ici depuis le 9 du courant. Nous avons arrange deja nos affaires
de maniere que je puisse partir d'ici vers le fin du mois prochain
sans faute. Deux batimens armes et tres bien equipes sont prets
pour cet objet ; tout ce qui nous manque (et que j'espere obtenir
par vos amis de Boston) est le compliment des armes, et un peu
d'argent pour partir sans delai. Ce dernier article ne sera pas

524 RUFUS KING. [1805

meme necessaire si on nous offre le moindre assentiment a Wash-
ington ; puisque dans ce cas on nous promet dans cette ville ici
tout les secours pecunieres qui sont necessaires. Enfin pour que
vous soyez parfaitement instruit de ce que nous avons ici, et de
ce qui nous manque pour faire notre debut avec succes, nous
sommes convenus (notre ami d'ici et moi) que le Major Arm-
strong, porteur de celle-ci et un des cooperateurs, personne mure
et discrete, passe chez vous pour donner toux les renseignmens et
toute Tinformation necessaire sur cet objet arm que l'ensemble
marche avec un accord parfait.

Comme le risque est plus considerable et le service bien plus
important dans cette premiere occasion que par la suite, il faut
aussi que les profits soient en proportion — et je croirai qu'un
cent pour cent et meme d'advantage, ne serait pas un trop haut
prix. Vour ferez en tout cas comme vous jugerez apropos.

Voici une lettre pour mon ami le Genl. Knox, qui pourroit
peut-etre seconder nos efforts dans le moment actuel ; mais si
vous croyez cette demarche inutile ou peu necessaire, vous
pourrez la supprimer. C'est avec l'avis de notre ami commun ici
que je l'ai ecrite et que je fais tout, desirant que la chose se fasse
avec sagesse et bonne direction pour que la necessite soit notre
recompense. Je part demain pour Washington, et vous aurez de
mes nouvelles sans faute.

Agissez en tout cas, je vous prie, avec promptitude et energie
puisque le moment est precieux et les avantages incalculables !

Voici le moyen que notre Commodore propose pour envoyer
les armes de Boston ici* — et pour prevenir l'effet de la loi qui
exige une caution, &c.

Yours most sincerely,

M A.

*A vessel to be cleared out from Boston for N. Orleans ; pass thro' the Sound,
come to anchor in the passage before arriving at Hell Gate ; a person dispatched
from her to N. Y. to inform of her arrival, &c, and then wait further orders.
No difficulty can possibly arise. She will pass through the Sound when the
ship leaves the port of N. Y., and join at the Hook. No law exists to prevent
vessels carrying the articles in question from Boston to N. O. No law exists to
prevent her passing through the Sound for any reason which may be given or
asked.

J.S.

1805] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 52$

Rufus King to C. Gore.

New York, Nov. 29, 1805.
Dear Sir :

Some short time since I reed, a letter from Mr. Vansittart, ex-
plaining pretty fully the sentiments of the leading men of different
parties in England concerning S. America. Mr. Addington's
friends were decided in the event of a Spanish war to afford G.
M. succour to attempt the long meditated Revolution. Mr. Pitt
also promised that assistance should be given as soon as a war
with Spain took place, and the assurances were continued till
the new coalition was founded, when G. M. was told that such
were the engagements of England that she was not at liberty to
divide her attentions or her resources. G. M. immediately de-
termined to embark for the U. S. Mr. Vansittart believes that the
Revolution of S. Amer. would be highly popular in England,
especially among the manufacturing and commercial part of the
nation, and that if a beginning were made, the Government,
whatever might be its sentiments, would be obliged to counte-
nance, and even to support the measure. Mr. Vansittart's reason-
ing which leads to this conclusion appears to me judicious.

In this condition of England G. M. has arrived here, altogether
without means, except his personal knowledge and talents, in order
to embark in the enterprize he has so long and so maturely con-
sidered. There are three courses before him one of which he
seems resolved to pursue.

1. To make the attempt with the countenance and support of
the U. S.

2. To make it with the cooperation of individuals.

3. To make it without foreign succour wholly depending on
the disposition and aid of the inhabitants.

The General left town this morning to sound the administration.
I have no means of forming a satisfactory opinion in what
temper he will be likely to find our Chiefs. He yesterday showed
me the copy of a letter he had written to you, and I have thought
it due to the occasion as well as to our friendship to lose no time
in sending you this communication.

With unfeigned attachment &c.

Rufus King.

526 RUFUS KING. [1805

J. Madison to R. King.

Private.

Washington, Deer. 4, 1805.
Sir:

I have received your favor of the 25th ulto. inclosing one to

you from Mr. Vansittart, which I now return as you requested, after

having submitted it to the perusal of the President. As it is of

importance to understand the way of thinking in Great Britain

with respect to Spanish America and what the Government there

does not at this particular time mean to undertake as well as

what under other circumstances it may probably undertake towards

the object pursued by Genl. Miranda, the communication of Mr.

Vansittart's information relative thereto claims acknowledgments

which I pray you to accept with assurances of the high respect

with which I have the honor to be

Your most obt. Servt.

James Madison.

Miranda to R. King.

Private.

New York, ce 30 Deer., 1805.

I'ai vu mes Cooporateurs hier en vous quittant, et je les ai
trouve tous decides a suivre sans relache cette patriotique entre-
prise, avec un zele vraiment heroique.

Mais comme la promptitude, ainsi que V Vendue des apprets,
tient en quelque sort dans ce moment aux supports que je puisse
leur procurer de mon cote\ je vous supplie de ne pas negliger
aujourd'hui la d-marche dont nous sommes convenus hier au
soir, afin qu 'ils puissent definitivement fixer dans la journee le
nombre de batimens et la quantite des armes qui doivent etre pretes
dans 10 jours.

Je ne vous fais point d'apologie sur mon importunite, puisque
vous connoissez 1' importance de 1' objet et la presse du terns.

A vous invariablement

Miranda.

P. S. Ci-joint est le maximum de leur demande.*

Cash 5000, 60 D. 5000.. 90 D. 5000, 12.0 D 5000.

"* I saw my cooperators yesterday after leaving you, and found them all de-
cided to carry on without delay this patriotic Enterprize with a zeal truly heroic.
But as promptness, as well as the extent of the preparations, depends in some

1806] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 527

On the back of this letter Mr. King has written

" Miranda 30 December 1805. Respecting succours ; ansd.
verbally, that as our Govt, having an opening to do so, had not
intimated to any of my friends in confidence even that the supplies
might be made in discretion, and privately, there was a difficulty
in making the same which would prevent it being done."

The last letter from Miranda relative to his expedition
announces his departure.

Miranda to R. King.

Off the Hook, 2 of Febr., 9 o'clk. a.m.
Dear Sir :

Nous voila hors du port et en compagnie de 180 enfans de Colom-
bia— une meilleure suite a tous egards que celle qui accompagnoit
le Vainqueur de Pompe quand Ciceron lui donna a diner dans la
Ville de Formiae. Que la Providence nous seconde et nous ferons
mieux peut-etre.*

Ever yours

Miranda.

In an appendix, will be found a paper written by Mr.
King on March 5, 1806, detailing his intercourse with
Miranda from the time of his arrival in New York until his
departure, and also Mr. King's examination before the Judge
of the District Court of New York by the District-Attorney
relative to matters connected with sailing of the Leander and
his connection with General Miranda before the departure
of the vessel.

degree at this moment upon the assistance I can provide on my side, I beseech
you not to neglect today the steps we agreed upon last evening, in order that
they may be able to fix definitively during the day the number of vessels and
the quantity of arms that should be ready in 10 days.

I make no apoligies for my importunity, as you know the importance of the
object and the pressure of time.

P. S. Annexed is the maximum of their requirement."

* " Here we are outside the harbour, with 180 children of Columbia in com-
pany : a better following in all respects than that which accompanied the Con-
queror of Pompey when Cicero entertained him at dinner in the City of Formiae.
May Providence help us and we shall do better perhaps."

528 RUFUS KING. [1806

It may be here stated that relying upon the assertion of
Miranda, that though the Government would not assist, they
would wink at what was done provided that discretion were
used in making preparations for the Expedition, friends in
New York advanced him money ; two small armed vessels
went out to St. Domingo to enlist men there, and were fol-
lowed by the ship Leander, in which Miranda and his men
with arms and munitions of war embarked. Messrs. Ogden
and Smith, who had been his agents in furnishing the vessel
and providing the men and arms, etc., were after the sailing"
of the vessel subjected to a judicial inquiry on the ground
of an infringement of the laws of the United States ; but
were acquitted by the jury, as it was not proved satisfactorily
that the laws of the United States had been broken. While
the matter was pending in court, the judge refusing to admit
proof of the connivance of, or the tacitly favoring the expedi-
tion by the Executive, an attempt was made to obtain the
interference of Congress to arrest the proceedings, by the
presentation, in the House of Representatives, of a memorial,
on the last day of the Session, from Messrs. Ogden and
Smith, asking for relief from a prosecution in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the district of New York, " for
an alleged infraction of the laws of the United States in
which, if guilty, they have been led into error by the con-
duct of officers of the Executive Government," etc., thus
distinctly charging certain officers of the Government with a
knowledge of the Leanders sailing, time enough to have
prevented it, meaning more definitely the President. A
short but sharp debate ensued, the basis of which was a
denial of the charge, unsupported by evidence and calculated
not only to incense the country against the administration
but against the tribunals of justice in which the case was
pending. Let the case be decided there and not be prejudged.
If unjustly decided, " then it would be time enough to in-
terfere." The resolutions below were passed by an over-
whelming vote.

" Resolved, That the charges contained in the memorials of

1806] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE.
Samuel G. Ogden and of William S. Smith are, in the opinion of
this House, unsupported by any evidence, which, in the least de-
gree, criminates the Executive Government of this country "
75 to 8.

" Resolved, that the said memorials appear to have been pre-
sented at a time, and under circumstances insidiously calculated
to excite unjust suspicions in the minds of the good people
of this nation, against the existing Administration of the General
Government." 70 to 13.— Annals of Congress, 1st Session, 1805,
1806, p. 1092.

To close this incident in the life of Mr. King, the details
of which will be found in the Appendix, the following letters
are given.

R. King to C. Gore.

-- - N. Yk., Mar. 9, 1806.

My dear Sir :

Observing the reports contained in the Newspapers respecting
Miranda's Expedition, and that the equipment of the Leander
has become matter of judicial enquiry, you may perhaps think it
irregular that I say nothing to you on the subject, especially as my
own name has been mentioned in relation to the business.

It is not new to you that Miranda left England in utter dispair
of obtaining succor there to enable him to carry into effect his long
meditated views ; his hopes were that adequate assistance might be
had here, either directly from Government, or thro' private indi-
viduals. As soon as I understood directly his object, I at once
told him that no prudent individuals would engage with him, at
least that I could not recommend to any of my friends to do so,
without the countenance and protection of Government, and there-
fore advised him to proceed to Washington, and to lay his whole
views before the Govt. This he concluded to do ; and in order
that the Government might be fully acquainted with the temper of
England and her Government on the subject of Miranda's plan,
as well as with Miranda's views in coming to the Secretary, I trans-
mitted to Mr. Madison a letter that I had received from England
fully disclosing the same, with a request that after being laid be-
fore the President, it might be returned to me. This was done

VOL. IV. — 34

530 RUFUS KING. [1806

with acknowledgments, &c, before Miranda arrived at Washing-
ton. On his arrival there he took an early opportunity of opening
his whole plan to the Government and concluded by asking their
assistance, &c. Time being taken to consider the subject, he was
answered that Govt, could or would not grant the succour he
demanded, but that private persons might. What is here stated
of what passed between the Govt, and Miranda rests solely upon
his report to me, which however I fully credit : my understanding
being that Govt, would not act, but that it would wink at the
things being done by individuals. This report being transmitted
by Miranda to Ogden, Smith and Lewis, the Leanderwas equipped
and Miranda sailed about the 2nd of February. While the busi-
ness was going on, he, M., urged me to engage my friends to assist
by a loan of money, which I decidedly declined, because I be-
lieved that Govt, would betray those, who should act in the per-
suasion that they did not disapprove the measure. He wished
me to converse with his associates, which I also refused. About
a week before Miranda sailed, he wrote two letters, one to the
Prest. the other to Mr. Madison, which assure them that he had
in all things acted according to the intention of Govt, which he
hoped he had duly or correctly understood &c. Of these letters he
left copies with me. Three or four weeks after the date of these
letters, and when Miranda was fairly off, an enquiry has been in-
stituted and Smith and Ogden have been arrested, as agents in
this transaction. In the course of the examination, Smith having
stated to the Judge that Miranda told him that he had communi-
cated to me his project, as well as what had passed at Washington
I was called as a witness. My examination was short and pointed
to Miranda's communication of the expedition. I with others was
recognized to attend the next court as a witness. The affair has
created much attention. I understand the general impression is
unfavourable to the honour of Govt. I felicitate myself that
the sentiments I entertain of our Chief have kept me within the
limits of extreme caution. I cannot with honour be a volunteer
on this occasion agt. Govt., but if I am called as a witness on the
prosecution they institute, all reserve will be at an end ; the whole
must be told, and being told cannot leave any doubt of the un-
worthy conduct of Govt, in this affair. This is entirely confi-
dential.

i8o6] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 53 1

R. King to T. Pickering.

New York, March 13, 1806.
Dear Sir :

Mr. Wolcott some days ago told me that he would write to Mr.
Tracy on the subject of the Leander & Miranda's expedition, and
as I presume you would see this letter, and preferred for particu-
lar reasons, not to write myself, I have said nothing to you of this
project. . . .

C. Gore to R. King.

Boston, March 26, 1806.
Dear Sir :

I was really gratified by the receipt of your last letter, for al-
though I had no apprehension that you had acted incautiously,
and saw that you had communicated to the Government intelli-
gence of Miranda's plan, yet it was unknown to me, that you pos-
sessed their acknowledgment of having received this information.
Their baseness and meanness seem only to be exceeded by their
extreme weakness. . . .

C. Gore to R. King.

Boston, April 15, 1806.

. . . We see by the papers that the Government is base and
mad enough to persist in persecuting the persons concerned in
Miranda's Enterprise. I cannot but think this is one of the rocks
on which our chief and his aids are likely to wreck their preten-
sions to confidence ; and I look with much interest to the de-
nouement of the business. . . .

R. King to N. Vansittart.

Sept. 30., 1806.
Dear Sir :

It is a long time since I have had the pleasure of hearing from
you, tho' I often see your name in the Proceedings of Parliament.
I wrote to you after Miranda left this Country, acknowledging the
receipt of your Letter by him, and informing you that I had taken
the Liberty of communicating it confidentially to the President.

532 RUFUS KING. [1806

In consequence, it is believed, of complaints to our Govt, respect-
ing Miranda's Expedition, a prosecution was ordered to be insti-
tuted against two persons, charged with having assisted him in
preparing the same. After a long trial, both were acquitted ; the
accused are understood to have justified or excused themselves
by offering to prove that Govt, was privy to their conduct. But
the Court declared the Statute to be the only Rule for its decision
and (without enquiring into the allegation of privity) were the
approbation even of Govt, proved, declared it would neither jus-
tify nor excuse. Whether the Jury dissented from this interpre-
tation of the law, or were moved by good-will in favour of
Miranda's Enterprize, or deemed the proofs insufficient is matter
of conjecture. The Business has excited a good deal of attention,
and Govt, has not wholly escaped censure.

As to the Expedition, after various disappointments, and sev-
eral unsuccessful attempts, it still continues to be the fruitful
source of contradictory Rumours. After getting possession of
Coro, Miranda evacuated it and reimbarked early in August.
Yesterday we had a Report that he had relanded and was joined
by a large body of the Inhabitants. The inconsiderable force
under Miranda's Command, is not sufficient to inspire confidence,
and however well disposed toward him, the Inhabitants may be,
they seem afraid to risk the consequences of joining him. If
your negotiations for Peace fail, I cannot but believe that your
administration will turn its attention seriously and efficaciously to
this great object. Were I an English Minister I would not rest
till the Resources of S. America were wrested from the hands of
France, for they can no longer be regarded as those of Spain.
With sincere regard your faithful servt.

Rufus King.

CHAPTER XXXIII.

Tudor to King — Carrying Ice to the W. Indies — Dr. Romeyn to King — Elec-
tion as Manager of the American Bible Society — King to Romeyn — De-
clines the Office, though approving the Object of the Society — Action of
the Episcopal Church to circulate the Bible with the Common Prayer
Book — Gore to King — Pinckney to London to assist Monroe — King Re-
ceives Degree of LL.D. from Dartmouth, Williams, and Harvard Colleges
— Trustee of Columbia College — S. Smith to King — Death of his Son —
Tudor to King — Failure of Application relative to Ice Monopoly — Specu-
lations on European Affairs — Williams to King — British and American
Commissioners said to have made a Treaty — King on an Outrage against
Personal Liberty, in the Case of Alexander, a Lawyer in N. Orleans
arrested by Gen'l Wilkinson.

Wm. Tudor, Jr., to R. King.

Boston, June 12, 1806.
Dear Sir :

Expecting to embark in the course of ten days for England, I
am very desirous to obtain some letters from you,* of what kind
and for what purpose I cannot better describe than by asking
your indulgence while I retail as briefly as possible the motives
of my voyage.

About a year since my Brother & myself agreed to attempt to
transport Ice to the West Indies. Various circumstances had for
some time previous given rise to this scheme, and we gradually
convinced ourselves that with proper precautions we might suc-
ceed. ... It will be readily supposed that no small difficulty
was encountered in persuading the Governments of the various
colonies to listen to a plan considered at first as the wildest ex-
travagance. Indeed I found but three persons in all the Islands
I visited, who at the first moment embraced the idea and con-
ceived it practicable. These were Genl. Ennouf, the Gov. of
* Endorsed, " Ans'd, enclosing letter to W. Windham."
534 RUFUS KING. [1806

Guadaloupe, Lord Lavington at Antigua and a planter, a man of
science, at Jamaica.

We have obtained from the Govt, of Martinique, Guadaloupe
& St. Domingo the exclusive privilege of importing & selling Ice
and fresh provisions packed in the same for the term of ten years.
In the English colonies we have made only three applications at
Barbadoes, Antigua & Jamaica. At Antigua ... I had the
honor of conversing with Lord Lavington fully on the subject ;
he gave me & the project a flattering reception & told me did not
doubt I should obtain an act in my favour, but as it must be
passed with a " suspending clause," coming under the head of a
" new and extraordinary nature," he would follow it home, to the
Board of Privy Council, with a particular letter in its favour.

At Jamaica I conversed with the most influential members of
the Govt, of the Island. My friends had procured for me, a let-
ter from Mr. Merry to Sir Eyrecoote, who received me with much
politeness, though he thought it a "strange thing." As I had
just received advices, it was in my power to inform him of the
safe arrival of a cargo of Ice and provisions at Martinique, and
of course that the experiment was decided. He told me it would
be a matter of consultation and that he saw no objections. He
made many enquiries about America and asked me particularly
after you, telling me he had had the pleasure of dining with you
frequently in London.

I saw the most influential members of the Jamaica Assembly
and they all thought I might confide in the good will of the
Island towards our enterprise. They doubted, at least one of
them did, whether I should obtain the act I wanted because it
could not be passed without the suspending clause, and as the
Gov't of the Island deny to the mother country the right of con-
troul, which is given by this clause, they were extremely cautious
about passing any act that would agitate the question. They told
me I should without doubt obtain a resolution of the Assembly
in favour of the enterprise, and a second instructing the agent of
the Island to back any application I should make at home. . . .
By the exclusive privilege, I mean exclusion of all individuals &
vessels except those of the nation by whom it is granted ; so that
while we open a new branch of commerce to their own subjects,
we make no interference with their rights, but only ask exclusive

1806] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 535

favour as regards all others. We undertook this novel enterprise
at the hazard of considerable pecuniary loss, and eternal ridicule
if we did not succeed, and we ask of each Govt, as our reward, a
privilege for a certain term over foreigners alone. . . .

From what has been said (I beg leave to add confidentially),
you know better than myself what would serve me in my applica-
tion to government. I know I could carry no letters which would
be of so much service to me. . . .

With great respect, yr. humb. Servt.,

William Tudor, Jr.

Dr. Romeyn to Honble. Rufus King.

New York, July 17, 1806.

Dr. Sir :

In compliance with the direction of the Board of Managers of
the American Bible Society, I have the honour to inform you
that the Convention which formed that Society elected you one
of the Managers.

The Board fondly cherish the hope that this National Institu-
tion meets with your approbatton, & that you will unite with them
in their labour of love and work of faith. I need not add that
your acceptance of the office will be highly gratifying to the
Board & afford a powerful stimulus to their zeal and activity in
forwarding the great and good cause of furnishing the destitute
with the Word of Life.

I am Dr. Sir your obedt. Servt.,

M. P. Romeyn, Secy &c

R. King to Rev. Doctr. Romeyn, Sec.

Sir:

I have received your letter of the 17th instant, which informs
me that I have been elected a manager of the American Bible
Society ; and calls on me to make known whether I accept the
appointment. The object of the Society's labours well deserves
and receives my approbation ; but as I am connected with the
Body of Episcopalians, and the Bp. to whose opinions in matter
of order and discipline I am inclined to defer, has signified to us,
that the object whose attainment is the common desire of all

536 RUFUS KING. [1806

may be more fitly promoted in the mode he has been pleased to
indicate, I think it expedient to observe his counsel and to de-
cline the charge of a manager of the American Bible Society.*
With great respect & Regards I am, Sir, yr. obed. Servt.

Rufus King.

Dr. Romeyn to Hon. Rufus King.

New York, July 31, 1806.
Sir :

The Managers of the American Bible Society most sincerely
regret that any considerations should have existed to deprive
them of the aid of your co-operation, & the honour and influence
of your name, as a member of their Board. Their disappoint-
ment has its relief, however, in the assurance that " the object of
the Society's labours well deserves and receives your entire
approbation." I have the honour to be, Sir your obed. Servt.

M. P. Romeyn, Sec D. C.

* In explanation of the above correspondence and of the position taken by
Mr. King, it may be stated that Bishop Moore was then contemplating and
urging the establishment of a Society in Connection with the Episcopal Church
whose purpose should be to print and circulate the Bible and with it the Prayer
Book. This society was actually formed in 1809, and the First Report of its
proceedings was made in 18 11. In it occurs the following paragraph :

" We would beg leave, however, to express the opinion that Episcopalians,
in their charitable efforts to diffuse the blessings of Christianity, should unite
the Book of Common Prayer with the Bible. It is certainly the best summary
of the doctrines and precepts of the Bible that ever was produced : and in the
spirit of true piety, equally untinctured by enthusiasm on the one hand, and
lukewarmness on the other, it is superior to all the productions of the human
mind." p. II.

In the list of subscribers to this Society, given in this Report is found the
name of Rufus King, as an annual subscriber of $50.

Asst. Bishop Hobart in an address before the Auxiliary New York Bible and
Common Prayer Book Society in March 8th, 1816, says.

"We, who unite the distribution of the Book of Common Prayer with the
Bible, advance a step further in this work of Christian Benevolence. We desire
to make known to all men, not only the Word of God, but the Church of God,
which we think the Book of Common Prayer sets forth in evangelical and
primitive purity both in respect to doctrines, ministry and worship. In this
union of the two objects, so far from being influenced by narrow prejudice and
illiberal views, we think we follow the method which the Scriptures point out,
and to which common sense and the natural course of things lead."

1806] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 537

C. Gore to R. King.

Waltham, August 24, 1 806.

My Dear Friend :

. . . When Pinckney was named for London, I presumed it
was merely to assist Mr. Monroe in his Negotiation, but I shortly
after was told, that He made an agreement with the President, to
be the resident Minister. Knowing the Number of Dependants
on him for Subsistence, and having heard, that his Business was
extremely profitable (some say to the amount of 15,000 dollars
per annum) I concluded that the motives, which could lead him
to forego such Claims, in so fair a way of being gratified, for the
narrow Support of his present Office, must be very strong : and
probably stronger would not be required to induce an Abandon-
ment of those Principles & that Conduct which, He must be con-
vinced, afford the only rational Ground for the Freedom, Honour
& Interest of the Country.

I can form no conjecture what the British Ministry will be dis-
posed to do, under the Circumstances that our weak & pitiful
Administration have been pleased to place the two Nations.
Should Mr. Fox adopt the Course, which would seem most natural,
there can be little Doubt, but our government would as meanly
retract, as they have unadvisedly hazarded their present system.
Our Merchants are now trembling at the Expectation of a general
Peace, which would greatly derange their Plans and Enterprizes,
as these are founded on the Basis of a continued War in Europe
for^several years.

\JThe Conduct of the Democrats in the Legislature, on the
Governor's Election, was such as to do them some Disservice in
the public opinion. Sullivan & Austin are endeavouring to avail
themselves of the Death of the Son of the latter to blacken the
Federalists and promote their political Views, but I cannot per-
mit myself to doubt that when a public Trial shall disclose every
Fact of the Transaction, which led to that event, every man will
be satisfied, that it was the individual meanness, and base lying
spirit of old Austin, with respect to Selfridge's professional con-
duct, wherein Politics or Party were no way interested, that
produced the Quarrel between these two ; and to the same false
& dastardly Temper of old Austin, joined to a malignant Desire

538 RUFUS KING. [1806

of Revenge at any Expence, but his own personal Safety, will be
imputed the Destruction of his Son.* . . .~~*

Your faithful Friend
C. Gore.

The Govr. of H. College, on Commencement Day, confer'd the
Degree of L.L.D. on Judges Marshall, Patterson, & yourself.

The announcement made by Mr. Gore, that Mr. King had
had the Degree of L.L.D. conferred on him by Harvard
College, gives an opportunity here to say that a similar
honor had been bestowed upon him by the Corporation of
Dartmouth College in 1802, and by Williams College in 1803,
as the following correspondence shows :

Eben'r. Fitch to Rufus King, Esq., L. L. D.

Williams College, Williamston, Sept. 28, 1803.
Sir:

I have the pleasure officially to inform you that the Corporation
of Williams College, at their late Commencement, conferred on
you the Degree of Doctor of Laws. Our regulations require that
a Gentleman on whom a Doctorate in any of the learned profes-

* C. Gore to R. King.

Boston, Aug. 5, 1806.

My Dear Friend :

. . . Yesterday a Mr. Self ridge, a Lawyer of this Town, having had
some Difference with Benjn. Austin, in which He had acted with his Charac-
teristic Baseness and Falsehood, published in the Paper, that this Benj. Austin
was a Scoundrel, Liar, &c. Austin's Son, a stout young man, armed Himself
with a Club and went to attack Selfridge ; the latter shot the former through
the Body, and He died almost instantly. There are various Stories, as you
will suppose, relative to the Transaction, and unfortunately those only which
made against Selfridge were detailed to the Jury of Inquest, which were that
Selfridge fired at Austin before He struck or offered to strike ; while others
say that Selfridge received two or three blows, and actually retreated to the
wall, warning his Antagonist, that he would shoot Him, if He persisted, before
He discharged his Pistol. Endeavour will not be wanting to make this a Party
Affair, but I think after the first Passions have subsided, it will not be attended
with the effect expected ; for Ben. Austin's Conduct was base and mean in the
extreme, and the Son was undoubtedly set on by the Father to beat this man,
who was feeble and in no degree a Match for the Son at cudgelling.

Yours truly

C. Gore.

i8o6] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 539

sions is conferred, should have been nominated at a previous meet-
ing of the Board. You were duly nominated at our Commence-
ment in Sept. 1802. Soon after it came to our knowledge that
the Corporation of Dartmouth College had anticipated us in our
intentions. But the Corporation of this College, duly appreciat-
ing the eminent services rendered to your Country in your late
important Embassy to the Court of London, and your acquired
reputation for general jural and political science, were unwilling
not to give you this small, but unequivocal testimony of their high
esteem, repect and friendship.

With great respect and consideration, I am, Sir, your most
obedient & very humble servt.,

Eben'r Fitch.

To this Mr. King responded :

R. King to Eben'r. Fitch.

Williams College, New York, Oct. 12, 1803.
Sir:

I have had the honour to receive your letter of the 28th, of Sept.,
and I entreat the favour of you to present to the Corporation of
Williams College my most respectful acknowledgment and thanks
for the honour it has been pleased to confer upon me : an honour
which I must altogether ascribe to the indulgent partiality of the
Corporation, rather than to any acquirements that give to me a
title to this distinction.

Be pleased, Sir, to accept my thanks for the polite and friendly
terms in which you have communicated this act of the Corpora-
tion, and to be assured of the respect and esteem with which I
have the honour to be

Sir, your obedt. & faithful Servt.,

Rufus King.

The Rev. Dr. Beach wrote to Mr. King, that on August
4, 1806, he was elected a Trustee of Columbia College. He
continued to act as such until the year 1824, when he resigned.

S. Smith to R. King.

Baltimore, 24 Nov., 1806.
Dear Sir :

The shock arising from the loss of my beloved son has been

severely felt ; indeed, my Dr. friend, I find it difficult to find com-

540 RUFUS KING. [1806

fort in my own mind. Your letter has been a balm to my afflic-
tion. It has afforded that consolation which cannot fail to gratify.
It gives to my son that character, from a stranger, which his Parents,
had too fondly cherished as their consolation in their advanced
age and as the protection to six daughters. They have now only
one brother, young, lively, amiable, but as all youths of twenty
are, less steady than when more advanced ; so is he less than his
brother.

By the advice of those who have suffered similar losses (for this
is my first) I am endeavoring to chase away Grief by an attention
to Business— the mind whenever unoccupied reverts to its loss.
But I will be comforted, I will find it in the friendship of men
such as you are, my friend, and in the good qualities of my re-
maining family. I pray you to present me respectfully to your
amiable Lady and to believe me

your friend,

S. Smith.

W. Tudor, Jr., to Hon. R. King.

London, December 3, 1806.
Dear Sir :

The letter of introduction you did me the honour to give me
to Mr. Windham, I left with a card soon after my arrival. The
apprehension you mentioned in the letter to me, that I should
find some difficulty in engaging their attention to my application,
occupied as they were by the events of the war, I have realized
in some degree. I had one interview with Ld. H. Petty, which
was attended with a great deal of politeness on his part, but ter-
minated with the interview. Mr. Windham, I have never heard
from. I found it necessary to make my application to the Board
of Trade, and had two or three conversations with Lord Auckland
and Sir Joseph Banks on the subject and obtained my wish from
that Board to carry on the enterprise in the form of an order of
Council. In addition to the events of the war, they have had strong
contested elections to carry on, so that it would have been un-
reasonable indeed to have expected their attention to a subject
of a private nature.

1806] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 54 1

W. Tudor to R. King.

London, December 5, 1806.
Dear Sir :

. . . I could not find a person who believed at the begin-
ning of the war that Prussia would be successful, but that she
should be overthrown in one battle, that her whole army should
be captured, her towns taken, her kingdom ravaged and her
power annihilated in the space of one month, is a calamity that
no one contemplated. Indeed even for the account of these dis-
asters, they are indebted to the enemy. Lord Morpeth whom
they sent to the Prussian headquarters found the army retreating
after the first battle and he never stopped running not even to
look behind him, till he got fairly onto the Island. In conse-
quence they have only had the French Bulletins for information,
and they have never certainly known to this day, where the King
of Prussia is, or what are his intentions. As to the King person-
ally, perhaps no man in Europe pities him, and he furnishes a use-
ful lesson of what is the result of such conduct as he has pursued
and such counsels as those of Count Haugwitz and Mr. Lombard.
The total want of information from the Continent leaves the pub-
lic nothing but conjecture about the future movements of the
King of Prussia, of Austria and Russia. In the meantime the
" Gingerbread Baker," as the caricaturists have called him, is pre-
paring a new batch of Kings & Knights.

The dissolution of Parliament has produced a larger majority
for the Ministry. Mr. Percival and Lord Castlereagh are the
leaders of the opposition. It is not generally believed that the
present " broad-bottomed " administration can hold together very
long. Since the death of Mr. Fox the Grenvilles have had the
decided superiority. Fortunately this nation are at present war-
like in their humour. The capture of Buenos Ayres elated them
excessively. The recent seizure of property at Hamburg has
made them shrink a little. So long as they continue to keep Na-
poleon at bay, there are hopes for the future. But in a free
nation, the materials of faction always exist, and a free and rich
nation have an unequal contest with the power, the ambition, the
talents and the despotism of their enemy. They are too easily
depressed, tho' they are unwilling to allow it themselves, and it

542 RUFUS KING. [1806

makes one fearful of the event when so great an effect was pro-
duced by the late business at Hamburg. If B. dictates a peace to
them, we must take our turn, and there must be different charac-
ters at the helm, from what now hold it, to save us from destruc-
tion. . . .

With the greatest respect yr. mt. hble. Servt.,

W. Tudor, Jr.

S. Williams to R. King.

London, io Dec, 1806.
Dear Sir :

I have your letters of 26 & 30 Sep. The Exportation of Grain
is prohibited, and it is with difficulty that leave is obtained to
ship seed oats to Ireland ; but I shall endeavour to ship yours in
2 or 3 of the New York Ships, as Ship's stores or as Clover Seed.
The Hives &c are not to go at present. I sent Mr. Lyman simi-
lar Hives a few years ago, which I bought of Wildman in Holborn.
Mr. L. had them in his Garden at Waltham, one or two years, but
he found that the Bees ate or stung his fruit so much that he was
induced to give away the Hives.

The Newspapers will shew you the rapid Flight of Bonaparte
to Universal Empire. He may march to China, if he desires it
and would soon visit you, if John's Ships were not on the route
or if John would lend him a few, as he intimated to Ld. Lauder-
dale. Ld. L. was told at Paris that Bonae. wd. furnish soldiers if
England wd. Ships to conquer the U. S.

I send you a Pamphlet " The State of the Negotiation," which
at first was supposed to have been published under the Sanction
of the Ministers. They say it was not.

It was reported yesterday that the B. and A. Commissioners
had agreed upon the terms of a Treaty. They had not on Sunday
when I saw Mr. Monroe. The B., as you may suppose, do not
readily consent to a relaxation of the rule of 1756. It is said they
may relax so far that the landing of colonial produce, securing
the Duty, & re-shipping it in other bottoms, shall be considered
as a termination of the voyage, and allow the Importer, or any
other, to export it to Europe. They may insist upon a Duty
being laid on the Exports. Entre nous, Mr. M. & Mr. P. asked

1806] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 543

me last week whether the Amern. Merchants would be willing to
pay 2 or 2 J pr. cent, on the Export of Colonial Produce in case
they could not otherwise agree with the B. Commrs.

Understanding from them that the Deduction of the Draw-
back, which amounts to about 1 pr. cent, would not be made if
Congress chose to discontinue it, I told them that I thought it
would not be a material objection, as it would be a charge of
only 1 or 1 J pr. ct. more than the produce now pays on Exporta-
tion.

Should they agree to the Duty, Congress will I suspect continue
the Deduction in order to get as much as they can from the
Merchants.

The India Trade may remain as fixed by Mr. Jay.

The impressment of Seamen & compensation (costs and Dam-
ages) for the detention of our Ships may rest in statu quo, or be
reserved for future discussion — a dutch ad referendum.

The Blockade of the British Isles by Nap's Decrees will have
no other effect than giving 4 or 5 pr. ct. to the British Under-
writers.

If the British can venture to spare so many Troops, they will
endeavour to take Spanish So. America. You may have to settle
the Bound, of Louisiana with them. . . .

I am, Dr. Sir. your faithful Servt.,

S. Williams.

Aaron Burr's plot to establish an independent government
west of the Alleghanies, to include a part or all of Mexico,
was brought to a close by the action of General Wilkinson
in New Orleans. He had been looked upon as one of the
leaders and was cognizant of all the plans, but at the last
moment, whether through fear or loyalty, he caused the
arrest of Bollman and other agents of Burr. A writ of
habeas corpus was sued out in the Superior Court, but Gen-
eral Wilkinson stated that he " had arrested them as a step
towards the defense of the city, on a charge of misprision of
treason," refused to give them up and sent them as prisoners
to Washington. One of the lawyers, James Alexander, who
had been instrumental in obtaining a writ of habeas corpus,

544 RUFUS KING. [1806

by which one of the accused had been liberated, was arrested
for the act and held as a prisoner.* Under what circum-
stances, Mr. King was led to express an opinion on these high-
handed measures, other than as a general disclaimer against
them, does not appear. But among his papers, is found the
article which follows, and which clearly shows his view of the
outrages against personal liberty.

The baneful effects of Faction are in few cases more manifest
than in the ease and safety with which the most important prin-
ciples of a free government may be violated by the Idols of popu-
lar worship. That unprincipled and ambitious Demagogues
should endeavour to stir up and alarm the prejudices of the Peo-
ple, for the purpose of destroying the reputation of their political
competitors and advancing themselves to Stations of trust and
honor, is what no man acquainted with the history of past times
will be surprized at. But that these same men, after attaining
the object of their immoral ambition, should openly dare to com-
mit the very offences, which they had falsely imputed to their
opponents, would seem to be incredible, did we not from day to
day behold the proofs of the profligate inconsistency.

All may not, but many will, remember the criticisms and ob-
jections, the doubts, the anxiety and the fears expressed by the
Antifederalists, who now call themselves Republicans, on the publi-
cation of the Constitution of the U. S. In this State, especially,
the deepest solicitude was manifested lest by the creation of a
federal city, a federal judiciary, a federal army and other federal
powers, the civil Rights of the Citizens should be abridged.
Great and unwearied exertions were made by the Federalists to
answer these objections and remove these impediments to the
adoption of the federal constitution, and as the spirit of Faction
had not at that period acquired the ascendency over men's minds,
which it now unhappily possesses, these exertions of the Federal-
ists prevailed and the sober understanding of the American Peo-
ple approved and adopted the Constitution, which went into
immediate operation under the auspices of its Framers and
Friends. To soothe the mortified pride of the Antifederal Lead-

* Hildreth's Hist, of U. S. 2d Series, vol. ii., p. 612-13. Genl. Wilkinson's
Affidavits Annals of Congress, 1806-7, p. 1013.

1806] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 545

ers, to promote harmony amongst the States, sundry amendments
of the Constitution in the nature of a Bill of Rights were pro-
posed and afterwards adopted.

The 5th Article of these amendments declares " that no person
shall be deprived of his liberty, without due process of Law."

The 4th Article declares that the persons of the Citizens shall
be secure from unreasonable seizure ; and that a warrant of arrest
shall not issue, but on probable cause and supported by an oath."

The 6th Article declares that in all criminal prosecutions, the
accused shall enjoy the right of a speedy and public trial by an
impartial jury of the State and district in which the crime shall
have been committed, and shall have the assistance of counsel

transferred the administration from the real friends of Liberty
and their Country to the men who now so unworthily possess the
Government.

It is earnestly desired that the eyes of the motley and stupid
worshippers of Mr. Jefferson, if for a moment they can be turned
from the Idol of their false adoration, may be fixed upon the late
Executive Proceedings, in the arrest, imprisonment, transportation
and severe secret military confinement of Alexander, Swarthout
and Bolman ; proceedings of the Executive, unprecedented in the
annals of a free country, that breaks down the tallest and strongest
barriers of our Liberties, at the same time that it shews an ineff-
able contempt for the Constitution, the rights and the under-
standing of the Citizen, inasmuch as the same has passed at the
very seat of Government and under the noses of the Representa-
tives, and Judges of the nation.

VOL. IV.— 35

544 RUFUS KING. [1806

by which one of the accused had been liberated, was arrested
for the act and held as a prisoner.* Under what circum-
stances, Mr. King was led to express an opinion on these high-
handed measures, other than as a general disclaimer against
them, does not appear. But among his papers, is found the
article which follows, and which clearly shows his view of the
outrages against personal liberty.

The baneful effects of Faction are in few cases more manifest
than in the ease and safety with which the most important prin-
ciples of a free government may be violated by the Idols of popu-
lar worship. That unprincipled and ambitious Demagogues

For Swarthout read here and elsewhere Swartwout.

cation or tne Constitution of the U. S. In this State, especially,
the deepest solicitude was manifested lest by the creation of a
federal city, a federal judiciary, a federal army and other federal
powers, the civil Rights of the Citizens should be abridged.
Great and unwearied exertions were made by the Federalists to
answer these objections and remove these impediments to the
adoption of the federal constitution, and as the spirit of Faction
had not at that period acquired the ascendency over men's minds,
which it now unhappily possesses, these exertions of the Federal-
ists prevailed and the sober understanding of the American Peo-
ple approved and adopted the Constitution, which went into
immediate operation under the auspices of its Framers and
Friends. To soothe the mortified pride of the Antifederal Lead-

* Hildreth's Hist, of U. S. 2d Series, vol. ii., p. 612-13. Genl. Wilkinson's
Affidavits Annals of Congress, 1806-7, P« 1013.

1806] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 545

ers, to promote harmony amongst the States, sundry amendments
of the Constitution in the nature of a Bill of Rights were pro-
posed and afterwards adopted.

The 5th Article of these amendments declares " that no person
shall be deprived of his liberty, without due process of Law."

The 4th Article declares that the persons of the Citizens shall
be secure from unreasonable seizure ; and that a warrant of arrest
shall not issue, but on probable cause and supported by an oath."

The 6th Article declares that in all criminal prosecutions, the
accused shall enjoy the right of a speedy and public trial by an
impartial jury of the State and district in which the crime shall
have been committed, and shall have the assistance of counsel
for his defence."

These provisions which were already established and recognized
as law throughout the U. S., if not expressed in the new Constitu-v
tion, were in no respect impaired by it ; and so long as the Gov-
ernment continued in the hands of the Federalists, these were
like every other provision of the Constitution preserved inviolate.

The present chiefs and favorites of the People, by the aid of
foreigners, imputed many errors to the federal administration,
and amongst other false charges, ascribed to them a deliberate
purpose to abridge, by the sedition Laws, the personal liberty of
the Citizen. These charges united with others equally unjust
excited jealousies and fears among the People, who in the end
transferred the administration from the real friends of Liberty
and their Country to the men who now so unworthily possess the
Government.

It is earnestly desired that the eyes of the motley and stupid
worshippers of Mr. Jefferson, if for a moment they can be turned
from the Idol of their false adoration, may be fixed upon the late
Executive Proceedings, in the arrest, imprisonment, transportation
and severe secret military confinement of Alexander, Swarthout
and Bolman ; proceedings of the Executive, unprecedented in the
annals of a free country, that breaks down the tallest and strongest
barriers of our Liberties, at the same time that it shews an ineff-
able contempt for the Constitution, the rights and the under-
standing of the Citizen, inasmuch as the same has passed at the
very seat of Government and under the noses of the Representa-
tives, and Judges of the nation.

VOL. IV.— 35

546 RUFUS KING. [1806

Of right and according to the provisions of the Constitution,
Alexander, Swarthout and Bolman, admitting even that they had
committed Treason, could be arrested, tried and punished only
in the district where the treason was committed. The Federal
Town is a territory over which Congress have exclusive Jurisdic-
tion ; its inhabitants are without political rights, being governed
by laws, in the making of which they have no representation or
influence. Alexander, Swarthout & Bolman committed no treason
at Washington and are not liable to be carried from New Orleans
to Washington for trial, for a crime committed at N. O. As well
might the inhabitants of New York be taken up by the federal
officer at Ft. Jay, put on board a Gun Boat and sent by sea to
Baltimore and from thence to Washington, and be there tried for a
breach of the Revenue Law, or any other offence against the
U. S. The one is not a greater nor grosser violation of the per-
sonal Rights and Liberty of the Citizen than the other ; and any
argument that would justify the one will justify the other ; none
however can be offered to excuse, much less justify, either.

Instead of the persons (charged with treason in a vain, ridicu-
lous nugatory military declaration) being arrested and pro-
ceeded against at N. Orleans, where the judiciary is completely
competent and free from all suspicion of disloyalty, and where
alone they can be lawfully tried, what has been the course, and
what have been the sentiments and language of the Centinels of
freedom on this occasion ? As nearly the same proceedings were
adopted in all three cases, a statement of the case of Mr. Alex-
ander, which is the last of the three, will be sufficient to furnish
an adequate knowledge of them all. It is possible that in some
immaterial circumstance there may be some inaccuracy, the
business having been transacted with much secrecy and great
pains taken to hide it from the public eye.

Mr. Alexander is a young man of very considerable talents,
who, if not born, received his education in this City, and is known
to many of its respectable inhabitants. Being here admitted to
the Bar, he commenced his practice with reputation and would
without doubt have arrived at eminence in his profession, had he
continued to reside in this City ; from which he removed to N. O.
soon after its cession to the U. S. There his talents and learn-
ing gave him distinction and he is ranked among the first lawyers
who practice in the Courts of that District.

1806] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 547

Genl. Wilkinson, without the slightest evidence of guilt, but
with the view, as it would seem of removing this gentleman, who
was known to be an able lawyer and whose principles would
oblige him to offer his assistance to protect the civil rights of his
fellow Citizens against the tyranny and oppression of the military,
caused Mr. Alexander to be arrested, not by civil process, but by
the military force acting under a vain, ridiculous, unprecedented
and illegal military order, and thus having him in his custody
transported him by sea, and in a course that carried him out of
the limits of the country, to Baltimore, where by a military force,
he was precluded from vindicating his rights by an appeal to the
Laws, and from Baltimore secretly sent in military custody thro'
the State of Maryland to Washington, and there, by authority
derived from the President, confined in the Marine Barracks,
guarded by a military force, and denied all intercourse and com-
munication with the faithful friends of Liberty and law. While
this outrageous scene was passing, an effort was made, and it is
religiously believed at the instigation of the President, to pass an
act to suspend the Habeas Corpus, not within the District of
Orleans, not in the Western Country alone, but throughout the
U. S. — a measure, had it passed, that would have put every man
in the U. S., who is not ready to fall down and worship the Idol
of Democracy, in the power of the Executive, which might by an
order from the Secretary of War, or other automaton Minister,
have seized any Citizen in any of the States, however virtuous,
however innocent, transport him to Washington and there con-
fine him in Barracks or Bastiles, without bail or mainprize —
without communication with his friends, without any other of the
supports of life, than those which were scantily afforded to the
persecuted or to the Mysterious Man in the Iron

Mask.

How the Senate of the U. S. could have passed an Act which
would have permitted such deeds of tyranny, is strange and
incomprehensible. That body with all its weakness, meanness,
and subserviency, contains men devoted to the freedom of their
country and worthy of its highest confidence. The Bill failed
in the H. of Reps., who in checking this act of tyranny, have
atoned for much imbecility and folly that had before been exhib-
ited.

543 RUFUS KING. [1806

By some means Mr. Chas. Lee, the late Attorney General had
become acquainted with Mr. Alexander's situation, and went to
confer with him in his dungeon ; but the myrmidons charged
with his custody refused to admit the Minister of the Law to
visit or speak with the prisoner, and insolently supported the
denial at the point of the bayonet. These facts were reported
to the Supreme Court, and being about to become matter of
investigation, a letter was despatched from the Sec'y of War, by
whose direction may be guessed, directed to the Officer charged
with the military custody of Mr. Alexander, and instructing him
to carry Mr. Alexander before Mr. Justice Ducket, one of the
Judges of the local court of the federal City. This mandate
was obeyed, and as the letter contained no charge against Mr.
Alexander, instead of discharging Mr. Alexander, as it was his
duty to have done, the complaisant Judge endorsed upon the
letter that the officer had obeyed his orders ; whereupon the offi-
cer, well, understanding his part, informed Mr. Alexander that
since the Judge declined renewing or giving any orders concern-
ing him, he would no longer be troubled with his custody at the
Marine Barracks, and accordingly left Mr. Alexander once more
a freeman.

The confinement of a citizen without due process of Law is,
false imprisonment. Due process of Law in cases of imprison-
ment is a warrant in writing, under the hand and seal of a com-
petent civil magistrate, expressing the cause of commitment, in
order that the same may be examined into, if required, by a writ
of Habeas Corpus. In England by the 31 Chap. 2, C. 2, to send
a prisoner to Scotland, Ireland, or beyond the Sea, is illegal ;
and whosoever commits a person contrary to that Statute, is dis-
abled from bearing any office, incurs the penalties of a premunire,,
and is incapable of receiving the King's pardon : and the person
injured has his suit agt. the offender and all his aiders and abet-
tors ; and shall recover treble costs, besides damages, which no
jury shall assess at less than ^500. sterling.

If Mr. Alexander does not pursue his gaolers and all their
aiders, advisers, and abettors, he merits the scorn of his country
in addition to all he has suffered. He owes it to himself as a
freeman, and what is more, he owes to liberty and his country
the vindictive pursuit of his detested oppressors. For, says the

1806] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 549

learned Blackstone, if once it were left in the power of any, the
highest magistrate, to imprison arbitrarily whomever he or his
officers thought proper, there would soon be an end of all other
rights and immunities. Some have thought that unjust attacks
even upon life, or property, at the arbitrary will of the magis-
trate, are less dangerous to the Commonwealth, than such as are
made upon the personal liberty of the subject. To bereave a
man of life, or by violence to confiscate his estate, without accu-
sation or trial, would be so gross and notorious an act of despot-
ism, as at once to convey the alarm of tyranny throughout the
whole kingdom ; but confinement of the person, by secretly
hurrying him to gaol, when his sufferings are unknown, or for-
gotten, is a less public, or a less striking and, therefore, a more
dangerous engine of Arbitrary Movement.

It is evident that this paper must have been written dur-
ing the discussion in the Senate and House of Representa-
tives of an act to suspend the writ of habeas corpus for three
months, probably to meet these cases, an act passed by the
Senate in secret session, but rejected almost unanimously by
the House. Messrs. Bollman and Swarthout were dis-
charged by the Supreme Court on a writ of habeas corpus,
and Mr. Alexander " without any opposition on the part of
the government,"

This paper, therefore, properly belongs to the history of
! 807— as these discussions arose during the early months of
that year.*

* Hildreth Hist, of U. S., vol. ii., 2d Series, pp. 625-6.

APPENDIX I.

BRIBERY IN POLITICS.

Although there are no records in the way of letters or
diary of the time passed by Mr. King in Paris, there are
some notes which have been preserved and may be found
interesting. They are taken from Mr. King's Memorandum
Book, and are headed " BRIBERY IN POLITICS." He says :

Sir Jno. Dalrymple asserts that Louis 14, by Barillon, his
Ambassador in England, bribed Sidney, Russell, Hampden and
other illustrious Patriots of the Reign of Charles II. Mr. Fox
went from London to Paris in 1802, for the purpose as he avowed
of examining the Documents in the Scotch College (Barillon's
Correspondence) to wh. Sir John Dalrymple refers a*nd on wh. he
grounds his assertions.

While at Paris he told me that he had examined the corres-
pondence and was convinced that the Patriots did receive Baril-
lon's money, and added that he thought them justifiable in doing
so. Charles II. wished war with France in hopes that this state
of the nation wd. better assist him in recovering the Prerogatives
lost in the civil war. The Patriots seeing his views opposed the
war and the King of Fr. did not wish it. In this state of things,
it was fair for Barillon to offer & them to take French money to
be used not for their private purposes, but applied in acquiring
an influence agt. a war with France. Mr. Fox declared that he
did not believe that a penny was applied to the private use of
the Patriots, but that the whole was employed in opposing the
views of the Crown, and the opposition, being patriotic, he
thought the receiving French money justifiable. R. K.

In connection with this, and in corroboration of the re-
ceived opinion that there was truth in the statements of

55i

552 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

Dalrymple, there is an entry in Mr. King's Memorandum
Book under date of Dec. 28, 1801, which relates to this,
and also contains a statement of a somewhat similar circum-
stance in the War of the Revolution of the United States.
It is headed :

CORRUPTION — SYDNEY AND BARILLON — Dec. 28, l8oi.

Dined with Wilberforce — Mr. Otto, myself, with Mr. Wilber-
force the whole party — Conversation Miscellaneous — Among
topics, the Papers respecting the time of Charles I. & II. which
are in the Scottish College Paris were mentioned. Dalrymple
has given an account of some of these and particularly of Barillon's
letters and of the money he paid to the great patriots of England.
Mr. Wilberforce said Mr. Fox was employed in composing the
history of that period and purposed going soon after the Definitive
Treaty to Paris to examine these papers. I suggested some
doubt of the truth of Dalrymple's account. Mr. Wilberforce
said no doubt was entertained in Eng., that his report was a faith-
ful one, but some persons doubted whether Barillon, the Fr.
Ambassador, really paid the money to the persons to whom he
charged it, thinking it more likely that he put it in his own pocket ;
that for his own part he was disposed to believe that Sydney and
the others did receive money from France, not for their private
purposes, but to support their opposition to the Court, as the
King certainly did procure money from abroad to enable himself
to oppose them. Otto said he could entertain no doubt that
such was the fact ; (addressing himself to me in a low voice as
Mr. W. slipped into an adjoining room) even some of your
patriots did the same thing. They applied to us (the Fr. Embassy
in America) in this way — we can go on no farther without suc-
cour— our party will fail or lose ground unless supported, &c,
and what, continued Otto, can a minister do in such circum-
stances ? he has but one course, he must give money, &c. I did
not push the conversation any farther, intending to take a more
convenient opportunity to renew it with Otto.

It does not appear that this conversation was renewed.
But it was apparently deemed of credibility — for Mr. King,
as he has several times said, had a high regard for the in-
tegrity and trustworthiness of Mr. Otto.

APPENDIX. 553

APPENDIX II.

INTERVIEW BETWEEN GALLATIN AND KING — 1803.

Mr. Jefferson, writing on Aug. 1803, from Monticello to
Mr Gallatin* says among other things :

I hope you will make every possible occasion of getting infor-
mation from Mr. King as to the views and dispositions of Eng-
land, and of satisfying him of the perfect friendship of this
administration to that country. The impressment of our seamen,
and the using our harbors as stations to sally out of and cruise
on our own commerce, as well as on that of our friends, are points
on which he can perhaps give useful advice.

Mr. Gallatin on Aug. 18, 1803, the same day, not in answer to
the above,f writes to Mr. Jefferson, giving an account of an
interview with Mr. King which shows that he was seeking such
information as was asked for.

. . . Mr. King seems to think that he might have renewed
the commercial treaty on conditions satisfactory to America.
Great Britain has not made any approach of late on that subject ;
he thinks the Government has not even thought on the limitation
by which it will expire, and that Mr. Merry will have no instruc-
tions on the subject. He is of opinion that in the East Indies
the want of a treaty will not place us on a worse footing ; that
there is no danger to be apprehended on the subject of provisions
being considered as contraband ; and that the improvement in
the West India courts of admiralty will relieve us from many of
the embarrassments experienced by our trade during the last war.
The only ground on which he feels any apprehension is that of
impressments ; and had he not been on the eve of his departure,
he might, he thinks, have succeeded in making some arrange-
ment ; the greatest obstacle to this resulted from the prejudices
of Earl St. Vincent. Mr. King considers the present administra-
tion in England as the most favorable that has existed or can
exist for the interests of the United States, but he does not rely
much on their permanence ; the members who compose it are re-
spected men of integrity, but have not the perfect confidence of the

* Writings of Albert Gallatin, by Henry Adams, vol. i., p. 139.
f Ibid, vol. i., 140-143.

554 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KINu.

people, nor particularly of London ; their abilities being consid-
ered as unequal to the crisis. Mr. King himself, speaking of
them, whilst conversing of the British manifesto, called them
" little men." He asked me who was to be his successor ; I
answered I presumed either Mr. Livingston or Mr. Monroe.
He said that Mr. L. would do very well, his deafness excepted,
which was a strong objection. His British Majesty asked him
twice who would be sent, and expressed satisfaction in case Mr.
L. were the man ; but when he saw Mr. Monroe's name an-
nounced in the newspapers for the mission, he inquired particu-
larly of his character and asked Mr. King whether he had not
been opposed to him in politics. Upon being answered that
those differences of politics had only been shades of opinion and
that Mr. Monroe was a man of great probity and integrity,
" Well, well, if he is an honest man he will do very well," was
the reply ; and Mr. Hammond assured afterwards Mr. K. that
Mr. M., if appointed, would be perfectly received. Yet Mr. K.
seems to apprehend that there is still some prevention which may
render his situation less comfortable and his services less useful
than those of another person.

I repeated to him verbatim the commercial article of the treaty*
expressed my wish that it had been communicated to him when
he made his communication to the British government, and asked
whether he thought that the article could possibly create any
difficulty. He answered, without the least hesitation, that it
could not, that it was perfectly defensible, must be considered
as part of the purchase money, and expressed his full conviction
that the British government would not cavil at it. He observed
that Messrs. Livingston & Monroe had in their letter to him used
the word "claim " to which, in his letters to Lord Hawksbury,
he had substituted the word " right." I was almost tempted to
believe from his conversation that Mr. L. had communicated the
treaty to him. . . .

On the subject of Louisiana generally, Mr. King's opinions
both as relating to New Orleans and the upper Country west of the
Mississippi, seem to coincide with yours. He hinted, however,
that more advantageous terms might have been obtained,* and

*Mr. Cutter in a letter to Dr. Torrey, Washington, Oct. 31, 1803, says
" The purchase of Louisiana may prove a good thing, and it may be attended

APPENDIX, 555

openly said that if our ministers did not think it safe to note
the object by insisting on a reduction of the price, they had it at
least in their power to present the mode of payment ; that money
might have been raised in England on much more advantageous
terms if the mode had been left open to us ; that Cazenove
who was Talleyrand's privy counsel and financier must have
suggested the species of stock which was adopted, &c. He then
asked me what could have been the reason which induced our
ministers to agree to make an immediate cash payment for the
American debts, instead of paying them in stock or more con-
venient instalments, as the creditors would have been perfectly
satisfied to be paid that way, and //W object at least did not seem
to be one on which the French government would insist. I told
him that I really could not tell, for I knew that mode or some
similar one had been contemplated by the administration, and I
had not understood that any explanation on that subject had
been received from our ministers. On my mentioning that the
French Cabinet seemed to have believed that the question of
peace or war was in their power, and that our ministers being
naturally under a similar impression, might have been induced
to yield to more unfavorable terms than if they had contem-
plated war as certain, he observed that on the arrival of every
messenger from France the correspondence of Lord Whitworth
and Mr. Talleyrand had been communicated to him by the
British Ministry, and that by the return of every messenger he
had communicated its substance to Mr. Livingston, as well as
his opinion of the certainty of war. We both concluded our con-
versation on that subject, by agreeing that Mr. Livingston's pre-
cipitancy had been prejudicial to the United States. And he
observed that Florida must necessarily fall into our hands, and
that he hoped too much impatience would not be evinced on that
subject.

Mr. King lent me the rescript of the Emperor of Russia offer-
ing his mediation. It is too long to be transcribed. Although
he says in one place, " qu'il avait deja charge une fois son min-
istre de communiquer ses sentiments au Gouvernement Fran-

with very serious evils. I consider the price much too high, and find that it is
Mr. King's opinion (our late minister at London) that it might have been
obtained for a much less price." — Ed.

556 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

eais sur la n£cessit£ qu'il y aurait de faire diverses causes
d' inquietude, qui agitaint les Cabinets de V Europe," I should
think from the whole tone of that document, that he will not
approve the grounds on which England has placed the renewal
of the war.

APPENDIX III.

This letter would have had a better place among those
of its date, but it contains a number of interesting details,
given by Mrs. King, which to her family, at least, will be a
valuable contribution showing the happy relations of the
home life.

Mary King to Charles King, Harrow, England.

Broadway, New York, December 6, 1803.
My Dear Charles :

We yesterday had the pleasure of receiving John's letter of
17th Sept. written, as I suppose, to come by Mr. Merry, but
which was probably too late for him and was forwarded by the
October Packet. I observe that you are again at Harrow and
continue as well pleased as ever with Dr. & Mr. H. Drury's
treatment. I hope nothing will occur to interrupt this harmony.
Pray tell me candidly how you were pleased with the Abb6, and
whether you think you gained anything while there ; by the con-
clusion of the approaching holidays, I expect you will be able
to speak, if not write, French. We often wish that it was among
the list of possibilities for you to pass the Christmas holidays
with us, and return again to Harrow. We shall feel your ab-
sence on this occasion very sensibly, as I may add we do on
every other. Often indeed in my rambles do I miss the beau,
who used so patiently and willingly accompany me in my long
walks to Kensington Garden &c. It is not much the fashion for
ladies to walk here, and I cause great astonishment in walking
so much and alone. Pug sometimes goes with me, but thro' the
summer, it interfered so much with his school hours, and I was
compelled to walk alone or stay at home. I don't find that your
Papa's desire of moving has increased much. On an average
twelve out of the sixteen hours he is up, are generally passed upon

APPENDIX. 557

his chair ; as his knee has given him no trouble, I have advised
his using it a little more, and occasionally he has walked for an
hour or two, but not often. He has try'd it more while we were
moving than for a long time before. I believe I mentioned to
you that we had taken Mr. Livingston's house in Broadway,
where we removed last Monday week, and are just beginning to
feel ourselves a little at home.

Our City again enjoys good health ; the frost, as usual, put an
end to yellow fever ; and I wish we could flatter ourselves with
the hope that it would never return. The weather for the last
two months has been uncommonly fine, and the sun and un-
clouded sky in the month of November, were rather a novelty
to me, who from so long an absence had almost forgotten its
appearance : the Fall in our country is undoubtedly the finest
season, and more delightful weather could not be experienced in
any climate than we have enjoyed and are still enjoying at this
moment; it is more like May than December; very little frost
and not a flake of snow has yet fallen. Edward has been long
anticipating the pleasure of a ride in a Sleigh ; for as yet he has
no idea of what it is. We have had the supreme felicity of a
visit from Jerome Bonaparte — that is our City — for myself I have
not had the satisfaction of a single peep at him ; and he was
pleased to express great delight at the attention he received
here ; so much so that he intended to make it his residence for
the winter ; but yesterday I understood he had embarked in one
of our Merchantmen bound to France.

Whenever you hear from James pray communicate it to us, for
I see no other chance of ever receiving any intelligence from
him ; what the cause is I cannot imagine. Mr. & Mrs. Payne
are gone to pass the winter at Washington, they did us the favor
of staying two nights with us in the country on their way thither.
She is well looking and agreeable and he seems perfectly happy.
The lady was a widow & had a daughter by her first marriage ;
she is about five or six years old and a more interesting child I
never met with. Mrs. Gore's natural fondness is such for chil-
dren, that I am sure she will attach herself strongly to this little
girl.

I have written to Mrs. Gore repeatedly but have not received
one line from her since July. I intended writing again by this

558 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

Packet, but I find I shall not have time ; you must therefore
offer her our most sincere remembrances and best wishes for the
re-establishment of her health, which with some concern we
learned had been interrupted by a violent attack of Influenza.
You cannot confer a greater obligation on me than to evince by
a scrupulous attention to all Mrs. Gore's requests, a strong sense
of her maternal kindness ; for in my absence it must be con-
sidered as such.

We had thoughts of sending you some apples and cranberries ;
but on reflection your Papa thinks the latter may be bought in
Oxford Street for less money than the duty and Custom House
fees would amount to ; and the great uncertainty of the former
reaching you good for anything, in addition to the expense
alluded to above, has prevented our fulfilling that intention.
You must therefore endeavor to console yourselves with the
golden pippin instead of those from Newtown.

Frederick, or little Fitty as he calls himself, has become a great
chatterbox ; every word he hears, he repeats and he really speaks
much plainer now than Edward did at three years old. I am
sure you would give one week's allowance to have a kiss of the
blessed one ; regularly night and morning he blesses his Uncle
and Aunt Gore with his dear brothers. Edward talks of finish-
ing this letter ; but least he should not, begs to join us in the
most affectionate remembrances to you & John.

Always unfeignedly your M. K.

APPENDIX IV.

By an oversight the following letter has been left out of
its proper position on page 352. It is important as showing
that Mr. King positively declined to be a candidate for' the
office of Governor of New York.

R. King to A. Hamilton.

New York, March 1, 1804.
Dear Sir :

Since my letter of the 24th (February) I have received yours
of the same date ; and after maturely reflecting upon the subject,

APPENDIX. 559

and consulting one or two of our friends here, I am confirmed in
the sentiment that I ought not to consent to be a candidate for
the Governorship, should the federalists think of offering me.

This being my determination, it is right that I should apprize
you of it, in order that our friends may not make an offer which
I should be obliged to decline.

If you consider to what the office of Governor has been cur-
tailed, and what in the actual state of parties must be his con-
dition, if a man of virtue and independence, I cannot but
persuade myself that you will see insuperable objections to my
consenting to be thus disposed of.

With sentiments of Regard, &c,

Rufus King.

APPENDIX V.

LOUISIANA.

RIGHTS UNDER THE CONVENTION OF PURCHASE.

In the year 168- Monsr. La Salle coming from Canada em-
barked at the confluence of the Illinois & the Mississippi, and
descended the latter River to its mouth. In virtue of this voy-
age a large tract of Country on each side of the Mississippi was
claimed and afterwards possessed by France under the name of
Louisiana. The villages of St. Louis & St. Genevieve on the
west bank, and Kaskaskia & Kahoka on the east bank of the
Mississippi were planted in the close of the 17th Century. In
lower Louisiana, upon the sea coast & its vicinity, French posts
& settlements were early established as far east as the Apalachi-
cola, and as far west as Natchitoches. The boundary between
Florida & Louisiana was for a series of years matter of contro-
versy between France & Spain, but is understood to have been
settled between them about the year 1748, by agreeing upon the
River Perdido & a line from its source to the Alleghany
Mountains.

Such was the State of Possessions & claims respecting Louis-
iana at the commencement of the 7 years war ; In the prelimina-
ries at the conclusion of which, by the Treaty of 1763, France &

560 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

Spain ceded & guaranteed to England all the Territories belong-
ing and claimed by them respectively upon the continent of
Amer. & East of the Mississippi ; so that in addition to Canada
& its Dependencies — a subject distinct from that of the present
investigation — France ceded to Eng. all that part of Louisiana
wh. was on the East side of the Mississippi (the City and Island
of New Orleans excepted) and Spain in like manner ceded to
Eng. Florida. Whatever therefore were the Rights of France
and Spain in relation to these Territories, and whatever may
have been their boundaries, England thenceforth became the
owner & possessor of the whole country (the City and Island
of N. O., East of the Mississippi excepted). But on the day of
the date of the Preliminaries, Nov. 3, 1762, by which France
ceded East Louisiana to Eng., she also by another Act ceded the
whole country of Louisiana, together with N. O. & the Island in
wh. the City is placed to Spain. By turning to the Preliminary
Treaty of 1762 between F., S., & G., it will be seen that these
cessions to England are correctly stated, and by reading the
King of Fr.'s, letter dated April 21, 1764, to Mr. D'Abadie, his
Director Genl. & Commandant in Louisiana, it will also be found
that the cession to Spain is also correctly stated. This letter will
be found in the Annual Register Vol. 8., p. 271.

Suffice it to observe in this place, that the Territories ceded to
England and to Spain belonged to France on the 3 of Nov. 1762,
the day of both cessions. All Louisiana was owned & possessed
by France ; by two acts of the same date, and to each of which
Spain was a party, France divided Louisiana, ceding and guar-
antying the Eastern Part thereof clearly & distinctly to England,
and the Western Part thereof, including the city & Isl. of N. O.
to Spain. As Fr. owned the whole of Louisiana, if she conveyed
& with the privity of Spain too, a part thereof by metes and
bounds to Engd., however vague and comprehensive the Terms
may have been by which she at the same time conveyed
Louisiana to Spain, France could not convey nor could Spain
acquire more than the Residue of Louisiana, after deducting,
what was contemporaneously conveyed to England. As this con-
clusion seems too plain to require the production of authorities
or further illustration, I pass on. The ceded Territories upon
the East side of the Miss, were afterwards taken possession of by

APPENDIX. 561

England. The 4< Special Act " by wh. West Louisiana was ceded
to France has never been published. According to the letter
from the K. of Fr. to Mr. D'Abadie, a copy of this Instrument
was sent to N. O. with orders that it sho. be there enregistered.
Whether this was done, and whether the Record still remains, are
matters concerning wh. we have no information ; tho' doubtless
our Govt, must have ascertained these facts.

By referring to Hutchins' Historical Narrative and topographi-
cal Description of Louisiana & West Florida, pub. at Phila. in
1783, as well as to an extraordinary Publication, entitled Memoire
Historique & politique sur La Louisiane, (printed at Paris in the
year 1802, when France had prepared an Expedn. to take Posses-
sion of Louisiana) it will appear that there was something unusual,
not to say mysterious, in the delays as well as in the manner in
which Spain took possession of Louisiana, and one might from
these circumstances, as well as from the want of publicity
of the Act of Cession, be lead to entertain Doubts, as it appears
from Mr. H's. Memoire, that the Inhabitants of Louisiana did,
concerning the Date as well as the authenticity of this Act of
Cession.

Soon after the Treaty of Peace in 1763, and while France still
remained in possession of New Orleans, and West Louisiana,
England took possession of all the French Posts upon the East
side of the Mississippi, as also of the Span. Posts in Florida. It
was in the Summer of 1763, that East Louisiana & Florida were
delivered up by France and Spain to England, but it was not
until Genl. O'Reilley's arrival with 4m. Spanish Troops at N. O.
July 23 1769, that N. O. and Louisiana were taken possession of
by Spain ; so that N. O. and W. Louisiana remained 6 years in
the possession of France after East Louisiana & Florida had
been delivered up to & possessed by England. These facts are
established by Hutchins' Narrative, as well as by other authentic
publications. .

By the Proc. of Oct. 7, 1762, England established two Provinces
by the name of E. & W. Florida, Georgia being the northern
Limits of E. Florida & the 31st degree of lat. the Northern Lim-
its of W. Florida, and the Apalachicola River the division line
between them. It may aid the purpose of this Disquisition to
observe that the Territory of West Florida consisted of that part

VOL. IV— 36

562 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

of Louisiana, lying south of the 320 of Lat. and between the
Mississippi and the waters east of the Island of N. Orleans the
West, and the River Perdido and a line from its head to the
Allegany on the east, together with that part of Spanish Florida
lying between the last mentioned line and the River Apalachicola.
It may further assist in this Elucidation to remark that the Proc.
of Oct. 7, 1763, above referred to, restrained the Colonies from
granting any part of the lands lying upon the East bank of
the Mississippi and to the North of W. Florida — the same being
reserved with other lands for the future disposition of the Crown.

During the American War, Eng. being in possession of the
Floridas, Gen. Guloeg the Span. Govr. of Louisiana conquered
the Province of W. Florida, and at the conclusion of that War,
the Floridas were ceded by Engl, to Spain, & the Mississippi on
the West & the Floridas on the S. were made the boundaries of
the U. S.

It should be here remarked that the Territory on the East bank
of the Mississippi, once included in Louisiana, ceased, after its
cession to Eng., to be known or described by that name. From
that Period New Orleans & the Territory west of the Missis-
sippi have been called and known as Louisiana ; and no Diplo-
matic or other public act has from that date given the name of
Louisiana to any portion of the Territory ceded by Fr. & Sp. to
Eng. by the Treaty of 1763 ; but on the contrary that since the
year 1763, an unbroken series of diplomatic and other public
Acts, comprehending every public Act of the U. S., which has
had relation to the subject, have uniformly ascribed to Louisiana
the eastern Boundary assigned to it by the Treaty of 1763, and
with equal uniformity have recognized & described the adjacent
Territory east of that Boundary by other names. By the 2nd
Article of the Treaty between Sp. & the U. S. it is provided
" that the Southern Boundy. of the U. S., which divides yr. Ter-
ritory from the Span. Colonies of E. & W. Florida shall be a line
beginning at the River Mississippi at the 31st degree of No. Lat.
&c. The 5th Art. again speaks of the boundaries of the two
Floridas. Furthermore, It is understood (tho' we cannot state
our information as completely authentic) that the Govt, of the
Floridas has been confided to the Govr. of Cuba and not to the
Gov. of Louisiana ; so that not only in name but local Govt.,

APPENDIX. 563

the Floridas have been maintained as a Territory distinct from
that of Louisiana.

How far the Laws of the U. S. may have at any time taken
notice of or mentioned the Floridas, we have not examined ; but
there is reason to believe that the Instructions & Acts of the Old
Congress, as well as the Instructions and other Acts of the Presi-
dent of the U. S., for a series of years past, have described the
Territory south of the southern Boundary of the U. S. as E. &
W. Florida. In a Memoir respecting Louisiana drawn up by
Chan Livingston, printed in the French language, and presented
to the French Govt., while he was our Minister at Paris, he ob-
serves p. 16, " la possession de la Louisiane est neanmoins tres-
importante pour la France, si elle en tire le seul parti que la saine
politique semble lui dieter. Je parle de la Louisiane propre,
dans laquelle je ne comprends point les Florides, parceque je
pense qu' elles ne font pas partie de la Cession." *

By the Treaty of 1763 between E. F. & Sp., the navigation of
the River Mississippi from its source to the ocean was declared
common to England and France — by the Treaty of Peace between
England & the U. S. the navigation of the River Miss, was also
declared common to Eng. & the U. S. ; but as by the Treaty of
1783, between England & Spain, the former ceded to the latter
East & West Florida, France having before ceded Louisiana to
Spain, She became mistress of both banks of the Mississippi, and
asserted a Right of closing its mouth against the American navi-
gation. It is needless to do more than merely to recall this sub-
ject, to the public Recollections, and to add that the Treaty of
1783 between the U. S. and Spain removed this obstruction &
secured to the U. S. the free navigation of the Mississippi, to-
gether with a Right of Deposit at New Orleans for 3 years, and
afterwards either there or elsewhere on the Banks of the Missis-
sippi.

At the Expiration of the Term of Deposit at N. O., new diffi-
culties arose on that subject & negotiations respecting it were
confided to Mr. C. P., the Amer. Minister at Madrid. While the

* " The possession of Louisiana is nevertheless very important to France,
if she pursues respecting it the only course which a wise policy appears to sug-
gest to her. I speak of Louisiana proper, in which I do not comprehend the
Floridas, because I think they make no part of the Cession."

564 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

Point remained undetermined, Sp. ceded back to Fr. Louisiana,
including the City & Island of N. O ; and Fr. in the beginning
of 1802 prepared an Expedition to take possession of the Country.
Negotiations were now transferred from Madrid to Paris, and Mr.
Monroe was joined to Chancellor Livingston for the purpose of
purchasing the City & Island of N. O. This venture was termi-
nated by the cession of Louisiana to the U. S. ; and the decision
of the question whether any part of the Territory ceded by France
& Spain to Eng. by the Treaty of 1763, was ceded by Fr. to the
U. S. by the Convention of 1802, must determine the validity of
our claim to West Florida, and the justice of the present pro-
ceedings to occupy that Country as the Property of the U. S.

To determine this Question, we must refer to the Act of cession
from Fr. to the U. S. ; which again refers us, not to the Act of
Cession of Spain to France, which is not communicated to us,
but to a paragraph of that Act stated to be dated Oct. 1, 1800, by
which Spain retrocedes, or cedes back again to Fr. Louisiana
" with the same extent that it then had in the hands of Spain, and
that it had when France possessed it, and such as it should be
after (pursuant) the Treaties subsequently entered into between
Spain and other States."

The description of Limits is a triple one, and in order to give
to it a just and definite interpretation, the several parts must be
reconciled ; for it is wholly inadmissible that the members of the
Description of Limits are irreconcilable, or in other words, that
the extent of one is greater than that of another. This would be
to assert that Louisiana had two limits, the one greater than the
other, which would be absurd ; as it would be to assert that a
Territory may be greater or less than it actually is. Three points
are then to be ascertained and reconciled.

1. What were the Limits of Louisiana in the hands of Spain in
Oct. 1800 ?

2. What were its Limits when in the hands of France ?

3. What ought to be its limits pursuant to Treaties between
Spain and other States after it became her Property ?

It has been already stated that before the year 1763 Louisiana
comprehended a large Territory on the east Bank of the Missis-
sippi, extending from its mouth to the Illinois Country inclusive
& belonged to Fr — by that Treaty, this part of Louisiana, includ-

APPENDIX. 565

ing the Territory of W. Florida, was separated from it & ceded
by Fr. to Eng. ; contemporaneously with this Cession, Fr. ceded
Louisiana including the City & Island of N. O. to Spain : taking
these two Acts of Cession together— wh. we are bound by the
maxims of Construction to do, both having relation to one sub-
ject, being of like date and the same parties— it is manifest that
the Eastern Boundary of Louisiana is established to be the River of
the Mississippi from its source to the Ocean. Louisiana thus
denned upon its Eastern Boundary, altho' the Act of its Cession to
Spain bears the date of Nov. 3, 1762, remained in the possession
and under the Govr. of France almost 7 years afterwards, Count
O'Reilley not having arrived until July 1769. At this epoch
Louisiana thus bounded upon the Mississippi was taken posses-
sion of and passed under the Govt, of Spain— the adjacent Terri-
tory to the East thereof being at that time in the possession &
under the Govt, of Eng., and the southern part thereof having
been included within the British province of W. Fl. This State
of possession & of Names continued until the American War, in
the course whereof Spain conquered W. Florida, and by the
Treaty of Peace in 1783, England ceded East & W. Florida to
Spain, the Territory to the Northward thereof and adjacent to the
Mississippi, having been ceded by Eng. to the U. S.

Spain took possession of East & W. Florida in the year
and instead of incorporating them or any part of either of them
with Louisiana, placed them both under the Havannah. For this
Fact we refer to a Document in the possn. of our Govt.— a letter
from the Spanish Minr. Cevallos to Messrs. Monroe & Pinckney.
This Fact is moreover acquired from other sources of informa-
tion, as well as from the general Notoriety of the Measure. If
W. Florida has at no time since its cession by England to Spain
been reunited to Louisiana— as must be the fact, inasmuch as it
has been placed under a difft. Govt, and preserved its new name
—it follows that at the date of its retrocession to Fr. Spain pos-
sessed it with the same Limits which it had when she first acquired
it— that is to say, with the Limits assigned to it by the Treaty of
I763_and consequently with the exclusion of W. Florida.

The second clause furthermore provides that the Limits of
Louisiana shall also be the same as it had when possessed by
France. Nov/ it has been shown that Louisiana while in the pos-

566 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

session of France had different Limits before the Treaty of 1763
— Louisiana covered both Banks of the Mississippi, after that
Treaty it contained nothing except the City Island of N. O.
upon its eastern Bank. France, as has also been shown, pos-
sessed & governed Louisiana after as well as before the cession
of the East Bank to England.

As no particular period in the possession of France is named,
according to the Rules of Interpretation in such cases, that time
of possession must be adopted, by which the two clauses may be
reconciled. Now as we have shown that the Mississippi formed
the Eastern Limits of Louisiana at the time of its retrocession by
France after the Treaty of 1763, it accords with the Rules of
sound Construction to take this period of the French Possession
as that referred to in the Act of Cession. By doing so we recon-
cile the two clauses ; whereas by adopting a Period antecedent to
the Treaty of 1763, when both Banks of the Mississippi were
included in Louisiana, we not only render the two clauses incon-
sistent, but moreover establish a construction by wh. Spain cedes
to Fr. what does not belong to her, but to the U. S. ; for the
Kaskaskias & Kahokia, with the Eastern Bank of the Miss, from
the highest of these Villages to the southern Boundary of the
U. S. were indisputably within the Limits of Louisiana before the
Treaty of 1763 — and as indisputably ceded by Fr. to England &
by England to the U. S. Such a construction would be odious ;
since we are not at liberty to suppose that one Nation can grant
what belongs to another. Furthermore the Treaty cedes with
the same Limits as Louisiana actually had in the hands of Spain,
and also with the same Limits it had when possessed by France ;
now, if the Limits are to be in both cases the same, one cannot
be greater than the other ; this would be to contend that equal
quantities could be unequal, which is absurd.

Having given what we have seen to be the just Construction of
the 1 & 2 clauses of this article, we proceed to examine the
Import of the 3d clause. The Limits are to be as they ought to
be according to the subseqt. Treaties between Spain & other
Powers, France possessed Louisiana till 1769 — the subsequent
Treaties are the Treaties of 1783 between Sp. and England and
of 1795 between Spain & the U. S. By the Treaty of 1785 Spain
acquired W F. : to be as they ought to be according to that

APPENDIX. 567

Treaty W F. cannot be included. By the Treaty of 1795 tne
W. Limits of the U S. are fixed, and the Northern Boundary of
W. Florida : to be as they ought to be according to this Treaty
W. Florida is in like manner excluded, both Treaties naming and
deciding upon W. Florida as a Territory distinct from Louisiana.
Then as the Treaty of 180 1 did not affect the Rights of the U. S.
acquired under the Treaty of 1795, in like manner it would not
affect the Rights of Spain acquired under the Treaty of 1803.

APPENDIX VI.

LOUISIANA.

VALUE OF THE ACQUISITION & EFFECT ON THE
POLITICAL UNION.

Nations are not always sensible of those changes which in some
sort control and fix their destiny : indeed these consequences are
rarely foreseen or understood, for so limited and imperfect is the
understanding of even the most enlightened men that it is not
always easy for them to distinguish events of ordinary import
from those which overrule and decide the character and fortunes
of States. Notwithstanding we live in perilous times, and are
almost indifft. witnesses of the most extraordinary & important
changes in human affairs, we cannot be wholly inattentive to
what immediately regards our own immediate interest. Situation
as well as the Policy adopted by our Govt, clothe with indiffer-
ence the Politics of Europe, but we all possess a lively regard and
vigilant attention to what concerns our own country.

We have recently been informed from the seat of Govt, that a
Treaty has been concluded with France, by which not only New-
Orleans but all Louisiana, as ceded by Spain to France, has been
ceded to us. This information is of greater significance than
seems to be commonly imagined. The entire and exclusive
control over the navigation of the Missi. is indispensable to our
political union ; a treaty which secures this great object is there-
fore justly regarded with favour. It is proposed to examine the
merits of the opposite opinions, which have been entertained

568 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

concerning the best mode of attaining this End. Neither is it of
importance, in respect to the object of this paper, to inquire
whether the treaty \vh. has been concluded, has been brought
about pursuant to the preconceived views and instruction given to
the negotiators, nor whether it may not have been owing almost
exclusively to a state of things which could not have been fore-
seen, and which is altogether foreign and independent of the
views of our own Cabinet.

Laying these inquiries wholly aside, it is of importance to look
at the acquisition we have made and to consider at the outset its
extent, its use, and its probable effect upon our politi. union.

i st. The newly acquired Territory, with the exception of the
Island of N. O., is wholly on the west side of the Miss. & is
bounded southerly by the Gulph of Mexico, easterly by the Miss,
in its whole length, and northerly and westwardly by unascer-
tained lines, separating Louisiana from Canada in the north and
the Spanish Territories to the west.

The two Floridas bounded northwardly by the southern line of
the U. S. and eastwardly and southwardly by the Ocean, and
westwardly by the Miss. & the Lakes Maurepas & Ponchar-
train, were never included in Louisiana, were not ceded with it
to France and still remain Provinces of Spain. As we have now
added Louisiana to our Territories, the Floridas are now sur-
rounded by us & the ocean on every side. The Region west of
the Miss., which has been claimed as within Louisiana is prob-
ably as considerable as the whole of the U. S. and is reported to
be superior in soil & climate to the country East of the Miss.

2nd. The object we desired and were bound to acquire in order
to maintain the Union of our Country, was the control over the
mouth of the Miss. ; in other words, we wanted the Dominion of
N. Orleans. Without this the people living on our Western
waters must have been under the control of the Masters of New
Orleans, and to avoid greater difficulties might have been obliged
to withdraw from our Union & become subjects to another
Power. If New Orleans and the Floridas had been acquired
and nothing more, this object would have been attained : in-
deed the acquisition of N. Orleans wd. have been sufficient, for
the Floridas would have soon followed, and, without trouble or
expense, fallen into our hands. It was not Territory for the

APPENDIX. 569

sake of Territory, wh. we wanted ; New Orleans in this respect
is of small consequence, but as the Nation, wh. must possess the
Domin. over the trade and Navigation of the Miss., its ac-
quisition by us was indispensable. At a future day the Floridas,
and especially W. Florida which commands the mouths of sev-
eral Rivers ascending far within the limits of the U. S., wd. have
become necessary additions to our Territory. At present the
acquisition was not wanted, and before it wd. be, Events will
inevitably occur wh. must change entirely the state of the Amer-
ican Continental Colonies, and wh. would naturally unite the
Floridas to our Territories. The inference from this remark is
that New Orleans alone, or at the most New Orleans and the
Floridas were all we required to give us the control over the
Trade and Navign. of the Miss. But we have all Louisiana in
addn. What is the value or advantage of this acquisition, to
what use shall we apply it, may it not prove pernicious instead of
beneficial ?

The Region is extensive and possesses properties wh. may ren-
der it more inviting to settlers than the country within our former
limits. Will you open land offices & sell it or any part of it, will
you lay it out in new States, will you sell only to yr. own Citi-
zens, or only to Foreigners, or indifferently to both, will you
divide the Country into Departments, and appt. indt. Superin-
tendents and trading houses, will you place Garrisons there to
protect the settlements wh. have been made since the time of
Louis, the XIV, will you carry on indian wars with tribes whose
names and numbers you are yet unacquainted, will you in this
respect do what neither the Conquerors of Mexico, nor their Pos-
terity have yet been able to do, reduce to submission the Sav-
ages within Louisiana, who for more than two Centuries have
maintained a war with the Spaniards ? Or will you by law pro-
hibit the migration to and settlement of the People beyond the
Miss. : are you willing to do so, and if so, will you (be) able to
adhere to this System ? Will you post a cordon of Troops upon
the Bks. of the River with orders to stop emigration and to
remove the settlers who shall pass ?

It is true that the Proprietors of new Lands in every part of
the Union may be in favour of this Prohibition, as the opening
of new and better Lands West of the Miss., and in the vicinity

570 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

of the Spanish mines, may depreciate the Lands which wd. other-
wise be sold and settled within the U. S.

But you encourage emigration, and invite the unhappy of other
countries to fly hither for repose. Will they be content with
these prohibitory laws, operating in favor of the few ; will not
these be joined by others whose voices may be as loud as those
of the landholders, & will not the spirit of speculation, to which
neither lands nor seas afford limits, be awakened to fix itself
upon this Western region ? In short so long as this Region be-
longs to us, shall we not be engaged in a perpetual conflict con-
cerning its defense or its settlement ?

The Territory is of value for settlement or solitude, or we
ought not to possess it. Of what value can it be as a solitude ?
As long as it is our Territory we can prevent its settlement, if
deemed advisable : if it be of no worth to settle, it is an affair
of importance that we can prevent its settlement by others. If
the country be such as it is represented, either France or Eng-
land might plant colonies there deriving the greater part of the
settlers out of the U. S. Our population would not only be
drawn away but it wd. contribute to raise up a dangerous Rival
on our Borders. Two remarks may be made by way of reply :
first no European Nation will long maintain a Colony on the
Continent of America ; were it necessary to adduce the grounds
of this assertion, they could be readily exhibited.

2nd. Were it otherwise, no colony can be planted upon the
Waters of the Miss. wh. wd. not be controlled by the Power
commanding the mouth of the River. The same embarrassment
wh. we lately experienced wd. be felt by any such colony wh.
would bear the same relation to the Power, which should be
Master of N. Orleans, that our Western states wd. have borne
towards France had she prosecuted her Louisiana colony.

The result is that little or no danger could have been appre-
hended from the colonization of Louisiana by any for. Power,
the U. S. being Masters of New Orleans, and consequently that
the Dominion of the Country, for the purpose of preventing its
settlement, is of no value.

But why should we not settle the country ? A single or simple
Govn. can exist only over a confined Territory ; but our federal
system may suit extensive and remote Regions. The experi-

APPENDIX. 571

ment has already combined distant Territories and may unite
regions still more distant ; who can mark the limits of the fed-
eral system ? Or say it may not be carried far beyond any
notions that we have entertained in reference to political associ-
ations of a character materially different ?

This Enquiry opens too wide a range for present discussion.
Suffice it to remark that Experience alone is the safe guide in
human affairs and wanting that, if want we do, prudence should
restrain us from rash experiments. A little common sense and
common experience will be our best monitors. These admonish
us that we have already a sufficiently extensive Empire ; our
new settlements have been created out of the Resources of the
old, as well as protected and defended by their power. Perhaps
we have seen the worst of Indian wars and those Burthens un-
avoidably incident to these remote and detached settlements —
nurtured by the old States, the new ones begin to taste the bless-
ings of order and Govt., and are growing willing, as well as able,
to contribute to their support : property is acquiring a fixed and
reasonable value, founded upon the neutrality of supply and
demand. But if in this promising state of things you throw
open the acquired Territory of Louisiana, and thereby invite to
its settlement, the scene is changed ; new lands throughout the
U. S. will become of little value ; those which have been sold to
settlers will be given up & never paid for, and the Purchasers
will, from a spirit that has shewn itself from the earliest settle-
ment of the Country, march westward in pursuit of Regions
better than those they leave behind or pass over. Is this no
injury to the present landholders, will this work no change in
our social condition ?

APPENDIX VII.

CESSION OF LOUISIANA.

THE PRICE, MERITS OF NEGOTIATING MINISTERS, AND
POLICY OF PURCHASE.

Certain reflexions are suggested by the temper with wh. the
Country has received the information of the Cession of Louisiana
to the U. S., a measure that in no point of view in which it may
be considered, can be regarded as indifferent. The Public

572 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

seems to have stopped short of the most import, considn. in
relation to the cession and to have employed itself with inquiries
respecting the Price of the Cession, the respective merits of the
Ministers employed to effect it and the Policy of the Govt, in
resorting to negotiation in preference to another course that was
recommended. These points tho' of secondary consequence
deserve examination, each of them with a reference to the
avowed Principles of our Executive. Beginning with the last,

It is the natural result of a plan, having regard to the existing
state and probable course of affairs, which ought to decide its
merits. The interposition of a cause, wholly unforseen, which
operates favorably, adds no merit to the plan, any more than
the like cause operating unfavorably wd. detract from it. The
Peace of Europe had been recently concluded when Mr. Mon-
roe's mission was projected, and it may with confidence be
asserted that no expectation was entertained either here or
abroad, that it wd. be so soon interrupted. On the contrary it
is known that the whole scope of the Instructions was founded
upon the presumed continuance of Peace in Europe and the
opinion that France thus at peace, our Envoys wd. be able to
affect the Relinquishment of the Project of colonizing Louisiana,
and the cession of New Orleans and the Floridas to us.

The question of the merits of the Project being therefore on
this point, wd. or wd. not the Envoys have obtained the Relin-
quishment of the Expedition and the cession of New Orleans &
the Floridas, had the peace between Fr. & Eng. continued ; in
other words, would the Expedition which was about sailing from
Holland to Louisiana have remained in Port, had not the fear of
the Eng. fleet kept it there.

As some criterion to form a right Judgment on this point we
may be assured that the mission of Mr. Monroe was known in
France several months before his arrival there ; the Despatches
of Mr. Pynchon have seasonably and fully apprised his Govt, of
its object as well as of the means by which it was expected to be
attained ; that reiterated and vigourous remonstrances agt. the
Expedition were made by our Ambassador, Mr. Livingston, be-
fore Mr. M.'s arrival ; that the memorials and memorialists were
alike disregarded, and equally so in any former missions to
France, that the idea of selling Louisiana to the U. S. was treated

APPENDIX. 573

with ridicule and contempt and likened to what was termed the
base conduct of Charles the 2nd who sold Dunkirk to France ;
that the Expedition was hurried on, Mr. Livingston was plainly-
told that it wd. proceed and that in regard to our claims of a
Deposit at N. O., Bernadotte wd. be immediately despatched as
Envoy to Washington ; and that, as soon as the Prefect of Louis-
iana and the Envoy had reached their posts, made the requisite
Enquiries on the spot respecting our claims, and sent their Re-
port to Paris, an answer would be given to us ; and until the war
with Engd. became inevitable no single circumstance occurred
to afford the slightest ground of hope that France would listen
for a moment to the Proposal of our Envoy.

Upon these facts all impartial men must perceive that had
peace continued, the mission would have totally failed, and that
the relinquishment of the French Expedition to Louisiana and
its cession to us, is solely to be ascribed to the war with England.

In regard to the respective merits of the Envoys, in negotiating
and signing the Treaty, the statement already made seems suffi-
ciently to point out the influence that prevailed with France to
give her Consent ; and when it is added that the overture to cede
Louisiana came from France and not from our Envoys, it can-
not be difficult to settle the partition of Praise between them.
Yet it is due to the character of Mr. L., whose zeal upon this
subject had prompted him to use unwearied and various exer-
tions to convince France of the impolicy of the Expedition to
Louisiana, to declare that their business was so far settled before
Mr. M.'s arrival at Paris, that nothing remained for him to do
when he appeared there, but to give his consent and signature
to the contract.

As to the price, tho' perhaps this also is open to fair objections
— and to very strong ones on the avowed principles of the Ex-
ecutive respecting the increase of the public Debt — it must be
admitted in regard to the Public welfare that these objections
are inferior to all others that arise in the examination of this
important transaction.

If France was compelled by the war with Eng. to suspend or
relinquish the projected Expedition, this circumstance secured
to us almost every advantage we could desire in pressing France
and Spain to consent to such an arrangement respecting New

574 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

Orleans and the free navigation of the Miss., as we had a right
to demand.

The Debates of the Br. Parliament upon the Treaty of Amiens
had shown the strong aversion of Eng. to the occupation of
Louisiana by France, and must have satisfied both France and
America that, unless vanquished, Eng. wd. not consent to
Louisiana being colonized by her Rival.

So far as Title was the object, we already had it by the Treaties
with G. B. & Spain ; for the Right of Deposit at N. O., obtained
by the Span. Treaty, reserved a power to Spain within a limited
time to discontinue this Right at N, O., assigning an equivalent
Deposit at another place, yet the time, within which this change
might have been made, elapsed without its being done, and in
consequence thereof the Right of Deposit became absolute and
unchangeable ; so that France who reed, the cession from Spain
posterior to the Treaty with us, took it subject to our Rights
under an elder treaty.

So far then as respects the Right of Deposit at New Orleans,
and the navigation of the Miss., the case stood thus : we had as
complete a title to the enjoyment of these Rights, as to the De-
posit at New York and to the Navigation of the Hudson ; but
being menaced with an interruption of the Right of Deposit, we
sent a mission to effect a removal of unjust Impediments, and
the question of how much or how little money ought to be given
upon a mere mercenary calculation — (laying aside wholly the
principle of honour, the only one worthy of being consulted in
* regard to the invasion of an important natural Right) is perhaps
on the view of the subject we have taken not very difficult to be
determined, as it is believed that very few wd. be found who
under the known & favourable circumstances of the negotiation
wd. have consented to a larger sum than Congress deemed suffi-
cient when those Circumstances were unforseen.

Whether it wd. not have been more natural as well as econom-
ical to have given money to France and six per cent, to our own
citizens whom we are to pay what France owed them instead of
the inversion of this course, can admit of no sort of doubt : that
the mode which has been preferred is both bad economy and in
other respects injudicious might be easily demonstrated.

The observations made in a former Paper were calculated to

APPENDIX. 575

shew that the Cession of Louisiana (regarded as a confirmation
of our Right to navigate the Mississippi, and as a conveyance of
New Orleans in Sovereignty instead, as a confirmation of our
Right to use it as a free Port) ought not to be considered as
what men of Business call a good Bargain on our side ; that the
overture to sell came from France, when by reason of the war
which had become inevitable, she was obliged to relinquish her
plan of colonization, and consequently that the respective friends
of the Envoys have no room to contend for an unequal division
of credit between them ; and that the cession which has been
made so far from conforming the Policy of the Mission to France,
may, if considered in reference to the condn. of France at the
date of the Negotiation, be regarded as proof of the Superior
wisdom of those who recommended a different course.

Before we proceed in the examination of the Policy of our ac-
cepting the Cession of Louisiana it may be proper to enquire
whether the President's views and Ins. to the Envoys were direct-
ed to the acquisition of the country beyond the Miss., or whether
the proposal to annex this immense Region to the U. S. did not
for obvious or concealed reasons originate with France. Altho'
we have not seen the Instructions to the Envoys, nevertheless
sufficient has elapsed to disclose in various ways whatever may
have been the President's private sentiments (of which we profess
to be ignorant) that the Envoys had neither Instructions nor
Power to ask for or receive an acre of Land.*

APPENDIX VIII. {to Page 4.07.)

HAMILTON'S ESTATE.
O. Wolcott to R. King, Hartford.

New York, July 12, 1804.
My Dear Sir :

I addressed a line to you yesterday, but I suppose it to be my
duty to inform you that our friend Hamilton expired to-day about
2 o'clock. The feelings of the whole community are agonized
beyond description ; for the first time Envy is silent ; all remem-
ber with gratitude the talents and services of the deceased Hero,

* This ends abruptly — The Sequel is not among the papers. — Ed.

576 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

and mourn the untimely end of the pride and ornament of our
Country.

Our friend fell by the first fire. The ball passed through one
side and lodged in or near the spine. He was brought to his
friend Mr. Wm. Bayard's house and the few hours of life and
reason which remained were chiefly spent in religious Exercises.

Present my condolence to Judge Benson and rest assured of
the high esteem and attachment of Dr. Sir

Your faithful

O. W. Wolcott.

O. Wolcott to R. King, Boston.

New York, Aug. 14, 1804.
Dear Sir :

I inclose a memorandum of the subscription here : no person
has been solicited and many persons who will doubtless subscribe
are out of town. I have heard it said by those who know the
opinion of the city that about $30,000 may be expected.

A diversity of opinion exists in Phila. respecting the course
proper to be pursued. Mr. Lewis, Mr. Rawle, Mr. Tilghman, Mr.
Wain, and Mr. Girard are a committee of a select number of gen-
tlemen to consider and recommend what they ought to do. I
know nothing of the nature of their difficulties. From Baltimore
nothing of consequence is to be expected.

This is certain that it will require considerable management to
render Genl. Hamilton's Estate Solvent. Genl. Schuyler can
doubtless borrow money, but of what advantage would it be to
increase a mass of unproductive property and diminish the sources
of immediate income ? But it is unnecessary to reason on a
question of this nature. Those who are to consider it are good
judges of what is proper.

I shall leave this place in a few days for Connecticut to attend
upon Mrs. W. whose health is feeble. If you have occasion to
write on this subject, a letter to Mr. Gracie or Genl. Clarkson will
be immediately attended to.

With high esteem &c,

O. W. Wolcott.

In a postscript, Mr. Wolcott sends a list of the subscribers all
well known New Yorkers, with the amount each contributed —

APPENDIX. 577

There are eight for $1000, each, among whom is Mr. King, one
for $750, eleven for $500 each, a number for smaller sums,
amounting in all to $16,100. — These names are all of leading citi-
zens and friends of Genl. Hamilton.

O. Wolcott to R. King.

New York, Aug. 14, 1804.
Dear Sir :

I wrote you yesterday, but having since had an interview with
Genl. Clarkson and Mr. Gracie, I am able to state further par-
ticulars. Genl. Schuyler's property has probably been overrated.
It is certain he owes money and has no funds at command. Every
vestige of our friend's earnings will vanish unless the proposed
contribution is successful. The country seat is secured for the
indemnity of the endorsers of discounted paper, which amounts
to $20,000. Mrs. Hamilton's attachment to this country seat you
well know. The necessity of selling it would excessively distress
her. I am now assured that the suggestions which some persons
have made that the family would be offended are utterly without
foundation : that on the contrary they will consider pecuniary
assistance under their present circumstances as in justice they
ought, merely as a manifestation of the gratitude and respect of
the contributors to the character of the Deed.

Alexander, son of the Genl. was graduated the first of this
month. He was destined by his father for a merchant. On many
accounts it will be best that he receive his education for this pro-
fession out of the city. I pray you to inquire whether a respecta-
ble place can be obtained for him in Boston. He is now about
18 years of age. I make this request on the suggestion of the
family.

With highest esteem &c,

O. W. Wolcott.

APPENDIX IX. TO P. 485.

MIRANDA AND THE SAILING OF THE LEANDER.

There is among Mr. King's papers an account of his relations
with Miranda, in reference to his plans and conduct in arranging
for and carrying out his Expedition, which as is well known

VOL. IV. — 37

578 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

sailed from New York, and for many reasons, (one of the chief
of which was Miranda's unfitness to command such a venture)
failed and was disastrously broken up. There was published in
Boston, (a second edition in 1810), an account of the Expedition
in a series of letters, written by a member of the expedition, de-
tailing the daily events, the causes of failure and the capture of
most of those engaged in it. Mr. King's account is as follows :

General Miranda arrived at New York from England Nov. 9th
1805, and the next day called on Mr. King, whom he had known
in London, and delivered to him a letter from a respectable Eng-
lish gentleman dated Aug. 14, 1805, of which the following are
extracts.*

The General's communications to Mr. King corresponded with
the tenour of the foregoing extracts ; and he further stated that
the Province of Caraccas, his native country, was suffering be-
neath the most oppressive tyranny, that the Inhabitants, were
generally disaffected, that they were ready to throw off the Span-
ish Government and invited him to return and co-operate with
them in asserting their liberty and independence, and that he had
come to the U. S. to obtain the requisite succours to enable him
to effect the Revolution.

Mr. King told Gen. Miranda that private persons, whatever
might be their sentiments concerning the enterprize in which he
was engaged, could not with safety afford him the assistance he
wanted, as the U. S. was at peace with Spain, and the laws pro-
hibited the setting on foot of an Expedition of this nature, and
recommended to him without delay to proceed to Washington
and lay open his views to the Government.

At a future interview General Miranda informed Mr. King that
he had disclosed his object to Commodore Lewis and Col. Smith
who had made him acquainted with Mr. S. G. Ogden ; that Og-
den and Lewis owned two or three stout armed ships, that they
entertained sentiments favourable to his purpose, that if he had
friends he could soon procure the men ancl arms he wanted, and
with this succour that he should command a force superior to
that which Dion possessed when, with Plato's approbation he re-
turned to Syracuse, his native City, and overthrew the Tyrants.
Mr. King repeated to Gen. Miranda that he ought to consult the

* These are omitted as they are from Mr. Vansittart's letter.

APPENDIX. 579

Government before he attempted anything ; that however true
it was, that all Greece applauded the enterprize of Dion, and its
wisest citizens assisted or accompanied him, neither men, nor
States, nor the discipline and devotedness of Freedom were the
same now as then ; that we possessed as little of the purity of
ancient Patriotism as of its invincible courage aud tho' there was
a time when it might have been both safe and honourable to
have erred with Plato, those days were gone, and a mere regard
to personal safety with the coldest and lowest calculations of
prudence had become virtues of higher rank than those which
once animated the Sages of antiquity.

General Miranda afterwards informed Mr. King that he had
concluded to go to Washington and to lay open his intentions to
Government, and asked Mr. King to give him a letter of intro-
duction to the Secretary of State, which was declined.

General Miranda having determined to ask the countenance
and succour of Government, with the view of apprizing the Pres-
ident of the General's actual situation, as well as of the purpose
for which he came to the U. S., Mr. King transmitted to the Sec-
retary of State for the President's perusal, the original letter that
he had from England disclosing Miranda's views. Mr. King's
letter was dated Nov. 26, 1805, the Secretary of State's letter
returning the enclosure after the same had been perused by the
President was dated Dec. 4, 1805.

General Miranda left N. Y. for Washington Nov. 28, arrived
there Dec. 6, left it Dec. 20, and returned to N. Y. Dec. 23, 1805.
He informed Mr. King that, immediately after his arrival at
Washington, he visited the President ; after which he visited the
Secy, of State, and left his address with a letter of introduction
from Dr. Rush of Philadelphia ; that at the interview which fol-
lowed he informed the Secy, of State that he had desired to
make an important and confidential communication to the Gov-
ernment as soon as the President should permit it to be received ;
that at a future interview the Secy, of State informed him that
having consulted the President he had been authorized to receive
his communications ; that General Miranda then opened to the
Secretary of State his object in coming to the U. S., exposed the
condition of the Province of Caraccas, the general discontent of
its Inhabitants and the ease with which it might become indepen-

580 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

dent, and concluded by asking the countenance and succour of
the Government. The manner and tenour of the observations
made by the Secretary of State on this occasion were considered
by M. as encouraging and satisfactory.

That at a subsequent interview the Secretary of State, who"
seemed more reserved than before, informed Gen. Miranda that
he had communicated to the President what had passed in their
preceding conference, that the President's sentiments could not
be doubted, but that Government could afford neither sanction
nor succour to the enterprize in which he was engaged.

General Miranda remarked that without the countenance of
Government individuals might be unwilling to assist him ; the
Secretary replied that the U. S. was a free country, where every
one may do what the laws do not forbid. Genl. Miranda ob-
served that the Bill then depending, prohibiting the exportation
of arms and ammunition, might impede his measures. The
Secretary answered that the Bill might not become a Law.

General Miranda said he had conferred with certain persons in
New York respecting his views and if Government would pri-
vately make him a small advance, he might with their assistance
find the supplies he wanted. The Secretary replied that the
merchants would advance money whenever they became satisfied
that they had an interest in doing so, and enquired what supplies
he might want, and who were the Persons with whom he had
conferred. General Miranda answered that he wanted a few
officers, a small number of privates, together with a quantity of
arms and ammunition, and that he had conferred with Commo-
dore Lewis, Col. Smith and Mr. S. G. Ogden. The Secretary
expressed himself favourably concerning the fitness of these per-
sons for the Expedition, adding in reference to Lewis and Ogden,
that it would be better than the St. Domingo trade, and that Col.
Smith was more qualified for military service than for the Cus-
tom House, f General Miranda said that Col. Smith would go
with him, if he could have leave of absence, which he regarded
should be granted under the pretext of having business at New
Orleans. The Secretary replied that such permissions were un-
usual— and the conference ended with an intimation on the part
of the Secretary of State that whatever might be done should be
f He was an officer in that at New York.

APPENDIX, 581

discreetly done and with the understanding on the part of Mir-
anda, that altho' the Government would not sanction, it would
wink at the Expedition.

Miranda remained at Washington 14 days, dined twice with
the President ; the second time being after the Secretary of State
had laid before the President the communication received from
Gen. Miranda. He also dined with the Secretary of State the
day before he left Washington — having waited there two days to
attend the dinner.

As soon as General Miranda returned to N. York, he settled
his plan with Commodore Lewis, Mr. Ogden and Col. Smith.
Commodore Lewis sailed soon after for St. Domingo, with two
armed ships, the Emperor and the Indostan, with instructions
from Miranda to engage the mulatto Chief Petion together with
a corps of persons of colour to co-operate in effecting the Revo-
lution of the Province of Caraccas. General Miranda, his asso-
ciates American Officers and Privates, together with a supply of
arms and ammunition followed in the ship Leander commanded
by Captain Lewis, brother of the Commodore.

After Miranda's return from Washington, he stated to Mr.
King his apprehensions that he should be embarrassed from the
want of funds, and requested that Mr. King, thro' his friends,
would endeavour to effect a loan for him, which in addition to
other means might be sufficient to carry his preparations to a
pitch that would render his success infallible.

Mr. King explained to Miranda, in declining his request, the
reasons why it would be unfit and inexpedient in him to take any
part in, or in any way promote the enterprize in which he was
engaged. Mr. King did not however hide from General Miranda
the cordial interest that he had long cherished in favour of the
Emancipation of South America, nor did he conceal the hope he
entertained and which arose out of the posture of public affairs,
and his opinion respecting the true political and commercial sys-
tem of this Country, as Spain had given to the U. S. just, cause
of war, that the power and resources of the nation would be em-
ployed in breaking asunder the weak and degrading chains which
for more than three centuries had bound the new world to the old.
Of funds without which he could not proceed, Miranda re-
marked, that his chief and best property consisted of the exten-

582 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

sive and valuable Library with which Mr. King was acquainted,
and that he would try to raise money upon it. If he succeeded
in the Enterprize to which he had devoted himself, he should be
able to redeem this Library ; if he failed he should not want it ;
he added that on this principle, he would draw Bills for ^.2000.
Sterg. on persons in London, whom he named, and in whose
care he left his Library and other effects, and requested Mr.
King to express his opinion of the value of the Library to any
person who might call upon him to ask it. Soon after Mr.
Daniel Ludlow called on Mr. King and enquired of him respecting
Miranda's property in England, Mr. King answered that he knew
of no property belonging to him, except a valuable Library that
he possessed when Mr. King left England. Mr. Ludlow asked
Mr. King if this Library was worth ^2000. Sterling ; Mr. King
answered that in his opinion it was worth that sum and more.
Mr Ludlow asked Mr. King if he knew the persons whose names
he mentioned on whom Miranda had drawn for ^2000. Ster. Mr.
King answered in the affirmative, and that they were friends of
Miranda. Mr. Ludlow then asked Mr. King if he would purchase
Miranda's Bills were he in want of Bills on London ? Mr. King
replied that were he in want of Bills he should not trust his own
judgment but consult with Mr. Ludlow or some other merchant
respecting such as might be offered to him.

Mr. King afterwards understood from General Miranda that
Mr. Ludlow had purchased the Bills, and that the General had
pledged the Library to the Drawers as a security for the repay-
ment of the money.

About this time, or earlier, Miranda told Mr. King that he was
sending an agent to Boston for the purpose of raising money and
asked him to furnish the agent with a letter of introduction to
one of his friends in Boston ; this was declined, and Mr. King
afterwards understood from Miranda that the mission proved
ineffectual.

General Miranda informed Mr. King that in addition to the
^2000. drawn on the security of his Library, he had drawn on a
Banker in London for what he had not expended of a letter of
credit for ^800. Sterling which he brought from England, and
also for two or three thousand pounds sterling upon a person in
Trinidad, whose name was mentioned but not recollected.

APPENDIX. 583

On the 23d of January General Miranda called on Mr. King
and showed him two letters which he had written and which he
said he should send by the mail to the President and Secretary
of State, both dated January 22, 1806, and added that he would
as he afterwards did give to Mr. King copies of these letters.
The Leander left the Hook Feb. 2, 1806.

The following are copies of the letters from General Miranda
to the President and Secretary of State.*

Translation — Copy — Private —
Fran, de Miranda^to the Hon. James Madison, Esq. &c. &c.

New York, January 22, 1806.
Sir :

On the point of leaving the U. S., allow me to address a few
words to you, to thank you for the attentions that you were pleased
to show me during my stay at Washington.

The important concerns, which I then had the honour to com-
municate to you, I doubt not will remain a profound secret until
the final result of that delicate affair.

I have acted upon this supposition here, by conforming in
everything to the intentions of the Government, which I hope to
have apprehended and observed with exactness and discretion.
The enclosed letter contains a book which I have promised to
the President of the U. S., and which I pray you to transmit to
him.

Have the goodness to present my respectful compliments to
Mrs. Madison and to believe me with high consideration and
esteem, Sir, Yr. very humb. & ob. Servt.

Fran. de. Miranda.

Translation — Copy.

Miranda to T. Jefferson Esq., President of the U. S.

New York, January 22, 1806.
Mr. President :

I have the honour to send you with this " La Storia naturale e

civile del Chile," of which we conversed at Washington. You

* These letters are in French, which with the translations into English, are
in this manuscript. But as the translations express faithfully the originals, they
only are here given, for want of space — Ed.

584 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

will perhaps find more interesting facts and greater knowledge in
this little volume than in those which have been before published
on the same subject concerning this beautiful Country.

If the happy prediction which you pronounced on the future
destiny of our dear Colombia is to be accomplished in our day,
may Providence grant that it may be under your auspices and
by the generous efforts of her own children. We shall then, in
some sort behold the revival of that age, the return of which the
Roman Bard invoked in favour of the Human Race :

" The last great age foretold by sacred rhymes
Renews its finished course ; Saturnian times
Roll round again, and mighty years, begun
From this first orb, in radiant circles run."

Dryden.*

With the highest consideration and profound respect,

I am, Mr. President, yr. very humb. & very ob. servt,
(signed) Fran. de. Miranda.

On the 3rd of March, 1806, Mr. King received the following
note from the District Judge — viz. : The District Court, which
is at present sitting at No. 14 Dey Street would wish to see Mr.
King as a Witness in some important business as soon as pos-
sible— Monday 3rd March.

Mr. King immediately attended, and being informed by the
District Attorney that the enquiry related to the Destination of
the Ship Leander and the views of General Miranda, was asked
if he knew the General ? Mr. King asked if any prosecution
existed against General Miranda ; the Judge replied none at
present, but that facts might be disclosed that would originate
one. Mr. King observed that he should think himself bound to
answer such questions as the Court might think proper to pro-
pound, but that he knew nothing concerning the Leander, or
General Miranda's views, except what the General had confi-
dentially communicated to him, and which he could not there-
fore disclose, unless in obedience to the injunction of the Court.
The Judge replied that the Court would expect answers to the
questions it might ask.

* Quoted in Latin from Virg. Eclog. 1 1 .

APPENDIX. 585

The Attorney General then repeated the question, whether
Mr. King knew General Miranda ? Mr. King, being first sworn,
answered that he had known the General many years, and for
several during his residence in England. Is Miranda a native
of Caraccas ? Mr. King answered that he had understood so
from him. When did Miranda arrive at New York ? In Novem-
ber last. Did he disclose to Mr. King the object of his coming
to the U. S. ? He did. What was his object ? He represented
to Mr. King, that his native Country was oppressed by the Span-
ish Government and was in a condition and ready to throw off
the yoke ; that he had been invited by his countrymen to return
and join them in effecting the Revolution ; and, to comply with
the invitation, he wanted a few Officers, a small number of pri-
vates and a quantity of arms and ammunition. Mr. King told
General Miranda that individuals could not with safety furnish
these supplies, and recommended him to go to Washington and
make a full disclosure of his business to the Government.

Did Miranda go to Washington ? He informed Mr. King that
he did. When did he leave New York for Washington ? Towards
the end of November. Did he disclose his business to Govern-
ment ? He told Mr. King he had. What answer did he receive
from Government ? That Government did not sanction the En-
terprize, but that it would assist at Miranda's procuring the supplies
from individuals, provided the same was done discreetly. Did
Miranda declare who were his associates ? He did. Who were
they ? Commodore Lewis and his brother, Mr. L. G. Ogden
and Col. Smith ; he added that he had mentioned those names
to Government, which thought them suitable persons for the
business. What quantity of arms and how many men are on
board the Leander ? Mr. King answered that he did not know.
Did Miranda mention the destination of the Leander ? He did.
What was her destination ? A port in St. Domingo and from
thence to the Coast of Caraccas. Did he mention the purpose
of his going to Caraccas ? He did. What was it ? To co-oper-
ate with his countrymen in accomplishing a Revolution. Did
you understand that force would be used against the existing
Government ? Most certainly, if necessary to overturn it.

The interrogatories being finished, Mr. King requested that
they might be read over together with his answers that the latter

586 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

might be corrected if misconceived or erroneously expressed.
This being done, instead of the answer given by Mr. King to the
Question, " What answer did he receive from the Government ? "
the judge omitted the latter clause and varied the form so as to
read "the Government repelled the overture." Mr. King pointed
out the variance and desired the answer might be set down as he
delivered it. The Attorney General observed that as Mr. King's
testimony was material only in respect to the destination of the
Leander, he doubted whether it would be necessary to take his
deposition, as he would be recognized to give his testimony in
Court. The Judge assenting, Mr. King was recognized and the
paper containing his examination was thrown into the fire.
March 5, 1806.

APPENDIX X.

REVIEW OF THE FOREIGN RELATIONS OF THE UNITED

STATES.

Among the papers of Mr. King, the following interesting
review of the foreign relations of the United States will give
his opinions on many of the questions which were engaging
the attention of the Government, and in the proper solution
of which he differed from the Administration. Though the
paper begins abruptly with a discussion of certain articles
of a proposed treaty, it gives a well-considered view of
their effect upon maritime law, and consequently upon
our commercial relations, and therefore it is here pub-
lished as evincing the interest he took in public affairs, al-
though he was not in public life. When it was written, and
probably published by him is uncertain, but it may have
been subsequent to the date of his letter to Mr. Pickering
on p. 506 of this volume, in which he says : " I have it in
contemplation, after the close of your Session to make a
review of our foreign relations."

The 14th article provides that free bottoms make free goods.
Every man who remembers the humiliated situation of our
Country in the years 1794 and 1795, will recollect the fervour

APPENDIX. 587

with which that regulation was asserted and contended for, as
one of the most important provisions of what was called the
Modern Law of Nations. England was decried because she
would not admit, France applauded for supporting, it. But how
far she has conformed her conduct to this Rule, appears in the
long list of captures before us. We omit the Catalogue and cite
only the case of the Ship Two Friends, McNiel, Master : a regu-
lar trader between London and South Carolina, taken with a
most valuable cargo, by the French Privateers, which blockade
the harbour of Charleston. The assertion that she had not a
certificate from the American Consul in London to prove the
cargo neutral property is a frivolous pretext, circulated by the
corrupt instruments of our Administration, and from the same
motives, which led to the base but unsuccessful attempt in the
to persuade the public that the Two Friends is a British
and not an American ship. No such certificate was necessary ;
the ship was provided with a passport in due form proving her
to be American property ; wherefore according to the Conven-
tion with France, the bottom being free the cargo was free also.
It might have been enemy's property or even contraband of war,
still as the Ship was American and bound to an American, not an
enemy's port, the capture was repugnant to the Article before us.
The members of our present Administration constantly mani-
fested the desire to establish a new maritime code. They have
in this respect shown as much fondness for French fashions as
their Wives, and snapped at every hook baited with the phrase, free
ships, free goods. But it is prudent even for Powers of the first
order (much more for others) to avoid innovating on the estab-
lished Law of Nations. Public opinion is of such importance
that Sovereigns frequently endeavour to conciliate it by labored
manifestoes. Few are so hardy as to bid it defiance, and fewer
still can do so with impunity. When a treaty between two na-
tions is founded on and conformable to the acknowledged public
Law (which like our common Law has been matured by the wis-
dom and experience of ages), the violation of it is generally
acknowledged, and other nations are interested in punishing the
perfidy. But when new fangled notions are foisted into national
compacts by the art of a duping Power operating upon the folly
of its dupe, no sooner is the bargain broken than surrounding

588 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

nations applaud the breach, because it restores old principles.
They justly deride the awkward lamentations of those who had
set themselves up for teachers and models to their superiors.
We shall not examine the solidity of the favorite position, that a
free ship makes free goods, because some of our friends have
wished to establish it, without reflecting that if ever we should be
at war, it would destroy our best means of aggression. But we
must notice a difficulty which cursory observers may not per-
ceive, tho' it ought to be weighed by those who assume the
character of Statesmen. It is evident that a new principle of
maritime Law cannot be established against the will of the first
maritime Powers. It is equally evident that they will not assent
to a principle which takes from them the advantage of their
naval superiority : and it is not less evident that such superiority
can be of little use if an enemy's commerce can be carried on in
perfect safety under cover of a neutral flag. It is, moreover, a
wilful blindness not to see that the attempt to make goods of an
enemy free from capture when on board of a neutral ship, were
levelled at the naval power of Great Britain, and by necessary
consequence at her existence. Whether it be our interest that
she should perish, is a question which shall not at this time be
considered. But will any man of sound mind pretend that if the
naval empire of France were established on the ruin of Britain,
this new principle would be respected by France ? Are we not
on the contrary warranted by experience to say that she would
break the cobweb ties of a treaty as freely as any one of her ad-
mirers can break the Lilliputian ties of an oath.

We are neither the advocates nor accusers, much less the
panegyrists or calumniators of any Prince, Power or Potentate.
Born and educated in America we are bound to this our native
Country by interest, duty and affection. Our partialities, our
predilections, our attachments are to her. If we could pretend
equal love to another, we should hold ourselves as unworthy of
confidence as any of those who born abroad come canting to our
shores their dear, dear love for America, and who better to gull
and dupe this credulous people have the infamy to pretend a
hatred for the land which gave them birth. But that strict im-
partiality, which we feel and avow, will not permit us to shut our
eyes against the light of truth.

APPENDIX. 589

We will not indeed look at these reproaches which the nations
of Europe cast on each other, but we must look at the facts
which regard ourselves ; and if we respect their evidence, we
must acknowledge that England has been more faithful to her
Treaties with us than some other Powers. She has indeed been
less profuse of promise, but she has been more fruitful in per-
formance. Treaties made with her do not hold out such prolific
hopes as those which delight our visionary Rulers but they give
security. England, who is unquestionably the dominant Power
at sea, does not restrict us in the exercise of our right as neutrals
to navigate as freely, as in time of peace, from the ports of one
enemy to those of another. She will not hold to the novel doctrine
that a neutral flag shall protect the property of an enemy, and
which, adopted as a principle, would in practice be exclusively
advantageous to the inhabitants of the North of Europe ; because
from the low price of labor and materials, they can carry mer-
chandize cheaper than we can, and because (their navigation
laws differing widely from ours) they naturalize a foreign Ship
with as much facility as we do a foreign vagabond. But tho'
England makes Prize of her enemies' goods, she does not con-
demn the neutral ship, which has taken them on board, nor even
withhold the stipulated freight. With other Powers we have
made Treaties according to which not only our neutral ship is
sacred, but even a portion of her sanctitude is extended to the
iniquitous cargo sufficient for its salvation, and what is the con-
sequence ? These darling Treaties of high promise are violated
with as little remorse as that of a schoolboy in drowning a blind
puppy ; and with as much contempt for our representations as
his for the howling of its dam, because like the miserable bitch
we bark, but dare not bite.

After all, if certain Powers would stop at the mere breach of
Treaty, those who to get money, or to save it, will submit to dis-
grace might patiently bear the loss of our national honor. But
alas the arrogance of one party is generally proportioned to the
meanness of the other. We have seen decrees to confiscate
American Ships should a single rope yarn of British Manufacture
be found on board ; and although the violations are not quite so
outrageous, they deprive us of advantages to which we are en-
titled by the Law of Nations, as well as those conceded to us by

590 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

Treaty, and being submitted to invite, and will excuse if not
justify such further violations as interest or caprice may dictate.
And here let it be asked, of what use to make Treaties with
Powers void of faith ? Is it not better to adhere to the estab-
lished Law, and exert our force against those by whom it shall
be violated ? Is it not — but we forbear ; since to mention what
ought to be done, and what our honorable Nation would do,
might look like a libel on our wise and virtuous and above all our
magnanimous administration.

The 18th Article regulates the manner of visit and search.
This important stipulation is also shamefully disregarded. Not
only the masters of American ships are forced to leave their
vessels and go on board French cruizers with their papers, but
armed detachments are sent on board of American vessels to
plunder their cargoes and insult and maltreat their crews. When
Capt. Pigott of the English Frigate Hermione offered personal
violence to Jessup, the democratic papers resounded with clamor-
ous outcry. The federal Administration made a strong remon-
strance to the British Govt.; enquiry was ordered ; redress was
promised and would probably have been given, had not the
murder of Capt. Pigott by his own crew placed him beyond the
power of human tribunals. But now that we are constantly ex-
posed to, and daily experience French and Spanish atrocities,
what have these Gentlemen done with their sympathy in the
sufferings of their countrymen? Is it asleep, or peradventure
gone on a journey, to wait a nod of favour from the imperial
Court ? Their newspapers, once so loud in complaint, are silent :
we hear of no appeals to the national sentiment, no remonstrance
by our Government to those of France and Spain. Are stripes
then less degrading from the hands of a Frenchman or Spaniard
than from those of a Briton ?

By the 19th Article, every American vessel under convoy of a
national ship is exempt from visit and search by French cruizers,
why then is our commerce unprotected ? Why have we no Frigates
cruizing along our own coasts ? Why is the property of our
merchants exposed to plunder and our national character to dis-
grace? Is there a nation, was there ever a nation with such
ample means of self defence reduced to a state of such utter
contempt ?

APPENDIX. 591

It would seem as if a plan had been laid to expose us to every
possible insult, and to torture every nerve and fibre of national
sensibility. When a Frigate and store ship were destined to the
Picaroon war of Tripoli they were sent separate, and as if fearful
that the plunder of merchants might wound only that description
of citizens, the national property is exposed, so that the whole
nation might suffer, and every citizen drink of the cup of shame.
If such was the plan, it has succeeded beyond all reasonable ex-
pectation. The store ship was taken, and has been retaken ; we
are to receive her back therefore as a boon of British bounty, on
paying the price of salvage acknowledging the efficacy of that force
which we dare not employ.

We proceed to the Louisiana Treaty, by which French debts due
to American citizens to the amount of nearly twenty millions of
Livres are assumed by the United States. It will be remembered
that the federal Administration with a view to establish public
credit, and to adjust the State accounts, assumed the debts of the
several States. This measure was nevertheless loudly censured
by the exclusive patriots, who are now silent, or ready to approve
the assumption of French debts. It is true that American citi-
zens were expected to be benefited by both assumptions. It
seems, however, a little difficult to explain upon any honourable
principle the approbation of a measure when it assists the credit
and finances of a foreign nation, and the condemnation of it
when beneficial to our own. It will not be alleged that the U. S.
received an equivalent in one case, and not in the other ; in the
instance of the State debts, the amount assumed was charged to
the several States, and liquidated in settling their accounts ; so in
the other example the sum assumed is discounted in the purchase
of Louisiana. There are indeed some men so malicious as to say,
that the assumption of French debts gave no relief to France,
because regardless of her engagements she did not conceal the
determination to delay payment so long as might suit her con-
venience ; and the system of delay once adopted might easily
have been easily extended so as to be in effect a denial. They
say too that the real relief was felt by our Administration, who
were thereby liberated from the irksome task of presenting fruit-
less claims to citizen Talleyrand, who received and put them in
his pocket with every circumstance of neglect and indifference.

592 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

Nay these malicious men go further and pretend that the 20 mil-
lions of Livres were superadded to the price, in the lumping
bargain for Louisiana, so that in fact we received no considera-
tion for paying French debts to our citizens.

We are, however, far from believing the insinuations of such
men ; still less will we listen to certain ugly criminating allega-
tions, which would resolve the public conduct of great officers
into a mean pursuit of private interest. By the Louisiana
Treaties two things are incumbent on France. 1st, to assist us
in settling the boundaries, so that we may possess Louisiana as
France would have done ; 2nd, to facilitate the liquidation of
debts she owes to our citizens, so that they may obtain payment
from their own Treasury.

Mr. Livingston, who (as we have already observed) had settled
the terms of the Louisiana Treaty before the arrival of his colleague,
Mr. Monroe, took care to insert a clause, which if duly observed
at Washington, would have rendered all negotiation about the
limits unnecessary. This clause wisely required that France should
give us actual possession of all Louisiana before she could call
for payment ; according to the terms of the Treaty, and in con-
sistence with its true spirit and intent, we justly claimed the
country between the Mississippi and the Perdido as part of Louis-
iana (a country of greater value to the U. S. than the whole terri-
tory lying west of the Mississippi). This as well as New Orleans
and the western bank of the Mississippi was in possession of Spain
and occupied by Spanish troops. New Orleans and the western
bank of the River were, in conformity with the Treaty of St.
Ildefonso, surrendered to France by the Spanish Commissary and
then delivered over to us by the French Commissary. But our
troops were not even permitted to set their feet upon, or pass
through any part of the country between the Mississippi and the
Perdido on their way to take possession of Louisiana. The
Spanish garrison continued to possess it, displaying their flag
within view of our troops as they passed them. By thus leaving
this part of Louisiana in the hands of Spain, when we took pos-
session of New Orleans and the western bank of the Mississippi,
our Administration indirectly acknowledged the right of Spain to
the country, and thereby cast such fresh doubt upon our own title
as could not but operate to our disadvantage. Still, however, the

APPENDIX, 593

staff was in our own hands as the money was in our treasury.
The possession of New Orleans and of the western bank of the
River being delivered to us, our Adminstration should have de-
manded the surrender of the country between the Mississippi and
the Perdido, as a preliminary condition to the payment of the
purchase money, according to the terms of the Treaty, which
expressly declared that Possession of Louisiana should be de-
livered before the money was paid. This was the plain, simple
course and had it been pursued we should now have been in full
& quiet possession of all Louisiana. Why this course was not
adopted, we are at a loss to conceive. But in fact it was not
adopted. We obtained possession of only a part of the Territory
we had purchased and though we were not obliged to pay a
dollar before the delivery of the whole, our administration paid
every cent, and thereby put it in the power of both France and
Spain to say, what they do say, that we have received possession
of all that was intended to be ceded ; nay that our payment of the
purchase money, which was not demandable till the ceded country
had been delivered, was a full acknowledgment that we had
already got all that we considered ourselves entitled to claim. Our
economical Administration having thus precipitately poured out
our treasure and abdicated our rights, dispatched in their pro-
found wisdom their fac-totum Monroe to correct the procedure.
This facetious, polite and sagacious personage was it seems to
persuade some of the ablest Ministers in Europe to forego the ad-
vantages which we had so weakly given them and obtain the sur-
render of a valuable Territory, which our Government had left
in their possession by a neglect which, if they were federalists,
we should call criminal.

Proceeding from London to Madrid Mr. Monroe took Paris in
his route, and though it was notorious that his character and con-
nexions in that metropolis rendered his presence disagreeable to
the Government, an article found its way into one of the French
papers, stating that he had been most graciously received by the
Emperor.* Unexperienced men formed expectations from this

* In the Moniteur, the official paper of France, after mentioning sundry

presentations by the foreign Ministers and Ambassadors at the Emperor's

Levee, it is said, " Mr. Armstrong the American Minister was permitted to

present Mr. Monroe," etc. A phraseology so extraordinary seems to have been

VOL. iv. — 38

594 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUE US KING.

article (which every American in Paris knew to be false) favour-
able to the object of Mr. Monroe's mission ; reflecting ones how-
ever looked a little further, and seeking for Bonaparte's views in
the calculation of his interest, endeavored to discover how this
would be affected by the good will of Spain, or that of America —
if the latter were too profitably employed, too prudent, or too
remote to be drawn within his vortex, this was not the case with
the former. The favour of Spain therefore became an object of
his careful attention, and would of course be more assiduously
cultivated than that of America.

Mr. Monroe, however, presented through the American Min-
ister at Paris a memorandum to the French Government, setting
forth the limits of Louisiana and claiming the good offices and
interference of the Emperor Napoleon with the Spanish Court
in fixing the same. But the memorial was treated with con-
temptuous silence, so that after patiently waiting for and humbly
soliciting an answer, the Knight of the Sorrowful Countenance
was obliged to jog on to Madrid without one. There the claim
was renewed and answered by a flat denial ; in which, as was
stated, France fully concurred. We presume that this will be
decisive and that our magnanimous Administration will in all
humbleness submit. At a convenient season France and Spain
may send half a dozen French regiments to Mobile, and our wise
statesmen, who already have paved the way for it by removing
their custom house from Mobile to Fort Stoddard, be at once con-
vinced and easily convince their followers that their Title is
defective, and that prudence, republicanism, the principles of
humanity and true economy require that we should advance as
many additional millions as may be demanded for a second sale !
Thus one of the most antient and important parts of Louisiana,
for which we have paid 15 millions of dollars, is lost, or rather has
been most weakly and negligently thrown away. But the loss of
the country and loss of money tho' great, are of little conse-
quence compared with the loss of reputation ; for when before
has it happened that a nation has gratuitously given a certainty
for an uncertainty, accepted the imperfect in lieu of the perfect

inserted with the double view of counteracting the above publication and of
apologizing to the courts of Europe for suffering such a man to appear at the
Tuilleries.

APPENDIX. 595

performance of a condition ; or referred to negotiation and the
consent of those, whose interest was opposed to its own, a point,
the decision of which was completely within its own power.

In respect to the assumed debt, notwithstanding the diligence
of the Board of Commissioners and the appointment of successive
Ambassadors, the business is still embarrassed by a series of
frivolous pretexts, and tho' some partial payments have been made,
the far greater part remains in suspense.

The creditors become daily more impatient, one day hoping, the
next in despair, and will probably be kept in that condition, till they
shall consent to sell their claims for a fourth of their amount. Then,
and not before, the American Minister will be permitted to draw
the bills. It is true that in this way our merchants will be robbed
without shame or remorse, but the sooner they submit the better,
fof they may easily convince themselves by the neglect they ex-
perience on other occasions, that nothing effectual will be done
for their relief.

We come now to our political relations with Spain, and if the
importance of discussions with a foreign Power are to be inferred
from the number and dignity of the Envoys employed, those
with Spain must be of no ordinary magnitude ; our Administra-
tion estimating more the pride than the ability of Spain have sent
her the Titles if not the Talents of our Country. At first, the
chaste and generous Charles Pinckney, cidevant Governor of
South Carolina, wh# soon brought the business, as he supposed,
to a most satisfactory conclusion. His Spanish convention has
been published, and reflects equal credit on the negotiator, on
those who approve and on him who ratified it. This notable
Convention excluding many of our claims from redress, refers the
greater part to future negotiations ; an expedient for giving them
up forever, which to every man of common information the refine-
ment of Courts makes use of in such cases.

The remonstrance of our merchants against this Convention
was of no avail ; but our wise Administration having ratified it,
and thereby sanctioned the surrenders it makes, thought proper,
as in the case of Louisiana, to negotiate anew for what they had
so improvidently abandoned : for this purpose another Ex-Gover-
nor of no little State, but of great dominion, and who had already
given an earnest of his diplomatic skill was dispatched ; and

596 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

♦scarcely had this pair of Excellencies commenced the business
of their mission, when a third Envoy, not himself indeed a Gover-
nor, but the son of a Governor, was appointed, whether to unite
with, or to succeed the other two, or as an umpire, we have not
been able to learn. Mr. Monroe having passed thro' Paris, as
we have mentioned, opened in concert with Mr. Pinckney his
negotiation at Madrid for the purpose of revising the Convention,
and enlarging its provisions, as well as for settling the limits of
Louisiana.

It is stated that 240 American vessels, amounting now to
upwards of seven millions of dollars, have either been seized
under Spanish authority, or sent by French Cruizers into Spanish
ports and then condemned by French Consuls. About one third
of their plunder was made by Spain, the other two thirds by France.
Mr. Monroe has negotiated with his usual success. Spain, it is
said, refuses now even to adhere to the Convention made with
Mr. Pinckney ; but at any rate, as to the enlargement of it, so as to
include the vessels captured by the French and condemned and
sold in her ports, she denies that she is at all responsible and
fortifies her refusal by the extract of a dispatch from Talleyrand to
Cevallos, which declares that France would see with displeasure
any interference on the part of Spain, affecting the validities of
the capture or condemnation of prizes, made under authority of
France, and that she would not fail to signify to the American
Government her dissatisfaction at any claim it may set up against
Spain for matters which had already been adjusted between France
and the United States. It is presumed that the Imperial repri-
mand has been, or soon will be, signified at Washington, and if so,
we shall probably hear no more of this negotiation ; unless indeed
they can fall on some contrivance to throw the blame of their
miserable blunders upon the Federalists.

As to Louisiana, we claim an indefinite western and northern ex-
tension, and comprise within its eastern limits a great part of west
Florida. Spain, as we have already observed, denies our claim ; and
assigns the River that falls into St. Barnard's Bay, about 80 leagues
west of the marshes at the mouth of the Mississippi, as the boundary
in that quarter, and runs the line up northwardly along the
western limits of the old French Settlements : she also assigns the
Mississippi, and eastern shore of the Island of New Orleans as

APPENDIX. 597

the eastern boundary of Louisiana, insinuating at the same time
that for a suitable compensation Spain might be prevailed on to
cede the whole of W. Florida to the U. States. This decision of
Spain, as seen by every man of common sense in the country,
appears to have surprized and confounded our Envoys, who in
May last were preparing to leave Madrid, and according to the
latest account Mr. Monroe has actually left on his return to
England.

The boundaries of Louisiana remain undecided ; and Spain, it
may be presumed, will continue to seize our ships, and to per-
mit the French to condemn and sell them, in her European and
West India Ports. Nay should Spain stop here, our magnani-
mous Rulers may applaud her moderation.* But whenever one
of the officers, a Governor, an Intendant, or anything else, may
think proper to interrupt the navigation of the Mississippi, he will
do so ; for his right and his means are as good as before. Thus
while Capt. Lewis and Company are so profitably employed in
catching Magpies, and picking up rams' horns on the banks of
the Mississippi, our illustrious President finds all his hopes &
projects blasted by the single stroke of a Spanish pen. Farewell
lead mines, farewell prairies, and you too, ye mountains of salt, a
long farewell !

* ' ' We have already said that we do not pretend to penetrate the arcana of State
secrets, and therefore we shall not take upon us to assign the reason why the
Spanish negotiations have failed. It seems indeed unnecessary, for since no
man of common sense and information had any hope of success ; none such
can be surprized at the failure. We however deem it an act of justice to com-
municate the reason which has been assigned by the confidential friend of our
Administration in this City. He, it seems, lays all the blame on the Marquis
Yrujo, Minr. of his Cathc. Maj. to the U. S., and is very wroth at the
aforesaid Marquis who it appears has given to his Court a circumstantial detail
of the men and things that govern America. It has been insinuated that he
presumed to qualify our wise and magnanimous President as a whimsical cox-
comb, and miserable coward without sense to understand, or spirit to defend
the interests entrusted to his care ; as one who in the vain pursuit of a little
pleasing popularity, sacrifices the honour of the nation, to a six penny economy.
It has also been insinuated that the said Marquis has audaciously declared that
the ruling Faction, conscious of not having the talents or enough of the con-
fidence even of their own supporters to manage a war, will give up anything to
avoid it ; that our nation generally is so immersed in the pursuit of money, and
so devoid of public spirit, that a Senator of one of the most powerful States de-

598 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

The next of our foreign relations that present themselves, are
with Holland, our commerce with which country is subjected to
unequal and peculiar burthens. By our Treaty no other or higher
duties are payable upon articles imported into Holland from the
U. States, than upon like articles imported from all other coun-
tries. Instead of observing this just and equal stipulation, Coffee,
Sugar and Cotton, carried from the U. States to any of the Dutch
European ports, pay between two and three per cent higher duties
than the same articles imported from any other nation ! ! This
discrimination is attempted to be vindicated by an ancient law
that gave to the Dutch West India Company a duty of between
two and three per cent on certain goods imported from any
country lying west of a meridian passing thro' one of the Western
Islands. This law was unquestionably annulled so far as re-
gards the U. S. by the subsequent stipulation of our Treaty just
cited, and which stands in contradiction to it ; and there is reason
to believe that the discrimination would long since have been
abolished on a proper representation to the Dutch Government.
Our Administration is informed of this abuse ; but we hear of no
remonstrance against it, and the injury is permitted to subsist.
Let any man acquainted with the immense quantities of Coffee,
Sugar and Cotton, annually imported from the U. S. to Holland

clared, in a public debate, that the American people will not submit to the pay-
ment of taxes for carrying on a war. Nay it has been insinuated that this same
Marquis attributes the power and influence of the ruling faction in America, to
a compliance with this base disposition, and to the continued sacrifice of honour-
able principles, to the love of ease and love of money, which are said to form
prominent features of American character. In short, the Marquis is reported
to have told his Court, that whatever sounding language the Triad of American
missionaries might use, if Spain remain firm to her purpose, she might rely on
it, the American Administration would recede.

" Spain it appears has followed his advice, and continued firm. The demo-
cratic Gentleman, above alluded to, thinks this conduct of the Spanish Minister
abominable ; and indeed, if he has been guilty of falsehood, we think so too.
But, if he has told the truth, he has done what every able Minister and every
honest man, in his place would have done. We think therefore the Adminis-
tration, before they censure the Marquis, should first ascertain what he really
has written, and if it be what has been suggested, prove by a wise and manly
conduct that he has told scandalous and malicious Lies ; for they cannot in this
case, as in that of poor Croswell, take advantage of the maxim that a libel is
the more a libel in being true."

APPENDIX. 599

take the trouble to compute the amount of an ad valorem duty of
two and a half per cent on the same, which we have paid and still
pay to the Dutch Govt., which we are not, and never were liable
to pay, and the aggregate amount of which is therefore a total
loss to the American Merchants, the sum will astonish the public,
tho' it may have no influence on our wise and economical Admin-
istration.

But it is needless to dwell on this, which has become a trifle,
now that in imitation, or rather in obedience to France, our
Treaty with Holland has been wholly set aside, or at least violated
in so barefaced a manner, as to justify, and perhaps to require the
rejection of it on our part. On the whole we believe it will be
impossible to find in diplomatic history, during a similar period,
such a series of blunders, with a complication of folly and mean-
ness, as America has presented within the last four years. We
are already far advanced towards a state in which it may be
difficult with the best talents of our country to extricate the
nation from surrounding dangers. Should we point them out, we
might be treated as alarmists, visionaries and false prophets ; we
forbear therefore to attempt it but desire when evil betides
America, it may be remembered that we have shown some of the
steps, which have led to her ruin.

HOME USE

RETURN CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT

TO— +■ 202 Main Library

LOAN PERIOD 1
HOME USE
3
5
ALL BOOKS MAY BE RECALLED AFTER 7 DAYS

Renewals and Recharges may be made 4 days prior to the due date.

Books may be Renewed by calling 642-3405.

DUE AS STAMPED BELOW

MlT[)i)ISCSFPn4'C

JUN161992

TO DISC CIRC MR.

JfAJU

MAR 1 8 199'i

:

NOV 1 /' iy98

fe'tt

*499S-

»

M

FORM NO. DD6

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, BERKELEY
BERKELEY, CA 94720

J

YC 50819

/

v***-*


===== Rufus King - The Life and Correspondence of Rufus King (ed. C. R. King, 6 vols, PD) (vol. 2) =====
Source: https://archive.org/download/lifecorresponden02king/lifecorresponden02king_djvu.txt

THE LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

OF

RUFUS KING

VOLUME II.

1795-1799

Of this Letter-press Edition
j 50 Copies ha ve been Printed for Sale

No. L

February, iSpj

Mrs. Rufus King

From a painting by John Trumbull, 1800

THE LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

OF

RUFUS KING

COMPRISING HIS LETTERS, PRIVATE AND OFFICIAL

HIS PUBLIC DOCUMENTS AND

HIS SPEECHES

EDITED BY HIS GRANDSON

CHARLES R. KING, M.D.

FELLOW OF THE COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS, PHILADELPHIA, AND

MEMBER OF THE NEW YORK AND PENNSYLVANIA

HISTORICAL SOCIETIES

' " » ' O

' ' ' ' J > •> » . ,.

> ) 1 J ) , , »

) ) )

> ' <>

: ,' " ' ' - •
— '— ■ — •— i * >

■> o » ,

VOLUME II.
1795-1799

• > » > > , •

1 > > » s > ,

NEW YORK
G. P. PUTNAM'S SONS

®(j« Knickerbocker |3«ss

i895

COPYRIGHT, 1895
BY

CHARLES R. KING

Ube TRntcfcsrbocfeer ipreaa, Ifcew IDorfc

PREFACE TO THE SECOND VOLUME.

The period embraced in this second volume covers the
closing years of the senatorial career of Mr. King, before
his transfer to the position of Minister Plenipotentiary and
Ambassador to the Court of St. James, and the following
three years in that capacity; the matter in the third volume
extending to the close of the mission in 1803.

The history of the United States during the second term
of Washington's administration is full of events which
tested the adaptability of the constitution to meet the
new questions both domestic and foreign which neces-
sarily arose under its untried provisions. Happily the
general policy, which has received the name of federal,
prevailed, and the basis of .'govern menl; was firmly founded.
Mr. King was largely instnraisnt&rVin iramihg and sustain-
ing these measures adopted, as- the: records clearly show;
yet it is much to be regretted that taere are many gaps in
his private papers, the filling cfc which mig'ht have thrown
strong light upon the interesting questions of the day. All,
however, that the papers in the possession of the Editor
contain as contemporary history is here presented.

In reference to the correspondence in the second portion
of the volume, during the years of Mr. King's residence in
England, it is proper that some explanation should be made.
It will be observed that many letters, which have already
been given to the public in the lives of some of the distin-
guished contemporaries of Mr. King, are here republished in
order to show the bearing and illustrate the meaning of the
letters now first presented. Indeed without them the con-
tinuity of the narrative would lack much of interest. In all

VI PREFACE TO THE SECOND VOLUME.

these cases, and especially in the letters to and from Hamil-
ton, the source from which they have been taken is noted,
and where no such reference is made the originals or copies
of them are in the possession of the Editor, and are repro-
duced verbatim, except where relating to matters of no in-
terest to the public. The letters of Pickering, Cabot,
Troup, Bingham, and many others, relative to the domestic
affairs of the United States and containing their estimate of
foreign affairs, are very full and served to keep Mr. King in-
formed of the current opinion and business of the country,
helping him in his ministerial work and receiving, in his
answers, the effect they produced upon the mind of one
deeply interested, but away from their immediate influence
at home.

But perhaps not less interesting is his official correspond-
ence with the British Government, and with his personal
friend Timothy Pickering, both in the latter's private capacity
and as Secretary of State. Pickering's letters are contained
in a separate volume, copied from the official dispatches, of
which the originals are probably in the Archives of the
Legation in jEflglartd'; \wMe''pJjScial communications from
Mr. King «afr£ '.preservecl m'pres's copies of all his letters,
which are all in* 'his qwVti handwriting, carefully arranged in

five large folio volumes' of about 2000 pages ; his letters in
fa . ... •/•;••:: •

cipher deciphered..: /Of'/pp-u^se: this correspondence, which

extends over seven' years — to the end of the next volume, —
could not all be reproduced here. Many of the letters re-
late merely to current matters of detail and, though mak-
ing part of the history of official acts, are not essential to
their elucidation. Nor is there given an unbroken series of
letters to and from the Secretary of State, but such selec-
tions from them as would show the contemporary diploma-
tic history as it presented itself to the observation of the
intelligent, clear-headed, and careful man, who had the in-
terest of his country always at heart and desired to gain for
it every advantage that his position could enable him to
obtain.

PREFACE TO THE SECOND VOLUME. vii

Conscious of the confidence in his ability and integrity of
both his Goverment at home and of the King's Ministers, he
met the various questions which, under the daily changing
politics of Europe, presented the necessity of prompt de-
cision, with firmness and courteous discussion, but always,
when possible to do so, under the special instructions given
to him. Sometimes, as will be seen, he could not wait for
these, because of the difficulty of communicating by sailing
vessels with his Government ; but in no case did his action
meet with disapprobation at home, or fail to obtain the
respectful consideration of the Government to which he was
accredited.

Several Appendices have been added to this volume, the
first of which contains, as will be seen, a number of letters
from Mr. King, during the first years of his public life, but
which came into the Editor's possession after the publica-
tion of the first volume. Others are reports of conferences
with Lord Grenville, one in particular in reference to the
difficulties which arose in the Commission under the seventh
article of the Treaty with Great Britain, and which were
satisfactorily solved. It has been deemed well to collect in
separate and consecutive narratives the incidents which led
to the action of Mr. King to protest against the avowed pur-
pose of the British Government to allow the captured chiefs
of the rebellion in Ireland to emigrate to the United States,
and those relative to the proposed plans, by which, in con-
nection with Miranda, the South American colonies of
Spain were to be revolutionized and made independent of
the mother country — plans that depended upon a co-opera-
tion of England and the United States, but which were not
carried out.

CONTENTS OF VOL. II.

CHAPTER I.

PAGE

Mr. King's Re-election to the Senate — Settlement of the System of public
Credit — Mr. Hamilton's Retirement and R. King's Opinion of it —
Hamilton's earnest Letter relative to non-subscribing Creditors — Mr.
Jay's Nomination for Governor of New York ..... I

CHAPTER II.

Jay's Treaty received — The Senate called to consider it — Mr. King's
Resolution to ratify it — Ratification with Protest against Article twelve
recommended — " Camillus Letters " by Hamilton and King — After
much Delay the President signed the Treaty — Randolph's Correspond-
ence with Fauchet, the French Ambassador — His Resignation of
Office of Secretary of State — The President suggests Mr. King as his
Successor — He declines — Letters of Hamilton, King, and Randolph
relative to the Treaty — Delay of Ratification caused Dissatisfaction
— Public Meetings opposed to it ; G. Cabot and C. Gore relative to
these — R. King's Letter announcing Ratification 9

CHAPTER III.

Fourth Congress — President's Speech — Mr. King reports the Senate's
Answer — Debate on its Terms — Mr. Jay's Resignation of Chief-
Justiceship — Mr. Rutledge's Appointment and Rejection by the
Senate — Mr. Ellsworth's Appointment ...... 33

CHAPTER IV.

Treaty with Great Britain communicated to Congress — Opposition in the
House of Representatives — Demand made upon the President for
Instructions to the Minister and Correspondence — Refusal of the
President on constitutional Grounds to send in these Papers — Corre-
spondence showing the Temper of the People about the Treaty —
Correspondence relative to Patrick Henry's Nomination for the
Presidency — Mr. King's Nomination as Minister to England — His

Appointment 39

ix

CONTENTS.

CHAPTER V.

PAGE

Correspondence relative to the Treaty — Massachusetts Politics — Opinion
of Hamilton as to Washington's Course relative to the Demand made
by the House of Representatives for the Instructions to Mr. Jay — Con-
gratulations to Mr. King on his Appointment — Some Instructions and
his Suggestions — Letters from W. Smith on Affairs of S. Carolina
and George Cabot on those of Massachusetts . . . . .53

CHAPTER VI.

Mr. King having been appointed Ambassador to England starts on his
Mission — Responsibilities of a Minister at that Time, from Difficulty
of communicating with his Government — Often obliged to act at once
without waiting for new Instructions — Mr. Jay's Course in England
left good Impressions for his Successor, which Mr. King was qualified
and took pains to continue — His Arrival and Settlement in London. 68

CHAPTER VII.

Mr. King enters upon his Duties as Ambassador — Presentation to the
King — First Interview with Lord Grenville — Statement by Dr.
Edwards of the Condition of Affairs in France — Appointment of
Col. Trumbull as the fifth Commissioner under seventh Article of the
Treaty — Mr. Monroe's Recall from France — Treaty of Peace with
Algiers — Count de la Prade's Pretensions ..... 76

CHAPTER VIII.

French Order against neutral Vessels — Mr. Monroe's Statement relative
to it — Complaints against British Cruisers — Washington declines a
Re-election — Mr. Adet's Reception in Boston — M. de Liancourt's
Opinion of French Designs on Neutrals to destroy British Power —
R. King's Letter to Messrs. Baring relative to the Funds for Barbary
Purposes — To Mr. Bayard relative to the Costs in Cases of Claims
decided by the Admiralty Courts — To Mr. Monroe, Report that Genl.
Pinckney had been appointed to succeed him in Paris — Letter to
Mr. Pitcairn relative to the French Debt — Negotiations with England
at a Standstill — American Affairs — Secretary of State on Impress-
ments—Washington's Address — Letter from R. King to him on
European Affairs . . . . . . . . . . 89

CHAPTER IX.

Correspondence with the Secretary of State — Sailing of the British
Commissioners under the Sixth Article of the Treaty with Great
Britain — Mr. Adet's Publication relative to the French Decree on
the Commerce of Neutrals; — Mr, Pickering's Answer — R. Troup on

CONTENTS. XI

PAGE

the coming Election of President — Baron Jacobi about General
Steuben's Property and Mr. King's Answer — Mr. Bingham sends
Stuart's Painting of Washington to Lord Landsdowne — R. King's
letter to Lord Grenville about Mr. John Maxwell, an impressed
American Citizen — Protest against Captain Pigot's Conduct — Letter
to Hamilton on Condition of England ...... 107

CHAPTER X.,

Correspondence with Lord Grenville relative to the Conduct of the
Consuls of the U. S. in granting Certificates to Seamen — Also as to
the Detention of American Seamen on British Ships of War — Case
of the Olive Branch — Letters from Mr. Goodhue and Mr. Hamilton
respecting the coming Presidential Election in the U. S. and Mr.
Adet's Communications — R. King's Letters to Mr. Pinckney in Paris
on French Affairs — Vindication of the U. S. in the Conduct towards
France . . . . . . . . . . . .119

CHAPTER XL

Dispatches to the Secretary of State relative to the Arrest in the Proceed-
ings of Commissioners under the seventh Article — R. Troup on the
Presidential Election and American Affairs — Treaty of Commerce
with Turkey — Delays in Admiralty Courts in England — Law of the
United States for the Protection of Seamen — R. King to Col. Ham-
ilton ; Estimate of Washington in England, and of the Fairness of
the British Government in Meeting Questions under the seventh Article
— Good Feeling in England towards America shown in a Letter of
R. King to Washington — Maryland Bank Stock — Question of Re-
trocession of Louisiana to France — Letters giving the Result of the
Presidential Election — Suspension of specie Payments by the Bank
of England — Condition of that Country — American Merchants ask
for British Convoys on Account of French Captures . . . .132

CHAPTER XII.

Sedgwick's Letter on the presidential Election and Inauguration — Cabot
on Relations with France — King to Dr. Southgate— Private Affairs
— To Hamilton on new French Arret — Affair of the Olive Branch —
Wm. Smith's Letter on French Depredations — Pinckney's Dispatches
relative to Conduct of the French causes the President to call a
special Meeting of Congress — General Statement of American Affairs
— Hamilton's View of the Duty of the Country. . . . .156

Xll CONTENTS.

CHAPTER XIII.

PAGE

Opposition to France growing more popular — Reliance on the Firmness
and Prudence of the President — England's commercial Policy should
be a conciliator}- one — Jacobi on Negotiations between France and
Prussia — R. King to Secretary of State — French Captures — English
Politics — The Nation tired of the War — Austria her only Ally —
Question of Peace — France refuses to acknowledge Passports granted
by American Ministers — French Depredations in the West Indies
— R. King writes to the Secretary on Carelessness in getting Testi-
mony in Cases of Capture by Mr. Bayard — Secretary of State
relative to Convoys .......... 169

CHAPTER XIV.

French Designs as affecting the U. S. — Public Temper in the U.S. im-
proving in Reference to these — Causes of the Mutiny in the British
Fleets — Paid Agents of the U. S. cannot demand extra Compensa-
tion from Awards to Claimants — General Allen's Claim for the
Restoration of Arms captured and detained in England — Kosciuszko
thanks Mr. King for assisting him in obtaining a Passage to America 180

CHAPTER XV.

Mr. Pickering's Account of Spanish Duplicity about southern Bound-
aries— Apprehends France means to regain Louisiana — Arrest of
Major McLane and others for alleged treasonable Practices against
Canada — Sedgwick on Relations with France — Gerry's Appointment
as Commissioner to France — Washington on the Political Situation
in U. S. — R. King to Hamilton on French Affairs — Impeachment of
Gov. Blount — Mr. Liston's Letter — Bingham's Letter about Stuart's
Portrait of Washington to Marquis of Landsdowne — And about Gov.
Blount — R. King to Wm. Hindman . . . . . .190

CHAPTER XVI.

Maryland Bank Stock — Mr. King advises no partial Regulations relative
to the Detention of Seamen — Provision of Money to meet Obligations
under Treaty with Tunis— Sir Joseph Banks asks for Passport for Mr.
Masson to go to America to collect Plants — Letter of R. King to
M. Talleyrand, introducing Col. Trumbull and asking his friendly
Influence to aid in removing the Troubles between France and the
United States — R. King to the Secretary of State — France probably
owns Louisiana — Genl. Allen's Claim — T. Pickering on Gov. Blount's
Conspiracy — R. King to A. Hamilton — Gloomy Views relative to
Affairs in Europe — Letters from G. Cabot and Wm. Hindman —
R. King to T. Jefferson — S. Williams relative to Genl. Lafayette. 202

CONTENTS. xi 11

CHAPTER XVII.

PAGE

Senator Blount's Expulsion from the Senate — Mr. Liston's Conduct — R.
King declines a Dinner offered by American Merchants — Gen. La-
fayette— R. King to the Secretary of State, thanking him for regular
Information of the Affairs of the U. S., and sending to him an
Account of European Politics — Lafayette and French Affairs —
Disturbances in Ireland — Release of Lafayette, and his Arrival in
Hamburg — Lafayette to R. King 216

CHAPTER XVIII.

Embassy of Messrs. Pinckney, Marshall, and Gerry to France — Blount's
Conspiracy — Dr. Romaine's Connection with it — Portuguese Treaty
with France — Cession of Louisiana by Spain demanded by France
— French Duplicity towards America — R. King believes the People
of England will continue to Support the Government — Especially
since the Failure of the Negotiation at Lisle — Communication to Lord
Grenville relative to the Trade to British Territories in India —
French Orders against American Commerce in the West Indies . 233

CHAPTER XIX.

Mr. Hindman on Maryland Politics — Mr. King and Maryland Bank
Stock — Judge Cambauld in St. Domingo — Genl. Washington relative
to Lafayette's Son — Count Rumford — Chisholme, Agent of Governor
Blount in London — Statement of Facts made — Correspondence with
Commissioners in Paris — Directory propose Peace to England —
Declined — Mr. King to the Commissioners — The United States
must act with Decision — Fear of Mr. Gerry in Letter to General
Pinckney — Letter to Mr. Gerry — From General Pinckney — No Hope
of a Treaty with France ......... 249

CHAPTER XX.

Mr. King to Secretary of State — France in the Ascendant — England
apathetic but preparing against Invasion — N. E. Boundary — St.
Croix River — Lord Grenville advises of new French Decrees —
American Masters propose to arm their Ships — British Government
would grant Convoys — Mr. King to Lord Chancellor relative to
Maryland Bank Stock — Continental Affairs — N. E. Boundary, an
additional Article proposed — English Depredations on Commerce in

XIV CONTENTS.

PAGE

the West Indies — Mr. King to Secretary of State — Affairs on the Con-
tinent— Envoys in Paris — England has no Expectation of Peace —
Miranda — Maryland Bank Stock — Mr. Gerry — Mr. King to R.
Troup — To the Secretary of State relative to Transfer of American
Funds by Dutch Lenders to France — Envoys to France send a
Letter to the Directory — Letter from General Hamilton — Public
Opinion sounder than that of the national Representatives . . 268

CHAPTER XXI.

Claims of English Commissioners under seventh Article of the Treaty
denied — Mr. Cabot on growing Discontent against French Aggres-
sions— Confidence in the English Action — Congress should protect
our Commerce — General Pinckney on French Demands — Mr. King
regrets the Stay of the Envoys in Paris — Recall of the Envoys —
Indisposition in Congress to protect Commerce — Fear of causing War
— Convoys to be accepted, and Merchantmen may be armed — Dis-
patches to Envoys called for — Mr. Bingham on the commercial
Regulations with England — Mr. King's Letters to the Envoys in
Paris — To Secretary of State on Relations of Denmark and France —
Rebellion in Ireland — General Pinckney announces that Mr. Gerry
will stay in Paris .......... 287

CHAPTER XXII.

Mr. Sedgwick's View of American Politics — The President acting a
noble Part — His Message on the French Mission — Instructions to
Envoys and their Dispatches called for and sent to Congress —
Effect produced — Warlike Measures proposed — Letters from and
to the Envoys in Paris — Mr. King to Mr. Gerry — Letters from
Messrs. W. Hindman, Cabot, and Sedgwick — Public Opinion about
French Duplicity — American Students in Edinburgh to Mr. King
— Mr. King to Secretary of State on Mr. Gerry's Conduct —
Ireland's wretched Condition — Martial Law — To Gen. Hamilton on
European Affairs — Maryland Bank Stock — Mr. J. A. Smith's Letter
relative to Irish Troubles — Messrs. R. Troup, Bingham, Lawrance,
and Cabot show Disgust and Resentment against France — Approv-
ing warlike Measures ......... 310

CHAPTER XXIII.

Sir Francis d'lvernois on Fate of Switzerland — R. King to Secretary of
State — Publication of Envoys' Dispatches — France will not declare
War ; may release Vessels — Irish Troubles — Emperor of Russia will
help England — R. King's Dissatisfaction with English diplomatic

CONTENTS. XV

PAGE

Ways — Letter to Genl. Hamilton — Consul Bosc on Slavery in S. Caro-
lina— West India trade Orders — R. Troup — Warlike Tone against
France in the United States — Capture of Vessels in West Indies — T.
Pickering on the Envoys — R. King to Secretary of State — Irish
Rebellion and probable Emigration — Talleyrand's Duplicity with
Envoys — R. Troup — Warlike Measures against France — John Adams
will not disgrace the Country — Recall of Mr. Gerry — Sedgwick —
Measures adopted not strong enough — American Politics — Cabot
believes England with the U. S. can command the Ocean . . 335

CHAPTER XXIV.

France to send skilful Intriguers to U. S. — Bonaparte's Fleet from Toulon
may meet Nelson — Ireland's Union to England must come — Ameri-
can Consuls should give Certificates of Residence — Conquest of
Malta — Miranda — Treaties with France set aside — U. S. must
defend themselves — Hostile Measures passed by Congress — Wash-
ington appointed Lieut. Genl. — Troops to be raised — Patriotic
Addresses to the President — Decatur captures French Privateer —
France may declare War against the U. S. — Mr. Murray suggests
England's Interference for People of Holland — Copper for the U. S.
— Members of French National Institute to be sent to the U. S. —
Republic of Blacks in St. Domingo — T. Pinckney would support
the Government — Irish likely to emigrate — Should have Certificates
of Character — Washington accepts Command — R. King gratified by
Firmness of U. S. — Its Effect in England — Its Government and
People decided .......... 356

CHAPTER XXV.

King to R. Troup — French and Irish Affairs — Benedict Arnold — To
Secretary of State — French Affairs — United States must be firm —
Reports of Volney — Lord Grenville on Relations of the United
States with France — Gerry's Arrival at Spithead — King's Failure to
see him — Duverne de Praisle sent to Philadelphia — His Character —
Dr. Logan's Arrival at Hamburg — King to W. Vans Murray — Nego-
tiation between England and Holland — Mr. Derby desires to import
Saltpetre from E. Indies to America — King to purchase Muskets and
Cannon for the United States — King's Admiration of the Firmness
of the Govt, of the United States in Relations with France — Con-
versation with Lord Grenville on the Effect of the Rupture of
Treaties with France — Probability of Revolution in S. America —
European Politics — To S. Williams relative to Seizure of Nails as
Contraband — Cabot on European Affairs — Also on the Condition of
the United States and its Firmness ....... 377

xvi CONTENTS.

CHAPTER XXVI.

PAGE

King to Secretary of State relative to Negotiations between England and
Holland — To Lord Grenville on Talleyrand's Proposals to Gerry
and Lord Grenville's Answer — Also Application for the Use of certain
Cannon given by George II. to South Carolina and then in Halifax —
Yellow Fever in Philadelphia — Apprehended Difficulty with Com-
missioners under sixth Article — Military Appointments — Hamilton
and Knox — King to Secretary of State — French Perfidy and Outrage
^Also his Satisfaction with the decided Measures against France —
State of Europe — Landing of French Troops in Ireland — Ignorance
of the Destination of French Fleet from Toulon — On the Eve of a
Recommencement of the War on the Continent — Irish Rebellion —
Dr. Logan in Paris — King complains to Lord Grenville of Proceedings
of English High Court of Admiralty in the Matter of Captures — Pick-
ering's Opinion of Gerry — Correspondence about Muskets — King to
Hamilton — Military Appointments — Pickering on the same — King
says the Conduct of the President and of America wise and approved
in England — Circular to Consuls as to Commissions to armed American
Vessels ............ 399

CHAPTER XXVII.

King to Secy, of State and Hamilton on Opinions in France looking for a
Renewal of Negotiations— Bingham reports State of Feeling in
United States on the Publication of the Dispatches — Pickering gives
an Account of Gerry's Arrival in England — Troup — Yellow Fever :
its Severity, Causes, and Treatment — Military Appointments — Burr
— Political Opinions — Contempt for Conduct of Talleyrand and Gerry
— Failures in United States — King — Nelson's Victory — Supposed
Purpose of Bonaparte to go to India — Condition of Affairs on the
Continent — Lord Grenville on European Politics — Proposes Arrange-
ment as to Duties on Sugar — Cabot draws a Picture of Affairs — Gerry
has seen the President ; talks prudently — Military Appointments —
King to Secy, of State — Dissatisfaction with High Court of Admiralty
— Correspondence with Lord Portland relative to the Irish Prisoners
— To Wolcott — Difficulty in purchasing Arms — To Secy, of State,
in Reference to the Proposition relative to Duties on Sugar — To T.
Pinckney — Approves of the Abolition of Treaties with France —
Gratified with the Attitude of United States 422

CHAPTER XXVIII.

R. King to Duke of Portland on the third Article of the Treaty, relative
to fishery Privileges on Magdalen Islands, etc. — His Answer — J.
Adams to R. King — Our Country unanimous and firm — R. King to
Secretary of State — General Affairs in Europe — Brest Expedition

CONTENTS. XV11

PAGE

— Conference with Mr. Pitt relative to Sugar, etc., and on commer-
cial Regulations — Sir James Harriot resigned — To Secretary of State
— On the Irish state Prisoners — Effect of Nelson's Victory — To Col.
Pickering — Miranda Expedition — To A. Hamilton on the same — N.
Webster to R. King — Effect of Publication of Envoys' Dispatches
— Yellow Fever — R. King to Secretary of State — In Case of War
with France England will share Muskets — Efforts to buy them in
Hamburg, etc. — French Frigates on the Coast of Ireland— Secretary
of State to R. King — Talleyrand's Declaration, " United States
merited no more Consideration than Genoa or Geneva " — R. King to
Hamilton — Continental and English Affairs — Lord Grenville on
Affairs of Holland — R. King to Secretary of State — Union with Ire-
land will be proposed — Extension of Trade in the Mediterranean
suggested — Also a Treaty with Russia 446

CHAPTER XXIX.

R. Troup — Military Appointments — Reception of Gerry at Boston — Dr.
Losran — Marshall — St. Croix Commission has settled the Line —
Commissioners under sixth Article make Decision in Favor of Persons
attainted during the Revolution — Cabot — Elections — Knox declines —
Gerry approves the national Measures — Course of the President rela-
tive to him — R. King to Secy, of State — French Plans — Extravagant
Arret to treat as Pirates all Natives of Countries, Allies of France,
found on Enemy's Vessels — Lord Grenville on this — England threat-
ens Retaliation — R. King presses Claims for Maryland Stock — Treaty
between England and Toussaint — To and from J. Jay relative to
Supply of Arms — R. King to Secy, of State — Conversation with
British Ministers on the Convention with Toussaint ; its great Import-
ance to the United States — R. King to T. Pickering — May call
ourselves united — France looks to our Divisions — Count Rumford
proposes to settle in America — R. King to W. Bingham — France en-
couraged by our Divisions, etc. — Dangers ahead great — W. Hind-
man to R. King — Federalism increasing — General Politics — W. Bing-
ham— Irish Prisoners not desirable — General Politics — St. Domingo
— Indian Medals — R. King to H. Dundas — Correspondence relative
to Convention with St. Domingo — ToGenl. Pinckney — United States
should take the Lead in what affects the New World . . . 465

CHAPTER XXX.

Jay to King — European Affairs — Cabot, Conversation with Liston —
Praise of King — England's Power and Policy — Hindman — Result of
the Elections — Pickering to King — Alien and Sedition Laws — Vir-

xviii CONTENTS.

PAGE

%

ginia and Kentucky call for their Repeal — King to Secy, of State —
Bonaparte in Egypt — Report of Assassination — To Hamilton — State
of Europe — To Secy, of State — France declares War against Naples
— Neapolitan Troops defeated — Austria had made Peace — To the
Duke of Portland — Restoration of an Estate confiscated in New-
foundland demanded — To Secy, of State — St. Domingo — England
and United States should act in Concert should it become indepen-
dent— Conferences with Lord Grenville as to its Influence on British
West Indies — His Suggestion of a joint Corporation for Trade
objected to as inadmissible under the Constitution and unadvisable
for our Merchants — Might each make Treaties with Toussaint, etc.
— G. B. desires to act with U. S. — Secy, of State to King — Outrage
of Capt. Loring — J. Hale to King — Affairs in United States . . 489

CHAPTER XXXI.

King to Secretary of State — New French Decree against American Com-
merce— St. Domingo — Affairs on the Continent and Egypt — To R.
Troup — Situation of Americans in Paris perilous — Sedgwick to King
— Congress should have acted firmly, declared War, treated Spain as
an Ally of France, and seized the Mouth of the Mississippi — Compo-
sition of the Senate not improved ; of House, better — Virginia's
Opposition growing worse — Surplus of Revenue — Conduct of Com-
missioners under sixth Article outrageous — Not a single enlisting
Order for the Army issued — King to Hamilton — St. Domingo and
Miranda — Pickering's Son suggested as Secretary to King — King to
W. Wickham — Miranda to Secretary of State — Mission of Colonel
Maitland — President's Speech able — Admiralty Decrees — Tobacco
Ships captured by the French — Secretary of State to King — Outrage
of Captain Loring — Captain Phillips's Conduct pusillanimous — Troup
— Summary of American Affairs — King to the President — Weakness
of continental Governments — Firmness of England — Pride in the in-
creasing Attention in Europe to the able and dignified Administra-
tion of the American Government ....... 509

CHAPTER XXXII.

King to Secretary of State — Neapolitans beaten in every Quarter — Union
of Great Britain and Ireland considered — To General Maitland — His
Mission should be no Misunderstanding between England and United
States — King to Lord Grenville — Will England receive the Con-
struction of France as conclusive on the Points in which France and
United States disagree? — Shows the Wrong of such a Decision —
Secretary of State to King — President approves his Interposition to

CONTENTS. XIX

PAGE

prevent the Emigration of the Irish Traitors to the United States —
Difficulties with Commissioners under the sixth Article — Act of Con-
gress against French Privateers — King nominated as Commissioner
to make a commercial Treaty with Russia — Cabot — Troubles with
the Commissioners under 6th Article — Confidence in R. King to act
wisely — Secretary of State to King — Virginia Resolutions disapproved
of — King to Dundas on the East India Trade and his Answer — To
R. Varick — Counterfeit Notes — Cabot to King — Effect of Conduct of
France — Speculations on commercial Relations — Affairs in the United
States — Truxton captures V Insurgente — Scarcity of Copper prevents
the Sale of it to the United States ....... 528

CHAPTER XXXIII.

Pickering to King — Proposed Negotiation with France regretted — King to
Pickering — On current Events — Cabot : Nomination of Minister to
France condemned — Secy, of State — St. Domingo will be indepen-
dent— Insurrection in Pennsylvania against direct Tax — President
gone to Quincy — King to Lord Grenville — Protest against Outrage
on the Baltimore by Capt. Loring — To Count Woronzow — Commer-
cial Treaty with Russia — To Lord Grenville demanding a sealed
Package addressed to him and detained by the Court of Admiralty
— To Secy, of State — Conference with Lord Grenville relative to
Capt. Loring — Also one relative to Contraband of War — Impress-
ment of Seamen and other Points in Dispute — Count Rumford to
King — Military Suggestions — King to Secy, of State — Premature in
naming a Commissioner to Russia — Plans of Russia and England to
cut off the Trade of Neutrals with France — Lafayette — Irish Affairs
— Joseph Hale to King — Reflections on Mr. Murray's Appointment
to Holland — King to Troup — On the Prize Courts of England — To
Pickering — His Son as Secretary — Recommends C. Gore as Minister
to Constantinople — To J. McHenry relative to Count Rumford — To
O. Wolcott respecting Arms sent to the United States — To Count
Rumford ............ 548

CHAPTER XXXIV.

King to Jay — Domestic and foreign Affairs — Sedgwick — Nomination of
Murray — Virginia and Kentucky Resolutions — Troubles of Commis-
sion under sixth Article — King to Secretary of State — French Move-
ments— Louisiana — Blindness which prevents a general Confederacy
against France — Lord Grenville and King — On Outrage by Capt.
Loring — Blockade of the Ports of Holland — King to Lord Grenville,
advising recasting eighteenth Article of the Treaty of Amity, etc.,

XX CONTENTS.

PAGE

to obtain more Precision of Terms — Naval Stores — To Wm. Smith
— Mission to Russia and the Porte — Count Rumford — Hindman —
Result of the Elections — King to Secretary of State — Modifications of
French Regulations against American Commerce — French military
Operations in the Tyrol — To Jay — Muskets bought in Hamburg for
New York — Troup — Disgust at Murray's Nomination — Insurrection
in Pennsylvania — King to Sir Joseph Banks — United States Mint
and Coins — To Lord Grenville — Specification of proposed Alterations
in eighteenth Article . . . . . . . . 578

Appendix I 601

Appendix II 616

Appendix III 620

Appendix IV 635

Appendix V 649

THE LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF

RUFUS KING.

CHAPTER I.

Mr. King's Re-election to the Senate — Settlement of the System of public
Credit — Mr. Hamilton's Retirement and R. King's Opinion of it —
Hamilton's earnest Letter relative to non-subscribing Creditors — Mr.
Jay's Nomination for Governor of New York.

The term for which Mr. King had been chosen Senator of
the United States from New York would expire on March
4, 1795, and a strong effort was made by the friends of Mr.
Clinton to prevent his re-election. Notwithstanding this,
he was on January 27th again appointed to the position by
a " majority of six in one House and one in the other."

The Congress which was then sitting was engaged in an
earnest endeavor to provide for the gradual redemption of
the funded debt, in accordance with the general system of
finance, which had been recommended by Alexander Hamil-
ton and which he had in his reports sustained by most cogent
reasoning. The result was that the entire management of
the public debt was vested in the Commissioners of the
Sinking Fund, with an appropriation, in addition to the re-
sources already assigned, of the proceeds of certain tempo-
rary taxes, which would enable them to pay with regularity
the accruing interest and gradually to extinguish the princi-
pal of the debt.

VOL. II. — I T

RUFUS KING. [1795

In the original plan there were clauses providing for the
creditors who had not before subscribed, which, in the House,
were stricken out, one of the objections to it being that
under its terms the non-subscribing creditors would be bet-
ter off than those who had availed themselves of the original
arrangement. Though it was answered that this would not
be the case, and other reasons were given why the clauses
making special provisions should be maintained, it was de-
cided to strike them out. Mr. Hamilton, who had resigned
from the office of Secretary of the Treasury before this time,
was greatly moved by this action and expressed his disap-
pointment in his letter to Mr. King of February 21st.

It is to the settlement of the financial affairs of the gov-
ernment and thus placing the public credit on the firmest
foundation that Mr. King alludes in his letter to Mr. Gore
of February 14th ; a letter which gives his opinion of the
loss the country had sustained by the retirement of a " great
and virtuous minister " from the public affairs of the coun-
try, and of his hope that his successor (Mr. Oliver Wolcott)
" may emulate his predecessor's example." *

Egbert Benson to R. King, Phila.

" Poughkeepsie, Jany. 15th, 1795.
". . . The 27th inst. is the day big with the Fate. Some of
the Gentry have supposed it would be most advisable to re-elect
Schuyler, otherwise both the Senators will continue to be from
the Southern part of the State. You may suppose they do not
know what to say, and that they have not determined what to
do, when they come forward with such stuff. Mark the Expres-

* Hildreth happily says {Hist, of United States, 2dser., i., p. 538) : " During
his [Hamilton's] six years of public service he had placed the fiscal concerns of the
United States on a solid foundation — that, indeed, upon which they have ever
since rested. The investigations into his conduct, dictated by the suspicions
of his enemies, had resulted altogether to his advantage. His whole scheme
being now complete, and his official integrity thoroughly vindicated, he could
safely leave to the administration of others that system which his genius had
organized "

1795] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 3

sion of the Message, ' alarming aspect of public affairs/ ' daring
claims,' ' children of the opulent ' — what a delectable Rascal he
is ! Was there ever such cursed nonsense as what he says about
our System of Jurisprudence being implicitly borrowed &c. ? "

J. O. Hoffman to R. King, Phila.

26th Jany., 1795.

Our opponents spare no pains to defeat the success of your re-
appointment. They have at length partly agreed on Mr. Jones ;
but at a meeting this evening, for the purpose of counteracting
their measures, he declared his entire disapprobation of the plan.
They expected something from the change of the Scene ; but as
yet they have made no impression and, I believe, instead of losing
we daily gain ground.

It has been judged prudent to postpone all arrangements rela-
tive to Mr. Jay, untill after Tuesday. A visit from you might
after that time, be attended with the most salutary effects. Burr's
friends now declare that Watts, Gilbert & Van Gaasbeck are in
his favor. With esteem J. O. Hoffman.

Rob. Troup to R. King, Phila.

27th Jany., 1795.

Dear Sir :

I sincerely congratulate you upon your re-election — by a ma-
jority of six — five in one house and one in the other. Tillotson
was your antagonist. . . .

Very sincerely, Rob. Troup.

C. Gore to R. King.

Boston, Jany. 29th, 1795.
My Dear Friend :

On Monday a vessel arrived at Cape Ann from Ramsgate in
England ... I have seen a letter for Mr. Sears, it is
from Mr. Dickason, & says the commercial treaty between
the U. S. and G. B. is signed and printed in the Gazette. Amer-
ican stocks rose in consequence of this event . . . Now

RUFUS KING. [1795

nothing being said of the state of the belligerent powers at that
time, it is probable their situation was not altered materially since
our last advices.

Yours affectionately,

C. Gore.

N. Gorham to R. King, Phila.

Boston, Feby. 5, 1795.
My Dear Sir :

I most sincerely congratulate you upon your re-election &
I can assure you that the true Federalists think it a very happy
circumstance for the country. I am very much afraid we shall
not be able to get Mr. Dexter elected again. . . .

Your friend, Nath. Gorham.

C. Gore to R. King.

Boston, Feby. 9, 1795.
My Dear Friend :

. . . A letter from the Hague and published this day in the
Orrery, informs that La Fayette has been again taken and recon-
ducted to prison. This news we fear is authentic. It is said the
letter is from Mr. Adams.

Affectionately yours,

C. Gore.

R. King to C. Gore.

Phila. Feb. 14th, 1795.

The Treaty has not yet arrived, and we are very impatient to
receive it before Congress adjourns. Hamilton's last Report
exceeds my Frank or I would send you a copy, probably however
you will have received one — the Resolutions that have been
brought forward in pursuance of it, have been adopted with some
immaterial variations by the House of Representatives, & there is
a fair Prospect that the Finances will be arranged conformable to
his views.

1795] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 5

We lose a Great and Virtuous Minister in the retirement of this
Gentleman ; his successor* is a good man — possesses firmness,
industry, integrity, and sound Talents with a disposition to emu-
late his Predecessor's Example.

I am mortified that Dexter has not succeeded ; should he from
disgust decline, or should he finally fail it would, believe me, be
the subject of serious & deep regret to the friends of the Govern-
ment, for without depreciating the talents of any those of Mr.
Dexter class him among the men of the very first order of Abilities
in our Country.

His re-election is worthy of great Effort, the want of which
alone, it would seem to me, will defeat his Choice.

You will have learnt that I have been re-elected ; in one view
I am gratified ; but without affectation I can say to you, that lam
wearied with this kind of life, which has nothing new to afford
me, and which demands of me sacrifices that I become daily
more and more unwilling to make.

Pennsylvania & North Carolina have yet to make their Sena-
torial Elections, the former will probably do well, & there is no
reason to despair of the latter ; in any event the Senate will stand
better after March than at present.

Farewell — Yrs sincerely

R. King.

A. Hamilton to R. King.

Kingston, Feb. 21, 1795.
My Dear King :

The unnecessary, capricious & abominable assassination of the

National honor by the rejection of the propositions respecting the

unsubscribed debt, in the House of Representatives, haunts me

every step I take and afflicts me more than I can express. To see

the character of the Government & the Country so sported with,

exposed to so indelible a blot, puts my heart to the Torture. Am

I then more of an American than those who drew their first breath

on American Ground ? Or what is it that thus torments me at a

* Oliver Wolcott.

RUFUS KING. [i795

circumstance so calmly viewed by almost every body else ? Am
I a fool — a Romantic Quixot — or is there a constitutional defect
in the American mind ? Were it not for yourself and a few others,
I could adopt the reveries of De Paux as substantial truths, &
would say with him that there is something in our climate which
belittles every animal, human or brute.

I conjure you, my friend, make a vigorous stand for the honor
of your country. Rouse all the energies of your mind, and meas-
ure swords in the Senate with the great Slayer of public faith, the
hacknied Veteran in the violation of public engagements. Pre-
vent him from triumphing a second time over the prostrate
Credit* and injured interests of his Country. Unmask his false
and horrid hypothesis. Display the immense difference between
an able statesman and the Man of Subtilties. Root out the dis-
tempered and noisome weed, which is attempted to be planted
in our political garden, to choak and wither in its infancy the fair
plant of public credit.

I disclose to you without reserve the state of my mind. It is
discontented & gloomy in the extreme. I consider the cause
of good government as having been put to an issue & the Ver-
dict against it. Introduce I pray you into the Senate, when the
bill comes up, the clause which has been rejected, freed from em-
barrassments by the bills of credit bearing interest on the nominal
value. Press its adoption in this the most unexceptionable shape &
let the yeas & nays witness the result. Among other reasons for
this is my wish that the true friends of public Credit may be dis-
tinguished from its enemies. The question is too great a one not
to undergo a thorough examination before the community. It
would pain me not to be able to distinguish. Adieu.

God bless you

A. Hamilton.

Do me the favour to revise carefully the course of the bill, re-
specting the unsubscribed Debt, & let me know the particulars. I
wish to be able to judge more particularly of the underplot I
suspect.

* Witness the 40 for 1 scheme, a most unskilful measure to say the best
of it.

1795] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. J

A. Hamilton to R. King.

N. York, Feby. 26, 1795.
My Dear Sir :

I have received your letter with the printed Bills. The new
clause is an additional bad feature. Yet 't is better the thing
should pass as it is than not at all. Every thing should be gained
that can be.

So : It seems that under the present administration of the De-
partment, Hillhouse & Goodhue are to be the Ministers in the
House of Representatives and Ellsworth & Strong in the Sen-
ate. Fine work we shall have. But I swear the nation shall not
be dishonored with impunity.

Yrs. Affect' ly,

A. Hamilton.

Peter Van Gaasbeck to Rufus King.

Kingston, 18th March, 1795.
My Dear Sir :

The people here wish farther satisfaction as to
Mr. Jay's Return. Give me all by Billy (Wm. Marius Green) ; as
I said in my former the great majority of the Committee who
have nominated Mr. Burr, if he is no candidate, will unquestion-
ably and very powerfully support Mr. Jay — thus as it is very prob-
able that Mr. Burr will not stand a Candidate, every elucidation
respecting Mr. Jay's Return will be of singular advantage. . . .

Yr. most obedt. Servt. & Sincere Friend,

Peter Van Gaasbeck.

O. Wolcott to R. King.

Phila., March 23rd, 1795.
My Dear Sir :

I have rec'd your favour of the 19th instant — on enquiry I find
Mr. Blaney has left town, I cannot therefore ascertain the truth of
the declaration attributed to him : the following circumstance
however proves to my satisfaction, that the declaration it made
has been misunderstood or perverted to impress a wrong idea.

8 RUFUS KING. [1795

On the 19th of Nov. Mr. Jay in a letter requested that he might
have the earliest advice of the ratification; that he might be enabled
to finish whatever might be expected of him in season to return in one
of the first spring vessels. At the same time he suggested that if his
health had been competent to a winter voyage he should have been him-
self the bearer of the Treaty.

The truth doubtless is, that Mr. Jay finding his health unequal
to the severities of a voyage in winter, concluded to tarry
until Spring, and of course might reasonably expect the ratifica-
tion before his departure from England. There is however noth-
ing in his Letters, and nothing as I believe on good grounds, in
any Letters which have been written from this Country which
can countenance an opinion, that Mr. Jay will wait for the ratifi-
cation— The contrary is firmly believed here.

I am with perfect respect

Dear Sir your obed. serv.,

Oliver Wolcott.

CHAPTER II.

Jay's Treaty received — The Senate called to consider it — Mr. King's Reso-
lution to ratify it — Ratification with Protest against Article twelve
recommended — " Camillus Letters" by Hamilton and King — After much
Delay the President signed the Treaty — Randolph's Correspondence with
Fauchet, the French Ambassador — His Resignation of Office of Secretary
of State — The President suggests Mr. King as his Successor — He declines
— Letters of Hamilton, King, and Randolph relative to the Treaty — Delay
of Ratification caused Dissatisfaction — Public Meetings opposed to it ;
G. Cabot and C. Gore relative to these — R. King's Letter announcing
Ratification.

The treaty which had been negotiated by Mr. Jay with
Great Britain late in 1794 was received by the Secretary of
State on March 7, 1795, and the Senate was called by the
President to meet on June 8th, to consider masters touching
the public good. They accordingly convened on that day,
and the President laid before them " the Treaty and other
documents connected with it," asking them " to decide
whether they will advise and consent that the said Treaty
be made."

As a preliminary step the Senate passed a resolution im-
posing secrecy upon the communication until further order
of the Senate. An ineffectual effort was made to rescind
this resolution, and after consideration of the different
articles a motion was made, it is said by Mr. King, on June
17th to consent and advise the President to ratify the treaty
" on condition that there be added to the said Treaty an
article whereby it shall be agreed to suspend the operation
of so much of the twelfth article " as relates to trade with the
West Indies, " and at the same time recommending to the
10 RUFUS KING. LI795

President to proceed, without delay, to further friendly
negotiations" on the subject of the said trade.

Mr. Burr, on the 22d, moved to postpone this motion, to
adopt a series of resolutions he offered to effect certain
alterations in the treaty in the several particulars they sug-
gested. His resolution was rejected next day by a vote of
20 to 10, and on the 24th, after an attempt, for reasons
given, to pass a resolution to refuse consent, that portion
of the original proposition, advising the ratification of the
treaty, was passed by 20 to 10, and the other portion,
advising a renewal of negotiations, by an unanimous vote.
Mr. King voted in both cases in the affirmative. It is well
known that he made an earnest plea for the ratification of
the treaty, but nothing can be found among his papers to
indicate even the heads of the speech. His views, however,
are fully presented in the letters of Camillus written by him.

On the 26th, the injunction of secrecy was rescinded, with
a proviso, however, " that it be nevertheless enjoined upon
the Senators not to authorize or allow any copy of the said
communications, or of any article thereof. '

The President delayed for some time appending his sig-
nature to the treaty as explained hereafter, and the public
became very anxious to know the particulars of the docu-
ment, whose ratification had been recommended. In conse-
quence of the secrecy,

" statements as to the contents had begun to appear, accompanied
by very malignant comments. In order to prevent hasty conclu-
sions, founded on partial views, and wishing to hear the opinions
of the people, Washington directed the whole treaty to be pub-
lished. But in this he had been anticipated. On the same day
that this direction was given, a full abstract had appeared in the
Aurora, followed, a few days after, by a perfect copy furnished
by Mason on the Senate under his own name."*

In the Life of Alexander Hamilton, vi., p. 223, occurs the
following passage :

* Hildreth, Hist, of U. S., 2d ser. , i., 546.

1795] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. II

" To remove the prejudice this procedure [the publication of the
treaty by Mason] excited, it was falsely charged that Rufus King
had divulged the treaty by furnishing Hamilton with a copy. The
charge was repelled by the Senator from New York, who stated
that he had acted strictly within the limits of the injunction in
having permitted a copy to be read ; but that no copy had been
given ; a permission which had been freely exercised by other
members of the Senate."

Every effort was made by the enemies of the treaty to
poison the public mind against it. The newspapers were
filled with articles to show how shamefully the interests of
the country had been sacrificed to the dictation of Great
Britain and to the injury of France. Among those who
opposed it in this way was Brockholts Livingston, who had
been most conspicuous in the public meeting in New York
against the treaty. In certain articles signed " Decius " he
attempted to show how injurious the treaty would be, and
how disgraceful to the country. Mr. R. R. Livingston, as
" Cato," wrote in the same strain. These were ably an-
swered by Hamilton in a series of papers, signed " Camillus,"
papers so able and conclusive, that they were largely instru-
mental in checking the dissatisfaction which existed, and
which was aggravated by the delay of the President in sign-
ing the treaty. The first of these articles was issued on the
22d of July, " four days after the public meeting where
Hamilton was assailed with missiles."

In the Life of Hamilton, vi., p. 273, we find these para-
graphs :

" The discussion of the first ten or permanent articles occupied
twenty-two numbers of these essays. To the remaining or tem-
porary articles twelve were devoted. The general views enter-
tained by Hamilton as to the commercial features of this treaty
have been seen in the letter * addressed by him to the President.
That letter contains the outline of ' Camillus.'

" It is perceived from a comparison of it with the first twenty-
* July 6, Life of Hamilton, vi., 229.

12 RUFUS KING. [1795

two numbers, the original drafts of which are in Hamilton's auto-
graph, that they were exclusively his. Of the remaining essays, ten,
Nos. 23 to 30, both included, 34 and 35, were from another pen,
with frequent alterations, interlineations and additions by Hamil-
ton. The residue of the numbers, being six, are also Hamilton's
exclusively. It has been stated that his letter to the President con-
tained the outline of these numbers on the commercial features of
the treaty, but it should be observed that the views were much ex-
tended in the ' Camillus ' letters ; that, when the objections to the
treaty are admitted, the defensive observations as to Jay, which had
been previously presented by him to the President, are interlined
in Hamilton's autograph, and that great anxiety is evinced by
him, lest the positions taken should mean more than he felt was
warranted by just inductions. As he had urged the mission of
of Jay, he felt the more anxious to guard him from censure."

Mr. J. C. Hamilton, in his Works of Alexander Hamilton,
had stated in a note to the No. xxiii. Camillus letter, that
" this and the seven succeeding numbers are from the pen
°f Rufus King, excepting parts within brackets, which are
in Hamilton's hand. — Ed." He claims here that xxxiv. and
xxxv. were written by Hamilton, for he makes no note about
them. It so happens that manuscript copies of these are
in the present editor's possession.

In his Life of Hamilton, written some twenty years later in
vol. vi., p. 273, he says that the above numbered essays and in
addition " 34 and 35 are from another pen [without mention-
ing whose. — Ed.] with frequent alterations, interlineations
and additions by Hamilton." It may be mentioned, that
all these alterations, etc., amount to about two or three pages
in one hundred.*

Though in the Works, Mr. Hamilton mentions the name
of Rufus King as that of one of the writers of these letters,

* The length of these letters, which occupy 104 pages of the Works of
Hamilton, vol. vii., pp. 378-468, and 487-501, has decided the Editor to omit
them and to refer those who desire to read them and to examine the able and
clear presentation of the points discussed, to the above named publication. —
Ed,

1795] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 3

it is not a little strange that he should have forgotten to state
in the Life, even in a note, that the " other pen " was Rufus
King's, the warm, confidential, and trusted friend of his
father to the end of his life. Though we are indebted to
Mr. Hamilton for the first positive published evidence that
Mr. King was the co-laborer in writing them, we find in a
letter of John Adams to his wife January 31, 1796,* the
following statement :

" I have a secret to communicate to your prudence. The
defence by Camillus was written in concert between Hamilton,
King and Jay. The writings on the first ten articles of the
treaty were written by Hamilton ; the rest by King till they come
to the question of the constitutionality of the treaty, which was
discussed by Hamilton. Jay was also to have written a concluding
peroration ; but being always a little lazy and perhaps concluding
that it might be most politic to keep his name out of it, and perhaps
finding that the work was already well done, he neglected it.
This I have from King's own mouth. It is to pass, however, for
Hamilton's. All three consulted together upon most, if not all
the pieces."

In addition to these, the existence of manuscript drafts
of several of the letters among the papers of Mr. King, and
the following extract from a letter of Mr. King himself to
Mr. William Coleman, February, 18 17, are authoritative
evidences that he contributed some of them :

" Of the papers under the signature of Camillus, those relative
to the permanent, or ten first Articles of Mr. Jay's Treaty were
written by Hamilton, those relative to the commercial and mari-
time articles were written by me. The critical examination of
these articles, in relation to navigation & trade, as well as to the
Laws and Treaties of Nations, has been of great advantage to me
thro' life. Principles were established and Usages and Regula-
tions discovered relative to maritime and commercial Law which
have given to me greater confidence in acting and deciding on
these intricate matters than I feel on almost any other subject."

* Life and Works, i., 485, pub. 1856.

14 RUFUS KING. [1795

A. Hamilton to R. King, New York.

June 11, 1795.
Dear Sir :

I thank you for your letter of the 10th. The case has been
with me as with you. Reflection has not mitigated the excep-
tionable point. Yet it will be to be lamented if no mode can be
devised to save the main object and close the irritable questions
which are provided for. Every thing besides an absolute and
simple ratification will put something in jeopardy. But, while on
the one hand I think it advisable to hazard as little as possible,
on the other I should be willing to hazard something and unwil-
ling to see a very objectionable principle put into activity.

It is to be observed that no time is fixed for the ratification of
the Treaty. It may then be ratified with a collateral instruction
to make a declaration that the U. States consider the article in
question aggregately taken as intended by the King of G. B. as
a privilege ; that they conceive it for their interest to forbear the
exercise of that privilege with the condition annexed to it, till an
explanation in order to a new modification of it shall place it on
a more acceptable footing, or till an article to be sent to our Minis-
ter, containing that modification, shall be agreed upon between him
& the British Court as a part of the Treaty j the ratification not to
be exchanged without further instruction from this country unless
accepted in this sense & with this qualification.

This course appears to me preferable to sending back the
Treaty, to open the negotiation anew, because it may save time on
the points most interesting to us, & I do not see that if the
ratifications be exchanged with this saving there can be any doubt
of the matter operating as intended.

Adieu, Yrs. Truly
A. Hamilton.

A. Hamilton to R. King.

My Dear Sir :

New York, June 20, 1795.

A considerable alarm has been spread this morning by a report
that the Treaty has been disagreed to. I have assured those I
have seen that I was convinced any rumour of a decision must be

1795] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 5

premature. The anxiety however about the result is extreme.
The common opinion among men of business of all descriptions
is that a disagreement to the Treaty would greatly shock and
stagnate pecuniary plans and operations in general. This is not
a small source of disquietude ; others who are likely to be affected
in that sense (and among these myself) look forward to the result
with great solicitude as fixing or endangering the stability of our
present beneficial and desirable situation.

My influence in seconding the wishes of our friend General
Gunn is, I fear, overated. Unwilling to raise expectations, which
may not be realized, I will only say, that it will give me real
pleasure to be able to promote his accommodation or advantage ;
as my opinion entirely coincides with yours. In the mean time, I
will, as far as circumstances will permit, have an eye to the affair.

Yrs. affectionately

A. Hamilton.

Edm. Randolph to R. King.

Philadelphia, July 6, 1795.
Dear Sir :

My indisposition has prevented an earlier answer to your
favour of the 1st instant.

Before the co-agency of Mr. Bache and a Senator had violated
the injunctions of secrecy, I was impressed with your ideas, and
caused Brown to publish a memorandum, that on Wednesday the
treaty would appear. This day was named, because I could not
sooner recover the only copy in my powers which I had put
into the hands of Mr. Adet, upon his expressing some vague
inquietudes.

I have since received his objections, feeble in themselves, and
more feebly urged. They are these three simple things. 1. that
we have granted to G. B., the liberty of seizing contraband be-
yond what was agreed between us and France. 2. that we have
annulled the 17th Article of the French treaty ; and 3 that we
have incapacitated ourselves from forming a new commercial
treaty with France by the last clause of the 25 th article in that
with England. An answer is prepared, which is satisfactory to
the President.

1 6 RUFUS KING. [1795

The 8th article will be attended to the moment after the Presi-
dent shall give his final instruction on the treaty. With great

respect

Yr. mo. Ob Servt.

Edm. Randolph.

R. King to C. Gore.

N. York, 24 July, 1795.

I thank you for your letter and am pleased to learn that a coun-
ter-current is appearing on the subject of the treaty. From the
Resentment and past defeats of our Jacobins, it was natural to
expect a very considerable effort on this occasion. They had
concerted their plans, & by manifesting a noisy opposition in the
large Towns at the same Time, they expected to surprize and
gain the public opinion. Industry and arts will continue to be
employed for this purpose, and you are right in saying that the
moment demands all the Patience and Firmness of virtuous men
to bear up against the torrent.

You will have seen the progress and result at the meeting in this
City. The invitation was to condemn, the Friends of order were
requested to attend for the purpose of discussion, but the noise
and confusion which prevailed, precluded all Examination and
the first meeting separated without any regular Decision on any
subject. The meeting that succeeded on Monday was ex parte,
the friends of a fair Discussion having declined to attend, and
the Resolutions which they adopted it is said were similar to those
of Boston. The merchants who are here an incorporated Cham-
ber, summoned a meeting for Tuesday evening. The chamber
was unusually full, the Treaty was the subject, which, after Dis-
cusion, they approved in Resolutions which they passed by a
majority of 6 to 1.

It is much to be regretted that Boston gave the example of a
Town meeting on this subject — had they remained silent, or had
the schemes of Jarvis & others, on this occasion, as heretofore,
been disappointed, we should have had no meeting here, and the
country would have escaped that Fever into which it is likely to

1795] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. I?

be thrown. You must exert yourselves in procuring a right con-
ception of the Treaty — if understood, it will not be disapproved.
Will not your merchants take any step to counteract the Opinion
that Boston has been unanimous in their Condemnation — be per-
suaded that tho' the thing is well understood with you, yet a
counter-act, proceeding from your merchants would have a very
considerable effect in this and other quarters of the Union.

Farewell yrs. sincerely,

R. King.

G. Cabot to R. King.
Dear Sir : Brookline, 25 July, 1795.

Going into town yesterday for the first time since my return, I
met your letter of the 13th * & was greatly rejoiced to find that
the insanity which is epidemic in this quarter is less prevalent with
you. It would be consolatory to believe that among the crew of
our political ship, the sound would always be sufficient to take
care of the sick. But I have not this desirable faith.

The readiness and severity with which the Treaty has been con-
demned is a new proof that our government cannot rely for sup-
port even upon good men in cases of emergency : for these very
generally acquiesced in the censure without any examination of
the subject. It is true that they are now mortified at their in-
discretion, & many of them will have the magnanimity to retread
their steps ; but pride will probably prevent others from acknowl-
edging they were wrong.

A number of gentlemen visited me soon after I arrived here
and were easily satisfied that the ideas circulated respecting the
Treaty were very incorrect. But they all united with me in senti-
ment that explanations wou'd be fruitless during the ferment
which was extreme and universal — what was then foreseen has
been since realized — men's minds had gone too far & when in-
clined to come back a little effort has been successful in greatly
accelerating the reverberation.

With a view to ascertain the state of public opinion & to con-

* It is to be regretted that this letter to Mr. Cabot cannot be recovered.
—Ed.

VOL. II. — 2

1 8 RUFUS KING. [1795

tribute my mite towards forming it rightly in other parts of the
State, I attended the commencement at Cambridge & was gratified
to perceive that sensible and virtuous men from other quarters
resented the proceedings of Boston, so that, if I were to judge
from the evidence of that day, I shou'd pronounce that the sober
sense of Massachusetts approves the Treaty.

Since that time a piece entitled " Candid Remarks on the
Treaty " has been republished here from some of your papers,
the effects of which are highly beneficial. Such a summary de-
fence was well adapted to the moment, but I hope a more elabo-
rate one will be produced at New York & handed along very soon.

Our mercantile men have learnt something more of our rights
and the rights of the other nations than they knew formerly, but
they have yet to learn that the commerce of the U. S. is not
such as wou'd enable us to dictate the terms on which an inter-
course is to be held with the nations of Europe.

Upon examining the East India Article, I don't see that our

vessels are prohibited the Coasting Trade & I shou'd imagine

they will enjoy it as usual until an explicit prohibition shall be

declared by the British. The more I have examined the article

the better it has appeared, & most men with whom I converse

seem to agree that it is good. I have much more to say, but my

Potatoes need hoeing & must not be neglected. . . .

Your faithful friend

G. Cabot.

G. Cabot to R. King, N. York.

Dear Sir : Brookline, July 27th, 1795.

Your favor of the 20th did not come to hand until this moment.
It was not wholly unexpected that our mob shou'd inflame yours.
All Society is full of combustible materials & a flame once lighted
easily produces a general conflagration. It cannot be sufficiently
regretted that some of our respectable men have on this occasion
joined the Jacobins & very many of them acquiesced in their
measures. They now see the pernicious tendency of their pro-
ceedings & a good portion of them already condemn them.

I believe it adds much to their mortification to reflect that they

1795] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 9

listened to the representations and observations of a man whose
want of sense has been thought at Boston a security against his
influence. After all no sufficient apology is offer'd for the con-
duct of men who have habitually supported order and now have
arranged themselves with its enemies. Some of them indeed say
that they were deceived by the accounts brought by Mr. Langdon,
others by the mutilated abstract published which totally removed
alienage, and many confess that they condemned the Treaty with-
out knowing its merits.

You will perhaps hold me responsible for these excesses, but I
decline being surety against the folly and nonsense of any men.
If I had thought as ill of the citizens of Boston as their conduct
respecting the Treaty wou'd now justify, or if I had realised that
Mr. L. wou'd furnish sparks to inflame them, it is possible that a
few hours conversation with some of them on the evening of my
arrival might have retarded the rapidity of the current, tho' I
don't think it cou'd have changed its course.

In justice to Dr. Eustis I ought to mention, as from his friend,
that one of his motives for sharing in the agency was that of pre-
venting greater mischief. This is laudable and sometimes ex-
pedient, but the services of our friends, when accompanied by
improper concessions to our enemies are too costly to be profit-
able. You will see a sharp speech of Dexter's, which does him
credit for its spirit & good sense, but it is introduced by ad-
mitting that the Treaty is " not so good as he hoped." I shall
desire him to point out some of those good things, which he had
a right to hope for, presuming that his hopes & even desires are
regulated by reason.

I wish you wou'd inform me by return of post whether these
popular tumults have produced any embarrassment to the
President, & whether the Treaty with its accompaniments is
gone.

Our good men here all presume that the President is too firm
to be shaken, and therefore have the more willingly indulged
themselves in supineness. I think, however, they wou'd rally and
make a respectable effort if it were believed to be indispensable.
In Salem & the other Seaports they are pretty steady, & in the
country as yet I have not heard of the Treaty's being anywhere

20 RUFUS KING. [1795

unpopular, & every day furnishes new evidence that the old
friends of order are re-uniting even at Boston.

It was observed here that your Jacobins were prudent to en-
deavour to knock out Hamilton's brains to reduce him to an
equality with themselves ; but I trembled at the first account
which was related of that adventure & offer'd up an unfeigned
prayer for his safety. I mean the silent prayer of an affectionate

heart. . . .*

Your faithful friend,

G. Cabot.

G. Cabot to R. King, N. Y.

My Dear Sir : Brookline, Aug. 4, 1705.

The uncertainty you mention respecting the ratification of the
Treaty by the President, renews my anxiety for the welfare of our
Country. Altho' I have entertained some fears that the business
was delayed, yet as no objections from the President had ever
come to my knowledge, my hopes greatly preponderated. I shall
seize this moment, while the proceeding of the President is un-
known, to suggest to the Boston merchants the propriety of a
manly declaration of their sentiments, but altho' I have reason to
believe that the Treaty is now generally approved by them, yet so
many of them had indiscreetly censured it, that it is doubtful how
far they will incline formally to express their present opinions.

* The allusions in these letters are to the public meetings held at first in
Boston to denounce the treaty and to endeavor to influence the President to
refuse his consent to the ratification, which the Senate had advised. The para-
graph in Mr. Cabot's letter refers to a meeting called in New York by the
enemies of the treaty to express their utter abhorrence of it. But its friends
decided to attend the meeting that they might show that in the city other views,
more representative of its sentiments, were held. At this meeting, Hamilton
advised an adjournment, rather than that a hasty decision should be made, and
the meeting became so disorderly that the friends of the treaty withdrew, but
not before Hamilton had been struck in the head, but without serious injury,
by a stone thrown from the excited crowd. In Philadelphia, Charleston,
and other places also, meetings were held in which violent denunciations of
the treaty were made to influence the action of the President. But all
were ineffectual, for on August 14th the President after careful consideration
signed it.

1795] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 21

Pride is a powerful enemy in this case & combined with the
natural reluctance which men feel at combating popular prejudices,
may not be easily overcome ; but be this as it may, you may be
fully assured that the most respectable part of our community
have become the advocates of the Treaty & are extending the
opinion of its propriety every moment. I am told that the only
article which is now unsatisfactory 'to any of the Federalists
here is the 10th ; which shows, I think, that they are hard pressed
by their friends. Indeed it will not surprise me to find the Sen-
ate blamed for not accepting the entire instrument by some men
who have lately censured every part. Such is the versatility of
opinion. Although we have neither a Curtius nor a Camillus, yet
the explanation given by Gore in the newspaper & those circulated
by others in private conversations have so well aided the investiga-
tion of individuals, that the subject is pretty well understood and
its friends increased in a corresponding degree. I am however
very glad to see the systematic & able defence setting up in your
city & shall take measures to extend its operation in this quarter.

I have too much respect for the character of the President to
believe that he can be deterr'd from his duty by the clamor or
menaces of these city-mobs, but still I agree with you, that their
doings shou'd be counteracted by the good people, lest it shou'd
be imagined that all are alike infected with the rage of disorgani-
zation.

Your sincere friend,

G. Cabot.

C. Gore to R. King.

Boston, 7 August, 1795.
My Dear Sir :

A letter from Mr. Cabot to Mr. Higginson the day before yes-
terday informs that it is uncertain, whether the treaty is yet rati-
fied. A few days past, I felt satisfied that things were coming
right, that reason and reflection were assuming the lead and that
we should very soon have a just idea of the treaty, and return to
our old good humor with the government and with each other.
The signers to the protest amount to more than 200, and include

22 RUFUS KING. [*795

almost every man of property and reputation ; and a great many
who had expressed themselves with warmth on the subject of the
treaty — some of the most bitter opponents, — had given up clamor-
ing, avoided all conversation on the business and very publickly
declared that if signed by the President, which they considered
the fact, it ought to be submitted to, like other laws, and wou'd
meet their cordial support. But shou'd it be generally known
that the instrument is not yet ratified, that, with the furious heat
of Charlestown, wou'd bring back all our fire. It would be felt
that the President was taking part with a mob against his own
government. Our opponents wou'd naturally reason, that if a
little tumult produced such a delay, a more violent opposition
wou'd be completely successful.

A chamber of commerce is called to meet this evening. It is
expected the meeting will be large ; and the resolutions to be sub-
mitted approve in positive terms of the treaty. There is great
reason to hope they will be adopted with unanimity. Pains are
taking to induce Salem and Newburyport to express favorable
sentiments of the treaty. Mr. Cabot is at the latter place, and
will undoubtedly take every step to promote such measures. But
after all, my friend, every thing depends on an idea that the
President has ratified it, and no measures ought to be left un-
essayed to have the ratification compleat and dispatch'd to
Europe immediately. That done, and publickly known to have
been done, would place us again in quiet.

Yours affectionately,

C. Gore.

C. Gore to R. King.

Waltham, 14th August, 1795.
My Dear Sir :

The paragraph in Webster's paper relative to the state of the
treaty has given me inexplicable pain. Whether strictly right
according to the rules of proceeding in such cases I cannot say ;
but taking it on ground the least objectionable, there is an expence
of time in making the negotiation prior to the President's signa-
ture, that may in itself be injurious. Tho' this is but of small
consequence compared to the evils that result from the continued

1795] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 23

and increased ferment which this delay produces. The evils are
incalculable, unless we can calculate all the evils of a compleat
prostration of government, and of the unlimited and unrivalled
power of the most malignant and licentious faction. The friends
of government are disheartened and discouraged. They feel the
humiliation of continual warfare for an administration which sup-
ports its opponents and disgraces its friends. This is the obser-
vation of the most respectable and steady advocates of order in
Boston.

The many sober, but unreflecting, men who first joined with the
opponents were endeavoring to return to their old friends : they
had been ensnared ; they saw it, but many had not magnanimity
enough to declare their conviction, without some good apology.
They said if the President had ratified the treaty, there was an
end of all opposition ; and you may be assured, that their zealous
support of it as a law of the land, would in some degree have
compensated for their former error. They now think, as the
President has delay'd to ratify it (for whatever may be the motive
of the Executive, it will be attributed either to dislike of the in-
strument, or the influence of the opponents), that their first start
was right, that they were lucky in their opposition, and will now
steadily adhere to their friends. Of all the critical situations in
which the government has been placed, this is the most extreme.
Prejudice against the English, love for the French, a false idea of
our own strength and of that of Britain ; the character of the op-
ponents in Charlestown, especially if Rutledge is appointed Chief
Justice, together with the conclusions that will be drawn from the
President's conduct, will require more strength and influence to op-
pose, than can be expected from the few firm friends to order which
may be found in Massachusetts. I know of but one step that can
arrest this mania, that affords any hope of supporting the govern-
ment. An address from the President to the people of the United
States, stating that he had ratified the treaty, or done what
amounted to a ratification, provided G. B. acceded to the suspen-
sion as recommended by the Senate. This would allay the heat,
unite the moderate men and those who are generally neuters till
questions are decided, and it would afford support to those who
fight the battles of the government, in the distant parts of the

24 RUFUS KING. [i795

continent. It appears to me that this alone will save us from the
most distressing convulsions. The events of Europe may hum-
ble the French influence here ; but at the same time, they would
raise the pride of Britain, and if our Executive shews itself oper-
ated on by them, it is not unnatural she should then say, you have
made your choice, and are welcome to abide by it — we will remain
as we are.

Yours affectionately,

C. Gore.

Is it not possible for Col. Hamilton and yourself to induce the
President to adopt some measure that would decidedly express
his sentiments in favor of the treaty ? Be assured that in New
England the word of the President would save the Govt. ; without
it you may despair.

G. Cabot to R. King.

Brookline, Aug. 14, 1795.
Dear Sir :

Since my last I have been at Newburyport, where the mer-
chants are perfectly well united and have by this time probably
made a formal declaration of their opinion. I understand that the
only point on which they differ'd was the expediency of giv-
ing to the negotiator personal praise, & this was omitted entirely
on the ground of avoiding present irritation.

The Boston Chamber of Commerce have held a meeting ; the
number attending was as usual about 40 ; they were of the most
respectable class, & with only a single dissentient approbated the
Treaty & reprobated the attempts everywhere made to excite dis-
content and tumult among the People. Their proceedings, as
well as those of Newburyport, are to be transmitted to the Presi-
dent. At Boston the members of the Chamber of Commerce who
did not attend are to be invited to concur in writing & it is ex-
pected that J, including \% of the real respectability will concur.

At Salem Mr. Derby, Gray & some others having consulted, de-
clare it to be their opinion that \ of their town wou'd vote to leave
the business where the Constitution has placed it ; but they think
it not best to make any movement, — because, they say, as no op-

1795] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 2$

position has been made among them they ought to be considered
as unanimously favorable.

After all where is the boasted advantage of a representative
system over the turbulent mobocracy of Athens, if the resort to
popular meetings is necessary ? Faction, & especially the Faction
of great towns always the most powerful, will be too strong for
our mild & feeble government.

The newspapers will inform you of the arrival of a vessel from
Rochelle yesterday, the Captn. of which informs that he fell in
with the British Fleet of 14 sail of the Line, which had combated
14 French & captured three : the action was off Bellisle & the
English Capt. told our informant that the whole French fleet
wou'd have been taken if night had not cover'd them.

Yours truly,

G. Cabot.

Mr. Burr arrived in Boston the day before yesterday & visited
me in the afternoon. I have return'd his visit but did not find
him at home. He told me he had scarcely thought 10 minutes on
political subjects since the Senate rose.

The letters which have been presented show the great
anxiety and even alarm consequent upon the delay of
action by the President, and the open expression of discon-
tent and disapproval of the treaty itself by those who were
the partisans of France and opponents of the general
course of the administration. The President had gone to
Mount Vernon, and gave no intimation of his intention
respecting the ratification of the treaty, as advised by the
Senate. Even his trusted friends had no inkling of the
course he would adopt. Moved by the alarming demonstra-
tion, Washington decided to return to Philadelphia, but
delaying a few days, his departure from home was hastened
by a summons from some of the members of the Cabinet
in consequence of a most unexpected occurrence, the receipt
of a despatch No. 10, October, 1794, from M. Fauchet, the
French Minister to his government, which was found in a

26 RUFUS KING, [*795

vessel captured by a British cruiser, and communicated,
through Mr. Hammond, the British Minister, to whom it
had been transmitted by his government, to Mr. Wolcott.

This despatch had been preceded by another of an earlier
date, which was written to explain the disturbances in
Western Pennsylvania, and gave an account of an extra-
ordinary interview with Mr. Randolph, who considered that
11 a civil war was about to ravage our unhappy country,"
which could only be averted by certain men, who were
without means to accomplish their plans, and for whom he
asked the Minister to " lend them instantaneous funds to
shelter them from English persecution." The second de-
spatch, giving an account of American politics, in making
which Mr. Randolph certainly assisted, attributes to Hamil-
ton the enforcement of the excise tax, " to mislead the
President into unpopular courses and to introduce absolute
power under pretext of giving energy to the govern-
ment." It is not necessary to enter more fully upon all
that was said in this remarkable despatch, further than
to state that it expressly charged Mr. Randolph with
complicity in the statement, and saying, among other
things : " Thus, with some thousands of dollars, the re-
public could have decided on civil war or peace ! Thus the
consciences of the pretended patriots of America already
have their price ! "

Upon Washington's arrival in Philadelphia, the despatch
was shown to him, and a Cabinet meeting was held, at which
the members, except Randolph, decided upon immediate
ratification. This Washington assented to, and on August
14th the treaty was signed by him. The preparation of
certain other papers was completed by Randolph, and the
copies of the treaty were countersigned by him, when
Washington " presented to him, in presence of the other
Cabinet officers, the original intercepted despatch, with a
request to read it, and to make such explanations as he might
think fit."

1795] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 2 J

Randolph, after reading it, endeavored to answer the
allegations, denying many and claiming that he had been
misunderstood and that his statements had been misinter-
preted by M. Fauchet, but seeing that his explanations
were not satisfactory, immediately offered his resignation.
This was repeated in writing the same day, with the re-
quest that the publication of the despatch might be with-
held until he could prepare fuller explanations. These
were published shortly afterwards, but did not relieve his
name from the stigma which was attached to it. This
delay of publication of the reasons for his resignation gave
rise to the speculations as to its cause in some of the
letters.

Washington was much embarrassed in finding a successor
to Mr. Randolph, which fact he communicates to General
Hamilton in a letter of October 29th,* telling him in con-
fidence that he had offered the office to several, whom he
named, and who had refused. He continues:

"Would Mr. King accept it ? You know the objection I have had
to the nomination, to office, of any person from either branch of
the Legislature, and you will be at no loss to perceive, that at the
present crisis, another reason might be adduced against this ap-
pointment. But maugre all objections, if Mr. King would accept,
I would look no further. Can you sound, and let me know soon,
his sentiments on this occasion ? If he should feel disposed to
listen to the proposition, tell him candidly, all that I have done in
this matter ; that neither he nor I may be made uneasy thereafter
from the discovery of it. He will, I am confident, perceive the
ground upon which I have acted, in making these essays ; and
will, I am persuaded, appreciate my motive. If he should decline
also, pray learn with precision from him, what the qualifications
of Mr. Potts, the Senator, are, and be as diffusive as you can with
respect to others, and I will decide on nothing until I hear from
you — pressing as the case is."

* Hamilton 's Works, vi., 53.

28 RUFUS KING. [1795

A. Hamilton to G. Washington, New York.

" Nov. 5, 1795.
"Sir:

" I received on the second instant your two letters of the 29th of
October, with the inclosures. An answer has been delayed, to
ascertain the disposition of Mr. King, who, through the summer,
has resided in the country, and is only occasionally in town. I
am now able to inform you — he would not accept. Circumstances
of the moment conspire with the disgust which a virtuous and in-
dependent mind feels at placing itself en but to the foul and
venemous shafts of calumny, which are continually shot by an
odious confederacy against virtue, to give Mr. King a decided
disinclination to office.

" I wish, sir, I could present to you any useful ideas as a substi-
tute. But the embarrassment is extreme as to the Secretary
of State. . . .

" I have conferred with Mr. King with respect to Mr. Potts ; we
both think well of his principles and consider him as a man of
good sense. But he is of a cast of character ill suited to such
an appointment, and is not extensive either as to habits or infor-
mation. It is also a serious question, whether the Senate at this
time ought to be weakened. . . ."

After suggesting several names, and commenting on
them, he says :

" In fact a first-rate character is not attainable. A second-rate
must be taken with good dispositions and barely decent qualifi-
cations. I wish I could throw more light. 'Tis a sad omen for
the government. . . .

Mr. Pickering* in a letter to Hamilton, November 17th,
a letter marked perfectly confidential, after speaking of the
President's having offered the office of Secretary of State to
several persons, among them Mr. King, says :

* Hamilton 's Works, vol. vi., p. 67.

1795] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 29

" The President . . . made me the tender. I declined it,
as not possessing the talent so much to be desired in a Secretary
of State, in the propriety and ability of whose conduct the dignity
as well as the interests of the nation were so materially involved.
On various grounds the President urged my acceptance. . . .
I promised to consider of it ... I made " (he says after
consultation with others) " the President the following declara-
tion. That I wished no longer to keep him in suspense, and
that I would accept the office of Secretary of State. ... I
would continue my attention to both Departments (War & State),
if that of War could be filled to his satisfaction, I would go to
the Department of State ; if a character well adapted to the latter
should present, I would remain where I was. In one word, to
free him from all embarrassment, I would serve in one office or
the other, as the public good should require. The President
answered ' That is very liberal.' "

E. Randolph to R. King, New York.

Philadelphia, Aug. 16, 1795.
Dear Sir :

As my opinions upon the treaty itself are known to you to be in
favor of a ratification, so I think it necessary to request you to
read a letter,* which I have this day written to Mr. Jay and which
he will show you. My object in giving you this trouble is to pre-
vent a possible supposition that I have receded from the ground,
which I still hold tenable in spite of the objections which I have
seen and heard.

With great respect & esteem, &c,

Edm. Randolph.

* This letter does not appear among those published in Mr. Jay's Life or
Correspondence, but there is an answer to it of August 20th, thanking Mr.
Randolph " for the interesting information detailed in it," and making no other
allusion to it. — Ed.

30 RUFUS KING. [1795

J. Gunn to R. King, New York.

My Dear Friend : Philadelphia, Aug. 22, 1795.

Secretary Randolph has, or will in a few days,
resign his office. I confess my regret is not in the Extreme. This
man has treated the President Infamously. He occasioned delay
and then gave assurances that the Treaty was not signed '; which
invited opposition from every quarter.

Yours sincerely,

James Gunn.

R. King to C. Gore.

Augt. 25th, 1795.

My last will have informed you that the president had executed
what depended on him pursuant to the advice of the Senate, to
conclude the Treaty with England. The knowledge of this Fact
has had a happy effect in composing the public mind.

Mr. Randolph a few days since resigned his office as Secy of
State, he is now here on his way to Rd. Island. He does not ex-
plain himself in relation to this sudden measure ; It will probably
be suggested, that he has gone out of office from a Dislike of the
English Treaty — this will be wholly incorrect. Mr. Randolph ap-
proved of the Treaty in toto ; and he yesterday told me, he saw
no reason to change, or alter, his opinion on that subject.

We have this morning been afflicted with the information from
Phil, of the sudden Death on Sunday evening of the Attorney
General Mr. Bradford — this is a serious loss to the Government.

It may be satisfactory to the Vice President to be confirmed in

the information, that the completion of the Business relative

to the treaty with England, is confided to his son, our Resident

at the Hague.

Very affectionately,

R. King.

C. Gore to R. King.

My Dear Sir : Boston, Sept. 13, 1795.

The resignation of Mr. Randolph has occasioned many conjec-
tures, none however favorable to him. Our curiosity is on tiptoe

1795] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 3 1

to know the cause ; tho' we are perfectly satisfied that the gov-
ernment is relieved of the minister. We have expected every
post to hear yourself announced as his successor ; and it is gen-
erally agreed that such is the critical situation of our affairs, that
you wou'd sacrifice your ease for your country's service. If we
are not sound and able in the executive, our chance of an orderly
government, that can protect the liberties of the citizens, will be
desperate. The smallest deviation from a firm and steady con-
duct in that department, or an inability to support its measures
by strong and conclusive reasoning, will give strength to our dis-
organizes, and confirm and encrease the hold they now have on
the prejudices and passions of the people. So far as I can learn
the temper of the country on the treaty, it is right ; and so it cer-
tainly is in all our seaports, Boston excepted ; where the mob,
doubtless instigated by the same men, who occasion'd the town
meeting is continually attempting to burn the treaty, Mr. Jay's
effigy, and to do other acts of violence. But I hope and trust that
such conduct, as it seems to expose the views and wickedness of
the faction, will confirm and consolidate the friends of order and
government. It must convince the most timid that strength and
energy is necessary to secure to them peace, liberty and property,
and we find many who were among the deluded opposers to the
ratification of the treaty, in the foremost ranks to oppose these
sons of sedition.

The governor (Samuel Adams) is assailed in all quarters to
adopt efficient measures ; but he has evaded and will evade all
requests of this nature, so long as he thinks the mob aim only its
vengeance against national men and national measures. Indeed
this weak old man is one of the loudest bawlers against the treaty,
and the boldest in proposing schemes of opposition to the federal
government. It is said a plan, that has been attempted, of es-
tablishing committees of correspondence in the several towns of
Massachusetts to gain a uniformity in the proceedings of opposi-
tion was suggested by him, and the fitness and expediency of the
plan supported by the good it did in our contest with Great
Britain. Thus we see the inveteracy and extent of opposition
proposed by our antis. But if all remains right and sound at the
head, there is little danger of contaminating the mass of Massa-
chusetts at present. Tho' the most fearful apprehensions are to

32 RUFUS KING. [1795

be entertained in case of any adversity, or an obligation on the
part of government to do anything really bearing hard on the
pleasures or quiet of the citizens. . . .

Yours sincerely,

C. Gore.

Fisher Ames to R. King.

Dedham, Nov. 5, 1795.

Dear Sir :

. . . I despair of attending Congress at the opening of the
session [on account of his health — Ed.], & the time when I may
is both remote and uncertain. Great reflection and care ought
to precede as well as conduct the beginning of business in the
house. If the Democrats would agree to be silent on the Treaty
in the answer to the President's speech, would it be eligible, cer-
tainly not the most eligible. I hope you and others will think
beforehand what course ought to be taken.

With sincere regard &c.

Fisher Ames.

C. Gore to R. King, N. Y.

Boston, 19th Nov., 1795.
My Dear Sir :

. . . The politics of our country are really good, unless I
am much deceiv'd. Every information from the interior has con-
vinced me, that no evil is to be apprehended from the violent
proceedings of the Seaports. The outrages of this town have
produced a belief among the husbandmen, that very different
motives than a regard for the public good have occasion'd the
opposition to the Treaty.

If Great Britain shall ratify this instrument on her part, and
commissioners are appointed to determine the claims of Ameri-
cans, I shou'd be pleased to be one of them. . . .

My dear friend, very truly yours,

C. Gore.

CHAPTER III.

Fourth Congress — President's Speech — Mr. King reports the Senate's Answer
— Debate on its Terms — Mr. Jay's Resignation of Chief-Justiceship — Mr.
Rutledge's Appointment and Rejection by the Senate — Mr. Ellsworth's
Appointment.

The Fourth Congress assembled on the 7th December,
1795, and the President met the two Houses in the chamber
of the House of Representatives, and read his speech, which,
in the Senate, was referred to a committee of Messrs. King,
Ellsworth, and Cabot. The speech was a very interesting
summary of the domestic and foreign affairs of the country,
of which he said that they had never at any period, more
than at the present, afforded " so just cause for mutual con-
gratulation," and " for profound gratitude to the Author of
all Good for the numerous and extraordinary blessings we
enjoy." Among the interesting details he presented was the
official announcement to the House of Representatives of his
ratification of the Treaty of Amity, Commerce, and Naviga-
tion with Great Britain, with the advice and consent of the
Senate, with a condition relative to part of one article ; that
the result, on the part of his Britannic Majesty was un-
known ; but when received, would without delay be laid
before Congress.

On the 10th, Mr. King reported the draft of an address
in answer to the President's speech, which was probably
written by him, and is here presented as expressive of
his views on the matters to which attention had been
directed.

VOL. II. — 3 33

34 RUFUS KING. [1795

" Sir :

" It is with peculiar satisfaction that we are informed by your
Speech to the two Houses of Congress, that the long and expen-
sive war in which we have been engaged with the Indians North-
west of the Ohio is in a situation to be finally terminated ; and
though we view with concern the danger of an interruption of the
peace so recently confirmed with the Creeks, we indulge the hope
that the measures you have adopted to prevent the same, if fol-
lowed by those legislative provisions that justice and humanity
equally demand, will succeed in laying the foundation of a last-
ing peace with the Indian tribes on the Southern as well as on the
Western frontiers.

" The confirmation of our Treaty with Morocco, and the adjust-
ment of a Treaty of Peace with Algiers, in consequence of which
our captive fellow citizens shall be delivered from slavery, are
events that will prove no less interesting to the public humanity,
than they will be important in extending and securing the navi-
gation and commerce of our country.

" As a just and equitable conclusion of our depending negotia-
tions with Spain, will essentially advance the interests of both
nations, and thereby cherish and confirm the good understanding
and friendship which we have at all times desired to maintain,
it will afford us real pleasure to receive an early confirmation of
our expectations on this subject.

" The interesting prospect of our affairs, with regard to the
foreign Powers between whom and the United States contro-
versies have subsisted, is not more satisfactory than the review of
our internal situation ; if from the former we derive an expecta-
tion of the extinguishment of all the causes of external discord,
that have heretofore endangered our tranquillity, and on terms
consistent with our national honor and safety, in the latter we
discover those numerous and widespread tokens of prosperity,
which, in so peculiar a manner, distinguish our happy country.

" Circumstances thus every way auspicious demand our grati-
tude, and sincere acknowledgments to Almighty God, and require
that we should unite our efforts in imitation of your enlightened,
firm and persevering example to establish and preserve the peace,
freedom and prosperity of our country.

The objects which you have recommended to the notice of

<<

1795] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 35

the Legislature, will, in the course of the session, receive our
careful attention, and with a true zeal for the public welfare, we
shall cheerfully co-operate in every measure that shall appear to
us best calculated to promote the same."

By a resolution adopted the day before, the gallery of the
Senate chamber was permitted to be opened, and in conse-
quence we have, in the Debates of Congress, the heads of a
discussion relative to the fourth and fifth paragraphs, which
Mr. Mason moved to strike out, as he considered these two
clauses would precipitate decisions in the Senate, that " the
minority could not be expected to recede from the opin-
ions " they held in the June session, and " could not there-
fore join in the indirect self-approbation which the majority
appeared to wish for, and which was most certainly involved
in the two clauses which he should hope would be struck
out." If his motion was agreed to, the remainder of the
address would, in his opinion, stand unexceptionable. He
did not see, for his part, that our situation was every way
auspicious. Notwithstanding the treaty, our trade is griev-
ously molested.

Mr. King remarked, that the principal features observable
in the answer to the President's address were to keep up
that harmony of intercourse which ought to subsist between
the Legislature and the President, and to express confidence
in the undiminished firmness and love of country which
always characterize our chief executive magistrate. He
objected to striking out especially the first clause, because
founded on undeniable truth. It only declares that our
prospects, as to our external relations, are not more satis-
factory than a review of our internal situation would prove.
Was not this representation true, he asked ; could it be
controverted ? This clause, he contended, contained noth-
ing reasonably objectionable ; it did not say as much as the
second, to which only most of the objections of the member
up before him applied, an answer to which he should defer,
expecting that a question would be put on each in order.

36 RUFUS KING. [i795

The clause, he said, appeared to him drawn up in such
terms as could not offend the nicest feelings of the mi-
nority on the important decision in June ; it was particu-
larly circumspect and cautious. If liable to objection, it was
in not going as far as the truth would warrant.

After some further debate, in which Messrs. Mason, But-
ler, and Tazewell urged the striking out of the two clauses,
and Messrs. Ellsworth and Read, of South Carolina, sus-
tained the report, it was adopted by a vote of 14 to 8.

A. Hamilton to R. King.*

Dec. 14, 1795.
My Dear Sir :

An extraordinary press of occupation has delayed an answer to
your letter on the subject of Mr. R. ; though it may come too late
I comply with your request as soon as I can.

The subject is truly a perplexing one ; my mind has several
times fluctuated ; if there were nothing in the case but his impru-
dent sally upon a certain occasion, I should think the reasons for
letting him pass would outweigh those for opposing his passage.
But if it be really true that he is sottish or that his mind is other-
wise deranged, or that he has exposed himself by improper con-
duct in pecuniary transactions, the byass of my judgment would
be to negative ; and as to the fact I would satisfy myself by care-
ful inquiry of persons of character, who may have had an oppor-
tunity of knowing.

It is now, and in certain probable events will still more be, of
infinite consequence that the judiciary should be well composed.
Reflection upon this in its various aspects, weighs heavily on my
mind against Mr. R., upon the accounts I have received of him
and balances very weighty considerations the other way.

Yrs.

A. Hamilton.

From what a Mr. Wadsworth lately in Philadelphia tells me of
a conversation between Burr, Baldwin & Gallatin, it would seem

* Hamiltoris Wo7-ks. , vi. , 76.

17951 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 37

that the two last Gentlemen have made up their minds to consider
the Treaty, if ratified by G. Britain, as co?iclusive upon the H. of
Representatives. I thought it well this should be known to you, if
not before understood from any other quarter.

R. King to A. Hamilton.*

16th December, 1795.

I send you Dunlap of this morning. In it you have foreign in-
telligence. Fenno, Dunlap and others have erroneously stated,
that Mr. Warden brought the ratification of Great Britain. No
official despatch has been received. Rutledge was negatived yes-
terday. From present appearances, the address to the President,
will pass without a debate. The draft has been, by agreement in
the Committee who reported it, shaped so as to reserve all points
intended to be discussed relative to the treaty. The words
underscored f in the inclosed draft, were offered in the committee
by Mr. Madison, who agreed to concur in the paragraph, if they
were added. You perceive the object.

R. King.

Upon the resignation of Mr. Jay from the office of Chief
Justice of the Supreme Court, the President had appointed
John Rutledge of South Carolina to that position. His letter
of appointment reached him two days after, at a public meet-
ing in Charleston, in which he denounced the treaty as
" totally destitute of a single article worthy of approval. He
even went so far as to reproach Jay with stupidity, if not
corruption, in having signed it." J It is to this fact that

* Hamilton's Works, vi., p. 77.

f " In the paragraph which declared that ' a secure foundation will be laid
for accelerating, maturing and establishing the prosperity of our country ; if by
treaty and amicable negotiation, all those causes of external discord, which
heretofore menaced our tranquillity, shall be extinguished on terms compatible
with our national rights and honor,' Madison insisted, as a condition of his
concurrence, that the words should be added — ' and with our Constitution and
great commercial interests.' " — Hamilton's Life, by J. C. H., vi., p. 326.

\ Hildreth's History of the United States, 2d series, i., 551.

38 RUFUS KING. [1795

Hamilton probably alludes in his letter to Rufus King of
December 14th, while the question of his confirmation as
Chief Justice was pending in the Senate. He presided over
the Court during one term, but was rejected by the Senate,
as mentioned by Mr. King in his letter of December 16th.
Mr. Cushing was offered the position, but having declined
it, Mr. Ellsworth was appointed.

R. King to Dr. Southgate.

Philadelphia, 27th Deer., 1795.
Dear Southgate :

William * [R. K.'s brother] I am informed is

a member of the General Court, & I am sorry for it unless

his Commercial Pursuits calling him to Boston, an attendance

there will not be detrimental to his Business. When he has

toiled as long as I have, I think he will agree with me that it

would have been wiser altogether to have abstained from political

Engagements. . . .

Always sincerely yours,

Rufus King.

* Afterwards the first Governor of Maine.

CHAPTER IV.

Treaty with Great Britain communicated to Congress — Opposition in the
House of Representatives — Demand made upon the President for Instruc-
tions to the Minister and Correspondence — Refusal of the President on
constitutional Grounds to send in these Papers — Correspondence showing
the Temper of the People about the Treaty — Correspondence relative to
Patrick Henry's Nomination for the Presidency — Mr. King's Nomination
as Minister to England — His Appointment.

On March i, 1796, the President, having first proclaimed
it as the law of the land, communicated to Congress the
treaty with Great Britain, which had been duly ratified in
London. This was the signal in the House of Representa-
tives to let loose the pent up wrath against this measure,
which had only been restrained until official notice of its
ratification should be received. The Message was referred
to the Committee of the Whole, and the consideration of it
was begun the next day by a motion from Mr. Edward Liv-
ingston : " That the President of the United States be re-
quested to lay before this House a copy of the instructions
to the Minister of the United States, who negotiated the
Treaty with Great Britain, communicated by his Message of
the 1st of March, together with the correspondence and
other documents relative to the said Treaty," which he
modified a few days later by the addition of the words,
" excepting such of said papers as any existing negotiation
may render improper to be disclosed."

Upon a call for the reasons which prompted such a reso-
lution, if, for instance, it was to lay the ground for an im-
40 RUFUS KING. [1796

^-- -'■■ " '■ ' ' ■■-■■■---- ■ ■— ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ — —

peachment against any officer, Mr. Livingston answered in
general

" that the House were the guardians of their country's rights ; they
are, by the constitution, the accusing organ of the officers em-
ployed. That the information called for they ought to possess as
it would tend to elucidate the conduct of the officers. His prin-
cipal reason, however, . . . was a firm conviction that the
House were vested with a discretionary power of carrying the
Treaty into effect, or refusing their sanction. . . . For this
purpose the papers were necessary, and the House had a right to
call for them."

Other reasons were put forth by later speakers, and chiefly
by Mr. Gallatin, especially in answer to the argument on the
other side, that by the Constitution the whole treaty-making
power was with the President, by and with the advice and
consent of the Senate, and that the publication of the treaty
made it the law of the land.

Mr. Gallatin said * that he had no objection to follow
them into the examination of the constitutional question,

" and to rest the decision of the Constitutional powet-s of Congress on
the fate of the present question. He would, therefore, state his
opinion that the House had a right to ask for the papers proposed
to be called for, because their co-operation and sanction was
necessary to carry the Treaty into full effect, to render it a bind-
ing instrument, and to make it, properly speaking, a law of the
land ; because they had a full discretion either to give or to re-
fuse that co-operation ; because they must be guided, in the
exercise of that discretion by the merits and expediency of the
Treaty itself, and therefore had a right to ask for every informa-
tion which could assist them in deciding that question."

The same points were urged by all the leading members
of the House who took that side of the discussion, Madison,
Giles, Baldwin, Livingston, and others, and they were an-

* Annals of Congress, Sept., 1795-6, p. 465.

1796] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 4 1

swered by Smith of South Carolina, Harper, Sedgwick,
Hillhouse, and others, who based their arguments on the
Constitution itself, as Sedgwick said * : " The treaty-making
power, with all its effects and consequences, was solely and
exclusively in the President and Senate." As the framers
of the Constitution supported this construction, those who
ratified did the same, and as the practical action of the gov-
ernment had been in conformity with it, it was clear that

"Treaties so made became in fact supreme law, and being com-
pacts they bound the public faith, and could not be violated
without national disgrace and personal dishonor. They might
require Legislative provision to carry them into effect ; but this
neither implied nor authorized the exercise of discretion as to
refusal ; "

and that Congress could not revise the terms that might be
made, or have any authority in carrying it out, except where
money was to be had, and that then their power was limited
to the best method of raising and paying the money.

Mr. Harper, f who closed the debate, stated that he op-
posed the resolution because " the papers to be called for
were not necessary for enabling the House to execute this
discretion (to withhold its aid, where Legislative aid was
requisite to carry the Treaty into effect) ; that their decision
on it was to be guided by the instrument itself, and not by
the instructions or the previous negotiations, the call for
which implied an opinion that the House had a right, not
only to determine whether it would co-operate in carrying a
Treaty into effect, but also to interfere in making Treaties."
Finding the former ground could not be maintained, he said,
" they now asserted a right to interference in making
Treaties," which right he, as others before him, explicitly
denied.

The debate was a very able and prolonged one, and of ex-

* Annals of Congress, 1795-6, pp. 527, 528.
\ Ibid., p. 747.

42 RUFUS KING. [1796

treme interest, as it involved a constitutional provision, rela-
tive to the powers of the Legislative department and of the
Executive, the President, and the Senate acting in executive
capacity. It consumed nearly three weeks, when on March
24th, the resolution of Mr. Livingston with its modification
was passed by a vote of sixty-two ayes and thirty-seven
nays.

The decision of the House was next day conveyed to the
President, who informed the committee that he would take
the resolution into consideration.

In Hamilton s Works, vi., p. 94, is a letter from him to
King, March 16th, giving his views upon the call made by
the House upon the President, and asserting that the Presi-
dent ought to take a stand against the usurpation of the
House, for reasons which he gives, and closes a letter to
Washington of March 28th, after considering some sugges-
tions as to the propriety of his communicating " only the
commissions and Mr. Jay's correspondence," saying that
these are all that it appears to him for the public interest to
send,

" But after the fullest reflection I have been able to give the
subject (though I perceive serious degrees of inconvenience in
the course), I entertain a final opinion that it will be best, after
the usurpation attempted by the House of Representatives, to send
none, and to resist in totality." *

Three days after this date Washington writes, on the 31st :

" From the first moment, and from the fullest conviction in my
own mind, I had resolved to resist the principle, which was evi-
dently intended to be established by the call of the House of
Representatives, and only deliberated on the manner in which
this could be done with the least bad consequences."

And while thanking Hamilton for the trouble he had taken
to dilate on the request of the House of Representatives,

* Hamilton 's Works, vol. vi., p. 98.

1796] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 43

and " to show the impropriety of that request," he stated
that after consultation with the heads of the departments
and Attorney-General, he had finally sent the answer he had
prepared, and which will be found in the Annals of Congress,
1795, vi., pp. 760, 761, which closes with this paragraph :

" As therefore it is perfectly clear to my understanding, that the
assent of the House of Representatives is not necessary to the
validity of a Treaty ; as the Treaty with Great Britain exhibits in
itself all the objects requiring legislative provision, and on these the
papers called for can throw no light ; and as it is essential to the
due administration of the Government, that the boundaries fixed
by the Constitution between the different departments should be
preserved — a just regard to the Constitution and to the duty of
my office, under all the circumstances of this case, forbid a com-
pliance with your request."

Upon receipt of this Message, the House resolved itself
in Committee of the Whole upon it, and after a short debate
affirmed, by a vote of 57 to 35, their right to deliberate on the
expediency or inexpediency of carrying a treaty into effect,
and to determine and act thereon, as in their judgment may
be most conducive to the public good, when the treaty con-
tains stipulations which depend for execution upon a law,
or laws, to be passed by Congress, and that it is not neces-
sary to state in the application for such information as they
may desire, the purpose for which the information is
wanted. At the same time they said they did not claim any
agency in making treaties, as the Constitution, in Article II.,
gave the power to the President, with the advice and con-
sent of the Senate. The bill for carrying the treaty into
effect was finally passed on the 3d of May, by 5 1 to 48.*

* Mr. Jefferson's A nas, vol. ix., p. 194 (Jefferson s Works.)
'* March the 1st, 1898, Mr. Tazewell tells me, that when the appropriations
for the British Treaty were on the carpet, and very uncertain in the lower House,
there being at the time a number of bills in the hands of the committees of the
Senate, none reported and the Senate idle for the want of them, he, in his place,
called on the committees to report, and particularly on Mr. King, who was of
most of them. King said that it was true the committees kept back their re-

44 RUFUS KING. [1796

The above sketch of the proceedings in reference to the
Jay treaty is given to show the interest taken by Mr. King
in the proper solution of the grave questions which were
involved. He appears in harmony with Hamilton, who,
though no longer occupying an official position, was still the
able and trusted adviser of the President — not the director
of his actions on all occasions, as some have asserted. The
President's mind, as he says himself, was made up at once
as to his duty ; his only hesitation was as to the manner of
doing it. Mr. King in the Senate, and occupying an influen-
tial position there, as the records of that body show, was
able to watch events and to hold himself in readiness to meet
every case that might arise and give direction to the efforts
of the friends of the administration in the House also. A
letter to Hamilton of 1st May, speaks of the results then
accomplished and his fears and hopes for the future.*

" In committee of the whole on Friday, it was resolved by the
casting vote of Muhlenburgh, the chairman, to make provision by
law for carrying the Treaty with England into effect ; yesterday
the resolution of the committee was passed by the House by 51
against 48. A proposition to prefix to the resolution a preamble
declaring the Treaty to be injurious to the interests of the United
States and assigning the short duration of its temporary articles as
a reason why it should be permitted to go into effect, was negatived

ports waiting the event of the question about appropriation ; that, if that was
not carried, they considered legislation as at an end ; that they might as well
break up and consider the Union dissolved. Tazewell expressed his astonish-
ment at these ideas, and called on King to know if he had misapprehended him.
King rose again and repeated the same words. The next day Cabot took an
occasion in debate, and so awkward a one as to show it was a thing agreed to
be done, to repeat the same sentiments in stronger terms, and carried further,
by declaring a determination on their side to break up and dissolve the
government."

This narrative certainly shows that Mr. King held an influential position in
the Senate during this exciting period, and, if correct, that he looked with
most serious forebodings as to the future, if the House refused their part in
carrying out the provisions of the treaty.

* Hamilton' s Works, vol. vi., p. 112.

1796] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 45

by 50 against 49, and the resolution was immediately, and without
division, referred to a committee, with instructions to prepare a bill,
or bills, in conformity with the resolution. The failure of the
party in their intention to denounce the Treaty, I am fearful, will
not discourage them in a second attempt. A majority of five or
six (if I am not mistaken) would join in a vote of condemnation,
but in the shape in which the proposition was offered, some of
the most inveterate opponents of the Treaty voted in the nega-
tive, because, they said, if they voted for the preamble, it would
be then proper for them to vote for the resolution, which they
were determined not to do. Though from the stage in which the
business now is, I hope the attempt will not be made ; yet, if an
independent resolution should be offered declaring the Treaty to
be injurious, &c, I am apprehensive it would be adopted. This,
however, would not defeat the provision for the execution of the
Treaty — 51 votes in the affirmative ; the Speaker's vote, with that
of Mr. Freeman, of Massachusetts, both of whom are in favor of
the provisions, make 53 affirmative votes, a majority of the whole
number of Representatives."

J. Marshall to R. King.

Richmond, April 25, 1796.
Dear Sir :

I take the liberty to avail myself of your aid for forwarding to
Mr. Hamilton the inclosed letter.*

The ruling party of Virginia are extremely irritated at the vote
of to-day and will spare no exertion to obtain a majority in other

* The letter to Hamilton here mentioned is of the same date as the above,
and may be found in Works of Hamilton, vol. vi., p. 108. It relates to the
feeling in Virginia relative to the question of the adoption of Jay's treaty, and
of the temper of the House of Representatives, and especially of the Virginia
members, who bitterly opposed its ratification ; and speaks of the meeting
called that day in Richmond by those who desired the ratification of the treaty,
saying that a resolution had been passed by a decided majority, after long dis-
cussion, " that the welfare and honor of the nation required us to give full effect
to the treaty negotiated with Britain." He says further : " I think it would be
very difficult, perhaps impossible, to engage Mr. H. [probably Mr. Henry] on
the right side of this question."

46 RUFUS KING. [1796

counties. Even here they will affect to have the greater number
of freeholders and have set about counter Resolutions to which
they have the signatures of many respectable persons, but of still
a greater number of mere boys ; and altho' some caution has been
used by us in excluding those who might not be considered as
authorized to vote, they will not fail to charge us with having col-
lected a number of names belonging to foreigners and to persons
having no property in the place. The charge is as far untrue as
has perhaps ever happened on any occasion of the sort. We
could, by resorting to that measure, have doubled our list of
petitioners.

I have endeavored to take means to procure similar applications
from various parts of the State. Exitus in dubio est.
With very much respect & esteem, &c.

J. Marshall.

R. King to A. Hamilton.*

Monday, May 2, 1796.

The inclosed letter will give you all the information that we
have on the subject to which it relates. It seems problematical
whether P. H. can be induced to agree in the arrangement. Some
circumstances of which I have lately heard incline me to believe
that he will not. Our session will close by the 1st of June, pro-
vided no further impediment is thrown in the way of the provision
for giving efficacy to the treaty with England — and it is much to
be wished that a definitive should be made before we separate.

Mr. Pinckney has asked leave to return home, and waits only
for permission. To his former stock of popularity he will now
add the good-will of those who have been peculiarly gratified
with the Spanish Treaty. Should we concur in him, will he not
receive as great, perhaps greater, southern and western support
than any other man ?

* Hamilton: 's Works, vi., p. 113. In this same volume, p. 425, Mr. J. C.
Hamilton says in reference to Mr. Pinckney 's wish to be recalled : " This pur-
pose was communicated by Rufus King to Hamilton, in a letter, relative to
overtures which Hamilton had requested Marshall to open with Patrick Henry,
to permit his name to be used at the next canvass for the Presidency."

1796] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 47

You must know that I am not a little tired with this separation
from my family and drudging in the Senate. The work now be-
fore us being finished, I think I am entitled to a dismission. It
would be agreeable to me to spend a few years abroad, and if I
do not misconceive the interests of the country, I think I could
render some service to the public at the present period in Eng-
land. Will you converse with Mr. Jay on the subject — I can
through no other channel communicate with the Executive — nor
do I desire that either of you should suggest the measure, unless
you both agree in its propriety and utility.

Yours very sincerely.

A. Hamilton to R. King. *

May 4, 1796.
My Dear Sir :

Since my last I have received two or three letters from you.
The late turn of the treaty question makes us all very happy. I
hope no future embarrassment will arise.

I am entirely of the opinion that, Patrick Henry declining, Mr.
Pinckney ought to be our man. It is even an idea of which I
am fond in various lights. Indeed, on later reflection, I rather
wish to be rid of Patrick Henry, that we may be at full liberty to
take up Pinckney.

In the event of Pinckney's return to this country, I am of
opinion, all circumstances considered, it is expedient you should
replace him. I hope no great question will in a short period agi-
tate our councils, and I am sure you will do much good on the
scene in question. I have called on Jay, but happened not to
find him disengaged. I shall quickly see him, and shall, with
great pleasure, do everything requisite on my part.

We believe confidently our election in the city has succeeded ;
the other party, however, claims success. Our Senator ticket
seems admitted on both sides to have prevailed, and all accounts
assure us of great success throughout the State. The vile affair f

* Hamilton s Works, vol. vi., p. 114.

f Life of Alex. Hamilton, vol. vi., p. 426. " This ' vile affair ' was the in-
fliction of personal chastisement by order of a Bridewell Court for insolence to
an Alderman."

48 RUFUS KING. [1796

of whipping Burke and McCredy made our election, in the view

of the common people, a question between the rich and the poor.

You will easily conceive how much this must have embarrassed

and jeoparded.

Yours affectionately &c.

The following letter closes the correspondence on the
negotiations with Mr. Henry.

J. Marshall to R. King.

Richmond, May 24, 1796.
Dear Sir :

Mr. Henry has at length been sounded on the subject you com-
mitted to my charge. Genl. Lee and myself have each conversed
with him on it, tho' without informing him particularly of the
persons who authorized the communication. He is unwilling to
embark in the business. His unwillingness, I think, proceeds
from an apprehension of the difficulties to be encountered by
those who shall fill high Executive offices.

With very much respect and esteem &c.

J. Marshall.
Endorsed by R. King :

Ansd. 1 June. — regretting &c and observing that it wd. be

requisite to fix on another person without delay.

R. K.

A. Hamilton to R. King. *

May 5, 1796.

Dear Sir :

After reading, seal and hand in the enclosed. If such things

are to be, you cannot leave the Senate. Jay is against it, at all

events until the European storm is over. We must all think well

of this business.

Yours affectionately &c.

The inclosed letter was for the President. — R. K.

It is probable that the inclosed letter is that of which
Washington acknowledged the receipt, and which he
answered on May 8th, f beginning :

* Hamilton s Works, vi., 114. \ Ibid., vi., 116.

1796] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 49

" Your note of the 5th inst., accompanying the information

given to G. M. , on March 16th came to me on Friday.

The letter he refers to as having been written to me is not yet
received ; but others from Mr. Monroe of similar complexion, and
almost of as imperious a tone from the Government have come to
hand."

The tenor of these letters indicated that France, disap-
proving of the treaty with Great Britain, might take deci-
sive steps to show this disposition, and as the President
says :

" May, and I believe, will send out an envoy extraordinary,
with instructions to make strong remonstrances against the un-
friendliness (as they will term it) and the tendency of our treaty
with Great Britain ; accompanied, probably, and expectedly, with
discretionary powers to go farther. . . . But I cannot bring
my mind to believe that they seriously mean, or that they could
accompany this envoy with a fleet to demand the annihilation of
the treaty with Great Britain in fifteen days, or that war, in case
of refusal, must follow as a consequence. ... If you have
communicated this letter to Mr. Jay, I wish you would lay this
also before him in confidence, and that you and he would be so
good as to favor me with your sentiments and opinions upon
both."

This condition of the foreign relations was doubtless the
reason which induced Hamilton to say that Mr. King must
not leave the Senate, an opinion in which Jay concurred,
and not as Mr. J. C. Hamilton* says without comment or
reason given. " Jay thought King should not leave the
Senate." In the same spirit, f in reference to the appoint-
ment of Mr. King as Minister to England, he gives no
authority for the following remark : " Washington's objec-
tions to this appointment were not merely of a public
nature ; he had conceived a strong dislike to King ; but
sedulous of the public good the President now acquiesced

* Life of Hamilton, vi., 426. \ Ibid., p. 428.

VOL. 11. — 4

50 RUFUS KING. [1796

in Hamilton's wishes." There is no evidence given of the
existence of this dislike. Mr. King's being a Senator was
one of the causes of the President's hesitation, as the follow-
ing extract from a letter of May 15 th from Washington to
Hamilton indicates*:

" . . . With respect to the gentleman you have mentioned
as successor to Mr. P., there can be no doubt of his abilities, nor
in my mind is there any of his fitness. But you know, as well as
I, what has been said of his political sentiments with respect to
another form of government ; and from thence can be at no loss
to guess at the interpretation which would be given to the nomi-
nation of him. However, the subject shall have due considera-
tion ; but a previous resignation would, in my opinion, carry with
it too much the appearance of concert, & would have a bad
rather than good effect."

To this Mr. Hamilton replied,f referring, as the general
index to Hamilton's works says, to Rufus King:

A. Hamilton to G. Washington.

" May 20, 1796.

" . . . I observe what you say on the subject of a certain
diplomatic mission. Permit me to offer with frankness the reflec-
tions which have struck my mind.

"The importance of our security, and commerce, and good
understanding with Great Britain, renders it very important that
a man able and not disagreeable to that Government, should be
there. The gentleman in question, equally with any who could
go, and better than any willing to go, answers this description.
The idea hinted in your letter will apply to every man fit for the
mission, by his conspicuousness, talents, and dispositions. 'T is
the stalking horse of a certain party, and is made use of against
every man, who is not in their views and of sufficient conse-
quence to attract their obloquy. If listened to, it will deprive

* Hamilton's Works, vi., 122.
f Ibid., vi., 125.

1796] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 5 1

the government of the services of the most able and faithful
agents. Is this expedient ? What will be gained by it ? Is it not
evident that this party will pursue its hostility at all events as far
as public opinion will permit ? Does policy require anything
more than that they shall have no real cause to complain ? Will
it do, in deference to their calumniating insinuations, to forbear
employing the most competent men, or to entrust the great busi-
ness of the country to unskilful, unfaithful, or doubtful hands ?
I really feel a conviction that it will be very dangerous to let
party insinuations of this kind prove a serious obstacle to the
employment of the best qualified characters. Mr. King is a re-
markably well informed man, a very judicious one, a man of
address, a man of fortune and economy, whose situation affords
just ground of confidence ; a man of unimpeached probity, where
he is best known, a firm friend to the government, a supporter of
the measures of the President — a man who cannot but feel that
he has strong pretensions to confidence and trust.

" I might enlarge on these topics, but I have not leisure
neither can it be necessary. I have thrown out so much in the
fulness of my heart, and too much in a hurry to fashion either
the idea or the expression as it ought to be. The President, how-
ever, will, I doubt not, receive what I have said, as it is meant, as
dictated by equal regard for the public interest and the honor-
able course of his administration. ..."

Mr. King was soon after nominated, and confirmed by
the Senate, as Minister Plenipotentiary at the Court of Lon-
don, and on the 23d his letter of resignation from that body
was read in the Senate.* Thus closed for a time his career

* In reference to this appointment, Mr. King says in answer to questions
from Mr. William Coleman in his letter of February 5, 181 7 : " The Mission
to England I was desirous to have. I had reason to know that Genl. W. had
thought of giving it to me, when Mr. Th. P. was appointed. When Mr. Py.
desired to be recalled, and the mission was offered to me, I unhesitatingly
accepted it.

"I lived more intimately with the public men of England, as well those of
the Opposition as of the Govt., than any foreigner of my time. I frequented
the society of literary men and have been in correspondence with several of the
most distinguished civilians of the old world."

52 RUFUS KING. [1796

in that legislative body. That he had been active in the per-
formance of his duties there, both as chairman of important
committees and as a member of others, in matters relating
to commercial regulations, to the various treaties negotiated,
to the admission of Tennessee as a new State, which only
took place after he left the Senate, and to many other im-
portant measures considered during that session, the Journal
of the Senate bears abundant evidence. He had, however,
for reasons which have been given, determined to retire
from his position in the Legislature, and desired to seek
employment elsewhere, where he thought he might do good,
and in a position more congenial to his tastes. Washington
thus announced to Mr. Pinckney, who had asked leave to
return home, the appointment of Mr. King to take his
place :

" The doubtful issue of the dispute and the real difficulty in
finding a character to supply your place at the Court of London,
has occasioned a longer delay than may have been convenient or
agreeable to you. But, as Mr. King of the Senate, who, it seems,
has resolved to quit his seat at that Board, has accepted the posi-
tion, and will embark as soon as matters can be arranged, you
will soon be relieved."

CHAPTER V.

Correspondence relative to the Treaty — Massachusetts Politics — Opinion of
Hamilton as to Washington's Course relative to the Demand made by the
House of Representatives for the Instructions to Mr. Jay — Congratulations
to Mr. King on his Appointment — Some Instructions and his Suggestions —
Letters from W. Smith on Affairs of S. Carolina and George Cabot on
those of Massachusetts.

Theodore Sedgwick to R. King, N. York.

Phil., ist Jany., 1796.
Dear King :

I hope you have found your family happier than you expected.

. . . A copy of the treaty and its ratification is arrived, but
the Prest. will not submit it to the legislature untill he receives
the original. This information I have from Col. Pickering. By
whom the original is to be expected is not known. I have evi-
dence, to my mind conclusive, that it is determined to oppose the
treaty and on the ground that it is unconstitutional.

The legislature, by this however I mean only the House of
Representatives, of S. Carolina,* have declared agt. the treaty,
but in terms more soft and mild than the original motion. The
concurrence of the Senate was not requested, and because, as the
friends of the measure declared, they were convinced it could not
be obtained. This I learn from a letter to Wm. Smith from his
cousin a member of the house. Barnwell behaved nobly. . . .

Yours affectly.

Theodore Sedgwick.

. . . Smith's correspondent states about 30 as having retired
before the vote. Himself & Barnwell Stuck by the Stuff.

* The action which was taken in this as in the Legislatures of several of the
other States — some sustaining the treaty and others condemning it — is here
referred to, as it is also in some of the other letters. — Ed.
54 RUFUS KING. [1796

A. Hamilton to R. King.

Jany., 1796.

My Dear Sir :

If the News Papers tell truth it would appear that Massachusetts
has anticipated New York. But it is intended by our friends in
the Legislature to give some pointed discountenance to the propo-
sitions. It was expected that it would have been done to-day,
but by the divergings of some men, who seek popularity with both
sides, they have gotten into an unnecessary debate over the
proposition in detail, which will lose time, but in the result a
handsome majority will do right.

Lawrance is hurt and as far as I see not without some reason
from particular circumstances at being left out of the Direction
of the Bank. It will be balm to his feelings to be put into the
direction of the office here, and I believe it will be an improve-
ment of the Direction to do it. I wish you would endeavor to
bring it about. Speak to Bayard of our city and to Wharton of
Philadelphia. This is a suggestion of my own, for Lawrance
rather rides a high horse upon the occasion.

Yrs. truly,
A. Hamilton.

C. Gore to R. King.

Boston, 21st January, 1796.
My Dear Friend :

You did me justice in supposing that I confided in your friend-
ship and zeal to promote my gratification. A confidence in the
affection and esteem of those we love & respect is one of the
choicest blessings of heaven, a distrust of a disposition in my
friends to gratify wishes not in their opinion unreasonable, wou'd
be the sorest mortification I could experience. Be assured I have
not lost the former, or felt the latter.

A letter from Mr. Cabot by this mail requests an explicit
answer by return of post whether, if invited, I woud engage as
Commissioner and go very soon to England. My answer by this
post is explicitly in the affirmative. I coud settle my own affairs
in one week. I shoud wish, and think it probable, that the
Executive might choose, that I shoud visit Philadelphia and

1796] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 55

receive the ideas of our own government on the manner of ex-
ecuting the commission. These things done, I know nothing to
hinder my immediate embarkation for Europe.

Ames was in this town the day before yesterday ; he talks of
proceeding to Springfield shortly, and from thence making an
effort to meet his friends in Congress. He express'd a wish for
me to accompany him, wh. I would readily have acceded to, if
it were not for the indelicate state it woud place me in before an
appointment of Commr. He acknowledged the weight of the
objection. . . .

You will see in the papers Governor Adams' Speech which
was received with almost universal disgust. The Senate has
appointed a Committee wh. I think will respond not in unison
with his Excellency. Two of the House's committee (the two
branches answer separately) are deadly opposed to the Governor's
sentiments : a third, I am of opinion, will not promote an echo :
Jarvis and Ely will be disposed to any measures, regardless of
their consequences. The disposal of the Virginia resolves, as
related in the Centinel, is correct in every thing but the final vote
of the house. After the question for commitment was lost,
Doctr. Jarvis moved that they might lay on the table till the
answer to the Govr's Speech was reported ; with great difficulty
this obtained a majority of one only.

Our Senate and house are well disposed to the federal govern-
ment, and it is more than probable that an effort will be made to
displace Adams from the chair, and put Sumner in his stead.

With Sincerity and affection your friend

C. Gore.

John Jay to R. King.

New York, 27 Jany., 1796.
Dear Sir :

. . . Mr. Pinckney's success in Spain is an agreeable cir-
cumstance, and together with the Restoration of peace with
Algiers and the Indians will tend greatly to compose and gratify
the public mind.

Yours sincerely

John Jay.

56 RUFUS KING. [1796

John Jay to R. King, Philadelphia.

New York, 2d Feby., 1796.
Dear Sir :

I was at this moment favd. with yours of the 29th ult., in-
forming me that " Mr. Harper concurred in the Idea of print-
ing by way of note my entire letter to him." My Idea was a
short note referring to the letter, subjoined or annexed to the
address.* I have no objection to either mode, my object being
that the first appearance of the Letter should be in or with his
address, rather than in a newspaper ; for his objections to the
latter mode appear to me well founded.

The ratification will bear a little longer absence. Things seem
to work together for good. Are you apprized that the preliminary
articles of the peace were ratified on a copy sent by Dr. Franklin ?
I suspect that the original still remains among his private papers.
A hint of this to Mr. Pickering may not be improper, that he may
(if that be the case) take measures for getting and placing the
original in the office. I think I once searched for it there and
could not find it and that the fact is as I have suggested. It seems
strange Mr. Adams should have been ordered to London to do
nothing, but we see strange things in our Days. . . .

Yours sincerely

John Jay.

A. Hamilton to R. King.

New York, March 16, 1796.
My Dr. Sir :

I thank you for your letter of the

My opinion on the resolution, when it first appeared, was that
the President should answer in substance as follows, viz.

" That it could not be admitted as a right of course in the
House of Representatives to call for & have papers in the Ex-
ecutive department, especially those relating to foreign negotia-
tions which frequently embrace confidential matter. That under
all the circumstances & upon so indefinite a call without any

* Life of John Jay, by William Jay, ii., 261. See letter written to Mr.
Harper on his Address for approving the treaty with Great Britain — printed
Boston, 1796.

1796] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 57

declared specific object, he did not think it proper nor consistent
with what he owed to a due separation of the respective Powers,
to comply with the call. That if in the course of the Proceedings
of the House, a question of their competency should arise for
which any of the papers in question might be necessary, an ap-
plication made on that ground would be considered with proper
respect &c."

But after what has taken place in the discussion, if it can
with propriety be got in as to form, I think a stand ought to be
made by the President against the usurpation. The following
propositions comprise an obvious ground.

I. The Constitution empowers the President with the Senate to
make Treaties.

II. A treaty is a perfected contract between two nations obliga-
tory on both.

III. That cannot be a perfected contract or Treaty to the
validity of which the concurrence of any other power in the state
is constitutionally necessary.

IV. The Constitution says a treaty is a law.

V. A Law is an obligatory rule of action prescribed by the
competent authority. But

VI. That cannot be such a rule of Action or a law to the valid-
ity of which the Assent of any other power is requisite. Again

VII. The object of the Legislative Power is to prescribe a rule
of Action for our own Nation, which includes foreigners coming
among us.

VIII. The object of the Treaty Power is by agreement to settle
a rule of action between two nations binding on both.

IX. These objects are essentially different and in a consti-
tutional sense cannot interfere.

X. The Treaty Power binds the will of the nation, must
within its constitutional limits be paramount to the Legislative
Power, which is that will ; or, at least, the last law being a Treaty
must repeal an antecedent contradictory law.

And XI. If the Legislative power is competent to repeal this
law by a subsequent law, this must be the whole Legislative power
by a solemn act in the forms of the constitution, not one branch of
the legislative power by disobeying the law.

58 RUFUS KING. [1796

XII. The foregoing construction reconciles the two powers and
assigns them distinguishable spheres of action. While

XIII. The other construction, that claiming that a right of
assent or sanction for the House of Representatives, destroys the
Treaty making Power & negatives two Propositions in the Con-
stitution— to wit — I. that the President with the Senate are com-
petent to make Treaties, II. that a Treaty is a Law.

On these grounds with the President's name a bulwark not to

be shaken is erected. The propositions amount in my judgment

to irresistible demonstration.

Yrs.

A. Hamilton.

A. Hamilton to R. King.

Ap'l 2, 1796.

Thank you for yours of yesterday. I have no copy of the paper
sent. The greatest part went in the original draft, though consid-
erably reformed acccording to joint ideas & somewhat strength-
ened by new thoughts. A letter I have received tells me that it
came to hand after the ground which was acted upon had been
formally considered in Council, and that it is referred for future
use in the event of an expected criticism of the Message.

I have asked for it conditionally to secure correct, &c. If I get

it you shall have a copy. But you must take care that there is no

crossing of path.

Yrs. truly,

A. Hamilton.

C. Gore to R. King.

Boston, 14 April, 1796.
My Dear Sir :

By the last mail, I received notice from the Sec'y of State that

the President had appointed me one of the commiss'rs under the

7. art, of the treaty with Great Britain. . . . The President's

answer has been universally pleasing here, some have become

so enamoured with the thing that they have had it printed in

white satin, and are having it framed and glazed. . . .

Your affectionate friend,

C. Gore.

1796] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 59

A. Hamilton to R. King.*

New York, April 15, 1796.

My Dear Sir :

A letter by yesterday's Post from our Friend Ames informed
me that the Majority (57 concurring) had resolved in a private
Meeting to refuse appropriations for the Treaty. A most impor-
tant crisis ensues. Great evils may result unless good men play
their card well & with promptitude and decision. For we must
seize and carry along with us the public opinion ; and loss of
time may be loss of everything.

To me our true plan appears to be the following (I suppose
that a certain communication has been made).

1. The President ought immediately after the House has taken
the ground of refusal to send them a solemn Protest. This pro-
test ought to contain reasons in detail against the claim of the
House in point of Constitutional right & ought to suggest sum-
marily but with solemnity and energy the danger to the interests
& Peace of the country from the measures of the House. The
certainty of a deep wound to our character with foreign Nations,
and essential destruction of their confidence in the Government,
concluding with an intimation that in such a state of things, he
must experience extreme embarrassment in proceeding in any
pending or future negotiation which the affairs of the U. States
may require, inasmuch as he cannot look for due confidence from
others, nor give them the requisite expectation that stipulations
will be fulfilled on our part.

A copy of this protest to be sent to the Senate for their infor-
mation : the Senate by resolutions to express strongly their appro-
bation of his principles, to assure him of their firm support, & to
advise him to proceed in the execution of the Treaty on his part
in the confidence that he will derive from the virtue and good
sense of the people, constitutionally exerted, eventual & effectual
support ; & may still be the instrument of preserving the Consti-
tution, the Peace & the Honor of the Nation.

Then the merchants to meet in the cities and second by their
resolutions the measures of the President & Senate, further

* Hamilton's Works, viM 103.

60 RUFUS KING. [1796

addressing their fellow citizens to co-operate with them. Petitions
afterwards to be handed throughout the U. States.

The Senate to hold fast & consent to no adjournment till the
expiration of the term of service of the present House unless pro-
vision be made.

The President to cause a confidential communication to be
made to the British stating candidly what has happened, his
regrets, his adherence nevertheless to the Treaty, his resolution to
persist in the Execution so far as depends on the Executive, &
his hope that the faith of the Country will be eventually preserved.

I prefer that the measures should begin with a Protest of the
President, as it will be in itself proper & there will be more
chance of success if the contest appears to be with him & the
Senate auxiliaries, than in the reverse.

But in all this business celerity, decision & an imposing attitude
are indispensable. The Glory of the President, the safety of the
Constitution, the greatest interests depend upon it. Nothing
will be wanting here. I do not write to the President on the
subject.

An Idea has come from Cooper of an intention in our friends in
the House of Representatives to resist the execution of the other
Treaties, the Spanish & Algerine, unless coupled with the British.
But this will be altogether wrong & impolitic. The misconduct
of the other party cannot justify in us an imitation of their prin-
ciples. 'Tis best I think that the freest course should be given
to the other Treaties ; or at most, if a feint of opposition is
deemed adviseable, it ought to be left to the Senate by postpone-
ment &c. But even this is very delicate and very questionable.

Let us be Right, because to do right is intrinsically proper & I
verily believe it is the best mean of securing final success. Let
our adversaries have the whole glory of sacrificing the interests of
the Nation.

Yrs. affectly.

A. Hamilton.

P.S. — If the treaty is not executed, the President will be called
upon by regard to the character of the public good to keep his
post till another House of Representatives has pronounced.

1796] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 6 1

A. Hamilton to R. King.*

New York, April 18, 1796.
Dear Sir :

I thank you for your letter received to-day. Our merchants
here are not less alarmed than those of Philadelphia, and will do
all they can. All the insurance people meet to-day : the Merchants
& Traders will meet to-morrow or the next day. A Petition will
be prepared and circulated among the other citizens.

I regret that a certain communication was not made. Indeed
I think the Executive will be hereafter blamed for keeping back
the fact in so critical a posture of things.

Yrs truly

A. Hamilton.

A. Hamilton to R. KiNG.f

April 20, 1796.

Dr. Sir :

Yesterday's Post brought me a letter from you which gave me
pleasure. The papers will apprize you of the proceedings of the
Merchants & Traders here on yesterday : there is among them
also "unexampled unanimity," & as far as I can judge the current
is in our favour throughout the City. Persons to-day are going
through the different wards.

Yrs sincerely

A. Hamilton.

P.S. — Our friends in the House will do well to gain time.

A. Hamilton to R. Ktng. \

April 23, 1796.

Dr. Sir :

I have received your two letters and shall this day attend to
the one which requires it. I see however no objection to it as it
stands, and I do not now perceive how the further object you
aim at could be accomplished in the manner you seem to desire.

* Hamilton s Works, vi., p. 106. f Ibid., p. 106. \Ibid., p. 114.

62 RUFUS KING. [1796

I have written to Ames this day concerning the course of things
in our city. He will communicate to you, as I have not time to
repeat. We are decidedly well. But it is intended to-day to
continue the Petition in circulation & to-morrow it will be sent.
I thought it adviseable to publish an extract from your letter with-
out naming you.

Yrs. truly

A. Hamilton.

It is much to be regretted that the letters of Mr. King
referred to in the above short notes of Mr. Hamilton, and
which must have given some interesting facts as well as the
views of Mr. King relative to the important questions under
review, are not accessible, if they are in existence, Mr.
J. C. Hamilton, in his Works of Hamilton, publishing those
above, but not the answers to them. A search for them in
the United States State Department among the Hamilton
papers by Mr. Andrew H. Allen, Chief of Bureau of Rolls
and Library, at the Editor's request, has been unsuccessful.

Fisher Ames to R. King, N. York.

Phil., May 30, 1796.
Dear Sir :

I did not expect you would leave us before the end of the
Session. Your sudden departure has deprived me of the oppor-
tunity I would have taken to give you my hand at parting. If I
had enjoyed it, I could not have expressed all the esteem, good
wishes, and real regrets I shall feel for you. I know you will not
think it necessary, in order to make you convinced of my sin-
cerity. It is, however, a pleasure to me, tho' it is a farewell, to
assure you how ardently I shall ever take an interest in the
increase of your reputation and happiness. I beg Mrs. King to
accept my best respects — a good voyage — once more farewell.

Yrs Fisher Ames.

I go south for three weeks.

1796] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 63

R. King to T. Pickering.

Private.

New York, June 1, 1796.
Dear Sir :

I omitted suggesting to you before my departure from Phila-
delphia an observation or two concerning our Consul at Ham-
burgh. Our merchant ships may, without violating our national
impartiality, be employed in the service of the belligerent Powers
— if they engage in a service prohibited by the Law of Nations,
and are detected, they incur the Penalty, and the conduct is not
imputed to the nation. But where any officer of the Nation does
an act, which in a private person wld. be prohibited by the Law
of Nations, it is requisite in my opinion that on complaint the
Nation to wh. such officer belongs shd. disavow the Act and pun-
ish the offender. I am inclined to think the conduct of Mr.
Parish has afforded just cause of complaint, and that although he
may be a worthy man he shd. be displaced. The step may be
explained to him in a satisfactory manner. The party wh. com-
plains is in a state of irritation — the conduct cannot be justified.
A compliance with the Desires of those who complain will be
politic. The point is not of sufficient importance to be made a
serious and solemn question between the two Nations. Besides I
suspect we shd. be put in the wrong. I hope you will see this
subject in the light in which I view it — in itself it is of small im-
portance, it may become of real consequence. Should the Consul
be dismissed and the ground explained to him, he would feel
little dissatisfaction if he is a man of sense — and after the Peace
he might be re-appointed if it should be deemed advisable.

I am Dr. Sir your ob. St.

Rufus King.

R. King to T. Pickering.

Private.

N. York, 7 June, 1796.
Dear Sir :

I do not remember to have conversed with Mr. Jay concerning
the terms of the XII Article of the Treaty with Great Britain,
which were intended to ascertain the articles of Import and Ex-

64 RUFUS KING. [1796

port to and from the W. In. Colonies. I have conceived that the
Article would have secured to us a Right to carry thither every
Article which it is now lawful to carry thither from the U. S. in
Br. vessels — that the Catalogue of articles could not have been
diminished : and moreover that we should have had a right to
carry thither every other article, which might hereafter, and
during the operation of the Stipulation, be lawfully carried there
from the U. S. in Br. Vessels — the second paragraph secured to
our vessels a right to export from these Colonies, only such Arti-
cles as may now lawfully be brought from thence to the U. S. in
Br. vessels ; here again the Catalogue of articles could not have
been abridged, but in case it had been enlarged in favor of Br.
vessels, it is not obvious that we could have claimed a Right to
receive and bring from thence in our vessels such additional arti-
cles ; and in this respect the stipulation appears unequal — whether
this was accident or Design, I am at a loss ; probably the former.
I have seen no sufficient reason to change an opinion that I
thought well founded on the first appearance of this article ;
which is that it would have been more plain as a rule of Conduct,
and less likely to originate misunderstandings, and perhaps com-
mercial losses, if instead of a reference to the Br. Statutes to find
out the articles which might be imported and exported to and
from the Br. W. Inds., the articles had been enumerated in the
Treaty.

A clause might have been added which would have secured
to us the advantages of any enlargement of the List of articles
which the Br. Policy in future might have adopted.

Relative to Mr. Adams taking leave at the Hague, would it not
be proper to intimate to the Government of the U. N. " that cir-
cumstances interesting to the U. S. have induced the President to
remove Mr. Adams from the Hague to Lisbon — that it is hoped
this measure will be taken in good Part, and meet with the appro-
bation of the Gov. of the U. N. for whom we entertain a sincere
esteem and friendship, and in whose Prosperity and Happiness
we take a lively concern — that it is the President's intention to
name a successor to Mr. Adams who will renew to the Govt, the
assurances of the friendly attachment of the U. S. for the Bata-
vian Republic."

1796] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 65

Some course like this will conciliate the Convention and will
leave the President sufficient latitude in respect to the time of
replacing Mr. Adams at the Hague.

I omitted to tell you in a line I wrote to you yesterday, that I have
engaged my Passage in the ship James, Conckling Master, of this
Port. She is an American Ship and Master, is not to take con-
traband of war nor Enemy Goods. She is to sail on the 19th
instant. I have engaged to be ready by that Day. She is bound
to London.

. Farewell my dear Sir, I am very sincerely

Yr Obt. Servt.

Rufus King.

Wm. Smith to R. King.

Charleston, July 23d, 1796.
Dear Sir :

. . . I did not leave Philad. till ten days after the adjt. and
having a very tedious passage did not arrive here till the 1st inst,
not in time to prepare, and scarcely in time to deliver my Oration,
a copy of which I send you, with a curious advertisement of the
Vender, who says that the works which have lately had the
greatest run in town, are Paine's Age of Reason & Smith's
Oration. You will smile at seeing any work of mine associated
with Paine's & the heroic actions of the French.

Our unfortunate town has lately suffered much from fire ; the
last, which occurred on the 13th of June, was very destructive,
having swept away several whole streets, and consumed upwards
of two hundred and fifty dwellings. The contributions have
been very considble. here for the relief of the sufferers, & we un-
derstand that very generous aid will be furnished from New York,
Philad. and some other cities. Many of our planters and Merchts.
are extremely embarrassed by the great fall of produce. Mr.
Izard, who refused a great price here & shipped a part of his
crop, will probably lose near ^"3000.

He and his family are well. I need not inform you how much
satisfaction he reed, from your appointmt. ; indeed I can assure

vol. n.— s

66 RUFUS KING. [1796

you it has met with general approbation here. . . . We have as
yet no certain accot. of the President's intentions as to the next
election. Before I left Philada., it seemed understood that Major
Pinckney was to be joined with Mr. Adams. The friends of the
former have been sounded about it, but as he is expected here
soon, nothing definite has been concluded on.

Since the last session there has been a promotion in Congress ;
Hillhouse, Goodhue and Sedgwick having succeeded to Ellsworth,
Cabot and Strong, I am happy to find that Goodhue is elected for
six years from next March. . . . The Treatyphobia is com-
pletely cured here, and federal politics, when they engage the
attention, excite generally approbation. Those who made such a
ridiculous clamor last summer seem ashamed of themselves and
are glad to throw a veil over what has passed. Mr. Rutledge,
the late C. J., lives quite retired & avoids being seen ; his health
is said to be mended. ... I am, Dr. Sir, very sincerely
yours &c.

Wm. Smith.

G. Cabot to R. King, London.

Brookline, July 24, 1796.
My dear friend :

. . . I am in every sense so abstracted from the political
world, that if my daily visitors did not talk over what passes in it,
I should know nothing of its affairs ; as one of the people, however,
I feel it my duty to say that we are well satisfied with our gov-
ernment, and perceive very plainly that it has done for us much
better than we shou'd have done for ourselves, if we had fol-
lowed our own humour. We understand this now pretty well
throughout New England, and we generally agree, that in future
we ought to think before we decide on public measures, or inflec-
tion may come too late.

The Gazettes inform us a Mr. Williams of Stockbridge and
Saml. Sewall are nominated as the successors of Sedgwick and
Goodhue, and I am told that Sewall will probably be carried. In-
deed the present temper of the people is extremely favorable to
the choice of good men. If poor old Gorham had not gone off,

796] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 6j

I incline to the opinion that he might probably have been elected
Senator, but I am well persuaded that no man of doubtful poli-
tics cou'd possibly have obtained the appointment. Several of
the Gentlemen of that description very prudently declined being
considered as candidates.

I was ready enough to anticipate the troubles of which you
speak in a prophetic spirit, but on the whole there is no appear-
ance that our serenity will be disturbed this season. Every thing
without doors looks well, and if Wolcott cou'd only have a mo-
ment's use of the desideratum of the alchymists, every thing
would go well. The cursed intrigues engendered by Americans
at Paris and by Frenchmen in America have occasioned some
anxiety among many lovers of our Country, but these projects
are evidently failing, and it may be hoped that the time is not
very distant when the cares of our Allies may be more confined
to their domestic concerns. . . .

Truly your affectte. friend

George Cabot.

CHAPTER VI.

Mr. King having been appointed Ambassador to England starts on his Mission
— Responsibilities of a Minister at that Time, from Difficulty of communi-
cating with his Government — Often obliged to act at once withou,t waiting
for new Instructions — Mr. Jay's Course in England left good Impressions
for his Successor, which Mr. King was qualified and took pains to continue
— His Arrival and Settlement in London.

We have seen in the correspondence which has been pre-
sented, that Mr. King, after continuous service in the councils
of the nation for a period of twelve years, the last seven of
which had been in the Senate, as a member from the State
of New York, had determined to resign his position, having
said in a letter to Hamilton, " You must know that I am not
a little tired with this separation from my family and drudgery
in the Senate."

During these years he had borne an active and intelligent
part in perfecting the various measures adopted for the
inauguration of the new government, his experience in the
old Confederation eminently qualifying him to assist in put-
ting into operation the new Constitution, in the formation
of which he had been so prominent an agent. The different
departments through which it was to operate, and the wise
principles upon which, through the guidance and moulding
hand of Hamilton, the financial affairs were to be conducted,
had been firmly established, and the first steps had been
taken to determine our relations with foreign countries by
the commercial treaty with Great Britain. The government
was still embarrassed by a faction at home which seemed to
1796] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 69

be anxious to engraft upon the nation the wild schemes of
French democracy and manifested a consequent hatred
against England, due partly to her unwillingness or delay to
fulfil her obligations under the treaty of peace. They con-
sidered the new treaty, as did the French Government,
inimical to France, which used it as a ground for outrages
upon our commerce and even for breaking off diplomatic
relations.

There was much excuse for the dissatisfaction with
England, because of her conduct towards us ; for she too
obstructed our commerce, especially with the West Indies,
capturing American vessels and condemning them in the
colonial courts, impressing seamen from our ships, and re-
taining her hold upon the forts on the western frontier, which
she had agreed to surrender by the treaty of peace. A
large number of the friends of the government and who had
no great sympathy with France, was influenced by these con-
siderations to demand from England a redress for the wrongs
inflicted upon us, and could only be satisfied by the appoint-
ment of a minister to continue the negotiations who not
only possessed a thorough knowledge of the history of his
own country, was conversant with her resources and needs,
understood the genius and character of her people, but was
at the same time prudent, clear-headed, and intelligent, and
thus able to cope with the practised statesmen of England,
to present his country's claims with courtesy, tact, and firm-
ness, and to render himself acceptable to the Court to which
he was to be accredited.

The President could not but feel the responsibility that
rested upon him, and, moved by the suggestion of Mr. Ham-
ilton, was inclined to select Mr. King for the post. He
hesitated, however, not because he had a doubt of his fitness
for it, but that he feared, from " what has been said of his
political sentiments with respect to another form of govern-
ment . . . the interpretation which would be given to
the nomination of him." His doubts were dispelled by the

70 RUFUS KING. [!796

letter of Mr. Hamilton, who said that such considerations
should have no weight against his well known character.
Mr. King then received the appointment of Ambassador and
Minister Plenipotentiary to Great Britain, resigned his seat
in the Senate, and began at once to make the needful prep-
arations to start upon his mission.

He was at this time in the prime of life,* a man among
men, of athletic form and graceful carriage, handsome of
feature, as represented by Trumbull in his portrait of him,
and dignified and courteous in address. His mind was well
stored, conversant with the literature of ancient and modern
times, which was always at his command whether in conver-
sation or in debate. For twelve years he had mingled freely
with the leading men of his own country, taking a large share
of the burden which had made the nation what it was, and
so accustomed to deal with the large questions which daily
arise in the domestic and foreign affairs, which are the busi-
ness of the nation, that he felt full confidence in himself in
the new position to which he was called, and believed that
he might do good service for his country and promote its
welfare.

It may be here remarked that the responsibility of a foreign
minister in the times which are now being considered, was
far different from that in the present day, when instantaneous
communication may be had between a minister and his gov-
ernment, and information sent to him at once to meet any
modifications of the instructions given him, in order to meet
new aspects of a question. During the period of Mr. King's
mission and long afterwards a minister could rely only upon

*Mr. William Sullivan, in the Public Men of the Revolution, p. 59, gives
us his reminiscences of Mr. King in 1788, a few years before this :

" Rufus King at this time was about thirty-three years of age. He was
an uncommonly handsome man in face and form ; he had a powerful mind,
well cultivated and was a dignified and graceful speaker. He had the appear-
ance of one who was a gentleman by nature and had well improved all her
gifts. It is a rare occurrence to see a finer assemblage of personal and intel-
lectual qualities cultivated to best effect than were seen in that gentleman."

1796] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. J I

general instructions, which could not provide for the rapidly
changing events which, at that time, arose in the entangled
affairs of Europe, requiring his immediate decision and
action. He was often for months unable to exchange views
with his government, and was compelled to act upon his
own responsibility and judgment where delay or hesitation
would have been prejudicial to his country's interest.*

It is, therefore, an evidence of the wisdom of Mr. King's
appointment, that although his residence in England con-
tinued eight years, under Washington, Adams, and, two of

* Mr. Pickering, Sec'y of State, on the 27th July, 1796, says to Mr. King
that as many questions have occurred and will continue to arise, in Mr. Bayard's
agency for appeals and claims in behalf of American citizens, some of law and
some of policy or expediency, the decision of which by reference to his depart-
ment would cause delays and might be less depended upon than the legal opin-
ions of the official American gentlemen on the spot — " I mean you, Mr. Gore
and Mr. William Pinckney," he "has instructed Mr. Bayard to consult with
the Commissioners (Mr. Gore and Mr. Pinckney) as to the measures he should
adopt. With regard to questions of Policy or Expediency, those also can for
the most part be best decided in the same manner. To postpone decisions of
measures proper to be adopted, till advice can be sent and answers returned
from hence, would generally be injurious by the delay, and often, probably,
incur the loss of advantages to be secured only by prompt determinations. In
great and extraordinary occasions, where the sanction of the President will be
previously necessary, should any such occur, the delay will be unavoidable ; in
others you and the Commissioners will know when you may advise a proceed-
ing, on a fair presumption of his approbation."

An extract from a letter of R. King, Jan'y 14, 1798, to the Secretary of
State, shows that he felt the responsibility resting upon him, owing to the time
which must elapse before he could receive instructions to meet new conditions
constantly arising and requiring immediate attention and prompt decisions.
" I shall consider this subject with attention and will exercise a discretion that
the exigency seems to demand. It would certainly be more agreeable to me to
have it in my power on all occasions, and especially on those of the highest
moment, to find my duty in observing the well considered instructions of the
President. But there sometimes occur, and more frequently at this period,
than formerly, events so wholly unlooked for, that the subordinate agents of a
nation may be called upon to act always with a sound and prudent discretion,
in cases the decision of which belong to the highest department of the Govern-
ment. While on the one hand I shall regret the existence of the occasion, I
shall not hesitate on the other to do what, under its peculiar circumstance, shall
appear to my judgment to be necessary to promote the national welfare."

72 RUFUS KING. [1796

them, under Jefferson, we find no instance in which he did
not show a clear understanding of the questions under con-
sideration, a large and comprehensive foresight, and a firm
yet courteous presentation of the views of his government,
winning at the same time the confidence of the different
ministers with whom he had to deal in Great Britain ; nor
was his action ever Overruled, nor its wisdom denied by his
government at home. Indeed there is abundant evidence
that his residence in London, surrounded as he was there,
and intimate with the leading statesmen of the world, was
used by him to raise the new country to a position of respect
in the eyes of Europe, and to claim from other nations the
consideration due to a power which knew its rights and was
determined to maintain independence and firmness in dealing
with them. He was but following the example of Mr. Jay,
who, he said, had already laid the foundations for such
respectful consideration.*

Having received his instructions, Mr. King sailed on June
20, 1796, from New York in the ship James, Conckling mas-
ter, both American. The vessel " took neither contraband
of war nor enemy's goods " and sailed directly to London,
where he arrived on the 23d of July, as he wrote to Mr.
Low on August 1st,

a

after a good passage, which we all found less disagreeable than
we apprehended. I am unable to tell you any news, having been

* Charles J. Ingersoll in his Recollections (Phil., 1861) says, p. in :
" I have heard Mr. King describe Mr. Jay's deportment in London as not
only purely and firmly, but boldly and highly independent American."

John Jay to Lord Grenville.

" New York, 4th of June, 1797.

" . . . My respect and esteem for your Lordship remain unabated, and
I natter myself with the pleasure of becoming a better correspondent. It will
give you satisfaction to know that the letters I have received from Mr. King
and Mr. Gore make honourable mention of the candour and good faith of your
government. They both appear to be well pleased, and I am glad of it. . . ."
— Correspondence and Public Papers of John Jay, iv., 227.

1796] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 73

wholly engaged since my arrival in those employments, which are
usual on like occasions " ; and on August 16th : " We do not yet
feel ourselves settled, and when you see my friend the Judge, tell
him, I find here no such house as I left in New York."

His family at this time consisted of his wife and four boys,
the eldest eight years old, and his youngest brother Cyrus
as his secretary. He was particularly attached to this
brother, who had been carefully educated by him, was at the
time preparing to enter the bar, and had given strong evi-
dence of the high ability, which, in his subsequent career,
made him a prominent man in the councils of the nation. It
may here be said that he remained in London about a year,
profiting in many ways by his association with his brother,
and then returned to America to resume his studies.

There is little doubt that Mr. King's arrangements were
much facilitated by his friends Mr. C. Gore and his wife, who
had preceded him to England, the former as one of the Com-
missioners under the 7th article of the treaty with England.
A house was taken at first at 18 Baker Street, where he re-
mained some time ; but by the beginning of the next year
we find him established in Great Cumberland place, his resi-
dence during the time he passed in England. Through his
friends, Mr. Richard Codman and Mr. J. Pitcairn, he pur-
chased much of the china and glass for his table in Paris, as
well as the French wines for his use, and thus began to pre-
pare to take the place in social life which his own merits and
his position as Ambassador Extraordinary and Minister
Plenipotentiary of the United States entitled him to hold.
It may here be mentioned that he soon found that the pay
he received from the Government would not enable him to
meet the demands upon him, and his correspondence with
his friend and agent in New York, Mr. N. Low, shows that
he was obliged to draw upon his private funds, which were
ample for all his wishes. His letters, which follow, to Mr.
J. Q. Adams and Col. Monroe show his kindly feelings to
those who were in the diplomatic service of his country

74 RUFUS KING. [1796

and which, as will be seen, marked his intercourse with his
fellow ministers during his residence abroad, and were mani-
fested in return by them to him.

R. King to J. Q. Adams.

London, July 24, 1796.
Dear Sir :

I arrived here last evening, and by a conveyance wh. our friend
Mr. Hall informs me is perfectly safe, I send you a letter from
the Department of State. I have only time to congratulate you
on yr. appointment to Lisbon,* and to assure you of the perfect
esteem & respect with which I am, Dr. Sir, yr. ob. servt.

R. K.

Wm. Strickland to R. King.

York, July 29, 1796.
Dear Sir :

I have this day received an account of your arrival in England
& take the liberty of congratulating you on the occasion.

The minds of each of our countries have for some time wished
in your hands the appointment you now hold but despaired of
seeing it accomplished, apprehensive that your presence would
be too valuable in your own country for it to be there dispensed
with ; fortunately it has proved otherwise and I am satisfied to
the mutual advantage of our kindred countries.

I have much pleasure in the thoughts of renewing in this coun-
try an acquaintance commenced with so much satisfaction to my-
self on the other side of the Atlantic ; & shall therefore take the
earliest opportunity of paying my respects to you whenever I
come to London, but which I fear will not be before the next
Spring, having left it not more than six weeks since. You will
no doubt, while here, endeavour to see as much of the country as
you can ; this I must strongly recommend to every one from the
United States, who knows how to turn the many new objects he

* Before Mr. Adams entered upon the duties of that office he was appointed
Minister to Berlin.

1796] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 75

would meet with to the benefit of his own country ; the Metropo-
lis is the seat of pleasure & of Politics, but a just estimate of this
country can only be formed by visiting the interior of it ; & there
only can observation be made useful in numberless instances to
the circumstances of America. Should you visit this place or the
neighbourhood of it, before I have the pleasure of seeing you, be
assured of my possessing the inclination to be of every service to
you in my power & to assist you in obtaining the object of your
researches or acquiring the information you may wish for ; it is
the slightest return I can make for innumerable attentions re-
ceived in your country & for the liberal and friendly reception I
everywhere experienced & always acknowledge with pleasure.

I shall be happy to hear that you have had a pleasant voyage
across the Atlantic, & all your family are arrived in good health ;
and tho' I have not the Honor to be known to Mrs. King, I beg
my respects to her.

I am, Dear Sir, with great esteem & respect, your very obedient
& humble Servant.

William Strickland.

R. King to Col. Monroe, Paris.

London, August 1, 1796.
Dear Sir :

Mr. Pinckney having desired to return home, I arrived here a
few days ago to relieve him. We sailed from New York on the
20th of June, but as your information through our countrymen,
who are so frequently arriving from America, is probably as
late or later I presume that I can tell you nothing new or inter-
esting. . . .

I shall be happy to hear from you, and beg you to be assured
that it will afford me peculiar pleasure to render you any service
that my situation in this country will permit. . . .

R. King.

CHAPTER VII.

Mr. King enters upon his Duties as Ambassador — Presentation to the King —
First Interview with Lord Grenville — Statement by Dr. Edwards of the
Condition of Affairs in France — Appointment of Col. Trumbull as the
fifth Commissioner under 7th Article of the Treaty — Mr. Monroe's
Recall from France — Treaty of Peace with Algiers — Count De la Prade's
Pretensions.

Mr. King in the following letter announces to the Secre-
tary of State his arrival in London, his reception by the
King, and his first interview with Lord Grenville :

R. King to Secretary of State.

London, August 10, 1796.
Dear Sir :

I arrived here on the 23d ultimo ; the King was in the course
of a few days to go to Weymouth, where he spends the remainder
of the summer. Finding it to be the desire of Mr. Pinckney that
I should enter on my office without delay, I was in the course of
the week that followed my arrival presented to the King and
Queen.

My reception being in the usual manner, nothing occurred on
the occasion that merits particular attention ; the King expressed
his satisfaction with the prospect of a lasting friendship and
harmony between the two countries, declared that he sincerely
desired to live in friendship with the United States and that he
would execute with the most scrupulous good faith the Treaty
lately concluded with them.

Tho' this is a season when public men in this country consider
themselves entitled to some relaxation from business, and most
1796] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. J 7

of them are in the country not much disposed to be interrupted,
yet I thought some parts of my instructions were so important and
interesting, that I ought not to delay requesting a conference with
Lord Grenville respecting them. I accordingly wrote him a note
on the eighth instant, requesting him to appoint a time when I
should wait on him for the purpose of making certain communi-
cations to him, relating as well to the suspended portions of the
late Treaty, as to some other points that are mentioned in my
instructions. He appointed the next day for the interview, when
I communicated to him in a concise manner our ideas respecting
the points * of our conference. He heard me with attention, ex-
pressed the desire of this government to preserve harmony and
good understanding with us, and said that as these were points of
much consequence to their commerce and marine, he would
faithfully state what I had said to his colleagues, with whom a
conference would be requisite preparatory to any reply. The
object of the meeting was to begin, and to make the principal
points contained in my instructions. Speaking respecting the
care of our Seamen, Lord Grenville expressed a wish that some
notice had been given of our intention to send an agent for their
protection to their West India Colonies ; observing that the Gov-
ernors of those colonies were not authorized to allow the resi-
dence of such a character, and that without instructions they
might perhaps refuse to admit Mr. Talbot, an event, he said, that
might excite unpleasant feelings on our part. I explained the
course of this measure, and urged the importance of our having
an agent in that quarter ; intimating at the same time that an im-
mediate instruction for Mr. Talbot's admission might arrive in
season to prevent any disappointment to which we might other-
wise be exposed.

Col. Trumbull is in France ; he is expected here soon, but I
am fearful that he will be unwilling to accept the agency for the
protection of our seamen. This I shall regret, as from a recent
arrangement, appplication for the discharge of our seamen, de-
tained on board the British ships, which have formerly been
made by our Consuls, must soon go through my hands. I
hope to be able to prevail on Col. Trumbull to accept the ap-

* Appendix III.

78 RUFUS KING. [1796

pointment and continue to act until the President can appoint
another person. . . .

With great respect,

R. King.

Mr. T. Pickering, Secretary of State, in his letter of
August 8, 1796, says to Mr. King:

" Our Treaty with Spain was promptly ratified, and the ratified
copy has been received here a few days since from Spain. By
this time all the British posts must have been delivered up to the
troops of the United States, except perhaps the remote one of
Michilimackinac. The deliveries, so far as we have received
intelligence have been made in the most handsome manner on
the part of the British."

R. King to Col. Monroe, Paris.

London, August 11, 1796.
Dear Sir :

I avail myself of Mr. Tudor's visit to Paris to inform you that

a few days since a paper was published in the English Gazettes,

purporting to be a letter from the Directory to Mr. Barthelemi,

in which the French government announces their intention to

stop the cargoes of all neutral vessels bound to the English ports,

and assigns as the cause and justification of this measure a recent

order of the British government to stop the cargoes of all neutral

vessels bound to French ports. Though I was not ascertained of

the authority of this paper, yet considering its importance to our

commerce, I applied to this government for information whether

any such order had been issued, and I was assured in reply that

no such order exists, and that no new order has been issued on

this subject. I expect that it will be in my power in a day or two

to send you a precise and formal document on this point ; in

the meantime I could not excuse myself from giving you the

earliest information in my power relative to a measure so truly

afflicting, should the paper in question prove genuine.

I am &c,

R. King.

1796] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 79

The following statement is in Mr. King's handwriting :

Doctor Edwards, August 19th, 1796.

Dr. Edwards* called on me yesterday with Mr. Pinckney, hav-
ing arrived the day before from France — he spoke of the dissatis-
faction towards the U. S. which was entertained by and influenced
the Government of France — that Mr. Monroe had conducted
with fidelity towards the U. S., that he had vindicated the
measures of our Government, and, though he did not like the
Treaty, that he had contended that in no respect it violated our
Treaty with France — that the Government there were elevated
with their successes, and said though we might not have broken the
Treaty, that nevertheless by the late Treaty with England, we
had broken our Friendship with France — that the late order for
stopping neutral vessels was aimed in a great measure against
England — that however they were disposed to treat us not as an

* Through the assistance of Mr. F. D. Stone, Librarian of the Pennsylvania
Historical Society, the editor has been enabled to identify Dr. Edwards with
Dr. Evan Edwards, of Philadelphia.! He was born in 1757, and received a
classical and medical education, was an earnest participant in the Revolution-
ary war, and especially during the British occupation of Philadelphia, having
been an aide to Lord Stirling. After the war he held many important posi-
tions in Pennsylvania, and was a Judge from 1791 to the time of his death
in 1802.

Frenno's Gazette is quoted, saying :

"He possessed talents which eminently qualified him for a public station,
a sound understanding, good sense improved by habits of reading and reflec-
tion, an intimate knowledge of mankind, incorruptible integrity with popular
and engaging manners. . . . His affable and amiable manners and cheer-
ful conversation . . . procured him the esteem and good-will of all who
conversed with him." Mr. Charles Biddle, in his Autobiography, p. 309, gives
an interesting account of him. He was very sick in Paris, and spoke in the
warmest terms of the kindness of those who cared for him, wondering how
these people — French — could "be guilty of crimes so disgraceful to human
nature. It has often been said that Mr. Monroe encouraged Thomas Paine
to write the infamous letter he sent to Genl. Washington. The Doctor often
told me that Monroe sent him to Paris, and did everything in his power to pre-
vent his sending or publishing that letter. Paine told him that anything Mr.
Monroe wrote, it was of no consequence whether it was suppressed or not, but
what he wrote was for posterity."

\ Penn. Magazine, ii., p. 74 ; also ix., p. 325 ; Miss Sally Wister's Journal

80 RUFUS KING. [1796

Enemy but as a Nation who had shown a Preference for their
rival & Enemy — I met Dr. Edwards in the city to day and walked
home with him — the Temper of France towards our Country was
again the Topic of conversation. He said T. Paine had been
writing a Book agt. the President — that Monroe, while T. P. was
in his House, expressed his disapprobation of the measure, and
that Paine immediately removed to other Quarters — that the work
was very abusive, — he had seen it, and a young Virginian who
came over with him from Havre had the Copy, which he was
charged to deliver to Bache for Publication — that in a conversa-
tion he had with the Members of the Directory, speaking of their
sentiments respecting America, he attributed all the circumstances
of coldness and caution respecting which they complained, to the
operations of Genet ; Reubell replies that undoubtedly there was
the first Error ; but Barras said perhaps it was to be regretted
that Genet had been recalled — that Monroe had been much re-
spected— that he was believed to be honest, frank, and a zealous
friend of the French ; that for a Time he rec'd marks of Prefer-
ence and Distinction, but that latterly such was the temper
towards us, that his situation was less agreeable — that at a Dinner
given by La Croix to the foreign Ministers, he gave out, turning to
Del Campo (of Spain) our new ally, and to the Prussian ambassa-
dor, our old and faithful ally, that Monroe suspected T. Paine of
having done him an injury with the Directory — that he was there-
fore on bad terms with Paine ; that La Croix expressing his Dis-
approbation with us observed, that they had no intention of treat-
ing us as an Enemy ; once he said they had resolved to send an
Envoy Extray. to demand certain explanations, and, in case they
were not satisfactory, to immediately withdraw — that this Project
was abandoned, and they had resolved to permit their resident
Minister Adet to return home, and to leave with us a Charge des
Affaires to take care of their People and Concerns in our
Country.

Doct. Edwards mentioned various circumstances to shew the
haughtiness of the French, flushed as they were with Victory — the
refusal of the Swedish Charge des Affaires, the sending away the
Tuscan Minister, and the language they held on the subject of
peace and particularly of a Peace with England — he said that
Monroe had been made uneasy with the declar'on of a Character

1796] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 8 1

supposed to be confidential, or employed by Reubell of the
Directory — who lately intimated to Monroe, that the Directory
had been deceived by his Representations of the Temper &
Dispositions of our Country — that Monroe suspected T. Paine,
with having been the source of the Information that had led the
Directory to doubt his Representations, that he had applied to
Reubell and his Colleagues on the Subject, and asked whether T.
Paine had given them Information contradictory to the Repre-
sentations— that he had not been perfectly satisfied on this Point
— that in conversation concerning their temper towards us he had
said that it would disserve them, that every country has its Par-
ties, that this was the case in America — that the Friends of France
must be silent, or join those of England, if France persisted in an
unfriendly conduct towards us

After a desultory conversation on these points — he spoke of
Monroe having formerly been much influenced by Hichbon ;
that he had finally suspected & thrown him off — that Hichbon
spoke of the corrupt Character of some of his countrymen, and
of the application of English Money to procure an influence in
America, that he himself had been Offered a Bribe & that the
Money and Offer came from Lord Dorchester.

That Monroe was made uneasy by a Report that his political
Opponents were combining to Effect his Recall — that he hated
Jay & Hamilton, especially the former, concerning whom he told
a story of his having very soon after Monroe coming into Con-
gress, in a private conversation attempted to engage him to con-
cur in a Proposal of appointing a committee of Congress to
instruct him Jay respecting the negotiation of the sp. treaty ;
the Object of wh. was to shut up, as Monroe supposes, the Missis-
sippi— that he from that moment suspected Jay's integrity &
Patriotism — -that he made a memorandum of the overture in his
Diary, and showed it to Henry Lee who would now recollect
it— &c. &c—

Dr. Edward's idea respecting the Order agt. the neutral com-
merce seemed to be this — the Commerce of Amer. centres in G.
B. — it is of immense consequence to that nation — Fr. cannot
affect G. B. in any way but by assailing her commerce — if she can
shut her out from the various Ports of Europe she will severely
wound her — if she can moreover embarrass her Commerce with

VOL II. — 6

82 RUFUS KING. [1796

America, she may do her a still greater injury — The order there-
for is more aimed against G. B. than America &c. &c. Speaking
of the President he said he was truly unpopular in France — that
the conduct of G. Morris had paved the way to his unpopularity
— that when G. M. was recalled, Monroe carried him a private
Letter from the President, which was delivered to Morris at a
Dinner where there was much Company, and several Members of
the Government — that G. M. publickly read the Letter in which
the President told him that his recall arose from no dissatisfaction
that he had with his Conduct — but because the french Govt, had
requested it — that besides, the Directory had a letter from the
Pr. to G. M. which had been intercepted, and wh. was written
after the Ratification of the Treaty with England, in which he
says " so desirous have we been to preserve our Neutrality and
remain at Peace, that though he disapproved of some parts of the
Treaty he had ratified it — that he hoped this conduct would have
its Effect in procuring to us the friendship of England, and he
wished G. M. to let Lord Grenville know his Opinions in this
respect."

August 30th, 1796.

Mr. Pinckney told me that conversing with Doctr. Edwards, he
told him that inasmuch as he did not on his way through France
to Spain, solicit the aid of the french Government in the negotia-
tion with Spain, they had revoked an instruction which had been
given to their Minister at Madrid to facilitate our wishes — that
they were displeased with the Treaty and said that it sacrificed
their Interest — Mr. Pinckney said he did not ask the interference
of France, because he supposed them displeased with our having
concluded a Treaty with England.

R. King to N. Low.

August 16, 1796.

We do not yet feel ourselves settled and when you see our
friend the Judge, tell him, I find here no such house as I left in
New York. I dare not write to you respecting politics, because I
can form no conjectures that are entitled to any consideration. . .

1796] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 83

By a letter of the 24th of July from Paris, I am informed that our
fellow citizens so long held in captivity at Algiers have been
released and have arrived at Marseilles : through the same
channel we learn that the American Schooner Eliza captured by
the Tunissians has been given up. Mr. Barber employed for that
purpose by Col. Humphries having effected a treaty with the Bey,
previous to her capture.

Yours &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to A. Hamilton. *

London, August 25, 1796.
Dear Sir :

It would have been agreeable to this government, if we could
have agreed to the appointment of Doctor Swabey as the Commis-
sioner ; he is really a very candid and honorable man. But for
the same reason that we could not satisfy the Commissioners on
the part of Great Britain with the appointment of our country-
man, Colonel Trumbull, an equally candid and honorable
character, they have been unable to convince us, that under all
circumstances, it would be advisable that we should accept Doctor
Swabey.

The utmost propriety of conduct has been shown on both sides ;
and out of several names proposed by each, the British Commis-
sioners selected Colonel Trumbull, and our Commissioners Doctor
Swabey, as the names to be put in the urn. The lot has decided
in our favor, and Colonel Trumbull, who is on the spot, is the
fifth Commissioner. \ The Board being now complete, will pro-
ceed to business without unnecessary delay.

Knowing the immense importance of this Commission to our
Commerce and navigation, I take the earliest opportunity to give

* Works of Hamilton, vi. p. 146.

f In the treaty with Great Britain, negotiated by Mr. Jay, two of the Articles
provided for the adjustment of claims by private individuals against the two
Governments, the sixth Article for claims preferred by Englishmen against the
United States, and the seventh, by American citizens against England. The
claims were to be adjusted by five Commissioners under each Article, two of each
set to be chosen by the respective Governments and the fifth by lot cast by the
four. Those under the sixth Article were to sit in Philadelphia, those under

84 RUFUS KING. [1796

you this information. The surrender of the posts which has
taken place, and the very explicit assurances that I have received
from the highest authority in that nation, of a resolution to carry
into effect the treaty, with the most scrupulous fidelity, make me
anxious that nothing should take place on our part, that would
furnish even a pretence, much less a justification, for arresting
the further and complete execution of the treaty. The very ex-
traordinary situation of Europe at this moment, should inspire
us with great caution, and those whose property depends on the
treaties being permitted to go into full effect, should feel and be
influenced by this reflection. Farewell, &c.

T. Pickering to R. King.

Department of State, Aug. 29, 1796.
Dear Sir :

I beg your care to transmit the inclosed Letter to Mr. Monroe.
The object of it is to inform him of his recall, of which it is de-
sirable to give him notice, prior to the arrival of his successor.
Mr. Monroe's own communications in February and March last
laid the foundation of his recall. They manifested the great un-
easiness existing in the French government in relation to the
United States, especially on account of the Treaty with Great
Britain. His former letters had predicted this consequence of
the Treaty ; and the good reception of Mr. Fauchet, who left this
country with strong prejudices against it, was likely to aggravate
every cause, real or imaginary, of dissatisfaction on the part of
France. The necessity of obviating complaints, of stating facts,
of explaining the conduct and declaring the principles of the
American government had been apparent ; and for these pur-
poses Mr. Monroe had been amply furnished with documents, the
last of which he acknowledged, in his letter of December 6, 1795,

the seventh, in London. The Commissioners under the sixth Article were
Thomas Fitzsimons, and James Innes, who died, Samuel Sitgreaves being ap-
pointed in his place, Americans, and Thomas McDonald and Henry Pye Rich,
with John Guillemard, the fifth, Englishmen. Those under the seventh Arti-
cle were Christopher Gore and William Pinkney, Americans, and John Nickoll
and James Anstey, afterwards Maurice Swabey, Englishmen — John Trum-
bull being the fifth. The history of these Commissions will appear in the
correspondence.

1796] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 85

that he had received. Yet he appears to have been perfectly-
silent, until on the 15th of February last he was alarmed by a
project of the Directory, announced to him by the Minister, M.
De La Croix, to send an Envoy Extraordinary to this Country.
This he endeavoured to prevent and manifested his readiness to
vindicate his Government. He had an audience of the Directory ;
and the project was suspended to give an opportunity to receive
their complaints and make his answer. The result was not re-
ceived here until the 18th July, in a letter from Mr. Monroe,
dated the 2d of May. But this only covered M. De La Croix's
statement of complaints and Mr. Monroe's answer ; the effect of
the latter remained to be learnt. The objections made were
feeble and perhaps we may hear no more of them. But the dis-
satisfaction and uneasiness produced by Mr. Monroe's Letters of
February and March, concurring with divers other causes, had
determined the President early in July to recall him. The Presi-
dent immediately wrote to General Pinckney, requesting him to
accept the mission to Paris. He has accepted ; and is daily
expected here from Charleston.

R. King to the Secretary of State. *

Sept. 8. 1796.
Dear Sir :

Mr. Trumbull's appointment as the fifth Commissioner in the

capture question has prevented his acceptance of the agency for

the relief and protection of our seamen. His duties must devolve

on me for the present ; and, I hope by a careful attention to the

cases that shall come to my knowledge assisted by the several

Consuls, whose vigilance on this subject is great and meritorious,

that I shall be able to relieve many of our countrymen from the

hardships and injustice to which they continue to be exposed. If

I shall find occasional aid requisite for the purpose of extricating

any of our seamen detained on board the British Ships of War, I

* It should be stated that the correspondence with the Secretary of State
which is given in these volumes is contained in the Letter Books of Rufus
King, and consists of press copies from the letters, while that with foreign
ministers and other official persons is either in the original letters from them
or copied answers to them. — Ed.

86 RUFUS KING. [1796

shall not hesitate to compensate the persons I may employ out of
the money destined for this Service.

A practice has prevailed among our Consuls to grant Certifi-
cates of Citizenship, or Protections as they are called, to our
seamen and I am informed that they have been efficacious in
securing those who possessed them from Impressment. Some
abuses are unavoidable, and it is said have been discovered ; in
consequence of which these consular Certificates have in some
instances been disregarded, and in a late conference with Lord
Grenville, he asked me whether our Laws, or the President's In-
structions gave to our consuls authority to grant these certifi-
cates ; observing that it was not within the ordinary Functions
of Consuls to issue Documents of this nature. Perceiving the
importance of this enquiry, I told his Lordship that I would
enquire concerning the authority of our Consuls, & give him an
answer as soon as I should have obtained satisfactory informa-
tion respecting it. The Fees taken for these Certificates may
have some influence in rendering the Consuls less critical than
would be proper in the examination of Evidence ; but no com-
plaint of this nature has been made, and as the Practice of
granting these Certificates is not peculiar to our Consuls, but
common with the consuls of other nations, and our Sailors are
frequently found here without a certificate of citizenship, whereby
they are exposed to impressment, I cannot take upon myself to
instruct the Consuls to discontinue the practice, though I should
find no positive law or instruction that authorizes it.

With perfect respect &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to B. Wolcott, Jr., Esq.

Private.

London, Sept. 9, 1796.
Dear Sir :

Col. Humphries having authorized Mr. Donaldson * to draw
on the Mess. Barings for Sterling sufficient to purchase at Leg-
horn 400,000 Dollars, and Donaldson having drawn for a part

* Mr. David Humphreys, United States Minister to Portugal, was authorized
to make a treaty of peace with the Dey of Algiers, in the manner customary in
those days. During an absence, Mr. Donaldson, who had been left by him in

1796] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 87

and given notice that he should probably draw for the whole of
that sum, Mess. Barings after sending me a statement explaining
the probable deficiency of the public money in their hands, a
copy of which is enclosed, asked my opinion whether they should
pay Donaldson's drafts for a greater sum than the estimated
amount of the public money in their hands. They manifested
no disinclination to make the advance should it be requisite, but
desired advice. As Col. Humphries is fully empowered on this
subject and has authorized Donaldson to draw, I told Mess.
Barings that I thought it adviseable that they should pay Donald-
son's drafts, adding that I was convinced their conduct would be
approved and the advance wrhich they might make faithfully re-
imbursed by the U. S. They will pay the drafts should they
exceed the funds appropriated for this object ; I mean the amount
of their sales added to the estimated value of the unsold stock in
their hands.

I intimated to Sir Francis Baring a wish that the sale of the
residue of the stock might not be forced, especially at a time of
such general depression in the prices of all Funds. I understood
him that they could without inconvenience make the requisite
advance and that the 6 pr. cents unsold would not be sold under
90 for 100, without consulting you on the subject. I hope the
Algerine Treaty may finally be effected, though hitherto it has
been attended with a series of disasters. The low price of Stocks
here and the high price of dollars at Leghorn make the present
operation a very unfavorable one.

Though it is no relief, it is an argument against bad manage-
ment to know that great embarrassments accompany all money
operations at this period. Even here great difficulties are en-
countered and burthensome terms submitted to to make their loans.

Farewell yrs. very truly & sincerely

Rufus King.

Algiers, concluded on the 5th September, 1795, a treaty of peace with the Dey,
by which a payment of about 800,000 dollars was to be made in cash, besides an
annual tribute, and goods to the value of $24,000 a year. The treaty was rati-
fied by the United States and the money had to be borrowed by a sale of bonds
for $800,000 through the Messrs. Barings in London. The allusions in this
letter and in several others refer to this transaction. Before the Dey was
satisfied, an agreement was made to give him a frigate and more money. — Ed.

88 RUFUS KING. [1796

Le Cte. de la Pra.de having on the 17th September, 1796,
written to Mr. King a letter stating his services to the
United States, that he had been made a member of the
Cincinnati, that he proposed returning to the United States,
and asking him certain questions based upon these state-
ments, was answered as follows :

R. King to Le Cte. de la Prade.

London, Sep. 18, 1796.
Sir:

I have reed, the letter you did me the honor to write to me on
the 17th instant, and regret that my answers to your enquiries will
be less satisfactory and agreeable to you, than I could wish them.
The members of the Society of Cincinnatus do not receive any
pensions from the U. S. ; indeed no person is allowed a pension
except such officers and soldiers as are disabled by wounds re-
ceived in war. The Military Establishment of the U. S. has
always been small & since the peace lately made with the Sav-
ages, this establishment has been made less ; so that no vacancies
exist either in the infantry or cavalry. The U. S. have lands for
sale, and at moderate prices ; but they do not grant any lands
gratuitously ; neither do they supply or defray the Expenses of
Passages to foreigners inclined to become American Citizens.

With great respect &c

Rufus King.

CHAPTER VIII.

French Order against neutral Vessels — Mr. Monroe's Statement relative to it —
Complaints against British Cruisers — Washington declines a Re-election
— Mr. Adet's Reception in Boston — M. de Liancourt's Opinion of French
Designs on Neutrals to destroy British Power — R. King's Letter to Messrs.
Baring relative to the Funds for Barbary Purposes — To Mr. Bayard rela-
tive to the Costs in Cases of Claims decided by the Admiralty Courts — To
Mr. Monroe, Report that Genl. Pinckney had been appointed to succeed
him in Paris — Letter to Mr. Pitcairn relative to the French Debt — Nego-
tiations with England at a Standstill — American Affairs — Secretary of
State on Impressments— Washington's Address — Letter from R. King to
him on European Affairs.

R. King to A. Hamilton.*

London Sept. ioth, 1796.
Dear Sir :

I received this morning a letter from Mr. Monroe, dated Paris,
August 28th, of which the following is an extract :

" As soon as the order of this government, as notified by the
Minister of Foreign Affairs to Barthelemi, the present ambassa-
dor at Basle, appeared in the papers, for it was never notified to
the foreign Ministers here, I applied for information whether
orders were issued for the seizure of neutral vessels, stating
equally as the motive of my application a report, apparently well
authenticated, that one of our vessels had been lately taken near
our own coast ; and was informed, that no such order was issued,
and further, that none such could be, in case the British did not
seize our vessels. I am happy to give you this information, be-
cause I flatter myself the knowledge of this fact may be useful
in respect to our commerce with the country in which you reside.

* Works of Hamilton, vi., 150.
90 RUFUS KING. [1796

I have in a former letter told you that the British government
deny that any order has been lately issued, or that any order ex-
ists, authorizing the seizure of neutral cargoes bound to the
French ports, as was alleged to be the case in the letter from
the French Minister of Foreign Affairs to Barthelemi."

The foregoing extract is all I know from Mr. Monroe respect-
ing the resolution of the French government, communicated by
their Minister of Foreign Affairs to their ambassador at Basle,
you will have seen the letter to Barthelemi, which is undoubtedly
authentic ; and you have now what Mr. Monroe reports as the
result of his application on the subject ; I make no comments
nor inferences. You have the materials, and can make your own
interpretations.

Very sincerely yours

Rufus King.

This same extract was communicated to the Secretary of
State, and is referred to in his letter of Oct. 26, 1796, to
Mr. King.

T. Pickering to R. King.

Department of State, Sep. 22, 1796.
Dear Sir :

In this letter relative to complaints of injuries and insults from
the British Naval officers, and a fresh one, of which he encloses
affidavits and protests, Mr. P. says " It must be painful to you
to receive such repeated complaints of this kind, and unpleas-
ant to lay them before the British ministers ; but their number and
frequency may serve to rouse them to some exertion to prevent
a continuance of such outrages, while a few solitary instances
might be passed over in silence . . . You will make such use
of information of the kind here presented as you shall think most
likely to produce a remedy for the evil. ..."

John Lawrance to R. King, London.

New York, Sept. 24, 1796.
My Dear Sir :

We have heard of your arrival, and having had a closet audi-
ence. . . . Nothing material has happened, relative to your

1796] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 9 1

Friends here, since your departure, or on political matters ; ex-
cept the address of the President, who declines another election.
His address contains very good advice, and, if followed, will
make our Country a great and happy one. Indeed we enjoy
peculiar felicity at present, and every day adds to our prosperity.
It is said Mr. Adams and Mr. Pinckney will be voted for on one
side ; on the other Mr. Jefferson and Mr. Burr are mentioned.
You can determine as well as myself, who, it is probable, will be
the successful persons. We are all well. Mrs. Lawrance joins
me in best wishes for Mrs. King's health, and all with you.

Yours very truly,

John Lawrance.

George Cabot to R. King, London.

Brookline, Sept. 24, 1796.
My Dear Sir :

The public papers announced to us the day before yesterday
your safe arrival in England and your presentation at Court. . . .

A Mr. Maund of Virginia who is here and seems to be well in-
formed is very confident that Patrick Henry will come into the
Senate in Mason's place at the next election. He also strengthens
our hope that a strong party is formed in that State in favor of
government, & which in future will be active. You will see by
the newspapers that Mr. Adet was yesterday entertained at Con-
cert Hall ; altho' he associates with Jacobins only, yet the friends
of order were the promoters of this measure. As I go to town
scarcely once in a month, I was not apprized of the intention of
our friends until it was in execution ; but I was extremely morti-
fied to see this sort of testimonial in favor of french politics given
by the best citizens, when it is known that the undue influence of
that nation among the people already endangers the union and
government of the U. S. I wish Mr. Adet to receive all the indi-
vidual attentions which hospitality can require, but I consider Ox
Feasts as acts of supererrogation and as tending to confirm in the
minds of the people erroneous opinions, which are extremely
mischievous.

A few days ago Mr. Liancourt assured me that as soon as the
french had subdued the Emperor and given peace to Germany?

92 RUFUS KING. [1796

they intended to cut up the roots of the british power (their com-
merce and manufactures). He says they are resolved " that all
ships of whatever nation wheresoever from, or whithersoever
bound, having on board any of the products or manufactures of
the british dominions, shall be captured, and such product or
manufacture (at least, if not the vessel) confiscated." I told
him such an outrage on the rights of nations wou'd render the
french universally detested & wou'd confirm to all the world,
what many already believe, that they are animated by the most
vindictive and daring spirit that ambition had ever engender'd.
He acknowledged his fears that the measure wou'd be deemed
extraordinary & that it wou'd be unjustifiable if there were any
better way of destroying the English. This inveterate hatred of
the English, increased by the pride of conquest is now the strong-
est passion frenchmen feel, and if their successes continue must
occasion serious inquietudes among the English. Is it therefore
possible that this nation shall disdain to engage in its defence
every auxiliary in its power ? I have always thought that the true
policy of England wou'd be to invite every neutral nation to a
participation of its commerce during the war, by which means her
trade wou'd be uninterrupted, & she wou'd be enabled to man a
navy sufficient to annihilate the marine of all her ene??iies. This
expedient too long neglected might even now be resorted to with
advantage. It is intimated by English emigrants in this country,
that Mr. Pitt will find it difficult to procure money sufficient to
maintain the contest : Is it so ?

Your sincere & affectte. friend

G. Cabot.

R. King to Messrs. I. & F. Baring & Co.

London, Oct. 6, 1796.
Gentlemen :

I have received with much satisfaction the information you
have been so obliging as to give me respecting your agency in the
application of the funds placed in your hands for Barbary pur-
poses. And though this business exclusively belongs to Col.
Humphries, yet as a Servant of the U. S. I think it due to the
occasion to express to you my approbation of the liberal and

1796] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 93

skillful manner in which you have assisted Col. Humphries in a
very critical operation. I have written to the Secretary of the
Treasury on this subject and shall communicate to him the
assurances that I have given to you of my conviction that the
U. S. will entertain a proper sense of your Services in this Busi-
ness and moreover make speedy dispositions to re-imburse any
advances you shall make on this account.

Should it finally appear requisite to advance a greater sum than
we have heretofore thought probable, I flatter myself that you will
be able to make such arrangements as will obviate any disap-
pointment, which at this stage of the Business might hazard all
that has been already done.

Although a sale of the stock, in the present depression of the

market, would be somewhat unpleasant in reference to the credit

of the U. S., yet that must be done, rather than risque the refusal

of any of the drafts which Donaldson may have negotiated in the

course of his agency. I hope however that his drafts will not be

found to exceed the Estimate that we have heretofore made of

their amount.

With perfect regard &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to S. Bayard, Esq.

London, Oct. 6, 1796.
Sir :

I perceive by Mr. Slade's letter to you and by the papers you
left with me some time since, that he has furnished you with the
amount of several Bills of costs, in cases stated to have been
finally decided in the Admiralty, and likewise that most of the
many causes that you have confided to his care, are or soon may
be at a stage in their progress, at which he expects a further ad-
vance of Eighty Pounds sterling in each. As the payment of a
single Bill will constitute a precedent for all future cases, it ap-
pears to me proper, before such precedent is made, that the items
and regularity of the Bill should be critically examined. I there-
fore desire that you will receive from Mr. Slade the Bills of costs
in such cases under his management as have been terminated,
and that you will transmit them to me in order that I may make
such enquiries respecting them as may be requisite.

94 RUFUS KING. [1796

The public money at my Disposal applicable to various objects
does not amount to a sum sufficient to satisfy even the expecta-
tions of a single Proctor. I have however advanced to you one
Thousand pounds Sterling, which you will apportion among
our Proctors according to the number of cases in their respective
hands, having regard to the stage in which they are. These pay-
ments should be made on account and without being applied to
any particular cases or classes of cases. This will be productive
of no inconvenience to the Proctors and will give time to consider
and decide the manner in which the Business must ultimately be
conducted.

No precise understanding exists on the subject of the Ex-
penses which attend the prosecution of the claims of our citi-
zens in the Courts of Admiralty. In most instances the public
have, & will probably continue to advance the money that may
be requisite. Though under all circumstances such advances may
be reasonable, it appears to me just, that ultimately these advances
should be re-imbursed by the claimants. Where the costs are
paid by the Captors, the claimants have no title to them, except to
repay the public advances. Where the costs are charged upon the
claimants, it must be on the principle of their delinquency ; and
for that reason they ought to be paid by them and not by the
public. In these cases, however, we have no means in our
power to recover such costs ; except in the instances of a restora-
tion of the Property claimed and a condemnation of the claim-
ants in costs. In such cases, as well as in all cases where the
property is restored and the captors condemned in costs, it will be
in your power to retain sufficient to reimburse the public ad-
vances. This I think it will be proper that you should do.

With much esteem &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Col. Monroe.

London, Oct. 7, 1796.
Dear Sir :

I was extremely sorry to receive the information contained in

your last letter, that there was reason to believe that the French

Government has, contrary to the stipulations of our Treaty, issued

1796] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 95

orders to their cruizers & Corsairs to seize Enemy goods on
board American vessels. These orders are the more extraordinary
since they are excused by no circumstance of necessity and as
they violate the Doctrine that free Bottoms make free Goods, at a
period when France proclaims herself the friend of liberal com-
merce and the advocate of the Freedom of the seas. The injury
that the enemies of France may experience by the execution of
these Orders will be small indeed : but the Damage and mischief
to her Friends, and especially to the U. S. will be great and seri-
ous. These orders furnish to private cupidity a Pretence for the
interruption and spoliation of our Trade, which France, as
our Friend, cannot desire to see, and which must prove ex-
tensively mischievous to our Navigation and Commerce. I hope
my dear Sir, that those representations that I am persuaded you
have made, to demonstrate the impolicy and injury of this meas-
ure, will induce the Revocation of the Orders, if they have in fact
been issued.

I mention to you a report which is in circulation here among
some of our countrymen, because you may possibly hear of it,
and think it singular that I had given you no information on the
subject. It is for this reason only that I am induced to com-
municate to you a Rumour that General Pinckney of S. Carolina
has been appointed to succeed you at Paris. I have letters from
Mr. Pickering as late as the 15th Aug., and likewise from several
friends in different parts of America, and in no one letter have I
the slightest intimation of General Pinckney's appointment or of a
change being meditated in our Legation to France. Mr. Pinckney
my predecessor, who is still here or rather on the sea side waiting
for his ship, knows nothing of his Brother's having been ap-
pointed and has heard only the London rumour to which I have
alluded above.

With Sentiments of Esteem & respect, &c,

Rufus King.

R. King to J. Pitcairn, Paris.

London Oct. 9, 1796.
Dear Sir :

. You have been erroneously informed, when you were

told that a portion of the debt we owed to France has been paid

96 RUFUS KING. [1796

in assignats. I am at a loss to conjecture to what circumstance such
an opinion owes its origin. The instalments and interest were
regularly paid, and in solid coin j and we made advances both to
Mr. Genet and Mr. Fauchet byway of anticipation of future instal-
ments, when the demands of France were pressing, and often with
much inconvenience to ourselves. In the year 1794 Congress
passed a Law to domesticate, if I may so say, the foreign debt,
or so much of it as the foreign Proprietors should be willing to
change from a foreign to a domestic debt, the annuities in which,
and the final reimbursement whereof, should be payable at the
Treasury of the United States.

Under this Law in June or July 1795, Mr. Swan came forward
with full powers from the French Government to subscribe the
whole of the remaining instalments of the debt due to them —
amounting to something over 2. Mills, of Dollars — and a new
stock bearing an interest of 5J per cent, for as much as bore an in-
terest of 5 pr. cent, and 4-J, for as much as bore an interest of 4
p. c. was offered to Mr. Swan, who I presume has sold the same
for cash to satisfy such engagements as he had entered into for
the French Government. This was a measure of choice on the
part of France. The instalments would together with the inter-
est have been regularly paid as they fell due. France preferred
to change this shape of the debt, for one bearing a half per cent,
higher interest, and possessing a transferable quality— we were
willing to make this change with respect to the French debt, as
well as the whole foreign debt, because instead of foreign com-
missions and expensive remittances, which would be requisite to
discharge the annuities and reimburse the capital of the foreign
debt, we pay both at our Treasury after it is changed to a domes-
tic debt. It is possible that the discharge of what remained of
the French debt in 1795, by issuing to the agent Mr. Swan 5! and
4! per cent, certificates of stock, may be what you heard called a
payment in assignats — but this is unfair and unfounded — We
were bound to pay by instalments ; we did regularly pay as fast
as pay day arrived. This was not as fast as France wanted the
money. We then offered to change the nature of the contract ;
to make the foreign a domestic debt and to add J percent, to the
annuities and make the capital transferable. France had the
option to stand to the old contract, or to change it for the new —

1796] LIFE AND COERESFONDENCE. 97

she preferred the latter — we have gained nothing by it. If she
has sold this stock at a loss, we have not gained the difference.
In short nothing can be more uncandid than to represent this
measure adopted for the benefit of France without the least advan-
tage to us, as a profitable or unkind proceeding on our part. I
send you a printed statement on this subject presented to the
House of Reps, in January last, by which you will see that our
debt is paid off.

I shall be happy to hear from you often, and if you think it
prudent to give me a little news and politicks, I shall be glad to
receive them. Make my compliments and congratulations to
Talleyrand.

Farewell Yrs &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Lord Grenville.

Baker Street, 10th Oct., 1796.*

Mr. King presents his compliments to Lord Grenville, and in-
closes for his Lordship's information a letter that he has received
from Mr. John Haven, a citizen of the U. S. of America, stating
the capture of the American ship Strafford laden with a valuable
Cargo, the property of the said John Haven & regularly cleared
at his Majesty's custom house and bound from London to Lisbon.

Mr. King takes the liberty to request Lord Grenville's inter-
ference, in order that this case may speedily be examined, and if
the statement of Mr. Haven is well founded, that the said ship &
cargo may with the least possible delay, be restored and permit-
ted to proceed on her voyage.

R. King to Mr. Strickland.

London, Oct. 14, 1796.
Dear Sir :

. . . I owe you, my dear Sir, a thousand apologies for not

having before answered your very obliging letter, the receipt of

* As a specimen of the complaints, which were now frequently received by
Mr. King, and of the manner in which he treated them, the above is intro-
duced.

vol. 11. — 7

98 RUFUS KING. [1796

which within a few days after my arrival, afforded me so much
pleasure. I have the more regrets on this subject, as without em-
ploying terms of civility, I can with truth say that no foreigner
who has visited America, has left more favorable impressions, and
that to no one with whom I have had so short an acquaintance
should I have been so unwilling to have appeared wanting in
those tokens of respect and esteem, which I feel to be due from
me to you.

When you visit London, I shall hope for the pleasure of seeing
you, and of making you acquainted with Mrs. King, who with
our young family are with me. In the course of the next year, I
natter myself, that I shall be able to see different parts of your
charming country, and I assure you it will give me peculiar pleas-
ure to meet you where you reside.

With perfect and sincere esteem your faithful & ob. Servt.

Rufus King.

John Lawrance to R. King, London.

New York, Oct. 15, 1796.
My Dear Sir :

It gave us pleasure to hear you were all safe.
We hope that now and then some information we can
rely on will reach us. What is to be the result of all, I have done
conjecturing. The late events have so far exceeded my expecta-
tions, that I am lost in astonishment.

We are somewhat alarmed at the report of the design of the
French interfering with the vessels of neutral Powers, coming to
and going from the ports of their enemies. This may embarrass
our trade exceedingly, and, I suppose, if carried into execution,
produce serious losses ; however we have escaped serious dangers
heretofore, and I am not without hope we shall get through with-
out much inconvenience. We must mind our own concerns and
take care of ourselves ; could we do these things we should not be
tangible. . . .

Hamilton, Henderson & myself made an excursion to Long
Island for 5 days, the beginning of this month. We got a few
grouse, and the ride restored Hamilton's digestion. He was not

1796] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 99

well. I remembered, when at Nicolls Mill, the execution you did
with the aid of your spectacles. Hamilton is gone to attend the
term at Albany. . . .

Yours sincerely,

John Lawrance.

R. King to Secretary of State.

London, Oct. 16, 1796.
Dear Sir :

. . . I wish it was in my power now to give you a more
satisfactory account of what will be the decision of this Govern-
ment respecting our trade with their West Indies and relative to
an equitable agreement for the security of our seamen. I have
before communicated to you that soon after my arrival here, I
asked a conference with Lord Grenville, in which I explained to
him what would be satisfactory to us on these points. He en-
gaged to confer with his colleagues and to give me an answer ;
but here the business has stopped, his Lordship not having yet
furnished me with his promised answer. I know that this Gov-
ernment are almost exclusively employed in the very interesting
affairs in which they and the principal powers of Europe are en-
gaged. These may divert their attention from objects which we
consider as very important to us, and I have no doubt that the
delay that I shall experience is in some measure to be ascribed to
this cause ; but I am not certain that other considerations may
not have their influence in postponing for the present any defini-
tive step on these subjects.

If they should decline forming such an article relative to the
West Indies as we would accept, they may prefer, as I think
they would, not to design such decision at this juncture. A like
policy may operate in respect to our Seamen : though I cannot
allow myself to believe that ultimately they will decline entering
into a reasonable convention on this subject. But as they believe
that their national safety depends essentially upon their marine,
they feel unusual caution relative to a stipulation that by mere
possibility can deprive their navy of a single seaman, who is a
real British subject, or that may even diminish the chance of ob-
taining the services of those who are not British subjects, but who

IOO RUFUS KING. [1796

by various pretences are detained in service as such. Hence it is
to be apprehended that they desire to postpone a convention with
us on this subject till the return of peace. In the mean time their
officers may show more caution in impressing our Seamen, and
more justice in discharging them when claimed.

I have no reason to doubt the sincere desire of this Government
to cultivate our esteem. I believe that the administration, to-
gether with the nation throughout, desire to live with us in Friend-
ship, and I do not think they would for a slight cause disagree
with us. But their colony trade and marine are topics intimately
and exclusively connected with their prosperity and security and
more deeply with their prejudices. If we cannot agree respecting
their West Indies, we may still remain friends. The case of our
Seamen is more important as well as more difficult. At present
we are injured in this point. A rule of discrimination between
our and their Seamen is practicable. We are ready and desirous
to establish such Rule. If they decline it they increase the injury.
We cannot respect the justice of a nation and at the same time
believe that it will refuse to enter into a convention, that without
injury to itself is necessary to prevent it to another.

I have thought prudent, as well as politic, to pursue the most
conciliatory course. I shall continue to follow it and will not
cease to endeavour to effect a reasonable and satisfactory arrange-
ment, as well in respect to the West India article as well as rela-
tive to the security of our Seamen.

With great respect & esteem &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to N. Low, New York.

London, Oct. 17, 1796.
Dear Sir :

. . . Our Commissioners here are beginning — hitherto they
have decided no important questions, though I understand they
are now discussing some points of much consequence. There
does not appear any reason to doubt that the results of this com-
mission will be satisfactory.

The French Govt, have issued a new order, as I am informed,
authorizing the seizure of enemy property on board neutral ships ;,

1796] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 10 1

their treaties to the contrary notwithstanding. This is a singular
proceeding at the time when they proclaim themselves the advo-
cates of a liberal commerce and of the freedom of the seas. Lord
Malmesbury has gone to Paris — whether peace will be established
is thought very problematical. Some say a Spanish war is nearer
and more likely than a French peace.

Farewell yrs.

Rufus King.

R. King to Col. Monroe.

London, Oct. 19, 1796.
Dear Sir :

Since I wrote to you a few days past by Mr. Livingston, the
rumour that General Pinckney had been named to succeed you at
Paris has been confirmed ; and the letters from Philadelphia that
I now transmit to you by Mr. Robert Lyle, will I presume an-
nounce this information from the Department of State. I hope
there has been no misunderstanding on this subject. Mr. Pinck-
ney, my predecessor, did not embark till within two days, and
just as he was going on board ship, he received the information
that his Brother was named as your successor & that they would
probably pass each other on the Ocean. . . .

With great esteem yr ob & faithful Servt.

Rufus King.

John Jay to R. King, London.

New York, Oct. 21, 1796.
Dear Sir :

. . . Dr. Edwards left us a few days ago. He arrived here
after an uncommon short passage ; from him I reed, much inter-
esting Information ; among other things that you pleased and was
pleased.

I am happy to find that the Board of Comrs. has been com-
pleated, and that it consists of men, whose characters promise
Justice and Satisfaction to both sides. This intelligence causes
agreeable sensations in this Country, and is in many Respects in-
teresting. It is to be wished that the Comrs. may harmonize as
to principles, and the application of them.

102 RUFUS KING. [1796

Things remain here much in the state in which you left them.
The President's Resignation has been followed by publications
calculated to influence the ensuing Election. They manage in
some places with very little Respect to Decorum. It is said that
Mr. Jefferson has consented to serve if elected. But this Fact
does not as yet appear to be unequivocally ascertained.

The handsome manner in which the Posts were delivered — the
appointment of Benson to the St. Croix Commission and of Trum-
bull to the other are pleasing circumstances. The Return of the
Governors of Canada, who were generally supposed not to have
been friendly to us in regard to the Indians, is a judicious
measure — especially if their successors should be prudent and
conciliatory.

Very Sincerely yours

John Jay.

T. Pickering to R. King.

Department of State, Oct. 26, 1796.

. . . I think it is mentioned in your Instructions, that the
British naval officers often impress Swedes, Danes and other
foreigners from the vessels of the U. States ; they have even
sometimes impressed Frenchmen. If there should be time to
make out a copy of a Protest lately received, it shall be inclosed,
describing the impress of a Dane and a Portuguese. This surely
is an abuse easy to correct. They cannot pretend an inability to
distinguish these foreigners from their own subjects ; and they
may with as much reason rob American vessels of the property or
merchandize of Swedes, Danes and Portuguese, as seize and de-
tain in their service subjects of those nations, found on board
American vessels. The President is extremely anxious to have
this business of Impresses placed on a reasonable footing. . . .

Your information of the advice from Mr. Monroe in his Letter
of August 28, was very gratefully received. * The note published
purporting to be from Mr. De La Croix to M. Barthelemi was
doubtless authentic ; but it only declared the intentions of the

* See R. K.'s Letter to Hamilton, Sept. 10, 1796.

1796] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. IO3

Directory, and no order, it is to be presumed, had been issued
for capturing neutral vessels bound to or from English ports ; and
as the threatened order for this purpose was made to depend on
a previous similar order of the British Government, I trust our
Commerce will not be subjected to new vexations. In the West
Indies indeed the French Privateers are capturing and condemn-
ing our vessels ; but I believe this to proceed only from the
wants of their Colonies, and the injustice of their officers in other
instances, who under the pretence of public wants plunder for
themselves. . . .

Your observations relative to costs in prosecuting appeals by
the Agent of the U. States, Mr. Bayard, merit much attention —
Mr. Pickering then proceeds to state the case as it strikes his
mind, and closes " where there shall be a final condemnation of
the property captured, we have a right to conclude that the suf-
ferers were not entitled to the aid of Government, and yet these
are the cases in which, as you remark, the recovery of an indem-
nity to the public would be extremely difficult, no previous
security or stipulation being given by the claimants. Where resti-
tution shall be decreed, the amount of the expenses may be
deducted as you propose, and the balance paid over to the claim-
ants. It will certainly be proper to adopt your advice in this case
until by the proper authority the question shall be deter-
mined." . . .

R. King to J. Q. Adams.

London, Nov. 10, 1796.
Dear Sir :

We still have cause to complain of the capture of our vessels
by the marine of this country. At the same time it is no more
than candour to confess that some of the captures have been but
too well justified. Allured by the Hope of high freights some of
our people (I hope and believe the instances are few) have lent
their names to cover Enemy Goods. One or two such cases hav-
ing been detected, have cast a suspicion upon all our vessels
employed in a similar trade. . . . Though we have reason
to be disatisfied that so many of our vessels are captured, still I

104 RUFUS KING. [1796

think the injury and injustice we experience in the impressment of
our Seamen is a more serious cause of discontent. I wish I
could inform you that I have a reasonable expectation that any
equitable Regulation is likely to be agreed in by this Government
on this point. I will not say that I despair of their doing us
justice, but being sincerely desirous to see a friendly and harmo-
nious intercourse between the two countries, I regret that I do
not discover that disposition on this very important subject with-
out which it cannot exist.

Our latest accounts from home are to the last of September.
The President has published an address to the People, in which
he declines another Election. The Topics he has discussed are
very interesting to our Happiness and I think the perform-
ance will add to his Reputation. The country is in great tran-
quillity and unless the passions of the People should be roused
by any unexpected occurrence, I feel little doubt that the choice
of a successor will fall where it is eminently merited, where you
& I must wish it. I understand that Mr. Adams & Mr. Pinckney
(my predecessor) will be voted for by the Federalists, and Mr.
Jefferson and I don't know whom by their opponents. Mr.
Monroe is recalled & is to be succeeded by General Pinckney,
the elder brother of the gentleman you knew here. He is a very
amiable and truly respectable character. I allow myself to hope
that no public inconvenience will attend this change.

With sincere Esteem & Respect &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Genl. Washington.

Washington, Nov. 12, 1796.
Dear Sir :

I have had the honor to receive your letter of the 26th of
August, and Dr. Nichols, whose advice I have asked, has been so
obliging as to give me information respecting the manner in
which the order of the Court of Chancery should be published.
In a day or two I will procure its insertion in the proper News
Paper. Some little attention will be requisite to avoid, as far as

I796J LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 105

practicable, the great Expense which commonly attends this kind
of publication. The Newspapers containing the notification shall
be transmitted to you agreeable to your directions.

It is extremely difficult to form a satisfactory opinion respect-
ing the probability of peace. I meet with few persons who
appear to have much confidence in the success of Lord Malmes-
bury. The declaration of war by Spain at a moment when Eng-
land appeared to be making serious efforts to conclude a general
peace, strengthens the belief of many that France prefers still to
continue the war. All the internal movements of this Govern-
ment, that are visible, indicate a Determination to prosecute the
war with vigour. The funding of the floating debt earlier than
usual and at the commencement of the negotiations with France,
when its influence upon the Stocks is such as a measure so direct
for the restoration of peace is calculated to produce, the augmen-
tation of the militia by the addition of 60,000 men, and the means
employed to recruit the regular army, if peace is near, would
seem to be improvident and unwise. But if the war continues,
12 millions will have been funded on advantageous terms, the
Government will have removed an important obstacle to the fur-
ther use of their credit, and, by an increase of the internal
strength of the nation, placed at their disposal, the regular Forces
to be employed abroad.

France will bend all her energies against that Commerce in
which England finds such immense Resources to prosecute the
war, not by attacking her navy, not by attempting the threatened
invasion, but by compelling the neighbouring nations to exclude
the commerce of England from the great and profitable markets
of Europe. England in turn will endeavour to balance the
account, by conquering or emancipating the colonies of Spain
and France, thereby opening new and extensive markets in
another quarter of the Globe. Should the war unfortunately still
grow, the meditated expedition against Canada by the Mississippi
may possibly be undertaken. I think it much less probable since
the evacuation of our frontier posts by the British forces.
Though I cannot seriously believe that such an expedition will be
attempted, still it may be the part of prudence to consider it as
possible, in order to guard against its mischiefs.

106 KUFUS KING. [1796

Spain enumerates among the injuries received from Great
Britain, the Treaty concluded with us. And France was satisfied
neither with that Treaty, nor with the subsequent one, that was
concluded at a fortunate moment between us and Spain. Both
may have been dissatisfied from motives connected with the
Project of an Expedition through the Mississippi.

With perfect respect &c.

Rufus King.

CHAPTER IX.

Correspondence with the Secretary of State — Sailing of the British Commis-
sioners Under the Sixth Article of the Treaty with Great Britain — Mr.
Adet's Publication Relative to the French Decree on the Commerce of
Neutrals — Mr. Pickering's Answer — R. Troup on the coming Election of
President — Baron Jacobi about General Steuben's Property and Mr.
King's Answers—Mr. Bingham sends Stuart's Painting of Washington to
Lord Landsdown — R. King's letter to Lord Grenville about Mr. John
Maxwell, an impressed American Citizen — Protest against Captain Pigot's
Conduct — Letter to Hamilton on Condition of England.

R. King to Secretary of State.

London, Nov. 12, 1796.
Dear Sir :

. . . The ordinary conferences at Lord Grenville's office
have been interrupted for some days past on account of the death
of his sister ; in consequence of this interruption I have not been
able since the receipt of your letter of the 31st of August to fulfil in
the manner I prefer your instructions respecting Mr. Liston's
conciliatory and friendly interference to assist Col. Talbot's
agency for the relief of our seamen in the West Indies. I
have no reason to believe that this interference will be disap-
proved : on the contrary I am persuaded that it is a pleasing cir-
cumstance to this Government that Mr. Liston's conduct has
been satisfactory to us. Mr. Liston had transmitted an account
of the base and humiliating treatment of Captain Jessup by Capt.
Pigot before I received your letter of the 10th of September and
the Lords of the Admiralty have ordered, as I am informed, a rig-
orous enquiry to be made into the conduct of that officer. This
case is so extraordinary that I hope proper means will be em-
108 RUFUS KING. [1796

ployed to authenticate it in the most solemn manner. If this is
done and the evidence transmitted to me I think this Government
cannot avoid punishing Capt. Pigot in a manner that will deter
others from imitating his infamous conduct.

Mr. McDonald and Mr. Rich will sail in a day or two for Phila-
delphia. These gentlemen are the Commissioners on the part of
this country in the Debt Questions. The former is a Barrister of
some eminence, the latter is a merchant who has resided for more
than twenty years in Holland and was the British Consul there at
the commencement of the war between this and that country.
They are both esteemed to be liberal & upright men, wholly un-
connected with the business of the Commission and well disposed
to cultivate a good understanding and friendly intercourse be-
tween the two countries. I have no doubt that they will be re-
ceived in a manner that will be proper and of course satisfactory.

With perfect respect, &c,

Rufus King.

T. Pickering to R. King.

Department of State, Nov. 14, 1796.

Dear Sir :

. . . A very unpleasant transaction has lately taken place
between the French Minister Mr. Adet and our Government.
On the 28th ulto. I received his Letter of the 27th, which he pub-
lished in the Aurora of the 31st, together with the Decree of the
Executive Directory relative to the commerce of the Neutral
Nations. His representations were of a nature to render it ex-
tremely desirable that the conduct of the American Government
should be as publicly vindicated. The public sentiment appeared
to demand it. Yet it was with great reluctance that my answer to
Mr. Adet was sent to the press. The printed copies of these
letters you will find inclosed. In his note of the 3d, of which
also a copy is inclosed, he promises information in answer to the
questions I had proposed relative to our Commerce ; but his reply
has not yet been received. It is remarkable that in this short
note, he says that the Decree of the Directory, which he notified

1795] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. IO9

to me, bears no likeness to the supposed order which was the
subject of Mr. Monroe's Letter of the 28th of August to you ;
when the result of both is precisely the same, to wit, that the
French cruizers would act towards the vessels of other Nations in
the same manner as these suffer the English to act towards them.
The declaratory words in the note to Mr. Barthelemi, to which
you and Mr. Monroe referred, as printed in the Paris newspapers
(for the matter was not officially communicated to Mr. Monroe)
were these " Le directoire executif charge, en consequence, tous
les agens politiques de la republique francaise d'annoncer aux
gouvernemens pres desquels ils sont envoyes, que les escadres et
les corsaires de la republique agiront contre les navires de chaque
pays de la meme maniere que ces gouvernemens souffriront
qu'en agissent envers eux les anglais." The words of the decree,
sent to me by Mr. Adet, are as follows :

" II sera notifie sans delai a toutes les puissances neutres ou
allies que le pavilion de la republique francaise en usera envers
les batimens neutres soit pour la confiscation, soit pour la visite,
ou prehension de la meme maniere qu'elles souffront que les
Anglais en usent a leur egard."

As Mr. Adet's letter was published on Monday, and the elec-
tion of Electors of President and Vice President was to take place
the Friday following in Pennsylvania, and the choice of President
was so near at hand, conjectures appeared in the newspapers of
one motive for its publication.

T. Pickering to R. King.

Department of State, Nov. 26, 1796.

Mr. Pickering writing about the difficulty of communicating
directly with Mr. Pinckney at Paris, says "It will be in your
power to communicate earlier advices of what is passing in France
than we can expect from Mr. Pinckney. I must entreat you to
advert to this circumstance, and that to a recital of facts you
would add such reflections as a nearer view of them shall
suggest."

IIO RUFUS KING. [1796

R. Troup to R. King.

New York, 16th Nov., 1796.

My Dear Sir :

. . . Our good friend the district Judge (John Lawrance)
has been appointed to take your seat in the Senate. There was
but one dissenting voice in both branches of our Legislature to
this appointment. . . .

We are all anxiety about the coming election of President and
Vice President. In this State our electors were appointed a few
days ago. We have none but good and true men, who will vote
unanimously for Adams and Pinckney. ... I am inclined to
think, and such is the inclination of our friends here, that Mr.
Adams will not succeed ; but we have Mr. Pinckney completely
in our power if our Eastern friends do not refuse him some of
their votes, under an idea that if they vote for him unanimously
they may injure Mr. Adams. Upon this subject, we are writing
to all our Eastern friends and endeavoring to make them accord
with us in voting unanimously both for Mr. Adams and Mr.
Pinckney. It would appear from the proceedings of Jefferson's
party in Pennsylvania, that Burr was to be their Vice President.
But we all suppose he will meet with little support. ... In
our election for Representatives, we are and I fear we shall con-
tinue to be divided. It is most probable that Watson will be
agreed on to be supported ; but if he succeeds, it will be owing
to vigorous exertions. His very name is an emetic to many of
our best friends.

The President's resignation has not even been carped at in a
single instance that I have heard of ; all his friends consider it a
second new testament.

Our friend the Governor is well but rather out of temper with
the abrupt adjournment of our Legislature to meet in January
next, and at Albany. We shall never, in all probability, see them
again in this city ; and we suppose it will not be long before the
seat of government is removed to that quarter. The northern
and western interests are much too powerful for us. . . .

Your friend

R. Troup.

1796] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. Ill

Baron Jacobi to Mr. King.

London, Gloucester Place, iothNov., 1796.

Baron Jacobi begs leave of Mr. King to apply to him in the
following business. General Von Steuben, a Prussian subject
being lately in the service of the United States of America, died
there near New York, as it is presumed these twelve months ago.

His sister, Julianna Von Steuben, and his brother Siegfried Von
Steuben are desirous to know what has become of the inheritance
of the said General.

B. Jacobi would be much obliged to Mr. King if he would
have the goodness to interfere in order to procure some authentic
accounts about that business. He would be very thankful also if
in the mean time he could get any information about the steps to
be taken for procuring the inheritance of General Von Steuben
to his above mentioned heirs.

Great Cumberland Place, Nov. 19, 1796.

Mr. King presents his compliments to Baron Jacobi, and has
the honor to inform him in answer to his note respecting the late
Baron de Steuben, with whom Mr. King had the pleasure to be
well acquainted, that he served with great reputation in the
American army, and by the introduction of a more perfect dis-
cipline than had before existed, rendered important and acknowl-
edged service to the United States. At the conclusion of the
American war, in addition to other compensations for these ser-
vices, the Baron was allowed by Congress a yearly pension of two
thousand and five hundred dollars to continue during his life —
and the State of New York, where the Baron resided, gave him a
valuable tract of Land, containing several thousand acres. The
Baron was a man of expence and Mr. King has reason to believe
that he owed debts to a considerable amount, when he left for
Europe. Some of these debts were afterwards paid by the Baron ;
others of them remained unpaid at his death.

The Baron's moveables, or personal estate, were at the time of
his death of small value. His Lands, part of which he sold during
his life, were his only property worth inquiry. As the Baron died

112 XUFUS KING. [1796

without issue, his next of kin capable to inherit, would have
succeeded to his Lands had he died intestate. But he made a
will, in which, after bequeathing his Books, Furniture and other
personal estate of small value to a young Gentleman of the name
of Milliken (who lived in his house and whom he had assisted in
his collegiate education) he devised the whole of his Lands and
other property to Col. Walker and Major North, two American
citizens, who had been Aids-de-Camp to the Baron and whom he
considered and treated as his particular friends. This will has
been established according to the requisitions and forms of our
Laws, and the next of kin to the Baron de Steuben are thereby
excluded from inheriting any part of his estate. Mr. King gives
this information from recollecting what was publickly understood
respecting the Baron de Steuben's affairs — he has no doubt that
it is essentially correct. If however, the Baron Jacobi should
desire more exact and formal information, Mr. King with much
pleasure, will procure from New York an authenticated copy of
the Baron's will, together with an attested inventory of his estate.

Wm. Bingham to R. King, London.

Philada., Nov. 29, 1796.
Dear Sir :

I have sent by the present opportunity a full length Portrait of
the President. It is executed by Stewart (who is well known in
London) with a great deal of enthusiasm, and in his best manner,
& does great credit to the American Artist. It is intended as a
Present on the part of Mrs. Bingham to Lord Landsdown. As a
warm Friend of the United States and a great admirer of the
President, it cannot have a better Destination.

The Frame that accompanies it is manufactured in Philada. with
much Taste & Elegance. It has been suggested that some diffi-
culties may exist relative to its admission : in which case I must
request your Interference to obviate them.

Our Elections of Electors have been so far closed as to deter-
mine with considerable accuracy the result. The Friends of Mr.
Adams may calculate on a majority in his favor, but so small that,
on so momentous an occasion, it would be risking too much to

1796] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. II3

trust entirely thereto. It is therefore deemed expedient to recom-
mend to the federal Electors to give an uniform vote for Mr.
Pinckney, which with those that he will obtain to the Southward,
detached from Mr. Adams, will give him a decided Majority over
the other Candidates.

We are unfortunate in the Election in this State : we carried
only two of our Ticket. The most unwearied Exertions, accom-
panied by some Bribery, and not a little chicane, have been prac-
tised on this occasion by the anti-federal Party. They were very
essentially aided in their Views by some of Mr. Adet's strokes of
diplomatic Finesse. In the House of Representatives the fed-
eralists have triumphed at the last Election. We shall rather
have an accession than diminution of strength in the Senate.
Burr will not be re-elected and Butler resigns in disgust. . . .

With sincerity & esteem,

Wm. Bingham.

R. King to Lord Grenville.

Great Cumberland Place, Nov. 30, 1796.
My Lord :

I have the honor to return the letter addressed to John Maxwell
from his wife which your Lordship some time since transmitted
to me as containing evidence of improper conduct on the part of
the American Consul at Bristol. I sent this letter to Mr. Vander-
horst, the Consul referred to, with a request that he would furnish
such Explanations relative to this case as should be in his power.
From the communication that I have received from Mr. Vander-
horst, extracts from which I take the liberty to inclose for your
Lordship's information, I flatter myself that it will appear that the
unfavorable inferences that have been drawn from this letter, re-
specting the conduct of Mr. Vanderhorst are not well founded.

In your Lordship's letter of the 21st of September in answer to
my application for the discharge of Mr. Maxwell, an American
citizen impressed and detained on board his Majesty's ship
Sandwich, the reason assigned against his discharge is " that he
is married and settled at Bristol " ; and I understand that the orders
of the Commissioners of the Admiralty for the discharge of Amer-

VOL. II. — 8

114 RUFUS KING. [1796

ican Seamen usually contain a Proviso that the discharge is not to
operate in favor of any person who has entered on board any of
his Majesty's ships, or who is married or settled within any of his
Majesty's dominions. Without admitting or contesting on
this occasion the Rule of English Law, that a subject cannot
divest himself of his natural Allegiance, I take the liberty to re-
quest your Lordship's attention to the diversity of practice so
much to the disadvantage of American citizens that prevails in
the application of this Rule.

If Great Britain requires the acquiescence of foreign nations
in this Law, so far as regards the requisition of her subjects mar-
ried or settled abroad, or voluntarily engaged in foreign service,
is she not bound in like manner to observe it herself in respect
to the subjects of foreign Powers under similar circumstances in
her service or within her Dominions ? If to the demand of a
Foreigner in her service by the nation to which he belongs, Great
Britain answers that such Foreigner cannot be delivered because
he voluntarily engaged to serve his Majesty or is married or set-
tled within his Majesty's Dominions ; is she not bound by her
own Principles to admit the validity of the same answer from
such foreign nation, when she requires the surrender of British
Subjects found in a similar predicament in the service or within
the Territory of such foreign Nation ? Justice, which is always
impartial, furnishes the proper answer to these questions.

Admitting that the voluntary contract of an American citizen
to serve on board a British Ship, or the marriage or settlement of
such citizen within his Majesty's Dominions, is the foundation of
a right in his Majesty's Government to refuse the requisition of
the United States of America, that such citizen should be dis-
charged from his Majesty's service, do we not thereby establish a
Principle that at once condemns and puts an end to the practice
of his Majesty's Naval officers in entering American Ships in
search of and for the purpose of impressing British seamen, since
all seamen found on board such ships are there of choice and by
voluntary compact to serve in the American Employ.

But if neither of these circumstances can be considered as
justly giving a Right to his Majesty's Government to refuse the
discharge of American citizens, does it not result that the usual

1796] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 115

Proviso connected with the orders for the discharge of such citi-
zens, and which is assigned as a reason against the discharge of
John Maxwell, is without any just foundation and consequently
operates to the disadvantage and injury of the American
citizens ?

With the highest consideration & esteem, &c, &c,

Rufus King.

R. King to Lord Grenville.

Great Cumberland Place, Nov. 30, 1796.
My Lord :

In obedience to the instructions of the President of the United
States of America, I transmit to your Lordship an account of the
violent and humiliating treatment received by William Jessup, a
citizen of the said United States and master of the American ship
Mercury, from H. Pigot commander of his Majesty's Frigate Suc-
cess. The circumstances of this outrage are so extraordinary,
that, persuaded as I am of the Justice of his Majesty's Govern-
ment, I cannot a moment doubt that conformable to the just
requisition of the President of the United States, efficacious
measures will be taken to inquire into the same, and upon the
verification thereof, that the said H. Pigot will be punished as an
atrocious violator of the Treaty between the two Nations.
With high consideration & esteem, &c,

Rufus King.

London, December 9, 1796. R. King on this date reports
to the Secretary of State the following answers from Lord
Grenville, December 8, 1796:

Downing Street, Dec. 8, 1796.
Sir:

I have the honor of acknowledging the receipt of your letter
of the 30th ulto., and of transmitting to you the copy of a letter
upon the subject of it, which I have received from the Lords of
the Admiralty, and from which you will perceive that previously
to any complaint having been made by yourself or the Govern-

Il6 RUFUS KING. [1796

ment of the United States to Mr. Liston, directions had been
given for instituting an immediate inquiry into the Conduct im-
puted to Captain Pigot.

I have the honor to be, with great truth, &c,

Grenville.

Admiralty Office, 7th Dec, 1796.
My Lord :

Your Lordship having transmitted to us in your letter of the 3d
inst. an extract of one which you had received from Mr. Liston,
his Majesty's Minister to the United States of America, together
with a Copy of the Petition referred to therein from William
Jesup, Master of the American vessel the Mercury, on the subject
of the outrageous and cruel conduct, stated to have been exer-
cised towards him by Capt. Pigot of his M. S. Success on the occa-
sion set forth ; and signified to us at the same time his Majesty's
pleasure that we should cause a particular inquiry to be immedi-
ately made respecting the conduct imputed to Capt. Pigot and the
circumstances of the transaction in question ; we have the honor,
in answer thereto to acquaint your Lordship for his Majesty's
information, that we have sent transcripts of the Extract and
Petition above mentioned to Admiral Sir Hyde Parker, Com-
mander in chief of his Majesty's Ships and vessels at St. Do-
mingo, with instructions to make immediate and strict Enquiry
into the said transaction accordingly, and to report to us the
Result without delay ; having however previous to the receipt of
your letter, sent similar instructions to him, in consequence of a
statement which had appeared in an American Newspaper dated
the 25th of July last.

We have the honor to be, &c,

Arden

Charles Small Pybus

Ph. Stephens.

Mr. King finishes his letter thus:

" If the charge of Captain Jesup shall on examination be sup-
ported, of which there can scarcely be a doubt, I think that
Captn. Pigot will be punished with severity."

I796J LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. WJ

R. King to A. Hamilton.*

London, Nov. 30th, 1796.
My Dear Sir :

The Archduke having expelled Jourdan and Moreau from Ger-
many, the parties are in respect to territory in that quarter, where
they were when the campaign began. Bonaparte, by the latest
accounts from Italy, is critically circumstanced, and it seems not
improbable, that he likewise will be compelled to retire from
Lombardy. The mission of Lord Malmesbury remains undecided,
and though the negotiation is not promising, it does not appear
as desperate as it did a fortnight ago. Paper has entirely ceased
as a medium in France ; what their ability is to prosecute another
campaign, you, as well as I can, may conjecture. New projects are
to be brought forward in this country, and if for no other reason
than that they are novelties, they will be hazardous, where the
force of habit is stronger than that of reason. The minister's plan
is not definitively settled ; but enough is known to authorize a be-
lief that it cannot be approved by the moneyed men. The 3 per-
cents are at about 56 per ct. The minister is unwilling to augment
the debt, already enormous, by borrowing on such terms. He
intends proposing a loan, which is to be advanced by patriotic
capitalists, upon terms more advantageous to the government.
What patriotism may do, I cannot say ; but unless there exists a
real conviction in the minds of wealthy men, that their wealth is
in danger, I should suspect that this virtue, pure and dignified as
it is, will in this country prove an unproductive source when mil-
lions are required. It is time to make peace ; for all sides are
weary with the war. We most sincerely desire it, since peace
alone will afford us the tranquillity we wish, and ought to enjoy.

I do not think it prudent to write my opinions, so far as I
have formed them, concerning certain subjects interesting to our
rights, and respecting which you will naturally wish for informa-
tion from this quarter. The casualties to which letters are liable
require a caution that between friends is unpleasant, and some-
times inconvenient. You know my opinion respecting this
country. We have often endeavored to explain appearances that

* Works of Hamilton, v'\,, 183.

Il8 RUFUS KING. [1796

we disliked, and preserve our respect for a nation who have done
much to improve the condition and happiness of mankind. I
still hope that I have not been deceived, and that experience will
prove that the opinions of those from whom we differed were, as
we believed them, partial and erroneous.

We are anxious to hear the result of the Presidential election —
much, very much will depend upon that event. Farewell.

Yours very sincerely, &c,

R. King.

CHAPTER X.

Correspondence with Lord Grenville relative to the Conduct of the Consuls of
the U. S. in granting Certificates to Seamen — Also as to the Detention of
American Seamen on British Ships of War — Case of the Olive Branch —
Letters from Mr. Goodhue and Mr. Hamilton respecting the coming
Presidential Election in the U. S. and Mr. Adet's Communications — R.
King's letters to Mr. Pinckney in Paris on French Affairs — Vindication of
the U. S. in the Conduct towards France.

R. King to Secretary of State.

London, Dec. 10, 1796.
Dear Sir :

My letter of the 8th of September has given you information of
what passed between Lord Grenville & me respecting the author-
ity of our Consuls to grant Protections to Seamen. On the 3rd
day of Nov. I received the following letter from his Lordship.

" Downing Street, 3d Nov., 1796.
" Sir :

" The Consuls of the United States residing in his Majesty's
Dominions have for some time past been in the habit of granting to
sea-faring Persons certificates under their consular seal purport-
ing that the Bearers of them are citizens of the United States, and
as such liable to be called upon for the service of their own country
and that they are therefore not to be interrupted or molested by
any means whatever. I have reason to believe that these certifi-
cates have frequently been granted upon very slight and insuf-
ficient evidence and in a great number of cases to Persons who
were in fact British seamen.
120 RUFUS KING. [1796

" But independently of this abuse, I am under the necessity of
representing to you on the part of his Majesty's Government
the insuperable objections which apply to the Principle of a
jurisdiction in this respect assumed and exercised within his
Majesty's dominions by the Consuls of a foreign nation. And
I must remark to you that the impropriety of a proceeding so
much out of the ordinary line of consular functions, and so liable
to be abused for the worst purposes, is very much aggravated by
the unwarrantable assumption of a Power in the Consuls to
administer oaths to his Majesty's subjects and others resident
within these realms concerning the matter of the said cer-
tificates.

" I had the honor of writing to Mr. Pinckney on this subject on
the 13th of July last, requesting that he would inform me whether
the Consuls of the United States are in any manner authorized or
instructed by their own Government to grant such certificates,
and, in such case, whether any and what Rule of evidence or dis-
cretion is prescribed to them for their guidance is a duty of so
difficult and delicate a nature.

" I apprehend that Mr. Pinckney's departure prevented his
answering my letters ; but as I am persuaded that no such author-
ity can in fact have been given, the frequent instances of this
practice which have lately come within my knowledge, oblige me
now to request that you will have the goodness to notify the con-
suls that they are in future to abstain from a proceeding which
far exceeds the limits of their office, which is neither sanctioned
by the law and usage of nations, nor by any treaty between the
two countries, and the continuance of which must be considered
an act on their part injurious to the authority of the King's Gov-
ernment. The earnest desire which I feel to avoid even the ap-
pearance of a misunderstanding between the two Governments,
leads me to prefer this mode of notification rather than to take
any manner of signifying it to them more directly.

" And I avail myself with pleasure of this opportunity to assure
you of the high consideration & esteem, &c, &c.

" I have the honor to be,

" Grenville."

I thought it proper to communicate this letter to our Consuls,
which I did by copies accompanied by the following letter :

1796] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 121

Mr. Knox, American Consul, Hull — Circular to the

Consuls.

"London, Nov. 18, 1796.
" Sir :

" Inclosed I send you a copy of a letter from Lord Grenville to
me respecting the Consular Jurisdiction. Hitherto I have not
had leisure to consider the subject in the manner I wish to do,
previous to the return of an answer. It has however appeared to
me adviseable to transmit to you a copy of the letter, in order that
you should be informed of the Decision of this Government on
the points to which it refers. I am at present inclined to believe
that the administration of oaths by our Consuls in these or any
other cases to British subjects is neither necessary nor proper.
The other Point is more doubtful, as well as more important, as it
regards the security of our navigation and seamen. As we have
no convention with this Nation, defining the Consular Powers,
they must be ascertained by the Law of Nations. General usage
is evidence of this Law, and some of its Rules are to be found
only in the existence of such usage. I have not discovered any-
thing explicit on the Question in any work of Reputation, and I
shall be obliged to you to inquire and, as early as convenient, to
inform me what is the Practice on this subject of the consuls of
other Powers resident in this nation. If you can procure and send
me copies of similar certificates issued by the Consuls of other
nations, if such certificates are granted by any of them, I desire
you to do so.

" Though I would not be understood as giving a settled opinion
on this Point, I ought not to omit observing to you, that neither
our Laws respecting Consuls nor the late Law for the Relief and
Protection of American Seamen give to our Consuls any authority
to grant Certificates of Citizenship ; and I have seen no Instruc-
tion from the Executive that authorizes it. If the Power exists, it
must be derived from the Law of Nations. This Government
denies that it can be deduced from that source, and notifies to us
that we must abstain from the Exercise of the Power, since the same
is deemed to be repugnant to the Jurisdiction, and a continuance
thereof will be considered as injurious to the Authority of the

King's Government.

" With great respect, &c,

"Rufus King."

122 RUFUS KING. [1796

I do not consider myself authorized to instruct our Consuls in
this or in any other instance : in cases in which they ask my ad-
vice, I readily give it according to my views of their Privileges,
and of the public welfare. So far as I have been informed, the
Consuls do not think it prudent since this communication from
Lord Grenville to grant any more protections, and in consequence
thereof, I am frequently applied to by Seamen on the subject.

I did not approve of that part of the late Law for the Relief and
Protection of Seamen which authorizes the Collectors to grant
Protections. It appeared to me to be a measure of questionable
policy, and I apprehend it has placed our Seamen in a worse
instead of a better situation than that in which they were before.

One great evil of the regulation is that every Seaman who is
without a Certificate, and every one who has a Certificate from
% any other Officer than a Collector, is considered as not having
been able to procure a certificate from the Collector and is treated
here as a British Subject. The Law ought to be repealed, or
what under present circumstances would be better, it might be
amended by requiring every Seaman, who is a citizen, to prove
the same in a safe and satisfactory manner and to procure a Cer-
tificate thereof from the Collector. Another amendment should
be added to prohibit every other person except the Collectors
from granting Certificates to Seamen.

At present it is optional with a Seaman to procure or not to
procure a Certificate of citizenship, or to procure it from the Col-
lector or any other Officer. Hence these Certificates are granted
on a variety of forms on different degrees of proof and by almost
every grade of magistrates, and the consequence thereof has
been that they are all in some sort disregarded.

R. King to Lord Grenville.

Great Cumberland Place, Dec. 12, 1796.

Mr. King presents his compliments to Lord Grenville, and
takes the liberty to inclose a list of Thirty three Seamen, who
state themselves to be American citizens detained on board his
Majesty's Ships of War ; most of these cases are without the

1796] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 23

usual Proofs : the laws of the United States permit, but do not
oblige any citizen to procure and carry with him abroad a Certifi-
cate of Citizenship. Several of the persons named in the list
state that they did procure such Certificates before they left
America, but that the same have been taken from them, and are
detained or destroyed. All of them are strenuous in declaring
themselves to be American Citizens, and in expressing their Confi-
dence, that on an impartial examination they shall be able to
produce such Circumstances and Proofs, as will afford reasonable
satisfaction that they really are so.

Mr. King is apprized that inconveniences may be apprehended
from the reference of these and similar cases to a civil magis-
trate, or to any other & more regular Tribunal, than that which at
present decides them. But on the other hand his confidence in
Lord Grenville's candor, induces him to believe that his Lordship
will agree with him in the opinion, that the commander of a ship
of war (however honorable and esteemed, whose zeal for the
public service, whose personal emulation, and whose Reputation
and honor must inspire him with a strong and natural anxiety
that his ship should continue ably and fully manned) cannot be
the impartial Judge that these cases require.

Mr. King on this occasion finds it to be his Duty, to request
Lord Grenville's interference in order that these cases may receive
an impartial examination ; and though not accompanied by the
usual proofs, if by Circumstances and other satisfactory Evidence,
it shall appear that the same are truly represented, that the said
Seamen may be discharged.

R. King to Secretary of State.

London, Dec. 15, 1796.
Dear Sir :

I think it prudent to transmit to you copies of a Letter and of
the papers that accompanied it, which I yesterday received from
General Ira Allen of Vermont. Agreeable to his wishes and to
the accustomed course in Cases of Capture, I shall send copies to
Lord Grenville with a request of his interference in order that
this case should be examined, and if the statements of General

124 RUFUS KING. [1796

Allen should be found true, that the ship and Cargo should be
restored and permitted to proceed on her voyage.

Various rumours respecting the Destination of these arms have
prevailed here ; among them it has been said that they were in-
tended to be introduced through Vermont into Canada in order
to favor certain Projects that France meditates respecting that
Country. It is not my business to add conjectures or specula-
tions upon this subject. You will be able to judge of the number
of the militia of Vermont, of their probable deficiency of arms ;
whether it has been the practice in Vermont to arm the militia at
the public charge, whether the Legislature had authorized Gov-
ernor Chittenden or General Allen to make a Purchase of such a
quantity of muskets & Cannon and, by examining the contracts,
of which I enclose copies, you will be better able to form a
correct opinion of the nature of this Transaction than I am
able to do.*

Yr. obt. & faithful Servt.,

Rufus King.

B. Goodhue to R. King, London.

Philada., Dec. 15, 1796.
Dear Sir :

. . . You must, I presume, have seen Adet's Notes to our
Secretary calculated to degrade the character and measures of
the Executive, and to influence in the choice of another : in the
latter view it had doubtless an effect to establish the Anti-Ticket
of Electors in this State by a small majority, but I don't hear of
any such effect anywhere else ; neither do I believe it will be
possible for him or his Master, either by gasconading threats or
fulsome flattery to strengthen their party or influence.

I enclose you the returns of the Electors so far as have been
received ; a few days will put us out of doubt ; indeed from the

* This case is the capture of the American ship Olive Branch of Boston,
Capt. Bryant, sailing from Ostend to New York with arms for the State of Ver-
mont, as alleged, and captured by his Majesty's ship of war Audacious \ Capt.
Gould, on the 19th Nov., 1796, and carried into Portsmouth. It is further
alluded to in Mr. Pickering's letter to Mr. King of April 6th and June 16th,
1797. — Ed-

1796] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 25

votes already in, and by the information we have, it almost is a
certainty that Mr. Jefferson cannot be President : tho', probably
by throwing away votes in some of the Eastern States for Pinck-
ney to ensure Adams, he may be the V. President. His own
party pretty much give up any expectation of his being President.
Mr. Tichenor succeeds Gov. Robinson, Mr. Howard Mr. Potts,
and Mr. Butler has resigned ; from these changes with our ex-
pectation of having a good man instead of Mr. Burr after the
Third of March, I think we need not fear any machinations that
can affect the Senate, and poqrr Langdon will be the only man
East of the Potomac in the Senate to save us from going to the
Devil, as his phrase is. Dearborn & Lyman will be left out, and
Gov. Jay & Col. Hamilton inform me they expect a better repre-
sentation from your State, tho' they fear James Watson is not
popular enough to oust Livingston. Those who could have done
it, could not be prevailed upon to stand Candidates. There is a
better representation in this State, Delaware, Maryland, So. Caro-
lina, and a better one expected from Virginia, so that we calculate
upon having a decided majority of good men in our House of
Representatives. . . .

It may be expected the threatenings of Adet may occasion
much spouting and foaming in the House, touching the subjects
of his complaints, but never fear ; we shall be steady and our
Country will support us against these Disorganizers. I expect
the French will practise on their Scheme of Spoliation ; but if
they should, I hear of no person who supposes we would get any-
thing by going to war with them. . . .

Your sincere friend,

B. Goodhue.

A. Hamilton to R. King, London.

New York, Dec. 16, 1796.

I have received, my dear Sir, your several letters of the 25th
August 10th & nth of Sept. You know my sentiments towards
you too well to ascribe my Delay in answering them to any other
than the imperiousness of avocations with which I could not
dispense.

126 RUFUS KING. [1796

Public opinion, taking the Country at large, has continued
since you left us to travel on in a right direction, and, I trust,
will not easily deviate from it. You will have seen before this
reaches you Mr. Adet's communications. We conjecture, as to
the timing of them, that they were intended to influence the elec-
tion of President by the apprehension of war with France. We
suppose also they are designed in the same way to give support
to the partizans of France, and that they have for eventual object
the placing things in such a state as will leave France at liberty
to slide easily into a renewal of cordiality or an actual or virtual
war with the U. S. If the war of Europe continues, the efforts
of France will be likely to be levelled, as a primary object, against
the Commerce and Credit of Great Britain ; and to injure these
she may think it adviseable to make war upon our Trade, for-
getting perhaps that the consequence may be, to turn it more
entirely into the channels of Great Britain. These reflexions
will be obvious to you. I only make them to apprize you of the
view which is taken of the subject here. Thus far appearances
do not indicate that the purpose of influencing this Country has
been obtained. I think in the main the effect has been to im-
press the necessity of adhering more firmly to the Government.

You need not be told that every exertion, not degrading to us,
will be made to preserve peace with France. Many of the oppo-
site party, however they may be pleased with appearances of ill
humour in France, will not wish it to go to the length of war ;
and we shall endeavour to avoid it in pursuance of our general
.plan of preserving peace with all the world. Yet you may
depend, that we shall not submit to be dictated to, or to be forced
into a departure from our plan of neutrality unless to repel an
attack upon us.

Our anxiety has been extreme on the subject of the Election
for President. If we may trust our information, which there is
every reason to trust, it is now decided that neither Jefferson nor
Burr can be President. It must be either Adams or Pinckney,
the first most probably. By the throwing away votes in New Eng-
land, lest Pinckney should outrun Adams, it is not unlikely that
Jefferson will be Vice President. The event will not a little mor-
tify Burr. Virginia has given him only one Vote.

It was to be expected, of course, that the Senators' answer to

1796] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 12 J

the President's speech would be nattering to him. But the result
in the House of Representatives has been better than was ex-
pected. An address which I have not yet seen, but stated by our
friends to be a very good one, passed the house with only twelve
dissentients, confessedly of the most fiery spirits. The address
is not only generally complimentary to the President, but includes,
it is said, an explicit approbation of his administration, which caused
the division. Edward Livingston is in the minority.

After giving you these consolatory accounts, I am now to dash
the cup a little, by telling you that Livingston is in all probability
re-elected in this City. The principal cause has been an unac-
ceptable candidate on our part, James Watson. There were four
Gentlemen who would certainly have succeeded, but neither of
them would accept. In Watson we could not unite opinions ; he
was more disagreeable than I had supposed to a large body of our
friends ; and yet after the declining of the four persons alluded
to, we could not do otherwise than support him : for he had
gotten a strong hold on most of the leading mechanics who act
with us.

But in the State at large, we shall better our representation,
and I hope for a majority in the next house of Representatives.
As an omen of this, there are several new me??ibers in Congress
from different States, who hitherto vote with our friends.

The favourable change in the conduct of Great Britain towards
us strengthens the hand of the friends of order and peace. It is
more to be desired that a Treatment in all respects unexception-
able from that quarter should obviate all pretext to inflame the pub-
lic mind. We are labouring hard to establish in this country
principles more national and free from foreign ingredients ; so that
we may be neither " Greeks nor Trojans," but truly American.
Adieu.

Affectly. yrs,

A. Hamilton.

R. King to Col. Humphries.

London, Dec. 29, 1796.

. . . Adet had announced to our Government, a decree of
the Directory authorizing the capture of neutral vessels in like

128 RUFUS KING. [*797

manner and for the same causes as England captured them. Col.
Pickering made a very proper reply to Mr. Adet's Note. I have
not heard whether Mr. Pinckney has been reed, at Paris. I am
^fc inclined to believe that he has been, or soon will be received.
The object of the apparent displeasure of the Directory no longer
requires this stately behaviour, and I therefore conclude that the
Directory in France and Mr. Adet in America will return to their
former and more reasonable course of proceeding towards us.
Nothing is more certain than that we sincerely desire to live in
harmony and friendship with France ; and of this Disposition we
have given the most plain and solid proofs. We equally desire
and are firmly resolved to be the independent Judges of our own
interest and- concerns. We think ourselves able to manage our
own affairs, and observing Justice towards every other Nation,
we are willing to be left to govern our own. If it is essential to
the continuation of a friendship with France, that we should sub-
mit our Politicks and the Management of our affairs to their Guid-
ance I think we shall not hesitate, or be embarrassed, in discovering
our Duty. . . .

Farewell, &c, &c,

Rufus King.

R. King to General Pinckney.

London, Jany. 2, 1797.

. . . I had thought much of your situation before Mr. Hall's
arrival and I am convinced that the course you have pursued, has
been the most proper that could have been adopted. It will require
moderation, patience and firmness to finish the work you have so
well begun. . . .

I am, Dear Sir, truly yours,

Rufus King.

The above letter was written in answer to a communication
addressed to the Secretary of State by Mr. Pinckney, giving
to him an account of the conduct of the Directory of France,
in not receiving him as Minister, succeeding Mr. Monroe,
and of his own course ; he asked Mr. King to transmit the

1 797 J LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 29

same, first making a copy of it. It is an interesting state-
ment of the circumstances connected with this refusal to
receive him.

In the following letter to Mr. Pinckney, Mr. King expresses
most clearly the views he held in reference to the charges so
often made against him and those who acted with him, of
an extreme fondness for England in the opinions they held,
controlling their actions in the public affairs of the country.
They could not indeed conceal their fear of the dangers to be
encountered in surrendering the conduct of our government
into the power of those who were carried away by a most
unreasoning admiration for French methods and the French
ideas then so prevalent, which had been so disastrous to
other nations. Nor could they fail to see that with all her
acts of unkindness and insolent assumption towards us, Eng-
land was indeed the bulwark against French aggrandizement,
and the nation from which we might receive in the end the
fairest treatment, and which would contribute most to the
growth of our commercial interests, though at the time look-
ing most persistently and even unjustly after her own. Com-
mercially England and the United States have always been
rivals, and at this time, the younger country was only begin-
ning to win the respect of other nations and thus to lay the
foundations on which she might command and maintain it.

R. King to General Pinckney, Paris.

London, Jany. 14, 1797.
Dear Sir :

. . . I have received no intelligence of the public opinion
respecting Mr. Adet's Notes. The News Papers suggest that they
have been published in order to influence the choice of a Presi-
dent ; and not it is said without having in some measure answered
the purpose with the Quakers of Pennsylvania. How humiliating
is this Reflection ! On carefully attending to, and examining,
these complaints of Mr. Adet, it is plain that no just cause of
offence has been given by us to the French Government. Our

VOL. II.— 9

130 RUFUS KING. [1797

real sin, however it may be desired to conceal it, has been that
neither our interest, nor inclination, led us to make common cause
with France in the war against England. Most of the complaints
preferred by Mr. Adet have again and again been discussed and
refuted. Those which grow out of the Treaty with this Country,
are built on gross misrepresentations and are quite unfounded.
The pretended Vexations of French Privateers and prizes and the
countenance by our Government of British Equipments in our
ports are equally uncandid and destitute of support. Every man
who has resided in America must recollect the great trouble we
have had by repeated attempts to equip French Privateers in our
Ports, and to engage our People to embark in their enterprizes so
repugnant to our Interest and our Laws ; and there is not a French-
man who has visited our seaports who, if he will declare the truth,
would not say that it has been impossible for the British openly to
make an equipment of a single vessel in any of our Harbours.
The most satisfactory answer might in my opinion be given to
these notes, and such only I hope will be given ; an answer which
shall expose and correct the misstatements with which Mr. Adet's
Notes abound ; which shall demonstrate that we have been just to
f ranee and impartial to all Nations ; that we are resolved to gov-
ern our own, and that we continue to be earnestly desirous to
cultivate in every way compatible with self-respect, and the inter-
est and honor of our Country, the esteem, the good-will and the
friendship of France, in whose welfare and prosperity we have at
all times taken not only a sincere but an affectionate concern.
No step, in my belief, would have been more impolitic, none will
in the end be more injurious to a beneficial connection between
America and France, than that lately adopted, unless it is suc-
ceeded by one which Justice and sound Policy alike demand. I
detest the idea that either France or England should really have
any influence in the Government of America. I will not believe
that such is our degraded condition. From causes too plain to be
mistaken and too considerable not to have some influence there
have existed a strong regard and sincere friendship among the
people of America for those of France ; but these have their limits
and can be overcome. Much as France has been beloved, our own
character, our honor, our national Independence not only of

1797] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 131

France, but of all the rest of the world, are infinitely more dear
to us than the interest we have taken in whatever concerned
France. This will be proved beyond a doubt if France persists.
But I will not tire you with observations which you must feel and
know to be true. I still hope that you will witness more modera-
tion, and experience a Treatment less extraordinary and more
friendly than you have hitherto received. . . .

Truly yrs.,

Rufus King.

CHAPTER XI.

Despatches to the Secretary of State relative to the Arrest in the Proceedings
of Commissioners under the 7th Article — R. Troup on the Presidential Elec-
tion and American Affairs — Treaty of Commerce with Turkey — Delays in
Admiralty Courts in England — Law of the United States for the Protection of
Seamen — R. King to Col. Hamilton ; Estimate of Washington in England,
and of the Fairness of the British Government in Meeting Questions under
the 7th Article — Good Feeling in England towards America Shown in a
Letter of R. King to Washington — Maryland Bank Stock — Question of
Retrocession of Louisiana to France — Letters giving the Result of the
Presidential Election — Suspension of Specie Payments by the Bank of
England — Condition of that Country — American Merchants ask for British
Convoys on Account of French Captures.

R. King to Secretary of State.

London, Jany. 14, 1797.
Dear Sir :

We sometime since were uneasy on account of certain embarrass-
ments which for a time arrested the proceedings of the Commis-
sioners and threatened to defeat the purposes of their appointment.
These difficulties I have reason to think are overcome, a pretty
full explanation of the extent of the Provision of the Seventh
Article has taken place between me and this Government, and I
now flatter myself that the Commissioners will not in future ex-
perience any serious obstructions to the fair and full execution
of their Trust. I reserve a more detailed report on this subject
to a future opportunity.* Very few American Vessels have for
some time past been taken by the British Cruizers in these seas.
Three or four American ships bound with rich cargoes from
Surinam to Amsterdam have been sent in and are in the course

* See Appendix III.
1797] MF& AND CORRESPONDENCE, 1 33

of an admiralty trial. Some discoveries unfavorable to the Amer-
ican claims have in one or two of these cases been made and operate
against others in the same Trade*

I have for some time been endeavouring to obtain from Mr.
Bayard an abstract, classing in a manner I have indicated to him
the whole of the American claims. I hope soon to obtain it,
when I shall be able to judge what measures remain to be adopted
in order that we may not be charged with Delay, negligence or
wilful omission. I am not however without my fears that this
business has been conducted in a manner that we may have cause
to regret. The mutual Reliance of the Claimants and of the
Government on each other may have prevented either from ob-
taining such Documents and Proofs as may be found requisite to
substantiate our Claims. What our true situation is in this respect,
I cannot discover because / have not been able to obtain such a view
of the agency of Mr. B. and of the cases in his care as is necessary
for this purpose. I hope we shall not ultimately find that greater
talents were requisite in this agency than those that have been
employed in it ; and it will be a real relief if I shall find the
business in such a situation that past omissions can still be
remedied. ... I have intended at an earlier period to mention to
you the expediency of precise instructions respecting the Receit,
deposit and Payment to the Proprietors of such Sums of money as may
be paid upon the claims under the care of Mr. Bayard. I have sug-
gested to you my opinion on the subject of costs advanced by the
Governments ; and I have lately learned that Mr. Bayard expects
and perhaps will claim a commission upon all sums paid by him to
those to whom it belongs. Having a strong and I think just aver-
sion to the blending of public and private Duties and the mingling
of pub. with priv. emoluments, I disapprove of this course of pro-
ceeding. In my opinion the pay of the Government ought to be
considered as the only compensation of its agents, and all monies
received by such agents on account of any of our citizens, ought
to be paid to them without any deduction except of the advances
for costs made on their account by the Government. The
national character and the interests of individuals will in this
manner be best secured.

* Sentences in italics are in cipher here and elsewhere.

134 RUFUS KING. [1797

The money when received should be deposited with some safe
banker, notice should be given to the Proprietors of the amount
of their respective Portions, on whose Drafts, or to whose Agents
duly authorized the same would be paid without delay or deduc-
tion. It will be easy to form a proper rule on this subject, its
promulgation in America will put the Claimants on their guard
against improper demands, and moreover will enable them to make
seasonable arrangements for the Reception of their Money.

As this Business is in some degree connected with the Duties
of my office, I think it due to myself as well as to the public inter-
est, to intimate my Ideas on the subject. Knowing that, in
pecuniary concerns in which the public as well as individuals are
interested, nothing short of the utmost circumspection can shield
a man from suspicions that often fasten themselves upon
him. , . .

With perfect Respect,

Rufus King.

R. King to Genl. Pinckney.

London, Jany. 20, 1797.

. . I send you a few of the latest American Papers
that I have received. They contain the President's Speech to
Congress, and the address of the two Houses in answer. They
have afforded me much satisfaction, as I consider them as strong
Testimonials of what all my letters concur in stating to be the case>
that the public opinion, taking the country at large, is sound and
right ; the addresses of the two Houses are not only highly com-
plimentary to the President, but they contain an explicit approba-
tion of his administration. Principles more and more national
appear in every quarter of the Union, strong marks of displeasure
on the subject of foreign influence and foreign interferences in
our affairs are likewise seen in the different News Papers ; so that
I think it will be soon perceived that we are neither Greeks nor
Trojans, but truly Americans. . . .

Farewell, yrs. very Sincerely,

Rufus King.

17971 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 35

R. Troup to R. King.

New York, 28 Jan., 1797.
My Dear Sir :

Our election for President and Vice President

has terminated. It is admitted on all hands that Adams is to

be our President and Jefferson our Vice President. . . .

The Eastern States were afraid of voting generally for Pinckney

lest they should make him outstrip Adams ; and this policy has

lost us one of our Candidates. Burr was left very much in the

background ; even in Virginia where his greatest strength was

supposed to lie he had but one vote. The antifederal party affect

at present to be well pleased with the fate of the election, and

they are now fraternizing with Adams and his particular friends

and endeavoring to raise an opinion that Hamilton and his friends

E'ted to bring Pinckney forward in preference to him. In this
e we voted unanimously Adams and Pinckney. This was the
also with New Jersey. As the event of the election was all
important and extremely critical, we judged it the soundest policy
to take a double chance — the contrary policy put everything at
hazard, and we have made a hairbreadth escape. Jefferson, his
friends say, will serve.

The public mind is at present much engaged with the letter
from our Secretary of State to our Minister at Paris, in answer to
Mr. Adet's note of the 15th of November last. ... I
think Mr. Pickering has given a satisfactory refutation to all the
charges contained in Mr. Adet's note. . . . Adet and
his party have injured their cause by the means they have
taken. I have not met a man who does not condemn his note.
All the friends of peace, which constitute the great mass of our
fellow citizens consider it as one of the most insulting and
offensive addresses that ever was made to a government or a peo-
ple. Adet having suspended.himsje]f remains suspended. . . .
What is to be the result of the present state of things with
France we cannot even conjecture. The general opinion is that
we shall rub along without a war. An embargo has lately been
talked of in consequence of the serious depredations on our com-
merce in the West Indies by the French ; but I doubt whether
the measure will be adopted. . . .

136 RUFUS KING. [1797

The only subject which during the present sessions (of Con-
gress) has occasioned any warmth in the House of Representa-
tives, is a resolution which lately passed for calling upon the
debtor States to pay their balances. Lawrance writes me that he is
not without hopes of a satisfactory result.

The payment of the balance due, or appearing to be due from
this State is a subject much debated with us. I confess I feel
awkwardly and unpleasantly on the occasion. If we are called
upon to pay, our State will give an answer that I presume will go
into the merits of the claim. W. Smith of South Carolina has
been very active in Congress in urging the claim. Benson says he
is the last man in the world to have engaged in the measure.
What will be the final issue of this business is very uncertain. It
certainly creates embarrassment and excites feelings that are to be
regretted. . . .

Burr is now here. He has during the present session paid lit-
tle, or no, attention to his duties in the Senate. It is whispered
that his money engagements are embarrassing to him. . . .

By the by, do you know that I am Lawrance's successor — the
fact is undoubtedly so. I have in consequence begun to powder
my hair — and in a full suit of black with powdered hair I have
appeared on the bench thus far with some advantage. All admire
the decorum and gravity with which I conduct myself. Hamilton
and Lawrance are the cause of my metamorphose. . . .
You have no conception how high the necessaries of life, labour,
&c, still continue. Every month brings after it some addition to
prices. The pressure for money in every part of the continent is
beyond example. This arises from the large sum locked up in
France ; the depredations upon our trade by the French which
are enormous ; the over speculations as well by merchants, as by
land-jobbers, and other causes that will readily occur to you.
Failures here are becoming common ; not a man amongst us that
is in business but what is extremely driven for money. . . .
This state of things is a source of innumerable mischiefs to us,
and I pray that we may soon experience a release. . . .

Hamilton has for some time past been laid up with a lame leg,
got by watching the City. Have you heard that within two
months past frequent attempts have been made to burn the City ?
It is the case. The like attempts have been made in Philadel-

1797] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 1 37

phia. Who are concerned in them, or what in particular has
led to them we cannot discover. The consequence, however, has
been a serious alarm, which produced a nightly watch consisting
of about 20 in each ward. From this duty no person is considered
as exempt if health will permit his service. A few nights ago
Col. Hamilton and Col. Troup had the honor of being reduced to
the ranks, serving under Capt. Low, ci-devant Governor Low. I
do not believe the watching in this way will continue much
longer ; the fear has lessened. . .

Very sincerely and affectionately,

Rob. Troup.

R. King to Secretary of State.

London, Jany. 24, 1797.
Dear Sir :

In one or two conversations with the Turkish Ambassador at
this court relating to a Treaty of Commerce, I should infer, if reli-
ance can be placed on his opinion, that there would not be much diffi-
culty in our concluding a valuable Treaty with that Power. On this
subject I take the liberty to inclose a letter sent to me by Mr.
Bird which has been addressed to him by Mr. Abot, who was born
& has for many years resided at Constantinople. . . .

Rufus King.

R. King to Lord Grenville.

Great Cumberland Place, Jany. 24, 1797.
My Lord :

From considerations perfectly respectful to his Majesty's govern-
ment, it is with reluctance that I find myself obliged to represent
to your Lordship the numerous complaints of the delays which
have been experienced by the American citizens and which con-
tinue to prevent decisions in the causes pending in the High
Court of Admiralty. These causes are very important both in
number and value. Many of them for a very long time have been
ready for trial ; in all of them the Claimants are exposed to heavy
expenses in the prosecution of their claims, and in some instances
they are threatened with heavy losses by the detention of their

138 RUFUS KING. [1797

property, in consequence of which other of their commercial con-
cerns are deranged and placed in a ruinous situation. I am
sensible that a prompt administration of Justice by his Majesty's
Courts is enjoined by the highest and most venerable Authority.
I likewise know that this authority is equally obligatory upon the
highest court of Admiralty as upon the other Branches of the
judicial Department, in addition to which, the act commonly
called the Prize act, conformable to the equitable and just Princi-
ples of public Law, prescribes and limits the time within which
all Questions of Prize shall be decided by this court. It would ill
become me, my Lord, to inquire into the causes of the delays
complained of, if on investigation these complaints shall appear
to be well founded ; but it is my duty to state to your Lordship
that a long catalogue of American Causes, in which these cap-
tures took place so long ago, as the period when the Island of
Martinique was conquered by his Majesty's Forces, and in which
the Claimants for a long time have been prepared for Trial,
remain undecided ; and that others, some of which are attended
with circumstances of peculiar hardship, are likewise ready for a
hearing, but no decision can be had.

Having full reliance upon the Justice of his Majesty's Govern-
ment, and being likewise impressed with the belief that the
subject of these complaints is not without a remedy, I take the
liberty to request your Lordship's interference in order that, by
such means as shall be deemed proper, future delays may be pre-
vented, and a speedy Trial be had in the said American Causes.

With the greatest satisfaction, I avail myself of this occasion to
assure your Lordship of the high consideration with which I have
the honor to be your obed. & very humble servant.

Rufus King.

R. King to Lord Grenville.

Great Cumberland Place, Jany. 28, 1797.
My Lord :

I have the honor to send your Lordship the copy of a Law of
the United States for the relief and protection of American Sea-
men, likewise the copy of an Instruction given by the President

1797] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 39

to the Collectors of the several Districts, which supplies an omis-
sion in this Law and prescribes the Evidence, on which alone
Certificates of Citizenship may be granted by such Collectors, and
also a copy of the first section of the law of the United States
prescribing an uniform Rule of naturalization. I flatter myself
that your Lordship will perceive in these Documents the care and
caution that the American Government have observed, in order
that those only who are justly entitled should obtain Certificates
of American Citizenship. It is not my present purpose to enter
into an Examination of the precise limits of the Consular Juris-
diction and Functions, which your Lordship conceives do not
extend to give a right to the American Consuls to grant Cer-
tificates of Citizenship to the Seamen of that Nation, who come,
or are brought within his Majesty's Dominions ; I think it how-
ever my Duty to observe, that on careful Enquiry I find it to
have been the antient practice of the Consuls of Maritime Nations,
resident within his Majesty's Dominions, ex officio, to grant Cer-
tificates of this kind ; and that this practice is still, as I am
informed, pursued by the Consuls of Denmark, Sweden & Portu-
gal, and probably by those of other Nations. * I ought also to
add that from the best Examination I have been able to give the
subject, I cannot but be of the opinion, with becoming deference
for the Sentiments of his Majesty's Government, that, under
proper Regulations, the Exercise of this Power is both an im-
portant, and especially between America & Great Britain, the
most material, portion of the Consular Rights. I make this ob-
servation, my Lord, not to invite a discussion of the Question,
but for the sole purpose of precluding any Inference that might
result from its not having been made on this occasion.

The object of this communication is to represent to your Lord-
ship, that in consequence of the relations of Peace and friendship
subsisting between America and Great Britain which give, and of
the fourteenth Article of the Treaty lately concluded between
them which confirms, to the People and Inhabitants of the United

* See Lord Grenville; Letter to R. K., p. 119 of this volume, denying this
right and requesting R. K. to notify the Consuls to abstain from granting
these Certificates as "neither sanctioned by the law and usage of nations,
nor by any treaty between the two Govts."

140 RUFUS KING. [1797

States, a Right, securely to resort to, and to reside in his Majesty's
European Dominions, great numbers of American Citizens, and
especially of the class which compose the Seamen engaged in the
American Navigation, are from Time to Time arriving within, and
in the prosecution of their lawful concerns frequenting, his
Majesty's said European Dominions, many of whom have no Cer-
tificates of Citizenship, in some instances having omitted to obtain
the same within the United States, and in others the Certificates,
which had been so obtained, having by the casualties of sea-
faring Lives been destroyed. These seamen who cannot easily
be distinguished by language or manners from those of Great
Britain, are while employed on board American Ships, and on
Shore, daily seized, and contrary to their will, impressed into his
Majesty's Service, to the manifest injury of their personal Rights,
and to the material detriment and disadvantage of the American
Navigation and Commerce. So long as our Consuls were in the
Practice of granting Protections to American Seamen, these in-
juries and inconveniences were less frequent, and more easily
remedied. The Laws of the United States authorize, but do not
compel, their Seamen to take out Certificates of Citizenship, within
the United States ; and the Practice is not uncommon, that they
omit to obtain such Certificates ; and place their dependence
upon the assistance of the Consuls in case of interruption in any
of the Ports of his Majesty's European Dominions.

Some few irregularities, it is possible, may unintentionally have
happened in the granting of Protections by the American Consuls,
as no precise instructions for the Regulation of their Conduct in
this respect, have heretofore been given to them. To avoid
similar irregularities in future, and to afford the Protection which
is indispensably due to the American Seamen within his Majesty's
European Dominions, I have the honor to submit to your Lord-
ship, the following propositions —

1. That the American Consuls shall hereafter grant Certificates
of Citizenship, in the Form prescribed in the inclosed Law, to
such American Seamen as shall prove themselves entitled to
receive the same.

2. In order that no persons, except those who are so entitled,
should receive such Certificates, That an instruction similar, to
and founded upon that given by the President to the Collectors,

1797] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 141

should be given by me to the several American Consuls for the
government of their conduct.

3. That instructions should be given by the proper Department
of his Majesty's Government, to his Majesty's Naval Officers to
respect such Certificates issued by the American Consuls.

Convinced of the Disposition of his Majesty's Government to
remove effectually and as fast as possible every cause of In-
quietude and Discontent between the two countries and to
strengthen the good understanding and friendship which subsist
between them, I persuade myself that your Lordship will see no
objection sufficiently weighty to prevent the early Adoption of
the Propositions, which appear to me, my Lord, to be essential to
the security of the commerce and navigation of my Country.

I cannot express to your Lordship in language too strong, my
thorough conviction of the importance of this Subject to the
Mutual Harmony of the two Countries, which it is my earnest
Desire should be uninterrupted and perpetual ; nor can I cease
to entertain the Expectation that his Majesty's Government will,
with as little Delay as possible, meet the overtures of the United
States and proceed to those mutual Discussions, which, it is be-
lieved, must lead to the permanent settlement of Principles and
Rules, by which the Seamen, belonging to the respective Nations,
may in all Situations hereafter be known & distinguished.

This done, the Regulations that I have the honor to submit to
your Lordship's consideration, will cease to be necessary.
With high consideration, &c,

Rufus King.

R. King to Col. Hamilton.

London, Feb. 6, 1797.
Dear Sir :

I have had the pleasure to receive your letter of the 16th of
Deer., and I need not express the satisfaction, which the informa-
tion that it contained afforded me. The probable termination of
the Election of Pr., the general Temper of the Country, and the
Effect likely to be produced by Mr. Adet's Notes, are such as I
had not only hoped but expected : if by prudence and Firmness,

142 RUFUS KING. [1797

which have hitherto kept us out of this extraordinary and deso-
lating war, we shall be able to maintain the public peace and na-
tional Honor, we shall not only increase our Reputation as a wise
people, but we shall moreover establish a Precedent of inestima-
ble worth for future Times of Trouble and Embarrassment. Noth-
ing can exceed the applause that is given here to our Government,
and no American who has not been in England can have a just
Idea of the admiration expressed among all Parties of General
Washington. It is a common observation that he is not only the
most illustrious but also the most meritorious character that has
hitherto appeared. The King is without doubt a very popular
character among the People of this Nation : it would be saying
very much to affirm, that next to him, General Washington is the
most popular character among them, and yet I verily believe this
to be the fact.

I mention these Circumstances, not only because it will give
you, as it has afforded me, much pleasure to hear them mentioned,
but also because they show a more liberal manner of thinking and
speaking respecting us, and a more rational estimate of our affairs
than formerly existed. Much credit is due to Mr. Jay on this
Score, who we thought would do honor and be of advantage to
our country, but who has done much more than I could have
imagined, had I not seen the clearest proofs of his success. He had
great difficulties to encounter, he overcame many of them, some
still exist & when they will be removed I am unable to say. Time
and patience are necessary to form a satisfactory opinion how far
we shall finally be able to agree. In the main our affairs here are
in a good train, the treaty I think will be fairly and fully executed.
You remember the opinion given by certain Gentlemen upon the
Construction of the 7th Article of the Treaty. We have experienced
embarrassments on this subject, and for several weeks the busi-
ness of the Commissioners was entirely at a stand ; the advocate
of this Government having denied their Power to examine any
question that had been decided by the H. Court of Appeals. The
question was delicate ; the pride, and as it was alleged, the im-
portance of men of Rank and Influence were almost enlisted
against our pretensions ; and a little imprudence might have
thrown the Business into the worst possible situation : this did
not happen ; with moderation, caution and a conciliatory mode of

1797] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 43

proceeding these difficulties have been entirely removed, and all
is now proceeding in a satisfactory manner. The result of several
conferences has been, after the manifestation of much candor
and fairness on the part of this Government, a direction to the
British Commissioners to unite with ours and to proceed to hear
and decide every question that shall be brought before them ac-
cording to the Provisions of the Treaty, which it was added it was
the Duty of the Commrs. to consider and interpret. . . .

By letters received to-day from Paris, I have the unpleasant
information that Genl. Pinckney was on the 28th ulto. ordered by
the Directory to leave Paris, and that he intended to depart for
Holland (where he will wait the orders of our Govt.) on the 31st.
I cannot fully account for this step, after the irresolution that for
some time has existed ; whether it is to be ascribed to information
which has been thought sufficient to satisfy the Directory of the
Result of the Election for Pr., or whether it is to be attributed to
the late astonishing victories of Buonaparte, which have latterly
destroyed an army of 40,000 Austrians, I am uncertain ; perhaps
both have contributed to this extraordinary step.

Yours very sincerely
Rufus King.

R. King to Genl. Washington.

London, Feby. 6, 1797.

Sir :

I have had the honor to receive your letter of the 22d of De-
cember. Count Rumford being in Bavaria, I have requested the
minister of that country at this court, to forward your letter to the
count with his next dispatch. . . .

Our affairs here relative to the execution of the Treaty are in a
good train ; some delays and difficulties have existed, but they
exist no longer, and the Commissioners are going on in a satisfac-
tory manner. In the Conferences that I have had with this
Government upon these and other Topics, I have found them
candid and impartial in as great a degree as I had expected.
Several important points not settled by the Treaty still remain
open ; and both time and patience are requisite even now to form
a safe opinion how far we shall in the end be able to agree. I
think I am not deceived in supposing that a sincere and general

144 RUFUS KING. [1797

desire exists in this country to live in harmony and friendship
with us. This disposition is however fettered and enfeebled by-
Prejudices and Opinions connected with the national commerce
and marine, which make the Government slow and cautious in
every step which has a reference to these important concerns.
Some uneasiness has been manifested here for some few weeks
past concerning the situation of the British Territories in the E.
Indies. It is not very easy to obtain good information upon this
Subject, but there is reason to believe that much disaffection
exists among the native troops in the Company's Service. The
Establishment is understood to be 20,000 Europeans and 60,000
native or Black troops. Whatever the origin of these discontents
may have been, and they are supposed to be of several years'
standing, they have lately risen to such a pitch that the local Gov-
ernment of India has been compelled first to temporise, and then,
as is commonly the consequence, to submit to measures they were
unable to prevent. Lord Cornwallis is suddenly to be sent to
Bengal, and with such extensive powers as it is hoped will enable
him to restore tranquillity. What may be his success my w
accurate information forbids me to conjecture. . . .
With perfect Respect, I have the honor, &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Lord Grenville.

Great Cumberland Place, Feby. 10, 1797.
Mv Lord :

Long antecedent to the year 1775, the Assembly of the Colony
of Maryland invested a large sum of money, collected from the
Inhabitants thereof, in the capital stock of the Bank of England.
The object of this investment was to aid the credit and promote
the local welfare of the Inhabitants of the colony. This Stock for
the convenience of its management was purchased, and stood, in
the names of certain British subjects, resident in England. The
Dividends pursuant to the direction of the Colony's Legislature,
were, for a series of years, invested in the same stock, and thus
the property belonging to the said Colony in the year 1775, had
increased to the sum of Twenty-nine Thousand Pounds sterling
of the said capital stock of the Bank of England.

1797] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 45

The Trustees continuing to reinvest the Dividends, have thereby
since augmented the said Property to a still greater sum. In the
year 1783, the Legislature of the State of Maryland authorized the
appointment of an agent for the purpose of receiving from the said
Trustees, or their Survivors, a transfer of the said stock, together
with all monies that had arisen from the same, & which had not
been reinvested. One of the said Trustees having refused to join
in such Transfer & Payment, a Suit or Suits were instituted in
his Majesty's high Court of Chancery to compel the same. These
Suits, in which his Majesty's attorney-general has been made a
party, are still depending, and the State of Maryland is unable to
obtain possession of the said property, inasmuch as it is ailed ged
that the Crown has an interest in the same. In this Situation the
State of Maryland made application to the President of the United
States, who has instructed me to employ such proper means as
should be deemed advisable, in order to obtain for the said State
the possession and enjoyment of the said Property.

Without entering into a discussion of the Reasons on which the
right of his Majesty is supposed to be founded, my full and per-
fect confidence in his Majesty's equity induces me to rely with
Satisfaction that his Majesty, when he shall be informed of the
nature and circumstances of this case, will be pleased to relinquish
the claim to the said Property, that the Crown has been supposed
to have, and that in consequence of the Request, which in obedi-
ence to the Instructions of the President of the United States I
have the honor to make, his Majesty will moreover authorize and
appoint, that the said Property should be assigned transferred and
paid to me, by the Accomptant General of his Majesty's high
Court of Chancery (in whose possession the same is) to and for
the use of the State of Maryland.

From the experience that my short Residence near his Majesty
has given me, of your Lordship's disposition to countenance and
assist those measures which are truly calculated to increase and
confirm the Harmony and good will that happily subsist between
the United States & Great Britain, I feel assured on this occasion
of your Lordship's good offices and obliging interference, which
I take the liberty to solicit.

With high consideration I have the honor &c. &c.

Rufus King.

VOL. II. — IO

I46 RUFUS KING. [1797

T. Pickering to R. King.

Department of State, Feby. 15, 1797.

. . . By the news papers you will find Mr. Monroe's infor-
mation mentioned in your letter of Oct. 10th has been more than
verified. The French armed vessels have captured ours not only
when they had enemy's property or contraband goods on board,
according to the enumeration of such goods in our Treaty with
Great Britain but merely because they were going to or from a
British port. This has been done in Europe. Two American
vessels had been carried into Spain by French Privateers, about
the 10th of September last, before even the general Decree of the
Directory (of July 2d) had been made known to our Consuls, and
the French Consul at Cadiz avowed his authority to condemn
them, under the order of the Directory.

But in the West Indies, the proceedings of the public agents
and of the Privateers have set all justice at defiance. Lanthonax
and the other commissioners at St. Domingo have issued a decree
explicitly directing the capture of American (not generally
Neutral} vessels bound to or from a British Port. Great numbers
have been taken under this order. . . .

The letters received from Col. Talbot (agent to the British W.
Indies) show that his mission has been, and will be useful in
liberating some of our seamen and preventing the impressment of
others. Admiral Harney at Martinico and Admiral Bligh at
Jamaica treated him with the utmost politeness, released the
Americans found on board their own ships, and gave orders for
the discharge of all found in the ships under their command. But
some of the Commanders of Ships behaved very differently and
reluctantly complied with the order of the Admirals, or in part
evaded them ; at the same time treating Col. Talbot with dis-
respect. Hence we feel strongly the necessity of some other
arrangement for the protection of our Citizens, and which it was
hoped you would have been able to accomplish. But the subject
presents many difficulties, especially when you look beyond the
protection of native citizens ; and your design of using concilia-
tory means in the negotiation can alone be eligible.

Timothy Pickering.

1797] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 47

T. Pickering to R. King.

In Cipher.

Feby. 15, 1797.

Sir:

We have often heard that the French Government contemplated
the repossession of Louisiana, and it has been conjectured that
in their negotiations with Spain the cession of Louisiana and the
Floridas may have been agreed on. You will see all the mischief
to be apprehended from such an event ; the Spaniards will cer-
tainly be more safe and quiet neighbours ; for her own sake Spain
should absolutely refuse to make these cessions.

One of our citizens who resided many years at New Orleans,
and who was acquainted with Don Galvez, who had been Viceroy
of Mexico, says Don Galvez considered Louisiana, notwithstand-
ing the distance between them, as the door of Mexico, and con-
sequently of the highest importance to Spain to retain in her
hands. We do not know what opportunity can occur to you for
throwing obstacles in the way of the conclusion of this project
of the French Government. We know it has been an object very
dear to them ; it was expressly avowed by one of their ministers
here to Mr. Randolph. Mr. Adet said " he knew that the cession
of Louisiana to France was a preliminary to be insisted on by France
as a negotiation with Spain." We are happy to recollect that the
public Treaty between them announced only the cession of the
Spanish part of St. Domingo, which we hoped was offered and ac-
cepted as an equivalent for Louisiana, and that Spain would not
yield the latter. The President desires that you will keep this
affair in your mind to discover whether the design exists and to
counteract it by any proper , should your situation put any-
thing in your power.

A. Hamilton to R. King.

Feby. 15, 1797.

My Dr Sir :

. . . You must not think I forget you because I do not
write (for this is only my third letter). I am overwhelmed in
professional business, and have scarcely a moment for anything
else.

148 RUFUS KING. [1797

You will have learnt the terrible depredations which the French
have committed upon our Trade in the West Indies, on the de-
clared principle of intercepting our whole Trade with the ports of
Jier enemies. This conduct is making the impression which might
be expected, though not with that electric rapidity which would
have attended similar Treatment from another power. The
present session of Congress is likely to be very unproductive.
That body is in the situation which we foresaw certain Anti-
executive maxims would bring them to.

Mr. Adams is President, Mr. Jefferson Vice President. Our
Jacobins say they are well pleased, and that the Lion & the Lamb
are to lie down together. Mr. Adams' personal friends talk a
little in the same way. Mr. Jefferson is not half so ill a man as
we have been accustomed to think him. There is to be a united
and vigorous administration. Sceptics like me quietly look for-
ward to the event, willing to hope, but not prepared to believe.
If Mr. Adams has Vanity, 't is plain, a plot has been laid to take
hold of it. We trust his real good sense and integrity will be a
sufficient shield.

Yrs. affectly.

A. Hamilton.

R. King to Richard Codman, Paris.

London, Feby. 20, 1797.
Dear Sir :

I have had the pleasure to receive your favor by Mr. Whitte-
more and am pleased to hear that no unfavorable change in the
situation of our Countrymen in Paris has taken place since the
departure of General Pinckney. We have nothing new from
home, but every day expect the confirmation of Mr. Adams' elec-
tion to the Presidency. I regret very much the apparent mis-
understanding between our country and France. As we think
and act respecting National Rights and Duties different from any
of the European Nations — always preferring peace to war, with
the same decision as we prefer the friendship to the enmity of
France, I am persuaded that we shall display in our conduct upon
this occasion a wisdom and moderation which will compose an
honorable contrast to the ill advised and erroneous proceedings

1797] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 1 49

of those who are without a title to the character of the real
friends of France or America. We shall incontestably prove,
notwithstanding the sounding, and often-repeated, Professions of
France, that we are in reality more sincere friends to her and her
interests than she is or has been to us, and ours. Against her
creeds of Republicanism, we shall place the modesty, the justice
and the firmness of real Republicans. Hence I conclude that
there will be no war between France and America, unless France
makes war upon us, which I hope and believe she will be too wise
and just to do. . . .

Very sincerely yrs.

Rufus King.

Thomas Pinckney to R. King, London.

Charleston, Feby. 21, 1797.
Dear Sir :

I have to thank you for your favor of the 19th of November
enclosing sundry letters to my address. I wish I had any agree-
able intelligence to communicate to you from this country, but
great commercial distress in our cities, our trade much harassed
in the American seas, particularly by the cruizers of the French
Republic, & much party spirit prevailing within our country, form
the general description of our affairs. This spirit of party was
particularly called forth by the late election & I feel extremely
happy that I was not called upon to sacrifice my domestic tran-
quillity and risk the total ruin of my private fortune by being
again brought forward into public life.

I hope you are now compleatly settled to your satisfaction in
Cumberland Place ; the neighbourhood of our amiable friend Mr.
Gore and his lady must add greatly to the comforts of your situa-
tion. Indeed I think you must feel yourself much supported in
the social line by all the public agents of the United States in
London. . . .

With sincere regard & esteem

Your faithful & obedt.

Thomas Pinckney.

150 RUFUS KING. [*797

R. King to Secretary of State.

London, Mar. 5, 1797.
Dear Sir :

The unexpected and total defeat of the Austrians in Lombardy,
followed by the fall of Mantua, to which the Treasure of the
neighbouring country had been removed for safety, produced a
serious despondency in the public Opinion of this country. The
expedition against Ireland, tho' it failed, increased the public
inquietude, by refuting the consoling opinion that England was
safe against invasion, so long as she could maintain a decided
superiority upon the Ocean. The effects of these events have been
strengthened by the continuation of the practice of alarming the
Country in order that the means of prosecuting the war might more
easily be obtained* The consequence has been that the Fears and
Despondency of the Nation have been such, as to materially
impair that confidence so necessary in conducting the affairs of
every Nation, and without which the means of administering this
Government are annihilated. The alarm first commenced in the
country, and the provincial Banks, being pressed for Specie
beyond the customary demand, had recourse to the Metropolis,
and the Bank of England was put in requisition to supply their
wants. The National Stocks in which most of the Provincial
Banks had invested a Portion of their Capitals, were in this
Emergency brought in large sums into the market, for the purpose
of being converted into Specie, and thereby the Funds suffered an
alarming Depression. This joined to the Failure of several country
Banks increased the public apprehensions and augmented the
Demands for Specie upon the Bank of England. The quantity
of Specie in the Vaults of the Bank is not publicly known, but
without Doubt it has always been much beneath the sum generally
supposed to be deposited there. The strongest objection, or at
least one of them, against the Bank combination is that Bank
Paper, in itself of little or no value, excludes from the country in
too great a degree real money or specie, which possesses intrinsic
worth. Credit has nowhere been more perfect than in England,
and the Substitution of Paper, including the public stocks as well
as bank notes, in lieu of Specie, been equally extensive and gen-

* Italics in cipher.

1797] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 151

eral in any other Country, and to this cause in a considerable
degree must be ascribed the small quantity of actual Coin to be
found in England, compared with the sum in circulation in other
Commercial Countries.

It is not extraordinary then that the principal Depository of the
national Coin, when called on at a period of Despondency and
of general alarm, to give it in exchange for that which had before
passed as of equal value, because it was esteemed an instant power
over an equivalent Sum, should be unable either from its actual
deposits, or from the contributions of its Patrons and Friends to
perform its Engagements. This was in fact discovered to be the
Situation of the Bank of England on Saturday, the 26th of Feb-
ruary ; and on the communication thereof to the Chancellor of
the Exchequer, the King was brought from Windsor on Sunday
to attend a Council, which passed an Order requiring the Bank to
stop the further issue of Specie ; and accordingly on Monday the
28th, the Bank refused Specie for their notes, and also to their
other creditors. Committees were immediately named by the
several Houses of Parliament, to examine the affairs of the Bank,
which have reported the amount of the Debts which the Bank owe,
and likewise of the Debts due to the Bank, together with their
other effects (exclusive of their funded capital) applicable to the
payment of their Engagements. The result of these Reports con-
firms the Declaration of the Directors, that there is a difference
of more than three millions sterling in favor of the Bank, between
the amount of debts they owe and that of the effects applicable to
the payment thereof.

Parliament have passed two Bills, one enabling the Bank to issue
notes for any sum less than £$. ; the other enabling the Manu-
facturers, Bankers and others, to issue small notes payable on
Demand, which by the existing Laws they were prohibited to do.
The object of the first has been to enable the Bank to supply the
Absence of Guineas by 20/ and 40/ notes ; and of the second, to
allow the Manufacturers who employ great numbers of workmen,
whom they pay weekly, to give them their own notes in lieu of
Specie. Parliament will probably go on, and pass another Bill
sanctioning and continuing for a limited Time the Prohibition
upon the Bank to issue Specie ; they will likewise make Bank
notes receivable in Payment of Taxes, and also by the public

152 RUFUS KING. [1797

Creditor in Payment of the Annuities, or Dividends upon the
National Debt. Associations have been formed in London, and
throughout the Kingdom to receive and circulate Bank Notes ;
and for a time this may secure to them a general currency. But
unless they can be converted into Specie, they will depreciate :
indeed they are at this moment at a depreciation, by the Prefer-
ence that universally exists of Gold and Silver, which have
disappeared and are no longer in Circulation.

This Depreciation is proved likewise by the sudden rise of for-
eign Exchange and also by the Demand for the American Stocks,
which have risen since the Bank stopped payment in Specie.
Bank Stock from ^103 to ^117 per share. Six per cents from
80 to 90 per cent ; three per cents from 49 to 55 per cent : while
the British three per cents have vibrated between 50 and 52 per
cent. It is commonly said that this Embarrassment will be but
of short Duration, and that the Bank will soon resume its former
course of payments ; but I do not see the subject in this favora-
ble Light. What influence the event may have on the Duration
of the war, what changes it may effect in the Ministry, in short what
misfortunes this event will draw down upon this nation, is beyond
human foresight to discern. I see but little chance against a Na-
tional Bankruptcy ; an event that the progressive accumulation of
their public Debt has menaced but which no one seems to have sup-
posed so near at hand*

With perfect respect &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Secretary of State.

London, March 12, 1797.
Dear Sir :

. . . We are embarrassed to decide how far the french Gov-
ernment will carry their measures of vexation towards our Com-
merce : Though but few Instances of Captures have occurred in
these Seas, yet these joined to the apparent misunderstanding

* Italics in cipher.

1797] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 53

between us and France, have imposed a heavy Tax upon our
Commerce with this country by the enormous increase of Pre-
miums demanded and given to insure our Ships & Cargoes. . . .
The persons principally concerned in the American Business, as
well as the underwriters upon the American Ships & Cargoes
have been desirous that our Ships and Cargoes should take a British
Convoy ; a committee of merchants have applied to this government
on the subject. This was all without consulting me, an opinion being
entertained, as I am informed, that it would not be advisable that I
should be consulted, since it was supposed that I should not think my-
self authorized to give the measure my support. From several indi-
rect suggestions I had seen that the Government would order a
Convoy if I should ask it. I had therefore well considered the sub-
ject before this movement among the merchants occurred. I saw it to
be a measure too important to suffer my opinion respecting it to be
misunderstood. I went therefore to Lord Grenville's office, and said
not only that the project was without my approbation, that moreover I
desired to be understood as explicitly objecting to the measure as one
too decisive to be adopted except upon the plain and direct application
of the American Government. Having since heard little of the
scheme, I suppose that it has been laid aside. I however think that
it would be proper that I should know the President's way of think-
ing upon this subject, should unfortunately a state of things exist
that would make such a measure more proper than it would be under
present circumstances.

Mr. Adams will inform you from the Hague of what is passing
in that quarter : but least his opportunities of writing should be
less frequent than mine, it may be proper to state, that I have
reason to believe, tho' the French Government assigns our Treaty
with England as the cause of their maritime conduct towards us,
they have recently demanded of Hamburgh and Bremen to suspend
all commerce with England. These cities have not yet complied, and
the French Minister has been removed from Hamburgh. The same
demand has been made at Copenhagen, and the refusal has pro-
duced a sharp diplomatic controversy ; these poivers have made no late
Treaties with England* . . .

With perfect respect &c.

Rufus King.

* Italics in cipher.

154 RUFUS KING. [1797

R. King to A. Hamilton.*

March 8, 1797.
Dear Sir :

On the 28th ult., the Bank of England stopped payment in
specie and since every bank in Great Britain has followed its ex-
ample.! . . . Many whom I meet profess to believe that the
bank will soon be able to resume their former course of payments.
But I see so few of the causes (if they exist) which are to effect
this restoration, that I am somewhat skeptical, and my want of
faith is in some measure excused by circumstances that I think
will for the present prevent the return of the golden age. No
nation has supported a more perfect credit than England. None
has been able to substitute in so great a degree paper in lieu of
coin — and in no country, therefore, is the quantity of specie com-
paratively so small as in England. This fact was not practically
believed. The Bank has now proved it to the conviction and dis-
may of the country. . . .

Farewell yours sincerely.

P. S. Since the capture of Mantua, the Austrians have notified
this court of their resolution to prosecute the war — relying on the
co-operation of Great Britain. What effect the pecuniary state of
England may have upon their disposition to persevere, I will not
conjecture. Without moneys the Emperor will not be able to go
on. Thus you see a very interesting subject brought within a
narrow compass. France will harass and waste our commerce,
regardless of justice. She makes our treaty with England the
pretence. Had we made no treaty her conduct would have been
the same. She has recently required of Hamburg and Bremen
to suspend and prohibit all commerce with England — and yet she
has not succeeded in her views, though she has recalled her min-
ister from Hamburgh. The demand has likewise been repeated
at Copenhagen, and a refusal to comply has produced a diplo-
matic altercation, as pointed perhaps, as that between Colonel
Pickering and Mr. Adet.

Our affairs in the Mediterranean are settled, or nearly so. Col.
Humphries informs me that we stand well with Algiers. We have

* Works of Hamilton, vi., 211.

\ The details of this suspension are seen in the letter to the Secretary of
State, March 5, 1797.

1797] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 55

concluded a treaty of peace with Tripoli, and it is probable we
shall soon make a similar one with Tunis. The Dey of Algiers
having invaded the Tunissean territory — principally, says Col.
Humphries, to compel the Bey to conclude a peace with the
United States of America, for the accomplishment of which
the Dey offers to advance the money from his own treasury, and
engages to guarantee this treaty as he has done that with Tripoli.
Strange event.

CHAPTER XII.

Sedgwick's Letter on the presidential Election and Inauguration — Cabot on
Relations with France — King to Dr. Southgate — Private Affairs — To
Hamilton on new French Arret — Affair of the Olive Branch — Wm. Smith's
Letter on French Depredations — Pinckney's Despatches Relative to Con-
duct of the French Causes the President to call a special Meeting of
Congress — General Statement of American Affairs — Hamilton's View of
the Duty of the Country.

Theodore Sedgwick to R. King, London.

Stockbridge, i 2th March, 1797.
Dear Sir :

. . . The scenes which have passed here, since you left the

country, to every man who is interested in its welfare, have been

highly important. The retirement of Genl. Washington from the

Presidency, and the subsequent election have produced an ardor

far exceeding all former experience. Men of a character the most

congenial to your own, and in whom I believe you have the most

confidence, thought that in our critical situation the object of

most importance was to exclude the Virginia Philosopher from the

chair, endeavored, as they might, to exclude him by impressing

their own sentiments on the electors and inducing them to vote

homogeneously from the Delaware eastward for Pinckney &

Adams. Had those views, and in them I concurred, prevailed,

the former would have been President and the latter continued in

his former station. What effects that arrangement would have

produced can now only be a subject of conjecture. The attempt

however has afforded abundant matter for Jacobinical intrigue.

The first display of this was a letter from Mr. Jefferson to his

friend Madison, which was disclosed, in confidence, within one or

two days after the event of the election was certainly known. In

the letter the writer states that he may be placed in three situa-
1797] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 57

tions in relation to this subject. The first, and that which would
be most grateful to himself, that he may not be elected to, or a
candidate for either of the offices of Prest. or Vice Prest. ; the
second, that he may be the competitor of Mr. Adams, & the com-
petition to be decided by the H. of Representatives, in which case
he earnestly requests that his own pretensions may be withdrawn
in favor of the preferable ones of his rival ; and the third, (which
he most dreads) that he may be elected President. Concurring
in this system of insidious deception, the faction have been indus-
trious in declaring that it was evidently the intention of Hamilton 6°
his party (so when speaking on this subject they denominated the
friends of the Government) that Mr. Pinckney should be elected
as President, because him they believed they could govern, and Mr.
Adams they knew they could not. You will perceive that Mr. Jeffer-
son is profering the same objects in his speech to the Senate, when
he took his seat as Vice Prest. It is really to be regretted that
these Ideas had not occurred to the " Friend of the People " a few
weeks sooner ; he might then have spared the good man, whom
he so highly reveres, much unmerited abuse, and his friends much
painful anxiety.

The late session has been one of the most unpleasant which I
have known. Our friends in the House, knowing their adversaries
to be a majority, have despaired of effecting any public good,
and have, therefore, permitted the Session to pass without one
generous effort. The same impression as to the character of the
House, has given the same apprehension of indolent inactivity to
the Senate.

Two objects of importance present themselves, the one, an im-
provement of revenue, and the other, giving to the executive the
means of checking the depredations on our commerce. An in-
crease of revenue I do not believe to be immediately necessary
to discharge existing demands. It was however most certainly
desirable in our critical situation. In this all parties were agreed,
but as to the means, there was not a majority for anything except
a paltry increase of imposts, which will produce, probably be-
tween 2 & 300,000 dols. — a sum less than the diminution by
French robbery. To check the insolent oppression of the french
the most obvious, and I believe the most effectual measure which
could have been adopted, would have been to have authorized the

158 RUFUS KING. [1797

President to lay an Embargo, either general or special. There
was little hope such a measure would have passed the House, but
its friends entertained no doubt of its success in the Senate ; but
to our astonishment the Bill was lost on the final question by an
equivote. Several gentlemen, who did not take the trouble, pre-
viously, to explain themselves, afterwards declared that they
voted against the Bill, because they thought it would place the
President in too delicate a situation, for he having been charged
with improper prejudices for the british and against the french j it
would be said that he had been influenced by partiality to adopt a
measure, which in its effects would benefit the former and injure the
latter.

The circumstance of a new administration would of itself in
some degree tend to check the virulence of faction. This will be
the more encreased by the attempt which is manifestly made to
seduce the President, by impressing him with a belief that he has
been deserted by his friends. This attempt, I trust, will be inef-
fectual. At all events, while they are making their efforts, they
will suspend all personal attacks.

In the newly elected house of Reps, we flatter ourselves that
there is a majority of good men — friends of national liberty, of
their country and of its government. It is, however, if at all a
majority, a small one. If our expectations are not disappointed,
the next session will be a very important and I hope a productive
one ; much remains, respecting our internal police, to be done,
to give to the government the best chance of success. I have
been long convinced that even on the principles of our federal
Union, much more might be done than has even yet been at-
tempted. This will possibly induce me once more to sacrifice
my quiet and happiness by attending another session of
Congress.

There is much distress, in this state, among the adventurers
in the Georgia Speculation. A committee of Senate have made
an elaborate report, which had not been printed when I left
Philadelphia, which is well founded, and, whether it be so or
not I am ignorant, will show that Georgia is restricted within
much narrower limits than I had supposed.

The inauguration of the President was a scene the most
august and sublime I ever beheld. Mr. Adams behaved with

1797] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 1 59

dignity. The company was numerous, respectable, and behaved
with that decent gravity which the solemn occasion demanded ;
but the circumstance the most interesting was the presence of the
late President. He came unattended and on foot, with the modest
appearance of a private citizen. No sooner was his person seen,
than a burst of applause such as I had never before known,
and which it would be as impossible for me to describe, as my
own sensations produced by it, saluted the venerable Hero and
Patriot, while the animation of countenance which accompanied it
gave the most pleasing, as well as the most convincing evidence,
that all the lies which malice has invented, have been ineffectual to
injure the character of this great and good man. ... I am,
dear Sir, most sincerely & affectionately

Your friend,

Theodore Sedgwick.

R. King to R. Southgate, Esq.

London, March 17, 1797.
Dear Sir :

I am reluctant in saying anything more respecting Emery's
claim,* having so often troubled you with the expressions of my
concern upon that subject, but having heard that Emery has been
recently baffled in an attempt to procure a legal decision in his
case ; I feel that I do him an injustice in suffering the circum-
stance of my absence to deprive him of the exercise of a perfect
Right that he has to demand a judicial Examination of his Claim.
I have therefore authorized Cyrus [R. K.'s brother and secretary]
who is returning home to consent to a suit against me, in case you

* In a letter dated Jany. 14, 1794, S. Emery had written to R. K. :
1 ' I have endeavoured to settle the matter respecting the farm at Scarborough
which you sold my father with Dr. Southgate till I am quite tired out ; he will
not settle upon any principle which I think just . . . therefore I am
obliged to write to you or take what he pleases to give. . . ."
Enclosing this letter to Dr. Southgate, R. King writes, Jany. 27, 1794 :
". . . I had hoped that by some arrangement convenient to all branches
of the family, the Heirs of Mr. Emery had been satisfied. It will remain with
you to do what is proper on this Subject. I have written to Mr. Emery in my
answer to his letter that the claim will not be denied and that you will do all
that justice which I sincerely desire should be afforded. . . ."

l6o RUFUS KING. [1797

and Emery continue to be unable to agree in an amicable Settle-
ment. I have a great Repugnance to legal controversy, and
should therefore be gratified in being exempt in this instance
from disputing with a man who I think has just grounds of com-
plaint against me. The Difference between his demand and what
you would be willing to pay I understand to be small and unim-
portant ; and I had much rather pay it myself than be drawn into
a lawsuit, in which I must in the End be in the wrong.

We are so far apart and both at a period of life at which we
are liable to occurrences that may prevent our reunion, that I feel
the force of that uncertainty, which darkens the prospect of our
meeting. I hope for the Pleasure of the Event, and flatter my-
self that it will not long be postponed. Where I now am I am
not quite my own master, but it is not my intention to remain
long in England ; and it will be one of the earliest pleasures of
my return home to visit and embrace those branches of my family
from whom I have been so long separated. I hope you enjoy
health & Happiness. These Blessings I likewise wish to my
beloved Sister. God bless you, her and yours.

Forever and affectionately yrs

Rufus King.

G. Cabot to R. King, London.

Brookline, March 19, 1797.

Dear Sir :

I hope your conjectures respecting Mr. Pitt's supplies will not
prove as well founded as your political opinions usually are, for I
have never yet thought a peace practicable, & with Burke, I think
any peace wou'd be unsafe while the power of Societicide or rather
Staticide remains unbroken. That the welfare of the United
States will become precarious, if G. B. yields, most of our think-
ing people perceive pretty plainly. The feelings of our merchants
are greatly irritated & their fears not a little excited by the depre-
dations committing by the French. But what is to be done ? The
great extension of our maritime commerce has rendered us ex-
tremely vulnerable while our aggressor has nothing upon the sea
thro' which a blow could be returned.

By the pieces, entitled " the Warning," which from their ex-

1797] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. l6l

cellence I attribute to Hamilton, you may see our affairs with
France are converging to a critical point. How we shall behave
at last you can foresee as well as I ; for living out of the world as
I do, and having no other communication with it than the visits
of a dozen friends, which are not frequent, my knowledge of
what passes is chiefly derived from the Newspapers. Our public
servants however will ordain the course to be pursued and I hope
they will do right, and be fully encouraged by us their masters.

Some pains have been taken, and I think with considerable
success in this quarter to explain the nature of our controversy
with France. I fully agree to the superior estimate you make of
the present enjoyments and future hopes of our country, as com-
pared with others, but I can't avoid suspecting you of a little too
much despondency on another topic. Perhaps we always over-
rate absent blessings, and generally, present difficulties.

You will be glad that Adams is elected, and that the prospect
of our Government continuing steady is good. For a while things
will go well and we must do everything in our power to give per-
manency to every good disposition. I am nevertheless mortified
to see Jefferson Vice-President after so much exertion among the
agents of a foreign nation to secure his election, and I cannot dis-
card my fears that he will have an influence that may be unpro-
pitious. It occurs to my mind frequently that the hostile conduct
of France towards this Country, may suggest to the British Gov-
ernment new schemes of policy that might extremely embarrass
us ; but it wou'd be the most short-sighted project that folly ever
adopted if their conduct should become ^conciliatory now that
we are breaking off that dependent connexion with their enemies,
which they ought always to discourage, but which their disdainful
spirit had contributed to produce. I reflect with infinite satisfac-
tion that you are placed in a situation to demonstrate the ill
tendencies of these crooked politics, which erroneous views of
this country cou'd alone have recommended.

What do Sweden & Denmark say to the outrages of the French !
They must be uneasy under such treatment as we receive ; but at
what point will they begin to repel ? Presuming that Pinckney
will not be received, I expect an official notice of this will be fol-
lowed by a summons of Congress, & if it shou'd, I hope they
will have spirit enough to declare all Treaties between the 2

VOL. II. — II

l62 RUFUS KING, [1797

nations annulled by the gross and avowed violations of our rights
under them. But all these affairs are with the constituted authori-
ties & while I rejoice that I am not among them, I am happy that
many better heads are devoted to those services, which our country
needs & deserves. . . .

Yrs. faithfully

G. Cabot.

R. King to Sir John Sinclair.

Great Cumberland Place, Ap. 1, 1797.
Sir :

I have had the honor to receive your letter of tl±e 29th ulto.
informing me, in very obliging terms, that the Board of Agriculture
had been pleased to admit me, as a " Foreign honorary member "
of that Society. I request the favor of you, Sir, to present to the
Board my respectful acknowledgments of the honor conferred
upon me by this admission. I ought at the same time, Sir, to
observe to you, that my very moderate acquaintance with agricul-
tural subjects, forbids me to hope that it will be in my power to
afford the society any valuable information in the prosecution of
their patriotic and important researches.

With great consideration and esteem, &c,

Rufus King.

R. King to A. Hamilton.*

London, April 2, 1797.
Dear Sir :

As Mr. Church is the bearer, I refer you to him for what it
would take many pages to relate, and will only say, that, notwith-
standing the injuries we continue to receive from France, I still
hope the same policy that has hitherto kept us out of the war, will
continue to influence and decide our government.

How the new President will conduct himself in a situation
thorny and embarrassing, remains to be seen ; the first step is very
important, and therefore should be deeply and extensively con-
sidered.

* Works of Hamilton, vi., 227.

1797] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 163

Everything looks like an active and, to a certain degree, a
vigorous campaign ; yet, with all these appearances of the con-
tinuance of the war peace may be near. But what will be the
consequence of such a peace as alone can be had at this time ?

A late arret of the Directory gives notice to all French citizens
that the Treaty of February 1778, between France and the United
States of America, has been (of full right) in virtue of the second
article thereof, so modified as to conform to the stipulations con-
tained in the treaty of 1794 between the United States and Great
Britain. The arret proceeds to specify the modification.

This says Mr. King, demanding in its fourth article that
our ships should have

a role d' equipage en bonne forme, such as is required by the
form annexed to the treaty of the 6th of February 1778 . . . will
render all our ships liable to capture, and, if acted upon, to con-
demnation, since no American vessel has on board the document
required. . . . Mr. Church will show you a copy of the com-
mercial Treaty with France, printed in London in 1783, which has
the form of a passport role d'equipage, &c, annexed . . by which
you will see that none of our vessels are exempt from capture ; if
this copy is that referred to in the late arret. Indeed it seems
too absurd in some things to be genuine, yet I suspect it is the
model or form referred to and required by the fourth article of
the arret.

Farewell yours,

Rufus King.

T. Pickering to R. King.

Department of State, April 6, 1797.
Dear Sir :

... I have written to Vermont for information about the
arms and cannon captured on the Olive Branch, with Governor
Ira Allen, and carried into England. Whatever answer I obtain
shall be communicated to you. In the meantime there appears
to me to be little room to doubt of their real destination such as
you mention to be suggested in London. It is incredible that

164 RUFUS KING. [1797

Governor Allen should undertake to purchase 20.000 muskets
and 24 brass cannon with their appendages for the militia of Ver-
mont at the request of Governor Chittenden. Nothing but an Act
of the Legislature would warrant the measure or provide the funds,
is well known that Allen was destitute of property. . . .

T. Pickering to R. King.

Department of State, 12 April, 1797.

. . . The French continue their depredations on our com-
merce in the West Indies ; and by the accounts almost daily
published in the newspapers, frequently commit the most flagrant
piracies and robberies, even in their own ports : so that the
insurers at Baltimore (as I am this day informed by a letter from
thence) have ceased to underwrite upon American vessels bound
to French ports ; while they insure at war premiums those bound
to English West India ports.

Wm. Smith to R. King, London

•>

Philad., April 3, 1797.
Dear Sir :

. . . Capt. O'Brien arriv'd day before yesterday & brought
as the acct. of Sir J. Jervis' victory over the Spaniards, which has
assisted in raising our depressed spirits. It is a melancholy and
a humiliating consideration that we are compelled to derive con-
solation from the successes of other nations. Under present
circumstances we must rejoice at the victories of G. Britain, tho'
we may fear they may hereafter be turned to our disadvantage.
The haughty conduct of France, which increases with her tide of
prosperity, makes us rejoice at the defeat of herself or her allies ;
we look for safety in her depression, for we cannot expect to find
either from her justice & our wisdom. Her late outrages have
however kindled a good spirit, but it is uncertain how long it will
be kept alive, and there is reason to fear that the same capricious
disposition, which so quickly changes from love to resentment
will from trifling causes change back again.

1797] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. l6$

The active and incessant manoeuvres of french agents in this
Country, make me apprehend that any inconsidble. change in the
measures of France favorable to us will drive the great mass of
knaves & fools back into her arms. What indeed have we not to
apprehend from the multitude which for four years has, with so
little reason, avowed such a devoted attachment to that insidious
nation ? If the present temper can be steadfastly maintained,
the losses from their spoliations will scarcely be regretted ; they
will be well compensated by our deliverance from gallic thraldom.

The eyes of a great many are now opened to the real views of
France, and the public mind is thereby become more open to re-
ceive impressions favorable to England ; nothing will be so con-
ducive to the complete establishment of our independence, as a
conduct on the part of G. Britain at this crisis, marked with sin-
cere good will to this country. This will do away with those
antipathies which are still lurking in a great many breasts and
produce a- general disposition to view that nation as connected
with us by the strongest ties of mutual interest. It has been so
much a fashion of late years to call parties here by foreign names,
that many conceive we cannot be alienated from the French
without throwing ourselves a corps perdu into the arms of the
English ; and unfortunately many of the ci-devant English mer-
chants here, yielding without due reflection to an habitual im-
pulse, encourage this degrading idea ; it is important that it
should be banished from our sight and that we should forcibly
inculcate the sentiment, that if we are alienated from the French,
it is because we cherish our independence and have determined
to form no connexions but those which unite indepent. nations for
their common interest.

It is a fortunate thing for us that the Representatives of the
respective nations are at this present juncture so peculiarly gifted
with those rare and valuable qualities, which at the same time
remove every distrust and strengthen a growing friendship. Mr.
& Mrs. Liston are much liked, so much so as to be, in the eyes of
the Jacobins, dangerous people. I am much pleased with the
promises of Abercromby & Simcoe ; the british Govt, may, with
little trouble & no expence, do many things which wo'd produce
the most happy effects here. There never was so favorable an
opportunity ; but they must understand the footing on which our

\66 RUFUS KING. [i797

^connexions are to rest — the most complete independence on
our part.
v I was about to return to Charleston, when the late disagreeable
intelligence from Gen. Pinckney compelled the Executive to con-
vene Congress on the 15th May. I must therefore stay here. The
successes of Buonaparte will probably give the Directory a still
more haughty tone, unless their internal affairs sho'd produce
something favorable for us. Congress are to meet this day six
weeks — something may occur of an important nature before that
period. The operations of the French cabinet have been so fluc-
tuating & their danger relative to foreign and neutral powers so
C sudden & violent, that I am not without hopes that when they find
\ their prospects blasted of overthrowing our Government & can-
celling the British Treaty, they will suddenly wheel about and
generously forgive us. There is only this yet wanting to com-
pete their character for generosity & magnanimity, so much
dinned in our ears by their adherents.

We shall pass a new Law next Session relative to Seamen ;
your suggestion on that subject will be carefully attended to.
Major Lenox, the successor of Trumbull, sails for London in a
few weeks. The Commrs. for the 6th Article are arrived here.
I have not yet seen them.

Our Treaty with Sweden expires in about fifteen months ; the
Executive have it in contemplation to propose a revival of it.
Have you turned your attention much to this subject ? What
think you of a commercial connexion with Denmark ? Those
two powers have a common interest with us, whenever the great
maritime nations are at war ; it seems therefore strange that we
sho'd have a Minister Plenipotenty. in Portugal with whom we
have no Treaty and little commercial intercourse, and no relations
with Denmark & Sweden, whose interests in time of war are so
homogeneous with ours and with whom we might have extensive
commercial intercourse. . . .

The accounts from the Mediterranean are highly pleasing. The
Treaties with the Barbary powers have cost us a great deal of
money and vexation. I trust they will realize the benefits you
justly anticipated. This new source of commerce will indemnify
us for the abridgement of our Commerce in the W. Indies.

The change of the Executive here has been wrought with a

1797] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 67

facility and a calm which has astonished even those of us who
always augured well of the governt. and the general good sense
of our citizens. The machine has worked without a creak. On
the 4th of March John Adams was quietly sworn into office,
George Washington attending as a private citizen. A few days
after he went quietly home to Mt. Vernon ; his successor as
quietly took his place, and in the same house last Tuesday I saw
him well dressed, in a full suit, sword, bag &c. at his first levee,
which was a very crowded one. The Jacobins are nattering him
and trying to cajole him to admit the V. P. into the Council.
Jefferson lodged at Francis' hotel (with Adams) while here,
attended the Philosophical Society of which he is President, made
a dissertation about a Lion's claw, and soon after returned to
Monticello.

Our friend Murray sails for Amsterdam shortly ; he will do
credit to the appointment. I shall intrust to his care a copy of
my little work on the Constitution for you, which I have had
interleaved to receive those judicious remarks which will I am
sure occur to you on perusing it. When this is done, I shall request
you to return it to me, in exchange for a copy of a new edition
on a more enlarged & useful plan.

Farewell, yours very affectly.

Wm. Smith.

A. Hamilton to R. King, London.

April 8, 1797.

I thank you, my Dear Sir, for your letter of the 6th of Febru-
ary. The Intelligence that the Directory have ordered away our
Minister is every way unpleasant. It portends too much a final
Rupture as the only alternative to an ignominious submission.
Much public feeling has been excited. But the Government, I
trust & believe, will continue prudent, and do everything that
honor permits towards accommodation. 'Tis however to be feared
that France successful will be too violent and imperious to meet
on any admissible ground.

Congress are called together. I can give you no conjecture as
to what will be done. Opinions are afloat. My idea is another
attempt to pacify by negotiation, vigorous preparations for war

1 68 RUFUS KING. [1797

and defensive measures with regard to our Trade. But there never
was a period of our affairs in which I could less foresee the course
of things.

I believe there is no danger of want of firmness in the Execu-
tive. If he is not ill-advised, he will not want prudence. I mean
that I believe that he is himself disposed to a prudently firm
course.

You know the Mass of our Senate. That of our House of
Representatives is not ascertained. A small majority on the right
side is counted on. In Virginia it is understood that Morgan
comes in place of Rutherford, & Evans in place of Page. The
whole result of the Virginia election is not known.

The conduct of France has been a very powerful medicine for
the political diseases of the country. I think the community
improves in soundness.

Adieu, God bless you

A. Hamilton.

CHAPTER XIII.

Opposition to France growing more popular — Reliance on the Firmness and
Prudence of the President — England's commercial Policy should be a
conciliator}' one — Jacobi on Negotiations between France and Prussia —
R. King to Secretary of State — French Captures — English Politics — The
Nation tired of the War — Austria her only Ally — Question of Peace —
France refuses to acknowledge Passports granted by American Ministers
— French Depredations in the West Indies — R. King writes to the Secre-
tary on Carelessness in getting Testimony in Cases of Capture by Mr.
Bayard — Secretary of State relative to Convoys.

G. Cabot to R. King, London.

Brookline, April 10, 1797.
Dear Sir :

I see by the style of your Letter of the 25th of Jany that you are
more happy and if you had not told me expressly that you had
surmounted your difficulties, I shou'd have inferr'd it. Our Cam-
paign here is soon to open, & I think may prove a more impor-
tant one than any we have seen. Both parties are active in
endeavouring to preoccupy the popular mind, and if a judgment
were now to be formed, it wou'd be that the friends of order and
good government will be successful. The aim is to rouse the
country as much as possible without inflaming it, & by exciting a
due attention to the public danger it is expected that we the people
shall be reconciled to some new burthens which may become
necessary, & shall be disposed to strengthen the Govt, by a ready
support of the measures it shall adopt. The President, I am as-
sured, will not yield to the insolent dictates of France ; but on the
contrary will propose to Congress measures which will satisfy
the men who elected him. If the House of Representatives
shou'd be well composed, the national dignity will be supported
at any rate (& probably peace maintained) ; but if a majority
1^0 RUFUS KING. [1797

there shou'd be wrong, disgrace may be expected. The weakest
men generally follow the popular sentiment, & I am persuaded
that opposition to the tyranny of France is every day growing
more popular. To me it wou'd seem a wise policy in G. B. to
seize upon this moment for breaking off our French attachments.
A steady course of liberal treatment wou'd render this Country an
inestimable customer to G. B. for a long time. We shou'd con-
tinue to buy of them what a quarrel or even coldness may oblige
us to make for ourselves. I have been for many years convinced
that the true interest of Great Britain required a relaxation
towards us of the vigorous commercial system she ordinarily main-
tains. We are not, and probably never shall be her Rival in Naval
power. The extensive territory we possess forms an interest that
jpust countervail it for many years, & it is hardly to be doubted
JjjJ^ftf/'1*''' many years shall elapse, we shall divide or be divided.
A constant & adequate market for their manufactures is infinitely
important to the support & prosperity of England proper, & to
enable the parent stock to circulate without impoverishment or
redundance of the nutriments of the immense cyons engrafted in
the 2 Indies. But quitting a figure almost unintelligible, is it not
clear that the prosperity of England depends more than ever
upon her power at Sea ? Her wisest provisions for the support
of this power are calculated to keep at all times the greatest pos-
sible number of Seamen employ'd : the intention is proper but it
is not well fulfilled. It is in navigation as in other branches of
industry ; they who work cheapest will have most employment.
The English laws which recognize no Ship as British except such
as are built within the British dominions, prevent Englishmen
from freighting in many countries where they might, if allowed to
use the cheap Ships they cou'd build in the U. S. To whatever
extent this is true, England sacrifices her greater interest in sailors,
to a minor interest in shipwrights. Besides every facility of pay-
ment which England gives to the U. S. must tend to increase our
consumption of her goods ; and if the facility costs her nothing,
she certainly derives a clear profit on the increased consumption.
Many other considerations occur to me which ought to produce
in G. B. the most conciliatory policy, but these, as well as those
suggested, are all familiar to you. The condition of the British
nation is certainly critical & requires to be propp'd up by every

1797] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. \J\

auxiliary they can obtain. A commercial intercourse with us
established on the most liberal principles wou'd be a firm & last-
ing support to them & might be highly useful to us. . . .

Your faithful friend,

G. Cabot.

There is an interesting paper in the handwriting of Mr.
King containing a statement of the negotiations between
France and Prussia, made by Jacobi, the Prussian Ambas-
sador in London, which is here given :

"April 16, '97.

11 Jacobi told me that the King of Prussia had been applied to
by France to aid in restoring peace with Austria ; that he had
declined all interference unless in favor of a general peace and
the integrity of the German Empire. Thus, said Jacobi, it is
evident that the Rumours of a Design in the King to break in
upon the Rights of the Empire are disproved ; and it is equally
plain that the account of his having guaranteed Belgium is un-
founded. The French offered to give him Hanover long ago,
wh. he refused. If Bavaria sh. be attempted to be annexed to
Austria, the King of Prussia wd. object, nay he wd. be obliged to
take a portion equivalent of some part of Germany contiguous to
his Dominions. I have consd. Jacobi notified to this Court the
refusal of the King to assist in a separate peace, France wants
peace — she will not insist on the Rhine as a boundary, but she
will adhere to the union of Belgium. England will not agree to
this sacrifice to obtain peace. The Emperor will therefore refuse
to make any peace — he will even quit Vienna and retire to Hun-
gary, where he will make still great exertions to expel the French
from his Dominions."

R. King to Lord Grenville.

London, April 19, 1797.
My Lord :

Having learnt that a Packet soon sails for the West Indies, I
take the Liberty to send to your Lordship copies of a letter and
its inclosures that I have lately received from Mr. Talbot, who is
the Agent appointed by the President of the United States for the

172 RUFUS KING, [1797

Relief and Protection of American Seamen in the West Indies.
It gave me much pleasure when I had last the honor of meeting
your Lordship to express to you the satisfaction with which the
President had been informed, that Mr. Talbot had been received
and treated in a friendly manner by his Majesty's Naval officers
in the West Indies ; and that there was a fair prospect that his
agency would prove successful in relieving such of our Seamen
as had been impressed and were detained on board his Majesty's
ships in those seas. I have great regret in perceiving by Mr.
Talbot's report, that there is an appearance of a Temper, some-
what different from our just expectations on this subject, on the
part of the Commander in Chief, Admiral Sir Hyde Parker, and
(it) is my Duty to request your Lordship's interference to obtain
an order from the proper Department of his Majesty's Govern-
ment for the Discharge of the American Citizens named in
the list remitted by Mr. Talbot, and also instructions to the
Commanders of his Majesty's ships of war in the West Indies to
discharge all other American citizens, that have been impressed
and are detained on board any of the said Ships.

With high consideration &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to the Secretary of State.

London, April 19, 1797.
Dear Sir :

You will naturally suppose that I must be anxious to be
informed what measures the President shall adopt to arrest the
depredations that France is committing upon our commerce.
The Arret of the 2nd of March, if executed, will subject all our
Ships to capture and condemnation, since none of them are
furnished with such papers as the 6th Article thereof requires.

Hitherto the captures in Europe have not been numerous,
though several of our valuable ships have been carried into
France, and in a few instance the Masters and other Officers of
our vessels have been treated in a barbarous and cruel manner by
the French Cruizers, who have put them to the torture to compel
them to make such Declarations relative to the property and des-
tination of their ships and Cargoes as were desired. I send you
the protest of William Martin, Master of the Cincinnatus of Balti-

1797] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 73

more, who lately arrived here, after having fallen into the hands
of a French Cruizer, which obliged him to leave his own vessel
and to go on board the Cruizer, when he was tortured for more
than three hours. Captain Martin's thumbs, which I examined,
bear the marks of the screws, and the scars will go with him to
his grave.

It is impossible that these barbarous outrages should be author-
ized ; indeed the concealment observed by the Perpetrators of
them, who refused to tell their names, or the Port of their Equip-
ment, evince that they are not so. A general Peace, if concluded
on a basis of reciprocal Justice may secure to us an exemption from
the System of Plunder and Barbarity into which Europe seems
in danger of relapsing.

The elections in France, so far as Results are known, have been
favorable to the friends of moderation ; but Victory & Conquest
are advantageous to their opponents, and will elate both. The
Emperor of Russia avoids, even in a greater Degree than his
Mother did, taking any share in the war. Prussia adheres to
the maxims that have long influenced her, and will make no efforts
except to augment her own Territories or to weaken those of * her
neighbours. Some recent successes confirm the past character of
this Court and increase our Detestation of its principles. Germany
is disjointed, dispersed and in some degree revolutionized ; it
cannot therefore be depended on at a time, when union, courage
and zeal could alone be of any advantage. England must soon
have no option j her wealth and her Navy have been her glory and
her safeguard. The f owner is found to have limits j the latter by
an extensive and successful mutiny of her Seamen has recently
received a wound of the most dangerous consequence. The Nation is
weary of the War and there is a general despair of any advantages
from the prosecution of it. The Ministry have been supported
for the last twelve months by the opinion which they assiduously
propagated that the continuance of the war was against their
wishes and owing to the disinclination of the French to make Peace.

The public discontents increase daily and there is reason to be-
lieve, notwithstanding the strong personal desire of the King to go
on with the war, that nothing but the dread of the consequences
to his authority from Mr. Fox's coming into office, prevents a change

* Italics in cipher.

174 RUFUS KING. [1797

of Ministers. If an administration could be made without Mr.
Fox it is supposed that an immediate change would take place.
There is however a circumstance of considerable weight that is
favorable to the continuance of the present Ministry. A change of
Ministers, it is apprehended, would require a change of the House
of Commons. The present is the first session of a new Parliament,
and the seats are too expensive to be soon given up. Hence the friends
of the Ministers, though they wish for Peace and would recom-
mend a surrender of all the National Conquests to obtain it desire
that it should be made by men whom they have supported and not by
those whom they have opposed. In this situation of ±e Allies, the
burthen of continuing the War falls upon Austria. The Emperor,
it is true, whatever we may think of his wisdom by his firmness
and constancy excites our admiration. The nobles of Vienna
since the late Defeat of the Arch Duke have surrounded the
Throne with Petitions for an immediate Peace, as the only means
of saving the Capitol, or preserving the Monarchy. To this
advice, nothwithstanding past Disasters, and the tide of success
on which Bonaparte advances, the Emperor has answered that he
could not consent to make Peace, without his allies, that Vienna
was not the Monarchy, that the Monarchy would survive, beloved
and defended by his loyal subjects, when even Vienna should
have surrendered to the enemy. Though this courageous firm-
ness in the Chief of a warlike nation, if accompanied with more
propitious Circumstances, would perform Prodigies and might
save a sinking State, yet in this instance the affairs of Austria
are so deranged, her armies so reduced and dispirited, her sub-
jects so depressed by the Burthens and misfortunes of the war,
and the conflict so apparently hopeless, that it is even doubted
whether the Emperor will be able to hold out till the person who
has been sent from this Country to Vienna, to join in the nego-
tiations, shall arrive there.

Should he conclude a separate Peace, & whether separate or
joint its terms will be much the same, it must be one in which
France dictates the conditions, and consequently too unequal and
humiliating to be lasting. This view of the Situation of the war
recommends to us in a forcible manner the Policy of continuing,
if possible, in peace. We have been wronged and greatly so, but
it is only by negotiation and by persevering in the moderate but

1797] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 75

manly representations of the injustice that has been done to us
that we shall be likely to obtain satisfaction. There certainly is
nothing heroic, nothing that excites admiration in this march ;
on the other hand I hope there is nothing really humiliating in it ;
since it is one that promises to obtain for us, with more certainty
than any other, that satisfaction for the past and security for the
future which in a different way the greatest and most powerful
Nations in Europe have attempted but utterly failed to obtain.

With great respect &c.

Rufus King.

P. S. The public Papers announce an arret of the Executive
Directory of the 10th instant which directs that the Passports
granted by the Ministers and Diplomatic Envoys of the United
States of America, and Passports certified by them, shall not be
admitted nor acknowledged by any authority ; the arret is ordered
to be printed and the Minister of Police is charged with the
execution of it.

I am at a loss to conjecture the motives to this Regulation.
You know that in time of war, it is by Passports only that the
Merchants are enabled to pass from one country to another in the
transaction of their business. This arret will be embarrassing to
such of our countrymen as, being in Europe, might be desirous of
following and claiming their Property captured and carried into
France.

I shall recommend to those of them who are going to France
from this Country to take a Certificate of Citizenship from our
Consuls here ; having sometime since understood that Mr. Skip-
with, our Consul at Paris, was permitted to grant Certificates of
this nature. But whether this precaution will answer, or whether
we shall avoid still greater mischief than hitherto I have appre-
hended, I confess myself at a loss to determine.

I have this moment received a letter from Mr. Pitcairn, dated
Paris April 8, 1797 : he begins by saying that " Mr. de Clerck
flls, the Chief of the Co?nptability of the National Treasury, in-
formed me yesterday that two days before the Directory had laid
an opposition to prevent any payment being made to the American
Government or any of the people, founded on the law of Reprisals."
Mr. Pitcairn makes a query whether Private Debts could be con-
fiscated. . . .

176 RUFUS KING. [i797

T. Pickering to R. King.

" Department of State, April 26, 1797.
" Dear Sir :

" . . . To-day I received your letter of March 5th, and
notice the immediate causes and effects of the stoppage of cash
payments from the Bank of England. I should presume on the
spirit and patriotism of British subjects, to make sacrifices propor-
tioned to the present extraordinary emergencies. It is an obvious
remark that if you contend with a nation which uses new weapons
or new manoeuvres, to which your own are unequal or inapplica-
ble— to fight on a par, you must change your own and adopt
corresponding means of attack and defence. What would France
have effected in the present war, had she relied on the ordinary
means of France when a Monarchy ? With even a small portion
of the immense sacrifices of that nation under her Revolutionary
governments, Britain might yet maintain the conflict. Her bitter
resentments and national antipathy and revenge towards a people
whom she has long called her natural enemy, joined to her national
pride, it might be imagined would furnish the extraordinary means
which the unexampled state of things demand.

" The depredations of the French in the West Indies continue.
Mr. Adet, a few days since expressed to me his opinion that they
are not authorized by the French Government ; remarking that it
is impossible to restrain Privateers from irregularities. But it
happens, unfortunately, that nearly all the vessels or Cargoes, or
both, which are carried in by their Privateers are condemned by
their civil officers on shore. Besides when he mentions unauthor-
ized captures, he cannot refer to the multitude which we complain
of as made in direct violation of our Treaty with France, or of
the law of nations, but which he himself declared would be made
pursuant to the Decree of the Directory on the 2nd of July last."

R. King, London, to T. Pickering.

Personal and Private.

Ap. 29, 1797.

Dear Sir :

. . . I submit to you whether it would not be advantageous,
if you shd. send me 10 or 12 Copies of the State Papers from your

1797] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 1 77

office which are from time to time published : a distribution of
them among the foreign Ministers here & others, would in my
opinion contribute much to the extension of correct opinions con-
cerning our Policy and national Characters. Your late letter to
Genl. Pinckney has been very serviceable in this light ; it has been
well received by every one, and obtained, as it deserved, the
approbation and praise of sensible and impartial men.

Mess. Gore and Pinckney will write to you on a subject on
which I have had, and still suffer, much anxiety — unless a more
systematic attention is given to the procuring of the seasonable
and requisite Evidence in cases of Capture, I see little prospect
in obtaining the reasonable satisfaction for our Losses, which with
proper diligence & skill in the Agency, and with the present
views of this Government, we might rationally expect to receive.
It is unpleasant to say so, but it is my opinion, that we shall ulti-
mately meet with serious Losses, and give occasion to complaints
among our people, unless we can induce Mr. Bayard to examine
each case (instead of turning them over without examination to a
Proctor) and wherever there is a defect of proof, to point it out
and take immediate measures to supply it. If Mr. Bayard is
unable or unwilling to take this trouble, which ought to have been
taken a year ago, we shall endeavour to fall upon some plan of
having the business done by some other person.

I hope soon to hear from you respecting the manner of keeping
and paying to the Claimants the Monies awarded to be paid by
this Government. I am persuaded that a precise regulation must
be given on this subject ; and I am likewise in hopes to receive
your Opinion concerning the Commission which may be claimed
to be deducted by Mr. Bayard (for his own emolument) from such
sums as he shall pay over to the Claimants. I can't say that Mr.
Bayard will make this claim unless he has the consent of the
claimant, but I have reason to suppose that it has not been a dif-
ficult matter to obtain their consent ; various motives may have
induced Merchants and others in America to agree to such
proposal. I have before observed to you that I wholly disapprove
of it.

With great Respect & Truth

I am, Dr. Sir, yours &c.

Rufus King.

VOL. II. — 12

I78 RUFUS KING. [1797

T. Pickering to R. King.

Department of State, May 9, 1797.
Dear Sir :

On the 6th, in the evening, I received your letter of the 12th of
March. . . . The State of affairs relative to French Captures
of American Vessels, at the date of your Letter no doubt rendered
your disapprobation of the project of a Convoy very proper. I
mean for vessels of the United States sailing from the ports of
Great Britain ; but the piratical conduct of their privateers in the
American seas, and even on the coast of Spain, must render any
measures of protection and defence both eligible and lawful. If
therefore the British Government, on the request of the Merchants
trading to America, or of the underwriters, or on their own Mo-
tion, order convoys for the American vessels under a change of
circumstances which show that our commerce is in more danger
than when you expressed your disapprobation of the measure, the
convoys are certainly not to be refused.

After illustrating the question by some suggestions Mr. P. says :
*' What legal consequences can result from accepting a convoy in
any case, except that of its being a cause of condemnation in
cases of capture, altho' the vessel should really be neutral ? It
would then seem to be a matter of calculation, whether to accept
or decline a convoy." He then presents some decisions by Eng-
lish authorities on the subject of the causes of forfeiture of a
vessel under convoy, and says : " But here the cause of forfeit-
ure is not the simple act of going under convoy ; but the attempt-
ing in a neutral vessel to shelter the goods of an enemy by means
of a convoy ; and therefore, if this distinction be correct an
American Vessel, with an American Cargo, may innocently go
under Convoy. Because a belligerent power, without regarding
Treaties or the Law of Nations makes prize of such Property.
If however such unwarrantable captures are not made (and this I
suppose you judged to be the fact in respect to our vessels trad-
ing with Great Britain and Ireland) there can be no reason for
seeking convoys, and the doing it might give offence to the Gov-
ernment against which it was requested. But whenever that
Government has no scruple to interrupt and injure our lawful
commerce, by means of her armed vessels, we can have no scruple

1797] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 79

to accept protection from the Convoys of her Enemies. The
question will be whether the Government shall personally request con-
voys. This is a question of some delicacy, as it regards the foreign
power to whom the request shall be made, on the score of obligation.
But if, for the sake of preserving lucrative or necessary trade, that
power voluntarily offers, or on the request of individuals, grants the
requisite Convoys, are we to refuse them ? Certainly not, and such is
the sense of the President*

With perfect esteem, &c.

Timothy Pickering.

* Italics in cipher.

CHAPTER XIV.

French Designs as affecting the U. S. — Public Temper in the U. S. improving
in reference to these — Causes of the Mutiny in the British Fleets — Paid
Agents of the U. S. cannot demand extra Compensation from Awards to
Claimants — General Allen's Claim for the Restoration of Arms captured
and detained in England — Kosciuszko thanks Mr. King for assisting him
in obtaining a Passage to America.

G. Cabot to R. King, London.

Brookline, May 9, 1797.
Dear Sir :

It is abundantly evident that the designs of France as disclosed
to me by Mr. Liancourt * last summer were real, and if they do
not already exceed them fully, it is only because their successes
have fallen short of their calculation. I fear it will prove unfor-
tunate for our country that their successes have been lately so
great. The fall of Mantua and the appearance of pecuniary em-
barrassment in England have revived the spirit of Jacobinism, which
had been declining very fast. Still however it may be relied on,
that public opinion in relation to foreign politics & the affairs of
France particularly, is infinitely more correct than it has ever
been since the Devil was let loose. You will feel, as we all do,
great anxiety for the measures which Congress shall adopt : our
friends have hope, & even expect that things will all go well, but
you know I always expect the contrary, and if the power of faction
is not sufficient to direct the movements of Government, I am
persuaded they will obstruct them. Their schemes have so far de-
veloped themselves as to convince us that they will favor every
kind of concession to France, and will endeavor to charge all our
troubles, and even the disgraceful submission they would make

* See letter of Sept. 24, 1796.
1797] LIFE AN& CORRESPONDENCE. l8l

to France, to the British Treaty. Our best security against them,
is that their projects are well understood by the Executive & will
be resisted there. My own opinion is to avoid giving provocation
to the pride of France and to hold ourselves ready to conciliate
on any terms not dishonorable j but as they are encouraged to in-
sult and injure us by a contempt of our power, I wou'd make a
show of the Spirit and resolution of the country, that shou'd com-
pel them to expect resistance, if they advance. . . . After all
I think our tranquillity essentially depends upon events on your
side the water & the fate of England especially. If Englishmen
do not forfeit the just character of their ancestors, they will perish
sooner than submit to France, & altho' it must be confessed they
have immense difficulties to struggle with at home, yet if they feel
the same inveteracy toward their rival, which this feels toward
them, they will certainly conquer at last. England has the means
to defend herself on the sea against the whole of Europe and I
shou'd imagine with these means in possession, the nation will
always reject the idea of submission under every vicissitude of its in-
ternal affairs. Our Expectants of Compensation for captur'd
property begin to feel impatient at the delay which they can't
easily be persuaded is unavoidable.

Your faithful and affect, friend

G. Cabot.

N. Webster, Jr. to R. King, London.

New York, May 30, 1797.
Sir :

I take the liberty to enclose you my opinions on the relative

interests of Great Britain & the United States.* If you agree

with me in opinion, you will make what use you please of the

Letter. The present moment is important, and tho' I reprobate

a connection with any European power, which shall necessarily

involve us in their broils, yet it is hardly possible for a commercial

nation not to be implicated more or less in the contentions of

other powers. Prudence and safety seem to require that we should

be on good terms with the greatest naval power in Europe, as I

* Paper alluded to published in New York, 1802 ; see Webster's Essays, dated
June 1, 1797.

182 RUFUS KING. [1797

apprehend, in case of hostility, naval aid will nearly supersede the
necessity of any other defense.

In the ideas I have suggested, a few friends to whom I have
communicated them, most heartily concur. And as we are
probably approaching a rupture with France, we are to calculate
upon the event, & be prepared to meet it. If we can escape it,
so much the better. I sincerely wish the British Ministry could
be convinced of the utility of conciliating the attachment of the
Americans & of the extreme folly of irritating them by taking
little advantages at sea. This policy had nearly thrown us into
the arms of France in 1793. You know with what firmness Govt
resisted, and you was among the foremost in the ranks on that
occasion. The French interest is yet considerable, but much
weakened, since the seizure and confiscation of our vessels in the
West Indies. The tide has turned and the current is setting
strong agt. the French Govt. The northern States wish peace as
much as ever, but the losses of property already sustained, & the
insolent conduct of the French Govt, toward ours, has united
them in the opinion that war is probable, and they are ready to
meet it with firmness.

Never was there a more favorable moment for the British Govt,
to remove the prejudice & regain the confidence of our citizens ;
& what extreme ill-policy in the Ministry not to embrace it. . . .

With great respect your obedt. Servt.

N. Webster, Jr.

John Jay to R. King, London.

New York, June 3, 1797.
Dear Sir :

. . . The newspapers contain the Debates and Proceedings
in Congress. Public opinion respecting the true policy of this
country is gradually becoming more and more correct. Injurious
Treatment from foreign nations, whether followed by peace or
war, will encrease our Wisdom. It seems Experience must
generally be purchased, and sometimes at a high price.
I am happy to find that the Comrs. go on well, and that the brit-
ish Govt, act candidly.

The late session of our Legislature was a temperate and in

1797] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 1 83

several respects an useful one. The Security and Lassitude of
the Federalists at the late election was such in this City and some
other Places, that the present House of Assembly will be more
chequered than the last. . . .

Yours sincerely
John Jay.

A. Hamilton to R. King, London.

June 8, 1797.

I thank you, my Dear Sir, for your two letters lately received
from you. ... I feel very guilty for my negligence — but
how can I help it ?

The public prints will inform you of the course of public pro-
ceedings hitherto. You will perceive that the general plan is
analogous to what was done in the case of Great Britain, though
there are faults in the detail. Some people cannot learn that the
only force which befits a government, is in the thought and action,
not in the words, and many reverse this golden rule. I fear we
shall do ourselves no honor in the result, and we shall remain at
the mercy of events without those efficient preparations which are
demanded by so precarious a situation, and which not provoking
war, would put us in condition to meet it. All the consolation
I can give is that the public temper of this country mends dayly
& that there is no final danger of our submitting tamely to the
yoke of France.

Yrs. affectly.

A. H.

R. King to the Secretary of State.

London, June 5, 1797.
Dear Sir :

. . . The Mutiny of the Navy is ascribed to the intrigues of

Emissaries employed to mislead and corrupt the Seamen, and a

Bill has been brought into Parliament for the Punishment of those

who shall be detected. It is possible that the Seamen may have

been tampered with, but practices of this sort could not well

escape detection, and it is not easy to conceive that this general

insubordination should have been produced in this manner.

1 84 RUFUS KING. [1797

There are other and more obvious causes to which it may be at-
tributed. The Naval Force of the Enemy has been held in
Contempt by the British Fleet. France has had neither Fleets
nor Commerce against which the Navy of England could be
employed. The men of war have therefore passed most of the
time in Port ; discipline has been neglected ; the officers have
lived on shore ; and the Ships have been left under the command
of young, inexperienced and very subordinate officers ; besides
the Times have been feverish and critical, and men of all, includ-
ing the most subordinate, conditions have heard so much of the
Equality and Rights of Man, that the dependencies of Society,
instead of being acknowledged and submitted to by habit, have
been questions for determination and proof.

This, in my belief, is nearer the true solution than that which
is publickly professed.

The Situation of Ireland is still hazardous, and must neces-
sarily be the subject of great inquietude. The Bank of England
continues to make their operations solely with Paper, and it
seems improbable that they will be able with safety to resume
their ancient mode of payment before the return of Peace : an
event that the present distresses of England may induce the
French Government to postpone in hopes of a more ample grati-
fication of their resentment and hatred against the only Nation
which they own as a Rival.

The supposed accession of Moderation in the new third added
to the election of Barthelemy, have however decided the British
Government to make another effort to terminate the war, and a
Message has been Sent to France to ask a Passport for a Minister
to be sent from this Country direct to Paris.

With perfect Respect & Esteem

Rufus King.

R. King to N. Low.

London, June 6th, 1797.
Dear Sir :

. . . It is not easy in a short letter to give you an adequate
idea of the situation of this country. Ireland is in a very dis-
turbed and critical condition, and government is there maintained

1797] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 1 85

alone by military force, although your kinsman, Mr. Wallace, who
is at present in London, says things are not so bad in Ireland as
they are represented.

The late mutiny in the Channel on Lord Bridport's fleet, after
a negotiation carried on between delegates on the part of the sea-
men with the Lords of the Admiralty, was quieted and the fleet is
now at sea. But the ships at Sheerness joined by a portion of
Admiral Duncan's fleet from the north seas (which have confined
their officers and separated from the fleet) are in a state of Revolt
and indeed Rebellion.

Negotiations have been attempted with them but their demands
are deemed wholly subversive of the discipline and government
of the navy and therefore not to be admitted. The consequence
has been that the mutinous ships, consisting of about twenty sail,
eleven of which are of the line, have blocked the mouth of the
Thames and detain and plunder all vessels which pass. All com-
munication with them is forbidden ; the neighbouring shores are
put in a state of defence ; and the alternative seems to be submis-
sion or the carrying of the ships to the enemy.

The Bank will not resume their former mode of payments till
peace. It is believed that their operations are prudent ; the first
embarrassments which followed in stopping specie payments
have in a great degree vanished. Specie circulates in small pay-
ments, and very large sums have been obtained from abroad and
lodged by the Bank in their vaults.

The nation despairs of advantage from a continuation of the
war ; they therefore desire peace, direct and new efforts to obtain
which have been lately made by this government, who have sent
a messenger to France to obtain a passport for a Minister to go
to Paris. The moderation that has prevailed in the election of
the new third, joined to the election of Barthelemi as a Director,
are favorable to the conclusion of peace ; but the very great em-
barrassment of England has a contrary influence and may induce
the Directory to defer an event so much desired in hopes of seeing
England, their only rival, reduced still lower.

We who are nearer the war than you are earnestly hope that
America will persevere in that course of moderation and prudence
which has kept her out of the war. I think the late change in
France furnishes an occasion that, if improved, will probably

1 86 RUFUS KING. [1797

terminate our disagreements, or at least so far terminate them, as
to enable us to maintain peace with the preservation of pub.
honor. The dreadful scenes which have been exhibited in
Europe, and which are still to be exhibited, should decide us to
reject the advice of those who may advise us to war. Fare-
well—

Rufus King.

T. Pickering to R. King.

" Department of State, June 9, 1797.
" Dear Sir :

" I have recurred to your letter of January 14th, in which you
state your ideas relative to the monies which shall be recovered
as indemnifications to our citizens for the losses sustained by
British captures. They are indisputably just, and the agents of
the United States employed and paid by the government in prose-
cuting and establishing those claims, can form no rightful de-
mands for compensation beyond their fixed salaries ; but after
deducting the costs of prosecution, which shall have been ad-
vanced by the United States, the remainder to be wholly paid to
the claimant or his agent.

" If however, the claimants choose to appoint either of the public
agents (Mr. Bayard or Mr. Cabot) to receive their reimbursements
there will be no objection made to it. Many of the sufferers have
no connections in London, and such will doubtless prefer the pub-
lic agents to receive their monies. Mr. Cabot will probably have
authority from many of the claimants in New England to receive
their dues, and with this view in part they solicited his appoint-
ment ; and I know that the expectation of this benefit was a prin-
cipal inducement with him to accept the public agency. Where
the claimants have correspondents in England to receive their
dues, there can be no pretence for any demand of commissions
by either of the agents. Neither ought they to make any such
demands when their monies can be safely lodged with some safe
bankers, subject to be drawn for by the claimants without any
expense. But there will be some risk in this mode of depositing
the money, and whose shall it be ? Instead of drawing the monies
from the British Government, will it not be most eligible to let

1797] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 87

them remain in the Bank of England to be paid at the times fixed
by the commissioners or pursuant to the Decrees of the Courts ?
For this purpose you will be pleased to make an arrangement
with the British Government. . . . With this information of
the intentions of the Government, you will consider yourself
authorized to take, in forming the proposed arrangement, that full
latitude and discretion, which the security of the property of our
citizens and their receiving the same with the fewest possible
deductions, shall appear to you to require."

T. Pickering to R. King.

" Department of State, June 15, 1797.
" Dear Sir :

". . . The Senators and that Representative (Mr. Lyons)
from Vermont (the other Representative was not chosen when
the present session commenced) have shown me a Letter from
Governor Chittenden, desiring them to seek the aid of the British
Minister in favor of General Allen's Claim for the restoration of
the arms and cannon he procured from France and which were
carried into England. I have handed that Letter to the British
Minister, together with a Letter from each of these gentlemen in
which they concur in one opinion that those arms and cannon
were really destined for Vermont. They say that General Allen
was embarrassed in his pecuniary affairs, for relief in which he
has pledged real property to a large amount ; to redeem which
was the object of his voyage to Europe, by some important specu-
lation, to which his genius was well adapted. Governor Chitten-
den advised him to speculate in arms for the purpose of supplying
the militia of Vermont, who by the law of the State were required
to furnish themselves, or, if paupers, their respective towns were
to supply them ; the penalty for not being furnished was con-
siderable.

" General Allen, being successful in obtaining arms in France,
gave notice of it to Governor Chittenden, who formally communi-
cated the information to the Legislature of Vermont, last Fall.
In consequence of the expected arrival of these arms, the Legis-
lature suspended the law above mentioned, to give the militia this

1 88 RUFUS KING, [1797

opportunity of arming themselves before the penalty should be
exacted. Other circumstances relative to the character of Gen-
eral Allen and the nature of this speculation lead me to think that
the real objects of it were to arm the militia of Vermont with
arms which cost General Allen (or rather for which he made a
bargain in form with the French minister of war) twenty five
livres, but which he could readily sell to the militia for fifty livres
to the number of ten or fifteen thousand in that State, and the
residue to the militia of the neighbouring States or to the Govern-
ment of some of the States ; and thus relieve himself from his
incumbrances on his lands, which those Gentlemen assure me are
extensive and worth perhaps two hundred thousand dollars, but
a great part of which he has already forfeited, and will forfeit
much more by means of the detention of the arms in question,
unless they should be immediately restored, and his creditors,
whose forfeitures are already incurred should from equitable
views relinquish their strictly legal rights.

" The Gentlemen assure me that the most friendly intercourse
has taken place and is increasing between the inhabitants of
Vermont and those of Canada [for whose benefit it has been sug-
gested these arms were intended. — Ed.] and nothing would be
more impracticable than to induce the former to aid an insurrec-
tion against the British Government in that Province.

" Upon the whole, it is the real wish of the Executive of the
U. States that the arms and military stores in question may be
restored to General Allen, to be brought to the U. States, where
they are much wanted. By General Allen's Letter to Capt.
Gould, of which you sent me a copy ; the General offered to give
caution for the landing of the arms &c, in New York. Upon such
security I hope there will be no difficulty in restoring them. . . .

" We have this day a report by Letters from Boston, that the
French Directory have proposed to the Council of 500 to declare
war against the U. S. and the Council rejected the proposition.
No act of the Directory can any longer excite surprise."

" Le Gl. Kosciuszko a l'honneur de remercier S. E. M. L. En-
voye des Etats Unis de l'Amerique de toutes les peines qu'il a
eu la bonte de se donner pour lui procurer un batiment faisant

1797] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 89

voile pour l'Amerique. Son ami M. Niemcewicz aura l'honneur
de faire sa cour a S. E. demain vers le Midi ; il sera l'interprete
des sentiments de reconnoissance et de veneration que le Gl.
Kosciuszko lui a voues pour la vie.
" Le 3. Juin 1797."

T. Kosciuszko to Rufus King.

Bristol, 16th June, 1797.
Sir :

I feel great satisfaction in answering your last favour, being
able to express my warmest thanks to you for the trouble I have
given you during my stay in London. Your generous heart has
found no limits, and you have continued your kind care at Bris-
tol and America. I am under the greatest obligation to you, and
more forcibly not having deserved it. Be convinced of my ever-
lasting gratitude to you and of the honour I shall always feel in
signing myself with great Respect and Affection your obedient

humble servant.

T. Kosciuszko.

P. S. I have been particularly desired by Mr. Vander-Horst,
American Consul, and his amiable Family to accept a Lodging at
their house, where I am more tenderly treated than if I had been
a Member of their Family. You can not conceive what Cares
and friendly attentions are shown to me. It grieves me much
that I am not able to shew them a degree of Gratitude equal to
my feelings on that Occasion and which would perfectly corre-
spond with their Tenderness to me. Be so kind as to give them
Thanks for me.

I shall have the honour of writing to you from Philadelphia
where I am going with Captain Lee on account of his ship being
more comfortable for the Passage for a man in my Situation. I
will follow your advice and will do every thing as you will order
me. Receive once more my most grateful and respectful
Thanks.

CHAPTER XV.

Mr. Pickering's Account of Spanish Duplicity about southern Boundaries —
Apprehends France means to regain Louisiana — Arrest of Major McLane
and others for alleged treasonable Practices against Canada — Sedgwick on
Relations with France — Gerry's Appointment as Commissioner to France
— Washington on the Political Situation in U. S. — R. King to Hamilton
on French Affairs — Impeachment of Gov. Blount — Mr. Liston's Letter —
Bingham's Letter about Stewart's Portrait of Washington to Marquis of
Lansdown — And about Gov. Blount — R. King to Wm. Hindman.

T. Pickering to R. King.

" Department of State, June 20, 1797.
" Dear Sir :

" . . . The President sincerely desirous of adjusting by
negotiation all our differences with France, declared his determi-
nation to pursue that course ; but the issue being uncertain
strongly recommended preparatory measures of defence. In the
Senate these assumed a form ; but the House of Representatives
have but partially concurred. The session however continues,
and as the aggressions on the part of France are multiplying
daily, and Spain by her agents in Louisiana, has discovered an
inclination to postpone and apparently to evade the execution of
her Treaty with us, at least respecting the Boundary Line, and
the withdrawing of her Troops from our Territory — perhaps the
preparatory measures may at last be adopted.

" The correspondence between Mr. Ellicott, the American
Commissioner and the Spanish Governors, the Baron de Caron-
delet and Gayoso, on the subject above mentioned, you will find
in the Packet which accompanies this letter. The miserable pre-
texts, evasions and prevarications of Governor Gayoso are aston-
ishing. We should expect from any man claiming any degree of
consideration, and especially from an officer of rank, even if
deficient in moral principle, that for the sake of his reputation in
the world, he would have some regard to consistency and truth.
1797] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. I9I

But the Baron de Carondelet is still more eminent in rank ; he is
the Governor General of Louisiana, and has, the Spanish Minister
here informed me, been appointed lately to the Government of
Quito in South America. Yet the Baron has written to the Min-
ister on the subject of the Boundary and the Spanish Ports, and
the Minister literally translating it, as he said, read me the Baron's
Letter in which he makes some complaints against Mr. Ellicott,
frivolous indeed, and one palpably false. He complained that
Mr Ellicott had not informed him of his arrival at the Natchez
as the Commissioner of the U. States for running the Boundary
line ! I showed the chevalier d'Yrujo the Letter of Mr. Ellicott
dated the 27th February to the Baron, three days after his arrival
at the Natchez, and doubtless by the first conveyance to New
Orleans, informing him of his arrival in the character of American
Commissioner, and the Baron's answer of the 1st of March, con-
gratulating Mr. Ellicott on his arrival. The Chevalier was con-
founded, but said he supposed the Baron did not consider Mr.
Ellicott's Letter as official 7 . . .

" The Windsor (Vermont) Paper of June 9th informs that a
Major McLane from Rhode Island and his brother and Thomas
Butterfield of Vermont, have lately been apprehended at Quebec
■ upon something more than a suspicion of treasonable practices
against the Government of that province.' That Major McLane
had a commission from the French Republic, was under pay, and
for about two years had been faithfully employed whispering sedi-
tion in the ears of the French Canadians ; and that upon exami-
nation this appeared to be a branch of an extensive plan of opera-
tions settled in the French Cabinet ; that upon the arrival of a
Fleet in the St Lawrence the magazines were to be blown up —
the French inhabitants were to rise in a mass and exterminate
the English. It is added that several characters in Vermont are
implicated in the business, and the whole (says the Editor) ' We
learn by undoubted authority.' Probably Mr. Liston may have
received official intelligence of this affair. The discovery corre-
sponds with prior facts and circumstances indicating the designs
of France to repossess Canada by a force from Europe, an insur-
rection of the Canadians and aid from numerous adherents in the
United States. In the expectations from the letter, I have
no doubt France would find herself essentially disappointed.

I92 RUFUS KING. [7179

Whatever might have been done three years ago when we were
suffering under British spoliations and saw threatening appear-
ances of hostility from that power, France can form no reason-
able hopes of assistance in the U. S. except from a few corrupt
men, a few desperate adventurers, and a few, who apparently
would be willing to sacrifice even their own country to their
malignant passions. The Vermont Gentlemen in the Senate,
who you know are persons of information and stability, assure me
that the Inhabitants of their State are perfectly well disposed
towards their neighbours in Canada and the British Government
there established.

" We are not without apprehensions that France means to regain
Louisiana, and to renew the ancient plan of her Monarch, of cir-
cumscribing and encircling what now constitutes the Atlantic
States. To the execution of such a plan, so dangerous to our
union and peace, every real American must be firmly opposed."

T. Sedgwick to R. King.

My Dear Sir : Philadelphia, 24 June, 1797.

. The Convention of the Legislature was generally, I
believe universally, approved by the friends of government and
declaredly by all the Jacobins. The former, at the commence-
ment of the session, warmly approved the sentiments expressed in
the Prest's speech. War must, if possible, be avoided ; a redress
of our injuries must be obtained. For these purposes, a new
attempt must be made to negotiate, & to render its success prob-
able, manly preparations must be made. This was the language
held by all our friends, and altho' the reasons for such a system
of measures have been strengthened and increased by events,
which, since that time, have been disclosed, and altho' men of
good disposition, are in fact a majority, yet all things dictated by
our situation have been left undone.

To account for these apparent contradictions, I am sorry to
state a fact, which to my mind is the principal & perhaps the only
operative cause, a dread of the power &° vengeance of the terrible
Republic. Some almost explicitly declare it : they talk of our
divided councils, — that France elated with victory will be irri-

1797] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 93

tated by any attempt to coerce — that resistance in Europe is at an
end, and that in the event of peace now certain, she can have no
motive to quarrel with us, but on the other hand will hope to
participate in our commerce, as the means of reviving her own,
— that therefore she will be disposed to conciliate &c. &c. Con-
comitantly with arguments of this nature, the authors of them
dwell on the necessity of avoiding expence, and indeed to justify
themselves declare that any incurred at present for defence or
protection would be a waste of money. The session is now draw-
ing to a close and we shall separate after having given to the
world the most conclusive evidence that the contempt in which
France holds our power of resistance, which is her motive for
aggression, is a sentiment well founded.

Our friend Gerry is the third of our joint and several ministers
to France. No appointment could, in my opinion, have been
more injudicious. In justice to the President's council, I ought
to tell you, that the nomination was not the result of their appro-
bation, and in justice to myself, I declare that it received my
negative. However painful, for reasons which will be obvious to
you, it was to withhold my consent, I could not reconcile to myself
to approve an appointment so highly improper. Messrs. Read,
Marshall, Ross, Tracy & Goodhue also voted against it.

I have frequently seen the british commissioners ; and am much
pleased with them, particularly Mr. McDonald. I believe they
have a disposition to conduct liberally.

The House of Representatives did not reelect Mr. Beckley as
their Clerk. This was resented not only by himself but the whole
party, and they were rendered furious by it. To revenge, Beck-
ley has been writing a pamphlet mentioned in the enclosed adver-
tisement. The " authentic papers " there mentioned are those of
which you perfectly know the history, formerly in the possession
of Messrs. Monroe, Muhlenberg & Venable. This conduct is
mean, base and infamous. It may destroy the peace of a respect-
able family, and so gratify the diabolical malice of a detestable
faction, but I trust it cannot produce the intended effect of injur-
ing the cause of government. . . . With much sincerity and
esteem

Your affect'e friend

Theodore Sedgwick.

VOL. II. — 13

194 RUFUS KING. [1797

G. Washington to R. King, London.

Mount Vernon, 25th June, 1797.

Dear Sir :

I have been honoured with your letter of the 12th of Novr. of the
last, and 6th of Feby. & 26th of April of the present year ; and feel
myself much obliged by your kind & prompt attention to the pub-
lication of the Decree of the High Court of Chancery, of the State
of Virginia ; the evidence of which you were pleased to forward
in the London Gazette.

As you will have the Political situation of this country trans-
mitted to you from the proper Department, and, no doubt, will
be informed of the causes wch. have produced it and which
create a continual opposition to the Administration, detailed with
more accuracy by such of your friends as are at or near the foun-
tain of intelligence, than I could do, I shall say but little more on
the subject of Politics, than that matters are pretty much in the
train you left them ; and that it is my firm belief that no occur-
rence or event, of whatsoever kind or nature it may be, will
change the sentiments, or (which perhaps would be more correct)
the conduct of some characters amongst us.

However much to be regretted this is, by those who think dif-
ferently, yet, having taken my seat in the Shade of my Vine &
Fig tree, I shall endeavour to view things in the " calm lights of
mild Philosophy " ; persuaded that if ever a crisis should arise to
call forth the good sense & spirit of the People, no deficiency in
either will be found.

For the interesting details you have had the goodness to com-
municate in your several letters, I pray you to accept my thanks.
It is reported, and with a confidence which gives it a currency,
that the preliminaries of Peace between France & Austria are
actually signed. For the sake of humanity, I hope it is true, but
it is an accommodation of the differences between the former &
Great Britain, that is to produce harmony in this country ; for
nothing short of that, while there is a party determined to advo-
cate French measures under all circumstances, & to withdraw
this country from that tried neutrality, which its policy adopted
& the administration has adhered to, can effect this purpose.

Let me ask the favor of you to present me in respectful terms

1797] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 95

to Mrs. King, and that you would be assured of the great esteem
& regard with which

I am, Dear Sir, your most obedt. Hble. Servt.

Geo. Washington.

R. King to A. Hamilton.*

London, June 27th, 1797.
Dear Sir :

Lord Malmesbury will leave London in three or four days for
Lisle, where the conferences between this country and France are
to be held. Opinions fluctuate concerning the probability of
peace. A struggle evidently exists in France between the Direc-
tory and the Legislature ; in the latter of which bodies it is sup-
posed there is a sincere desire of peace.

Some late proceedings in the Legislature, or rather in the
Council of Five Hundred, give occasion to hope that our affairs
are in train to assume a more friendly appearance.

If, as many assert, the public opinion is friendly to America, it
will be employed by the Legislature against the Directory, which
at this moment is viewed as a rival power. We have just received
the President's speech : it has arrived at a critical hour. You
will perceive by newspapers that all Italy will be overturned.
Venice is no more ; and Genoa has been completely revolution-
ized by Citizen Faypoult, the Minister of France.

Portugal sees, but seems unable to escape her fate.

Though these are days of wonder, still one dares not believe
all we hear. The march already made by France has astonished
and confounded every beholder — and we are told that she medi-
tates and will attempt projects still more gigantic than those she
has executed — plans which will operate a change in the whole face
of Europe, and which extend to every other quarter of the globe.
Russia may be able to preserve her dominions from the fire that
is passing over the neighbouring countries. This nation has
lately renewed her commercial treaty with Russia, and by an
arrangement of their mutual interests may strengthen their com-
mon defence. It may be worth remarking that during this
negotiation Russia never even proposed the project of the armed

* Works of Hamilton, vi., 260.

I96 RUFUS KING. [1797

neutrality, so that the omission of the requisite provisions on
that subject may be considered as an abandonment of the system
by Russia.

Russia is to be treated in the British ports upon the same foot-
ing as the most favored European nation. Farewell.

Yours, &c, &c.

T. Pickering to R. King.

" Department of State, July 8, 1797.
" Dear Sir :

" . . . The letter from Governor Blount to Carey has
been considered by both Houses of Congress. . . . This in-
tended Impeachment induced Governor Blount and his friends
to endeavour to postpone a decision on a question of expulsion
(from the Senate) until the trial on the Impeachment should be
had ; when, if found guilty, his removal from office would be a
part of his sentence. . . . But the impropriety of suffering a
Senator incontrovertibly guilty of the crimes exhibited in his
Letter to Carey, to retain his seat was stated with great force and
justice ; and after hearing Governor Blount by his Counsel
(Messrs. Ingersoll and Dallas), the Senate this day pronounced
the Sentence of Expulsion with only one dissenting voice, Mr.
Tazewell's — 25 Senators were present. Mess. Mason, Stockton,
Schuyler, Paine and Langdon, together with the Vice President
were absent. Mr. Bradford was President pro tempore.

Precisely to understand the nature of Governor Blount's offence,
it will be necessary to remind and inform you that Col. Hawkins
(whom you well know) is the actual Superintendent of the United
States for the four Southern Indian Nations ; that Dinsmoor is a
particular agent of the U. S. residing among the Cherokees ; that
Byers is the factor charged with the public store at Tallico-
Blockhouse, for carrying on trade with the Indians, and that
Carey, to whom the Letter was written, was the Interpreter regu-
larly appointed and in constant pay of the United States for the
Cherokee Nation. Carey had been employed in the same capacity
during Governor Blount's Superintendency, and doubtless was

1797] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. igj

supposed by the latter to be devoted to his interest, and abso-
lutely subject to his direction. Chisholm also used to be an
agent of the Governor and was often employed by him in Indian
affairs, carrying messages into their nations and repeatedly con-
ducting the Chiefs to and from Philadelphia. Chisholm came
on here last winter with a party of the Cherokee Chiefs. You
will see by Mr. Liston's note to me, dated the second instant, that
several persons were concerned in offering to him the project ex-
hibited in Governor Blount's Letter. But their names are not yet
known. . . ." *

The following letter from Mr. Liston will be interesting
in this connection as showing the circumstances under

* " Along with the papers transmitted to Congress in relation to the Spanish
business was the copy of a letter from William Blount, late Governor of the
Territory south of the Ohio, and now one of the Senators from Tennessee, ad-
dressed to a recently appointed Indian agent (Carey) among the Cherokees, by
whom it had been communicated to the President. It appeared from this let-
ter, as well as from information furnished by Liston, the new British Minister,
of whom explanations had been asked, that Blount was engaged in an intrigue
for transferring New Orleans and the neighboring districts to the British by
means of a joint expedition, Britain to furnish a naval force, and a co-operating
corps of backwoodsmen and Indians to be raised on the western frontier of the
United States. Desperately involved in extensive land speculations in Ten-
nessee, and wishing to relieve himself by getting up an English company for
the purchase of his lands, Blount dreaded the re-transfer to the French, a mili-
tary and not a commercial nation, of the outlet of the Mississippi, a transfer
expected, and indeed supposed by some to be already made. Conceiving that
it would be for the interest of the Western people, as well as for his own pri-
vate benefit as a land speculator, that Louisiana should pass into the hands of
the English, he relied upon his influence with the backwoodsmen of Tennessee,
and with the Southern Indians, among whom he had long acted as agent, to raise
a necessary force. He had engaged as his chief co-operator one Chisholm, a
wild backwoodsman, well acquainted with the Spanish posts, and who had con-
ceived against the Spanish authorities, from some collisions with them, a bitter
hatred and an ardent desire of revenge, and, in his letter, laid before Congress,
he had sought to engage in his schemes the Indian agent to whom it was
addressed.

" It did not appear that the British minister had given to it any other coun-
tenance beyond yielding to Chisholm's earnest request to be sent to England to
lay the project before the British ministry, by whom it was rejected on the very
ground that it might interfere with the neutrality of the United States." —
Hildreth's His. of U. S., 2d Ser., vol. ii., pp. 88-90.

I98 RUFUS KING, [1797

which he introduced Mr. Chisholm to his correspondent in
England.

R. LlSTON TO J. H. GOVERTS, ESQ.

Philadelphia, 16th March, 1797.

Dear Sir :

I beg leave to recommend to your attention and good offices the
bearer of this Letter, Mr. John Chisholm, a native of Scotland,
but settled from his early years in this Country. He goes to Eu-
rope to dispose of certain Lands situated in different parts of
America, but particularly in the South : and if you can in this
point render him any service, you will personally oblige me. I
beg however that before you do anything definitive & particularly
before you either advance or even promise money, you will natu-
rally consider the long letter I wrote you on this subject on the
13th of last month. This I say so far as it regards myself ; as to
others I give you full liberty to do, and to allow him to do, what-
ever you please.

My injunctions on this subject are the more positive, as I have
lately seen Capt. W, from the Genessee Country & listened with
a pleasure mixed with regret, which I cannot describe, to his de-
scription of the new Settlements he is carrying on there. Upon
my honour, it is enough to make a man go stark staring mad.
However, mum ! I do not hold this language to my friends in
London, and I beg you never may.

I do not think it impossible that Mr. Chisholm may push on
to London, if he is not completely successful at Hamburgh. If
so, and if he applies to you for a recommendation to any of your
correspondents in London, I beg you will not refuse it to him. I
do not intend he should return re infecta, and I am well acquainted
with your goodness. . . . The damned French Rogues are
playing the Devil with this country, as they have done with all
the world ; but, as you used to say, when things are at the worst,
they must mend. Amen, so be it.

With perfect truth, your most obedient and faithful humble
Servant,

R. Liston.

1797] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 99

Wm. Bingham to R. King.

Philada., July 10, 1797.
Dear Sir :

I received your Letter of April 26th, with several inclosures
from the Marquis of Lansdown, who, I am pleased to find, is
much gratified with the Portrait of the President. Stewart has
been much disappointed in his Hopes relative to Profits, which he
expected to derive from this Picture. He had wrote to his friend
West, requesting him to engage an able artist to execute an En-
graving therefrom, which, from the general admiration the picture
attracted, might have been disposed of to great advantage in this
Country. He has not heard from Mr. West, & he is fearful that
Lord Lansdown's obliging character may induce him to permit
some other artist to take off the Impression.*

Congress has finished its Sessions. Its acts during that Period,
partake strongly of a Disposition towards Peace, thro' friendly
Negotiation. Many of our Friends, who believe war with France
inevitable, wished the public councils to assume that appearance.
In the meantime our Commerce is much molested, & Bankruptcies
are already happening in our great Towns. A stagnation is
taking place in business of all kinds ; the Wages of Labor are
lowering ; Property of all kinds is much diminished in value ;
Disappointment in their views, joined to a great scarcity of
money, has put an end to the various extravagant Speculations,
which disgraced the Country ; many of those, who engaged
deeply, are ruined & involved great numbers in their Mis-
fortunes.

A general Hope prevails, that Peace will take place in Europe
as the result of the present Negotiations. This alone will heal
our Misunderstanding with the French Republic. A Commission
of Envoys extraordinary has been instituted ; it is questionable
whether they will be received, & still more doubtful whether, if
received, their Negotiation will be successful. If war should en-
sue, I dread the Disorganization and extreme Disorder which will
arise out of it, especially in the Southern Parts of the Union.

The public papers will inform you of the Expulsion of Gov.
Blount from the Senate. A Letter, which you will find published,

* This happened, and thus Stuart lost the benefit.

200 RUFUS KING. [1797

he wrote to the Interpreter of the Cherokee Nation was the Cause
of it. A Project was set on foot, ostensibly to engage & encour-
age the British to attack the Spanish Settlements. But it rather
appears that the real object was to alarm the Spaniards, and when
the Agents in this Business had created serious Apprehensions in
their Minds, then to offer their Services to arrest or oppose its
Progress, from which they expected to derive immense advan-
tages. This nefarious Scheme was dark & intricate, & the full
Extent of its Views is not yet unravelled. It has defeated the
Provisions of the Spanish Treaty, as relative to the Cession of
Territory, near the Boundary Line, & without great Prudence, at
the present moment, on the part of our Government may involve
us in a war with that nation.

I will write to Baron Hompesch on the Subject of his Proposals
relative to the Transportation of his Germans to this Country : I
do not think that I can offer him much Encouragement. Such
an arrangement can only succeed after a Variety of necessary
Measures have been pursued preparatory to their Arrival. How-
ever I will present the Matter to him in different Points of View,
so that he shall be fully acquainted with the Subject & be able to
act with Confidence.

With great sincerity yours,

Wm. Bingham.

R. King to Wm. Hindman.

London, July 15, 1797.
Dear Sir :

It was some time after my arrival here that I received the Let-
ter that you wrote to me just before my embarkation. My Brother
accompanied me as my Secretary, but as he is destined to the
Profession of the Law, and had not been admitted to the Bar
when he left America, he has returned home in order to pursue
his Studies. This has occasioned a vacancy in the place of my
Secretary, which I am willing should be filled by Mr. Helmsley.
Inclosed is a letter for him which I request you to deliver. Mr.
Helmsley will be one of my family in all respects, except that he
will not lodge in my house. This was the footing on which Mr.

1797] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 201

Deas was with my Predecessor. . . . My table will be that of
my Secretary, and his servant will eat with mine. I mention
these small circumstances that no misconception may take place
respecting them. If I have but a very slight knowledge of Mr.
Helmsley that indeed has left favorable impressions of his
character ; I rely essentially upon your knowledge and recom-
mendation of it. I shall be inclined to treat him as a friend, if
he will put it in my power. . . .

Farewell, my worthy friend, and accept
the assurance of my sincere Esteem and Friendship,

Rufus King.

CHAPTER XVI.

Maryland Bank Stock — Mr. King advises no partial Regulations relative to the
Detention of Seamen — Provision of Money to meet Obligations under
Treaty with Tunis — Sir Joseph Banks asks for Passport for Mr. Masson to
go to America to collect Plants — Letter of R. King to M. Talleyrand, in-
troducing Col. Trumbull and Asking his friendly Influence to aid in remov-
ing the Troubles between France and the United States — R. King to the
Secretary of State — France probably owns Louisiana — Genl. Allen's Claim
— T. Pickering on Gov. Blount's Conspiracy — R. King to A. Hamilton —
Gloomy Views relative to Affairs in Europe — Letters from G. Cabot and
Wm. Hindman — R. King to T. Jefferson — S. Williams relative to Genl.
Lafayette.

R. King to Lord Grenville.

Great Cumberland Place, July 19, 1797.
My Lord :

I have the honor to send your Lordship inclosed copies of my
Letter of the 10th of February and also of a Letter that some time
ago I wrote to the Lord Chancellor respecting the Maryland Bank
Stock. I have the satisfaction to add that the Lord Chancellor
lately informed me that the Certificate (which for many years has
been in the Court of Chancery) is now in a situation in which a
Transfer of the Stock could be made to me, provided his Majesty
under his Sign Manual would give an order for that Purpose.

Since the date of my Letter to the Chancellor, I have ascer-
tained that the other persons who claimed to be indemnified from
the Fund for their Losses in Maryland, have as American Loyal-
ists been compensated for these Losses by his Majesty's Govern-
ment, so that the Claim is freed from those demands, which are
supposed formerly to have obstructed the Transfer. I take the
Liberty to request your Lordship's interference for the Purpose
of Compleating, in such manner as shall be deemed adviseable,
1797] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 203

the Transfer of the said Stock to me for the use of the State of
Maryland.

With perfect Consideration & Respect, &c. &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Lord Grenville.

Private.

Great Cumberland Place, July 20, 1797.
My Lord :

From what has taken place in the Court of Chancery, I flatter
myself that there no longer exists any objection agt. the Transfer
of the Maryland Bk. Stock : my only remaining concern is, that
the Business should be finished without Delay. Since the Trans-
fer is to be made, I take the liberty to express to your Lordship
my earnest wish, that it may take place as soon as possible. I
think I do not deceive myself in supposing that the satisfactory
settlement of this Affair at the present juncture may be attended
with consequences mutually beneficial to both Countries.

I presume that the order will enjoin the Accountant General
of the Court of Chancery to pay over such Dividends as he may
have received since the Stock has stood in his name, and which
may not have been invested in further Sums of capital Stock.

I intreat your Lordship's attention to this Subject before the
King goes to Weymouth ; and beg you to accept the assurance of
the sincere Respect and Esteem, &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Secretary of State.

London, July 27, 1797.
Dear Sir :

I was a few days since informed that Instructions were by the

last vessel sent to Mr. Liston to propose an article to be added to

the late Treaty, which should stipulate that all Deserters from the

Army and Navy of the two countries should be delivered up and

obliged to return to the service from which they deserted. This

Instruction, it is understood, has been given in consequence of

204 RUFUS KING. [1797

the inconvenience experienced by the British Ships of war in our
Ports. We cannot with propriety object to such just and con-
venient Regulations as may be calculated to promote and secure
a good Understanding and friendly intercourse between us and
other Nations. But that proposed embraces only part of a Sub-
ject of great Extent and Importance ; and it does not appear to
me that it would consist with good Policy to enter into any par-
tial Stipulations respecting it ; more especially when our repeated
Overtures to adjust the entire Subject on Principles of liberality
and mutual advantage, if not neglected, have not been received
in a manner we had a Right to expect.

I have received a letter from Col. Humphries, dated the 21st
of June, in which he informs me that it is probable that our Peace
with Tunis has been concluded and that for the purpose of cora-
pleating our Treaties with the three principal Barbary Powers, he
may be obliged to draw on the House of Barings for 170,000 or
200,000 dollars ; he adds that he has no other resource but the
Credit of the United States in London, and that a failure in the
procuring of this Sum, may put at Risque what we have already
expended to accomplish this object. The House of Barings are
already in advance a few Thousand Pounds beyond the Funds
remitted to them. You are sensible that I have no authority to
enter into any engagements upon this Subject, the whole concern
having been committed to Col. Humphries.

I have not however on that account omitted to employ the best
means in my power to make a provisional arrangement for the
advance of this money, should Col. Humphries be under the
necessity of drawing for it. Accordingly the Mess. Hopes and
the House of Barings have agreed to accept and pay Col.
Humphries' Bills. The Business will be conducted by the House
of Barings. I have informed Col. Humphries of this arrange-
ment and shall in a few days be able to send you Copies of the
Letters between Col. Humphries and me and between me and the
Mess. Barings ; these will give you full information of the terms
upon which the money will be advanced by the Mess. Hopes &
Barings. . . .

My letter of the 26th of June will apprise you of the Regula-
tions I have presented to Mr. Bayard concerning the Receit,
Custody and payment of the Monies. (Paid under the Decisions

1797] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 205

of the Commissioners for settling claims & damages against Eng-
land.) The affairs of some of the Claimants have been deranged
and their Creditors employ every means to seize their property
wherever it can be found. Among these means they have served
attachments upon Mr. Bayard to arrest any property which may
come into his Hands. This circumstance joined to an opinion
that my Superintendance of the Payments might be advantageous
have induced me to deposit the Money received on the Awards in
the Bank of England to my Credit. I have at the same time by
procuration appointed Mr. Bayard to draw for and pay the Money
to the respective Claimants. This Arrangement will disappoint
the Schemes of Arrestation that otherwise might have been prac-
tised, and as the Receit Book will show the sums drawn and the
names of the persons to whom paid, this check will be in favor of
a correct execution of this Trust.

With perfect Respect & Esteem, &c.

Rufus King.

Sir Joseph Banks to R. King.

Soho Square, July 29, 1797.
Sir :

The King having been graciously pleased to give orders that
Mr. Francis Masson, a Botanic Gardener who has for many years
been employed to collect Plants for the Royal Gardens at Kew in
Various parts of Europe, Africa & America, do proceed to upper
Canada to collect and transmit from thence to Kew such Plants
as he may discover which have not yet been described by Botani-
cal Writers ; and it having been represented to his Majesty that
the most commodious Rout Mr. Masson can chuse is by the way
of New York, I have his Majesty's command to solicit your
Excellency to furnish him with the necessary Passports for his
intended journey.

I beg leave at the same time to state to your Excellency that it
appears to me very desireable that Mr. Masson should during the
time of his Residence in upper Canada, visit the immense Tract
of high Land between the Lakes Michigan and Huron, from
whence numerous rivers take their Rise, some of which discharge
their waters into the Western & some into the Eastern Lakes,

206 RUFUS KING. [1797

provided that the States of America are not likely to make any
objection to his undertaking this journey, of which I beg your
Excellency's opinion and also your advice how to proceed in case
it is deemed proper that Mr. Masson should Receive it before
he undertakes to carry on his Enquiries within the American
Boundaries. I have the honor to be

with respect, esteem & regard, your Excellencies

Obedient Hble Servant

Jos. Banks.

It cannot be without interest to read the following letter
to M. Talleyrand, and especially in view of his conduct
towards the envoys who had been sent from the United
States to endeavor to reconcile the two nations and re-estab-
lish the good feeling which had formerly existed. How
entirely Mr. King misunderstood the wily and dishonest
statesman at that time is only too evident.

R. King to Mons. Talleyrand, &c.

London, 3d Aug., 1797.
Dear Sir :

My Countryman and friend Col. John Trumbull is going to Stutt-
gard for the purpose of receiving a Plate that has been engraved
for him in that City from a Picture which he painted some years
since in Commemoration of a military Event that occurred in our
Revolutionary War. It would very much shorten his journey if
he could receive a Passport to go and return thro' France. I
therefore take the liberty to state to you his wishes and if no
public consideration forbids it, I think I can rely upon your dis-
position to gratify Col. Trumbull in his request. If the Passport
is lodged with the Mayor or Municipality of Calais, he will with-
out difficulty find it on his arrival at that Place.

I cannot suffer the present occasion to pass, without offering
you my congratulations upon your appointment to the office of
Foreign Affairs, a department always and in every country im-
portant ; but nowhere so much so as with you at the present
Juncture. Neither will I affect to conceal from you that the
satisfaction with which I have heard of your choice has not been

1797] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 207

purely disinterested. We have been accustomed to converse on
every subject with the greatest freedom ; and though I ought to
impose upon myself a reserve that official situation on both sides
may seem to recommend, yet I prefer to express my sentiments
with that frankness which you approve and practice and which
always belongs to important occasions.

You know, because you have resided among us, that we desire
to have neither attachment nor aversion to any Nation. France
has no cause to believe that we prefer any other to her, and you
can pronounce, if we had an aversion to any Nation, that it would
not be to yours. Not yet recovered from the Derangement in
our affairs produced by our Revolutionary War, busily employed
in watching the operations of our new organization, and in gaining
by our Union Strength and Consistency, we were forbid by all
the Duties of Patriotism from suffering ourselves to become
Parties in a war in which from situation, we could afford little aid,
and should be certain to suffer great, if not irreparable Evils. Our
Policy has, therefore, been by practising Justice to all and by ob-
serving the most scrupulous and exact neutrality, to establish and
confirm our State, to remain in peace. Unfortunately our success
has not corresponded with our Expectations ; you witnessed
the Posture of our affairs when we suffered by the British Depre-
dations on our Commerce, and you saw its influence upon the
public opinion, and you also perfectly understand the motives
which guided us in the Measures we adopted to procure Compen-
sation for our Losses and to maintain our National Peace.

The afflicting Events which have since occurred are notorious:
but their extent and tendency are, I apprehend, greater and
more consequential than has been supposed. It is neither France
nor America which will be benefitted by the angry Passions which
so many causes unite to provoke. This is a fruitful and interest-
ing topic : to your mind it is not necessary to present its details ;
you will view the subject in the extensive consequences with
which it is connected, and I am confident that you will exhibit it
in the light in which a wise Policy requires it should be seen.
Without intimating how much, in my poor opinion, the Character
of the future Connections of America with Europe will depend
upon the Sentiments of France concerning Questions which have
arisen and must be decided, I will only add to these private and

208 RUFUS KING. [1797

personal observations, that from the moment I heard that you had
been named to the Department of Foreign Affairs, I have felt a
satisfactory Confidence that the Cause of the increasing Misunder-
standing between us would cease, and that the overtures meditated
by our Government would not fail to restore Harmony and Friend-
ship between the two Countries.

Accept, my dear Sir, the assurances of the Sincere attachment

& Esteem, &c, &c,

Rufus King.

R. King to R. Troup.
Dear Sir : London, Aug. 4, 1797-

I promised myself a treasure in your correspondence, for really
one's friends are so occupied, or so little inclined to give them-
selves the trouble of writing even the familiar incidents which
occur from day to day, that when absent we know very little of
what is passing at Home. You began with me in a way that prom-
ised to leave me no regrets on this subject, but unfortunately I
have reed, but a single letter from you since your promotion.
Now, my dear Judge, I must appeal to your Equity, for I think
you are a chancellor as well as a common Law Judge, and with
its assistance endeavour to enforce your engagement to be a
punctual, nay a better correspondent than Hamilton, or any
other of our friends whom you sometimes amuse yourself with.
As for Lawrance, I have not heard from him since he became a

Senator. . . .

Farewell, yrs.,

R. K.

Do you know, my dear Judge, that the Debates which took
place in May & June last in a certain Assembly, did not afford
me any gratification ? Is it that they were ill reported, or that
they did not display the true character of our country ?

R. King to Secretary of State.
Dear Sir: London, Aug. 5, 1797-

. . . Great Secrecy prevails concerning the Negotiations at
Lisle, which may be protracted for many Months, and probably
are to be very materially affected by the result of the Struggle

1797] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 209

which exists at Paris between the different Parties. The Refusal
to evacuate the Spanish Posts in the Mississippi according to the
Stipulations of the Treaty ; the Spoliations committed upon our
Commerce by the Spanish Privateers, and that under the most
scandalous pretexts, joined to the prevalence of the Rumour that
Spain has actually ceded Louisiana to France, are circumstances
of some weight in leading us to apprehend that France has really
become the Proprietor of that extensive and undefined Region.

Immediately on the Receit of your Letter of the 16th of June
I communicated to Lord Grenville the President's opinion and
wishes respecting the Military Stores claimed by General Allen ;*
and in consequence thereof, notwithstanding this Government
has received Information which was confidentially shewn to me
that the Arms were French Property, and that General Allen
would lose nothing by their Condemnation, I have been assured,
and am satisfied, that the Government are disposed to restore
them without farther Enquiry : but the Captors, who have no In-
terest in the Question, refuse to consent to the restoration, and
persist in holding the property for Trial. The process is at a
stage when according to the usual Custom of the Court, the claim-
ant has a Title to receive the Property on bail. I have advised
General Allen to endeavour to obtain Possession of the Property
in this way, and, in case he fails in the attempt, to leave the claim
in the care of his Counsel and to return home. . . .

With great Respect & Esteem, &c,

Rufus King.

T. Pickering to R. King.

Department of State, Aug. 5, 1797.
Dear Sir :

In my letter of the 8th of July I gave you some information
respecting Governor Blount's conspiracy. The House of Rep-
resentatives appointed a Committee to sit in the recess, with
power to send for persons and papers. By this authority they
sent and took Dr. Romayne of New York and his papers ; but I
do not learn that any important discoveries were the consequence.
The Party, who stick at nothing to excite resentment against

* Case of the Olive Branch.

210 RUFUS KING. [1797

Great Britain, ascribe the plot to her Minister, Mr. Liston, and
pronounce that the British Government was at the bottom of it.
But no evidence has as yet appeared to warrant these charges.
On the contrary, Mr. Liston's frank declarations, verbally and
in writing, have been verified, and the discoveries, as to the
participation of the British amount to no more than this — That
certain citizens of the United States, of whom Capt. John Chis-
holm was one, made proposals early last winter to Mr. Liston,
for an expedition against the Floridas and adjacent possessions
of Spain, to be carried on by land with the aid of citizens of
the United States, assisted by the Indians, and by sea, on the
part of the British ; that Mr. Liston among other objections to
the project offered these two, that upon the plan proposed the
expedition could not be carried into execution without viola-
ting the neutral rights of the United States, nor without employing
the Indians ; that he nevertheless thought it his duty to com-
municate the project to his Government, accompanied with his
objections ; and that his Government rejected the proposals, be-
cause the means suggested were inadequate to the object ; and
because, independently of all other objections, the two reasons
of Mr. Liston above mentioned were sufficient to determine the
British Ministry not to adopt it. It appears also that the answer
of Lord Grenville not arriving so soon as Chisholm expected, he
became impatient ; and importuned Mr. Liston to let him go in
person to London to tell his own story, which with much hesita-
tion and reluctance Mr. Liston consented, paying his passage.

R. King to A. Hamilton.*

London, August 6th, 1797.
Dear Sir :

No satisfactory opinion can yet be formed concerning the ter-
mination of the negotiations for peace. Even those who are sup-
posed to have the best information are without confidence. On
the one hand, peace may be concluded sooner than any one
thinks probable. On the other, the negotiations at Lisle and
Montebello may be suddenly broken off, and France again en-
gaged with Austria, as well as England. A great struggle in which

* Works of Hamilton, vi., 262.

1797] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 211

all Europe think themselves interested exists between the two
Councils and a majority of the Directory, for it is well understood
that almost every question is decided in this latter body by three
against two. If the Councils prevail, peace is believed to be more
probable ; if the war continues, Denmark and the neighboring
free cities, Portugal, perhaps Switzerland, and even Greece, as
well as the whole of Italy will be revolutionized. I wish I could
write to you with the same freedom as we could converse. How
far the new order of things is to extend, which are still to be over-
turned, and who are to be spared, is a subject concerning which
we amuse ourselves with conjectures. It would be a consolation,
could we anywhere discover a mind of adequate foresight and
authority to influence, to combine and apply to their proper and
legitimate uses, the disposition and the means which unques-
tionably exist to resist and baffle the monstrous force which over-
turns and will continue to lay waste every country against which
it bends its energies. Paradoxical as it may appear, the people
are less wrong than their governments, which, everywhere seem
to be destitute of both wisdom and courage. I cannot except
even the government of this country, which possessing the com-
mand of the resources of the richest nation in Europe, with a
clear and distinct view of the total insecurity of any compromise
with their enemy, still dismounts and lowers the national spirit
and courage by fruitless and repeated efforts to restore peace.
Men are mortal and by a law to which they are subject, can exist
but for a limited time. Societies are exempt from this law, and
there is nothing in their nature that limits their improvement, in
duration ; still the analogy is but too strict, and we seem to be
doomed to witness, if not to suffer, in the dissolution of the
present social organization. Farewell — when I am able to give
you a gayer prospect I will write you again.

G. Cabot to R. King, London.

Brookline, August 17, 1797.
My Dear Sir :

Altho' it is a long time since I had the pleasure of hearing from

you, yet I have no right to complain, but we are full of concern

for the fate of Europe, which we know may ultimately affect our

212 RUFUS KING. [1797

own ; we are anxious to see the condition of their political wrecks,
after the revolutionary storm shall subside. But when will this
happen ? I, who am a sailor, have great fears of a sudden calm ;
the tempestuous gales, which threaten to overwhelm the ship,
furnish also some means of escape, but the terrible agitations,
which succeed the wind, bring a destruction which cannot be
resisted & from which there can be no flight. ... I
refer you to the public papers for all sorts of news & I am
mortified that they should tell to you & the world how much we
are disgraced by the Congressional discussions of the last session.
But at the same time, I think that I can assure you that the peo-
ple are infinitely better than many of the Representatives, and
that infamous servility discovered in the debates has been
properly reprobated.

Ever your sincere friend,

G. Cabot.

Wm. Hindman to R. King, London.

Bellfield, Talbot County, Maryland, Aug. 21st, 1797.

My Dear Sir :

. . I presume you have been already gratified in hear-
ing that there is a Majority of fsederal Members in the House
of Representatives ; it is by the bye a very bare one. Of this
number there are some new Members who want training. They
sometimes get frightened and fly the way ; I am in hopes they
will understand things better at the next Session & feel the neces-
sity of going with the Friends of Government upon all occasions.
The Antis, or Jacobins, or whatever name may be given them,
are ever at their Post, always prepared to seize upon any Prey
which may offer, whenever they discover a new member, who
comes under the character of fsederal, in any sort wavering. They
hang about him, flatter him, sometimes completely seduce him.
In this they have an Advantage, as the same measures are not
taken on our side of the Question. Jacobinism I think is on the
Decline, happily for the Friends of Government and those who
administer it ; whenever any Plots or Villainies are discovered it
ever falls upon those worthless Men, who have the Effrontery to

1797] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 213

stile themselves the exclusive Patriots. Quondam Senator Blount's
letter you must have seen.

The Ministerial appointment of our Friend W. Smith of
Charleston will be a great loss to our House, unless he is suc-
ceeded either by your Predecessor Major Pinckney or Mr. Desa-
soare, of which I hear there are some Hopes ; it is said if either
of those Gentlemen will consent to stand, there is no doubt of
their Election ; if they do not, there is some danger that our for-
mer Acquaintance, Charles Pinckney of the Old Congress will be
elected : this would be very unfortunate. . . .

Most of the great Land Speculators are Bankrupt. Mess.
Nicholson, Greenleaf, Judge Willson are said to be in Jail. Mr.
Morris has been for some time confined to his own House for
Fear of the common Jail. I hear he means to surrender himself
shortly ; his notes have been for some time as low as five cents in
the Pound.

Mr. Smith & myself were alone at Mrs. Williams last
session. . . . The Old Lady drinks less than she used to

do. . .

Yrs. affecty. & sincerely,

Wm. Hindman.

R. King to Thos. Jefferson.

London, Aug. 22, 1797.
Sir:

I have requested Capt. Newel of the Ship Cleopatra, who is
bound to Philadelphia to take charge of a Diploma delivered to
me for you by Sir John Sinclair, President of the Board of Agri-
culture.

I have just received from Mr. Strickland a letter for you ; but
as he informs me that the letter is to accompany a small box,
containing an assortment of seeds which is also to be sent to my
care, but which has not yet been received, I shall detain this let-
ter to be sent with the box by a future opportunity.

With perfect respect I have the honor to be, sir,

Your obed. & faithful servt.,

Rufus King.

214 RUFUS KING, [1797

S. Williams to R. King.

Hamburgh, 22d Aug., 1797.

Sir :

I have the pleasure to inform you that the Marquis de la
Fayette and his companions will soon be at liberty. The French
Government, or laws, denying them an entry into France, the Em-
peror has been pleased to order that they shall be at liberty to
proceed to Holland, or to embark at Hamburgh for the United
States, provided proper measures be taken to pursue either rout
within eight days after their arrival here. The Baron de Buol,
the Imperial Minister, has been instructed to apply to Mr. Parish
(as Consul) and make the necessary arrangements. He called
and communicated to me his instructions. As Consul, I told him,
I was not authorized to take any steps, but in a private capacity
I was ready to do all that was required in case the Marquis were
desirous to embark for the U. S. I soon met Mr. Childs and
Mr. Joy. We agreed to provide the Marquis and his family with
a passage and every necessary, if wanted — certain that we should
have, at least, a compensation, in gratifying our feelings, by pro-
curing them a speedy release. I waited on the minister the next
day (yesterday) and informed him of the steps we were ready to
take.

A friend of the Marquis was at Vienna and had a conference
with the Imperial Minister relative to this business. He is here
and had seen Mr. Parish, and obtained a letter from him to the
Baron de Buol, with an offer similar to ours. He and another
friend went with me to the Baron's, who has communicated our
arrangements to his Court, and who appears well disposed. Al-
though the condition of their release is that they quit the terri-
tory of the Empire eight days after their arrival in this city, the
Minister observed that he did not doubt of their being indulged
agreeably to their wishes, and that if the state of the Marquis'
health would not admit of his proceeding immediately to Holland
or America, he might reside at Altona.

It appears to be the wish of his friends, that he go by the
shortest rout to Holland ; they expect, perhaps, that he will have
leave to enter France and recover his property. I hope so, for,
entre nous, I would rather that he and his companions were there

1797] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 21 5

than in the U. S. Knowing that it will gratify his best Friend
General Washington and our Countrymen in general, I shall
render him every service in my power.

Respectfully &c, &c,

S. Williams.

CHAPTER XVII.

Senator Blount's Expulsion from the Senate — Mr. Liston's Conduct — R. King
declines a Dinner offered by American Merchants — Gen. Lafayette — R.
King to the Secretary of State, thanking him for regular Information on
the Affairs of the U. S., and sending to him an Account of European
Politics — Lafayette and French Affairs — Disturbances in Ireland — Release
of Lafayette, and his Arrival in Hamburgh — Lafayette to R. King.

R. King to Lord Grenville.

Private.

Gr. Cumberland Place, 28th Aug., 1797.
My Lord :

Having just received dispatches from Philadelphia, I take the
liberty to send your Lordship several newspapers containing the
Proceedings of the Congress relative to Thomas Blount, who was
expelled from the Senate on the 8th of July by all the voices
except one.

It has given me great satisfaction to observe, and especially as
it corresponds with the tenor of my reports to the American
Government, that his Majesty's ministers so distinctly disap-
proved the project contrived by Blount and his associates, the
moment they were apprized of it.

But I cannot avoid regretting that Mr. Liston suffered an oc-
casion so favorable to the promotion of the good harmony be-
tween the two countries to pass without turning it to profit by
communicating to the American Government the existence of a
scheme so full of mischief and so hazardous to our Peace. . . .

With perfect consid'n.,

R. King.
1797] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 21 J

R. King to Secretary of State.

London, Aug. 28, 1797.
Dear Sir :

Before I received your Letter of the 8th of July, communi-
cating the intercepted letter of Mr. Blount, I had entertained
suspicions and been on the watch, respecting certain characters
who had appeared here from the Tennessee Country. In the
ship John Henderson, which arrived here last spring from Phila-
delphia, came Captain Chisholm and another person who called
himself Doctor Hutter. The latter is a Dutchman who I am
informed has lived several years in Knoxville. Hutter has said
that his coming with Chisholm was accidental, that he came to
England for the purpose of going from thence to the Continent,
which, as he alledged, he has several times attempted to do, but
not having the requisite Passports to leave this Country, has been
stopped and turned back. Neither Hutter nor Chisholm have
come near me ; and by the reports of a person in some measure in
their confidence* I have been repeatedly informed that Chisholm
since his arrival has received money from this Government, that he
has sometimes spoken of having had an interview with Lord Gren-
ville, and having plunged into the dissipation of this City, and
spent his money, that he had been redeemed from the custody of the
Bailiff by the Government 's paying his debts. This they refused do-
ing except Chisholm would immediately leave the Country which he
promised to do, but has not yet done. Hutter says that he lodged
in the same house with Chisholm in Second Street Philadelphia,
that Chisholm was often backwards and forwards between the
houses of Blount and Liston, and that the latter was several times at
the house in which they lodged : that they brought a letter of
introduction from Liston to a Mrs. Thomas or Thomson who lives
in Half?noon Street, and at whose House they lodged on their first
arrival here ; that this woman is an old friend of Liston 's, having
been abroad in his family for many years.

Hutter is reserved and cautious, says little concerning his own
affairs but sometimes has intimated to the person who at my desire
has observed them, that Chisholm in his opinion had been sent
here by Blount and that his mission was connected with a pro-

* Italics in cipher.

21 8 RUFUS KING, [1797

ject to invade Florida, and perhaps to separate Tennessee and the
Western Country from the American Union. I cannot, I think, be
mistaken in the information that Chisholm has received money herey
and at several times : the sums have been inconsiderable and such as
his course of life soon dissipated. lie is said to have brought a let-
ter of Credit from Mr. Bell of Philadelphia to a Mr. Wilson of
London. This is a thread which you may follow : I shall be
able to ascertain from Wilson whether this information is correct.
By Mr. d'Asp, the Swedish Envoy here, and who was at Consta?iti-
nople with Liston, I am ascertained that Mrs. Thomas, the person
at whose house Hutter and Chisholm lodged, was really with Liston
in Turkey. Chisholm is again arrested for his Debts, and is at
this time in a Lock-up House in Chancery Lane. I do not des-
pair of being able to obtain the possession of Chisholm' s papers, tho'
the publication of Blount's Letter, as well as of those between
you and Liston which have appeared in all the News Papers
may put the parties on their guard.

With perfect Respect and Esteem, &c, &c,

Rufus King.

Lord Grenville to R. King.

Private.

Dropmore, Aug. 30, 1797.
My Dear Sir :

I am much obliged to you for the communication of the

American Papers you sent me. I am not sorry for the accident

which has afforded the means of proving the principles and rules

by which our conduct is guided in everything that affects the

Peace and tranquillity of the U. S. : but I hardly think that Mr.

Liston would have been at liberty to communicate to the Govt.

of the U. S. a proposal of this nature, the communication of

which might have involved the proposers in much personal risk,

while the plan itself could be productive of no inconvenience to

your Government, — since it could never be acted upon but by

the cooperation of the King's Ministers — a cooperation which

Mr. Liston had no reason to presume could be given, and which

was accordingly refused in the most distinct & pointed manner,

on the first intimation we received of the business.

1797] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 219

I own I think that Mr. Liston (tho' acting for the best un-
questionably & with great means of judging of the line which he
was to pursue) has nevertheless gone at least to the utmost extent
of what his situation allowed, if not somewhat beyond it, when
he answered the letter of Col. Pickering by an avowal which may
prejudice individuals supposed to be implicated in it. I have
however no reason to regret in the present instance that the sub-
ject did not strike him in the light in which it might perhaps have
struck me in the same situation, as the consequence has only
been to evince still more clearly the correctness of our principles
and conduct.

Ever, my dear Sir,
Most faithfully & sincerely your obt. Hum. Servt,

Grenville.

It would appear that the merchants in London interested
in American commerce asked Mr. King to accept a dinner
as an evidence of their gratitude for the efficient efforts he
had made to facilitate their trade and protect them from
the depredations consequent upon the persistent interference
by French enactments and cruisers. The answer below is
characteristic of the Minister.

R. King to H. M. Bird.

Great Cumberland Place, Sep. 1, 1797-
Dear Sir :

I have had the honor to receive your letter of the 31st ult. We
still remain in Town, and are uncertain when we shall be able to
pursue our projected excursion. Concerning the intentions of
the American Merchants, which you have been so obliging as to
communicate to me, I entreat you to believe and to assure
these Gentlemen, sensible as I am of the honor of their good
opinion, that it will be far more agreeable to me that their pur-
pose should be postponed, than that it should be carried into
execution. As I do not entertain the smallest Doubt of their
good wishes and friendly sentiments towards my Country, I can-
not on that score desire the Proof thereof which they have

220 RUFUS KING. [1797

proposed to give ; and so far as I have any personal wishes, they
will be best gratified by availing myself with the least possible
eclat of every occasion that shall occur to render to you and
them any service that my situation shall permit.

With great consideration and Esteem, &c,

Rufus King.

R. King to Secretary of State.

London, Sept. 1. 1797.
Dear Sir :

I am much obliged to you for the regular and satisfactory in-
formation that your correspondence has afforded me. Nothing
could be more unpleasant, and I may add more disadvantageous,
in my situation than to be without authentic information concern-
ing what is passing in our own Country ; and it is with very sin-
cere pleasure that I acknowledge the attention, which, amidst
other engagements, you have found time to bestow upon the
Correspondence with this Legation. There is an authenticity in
your letters that you must not expect to find in those of our
Foreign Ministers. You possess all the means of giving a correct
Report of the situation in our domestic affairs ; while we on the
contrary, are often obliged to form an opinion upon contradic-
tory evidence. From this consideration I have indulged myself
less in troubling you with Speculations relative to affairs in
which we have a common interest than I should have done, had
I either possessed more complete information concerning them,
or more adequate means of procuring it. I do not, however,
recollect that I have ever expressed to you an opinion that a
general Peace was likely to be the Result either of the Prelimi-
naries with Austria or of the Negotiations at Lisle : indeed my
uniform opinion has been, as it now is, that the Peace of Europe
was still far, very far distant. Was Peace concluded tomorrow
upon the Terms on which alone it could be, with the Temper and
Principles which prevail and under the present circumstances of
the Parties, it would not be durable. I therefore do exceedingly
regret to observe that Congress have been in any degree influ-
enced by an opinion that the Peace of Europe was about to be

1797] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 221

restored, and that consequently they might dispense with those
wise and, in my judgment indispensable precautions which the
President recommended for their adoption.

Nothing can be more erroneous in the Politicks of a Nation
than to omit on any consideration, much less on the score of a
mistaken and dangerous economy, those Preparations for self
defence and national safety, which, even in days of profound
Peace, ought not to be neglected, and of which, in this mighty
crisis of human affairs, he must be blind who does not see the
absolute necessity. It is a false, and will prove a fatal, security,
if we allow ourselves to be persuaded that we are either too just,
too remote, too wise, or too powerful to be drawn into the present
war, which continues to exhaust and threatens to change the
face of Europe, and the results of which, in reference to the
whole world, were never more uncertain or beyond the reach of
human foresight, than at the present moment.

In Italy, the negotiations still continue, while the Emperor with
great activity is reinforcing his armies and completing the Feudal
organization of his Subjects in Hungary. The preliminaries with
Austria stipulated among other things the restoration of Mantua
and the assembling of a Congress of all the Powers affected by the
war for the purpose of concluding a definitive and general Peace :
the Performance of these Stipulations France desires to avoid, the
Emperor insists, and there seems to be no small Probability of the
recommencement of war between them. At Lisle the Prospect is
still more unpromising, and it may with confidence be concluded,
unless a temper more pacific on the part of France shall prevail,
that the negotiation will entirely fail and that the war will be pur-
sued with encreased Vehemence and Energy.

England will probably consent to restore to France all her Con-
quests ; to Holland, all but Ceylon and the Cape, perhaps the for-
mer of these places also ; and it is not likely that she would hesitate
to restore Trinidad to Spain. In respect to Belgium, she would
not insist on what the Emperor has consented to relinquish for
Equivalents ; but this is not enough. France, by her Canada
project, delivered at Lisle, is understood to have required for her-
self a restoration of all the places that England had taken from
her, a return of the Ships carried away from Toulon and payment
for those which were there destroyed, an alteration in the English

222 RUFUS KING. [1797

Navigation Act and a renunciation of the Use of the Title of King
of France.

For Spain, a Restoration of the Places conquered, together with
Gibraltar, and for Holland, a Restoration of all the Places con-
quered, the return of the Ships of War, and Compensation for the
Ships and Merchandize stopped and brought into the English
Ports, before the declaration of war between England and Holland.
To these England will not agree.

Portugal has been counted among the Enemies of France ; but
if the late Treaty shall be ratified, she will probably be treated as
the enemy of England. It is said with considerable confidence
that d'Aranjo, the Portuguese Minister had no power to conclude
a treaty ; and England hopes to defeat it, by preventing its confir-
mation. The same thing was said concerning the Treaty with
Spain, concluded by d'Yriarte at Basle, on which occasion the
Prince of Peace, even after the date of the Signature of the Treaty
told Lord Bute not only that d'Yriarte had no power to conclude
a Treaty, but that Spain, with her accustomed Fidelity, would
adhere to England in the prosecution of the War. The fact is
said to have been, that both the Queen and the Prince of Peace
were ignorant that a certain influence had prevailed on the King
to give a private instruction and authority to d'Yriarte, in conse-
quence of which the Treaty was concluded and afterwards ratified.
Whatever the fact may be respecting the power of d'Aranjo, there
is not much doubt respecting the ratification of this Treaty. The
articles are not yet public, but they are supposed to be favorable
to France and repugnant to the Treaties with England, and among
other Stipulations it is believed that Portugal has consented to the
Cession of a portion of her possessions in America ; but to what
extent, I am not informed. If Spain should take the alarm, which
she reasonably may do, from the neighborhood of the French to
her Colonies, it is possible that she will, to a certain extent, coun-
tenance Portugal in refusing her Ratification ; but the predomi-
nant influence of France destroys in a great measure the proba-
bility of an efficient interference from this Quarter.

Besides Portugal is a minor, and against France and Spain, a
defenceless Power, and in common with almost every Nation in
Europe, is deeply embarrassed in her pecuniary affairs : indeed
there seems to be everywhere those symptoms of Derangement,

1797] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 223

which may be expected to precede a general Bankruptcy of
Europe. At Rome, at Genoa and at Venice, private as well as
public Credit is annihilated ; in Spain, as on former occasions,
the Government has been obliged to have recourse to the fraudu-
lent and ruinous System of Paper Money which has likewise been
lately adopted by Portugal, and failed in the attempt to obtain a
Loan of half a Million Sterling in London, tho' she offered to
pledge Diamonds to the full amount and to mortgage in addition
the Revenue of the Tobacco Farm. In Holland, and in Germany
there is no public and a very limited private Credit, and all Parties
agree in the Confusion and insufficiency of the French Finances.
With the exception perhaps of this Country, whose fate is beyond
my view, but on whose security we ought not to depend, there is
no where that safety for Property and that security for Individuals
that our Country at present affords.

To preserve these Blessings will demand all our efforts and we
must be prepared to meet and to resist the Storm which lays waste
the old world and threatens to extend to the New.

With perfect Respect & Esteem, &c, &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Secretary of State.

London, 5 Sept., 1797.
Dear Sir :

Mr. Williams, our Consul at Hamburgh, informs me that the
Imperial Minister has notified to him that the Emperor had con-
sented to the release of General La Fayette upon condition that
he should embark for America within eight days after his arrival
at Hamburgh ; he also requested Mr. Williams to make the neces-
sary preparations for this embarkation. Mr. Williams answered
that he had no instructions to take any measures on this Subject,
but that he had no hesitation to engage (and he accordingly did
so in concert with one or two other Americans) to make the ad-
vances which may be required to provide a ship and other accom-
modations for the passage of General La Fayette and his family
to America. Conceiving that it would be more agreeable both to
the President and to the General that the Supplies which may be
necessary on this occasion should be furnished by the public
instead of Individuals, I wrote to Mr. Williams a letter recom-

224 RUFUS KING. [1797

mending to him to make such advances to General La Fayette as
his occasions might require, and to draw upon me for their reim-
bursement. This arrangement corresponds with one that I had
before made with Mr. Cadignan, one of the General's aids, who
went a few days past to Hamburgh in expectation of meeting him
at that place. I do not consider it certain that General La Fay-
ette will go to Hamburg or embark immediately for America,
having understood that he will be allowed by the Emperor to go
to Holland where (if permitted by the Dutch Government) he may
perhaps be inclined to wait some time in order to ascertain whether
he will be allowed to return to France.

. . . Paris is not a Commercial Station, or a place at which
commercial questions can ordinarily arise, but where they may
nevertheless exist by reference from the Sea Ports : yet we have
always had a Consul General at Paris, who has had a superinten-
dance over our Consuls in that Nation, and at present the office
is particularly important to us. London is the centre of our ex-
tensive commercial operations with this Country, and it is likewise
essentially connected in our commercial intercourse with the
South, as well as with the North of Europe. Still we never have
had a Consul General at London. The duties have been exercised
by me since my residence here ; but I do assure you that the per-
petual details, in which I am thereby engaged, consume much of
my time and attention which perhaps might be more advanta-
geously employed. Most of our Consuls in this Country are British
Subjects : they are certainly worthy characters ; but I have, I
confess, a decided preference of the employment of our own
people, where they can be induced to serve ; and in respect to the
office of Consul General, a consul for London, I think you will
agree with me, that he should be an American Citizen. I take
the liberty of making this latter observation from a knowledge
that several Foreigners are desirous of obtaining this appointment.

. . . The Paris accounts exhibit no proofs of reconciliation
between the Directory and the Consuls ; the breach now appears
greater than it has been ; both sides are courting the Armies, who,
having at present no foreign enemy to employ them, are engaged
in considering the internal affairs of the country. This is a state
of things that will not surprize you and is moreover one that must
be productive of further and still more important Events in

1797] LJFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 225

Europe. The Armies may take different sides, and after a bloody-
civil war, the Conqueror may establish such a government as will
best maintain his authority.

There is great suspicion concerning the views of Buonaparte ;
the deference with which he is treated by the Directory is com-
monly ascribed to his supposed Devotion to their views ; while
others think he is too powerful to be treated in the customary
stile, and that both England and Austria would aid him, if requi-
site, in the consolidation of the Italian States under one Govern-
ment to be hereditary in his family. . . .

The Malcontents of Ireland have been overawed, and that
country is at present quiet ; but Scotland is at this moment in a
state of great fermentation, in consequence of a late determination
of the Government to embody 6000 militia in that Country. The
People in several counties have resisted the execution of this meas-
ure and blood has already been shed in the Controversy : the
Consequence will be that large Bodies of troops will be sent to
Scotland, and the Peasantry will be forced to submit.
With Great Respect & Esteem, &c, &c.

Rufus King,

R. King to General Washington.

Dear Sir : London, Sept. 5, 1797-

I have had the honor to receive your Letter of the 15th of June ;
and having a few minutes before the Mail for New York is dis-
patched, I employ them in sending you inclosed the copy of a
Letter that I received a few days past from our Consul at Ham-
burgh, which announces the approaching release of General La
Fayette.*

* The event recorded above is the release of La Fayette from the cruel im-
prisonment in the dungeon at Olmutz, to which he had been consigned by the
Austrian Government for four years. He had been in 17S9, a member of the
Assembly of France and Commander-in-chief of the National Guard, and, dis-
trustful of the policy of the Jacobins, had sought to screen the King from their
attempts to coerce him. Having been promoted to the chief command of a
portion of the Army on the Prussian frontier, upon the declaration of the war
with Austria, he still watched over the welfare of the King and wrote to the
Assembly a letter denouncing the acts of the Jacobins, and even went to Paris
to endeavor to defend himself in the course he had taken. He found that he

was too late to counteract their designs, returned to the army, and after the im-
vol n. — 15

226 RUFUS KING. [l797

Knowing the friendship that you have uniformly had for him,
and recollecting likewise that his Son is with you, I could not
refuse myself the pleasure of making to you this communication.
With perfect consideration & Respect &c. &c,

Rufus King.

S. Williams to R. King.

Hamburgh, 8 Sept., 1797.
Sir :

. . . I shall comply with your advice in advancing the sup-
plies that General La Fayette may want. He may not want any,
for Madame La Fayette holds her estates in France, worth two
millions. . . .

With great consideration & regard &c,

S. Williams.

prisonment of the King, finding himself suspected, his command taken from
him, and his impeachment ordered, he fled into Belgium, where he was captured,
confined by the Prussians, who offered him freedom on the condition, which he
refused, that he would fight against his country. He was then handed over to
Austria, which sent him to the dungeon at Olmutz. From this he was at one
time set free by the enterprise and boldness of a young German, Dr. Bollman
and Mr. F. K. Huger of S. Carolina, but being recaptured was again placed in
prison, where his wife and daughter were permitted to join him in 1795. At
this time G. Washington La Fayette, with his tutor, Mr. Trestel, left France,
with the privity of some of the Committee of Safety, and arrived at New York,
where he was received by Genl. Hamilton, who informed Washington of their
arrival and advised, on Washington's suggestion, that the latter should at first
communicate with them only by letter. This was done, but after some months
they were received by Washington in person, and urged him to suggest some
method by which La Fayette might be released from captivity. His opinion
was that the return of peace alone would cause him to be set free, but intimated
to them that perhaps a private letter addressed to the Emperor of Austria from
him, communicating his own hope and that of the people of America, to be
sent through Mr. Pinckney, the Minister of London, after consultation with the
other diplomats there, might bring about the liberation, on condition of his
coming to America. The letter was written and sent.* What effect it had in
mitigating the severity of his imprisonment is not known. But what other
means, the sympathy in England and the United States, had failed to do, was
finally brought about by the victorious march of Bonaparte, on the 23d of Sep-
tember, 1797. The young men were still in America, when Mr. King's letter
reached there, and though against the advice of Washington, they returned
immediately to Europe to join the General on his liberation from captivity.
* Marshall's Life of Washingion, v., 669.

1797] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 227

R. King to A. Hamilton.*

London, September 9, 1797.
Dear Sir :

We hear this day accounts from Paris, which, though very
important and interesting, are not unexpected. The breach
between the Councils and the Directory has for some time de-
stroyed all prospect of a reconciliation between them, and either
an organized civil war, in consequence of the different sides
adopted by the several armies, or a measure like that which has
happened, had become inevitable. The march of a considerable
division of the army into the interior, the removals of generals in
whom they did not confide, the various messages in the style of
manifestoes addressed to the Councils, and the sending for Gen-
eral Jourdan who commanded the Army of the Rhine, to Paris,
and putting his army in the interim of his absence under Hoche,
are now explained.

Augereau, who had been called from Italy for the purpose,
upon the alarm-cannon being fired on the morning of the 4th in-
stant, marched his troops, and surrounded, without opposition,
the place of sitting of the Council of 500. He then proceeded
to arrest Pichegru, and a considerable number of the most in-
fluential members of that Council, on the charge of a royalist
conspiracy ; having for its object the massacre of three of the
Directory, to make way for successors who would place Louis
XVIII on the throne of France. Carnot, say the same advices,
has fled and Barthelemi, say others, is also arrested. I do not
give you this account as authentic, though I have little doubt it
is so, as far, at least, as it states an attack of the Directory upon
the Council of 500.

If the consequence of this proceeding was confined to France
it would be less the subject of regret, though all must deplore the
sanguinary scenes so frequently there exhibited ; but, in reference
to the pending negotiations and the return of peace, this transac-
tion is very important. The two Councils, who, in this respect,
are supposed to here faithfully represent their constituents, de-
sired peace with sincerity ; the Directory most certainly differed
from them in their inclinations on this subject. If the Directory

* Works of Hamilton, vi., 265.

228 KUFUS ICING. [1797

overwhelm the Councils, the war must, and will, continue. But
how will the armies — how will the nations conduct on this occa-
sion ? I fear there is little consolation to the friends of humanity
from the doubt, which for a moment exists on these points — the
nations are nothing, the armies are most probably secured, and
the Directory will triumph. Adieu.

Yours, &c,

P. S. If I do not forget names, a majority of the Committee
to whom Pastoret's speech on our affairs was referred, are among
the members now arrested. You will readily see how mischiev-
ous to us this success of the Directory may and probably will be.

John Lawrance to R. King.

Newport, Sept. 19, 1797.
My Dear Sir :

. . . We are waiting with much anxiety to hear the result of
the Negotiation at Lisle. Much (probably) depends on it as to
us. We are sincere in our wishes for Peace, and in our endeavors
to preserve it. A nation, so much disposed to amity, ought not
to have their tranquillity disturbed. Ours has been too much so,
but still not so much as it may be ; should an Event, so unfortu-
nate, take place, I hope we shall exhibit a conduct which will not
disgrace us. ...

Yr, affectionate humble Servt.,

John Lawrance.

C. Cadignan to R. King.

Hambro', 19 Sept., 1797.
Sir:

I have delayed to write to you since my arrival here in hopes
that I should have soon some good news of our friend to relate
to you. This day is at last come. Mr. William has acquainted
your excelency of the last business between the minister of the
emperor and Mr. Parish here ; since that we have been without
news ; but yesterday M. Le B.ron de Buol, minister of the em-
peror here, wrote a note to Mr. Masson to let him know that he
had just received the official note from his Cabinet that the order

1797] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 220,

had been sent from Vienna to Olmutz to liberate the prisoner
directly ; so we expect them here now every moment and will
have the honour to inform your excelency of their arrival and
mention then the offer you have made to me for our friend Laf.
who certainly will be very grateful of the interest you have always
shown for his unfortunate fate.

Mr. William will certainly write to you by this post, so I have
nothing more to tell. Pray present my respects to Mrs. King. I
remain

Of your Excelency Most obedient Servant,

C. Cadignan.

S. Williams to R. King.

Hamburgh, 3 Oct., 1797.
Sir:

I shall have the happiness of receiving General Lefayette to
morrow. He will arrive tonight with his family and companions
at Harburg on the opposite bank of the Elbe, and on passing it
tomorrow he will be saluted by an American ship — which with
the others in the Port, will show him every mark of attention by
displaying their colours, &c. We shall endeavour to do every-
thing that will be agreeable to him and to every American.

They are all, excepting Madame La Fayette and one of her
Daughters, in pretty good health. If the state of theirs do not
prevent, the General and family may embark in Mr. Joy's ship
for Philadelphia.

With perfect consideration, &c,

S. Williams.

S. Williams to R. King.

Hamburg, 5 Oct., 1797.
Sir:

General Lefayette, his Lady and two Daughters, his two com-
panions, and their families arrived here yesterday. Mr. Joy sent
the ship John's barge for them in the morning — on their way
they stopped to partake of a collation on the ship, and then met
Mr. Cadignan and other friends, then landed and proceeded to
my house.

23O RUFUS KING. [1797

I find their health to be as I have mentioned. The General
retains all his affection and respect for the United States. The
season is now so far advanced, that it is not probable they will
embark for America this fall. They all go tomorrow to lodgings
about ten miles from the city, where they may pass the winter
without molestation. It appears that the Emperor will not med-
dle with them again. . . .

With perfect respect, &c,

S. Williams.

C. Cadignan to R. King.

Hambro, 13 Octob'r. 1797.
Sir:

Mr. Williams having informed you of the arrival here of M.
Lafayette with his family, I shall only mention to your Excel-
lency that he has accepted with gratitude the offer you charge
me to make to him, which Mr. Williams has confirmed, and that
he has to write to you about it. He has set off for the Holstein
where he expects to stay till the weather permits him to embark
for America, Mrs. Lafayette being very much indisposed. I did
expect to have a letter tonight for you, but the danish post
arrives only tomorrow ; so very likely I shall be able to forward
it to you next post.

Now, Sir, I must trouble you again for me. I am going to set
off from here for england to meet again my little family and my
business, in few days by a neutral vessel for gravesend, from
what place I embarked in august last ; would you be so good to
send a note to his grace Duke of portland to desire him to send
an order to gravesend to let me get in as soon as I arrive there,
as you had the goodness to do last april when I was at yarmouth.
I am with respect your Excelency your most obedient

C. Cadignan.
Citizen of America.

P.S. . . . They assure here the american plenipotentiaries
arrived in france ; I hope they will be able to succeed notwith-
standing the encore new revolution in that country. All the ger-
man papers of to-day say that the hostilities were to begin again
in Italy the 8 of this month, and Buonoparte is reported very ill
by the paris papers of the 4th.

1797] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 23 1

Lafayette to R. King.
Wiltmold near Ploen in Holstein, October the 13th, 1797.

His Excellency Mr. King, Esq. Plenipotentiary Minister

from the United States at the Court of London.
My Dear Sir :

While I am happy in this Opportunity to offer you my affec-
tionate thanks for the kind and friendly interest which you have
been pleased to take in my behalf, I am sure your good heart
will enjoy the account I am now able to give you that my family,
my two friends and myself are totally out of the Coalitionary
fangs. You know what have been for five years the applications
from the American Government, the exertions of American Rep-
resentatives abroad, and who, more than you, my dear Sir, has
a right to say, et quorum pars magna fui? For those obligations
my heart shall ever be bound by the ties of the most lively Grati-
tude. You also have been acquainted with the measures taken
by the French Commonwealth and her Plenipotentiaries from the
Beginning of this long Negotiation with the Court of Vienna, and
with the final Arrangement which has been agreed upon between
the Baron de Thugue and my Aid de Camp Romeuf, whom Bona-
parte and Clarke had sent to Vienna to put an end to the chicanes
which for five months had deferred our being set at Liberty. In
consequence of this we left Olmutz on the 19th of September
and have been at Hamburgh put into American Hands, which I
rejoice to see taking a part in this late Business, as they have
taken so kind, early and constant part in everything that relates
to my Captivity, the means to alleviate it and the applications to
put an end to the long and unhealthy Confinement. It is impos-
sible in the deplorable state of my Wife's Health even to think of
a winter passage. We are going to pass this season in a retired
place about sixty English miles from Hamburgh. The Healths
of us all are in great need of repair : that of my Wife is by far
the most injured. I need not tell you, my dear Sir, that my
Restoration to Liberty has been much embittered by the unhappy
news of the differences which have troubled the good Harmony
so naturally subsisting between the American and French Re-
publics. What I feel on the occasion it is superfluous to say —
what I wish is obvious. But how the purpose can be effected is

232 RUFUS KING. [1797

the question in which my Head and my Heart are wholly, and
at every minute busying themselves, not on account of the diffi-
culties, it is more difficult indeed to set up a quarrel between the
two Nations than to mend it, but on account of many circum-
stances, which altho' they are merely personal or foreign to the
American contest, cannot fail greatly to influence the Negocia-
tion. Are those Commissioners arrived in Paris ? I think I shall
by and bye, notwithstanding the late despotic measures, hear
from france, but I also entreat you, as far as you think it con-
venient, to let me know your opinion and expectations with
respect to this unfortunate and afflicting affair. Cadignan has
told me what you have been pleased in the name ot the United
States to offer to lend to us should we want these pecuniary ad-
vances. 1 the more gratefully accept them as the difficulties for
Mdme. Lafayette to get money from france are still great, and as
I have bound myself immediately to pay a sum of two hundred
and fifty guineas, the secret use of it has a relation to our prison
Business, which Cadignan will verbally explain. To him give
me leave to refer it, as he intends soon to have the honour to
wait on you, and contenting myself here to present you with my
grateful and affectionate thanks, I shall only add, that with an
eternal Remembrance of your kind interest in my Behalf, of
which you see I take the liberty, occasionally to make use as
frankly as it has been bestowed on me, and with the sentiments
of the highest Regard, warm gratitude and affectionate friend-
ship, I have the honour to be, my dear Sir,

Your obliged Servant,

Lafayette.

CHAPTER XVIII.

Embassy of Messrs. Pinckney, Marshall, and Gerry to France — Blount's Con-
spiracy— Dr. Romaine's connection with it — Portuguese Treaty with
France — Cession of Louisiana by Spain demanded by France — French
Duplicity towards America — R. King believes the People of England will
continue to Support the Government — Especially since the Failure of the
Negotiation at Lisle — Communication to Lord Grenville relative to the
Trade to British Territories in India — French Orders against American
Commerce in the West Indies.

It is not proposed to enter into the details connected with
the embassy of Messrs. Pinckney, Marshall, and Gerry to
France ; but it may be well to state the fact, illustrated by
the following correspondence, which extends over many
pages, that it was an endeavor, on the part of the United
States, to settle the troubles with France which had now
reached a point which involved an entire cessation of friendly
intercourse. Mr. Adams, the President, contrary to the
advice of his political supporters, decided to try an experi-
ment, which he deemed wise, of sending three commission-
ers to Paris, and through their efforts to bring about a
solution of the questions pending between the two countries.
As it is well known the mission failed in its objects, and M.
Talleyrand, after a formal reception of the American Com-
missioners, endeavored to bring about by corrupt means a
settlement which he was unwilling to make by an open and
honest discussion of the questions at issue. The basis of this
plan was that the United States should apologize for all the
matters complained of by the French, including the treat-
ment of the French Vessels of war and privateers during the
residence of Genet and afterwards, and especially the alleged
234 RUFUS KING. [1797

grievances consequent upon the treaty with Great Britain ;
should also make a loan to France, either immediate or
prospective, and give a considerable sum in cash to be dis-
posed of by M. Talleyrand for his own and the Directory's
use. The correspondence shows the manner in which these
propositions were received and indignantly rejected by the
American Ministers, and the universal outcry in America
against France, when the President, upon the call of Con-
gress, laid before them the papers relative to the failure of
the mission.

In a letter of Mr. King to the Secretary of State, Decem-
ber 23, 1797, will be found a statement made by the
Directory, through M. Talleyrand, for a proposed peace
with England, which will be found interesting in this con-
nection.

R. King to Genl. Pinckney.

London, Oct. 17, 1797.
Dear Sir :

. . . I do not even yet permit myself to despair of the suc-
cess of your mission, tho' anxious as I feel on that subject, it
would be a very high gratification to learn from any circumstance
that has occurred since your arrival at Paris that your hopes are
somewhat increased. . . .

The NewsPapers contain a correspondence between the Secy
of State and Mr. Monroe, on the refusal of the Demands of the
latter that the Reasons wh. induced his Recall should be assigned
for the Purpose of a public Discussion.

Tho' in some small particulars I am not partial to Mr. G. [erry]
still I am thoroughly convinced of his Integrity, Patriotism and
Honor : entire confidence in which serves to extenuate those sub-
ordinate Defects to bear with and to get over which require only
patience and a little management. I however know nothing con-
cerning him for the last four years, which have wrought great
changes in America as well as elsewhere. I speak of him as of
former times. You will be satisfied with Genl. Marshall j his

* Italics in cipher.

1797] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 235

character stands well on all points. Personally I know little of
him, but his head is one of the best organized of any one that I
have known. This I say from general Reputation, and more
satisfactorily from an Argument that I heard him deliver before
the fedl. Court at Philadelphia. . . .

Yr. faithful Servt.,

Rufus King.

R. King to Secretary of State.

London 17, October, 1797.
Dear Sir :

The violation of the constitution in the triumph of the three
Directors over their Colleagues and the Majority of the two
Councils, was an event neither surprising nor unexpected. The
termination of the negotiation at Lisle was a natural consequence
of this revolution ; and it is quite probable that the conferences
at Udina have likewise been broken off, on which event, advanced
as the season is, the Armies of France will be put in March for
Vienna.

Mess. Marshall and Gerry have both arrived in Holland about
the middle of September, on the last of which month, in company
with General Pinckney, they reached Paris, and according to the
French papers (for I have received no letter from them since
they arrived at Paris) they have had an interview with the Minis-
ter of Foreign Affairs. I make no conjecture concerning the
result of this mission ; you know what have been the sentiments
and conduct of the Directory, and you also understand what were
the opinions as well as what probably would have been the De-
cisions of those in the two Councils, who have been driven from
their offices ; the Legislature is now completely subservient to the
Directory.

The total Defeat, accompanied with the capture of the greater
part of the Dutch Fleet by the English Squadron under Admiral
Duncan on the Eleventh of this month, may have some influence
in lowering the tone of the Directory ; but whether that or any
other consideration will induce them to consent to arrangements
with us, without which an open rupture appears inevitable, re-
mains to be seen. I wish that I could discover any circumstance

236 RUFUS KING. [l797

that would allow me to expect with some degree of Confidence
that we shall be able to avoid a War.

. . . General La Fayette has been released and with his
family are at Hamburgh, where according to a letter I have from
Mr. Williams, they will probably remain till the Spring. It is
more than probable that I may be called on for money from this
quarter, I shall not hesitate to supply it, within certain limits, in
the belief that my doing so will under all circumstances receive
the President's approbation. . . .

With perfect Consideration & Respect &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Secretary of State, No. 51.

London, 31st Oct., 1797.
Dear Sir :

In my number 45., I gave you some reason to expect that I

might be able to obtain the possession of Chisholm's Papers. I

believe that he is still here and in confinement ; but I have not

succeeded in obtaining his Papers. Doctor Romaine was in this

Country at the time of my arrival here ; I saw him several times,

but knew nothing concerning his business, except that it was said

he was an agent for the Sale of New Lands. Since receiving

the information that he was supposed to be connected with

Blount, I have endeavoured to trace his connections while last

in England. From a person who in some measure possessed

Romaine's Confidence, I am assured that he was introduced by

the Count de Moustier (formerly the French Minister with us

and with whom I remember that Romaine was in great intimacy)

to the Marquis Las Casas, then the Spanish Minister at this

Court, with whom Romaine had frequent conferences on the

subject of " certain Lands belonging to Spain in the Western part

of America." Romaine proposed to engage Las Casas in his

project which was represented as promising immense Profit to

the Adventurers ; Las Casas was to support the Scheme at

Madrid, and by his influence procure the King's sanction. De

Yrujo who, as I am informed was privy to these conferences,

and who was soon going to America, was to act as Las Casas'

Agent in that Country. What was finally arranged or concluded,

1797] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 237

I have not been able to learn. Perhaps Blount's conspiracy may-
be connected with, and a part of, the Plan discussed by Romaine
and Las Casas ; and Romaine may have been the Agent of
Blount and his Associates.

It would be extraordinary (did any event in these times merit
that character) should there exist a connection between Blount's
conspiracy, against which De Yrujo so rudely complained and
the project between Romaine and Las Casas, the execution of
which is said to have been confided to the Chevalier !

Romaine has been in correspondence with several People in
this Country since his return ; but the notoriety of his implica-
tion in the conspiracy of Blount, makes it difficult to discover
the object of his correspondence. Chisholm could not be the
man of consequence, whom Blount was to have sent to England.
In a letter from Romaine to one of his Correspondents in London
dated April 4, 1797, he says "There have some circumstances
turned up, which I am fearful will make it necessary for me to
visit England in May. I shall endeavour to avoid going but it
is highly probable I shall be obliged to embark in one of the
first vessels after the middle of May." And in a subsequent let-
ter to the same person, of the 30th of April, he says " I informed
you in my last that it was not improbable but you would soon
see me in England ; I have not yet made up my mind but it may
be that I may have to leave this in a fortnight."

With perfect Respect, &c,

Rufus King.

R. King to Secretary of State, No. 52.

Wholly in cipher.

London, Nov. 9, 1797.
Dear Sir :

The last letters from the British Minister in Portugal state,
that de Pinto the Portuguese Minister has received a dispatch
from their Envoy at Madrid, saying that his last conference with
the Prince of Peace " (more diffuse and conducted with less re-
serve than usual) had been concluded by the Declaration of the
Prince, that after mature consideration the Court of Madrid ad-

238 RUFUS KING. [1797

vised that of Portugal to ratify without further delay the Treaty
lately concluded with France." To prove the sincerity of this
advice, the Prince adverted to the critical Situation in which the
Government of Spain found itself. He said that the little in-
fluence that they once had at Paris was lately, and especially
since the 18th Fructidor, diminished ; that Del Campo was rarely
permitted to speak to any of the Directors, and upon a representa-
tion respecting the order for the Transportation to Spain of the
Remnant of the Bourbons, in which he took occasion to say that
their presence would be disagreeable to the Court of Spain, he
was contemptuously answered that this would not be thought
an objection to the measure.

After mentioning the difficulty of the present situation, and
the more unpleasant prospect of the future, the Prince added that
Spain would not be able to oppose any effectual resistance to
the measures that France will pursue on the refusal of Portugal
to ratify the Treaty ; for although by different means she has
hitherto avoided the Decision, the Directory have recently re-
ceived their Demand for the Cession of Louisiana to France,
" which," continued the Prince, "the Court of Spain no longer
finds itself in a condition to refuse."

I received this information yesterday from Lord Grenville, of
whom I sometime since requested such intelligence as he should
receive on this subject.

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c,

Rufus King.

R. King to General LaFayette.

London, Nov. 7, 1797.
Dear General :

I have deferred the acknowledgment of your Letter in the daily
expectation of receiving from our Envoys in Paris such informa-
tion as would enable me to state to you the present, as well as the
probable, situation of our Affairs with France ; and tho' I am
without this information, and therefore unable to make you the
communications I otherwise should have done, I can no longer
delay offering you my sincere and hearty congratulations upon
your delivery from Prison, and being again at liberty. You know

1797] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 239

America so well, that it seems superfluous to say that this Event
will inspire our Countrymen with the most lively joy, and I can-
not be mistaken in assuring you, that your Reception there, as
well as that of Madame LaFayette and your Daughters, whose
virtues and Sufferings have equally excited our admiration and
sympathy, will equal in affection and Respect your utmost wishes.
I have much anxiety respecting Madame LaFayette's health and
earnestly hope that it may be restored and confirmed in season
for your Embarkation early in the Spring ; for I will not conceal
from you, that in the present uncertain State of Europe, I shall
not consider you safe, until you shall have landed upon the
American shores. I expressed to Cadignan my Readiness in
behalf of our country to make such pecuniary arrangements as
you should find requisite ; I need not therefore add anything
more on this subject, except to assure you that I am persuaded
that such arrangements will receive the approbation of our Gov-
ernment, which has never ceased to feel an interest in whatever
concerned you. I pray you, my dear General, to present my
most respectful Homage to Mad. LaFayette, and to accept the
Esteem and Respect of

Your ob't. and faithful Servant,

Rufus King.

John Jay to R. King.

Albany, Nov. 7, 1797.
Dear Sir :

I was a few days ago fav'd with yours of the 16th Augt. last.
The attention of this country continues I think too much fixed on
the negotiations for Peace. Many are of opinion that our em-
barrassments will cease with the war. It may be so, but my mind
is not free from doubts on that head. The prudence of pre-
paring for the worst, is manifested by the experience of ages ; and
yet we very indiscreetly neglect it. I wish we had a well com-
piled selection of Switzerland's state papers respecting their
diplomatic discussions with belligerent powers during the present
war ; and the measures they have taken for their own security.

It is an agreeable circumstance that De LaCroix's successor
expresses himself in friendly Terms about american affairs ; but

240 RUFUS KING. [1797

I shall be mistaken if he does not act as may best suit him — what
that may be I cannot pretend to say, nor at this distance to con-
jecture. France is doing us much injury, but good will ultimate-
ly result from it. We shall be taught a useful lesson, tho' perhaps
at no inconsiderable expence. . . .

Yours sincerely

John Jay.

R. King to Secretary of State. No. 53,

London, November 12, 1797.
Dear Sir :

. . . The Directory at the instance of Portugal are understood
to have prolonged the Time for the Ratification of the Treaty
with that Nation, but on the day after the definitive Treaty with
Austria reached Paris, they annulled the Treaty with Portugal,
assigning as a Justification that it had not been ratified within
the Time first prescribed for that purpose. Portugal must there-
fore expect to be attacked, unless Spain (of which according to
the information in my No. 52 there is no probability) shall be
able to avert the Blow. The French army that shall be sent
against Portugal will accelerate, if it does not accomplish, the
destined Revolution of Spain.

The Congress that in a few days will meet at Rastadt, for the
Pacification of Germany, will bring to light some of the secret
articles, supposed to exist in the Treaties between Austria and
France and between the latter and Prussia. . . .

The Chiefs of the Opposition in this Country do not attend
Parliament, which manifests much firmness in the present posi-
tion of the Nation, and which, in my opinion, will receive the
support of their Constituents in the prosecution of the war ; until
their enemy shall discover a disposition to end it. The late Naval
Victory and the Dismantling of the French men of war at Brest,
have in a considerable degree quieted the apprehension of inva-
sion, notwithstanding a late Arrete of the Directory to assemble
an army on the Coast of the Ocean, to be commanded by
Buonaparte, and called "the Army of England."

I employed a few weeks of the Autumn in travelling through
the interior, including some of the Manufacturing Towns of this

1797] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 24 1

Country ; and tho' my means of making a correct Judgment were
in many respects imperfect, I endeavoured to form an Estimate
of the Public Opinion on the Subject of the war, which for a
long time past, I have thought, could not soon be concluded.
The result of my observations, is that a general desire of Peace
prevails throughout the Nation, but that an opinion exists which
is nearly, if not quite, as general, that this Government has
sought Peace with sincerity, and that France has not been willing
to make it on terms consistent with the safety and independence
of England : hence I infer that the Nation, but without zeal or
Enthusiasm, for they shew neither, will support the Government
in carrying on the War, and that they will give this support in the
Belief, that without it the Nation must sink beneath the Blows of
their Enemy. God grant that a less passive temper may be dis-
played in our Country, should unhappily the pending negotiation
fail to restore harmony between us and France.

I send you herewith ... a long Essay, taken from the
Redacteur of the 19th of October, concerning the causes of the
misunderstanding between us and France. This is supposed to
be the performance of Thomas Paine, who has lately published a
Justification, as he calls it, of the revolution of the 18th Fructidor,
since which epoch the Press has been put under the control of
the Government ; a circumstance that gives some importance to
this absurd disquisition respecting the misunderstanding between
us and France. . . .

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c. &c.

Rufus King.

Rufus King to Col. Pickering.

Personal and Private.

London Nov. 13, 1797.
Dear Sir :

. . . Pray send me a Consul to reside in London. As I do

not decline any service that I can perform, I am in constant

requisition to supply those Consular certificates of various sorts,

which it has been usual to procure from Mr. Johnson. . . .

Very truly &c.

Rufus King.

VOL. II.— 16

242 RUFUS KING. [l797

John Jay to R. King.

Albany, 14 Nov., 1797.
Dear Sir :

. . . A late arrival has brought intelligence of the Explosion
at Paris. It opens a wide Field for Speculation and conjecture.
It is difficult for a demoralized People to have any stable Gov-
ernmt ; human laws can reach only a small portion of human
actions. I am anxious to know how our Comrs. have been
received. To me it does not appear certain that the new Revolu-
tion will injure us ; but the cloud is too thick to be penetrated.
It seems that France is to be purified by fire ; if so, she is not
yet ready to leave the furnace. We hear that Ld. Malmesbury
has returned to England ; and yet I should not be surprised, if
something like a Peace should be patched up this winter between
France and Austria. I suspect the Emperor's Resources to be
exhausted so much that it will not be in his power to provide for
the Expences of such a campaign next year, as would become his
Dignity & Interest — but this is all Guess-work. . . .

Yours sincerely,

John Jay.

Rufus King to Mess. Pinckney, Marshall, and Gerry.

All in cipher.

London, 15th, Nov., 1797.
Gentlemen :

. . . Though my expectations of a satisfactory issue of
your Mission was materially weakened by the Revolution of the
fourth of September, yet I must confess that I was not prepared
for the accounts which Col. Trumbull has given me. I will not
however allow myself yet to despair of your success, though my
apprehensions are greater than my hopes. I annex the Copy of
my No. 52 to the Secretary of State. ... It may be con-
sidered as a communication of considerable importance in en-
abling you to judge of the views of the French Government. The
Envoy of Portugal confirmed to me to-day this information so
far as regards the demand which, he said, had been made in the

1797] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 243

shape of a Note, and not, as heretofore, verbally. He knew
nothing of the answer that was given by the Minister of Spain.
I likewise send you the copy of a Letter that some months past
I wrote to Mr. Talleyrand, to which I received no answer. . . .
Slight circumstances sometimes assist us in the discovery of
important decisions. . . .

The failure of the Negotiation at Lisle has undoubtedly added
strength to this Government. The two Houses of Parliament made
a joint and unanimous address to the King, in reply to his Speech,
pledging the wealth and Strength of the Nation, in language of
uncommon solemnity and force, to support the Crown in the
prosecution of the War against an Enemy, whose enmity, says
the address, is directed against their Laws, Religion and Liberty.

What another Revolution in France may effect ; nay to what
the Corruption of those who are now in Power may lead them to
agree, it is not easy to pronounce ; but here, there is every appear-
ance of a firm and steady perseverance in the war.

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Secretary of State. No. 54.

London, Nov. 18, 1797.
Dear Sir :

" Si tout se vend rien ne se garantit." The fate of the late
Treaty between France and Portugal would confirm this Truth, was
it doubtful. Portugal tvas also required to pay down a sum of
mo7iey to be distributed as a preliminary to JVegoliation and she ad-
vanced it. By a secret article of the Treaty she was bound to make
a loan to France, a part of which was paid at the Signature of the
Treaty and was the money that enabled the Directory to march the
Army which effected the Revolution of the 18th Fructidor. You may
depend on this information*

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c. &c.

Rufus King.

* Italics in cipher.

244 RUFUS KING. [i797

R. King to Lord Grenville.

Great Cumberland Place, Nov. 20, 1797.

My Lord :

Your Lordship may probably recollect that after the Ratifica-
tion of the American Treaty, but before the Act of Parliament for
carrying it into effect, I took the Liberty to mention to your Lord-
ship the Circumstances of an Insurance Cause in one of his
Majesty's Courts, in which the Plaintiff, an American Citizen, had
been non-suited in consequence of an opinion of the Court, that
the Trade to the British Territories in Asia could not be carried
on by Foreigners. Since the Act of Parliament, a new trial of
the cause has been ordered, and the suit is about to be decided
by the construction that shall be given in Westminster Hall to the
XIII. Article of the Treaty.

This question is of importance not only in respect to the
Property immediately depending upon its decision, but far more so
as it affects those voyages and commercial adventures which have
been commenced under the Security of this article of the Treaty ;
according to which, in the opinion of the American Government,
it is free for their citizens to import in American Ships into the
British Territories in the East Indies, any goods or Merchandize
that may be imported into the same by the East India Company,
paying the same duties as are paid by that Company and this
without being subject to inquiry or Disadvantage in respect to the
Country of which such Goods or Merchandize are the produce or
manufacture, or whether they come directly from America, or are
shipped in Europe or elsewhere.

Had there been any Doubt of this interpretation, it would have
been removed by the discussion that grew out of the restrictive
clauses which the East India Company were desirous should have
been added to the Act of Parliament, establishing the Provisions
of the American Treaty, and to the Act concerning the Trade to
the East Indies by nations in Amity with Great Britain. But not-
withstanding my persuasion that the Parties do not disagree in
the interpretation of this article of the Treaty, I am not without
apprehension that an erroneous Construction may be attempted,
and perhaps successfully, in the course of this Trial.

Hence I have thought it to be my Duty to place the Subject

1797] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 245

before your Lordship, and to request your influence in order that
the Court of King's Bench, before whom this suit is depending,
may be seasonably informed of the Construction given to this
Article of the American Treaty by his Majesty's Government. . . .
Your obedient & very humble servant &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Messrs. Pinckney, Marshall, and Gerry.

London, Nov. 24, 1797.
Gentlemen :

No one detests more than I do the Conduct of France towards our*
Country still I earnestly desire that we may remain in Peace. War
would retard our progress ; which with all the disadvantages to wh.
we are exposed, brings daily additions of wealth and strength ; and
to the ceconomical and moral motives which should influence Na-
tions to cultivate Peace, we may add the Danger to be apprehended
from the Division of our People. I make these observations in order
that you may justly estimate such information as with a view to the
Negotiation in your Hands, I may send you ; for with all our im-
partiality, our Prejudices will sometimes colour not only what
passes thro' our minds, but even the objects that fall beneath our
senses.

Portugal gave ??ioney as a Preliminary to the negotiation of the late
Treaty with France, by a secret article of which she also stipulated
a Loan, part of which was actually paid at the Signature of the
Treaty. This money enabled the Directory to march the army who
effected the Revolution of the 18th. Fructidor. Spain is alarmed and
Portugal trembles. England cannot furnish troops, without which
Portugal must fall. The Court of Vienna have at this moment little
confidence in the solidity of their Peace. This is no Task, and the
war may again burst out. The Directory are not at Ease on this
Point. Efigland sees all this, and, notwithstanding the disaffected
State of Ireland, is resolved with Firmness to continue the war.

I cannot give you my sources of information but I am not deceived.

Yrs. &c.

Rufus King.

* Italics in cipher.

246 R UFUS KING. [1797

R. King to Secretary of State. No. 55.

London, Dec. 6, 1797.
Dear Sir:

. . . / think that I am not mistaken in my Belief, that this in-
security of Peace, and probability that the Congress of Rastadt will
rekindle the war, has been formally communicated to this Court by
that of Vienna, in order that measures of Concert, grounded on this
expectation, should be pursued by the two nations*

The Directory have given orders to divide the German Terri-
tory on the left of the Rhine into Departments on the model of
those of France, while by an Imperial Aulic Decree, the Emperor
calls upon the Deputies of the Empire to the Congress to exert
themselves with German firmness, jointly with him, to obtain a
solid Peace, " on the basis of the Integrity of the Empire."

At this critical moment has happened the death of the King of
Prussia ; an event capable of producing the most important con-
sequences. Some circumstances, tho' far from being conclusive,
have already appeared, which induce those who wish it, to believe
that the young King will pursue a course altogether the reverse
of that of his Father.

The new monarch is said to be attached to the Army, brave
and emulous of the character of the Great Frederick ; he is
moreover both frugal and moral, and in these Points the opposite
of his Father. Events of the first magnitude follow each other
with such rapidity that we shall even in a few days be able to
appreciate the character of the new Sovereign.

The Directory will be active on this occasion, unless, as is
rumoured, they are embarrassed by a new Party at Paris that is
forming itself against them. We are not yet able to discern the
shape of this Faction, nor to distinguish the peculiar means with
which it will act. But it is as certain that things must change,
and that soon, as they have recently become what they are.

On the 26th ulto. our Envoys had not been received by the
Directory, nor had they advanced a step since their dispatch by
Col. Trumbull : except that on the nth. they had by a Note to
the Minister of Foreign Affairs requested that the Government
would, without further delay, take the Subject of their Mission
into consideration, and ten days after, not having received any
answer, they sent Major Rutledge to inquire whether their request

* Italics in cipher.

1797] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 247

had been communicated to the Directory, who was informed that
it had, and that the result would shortly be made known to the
Envoys. In the mean time the animosity of the French Govern-
ment against our Country increases and the condemnation of our
Ships and Cargoes is pursued with eagerness and rapacity. A
Proclamation by the Directory of the 22d of November, which
holds up the Government of England as a Conspiracy against
French Liberty and charges it as influencing and corrupting
every other nation, has this expression, " Parlez Americains,
dites quels sont directement ou indirectement vos vrais domina-
teurs." . . .

Nothing material since my last has occurred in this country.
The proposal of raising seven millions additional Revenue by
tripling the direct assessments will be carried into execution. In
the present State of England, we may find both admonition and
Instruction. If we should be forced into the war in defence of
our Property and Government, I hope that we may Profit by
seasonable reflections upon the dangers to the State from too
great an accumulation of public Debt. This country is now said to
have arrived near to the Limits of the funding system, and with all
its burden, bearing upon them, they are compelled to go back to
the old Scheme of raising within the year their annual Expences.
We shall not be able to borrow in Europe, and instead of bor-
rowing at Home except for mere anticipations, why should we
not, in a war of strict necessity, raise within the year the money
to defray our Expenses ? I still entertain a faint hope that we
shall escape the war ; the present State of things must soon
change, and any change will mend our situation and Prospects.

With perfect Respect & Esteem, &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to General Pinckney, General Marshall, and

Mr. Gerry*

Confidential.

London, Dec. 9, 1797.
Gentlemen :

Lord Grenville last night sent Mr. Hammond to me with the
following information that had just been received by this Gov-
ernment.

* In cipher.

248 RUFUS KING. [l797

" Coast of France November 26, 1797. The Minister of Marine
Pleville Lepeley has recommended to the Marine officers at Gran-
ville, St. Maloes, to throw every secret impediment, without open
force, to delay the Departure of American vessels, and the expor-
tation of American property which they daily expected orders to
sequester."

Mr. Hammond said that he was ordered to declare that the in-
formation was authentic, and such as they should act upon in a
case that concerned them. You will judge whether you can give
notice to our People to withdraw their property.

With great truth yours &c.

Rufus King.

CHAPTER XIX.

Mr. Hindman on Maryland Politics — Mr. King and Maryland Bank Stock —
Judge Cambauld in St. Domingo — Genl. Washington relative to Lafayette's
Son — Count Rumford — Chisholme, Agent of Governor Blount in London
— Statement of Facts made — Correspondence with Commissioners in Paris
— Directory propose Peace to England — Declined — Mr. King to the Com-
missioners— The United States must act with Decision — Fear of Mr.
Gerry in Letter to General Pinckney — Letter to Mr. Gerry — From General
Pinckney — No Hope of a Treaty with France.

Wm. Hindman to Wm. Hensley, Jr., London.

Philadelphia, Dec. 3, 1797.
Dear Sir :

Inclosed is a Copy of a Letter I received from Mr. King . . .
I presume that you are happily fixed as Mr. King's Secretary, so
that your accompanying Mrs. Tilghmam to England has proved
a most lucky circumstance, as She was thereby fortunately re-
lieved from a great Weight upon her mind. You will arrive in
London most seasonably to take upon you the Duties of your
Office.

Mr. Henry is elected our Governor ; it is not yet known here
who will succeed Him in the Senate ; from what I collect the
Contest will probably terminate between Messrs. Joshua Seney
and Wm. Winder, the first a decided Jacobin, the other a doubt-
ful Character. It is truly lamentable that We should be driven
to this Dilemma. It is said there is a Majority of Antis in our
House of Delegates. Tom Martin was chosen by a great
Majority. Mr. Josh. Seney has declared Himself a Candidate
for the House of Representatives of Congress at the next
Election.

There was no opposition to the Answer to the President's
Speech. What the Plan of the Antis is this Session, I have not
250 RUFUS KING. [*797

heard. Messrs. Jefferson and Giles are not yet come ; I suppose
nothing decisive will be fixed upon untill their Arrival. Our
Speaker has given up the French since their last Revolution.

Congress can do nothing decisive untill They hear from our
Commissioners at Paris ; should our Differences not be accom-
modated, I flatter myself We shall be more united than We have
hitherto been ; there will however be a Party in Favor of the
French let their Conduct towards Us be what it may.

I have lately received a Letter from Mr. Perry, who is now at-
tending our Legislature ; in which is the following, " Mr. King
has truly rendered the State of Maryland vast Service respecting
our Bank Stock in England. He has now got it in a very good
Way for our laying our Hands upon it. He has really taken
great Pains in examining into this Business, and has by a single
Letter given Us a much clearer View of the whole Business than
we have been able to obtain from Mr. Chase from his first Com-
mencement of the Business. Mr. King has rendered Himself
very popular with us." This Information was doubly gratifying
to me.

Mr. Edwd. Lloyd was married to Miss Murray on the 30th
ulto. and is to settle at Wye. You have no Doubt heard that
your Father is on the Eve of Matrimony. The Hessian Fly has
increased twofold upon Us this Fall. Pray present me to Mr.
King in Terms of the most affectionate Regard ; tell Him I feel
in the most grateful Manner his friendly attentions to me. Mr.
Sitgreaves and Myself are alone at Mrs. Williams, and eat when
at Home of the excellent Cheese which Mr. King was so kind as
to send Her. I shall be happy to hear from you.

Yrs Sincerely &c.

W. Hindman.

T. Pickering to R. King.

Department of State, Dec. 5, 1797.
Dear Sir :

. . . Another grievance which has for some time past

excited much complaint, is the proceeding of the Judge of the

Court of Vice-admiralty in St. Domingo. This Court was erected

by Governor Simcoe, who appointed a Mr. Richard Cambauld

1797] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 25 I

the Judge. From what I have heard of this man's character and
the inferences to be drawn from his proceedings, we must con-
clude that Governor Simcoe did not know him. . . . It is
not only against the frequency of the captures that are made,
that complaints have been preferred, but the Judge is represented
as a man who does not support the decency belonging to that
character. He has an extraordinary facility in condemning, and
it is unpleasant to our sea-faring citizens to see those naval
officers, who are interested in the condemnations, sitting on the
bench with the Judge, and, as they imagine, influencing his
decisions. ... It may be questioned whether this Judge
possesses a competent knowledge of his profession.

Geo. Washington to R. King.

Mount Vernon, Dec. 6, 1797.
Dear Sir :

Your favor of the 6th of September has been duly received,
and for the information contained in the enclosure, respecting
Genl. Lafayette, I offer you my thanks. The footing on which
his releasement is placed by the Emperor, & the succeeding
event in Paris, on the 4th of September, render his proceedings,
after he gets to Hamburg, problematical.

Should these circumstances (for it is not easy to say what
effect the latter may have on his prospects in France) induce him
to steer his course immediately for this Country, it will be a mat-
ter of some regret to him, & his son, that they shall have passed
each other on the Ocean.

Deluded (though not designedly) by premature information of
his parents liberation & journeying to France, by a correspondent
at Hamburg, his eagerness to embrace them, and his Sisters, in
the first moment of their reception in France, — the fear of a win-
ter passage (should he delay his departure) ; — and persuasion, as
he left his native country under the authority of the Government,
that he had nothing to apprehend from his return to it ; — over-
came my advice to him to await a direct account from his father ;
which would not only have ascertain'd the fact, but might also
have pointd. out a course which he would have him pursue. —

252 RUFUS KING. [1797

Nay, I went so far as to tell him, that although it was not proba-
ble, it was nevertheless possible, he might be disappointed of his
object, by the means which seems likely to have happened ; but
his purpose, from the considerations already mentioned, were not
to be diverted ; and being excited by the purest filial affection,
for he is realy a sensible, amiable, and valuable youth, I shall
feel much for the disappointment of both parties, if they do not
meet in Europe. With the highest esteem & regards, I am, My
dear Sir,

Your Most Obedt. & Obliged Hbl. Ser.

Geo. Washington.

R. King to T. Pickering.

Private.

London, Dec. 8, 1797.

Count Rumford, late Sir Benjamin Thompson, whose name and
history are probably known to you, and whose talents and ser-
vices have produced the most beneficial Establishments and
reforms in Bavaria, was lately named by the Elector to be his
Minister at this Court. On his arrival he has been informed that
being a British Subject, it was contrary to usage to receive him
and that therefore he could not be acknowledged.

The intrigues and opposition against which he had for some
years made head in Bavaria, probably made him desire the mis-
sion to England ; the refusal that he has met with, has decided
him to return and settle himself in America. He proposes to
establish himself at or near Cambridge, to live there in the
character of a German Count, to renounce all political expecta-
tions, and devote himself to literary pursuits — his connections in
this Country are strictly literary, and his knowledge, particularly
in the military Department, may be of great use to us. The Count
is well acquainted with, and has had much experience in the
establishment of Cannon Founderies ; that which he established
in Bavaria is spoken of in very high terms, as well as certain im-
provements that he has introduced in the mounting of flying
artillery. He possesses an extensive military Library, and
assures me that he wishes nothing more than to be useful to our
country. I make this communication by his desire, and my wish

1797] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 253

is that he may be well received, as I am persuaded that his Prin-
ciples are good and his talents and information uncommonly ex-
tensive. It is possible that attempts may be made to misrepresent
his political opinions : from the enquiry that I have made on this
head, I am convinced that his political sentiments are correct.
Be good enough to communicate this letter to the President.
With great respect & esteem, &c, yours faithfully,

Rufus King.

Chisholme to Thos. Digges.

Nov. 25, 1797.
My Dear Sir :

May I expect to see you early to-morrow morning — I am so
Destresed — that I canot Refrain Troubling you. I have thought
of a measure that perhaps will Serve me, — if I can gitt it Done —
perhaps you can have it Done for me.

Believe me Sir Cencerley,

Chisholme.

Thos. Digges to R. King.

25th Nov., 1797.
Sir:

I called in on Mr. Chisholme yesterday evening in order to
obtain from Him the names of the Persons in Ama. who may
have been implicated in the plan of surprising the Spanish Posts,
&c, and I took in with me Majr. Geo Barnes, a native of Vir-
ginia, now in London selling a large quantity of Georgia and
Tennessee Lands (about which I understand he had wrote to you)
and from his being acquainted with Mr. Chisholme when He was
at Phila with the party of Indians making the Southern Indian
Treaty. I think I am in a fair way thro' him of obtaining most
of the names implicated in schemes for wresting the Southern
Territory from the Spaniards, & of which Mr. B. and Mr. C.
spoke freely before me. Mr. Chisholme has heretofore uniformly
told me he would expose every matter & plan relative to that
transaction save the exposition of names, and hinted at several in
N. York as well as Phila who were concerned therein. He

254 RUFUS KING. [1797

showed me a letter rec'd yesterday from Mr. Moore of Ld. G's
office, dry & guardedly written, as if in ansr. to one from
Chisholme, asking for supplys, or that He, Mr. C, should be
obliged to seek for aid & assistance through other channels,
meaning, as I conceived, through you. I went to him by ap-
pointment to be the bearer of a letter, which states his case &
purposes, in some measure, together with a larger bundle of
sealed papers. I read the letter before he sealed it, but had no
view of the other papers. I delivered them to yr young man
Sutton last night & He will wait upon you to day abo't 12 o'clk
with them. I think it best to apprise you of this by a messenger
wch. I now send.

I will get Mr Barnes to go in from time to time to Chisholme
and doubt not he will be able to get at names &c &c.

Neither of the three parties know I have any communications
or acquaintance with you, and so it had better remain for the
present ; I will attend to any request of yours as to what queries

or questions to put to Mr C thro' the other two Gentl, for T

was obliged during my conversations with him to co-incide in his
opinion that the giving up the names of his friends & party would
not be perfectly fair. He however told me last night He w'd do
it provided they were held back from the Spaniards in that
quarter of the Country.

I am in haste & with esteem

Sir yr. Ob. Hb Serv.
Tho. Digges.

Thos. Digges to R. King.

Nov. 27, 1797.
Sir :

Mr. Chisholme in many instances seems wild and incoherent,
altho he has rather spoke out to Mr B. (the Gentl I mention'd in
my last letter) respecting the names of some of His Colleagues.
He wrote me the inclosed supposing from a slender acquaintance
with the Duke of Portland & in that office, I could solicit for him
some appointment in upper Canada, but this is totally out of the
question ; His plans & expectations must have been more de-
veloped to you by the letter & papers I took from him to Mr
Sutton wch. I suppose you have seen.

The following are the names I have discovered of those persons

1797] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 2$$

concerned with them & wch. may lead to some quest for the dis-
covery of others viz. at N York, a Captain Mitchell — Capt Sted-
man (who wrote the Expedition to Surinam) — Doctor Romain
(who entered into the plan and made his Unkle, Mr. Vandam of

London, acquainted therewith) — a Mr Morris then in N.

York but formerly of Kingston Jamaica, and anor name wch. is
blotted in my memdm.

Governor Blount seems to have been the chief or main spring,
also a Colol. Ore in the Tennessee — a Colol. Wm. Whitley in
Kentucky was promised him w'd join in the plan.

N. B. he has promised to give the plan in writing to Mr Sutton
and you will of course see it. At Philadelphia — a Mr Nicolas (a
ship owner of Newhaven in Massachusets who would send ar'ond
vessels to Florida & Orleans). From Phila he wrote to Colol.
Brandt, and The Corn Planter upon the business, & they came to
Phila. bringing with them a Mr. Street, a member of the Assembly
of upper Canada. — Capt. Johnson and a Mr. Smith, an Indian
Interpretor — Chisholme sent for Captain Mitchell before men-
tioned to Philaa, and Mitchell there spoke to Major Craig of
Pensylvania, and Mitchell was then sent by the party to The
Mississippi to sound the people there & get plans &c. of the Forts
& posts. — also saw & open'd the matter to Capt Collins at Phila
but who resides in Marblehead. — also a Mr. Blackburne of
Richm'd in Virginia. The plans were all concerted with & known
to Mr. Liston, the English Envoy some time between ist Nov. 96
and Mar last, at which time Capt Chisholme sailed for England.
to concert measures here in Eng'd, and brought introductory let-
ters to Lord Grenville, Mr Dundas, Mr Hammond & others., all
close packed up in sheet lead so as to be easily sunk if he was
taken at sea, and he had artificial Intrody letters to Mr Liston's
friends in Hambro' to cover him from detection if taken at Sea.
I wonder much at the confidence placed in such a Man ! — but the
plan seems to have been deep & well laid. Mr Chisholme seems
to be poor, & abandoned by his ministerial Friends at the Treas-
ury & is of course very anxious to get out of Prison. There is a
mode of getting his release & which is frequently & every Term
done in the Courts here, wch. you may not be apprized of — It is
by getting him Baild out by Jews, or men who openly do it for a
certain percentage on the Sum, & never after look for the person
so bailed, nor can he be troubled or run to Execut'n for some

256 RUFUS KING. [1797

3 or 4 terms after He is bailed out. — In this way I think He may-
be released for 9 or 10 jQ advance to such Bail upon their pro-
ducing His discharge. Whether he is worth this, or not is the
question.

Least some doubt may arise in your mind respecting a pass-
port for, or helping out another person to America (as express'd
in Chisholme proposals) I think I can confidently assure you it is
for Mr. D. y. Sutton J^nr, (the young man who has waited on
you) and the reason is this. By extravagance and some boyish
indiscretion, he is an alien from His Father's affections & actually
forbid appearing at his house No 18 Great St Helens. His
Father is a respectable Quaker Mercht who lived many years in
Alexandria (wch. is in sight of my estate at Digges' Landing on
the Potomack just fronting Mount Vernon & in sight of Wash-
ington City) where the father now is collecting & remitting home
debts. — His Son (the young man in question) was born there &
was brought up in Virga. but for some 3 or 4 yr's back has been
a Clk. to his Father in London, who unfortunately left him in too
great a trust & I know his wish is to get out to Ama. — with Chis-
holme or with any one rather than meet his Father, whom I ex-
pect dayly in London. The way he got acquainted with
Chisholme was by being put into the same prison for a Taylor's
Bill of 12 or 15 £ which I soon got compounded & procured his
discharge about 3 weeks ago The Taylor willingly taking half

the sum.

I am with great respect Sir

yrs most obt Serv.

Thos. Digges.

I thought it better to send this information to you as young

Sutton will probably call on you to Morrow forenoon with further

communications from Mr. Chisholme.

R. King to Secretary of State. No. 57.

London, December 10, 1797.
Dear Sir :

It was not until Chisholm despaired of receiving further sup-
port for himself or his Plan from this Government that he con-
sented to open himself to such person as I should send to him for

1797] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 257

that purpose. Major Lenox by my desire went to him and wrote
down from Chisholm's relation the Paper called his Declaration.
The outlines of the Paper and the answers to the twenty nine
Questions which follow it, were taken by me from Chisholm at the
House of Major Lenox, and in his presence. The whole has been
signed and sworn to by him in the presence of Major Lenox and
myself. Chisholm required that none of the names of the Per-
sons residing within or on the borders of Florida should be com-
municated to the Spanish Government, and I gave him a Promise
that no such communication should be made. He also requested
me to lend him a small sum of money to enable him to discharge
a few trifling Debts, and likewise to assist him in procuring a Pas-
sage to New York. I have complied with these requests, taking
from him a Receit, in which he agrees that the loan shall be de-
ducted from a Balance that he says is due to him from the U. S. ;
and in case such balance should be insufficient that he will repay
the loan to you or to your Successor on Demand. On asking
him if he has any objection to be re-examined in Philadelphia, he
said that many individuals were concerned in the plan, and that
if he should become a public witness, his life might be endan-
gered, since there were men engaged with him who would take it .
that if he should return home by the way of New York he would
call on you, and in case the Government would give him security,
that he should not object to being examined ; but that he wished
rather to avoid such examination, and to get back to the Creek
Nation with whom he would employ all his influence in favor of
the U. S. to whom he was desirous to become a citizen.

He is strongly impressed with an opinion that Blount had made
associates with whom he had no acquaintance ; and that it was
their intention to have managed the affair without his Agency ex-
cept in a subordinate capacity ; and I have some reason to think
that Romaine had begun a correspondence with some Persons of
pecuniary importance in this Country respecting his Plan.

I am persuaded from the whole Tenor of the Examination of
Chisholm that he had no intention of asking aid from the French,
or any other Foreigners except the British. This idea, as well as
that of the Indians, was that Liston, from the nature of his office,
would have had Authority to adopt their Plan, and to make the
necessary corporations to carry it into execution. The voyage to

VOL. II. — 17

258 RUFUS KING. [l797

England proceeded from the Disappointment concerning the
extent of Liston's Powers, and a jealousy of Blount.

I have had very satisfactory reasons to be convinced that this
Government from the first disapproved of the Scheme ; a circum-
stance that may, with a little pains, be turned to profit with the
Indians, who on our whole Frontier were acquainted with the
Plan. I will take care to advise you of the vessel in which
Chisholm takes his passage.*

With perfect Respect &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to James Munro.

London, December 12, 1797.
Dear Sir :

In a letter that some months' past I wrote to you in answer to
one that I received from you concerning your Right to hold and
employ in the trade between this Country and the United States

* In the folio A, p. 378 of R. King's letters are " The Declaration of John D.
Chisholm " and " The General Outlines of the Plan referred to in my Declaration
of the 29th May, 1797," p. 385, and on p. 386 " Questions proposed by Rufus
King and answered by John D. Chisholm at the house, and in the presence, of
Major David Lenox on the Fifth day of December One thousand seven hun-
dred and ninety seven." This last paper is signed by John D. Chisholm — in
his handwriting — an original paper. Then follows p. 391 — a statement, over
the name of Rufus King, Min. Plenip., etc., and before him, that John D.
Chisholm did swear to the truth of the Declaration, etc., to the truth of the
paper called the General Outline, and to the truth of the foregoing twenty-nine
interrogatories, all of which he subscribed, London, Dec. 9, 1797.

Among the papers is the letter from Mr. Liston (original in the possession of
Mr. King) dated Philadelphia, March 16, 1797, to M. Goverts, Esq., recommend-
ing John Chisholm, a native of Scotland, to him.

There is also a copy of " a memorandum for Mr. Chisholm (original in pos-
session of R. King) by Mr. L. on his arrival at Hamburg."

At the end of these papers is this : " P. S. The originals, of which the above
are true copies, are in my possession, having been delivered to me by J. D.
Chisholm.

"London, Dec. 9, 1797. Rufus King.'

M

The papers are very long, and reveal the whole plot in which Govr. Blount was
engaged and for which he had been expelled from the Senate, upon the estab-
lishment of the facts. — Ed.

1797] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 259

American Ships, I distinctly gave to you my opinion, that being
an American Citizen and Consul according to our Laws, you are
authorized to hold and employ in any Trade American Ships
equally with a citizen of the United States resident within the
same. I am still of the same opinion, and according to my view of
the subject, the English Government, so far as regards an Ameri-
can Citizen who has been appointed and admitted as an American
Consul within the British Dominion, ought not to discriminate
between him and an American citizen resident within the United
States. But I understand that the Law officers of this Govern-
ment hold a different Opinion ; according to which the Rights of
American Citizens in respect to Commerce are deemed to belong
only to American Citizens, whose Domicil or Commercial sta-
tion is within the United States ; and on this ground I have heard
the Civilians, being consulted by Mr. Johnson, informed him that
they did not think him capable of holding American Ships, he
being domiciled in England. The same principle has been em-
ployed to condemn in the Admiralty the Property of our Consuls
resident in France ; and in a very recent case, the Property of
Mr. Bowen, our Consul at Amsterdam, tho' the Property was found
on board an American Ship, owned by Citizens residing in Massa-
chusetts. Under these Circumstances I should hesitate to rec-
ommend to you to rely with much confidence upon what I
conceive to be your commercial Rights ; but which, as well in
respect to the Safety of your Ships as to the Security of your in-
surance, may be liable to interruption. I shall in a short time
ascertain by the measures which I have adopted concerning
Johnson's ship, the final decision of this Government.

Your obedt. Servt.

Rufus King.

C. C. PlNCKNEY TO R. KlNG.

In Cipher.

Paris, Dec. 14, 1797.
Dear Sir :

Your favor of the 24th ultimo arrived safe. I wish you would

not merely give us information of facts, but state explicitly your

sentiments ; they would be of great service to us, and you was

rather enigmatical. Your facts however are very important,

260 RUFUS KING. [*797

and frequent information will be essentially useful. We are not
yet received, and I think it is very probable we shall not be. It
is said Barras and Neufchateau are for receiving us, and attempt-
ing to obtain money from us by negotiation. Merlin and Rewbell
think it will be in vain, and are for sending us away immediately.
La Reveilliere is undecided ; but the whole of them are undoubt-
edly hostile to our Government, and are determined, if possible,
to effectuate a change in our administration, and to oblige our
present President to resign. With regard to our Citizens here, it
is in contemplation to send away from France every American
who cannot produce proof of an implicit approbation of the
present measures of France, and of a decided aversion to the ad-
ministration of our Government. Attempts are made to divide
the Envoys, and with that view some civilities are shown to Mr.
G. and none to the two others. I am in hopes such attempts will
be without success. The American Jacobins here pay him great
Court. Since writing the above, we have received another unoffi-
cial Message from Mr. Talleyrand to meet the same Persons as
had formerly conversed with us, without their being officially
authorized. This we have pointedly and unanimously refused ;
declaring we would have no communication on the subject of our
Missions with Persons not officially authorized to treat with us.
As I have not time by this opportunity to write to Col. Pickering,
be so good as to communicate this Letter to him in cipher unoffi-
cially from me, and be assured I am yours Sincerely,

Charles Cotesworth Pinckney.

R. King to Col. Pickering.

Not Official.

London, Dec. 23, 1797.
Dear Sir :

With due precaution in the manner, / have made our Envoys *'
acquainted with the information contained in my Nos. 52, 54, 55,
56. My Correspondence with them has been almost invariably
confined to Facts important for them to know. In the letter re-
ferred to in the copy of one of Genl. Pinckney to me, which I send

* Italics in cipher.

1797] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 26 1

you, /took occasion with a particular view to make some observa-
tions upon the Importance of Peace. From the tenor of Genl. P., I
infer, little valuable as my sentiments are, that they have on this
occasion been misconceived and treated with more respect by Mr.
Gerry than they merited. 1 have corrected this Error in a Letter to
our Envoys, communicating to them the extraordinary fads con-
tained in my No. jp* which accompanies this Letter. You will
consider this as well as the Letter from Genl. P. to me as unofficial,
tho' on this or any other occasion I can have no wish that you shd.
not communicate the contents to the President, from whom
nothing should be concealed that affects the Honor or Welfare of
our Country.

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c.

Rufus King,

R. King to Secretary of State. No. 59.

In Cipher.

London, Dec. 23, 1797.
Dear Sir :

This Cabinet last night, after several days consideration, gave a

decided negative to a proposal of Peace made by the Directory

thro' Talleyrand ; the Project was in detail, and the Terms more

favorable to England than those demanded by Lord Malmesbury

at Lisle ; the price was a Bribe of a Million Sterling to be divided

among Directors, Ministers and others. Talleyrand's Department

was to share one hundred thousand Pounds Sterling. I could

name the Persons employed, the Stages and every circumstance

of the Overture ; so that you may place perfect confidence in the

information. This decision has been made at a time when it is

uncertain what part will be adopted by the new King of Prussia,

when England would be glad to make a solid Peace, and if

economy alone had influenced her, would have paid the Bribe to

obtain it ; in case she could have had confidence in the corrupt

Agents with which she might have made the Bargain. This and

* Evidently corrected in the manuscript letter. See note by T. Pickering,
March 18, 1798 :

" I suppose it should be his No. 59, for neither No. 57, nor 52, 54, 55, nor
56 have come to hand." T. P.

262 RUFUS KING. [1797

some former information have been obtained in a way that forbids
its publication in this shape or as received from me ; others as
well as myself would thereby be placed in a situation that would
be insupportable.

With perfect Respect and Esteem &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Messrs. Pinckney, Marshall, and Gerry.

In Cipher.

London, Dec. 23, 1797.
Gentlemen :

I hope that my letters of Nov. 15 and 24, and of the 7th instant,
have come to hand : in that of Nov. 24, I took notice of those
considerations which render the Preservation of Peace so import-
ant : more might be added on the same subject. But France
perseveres in the capture and condemnation of our Ships, she
continues to decline to treat with us, and even to receive our
Envoys, while she employs all the influence left her to discredit
our Government and to divide our People.

If we are denied the Right of Embassy, if we cannot navigate
the Ocean in Security, and if, moreover, we are not free to choose
our own Governors, unless they are agreeable to France, and at
the same time to remain in Peace ; our Reputations in the Eyes
of others, our Duty to ourselves, and above all Self Respect and
natural Independence command us to endeavour to protect and
preserve these high Privileges, even at the expence of Peace.

Earnestly as we desire the preservation of Peace, the Time is
near at hand, when we must look and act with firmness upon the
alternative. France may be inclined to practice a dilatory and
insidious Policy ; it is in your power to disappoint the former, and
I have the consolation to believe that the latter will be attempted
in vain. Confidence on this Point is derived as well from the
Respect due to your Judgment, as from the Persuasion that you
will think and act in Concert ; the want of which in some of our
former commissions has been injurious, as well as disreputable,
to our Country. The Events of every Day confirm the propriety
of your resolution not to treat with any unauthorized Person ;
and on the Subject of Bribes and Loans, I do not perceive that,

1797] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 263

under any circumstances, you can consent to them : To Ransom
our country from Injustice and Power, would be to invite Dis-
honor and injury, because there can be no guaranty against
them. This Cabinet, last night, after several days consideration,
gave a decided negative to a Proposal of Peace from the Direc-
tory thro' Talleyrand. The Project was detailed, and the Terms
more favorable than those demanded by Lord Malmesbury at
Lisle. The Price, a Bribe of a million Sterling to be divided
among Directors, Ministers, and others : Talleyrand's department
to have shared one Hundred Thousand Pounds. I could name
the Agents, the Stages and every circumstance of the overture ;
you may place entire confidence in the Fact. This Refusal has
been made at a time when the Part that shall be taken by the new
King of Prussia is unknown, when England would be glad to ob-
tain a solid Peace, and if economy alone influenced her, would
have paid the Bribe to procure it ; in case she could have put
confidence in the corrupt agents with whom she might have made

the Bargain.

With great Esteem & Respect &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Genl. Pinckney.

Confidential.

London, Dec. 24, 1797.
Dear Sir :

I received yours of the 14th yesterday, have changed the cypher

and shall have * an opportunity in a day or two to send it with an

unofficial letter to Col. Pickering. If I do not wholly mistake its

import, we are in danger fro?n a quarter, in which 1 confess I have

not felt wholly secure, but when I thought Integrity and honest, tho*

sometimes mistaken, Patriotism would overcome a 7niserable vanity

and a few little defects of character, that I have for a long time

known to exist, and which I now fear have been discovered by those

who will be assiduous to turn them to mischief. You must not appear

to suspect what you may really k?iow ; you must appear to act as you

would do — did the most perfect Harmony exist — you must in short

save him and, in doing so, prevent the Division that would grow out

* Italics in cipher.

264 RUFUS KING. [1797

of a Seism in your Commission. His Integrity is incorruptible : and
the true Interest of his Country will be seen and prevail, unless Pride
shall be put in opposition to Duty, or Jealousy shall mislead a mind
neither ingenuous nor well orga?iised, but habitually suspicious, and,
when assailed by personal vanity, inflexible. I earnestly hope that I
overrate your Embarrassments. The observations in my letter of
the 24th of Nov. were written after retracing in my mind the charac-
ter for whom they were intended. My letter of yesterday will knock
away the scaffolding that may have been built with them. Take care
that means are not employed to protract the negotiation till our com-
merce ruined by Depredations shall not be worth protecting. The
Commence?nent of the New Year should bring the Business to a

crisis.

Very sincerely yrs.,

Rufus King.

R. King to Elbridge Gerry.

London, Dec. 24, 1797.
Dear Sir :

. . . Our latest news from home is of the 17th Novr., when
Congress had not made a Quorum. The account of the revolu-
tion of the 4th of September reached the U. S. early in Novr.,
and seems to have materially weakened the Hope of a satisfac-
tory issue of your mission. The continued depredations upon our
Commerce had the effect that might naturally have been looked
for, and temperate men have become anxious lest a long and
patient negotiation should be followed by an open rupture. I
omitted in my letter of yesterday to you and your colleagues to
state that hitherto our Ships, when rescued by the Br. Cruizers
from those of France, have been restored without payment of
Salvage, tho' in some instances small complimentary presents
have been made to the Recaptors. Since the Tribunals of France
have in the last resort confirmed the condemnation of our Ships
and Cargoes for the defect of a Role d'equipage, the Recaptors
have libelled in the Admiralty of this Country our recently re-
captured Ships, not possessing this Document. What will be the
Decision I am unable to say, and perhaps it may be influenced
by future Events. In the famous case of the Spanish Register

1797] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 265

Ship, recaptured by the English from the French in the begin-
ning of the present war, the whole Ship and Cargo were con-
demned ; acting upon the Rule, which Spain observes, that 24
hours' possession by an enemy changes the Property. Our case
and that of Spain are not the same, for tho' we adopted the Rule
of the 24 hours, we are not at war, and therefore there can be no
Enemy Possession. You will however perceive that be the
salvage much or little, the mischief to our commerce is daily
augmenting,

With sincere Respect and attachment &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Secretary of State. No. 60.

London, Dec. 28, 1797.
Dear Sir :

. . I was in hopes that I should have been able before
this time to have informed you that the tedious question respect-
ing the Maryland Bank Stock had been brought to a satisfactory
issue. But on further examination, it has been found that altho'
Russell's claim for Losses supposed in Maryland was liquidated
by the Commissioners, who ascertained the Claims of the Ameri-
can Loyalists, the payment was suspended until it should be de-
cided whether he was entitled to indemnity out of the Maryland
Bank Stock of which he was a Trustee for Maryland.

The Chancellor said to me a few days since, you will have no
objection to satisfy Russell's claim upon a transfer to you of the
Maryland Bank Stock. I replied that I was sorry to say that I
had entertained a mistake in supposing that the claim had been
satisfied ; but that I did not think myself authorized to engage to
pay it : that if contrary to what I had wished might have been
the case, and contrary to what I could not but consider as good
Policy, it was determined to make the Payment of Russell's claim
a condition of the Transfer, I must request that a Letter might
be written to me to that effect, which I would immediately send
to you, in order that the opinion of the State of Maryland might
be had. The Chancellor made me no direct reply, but I thought
he acquiesced in the propriety of a letter being written to me,
conformable to my suggestion.

266 RUFUS KING. [*797

I have spoken to Lord Grenville on the subject, and have en-
deavoured to present to his mind those Considerations, which,
were I in his situation, would influence me to transfer the Stock
without any deduction. It may not be amiss to apprize the
State of Maryland of the present posture of the business, to
which I shall continue to give every attention that I shall think
useful to accomplish the object of their just and reasonable
expectations. .

Rufus King.

C C. PlNCKNEY TO RUFUS KlNG.

In Cipher.

Paris, December 27, 1797.
Dear Sir :

. . . I have not now the least hope that we shall make any
Treaty with this Government ; for in order to do so tribute under
the disguise of a loan or some other disguise, and a private
douceur of fifty thousand pounds Sterling must be stipulated ;
and these degrading terms must be humbly offered by us even
before we can be received ; and, I have been given to understand
by a person who wished us well, and is intimate with Mr. Talley-
rand, that if we were to remain here for six months longer, we
should not advance a step farther towards our negotiation till
these matters are agreed on.

In the mean time depredations on our Commerce are threatened
to be continued, and that Frigates and armed vessels from St.
Domingo shall ravage our Coasts. In a conversation which Mr.
Gerry had with Mr. Talleyrand, he told him the offer of a loan
must come from us. We still intend to prepare and transmit by
the 10. of next month to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, a State-
ment of the; Claims of our Country, and declare our desire to
enter into a discussion of their Complaints, and to do justice in
all the points wherein we shall be convinced that justice is due ;
and if they shall still continue not to receive us, and enter into an
Investigation of the objects of our Mission, and matters remain
as they are, it is my opinion, and my colleagues tell me it is theirs
also, that we ought to request our Passports and no longer ex-
hibit to the World the unprecedented Spectacle of three Envoys

1797] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 267

Extraordinary from a free and independent nation, in vain
soliciting to be heard.

It is our present intention to require Passports for Calais, and
remain on your side of the Channel until March and then embark
for America. But Passports to go to Calais may be refused us,
and we are not decided to what part we shall then go to embark.
Be so good as to send a copy of the above to Col. Pickering as a
private communication from me.

I remain with great Respect and Regard &c

C. C- PlNCKNEY.

S. Williams to R. King.

Hamburg, Dec. 29, 1797.
Sir :

. . . I wrote you on the 8th Nov. by our friend, Mr. Cadig-

nan, for whose safety we are extremely anxious, that I had

advanced Mr. Lafayette two thousand one hundred and fifty

marcs banco. Mr. C. engaged to make an arrangement with you

to reimburse me. If he do not arrive soon, you will cause it to be

done as your convenience may suit. . . . M. Maubourg, who

left the General a few days ago well, informed me that he, the

General and Mr. Puzy are determined to go in the spring to

America. Madame Lafayette will go to France.

With perfect Respect &c.

S. Williams.

CHAPTER XX.

Mr. King to Secretary of State — France in the Ascendant — England apathetic
but preparing against Invasion — N. E. Boundary — St. Croix River — Lord
Grenville advises of new French Decrees — American Masters propose to
arm their Ships — British Government would grant Convoys — Mr. King to
Lord Chancellor relative to Maryland Bank Stock — Continental Affairs —
N. E. Boundary, an additional Article proposed — English Depredations on
Commerce in the West Indies — Mr. King to Secretary of State — Affairs on
the Continent — Envoys in Paris — England has no Expectation of Peace —
Miranda — Maryland Bank Stock — Mr. Gerry — Mr. King to R. Troup —
To the Secretary of State relative to Transfer of American Funds by Dutch
Lenders to France — Envoys to France send a Letter to the Directory —
Letter from General Hamilton — Public Opinion sounder than that of the
national Representatives.

R. King to T. Pickering.

Private,

London, Jany. 8, 1798.
Dear Sir :

I have just learned that the November Packet for New York
has been captured and carried to France. This I very much
regret as she had important despatches for you from our Envoys
in Paris, & likewise from me. . . .

Rufus King.

P. S. Nothing can exceed the applause with which the
President's Speech has been received by all good men in this
country.

R. King to Secretary of State. No. 61.

London, Jan. 9, 1798.
Dear Sir :

Every appearance on the Continent is marked with the as-
cendancy of France. Vienna will no longer resist, but will co-
operate with France in the Plan of Partition arranged at Campo
1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 269

Formio. The King of Prussia, who is supposed to entertain
different sentiments from those of his Father, is surrounded by
the Ministers, and fettered with the Councils, of the last Reign,
and therefore will not, as Germany wishes and solicits, put him-
self at their Head to oppose France.

No recent Change has taken place in Portugal or Spain. This
Government has consented that Portugal shall make the best
Bargain in her Power, notwithstanding her Treaties with England.
She is therefore now desirous to confirm the Treaty sometime
since signed at Paris ; but the Directory seem disposed to exact
more rigorous Terms, and Spain is under great apprehensions for
the existence of her System, should France march an Army
against Portugal.

Here, tho' there is apparent Union, there is no animation ; or
if any, it is far below what, under the present circumstances of
the country, it ought to be.

Preparations are made to resist the threatened Invasion, which
will undoubtedly be attempted on a large or small scale in some
part of the Three Kingdoms. These preparations are conducted
in a manner that proves to my mind, that there is no serious ex-
pectation that they will be necessary ; an error that may be dis-
covered should the attack prove formidable. . . .

Lord Grenville mentioned to me a few days since, that the
Commissioners under the V. article of our Treaty with this
Country, had suggested the expediency of an additional Article
for the purpose of dispensing with the Provision that required
them to ascertain the Latitude and Longitude of the source of
the St. Croix River. Upon examining our First Treaty, it was
seen to be important that the source of this River should be
accurately ascertained, as it is the point from whence a North line
is to proceed to the High Lands that divide our Territory from
Canada ; and unless this point be ascertained by taking the Lat.
and Longe., or by erecting some durable monument, it may here-
after become the occasion of future disagreement and misunder-
standing, especially as we know that what in the wilderness
appears to be the Head of a River will, when the Country is
opened and cultivated, retain no marks of having been so. Lord
Grenville concluded from this view of the Subject to authorize
Mr. Liston to consent to form an additional article which should

270 RUFUS KING. [1798

leave our Commissioners free to erect a durable monument at the
scource of the River St. Croix, which should occasionally be
visited and kept in repair at the expense of the two Nations. . . .

This gave me an opportunity of going into the Question re-
specting the Impress, of Seamen engaged in our Service ; the
conversation, tho' understood to be only personal, was more
satisfactory than any former one on this subject. . . .

If, as now I believe, our Mission to France shall totally fail, it
will be very important in guiding my opinions and conduct, that
I should be early and fully possessed of the views of our Govern-
ment. ... I omitted above to take notice of the Situation of
Switzerland, which according to present appearances is destined
to be soon revolutionized in order to be recast in the French
Moulds. We have been mistaken in the conduct of these Can-
tons ; their System has been a temporizing one ; France has
dictated to them during the whole of the war, and the hour is
arrived when she seems resolved to overturn the Helvetic
system. . . .

With Respect and Esteem &c.

Rufus King.

Lord Grenville to R. King.

Private.

Cleveland Row, Jan. 13, 1798.
Dear Sir :

The decree of the Convention, which we may suppose will be
the necessary consequence of the Message of the Directory, seems
to decide the question of Peace & war, with you, as it is evidently
impossible that America can under the present circumstances of
Europe carry on any trade whatever, subject to the confiscation of
her ships if they contain English goods on board, or goods which
the captors may deem English. This is carrying the principles of
maritime War to an extent to which no Country ever thought
of carrying them & which must render the existence of a neutral
trade, particularly in the case of the U.S. absolutely impossible.

As I conclude you will think not a moment should be lost in
apprizing your Government of this circumstance, for the security
& protection of the commerce of the U.S., I have desired that

1798J LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 27 1

the packet, which I am sorry to hear is still detained at Falmouth,
may have orders to sail the instant that they shall receive any
dispatches you may have to send, and if any other steps can be
taken by us that can be of use to you, I beg you will let me know
it ; and that you will be assured of my constant desire to obey
your commands on all occasions & to prove to you the senti-
ments which I have so often expressed on the subject of the U.S.
Ever, my dear Sir, most sincerely & faithfully yrs.

Grenville.

R. King to Secretary of State. No. 62.

London, Jany. 14, 1798.
Dear Sir :

The present composition of the French Legislature, as well as
the Terror of the last Revolution, leave no doubt that the Coun-
cils will pass a decree comformable to the Message of the Direc-
tory of the 4th inst : the consequences of which will be the
general capture of all neutral Ships ; since there are very few in-
deed which have not as a part of their Cargo articles which are
or may be alleged to be of the manufacture of the British Terri-
tories in the East or West Indies or in Europe. Had I before
entertained any remaining hope of an amicable settlement of our
disagreement with France, this last proceeding would completely
extinguish it.

I have no letters from our Envoys since the 30th ulto. ; but I
consider that they will now think it requisite to bring their Mis-
sion to an issue ; if not that which has been earnestly desired,
it must be one that will correspond with the opinion pronounced
by the President, and which our Interest and Honor, under
present circumstances, call upon us manfully to maintain before
the rest of the world. . . .

I am called upon by the Masters of our Ships here for advice
and direction what their conduct is to be. They propose to arm
their vessels ; I have hitherto said tho' our Commerce were sorely
vexed and plundered, still we were not at war, and further, that
as they were not permitted to arm at home I could not give
them any authority to do so abroad. But will not this new Pro-
ject, of France totally change the State of our Relations ? Will

272 RUFUS KING. [1798

it not necessarily compel us into, and is it not indeed, war ? Our
Ships returning home from England, if met, will be captured and
condemned, because their cargoes will be British Manufactures.
If they are armed and sail together, they may escape small
cruizers ; and if they are captured, they will not share a worse
fate than they would have done, had they been taken without
arms. I shall consider this subject with attention and will exer-
cise a discretion that the exigency seems to demand. It would
certainly be more agreeable to me to have it in my power on all
occasions, and especially on those of the highest moment, to find
my Duty in observing the well considered Instructions of the
President. But there sometimes occur, and more frequently at
this period than formerly, events so wholly unlooked for, that the
subordinate Agents of a Nation may be called upon to act always
with a sound and prudent Discretion, in cases, the Decision of
which belong to the highest Department of the Government.
While on the one hand I shall regret the existence of the occasion,
I shall not hesitate on the other to do what, under its peculiar
circumstances, shall appear to my Judgment to be necessary to
promote the National Welfare. . . . This Government, for I
am so assured, will, if I desire it, detain our Spring Ships, until
they shall be all laden and ready to Sail, when they will convoy
them to our Shores. Perhaps this may be a more eligible Plan
than that of arming them, which will be expensive and a security
only against small Privateers. If our Ships sail under Convo)'', I
am informed that they may be insured at 15 pr Cent, to return
ten, if they arrive, whereas they will without Convoy be obliged
to give from 13 to perhaps 18 pr Cent premiums for their
Insurance. . . .

With perfect Respect and Esteem

Rufus King.

R. King to Lord Grenville.

Great Cumberland Place, Jany. 15, 1798.
My Lord :

I pray your Lordship to accept my acknowledgments for your
very obliging Letter of the 13th inst. Your Lordship will be satis-
fied from the Tenor of my opinions that I must see the proposed

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 273

Measures of France in the same light as they appear to you ; and
under these impressions I have prepared, to be sent by the Packet,
a Despatch for Col. Pickering, which will apprize him of the Law,
which without doubt has been, or will soon be passed by the
French Legislature.

I have likewise intimated to him that, as I have reason to be-
lieve, your Government will be willing to grant, according to my
present view of the subject it is my intention to ask, your co-
operation to detain and collect our Spring Ships, in order that
they may be sent home under convoy ; a precaution that will be
indispensable in case the Law, called for by the Directory shall
be enacted. . . .

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c

Rufus King.

R. King to Lord Chancellor.

Private.

Great Cumberland Place, Jany. 19, 179S.
My Lord :

. . . Disinterested and generous actions are in the end
commonly beneficial to those who perform them ; and I am con-
fident the People of America are not less than others sensible to
their influence. Your Lordship's Candour will apply this
observation as it is meant, to the occasional Relaxation of Strict
Rights and to those mutual accomodations and tokens of good will
and Friendship, often called for by the Individuals and some-
times by the Governments of Countries, between which such ex-
tensive Connections exist as between Great Britain and the
United States. Whether the Case of the Maryland Bank Stock
may be considered as falling within this description, will depend
upon your Lordship's decision ; and without discussion of the
merits of the conflicting claims to this property, which from their
character cannot be judicially ascertained, I take the liberty to
remark that the Question is the only one, in any manner con-
nected with the Treaty of 1783, that has not been satisfactorily
settled, or is not in a course of amicable adjustment.

Your Lordship sometime since intimated to me that it seemed
reasonable that Maryland should compensate Russell's family for

VOL. II. —18

274 RUFUS KING. [1798

their losses, which being done, no further impediment would pre-
vent the Transfer of the Stock. If your Lordship should con-
tinue to be of this opinion, my belief certainly is, that Maryland
would compensate Russell's Family and accept the Transfer ;
but, my Lord, this course would be attended with delay, and the
present seems to be the true moment to conclude the Business.
Besides, I am too well acquainted with the Sentiments of the
State of Maryland not to know before-hand that a considerable
and disadvantageous difference in the public opinion would exist
between a conditional and an unconditional transfer of this Stock :
the former would furnish occasion to those who may be inclined
to use it, to complain of rigour, perhaps of injustice, and to dep-
recate the benefit which even that mode would secure, while the
latter would have a salutary influence in producing cordiality,
good Humour and Kind Offices towards England in a community
of very considerable and merited importance in the American
Union.

I should have no objection in case of an entire transfer of the
Stock, should it be deemed advisable, to reccommend to the
State of Maryland to satisfy Russell's claim, and I should hope
that such Recommendation would not be in vain. The amount
of this Claim is not considerable, and nothing in my estimation,
when compared with the political considerations with which it is
connected. What Maryland might with Reluctance grant in the
shape of a Condition, she may cheerfully give from her own spon-
taneous sense of equity.

With perfect Consideration and Respect &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Secretary of State. No. 63.

London, Jany. 27, 1798.
Dear Sir :

I am still without any knowledge of the situation of our En-
voys, since the commencement of the present year ; this is the
more regretted as the Period is near at hand when our Spring
Ships will be ready to sail from the ports of this country : pre-
vious to which I must decide whether they are to be put under
Convoy or to sail with the increased Risque of Capture and cer-

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 2?$

tainty of condemnation. A Commission of the English Mer-
chants concerned in the American Commerce, have applied for a
Convoy for the Trade of America, which will be granted : but the
Masters of the American Ships will hesitate, perhaps refuse, to put
themselves under this Convoy, unless I shall give them positive
instructions to do so. I think this week cannot pass over without
nry hearing from our Envoys, if I shall not have the pleasure to
see them.

Great preparations are certainly making to execute, as well as
to defeat, the threatened Invasion. The Treaty of Campo-Formio
appears to be going into full execution, as well in Italy as upon
the Rhine and in Germany. The late affair at Rome is to be the
occasion of extending and establishing the new order of things
throughout Italy.

The Emperor, according to every appearance, and some of
them by no means equivocal, will act in full concert with the
Directory in their Schemes of Partition. The Swiss Cantons are
in such a situation that they will exceed the hopes of their friends,
if they shall be able to prevent the dissolution of their Confede-
racy, or the plunder and overthrow of their Country. They are
too rich as well as too happy to be suffered to remain in Peace :
and the usual means have therefore been employed to divide and
debauch their people. Perhaps they also have been disposed of,
as Venice and certain portions of the Empire have been. It is
no longer expected that Prussia will act with much decision or
vigour in opposition to France and Austria. The maxims of the
two last Reigns would rather lead to the belief that she would not
find many scruples in even becoming a Partner in the Division of
the Spoils. It is however said that Prussia, in concert with the
North of Germany, including Denmark, will resist the project of
France upon Hamburgh and the other Hanse towns ; and hopes
are therefore entertained that the valuable Commerce of this
Country thro' the Elbe will remain open.

I certainly wish that this may be the case ; but if France per-
severe in her Demands, and she is not likely to relax in them, I
think she must succeed. Neither of the Envoys of Sweden or
Denmark have received any Despatches from their Courts since
the new Edict of France concerning the Navigation of Neutrals.
The fate of Portugal is yet unascertained. Their Ambassador at

276 RUFUS KING. [1798

Paris is confined in the Temple. The System of Russia is de-
cidedly to keep out of the war ; but it remains to be seen what
effects upon the Government and among the inhabitants of Rus-
sia may proceed from the adoption of the Body of French Sol-
diers under the Prince of Conde. A single Frenchman is said,
during the late Reign to have nearly effected a Revolt in the
Russian Fleet upon the Black Sea ! ; and the Corps of Conde
has been employed in opposition to the opinion of a Minister of
the Russian Cabinet, who is believed to be the ablest Statesman
of his nation. . . .

With Perfect Respect and Esteem, &c.,

Rufus King.

R. King to Lord Grenville.

Great Cumberland Place, Feby. 2, 1798.
My Lord :

I have the honor to send enclosed to your Lordship a copy
of my full Power, on the part of the United States to agree to
and conclude an additional article to our Treaty of Amity,
Commerce, and Navigation, which shall leave the Commissioners
acting under the fifth article thereof, at liberty to ascertain and
describe the true River St. Croix, without particularising the
Latitude and Longitude of the Source of that River.

. . . It is desirable, if an additional article shall be con-
cluded, that it should be done in season to be laid before the Sen-
ate of the United States in their present Session. I shall be ready
to confer with your Lordship upon this subject at any time that
you shall have the goodness to name.

With perfect consideration & Respect &c.

Rufus King.

Rufus King to Lord Grenville.

Great Cumberland Place, Feby. 3, 1798.

This is a long letter calling, under instructions from the Presi-
dent of the U.S., his attention " to Depredations committed upon
the American Trade in the West Indies by the irregular Capture

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 27 J

of American Ships and Cargoes, and their illegal condemnation
by the Court of Admiralty, erected by General Simcoe at St.
Domingo — to the dissatisfaction that these Depredations must
have produced in America, to the mischief that by a sudden
interruption of supplies may fall upon the British Possessions in
the West Indies," and requesting his Lordship's attention to put
an end to them, in case they are unauthorized or to regulate his
(the judge's) conduct in case they are authorized and to state how
that redress may be obtained, which he refuses to give the means
of obtaining.

Having often experienced your Lordship's ready attention to
the Representations that I have made on other occasions, I take
the liberty of suggesting that I shall be particularly obliged to
your Lordship for an answer to this Note in season to be sent by
the earliest Conveyance to America, it being my earnest desire
that the dissatisfaction that has been excited, may cease as soon
as possible.

With the most perfect Consideration & Respect &c.

Rufus King.

Rufus King to Lord Grenville.

Great Cumberland Place, Feby. 5, 1798.
Dear Sir :

Acknowledging a receipt of a note from Ld. G. on the advisabil-
ity of transferring the Negotiation about the St. Croix River ques-
tion to the U.S., in which under other circumstances R. K. says
" the negotiation here is a saving of time."

He says : " By the enclosed Copy of a letter that I have received
from Col. Pickering your Lordship will observe that the Latitude
and Longitude of the Mouths of the two Rivers have already been
ascertained ; and there is reason to expect that the Surveys will
also be compleated before the meeting of the Commissioners in
June ; when they might be able to finish their Business ; if they
shall have been freed from the necessity of ascertaining experi-
mentally the Latitude and Longitude of the Source of the two St.
Croix." He therefore urges making the article here in London to
save time.

278 RUFUS KING. [1798

T. Pickering to R. King.

Department of State, Feb. 5, 179S.

. . . P. S. I enclose four depositions concerning the con-
duct of Richard Cambauld, Esq., Judge of the Vice-admiralty
Court at Cape Nichola Mole. In the view of the American Mer-
chants his character is to the last degree infamous. I expect to
obtain Evidence of his Corrupt practices, but hope without this
that he may be removed from a bench which he dishonors. I am
informed that Lord Dunmore, late Governor of the Bahama
Islands, knows him well, and can bear witness to his duplicity and
dishonorable actions there. I have also private information that
at Nova Scotia, where he lived some time, he had lost all reputa-
tion, and was pronounced a swindler and an unprincipled man.

R. King to T. Pickering.

Private — In Cipher.

London, Feby. 7, 1798.
Dear Sir :

In my answer to General Pinckney's letter of the 14th Deer., I
expressed my apprehensions that they would experience great
embarrassments from a certain quarter but that they might rely
with perfect security upon his integrity and that for the rest they
must be patient and endeavour to prevent a seism among them-
selves. The General in a letter of the 2 2d ulto. tells me that I
had by no means overrated their embarrassment, but that they
had and should follow my advice. He adds that the letter will
soon be presented.

With perfect regard &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Secretary of State. No. 64.

London, Feby. 7, 1798.
Dear Sir :

My last letter from Paris is dated 22d ultimo. The Law called

for by the Directory on the 4th, after having passed the Council

of the Five Hundred, was on the 18th adopted by the Council of

I798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 2jg

Antients, and is now in full operation. It does not appear that
any debate or division took place in the Council of Antients upon
the passage of this Law. A Report was made concerning it to the
Council of five hundred, where it passed with unanimity. I send
you inclosed a copy of this Report. The Personalities which it
contains have an object too plain to be misunderstood, and are
part of the plan systematically pursued to change the Executive
Head of our Government.

The last mails confirm the information that I have before given
you respecting the critical situation of Switzerland. . . . The
German Deputies at Rastadt have, according to the Requisition of
the French Ministers, been furnished with full powers to conclude
a Convenient Peace, instead of one founded upon the integrity of
the Empire. ... In the present France recedes from the
Projects against Hamburgh. Prussia, in concert with the North
of Germany, have manifested a disposition to prevent the French
from passing what is called the line of neutrality ; and this Com-
bination must be dissolved before the Hanse Towns shall be
subjected, as they finally will be, to the Controul of France.

The Dutch have shown too little Energy ; and even in their
Revolutionary State, have displayed too much of the Deliberation,
which forms an essential part of their national character, to suit
the new order of things that reigns in France. Hence it has been
necessary to effect a change. Charles La Croix, the late Minister
of Foreign Affairs, was accordingly sent to replace Citizen Noel
at the Hague, where, under his Direction, a Revolution took place
on the 2 2d of January, upon the exact model of that which
occurred at Paris on the 4th of September. . . . It is plain
that in future Holland must without deliberation obey the orders
of France, among the first of which will be an Instruction to adopt
the French Code of Laws concerning the Trade of Neutrals.

. . It is difficult to form an opinion of what is doing in
France. But Private Letters confirm the Probability that another
struggle is about to take place between the chiefs of the Party who
came uppermost in the last Revolution. . . . It is now more
than a month that from day to day I have expected to hear that
our Envoys had quitted Paris ; and notwithstanding I have not
been authorized by a single circumstance within my knowledge to
believe that they will be successful in preventing a war, still their

280 RUFUS KING, [1798

continuance at Paris has had an influence upon my Conduct.
Perhaps you may think that I have been too cautious, and that
with my Knowledge of the opinion of the President upon the sub-
ject of Convoys, I ought not to have hesitated in asking this Gov-
ernment to grant them. The truth is, that for many weeks past,
I had a firm persuasion that our Mission to France would wholly
fail of success : that the Directory themselves wished to see an
end to it : and they were only waiting and watching for an osten-
sible reason, either in the conduct of the Envoys, or of others, to
send them away. In this view of the Subject you will see that my
application for a Convoy, which, in less than a week, would have
been known at Paris, was a step by no means free from objection,
inasmuch as it might, and probably would, have been represented
and acted upon as a measure on our part of Perfidy and even of
aggression ; and that too, while in the public Eye our Ministers
were at Paris for the purpose of an amicable settlement of the
Disagreement between the two Countries. So long as I viewed
the Question in this Light, and things continued in the situation
in which they had stood for several months, I declined any direct
interference on the Subject of Convoys ; taking care to inform
such of my Countrymen as applied to me, that I thought it probable
that Convoys would be offered and that they, as Private individ-
uals might without prejudice to their country, accept the Protection
that they would afford.

But since the adoption of the Law concerning Neutrals, which
is particularly aimed at our Navigation, and will be followed by
the Dismission of our Envoys, the Question has assumed a new
shape ; and it would, in my judgment be weakness, instead of
prudence, to hesitate under present circumstances, in adopting
measures of effectual security, from an apprehension that they
might give displeasure, or be deemed unfriendly, to those whose
conduct towards us has no other character than that of unjust
aggression and war. . . .

Nothing that has for some time past fallen within my Observa-
tion, has led me to believe that this Government have any expec-
tation of, or that they are engaged in any measures with a view
to, Peace. The triple taxes will be productive, and the voluntary
Subscriptions considerable. The Country appears to be calm
and without anxiety upon the subject of Invasion ; indeed there

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 28 1

has been an unusual stability for the past three months in the
public Opinion, notwithstanding all the Manifestoes and Demon-
strations that France has made of her resolution to bring the war
to an end by dictating a Peace on the Banks of the Thames.

/ have had some reason to believe that the prospect of our being
engaged in the war, has renewed the project that * on more than one
occasion has been meditated against South America. I think I am
not mistaken in this conjecture. Miranda who was certainly en-
gaged in this scheme at the time of the affair of Nootka and who has
since served tender Dumouriez in France, came to this country a
few weeks since. He has been with the Ministry and is here by
their Desire or with their Permissio?i ; the object is the complete
Independence of South A?nerica to be effected by the co-operation of
England and the U. S.

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c &c

Rufus King.

Mr. Pickering, in a letter dated February 7, 1798, sends
to Mr. King, at the request of Mr. Chase, their agent, the
resolves of the Legislature of Maryland of January 19,
1798, relative to the stock of that State in the Bank of Eng-
land. These resolutions give him full power to act in be-
half of the State, and suggest a course of conduct based
upon advices they had received from Mr. King as to the
probable action of the British Government, and Mr. P.
gives his approval of his exertions in the matter. The
resolution follow :

" Resolved that the General assembly of Maryland approve the
exertions of Rufus King to procure an unconditional transfer of
the Bank Stock due this State in the hands of the Accountant
General of the High Court of Chancery of Great Britain, and for
his maintaining the absolute and unqualified right of this State to
the said Bank Stock.

" Resolved that Rufus King be appointed Trustee on behalf of
the State to accept in his own name a transfer of the Bank Stock
due this State, or such part thereof as the King of Great Britain
may direct to be transferred ; the Legislature of Maryland not

* Italics in cipher.

282 RUFUS KING. [1798

relinquishing the States' Right to any part of said Bank Stock,
but declaring a detention of any part thereof by the Crown of
Great Britain to be contrary to justice and in violation of the
Treaty of Peace of 1783 between Great Britain and America.

" Resolved that Rufus King do not accept on the part of the
State the transfer of said stock, if the release or dereliction of the
States' Right to any part be insisted on as a condition precedent
to the transfer of the residue. ..."

R. King, London, to E. Gerry, Paris.

Feb. 20, 1798.
Dear Sir :

. . . We have no accounts from home since 7 th of Jany,
nor is my intelligence much later from Paris. I have experienced
no small Difficulty in deciding what ought to have been my con-
duct in respect to American Property about to depart from this
Country for our's, and which is now liable to Capture and Con-
demnation by the french ; fortunately the Business has taken a
turn that for the present does not require my interference. It is
not therefore expedient nor would it under any circumstances be
necessary, to give you the course of my Reflections, since you
will readily see the subject in all its Relations. Whether correctly
or otherwise you can but decide, they have had an influence in
persuading me that it is time we should distinctly understand
what are the real views of France towards our Country. I wish
I could derive any satisfaction in my conjectures, I had almost
said my fixed opinions, on this important Subject. I reject all
Quixotism in Politicks ; but national honor, rightly understood,
is national Power — and if the former is degraded, the latter will
be despised.

With sincere regard I am & yr. ob. & faithful serv.

Rufus King.

R. King to R. Troup.

London, Feby 22, 1798.

Dr. Romaine (says Sir Wm. P.) was introduced to me by let-
ters from a worthy and respectable character of New York, and
with such recommendations how could I refuse to pay attention

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 283

to his Reports of the Prospects and situation of the U. S. Do
you understand this, my dear Judge ? 1 hope that you and my
more sanguine friend and successor have seasonably changed into
Dollars and eagles, a few thousand of your many acres ; for with
all my infidelity, I sincerely wish that the result of your specula-
tions may far exceed even your own expectations of Profit.* Re-
member that war will bring depreciation, and how we are to
escape it, my poor eyes cannot discover. The prayers of Prot-
estant Christians are answered by the downfall of the Pope, and
what is strange to relate the faithful Swiss are involved in the
same ruin.

The poor Dutch after passing thro' Purgatory, are condemned
to weeping, wailing and gnashing of teeth, Spain and Portugal are
soon to meet their fate, and God only knows the number of days
that remain to those who are last to be destroyed.

I will hope that we are nearly cured of the folly of admiring

the progress of this scourge of the human kind. . . .

Farewell yrs

R. K.

P. S. I send you one of General Allen's Pamphlets — it con-
tains curious matter. The General's cause is to be tried by the
Lords on Tuesday of next week.

R. King to Secretary of State.

London, Feb, 26, 1798.
Dear Sir :

Two points have within a fortnight been settled in the English

Cabinet respecting South America. If Spain is able to prevent the

overthrow of her present Government and to escape being brought

nnder the entire coniroul of France, England (between whom and

* Col. Troup says in a letter of 8th of June, 1798 : " I read your remarks
about our land speculations a few days ago to Lawrance, who was here to re-
cruit his health. He winched at them. Within eighteen months he has been
obliged to assume for his brother land speculators near 18,000 dollars which
has worked him almost to an oil. ... I have been in one respect fortu-
nate ; I have lost nothing by any person — in another I have been unlucky — my
estate is altogether landed and for some time past it has been locked up, and is
still very unprofitable. The country is however filling up as rapidly as ever.
To settlers it still brings the same prices as usual, but payments are not so
regularly made as formerly."

284 RUFUS KING. [1798

Spam, notwithstanding the war, a certain understanding appears to
exist) will at present engage in no scheme to deprive Spain of the
possession of Sth. America. But if, as appears probable, the army
destined against Portugal, and which will march thro' Spain, or any
other means which may be e?nployed by France, shall overthrow the
Spanish Government, and thereby place the resources of Spain and
of her Colonies at the disposal of France, England will immediately
commence the execution of a Plan long since digested and prepared
for the compleat independe?ice of Sh. America.

If England engages in this Plan, she will at Philadelphia propose
to the U. S. to cooperate in its execution. Miranda will be detained
here, under one pretence or another, until events shall decide the
conduct of England.

The revolution of Spain is decreed j the attempt will be made, and
the success is scarcely doubtful. The President may therefore expect
the overture of England, and will, I am persuaded, act upon it, wider
the influence of that wise and comprehensive policy, which, looking
forward to the Destinies of the New World, shall in the beginning
by great and generous Deeds lay deep and firm the foundations of
lasting accord between its rising Empires. If possible, I will bring
together and seasonably arrange and send to you such information, as
I have been able to procure upon this interesting and very consequen-
tial subject, having found out and acquired the confidence of certain
jFesuits, ?iatives of Sth. America, who with a view to its independence
are and for several years have been, in the service and pay of Eng-
land. I have cofiversed with them and seen the Reports which they
have prepared for their employers. These communications throw
much light upon the population, the resources, the oppression and the
temper and character of the Spanish Americans*

. . . By what means the Dutch Money Lenders have been,
or are to be, induced to transfer to the French their American or
other Funds, I am not informed. But a few days since a French-
man, under a German Name and Passport, arrived in London
from Paris : the object of his voyage is to ask of certain Capital-
ists here whether they will purchase or advance Money upon the
Bonds of the United States held by the Dutch and Antwerp
Money Lenders upon their being assigned and transferred to
them in a way that shall be entirely satisfactory ? One of our

* Italics in cipher.

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 285

Countrymen, whose pursuits are regulated by a faithful attach-
ment to his Country, and who has been invited to participate in
the purchase of these Bonds, consulted me upon the propriety of
the measure. I had no hesitation to dissuade him from engaging
in it : because in the present situation of Holland, it appears to
me desirable to preserve the influence, be it great or small, arising
from the property which Individuals of that country hold in our
funds ; and because, moreover, in the present Disposition of
France towards us, we cannot with prudence desire to Contribute
to the supply of the means which may enable France to multiply
their unjust aggressions against us and others. Our Debt to
the Money Lenders of Amsterdam and Antwerp, exclusive of
what they hold in our Domestic Stock, amounts to Eleven Mil-
lions of Dollars, not more than two hundred and fifty thousand of
which is liable to re-imbursement during the present Century.
The preservation of this Debt, in its present shape, may operate
to restrain measures of hostility that otherwise may be adopted.
It was doubted by some persons, whether the payment by antici-
pation of our Debt to France was a prudent Policy : as an inde-
pendent measure of finance, it was beneficial ; but the political
mischiefs of the arrangement deserved to have been taken into
the question, since they might be found to outweigh the Argu-
ment of ceconomy. . . . Notwithstanding the increased prob-
ability that we shall be drawn into the Vortex, our Stocks have
risen in their price and are now sought for by some people, who
have heretofore thought nothing out of England secure. . . .

Annexed you have Copies of three notes which I have received
from Lord Grenville. The first is an answer to my note respect-
ing the Proceedings of the Vice-admiralty Court of St. Domingo.
As this Court was not legally constituted, its proceedings are
void ; and those who have suffered from its acts are referred, as
in the Martinique cases, to the High Court of Admiralty for
redress. . . .

On the 3 1st of January our Ministers at Paris, who were still unre-
ceived and therefore unauthorized to hold a regular communication
with the French Government, sent to the Minister of Foreign
Relations the letter which they have informed you they were pre-
paring for that purpose. On the 19th of February they had re-
ceived no answer, nor had any notice been taken of them or their

286 RUFUS KING. [1798

letter by Mr. Talleyrand. . . . There is really no hope that
France will return to reason in our affairs ; and we should take
care not to be deceived by any false appearances that perhaps she
may think it politic to pursue. Her conduct can only be explained
by supposing that she thinks that we have neither Union, nor
courage, nor character to resist any outrage that she may choose
to practise towards us ; and is it strange that she and others should
entertain this opinion, if they believe the late publication by Mr.
Monroe, who proves his Patriotism by an attempt to revile and
degrade his Country in the eyes of the whole World ?

With perfect Respect and Esteem,

Rufus King.

A. Hamilton to R. King.

Probably March, 12, 1798.

It is a great while, my Dr. friend, since I have written you a
line. You will not I am sure impute my silence to any cause im-
peaching my friendship, for that must be always cordial and
entire. The truth is that my professional avocations occupm ye
to the extent of the exertions my health permits, and I have been
unwilling to sit down to write you without leisure to say some-
thing interesting. But I now depart from this rule that my perse-
vering silence may not make me sin beyond Redemption. I have,
however, only time to tell you that your friends are generally well
& as much attached to you as ever ; & that I hear of no cabals
against you.

Being just returned from Albany, I would say nothing about
the political juncture as it is affected by the unpleasant advices
from our Commissioners in France. I will only say that the pub-
lic mind is much sounder than that of our Representatives in the
national Council & that there is no danger of our actively dis-
gracing ourselves, that is, by any unworthy compliances with the
exorbitant pretensions of " The Great Monster." *

Yours Affecty.

A. Hamilton.

* Soi disant, " The Great Nation."

CHAPTER XXI.

Claims of English Commissioners under 7th Article of the Treaty denied —
Mr. Cabot on growing Discontent against French Aggressions — Confidence
in the English Action — Congress should protect our Commerce — General
Pinckney on French Demands — Mr. King regrets the Stay of the Envoys
in Paris — Recall of the Envoys — Indisposition in Congress to protect Com-
merce— Fear of causing War — Convoys to be accepted, and Merchantmen
may be armed — Dispatches to Envoys called for — Mr. Bingham on the
commercial Regulations with England — Mr. King's Letters to the Envoys
in Paris — To Secretary of State on Relations of Denmark and France —
Rebellion in Ireland — General Pinckney announces that Mr. Gerry will
stay in Paris.

C. C. Pinckney to R. King.

In Cipher.

Paris, March 14, 1798.
Dear Sir :

I hope you have received safe our No. 6. to the Secretary of
State with its inclosures. We had prepared the letter therein
mentioned. It was agreed to by all of us, after it had been
altered so as to meet the apparent sentiments of all. General
Marshall and myself signed it, yet Mr. Gerry delayed adding his
Signature, and at last declined it, on a conversation he had with
Mr. Talleyrand's Secretary, wherein the terms of a loan to be stip-
ulated by us now, but not to be paid until after the war, were sug-
gested. This, when communicated to us, General Marshall and
myself altogether disapproved. Mr. Gerry thought it admissible
if stipulations were made that it should not be transferred until
after the war. On a conversation with Mr. Talleyrand himself, it
clearly appears that the intention was to make this loan a present
aid ; but to conceal the intention by deferring the time of pay-
ment. Mr. Gerry declared he was convinced of it and was
288 RUFUS KING. [1798

against it ; but I think he will not sign the letter he agreed to, nor
consent to ask for Passports until he hears from our Government.
The intention here is, with regard to the Envoys, to get General
Marshall and myself away and to keep Mr. Gerry ; with regard to
our Country, it is to get money if they can ; but, if not, then to
keep American affairs in suspense till the Expedition against
England is determined.

I remain with great truth your Sincere & affectionate

Charles Cotesworth Pinckney.

R. King to Secretary of State. No. 69.

London, March 17, 1798.
Dear Sir :

Lord Grenville informed me at the last Conference, that he was
concerned to learn from their Commissioners that an opinion was
entertained by their Colleagues, that they had power to receive
and, immediately after the expiration of Eighteen months from
the opening of the Commission, to decide all questions within
the Purview of the Treaty, whether the same were depending
before, or had been decided by, the Courts of Admiralty.

He said that he was at a loss how the Commissioners could upon
their Oaths say, in cases depending in the Courts of Admiralty,
that Compensation could not be had and received in the ordinary
Courts of Justice ; and unless upon their Oaths they could say so,
they had no authority to proceed to decide such cases ; they
might receive the Claims, but unless the delays of the Admiralty
were such as amounted to a denial of Justice, they must defer
their decisions until the Admiralty had given theirs. His Lord-
ship added that, if the opinion alluded to should be persisted in,
he did not see how they could authorize their Commissioners to
assist in giving the awards.

I said that I was not prepared to discuss the question ; that I
had hoped, after the apparent Disagreement, which on a former
occasion had occurred, that we should not again be obliged to
search for the interpretation of this Article of the Treaty, but that
the same would have been left to the Commissioners ; that I
must however observe to his Lordship, that as far as I had formed

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 289

any opinion upon the subject, it differed from his ; that I had
more than once intimated this opinion to him, as a motive to
greater Dispatch in the Admiralty Courts ; that many of our peo-
ple had been long attending here for a Decision of their Causes ;
that according to the progress hitherto made in the Admiralty
Courts, the cases within the provision of the Treaty, would not
all be tried at the end of seven years from this time ; that the
Claimants had waited with the more patience, because they have
been led to believe that the Treaty ascertained a Period when the
Commissioners would have authority to take up and decide their
claims. That I did not recollect that the Commissioners had a
Right to receive any Claim, the merits of which they could not
immediately decide ; and that all Claims must be preferred within
Eighteen months from the opening of the Commission.

Besides the assignment which the Commissioners may award
will enable the British Government to pursue the Captors, and to
recover from them the money that may, under the award of the
Commissioners, be advanced to the Claimants in their Behalf ;
that after waiting four years, which was the situation of most of
the Claimants, the inconvenience of longer delay should be born
by those who could prevent it, and not by those who had no
means of expediting the Proceedings of the Admiralty. I con-
cluded the conversation by saying that, after conversing with our
Commissioners, I would examine the Subject, preparatory to a
future interview with his Lordship.

You see how this Question bears upon that of the like character
respecting the Debts ; and tho' I have not time to present it to
you in the extent I wish, I think you will perceive that it is of
such magnitude, that I must particularly desire to receive as early
as possible the President's opinion respecting the Construction to
which we shall adhere.

Is it not probable that this Government, should they persist in
the opinion intimated by Lord Grenville (which for plain reasons
will be zealously and loudly supported by the whole body of
Civilians), may be willing to agree that after a certain period,
within which they will oblige their Courts to proceed witti expe-
dition, the Commissioners shall proceed and decide all the Claims
that shall have been brought before them, whether they shall have
been decided by the Admiralty Courts or not ?

VOL. II. — 19

29O RUFUS KING. [1798

This suggestion occurs while the pen is in my hand ; I have
not considered it, nor do I know that it merits consideration ;
my belief is that we may without risque, insist upon what we shall
judge to be the fair and just interpretation of the Treaty. As I
know nothing of the situation or amount of the Claims before the
Commission at Philadelphia, I can form no estimate of the weight
of those political considerations which may exist in that quarter,
nor consequently of the influence they ought to have upon our
proceedings here.* . . .

The Bill will be soon brought before Parliament, imposing a
2J per Cent Impost upon the Exports & Imports of Great Britain
. . . to afford Convoys to the Trade . . . and to defray
the expence thereof. Neutral nations who shall convoy their own
Ships, ... by giving notice of their intention from time to
time to afford such convoy, will be exempt from the payment of this
Impost. . . . Should the System be adopted, will it not be much
cheaper as well as in other respects wiser, for us to Convoy our
own Trade than to pay the impost and sail under English Convoy.

It is proper that I should hint to you that the long absence of
Mr. Liston from Philadelphia during the President's residence
there, and while Congress are in session, is not approved of, and
by this opportunity he would be told so. . . .

With perfect Respect and Esteem,

Rufus King.

G. Cabot to R. King.

Brookline, March 21, 1798.
Dear Sir :

Before I had the pleasure of reading your letter of the 14th
Jany intelligence had been received from France respecting their
Decrees against Neutrals. This last step was all that remained
to be taken to fulfil the intentions formed by the Directory 2 years
ago & of which I was informed by the D. de L. in July 1796. —
The project seemed then to be too extravagant to be believed ;
however I fully believed myself in its reality & accordingly men-
tioned the affair to you soon afterward, but as you have never

* This subject was renewed at a later period, and received at that time a full
discussion and satisfactory settlement. — Ed.

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 291

noticed it I suspect my letters (for I think there were two)
which contained the information may have miscarried. I thought
it proper soon afterward to acquaint Mr. Wolcott with the sub-
stance of my conversation with the D., & Mr. Wolcott has since
written to me that there was abundant evidence of the truth of
what I had heard. It is impossible to compare all this with
Monroe's representation & not feel indignant at his perfidy or
chagrined at his folly. It is natural to suppose that the accumu-
lated injuries of France toward this country & her undisguised
resolution to establish her power over every nation that she can,
would have excited a general resentment, and that the sense of
common danger wou'd have united us in our measures of defence,
but I fear it is otherwise. It appears to me that arming for de-
fence is less popular now than it wou'd have been in June last ;
the servile temper of our Representatives not only dishonor'd
them but dispirited the people & at this moment it is not easy to
conceive of any indignity to which they wou'd not submit &
which a powerful party wou'd not palliate. You have doubtless
seen thro' the whole contest that the British Treaty is made the
pretext & you undoubtedly see the policy of this, & altho' there
is no man of information who openly attacks any article of the
Treaty yet still the ignorant are played upon & their prejudices
kept alive ; & this expedient more than any other countenances
their apathy to the outrages of France.

It is a humiliating thought, & I reluctantly avow it, that our
fate depends essentially upon the issue of the struggle between
Britain & France. I think however that the future prosperity &
security of Britain requires that the U. S. shou'd be kept out of
the fangs of the great monster if possible & therefore I rely that
British policy will do more for us than we are willing to do for
ourselves — it wou'd indeed be extreme weakness in the British
Cabinet to suffer the Govt, of this country to pass into the hands
of France if they can possibly prevent it, for this country wou'd
make weight in the scale sufficient to make the final preponder-
ance on which ever side it shou'd be placed : the interest of both
those nations will best comport with what is certainly our own &
that is perfect Independence.

I don't see how you can, nor do I think it advisable to try to
use force of any kind to oblige the vessels to take convoys. I

292 RUFUS KING. [T798

hope however you will be successful in inducing them to accept
and the Govt, to give protection. It is for the interest of all con-
cerned that this shou'd be done & the idle desire of each to be
first home shou'd be sacrificed to the common safety. I shall not
be surprised however to learn that some intractable spirits break
away & get captured. A few such ships wou'd greatly encourage
the predatory efforts of the French and wou'd multiply our
future losses.

Congress are soon to decide on the kind & extent of defensive
armament & it is possible that in the course of the season they
may put the Frigates & some smaller Vessels out to protect our
Coast — shou'd this happen there is some little risk of a rencounter
with british arm'd ships. It is unfortunate for the tranquillity of
nations that the Naval officers are obliged often to act without
much deliberation & upon presumption instead of clear evidence ;
they are, too, men of more nautical than political skill & their
courage which is generous and ingenuous too often disdains
caution, hence there may be danger of a misunderstanding if the
Commanders of both sides are not perfectly well instructed with
their rights and duties.

The misfortunes of our friend Payne must disquiet Gore as it
does me and all his friends, but while you sympathize with him
you will not regret that the cursed land speculations did not de-
bauch your prudence.

Yours sincerely,

G. C.

G. Cabot to R. King.

Brookline, 23d March, 1798.
Dear Sir :

Since I wrote you on the 21st I have been favored with your
letter of the 9th of Jany & as my letter is not gone I open the
cover to add my acknowledgement of the great favor you have
done in communicating the desponding & gloomy sentiments you
feel. What (am I to understand) can have been done or medi-
tated to be done by the French worse than I have for years
imagined ? I must take your word as I already have the word of
the Secy of State that there is a degree of atrocity beyond my
conception.

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 293

I am mortified at the stupidity of several of the European
Cabinets who seem to have consented to be annihilated by & by,
if they can only be allowed to enjoy at the present a temporary
respite : but my whole reliance for effective force has been upon
England. Doubtless if they yield, the whole civilized world falls
a prey to France ; but is it possible the people of property &
sense there at this late day shou'd hesitate to spend the last shil-
ling & hazard the last life rather than submit to their merciless
enemies ? If those people are so weak yet the Govt, is not, & if
this is not afraid to do all it can it will do enough. I have never
doubted the competency of G B to withstand all the power that
France can bring against her, but as I have not thought that the
efforts of the British were as great as they ought to be, or so well
directed as they might be, I have seriously wished a thousand
times that the French wou'd be mad enough to attempt an Inva-
sion. This it appears to me wou'd be putting their cause at issue
when according to all human calculations their defeat & destruc-
tion wou'd be inevitable. All the friends of order & virtue
throughout the world ought to be willing to trust the success of
such a conflict because they can never expect a trial of force on
better terms.

The English nation is well constituted & well situated in every
respect to make the defence required : she has too abundant
means of men & money, skill & spirit & all these will be suffi-
ciently exerted if an attempt is made to conquer her. But I have
no idea that any such attempt is even thought of by the Directory
of French Affairs : they will do wicked things but not weak ones.
For myself I have attributed all the gasconading of France to in-
ternal projects & necessities : — but be this as it may the English
are contending for existence as a nation & therefore they ought to
act worthy of the greatness of the Stake : their constitution must
be preserved but the Parliament ought to clothe the Executive
with all power for such a period as the danger may last, & the
people shou'd be brought to acquiesce & support their system by
constant & judicious publications & kept steady by a prudent use
of force — a force however not to be overcome by Faction. I
shou'd imagine that it would not escape the sagacity of the Eng-
lish that all the Decrees against English Manufactures operate
chiefly upon the Neutrals who buy them, & that instead of dimin-

294 RUFUS KING. [1798

ishing the demand upon the English artists, if many vessels are
captured, the demand will be increased ; indeed it will be scarcely-
possible to prevent the increase of English Industry if the Order
of the Nation is pursued, for it is the only country in Europe
where men will feel that the fruits of their labor will be secured
to them & will not be wrested from them wantonly or unjustly.
God bless you !

Your afft. friend
G. C.

Lord Grenville to R. King.

Private.

Cleveland Row, March 29, 1798.
My Dear Sir :

The inclosed sketch having been published this morning and
containing, tho' not the expressions, yet the heads & substance of
the speech in question, I have thought that your friendship would
give it in your eyes more interest than it would perhaps be other-
wise entitled to — I have therefore taken the liberty to send it to

you & beg you to believe most truly & sincerely yrs.

G.

Endorsed by R. K. : " N. B. Lord Grenville's speech de-
livered in the H. of Lords on the Duke of Bedford's motion
to dismiss the Ministers on the 22d instant." — R. K.

R. King to W. V. Murray.

London, March 31, 1798.
Dear Sir :

. . . The French have in my opinion formed their plan,
and will not depart from it, respecting our Country. They
reckon (I hope and believe erroneously) upon many friends and
Partizans among us ; and those who are in the secret do not hesi-
tate to say, if they can gain " un point d'appui " in our Country, or
upon its borders, that they can easily make a fourth of September
at Philadelphia ! Foolish and extravagant as this opinion is, the

I798l LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 295

extraordinary events and success of their Enterprises in Europe
dispose the Directory to believe it.

Being firmly convinced that they have made up their minds
concerning both South and North America, I regret the humiliat-
ing continuation of our friends at Paris. If I could hope even that
there was any chance that we should adjust our affairs, or that
France would be persuaded to abandon the projects that she has
conceived, my earnest desire that our Country should not become
a party in the war would lead me to applaud their patience ; but
as I utterly despair of their success in this Respect, I think I see
mischief in their remaining at Paris. Until they leave it there
will be no adequate Preparations for the alternative, and the
events which follow each other with such rapidity in Europe and
which are to precede the Labor intended to be performed in
America, make me fear that they may find us, as they lately found

Switzerland, unprepared.

Farewell yrs. very truly

R. K.

P. S. Be cautious of Genl. Eustace ; he is a very troublesome,
but I do not think in any way a dangerous, character. He was
sent out of England, and his conduct towards me was rude and
ungentlemanlike. He began his acquaintance with me with the
Tale that I perceive he has related to you, respecting Monroe,
Fulton and others. By Monroe's Book I observe that Eustace was
one of his addressers when he was replaced by General Pinckney ;
Be assured that he is a more suitable acquaintance of Monroe than
of you or me. He will be a Tale bearer between you and others,
with whom he may seek an acquaintance, and is base enough for
the office. In the end he will quarrel with you, either because you
will not lend money, or countenance him in Pretensions that he
will have no right to make.

Mr. Pickering announces to Mr. King, in this letter, the
receipt of despatches from the envoys in Paris to the 8th of
January, the last declaring " that there existed no hope of
their being officially received, or in any way accomplishing
the object of their mission," and saying that they were de-
sirous of doing what they could by remaining at their post
to effect a reconciliation, and were to write a letter to Min-

296 RUFUS KING. [1798

ister of Foreign Affairs on the 10th January, requesting the
Government to open negotiations with them or grant them
passports. " Nevertheless it has been thought expedient to
transmit them a letter of recall," which had been done.

T. Pickering to R. King.

"Department of State, April 2, 1798.

" . . . A copy I now inclose to your care, with a copy for
your own information, of its contents. It is very desirable that
the Envoys should speedily receive the Letter of Recall, if they
still remain in France. We hope and trust they are not there ;
for their personal safety, or at least their liberty might be in-
volved, while in the power of a Government which at its pleasure
violates the Law of Nations and imprisons Ambassadors with
as little ceremony as it arrests its own subjects. But to return
to the main object of this letter. What ought we under existing cir-
cumstances to propose to the British Government j or, if to avoid a
present overture on our part be eligible, what offers are likely to be
made by that Government, and, if made, what answer shall be given
them ?

" In the first place, threatening as is the aspect of our affairs with
France, the President does not deem it expedient at this time to make
any advances to Great Britain. The interest of her own commerce
will on some occasions lead her to afford convoys to ours. In your
Letter of the 14th of January you say you are assured this will be
done in respect to our Spring Ships if you request it and Mr. Leston
has lately shown me a Letter from Admiral Vandeput who commands
the British Squadron on our Coasts by which it appears that the
Admiral had anticipated the Minister s request to furnish Convoys to
American vessels, having ordered his captains ' that if they should fall
in with any ships or vessels of the United States coming from India
(and not from the ports of any of his Majesty's enemies) or any ships
or vessels coming from any of his Majesty's Dominions to see them in
safety to the nearest port, protecting them in like mariner as if they
were the ships of his Majesty's subjects? This request was
voluntary on the part of the British Minister. All this is very

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 297

convenient in our present defenceless condition, but how disgraceful to
the United States if we co?itinue to depend on the protection of the
British Navy without any reasonable exertion on our part to protect
ourselves." *

After discussing the conduct the United States should
adopt in case of open hostilities between France and the
United States, as to our relations with Great Britain, Mr.
Pickering says :

" You will observe that the President has withdrawn his restric-
tion as to the arming of merchant vessels of the United States.
. . . Many Merchants, I understand are beginning to arm ;
but guns are scarce, and all the requisite articles are dearer here
than in Europe. It will, therefore, be expedient for you to rec-
ommend to the Masters and Agents of our vessels in Europe,
who are inclined to arm, to do it there. It will also be well to
encourage their bringing home Gunpowder, Saltpetre, Lead,
Copper, sail cloth and hemp, and whatever else is necessary for
equipping Vessels of war. The owners of Iron works are pre-
paring to cast cannon, and in the course of a year there will be
an ample supply."

44 April 6.

" There is still an evident opposition on one side of each House, to
provide for any thing beyond our internal defences j and the exhibi-
tion of the dispatches from the Envoys seems not to have produced the
proper effect j for while the most inveterate opposers of the Govern-
ment now acknowledge its sincerity and the propriety and even liber-
ality of its measures to effectuate an accommodation with France, and
add that she has given us abundant cause to declare war against her,
they say it is not expedient, and therefore we must not attempt to pro-
tect our commerce, because its defence will be a war measure and will
issue in open war. But this spirit I hope will be changed* The
dispatches from our Envoys, communicated on the 3d. instant in
confidence, are ordered to be printed, are now in the press,
and in two or three days will be published. The indignant
voice of the people must irresistibly urge the adoption of efficient
measures of defence by sea as well as by land."

* Italics in cipher.

298 KUFUS KING. [1798

William Bingham to R. King.

Philada., April 2, 1798.
Dear Sir :

I have to acknowledge the receipt of your letter, which con-
veyed the pleasing Intelligence of a well founded Expectation
that the British Government would afford, by Convoys, a Protec-
tion to our Mercantile Navigation, as far as our own Shores.
This management is very gratefull to our Citizens, & will in a
great Measure circumvent the Views of the French Directory, in
curtailing our Trade in British Merchandize, which will be
exposed, in proportion to the Increase of Temptation for
plundering it.

Their late Decree on this Subject, combined with the refusal
of their Executive to enter into friendly Negotiations with our
Ministers, has made a very Serious Impression on the American
Mind.

The necessity of adopting an efficient System of Self Defence
has become Strikingly evident. But the Extent & Character of
this System will occasion warm and agitated Debates.

The prevailing opinion is in favor of immediate energetic
Measures, for the Protection of our Trade, that will not eventuate
in open & declared War : for the convulsed State of Parties, the
confined Resources of the Country & the Indisposition to increase
them, as well as the Power of the Nation with whom the Contest
would exist, have created an unusual Alarm, with respect to the
Consequences that might result.

Oar first vigorous Step will be the Equipment of public armed
Vessels for the Protection of our Neutral Rights of Commerce,
by convoying our Merchant Ships, laden with Articles, not
Contraband by the Stipulations of Treaties, or the general Law
of Nations, when bound to the Ports of a belligerent Power. In
the mean Time, the President has revoked his Circular Letter to
the Collectors which restrained the Armament of private Mer-
chant Ships, & has adduced as a Reason for this vigorous &
responsible Measure, the Change that has recently taken place in
our political Situation.

A call has been made in the House of Representatives for the
Dispatches from our Commissioners in France, & I expect the
President will comply with the request. These Communications

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 299

will present a very minute Detail of their Proceedings, & I am
inclined to believe Matter of a very confidential Nature.

The Act of Parliament to carry the British Treaty into Effect,
has excited a considerable Sensation, of no very friendly Ten-
dency. By a rigid Adherence to the Letter of the Articles,
Great Britain has departed from that System of Commercial
Policy, which regulated her Conduct at a Period, antecedent to
the Treaty, when our Passions & Animosities were mutually in-
flamed towards each other.

Our East India Trade is in a worse Predicament than formerly.
We are precluded from carrying the Produce & Manufactures of
her Possessions directly to Europe ; whereas the Vessels of all
Neutral Powers in Amity with her are Subjected to no Restraint
of this Kind. The additional Delay, & Expense of double
Freight & Insurance, by the circuitous Route of the United
States, present an insuperable Barrier, to the carrying Trade,
betwixt the East India British Factories & Europe, in American
Bottoms.

The Equalization of the Tonnage Duties places us on a footing,
relatively very unfavorable, as our Vessels are exposed to the
Payment of double-light Money & other heavy Port Charges,
from which their Shipping are exempt in our Harbors.

But what is deemed very prejudicial & obnoxious is the Im-
position of 10 <f> additional Customs on Cargoes imported into
England, in American Vessels. This will be an absolute Prohibi-
tion of our carrying Trade, employed in the Exports of a Variety
of Articles, as the Competition will be too unfavorable. Indeed,
whenever the British Customs are higher ad Valorem, than our
Imports, a definite per Centage cannot be called a mutual Equiv-
alent, so as to operate as a countervailing Duty ; there must be
Inequality in favor of one Party & to the Injury of the other. In
the Article of Tobacco, which is meant to be favored, the addi-
tional Duty will tend to an entire Exclusion of our Tonnage in
the Carriage, as it will amount in peaceable Times to 50 <f0 in the
Value of the Freight.

Besides, the British Manufactures, by their Nature, occupying
little Space, employ but a Small Quantity of Tonnage in their
Transportation, & therefore their Prohibition is an Evil, not
extensively felt ; but the bulky Produce of this Country, destined

300 RUFUS KING. [1798

to England, as Remittances in Exchange for their Manufactures,
requires an Immensity of Shipping : the Result therefore of the
Arrangement will operate very unequally, by the difference in the
relative Quantity of Tonnage that will be respectively excluded in
Consequence of it.

This is certainly a great Departure from the former System of
G. Britain, which tended to attract into her Ports, by the most
encouraging Overtures, American Vessels, who came into them
to exchange their Produce & raw Materials for Manufactures.
As the Treaty cannot exist, but for a Short Period after the War,
it appears that Great Britain, by so rigidly carrying it into Effect,
wished to establish a Fund of Pretensions ; so that whenever a
new Negotiation shall take place, She may, by departing from
the existing State of things, have the Appearance of relaxing &
making a Concession.

I find the Antifederalists disposed to take Advantage of all
these Circumstances, in order to justify the Clamors they excited
against the British Treaty, & I regret that any Opportunity has
been afforded to them, considering the critical State of our Affairs
at present.

An American Vessel was yesterday despatched to Havre, by
our Government, with a View of presenting an opportunity for
our Commissioners to return. But I am rather disposed to
believe they have already taken their Departure.

With much sincerity & esteem &c.

Wm. Bingham.

R. King to Messrs. Pinckney, Marshall, and Gerry.

In Cipher.

London, April 2, 1798.
Gentlemen :

// should be known to you that So. America is on the Eve of Rev-
olution. England has prepared, and waits only for the Events that
the march of the Erench ar?ny into Spain will effect, to send an ex-
pedition to commence the Revolution which shall make South America
independent. If it is not assured to become independent by E?iglandy
the work will be do?ie by France, who will introduce there her de-
testable principles, divide it into small Republicks,put bad men at their

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 3OI

head, and by these means facilitate her meditated enterprises against
us. We have an immense Interest in the Event, as well as in the
manner in which it shall be accomplished. England will, at Phila-
delphia, ask the co-operation of the U. S. France has formed, and
will not be diverted from, her Plan respectifig the U. S. Your
mission must therefore fail, and if so, the sooner the better, thd* I
understand that Humphries has received assurances that our Treaty
ivith Spain will be carried into execution ; I do not believe it. France
expects to find " un point d'appui " in Louisiana, and to begin from
thence her operations against the United States ; the Treaty must
then remain unexecuted j it will serve the same purpose as the obsolete
Treaty respecting the Pays de Vaud, or the antient Disputes between
Rome and Naples.

The French System once established in So. America and the West
Indies, we shall be in perpetual risqtie j on the other hand, the inde-
pendence of So. America on wise principles, will put an end to the
Old Colony and Com?nercial System, and with obvious Combinations
presents Wealth and Security to the U. S., and a new balance among
nations. This communication is most strictly confidential. . . .

Your obedt. faithful Servt.

Rufus King.

R. King to General Pinckney.

In Cipher.

London, April 2, 1798.
Dear Sir :

The same Doubts and Hesitations which restrain him from joining
in measures of decision, would operate more powerfully if he was
quite alone j and should their views of getting rid of you and General
M., and of keeping him be effected, nothing would be gamed, for he
never would conclude anything. Don't from hence infer that I think
you should leave him behind ; the seism would be full of mischief.
You must still endeavour to preserve him j it cannot be long before
you hear from Philadelphia, and I think there will not afterwards
be any hesitation. The Letter to you and Colleagues, you will com-
municate to G. or not as you think advisable.

With perfect Respect and Esteem

Rufus King.

^02 RUFUS KING. [1798

o

R. King to E. Gerry, Esq.

London, April 2, 1798.
My Dear Sir :

I have had the pleasure to receive your Letter of the 10th
ultimo, and have delayed writing to you in hope that I should be
able to send you some late and important intelligence from Phila-
delphia : but the prevalence of Easterly winds, which has I hope
carried our Spring Ships nearly half way home, has kept back
those on their Passage to Europe.

My last Letters are to the beginning of February, when every-
thing seemed at a stand, in expectation of receiving decisive
information from your Commission. This state of the public
mind is, in my apprehension, full of perplexity and of real Danger.
I reason thus ; France has settled her Plan respecting America,
and, as might be expected, it is a bold and comprehensive one,
including both South and North America. She is not likely to
be diverted from the attempt to carry this Plan into execution ;
her preparatory measures are probably now in operation, and she
only waits for certain Events, prior in their order, to commence
with activity the Enterprise. The safety of America will depend
upon her being prepared in Season to defeat the Projects of
France ; so long as she expects success in negotiation, she will
neglect those preparations, without which we may be exposed to,
and experience, great National Calamity.

I ask myself, but without obtaining a satisfactory answer,
whether there remains one rational Hope of a favorable issue of
your Mission ? The interest, independent of the earnest wishes,
of our country to keep out of the war, rendered every effort for
the purpose a sacred duty, and all the world must admit that our
Envoys have persevered in their endeavours with unexampled
patience, and under the most discouraging, as well as humiliating
circumstances. But does not the public welfare, as well as the
National character, prescribe limits to Submission ? and without
trying the Question by those maxims which belong to the laws of
Honor, the observance of which, however, can never be indifferent
to nations, ought we from any motive to persist in asking what
we have reason to believe, nay are convinced, will not be granted ;
when by doing so, our Country may be made to doubt the exist-
ence of Evils, that are daily maturing and which may burst upon

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 303

us when we are not prepared to resist them ? Is not the main end
of every Embassy the promotion and confirmation of the public
Interest and Safety ? In the supposed state of your's does not a
longer residence in France expose both to considerable risque
and would not each be secured by the termination of your Mis-
sion ? It does not necessarily result that war must follow your
retreat from France ; on the contrary I am inclined to believe,
that if war is avoided, and our Complaints treated with Justice, it
will be by a Demonstration of that Preparation, Union and Firm-
ness which shall undeceive the French Government and lead them
to abandon their unjust Views and Pursuits respecting our
Country.

I have involuntarily been induced to write what is passing in
my mind, but on casting my eye over it, I hesitate in sending it
to you, lest it should have the air of an unbecoming interference
in a Business committed to others, whose Judgment is in every
respect better and safer than my own. Yet as I feel real Concern
upon this Subject, and as the fate of Nation upon Nation that is
fallen beneath the Power of France encreases my anxiety for the
safety of our own, I have thought that I might safely rely upon
your friendship for an apology for Reflections, so little solid, I
fear, in your mind, but which are the unbiassed sentiments of
mine.

With the most sincere Esteem & attachment &c. &c.
Your friend & faithful servant

Rufus King.

C. C. PlNCKNEY TO R. KlNG.

In Cipher.

Paris, April 4, 1798.
My Dear Sir :

. As I suspected Mr Geny is resolved to remain here. I
have warmly remonstrated with him on the bad consequences that will
result from such conduct, and on the impropriety of his having car-
ried on a Correspondence with Talleyrand under inju?iction not to
communicate it to his Colleagues. I have 7nade great sacrifice of my

304 RUFUS KING. [1798

feelings to preserve union, but in vain. I never met with a man of
less candor and so much duplicity as Mr. Gerry. General Marshall
is a ma?i of extensive ability, of 7nanly candor and an honest
heart. . . .

With great Regard & Esteem &c.

Charles Cotesworth Pinckney.

R. King to Secretary of State. No. 71.

London, April 6, 1798.
Dear Sir :

Denmark is not safe* French Principles have many advocates
there, and the Danish Government, like others connected with the
German System temporizes, acts by expedients and is without
vigour. The French Envoy at Copenhagen who is the same Per-
son that read to Louis the Sixteenth his Sentence of Death, possesses
great influence, and step by step increases it ; little things, and
such as in themselves are of no importance, are, from time to
time, conceded to the demands of France ; these prepare the way
for, and are followed by, more important Requisitions, which in
their turn will be complied with. France claims, and will attempt
to impose, contributions upon every Nation with whom she has a
connection : her armies exhaust the Countries in which they ob-
tain a footing ; and her Diplomacy acts where her army does not
penetrate. Thus Hamburgh and the other free cities, who since
the beginning of the war have paid considerable Sums to France,
have lately, and while their Deputies were at Rastadt negotiating
Peace, been asked for Twelve Millions of Livres, which after
seeking advice at Berlin and Copenhagen they agreed to pay.
Denmark herself will soon be required to make a loan to France,
and in my opinion will not refuse. Sweden is in no better condi-
tion than Denmark ; her Government is liable to convulsions ;
these under the present divisions among her people are not less
extensive, nor more mild in their character than heretofore. The
King is without experience, possesses the sovereign authority under
a doubtful title, and by several acts of his reign has shewn a deference

* Italics in cipher.

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 305

for France inconsistent with a due respect for his own authority or
for the indepe?idence of his Nation. The recent appointment of the
Baron de Sthael as his Envoy in France is an act of this character.
After the Directory had refused several Swedes who were proposed,
they intonated a desire that the Baron de Sthael should be sent to
them., and, to secure his appointment, caused it to be understood
that they would receive no other person.

It was from these and si?nilar proceedings in Denmark and
Sweden that in my No. 69, I stated it to be my opinion that
neither of these Poivers would resist with Decision and Energy
the depredations that France has resolved to commit upon the
Commerce of all neutral States.

For several weeks past we have heard nothing of the army to be
sent against Portugal. . . . The battle of Loupin decided the
fate of the Swiss. . . . The Swiss Soldiers in common with
the Peasantry have submitted to be disarmed by their Con-
querors, . . . provisional Governments are everywhere
established, and the deluded populace are promised ... to
be constituted a Republic one and indivisible ! United the Swiss
were invincible and free ; divided they have lost their Country
and ingloriously submitted to become the Slaves of their Conquer-
ors. What a lesson, as well as example, does their History furnish
to America ! . . . A French Emissary,* who has lately pub-
lished his Travels thro' the United States, in which he takes
frequent occasion to contrast the zealous attachment to France of
the People with the conduct of our Government, says, " That
France wants only a footing upon the Continent to regulate the
Destinies of the Citizens of the United States." With these false
representations, confirmed not only by some of our own Citizens,
but supported by the uniform success of the Directory in other
Countries, ought we to be surprized at the opinion that they will
be able to bring about a fourth of September at Philadelphia with
as little difficulty as it was effected at Paris ?

South A??ierica must soon pass through a Revolution : we have an

immense i?iterest in the Event, as well as in the manner in which

it shall be effected. In a former letter I have co??imunicated to you

the views and intentions of England, who will not provoke the revolt

in case Spain shall be able to save herself from a Revolution, and

* Volney.
vol. 11. — 20

306 rufus king. [1798

keep the French out of Portugal, and t/10' there seems little proba-
bility that this will be the case, England since the arrival of Miranda
here, but without his knowledge, has informed Spain that she will not
countenance or assist the Spanish Colonies in becoming independent
but that she will join her in resisting the endeavours of others to
accomplish it, provided that Spain will oppose the views of France
against her own Dominions and those of Portugal. At the same
time that this communication has been made to Spain, an Expedition
has been prepared, and the correspondent arrangements at Trinidad
have been ordered, for the purpose of beginning the Revolution of
So. America j in this Event, as I have before intimated to you, Eng-
land will at Philadelphia open herself to, and ask the cooperation of, the
United States. Miranda who is impatient with the delays that he
experiences, as well as ignorant of the provisional Decisions of this
Cabinet, has concluded to send his friend and associate Mr. Caro to
Philadelphia with a letter for the President, and I have given him a
letter to identify and introduce him to you. Conjecturing the inten-
tions of France, and knowing with precision those of England, we
shall be better able in season to consider and regulate the conduct that
it shall be proper for us to pursue*

The disaffection has become so general in Ireland that on the
30th ultimo, a Rebellion was declared to exist and the whole
country is put under Martial Law. The preparations for Invasion
are continued and will, it is believed, be attempted in Ireland ;
tho' from the number, distribution and superiority of the British
Fleet, it is inconceivable how it can succeed. Ireland is full of
Troops, and without the protection of the Navy, will be able to
defend itself from Invasion, if the Irish Soldiers, who form a con-
siderable portion of the Army, can be depended on. . . .

The Court of Appeals have reversed the decree of the High
Court of Admiralty which condemned the arms claimed by Gen-
eral Allen ; have decreed that the arms be delivered to the
General on Bail, and that he give further Proof respecting the
purchase of them, particularly respecting the 100,000 Livres,
which the Contract states to have been paid by him to the French
Government. . . .

With perfect Respect and Esteem &c. &c.

Rufus King.

* Italics in cipher.

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 307

R. King to Secretary of State.

April 6, 1 798.

Dear Sir :

General Miranda has informed me that his associate and coun-
tryman, Mr. Caro, is about to return to So. America and that he
will take Philadelphia in his way, in order to deliver to the Presi-
dent a letter that the General has for that purpose committed to
his care.

Having been made acquainted with the object of Mr. Caro's
voyage, I take the liberty of introducing him to you and of
requesting that you will assist him in the delivery of the letter
with which he is charged for the President.

With perfect Esteem Respect

Rufus King.

R. King to Col. Pickering.

Private.

London, April 9, 1798.
Dear Sir :

I have this morning received from Genl. Pinckney a letter, of
which the annexed is a copy. I cannot express to you the dis-
gust and indignation with which I have read it : tho' it only con-
firms my opinion, long since formed, that France had settled and
would not depart from her Plan respecting America. Is it possi-
ble with such examples before us, that we can suffer ourselves to
become the Dupes and Victims of so perfidious a Policy ?

With Truth and Esteem &c.

Rufus King.

C. C. Pinckney to R. King.

Paris, March 27, 1798.
My Dear Sir :

A few days ago we received an answer from the Minister of

Foreign Affairs to a long letter we some days ago addressed to

him ; towards the end of it is the following paragraph : " C'est

done uniquement dans la vue d'applanir la voie des discussions

308 RUFUS KING. [1798

que le soussigne" est entre dans les Developpements qui precedent.
C'est dans lameme vue qu'il declare aux Commissaires et Envoyes
Extraordinaires, que malgre la sorte de prevention, qu'on a pu
concevoir sur eux, le Directoire Executif est dispose a traiterazw
celui d'eux trots, dont les opinions, presumees plus impartiales,
promettent, dans le cours des explications, plus de cette confiance
reciproque qui est indispensable."

We shall reply to the whole letter and this part in particular j
we shall say that being appointed from the three great portions of
America, the interests of each part of the United States might be par-
ticularly attended to, neither of us think it proper voluntarily to quit
the Duty imposed upon him by his Country, nor to venture to take him-
self alone the burthen of a Negotiation committed not to one but to
three. Notwithstanding we all agree in this Sentiment, I have rea-
son to think Mr. Gerry means to stay. General Marshall and my-
self will be ordered away but, * as my daughter is exceedingly ill
and her physicians have directed that, as soon as she is able to
travel, she may be removed to the South of France, it is probable
that Mrs. Pinckney, my Daughter and myself may be permitted to
take that route, in which case I shall stay some weeks at Nismes,
thence go to Bagneres to drink the water and then proceed to
Bordeaux and embark from thence for America.

With great Respect and Esteem,

Charles Cotesworth Pinckney.

R. King to G. Cabot.

London, April 9, 1798.

A letter that I have this minute reed, from Paris confirms my
Opinion, long since formed, that France had settled and would
not be diverted from her Plan respecting America. Is it not sot-
tish, as well as incredible, that we should any longer hope even
for success from our Mission ? After all the Humiliation that our
Envoys have suffered, after the unceasing intrigues to divide
them, and thereby to divide us, after having humbly waited more
than six months in the Halls and Antechambers of the Direc-

* Italics in cipher.

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 309

tory, sometimes spoken to by a subordinate clerk, and at others
insulted by the gross and offensive Proposals of some Profligate
Renegado retained in the service of the Minister, two of them (P
& M) are to be sent away, and the third (if it is possible to be-
lieve that he will become a converted Dupe) will be allowed to
stay ; and when the Directory shall have nothing else to do, will
be heard in Excuse of our Errors and in mitigation of our Punish-
ment.

Yrs. with great truth,

R. K.

CHAPTER XXII.

Mr. Sedgwick's View of American Politics — The President acting a noble
Part — His Message on the French Mission — Instructions to Envoys and
their Dispatches called for and sent to Congress — Effect produced — War-
like Measures proposed — Letters from and to the Envoys in Paris — Mr.
King to Mr. Gerry — Letters from Messrs. W. Hindman, Cabot, and Sedg-
wick— Public Opinion about French Duplicity — American Students in
Edinburgh to Mr. King — Mr. King to Secretary of State on Mr. Gerry's
Conduct — Ireland's wretched Condition — Martial Law — To Gen. Hamil-
ton on European Affairs — Maryland Bank Stock — Mr. J. A. Smith's Letter
relative to Irish Troubles — Messrs. R. Troup, Bingham, Lawrance, and
Cabot show Disgust and Resentment against France — Approving war-like
Measures.

Theodore Sedgwick to R. King.

Philadelphia, 9th April, 1798.
My Dear Sir :

I received just before I came from home, the beginning of
December, your letter dated in August— I should not have delayed
answering it, till this time, but for the unpleasant situation of our
affairs.

The session has been a disagreeable one & hitherto almost
wholly unproductive. The house is almost exactly divided —
there are 52 determined and rancorous Jacobins, and 54 who pro-
fess attachment to the government, or in other words, confidence
in the Executive ; of them, however, four are of that particular
cast of character, whimsical, kinkish & unaccomodating, which
renders it impossible 10 calcinate, with any degree of certainty
on the success of any measure dependent on their votes ; while
their adversaries, under the controul of the Genevese,* are a well
organized & disciplined Corps, never going astray, or doing right
even by mistake.

* Mr. Gallatin.— Ed.
I798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 3 I I

The Speaker has become violently federal, for New Jersey not-
withstanding every effort to seduce her re?nains firm and united.
The Senate since I first knew it has considerably improved.
Governor Bradford from age, or other causes had become discon-
tented & petulant. Mr. Green, except that he obeyed the in-
structions of the State of R. I. in moving & advocating a repeal
of the Stamp Act, in which I am sure he sacrificed at the shrine
of popularity, has never deviated from a right line. Chipman,
from Vermont, the successor of Tichenor, or rather, as you knew
the Senate, of old Robinson, is firm, & indeed, intelligent.
Hobart, who replaces Burr, you know. (By the way it is said
that Burr is irretrievably ruined by Speculation.) Lawrance is as
you knew him so-so. Generally right — sometimes egregiously
wrong. Stockton from New Jersey ranks high among the able
& virtuous men of our Country. Clayton, in the room of Vining,
is a worthy & respectable man after whom there is no necessity, on
important questions, of sending the door-keeper. Lloyd is worth a
thousand of his Predecessor. Henry — he is a sure shot, and
Hunter, in the room of B — rarely, now, votes with the disor-
ganizes.

The President, under circumstances the most trying, and dis-
couraging, has acted, from the time of his inauguration speech,
a noble part. No instances of impatience, no whining croaking
complaints, regardless of the infamous attacks that have been
made on his character, he has exhibited a manly fortitude & dig-
nified composure. His conduct has, indeed, increased the con-
fidence of the friends of the government, and I am very much
mistaken if it has not commanded the respect of his adversaries.

You will readily believe that the situation of our Vice-President
cannot be a very pleasant one. More than once he has heard, in
debates, and in terms which could not be mistaken, Philipics pro-
nounced against the author of the letter to Mazzei. He is, I
have no doubt, the very life and soul of the opposition.

You will have seen the President's Message in which he com-
municated to the Legislature the result of the mission to France.
Directly the reverse, of what might reasonably have been ex-
pected, was the effect. Anderson soon moved a resolution, in the
Senate, to call on the President for his instructions to the En-
voys & for their communications to him. About this time it was

312 RUFUS KING. [1798

whispered that those dispatches contained evidence, not very-
honorable to the purity of french republicans. The motion of
course was permitted to sleep. In the meantime impressions were
attempted to be made, and not altogether without success un-
favorable to the Government. It was said that the whole policy
of the Executive, from the commencement of the french revolu-
tion, had been unfriendly to, & intended to produce a rupture
with, that power ; that neither the instructions given, nor the
agents employed were intended to produce an amicable adjust-
ment, and in short, that the President dared not expose his con-
duct to the public. It was added, that the measures recommended
were warlike, and might impose a necessity of declaring war, of
which the Legislature was exclusively the Judge, and as such en-
titled to all the means of forming a correct opinion. This reason-
ing incessantly enforced, was not without effect, and Mr. Allen
was induced, from a conviction of the impossibility of taking any
effective measures while the existing temper prevailed, of moving
an address for the papers. The President determined as was
foreseen he would determine, and the papers were laid before
Congress. They are undoubtedly forwarded to you. On the first
view the whole faction was overwhelmed with confusion. The
leaders, in both houses, declared a perfect confidence in the in-
tegrity & wisdom of the President, and a conviction of the profli-
gacy of their former friends the french. Many of our friends
believed them sincere and expected an Union of Councils and
Exertions. But already their tune is changed, & they will en-
deavor to fortify their supporters against the impression. They
say that Talleyrand is a very corrupt & unprincipled Scoundrel, a
friend of Royalty & that this conduct might naturally be expected
from the Company he kept in this Country. That, however there
is no evidence that he acted by the orders of his Government.
Some go further & say that all we can justly complain of, is, the
non-reception of our Envoys, which might justly have been ex-
pected from France for the injuries she had received from our
Government.

There were certainly strong objections against publishing the
communication & which would have been conclusive, if with-
holding the publication, could have prevented its publicity. But
the substance was known before the order of the Senate for that
purpose. The mischief was, therefore, done, and the only ques-

179^] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 313

tion was, whether we should avail ourselves of the opportunity-
afforded us of acquiring confidence in the Government and Union
among the people. The effects as they respect both these objects
will, I believe, be considerable.

The Senate has this day passed a bill authorizing the President
to procure 16 ships of 22 Gunnseach to be employed as Convoys.
There is also before the house a bill for the establishment of a
foundery. The measures which I hope will take place are the
passage of those two bills ; the procuring arms, ammunition &
cannon. A fortification of our ports, raising immediately a
corps of artillerists & another of cavalry, an authority to raise
30,000 men to be added to the Military establishment & to accept
the tender of voluntary Corps. (This last a measure of security
to the great towns principally.) To authorise the capture of any
french armed Vessels which shall attack any of ours, & all such
as shall be found within 20 leagues of our coasts — A legislative
declaration that all treaties with france are become void — A com-
prehensive alien act, and revenue sufft. to sustain the necessary
expenditure, and preserve the public credit. If something like
this cannot be done, I shall not deem the public safety pro-
vided for.

Chancellor Livingston has started in the election ground in
New York against Mr. Jay, but I hope without any prospect of
success. — In Massachusetts Sumner is reelected by an immense
majority.

The Bubble of speculation is burst, which I deem a very happy

circumstance, tho' vast numbers and among them many worthy

people are involved in ruin by it. — Our old friend Mr. Morris has

been sometime in gaol. Nicholson is confined in his own house —

Wilson is ruined. . . .

Your affect friend

Theodore Sedgwick.

Wm. Hindman to R. King.

Philadelphia, April 12, 1798.
My Dear Sir :

. . . Our good Friend the Duke is now here, & as firm

strong & decided as ever in his Country's Good. I have not

seen him since the Receipt of your Letter, I will inform Him to

Day what You say of Him.

314 RUFUS KING. [l798

Genl. James Lloyd is Mr. Henry's Successor in the Senate, &
inferior to no Man in Federalism & real Love to his Country.
He is a Gentleman of good Talents, amiable & of unexceptional
Character, & by our Friends deemed a great Acquisition. It
was said that our Friend Henry expressed himself shortly after
his Appointment as Governor, too warmly in Favor of Mr. Jef-
ferson, which injured Him much with the Federalists in the
Legislature of Maryland, & it was supposed prevented his Brother-
in-Law Mr. Winder from succeeding Him, as Genl. Lloyd had
but one vote more than Him.

In a Letter which I wrote to Mr. Hemsley last Deer., I re-
quested Him to inform You, that I had received a Letter from
the President of the Senate of Maryland, saying that You had
rendered Yourself highly popular in our State, by your friendly
& useful Attention to our Bank Stock, & had given the Legisla-
ture the highest Satisfaction ; this is the present Reward You
must accept from the State for the Services You have rendered
Her, the Time may come when You will receive the highest
Retribution.

I fear poor Murray has an unpleasant Time, you can best tell
what the Dutchmen will do with Him.

I hope our Commissioners are not now in France : the Publica-
tion of their Dispatches I flatter Myself has done much Good to
our Country, it must sink the Jacobins & tend much to unite Us ;
I am told the Opposition Party of our House have lately had a
Caucus, at which They agreed upon strong internal defensive
Measures ; when We get upon Vessels of War for the protection
of our Commerce I fear They will give Way. A Bill has just
come to Us from the Senate for fitting out fourteen armed Vessels
not exceeding 22 Guns ; the Antis in our House count upon 51 on
their Side, We 55, so that if the Federal Members would all
attend & be as firm & united as the Opposition, the Power is
with Us ; I flatter Myself that many of the Opposition will be
constrained to do right, as the People at large will not longer
endure the Injuries committed on Them by the infamous &
abandoned Men who now govern France. . . .

Adieu

Yours sincerely & affy.

Wm. Hindman.

I798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 315

R. King to General Pinckney.

London, April 13, 1798.
Dear Sir :

I have reed, yours of the 27th ultimo. I will not yet believe,

tho' my apprehensions are great that Mr. G. will consent to stay

at Paris after you and Genl. Marshall shall have been sent away.

It seems impossible to mistake the absolute Duty of the situation ;

you ought all to go, or all to stay : there is no third course ; as

in my belief will be proved by the public opinion of our

country. . . .

With sincere attachment &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to General Marshall.

London, April 13, 1798.
My Dear Sir :

I have considered my Letters to Genl. Pinckney as written
jointly to you and him, and therefore have not particularly ac-
knowledged the Letter that you sometime past wrote to me. By
General Pinckney's last Letter, I have reason to apprehend that
I may not see him before his return : the object of this Letter is
to entreat you to take England in your way and give me the
opportunity and advantage of confering with you not only upon
what has passed but what is likely to occur respecting our con-
nection and affairs with Europe. . . .

Accept the assurance of the sincere attachment & Respect &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to E. Gerry.

London, April 13, 179S.
My Dear Sir :

I have received your Letter of the 28th ulto. by Mrs. Mount

Florence, and the next day had an opportunity of forwarding the

enclosed Letters for the President and Mrs. Gerry by a ship that

was on the point of sailing for Boston.

316 RUFUS KING. [1798

In the Letters that I have lately written, you will perceive that I
long since despaired of Success for the Mission to France, be-
cause I believed that the Directory had settled a Plan concerning
America, from which they wld. not be diverted, and which was
incompatible with our independent Rights and just Pretensions ;
your Last Letter confirms my opinions. How you were to be
withdrawn from the Stage, I could only conjecture ; but I
never doubted, if the Directory were to regulate your exit, that
it would be done with a reference to their own views, and not to
the propriety that belongs to the proceeding or to the Justice
due to our Country. They could not, in my apprehension have
devised a more insidious and more mischievous Plan than that
which they have chosen. It is impossible to believe for a
moment that, with a view to a negotiation, they can really prefer
one to another of our Envoys ; when measures are in view, per-
sonal attachments and aversions do not impede their accomplish-
ment. The proposal to send away two and retain one of you is
treacherous, and if acceded to, may be injurious ; but in my belief,
will be disgusting and universally condemned by our Country.

I see this subject in so strong and unclouded a light, that
I avail myself of the authority of a long friendship to entreat you
to distrust your own mind, if it has suggested a doubt even con-
cerning the only course that remains for you to adopt. You
must either all go, or all stay. There is a plain line of propriety
and duty in this alternative, any other course may ensnare us. I
have not the smallest knowledge of our Country, and will forever,
hereafter, disclaim every Pretension to judge beforehand of its
opinion, if the President does not with the united will and appro-
bation of his Constituents immediately recall the individual who,
separating from his Colleagues, shall consent to remain at Paris
after they, without cause, shall have been sent away.

The freedom of this Letter would require an apology, did it
not proceed from a pure zeal for the Welfare and Honor of our
Country, and was I not convinced that it is the office as well as
the Right of Friendship to avoid reserve upon Subjects in which
the reputation and happiness of our friends and Country may be
deeply affected.

With the most sincere Esteem and attachment &c.

Rufus King.

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 317

R. King to Col. Pickering.

Private.

London, April 16, 1798.
Dear Sir :

I yesterday received a letter from General Pinckney, a copy of
which is annexed, confirming my apprehension of an open seism
in the Mission, and of Mr. Gerry's determination to separate from
his Colleagues. Mr. Talleyrand's Letter to the Envoys ought to
have removed every doubt respecting the intentions of the Direc-
tory and must open the eyes of all who are not obstinately blind to
the views of France concerning our Country. I can entertain no
doubt of the course that the President will adopt on this extra-
ordinary occasion ; I shall send this with a Dispatch to Ports-
mouth this evening. . . .

Your faithful servant

Rufus King.

P. S. The Prince of Peace has resigned or been removed, &
Mr. Turguet, the Fr. ambassador rules the Sp. nation !

G. Cabot to R. King.

Brookline, April 16, 1798.
Dear Sir :

. . . Yesterday I received a paper containing the proceed-
ings of our Envoys at Paris ; they exhibit a degree of depravity
in the French Govt, which very few people can believe. I owe
to you & to Mr. Pickering the confession that the Directorial
Conduct is much more gross than I apprehended, but to myself I
owe the declaration that they can not possibly be more wicked
than I supposed them. I wish it were possible for me to give
you any correct opinion of the effect which these communica-
tions will produce on the temper & spirit of our Country — you
have concluded that they will silence the clamours of Jacobinism
& unite all Parties ; doubtless they ought to do this & to excite
a sentiment of universal indignation & resentment which if prop-
erly guided wou'd secure us against every essential danger ; but
I dare not pronounce that such good fruits will be reaped. I

318 RUFUS KING. [1798

have great fear as well as some hopes. It is natural that we
shou'd wish to avoid a contest (if possible) where so much is to
be suffer'd & everything endanger'd — & it is not unnatural that
our people shou'd shut their eyes to injuries rather than acknowl-
edge that they see them & thus admit the indispensable obligation
to repel the?n, ox provide to repel them. I have endeavored to con-
vince those I meet that an avowed determination of desperate
resistance wou'd secure us in any event & if we are united wou'd
prevent an attack, but there is an extreme reluctance to do any-
thing which may imply that we are in danger of meeting those
terrible calamities which French Ambition is inflicting on other
Nations. . . .

Your affectte. friend

G. Cabot.

T. Sedgwick to R. King.

Philadelphia, May i, 1798.
Dear Sir :

. . . The effects of the publication of the instructions to
our Envoys to france, and their dispatches to the Executive on
the people, as far as my information extends, has been prodigious.
It is, however, said that the city of New York is an exception to
the general state of the public mind in the eastern district of this
Country : and that it is probable that Edward Livingston is
reelected against our Friend Philip Livingston, who was opposed
to him. There never has been, probably in the United States an
election so actively nor so acrimoniously contested as the last in
your State. We are consoled by the concurring information,
which we received from every quarter, that Mr. Jay has suc-
ceeded by a great majority.

The depredations on our commerce and the numerous failures
which have resulted from speculation and the spirit which
created and accompanied it, unfortunately, pervaded more gener-
ally than you can well imagine the mass of our people, and have
created much embarrassment, and probably more in New Eng-
land than elsewhere, because there the spirit was most ardent,
and the means most general. I was yesterday informed that 400
actions were entered at the last court of common pleas in Berk-

l^gS] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 319

shire, about three times the usual number at the corresponding
terms. This is generally the case in New England. It is unfor-
tunate that this should be the case at this time, yet I have no
doubt, that the people will, in that part of the United States, if
the government is faithful, act with spirit & effectual decision.

The leaders of the opposition, and indeed the whole corps,
were astonished & confounded at the evidence exhibited at once
of the purity of the Executive, and the profligacy of their be-
loved friends the french, and they have made proportional exer-
tions to defeat the natural effects. Letters from several members
of the house, containing many false statements, in point of fact,
and more false reasoning, have got into the hands of the friends
of Government & been published. It is no longer wonderful
that the people thus deceived & misled have been in opposition
to the measures of the government — a government which they
have been taught to believe was perfidious in its conduct to other
nations & insidious, indeed traitorous, to its constituents.

Till this morning I thought that Letters by the packet might
have been received at the post office to-morrow, but I am in-
formed that this is the last day and I have indulged myself in
this scrawl to you while waiting for a committee which is directed
to report an alien bill.

I am yours sincerely

Theodore Sedgwick.

R. King to American Students in the University of

Edinburgh.

London, May 2, 1798.
Gentlemen :

I have had the honor to receive a letter without signature, but
which purports to be from the American Students at the Univer-
sity of Edinburgh, inclosing sundry papers from, and asking my
interference in behalf of, a number of Americans taken in arms
and confined as Prisoners of war in Scotland.

Having heretofore without success applied to the British Gov-
ernment for the discharge of several American Citizens who had
been taken in French Privateers, I have no reason to believe that
^ Repetition of the like application in behalf of those, in whose

320 RUFUS KING. \M9%

favor you kindly take an interest, would receive a different an-
swer ; more especially as the motives which are alleged to have
engaged the latter in the Privateering Service of France are no^
more justifiable than those which influenced the former. It
would give me much satisfaction to comply with any Request
that you should approve or recommend, but you must be sensible,
that as Great Britain has a perfect Right to treat as prisoners of
war all Persons taken in arms against her, we can have no such
Right to demand xht release of our fellow Citizens, who from any
motive, may have changed their neutral for an enemy character.

Having been denied when we asked their Release as a Favor,
we ought not to expose ourselves to a second Refusal.
With Sentiments of Esteem & Regard &c. &c

Rufus King.

T. Pickering to R. King. No. 71.

Department of State, May 3, 1798.
ear Sir :

It is probable that France will continue her actual hostilities
against the commerce of the United States, without a formal
declaration of war, and new pretences may be advanced for
decrees that will embrace the remnant of our vessels not compre-
hended in former Decrees. Of such new Decrees or of plans
aimed against our Commerce generally, or of open war, you are
likely to gain the earliest information ; and the immense import-
ance of transmitting it speedily to the American Government is
apparent. It is therefore the desire of the President that in the
two former cases at your discretion, and in case of open war
without fail, you would dispatch a fast sailing vessel with the in-
telligence to the nearest port she can make in the United States,
from whence the person charged with your dispatches must send
them forward in the most expeditious manner to the seat of
Government. . . . We have authentic intelligence from New
Orleans that the Posts of Walnut Hills and Natchez have been
evacuated and that our Troops are in possession. A Letter from
Mr. Ellicott advises me that he was packing up his instruments
and baggage to move down to the 31st Degree of Latitude, ex-

1 7 98 J LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 32 1

pecting to commence the running the boundary line the second
of April.

Addresses are coming in from all quarters approving of the
measures of the Government in relation to France, and pledging
life and fortune to defend our honor and independence.

With great respect & esteem, &c.

Timothy Pickering.

R. King to Secretary of State. No. 72.

London, May 11, 1798.
Dear Sir :

. . . Tho' Mr. Gerry joined his Colleagues in the Declara-
tion to the French Government, that no one of them was author-
ized to take upon himself a negotiation confided to them all, it is
the opinion of Major Rutledge, who arrived here a few days since
from Paris, as well as of others, that a public reception will be
offered to Mr. Gerry, and that every effort will be employed to
amuse him and to mock his Country with the parade of an insidi-
ous negotiation. I cannot refrain from expressing a hope that this
humiliating scene is soon to close and that instructions are now
on their way to Mr. Gerry to follow his Colleagues, from whom
his own honor, and, what is more, the public welfare forbid that
he should ever have separated.

. . . A very important event has passed at Vienna. Berna-
dotte, the French Ambassador at Vienna has withdrawn from
that City in consequence of a popular movement of which you
will see the accounts in all the Papers. We as yet know nothing
of the Resolution of the Directory on this subject. . . . The
Emperor is strong in Italy, and his military establishment is much
improved since the Peace. Both he and the King of Prussia are
said now to see more clearly than heretofore the Dangers with
which they are threatened. But whether they can suppress the
little Interests and miserable Jealousies that France keeps alive
and excites between them ; whether they are capable of uniting
upon one great, disinterested but all important idea, is more than
my limited information permits me to determine. Without a
coalition against France, and that a speedy one, all that is South

VOL. II. — 21

322 RUFUS KING. [1798

of the Baltic must be revolutionized and fall beneath the Power
of France. . . .

Ireland is in a wretched state ; martial law prevails throughout
the country, and every day supplies new proofs of the intimate
connection that subsists between the Chiefs of the Malcontents
and the Directory. . . . Several persons have been taken up
and confined ; . . . the Government are said to have ob-
tained proofs of a Conspiracy formed by some of the Members of
the Corresponding Societies to assist the French in case of a
descent, to set fire to London. . . . The trial of O'Connor
and the other Persons indicted for Treason will come on the week
after next ; after which the Government will publish the Proofs
of the Conspiracy.

At a late meeting of the Whig Club, Mr. Fox gave us a Toast
" The Sovereignty of the People " ; and the King on Wednesday
last struck his name out of the List of Privy Councillors. ...

With perfect Esteem & Respect &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Col. Hamilton.

London, May 12, 1798.
Dear Sir :

It will not surprise you that an open seism accompanied by
mutual reproaches took place between our Envoys before they
separated. Mr. Gerry remains at Paris and there is a strong
opinion that great pains will be taken to persuade him to consent
to a public reception in order to deceive and mock his Country
with overtures of an insidious negotiation. Marshall and Pinckney
left Paris about the middle of April ; the former I hope is on his
passage to Philadelphia, the latter will embark early in June.

You will be at no loss to understand this state of things.
Nothing but vigour and energy will save our Country. Unanimity
cannot be expected. Moderation and forbearance with all the
virtues that meekly follow in their train have been faithfully
employed and without success. It is now time, and the wretched
Pictures exhibited by the Countries where France has introduced
her detestable Principles, should admonish us to give up half-way
measures with half-way men ; they do not belong to the Times in

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 323

which we live. The people of America will support their Govern-
ment, if that Government acts with decision, if it appeals to the
Pride, the Patriotism, and the Honor of the Nation ! But if it
temporises, if it wastes itself in words, if it stops short of the
only course that remains for its adoption, consistently with the
public Safety, the next Election will convulse the Country, and
may, as the Directory intend and expect it shall, give the Govern-
ment to those who will deliver it up to the same ruin that con-
tinues to desolate Europe.

There is a slight appearance that things are mending upon the
Continent ; but little interests, little jealousies and little men,
whose united influence is opposed to the only effectual Remedy
for the mischief, forbid us to expect it until the Evil has spread
still wider : for so wretched are the Governments on the Con-
tinent, not yet subverted, that the best hope is from the People
who are cured when the Fire has passed over them.

I received a short Letter from you a few days since without
date, which gave me great satisfaction, as it authorized the hope
that the public opinion was sounder than that of its Representa-
tives. War will encrease the public Taxes ; these are unpleasant
Subjects for meditation ; the Passions must be attended to ; they
must have an object, there is a great one. I can't explain myself.
I have had no occasion for reserve with the Secretary of State,

because I write to him in cipher.

Yours &c.

R. K.

R. King to the Right Honble. the Lord Chancellor, &c.

Great Cumberland Place, June 1, 1798.
My Lord :

I have been informed, and in a way that leaves no doubt of the
fact, that Mr. Mollison, in behalf of the family of Russell, has
lately received from the Exchequer, full compensation for the
losses of that family in Maryland, and that no further opposition
will be made in their behalf against the transfer of the Bank Stock,
of which Russell with others were the Trustees.

Having so often troubled your Lordship on this subject, I am
unwilling to say a word more respecting it, being persuaded that

324 RUFUS KING. [i79&

no unnecessary delay will retard its Settlement : but as I supposed
that the Claim of the Russell family has been the only impediment
to be removed, and as that no longer exists, I take the liberty to
express to your Lordship my earnest desire to be able to inform
the State of Maryland what is likely to be the result of their ap-
plication, and I should be very particularly obliged to your Lord-
ship, to enable me to give this information by the Packet that sails
in the course of next week.

With perfect Consideration & respect &c.

Rufus King.

J. A. Smith to R. King.

Dublin, June i, 1798.
Dear Sir :

The person above all others, to whom I ought to have written is
yourself, for it is to the respect which was paid to your name, that
I am indebted for all the attention whh. I have received since my
arrival in this country. I will not attempt to apologise for that
which cannot be excused, and will only declare that although I
have not been attentive in expressing them, I have never ceased to
feel all those sentiments of gratitude so justly due to the politeness
I experienced from you. The fact is, I have been a thousand
times on the point of writing to you, but was loth to trouble you
with a letter without giving you some account of the situation of
this country, the Truth of which might have been depended upon.
But such is the curious manner in which things are conducted in
Ireland, and such is the chaos of misrepresentation, that I have
been always kept in a state of uncertainty, and had only the satis-
faction of finding that others whose penetration was far superior
to my own were in the same predicament as myself.

The history of most countries is stained with crimes, but that of
Ireland, more particularly, presents a picture of violence and
wrongheadedness, both on the part of the governors and governed.
The administration of affairs has generally been committed to a
set of men who have seldom hesitated to sacrifice the inter-
ests of the country to their own ; while the people, in many parts
extremely wretched, and consequently idle and addicted to
drunkenness, have been forced by the oppression of the middle

1 7 98 J LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 325

men, or squirearchy, as it is termed, to acts of outrage often at-
tended with robbery and murder. Hence the origin of the White
Boys, the Steel Boys, the Oak Boys, &c. At length arose the
Volunteer associations, who at first conducted themselves with
the greatest propriety, and obliged England to acknowledge the
Independency of the Irish Parliament ; but soon they were seen
attempting to overawe and intimidate that very Parliament, the
freedom of whose deliberations it had been their great object to
establish.

Things remained after this for some years in a state of quiet,
during which period the country rapidly improved. It was soon,
however, discovered that the Parliament was not more indepen-
dent from the acknowledgement which had been made, but that
by far the majority were named by the Peers and wealthy com-
moners in the interest of the Crown. In a word that the corrup-
tion which had been introduced into this country for the purposes
of Government had increased instead of diminishing. A desire
of reform manifested itself in the North, under which expression
and catholic emancipation were classed all the grievances that still
remained to be redressed. The Jealousies arising from a differ-
ence of religion, and which had been the cause of so much mis-
chief, were laid aside and a society was formed of " United
Irishmen," whose views at first, I believe, were moderate and con-
stitutional. Conciliation might then have been used with advan-
tage. But perceiving that Govt, treated their petitions with
contempt they were induced at length to turn their thoughts to
France. It was at this moment that their most respectable mem-
bers quitted them, and they were left to leaders for the greatest
part, equally without Consideration or Principle. The military
were now let loose upon them, and after a great deal of wanton
cruelty and devastation, of which the most wretched were gener-
ally the victims, the North was put down, but remained in a state
of sullen tranquillity. In the meantime the contagion was com-
municated to the South, where it found infinitely more bigotry
and misery to work upon. The wretched inhabitants, suffering
under the violent measures of Govt., were easily prevailed upon by
persons, probably in the interest of France, and determined to go
to all lengths, that it would be a meritorious thing to overturn the
Government ; and when they were told that they should be free

326 RUFUS KING. [l79&

from Tythes and have land for nothing, there was no withstand-
ing the temptation. It was now thought proper to permit the
Troops to live at free quarters, and the most dreadful Cruelties
were practised to enforce confessions.

The advocates of revolution thought this the moment of rising,
and, we are told, that a conspiracy was discovered having for its
object a general Insurrection and Massacre in the City of Dublin,
as well as in the country around. How far this is true I am in-
capable of judging, but this I am willing to believe that a revolution
in this country would be attended with circumstances the most
atrocious. In this state of anxiety we remained until Thursday
Morning, the 21st May, when the City of Dublin was thrown into
the greatest consternation by the information that the mails had
been stopped and that a partial Insurrection had taken place in
the County Kildare. You will have read in the papers of the
Massacre of the Troops in the Barracks at Prosperous, of the

attack on the gaol at and of the cruelties committed by the

Insurgents at Hacketstown. Dunsaghlin Goreys &c, and you will
be equally shocked on the other hand at reading the accounts of the
different attacks made upon these wretches at Tara Hill, &c, where
three or four hundred have been put to death at a time, with the
loss of six or eight men. A company of Yeomanry Horse among
whom was the young Earl of Ormond proceeded to Dunboyne
on an information that the Insurgents had appeared there. They
found, I am told, fifteen persons sitting in the churchyard, whom
they immediately put to death ; they then proceeded some dis-
tance on the road, and finding others whose appearance displeased
them, they treated them in the same summary manner. In short
nothing can be more shocking, and in many instances more absurd,
than the scenes that are passing in this country. Notwithstanding
the great force under the command of Govt., the communication
with the South was interrupted for six days, and was at length
opened by Sir J. Duff, who marched from Limerick with three or
four hundred men, and is supposed to have put to death a great
body of those wretches to which Genl. Dundas had granted a cap-
itulation. The City of Dublin in the meantime presented a scene
of indecent and ridiculous confusion, which left little doubt that
if a small body of French troops had landed, Ireland would have
been lost. People were seen parading the street in the middle of

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 327

the day with pistols in each hand ; yeomanry galloping backwards
and forwards ; numbers of persons taken up, flogged and other-
wise tortured to force confessions ; dead bodies exposed in the
Castle yard and crowds flocking to gratify their curiosity, and
observing by what stroke in " the sword exercise " they had been
killed. Several persons hanging at the lamp posts, and dreadful
reports that the Catholics had determined to murder all the prot-
estants, and that a great many servants had purchased arsenic
for the purpose of poisoning their masters. In short, my dear Sir,
it would be difficult to convey to you an idea of the dreadful sit-
uation to which this unfortunate country has been reduced, and
the little probability that it will soon be restored to tranquillity.

The seeds of suspicion and discontent are too widely sown.
As an instance of this, I will only mention the case of Mr. Brown,
gentn. of property in the County Kildare. As soon as the alarm
was given he joined the Yeomanry and fought with great bravery
agt. the Insurgents, when a few moments after he was served with a
warrant as one of those persons who had been seen (as it was
reported) at their head. Other gentlemen have fallen under the
same suspicion and have been arrested by Govt., and I was told
yesterday that a gardener of Mr. Grattan was flogged at Bray,
until he was induced, probably to relieve himself from immediate
pain, to utter expressions unfavorable to his master. Among
other curious papers of the day, you will see one of Alderman
James, who has opened an office for receiving Information, where
secrecy is promised and rewards in proportion to the magnitude
of the Information. . . . The town of Wexford is supposed
to be in the hands of the Insurgents and Govt, are marching
troops in hopes of surrounding them. Those that were in force
in the Mountains of Wicklow, disappeared on the approach of the
military. I have just seen a private letter from a gentleman who
lives within 8 miles of the town of Enniscorthy, giving the dread-
ful account of the murder of 14 families by the Insurgents. They
did not spare even the children. From his window he saw the
houses in flames. He has barricaded his own and with the assist-
ance of a party of military, is determined to defend it. It is said
that 2 companies marching across the country with two howitzers
were attacked and obliged to retreat with the loss of one of the
howitzers. Should the Insurgents have contrived to give infor-

328 RUFUS KING. [1798

mation to the French and these last risk the landing of a few
troops, the country, I fear, would be lost. Ryan who was wounded
by Ld. E. Fitzgerald was buried this morning, a great body of
yeomanry attending his funeral.

You will excuse this long letter, my dear Sir, and believe me
very truly your obliged Humble Ser.

Post Office, Dublin.

The North, as Ld. Charlemont assures me, is perfectly tranquil.
The publication of the Correspondence of Mr. Pinckney, in which
America appears to so much advantage, and the corruption of the
Directory so completely unmasked, has been of great service to
them in opening their eyes to the insidious policy of the tyranni-
cal Republic. My best compliments to Mr. Rutledge.

T. Pickering to R. King.

Private.

Philadelphia, June 2, 1798.
Dear Sir :

I have one minute to inform you that I have received your
letters no. 69. and your Nos. 71 . . . together with your private
letters of April 7, 9 and 16, accompanied by General Pinckney's
to you of March 14, 27 and April 4.

You have expressed the indignant feelings which their perusal
must excite in the breast ot every honest and independent mind.

G s conduct is unpardonable. I hope the Directors did not

permit General P. to visit the south of France, because I hope
that both he and General M. were out of France before April
expired.

Robert Troup to R. King.

New York, 3d June, 1798.
My Dear Sir :

. . . By this time you have doubtless seen in the public

prints the despatches from our Envoys in Paris to our Government.

The incessant efforts of the democrats to impeach the integrity of

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 329

our executive — the misguided zeal of many of our virtuous fellow-
citizens in favor of France — and the urgent necessity for greater
unanimity induced the publication of the despatches. The pub-
lication was made by the Senate with a majority of two votes.
The democratical party in the House of Representatives were
very clamorous for the publication until they became acquainted
with the intelligence communicated. From that moment they
opposed the publication, and finally they carried a majority against
the measure. The Senate finding this to be the case instantly
directed the publication. The crisis of our affairs compelled the
Senate to overlook all former precedents and to take upon them-
selves the responsibility of a novel and extraordinary act in
diplomatic concerns. The act has produced the most magical
effects. A spirit of warm and high resentment against the rulers
of France has suddenly burst forth in every part of the United
States, and addresses from all bodies and descriptions of men are
pouring like a torrent upon the President and both Houses of
Congress.

I suppose the fact to be that since man was created and gov-
ernment was formed no public officer has stood higher in the
confidence and affection of his countrymen than our present
President now does. His firm and manly tone of conduct has
regenerated all the energies of our revolutionary character and
placed us, I hope, upon an eminence from which we shall look
down with contempt and safety upon the machinations and power
of the French Directory. So irresistible has been the current of
public opinion in favor of the government that within a fortnight
past it has broken down the opposition in Congress.

A very important bill for authorizing the capture of French
privateers upon our coast passed a few days ago without oppo-
sition ; and yesterday we received an account from Philadelphia
that a Bill for suspending all commercial intercourse between us
and France and its dependencies until the adjustment of our dif-
ferences, passed through the Committee of the Whole, in the
House of Representatives, without debate, and no doubt is enter-
tained that it will formally pass into a law.

The democratical cant now is, — the friends of the government,
as they call themselves, have at last succeeded in their favorite
object of a war with France ; they must fight their own battles ;

330 RUFUS KING. [1798

we will take no part in them. What excellent Republicans ! to
say they will not aid in carrying into effect the measures agreed
upon by a majority of their representatives, — this, however, is in
character with all they have heretofore done — and I fear will be
with all their future conduct.

Considering the strength of the opposition and its deadly ani-
mosity against the administration, the government has accom-
plished miracles — a provisional army is directed to be formed —
our frigates are beginning to guard our coast — purchases are
making of merchant vessels for the purpose of equipping and
sending them to sea as auxiliaries to the frigates — magazines are
forming — a bill of direct taxes is on the point of passing — and
generally a system of defence is getting into operation. ... In
a word, my good friend, I can assure you that we consider the
present crisis as the most awful since the days of vandalism. If
the storm now raging in Europe should travel across the Atlantic
and spend the remnant of its force upon us, we shall meet it with
fortitude. All extremities will be encountered, and every sacri-
fice made to preserve our sovereignty, our constitution, our liber-
ties civil and religious. Be under no apprehensions, therefore,
that we shall disgrace our ancestors, or the founders of our free-
dom. We know by the melancholy experience of the Republics
in the neighbourhood of France the inevitable ruin that awaits us
if her principles should ever be planted in our soil. . . .

For my own part I have made up my mind decidedly not to
survive the independence and freedom of my country — and in
speaking this language I deliver you the sentiment and fixed
resolve of all your friends in the circle of my acquaintance. . . .

Hamilton is well and is all sensibility to the honor and interests
of our country. His practice is extensive and lucrative. . . .
For this twelvemonth past this poor man — Hamilton I mean —
has been most violently and infamously abused by the demo-
cratical party. His ill judged pamphlet has done him incompara-
ble injury. . . .

God bless you and yours

Rob. Troup.

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 33 1

Wm. Bingham to R. King.

Philadelphia, June 5, 1798.
Dear Sir :

The Publication of the Instructions which evinced the Sincerity
of the Government in its wish to make Peace with France, by an
Acquiescence in Terms, which induced an abandonment of its
Rights, has opened the Eyes of the People, & convinced Some
of the most blindly obstinate, of the Delusion they lay under.

The Spirit of the People is roused, & the Enthusiasm which
prevails would astonish those Persons who recently contemplated
the apparent Apathy of the American Character, suffering the
greatest Indignities without indicating a Disposition to resent
them.

I wish the French Duke * was here, & if his Chagrin, arising
from disappointed Hopes in this country, had not riveted his
Resentments, he might be led to change those unfavorable
Opinions which he has expressed on our Subject in a Work re-
cently published at Paris. When he first arrived in this Country
he sought it as an Asylum, & was so highly gratified, that he was
extravagant in its Praises. But when he saw a Prospect open for
his Return into France, & supposed that he could facilitate his
Views by his abuse of the United States & the People, he re-
garded every Object with a jaundiced Eye. This Opinion of his
Conduct arose from my own Observations & I have been told, is
confirmed by the Publication of his Book. ... I hope some
Answer will be made to it ; for, such Sentiments, falling from so
great a Height, may make a considerable Impression, & be in-
jurious to the American Character ; it is said he has prefixed his
Name to the Work.

By the Addresses from all Quarters of the Union you will ob-
serve that the People are ripe for the Support of the most decisive
Measures of the Government. There is more danger at present
of overstepping the Bounds of Prudence, than of falling Short, in
the Adoption of such a System, as the Occasion may call for —
The Friends of this Country will greatly rejoice at finding so little
of the Jacobinic Spirit prevailing in it & the Knowledge of this
Circumstance will impress Europeans with additional Confidence.

* Due de Liancourt.

332 RUFUS KING. [1798

We are much alarmed for the Fate of our Commissioners. If
they have not left France previous to the Knowledge of the Pub-
lication of the Dispatches, I dread the Consequences. We wait
with great Anxiety for the Result.

Yours,

Wm. Bingham.

John Lawrance to Rufus King.

Philadelphia, June 5, 1798.
Dear Sir :

Since the publication of the five dispatches, from our Ministers
at Paris, in which Messrs. X Y & Z display so great a share in
the Negotiations, public Opinion has undergone a material change,
in our Country, and from the Evidence, furnished from the various
parts of it, I believe we shall exhibit, when seriously called upon
to act, a Conduct not unworthy of a People, contending for the
preservation of their Independence and Government. As unim-
portant as the French now consider us, we may convince them, in
the progress of our Controversy, it was better for them to have
preserved the good will of this country, than created its enmity :
from the former, much was to have been gained ; and from the latter
more may be lost than they have apprehended : however, I now
consider, as they are unwilling to turn from the Error of their
ways respecting us, we must do what may be necessary, to do our-
selves Justice, — we have hitherto acted on the defensive except on
our Coast ; how soon we must act otherwise, cannot be long in
doubt : and acting under a conviction of great Injustice, Insult and
Injury, we may create more inconvenience to them, than they
have expected — we shall experience some, undoubtedly our-
selves : but we must remember the Objects of the Contest, and
cheerfully submit to whatever may be deemed proper, to accom-
plish them. The public prints will inform you of the Acts passed
by the Government. Many have been passed relative to our
Army & Navy. We shall soon, I hope, be respectable in both,
and what is yet necessary to be done, I expect will be produced
before we rise. — Union and Firmness I hope will prevail, and

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 333

carry us well through the contest, however arduous it may be.
This Contest has been forced on us unjustly and which we have
taken every honorable and proper mode to prevent. — So much for
public Concerns. . . .

Yours very sincerely

John Lawrance.

G. Cabot to R. King.

June 6, 1798.
Dear Sir :

The time has come that the people of this country are awaken-
ing from those slumbers which resembled death more than sleep
— you will see & admire the spirit of the President & which he
daily infuses into the people. — I have been extremely mortified at
the continuance of our Envoys at Paris & for which I shou'd not
have been able to account satisfactorily without the intimations
you have given — however it has been our fate to be assisted by
our blunders sometimes as well as by our wisdom & it may yet
prove beneficial to the country that some of the Commissioners
are superlatively fastidious. — judging from the external com-
plexion of the Diplomacy it is universally understood here that
Mr. is no less chagrined than his colleagues with the

arrogance of the f rench Tyrants & this idea has certainly operated
powerfully to silence many Fractious People who cou'd never be
influenced by better motives. The News papers will tell you
every thing & therefore I need tell you nothing of a public nature,
but as I have long been one of the Desponding Patriots I ought
to say to you that things are going better than I had feared & that
I do not wholly despair of seeing a tolerable degree of Union &
firmness in defending our Country & vindicating its rights — in a
word I think we shall stand fast unless G Britain yields ; I go no
further at present altho' I am persuaded if we would act as we
ought no nation in the world can subjugate us — if the temper of
the House of Reps had been right last year at the time of the
extra Session, I am persuaded our danger wou'd have been less &
G. B. wou'd certainly have felt a little more encouraged to make

334 RUFUS KING. [i798

those immense efforts which she is called to make in defence of
her own existence & that of civilized society : I feel confident
however that (under God) her force is fully adequate to her pro-
tection & I have constantly believed that it wou'd be well for us
& all the &;zconquered nations that France shou'd with all her
Energies attempt an Invasion of England — I think the Expedition
wou'd issue in the ruin or disgrace of the french force, & if it
shou'd, the subjugated nations wou'd be immediately free — cer-
tainly if the contest is on the Sea the chance must be in favor of
the English even if their numbers are inferior & I shou'd think
the British Govt, very improvident indeed if it does not make a
certainty of having a Naval force always equal in strength to any
that the French & the enslaved Nations can possibly bring against
them — I say this because it is completely in the power of the
british to provide such a force of themselves, without drawing
any assistance from Russia or any other power, whose aid is never-
theless to be obtained if possible on almost any terms. — I have
never yet realized nor can I believe that the french will trust
themselves on the Sea — with all their boasting they fear the Eng-
lish on the Sea more than they themselves are feared on the land,
& at this late period of the war when the English Naval power is
at its acme it wou'd be rashness & folly to encounter it with an
unformed & unskilled fleet. I look therefore for some other de-
velopment of this great scheme. You will see that the U S are
equipping & have already sent out some Cruisers to pick up the
french privateers & Buccaneers who infest our Coast — if Congress
will authorize 50 instead of 12 such Vessels, many of which may
be very small, the Coast will be kept clear, & a good body of men
will be ready to act against those who shall attempt to transport
troops here by & by, if such a thing shou'd happen — I trust that
in this kind of warfare our people will prove equal to any in the
world. — at this moment there is more tranquillity here than usual,
the clamour of Faction is in some good degree silenced & a
sober attention to the interesting affairs of the nation seems to
suspend many slight differences among individuals — there was
more of the Jacobin Spirit in this vicinity than any part of New
England except at Portsmouth — it has subsided or changed very
much & I pray God it may never revive or return. —

Believe me ever your sincere friend.

CHAPTER XXIII.

Sir Francis D'lvernois on Fate of Switzerland — R. King to Secretary of State
— Publication of Envoys' Dispatches — France will not declare War, may-
release Vessels — Irish Troubles — Emperor of Russia will help England —
R. King's Dissatisfaction with English diplomatic Ways — Letter to Genl.
Hamilton — Consul Bosc on Slavery in S. Carolina — West India trade Orders
— R. Troup — Warlike Tone against France in the U. States — Capture of
Vessels in West Indies — T. Pickering on the Envoys — R. King to Secre-
tary of State — Irish Rebellion and probable Emigration — Talleyrand's Du-
plicity with Envoys — R. Troup — Warlike Measures against France — John
Adams will not disgrace the Country — Recall of Mr. Gerry — Sedgwick —
Measures adopted not strong enough — American Politics — Cabot believes
England with the U. S. can command the Ocean.

R. King to the President of the United States.

London, June 6, 1798.
Dear Sir :

The fate of Switzerland is an instructive lesson to America.
The Newspaper Reports of the ruin of that brave and innocent
People are so detached and imperfect, that I thought it would be
useful to obtain a connected and plain account of this afflicting
Event. I explained my wishes to Sir Francis D'lvernois, who im-
mediately prepared the Letter, a translation of which I have the
honor to send you. This Letter is addressed to you, and the
original will be forwarded by the next opportunity. Sir Francis
desires that it may be understood that he can have no objection
to the Publication of it with his name or in any other way that
you shall judge best calculated to promote the welfare of our
Country.

With perfect Respect & Attachment, &c. &c.

Rufus King.
336 RUFUS KING. [l798

R. King to Secretary of State. No. 75.

London, June 6, 1798.
Dear Sir :

The President's Message of the 5th of April and the Instruc-
tions and Despatches of the Envoys were published here on the
15th of May, and immediately afterwards translated into French
and thro' a variety of channels sent into France. We have the
Paris papers to the 30th of May, which are entirely silent upon
the affairs of the United States, and private letters give us no
information respecting either Genl. Pinckney or Mr. Gerry.

The Government vessel despatched with a letter of Recall to
the Envoys arrived at Havre on the nth of May. I have heard
by the way of Holland that about the 14th of May, Mr. Gerry
informed some of our Countrymen at Paris that Talleyrand had
told him that the Directory would soon enter upon the affairs of
the United States, and that he (Mr. G.) thought it probable that
the Directory could now consent to terms that we could with
honor and advantage accept. From the same quarter I have
been informed that two American Vessels have lately been re-
leased in some of the Tribunals of France ; and I can readily
believe both accounts. Many persons here who applaud and ad-
mire the conduct of our Government towards France (and it has
the singular good fortune to be approved by all parties) have
supposed that the Directory would declare war against us. As
this would not increase, but probably diminish, the plunder that
she commits upon our commerce, and as it would moreover shut
up the mouths of her Partizans and compel them even to unite
against her, instead of a declaration of war, she will, in my opin-
ion, release some of our ships, appear to recede from some of her
demands, and send you a soothing and insidious message by Mr.
Gerry, who, in vindication of his own conduct, must appear to
believe the sincerity of that of France. . . .

In Ireland, which I still continue to believe to be the object of
the Toulon Expedition, the Rebellion is not yet overcome. Many
partial engagements have taken place between the Loyal troops
and the Rebels, which have in almost every instance ended in the
overthrow of the latter. . . . There is great reason to believe
that the Irish Malcontents expected the descent of the French to
have taken place about the 2 2d of May, and that the insurrec-

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 337

tions which broke out in different places at that period are to be
accounted for by this expectation.

The Rebels are either without arms or very badly armed, and
are therefore easily overcome by the royal Troops. . . . The
prematurity of the Insurrection has given to the Government a
very great advantage, and should the descent hereafter be made,
the danger will be greatly diminished by the recent overthrow of
the Rebels. . . .

. . . Though some doubts are entertained respecting the
authenticity of the Manifesto that has been published in the
Newspapers, in which the Emperor (of Russia) says he will im-
mediately equip 22 Ships of the line and 250 Gallies in defence
of the freedom of the Trade of the North of Europe, it is certain
that he has recently expressed to England a fixed Resolution to assist
her as far as possible in the war against France j that his Ambas-
sador at Vienna has likewise urged the Emperor to make the requi-
site remittances to England to fulfil his pecuniary engagements there,
and that according to all appearances he is zealously endeavour-
ing to persuade Austria and Prussia to unite with Russia and
England in a new league for the safety of Europe.

Notwithstanding the mysterious Policy of Vienna, it is believed
that this Court is not blind to its proper interest and that with the
Court of Peter sburgh it is inclined to form a new Coalition against
France, which is prevented only by the persevering repugnance
of Prussia* . . .

With perfect Respect & Esteem, &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to A. Hamilton.!

London, June 6th, 1798.
My dear Sir :

We have certain intelligence that the Toulon fleet has sailed.
The number of troops, of transports and of men of war are vari-
ously stated, but it is known that Bonaparte commands, and that
the fleet is a very great one. Its destination is the subject of in-
quietude and of conjecture. A few days will bring us more per-

* Italics in cipher.

f Works of Hamilton, vi., 298.

VOL. 11. — 22

338 RUFUS KING. [1798

feet accounts, and from the force and position of the British fleet
under Lord Vincent, the public are in daily, not to say hourly,
expectation of hearing that he has discovered and destroyed this
boasted armada.

If Ireland is the object, the insurrection has been ill-judged
and premature. In almost every instance, the insurgents have
been dispersed, and the quarter round Dublin is now restored to
the king's peace. Still however, if a moderate French force,
with a supply of arms, could now be thrown into Ireland, the
issue would be dubious, so deep and general is the desertion.
Great Britain is unquestionably in a better and more secure, as
well as more united state, than she has been since the commence-
ment of the war. With her the question with France is at issue,
and so far as regards Europe, upon her alone must it essentially
depend. For upon the continent, French principles and French
influence seem still to extend themselves in every direction.
Though it is more than a fortnight since the publication of the
instructions and dispatches of our Envoys must have been re-
ceived in Paris, neither their papers, nor letters from France take
any notice of them. Gerry is still there, but about to return
home, and, if I mistake not, will be the bearer of a soothing and
treacherous message from the Directory. Be upon your guard.
France will not declare war against us. No. Her policy will be
to pursue the same course she already has done and which has
served her purpose in Italy and among the honest, but devoted
and ruined Swiss.

I will say, that, if after all that has occurred among ourselves

and in other countries, we are content to be duped, and cajoled,

and betrayed, we shall deserve the fate which they are preparing

for us.

Yours affectionately

R. King.

R. King to Secretary of State. No. 76.

London, June 7, 1798.
Dear Sir :

. . . It is a disappointment to me that I am not able to in-
form you that anything is yet arranged concerning the Question
before the Commissioners. Their business is now actually at a

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 339

stand. I continue to press Lord Grenville upon the subject and
he renews to me a sincere desire that measures may be fallen
upon to expedite the Decisions of their Courts and in this way to
avoid the Question concerning the Powers of the Commissioners.
, . . I have hitherto forborne, from motives that you will be at
no loss to conjecture, to express to you the dissatisfaction and even
the disgust that I often experience in * our intercourse and connec-
tion with this Government. The indijference, the procrastination and
in short the exclusive principles by which they cotisider almost every
question that is brought before them, should admonish us, as it has
done every other Nation, to depend upon ourselves as much, and upon
others as little as possible. With these sentiments (which the
experience of my residence here has contributed very much to
confirm) you will conclude that I have been much gratified with
the political views developed in your No. 7. ; and in correspond-
ence with them, I have always carefully avoided, particularly
upon the Subject of Convoys, to ask anything which could be con-
sidered as a mere favor solicited by us and gratuitously conferred by
them. I will resume this subject when I give you an account of
the answers that I shall receive from Lord Grenville respecting
certain parts of your No. 7.

. . . Annexed are copies of two intercepted letters from the
French Consul at Charleston.

With perfect Respect & Esteem, &c.

Rufus King.

The two letters from which extracts are given below are
interesting in many respects, as showing the feeling in
Charleston towards the French Republic at the time, and as
foreshadowing some of its plans. A large portion of each is
of a merely personal character and is therefore omitted here.
M. Bosc, in the confidence of friendship with his correspond-
ent, exposes his unwillingness to go to Wilmington, whose
commerce is of no value, and then speaks of a desire to be
transferred to some other post, which would be more ac-
ceptable in every sense. He says, referring to two letters
previously written :

* Italics in cipher.

340 RUFUS KING. [1798

Charleston 4e Pluviose, An. 6.

. . . Toutes deux te parloient de ma situation morale et
politique, et t'invitoient de me faire sortir d'un Pays, ou regne
l'esclavage et ou je suis signale comme un Philantrope, par con-
sequent comme un homme dangereux. Le vice-consulat de
Wilmington est a. supprimer pour son inutilite.

Je te demande de nouveau, mon cher, de me faire employer en
Floride ou en Louisiane, si ces contrees sont reunies a. la Re-
publique, et dans le cas contraire dans toute autre colonic
J'imagine que depuis le i8eFructidor les causes qui s'opposoient
a ce que ma Severite Republicaine fut preferee a la Souplesse
Contre Revolutionnaire de certain individus n'existent plus ; que
la totalite du Directoire sent la necessite de ne mettre dans les
places superieures que des amis eprouves a. la liberte, que les
Patriotes de 1789. Je ne crois pas qu'on me conteste ces qualites,
que ta es la pour rappeler. Depuis mon arrive ici je n'ai eprouve
qu'une fois regret d'etre sorti de la France ; c'est que j'ai appris
le mort de Louvet et l'affreuse situation de la France. Mais
quoique moins eloigne d'y retourner depuis que mon ami s'est un
peu calme apres que les contre-revolutionnaires sont demasques^
je desire encore passer quelque temps dans des pays nouveaux.
Je concois la probability de faire servir mes connaissances et mon
gout pour les arts agricoles aux progres d'une Colonie dans
laquelle j'aurois de l'influence. Celle de la Floride me sourit
plus que les autres, parce qu'elle est toute entiere a former, les 80
Families qui forment en ce moment la population de la campagne
se disposant a passer avec leurs esclaves dans les autres posses-
sions Espagnoles, si la cession a lieu. L'histoire naturelle y est,
dit on, fort riche et les details de l'etablissement de construction
que le Ministre de la Marine y formera, sans doute, me donneroi-
ent cette activite d'occupation dont je sens le besoin et que je ne
puis jamais esperer de trouver a Wilmington.

Chaque jour la situation des Francais, amis de leur pays, devient
plus desagreable en Amerique. L'influence Angloise domine en-
tierement, et si je ne suis pas individuellement insulte, c'est que
je ne sors pas de Michaux, que je ne vais a. la ville qu'une fois en
15 jours, pour seavoir des nouvelles et recevoir mes communica-
tions officielles. Les emigres de St. Domingue m'ont pris si fort
en haine depuis que leurs esperances contre-revolutionnaires sont

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 34.I

evanouies, que quoique fort peu me connoissent de vue, ils me
dechirent continuellement et cherchent de faire passer leurs
fureurs dans l'ame des Americains. Mon ignorance de la langue
Angloise fait reellement ma meriteuse sauvegarde, mais on me
fait craindre l'arrestation, si la guerre est declaree. J'en ai parle
au ministre dans ma precedente depeche et je lui ai parle encore
dans celle que je suis ici, moins parceque j'ai peur, que parceque
je crois qu'il est de la Dignite de la Republique de faire respecter
ses Representans, quelque mince que soit le rang qu'ils occupent
dans la Hierarchie des Pouvoirs. Adieu, cher ami. . . .

Bosc.

Au Ministre des Relations Exterieures de la

Republique.

Charleston, 4e Nivose, An. 6.
Citoyen Ministre :

. . . Depuis ma derniere Lettre, l'Esprit public s'est beau-
coup tourne contre nous. Les Huletans des Campagnes qui
nous environnoient, ont ete particulierement seduits par les
calomnies des amis des Anglois. Frequemment la Cocarde Na-
tionale est insultee par des propos injurieux a la Republique.
Les Bruits les plus absurdes, les nouvelles les plus extravagantes
sont repandues a dessin de nous perdre de plus en plus dans
l'opinion. Un voyage que vient de faire en cette ville l'Ambas-
sadeur d'Angleterre, probablement pour organizer une Expedi-
tion contres les Florides, si la Guerre a lieu, a acheve notre
Discredit. Tout le monde craint pourtant la Republique. Les
Proprietaires d'Esclaves surtout redoutent, que la Suite d'une
Declaration de Guerre ne soit une descente d'une armee des
Noirs de St. Domingue, contre laquelle ils scavent qu'ils n'auroient
pas le secours des leurs. Ma position n'est rien moins qu' agre-
able dans les circonstances actuelles. J'ai ete signale par les
Emigres de St. Domingue comme un Philantrope, un Jacobin, un
Espion des Terroristes ; et quoique le resultat de leurs premieres
Calomnies, dont je vous ai deja entretenue, n'ait pas ete conforme
a leur veux, ils ne perdent point Courage, et on me fait craindre
l'arrestation malgre mon titre diplomatique au premier bruit de

' ' Salut et Respect.

Bosc.

342 RUFUS KING. [i79&

R. King to A. Hamilton.*

London, June 8, 1798.
My dear Sir :

Since writing you a day or two past, I have the pleasure to
receive your letters by the packet and rejoice to find my hopes
confirmed by your opinions that we shall not be wanting to our-
selves in our conduct towards France.

Immediately on hearing the proceedings of the Admiralty
Judge at St. Domingo, I remonstrated to this government against
them, and was without delay answered that General Simcoe had
no power to erect the Court, that the appointment of Judge Cam-
bauld was illegal, and all his decrees void ; and that those who
had unfortunately suffered by them must, as in the Martinique
cases, apply for satisfaction to the High Court of Admiralty in
England. I expected and so it was determined, that orders
should have instantly been dispatched to suppress the court ; this
was omitted from the negligence of the officer to whom the duty
belonged in the Admiralty, hence the continuation of the Court
at St. Domingo. Orders have, however, at length been sent to
suppress the Court.

The instructions of the 25th of January 1794, a copy of which,
was on the 7th of February sent to the Secretary of State, have
been misrepresented or not understood. Instead of enlarging,
the effect of them will, as it was intended it should, be to contract
the description of cases, in which the trade of neutrals will be
liable to interruption. The order, as it is called, of the 6th of
November 1793, authorized the capture of all vessels carrying
supplies to, or laden with the produce of the French West Indies.
The instruction of the 8th of January, 1794, revoked this order,
and substituted another in which the bona fide neutral trade be-
tween the United States and the French West Indies was con-
sidered legal — while that between the French West Indies and
Europe was liable to interruption by the vessels being sent in for
adjudication. The late instruction of the 25th of January, which
I have thought a point gained, enlarges the rights and security of
the trade of neutrals, for instead of former restraints, it is now
admitted, that a direct trade by neutrals between their respective
countries and the French, Dutch and Spanish West Indies, out

* Works of Hamilton, vi., 300.

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 343

and home, and likewise the direct voyages from those colonies
to any port in Great Britain are lawful and not liable to
interruption.

That the naval officers will often exercise their authority, how-
ever limited, in abuse, will continue to be the case so long as the
military profession is disgraced by a sordid love of gain, and so
long as the system of the Admiralty Courts of England shall be so
little satisfactory as they really are. We are, as you will naturally
suppose, extremely impatient to receive information from the
Mediterranean. It appears certain that the Toulon expedition
sailed about the 19th of May. The force is variously reported.
Buonaparte is supposed to be with the fleet, which is said to be
thirteen ships of the line, as many frigates and nearly four hun-
dred transports — all the naval characters agree, that it is next to
impossible that they can reach Ireland without discovery. Indeed
from the prevalence of the winds from the west, a single ship
would, it is said, be at this season perhaps two months in making
the voyage from Toulon to Ireland. The opinion that has the
most advocates is, that the expedition is against Portugal — that
the troops will be disembarked at Carthagena or Malaga in Spain,
and that they will cross the mountains to Portugal. It is well
understood that from the want of subsistence they could not have
marched through Spain. But Portugal has no money, and all the
plunder that would be obtained would not defray the expenses of
the expedition. The enterprize would reduce Spain under the
more complete control of France. Cadiz would become a French
port. The English would be expelled from the Tagus. The
Spanish fleet would be relieved as soon as the windy season
arrives, and from the Tagus and Cadiz the expedition may go to
the Brazils and the treasure of South America may be at the dis-
posal of the Directory. Besides the country may be revolution-
ized on the French model, and this may prepare for the measures
to be adopted toward us. Letters from Lord St. Vincent, of the
19th of May (when his fleet off Cadiz consisted of twenty five sail
of the line, in excellent condition) induce the belief that Sir
Roger Curtis would join him from the Greek station by the 2 2d
or 23d, with the sail of the line. His orders are to leave a force
to block up Cadiz and watch the fleet, and to proceed with the
residue of the fleet to search for and fight the Toulon fleet, and

344 RUFUS KING. [1798

according to everything that we know, there is great reason to
expect that he will be in season to intercept them even should
their object be Carthagena or Malaga. 'Tis against every proba-
bility that the Toulon expedition can pass the Gut without
discovery.

R. Troup to R. King.

New York, June 10, 1798.
My dear Sir :

. . . Every day brings us new and decisive proofs of the
growing unanimity throughout the whole extent of our territory.
Addresses to the President are constantly coming in — meetings
are holding, and the people are resolving with heart and hand to
support the government in all such measures as the public coun-
cils shall devise for the protection of our independence and
liberties. Even Governor Mifflin, alias Secretary Dallas, in an
address to the officers of the State of Pennsylvania on the neces-
sity of putting themselves in warlike array, speaks in very harsh
terms of the Government of France, and considers it as having
forfeited all claims to our gratitude and friendship. In short all
may be truly said to be united and determined to take our
stand.

If Great Britain should happen to fall, it will be an event all
shall deplore with all the sincerity the necessary consequences
resulting from it will naturally inspire ; but such an event will not
deter us from the combat in which we are about to engage. The
sense of the studied insults and unjust aggressions of France, is
so deeply rooted that the nation will freely encounter every pos-
sible extremity to convince her that we are a free, virtuous and
spirited people.

In this city we are putting on quite a military face — volunteer
companies, of horse and infantry, are raising ; and meetings of
the old officers of the army and navy — and of the citizens, in the
different wards have been had to concert measures for the defence
of our port. All parties compose the committees appointed for
this object, and all join in the necessity of prompt and efficacious
measures. We shall apply to the Governor for an immediate call
of the Legislature to give us aid. The Secretary at war is mo-

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 345

mently expected here on the same business — and we hope soon
to be in a situation to prevent our being disgraced by a few-
frigates, however unable we might be to prevent an impression by
a formidable fleet and army.

Congress have not yet adjourned, and there are appearances of
their continuing in session without an adjournment. Gallatin
continues to clog the wheels of government, but he has not suf-
ficient strength to stop its motion. Without him the party would
be completely scattered. He constantly preaches the duty of
resisting all foreign attacks, and professes warm zeal for the con-
stitution and country.

Giles has gone home with a broken heart and ruined constitu-
tion. Edward Livingston has been home for several weeks and I
see no symptoms of his return.

The young men of Philadelphia, this city and Boston have
come forward in mass, with the most patriotic and determined
addresses to the President, and made an offer of their lives in the
service of their country. They have gone farther and claimed it
as a matter of right to compose the van of our army. Their
addresses and the President's are extremely affecting and will be
read with exulting pride by posterity. The fourth of July will be
celebrated with great animation and pomp.

Tell our friends Mr. Gore and Mr. Trumbull that the Eastern
States stand like old grenadiers in their ranks, firm, erect and
looking well to the right. One soul animates them ; and if the
French invade their shores I have no doubt the Yankee Doodle
will triumph over ca-ira.

If you should meet any of our Envoys to Paris in London, you
may tell them that their conduct has given the most entire and uni-
versal satisfaction. Upon their return, they will be received with
all the ardor of affection that can possibly be expressed by men
who have a love for virtue and a respect for talents and firmness.
Their memorial to the Directory is considered as one of the first
State papers of the age. You will read it with infinite satisfac-
tion. A few days ago their despatches down to the middle of
March were received from them. They are all published and
contain nothing more than repeated demands for money ; we will
not however give them, as our Envoys have already informed
them, a single sixpence. We are uneasy lest our Envoys may

346 RUFUS KING. [1798

be arrested and imprisoned. Our hope is they have left
France. . . .

The old Chief is again furbishing his sword. If there be a
dignus vindice nodus, and he should be invited he will take the
field and so will Hamilton. . . . Burr has been re-elected a
member of the State Legislature for this city. He was a member
the last year ; and his conduct very different from what you
would imagine. Some conjecture that he is changing his ground.
He concurs with us decidedly in measures for defence of our
port. . . .

The City is perpetually improving in buildings &c. The Park
near your house [Broadway on part of lot where the Astor House
now stands] has made your situation not only pleasant, but has
given it an air of elegance that will please you. . . .

God bless you,

Rob. Troup.

P. S. Congress have lately passed an Act for establishing a
naval department to be under the direction of a Commissioner of
the Navy. Your friend Cabot was appointed — but declined ;
afterward Benj. Stoddart of Maryland ; he declined — and the
office is still vacant.

June nth. — It is reported by way of the West Indies that the
British court have issued orders for capturing all neutral vessels
bound to French, Dutch, or Spanish ports. A Judge Cambold
or Gambold, of very considerable celebrity in protecting pirates,
has it is said lately condemned many vessels under these orders.
Capt. Cochran of the Thetis has likewise recently captured
several vessels, and the captures, from the reports respecting
them, cannot be accounted for except as the effects of these same
orders. This business has created very unpleasant sensations in
the public mind. If true, and the system is persisted in, I have
no doubt it will lead to a rupture. By this morning's paper I find
Foster's resolutions are postponed for a fortnight by 44 to 40. . . .
Mr. Blount has given notice that when Foster's resolutions are
brought forward, he will move similar resolutions against Great
Britain. The democratical party will be highly gratified with a
war agt. Great Britain ; and the friends of the government are
not now in a frame of mind to bear a blow from any quarter.

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 347

T. Pickering to R. King.

Private.

Philadelphia, June 12, 1798.
Dear Sir :

. . . . The conduct of Mr. Gerry surpasses the fears of
those who knew him intimately and anticipated mischief from his
appointment. To the errors of usual wrongheadedness, must be
added folly, meanness and treachery ; the latter I should not have
suspected ; but his conduct is not to be satisfactorily accounted
for on any other principle. Altho' the evil to his country is
equal, I wish it may be found attributable only to an excess of
vanity and weakness.

This morning I received a letter from Mr. Murray dated April

1 2th, and conveying information * from Genl. Pinckney dated at

Paris the 6th of April. By this it appears that Mr. Gerry with

unpardonable arrogance and folly had determined to take upon

himself the whole responsibility of the Mission agreeably to the

designation of the Executive Directory ! and that Generals P. and

M. were to be ordered to leave France. There is, however, one

consolation in this, that those two excellent men will be out of

France and safe when the publication of the first dispatches of

the Envoys will be known there. If they would then guillotine

Mr. Gerry they would do a favor to this Country ; but they will

keep him alive to write, a la Monroe, a Book, which will equally

express his misconduct. . .

T. Pickering.

R. King to Secretary of State. No. 78.

London, June 14, 1798.
Dear Sir :

The Toulon Expedition continues to be the object of anxiety

and of uncertainty. The affairs of Ireland are most alarming,

the rebellion having burst forth in Antrim, and Ulster being in

danger of a revolt. Should the insurrection thus extend itself

over the North, the South in which symptoms of disaffection have

appeared will not remain quiet. In consequence of this critical

state of Irish affairs, Lord Cambden will be recalled and Lord

Cornwallis sent as his Successor. The military capacity and ex-

* Mostly in cipher.

348 RUFUS KING. [1798

perience of the latter have recommended the change which does
not originate in a dissatisfaction with Lord Cambden, whose zeal
and exertions have been entirely approved. In case the Re-
bellion is suppressed, which must be effected or England is lost,
thousands of the fugitive Irish will seek an asylum in our Country.
Their principles and habits would be pernicious to the order and
industry of our people, and I cannot persuade myself that the
Malcontents of any character or country will ever become useful
citizens of ours. It is my duty seasonably to apprize you of the
probability of this Emigration : but it belongs to others to decide
what the safety and welfare of the Country may require to be
done, should it actually take place.

We have Paris papers to the 9th inst. The " Bien Inform^ "
contains a Correspondence between Talleyrand and Mr. Gerry —
the object of which is the disavowal of the Bribe and the sacrifice
of Mr. Talleyrand's agents. Mr. Gerry is called upon to give
up their names, which, after a faint opposition, he consents to do,
under the limitation that they shall not be published as having
been received from him. The Correspondence is preceded by a
piece, which, tho' anonymous, undoubtedly comes from the office
of foreign affairs. It represents the Envoys (always excepting
Mr. Gerry) as indisposed to the restoration of friendship between
France and the United States ; as refusing a direct intercourse
with the Minister of foreign affairs, who often solicited it, and as
surrounded by men of Intrigue who constantly missled and de-
ceived them. These indispositions of the Commissioners, it is
alledged, correspond with the views of the American Government,
which desires a war with France, in order that it may have an
opportunity to co-operate with England against the French and
Spanish Colonies, and especially that it may be enabled to estab-
lish in the United States a Monarchical Government. The piece
concludes as I have before told you it would by declaring : " Not-
withstanding the injuries and provocations that have been offered
with the hope to excite France to declare war against America,
that, superior to her just resentments, she has resolved to consult
only the happiness of the two Republicks, and to call the whole
world to witness the sincerity of her disposition which she has
not ceased, and will never cease, to manifest to live in peace with
America."

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 349

If we are the dupes of this repeated and bare-faced effort to
deceive and divide us, we must shut our eyes to the fate of Switz-
erland and of the other victims of the pretended friendship of
the great Nation. It must be the subject of perpetual regret that
Mr. Gerry suffered himself to be separated from his Colleagues ;
for had he remained firm, they would all have been received and
Europe as well as America would have been spared the scandal-
ous scene that has passed.

With perfect respect & Esteem, &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Secretary of State. No. 79.

London, June 15, 1798.
Dear Sir :

. . . Notwithstanding his pretended delicacy, Hauteval by

no means denies the agency ascribed to him in soliciting the

Bribe required by Talleyrand. Colonel Trumbull, who was at

Paris soon after the arrival of the Commissioners, has more than

once informed me that Hauteval told him that both the Douceur

and the Loan were indispensable, and urged him to employ his

influence with the American Commissioners to offer the Bribe as

well as the Loan. . . .

With perfect Respect & Esteem, &c.

Rufus King.

Robert Troup to R. King.

New York, 23d June, 1798.
My Dear Sir :

I seize a few minutes to inform you that the die between us and
France is finally cast. General Marshall arrived here on Sunday
last. His arrival was unexpected and his stay with us very short.
I have no other apology to make for our not giving him a public
demonstration of our love and esteem. You can form no concep-
tion of the flow of affection for all our Commissioners. Mr.
Gerry's continuance has created much uneasiness, but all appears
satisfactorily explained by the intelligence this day received from
Philadelphia. The newspapers herewith sent will furnish you
with the President's last message to Congress, in which he de-

350 RUFUS KING. [1798

clares he will never send another minister to France without
previous assurance from its government that the Minister shall
receive that honorable distinction, which is due to the representa-
tive of an independent, free, and powerful nation. . . .

Mr. Marshall has been received in Pennsylvania with high
proof of public attachment. ... I am far from thinking
that our treaty with France will now be considered as binding.
In other words, I believe it will be declared to have been broken
by France, and therefore that we hold it to be void.

Thus, my good friend, we are about cutting asunder, if the
separation has not already taken place, the bonds that have long
united us to France. We must either submit to being a colony of
that wicked and domineering republic, or we must exert all the
means we possess to preserve our sovereignty and everything that
is valued and sacred in society. The latter is our choice. We
have counted the cost, and like our virtuous ancestors we deem
nothing to be valuable without the enjoyment of freedom. It is
impossible to foresee what may be our future destiny. If it be the
design of Providence that we should fail in the contest, we shall,
at least, merit the esteem of posterity.

The bills for suspending all intercourse with France — for cap-
turing French privateers on our coast — for sending off disaffected
or seditious aliens — for arming our merchantmen — for raising a
provisional army — for direct taxes — for borrowing money &c —
have been passed, and I have now no doubt but all other needful
measures will be promptly and pretty unanimously taken. . .

Inform our friends Gore and Trumbull that John Adams will
not disgrace his country and that his country will support him.
There never was, and indeed there never can be, a man of more
solid popularity than he now possesses. . . .

Your very affectionate friend

Rob. Troup.

R. King to Secretary of State. No. 82.

" London, June 27, 1798.

" It is now believed that this Expedition (from Toulon), is
destined for the Nile from whence the Army will cross the Isthmus
of Suez to the head of the Red Sea, whence it is expected that

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 35 1

the Ships of Tippo, with such others as shall have been collected
at that Spot will receive, and by the aid of the periodical west
winds transport them to India."

T. Pickering to R. King. No. 18.

Department of State, June 27, 1798.
Dear Sir :

. . Mr. Gerry having persisted (contrary to the opinion of
his Colleagues and obvious propriety) in his determination of
staying in France to prevent an immediate rupture, as he was per-
suaded to believe, I wrote him, on the 25th instant, the inclosed
letter of recall,* which when you have read, be pleased to seal
and forward to him, if still in France, or anywhere in Europe.

The public opinion is becoming more and more correct in
regard to France, the ambition, lust of domination and rapine of
whose Government have at length become so apparent that mul-
titudes, whose former attachment and prejudices had blinded,
now view it in all its deformities and horrors. With the general
indignation at the insults and injuries received from that Republic
a martial spirit is rising and extending.

A Bill has passed the Senate for declaring our three Treaties

with France no longer binding on the United States. I presume

it will also pass in the House of Representatives without much

difficulty.

T. Pickering.

* In this letter Mr. Pickering writes, giving a positive recall :
" The respect due to yourselves and to your Country, irresistibly required that
you should turn your backs to a Government that treated both with contempt,
a contempt not diminished but aggravated by the flattering but insidious dis-
tinction in your favor, in disparagement of men of such respectable talents,
untainted honor and pure patriotism as Generals Pinckney and Marshall, and
in whom their Government reposed entire confidence, and especially when the
real object of that distinction was to enable the French Government, tram-
pling on the authority and dignity of our own, to designate an envoy with whom
they could condescend to negotiate. It is therefore to be regretted that you
did not concur with your Colleagues in demanding passports to quit the Terri-
tories of the French Republic sometime before they left." — He says further,
that in laying his [Mr. Gerry's] letter of April 16th before Congress, the Presi-
dent declared the negotiation at an end and that " he will never send another
minister to France, without assurances that he will be received, respected and
honored as the representative of a great, free, powerful and independent nation."

352 RUFUS KING. [1798

Theodore Sedgwick to R. King.

Philadelphia, July 1, 1798.
Dear Sir :

. . . In my last I gave you some account of the publica-
tion of the first dispatches from our ministers in france, & the
considerations which induced the adoption of that measure. The
effects, out of congress, have been considerable, — It has stimu-
lated those who before felt interested — awakened the indifferent
— in many instances dispelled delusion, and in some, perhaps^
converted the opposers. Instances of the latter are few, if any,
among those who affect the character of leaders. In congress the
opposition remains unaltered, except as to their pretences. They
are, indeed, no longer a french faction, but, as heretofore, they
invariably oppose everything and propose nothing. Less effect
has been produced by the disclosure of the outrageous conduct
of france, in the state of New York, than in any other state east
of the Delaware. In the late election six out of the ten represen-
tatives are incorrigible jacobins.

The measures of the legislature have been as much below what
they ought to have been, as above what might have been expected
from the materials of which it is composed. So equally are par-
ties divided in the house, that measures to be successful, must be
graduated by the feelings & opinions of the most cool and feeble
of our friends. . . Long since, in my opinion, a wise policy
required a declaration of war & an immediate and complete prep-
aration for that state of things. Several of our friends, however,
believed it would tend to discredit them among their constituents,
— that the opposition would endeavor to create, in the popular
estimation, a new denomination of parties — those of peace &
war. For myself, I believe, this calculation extremely erroneous.
— If Congress adjourns without a declaration, I am persuaded, it
will have a directly contrary effect. In that case the people will
be addressed with some plausibility & more effect, and induced
to believe, that the friends of peace, may save them from the
calamities of war. But, on the other hand, if war be inevitable,
it may reasonably be hoped, that the people, in their selection of
characters, will choose those who are best qualified to conduct it.
Unless, among our most respectable friends in the house, there is
an absolute despair of success ; the measure will be brought for-

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 353

ward & I presume in the course of two or three days. The
Speaker last evening, indeed, told me, he presumed it would be
done on the 4th inst. — (Dayton is now in advance of the first
rank of federalism.) It has not been thought prudent to pass it
in the Senate with a possibility of rejection in the House. In this
opinion I have fully concurred. Should it pass the House there
is no doubt it will prevail in the Senate. Indeed I know no man,
except our friend Bingham, who can be called federal, who will
not vote for it.

The President is daily rising in the opinion & affection of the
well disposed ; and in the same proportion the second is becoming
more & more an object of abhorrence & detestation.

The conduct of our old friend Gerry has astonished all who
were not intimately acquainted with him, but he has behaved
much better than I expected — Nothing could have made me
regret, but I now rejoice that I voted against his appointment.

The plunderings of the french and still more the mad specula-
tions which have been so extensively pursued by many in our
country is the cause of great embarrassments. The rage to get
rich without industry or economy was more general than can well
be imagined. With the great destroyers, Morris & Greenleaf, who
are in the gaol of this City, Wilson who is confined in Norfolk,
Virga. &ca. &ca. there is hardly a county in any of the eastern
States where there are not monuments of the prevailing mania. . . .

I am very sincerely,

Your friend

Theodore Sedgwick.

G. Cabot to R. King.

July 2, 1798.
My Dear Sir :

Your extreme inquietude occasioned by Mr. G's conduct will
be much abated before this can reach you — his course has been
indeed the most dangerous that cou'd have been taken & had the
knowledge of it been possessed by our Jacobins six months ago
it wou'd have enabled them to work great mischief, — our divisions
wou'd have been more marked & confirmed ; at this time it is
unpropitious but the evil is circumscribed, as all the follies &

VOL. II.— 23

354 RUFUS KING. [1798

weaknesses which have been exhibited at Paris are well known to
his Great Patron they must necessarily produce great Chagrin &
I sincerely wish he may never recollect how much his friends have
differ'd from him in estimating Mr. G's character. Altho' I am
happy in being disengaged from the political world yet I am too
much interested in its events to refrain from observing them. I
have expressed to you often my high opinion of the competency
of G. B. to withstand all the power which France can possibly
employ against her so long as her Govt, stands & the nation is
politically united. I have sincerely wished that an invasion might
be attempted not doubting that it wou'd issue in the disgrace of
France, but I have at no time believed that so mad a project
wou'd be executed. It will give you great pleasure to see by the
public papers how fast our indignation rises against the French &
that we are in a fair way to get rid of every tie which bound us to
that seductive & perfidious nation — our people are learning every
day that we have everything to fear from the arts of France &
therefore are becoming reconciled to the trial of arms. This new
state of things must bring new & interesting duties to our Minis-
ter in London ; I know he will discharge them with ability &
fidelity & I hope with success. Doubtless the British Govt. & in-
deed every Statesman in Europe who is opposed to French Domi-
nation, will rejoice to know that the United States are about to
engage heartily on their side : it is true that we shall do little
more at first than provide for our own defence, but we are capa-
ble of greater efforts after we are fully engaged, & a variety of
considerations unite to render our association in the war extremely
favorable to G. B. ; we are at least sufficient for a make weight
where the scales are so nearly even, & if our Destiny had thrown
us on the other side, as we cou'd not remain neutral, G. B. must
have yielded to so much discouragement. But I am fully per-
suaded that G. B. in concert with the U. S. can command the ocean in
opposition to all Europe, Russia alone excepted & if the war shou'd
continue several years, these nations wou'd enjoy exclusively the
Commerce of all America & Africa & the best part of Asia &
Europe — the Colonies of France & the Nations subject to her
power wou'd soon listen to the pleas of Necessity & wou'd volun-
tarily receive the Commercial Ships of those who alone woud
supply their wants. Already a fleet of armed Merchantmen have

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 355

sailed from Boston carrying 130 Guns & as this spirit is extend-
ing itself the little pirates from the West Indies will not be able
to annoy us much in future ; our public vessels carrying from 14
to 44 Guns will be increased to 40 or 50 in the course of the year
& surely we are capable of doing much more.

Vive vale.

G. C.

CHAPTER XXIV.

France to send skilful Intriguers to U. S — Bonaparte's Fleet from Toulon may
meet Nelson — Ireland's Union to England must come — American Consuls
should give Certificates of Residence — Conquest of Malta — Miranda —
Treaties with France set aside — U. S. must defend themselves — Hostile
Measures passed by Congress — Washington appointed Lieut. Genl. —
Troops to be raised — Patriotic iVddresses to the President — Decatur cap-
tures French Privateer — France may declare War against the U. S. — Mr.
Murray suggests England's Interference for People of Holland — Copper for
the U. S. — Members of French National Institute to be sent to the U. S.
— Republic of Blacks in St. Domingo — T. Pinckney would support the
Government — Irish likely to emigrate — Should have Certificates of Char-
ter— Washington accepts Command — R. King gratified by Firmness of U.
S. — Its Effect in England — Its Government and People decided.

R. King to Secretary of State. No. 83.

London, July 2, 1798.
Dear Sir :

We desire farther information respecting the views of France
from the following extracts of the Paris papers. The project of
sending Mr. Sottin, lately the Minister of Police, and other rest-
less and skilful Intriguers, under the character of Consuls into
our country is the same as that by which they have succeeded in
overthrowing the Independence of Switzerland and other nations.
If any thing could exceed the past insolence of France, it is the
Mission of a corps of Revolutionary agents, under the masque of
public characters, and who it is presumed (I hope and believe
falsely) will be received and permitted to reside among us, after
the repeated refusal and expulsion of our public Ministers. I
think it is a bold step on the part of France, who certainly risques
a refusal from us, which she has as yet nowhere received, and
which would, in my opinion, exalt our character still higher in the

eyes of Europe.

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c.

Rufus King.
1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 357

Extracts referred to :

" Paris, June 18, 1798.

" EXTRAIT DES REGISTRES DU DlRECTOIRE EXECUTIF.

" Le Directoire Executif considerant que chaque jour on ac-
quiert des nouveaux indices des coupables intelligences qu'
entretiennent les ennemis de la Republique avec les malveillans
de l'interieure ; considerant que les motifs qui ont fait interdire
aux Americains l'entree des Ports de Brest, I/Orient, Rochefort,
Toulon & Dunkerque, sont applicables au Port de Havre, contre
lequel il y a lieu de craindre que la perfidie Anglaise ne dirige
specialement ses funestes intrigues ; oui le Rapport du ministre
de la marine & des colonies, arrete 1. L'entree du port du Havre
est interdit aux batimens Americains. 2 Ceux des batimens de
cette nation qui se trouveront maintenant au Havre, seront tenus
d'en sortir sous le plus bref delai ; 3 Le ministre de la marine
est charge de l'execution &c."

"Paris June 18, 1798. Le citoyen Roziers est nomme Consul
General aux Etats Unis ; Gamier, ex-conventionnel de Saintes,
consul, & Boscq, vice-consul a Wilmington. Quillet, consul a
Tanger, passe a Norfolk ; Bosc a New York et le citoyen Sottin,
ambassadeur pres la Republique Ligurienne, et ci-devant minis-
tre de la Police, vient d'etre nomme consul a New York."

R. King to A. Hamilton.*

London, July 2, 1798.
Dear Sir :

France will pursue with us the plan that she has elsewhere
found successful. She will endeavour to overthrow us by the
divisions among ourselves, which she will excite and support by
all the means of which she is mistress. . . .

If any thing could exceed the past insolence of France, it
would be this attempt to plant in our chief towns a corps of revo-
lutionary agents under the mask of public characters, and whom
she expects, I hope falsely, that our government will receive and
permit to reside among us, after having herself repeatedly refused
and expelled from her territory our public ministers. . . .

* Hamilton's Works, vi., 308.

358 RUFUS KING. [1798

Another arret of the Directory has added Havre to the ports
into which our vessels are forbid an entry ; so that we cannot now
enter the ports of Toulon, Rochefort, L'Orient, Brest, Dunkerque
or Havre. Cadiz and the Texel are closed by the British squad-
rons, and I apprehend that the Meuse will likewise be blockaded,
as the British North Sea fleet is by this time reinforced by the
Russian Squadron.

We are still at a loss where Buonaparte is bound. He sailed
from Toulon on the 19th of May. My opinion has been that
Ireland was his object. At present, it seems to be the general
opinion that he never intended to leave the Mediterranean. In a
few days we must hear of him. The English confidently believe
that he will fall into the hands of Admiral Nelson, who is in pur-
suit of him. In Ireland, though for some months there will be
partial and unimportant risings, the force of the insurrection is
broken and the danger nearly over. The chiefs have been with-
out character and without any intellect. There is no indication
that they have received a single musket from France, and in gen-
eral they are without arms, except pikes. There is but one suc-
cessful remedy for Ireland, and it is that which has proved so
successful with Scotland. Ireland, like Scotland, must become
an integral part of the British Empire, or she will continue igno-
rant, ill-governed, oppressed and wretched.

Rufus King to W. Wickham.

Great Cumberland Place, July 3, 1798.
Dear Sir :

I take the liberty of sending you a list of American citizens in
whose favor I think there would be a propriety in making an ex-
ception in the proposed regulations respecting Aliens. The great
number of American citizens residing in different parts of Great
Britain for commercial and other purposes, seems to make it
requisite, in order to satisfy the provisions of the alien law, that
they should be enabled to obtain from our Consuls certificates of
citizenship instead of being obliged to apply to me for that
purpose.

From the great prudence and good principles of our Consuls in
this country I am persuaded that you will be safe from abuse in

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 359

accepting their certificates in the place of mine. If this arrange-
ment will be agreeable to you, which should extend to all the dis-
tricts, I will transmit to you a list of our Consuls and furthermore
send to them an instruction on this subject. I should hope like-
wise that the certificates of our Consuls will be received in all
applications for passports upon the arrival and departure of
American citizens. To you who are frequently acquainted with
the thousand things that occupy the attention of a foreign Minis-
ter, it is needless to remark that an arrangement such as I propose
must be a very great relief to me.

With perfect respect & esteem.

Rufus King.

In despatch No. 84 to Secretary of State, etc., dated Lon-
don, July 6, 1798, R. King says :

" The late accounts from America, as is natural, have given
very great satisfaction here ; and I should observe an improper
reserve did I not add that all Parties unite in expressing their
admiration of the conduct of the President.

" With perfect Respect & Esteem &c.

"Rufus King."

Circular to Consuls.

London, July 9, 1798.
Sir:

You will observe that with a few exceptions, the late Procla-
mation requires all aliens to report themselves and obtain permis-
sion to reside in Great Britain, and that no alien will be suffered
to come and go without a Passport. As it would be inconvenient
to our countrymen, dispersed as they are throughout this country
and likewise to those from time to time arriving and departing to
be obliged to apply to me for certificates of citizenship in order
to obtain permission to reside, or passports to depart, the Duke
of Portland has consented to my proposal, that our Consuls, in all
cases relative to the alien regulations, shall give certificates of
citizenship to such persons as shall in a satisfactory manner prove
themselves entitled to the same, and that these certificates shall
be received in like manner as mine heretofore have been. It is
proper that I should recommend to you the greatest caution in

360 RUFUS KING. [1798

this business, and you will recollect that the certificate is merely
to enable the person to whom it shall be granted, to conform to
the Regulations of the alien laws, and that it is not to be con-
founded with Certificates of Protection. You will therefore
grant these certificates only to such Americans as are required to
register themselves, to those who on their arrival . . . desire
permission to land and reside here, and to those who want pass-
ports to leave Great Britain ; tho' I think it probable that in the
last class of cases your certificates will not be required, as the
permission granted to those who shall have registered themselves
will sufficiently identify them in their applications for passports
to leave the country.

With great Respect I am &c &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to A. Hamilton.*

London, July 7th, 1798.

Buonaparte has made the debut of the campaign by the easy
though important conquest of Malta. The island has been sup-
posed impregnable, and therefore was the depository of great
wealth, removed thither from Italy. It contained likewise an ex-
cellent arsenal, two or three ships of the line, and as many as
6000 excellent seamen. It was the Maltese seamen who made
the fine campaign under Suffrein in the East Indies during the
American War. Sicily is near, and from thence the French will
obtain provisions, should Admiral Nelson attempt to blockade
the fleet in the harbor of Malta. Buonaparte may perhaps take
possession of Sicily, after which Naples would almost fall of
course. We are left to conjecture what are his ulterior plans. I
don't perceive that it is believed that the English squadron can,
owing to the tempestuous seas, maintain a long blockade. At
Rastadt procrastination is the game. The French journalists
amused themselves with calling it " the Eternal Congress." I see
no likelihood of a concert upon the Continent against France.
The struggle is left to England, who certainly maintains it with
increased zeal and resolution. For some months past we have
not a word about peace. No one appears to think that peace

* Works of Hamilton, vi., 310.

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 361

would bring safety. The affair of Ireland is nearly finished.
Cornwallis has requested that no more troops should be sent to
him and that those on their way should be countermanded. In
this state of things we are (for so I consider our situation) forced
into a war of defence. Have you received a former letter of mine
on this subject ? It is of infinite importance that we are not de-
ceived by ourselves or others. We must do more than merely
defend. I still think that the object that I have before sug-
gested, * demands all our consideration, wisdom and energy.
Don't suppose that I would combine our fortunes with those of
others. On the contrary, whatever our interest may require in
regard to a co-operation with others, I am averse to indissoluble
engagements with any one. The Continent of Europe cannot be
saved, but this is no reason why America should likewise perish.
France is the only nation that projects enterprises, or succeeds in
putting them into execution ; all others are puzzled in a perpetual
effort to find out and defeat the plans of France, without concert-
ing and attempting to execute one that might give to France the
disadvantage of defence. If we follow this course, I dread the

issue.

Farewell — yours &c.

I am mortified with the probable result of the election in
New York. Mr. Jay according to probability, is re-elected, but
how very considerable has been the opposition. Besides what is
to become of us, if we return such members to Congress, as I
think it likely will compose a majority of our next delegation ?

T. Pickering to R. King. No. 20. B.

Department of State, July 9, 1798.
Dear Sir :

. . . An act was passed last week (July 7th), declaring " That
the United States are of right freed and exonerated from the
stipulations of the Treaties and of the Consular Convention here-
tofore concluded between the United States and France, and that
the same shall not henceforth be regarded as legally obligatory on
the Government or citizens of the United States."

An Act authorizing the expulsion of dangerous aliens was
* Probably Miranda's expedition. — Ed.

362 RUFUS KING. [1798

passed some days before, and a Bill from the Senate for punish-
ing seditious persons and libellers will probably pass the House
of Representatives to-morrow. . . .

An addition is to be made to the Standing Army of eight or
twelve Regiments, and the officers of the provisional army are to
be appointed. . . . General Washington has been appointed
Lieutenant General, with the command of all the armies of the
United States, raised and to be raised. It is probable that he
will accept the appointment. The spirit of the people continues
rising. ... T. Pickering.

R. Troup to R. King.

New York, July 10, 1798.
My Dear Sir :

Yesterday the President approved the bill for annulling our
Treaty and Consular Convention with France. The majority in
the House of Representatives for this measure was about ten.
The Bill passed the Senate yesterday, and the President must
have had it with him but a very short time. . . .

General Washington is appointed Lt. General and Commander
in chief of our armies. . . . Congress have determined to pro-
ceed to the immediate raising of an army of between 12 and 13000
men ; and I have no doubt that an augmentation of it will soon
take place.

We are busily engaged in fortifying our harbour. The Gov-
ernor has just issued a proclamation convening our Legislature at
Albany on the 9th of August next to take our situation as a
State, and particularly our harbour, into consideration.

The 4th instant was celebrated with great animation and splen-
dor here and in all other parts of the union, from which we have
any accounts. A new troop of horse, commanded by our friend
Giles and in elegant uniform, made their first appearance on that
day and added much to the brilliancy of the scene. Our city
resembles a camp rather than a commercial port.

Addresses are still coming in to the President. They all, a
very few solitary instances excepted, breathe the dignified and
determined sentiments of freemen alive to the honor and sover-
eignty of their country. Wherever there is a deviation from these

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 363

sentiments the President undertakes to whip the addressers. The
President seems to have all the ardor of youth and all the energies
and firmness of meridian life. If we survive the struggle, as I
have no doubt we shall, speaking of us as a nation, no man that
has figured on our theatre, will go down to posterity with greater
lustre than John Adams — I will not even except George Wash-
ington.

Last Saturday Capt. Decatur, who commands one of our sloops
of war captured a French privateer schooner of 12 guns and
seventy men near Egg Harbour. . . . This is the first capture
that has been made. It is a good beginning and it has excited
very agreeable sensations. Our coast is much freer than it has
been of French Pirates. . .

The spirits of our countrymen are highly elevated ; and you
may proclaim it everywhere, that we will pay tribute to no nation,
and that we shall water our soil with our blood and suffer every
hardship before we yield to the imperious demand of any foreign
nation.

The last letter I wrote you, mentioned that Mr. Gerry's letters
had removed disagreeable suspicions that had prevailed agt. him.
I wrote my letter the instant after I had read Mr. Gerry's letters
— before I had time to reflect, and before I had an opportunity of
learning the public opinion. The truth is that upon reflection I
dislike his letters and his conduct. They are both generally dis-
liked. At a public dinner given by both Houses, or rather by
members of both Houses of Congress, at which all the public
officers in Philadelphia and many foreigners of distinction were
present, Mr. Pinckney was toasted and Gerry was omitted. At
almost all subsequent entertainments Pinckney and Marshall have
been most honorably noticed and Gerry has been neglected. It
is understood, and that from Marshall himself, that Gerry has
suffered himself to be wheedled in Paris ; that he acted there in
direct opposition to the wishes and decided opinions of Marshall
and Pinckney ; and that Genl. Pinckney, before Mr. Marshall left
France, spoke to Mr. Gerry in strong terms of contempt and
indignation at his behaviour. . . . No two men, however can
be more beloved and honored than Pinckney and Marshall.
Their two memorials have made a deep impression on the public
mind and have done more good in placing the conduct of our

364 RUFUS KING. [1798

government in its true point of light, than all that has been before
said or written. . . .

We are arresting some disorganizers here for libelling the
President and Secretary of State — a Mr. Burk and a Doctor
Smith — the former a late Irish emigrant and the latter, a late
English emigrant, who was connected with Ld. G. Gordon in his
famous riots — conduct a press in this city, which publishes a
paper called the Time piece. Burr is much suspected to be in-
terested in the press. It is confidently said he was security for
the purchase money of the press. Dr. Smith is an elderly man —
a brother of the famous Wm. Smith, late Chief Justice of Canada
— and as he is a native of America, he claims to be a citizen of
the United States. They are bound over to the next Circuit
Court which will sit in September. Patterson will preside at it.
Bache is under recognizance in Philadelphia for a similar offense.
Burr and Rutgers — I mean the rich Col. of this city — are bail for
Burk ; Smith's relations are his bail. It is determined to try
whether we have strength enough to cause the constituted authori-
ties to be respected. I have not a fraction of a doubt respecting
the issue. . . .

It is very grateful to our friends that you are now in London.
It is of great importance that we should stand well with Great
Britain ; and we have unbounded confidence in your dis-
cretion. . . .

Most affectionately your friend

Rob. Troup.

R. King to A. Hamilton. *

London, July 14, 1798.
Dear Sir :

I send you inclosed an interesting little piece addressed to
Gallatin by a former citizen of Geneva. If translated and pub-
lished it may do good. We have no news from the Mediterranean
since the capture of Malta, nor can we do more than conjecture
the future destination of Buonaparte. Turin with its arsenals is
possessed by a French army ; so that Sardinia is at the feet of
the Directory. The Emperor continues to recruit his armies, and
is now laying up magazines in the Tyrol. His expenses are said

* Works of Hamilton, vi., 313.

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 365

to be equal to those of an open war, and his resources unequal to
his present expenditures. Prussia manifests no inclination to
enter into a new coalition against France, and there are who sus-
pect a most intimate connection between those powers. In short
the fate of Europe is as uncertain and difficult to understand as
at any period of the war. It is at least ten days since the
spirited measures passed in America must have been known in
Paris. We are, therefore, anxious to learn the effect they have
produced. They will be entirely disappointed, and my conjecture
is, that, contrary to their wishes, their pride will drive them to
declare war against us. On the 13th of June Gen. Pinckney was
still at Lyons ; his daughter was much better, and he flattered
himself with the expectation of being able to reach Bordeaux and
to embark by the middle of this month. On the 26th of June,
Mr. Gerry was at Paris, waiting, say letters from Americans who
are about him, for the ultimatum of the Directory. Letters are
sent in every direction by the Americans in Paris, which say that
the Directory hold a conciliatory language, and that Mr. Gerry is
in hopes to procure terms which will be honorable and satis-
factory to his country. I thought it impossible that any future
step of Mr. G. could exceed in* and what had passed when
he decided to separate from his colleagues and remain at Paris,,
but I was mistaken. His answer to Talleyrand's demands of the
names of X, Y, and Z, place him in a more degraded light than I
ever believed it possible that he or any other American citizen
could be exhibited.

I send you Bellamy's address. It, as well as all that has been
published, serves to confirm the public detestation against the
Directory. The American dispatches have been circulated
throughout Europe, and have everywhere done much good and
increased the reputation of the government.

R. King to Lord Grenville.

My Lord : Great Cumberland Place, July 14, 1798.

I have the honor to send your Lordship enclosed the copy of a
letter that I have received from the American Minister at the
Hague ; that to which it refers as having been sent by Mr. Wads-

* Words omitted in Hamilton 's Works. — Ed.

366 RUFUS KING. [1798

worth has not yet come to hand. I desire to be understood as
merely transmitting the Proposition of the Dutch Directory, and
not as expressing any sentiments of my own upon the subject or
requesting those of the British Government. I ought neverthe-
less to observe that I will with pleasure send to Mr. Murray such
answer as it may be thought proper to make to this informal com-
munication.

With perfect Consideration & Respect &c. &c.

Rufus King.

[Copy]

W. V. Murray to Mr. King, &c, &c, London.

The Hague, 29th June, 1798.
Dear Sir :

I wrote day before yesterday by Mr. Wadsworth, your and my
excellent friend. The object of my letter was to request you to
obtain, if possible, some relaxation of the Govt, and orders of
Great Britain in favor of the Dutch Herring Fishery. On the 24th
instant their little fleet of Baasses ought to have cast nets. The
proceeds of this annual tour at sea are deeply, almost essentially,
important to the poor as provisions ; besides as their profits of the
year's income to great bodies of poor fishermen, it is all in all.

Sure I am that neither Great Britain nor the Prince of O. can
wish to hurt these men, except as they may be considered with
their boats as the involuntary means of Invasion. These means,
I believe, have been suspended as far as they were intended to
operate from this point of embarkation. *

I understand that the boats lately in requisition are delivered
up all through Flanders to their owners. To these men it was the
usage of the Prince of Orange to show great personal kindness
formerly. On this subject I have been spoken to by the Directory and
requested to speak to you. I need not assure you that especially in
the poorest state of her affairs, I would not knowingly, as I value
my own country's safety, hurt Great Britain or thwart her strength.
I wish it success. Pray inform me if anything can be done.

I am dear Sir truly always &c. &c.

W. V. Murray.

* See R. K's answer Aug. 16th 1798. Letter of R. K. to Secy, of State.
Aug. 20. 1798.

*798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 367

R. King to Right Honble. Lord Grenville.

Great Cumberland Place, July 14, 1798.
My Lord :

I have this morning been informed that the Lords of the Coun-
cil decline granting permission for the shipping to the United
States of Copper in Sheets and Bolts, unless on my certificate that
the same are for the use of the American Government.

Exclusive of the demand which the American Government may-
have for these articles very considerable quantities are wanted for
the Merchant service, which would be exposed to embarrassments
in case the permission heretofore granted to export the same shall
in future be refused. As I understand that the Manufacturers
can supply any quantity of these articles, and consequently the
demands from America are not likely to interfere with those of
the Naval Department of the Country, I take the liberty to re-
quest your Lordship's interference in order that under proper
cautions, permission may from time to time be given for the Ex-
portation of Copper in Sheets and Bolts for the use of the Mer-
chant Ships.

In making this request I conform to an instruction that I have
lately received from the American Government.

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Secretary of State. No. 86.

London, July 14, 1798.
Dear Sir :

It is more than ten days since they must have known at Paris
the spirited measures adopted by our Government ; we may there-
fore every hour expect important information from that country.
I think they will declare war against us ; that will essentially
thwart their plans ; but their pride will not leave them an option.

Sir Joseph Banks, the President of the Royal Society, a few
days past received a letter dated the 6th of June from Dupont de
Nemours, which states that he with a Delegation from the National
Institute are going to the United States of America with the view
of improving and extending the sciences : the letter adds that the
Directory has given them the requisite passports, and, thro' Sir

368 RUFUS KING. [1798

Joseph, requests that passports from the British Government may
likewise be granted to them. I have been informed that this
mission of Philosophers meditates an establishment without the
limits of the United States, and within the boundaries of Spain
high up the Mississippi ; their objects can hardly be mistaken ;
and notwithstanding the moderation and" character of Dupont, it
is not probable that either the American or English Government
will be disposed to give any encouragement to this mission of the
Directory.*

There is no news from the Mediterranean since the capture of
Malta, and excepting the possession of Turin with its fine arsenal
by a French army, I can add nothing to my last accounts of
the situation on the Continent. We have a rumour that the
American ships in the French ports are embargoed, and that all
American citizens are to be immediately sent out of the Republic.
Mr. Gerry, on the 26th ult? was still at Paris, waiting according
to private letters from persons about him, for the ultimatum of
the Directory ; General Pinckney was at Lyons on the 13th of
June ; his daughter was then much better, and he hoped to be at
Bordeaux and to embark by the 20th of this month.

The day after the arrival of the last Packet from New York,.
f in a Conference with Lord Grenville, he had heard with horror
from Mr. Liston that in a conversation between you and him, you
had intimated an idea that our Government might be disposed to
countenance the establishment of a Republic of Blacks in St. Domingo.
I replied that I had no knowledge of such intention and after saying

* The President, Mr. Adams, in answer to the Secretary's letter, communi-
cating the above, wrote to T. Pickering, Secretary of State :

" Quincy, Sept. 16, 1798.

". . . I shall not be guilty of so much affectation of regard to science, as
to be very willing to grant passports to Dupont de Nemours, or any other
French philosophers, in the present situation of our Country. We have had
too many French philosophers already, and I really begin to think, or rather
to suspect, that learned academies, not under the immediate inspection and
control of government, have disorganized the world, and are incompatible with
social order. Mr. King judges correctly of the American government, that it
has no disposition to give any encouragement to the mission of the Directory.
I hope he conjectures equally well of the English." — Life and Works of J,
Adams, v., 596.

f Italics in cipher.

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 369

that I should prefer to see one or two Republicks in So. America,
the conversation turned to other and less important Topics.
With perfect Respect and Esteem, &c. &c.

Rufus King.

Thomas Pinckney to R. King.

Charleston, 18 July, 1798.
My dear Sir :

The infirm state of my health rendered it necessary for me to
leave Congress previous to their adjournment by which means
your favor addressed to me in Philadelphia did not reach me
until after a long & tedious journey I had returned home — the
debates in Congress detailed in the Newspapers will long before
you receive this have enabled you to give an answer to Sir
Clement Cottrell on the subject of the present ; but lest this in-
formation should by chance not have met your Eye, I have to
inform you that I wrote to each branch of the Legislature relating
to them the offers of the Courts of G. Britain and Spain to make
me the customary present & asking their decision whether or not
I should receive them — the Senate passed a resolution consenting
to the acceptance, which Resolution was not concur'd in by the
Representatives. No reason was assigned for this rejection but
from the course of the debates it appeared that the Majority were
actuated by general motives of policy & not by such as peculiarly
related to either party. I am convinced that you either have or
will put the refusal in its proper point of view, so that no umbrage
may be taken where I believe none was intended to be given.

The increased spirit of union which has lately been manifested
in the United States & the general determination to support our
independence at all hazard & against every assailant must have
afforded you much satisfaction. This spirit, if not universal is as
general as could have been expected — if there are any Americans
still deceived concerning the views & intentions of the French
toward us, nothing I think could have continued the delusion but
the conduct of Mr. Gerry. I fear that to want of judgement in
this character may be added qualities of a more criminal nature —
The present questions which seem to divide the sentiments of the
friends to our independence are an immediate declaration of war,
& an Alliance with Great Britain. I am of opinion with those

VOL. II. — 24

370 RUFUS KING. [1798

who are averse to both measures, preferring to go into the war if
necessary without the declaration ; continuing our preparations
for a vigorous opposition & actually repelling every aggression
both at home & abroad until we see the effect of our late meas-
ures, which I am well assured will astonish the French Govern-
ment, whether or not they may cause any alteration in their coun-
cils. And as to an Alliance offensive or defensive with any
power on Earth I have a multitude of reasons too tedious to
detail against that measure, one is founded on past experience,
as we are now paying the penalty of a former engagement ; an-
other is that I have no faith in these paper bonds when the
pressure of circumstances tends to dissolve them ; a third is that
these compacts must be neutral & might drag us on into war con-
trary to our interest & inclinations when the cause of war may
no longer exist ; but above all I wish us to stand on American
ground — at least I wish the experiment fairly to be made ; if
then we find we can not go alone, it will be time to call for

assistance.

Truly Yours

Thomas Pinckney.

R. King to Col. Pickering.

Private,

London, July 19, 1798.
Dear Sir :

On the 14th inst Mr. Gerry was still at Paris, and the Ameri-
cans about him continue by their letters which are sent in every
direction to amuse their correspondents with Reports that the
Directory hold a conciliatory language concerning America, and
that Mr. G. has hopes that he shall be able to obtain for his Coun-
try Terms that will be honorable and satisfactory. This is pre-
cisely what the Directory must desire that he and they should
say and circulate at the moment they expect a Rupture between
the Two Countries. How he will justify his residence at Paris
after the receit of the letter of Recall sent to him & his col-
leagues I cannot conjecture ; he certainly feels and acts differ-
ently from what most of his Countrymen would do in his
situation. There is a most extraordinary and to me a most
satisfactory contrast between his conduct and language and that

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 37 1

of the President. So striking is the Difference that the question
has been often asked, by those who do not understand our con-
stitution, by whom our Ambassadors are appointed, and who has
the power to recall them ; the supposition being that these powers
do not reside in the President whose opinions are so much at
variance with those manifested by Mr. Gerry. . . .

We still have nothing more than vague Rumours concerning
Buonaparte, and the squadron under Nelson since the capture of
Malta. At Rastadt there is the appearancee of pretty firm Re-
sistance to the last Note of the French ministers. But nothing
positive or satisfactory can be inferred from the present Posture
of negotiations there.

As I have intimated to you would probably be the case, I per-
ceive that numbers of the disaffected Irish will be expelled and
that they will be disposed to plant themselves among us. It was
the practice of the Emigrants from Scotland to bring with them
Certificates from the religious Societies to which they belonged,
of their honesty, sobriety and generally of their good Character !
Why should we not require some such Document from all Emi-
grants, and it would be well to add to the Testimonial that the
person to whom it was granted was not expelled from his Coun-
try and had not been convicted of any crime. I am, I confess
very anxious upon this subject. The contrast between New Eng-
land and some other Parts of the U. S. is in my view a powerful
admonition to us to observe greater caution in the admission of
Foreigners among us. If from the emigrations of past time we
have suffered inconvenience and our true national character has
been disfigured, what are we to expect from the Emigrants of the

present Day ? . . .

With great haste

R. K.

R. Troup to R. King.

New York, 24th July, 1798.
My dear Sir :

. . . I now enclose you Gen. Washington's acceptance of

the command of our armies. This is much admired and thought

to add another gem to that crown of glory he has so long worn.

Congress have adjourned ; our Treaties with France are dis-

372 RUFUS KING. [1798

solved ; no declaration of war has taken place, although we are
on both sides in a state of actual hostility.

The temper of our countrymen is still continuing to mount
higher and brighter. We shall not dishonour our country. . . .
Our general officers are appointed. Hamilton is the first on the
list as Inspector General, with the rank of Major General ; next
to him is Pinckney, our Envoy to France as Major General ; then
comes Knox as Major General. . . .

God bless you
Rob. Troup.

T. Pickering to R. King. No. 23.

" Department of State, July 25, 1798.
" Dear Sir :

"... You will have seen by the news papers that General
Washington has accepted the office of Lieutenant General and
Commander in Chief of the Armies of the United States. This
has given great satisfaction and contributed to heighten and ex-
tend the rising spirit of the people of the United States. . . .'"

R. King to Secretary of State. No. 87.

Margate, July 28, 1798.
Dear Sir :

I have as you will suppose been much gratified with the late
intelligence from America : if anything can preserve us from the
distress and ruin which continue to extend themselves in Europe,
it will be our thinking and acting concerning France with that
wisdom and firmness of which the President gives us so illustrious
an example. We shall not only thereby save our own country
but we shall do more ; our example beyond what we imagine will
encourage others to unite in that resistance which alone can res-
cue Europe from Slavery and Barbarism. Men of all parties, and
of every country agree in applauding the moderation, the justice
and the wisdom of our Government, and never perhaps did the
publication of any negociation more completely serve to decide
and settle the public opinion than that of our mission to Paris
has done. It has given reputation to our couutry, and besides
been advantageous by closing the mouth of the apologists of

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 373

France. I wish I could send you even a tolerable program re-
specting the affairs of Europe. Many people think that great
events depend on the success or failure of the Expedition, which
nobody understands, of Buonaparte. We know nothing of con-
sequence from the Mediterranean since the capture of Malta. A
frigate returned from thence to Toulon with despatches and a
general officer on board, has been met and captured by an Eng-
lish frigate and we are told that Buonaparte with his fleet had left
Malta two days before the English fleet that pursues him arrived
there. The prevalent opinion is that there is a great probability
that the French fleet will be overtaken and defeated. The con-
ferences at Seltz between that Ex-director and Count Cobenzel,
which it has been said related to the affair of Bernadotte at
Vienna, have broken off, and, as is given out, without effecting
their object. At Rastadt the ministers continue to exchange
notes, and to protract the negociations as if the winding up of
their business depended upon events that had not yet arrived.
The conquest of Switzerland and the occupation of Turin by a
French army enables the Directory to complete the Revolution of
all Italy whenever they please. In Ireland the Rebellion is at an
end, a general amnesty with a few exceptions will soon be pro-
claimed ; many of the inferior chiefs will be permitted to go into
exile. I have before intimated the probability of such a measure,
and hope the President will have power to exclude from our
country all such foreigners whose residence among us would be
dangerous. England strong in her union and confident of her
resources manfully resolves to maintain the struggle with the
enemy ; no one speaks of peace ; and all seem to think and act
as tho' arms alone could protect them from the misery that is suf-
fered by the people of France. You may observe in some of the
newspapers indications of a change in the Ministry ; no credit is
due to them ; the Ministry undoubtedly possess as great, and per-
haps a greater portion of public confidence and support than were
ever bestowed upon any former administration, and in respect to
the favor of the King, so long as they will continue the war, so long
they will receive his protection ; indeed the opposition are too small to
form from among themselves a new administration ; and could they
do it, neither the King nor the Nation would confide in them*

* Italics are in cipher.

374 RUFUS KING. [1798

I don't say this without the highest and most convincing proof
that it is true. The Paris papers of the 13th give with fidelity the
late news from Philadelphia. Mr. Gerry was still there ! Dupont
(a letter from whom to his sister that lately fell into my hands is
sent enclosed*) had arrived at Bordeaux after a short passage from
New York. We may judge of his Report from the tenor of this
letter. We have accounts from France, which tho' probable, need
confirmation, that on the 9th instant an Embargo was laid on all
American Ships, and yesterday there was a rumour that the same
measure had been adopted in Holland. The French papers of
the 10th are silent on this subject, tho' they mention the encreased
probability of an open rupture with the United States. I have
taken such measures as I think will give me early information on
this subject, and in a certain event, I am prepared, to send out
safe and expeditious intelligence thereof.

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c. &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Col. Hamilton.

31st July, 1798.

Dear Sir :

You will believe that I have been much gratified with the late
intelligence from home. France has calculated all her plans on
our disunion, and the expectation that her friends if not more
numerous would be more active and possess greater energy than
the friends of our Government ; or rather she has believed that
our Government like that of every country that she has succeeded
to overturn and enslave, would act with such timidity and in
so qualified a manner, that the affections and support of the
People would be easily withdrawn from and even turned against
it. If the Government continues to speak and act with decision,
the people will become more and more united, and still better in-
clined to execute its purposes. This opinion should be taken in
connection with an observation (the importance of wh. appears
to me the greater the oftener I consider it) that I have suggested
in more than one of my late letters. The composition of ad-
dresses and the forming of volunteer associations who will have

* Not found.— Ed.

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 375

nothing to do, are for the present well ; but they will cease to be
novelties and soon become tiresome, and to be secure you must
have some sufficient object that will interest and employ the
passions of the Nation. The mere defensive system of the
enemies of France has been a principal cause of her success, and
if we adopt the error we shall be exposed to greater Risques than
by a bold and active system, which, exclusive of being the most
certain means of safety, would promise the acquisition of great
and lasting advantages.

The Destiny of the new world, and I have a full and firm per-
suasion that it will be both happy and glorious, is in our hands.
We have a right and it is our duty to deliberate and act, not as
secondaries, but as Principals. The object and the occasion are
such as we ought not in respect to ourselves and others to suffer
to pass unimproved.

I have nothing to observe in reference to the subject of regret
and complaint,* mentioned in your last letters. You will not
doubt that all the means in my power have been employed to
correct the mischief ; they have served only to convince me that
it is incorrigible ; it is an evil too deeply rooted and too power-
fully protected to be cured ; and it is something gained to know
that it is so. If we are wise we shall have the agents that will
place the remedy in our own hands.

A Frigate returning from Malta to Toulon and a general officer
has been captured by an English frigate, and we are told that
Buonaparte had sailed on his expedition two days before the Eng.
fleet that pursues him arrived there. If so, the French fleet is in
great danger. Many persons think that great events depend on
the success or failure of Buonaparte's expedition. All the late

* Reference is probably here made to a letter of Hamilton, June 6th (vol. vi.,
p. 298), in which occurs the following passage : " How vexatious it is that at
such a juncture there should be officers of Great Britain, who, actuated by a
spirit of plunder, are doing the most violent things, calculated to check the
proper amount of popular feeling (in the U. States), and to furnish weapons to
the enemies of government," and mentioning several cases of outrages in the
W. Indies, such as Cambauld's at the Mole, and the captures of vessels by
Cochrane of the Thetis, he closes : " There seems a fatality in all this. It
cannot be doubted that the British Cabinet must at this time desire to conciliate
this country. It is to be hoped they will not want vigor to do it with effect, by
punishing those who contravene the object." — Ed.

376 RUFUS KING. [1798

arrivals from Paris say a new storm is at hand ; but none ex-
press a hope that the changes it may effect will render the condi-
tion of France or of others better. Gerry still hangs about the
Directory ! ! At Rastadt the Congress continues, and the jeal-
ousies between Austria and Prussia artfully kept alive by the
common Enemy, prevent that hearty union without which no suc-
cessful cooperation will take place against France.

In Ireland the Rebellion is suppressed, and our Government
will I hope have the power and the inclination to exclude those
disaffected characters, who will be suffered to seek an asylum
among us. England is more than ever united and resolves with
confidence in the superiority of her resources to prosecute the
war. There is no talk of peace ; nor is there any appearance wh.
wd. lead to an opinion that new overtures for that purpose are
likely soon to be made.

On the other hand France is extremely embarrassed any longer
to find the money necessary to maintain her army and carry on
the war.

Be so kind as to present my affectionate respect and congratu-
lations to the Governor. I ought to write to him, but I consider
a letter to him or you as nearly the same.

With great truth and attachment &c. Yrs.

R. King.

P. S. We have just heard that Gerry has received his passport.

At the close of Talleyrand's letter, sending it, he says though

the Directory, as a measure of precaution, has laid an embargo

upon all American vessels, " telle est la repugnance du Directoire

a. considerer les Etats Unis comme ennemis, que malgre leurs

demonstrations hostiles, il veut attendre, qu' il y voit irresistible-

ment force par des hostilites reelles."

R. King.

CHAPTER XXV.

King to R. Troup — French and Irish Affairs — Benedict Arnold — To Secretary
of State — French Affairs — United States must be firm — Reports of Vol-
ney — Lord Grenville on Relations of the United States with France —
Gerry's Arrival at Spithead — King's Failure to see him — Duverne de Praisle
sent to Philadelphia — His Character — Dr. Logan's Arrival at Hamburg —
King to W. Vans Murray — Negotiation between England and Holland —
Mr. Derby desires to import Saltpetre from E. Indies to America — King
to purchase Muskets and Cannon for the United States — King's Admira-
tion of the Firmness of the Govt, of the United States in Relations with
France — Conversation with Lord Grenville on the Effect of the Fupture
of Treaties with France — Probability of Revolution in S. America — Euro-
pean Politics — To S. Williams relative to Seizure of Nails as Contraband
— Cabot on European Affairs — Also on the Condition of the United States
and its Firmness.

R. King to R. Troup.

July 31, 1798.
My dear Sir :

I give you a thousand thanks for three letters that I have lately
received from you. They have given me more information and
more satisfaction than all I had heard for the preceding six
months. We are delighted with the firm and manly conduct of
our Government. If any thing will save us from the Snares and
Ruin prepared for us, it will be the resolute and plain Policy of
which the President's conduct is so worthy an example. We
everywhere gain applause and admiration ; even from those who
have strong prejudices to overcome in speaking well of any of
our measures.

Such persons as have lately returned from Paris concur in their
reports of the disappointment and chagrin of those who are most
intimate with the Directory. Nothing can exceed the rage of the
apostate Americans, who have so long misrepresented and dis-
graced their country at Paris. Mr. Gerry remained there, when
378 RUFUS KING. [1798

we last heard from thence. The information lately received from
Philadelphia, which is to the 20th of June, has been received and
published with tolerable fidelity in the French papers. The late
law, authorizing the Directory to make domiciliary visits is the
return of terror and forbodes another Revolution. The Expedi-
tion agt, Engd. is of tedious preparation.

The Rebellion in Ireland is suppressed and there is reason to
believe, so numerous and vigilant have been the English ships of
war, that not a single musket, nor a single officer have been landed
in Ireland. If measures are not employed to prevent it, you will
find that considerable numbers of the disaffected will seek an
asylum among us. Notwithstanding all you may hear to the con-
trary, England is more united than ever ; confident in her re-
sources and, thoroughly convinced of the importance of the
contest, she will manfully maintain it, until Peace can be obtained
that will bring security. The French have demonstrated their
inability in respect to the threatened invasion, in not having
attempted even to succour Ireland whom she encouraged to
revolt. If England is wise she will pursue a Policy that will here-
after preserve her from that anxiety and expence to which she has
been so often exposed by Ireland. Scotland was formerly equally
troublesome ; but since the Union the Scots have been loyal ; the
same measure would probably produce the same effects in Ireland.

We are waiting with impatience for further news from the
Mediterranean — At Rastadt nothing is decided and the Congress
continues. The jealousies between Austria and Prussia prevent
their union, without which both these nations must undergo a
Revolution. Our Agent in the case of captures has just reed,
from the Exchequer in payment of the awards of the commissrs.
and of Sir Wm. Scott and Dr. Nicholl, about ^70,000 Sterling,
and there is a prospect of a satisfactory termination of the cases
of capture that fall within the purview of the Treaty. . .

You have undoubtedly heard that here, as well as with you, all
the country have been permitted to form volunteer corps — in the
Parish of Mary-le-bone, the tradesmen associated and a proposal
was made to appoint a number of half-pay officers to be their
officers. General Arnold lives in that Parish, and a rumour circu-
lated that he wished a command. The tradesmen met and re-
solved that General Arnold, having once betrayed and deserted

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 379

his duty, ought never again to be trusted, and that they wd. never

serve with him or under his command.

Yours,

R. King.

P. S. We hear that Mr. Gerry has demanded and received his
Passport. Mr. Talleyrand informs Mr. Gerry, " that notwithstand-
ing the hostile preparations in America, the Directory will wait until
they are forced by actual hostilities to declare war." They do
not easily relinquish a plan, and they appear moderate and hum-
ble, in hopes that we shall relax and that in the end they shall
succeed.

R. Ktng to Secretary of State. No. 88.

London, August 1, 1798.
Dear Sir :

It is confirmed that France has laid an Embargo on all Ameri-
can vessels in her ports, and I have reason to apprehend that the
same measure will be enforced in Holland. The knowledge of
what has been done in France will hasten the departure of such
of our ships as are in the Dutch ports. Excepting ten or twelve
at Bordeaux, there are but few American vessels in the French
ports, and I do not learn that the number is considerable in
Holland.

Mr. Gerry received his Passport on the 15th ulto., but was still
at Paris on the 25th, tho' proposing to leave it to embark at
Havre ; Genl. Pinckney has reached Bordeaux, where he ex-
periences new embarrassments on account of the Embargo, but
expects to receive permission to embark in the ship in which
Dupont and others lately returned to France. I have sent you
by various channels Talleyrand's last letter to Mr. Gerry, which
having been published in Paris, has been republished here. You
will doubtless regret that Mr. Gerry's unfortunate separation from
his colleagues has furnished an occasion for some of the Remarks
that this letter contains, the principal object of which, agreeable
to the original and avowed hopes of the Directory, and which it
appears they still cherish, is the establishment of that division
among our People, and between them and the Government which
will enable France to regulate the destinies of America, in the
manner she continues to rule those of Europe.

380 RUFUS KING, [1798

We have intelligence from Boston as late as the 3d of July, and
it is highly satisfactory ; but unless we are patient, firm and per-
severing, and can thereby succeed to deprive France of the oppor-
tunity of employing the means among ourselves upon which she
relies to effect her purposes, we shall notwithstanding our promis-
ing beginnings ultimately become the victims of her insidious and
destructive policy. For consider the rapacity and insolence that
she daily practises towards those who have unhappily fallen be-
neath her power : she knows how to assume the language of
justice and of moderation to others ; and to attain her object
with deep dissimulation displays in the most captivating manner
the images of candour, of sincerity and of Justice. My anxiety
is lest our Country may be deceived by her false appearances,
and after ail we have ourselves experienced, and after the dread-
ful commentary upon French moderation and justice exhibited
in the fate of the Swiss, that we shall find those among us who will
become the advocates of a system that will prematurely bring the
new world to that ruin, that has nearly overwhelmed the old. I
am informed and I believe correctly, that the Reports of Volney
which are in the highest degree gross and offensive in regard to
our Government, represent the separation between the northern
and southern States and between them and the western country,
as events that nature has ordained and which France can with
ease and advantage at any time effect. The Reports of Dupont
differ in this respect from those of Volney, and the former also
represent the people to be more united and better inclined to
support their Government than the latter conceives them to
be. . . .

With perfect Respect and Esteem &c. &c.

Rufus King.

Lord Grenville to R. King.

Secret.

Dropmore, Aug. 3. 1798.
My dear Sir :

I am very much obliged to you for the interesting information

contained in your letter of the 31st July. The spirit which the

United States continue to display in the present crisis of their

affairs affords the best prospect, & the surest means, for the main-

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 38 1

tenance of their consideration abroad & of their tranquillity at
home. You know how sincerely I concur with you in every wish
that you can form for the success of the wise & dignified measures
which your Government is pursuing.

In my opinion the tone of Talleyrand's last letter to Gerry on
sending him his passport plainly shows that those measures have
already produced a great part of the effect to be expected from
them. But if this affectation of friendship & conciliation suc-
ceeds in imposing upon your people, and induces them or their
Government to relax its efforts, the whole of what has been done
will be useless and the same course will be to be again pursued
with less expectation of ultimate success.

You know I am never very sanguine in what I say to you of
continental affairs, in Europe. If all or any of those Powers
whose ruin is either completed, or in the regular progress of com-
pletion, had shown half the energy that has been displayed by
the British & American People, they would have been safe, we
should have been triumphant, and America would have been a
tranquil and uninterested spectator of the troubles which the
infernal spirit of atheism and modern Philosophy had produced
in France.

It would be too much to persuade oneself that they are yet
fairly roused from their fatal Lethargy & impressed with a true
sense of the nature of the crisis in which they are placed. There
are however just now appearances more favourable with respect
to Austria & Russia than we have lately been accustomed to see.
Between the former of these Powers & Naples a defensive Alli-
ance has been concluded for mutual support against France, and
any attack by the French against Naples for receiving or supply-
ing our ships (which the Neapolitan Govt, has engaged to do) is
to be considered by Austria as a casus foederis. This stipulation
seems to render a renewal of the War almost certain and Austria
is preparing for it accordingly. The conferences at Seltz are
entirely broken off. Cobenzel & Neuchateau had both orders to
demand satisfaction on the affair of Bernadotte, and as neither
was authorized to give it, nothing was settled on that head. Co-
benzel had also orders to remonstrate & treat on the subject of
the Italian & Swiss revolutions since Campo-Formio, & Neuchateau
refused to talk on these events which had happened, as he said,

382 RUFUS KING. [1798

by the will of the Italian & Helvetic nations ! Nothing was there-
fore agreed to, but the whole negotiation was referred back to the
ordinary channels of intercourse, the negotiators separated, as
I learn, with great mutual politeness.

I mention these particulars to you in confidence not to be
talked of here, but with such liberty to state them to your Gov-
ernment to whom I conceive it may be important to be accurately
informed of them. If there was more energy & union on the
continent, I should think the prospects of the present moment
very favourable, but be the conduct or the state of the continent
what it may you [may] be assured that neither the principles nor
the conduct of this Country will vary.*

Believe me ever with the most sincere regard, dear Sir, your

most faithful humbl. servt.

Grenville.

R. King to Secretary of State. No. 90.

Margate, August 5, 1798.
Dear Sir :

The last Paris papers, which are to the 30th of July, are un-
interesting ; but the information from thence by Dover & Ham-
burgh confirms the inference that may be drawn from Talleyrand's
farewell letter to Mr. Gerry, that the spirit of our people and the
wise and dignified conduct of our Government have already pro-
duced a great part of the effect to be expected from them.
Should however this affectation of friendship and conciliation suc-
ceed in imposing upon our people, or should it induce them or
our Government to relax in the only sure means of saving the
Country, the whole of what has been done will be useless, and
the same course will be to be again pursued with less expectation
of ultimate success. Difficult as it undoubtedly is with the best
and most regular information, to form a correct opinion respect-
ing the affairs of Europe, I shall forever believe that if those
powers whose ruin is either completed, or in the progress of being
so, had shown half the energy that continues to be displayed by

* Mr. King's dispatch to the Secretary of State, No. 90, August 5th, con-
tains the information given by Lord Grenville used generally in the language of
his letter. — Ed.

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 383

the people of America, they would have been safe, England
would long since have been at peace, and we should have
remained the tranquil and uninterested spectator of the troubles
which the infernal spirit of atheism and modern philosophy had
produced in France. When the enslaved nations will awake
from their lethargy cannot be predicted, and it would be too
much to persuade ourselves that they or those, who are on the
eve of ruin, are yet fairly roused or fully impressed with the crisis
in which they are placed.

But I have this moment learned, and you may give full credit
to the information, that there are just now appearances more
favorable, and particularly in respect to Austria and Prussia than
we have lately been accustomed to see. Between the former and
Naples a defensive alliance has been concluded for mutual sup-
port against France ; and any attack by the French against
Naples for receiving or supplying the British ships of war, which
the Neapolitan Government has engaged to do, is to be consid-
ered by Austria as a Casus foederis ! This expectation, so very
important in the present posture of affairs in the Mediterranean,
seems to render the renewal of the war almost certain, and Austria
is accordingly preparing for it. Through the same channel that
I have obtained this highly interesting intelligence, I also learn
that Cobenzel and Neufchateau in their conference at Seltz have
orders to demand satisfaction in the affair of Bernadotte ; and
as neither was authorized to give it, nothing was settled on that
head. Cobenzel had also orders to remonstrate and treat on the
subject of the Italian and Swiss Revolutions since the Treaty of
"Campo Formio ; the Ex-director refused to talk on these events
which had happened, he said, by the will of the Italian and Hel-
vetic nations.

Nothing was therefore agreed, but the whole negociation was
referred back to the ordinary channels of intercourse, and the
negociators separated, as I hear, with great mutual politeness. I
hope to be able to send this letter by the Packet, tho' the mail
has been despatched, as I consider it to be of great consequence
that the President should receive the earliest information of the
present and probable state of Europe ; respecting which if there
was greater energy and union upon the Continent, the prospects
of the present moment might be considered as favorable. But

384 RUFUS KING. [1798

let the conduct or condition of the continent be what it may, I
am assured that neither the principles nor the conduct of this
country will vary.

With perfect Respect and Esteem &c. &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Lord Spencer.

Great Cumberland Place, nth August, 1798.

Mr. King presents his compliments to Lord Spencer, and has
the honor to inform his Lordship that the American Brigantine
Sophia Master which the Government of the U. S. some-
times since dispatched to France for the purpose of bringing from
thence their Envoys at Paris, is now arrived at Spithead with
Elbridge Gerry Esq, one of their Envoys, on board.

The Sophia was forced to put into Portsmouth in order to es-
cape a French Privateer which they had every reason to believe
was in pursuit of them. She had also been stopt, soon after leav-
ing Havre, by the British Frigate Niger, Capt. Woodhouse, from
whom Mr. Gerry received every mark of the most polite attention.
Mr. Gerry being desirous of prosecuting his voyage with all possible
expedition, and anxious to prevent future interruptions by his
Majesty's Ships of War, has sent a confidential person to Town,
with directions to Mr. King to apply immediately for letters of
safe conduct from the English Government, addressed to the
Commanders and officers of its fleets.

In compliance, therefore, with this request, Mr. King takes the
liberty of soliciting the necessary Passport and flatters himself
that he cannot in any manner so effectually and readily obtain it
as in Lord Spencer's interference ; he confides in his Lordship's
giving every facility to Mr. Gerry, not only in consideration of
his public character, but of his being personally the intimate friend
of Mr. King.

Copy.

Mr. Nepean presents his compliments to Mr. King, has the
honor of enclosing to him the Protection he has desired.

Mr. Nepean imagines that no great difficulty would arise in ac-
commodating Mr. Gerry on board the Cleopatra, charged with

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 385

the outward bound Convoy to America, if he or Mr. King should
have any particular wishes on that head. Mr. Nepean opened
Mr. King's letter in Lord Spencer's absence.
Admiralty, Saturday Afternoon.

R. King to Elbridge Gerry.

London, Aug. 13, 1798.
Dear Sir :

Your letter of the 10th arrived at my office on Saturday, and
was sent that evening to me at Margate, which place I left the
next morning before the arrival of the mail ; by the return post
however I have at length received it. On Saturday Mr. Munro
sent you my Passport which cannot be of any use to you ; he had
and as I conceive agreeable to your desire, applied for and by this
mail has sent you a Passport from the Lords Commissioners of the
Admiralty.

I am extremely sorry that my absence from town prevented my
receiving your letter on Saturday, as in that case I should have
gone immediately to Portsmouth to meet you ; I still hope for
that pleasure and it will afford me much satisfaction to receive
you in London ; the visit cannot be uninteresting to you, and with
the belief that you will have both time and inclination, I have just
sent Mr, Munro to the Duke of Portland's office to procure and
forward to you the requisite Passport.

I should not put our meeting upon this footing, but would be
with you to-morrow morning, was I not obliged to be in town both
to-morrow and the day after. If, however, you shall feel any dis-
inclination to come hither and will wait, which the adverse winds
are likely to compel you to do, I will meet you at Portsmouth on
Thursday.

Our accounts from home are as late as the 10th of July ; tho'
not official, I believe them authentic. You already know the
tenor of the Laws for the Protection of our Commerce, and like-
wise of those which authorize the Capture of French Privateers.
The Law suspending all commercial intercourse with France and
her Dominions has been followed by another declaring all our
treaties with that nation void ; and I have seen in a Norfolk pa-

386 RUFUS KING. [i798

per of the 5th of July the copy of a Bill that had been twice read
in the Senate of the U. S., which, after reciting the French ag-
gressions, enacts that the Government and People of France and
of their Dependencies are to be deemed Enemies of the U. S.,
and that any person owing allegiance to the U. S. who shall ad-
here to them, giving them aid and comfort shall be deemed a
Traitor, and on conviction suffer death.

A private letter that has been shown to me from Baltimore of
the 10th of July states that Colonel McHenry, Secretary of War,
was then there on his way to meet General Washington, who had
been appointed Commander of the Army which he has accepted.

With respect to this Country, you will naturally suppose that
the intelligence from America is received with great satisfaction.
Upon this and other important points, a meeting between us,
would, in my opinion, be advantageous to our Country. I have
but a moment before the mail closes to renew my assurances of
Esteem and to beg you to believe me your faithful friend.

R. K.

R. King to Elbridge Gerry, Esq.

London, August 14th, 1798.
Dear Sir :

I have had the pleasure to receive your Letter of yesterday, and
as the winds continue unfavorable, I am in great hopes that we
shall have an opportunity of meeting before you sail.

If you do not come to London, but remain at Spithead, I will
see you there on Thursday. Your letter of to-morrow in answer
to mine of yesterday will regulate my conduct in this respect.

I have very strong reason to believe that a person has been
sent from France to Philadelphia, with a commission not friendly
to the U. S. ; but under what assumed name, or on what ship he
went over I don't know. By this mail I have sent to our Con-
sular Agent at Portsmouth a despatch to Col. Pickering with
instructions to send it together with a Packet of newspapers on
board the Sophia, if she has not sailed.

I am, Dear Sir, your ob. & faithful friend.

Rufus King.

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 387

R. King to Secretary of State. No. 91.

London, Augt. 14, 1798.
Dear Sir :

Mr. Gerry sailed from Havre on the evening of the 8th, and
was chased into Portsmouth on the 10th by a French Lugger,
which he conjectures was sent to sea for the purpose of intercept-
ing him notwithstanding his Passports.

I have by his desire sent him a Passport from the Lords Com-
missioners of the Admiralty ; and although from his letter to me
I perceive that he is anxious to proceed on his voyage without
delay, I have desired him to come to London, thinking that our
meeting might be of public advantage. If he should be disin-
clined to leave his ship, or to come here, I have informed him that
I will meet him at Portsmouth on the 16th, before which my en-
gagements do not permit me to leave London.

Several letters of a later date than those heretofore noticed
passed between Mr. Gerry and Mr. Talleyrand before the former
left France ; the last which was received by Mr. Gerry at Havre
announces the Arrete of the Directory of the 31st of July con-
cerning the Privateers of the West Indies. This arrete is pub-
lished in all the papers.

I lose no time to inform you that Duverne de Praisle, who un-
der the name of betrayed the cause of the Royalists in
France, has been sent to Philadelphia with his sister (with whom
he lived in a state of prostitution) and that I have very strong
reason to believe that some commission, not friendly to the United
States has been given to him.

He is an officer of the Army, a man of talents, and unlike
most of his countrymen, cautious and discreet. I don't know
under what name or in what ship he went over ; but he may be
discovered by his conversation, which, with all his reserve, habitu-
ally turns on the countries he has visited ; which are America
where he served in de Grasse's fleet ; England where he was some-
time a prisoner, in 1782 ; and the Black Sea, where he was sent
to assist in taking a survey of the coasts. He is remarkable from
an uncommon dark and downcast look, tho' he has sharp eyes ;
he is about five feet seven or eight inches high, and has a swing
in his walk like that of seamen. His sister, tho' somewhat better

388 RUFUS KING. [l798

looking is not unlike him ; they have a child the issue of their
incestuous connexion.

I have no letter from you later than your number 13.
With perfect Respect & Esteem &c &c

Rufus King.

P. S. I have just received a second letter from Mr. Gerry in
which he informs me that it turns out to have been an English
and not a French Lugger that chased him into Spithead. The
Commander of the Lugger by order of his superior officer has
waited upon Mr. Gerry and made an apology for having chased
the Sophia. As Mr. Gerry appears to be anxious to reach
America with the greatest expedition, I am apprehensive that I
shall not have an opportunity of meeting him.

2d P. S. By the Hamburgh Mail that has just arrived, I am in-
formed that on the 27th ulto. Dr. Logan arrived there on a Danish
vessel. He kept himself very quiet, waited on the French agent
there, but not on the American Consul. He is said to have been
charged with letters from Mr. Jefferson and others for Fayette,
Merlin and Talleyrand : the French agent without hesitation gave
him a Passport for Paris where he expressed much anxiety to
arrive before Mr. Gerry's departure ; but in this he has been dis-
appointed. He gave the idea of being sent by the American
Government, and that his mission required expedition & secrecy.
I shall probably know what was the tenor of his conversation at
Hamburgh, and will, if of any consequence, hereafter communi-
cate it to you.

I know the Doctor and am at no loss to understand the object
of his Mission.

R. King to Elbridge Gerry.

London, 12 p.m., 15th Augt., 1798.
Dear Sir :

I have this moment received by Express yours of this date. I

should have been on my way to meet you, but not receiving any

answer to my letter of the 13th in course by the mail that arrived

this morning, I concluded that you had sailed before it reached

Portsmouth. This I the more regret, as it is now impossible that

1 7 98 J LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 389

I can arrive at Portsmouth within the time that you prescribed. I

am therefore reluctantly obliged to give up the hope that I had

entertained of an interview with you before your return. . . .

Wishing you a safe and Expeditious Passage,

I have the honor to remain, Dr. Sir, Your ob. & faithful St.

R. K.

R. King to Wm. V. Murray.

In W. V. Murray's Cipher.

London, Aug. 16, 1798.
Dear Sir :

It is almost certain that the war will soon be renewed, at least
between Austria and France. The political timidity of Prussia
will prevent the king from acting ; but a war with Austria sup-
ported by Russia would favor any disposition that may exist in
Holland to emancipate themselves from France. It will be diffi-
cult for England by any formal act to discard the Prince of
Orange, tho' as I have before told you, and as the past history of
England and Holland proves, the non-existence of the Stadthold-
erate will not impede a friendly and useful connexion and Treaty
between the two Countries : a reform would perhaps be preferable
to an abolition of the Stadtholderate.

Wadsworth has reported to me a conversation with Shimmel-
pennick that passed, I believe, in your presence, and which may
be made the commencement of at least an informal negociation
between Holland and England. No one can approve the old
constitution of Holland. England desires to see, and would
gladly assist in, any suitable manner to establish a rational, free,
and efficient Government in that Country : she would engage
to all persons perfect security against every sort of personal or
other inconvenience on account of the past and would moreover
become the guaranty against the abuse, which might be appre-
hended from the weakness of the Prince of Orange.

The portion of authority which he or his family should retain
in the new System, would be matter proper for discussion, and you
may say that a person on the part of England will meet such per-

390 RUFUS KING. [1798

son on the part of Holland, by which I mean all the Provinces, as
shall be sent to any convenient place that they shall name con-
fidentially to confer upon these important concerns.*

Rufus King.

R. King to Right Honorable Henry Dundas.

London, Aug. 16, 1798.
Sir :

I take the liberty to send you the enclosed, a copy of a letter
that I have received from Mr. Lane, a merchant in the city, who
is the agent of Mr. Derby a respectable citizen and merchant of
the United States.

Mr. Derby is desirous of sending, with the utmost expedition a
small ship to Bengal for the purpose of purchasing and exporting
from thence to the United States, a cargo of Saltpetre : this he
cannot do without the permission of his Majesty's Government.
Notwithstanding I have on a former occasion obtained thro' your
interference for my countryman Mr. Babcock a permission to ex-
port a quantity of Saltpetre from Bengal to the United States, I
should feel some hesitation in repeating the application, did not
the present situation of the United States, and a precise instruc-
tion that I have lately received from the President, make it my
duty to give all the aid and encouragement in my power to our
Merchants to carry to the United States every species of military
stores, the acquisition of which is daily becoming more important
to us.

Under these circumstances, so different from those which have
heretofore existed, I take the liberty to request your interference
in order that permission may be given under such cautions as may

be thought requisite to Bullock, Master of the American

Ship Benjamin, belonging to Elias D. Derby to purchase at Cal-
cutta 130 tons of Saltpetre and to export the same from thence
directly to the United States.

With perfect Consideration and Respect, &c, &c.

Rufus King.

* See R. K. to Secy, of State, Aug. 20, 1798.

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 39 1

R. King to Rt. Hon. Lord Grenville.

Great Cumberland Place, Aug. 16, 1798.
My Lord :

I have been instructed to cause to be purchased and sent to the
United States with the least possible delay 25000 muskets, as
many Iron cannon for the naval service, consisting of equal num-
bers of 24. 18. 12. 9. 6. & 4. pounders as can be purchased for
^6000 sterling, and of Iron cannon for the land service, consist-
ing of 32. 24. 18. 12. & 9. pounders, as can be purchased
for ^4000 Sterling, and I have reason to expect orders for a
farther supply.

It is my wish that this order should be executed in such man-
ner as shall least interfere with the system of the Ordnance De-
partment. Several of the Manufacturers of Birmingham inform
me that they can manufacture more arms than are at present de-
manded by the Ordnance Department. I mention this circum-
stance with a view that the Government orders may be enlarged
in case that it shall on consideration appear adviseable that the
supply we want should be furnished from the Tower. As it is my
intention to send these military Stores by several vessels, a de-
livery of them by parcels will suit as well as to receive them all
together. It is however of very great importance to us that we
obtain them as soon as possible.

With perfect Consideration & Respect,

Rufus King.

R. Troup to R. King.

New York, Aug. 16, 1798.
My Dear Sir :

. . . The President is at Braintree. On his way he met with
every mark of distinguished attention. Here his reception was
the most splendid I have ever seen. . . .

Philadelphia is again visited with the yellow fever. It is said

to be as malignant as it was in the year 1793. The consequence

is that the inhabitants are generally leaving it. Almost all

the public offices are removed to Trenton. We are healthy

here. . . .

Very truly yours

Rob. Troup.

392 RUFUS KING. [1798

R. King to Secretary of State. No. 93.

London, Augt. 17, 1798.
Dear Sir :

I have not succeeded in effecting an interview with Mr. Gerry,
who probably sailed from Portsmouth last evening or this
morning.

We have a report that Congress have passed a law annulling
all our Treaties with France ; should this be true the moderate
tone manifested in the late Letters of Mr. Talleyrand may prob-
ably change. It is not my duty to make comments upon the
effect already produced by the firmness that I so much admire
in our Government, but I cannot suppress the expression of my
anxious hope that we shall test the sincerity of these conciliatory
overtures by the past conduct of France towards other powers, as
well as by her present treatment of our citizens, of their Property
under the unrecalled arretes respecting the Trade of Neutrals.
We should constantly remember that the Tiger crouches before he
leaps upon his prey*

In a conference that I had yesterday with Lord Grenville, he
assured me of every facility in their power in the execution of an
order for arms that I have received from the Secretary of the
Treasury. We cotiversed upon the new state of things that would
arise upon the abolition of the Treaties between us and France. He
intimated a wish that the two articles in our Treaty respecting Ships
of War, Privateers and their Prizes might be revised, in order that
they should become more precise and less liable to misconception
or disagreements ; he suggested the expediency of abolishing the dis-
tinction between National Ships and Privateers, from the difficulty
i?i certain cases of distinguishing the one fro??i the other, it being a
practice with the French to lend their Frigates to private adventurers
and then again to employ them in the national service j he said he
hoped to be understood as not wishing to hasten any measures
of this nature, but merely as suggesting a subject that might be-
come of consequence seasonably to attend to, and added that he should
write to Mr. Liston to this effect. I told his Lordship that I was
without any late i?iformation from Philadelphia, that I heard of
the Laws having passed to which he referred, but that I had no

* Italics in cipher.

1798] LIFE AND CORRESFONDENCE. 393

certain account of it j that such a measure opened a new and extensive
view of the affairs of the United States and of Great Britain, and
one so different fr 07n that which had heretofore existed that I could
not consider any instruction of antecedent date as in any degree ap-
plicable to such a new state of things j that I was however per-
suaded that we should be disposed to consider and explain any of the
Articles of our Treaty so as to avoid misconceptions or disagree-
ments about their meaning ; that it undoubtedly occurred to him
that the duration of the commercial parts of the Treaty depends upon
the Settlemetit of certain points not cojicluded betiveen him and Mr.
y^ay, and upon the adjustment of the West India Trade ; that con-
sequently the maritime Regulatio7is to which he had alluded, and
which would become so important by an elder Treaty than that which
should exist between France and the United States, would depend
upon a satisfactory and seasonable agree??ient upon these imsettled
points. He replied that he was quite aware of this circumstance ;
that for his own part he had no hesitatio?i to say to 7ne that he
thought the state of the Conti7ient dubious j that a ce7itury perhaps
would not restore it to what it was ten years ago j that he felt 77iore
and 77iore encouraged i7i the union of the people of Great Britai7i a7id
in their ability to outlive the stor77i j but that they must essetitially
cha7ige their co7inectio7i ; that they 77iust look to A7nerica instead of
Europe, a7id from its i7icrease a7id prosperity they hoped and expected
to find what they should lose i7i Europe ; they therefore should be
prepared at a proper time to go into the consideration of the subject
with a sincere desire of an arra7ige7ne7it that bei7ig 77iutually bene-
ficial a7id satisfactory should pro7nise to be durable.

Our Conference here took a turn to the probability of the Revo-
lution of S. A77ierica ; he was fuller and more explicit than he had
been on any former occasion, always understanding that 77iy con-
versatio7i on this subject was personal and wholly U7iautho7'ized.
This digression which treated of the practicability a7id of the 77ieans
of effecting the ?7ieasure, tended to shew to me that they have at
times considered and co77ibi7ied with their vieivs of a future connectio7i
with the U7iited States, the i7idepe7ide7ice of the Spa/iish Co7iti7ie7ital
Colo7iies. I did not perceive, nor do I believe it to be the case,
that they have a7iy recent infor77iatio7i of the prese7it Temper, disposi-
tion or pla7is of these Colo7iies, a knowledge 77iore easily procured
fro77i the United States than froi7i Europe and which is indispensably

394 RUFUS KING. [1798

requisite to the success of an enterprize to accomplish the Revolution.
He spoke of the government to be established in those as a Revolu-
tion. He thought our System would attract and receive their appro-
bation, and made some remarks upon the apprehensions to be enter-
tained on account of their genius and character, which especially
in Peru was said to be highly animated and full of enthusiasm ;
and concluded by observing that he was more and more con-
firmed in the opinion, that none but Englishmen and their Descend-
ants knew how to make a Revolution.

Another subject of some consequence to others was discussed in
this conference, a Report of which I must defer until my next
Dispatch.

We have nothing by the last mails from the Continent and are
still ignorant of the destination and fate of Buonaparte. Russia
has become alarmed lest Greece is the object, the revolution of
which would begin that of her Do7ninions j the reappearance of
Kosciusko in Europe has increased the inquietudes of Russia. A
late Treaty between the two Emperors stipulates a succour of 16
thousand men to Austria in case of a renewal of the war with
France. The force is inconsiderable, but knowing the character of
the Emperor Paul, the engagement is a beginning and in this light
very important. It is more and more confirmed that the political
timidity of Prussia will prevent the king from engaging in the war.
Prince Repnin has entirely failed in his object, and is about leaving
Berlin. The great business of Seyes is to convince this monarch
of the interest that the Nation has to remain quiet and to grow rich,
while their neighbours are distracted and i?npoverished. The delu-
sion will be seen when it is too late.

With perfect Respect and Esteem &c. &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Saml. Williams.

Great Cumberland Place, Aug. 17, 1798.
Dear Sir :

I am very glad that you have asked my advice in the prosecu-
tion of an appeal from a Vice-Admiralty Decree, concerning a
quantity of iod. nails as contraband of war. Several decrees of

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 395

this character have been rendered particularly by the upright and
learned judge Cambauld, who has gone further, and on account
of the delinquency of the neutral for carrying to the enemy in
some cases, a bale of Osnaburgs, which instead of being em-
ployed for sails, are used for negro clothing ; and in others, a
cask of nails, which instead of being used for Ship Building are
employed in House Building, has condemned the Ship and the
residue of the Cargo. It is true that small nails and even Brads
are used in finishing the Cabin of a vessel ; but as well might the
Admiralty Court condemn Window Glass, because this article is
used in glazing the windows of a ship's cabin, or leather, be-
cause it serves to prepare the Boxes of the pumps, as they can
condemn any species of nails beneath the size of what is called
Dock Nails, a smaller sort of spikes, and which are the only nails
that can with common sense be alleged to serve directly to the
equipment of Vessels.

That in the provincial Courts of Admiralty such decisions may
have happened, when we know the character and capacity of
some of the judges, is not to be wondered at ; but that in the
High Court of Admiralty, especially in the Court of Appeals, a
decree so entirely preposterous should be even apprehended is
truly surprizing. I will never believe it possible, until it has
actually been given, and the sooner we decide the question the
better. A trial cannot be had in any case, in which, according to
your statement, the point will be more simple and easy to be
settled.

I therefore desire that you will by all means, prosecute the
appeal, before the Lords ; that you may perceive that on this
occasion I follow the sentiments of our Government, I transmit
to you the extract of a Letter that I have received from the
Secretary of State, which shows the importance of a decision that
shall put this question at rest.

With great Esteem &c. &c.

Rufus King.

P. S. I need not remark to you that the supply of nails for the
building of mills & houses and particularly for Negroes is a valua-
ble branch of the American West India Commerce.

396 RUFUS KING. [l798

Henry Dundas to Rufus King, Esq.*

Copy.

Parliament Street, 18th August, 1798.
Sir:

I have received the honor of your letter of the 16th instant,
enclosing a letter from Mr. Lane, a Merchant in the City of Lon-
don, stating that his Correspondent Mr. Derby of Salem in the
United States, is desirous of sending a Ship to Bengal for the
purpose of exporting from thence to the United States a Cargo of
Saltpetre.

Independent of any personal consideration, which would induce
me at all times to pay attention to any wish of yours, I can have
no hesitation in contributing to afford every possible facility to
the Government of the United States, which my influence with
the East India Company can tend to procure, and I shall instantly
forward your application to the Court of Directors, who I flatter
myself will feel no hesitation in complying with your wish.
I have the honor to be, Sir, your most obed. humble St.

Henry Dundas.

G. Cabot to R. King.

August 18, 1798.
Dear Sir :

I am just now favored with your's of the 12th & 26th of May.
You are in the midst of great events which occupy the attention
of the whole world & for whose issue we feel a particular solici-
tude. We speculate more on what is passing on your side the
water than the affairs which are transacting here ; indeed it is
impossible we shou'd not see that our destiny is involved in the
fate of Europe. If France succeeds in executing the projects of
her mad ambition, it appears to me a Feudal System worse than the
old will be established over the whole face of the civilized world.
We shall see only two sorts of people Soldiers 6° Slaves. While
conjecture is rambling everywhere with the Toulon Fleet I have
ventured to opine that they are gone into the Euxine in concur-
rence with the Turks to attack the Russians in that quarter &

* Answer to R. King's Letter, Aug. 16, 1798.

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 397

thus to divert their force from the borders of the Baltic. There
Germany may be also checked, & there the disaffected Polanders
may be easily rallied. If such is the object, its first success may
be great, resulting from surprise & from a security against the
Fleets of England which wou'd be shut out from the passage of the
Dardanelles : but it wou'd ultimately be favorable to England by
engaging Russia to act with vigor against all the undertakings of
France. If however Nelson overtakes them I expect a profit-
able victory & this wou'd seem to be certain if the French are not
acting in concert with the Turks.

Our accounts from Ireland are to the first week in June & are
affecting — if the Govt, succeeds however in fully suppressing the
Insurrection as is expected no one can doubt that the power of
G. B. will be greater than before ; the anxieties about Ireland will
cease & the Royal army there will form a new security against the
French.

I saw the P last week at Quincy, he is extremely dissatisfied,
(I think), with Gerry ; he maintains however that he can do no
harm now, but he supposes the Directory will try new artifices to
restore their party here. I think Congress will be called together
early in November if anything occurs to render it expedient. You
will see that they have not done enough altho' they have done
many good things. We are still tainted with Jacobinism in
various parts of the U. S. but the majority of Antijacobins is
certainly very great on the whole & I think we are in less danger
than we have been these 5 years, — among the military arrange-
ments you see Hamilton is named first after Washington, but
several sorts of people are endeavoring to establish the opinion
that Knox and others cannot serve unless their rank is above
Hamilton's, because Hamilton's rank in a former war was below
theirs. I hope that Mr Pinckney will not be ensnared by those
fallacious plausibilities which have been successful (as I am told)
with Knox ; the Country needs all the aid of H's talents & I trust
will have it.

I know nothing of Mr. Pitt's scheme but what I infer from the
remarks in your letter, we ought to make liberal allowances for
the extraordinary circumstances in which G. B. is placed, but it
will be unfortunate for us & perhaps for her, if she is obliged to
adopt any measures which will furnish new food to the french

39§ RUFUS KING. [1798

Partisans in the U. S. Some of the great men about you still

entertain the belief that an Invasion is to be attempted ; I have

often wished it but never for a single moment cou'd believe it.

It must certainly give you great pleasure to know that we are

earnest in equipping a little navy & that we shall soon have 50

vessels of all sizes — say from 10 to 44 guns. You will be equally

glad to hear that our Interdict of french trade has already produced

very uneasy sensations among the West India Cutthroats & I think

if we are steady & G. B. cooperate with us, in less than a year the

trade of the Enemy Colonies may pass into the hands of G. B. &

the U. S. ; but this I think shou'd not be admitted unless those

Colonies throw off the Jacobin Yoke.

Notwithstanding almost all Europe is enslaved by France yet

to me it appears that France is on the decline — I hope the time

so often mentioned by the Clergy is at hand when the wrath of

man having praised the Lord the remainder of it he will restrain.

A line from Gunn lately informed me that the Georgians were

federal & other information corroborates his — the bold and

patriotic language of P. Adams has done infinite service among

the people.

G. C.

CHAPTER XXVI.

King to Secretary of State relative to Negotiations between England and Hol-
land— To Lord Grenville on Talleyrand's Proposals to Gerry and Lord
Grenville's Answer — Also Application for the Use of certain Cannon given
by George II. to South Carolina and then in Halifax — Yellow Fever in
Philadelphia — Apprehended Difficulty with Commissioners under sixth
Article — Military Appointments — Hamilton and Knox — King to Secretary
of State — French Perfidy and Outrage — Also his Satisfaction with the de-
cided Measures against France — State of Europe — Landing of French
Troops in Ireland — Ignorance of the Destination of French Fleet from
Toulon — On the Eve of a Recommencement of the War on the Continent
— Irish Rebellion — Dr. Logan in Paris — King complains to Lord Grenville
of Proceedings of English High Court of Admiralty in the Matter of Cap-
tures— Pickering's Opinion of Gerry — Correspondence about Muskets —
King to Hamilton — Military Appointments — Pickering on the same — King
says the Conduct of the President and of America wise and approved in
England — Circular to Consuls as to Commissions to armed American
Vessels.

R. King to Secretary of State. No. 94.*

Secret and Confidential.

London, August 20, 1798.
Dear Sir :

Mr. Murray has on several occasions informed me that disposi-
tions and views existed among certain influential persons in poiuer in
the country where he is, to throw off the odious dominion of Fra7ice :
the object of these communications has been to procure from England
assurances of support on certain points, and relaxation in the rigour
with which the war is carried on, particularly against the Dutch
Fisheries.

These communications have always been so loose, informal, and im-
perfect that I have, on his account as well as others, felt considerable
embarrassment in permitting myself to be drawn into an affair, the

* In cipher.
400 RUFUS KING. [1798

real character whereof I was so little able to appreciate. So far as
I could give precision to the principal wishes of these persons, they
desire an assurance from England that she would discard the Prince
of Orange, co-operate with them to extricate themselves from France
a?id assist them in establishing a Government which should exclude
the Stadthclderate.

After considerable hesitation I took an occasion to mention the
subject with frankness, disclosing at the same time all my own
doubts to Lord Grenville. He treated it, as I have been accus-
tomed to find him treat all other subjects, with candour and good
sense ; the result of the conference was a Letter that I wrote to
Mr. Murray, in which without communicating to him that I had
conferred with this Government I observed to Mju, as of myself, that
considering the State of Parties in Holland, it being certain that a
very great body of the nation are still attached to the House of
Orange, it seemed to me a difficult step to be taken by England, to give
any such assurance as seemed to be desired; but that I could venture
with considerable confidence in my own opinion to say, that there
was nothing in the presumed sentiments of England, or in the past
history of the two Countries, that forbids the expectation of a sincere
and beneficial connexion and intercourse between them, should Holland
again, as heretofore she has done, abolish the Stadtholderate.

Upon the other point I wrote a note to Lord Grenville in which
I communicated to him the representation Mr. Murray had made
to me, of the very great distress of the poor in consequence of the in-
ter ruptio7i of their Herring fishery, and of the hutnanity as well as
Policy of some relaxation in the orders given to the English Cruisers
upon this subject, adding that I desired to be understood as
giving no opinion of my own, nor as soliciting any answer from the
English Government ; my sole object, being the bare communica-
tion of what L understood to be the wishes and sentiments of others.
L informed Mr. Murray of what I had done, and that I should send
to him such answer as I received ; I have not received any, nor is it
likely I shall.

Mr. Wadsworth, who lately arrived here from Holland, by the
desire of Shimmelpennick, related to me a conversation that passed
between them, which I thought it adviseable, especially at the pres-
ent moment when according to appearances the war between France
and Austria is about to recommence, to communicate to this Govern-

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 40 1

?nent. This was done at the conference which I gave you an
account of in my No. 93.

My letter to Mr. Murray* a copy of which is annexed, was the
fruit of our conference. I have thought it my duty to state this affair
to you for the infor?nation of the President. It will naturally occur
to you that Mr. Murray's safety may depend on secresy.

With perfect Respect &c. &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Lord Grenville.

Private.

Margate, Aug. 26, 1798.
My Lord :

If your information is not so late, the inclosed Letter, f which
I pray you to return to me, will communicate intelligence of some
importance. Talleyrand with much earnestness urged Mr. Gerry
to wait at Paris for Instructions, which he expressed his belief to
be on their way, and which would remove all his scruples respect-
ing his powers to treat separately with France. We see the
explanation of this Scheme in a motion that has been made in the
House of Representatives to address the President, requesting
him to instruct Mr. Gerry to treat separately with France on the
basis laid down in the Instructions originally given to him and his
Colleagues.

The proposition was treated with great and uncommon marks

of indignation and negatived by 51 against 30 voices.

R. K.

P.S. Are we to despair of Buonaparte's being intercepted by
Nelson ?

R. King to Lord Grenville.

Margate, Aug. 26, 1798.
My Lord :

I take the liberty to send your Lordship inclosed the copy of a
Letter that I have lately received from Colonel Pickering respect-
ing a number of Iron Cannon said to have been given by the late
King George the 2nd to the Province of South Carolina ; these

* See letter to him in cipher, August 13th.

f This letter is not among R. King's papers. — Ed.

VOL. II. — 26

402 RUFUS KING. [1798

Cannon which are represented to be entirely useless at Halifax,
would be of great service in the defence of Charleston.

If there should be no objection against their being received by
South Carolina upon such terms as may be thought proper, I beg
your Lordship's permission to suggest the expediency of a Dupli-
cate of the Instructions that may be given to Governor Wentworth
on this subject being delivered to me to be sent to Philadelphia,
in order that the requisite measures may be taken to receive and
transport the Cannon from Halifax to Charleston. As I think it
of the greatest importance not to lose a moment in the execution
of the orders that I have lately recived for a supply of Military
Stores, I beg your Lordship to have the goodness to give me the
earliest answer in your power to the application that a few days
since I had the honor to make to you on this Subject.

With perfect Respect &c. &c.

Rufus King.

Lord Grenville to R. King.

Dropmore, Aug. 27, 1798.
My dear Sir :

I return you your letters with many thanks. The papers to-day
give us General Washington's letter, which is I think extremely
well written and calculated to produce the best effect. We have
nothing about Bonaparte or Nelson, nor can we I think expect
to hear yet, as the letters from Constantinople were of so very
recent date.

The French are, thank God, a good deal too late in their Irish
Expedition. Two months ago such a debarkation would have
been matter of some uneasiness ; now, I trust, it cannot but ter-
minate more advantageously for us than if the thing had not
taken place.

Ever, my dear sir, most truly yrs., G.

T. Pickering to R. King. No. 26.

Department of State, Trenton, Aug. 29, 1798.
Dear Sir :

The yellow fever has again driven us from Philadelphia ; the

public offices are removed to this place. The fever is more

I79SJ LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 403

malignant than in any former year ; upwards of eighty persons,
chiefly adults, died in the 48 hours from the 25th to the 27th
inst. The poor are the principal sufferers ; most of those who
have the means have left and are still leaving the city. . . .

The President a few days after the adjournment of Congress
(which was the middle of July) set out for Massachusetts, and
will probably remain at Quincy till Autumn. Your numbers 69
and 71 were read by him ; but no definitive opinion on the im-
portant question relative to the Proceedings of the Board of
Commissioners in London was formed. I am apprehensive of
serious difficulties in the Board of Commissioners at Philadelphia ;
those on the part of Great Britain claiming a jurisdiction in cases
which we conceive were never contemplated in the Treaty, and
Mr. Guillemand concurs in these claims. The United States
have been exposed to great disadvantage by the continued
absence and sickness of Col. Innes ; he is dead, and Samuel Sit-
greaves Esquire is recently appointed to succeed him. Perhaps
in my next I may have it in my power to state the principal
points on which the British Commissioners insist ; and if they
persevere in their claims, probably the American Commissioners
must stop the proceedings by a secession. . . .

Your account of the reception of the Instructions to and dis-
patches from our Envoys to the French Republic is highly grati-
fying ; it was anticipated that their publication would do much
good in Europe as well as in America. Here they produced their
natural and obvious effect on all unprejudiced and unperverted
minds. But you are too well acquainted with public Bodies to
have expected, or rather to be surprised if there was not a very
material change in the conduct of one side of the house. The
constituents, however, of many members are proving and will
prove that their opinions and feelings have not been justly repre-
sented in Congress. This, perhaps, will nowhere be more visible
than in North Carolina. The prevailing sentiments of the Country
are undoubtedly expressed correctly in the general spirit of the
addresses to the President of the United States. . . .

Complaints against Judge Cambauld have continued. I am
glad that orders for suppressing his court are at length to be sent
out. . . .

404 RUFUS KING. [1798

T. Pickering to Rufus King.

Private,

Trenton, Aug. 29th, 1798.
Dear Sir :

. Some of the military appointments will please you.
The public voice had declared the Chief Command ought to be
conferred on Col. Hamilton. This was before it was imagined
that General Washington, at his advanced age, would again take
the field. Since this event he has designated Col. Hamilton to
be Inspector General with the rank of Major General ; then
General Pinckney and next General Knox for Major Generals.
I know that General Washington hesitated only between the two
first, and that he had no question that General Knox should fol-
low both the others. Yet General Knox to my surprise has more
than hesitated to serve under Col. Hamilton ; looking back to his
rank in the American War, whereas the army now to be raised is
to be a new one, and the nature of the impending war imperiously
demands the advancement of the best talents wherever to be
found, and whatever their grade in a former war. I am not, you
may suppose, singular in my opinion ; of all the members of Con-
gress who spoke of the chief command in my hearing, not one
ever mentioned the name of General Knox ; and consequently,
as they expected he would be called into service, they contem-
plated for him a station subordinate to Col. Hamilton. I believe,
however, that some sort of compromise is proposed which will sub-
ject the question to a future decision.

I understand that Baron Steuben's case may be cited as a pre-
cedent in favor of Col. Hamilton. The Baron was appointed
"Inspector General with the rank (and pay) of a Major General."
The like words were used in the appointment of Col. Hamilton.
The Baron it was decided should take rank as a Major General
from the date of his appointment over the other Major Generals,
who were subsequently appointed ; and, consequently, as Col.
Hamilton was first named on the List of Nominations, he must
precede in rank all the other Major Generals named at the same
time. I believe the Senate would have passed on his nomination
and have adjourned to the next day, and then have decided on
the rest, if they had suspected a serious question would have
arisen between him and General Knox.

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 405

*You must know that the President wishes Knox to precede
Hamilton whom he dislikes extremely, and whom he would have
named first ; but that the order of the names was designated by
General Washington, who claimed as a condition of his accepting
the Chief Command, the privilege of prosposing his principal
officers.

Mr. Caro forwarded his letters from Falmouth ; writing me
that he was obliged to go immediately to South America. But I
presume he advised you of this step.

R. King to James Maury, Esq., Liverpool.

Margate, Aug. 30, 1798.
Dear Sir :

No Commissions have been sent to me for American Vessels,

nor do I think it likely that any will be sent, it being my opinion

that the delivery of these should always take place within the

United States. I can have no hesitation in recommending to

such of our Ships as are armed (and I request you to afford every

suitable aid and encouragement to those who are inclined to arm),

to defend themselves to the utmost of their power against the

French cruizers.

Yrs. &c. Rufus King.

R. King to Secretary of State. No. 95.

Margate, Sep. 3, 1798.
Dear Sir :

Mr. Tazewell whom Mr. Gerry sent to me from Paris with a
copy of the Correspondence between him and Talleyrand, informs
me that no copy of it had been sent to you, so that should an
accident happen to Mr. Gerry, or to his papers, you would be with-
out information of what passed at Paris after the expulsion of
General Pinckney and General Marshall.

This consideration has determined me to send you a copy of
that delivered to me by Mr. Gerry's Secretary. I see nothing in
these papers that ought in the least to change our opinions of the

* In cipher.

406 RUFUS KING. [i79&

insidious views of France. The arrete of the Directory, and
which their agents will represent as a concession of importance,
will furnish a profitable job for those who shall be appointed to
distribute the new commissions ; but so long as the Laws author-
izing the capture of neutral property remain unrecalled (and
so far from being revoked, they have since the date of the arrete
been confirmed as you will perceive by a letter from Boulay Paly,
member of the Council of 500, inserted in the Echo of the 26th
ulto), it must be a matter of indifference to us whether our ves-
sels are captured by Privateers with new or with old Commissions.

The pretence for this arrete is of a piece with the vindication
of Talleyrand respecting X. Y. & Z, and the justice and sincerity
of the Directory should be ascertained not by their words but by
the following contemporaneous fact.

Hayley an American citizen, master of the American Ship Hare
lying in the Port of London, laden with a rich Cargo, the property
of an American, and bound to New York, went with my Passport
from London to Paris, where in a personal interview, not with the
Agents of the Minister of Marine, but with the Minister himself^
he disclosed his plan of bringing the Ship Hare and her Cargo
into France, and to enable him to receive the profits of the fraud
without risquing the punishment of piracy, he demanded and re-
ceived from the Minister of Marine a Commission naming him
the Commander of a Privateer that did not exist ; with which in
his Pocket he returned to London, and soon after carried the
Ship Hare and her Cargo as a prize into France.

The Ship and Cargo were both claimed by the American
Owners and upon the unveiling of this infamous proceeding be-
fore the lowest Tribunals, the judges hesitated and finally re-
fused to sanction so unheard of a fraud ; tho' instead of restoring
the property to its lawful owners they on some frivolous pretence
adjudged both Ship and Cargo to be good prize to the Nation.
Lately the Tribunal in the last resort, upon the appeal of Hayley,
has reversed the judgment of the lower Court and decreed the
Ship and Cargo to be condemned as good prize to the Renegade.

If a transaction more grossly corrupt and infamous has oc-
curred in the West Indies, where I admit that the examples of
fraud and violence have been sufficiently numerous under colour
of authority from more than one nation, I have not heard of it ;

I798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 407

and yet with this case of unequalled infamy and corruption be-
fore them, sanctioned by the highest Tribunals of the Nation, the
Directory expect to amuse us with the disavowal of the conduct
of a few subaltern Agents in a remote part of their Dominions ! ! !

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c, &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Secretary of State. No. 96.

Margate, Sept. 5, 1798.
Dear Sir :

I lately received your No. 20 ; the four or five immediately pre-
ceding missions have not yet come to hand. The Newspapers
inform us that Congress has adjourned, and I have seen with the
greatest satisfaction the military appointments that have been
made and the other important measures which have been adopted
by the President. If we have constancy and firmness to act upon
our own Systems, which France by every possible intrigue will en-
deavour to disturb and defeat, we shall not only save our Country
from the mischiefs that have been plotted against it, but we shall
acquire a reputation in our own eyes, as well as in those of others,
that will increase our security and in other respects prove highly
advantageous in future times. It does not appear that the Law
annulling our Treaties with France, or that extending the authori-
ties of our public armed Ships to capture any French armed
Vessels, were known at Paris on the 30th ulto. These measures
with dismission of the French Consuls are of a character to bring
to a speedy decision the questions between France and the United
States.

If we do not within a few days hear of a Declaration of War
against us, I shall conclude, what I am inclined to believe will be
their choice, that they will wait for the effect of the Publication
of the Correspondence between Mr Gerry and Mr Talleyrand
and of their Vindication against the Report of our Envoys. The
French Report that I send you by this opportunity contains
several Paragraphs, which though not important, should not
escape our notice. Duverne de Baisle, of whose mission I gave
you an account in a former letter, drew up and delivered to the

408 RUFUS KING. [1798

Directory a plan to revolutionize Canada with certain portions of
the United States, and there is reason to believe that his late mis-
sion to America is connected with this plan. We are still entirely
ignorant notwithstanding the variety of Reports which continue
to circulate concerning the real object and situation of Buona-
parte. The accounts from Constantinople that a body of French
forces had arrived at Alexandria are believed by this Govern-
ment, but it has heard nothing from Nelson since he passed the
Straits of Messina, nor is there any intelligence whether the troops
landed at Alexandria are the main body or only an advanced
Corps of Buonaparte's Army. At Paris there seems to be the
same uncertainty respecting the situation of the two Fleets. The
preparations for war are carried on with the greatest activity by
both France and Austria. At Rastadt the Congress appears to be
drawing to a close : the French Ministers have delivered their
ultimatum and insist upon an immediate and decisive answer :
the Deputation of the Empire seem inclined to yield, but the
Emperor avoids a definitive answer. There are strong tokens of a
spirit of Revolt throughout all Italy, and notwithstanding the late
Offensive and Defensive Treaty between the French and Swiss
Directories the Swiss are radically discontented, and under favor-
able auspices would almost unanimously rise to expel the armies
of France.

On the 22nd. ulto. a body of French Troops, whose exact number
is not yet ascertained, landed with a quantity of military stores at
Killaloe in the Province of Connaught in Ireland : this force must
be inconsiderable as they are supposed to have disembarked from
only three frigates, who brought them from Bordeaux. It is
now nearly a fortnight and we have no account that they are
Prisoners.

A few days after landing they attacked a Corps of British
Troops, whom they compelled to retire writh the loss of six pieces
of artillery. Lord Cornwallis has gone himself against them, and
from the force that he has collected, unless they have been joined
by large bodies of the malcontents, there can be no doubt that
we shall hear of their total defeat by the next Messenger.

The impression that has been produced by this handful of
Frenchmen, and the delay and caution with which they are ap-
proached, demonstrate that the Government has but little conn-

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 409

dence in Irish loyalty and that it is fortunate that this descent
was not made eight weeks sooner. In what part of our Country
would 1000 Enemy land and remain unconquered for a fort-
night ?

With perfect Esteem & Respect &c. &c.

Rufus King.

P.S. I hear that many of our Vessels are changing their flags
at Hamburgh and other Northern Ports for those of Denmark,
Sweden and Prussia, and that the Masters put on shore and
abandon their crews of American sailors !

R. King to Lord Grenville.

Copy.

Margate, Sept. 6, 1798.
My Lord :

I have heretofore with much concern represented to your
Lordship the great embarrassment and loss to which the Ameri-
can Commerce has been subjected in consequence of the dilatory
and unsatisfactory proceedings of his Majesty's High Court of
Admiralty.

The increasing infirmities of the Judge of this Court, and
which from his advanced age there is little reason to believe will
ever be mitigated, incapacitate him to discharge the Duties of his
important office with the ability and dispatch that the undoubted
rights and essential interests of neutral nations give them a title to
expect and require.

It would be misplaced and altogether useless to enter into a
discussion to prove what impartial justice and your Lordship's
perfect knowledge of the subject will at once admit, that the
right of the Belligerent Nations to capture and retain for adjudi-
cation the vessels of neutrals, is qualified and accompanied by a
correspondent and perfect obligation to establish Tribunals, that
with the least possible delay shall hear and determine all such
cases of Capture.

Will it be requisite to proffer proofs which, in respect to the
United States are unfortunately but too abundant, of the increas-

4IO RUFUS KING. [i79&

ing and ruinous delays to which our navigation and commerce
continue to be exposed in the High Court of Admiralty. Prop-
erty to a very great amount has been unreasonably detained for
adjudication in that Court beyond the time requisite for that
purpose ; new captures have in succession augmented this capital,
and the claimants in cases ready to be heard, after waiting term
after term and year after year, subjected to heavy expences, and
the discontented witnesses of the cause of these delays have, in
several instances, returned home despairing of the re-possession
of property that they assert and believe an impartial Tribunal
ought long since to have restored to them.

In cases of Capture that have appeared to me illegal, I have
sometimes addressed myself to your Lordship for the purpose of
obtaining their release. The usual answer to these applications
has been that such cases were attended with circumstances which
made it proper to subject them to a judicial examination. With
confidence I appeal to your Lordship's justice and impartiality to
decide how far this answer ought to be satisfactory when, without
considering the growing infirmities of the Judge, but estimating
the future progress of the Court, by its past proceedings, it cannot
be doubted that years must elapse before such new cases would
be in turn to be decided.

It will not be thought necessary in order to strengthen our just
expectations on this subject to state to your Lordship the extra-
ordinary losses to which in some instances the American Mer-
chants have been liable by the derangement of their affairs in
consequence of the capture and indefinite detention of their Ships
and Cargoes. The mere capture of the property of a Neutral
without those circumstances of aggravation coupled with the de-
lay that notoriously exists in the Court, will, I flatter myself, be
thought of sufficient importance to engage your Lordship's inter-
ference, which I earnestly hope may not be withheld in order, in
such way as shall be found practicable, to remove the cause of
these grievous delays, and thereby to afford to all parties the like
motives of satisfaction with the dispatch and impartial justice of
the Maritime Tribunals of England, as are universally admitted to
exist in respect to the other Branches of the Judiciary.

With perfect consideration & Respect

Rufus King.

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 4II

R. King to Secretary of State. No. 97.

Margate, Sept. 7, 1798.
Dear Sir :

Herewith I have the honor to send you copies of my note * and
Lord Grenville's answer respecting the Cannon said to have been
given by George the Second to the Province of South Carolina,
and which his Britannick Majesty has instructed his Lieutenant
Governor of Nova Scotia to deliver to such American officers as
shall be appointed to receive them for the service of the United
States.

With perfect Respect and Esteem &c. &c.

Rufus King.

Copy.

Lord Grenville presents his compliments to Mr. King, and has
the honor to inform him in answer to bis note of the 26th ulto.
that his Majesty has been graciously pleased to allow that the
Cannon therein mentioned (as being at Halifax) should be lent
for the service of the United States, on the condition of their
being returned by that Government into the King's Stores at
Halifax whenever the occasions of the public service may induce
the British Government to make a requisition to that effect. The
Lieutenant Governor of Nova Scotia will be instructed by the
first mail to carry this arrangement into execution in concert with
any Officer who may be appointed by the United States for that
purpose.

Downing Street, Sept. 8, 1798.

R. King to Secretary of State. No. 98.

Margate, Sep. 13, 1798.
Dear Sir :

It is within a few days of four months since the sailing of the

expedition from Toulon, and strange as it will appear, we are still

ignorant of the ultimate destination and views of Buonaparte.

* August 26, 1798.

412 RUFUS KING. [1798

Admiral Nelson after looking for him in vain thro' the Seas of the
Levant returned with the English Fleet to Syracuse on the 2 2d of
July, from whence, after forming a junction with the Portuguese
Squadron which carries his force to 19 Sail of the Line, and re-
victualling his Fleet, has sailed again in search of the French.
Whether with reason or otherwise, there is a disposition to cast
blame upon the Admiralty for having sent Nelson into the Medi-
terranean without a sufficient Stock of Water and Provisions ; the
failure of which is said to have obliged him to return to Sicily.
The rumour is that Buonaparte divided his fleet and landed part
of his forces at Alexandria, and the other part at Alexandretta in
Syria ; that one body will proceed by the Red Sea and the other
by the Persian Gulph, and that the French have a marine force
under Richery in the Seas of the hither India superior to that of
England, and sufficient to secure a passage for the French army
to the Malabar Coast ; but we have been amused with so many
reports on this Subject which have turned out fabulous, that little
credit is given to the new ones that continue to be circulated. All
we certainly know is, that we know nothing certain of Buonaparte
since he left Malta.

No intelligence has been received from Rastadt since the de-
livery of the French ultimatum. The latest accounts afford further
proof of the discontents of Switzerland and that the Roman and
Cisalpine Republics are threatened with new convulsions ; in the
former the Consuls have been suspended, and the controul of the
nation taken into the hands of the French General at Rome
who has lately suppressed a revolt in one of the Departments by
the bloody extermination of the Inhabitants. In the Cisalpine
Republic the division among the Patriots is so great that it seems
probable that the Constitution will be laid aside, and the Govern-
ment be confided to the French Commander in chief at Milan.
The Grisons refuse to unite with the new Helvetic Republic,
which finds few friends and supporters out of the large Towns.
Some Swiss peasants who lately surprised and murdered four
French soldiers, for which they were condemned to death, went
boldly to their execution, glorying that they had shed the blood
of their enemy, and calling upon their countrymen to imitate
their example. These circumstances connected with the activity
of the military preparations of France, Austria, Russia and Naples

179*3] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 413

leave little doubt that we are upon the eve of a recommencement
of the War !

The Invasion of Ireland has ended in the Surrender of the
Invaders * ; as yet we have no returns of their number nor of that
of the Irish who joined them ; both are supposed to be inconsid-
erable. The Reports of the Secret Committees of the Irish Parlia-
ment which I send you, fully disclose the principles and views of
the Leaders of the Rebellion. These are so conformable to those
which have prevailed in France, so false and so utterly inconsist-
ent with any practicable or settled form of Government, that I
have taken occasion to express my wishes that the United States
might not be selected as the Country to which any of the State
Prisoners should be permitted to retire.

It is nearly a fortnight since I have received any accounts from
Paris. Doctor Logan, it appears, has had an interview with
Merlin, has been closeted by Talleyrand, and observes no reserve
or decorum in reprobating the conduct of the President, which,
if I may credit my information, he asserts is disapproved by a
majority of the people, who are alarmed lest his measures should
involve us in a war with France ! ! !

The manner in which the Directory answered the offer by
Shimmelpennick of the Dutch mediation confirms my opinion
that they entertain great hopes and expectations from the publica-
tion of the Correspondence between Talleyrand and Gerry, tho'
I have again and again considered it, and can discover nothing
that ought to change our opinion respecting their views and ob-
jects. I am unable to decide whether the offer proceeded spon-
taneously from the Dutch or was instigated by France ; the
commercial interest of the former is sufficient to have engaged
their exertions to prevent a war between us and France, which if
it did not draw them in, would destroy the little remnant of their
Commerce : on the other hand, many and unequivocal circum-
stances shew that seeing our union and firmness France is adverse
to an open rupture ; there are even appearances that she medi-
tates a revision of the Maritime Laws ; and the employment of
the Dutch as mediators may be another means by which she may
hope to avoid extremities and bring about a new negociation.
But all these symptoms are antecedent to the knowledge that the

* See letter 96, Sept. 5, 1798.

4H RUFUS KING. [1798

Treaties were abolished, and that we know nothing from Paris
since this important fact was known there.

With perfect respect and Esteem

Rufus King.

T. Pickering to R. King.

Private.

Trenton, Sept. 15, 1798.
Dear Sir :

. . . Your letter (private) of Feby 7, expresses your opinion
of Mr. Gerry as communicated to General Pinckney, an opinion
in which all the public men whom I had heard speak of Mr. G.
and I, from my acquaintance with him, were ready to concur.
But General Pinckney in a letter to his brother of April 4th says :
" I never met with a man so destitute of candour and so full of
deceit as Mr. Gerry* ; " and Mr. Marshall is of his opinion. . . .

The Newspapers will have informed you of the extensive
calamity of yellow fever, which has visited Philadelphia, New
York, Wilmington in Delaware, New London, Boston and Ports-
mouth, N. Hampshire. It is more malignant and mortal than in
any former year. . . .

Your faithful and obedt servant,

Timothy Pickering.

Mr. Fenno, the printer, died yesterday or this day. — B. F. Bache
died a few days before. Sept. 17. yesterday I was informed that
Greenleaf of New York, the printer of the Argus, was also dead.

R. King to R. Troup.

London, Sep. 16, 1798.
My dear Sir :

I have just received your letter of the 24 July — The military

appointments [that letter contained the names of them — Ed.] are

on the whole excellent — with such leaders and a proper spirit in the

country, I almost give myself up to a confidence that we shall be

secure. I don't like, however, the divisions which continue to

* Italics in cipher.

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 41 5

prevail in New York and regret to see that you divide even be-
tween Hail Columbia ! and "fa ira." At this rate we shall hear
more of the party, and of the means which France possessed in
America.

It is ten days or more since we have anything authentic from
Paris respecting our affairs. The Americans, who, on the laying
of the Embargo, were conducted to prison as prisoners of war,
have been released and an Arrete of the Directory has ordered
the Embargo to be raised, tho' we have no accounts that our
vessels have in fact been allowed to sail. Logan is announced in
the Paris papers as the Envoy of the Patriotic Party in America.
He has met Merlin, to whom, it is said, he had letters from Jeffer-
son, McKean and Mifflin — been closeted with Talleyrand, and
meets the Party at Skipwith's.

Observe that we know nothing from Paris subsequent to it's
being known there that the Treaties are abolished. It is plain
that discovering our union and firmness, they intended to regain,
if possible, the ground they had lost. They wd. have negotiated
a Treaty which they would not, because they are really unable,
have performed ! and I should add which they would not have
executed, if they had been able. But the Treaties are dead and
cannot be renewed ! the ground cannot be regained ; what, when
they see this to be their situation, will be their conduct is matter
of conjecture. I still believe they will not declare war, and think
it probable that they will endeavour to reinstate themselves and
their influence among us.

Nelson missed Buonaparte, who it seems has reached Egypt,
tho' the accounts are obscure and even contradictory in regard to
this fact. Nelson after revictualling his fleet, strengthened by the
junction of a Portuguese Squadron has returned to the Levant in
search of the French.

War is almost certain and on the eve of recommencing between
Austria and France. Naples and Russia will in all probability
act on the side of the Emperor. Russia will not reengage, and the
German Empire will prefer, according to appearances, to be in-
corporated with France, rather than to be overrun by her armies,
which she would be in case of war.

The invasion of Ireland has made a great noise, excited much
alarm and required the presence of the Viceroy at the head of

41 6 RUFUS KING. [1798

20,000 men before the handful of invaders laid down their arms.
This could not have been so if there had been more confidence in
the army ! ! ! and the time and bustle that has been requisite to
conquer the invaders reflect no credit on the zeal of the Br.
Army.

Yrs. &c.

R. King to O. Wolcott, Sec. of Treasury.

Margate, Sep. 17, 1798.

Dear Sir :

The Messrs. Baring will keep you advised of the progress they
make in executing your order for Cannon. As the shipments will
be made in different vessels I have instructed them not to insure ;
and I now take notice of this circumstance for the double purpose
of enabling you to make insurance, if you think it adviseable, and
also to apprize you that I shall in no case order insurance to be
made here without your special directions.

It is yet uncertain whether we shall be able to procure any con-
siderable quantity of Muskets in this Country. I hope soon to be
able to inform you whether we can obtain from the Government
or the Manufacturers the quantity ordered in your letter of the
3rd of July : in the meantime I am completing the inquiries that
for some time past I have been making in other quarters : being
informed that there are about four thousand English Muskets for
sale at Hamburgh, I have desired Mr. Pitcairn, our Consul there,
to purchase them, if they are in good condition, uniform and can
be had for the price that has been named to me.

In case of failure in England I have the prospect of being able
to procure about 18,000 Muskets of German Fabrick at Hamburgh,
from whence only we are likely to obtain them : in this case we
must endeavor to ship them by the Convoys which are established
between England & Hamburgh, and then to forward them with
a Convoy from England to the United States.

With perfect respect and esteem

Rufus King.

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 417

R. King to A. Hamilton.*

London, September 17, 1798.

I am charmed with the military appointments. In the main they
are quite what they should be. Such chiefs ought to give glory as
well as security to their country, and they will do both if the occa-
sions offer. You see that I relapse into my former strain. I know
not what you and others, whose sentiments I respect, may think,
but I must unsettle all that is best settled in my opinions of the
character of the present extraordinary crisis, or I cannot agree
that an unimpassioned, phlegmatic, cautious, inactive and merely
defensive war, even under the highest toned and most vigorous
form of government, is capable of affording a tolerable chance of
security against such an adversary as France.

I do not entirely comprehend the views and proceedings of
Congress, who appear to have done too much or not enough. But
I have been too long acquainted with the temper and composition
of that body, not to be able to conjecture the difficulties that arise
from the vanities of some, and the obstinacy of others ; and which
have given the appearance of inconsistency to their measures.

Congress has adjourned, and it is of the highest importance that
we should form a correct opinion of the course that France is likely
to pursue. It is plain, that discovering our union and firmness,
France instantly decided upon her relinquishment of apologies
and loans, and resolved to recede as far as should be necessary to
regain her standing ; and if possible, her influence among our
people. But she has no intention of doing us justice for the past,
or performing what she might be induced to promise in respect to
the future. The correspondence between Talleyrand and Gerry,
inclusive of other extemporaneous and subsequent measures of the
same character, should convince us of the justice of this opinion.
Logan, who as we hear, was provided with letters from Jefferson
and others, has been presented to Merlin as the envoy of the patri-
otic party in America. He has been closeted with Talleyrand and
speaks openly of his success with the French government. Since
his arrival at Paris, the American Seamen have been released, who,
on the laying the embargo, were conducted to prison, and the
Directory have ordered the embargo to be raised. The preamble
of the Arret merits attention.

* Works of Ha??iilton, vi., 356.

41 3 RUFUS KING. [1798

" 29 Thermidor. Le Directoire executif, considerant que malgre
la manifestation hostile du gouvernement des Etats Unis, qui
avait determine un embargo momentane sur leurs batimens, il doit
croire qu'a moins d'etre livre aux passions du Cabinet Britannique,
ce gouvernement fidele aux interets de la Nation Americaine, pren-
dra des mesures analogues aux dispositions pacifiques de la Re-
publique Fran9aise des qu' il recevra la confirmation, et voulant
suivre les habitudes amicales et fraternelles de la France, envers
un peuple dont elle a defendu la liberte, arrete ce qui suit, &c,
&c." These proceedings should be compared with the treatment
and language received by our envoys, and we shall from hence be
able perhaps to fathom the views and discover the meaning of
France. It is analogous to what has been done in other countries.
Difficulties and embarrassments complained of by the proper
agents of such countries have been aggravated and increased, and
in order to divide the people from their government, promises of
redress and satisfaction have been given to the popular agents of
such countries, which had been refused to the envoys of their
governments.

But we know nothing certain of the views of France since it has
been known at Paris that our treaties are dissolved. The measures
above referred to were of antecedent date. I still think they will
not declare war, but endeavor to gain their object by humiliation
and intrigue.

The war is on the eve of recommencing between France and
Austria. Prussia will remain neuter : Germany will suffer herself
to be incorporated with France in preference to being again at war
with her. Naples will be engaged, and Russia, according to
appearances, will also become active.

Rufus King.

T. Pickering to R. King.*

Private.

Trenton, Sept. 18, 1798.
Dear Sir :

In mine of the 29th of August I mentioned that General
Washington claimed as a condition of his acceptance of the

* All in cipher.

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 419

chief command the privilege of proposing his principal officers.
This was not correct. He agreed to serve with the reservation
that he should have such principal officers in the line and staff as
he could confide in. His advice was asked on this subject by the
written instructions of the President to the Secretary of War, and
the advice being formally given, with respect to the three first (for
there is at present no dispute about others) it cannot be departed
from without wounding General Washington's feelings, nor indeed
consistently with good faith, especially as it was known to the
President, that General W. had declared that he relied on the aid
of Col. Hamilton, to whom he wrote explicitly that as to his
(Genl. W's) friend General Knox whom he loved and esteemed,
he ranked him after both Hamilton and Pinckney. This private
letter was left open, and the Secretary of War submitted it to the
President's perusal. In the face of all this General K. (to whom
also General Washington has explained himself) demands the
priority of rank, or he will not serve. This, though to be regret-
ted, would be of comparatively little moment, were not the Presi-
dent disposed to admit his pretensions. But the reasons opposed
to them and in favor of H. are so cogent and indeed irrefragable,
and are now prepared to be laid before the President in all their
force, I cannot believe but that he will be convinced, and make
all predilection yield to the considerations of public welfare, in
which, indeed, his own honor, reputation and influence are neces-
sarily involved.

Your intimate friendship, esteem and respect for Col. H. and
your regard for General K. will interest you in this matter ; altho'
your first and great concern will be the influence of the Presi-
dent's final decision on the safety and welfare of your country.
The result, I hope and trust, will be satisfactory. It must soon be
known ; and I will embrace the conveyance to relieve your
anxiety which I am sure cannot be less than my own. To you
alone of all Americans in Europe have I, or shall I, touch on this
subject ; for I know not of any one so intimately connected with
all the characters in question ; or to whom it will be of so much
consequence to communicate information that will be confined
within very narrow bounds when at home.

T. P.

420 RUFUS KING. [1798

R. King to Secretary of State. No. 99.

London, Sept. 19, 1798.
Dear Sir :

. . . I can give you no recent account of Buonaparte, except
that it is now fully believed that he has landed in Egypt : the
French Journals are silent respecting him, while those of Germany
are filled with stories of his victories over the Beys of Egypt and
the Arabs of the Desert.

The last mails agree with the more direct and recent intelli-
gence from Paris, that we are on the eve of the commencement of
the war between Austria and France. Logan has left Paris for
Bordeaux on his return to America ; he is said to be charged with
Dispatches from the French Government, tho' the Directory
seems desirous that it should not be supposed that he has been
particularly noticed, or that his visit at Paris has been connected
with any political object. The Arrete for raising the Embargo
on American Vessels in the Ports of France is dated on the 16th
of August ; but I have not heard that our Ships have been per-
mitted to depart ; tho' from the tenor of all our information, it is
more and more plain that the Directory will endeavour to avoid
an open rupture with America, and as far as possible to regain the
former standing and influence of France among us.

How wise and magnanimous has been the conduct of the Presi-
dent ! how honorable to our Nation the support he has received
from the people ! All the world is becoming inquisitive respect-
ing America : foreigners do us the greatest justice, and those who
dare not imitate, applaud and admire our example.

With perfect Respect & esteem &c. &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to the Consuls.

Circular.

London, Sep. 20, 1798.
Sir :

Congress having authorized the capture of any French armed

vessels within the jurisdictional limits of the United States or

elsewhere on the high Seas, by private armed American Ships ; a

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 42 1

number of blank Commissions and Bonds, with copies of the In-
structions prescribed by the President, have been sent to me by
the Secretary of State, for the purpose of being delivered to such
of our Merchant Vessels, as shall arm themselves within the ports
of Great Britain ; applications for these Commissions may, for the
present, be addressed to Samuel Williams Esq, our Consul in this
city, and should be accompanied with proofs that the Ship is
American property and a statement of her name and tonnage, the
number of her Carriage Guns, the number of her men, the names
and places of residence of her Captain and Lieutenant, and like-
wise the names and places of residence of her Owners : as these
are presumed to be in the United States the Bonds which are re-
quired may be executed by their Agents or Consignees in this
Country.

You will without delay communicate this information to the
Masters of such American Vessels as are from time to time within
your District ; but it does not appear to me requisite to give the
subject any other publicity.

With great esteem &c. &c.

Rufus King.

CHAPTER XXVII.

King to Secy, of State and Hamilton on Opinions in France looking for a Re-
newal of Negotiations— Bingham reports State of Feeling in United States
on the Publication of the Dispatches — Pickering gives an Account of
Gerry's Arrival in England — Troup — Yellow Fever, its Severity, Causes,
and Treatment — Military Appointments — Burr — Political Opinions — Con-
tempt for Conduct of Talleyrand and Gerry — Failures in United States —
King — Nelson's Victory — Supposed Purpose of Bonaparte to go to India —
Condition of Affairs on the Continent — Lord Grenville on European Poli-
tics— Proposes Arrangement as to Duties on Sugar — Cabot draws a Pic-
ture of Affairs — Gerry has seen the President ; talks prudently — Military
Appointments — King to Secy, of State — Dissatisfaction with High Court
of Admiralty — Correspondence with Lord Portland relative to the Irish
Prisoners — To Wolcott — Difficulty in purchasing Arms — To Secy, of State,
in Reference to the Proposition relative to Duties on Sugar — To T. Pinck-
ney — Approves of the Abolition of Treaties with France — Gratified with
the Attitude of United States.

R. King to Secretary of State. No. ioo.

London, Sep. 21, 1798.
Dear Sir :

. . . I this morning received the Paris paper to the 16th in-
stant. " L'Ami des lois " of the 15th Fructidor (Sep. 1st) announces
the arrival of a flag of truce at Bordeaux in 24 days from Phila-
delphia, and Poultier, the editor, asserts that she brings dispatches
of the most satisfactory nature to the friends of peace. " Le
parti Anglais (dit il) loin d'avoir pris decidement le dessus dans
les E. U., est au contraire dejoue dans ses projets sanguinnaires,
et la majorite du Congres vaincue par les procedes genereuses du
gouvernment de la, grande nation, a rejete tous les plans hostiles
qui lui avaient ete presentes par M. Adams. Elle a repousse
toutes mesures qui tendraient a troubler la bonne harmonie qui
doit exister entre deux peuples amis ; et apres avoir manifeste
1 798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 423

tres clairement ses intentions a ce sujet, le Congres s'est separe
au milieu des Benedictions d'un peuple qui sent tout le prix de
son alliance avec la Republique Francaise, et qui avait deja
donne en plusieurs occasions des preuves non-equivoques de son
eloign ement pour les actes de rupture projettes par un fonction-
naire inftdele que V opinioti publiqiie accuse d' etre vendu auplus infdme
de Gouvememens. En apprenant l'heureuse nouvelle que nous
transmittons a nos lecteurs, nous n'avons pu nous defendre d'un
sentiment d'admiration pour la conduite politique tenue derniere-
ment par le Directoire envers les E. U., conduite qui a opere des
changemens si avantageuses dans notre position vis-a-vis cette
puissance, et qui doit nous concilier l'estimede tous lespeuples."

It is probably known to you that Poultier's Journal, tho' not
strictly official, is one that furnishes the means of conjecturing
the Politicks of the Luxembourg. Paragraphs of the same tenor
appear in the French papers of a later date, and, if what I suspect
be true, before this reaches you, you will have received direct
overtures for the renewal of negotiations. If the views of the
Directory could be doubted by any one who has impartially ob-
served them, the distinction which continues to be made and kept
up between the Government and people of the United States,
and the base insinuations of Poultier concerning the President
should increase the caution with which we meet the overture of a
Nation from whose acts alone we have anything to fear. I per-
suade myself, if the President renews the negotiation, that he will
perceive not only that his own character, so justly precious to his
country, but what is dearer to him, that the Constitution and
safety of the Country itself, will require a total exclusion of every
suspected individual from a share in the negotiation. This is a
subject too important not to merit the most profound reflections ;
it is one that conceals our only real danger ; there are obvious
reasons why it is neither adviseable nor necessary that the Topic
should be more than hinted at by me.

The French papers of the 16th inst. contain an account that
Buonaparte landed with his army at Alexandria on the 1st of July,
and after concluding a Treaty of friendship with the Beys and
Arabian Chiefs entered Grand Cairo on the 2 2d from whence he
immediately pursued his march. The same papers announce the
receit of Letters from Malta, which state that the English Fleet

424 RUFUS KING. [1798

had given battle to that of France, which was found at anchor on
the coast of Begnieres, preparing to return to France : the battle
is reported to have been fought with obstinacy and to have ended
in a decisive victory by the English.

No dates are given, and the details are obscure ; the event is
notwithstanding upon the whole highly probable : the Redacteur
of the 1 6th says we learn par line voie sure that two ships part of
the Toulon Fleet, have arrived in our ports, one of 80 Guns,
commanded by rear-admiral Villeneuve is at Malta, the other of
74 Guns is at Corfu.

With Perfect Respect and Esteem, &c, &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to A. Hamilton.*

London, September 23d, 1798.

You will have no war ! France will propose to renew the
negotiation upon the basis laid down in the President's instruc-
tions to the envoys. At least so I conjecture.

If the negotiation is recommenced, the most obvious pre-
caution suggests the expediency of confiding it to hands above all
suspicion.

We see that we have nothing to fear from the arms of France ;
all her skill and energy and resentment will nevertheless be em-
ployed to attain her ends.

A treaty, liberal in terms and stipulations, though neither should
be performed nor observed, would gain time, and go a great way
to restore her injured credit.

The election of President would return before the efficacy and
sincerity of the new stipulations and engagements would be ex-
perimentally ascertained. To give them any chance of success,
they must be liberal to the utmost bounds of our expectations.

Bonaparte reached Grand Cairo on the 22d of July, but we are
quite ignorant whether he was opposed by the Beys. It does
not appear yet whether he will remain some time in Egypt, in
order to consolidate his conquest and authority over that country,
or proceed immediately by the Red Sea for India. We are with-

* Works of Hamilton, vi., 359.

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 42$

out details or confirmation of the victory which the French papers
of the 15th and 16th instant state to have been gained over the
French fleet by Nelson. The news is on the whole highly prob-
able, and the victory has, according to these reports, been very
decisive and glorious. The war is about to recommence.

Wm. Bingham to R. King.

Bellevue, Jersey Shore, Septem. 30th, 1798.
Dear Sir :

The publication of the Dispatches of our Commissioners, which,
considering the Nature of them, must have excited some Surprize
amongst the diplomatic People of Europe, had an astonishing
Effect in creating a Spirit of determined Resistance to French
Aggressions. The Friends of the Government have improved the
Opportunity of cloathing the Executive with additional Energies.

Another good Consequence will be felt in our Elections, which
will return a large Majority of federal Characters. The Result
of that of No. Carolina has been very favorable. I hope the Im-
pression will be durable ; but I have my Apprehensions with re-
spect to many of our political Proselytes. I am confident that
many of them possess a disorganizing Mind, & that in their Hearts
there is still lurking a secret Attachment to the French Cause.
But I hope the Government will be made sufficiently energetic to
controul the Conduct of such Characters.

It is evident that the Policy of France will be to divide us & if
she cannot create a formidable Party by her Intrigues, she will
probably have Recourse to Arms, altho' at present she has too
many objects of pressing Importance in Europe to attract her
Attention, to attempt an Expedition in this Quarter.

Our Commercial People have suffered immensely by French
Spoliations & the Country at large is undergoing a very consider-
able Change, from the scarcity of Money & the stagnation of
Trade, which have effected a considerable fall in the Price of
Labor & Provisions, as well as in the Value of all kinds of Property.
The Fate of England will have a great Influence on the political
Situation of this Country. I cannot but entertain very serious
apprehensions, for the Result, when I see the preponderance that

426 XUFUS KING. [1798

France is daily acquiring on the Continent, & no Union of Force
or Concert of Governments to oppose her ambitious Projects.

Her Aim is evidently to revolutionize Europe & she has made
great Progress in her Views, when she has impressed a Terror,
which operates like the Stroke of a Torpedo, & has benumbed all
the Faculties of the European Powers. If she continues a little
longer in her Career, she will have Europe at her Feet.

We are anxious to hear the ultimate Object of Buonaparte's
Expedition. Malta was but a half way House. We suppose it
to be India ; but by what Route, or what Preparations have been
made to effect it, is Matter of Conjecture.

I deprecate the Consequences of the Insurrection in Ireland ;
if successfull, as it regards England — if otherwise, as it regards
this Country. In the latter Case, we shall have immense Emi-
grations of an ignorant & deluded Class of People, who will make
a Merit of resisting every Government, they live under. I cannot
see how we can shut our Doors against their admission. A late
Law has rendered a longer Residence, necessary to Naturalization,
but this will not prevent their seeking an Asylum here ; altho' it
will deprive them of the Power of influencing Elections.

You inquire if Ross will become Governor. I think & hope
he will ; all my Efforts will be exerted, to insure his Election.
We shall certainly feel his Loss to the Senate ; but, in critical
Times, he may still be more usefull, as the chief Magistrate of
this state ; altho' I must confess that the Senate has not appre-
ciated, in point of Talents, by the recent Changes, that have
taken place.

You will hear with great pain the melancholy Accounts of the
Situation in New York and Philadelphia, again scourged by the
Introduction of an epidemic disorder of the most malignant
Character. It has caused the Cities to be abandoned, & the
Inhabitants to fly in every Direction, to seek an Asylum. You
will readily judge the distress which must arise from so general a
Derangement, independent of the Loss of so many valuable Citi-
zens, who have fallen Victims to the Disorder. The Physicians
are disputing whether it is contagious, infectious, or epidemic ; or
whether it is a local or imported Disease ; they likewise differ
about the Mode of treating it. However, if some effectual Means
are not adopted to eradicate the Cause of these severe visitations,

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 427

the Cities on the Sea-Coast will be considerably depopulated, as
the lower Class of People cannot support the Loss & Inconvenience?
which arise from the necessity of such frequent Removals.

Yours &c.

Wm. Bingham.

A. Hamilton to R. King.

New York, Oct. 2d, 1798.
My Dear Sir :

Mr. R. delivered me your letter of the 31 of July. The opinion
in that and other of your letters concerning a very important
point has been acted upon by me from the moment that it be-
came unequivocal that we must have a decisive rupture with
France. In some things my efforts succeeded, in others they
were disappointed, in others I have had promises of conformity
to lay the foundation of future proceeding, the performance and
effect of which promises are not certainly known to me. The
effect, indeed, cannot yet be known.

The public mind of this Country continues to progress in the
right direction. That must influence favorably the present Con-
gress at the ensuing session. The next will be in all appearances
intrinsically better.

Of the executive I need say little ; you know its excellent dis-
positions, its general character and the composition of its parts.
You know also how widely different the business of Government
is from the speculation of it, and the energy of the imagination,
dealing in general propositions, from that of execution in detail.

There are causes from which delay and feebleness are experi-
enced. But difficulties will be surmounted and I anticipate with
you that this Country will ere long assume an attitude correspond-
ing with its great destinies, majestic, efficient and operative of
great things. A noble career lies before it.

Why does not Gouverneur Morris come home ? His talents
are wanted. Men like him do not superabound. Indeed I wish
that you were here rather than where you are, though I think
your position an important one at the existing juncture. But we
want to infuse more abilities into the management of our internal
affairs.

428 RUFUS KING. \M9%

Governor Jay is well. He & all your friends continue to take
a lively interest in whatever concerns you.

Adieu. Yrs. Affect.

A. H.

R. Troup to R. King.

New York, Oct. 2d, 1798.
My dear Sir :

. . . I sincerely wish this letter could be the messenger of
goodness. The reverse is the case. Our city is in the deepest
mourning ! Since August last we have been again visited with
the yellow fever and its ravages have been much more terrible
than those of the fever of 1795. Our number of deaths to the 1st
of this month exceed 1400. At least two thirds of our fellow
citizens are now in the country. We have lost many, very many
valuable men. . . . The weather is now getting cool and the
fever is consequently beginning to abate. Nothing but frost —
and a severe frost too — will restore us to our usual health. . .
For three weeks past the deaths have averaged 45 a day. . . .
one day 58. I am in the house I formerly occupied in Broadway,
and as my neighbourhood has been healthy, I have remained with
my family in town. We have hitherto escaped. . . . Col.
Hamilton, Mr. Church and their families have also remained in
town, except for a few days past, when out of compliance with
the pressing solicitations of Genl. Schuyler they took rooms a few
miles out of town ; but they have spent the greatest part of the
time in town. . . .

The fever has prevailed more amongst the higher classes of citi-
zens than it did in 1795. I do not mean by the term higher classes
to convey an aristocratic idea. No, no. I only mean those citi-
zens, whose means of living furnished them most amply with
medical assistance and all other necessaries to subdue the force of
the disease. . . . Philadelphia has been in a much more de-
plorable state. The fever broke out there before it made its
appearance with us, and its devastations have been dreadful. It
had not raged long before it was found to baffle all medical skill
and all means to subdue its force, and limit its sphere of action.
The result was that the inhabitants came to a general resolution

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 429

to abandon the city and seek safety in flight. . . . To make
the flight more universal, a number of the principal physicians led
the way. Rush, however, and others of inferior note to him, re-
mained. It is thought that there are now about 7000 souls in
Philadelphia. The deaths for more than a month past have
averaged near 70 a day — some days last week they have exceeded
100. . . . All the public offices, both State and Continental,
are removed ; some to Germantown, others to Trenton and other
places. All private business is at an end, and nothing but dis-
tress, deep distress, prevails in that quarter.

Our situation is not so calamitous, but is nevertheless very
afflicting. Our courts are shut up ; our trade totally stagnant,
and we have little or no appearance of business. What little com-
mercial business there is to do, is done on this street and on the
north side of the City. Our Coffee House is now at the Tontine
Hotel, a little above Trinity Church. There our Custom house
is kept, and there the Insurance gentlemen meet. I go nowhere
but from my house to the Battery and from thence back again. I
call in once a day at Hamilton's, and we endeavour to fortify each
other with philosophy to bear the ills we cannot cure. We meet
with nothing of what our friend Lawrance, when in practice, used
emphatically to term touching. We meet with no clients and of
course with no fees. When that is the case, I need not tell you
how deplorable must be the condition of society !

But New York and Philadelphia are not the only victims of the
fever. It has also visited Wilmington, New London, Boston, and
several other parts of the New England States. . . . We are
as usual looking about for a cause. . . . Our last winter was
uncommonly long and severe ; and our last summer in heat and
length has exceeded the memory of the oldest among us. In the
midst of our heat, we had the longest heaviest shower ever re-
membered here ; and this by filling cellars, choking drains, &c.
put our whole mass of filth into a state of violent fermentation.
The foul air arising from this source was increased by a large
quantity of beef stored in different places in the neighbourhood
of Burling Slip, and which bad packing and extreme heat rendered
putrid. Hence the explosion was first made at Burling Slip, and
its effects were quickly communicated to almost every other part
of the city.

430 RUFUS KING. [1798

Our medical gentlemen have changed their treatment of the
disorder with happy effects. The violent system of the lancet and
mercury has given way to gentle cathartics and powerful sudorifics.
A Mr. Underhill — a quaker — who is no physician, but a man of
infinite humanity and attention to the poor, has cured hundreds
with the use only of castor oil and sweating teas. Bard and sev-
eral of our most eminent physicians are decided friends to the
new remedies. We have lost fourteen medical gentlemen, amongst
whom Dr. Varick, brother of the Mayor, young Dr. Hicks, Dr.
Dingley, & Dr. Elihu H. Smith are the most conspicuous.
Scarcely a single physician has escaped an attack, and several —
such as Dr. Moore, Dr. Rodgers and Dr. Onderdonk — have worn
themselves out and taken refuge in the country. Dr. Bard has
been ill, but is recovered and will set off for his farm in Dutchess
County. . . .

The President was driven by the fever and the heat of the
weather from Philadelphia to his farm at Braintree, where he now
is. His absence from the seat of government and the derange-
ments occasioned by the fever, have prevented the celerity that
was expected in the raising of our army. A fresh misfortune is
likely to befal the army. The appointment of General Officers
(saving in the rejection of W. S. Smith) was in conformity with a
list made out by General Washington and by him transmitted to
the President. Upon this list Hamilton stands as first Major
General, with the additional appointment of Inspector General.
General Washington's idea and the idea of several in the Senate
was that Hamilton would be the second in command. This idea
is very offensive to General Knox, also appointed one of the Major
Generals. The President, it is confidently said, is inclined to
favor Knox's pretensions, and I fear a misunderstanding will take
place that may materially injure the public service. I hope an
adjustment will be effected to the satisfaction of all parties. I
know that it is a cause of very considerable anxiety to some of
our best friends, and that it is particularly so to General Wash-
ington. If Hamilton should resign, he will resume his former
station as aide-de-camp to Genl. Washington.

Col. Smith (I mean the President's son-in-law) was down on
General Washington's list as adjutant General, with the rank of
Brigadier General. There were but three votes in the Senate for

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 43 I

him, and of these was the vote of Lawrance. The objection
against Smith I have never heard ; we are left to conjecture.
Some ascribe his rejection to the utter embarrassment of his
affairs ; others to his unsteady political course ; the true cause I
am as much a stranger to as others. I have reason to believe that
the rejection made a deep and lasting impression on the President's
mind. . . .

Our Legislature met on the 9th of August. . . . They granted
300,000 dollars for fortification &c. and unanimously agreed upon
an address to the President on the conduct of France. The ad-
dress upon the whole, considering that Burr was in the Assembly
and much superior in talents to any of the opposite party, is bet-
ter than I expected. It breathes a decided determination to
support our sovereignty and independence against France, and
expresses strong indignation at the treatment our Commissioners
received. . . .

It is said with Confidence that Mr. Jay means to retire to
private life, at the end of his current term of service which will be
in July 1801. He is sick of the office, and he is a good deal
complained of by many of those who supported him in his two
first elections. Not half the zeal and energy formerly displayed
for him manifested themselves in his favor in several parts of the
State at the last election. There will be great embarrassment in
the choice of his successor.

Burr still continues in our Assembly. His object cannot be
precisely developed ; some suppose it to be a state bankrupt
law, in which he is said to be deeply interested. Others conceive
that he has the government in view. It is certain that he has not
discovered a desire to resume his station in the Senate. No
doubt is entertained that after the publication of the dispatches
from our Envoys to France, his conduct showed strong symptoms
of a wish to change his ground. He was active and apparently
zealous in our measures for defending our harbour : he was par-
ticularly courteous to Hamilton and some of the most intelligent
of his party have gone so far as to say he certainly expected an
appointment in the army. He began in a considerable degree to
lose the confidence of some of his associates ; and yet before the
appointment of General Officers took place, and in the midst of
conciliatory appearance, he became bail for the appearance of

432 RUFUS KING. [1798

Bourk, who was apprehended upon a warrant issued by Judge
Hobart for a most infamous libel on the President. I understand
Judge Hobart refused to take Burr alone, and that Burr then
prevailed upon Col. Rutgers to join him in the recognizance.
. . . It is determined to try the force of government in pro-
tecting the character and conduct of its officers from the ribaldry
and abuse uttered against them in certain papers.

The fever has disposed of Bache of Philadelphia and Greenleaf
of this city. Poor Fenno is also gone, and we have lost McLean
who published our daily gazette. . . . On the whole we
count with confidence that the next new Congress will yield a
decided majority for honorable and strong measures against
France. I am so well satisfied on this head that my mind is at
perfect rest.

Madison seems to be in a tomb ; we hear nothing of him.
Jefferson on his return home from the last sitting of Congress,
was indiscreet enough to accept of the honor of a public enter-
tainment in Virginia on a Sunday. This fact has been trumpeted
from one end of the continent to the other as an irrefragable
proof of his contempt for the Christian religion and his devotion
to the new religion of France. It has made an impression much
to his prejudice in the Middle and Eastern States.

We have seen and read with the greatest contempt the cor-
respondence between Talleyrand and Mr. Gerry relative to
Messrs. X. Y. and Z. and with the same emotion we have
also seen and read the concluding correspondence between
Talleyrand and Mr. Gerry just before the departure of the latter
from Paris on his return home. The public mind is now too
much enlightened and too firmly fixed in the belief of French
falsehood — perfidy — and corruption to give credit to any thing
that comes from the democracy of its infamous agents. .
No declaration made by the President has been more grateful to
the feelings of our countrymen, and of course more popular, than
the declaration that he never would send another minister to
France until we were treated with respect and distinction due to
a great, powerful and free nation. ... I never reflect upon
the recent Conduct of France towards us without an ejaculation
to Heaven for its special favor in giving us cause to dissolve our

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 433

connexion with her. It was a connexion pregnant with the most
destructive poison to our morals, our religion — and all those
principles and maxims of government that tend to the preserva-
tion and increase of human happiness. I consider the Act of
Congress which rescinded the treaties as a new declaration of our
freedom and independence ; and if my wishes were to be gratified
the day on which the act finally passed would be celebrated as a
great anniversary festival and honored with the highest testi-
monies of public joy.

I may be an enthusiast ; but, my good friend, I really have
such a horror of the French Revolution and the misery it has
inflicted upon so great a portion of our species, that I think the
Revolution we have just achieved is one of the choicest natural
blessings that God in his Providence ever bestowed upon a
people.

As to Mr. Gerry, I can say nothing honorable to him, or pleas-
ing to you. De mortuis nil nisi bonum is a maxim as applicable
to him as if he was in his grave. .

Do you know that Mr. Low has communicated to me your
wish to purchase a farm on the North River in Dutchess County;
and as I am better acquainted in that quarter than he is, I have
undertaken to assist him in procuring information for you . . .
but I have written myself into a headache. This pamphlet, for
I can call it by no other name, goes by the packet.

Failures with us are still too prevalent. Horace and Seth
Johnson just before the fever broke out failed for an immense
amount. . . . Comfort Sands has taken his stand at Flatbush
in King's County within the liberties of the gaol, where he means
to stay. . . . Mr. Thomas the Lawyer in Philadelphia about
three months ago, to the utter astonishment of the whole City, ab-
sconded after committing the most horrid forgeries and frauds
that can be imagined. He in all probability would have been the
federal candidate for Congress if he had maintained his former
character . . .

Poor Morris remains in gaol. Judge Wilson lately died in North
Carolina in the hands of the Sheriff — a victim to misfortune and
liquor ! Poor Duer in gaol likewise. . . . God help you.

Rob. Troup.

VOL. II. — 28

434 RUFUS KING. [1798

T. Pickering to R. King. No. 29.

Department of State, October 3, 1798.
Dear Sir :

This morning I received your interesting Letters No. 87, 88, & 89,
dated July 28, Aug. 1 and Aug. 5, and shall forward them by this
evening's mail to the President, who continues at Quincy. Mr.
Henry Rutledge forwarded you letters from New York, where he
has arrived in the ship Factor, Capt. Kemp. He informs me that
while he lay windbound at Portsmouth, Mr. Gerry arrived there
in the Brigantine Sophia. He sailed from Havre on the 8th of
August and reached Portsmouth Harbour on the 9th, pursued by
a British rowboat, dispatched by the Commanding Officer at the
Islands of St. Marcow, to speak the Sophia, as she came from
Havre, according to custom in those seas. Mr. Gerry's fears
having transformed this boat into one sent after him by the French
Directory, insisted on Captain Geddes keeping out of its reach ;
and to escape the boat they tugged at the Brig's sweeps till she
arrived at Portsmouth Harbour, where the boat also arrived two
hours after her. Mr. Gerry expected to pursue his voyage in a
day or two after the Factor left Portsmouth. Mr. Gerry assured
Mr. Rutledge that the motive of his flight was the fear that the
boat might have been dispatched after him by order of the French
Government, for the purpose of bringing him back, and of com-
mitting him to the Temple, or of sending him a Prisoner to the
West Indies ; adding that after his conduct towards the French
Government, he was sensible he had every thing to dread from
their enmity. . . .

R. King to Secretary of State. No. 2.

London, Oct. 3, 1798.
Dear Sir :

. . . Nelson's victory off the Nile has been more glorious

and decisive than any recorded in the annals of naval Powers ;

of thirteen ships of the line and four frigates which composed the

French force eleven ships and two frigates remained on the scene

of action : the details upon this subject and the comparison of

the number and force of the two Squadrons, which you will find

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 435

in Nelson's dispatch are highly interesting and demonstrate the
superiority of the English over the French in this species of
war.

Buonaparte arrived at Alexandria three days after the English
Fleet had left it. Alexandria was immediately taken possession
of : a corps of 5000 troops were left there. Buonaparte with
about 18000 men proceeded to Cairo, which he entered on the
2 2d of July ; the landing and progress of the French were resisted
by the Mamelukes and Arabs, and tho' the contests were always
unequal, there is reason to believe that the French suffered con-
siderable loss.

Several advice Boats have been taken with Buonaparte's dis-
patches and a great number of private Letters, some of the latest
written since the destruction of the Fleet ; they are all in a
desponding stile, describing the difficulties as much greater than
were expected, the army to be wasting with disease, and on every
side harassed by the Arabs and country troops ; so little has been
the success in revolutionizing the public opinion, and so active and
hostile are the Egyptians that not even a letter can be sent from
Cairo to Alexandria without an escort of 600 horse. The Porte,
whom Buonaparte hoped to conciliate by declaring against the
Beys and professing a deference for the Ottoman Power, issued a
Declaration of War against France on the 2d of Sep., the imme-
diate consequence of which was the sending of the French Charge
d'Affaires to the Seraglio Towers, and the arrest of all the French
throughout the Turkish dominions and the sequestration of their
Goods.

The ultimate object of Buonaparte is India ; but his complete
establishment in Egypt was first to be accomplished. A Letter
from the Commissary General complains of their want of pro-
visions and particularly of wine or of some substitute, without
which the waters and climate of Egypt will, in his opinion, destroy
the army. Buonaparte himself is disappointed and dejected ; in
a private Letter to a friend at Paris, he writes his despondency,
expresses his intention to return to Paris this winter, and gives
orders that his house should be kept prepared to receive him.
Letters from Tallien to his wife, written after the Battle, which he
saw, and of the disastrous issue of which he says he was about
setting out to carry the news to Buonaparte, breathe the same re-

436 RUFUS KING. [1798

grets and disappointment. The French transports are in the
harbour of Alexandria where they cannot be approached by the
heavy ships, and at present Nelson has no Frigates or Gun Boats
with him. He leaves a number of Ships off the Nile, and returns
with the others to Sicily, which will hereafter be the rendezvous
of the Fleet that England will maintain in the Mediterranean.

Russia has finally taken a decided part both by a liberal offer of
assistance to Austria, and by the still more liberal step of actually
sending a Fleet to Constantinople, and putting that and a Rus-
sian army, which is upon the Frontiers, under the orders of the
Russian Ambassador to be employed on the requisition of the
Porte for the defence of the Ottoman Territories. On the whole
there is a great probability that the Expedition will totally fail
and that the enem}' will meet a fate as disastrous as that of the
Fleet. The Declaration of the Porte and the disposition of
Russia to enter into the war against France are important events,
but the Councils of Vienna have become more wavering, as
those of Russia have become more decided ; and should the
French lower their tone a little more, or should the late Blow
induce them to offer to the Emperor further acquisitions in Italy,
it is by no means certain that Austria would not snatch at the
bait ; tho' neither she nor Prussia can promise themselves
security so long as France is mistress of such immense Terri-
tories as she at present possesses.

The Directory immediately after the news of the destruction
of the Toulon fleet sent a Message to the Councils in which they
demand more men and money to enable them to force Austria to
conclude peace and to take vengeance of England : it is needless
to add that these supplies were instantly decreed.
With perfect Respect and Esteem &c. &c.

Rufus King.

P. S. The course of events has confirmed an opinion some
time since given to you that Sweden and Denmark would make
no effectual opposition to the maritime Plunder that their com-
merce suffers from the French Privateers. Two Swedish con-
voys laden with deals, iron and naval stores, consisting together
of about forty sail of merchantmen under the protection of a
National Frigate and Sloop of war, and bound to different ports
ot Spain, France and Italy have been stopped and sent into the

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 437

English Ports : the Swedish Envoy has demanded their release,
asserting that the articles composing their Cargoes are not con-
traband according to the Treaties with England : this is denied
on the part of England and the Ships are ordered to be unloaded.

Lord Grenville to R. King.

Private.

Dropmore, Oct. 4, 1798.
My dear Sir :

I have not a great deal to add to what I last stated to you on
the subject of Continental Politics. Russia has, as you may have
seen, taken a decided part, both by liberal tender of assistance to
Austria & by the still more liberal step of actually sending a
fleet to Constantinople, & putting that & a Russian army (which
is on the frontier) under the orders of the Russian Ambassador
there, to be employed, on the requisition of the Porte, for the
defence of the Ottoman territory.

We have taken several advice boats with Bonaparte's dis-
patches & a number of private letters, some of the latter written
since the action off Alexandria. All are in a desponding stile
describing difficulties much greater than were expected. The
army is wasted by disease and continually harrassed by the
country troops & the Arabs. Even a letter cannot be sent from
Cairo to Alexandria without an escort of 600 horse. On the
whole I really think that without being sanguine we may con-
sider that business as over. The Porte declared war against
France the 2d September.

The Councils of Austria are still wavering & irresolute, & if
the insolence of the Directory is so far humbled by this last blow,
as to induce them to hold out fresh lures to Vienna of acquisi-
tions in Italy, I would not answer for it that the Austrians might
not catch at the bait, tho' they see the hook it no longer
conceals.

I have been desired to suggest to you an idea which might, it
is conceived, be beneficial to both our Countries, in the essential
article of raising supplies with as little pressure as possible on
our own People. It is that by mutual agreement we should re-
tain so much of our drawback on Sugars, Szyau charge the export

438 RUFUS KING. [1798

of that Article for foreign consumption with such duties, as would
supply to both of us a considerable Revenue drawn from foreign
Countries, on an article in which our two Nations have no com-
petitors, nor are likely to have any. If you think any thing of
this sort practicable, Mr. Pitt would I know be very happy to be
allowed to converse with you upon it, & if possible, before this
Mail goes out.

Ever, my dear Sir, most truly yours

G.

Geo. Cabot to R. King.

Oct. 6, 1798.
Dear Sir :

Dumourier's sketch has afforded me a good deal of pleasure
for tho' his ideas of invading England partake of the pride,
revelry, vanity & folly of all Frenchmen on that subject yet his
picture of the other States of Europe is drawn skillfully & is in-
structive. We are aware of the danger you have ably described
in your letter of the 4th of August & shall profit by your ideas.
Altho' the elections in New York are bad we flatter ourselves
with the expectation of some great reforms in other States. N
Carolina has already gratified us & I expect our 3 Jacobiny votes
will be reduced to 1, or probably annihilated — should the new
Congress be well constituted as is now expected I presume the
President will call them together in March if the present house
shou'd persist in refusing any thing which the public welfare re-
quires. Shou'd this happen the new house wou'd meet under
impressions so favorable to strong & decisive measures that I
think they wou'd do every thing that has that character & which
cou'd be desired. It has proved unfortunate that Genl Marshall
entertained the opinion that France wou'd declare war as soon
as the Dispatches published here shou'd reach Paris. In no-
event ought they to declare war because it wou'd certainly help
us without serving them, yet this opinion of Mr. Marshall damped
the ardor of some, furnished excuses to others & satisfied a few
of the best men that as it wou'd be advantageous to us that France
shou'd take the odium & that she would do it, therefore we ought
to forbear ; however as we always got along as well by blunder-

I798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 439

ing measures as by those we denominate wise, let us hope that
even this dangerous delay will be salutary.

Gerry is here — he arrived 6 days since & has visited the Presi-
dent at Quincy — we wait silently to see the part he will take —
he has hitherto talked prudently since his landing — he approves
the vigorous measures that have been adopted & says we must
rally round our Govt. & yet it is impossible he shou'd not justify
himself & therefore he must say that we might have had an ad-
justment of differences safe & honorable. If he says this he will
renew the clamours of the factions & the hopes of the credulous.
Great pains have been taken to guard the Community against
plunging into new delusions & much more will be done ; there
will after all be a prevalence of folly, but I hope not so much as
to ruin us.

As you have seen the military appointments, you naturally an-
ticipate the heart burnings which are felt by K. at seeing H.
placed where he ought to be. Some Jacobins who associate with
K. have stimulated him to demand a Rank superior to H. & even
Genl Lincoln has countenanced this demand ; upon every prin-
ciple the demand is unsupportable, but yet it has been listened
to in a place where it may work mischief. I believe however K.
having discover'd that he might fail altogether finally, has been
prudent enough to say that " if Genl Pinckney wou'd serve in a
Station subordinate to H. he wou'd." A perfect understanding
of this subject was not to be expected in a moment & many who
have not examined it have been led to suppose K. was right. I
am satisfied however that he is totally wrong ; he relies on a Re-
solve of the old Congress which provides that in case of election
of several persons to similar offices on the same day a priority of
Rank shou'd be allowed to those whose Rank was highest pre-
vious to the election — but this was a regulation for a particular
description of offices ; & there is in fact another Resolve gen-
eral in its nature which provides that in Elections on the same
day the order of the Elections shall determine the rank — this is
common sense & has been consider'd as proper by the present
Govt. It applies to all New officers & such certainly as are all
who at the time of their appointment are private citizens — such
were the men concerning whom the question is raised. Con-
versing with Mr. Liston on this subject he informed me that a

440 RUFUS KING. [1798

military man who shou'd from any cause be z/;zofficered in Eng-
land wou'd not be able to avail himself of former rank if he
shou'd again enter the service. Probably you may know from
others more of this business, but I have said so much with a view
to engage your interference with Genl Pinckney, if he is any
where within your reach. Knox's objection being really un-
founded it is probable Pinckney wou'd not adopt it, & therefore,
if he is disposed, can easily smooth over the whole difficulty.
For if he is unwilling to enter the service from any other motive
he may satisfy Knox by saying to him that he acquiesces perfectly
in the order of the appointments as regards himself & wou'd not
decline the service but for other reasons — if indeed he serves as
is universally desired all difficulty vanishes at once. I have in-
terested myself in this affair because it threatens an embarrass-
ment to the Administration which every good man desired to
prevent — I have written frankly to the P. on the subject to put
him on his guard, — it will be extraordinary indeed if these anti-
quated claims are to deprive the Country of its best resources.

My last letter from Gore is gloomy in the extreme but nothing
has shaken my faith in the execution of the national covenant
made with us by G. B. The obstacles have been too great &
are ungraceful ; they are greater than I expected & if the business
does not wind up well great discontent will grow out of it ; but I
still confide in the weight of all those reasons which you are per-
fectly qualified to enforce, to satisfy the B. G. that a liberal con-
duct is the only true policy.

Yours truly,

C.

R. King to Secretary of State. No. 3.

London, Oct. 6, 1798.
Dear Sir :

We have had great reason to be dissatisfied with the delays and
caprice of the High Court of Admiralty ; these have lately en-
creased with the encreasing infirmities of the Judge.

You know that the tenure of this office is during good be-
haviour ; had it been otherwise, I am persuaded that he would
long since have been removed ; for his incapacity has been
notorious and the Government has received repeated Complaints

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 44 1

on this head from the Ministers of all the Neutral Nations.
Learning that the Captors have lately become equally dissatisfied
with the Claimants, and that their influence would co-operate with
that of those whom a reform would provide for, I thought the
occasion a favorable one to renew our Complaints upon this sub-
ject, which I accordingly did in a Letter to Lord Grenville, a copy
of which is annexed.* The like step was adopted by the Danish
Envoy and the Swede would have joined us, had he not been at
the moment engaged in an unpleasant Correspondence respecting
the Swedish Convoys that had been stopped and sent into the
English Ports.

As yet we are uncertain of the effect ; but there is considerable
reason to expect an arrangement by which Sir William Scott will
become the Successor of Sir James Marriot.

I likewise annex copies of a Letter that I lately wrote to the
Duke of Portland,! and of his answer J ; though they are both
Private Letters, I have not thought it proper to omit communi-
cating them to you. There are occasions and this is one of them,
of delicacy as well as of importance, and in which we can only
act from our own view of what the public welfare appears to re-
quire ; I flatter myself that in this instance it will not be thought
either that my opinion was ill founded or that the step it gave rise
to was impolitic. . . .

With perfect Respect and Esteem &c. &c.

Rufus King.

Dear Sir :

R. King to Oliver Wolcott.

London, 6 Oct., 1798.

[The beginning of this letter relates to efforts made to
carry out instructions for the purchase of cannon and mus-
kets, and the difficulty in obtaining in England what were
required at the time.]

Under these circumstances you will conclude that I have little
or no prospect of procuring in this country the muskets we want.

* See Letter, Sept. 6, 1798.

\ Sept. 13, 1798. \ Sept. 22, 1798.

442 RUFUS KING. [1798

I am assured however * that in the event of an actual rupture with
France, tve shall instantly receive a part of what they may possess
and that the supply shall be continued.

I stated to Genl. Ross who conducts the business of the Ord-
nance Department during the absence of Lord Cornwallis, that
though the event to which he alluded had not in fact arrived we
thought it so probable that it was indispensable on our part to pre-
pare for it beforehand and in case we could not obtain in England
the supply of Muskets we want that we must turn our attention
to the Continent, though we should experience many difficulties
in procuring arms from thence, which when we have got them
would be inferior to those of England. The General replied that
they would give us all the information and aid in their power, and
to enable us to escape the impositions to which we should be ex-
posed in respect to the proof, that, if we would contract for their
delivery and proof in England, they would prove them for us in
like manner as for themselves. He added that tho' he had sup-
posed from the late Measures of France that they would avoid an
open rupture with us and that therefore we should not be in urgent
want of arms, still if upon his return from Scotland, wh. would be
in about three weeks, / should continue to desire it that they would
supply us with five thousand Muskets from the Tower.

I have written to Pitcairn at Hamburgh to ascertain whether
we can contract for ten or fifteen thousand muskets, and within
what time they can be supply'd to be delivered and proved in
England. . . . From all the enquiries I have made on this
subject, I am induced to believe that there is no safety in the
purchase of Muskets unless they have been regularly proved in
some national establishment. I had a prospect of purchasing a
quantity of Prussian arms which were to have been procured
from the Prussian arsenals ; but the King of Prussia has very
lately forbid the exportation of Muskets, in consequence of which
a contract that had been made by this country for a supply of
Prussian arms has failed. The Prussian arms are of the same
caliber as the English, but they are heavy and much more so
towards the muzzle than those of England on account of their
cylindrical Ramrods ; but they are efficient arms. .

With great respect, &c. &c.

Rufus King.

* Italics in cipher.

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 443

R. King to Secretary of State. No. 4.

London, Oct. 10, 1798.
Dear Sir :

A few days since I received a message from Mr. Pitt* desiring
me to meet him for the purpose of conferring upon a plan to be
concocted between the American and British Governments for the
purpose of encreasing their respective revenues by diminishing the
drawback on Sugar exported to foreign markets. Mr. Pitt pro-
poses that Great Britain should withhold a certain portion of the
drawback on that article, and that the United States should impose
an equivale?it Export Duty upon it, supposing, I presume, either
that we impose no Duty on its i??iportation, or that it is less than the
portion of the Drawback he has in view to detain.

I have written a note to Lord Grenville, through whom I re-
ceived the message, explaining to him the present footing of this
branch of our commerce, as well in respect to the Duties and
Drawbacks as to the course of our trade, the Ships employed in
which are not obliged to return with their cargoes to the U. States
but are free to go, as they sometimes do, directly from the West
Indies to a foreign market, adding also that Congress are restrained
from imposing duties 011 Exports.

I have at the same time expressed my want of facts sufficient
to form an opinion how far this branch of trade is so exclusively in
the hands of Great Britain and the United Slates, as to authorize
the measures suggested by Mr. Pitt, and concluded by saying, as I
have no reason to doubt, that the American Govemme?it will readily
agree to such commercial relations as may be likely to improve our
revenues and at the same time benefit those of Great Britain j that
I would with pleasure at any time confer with Mr. Pitt on this or
any other subject having the same object in view.

I have thought it adviseable to communicate this overture, tho"
privately and informally made, because exclusive of its particular
object, it appears to me to be of some importance i?i assisting us to
judge of the opinions of this Government respecting our encreasing
Commerce, and of its views and wishes in regard to our future
connection.

Whatever may be our opinion concerning this proposition, the

* Italics in cipher.

444 RUFUS KING. [1798

high price at which Sugar is so universally consumed in Europe
persuades me to believe that we can with ease and advantage,
whenever we find it requisite, greatly encrease the Duty now im-
posed on that and a considerable number of other articles of gen-
eral consumption. The restraint upon Congress relative to
export Duties proceeded from, I then thought and still think, an
ill founded opinion & jealousy respecting a Duty on the exporta-
tion of Tobacco. The diminution of the culture of this article
in Europe, and the superior quality of that of America, give us
in fact a monopoly in the Sale of it ; & without detriment to the
Planters we might at least divide with the European Govts, the
tax paid by the consumer.

The revenue obtained from the Consumption in Europe is a
demonstration of this truth provided, as I believe to be the fact,
that our Tobacco is without a rival.

With perfect Respect &c, &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Thos. Pinckney, Esq.

London, Oct. 12, 179S.
Dear Sir :

I have had the pleasure to receive your obliging Letter of [18th
July, 1798]. We do not disagree in opinion upon what is the true
policy of our country on the subject of foreign connection.
France according to her convenience has violated the Treaties we
made with her, and at length we have consented to their abolition :
they are now dead, they cannot be revived, and my dearest hope
is that we may never see their like with any nation ! Europe has
reached her maturity, America has yet her race to run ; their
relative importance and interests are therefore constantly chan-
ging, hence the policy that our Treaties should be occasional, par-
ticular, and not of long duration. Besides a nation of the first
order may make and break treaties as suits the moment, but it is
not so with those of a second rank ; these then should make only
such treaties as they intend to observe themselves, and which
they have reason to believe will be kept by others. It is one
thing to release, and a different one to guaranty a title ; the
former conduces to peace, the latter is fruitful in contention and

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 445

injustice. As our Titles are well settled, and as we are moreover
able by ourselves to defend them, we want no guarantees, and
wanting none are without the common motive to guaranty the
Titles of others. Perhaps I go beyond you and too far upon this
subject. If I could be persuaded to admit an exception to this
Policy, it would not be in favor of any Power of Europe.

I have been gratifyd. as all real Americans must be by the firm
and imposing attitude assumed by our Government : it has en-
creased our union and security at home, and as far as I am able
to judge, has had the happiest influence in establishing and ex-
tending a high and well merited opinion of our wisdom and
character abroad.

France has receded as we have advanced, but we shall deceive
ourselves if we believe that she has relinquished her views. The
fate of Switzerland, the history of which should be read by every
American, is a dreadful lesson and should preserve us from the
fatal error that hastened and disgraced her Fall.

CHAPTER XXVIII.

R. King to Duke of Portland on the third Article of the Treaty, relative to
Fishery Privileges on Magdalen Islands, etc. — His Answer — J. Adams to R.
King — Our Country unanimous and firm — R. King to Secretary of State —
General Affairs in Europe — Brest Expedition — Conference with Mr. Pitt
relative to Sugar, etc., and on commercial Regulations — Sir James Marriot
resigned — To Secretary of State — On the Irish State Prisoners, Effect of
Nelson's Victory — To Col. Pickering — Miranda Expedition — To A. Ham-
ilton on the same — N. Webster to R. King — Effect of Publication of
Envoys' Dispatches — Yellow Fever — R. King to Secretary of State — In
Case of War with France England will share Muskets — Efforts to buy
them in Hamburgh, etc., French Frigates on the Coast of Ireland— Secre-
tary of State to R. King — Talleyrand's Declaration, " United States
merited no more Consideration than Genoa or Geneva" — R. King to
Hamilton — Continental and English Affairs — Lord Grenville on Affairs of
Holland — R. King to Secretary of State — Union with Ireland will be pro-
posed— Extension of Trade in the Mediterranean suggested — Also a Treaty
with Russia.

R. King to the Duke of Portland.

Great Cumberland Place, Oct. 13, 1798.
My Lord :

By the Third Article of the Treaty of Peace between the
United States and Great Britain it is provided " that the Ameri-
can fishermen shall have liberty to dry and cure fish in any of the
unsettled bays, harbours and creeks of Nova Scotia, Magdalen
Islands and Labrador, so long as the same shall remain unsettled ;
but so soon as the same or either of them shall be settled, it
shall not be lawful for the said fishermen to dry or cure fish at
such settlement without a previous agreement for that purpose
with the inhabitants, proprietors or possessors of the ground."

The plain and amicable intention of this Provision appears to
1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. ^J

be that this liberty should without interruption be enjoyed by the
American fishermen until it should prove actually prejudicial, by
interfering with the cultivation or pursuits of the Settlers and In-
habitants of the places to which according to the said Article
the American fishermen have a right to resort.

Hitherto we have met with no impediments, but I am appre-
hensive that without your Grace's interference, we are likely soon
to experience Embarrassments on this subject. A Letter that I
have lately received from Isaac Coffin Esq., a copy of which I
send enclosed to your Grace, gives us notice that he has or is
about to, become, the proprietor of the Magdalen Islands in the
Gulph of St. Lawrence, and though I have heard of no change in
respect to their settlement, Mr. Coffin expects that our fishermen
should apply not at these Islands, but at Halifax for licences to
pursue the fishing in this quarter in the manner they have been
accustomed to do. I am not acquainted with the soil of these
Islands, and therefore cannot form an opinion how far they are
valuable for the purposes of cultivation : that they have been
known and neglected for nearly two centuries, affords a presump-
tion that they are in this respect of little or no value ; and their
neighbourhood to Newfoundland precludes their being chosen as
a new station for the establishment of the Fisheries.

The only motive then that seems likely to have influenced Mr.
Coffin to become their proprietor, instead of being permitted to
remain public property of use to the Fishermen of both nations,
must have been the expectation of obtaining a revenue from the
American fishermen, who shall continue to frequent them

How far these views will be found to correspond with the pro-
visions that I have cited, is a question of considerable importance,
and one that I can with great confidence submit to your Grace's
consideration. If, as I flatter myself must be the case, your
Grace shall agree with me in the construction to be given to the
third article of the Treaty of Peace, I could hope that your Grace
will deem it expedient to give such instructions upon the subject
to his Majesty's Governor within whose jurisdiction these Islands
may be situated, as shall prevent the misunderstanding that other-
wise may be apprehended.

With perfect consideration &c

Rufus King.

448 RUFUS KING. [1798

J. Adams to R. King.

Quincy, Oct. 16, 1798.
Dear Sir :

The inclosed Letter from the Sec. of State I pray you to con-
vey in safety and as soon as may be to Berlin.

I ought not to omit the opportunity to thank you for the Pam-
phlets you have sent me from time to time. They not only
entertain and amuse me but I flatter myself are Useful. Our
Country seems to be, as we used to say in 1775, unanimous & firm.
They are much more so now than they were then. N. York and
Pennsylvania, were always a little chancellants. But they will be
kept tolerably steady. There are strong Pillars in both.

But, Watchman, what of the Night ? Where is all tending ?
I am weary of conjectures. Will Princes ever be more wise, or
People more temperate or United ? or Aristocrats more willing to
acknowledge a Superior ?

With great Regard I have the Honor to be, sir, your most
obedient

John Adams.

R. King to Secretary of State. No. 5.

London, Oct. 16, 1798.
Dear Sir :

We are impatient to receive the Hamburgh Mail ; two are due,
and according to the last I have, we may expect the result of the
Congress at Rastadt. If the reports in the French papers are
correct, the Empire is likely to make its peace and the Emperor
to be again involved in the war. But the Cabinet of Vienna is
so wavering and undecided that it is not easy to predict its final
determination ; on the one hand, its preparations for war are in-
creasing, and the movements of the French, particularly in Italy,
such as indicate the greatest probability that Naples will speedily
be attacked ; on the other the recent refusal of Austria to ratify
the Convention lately signed by its minister at this Court for the
reimbursement of the monies advanced by England before the
Treaty of Campo Formio, pretending that its ratification at this
moment might have a sinister influence upon its negotiation with
France, added to the important circumstance of the Emperor's

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 449

having remained a quiet spectator of the overthrow of Switzer-
land, which opens his dominions to France, would incline me to
conclude that Austria at least believes that she shall avoid the
war and dispense with the future succours of England.

Russia is in the most zealous manner employing her influence
to engage Austria in a new coalition, and has certainly come for-
ward in the most liberal and decided manner to support the
Porte. The revolution in the politicks of St. Petersburgh is
among the unexampled events of these extraordinary times.
England is of course gratified and as usual has engaged an
eventual subsidy to Russia, of twelve hundred thousand pounds
sterling. But unless Austria confederates, the Russians and Turks
can do nothing against the Body of France.

Perhaps among conjectures this is as probable as any, the Em-
peror will continue to temporise, when France will either march
against Naples, or without reserve attack Austria on the side
of Switzerland. War abroad can alone prevent war at Home.

Portugal has again failed in an attempt to treat with France,,
through the mediation of Spain ; the Directory consented to re-
ceive another minister ; this was at first refused and at last agreed
to, only upon the assurance of D'Azara, the Spanish Ambassador,
that on the conclusion of the Treaty the customary and liberal
presents should be made by Portugal. Noranha the new Portu-
guese Envoy had scarcely arrived at Paris before he received
Passports and an order to leave the territories of the Republic.
The real cause of the change may be conjectured but not known.
The published one is that the Directory declined a Treaty on the
former basis, and that Noranha had no powers to accede to the
enlarged demands for money and territory in Guiana.

We have as yet no certain intelligence of the destination of the
Brest expedition ; another small Squadron with troops is reported
to have put to sea within a few days from Dunkirk, and the French
papers mention the sailing of two or three frigates from Brest for
the Windward Islands. They are said to have on board two
agents of the Directory, one for Guadaloupe and the other for
Cayenne. Several of the counties in Ireland continue to be in-
fested with a daring banditti, who, from the fastnesses of the
mountains, lay waste the neighbouring plains. The plan of uniting
Ireland with Great Britain which was in agitation in the year 1792,,

VOL. II. — 2Q

450 RUFUS KING. [1798

and laid aside on the breaking out of the war, has been lately re-
sumed, and measures are at this time in train to carry it into
effect. A million Sterling was in 1792 the estimate of the sum
that would be necessary to accomplish this measure ; perhaps the
same sum will still be sufficient as the late disturbances may have
depreciated the Property in that Country, and none perhaps more
than that of the revenue of the Boroughs.

I had yesterday a conference with Mr. Pitt * on the subject of
my No. 4. He thinks the measure one that will prove beneficial
to both countries, and that the objections that I have suggested
may be got over. Facts are wanted and means are employed to
collect and arrange them ; the concert must necessarily be tempo-
rary should it on consideration be approved by the Governments
of the two Countries. Coffee is an article of equal importance
with Sugar, and instructions have been sent to the British Consuls
to collect information of the qua?itity of these articles exported from
the countries where they severally reside, in order to assist in de-
ciding how far this Trade is in our hands. I have, as you would
suppose, said that I could conclude nothing, nor shall I do any-
thing that would in the smallest degree compromit us ; but if the
Subject should appear to the President to deserve attention, he
will perhaps think it proper by the earliest opportunity that you
should express to me his instructions respecting it.

After our conference on this subject had ended, I took occasion
to express to Mr. Pitt the embarrassment to which several
branches of our Trade to this Country are liable from the intri-
cacy, the prohibitory clauses, and in several instances the rigour
of their commercial Laws, and adverting to the relaxation that
usually takes place during every war in their famous Navigation
act, expressed a wish that the policy might become more and
more clear of permitting England to become the Entrepot of the
Trade of foreign nations. He immediately interrupted me by
saying he was in hopes that the next session would not pass over
without the establishment of extensive and very important regula-
tions on that subject ; and I hear it is in contemplation to make
eight or ten free Ports in Great Britain where the Productions of
all Nations may be brought and deposited, free of all duties except
on such of them as shall be taken out for home consumption ; a

* Italics in cipher.

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 45 I

policy that beyond any other will serve to increase the wealth, and
extend the Commerce of this Nation.

Our Conversation finished by Mr. Pitt declaring to me that
their commerce during the last year had been more extensive
and their ordinary revenues more productive than in any former
year, and that the result as well in regard to the new, as to the
old Taxes, disproved the assertions which had been made respect-
ing the incapacity of the Nation to support the burthen it was
obliged to bear, and joined to the prevailing unanimity and firm-
ness of the Country, afforded him the fullest conviction that even
alone England would be able to carry on the war as long as France
may be inclined to pursue it.

I hear it has been decided to maintain a strong and superior
naval force in the Mediterranean, a circumstance that I hope will
be turned to profit by our Merchants, and particularly by those
concerned in the Fisheries. It is believed that we should begin
to indemnify ourselves for the numerous expenses of the Barbary
Treaties.

Sir James Marriot has resigned and the probability is that Sir
William Scott will be his successor. This is an event of great
importance to us as well as to all others who have suffered by the
caprice, inferiority and incapacity of the late Judge. . . . The
long vacation, as it is called, being nearly over, I intend resuming
with the Chancellor the Question respecting the Maryland Bank
Stock. Russell's family has certainly been compensated and I
really see no remaining objection to the claim.

With great respect and Esteem &c. &c.

Rufus King.

Duke of Portland to R. King.

Copy.

Whitehall, Oct. 18, 1798.

Sir:

I have had the honor to receive your Letter of the 13th inst,
with a copy of one which had been written to you by Mr. Coffin,
stating that he is sole proprietor of the Magdalen Islands in the
Gulph of St. Lawrence, and that as the Treaty of Peace fully ex-
plains that it shall not be lawful for American fishermen to dry
and cure their fish on those Islands without leave of the Proprie-

452 RUFUS KING. [1798

tor it will be necessary to apply at Halifax for licence from him
or his agent for permission to resort to the said Islands.

It appears that a grant of the Islands in question has been
made to Mr. Coffin ; but as such grant by no means implies the
settlement of the said Islands, I will instruct his Majesty's Gov-
ernor of Newfoundland, including the Magdalen Islands, to take
particular care that no interruption is given to the liberty granted
to the American fishermen by the 3d Article of the Treaty of
Peace of 1783 between his Majesty and the United States of
America to dry and cure fish in any of the Bays, Harbours &
Creeks of the said Islands (amongst other places mentioned in
the 3d Article) so long as the same shall remain unsettled.
I am, Sir, your most obt. Hble Servt.

Portland.

Rufus King to Secretary of State. No. 6.

London, Oct. 19, 1798.
Dear Sir :

. . . The newspapers continue to announce that prepara-
tions are making to send the Irish State Prisoners to the United
States. I wrote another Letter to the Duke of Portland upon the
subject, a copy of which is annexed & likewise a copy of his
Grace's Letter to Lord Cornwallis,* that has been sent to me, &
which will, I presume, relieve me from any further concern on
that head. I also annex the copies of a Letter that I lately
wrote to the Duke of Portland & his answer respecting a claim
affecting our fisheries that had been notify'd to me by Captain
Israel Coffin. Though I am not certain that our fishermen resort
to the Magdalen Islands, or are in the practice of curing their
fish abroad, I judged it desirable to resist this claim, and by no
means to lose a moment in asserting the true construction of the
Treaty of Peace concerning this important Branch of our National
enterprize and industry. The answer of the Duke is satisfactory
and may hereafter be an important document.

Though we are without particular account of the issue of the
Battle, there is no doubt that the expedition that lately sailed from
Brest was destined against Ireland, and that it has been met and
defeated by the English squadron off the northwest angle of Ire-

* See Appendix IV.

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 453

land ; the battle, which was seen from the shore, took place on the
1 2th. The other expedition that was reported to have sailed
from Dunkirk is said to have been driven into some of the Dutch
Ports.

I understand it to be ascertained that all the Irish patriots who
were some time since at Paris embarked with the Expedition from
Brest. This defeat will therefore in all probability put an end for
some time to further Schemes of Invasion.

According to the last news from the Mediterranean and Italy,
the late victory of Nelson has had a very great influence in en-
couraging and confirming Hostilities against France. A revolt is
said to have taken place in Malta, and I think it probable that the
English will now endeavour to become Masters of that important
Island.

A Paris paper of the 8th instant contains the following para-
graph, " Les derniers lettres de Bordeaux assurent qu'il y est ar-
rive un courier extraordinaire porteur d'ordres pour remettre
Tembargo sur les navires Americains. Voila done la guerre in-
evitable avec ce peuple, du moins toutes nos correspondances
coincident avec ce bruit."

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c. &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Col. Pickering.

Private.

London, Oct. 20, 1798.
Dear Sir :

I am very much obliged to you for your private letter of the
29th of August. I had heard a rumour that General Knox was
not pleased ; tho' I have no great reliance upon my own opinion
in regard to questions of rank among military men, I should not
have believed that General Knox would have made and persisted
in an objection to Hamilton's being placed above him. I am
however glad that the question is not likely to deprive us of Gen-
eral Knox's services. You are silent concerning South America* ;
I have again and again touched upon it ; I have wished to say

much more, but I have not thought it prudent. As England is
* Italics in cipher.

454 RUFUS KING. [179S

ready she will furnish a fleet and military stores and we should fur-
nish the army ; a map of the country that some time since I pro-
cured is in the hands of the engraver j the copies will be delivered
in January.

Rufus King.

R. King to A. Hamilton.*

London, Oct. 20, 1798.
My dear Sir :

I have received your letter of the 22. of August with an inclos-
ure that has been delivered as directed — on that subject, things
are here, as we could desire : there will be precisely such a co-
operation as we wish the moment we are ready — The Secretary of
State will shew you my communications on this subject, tho' I
have not a word from him respecting it ; your outline corresponds
with what has been suggested by me, and approved by this Gov-
ernment— fortunately some months past I obtained a fac simile of
the latest Map of the Country — it has been now two Months in
the Hands of an Engraver, who has engaged to deliver the Copies
in January — This Government has considerable information re-
specting the interior, as well as concerning the condition and
Dispositions of the Inhabitants, tho' I apprehend it is not of a
recent date — What we know is favorable ; but if we are to be
betrayed by France, the glorious opportunity will be lost — I am
gratified in receiving your opinion of the good condition of our
public affairs, but do not feel confident that we are as safe as you
appear to think we are — It is fraud not force that I fear — A Paris
Paper of the 8th instant which is the latest that takes any notice
of the U. S. says, " Les derniers lettres de Bordeaux assurent
qu'il y est arrive un courier extraordinaire porteur d'ordres pour
remettre l'embargo sur des navires Americains. Voila done la
guerre inevitable avec ce peuple ; du moins toutes nos corre-
spondances coincident avec ce bruit. Yrs.

K.
P. S.

As I presume from your present connection with the Govern-
ment that you are acquainted with all the information possessed

* Hamilton Papers, vol. xvi., p. 187, U. S. State Department.

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 455

by it* not say anything to you upon* subjects that I should
otherwise * of. Another reason, we have no * May be advan-
tageous that we should establish one — Genl. Schuyler invented a
most excellent cipher, and I wish you would send it to me by the

Packet or other safe conveyance, preserving the counter part.

K.

N. Webster, Jr. to R. King.

New Haven, Nov. i, 1798.
Sir :

. . . You must be well acquainted with the various meas-
ures and changes of public opinion in this country. From the
time you left America till the publication of the dispatches from
our Envoys in France, no change of consequence took place in
the strength of parties. That publication had a great effect.
There is no doubt that many real converts were made to the
measures of our Govt. Other opposers were silent or became
moderate or neutral. But a principal effect was the exhibition
of the real force of our Govt. Men who had been active advo-
cates of Govt, and others who were staunch, but inactive friends
came forward with boldness and confidence, & pledged them-
selves to maintain Govt. The wisdom & the property are now
enlisted & committed on the side of Govt. — a thing much wanted,
in a country, whose Govt, rests on popular opinion.

The Elections, I conceive, do not exhibit the strength of the
party on which France relied for aid in case of a serious Crisis.
There are multitudes of men who vote for certain leaders in oppo-
sition from former friendships and confidence in men who will
never enlist under a military commander to aid a foreign invader.
France deceives herself if she relies on the elections for an
estimate of her force in this country, farther than to aid a change
in the administration. Indeed this may be all she intends or
wants.

But it is confidently expected that the next Congress will show
a more decided majority in favor of Govt, than the last. We are
now apprehensive of the " diplomatic skill " of France in holding
out apparently friendly offers, which shall ensnare our credulous

* Torn off.

456 RUFUS KING. [1798

fellow citizens. Agst. this we must guard night and day. Of our
Executive, there is no danger ; but you well know, Sir, the fas-
cinating powers of French arts over weaker minds.

Our last advices from Europe show a troubled State of Nations.
I apprehend after all a general change in the Govts, in Europe,
unless perhaps the British Fleet should save the nation from the
contagion. It appears to me that democracy is planted already in
most of that part of the world and that no force whatever can
exterminate it. Whatever may be the ultimate result, certain it
is that during the struggle between the old and new systems,
Europe must be a continual scene of convulsions and misery.
Our distance may protect us, but great care must be taken here
to prevent the effect of French principles. . . .

The dreadful pestilence which has scourged our cities, the sum-
mer past, is abating and business revives. New York will lose
about 2000 of her citizens & Philada. twice that number. . . .
The disease has this year been more mortal & contagious than
before & has more frequently put on the form of Levant plague.
It has demonstrated the fact that the plague is only the worst form
of bilious fever. The received theories about the origin of the
plague will all be overthrown by our experience. The notion that
this disease is propagated by specifc contagion only, from the
Levant into the northern part of Europe, is totally unfounded,
and will soon be completely disproved. The Faculty of Europe
have yet to learn that the great principle which causes the
X>lague, or which gives the usual autumnal fevers the malignity
of pestilence, is commonly diffused over a great part of the habi-
table globe at the same ti?7ie, and shows its effects in Europe,
Asia, Africa, & America in the same year or the same season.
This I shall demonstrate in a work I am preparing for the press.
In this, I want exceedingly the bills of mortality for Paris, Am-
sterdam, Copenhagen, Osnaburg, Vienna, Berlin and some cities
in the South of Europe, for a century or two past, (London bills
I have) and I had thoughts of writing to the Royal Society to
procure them thro' their influence ; but I have omitted it, because
the work is here called for & I must publish it, the winter com-
ing. As soon as the work is out I will send you a copy.
With great respect, your obt. Servt.

N. Wtebster, Jr.

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 457

R. King to Secretary of State. No. 7.

London, Nov. 5, 1798.
Dear Sir :

A Swiss lately arrived here from the Continent with an order
from Talleyrand to procure and send to him all the English
charts and Maps of the Bahama Islands in the Gulph of Mexico,
Louisiana & of the United States. Some few maps of other
countries were likewise inserted in the List and probably intended
as blinds ; the order has been executed by Faden. Pitcairn* in-
forms me by the last Hamburgh mail that Matthew Salmon, a
Mulatto, formerly a St. Domingo Representative in the Conven-
tion, with his wife also a Mulatto and two other of the name of
Villard and Collier, are on the point of embarking on board the
Danish ship Minerva, Capt. Kramp, from Hamburgh to Charles-
ton, S. Carolina. Salmon has large Dispatches from the French
Directoire concealed in tubs (cases) with false bottoms ; they
have Passports from the Magistrates of Hamburgh as Swiss.

In the late conference with Genl Rose who conducts the busi-
ness of the Ordnance Department in the absence of Lord Cornwallis,
he said that he was authorized to inform me that in the event of war
between us and France, they would instantly divide with us the Mus-
kets and other military stores in their possession, and that they would
moreover without a moment's delay ship and send the same to us
in some of their men of war ; that they were desirous of affording
us immediately the supply we want, but that their own demands as
well as those of the Turks which they were now obliged to supply to a
considerable extent, added to the earnest importunities from
Portugal for arms to assist her in defending herself against the
invasion with which she is again threatened, put it out of their power
to supply us with the quantity we have requested j that they had
however concluded to deliver us two or three thousand immedi-
ately and to continue to deliver us five hundred at the beginning
of every month ; that orders to this effect would be immediately
given to the officers of the Tower where the arms would be properly
packed in boxes ready to be shipped ; the price will be the same as
that paid by the ordnance.

Pitcairn has contracted for 6000 Mitskets, a part of which are

* Italics in cipher.

458 RUFUS KING. [l79S

already shipped, and the whole will probably be delivered in the
course of three months. The price is lower than that of England,
but I am very fearful they are not such as we shall approve
though we have used every precaution in order to escape
imposition.

I have a faint hope of obtaining a quantity of Bavarian Mus-
kets which are not quite the model we should prefer ; but their
caliber is like that of the English Muskets, and they are moreover
to be relied upon as effective arms, being all proved in the Prussian
arsenals.

We continue to receive vague Rumours from the Continent of
the surrender of the French to the Inhabitants of Malta, of the
destruction of the Transports at Alexandria & of the Capitula-
tion of Buonaparte. The late mail brings us nothing satisfactory
or certain respecting the issue of the negotiations at Rastadt. The
Emperor continues his military preparations and France inforces
the new requisitions. We have no confirmation of the renewal of
the Embargo on our ships in the French ports ; but the capture
of our ships by the French Privateers is frequent and without any
perceptible discrimination in respect to their voyages or the nature
of their cargoes. Some of these captures arrive in France, most
of them are carried into Spain, and many of them are recaptured
and brought into this Country. The last mail from Ireland
brought intelligence of the appearance of several more French
Frigates with troops in Killala Bay, which are said to have put to
sea again on learning the Defeat of the Expedition from Brest.
These Frigates are supposed to have come from Rochefort or Ro-
chelle and to have been destined to reinforce the troops from
Brest. They will with difficulty regain their own ports.

The Thetis, Capt. Cochran, has lately arrived from Halifax. I
had some time before spoken to Lord Spencer respecting the dis-
contents excited among our Merchants by the vexatious captures
made by this officer upon our coasts & expressed a wish that he
might be recalled. His Lordship on his arrival gave an immediate
notice thereof, with an assurance that he should not return.
With perfect Respect and Esteem, &c. &c.

Rufus King.

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 459

T. Pickering to R. King. No. 32.

Department of State, November 7, 1798.
Dear Sir :

In your 92 you remind me of the advances you have made to
Mr. La Fayette. The President has not yet returned from Massa-
chusetts, but in his absence I express to you my opinion (in which
the Secretary of the Treasury decidedly concurs) that you should
stop your hand and make him no further advances. There is in fact,
as Mr. Wolcott remarked, no appropriation to cover them. . . .

The arret for recalling the Commissioners of French Privateers
in the West Indies is perfectly illusory, seeing all the Laws and
arrets to capture neutral vessels remain in full force. But you well
know that their depredations on our commerce in the European
seas, tho' not as numerous, have been as atrocious as those in the
West Indies. Yet Mr. Gerry in his communications with Mr.
Talleyrand adverted only to those in the West Indies, as tho' the
ports of France and Spain were exempt from such monstrous viola-
tions of the Laws of Nations and of the most obvious princplies of
Justice. This unfounded distinction by Mr. Gerry was the result
of unpardonable ignorance or criminal complaisance. . . .
Copies (of Mr. Gerry's dispatches) are preparing to be laid before
Congress. This step will be necessary for two reasons ; one to
satisfy the public expectation, the other, to prove that all Talley-
rand's overtures were inconsequential ; and their main object to
procrastinate, and in the mean time, by amicable tho' deceitful
professions of an ardent desire of reconciliation, to lull us asleep,
until the French should be at leisure to take vengeance for our
daring to look "the Great Nation " in the face and to prosecute
their original plan of subjugating the United States, as they have
done Switzerland, Holland, &c. You will recollect that in some
letter from General Pinckney when alone at Paris, he recited an
expression of a Frenchman, who had been in America, " That the
United States merited no more consideration than Genoa or Geneva " :
it was Mr. Talleyrand who made this declaration. We see what
the French have done with these Republics, and our fate was to be
similar ; for according toTalleyrand our supposed divisions would
render us equally weak and unable to resist. . . .

460 RUFUS KING. [1798

R. King to A. Hamilton.*

London, Nov. 9, 1798.
Dear Sir :

The same uncertainty exists respecting the recommencement of
the war. Both Austria and Prussia are bolder than before the late
naval success of this country ; but the conduct of the Emperor
is rather calculated to show that he may be purchased by further
acquisitions in Italy. Naples will not decline a war. Her exist-
ence perhaps depends upon her provoking it.

The casus foederis with Austria is a defensive war, but the
Emperor has said that he should not be critical on that head.
The news of the capitulation of Buonaparte and the destruction
of the transports at Alexandria, is not confirmed, though they are
events that must take place. The expeditions against Ireland are
annihilated. Of the nine ships that sailed from Brest, seven,
including the Hoche, are in the English ports ; the two frigates
that escaped from the Texel have both been taken ; and of the
three that sailed from Rochefort and appeared off Ireland soon
after the defeat of the Brest squadron, two are said to be taken.

The Dutch frigates were probably bound to Demerara, though
the soldiers were told they were to go to Ireland.

Parliament meets on the 20th. Mr. Pitt will have a good
account to give of the extension of their commerce, and of the
increase of the revenue. The assessed taxes, which have been
shamefully evaded, will be given up, and a tax upon the income
of the nation substituted. There will be great difficulties in the
details, as well as strong prejudices to overcome, but I hear that
the body of merchants in London are to support the plan. The
late naval success has excited a high degree of animation through-
out the nation : and the government will be generally and cor-
dially supported in such measures as it shall adopt to prosecute
the war. The funds have gone up to 57 per cent, which is a great
rise, and in a short time. You will see that I have prevented the
sending to you of about fifty Irish state prisoners, who were at
the head of the rebellion in Ireland, and closely connected with
the Directory at Paris. Probably our patriots will think my con-
duct presumptuous. In the present posture of our affairs, I

* Works 0/ Hamilton, vi., 375.

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 461

could have no hesitation. We have an account that the Constel-
lation, Capt. Truxton, has taken a French frigate on our coast.
This news is brought by Capt. Cochrane, of the Thetis, who will
not be permitted to return to the American station.

Yours very truly, &c.

P. S. The Hamburgh Mail, just arrived, informs us that very
great resistance is made to the requisition of 200,000 men in Bel-
gium ; 12,000 young men are embodied, and the spirit of revolt
extends itself every where. The scene is too near the army of the
Rhine.

R. King to W. V. Murray.

London, Nov. 17, 1798.
Dear Sir :

To avoid any misunderstanding I put my letter of the 16th of
August and yours of the 7th of September and 6th of October
into the hands of Lord Grenville* with a request that he would
give me in writing what he should think proper to be said to you
upon the subject. Annexed you have a copy of his Letter
to me.

With sincere attachment &c.

Rufus King.

Lord Grenville to R. King.

Private. Copy.

Dropmore, Nov. 6, 1798.
My dear Sir :

I return you the two letters which you had the goodness to
leave with me. I think I collect from them that the persons with
whom Mr. Murray has conversed* will not treat with us about the
means of delivering their Country from the yoke of France unless
we first agree that the P. of O. and the Stadtholderate should be
set aside.

This condition we consider as wholly inadmissible as a prelimi-
nary to such a discussion, nor can we give the least expectation

* Italics in cipher.

462 RUFUS KING. [1798

that it would even be the result of it. We hold it to be impos-
sible to restore, and still more to maintain the tranquillity of that
country by the exclusion of the most numerous party in it.

The object of England is what you stated to Mr. M ., and what
it has been for above a century : to see in that Country a rational,
free and efficient Government, capable of providing for its domes-
tic happiness and maintaining a real independence with respect
to all its neighbors. The prosecution of one party for the past, or
its exclusion, or that of the other party for the future are equally
incompatible with these objects. Those persons whoever they
may be who concur in this wish would find in England a willing
and a powerful assistance : but there is nothing in the present
relative state of G. Britain and Holland, which could tempt us to
embark in any more limited plan at the risk of increasing instead
of destroying the internal dissension of that Country, and thereby
exposing it to become avowedly and permanently what it is now in
substance, but for a time only, a conquered Country annexed to the
present Government of France.

With many thanks to you and to Mr. M. for the trouble you
have taken on this subject, Believe me, my dear Sir &c. &c.

Grenville, j6.

P. S. I need hardly repeat that if, on the ground stated in this
letter and in yours of 16th August, there is any disposition to open
a discussion with us, our disposition remains the same, and it would
only be for them to name the place and person where and thro
whom they would communicate. We would immediately give the
necessary instructions to a fit person on our part.

Grenville.

R. King to Secretary of State. No. 8.

London, Nov. 10, 1798.
Dear Sir :

The same uncertainty continues with respect to the recom-
mencement of the war between Austria and France, and for
nearly three weeks we are without any precise information from
Paris. Naples will not decline the war, nay she appears inclined
to provoke it. The casus foederis with Austria is a defensive war,
but the Emperor has lately given assurances that he shall not be
critical on that point.

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 463

The Irish Expeditions have all failed and most of the French
ships are prizes in the English ports. Parliament meets on the
20th ; the Nation is animated by the late victories at sea and the
Government will receive a very general and cordial support.

There is no doubt that the Union with Ireland will be proposed
and as there are thirty thousand English troops in that country,
the measure will probably be carried into execution, tho' there
will be much opposition.

There appears to be very great activity among the Merchants
in preparing voyages for the Levant. The interruption of the
supplies of rice from Egypt to Constantinople has created a great
demand and sudden rise in the price of that and some other com-
modities in this market. I cannot but think the present a favor-
able moment not only for the extension of our trade in the
* Mediterranean, but for the conclusion of a commercial Treaty with
the Porte. Speaking upon this subject to Lord Grenville, he assured
me that we might with confidence rely upon their good offices and in-
fluence at Constantifiople in any arrangements we may be inclined to
make there.

The Russian Envoy of his own accord yesterday observed to me
that we have considerable trade in the Baltic and it appeared
somewhat singular that no direct intercourse or correspondence had
ever subsisted between our two Governments. He added that they
stood well at this moment with the Porte with whom we might have
an interest in making a commercial Treaty, and that he had no
reason to doubt that the Emperor would be inclined not only to form
a commercial Treaty with us, but moreover to afford us his Influence
in concluding one with the Porte.

I answered that I could perceive considerable advantage in a
commercial Treaty with Russia and that it would undoubtedly be
an object of importance to extend and establish our Trade in the
Levant. He then proposed that we should take an early opportunity
of resuming this conversation, and concluded by saying that by
writing to our respective Governments, if the measure should be
found adviseable, they might authorize the Treaty to be negotiated
here.

I have thought it best to report this conversation, tho' the sub-
ject is referred to another interview. Count Woronzow is a man

* Italics in cipher.

i

464 RUFUS KING. [1798

of good principles and of great honour j I know not whether this
intimation proceeds from himself or has been ordered by his Gov-
ernment. I shall not fail to send you the result of our next Con-
ference.

With perfect Respect and esteem &c. &c.

Rufus King.

P. S. The mail that has just arrived from Hamburgh brings
accounts of great opposition in various parts of France to the
Requisition of 200,000 men. In Brabant 12,000 young men have
embody'd themselves to resist the requisition and the spirit of re-
volt is hourly extending itself. But the army of the Lower Rhine
is too near long to suffer this Defiance. — R. K.

CHAPTER XXIX.

R. Troup — Military Appointments — Reception of Gerry at Boston — Dr.
Logan — Marshall — St. Croix Commission has settled the Line — Commis-
sioners under sixth Article make Decision in Favor of Persons attainted
during the Revolution — Cabot — Elections — Knox declines — Gerry ap-
proves the national Measures — Course of the President relative to him —
R. King to Secy, of State — French Plans — Extravagant Arrete to treat as
Pirates all Natives of Countries, Allies of France, found on Enemy's Vessels
— Lord Grenville on this — England threatens Retaliation — R. King presses
Claims for Maryland Stock — Treaty between England and Toussaint —
To and from J. Jay relative to Supply of Arms — R. King to Secy, of State
— Conversation with British Ministers on the Convention with Toussaint ; its
great Importance to the United States — R. King to T. Pickering — May
call ourselves united — France looks to our Divisions — Count Rumford
proposes to settle in America — R. King to W. Bingham — France encour-
aged by our Divisions, etc. — Dangers ahead great — W. Hindman to R.
King — Federalism increasing — General Politics — W. Bingham — Irish
Prisoners not desirable — General Politics — St. Domingo — Indian Medals —
R. King to H. Dundas — Correspondence relative to Convention with St.
Domingo — To Genl. Pinckney — United States should take the Lead in
what affects the New World.

R. Troup to R. King.

New York, 16th Nov., 1798.
My dear Sir :

. . . Quitting the subject of farms, I proceed to give you a

general sketch of our political state. . . . Genl. Pinckney &

Mr. Gerry are both arrived, the former at this port and the latter

at Boston. . . . No man can stand higher in public opinion

than he (Genl. Pinckney) does. Saving General Washington, I

believe the President, Pinckney and Marshall are the most popular

characters now in our country. There is a certain something in

the correspondence of Pinckney and Marshall (for Gerry seems
vol n—30 465

466 RUFUS KING. [1798

to be considered a blank) with Talleyrand that has united all heads
and hearts in their eulogy. Pinckney is well pleased with his late
appointment of Major General and has expressed great pleas-
ure at the idea of serving under Hamilton. Knox, it is said, has
resigned his appointment, and I have seen a surmise that his
land operations have so embarrassed him as to make his entrance
upon public life inconvenient. The President was doubtless
favorable to Knox's pretensions against Hamilton. There is no
cordiality on the part of the President to Hamilton. During the
last election for President, Hamilton publickly gave out his wishes
that Pinckney should be elected President. These wishes were
communicated both privately and publickly to the President, and
have occasioned, I suspect, more than a coolness on the part of
the President. I blamed Hamilton at the time for making the
declarations he did, and I foresaw that evil would arise from
them. . . .

There is now a council of war at Philadelphia. General Wash-
ington is there attending it with all the Major Generals. The
precise object is not known ; but the public expectation is that
vigorous measures will speedily be adopted and pursued to bring
our army into the field.

Gerry upon his landing in Boston was said to have been re-
ceived with three cheers : since which I have heard nothing of
him except that the Boston papers announce that he detests the
French — has a budget, which, when opened, will give additional
and very strong proofs of French perfidy and corruption, and that
he warmly approves of the measures lately adopted by our
government.

The famous Dr. Logan, who is generally called Jefferson's
Envoy Extraordinary, has lately arrived from France with de-
spatches, as report announces, from the Directory to the Secretary
of State. The same report also announces that he hastened to
Trenton to deliver his despatches to the Secretary, who dismissed
him with a flea in his ear. . . . It is asserted in the papers
with the appearance of authority from the Secretary . . . that
as to any overtures or propositions towards a negotiation there
are none. . . . I do not think that a more rooted detestation
of France exists in England, than prevails with a great mass of
our fellow citizens. All the old prejudices instilled into our

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 467

minds by our ancestors, seem to be revived and to have acquired
infinitely more force than they ever possessed. So let them re-
main till time shall cease to run his course.

Speaking of the elections to Congress Mr. T. says among other
things, Marshall is certainly a candidate for the district in which
he lives, and has published an answer to some questions addressed
to him. He thinks the Alien and Sedition bills lately passed by
Congress were unneccessary and that he should, if he had been
in Congress at the time, have opposed them. On the subject of a
Treaty with Great Britain he is, if we form one during the con-
troversy with France, for confining it to objects connected wholly
with the controversy and to end with it. He means, if elected,
to vote for the repeal of the Alien and Sedition Bills. . . .

At a late circuit court of the U. States — Judge Paterson pre-
siding, in Vermont, Lyons was indicted for printing — it seems he
has set up a press there — a letter written by Joel Barlow to Bald-
win of Georgia. The letter goes by the name of the Barlow
letter. It is an infamous libel on our government and eulogy on
that of France ; it was written last spring. Lyons after a very
fair trial, was found guilty and sentenced to pay a fine of 1000
dollars and suffer four months imprisonment. He is now in gaol.
During the trial and afterwards he behaved like himself — like a
fool and a blackguard. Mrs. Bache, the widow of the editor of
the Aurora, considers him a martyr. This woman has renewed
her husband's paper with as much virulence as was manifested by
her husband. This also is the case with Greenleaf's widow. . .

17th Nov., 1798.

Benson has just returned from the Eastward, where he has been
attending the St. Croix Commissioners. This line is at length
settled. The Commissioners have unanimously decided against
us and in favor of the pretensions of Great Britain.

The Commissioners for British Debts, it is said, have decided
that debts due to persons attainted by our laws during the late
Revolution, are to be paid on the ground that those debts have
been prevented from being recovered by lawful impediments. A
precedent of this kind has been set in the case of Dr. Inglis, now
Bishop of Nova Scotia, and formerly an Episcopal Clergyman in
this City. He is named in our Bill of attainder. I am not with-

468 RUFUS KING. [1798

out a suspicion that this precedent is not warranted by the
Treaty. It will cut deeply — and I think will create not a little
uneasiness. . . .

The Philadelphia papers announce that Dr. Logan has been to
pay his respects to General Washington, and that he met with a
very dry and contemptuous reception. . .

Very truly yours

Rob. Troup.

George Cabot to R. King.

Nov. 16, 1798.
My dear Sir :

I lament that while our Elections must be considered as the
truest test of public opinion their evidence at the present junc-
ture is so unfavorable. The result of ours is not wholly known
but Varnum is rechosen & the declination of Isaac Packer will
open the way for Dearborn. In the District where I reside a
very great effort was made in favor of Heath & conducted with
so much system and industry as gave me much uneasiness. It
appeared evidently that a plan was formed to bring every jacobin
to the poll without any previous alarm to the Federalists ; these
however were not wholly surprised & Otis was carried by 400
majority.

Genl. Knox declines serving in the army unless he can be placed
above Hamilton where neither the Govt, the people, nor his own
merits wou'd place him — a hope has been entertained that Gen^
Pinckney wou'd adopt similar opinions but far from every such
idea he readily declared his satisfaction with the arrangement &
his great pleasure in seeing Hamilton employed where his Genius
& Talents fairly ranked him — this business is now adjusted &
Knox's refusal is perhaps no injury, for his private embarrass-
ments wou'd always have hung heavy about him & sunk him in
the public estimation : I regret however that his feelings have
stimulated him to speak of Hamilton privately as a man of in-
satiable ambition &c —

Gerry since his return has declared pretty explicitly his appro-
bation of our National Measures & his desire to see them per-
sisted in & supported. The President appears to think him a
good patriot still & considers his errors as no greater than his

I798l LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 469

colleagues especially Pinckney's ; this disposition in the P. to
cover the follies & improprieties of his friend, threatens us with
new & mischievous schisms. Gerry's conduct will be reprobated
by the wise & the good if there shou'd be a discussion of the
respective merits of the Envoys in the Newspapers or elsewhere.
Already the P. in answering an address from the people of
Machias has spoken of the errors of the Envoys as if they were
common : a little more of this wou'd bring forward Pinckney &
Marshal who can hardly vindicate themselves without criminating
Gerry. Col. Pickering in his excellent answer to P. Johnson has
used expressions which wound Gerry & the latter has written an
explanatory letter to the President in which he treats Pickering
with some little disrespect. This letter the Prest. forwarded to
Pickering with his own, a request that, as it wou'd be some satis-
faction to Gerry & cou'd do harm to no one, it might be inserted
in some public print — but Pickering will not publish it & if it
shou'd be published he will comment upon it & upon Gerry's
conduct in a manner that will show his business in a strong light.
Prudence forbids me to write all you wou'd wish to know & I
hope you will learn nothing more on the subject for we need all
our strength against the common Enemy & therefore must suffer
no division : some pains are taken to prevent this matter from
proceeding which I trust will be successful. With the purest
principles of Morality & patriotism & a profound knowledge of
the theory of Govt, the Prest. needs some faithful monitor to
guard him against the delusions of his own heart, which tho' a
very good one, its impulses shou'd not be followed without critical
examination. Yours faithfully & affectly —

G. C.

R. King to Secretary of State. No. 9.

London, Nov. 16, 1798.
Dear Sir :

We have Paris papers to the nth instant. Notwithstanding the
slavery of the Press, their papers contain curious articles which
shew not only that the interior of France is in a state of consider-
able agitation but that the Directory think themselves on the eve
of the renewal of the war. I was yesterday informed from a re-
spectable quarter that Naples would certainly begin. The march

470 RUFUS KING. [1798

of the Austrians into the country of the Grisons is an important
measure, and not likely to have happened unless the war had
seemed inevitable. The annexed arrete would appear extravagant
and incredible if it proceeded from any other authority ; but man-
kind is so accustomed to the violence and injustice of France, that
we almost cease to express our surprize and indignation at the new
instances she continues to display.

Some of the foreign ministers have urged this Government to
make reprisals on the French Prisoners, and the measure is now
under consideration. I have remained silent. Two of our citi-
zens who commanded a French Privateer are prisoners here ; I
have heard of no prosecution against them.

With perfect Esteem and Respect &c &c.

Rufus King.

DlRECTOIRE EXECUTIF

Arrete du 8 Brumaire, An. 7.

Le Directoire Executif sur le rapport du Ministre des Rela-
tions Exterieures, considerant que les Escadres, armemens en
course et Navires de l'Angleterre et de la Russie sont en parti
equipes par des individus etrangers.

Considerant que cette violation est un abus manifeste du droit
des gens, et que les puissances de l'Europe n'ont pris aucune
mesure pour le faire cesser,

Arrete.

Art. ier. Tout individu natif ou origineux des pays amis
allies de la Republique Francaise ou neutres porteur d'une com-
mission derivee par les ennemis de France, ou faisant partie des
Equipages, des batimens de guerre et autres ennemis, sera par ce
seul fait declare pirate et traite comme tel sans qu'il puisse en
aucun cas alleguer qu'il a ete force par violence, menaces ou
autrement.

2. Les Directoires Executifs du Republique Batave, Ligurienne,
Cisalpine et Romaine seront instruits de cette mesure.

3. Les dispositions contenues en l'article premier seront noti-
fieesaux puissances neutres ou alliees de la Republique Francaise.

4. Le Ministre des Relations Exterieures est charge de l'Execu-
tion du present arrete, qui sera imprime au Bulletin des Lois.

Signe, Threillard,

President.

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 47 1

R. King to Wm. Wickham.

Private.

Great Cumberland Place, Nov. 23, 1798.
Dear Sir :

From the character that Mr. Coke gives of Lynch, there can be
no danger apprehended from his residence in America. The only-
objection to our consenting to his going there is that it will be an
exception to a good Rule and may lead to other applications.

But under the circumstances of his case, and especially as Lord
Cornwallis must see something in it, that discriminates it from
others, I beg you to inform the Duke of Portland that I do not
object to Lynch's being permitted to proceed to the United States
of America.

With the most sincere esteem & Regard &c &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to the Secretary of State. No. 10.

London, Nov. 28, 1798.
Dear Sir :

. . . Parliament met on the 20th. The King's speech mani-
fests a decided resolution to persevere in the war, & the unanimity
and zeal of the Nation will enable the Ministers to raise the sup-
plies without difficulty. An early Loan will be negotiated, tho* it
is understood that the plan of raising a considerable portion of
the Supplies within the year will be persisted in.

The Directory enforces the new Levies, tho' they meet with
considerable opposition, particularly in Brabant & the annexed
territories. The Insurrection in Brabant has been very extensive,
but the Insurgents will not be able to maintain the Contest. The
accounts sometime since circulated of the burning of the Trans-
ports at Alexandria are discredited, and if, as there are some
appearances of being the case, Buonaparte succeeds in conciliat-
ing any considerable bodies of the Inhabitants, he will be able to
maintain himself a long time in that fruitful country.

Annexed I send you a copy of a Note from Lord Grenville
respecting the French arrete transmitted to you with my number
9. A late French paper contains a second arrete, which sus-
pends the execution of the first.

With perfect Esteem & Respect &c. &c.

Rufus King.

472 RUFUS KING. [1798

Lord Grenville to R. King.

Copy.

Downing Street, November 27, 1798.

The undersigned, His Majesty's Secretary of State for Foreign
Affairs, has the honor of communicating to Mr. King Minister
Plenipotentiary for the United States of America for the informa-
tion of his Govt., that by a Decree published officially at Paris it
appears to have been declared in the name of the French Direc-
tory, that every person being a native of, or originally belonging
to neutral countries, or to such as are in amity & alliance with
the French republic, who shall bear any Commission under His
Majesty, or who shall form a part of the crews of British ships of
war or other vessels, should on the proof of that fact alone, be
considered and treated as a Pirate, and that it has been ordered
that this Resolution shall be notified to the neutral powers and to
those in alliance with France.

Even this Decree, contrary as it is to the usage of every civil-
ized nation, cannot excite our surprize as proceeding from those
in whose name it has been published. To the different powers
who are thus insulted and whose innocent subjects are exposed to
the most cruel treatment on the part of a Govt., professing friend-
ship or alliance with them, His Majesty must leave it to adopt such
measures as they will without doubt judge necessary in the case
of an outrage hitherto unexampled in the History of the World.

The King however feels that protection is due from him to
those who sail under his flag, either in his Majesty's ships of war,
or in other British vessels. His Majesty has therefore not hesi-
tated to direct it to be signified to the Commissary of French
Prisoners in G. Britain that the first instance of the execution of
this Decree shall be followed by the most rigorous retaliation
against the French Prisoners, whom the fortune of War has
already, or may hereafter place at the King's disposal.

It would certainly never be but with extreme reluctance that
the King could yield to the painful necessity of subjecting any
unfortunate individuals, to the fatal but inevitable effects of this
atrocious Decree ; but His Majesty will have at least the satis-
faction of feeling that nothing has been omitted on his part to
prevent its execution ; that the authors of it can alone be con-
sidered responsible for all its guilt and all its consequences.

Grenville.

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 473

R. King to Lord Grenville.
Private.

Great Cumberland Place, Dec. 1, 1798.
My Lord :

I continue to be urged, and more frequently than I could have
wished, have applied to your Lordship and others respecting the
Maryland Bank Stock. The Lord Chancellor to whom I am
much obliged for the politeness and favorable disposition with
which he has uniformly attended to my repeated efforts to bring
this business to a conclusion, must notwithstanding his habitual
patience and good temper be fatigued with hearing, as I really
am with devising, new expedients for that Purpose. I have
therefore determined to relinquish a course that I have so assidu-
ously tho' ineffectually followed, and will send to your Lordship
a note referring to those heretofore presented, and requesting an
answer whether the stock in question will without further delay
be transferred to the State of Maryland. Previous however to
the adoption of this step, availing myself of the freedom with
which I am accustomed to treat every subject with your Lord-
ship, I have thought it adviseable to write this private Letter to
your Lordship, and not without the hope that, through your in-
terference assisted by the good offices of the Lord Chancellor, the
presentation of the note may become unnecessary.

I am the more encouraged to hope that this may be the case
when I consider that since this Question has been depending be-
fore the Court of Chancery (the suit commenced in 1784) all the
persons who opposed the transfer and who lost real estate by the
American Revolution, including as well the Ewers, as the family
of Russell, have been compensated for their losses by his Majesty's
Government, and that all persons who have incurred losses by
the non-payment or confiscation of American Debts, have a
remedy before the Commission under the late Treaty now open
at Philadelphia.

In truth, My Lord, there does not appear to exist any solid
reason why this property should be longer withheld from its law-
ful owners ; for according to my view of the Question, it belongs
to the People of Maryland by the soundest and most solid of all
titles, that of their having bought and paid for it.

With perfect Esteem & Respect &c &c.

Rufus King.

474 RUFUS KING. [1798

R. King to Lord Grenville.

Private.

Great Cumberland Place, Dec. 1, 1798.
My Lord :

The Newspapers speak in such positive terms of a Treaty con-
cluded between General Maitland and Toussaint the negro Chief
of St. Domingo, that I take the liberty^to enquire of your Lord-
ship, whether any engagement of the nature of that said to have
been formed by General Maitland has actually been concluded.
Your Lordship knows how materially we are concerned, at the
present moment, in this Enquiry ; and I flatter myself will on
that account excuse what might otherwise seem a mere matter of
Curiosity.

With most perfect Esteem and Respect &c. &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to John Jay.

London, Dec. 7, 1798.
Dear Sir :

I have had the honor to receive your Letter of the 30th of
Sept., and am sorry that we shall not be able at present, nor for
a considerable time to come, to obtain in this Country the supply
of arms wanted by the State of New York. I have for some time
had orders from the Government of the U. S. for a much larger
quantity of Muskets than I shall be able to procure. The Manu-
facturers of this Country, tho' exclusively employ'd by the
Government, not being able to supply its wants. So great indeed
has been the Deficiency, that England has during the last year
purchased and imported more than sixty thousand German Arms.
I have purchased several thousand German Muskets at Ham-
burgh ; they are made under the English model, are rather
cheaper than those of England, but not as good. We can obtain
Arms from no other part of Europe, and under these circum-
stances I will immediately write to Mr. Pitcairn, our Consul at
Hamburgh, to engage the manufacturers whom we have employed
to make and have ready to deliver at Hamburgh in the Spring
Three thousand Muskets with Steel Ramrods & Bayonets. The
Remittances may be made to me or to him as the State of the
Exchange shall recommend. Perhaps it will be best to remit

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 475

directly to him as the Exchange between England and Hamburgh
will be against the former if, as is not improbable, any of the
Continental Powers are subsidized by this Country.

With the most perfect Respect and Esteem, &c. &c.

Rufus King.

John Jay to R. King.

Albany, 30th Sept., 1798.
Dear Sir :

A late Act of the Legislature of this State authorises me to
purchase a further supply of arms, and the Money appropriated
for that and other Purposes of Defence not being in the Treasury,
I am empowered to borrow it. A Loan to the amount of two
hundred thousand Dollars has been agreed to by the Bank of
New York. The proportions in which this sum should be
apply'd to the different objects of the Act have not yet been
ascertained ; I cannot therefore at present determine on the exact
number of arms which should be purchased : but being certain
that it will not be less than three thousand Muskets and Bayonets,
I must request the favor of you to take early measures for caus-
ing that number to be made or purchased, so that they may be
shipped in the Spring ; a sufficient sum for the purpose shall be
seasonably remitted to you. Knowing the- confidence reposed by
the Legislature on your Readiness to promote their views for the
common good, I take the liberty of troubling you with this Busi-
ness ; it will I am persuaded be cheerfully undertaken and prop-
erly conducted.

With great Esteem & Regard &c. &c.

(Signed) John Jay.

R. King to the Secretary of State. No. ii.

London, Dec. 7, 1798.
Dear Sir :

. . . No material occurrence relative to the recommence-
ment of the war has happened since the date of my last Letter.
The Austrians continue to strengthen their Posts on the frontiers
of Switzerland, and the French to reinforce their Army in Italy.
It is a long time since we have heard from Buonaparte ; accord-
ing to the Paris accounts he has conciliated large bodies of the

476 RUFUS KING. [1798

Inhabitants of the Country, is quietly establishing himself in
Egypt, and will soon be in a condition to extend his conquests
Where or how the united Squadrons of Turks and Russians are
employed we know not. Nelson continues the blockade of
Malta and the Expedition of six thousand men under General
Stuart, that lately sailed from Gibraltar, is supposed to have gone
against Minorca, a Position of importance to enable the English
to maintain a naval superiority in the Mediterranean.

Lord Elgin, late Envoy at Berlin, is going as Ambassador to
Constantinople, and Mr. Grenville, an elder brother of Lord
Grenville, goes on a special Mission to Berlin and Vienna. The
particular motives to be presented by Mr. Grenville to those
Courts are not known, but the object is to influence them to
unite in a new confederacy against the Enemy.

A Rumour having prevailed that previous to the Evacuation of
Si. Domingo, General Maitland* concluded a Treaty with Tous-
saint, according to the provisions of which a trade is to be opened
between the English and the Inhabitants of that Island, I wrote a
note to Lord Grenville, in which after stating how much in the
present Situation of our affairs, we are interested in the Inquiry,
I desired to be informed whether any such Treaty had been made.
His L'dship referred me to Mr. Dundas, by whose orders I was
shewn Genl. Maitland 's Dispatches and the Competition concluded
between him and Toussaint, a copy of which is annexed. I asked if
Hadonville and Ragaud were included in the Convention, and was
answered in the negative. Did General Maitland consider Tous-
saint as a Erench General, or as the Chief of an Independent State,
the measure might issue in the Independence of St. Domingo ; if
St. Domingo is an Independent State, we as well as you may trade
there ; if a Erench Colony with whom you have concluded a truce,
we cannot consent to supplies being carried there from the U. S.
which would nourish and increase their Depredations on our Trade.
The Reply was, that the Subject was not free of difficulty j that
General Maitland without instruction or authority had concluded
the Convention j that Toussaint had the most influence and greatest
authority in the Island, and that if Hadofiville & Ragaud opposed
him he would endeavour to expel them ; that England found the
Conquest impracticable, and to prevent the danger to which Ja-

* I alics in cipher.

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 477

maica would be exposed they on the whole had thought it expedient
to ratify the Convention ; that St. Domingo wd. be a market for
our provisions, & that Coll. Grant was going there to superintend the
Execution of the Convention.

I returned from Mr. Dundas' office to Ld. Grenville, with
whom I conversed on this extraordinary measure, taking care to
remind his Ld.ship * of what he had formerly remarked to me
concerning a supposed inclination on our part to encourage the
Establishment of a Black Republic in St. Domingo. I think I am
not mistaken in supposing that Lord Grenville does not approve of
what has been done, and that he sees the pernicious effects, which
it will have upon our Trade, as well as upon the future security of
their own Colonies. I have this evening only reed, a copy of the
Convention. If Toussainfs authority enables him to carry it into
execution, it will be a measure of vast importance & one pregnant
with extensive consequences. I shall write a Letter to-morrow to
Mr. Dundas, stating the mischievous effects that it is likely to have
upon our Trade ; but as the mail will be dispatched to-morrow, I
will not be able to send you his reply.

I have lately resumed the Maryland Business : I think I shall
bring it to a conclusion — I hope a satisfactory one, but I dare not
give any assurances that this will be the case. Under present
circumstances I do not think it would be adviseable that the State
should take any new or further step respecting it. . . .

With great Respect & Esteem &c. &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Col. Pickering.
Private.

London, Dec. 7, 1798.
Dear Sir :

I am extremely obliged to you for your private Letters of 29th

Aug. 15 & 17 Sept. and 7th Nov., and was made quite happy in

learning by the last that the point which gave you, as it did me,

so much real anxiety had been definitely and satisfactorily settled.

I certainly have my regrets in regard to a particular character ;

but the public service would have been deeply affected had any

other Decision taken place. If my respect and regard for Genl.

* See remarks of Lord Grenville, page 368 of this volume.

478 RUFUS KING. [1798

P. could have been encreased, they would have been by his noble
and manly conduct on this critical occasion. He is a man of the
highest honor and greatest virtue, and merits all that the esteem
and gratitude of his Country can bestow upon him.

I am concerned to see the result of the Elections in New Jer-
sey, Pennsylvania and Maryland, and am not without apprehen-
sions that the late publications on the part of France have had a
pernicious influence on public opinion ; unless the next H. of R.
are intrinsically better than the present, I shall feel a most serious
alarm for the tranquillity of the country.

We may repeat it in a thousand addresses to the President that
we are a united people ; but France will look to the divisions of the
H. of R., and from them take courage to persevere in her fixed
determination to break down our Government and divide our
Country.

Mr Listoris * last Dispatch gave rather a gloomy picture of our
affairs ; he does the fullest justice to the Government and its
views, but laments the activity and success of the Jacobins.

With great Respect &c. &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Col. Pickering.

Private.

London, Dec. 8, 1798.
Dear Sir :

Count Rumford, late Sir Benjamin Thomson, whose name

and history are probably known to you, and whose talents and

services have produced the most beneficial Establishments and

Reforms in Bavaria, was lately named by the Elector to be his

Minister at this Court ; on his arrival, he has been informed that,

being a British Subject, it was contrary to usage to receive him

and that therefore he could not be acknowledged. The intrigues

and opposition against which he had for some years made head

in Bavaria, probably made him desire the mission to England ;

the refusal that he has here met with, has decided him to return

and settle in America. He proposes to establish himself at or near

Cambridge ; to live there in the character of a German Count, to

renounce all political expectations and devote himself to literary

* Italics in cipher.

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 479

pursuits. His connections in this country are strictly literary,
and his knowledge particularly in the military department may
be of great use to us. The Count is well acquainted with, and
has had much experience in the Establishment of Cannon foun-
deries : that which he established in Bavaria is spoken of in very
high terms, as well as certain improvements he has introduced in
the mounting of flying artillery.

He possesses an extensive military Library, and assures me
that he wishes nothing more than to be useful to our country. I
make this communication by his desire and my wish is that he
may be well received, as I am persuaded that his principles are
good and his talents and information uncommonly extensive. It
is possible that attempts may be made to misrepresent his politi-
cal opinions ; from the Enquiry that I have made on this head, I
am convinced that his political sentiments are correct.

Be good enough to communicate this to the President.
With great Respect & Esteem &c. &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to W. Bingham.

London, Dec. 8, 1798.
Dear Sir :

I have received your obliging Letter of the 30. of Sep., and am
happy to have heard by accounts of a later date that the fever
has nearly disappeared. Your Session began on Monday last,
and we wait with great impatience to learn what are your senti-
ments on the subject of French affairs. The issue of the late
Elections in New Jersey, Pennsylvania and Maryland is not such
as I had been led to expect, and would not I think have hap-
pened unless the late publications in favor of France had had an
undue and unfavorable influence on the Public opinions.

It is in vain that we talk of national union, while so large and
firm an opposition is seen in the H. of R. We deceive our-
selves if we believe that the Directory believe us : they and their
agents perfectly understand their Business, and by our Divisions
are encouraged to persevere in their fixed Purpose to overthrow
our Government and break up our Union : I respect your good
sense and character too highly to express to you this opinion, did

480 RUFUS KING. [1798

I not most religiously entertain it ; and unless the Senators and
Representatives, with a majority of the People likewise believe
and act with vigor upon this opinion, the Government and the
Country are lost. No man is more deeply concerned than you
are in the Security and Prosperity of the Country ; no one is
more able to form a correct Estimate of the dangers to which it
is liable ; I therefore hope that the Crisis has drawn your atten-
tion to the Subject, and because we have escaped many Perils
by unforeseen means, that we shall not wholly depend on fortune
to save us.

I wish I could send you good tidings from this quarter of the
world ; but I am more and more convinced that we must resolve
to look to and depend upon ourselves, and not upon others for
Security.

With sincere Regards &c. &c.

Rufus King.

Wm. Hindman to R. King.

Philadelphia, Dec. 8th, 1798.
My dear Sir :

. . Your Sentiments of the Directory & their persevering
Designs against this Country are in perfect Unison with mine —
the late great & glorious Victory obtained over their Fleet by
Admiral Nelson, will I hope give Them a severe Check, & that
the Turks & Arabs have e'er this given a good Account of
Buonaparte & his Army. The Peace & Happiness of Mankind
render this almost essential, as They can be viewed in no other
Light than the Plunderers & Destroyers of the human Race.

I am extremely happy to inform you that there is already an
Augmentation of Federalism in the next House of Representa-
tives ; the Elections of Virginia, Kentucky & Tennessee are not
yet made. We have some hopes that the Federalists will increase
there. We calculate the present H. of R. 56 Feeds. 50 Antis.
The Gain in the next H. on the different Sides stands thus —
Fcederalists 2 in Massachusetts, 6 in N. Carolina, 2 in S. Caro-
lina 2 in Georgia — total 12, Antis. 2 in New York, say 3 in New
Jersey, as there are 2 Feeds, and 1 Anti & 2 dubious there, & I
always set down the uncertain Man against Me, 1 in Maryland.
Total say 6 — Majority in Favor of Feeds 6 which added to the

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 48 1

Majority of the present House makes 12 — Should every Member
from Virginia be in the Opposition, as there are now but 3 Feeds,
there must at every Event be a Majority of 9 in the next H. of R.
Giles has retired from Congress & gone into the State Legisla-
ture, no Doubt to do all the Mischief He can against the general
Government. It is supposed the next Legislature of Virginia will
change their Mode of Election, from District to the State at large,
for the Purpose no Doubt of defeating Genl. Marshall, who has
declared Himself a Candidate at the next Election.

I send You the President's Speech, which I hear the Antis
affect to approve of ; if Sincere, our Session must be harmonious.

Genls Washington, Hamilton & Pinckney have been some
Time, in Fixing upon proper Characters as Officers to our Army,
which I understand has been a most difficult Business ; it is now
nearly accomplished.

I presume You have heard that our Friend Sedgwick has given
the strongest Evidence of true Patriotism, in having declined be-
ing chosen a Senator, & agreed to oppose Jacobin Skinner who
now represents his District, in which He has been successful. —
S. has not yet come on.

I am sorry to inform You that I was defeated at the last Elec-
tion by Mr. Joshua Seney, who died shortly afterwards, occasioned
by the Fatigue He must have undergone. A new Writ was imme-
diately issued by our Executive to fill that vacancy, which I
conceived they did without Authority. I did not again come
forward — Mr. J. Nicholson an Anti was elected by a Majority
of only 74 agt. a Mr. Goldsborough a good Fcederalist.

Yours sincerely

Wm. Hindman.

Wm. Bingham to R. King.

Philada., Decern. 8th, 1798.

Dear Sir :

I entirely agree with you in the Danger that may arise from the
Emigration of so many Irish Insurgents to this Country, amongst
whom it appears there are many professional Characters, who
will be able to make an Impression on Society much greater than
the common Class of disaffected Irish. They will join the party
in opposition to the Government, & will vent their Resentments

VOL. II. — 31

482 RUFUS KING. [1798

against Great Britain, by attacking those who are disposed to be
on friendly Terms with her. They will be discontented, & there-
fore disorganizing Characters, whose Residence amongst us can-
not be otherwise than injurious, in the present Moment of political
agitation.

Your Idea of the Views of the Directory, to divide the People
& by such Means endanger our Government, are perfectly cor-
rect, & it has therefore been the unceasing Effort of its friends, by
strong energetic Language to rouse the Pride & awaken the Spirit
of the People, as well as to impress upon them a Sense of their
Danger.

Their Measures have been attended with Success as you will
observe by the Returns of the late Elections — three-fourths of the
aggregate Representation of the three Southern States will be
federal — a great change will probably take place in Virginia :
Pennsylvania & New York have been very unfortunate, by de-
luding the People with the most glaring Falsehoods & Misrepre-
sentations, but, on the whole, there will be a large Majority in
favor of dignified Measures.

There will not be much essential Business done this Session.
The Government will carry into more compleat Effect the Powers
that have been entrusted to it, by an extension of the Naval &
military Establishment, so as to be better prepared for War, or
insure a more energetic, negotiation for Peace.

Much Clamor has been made about the Alien & Sedition Bill,
& a vigorous Attack, in the Course of the Session, supported by
all the Virginia Faction, will be made on it, in order to alarm the
public Mind, & prepare the way for their Success, in the ensuing
Election, in April next.

You will long since have known that General Maitland has
withdrawn the British Forces from St. Domingo & left it in
Possession of the Island Troops. Recent Accounts from that
Quarter confidently assert that the black General Toussaint is
about declaring the Island independent.

Whatever may be the Tendency of this bold measure, with
respect to the Negro Property in the British Colonies, it cannot
but result favorably for this Country, by the immense Supplies it
will be required to furnish. The Eastern States will more par-
ticularly benefit therefrom. It is possible, that instead of the

1 7 98 J LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 483

Habits of Industry, to enable them to pay for the Articles they
consume, they may have recourse to a System of Buccaneering ;
but there is little Probability of such an Arrangement.

Volney's Conduct is infamous. You will see by the Kentucky
Resolves, that he might have spoken the Language of that
Country ; but probably of no other Part of the United States.

Yours &c.

Wm. Bingham.

R. King to J. McHenry.

London, Dec. 8, 1798.
Dear Sir :

By the Ship Connecticut that will sail soon for Philadelphia,

I shall send you a Box of Indian Medals, which will compleat

the series ; by another conveyance, the first good one that offers,

I will send you the Dies, which I have ordered to be retouched.

The Map of So. America, of which I have spoken to you, will be

published in three or four weeks ; when it is out I will send you

a Copy, as it will be at least amusing to see something correct

and authentic respecting this Terra incognita. I have been at

great pains to collect the best maps of every Country, and have

reason to think that my Collection is nearly as perfect as it can

be made. It has occurred to me that your office should possess

a like collection. I cannot at present tell you what it will cost,

but if you desire one to be made, I will employ the same Person

who has done so well for me.

Very sincerely yr. ob. St.

Rufus King.

R. King to Henry Dundas.

Copy.

Great Cumberland Place, Dec. 8, 1798.
Dear Sir :

I am much obliged to you for the copy of the Convention con-
cluded by Genl. Maitland with Toussaint. I have examined it
with care and think I perceive that it will be productive of great
mischief to the American Trade. France captures the ships of
America with as little ceremony as tho' open war existed between

484 RUFUS KING. [1798

the two Nations, and St. Domingo is a Portion of her Dominions
from whence our Commerce has been much harassed by her
Cruizers. For the purpose of crippling her Privateers and in
order to diminish her means of annoying us, we have prohibited
all commercial Intercourse between our Territories and those of
France, and refused to her the Supplies of various kinds which
she has been accustomed to receive from us.

If the Fifth Article of this Convention is carry'd into execu-
tion, that Portion of St. Domingo which is under the dominion
of Toussaint (including the Cape of St. Nicholas and Port-au-
Prince) will be supplied under the protection of England with
Provisions and other Articles, and thus nourished will be en-
couraged and enabled to increase and pursue the Depredations
on our Trade.

This I am persuaded is entirely contrary to the views and in-
tentions of the British Government, but such, in my apprehension,
will be the effect of a ratification and execution of the Convention
as it stands.

As the Convention was concluded without authority, it is free
to the British Government to accept or reject it in toto, or to pro-
pose such additional articles as will make it as little injurious as
possible to their friends.

If it shall not be deemed expedient to reject it altogether, is it
not due to the amity and good understanding between the United
States and Great Britain, that it should be amended by the addi-
tion of an article by which it shall be declared that no Privateer
shall be fitted out or permitted to sail from any of the Ports under
the dominion of Toussaint to cruise against the Vessels or Trade
of the United States, and that no American Prize shall be re-
ceived or sold in any such Port.

If such an article should, as I flatter myself it will, appear to
you to be both just and expedient, Col. Grant may be instructed
to make its addition and observance an indispensable condition
of the Ratification and Execution of the Convention.

In the present interruption of our Trade in consequence of the
Prohibition of our Ships to resort to the Ports of France, I am
aware that Jealousies may be felt among our Merchants from
the exclusive Commerce secured to Great Britain under this Con-
vention ; and perhaps it might have been wished that under a

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 485

Truce with this Portion of the French Territories, a trade to it
should likewise have been opened to every Nation not at war
with Great Britain.

This however is a subject of inferior consideration to the Prin-
cipal object of this Letter.

With perfect Consideration & Respect &c. &c.

Rufus King.

H. Dundas to R. King.

Copy.

Downing Street, gth Dec, 1798.
Dear Sir :

I have to acknowledge the receipt of your Letter of yesterday
respecting the agreement entered into between Genl. Maitland &
Genl. Toussaint L'Ouverture at St. Domingo.

This agreement as you are already informed was not entered
into in consequence of any Instructions or under any authority
Genl. Maitland received from this Country. The powers and
directions given him from hence being exclusively confined to
objects connected with our military situation in that Island ; but
the General upon a full consideration of that situation, having
found it necessary to withdraw His Majesty's troops, and a sus-
pension of hostilities having been proposed and entered into with
the Enemy during the evacuation, the agreement in question ap-
pears principally to have arisen out of this armistice, and at the
same time to have been in some degree connected with an expec-
tation that the French General would be thereby induced to
suffer the Inhabitants and natives who had taken an active part
in favor of this country to remain in the Island without any
molestation to their persons or Property, in consequence of their
former conduct. The favorable report I have received of Genl.
Toussaint's behaviour in this respect, and the hope I entertain
that our giving effect to the agreement would become an addi-
tional encouragement to him to persevere in the same humane
system, are the grounds on which I have recommended to His
Majesty to send Col. Grant to St Domingo for this purpose.

Having stated to you the motives which appear to have actu-
ated Genl. Maitland in forming this engagement and those which

486 KUFUS KING. [i798

have suggested to me the propriety of giving it effect, I have no
hesitation to admit that as Genl. Maitland acceded to the same
without any powers whatever from this Country so to do, Genl.
Toussaint can have no right to complain of its ratification being
made conditional to his binding himself not to suffer any Privateer
to be fitted out, or to sail from any Ports under his Dominion to
cruise against the vessels or trade of the United States, nor any
American Prize to be received or sold in any such Ports ; and I
shall not fail to direct Col. Grant to propose an additional Article
to this Effect, and to inform Genl. Toussaint that unless it shall
be accepted and strictly observed, he must not expect that the
Convention can be ratified or executed by this Country.

As I cannot doubt the favorable light in which you view every
measure that tends to maintain and improve the political and
commercial relations existing between this Country and the
United States, I derive a great satisfaction from this opportunity
of convincing you how anxiously I feel, in common with every
Department of His Majesty's Government, to pay all possible at-
tention to every suggestion which coincides with your wishes and
the friendly footing in which England and America now stand
with respect to each other.

I have the honor to be &c, &c,

Henry Dundas.

R. King to Genl. Pinckney.

London, Dec. 10, 1798.
Dear Sir :

I have very great pleasure in congratulating you on your safe
arrival ; it will be a further satisfaction to hear that the voyage
did not prove injurious to your daughter's health. We are, as
you will naturally suppose, extremely anxious to receive news from
Philadelphia, subsequent to the meeting of Congress, and the more
so since we have been made acquainted with the issue of the late
Elections in some of the middle States.

I have hoped that we should acquire greater union among our-
selves and more confidence in our Government by the experience
of the few last years : but if the same firm and persevering oppo-
position in the H. of R. is to continue, the Govt, must be degraded

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 487

and embarrassed ; and we amuse ourselves in believing that ulti-
mately France will not succeed in her detestable projects.

No one has felt more keenly than you the disgust and indigna-
tion excited by the frequency as well as the manner in which our
divisions and attachments are spoken of abroad. I have often
wished that some of the real Americans, who profess an ardent
devotion to their Country and still oppose its Government, could
come abroad and there experience the same Humiliation ; if they
are men of integrity, it would cure them of their dangerous folly.

The U. S. from situation, strength and knowledge, as well as
on account of the freedom of their Government, and the vigour
and enterprize of their People, have the Right as well as the Power
to take the lead in whatever may affect or concern the new world :
without boasting, we may truly say that we can resolve on no
measure relative to our Continent, that we are not able to exe-
cute : and I therefore hope we shall never form a connexion with
any nation, in which America is not the main object and the U.
S. the principal and leading agent. If we resolve to respect our-
selves, we shall soon receive better treatment and more respect
from others. No one can predict the return of Peace to Europe ;
there are no symptoms even, which encourage the Hope that this
desirable Event is likely soon to arrive.

This then is the favorable moment, when we should assume the
attitude that belongs to us, and hasten those Plans, the execution
of which ought not in Prudence to be longer deferred.
With sincere attachment & Esteem &c &c

Rufus King.

P. S. I can't express the satisfaction with which I have heard
of the definite settlement of a question in wh. you and some other
of my friends were concerned.

R. King to Secretary of State. No. 12.

London, Dec. 11, 1798.
Dear Sir :

The detention of the Packet gives me an opportunity of send-
ing you copies of my Letter to Mr. Dundas and of his answer.
I have no doubt that the Convention with Toussaint grew out of

488 RUFUS KING. [i798

the Difficulties of Genl. Maitland's military situation. He found
it impossible to defend himself and was embarrassed with three
or four thousand Colonial troops, principally blacks, whom he
dared not carry to Jamaica, and was without shipping to send to
Europe. He asked Toussaint to receive and protect them, which
was agreed to on condition that Provisons should be sent to sub-
sist them. Hence the stipulations on this Head.

Col. Grant will soon embark for St. Domingo. I understand
that the Government intend to put the Business into the hands
and under the control of some one person ; it has been offered
to a considerable Jamaica merchant who has refused it ; indeed
the Jamaica proprietors are much alarmed by the transaction. If
Toussaint supports his Power and is not ensnared by Hadonville,
it is not improbable that St. Domingo will entirely throw off the
Dominion of France.

We are perplexed with the same uncertainty with respect to
the recommencement of the war. According to the last mail from
Ireland, there will be great opposition to the projected union.

With perfect Respect and Esteem,

Rufus King.

CHAPTER XXX.

Jay to King — European Affairs — Cabot, Conversation with Liston — Praise of
King — England's Power and Policy — Hindman — Result of the Elections —
Pickering to King — Alien and Sedition Laws — Virginia and Kentucky
call for their Repeal — King to Secy, of State — Buonaparte in Egypt — Re-
port of Assassination — To Hamilton — State of Europe — To Secy, of State
— France declares War against Naples — Neapolitan Troops defeated —
Austria had made Peace — To the Duke of Portland — Restoration of an
Estate confiscated in Newfoundland demanded — To Secy, of State — St.
Domingo — England and United States should act in Concert should it be-
come independent — Conferences with Lord Grenville as to its Influence
on British West Indies — His Suggestion of a joint Corporation for Trade
objected to as inadmissible under the Constitution and unadvisable for
our Merchants — Might each make Treaties with Toussaint, etc. — G. B.
desires to act with U. S. — Secy, of State to King — Outrage of Capt.
Loring — J. Hale to King — Affairs in United States.

John Jay to R. King.

Albany, 12 Dec, 1798.
Dear Sir :

. . . The Treaty between Austria and Naples countenanced
the probability of a war between them and France ; and subse-
quent Events do not encrease the prospect of a general peace.
It appears that the Invasion of Egypt followed by Nelson's vic-
tory, has produced a Declaration of War by the Turks agst France.
If it be true that Oglow has not only been pardoned but pro-
moted, the affairs of the Turkish Empire must be in sad state ; —
Russian anxieties are dangerous Remedies for imbecilities at
Home. I suspect the Turk has much to fear.

The Directory and Buonaparte have gotten rid of each other,
and they both must know and think of it. I presume therefore
that Buonaparte when deciding on his present Expedition did
not calculate with certainty on aid from them, and consequently

4S9

490 KUFUS KING. [l798

that his Expectation of Success must rest on other Circumstances.
What may be his object or his Fate cannot be known or foreseen
as yet — possibly and I think not improbably, important conse-
quences will be the Result — one has already taken place — I mean
the bringing the Turks into the War.

Britain makes a distinguished figure, and the United States
have by their late measures compensated in some Degree for their
preceeding Errors — French Influence continues very active and
will not be entirely expelled — their Agents and partizans are less
loud and insolent, but not less industrious and unprincipled —
much will depend on the present Session of Congress, and on this
head I am not free from apprehensions.

Yours sincerely,

John Jay.

G. Cabot to R. King.

Dec. 12, 1798.

My dear Sir :

. . . I had some considerable conversation with Mr. Liston
when he was here & he was so polite as to express his desire for
more. I labored much to impress him with the ideas which you
know I entertain on the subject of those great common interests
which ought steadily to guide the two nations in their conduct
toward each other, & I insisted much, as I have always done
with sensible Englishmen, that from the nature of our Govt, it
was the peculiar duty of theirs to avoid every act, as much as pos-
sible, which might keep alive the animosity against them which
France or Faction had enkindled among our people &c. &c. &c.
I found he had well considered the subject & needed no sugges-
tions of mine, but I cou'd not help thinking you had done some-
thing toward producing sentiments which appear to me extremely
important as they are certainly just. I was the more ready to
attribute to you some merit because in the course of conversation
he repeatedly gave you great praise & expressed a warm wish
that you might continue where you are for a long time to come.
I cou'd not refrain from reflecting upon the inferences which our

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 49 1

Democrats wou'd draw from hearing your Eulogy pronounced
by a British Minister, but for myself I am ready to declare it
gave me infinite pleasure & that it strengthened the hope I have
long cherished that two nations so perfectly well adapted to sup-
port & promote each others interests wou'd not be again the
Dupes of the Enemy of either.

I suppose the great city you inhabit has been intoxicated with
joy at the unparalleled victory of Nelson : by this time the world
must see that England is not degenerated as France wou'd pre-
tend, but is able of herself to resist all the physical force of
Europe on the Sea. I hope too it is admitted that England can
sustain the war for an indefinite period without impoverishment
— indeed it has appeared to me evident that G. B., the U. S. &
Russia cou'd triumph over all the powers & that the two former
might even be enriched by the war. What shall hinder G. B. from
deriving directly or indirectly immense commercial benefit from
the Colonies & even the Countries of her Enemies ? her manufac-
tures will find their consumers among the deluded Followers of
French Equality who can no longer manufacture for themselves
because their Stock has disappeared as soon as it was insecure.
The Gold plundered from the Treasury of Berne will finally pay
English Clothiers for the coats which the Plunderers wore. From
various causes the trade of the East Indies will be continually
supplanting that of the West & it is not to be doubted that a
Nation which covers the Sea with its victorious Fleets will enjoy
the largest portion of that distant Commerce. I think the Eng-
lish have only to be true to themselves (Govt. & People) & they
may defy France with all the Devils they can conjure up.

The English have great dread & their Enemies great hopes of
Buonaparte's success in an Enterprise against India : it is a dan-
ger not wholly to be despised, & yet it is 10 to 1 he never arrives
there with any great force & he wou'd finally fail of establishing
himself there if he shou'd arrive — the command of the Sea is in-
dispensable to the permanent security of whatever might be
acquired in Countries so distant.

Your's fideliter,

G. C.
RUFUS KING.

[1798

Wm. Hindman to R. King.

Philadelphia, Dec. 13th, 1798.
My dear Sir :

I here give You a more intelligible Statement of the Elections
for the new Congress, as far as they have been made. . . .

Anti

1 No Choice in 2 Distcts.
all Feed.

No Choice in Lyons
District
3 Two of these said to

be doubtful
3 •
1

New Hampshire . .
Rhode Island . . .
Massachusetts (say) .

Feed

• 4
• 13

Connecticut ....
Vermont

• 7
New York ....
New Jersey (say) . .

• 4
Pennsylvania . . .

Delaware

Maryland . . . .
N. Carolina ....
S. Carolina ....
Georgia

• 5
• 5

• 7

• 5
2 Dent

The bitter Baldwin
defunct, i. e. ousted.
25

Suppose Virginia, Kentucky & Tennessee should return all
Jacobins, there will notwithstanding be a Majority of ten, in
Favor of Government & the Administration, a most comforting
Circumstance, by which We shall be enabled to bid Defiance to
all the Machinations & Deviltry of the Directory ; who I hope
will be a Non-Entity before this reaches You, — as their Reign
has been long enough — & God knows whether Mankind will be
bettered by the Change.

Mr. Jefferson, the Fountain of Mischief in this Country, has
not yet arrived here, to discharge his constitutional Duty ; but
remains, it is said, for the purpose of attending the Legislature of
Virginia, to aid Taylor, Giles & Junto in plotting some dia-

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 493

bolical Plan against the Foederal Government ; one great Object
is to Change the Foederal Elections from Districts to the State at
large, dreading the Abilities & Power of Genl. Marshall, who I
flatter Myself will at every Event be elected a Member of the H.
of R.

I send You the President's Speech, the Senate's Answer & his

Reply.

Your's sincerely & arTy.

Wm. Hindman.

T. Pickering to R. King.

Department of State, December 14, 1798.
Dear Sir :

. . . Incredible pains have been taken to misrepresent the
laws passed at the last Sessions, called the Alien and Sedition
Laws ; but no extensive effect has been produced, except in Vir-
ginia and Kentucky. In the former addresses to the Legislature
have been prepared and signed, calling for its interposition to
obtain the repeal of those laws. In Kentucky the Governor has
made to the General Assembly a very impudent and inflammatory
speech on the subject of those Laws. Possessing a high respect
for the federal Constitution, and determination to maintain it, the
idea is held out of the right of an individual State to judge and
determine whether the Acts of the federal Legislature conform to
it ; and a pretty clear implication of a right to disobey them, if
any motives induce a declaration of their being unconstitutional.
This Governor (Gerrard) I suppose to be a new, not a native
Citizen. I have been told that he was a Baptist Preacher, and his
secretary a new comer of Dr. Priestley's sect. The leaders in
Kentucky have been endeavouring to draw the State of Tennessee
into their schemes, but in vain ; and the people North of the Ohio
remain uncontaminated. I have just received a letter from
Kentucky, by which it is plain their opposition is not by any
means as universal as their public resolves import ; and this
opposition is there, as in other districts of the United States, the
result of misrepresentations and falsehoods. . . .

T. P.

494 RUFUS KING. [1798

R. King to Secretary of State. No. 13.

London, Deer. 15, 1798.
Dear Sir :

The Imperial Internuncio at Constantinople on the 17th of
November dispatched a Messenger to Vienna with the information
that courier after courier had arrived that day by different routes
with intelligence that on the news of the preparation of Murad Bey
and Ibraham Bey to march against the French armies in Egypt,
Buonaparte had convened his chief officers with the principal
Inhabitants of Egypt in the great Hall of Cairo, when after stating
the approach of the Beys, he enlarged upon the necessity of imme-
diate measures to repel them, and concluded by proposing a gen-
eral contribution to enable him to oppose the Enemy ; that this
Discourse was ill-received by the Egyptians, and that a Tripoline
chief drew from under his garment a Pistol and shot Buonaparte,
whose death was the signal for the massacre of the other French
officers as well as all the unarmed French found in the city.

Baron Thugut communicated this intelligence to Sir Morton
Eden, the British Ambassador at Vienna, who on the 3d inst.
dispatched an extraordinary messenger that arrived here yesterday.

It is difficult to form a satisfactory opinion concerning the accu-
racy of this news. The Turks have strong imaginations as well as
great credulity. I find that it receives credit in Downing Street.
The same messenger brings a Report that the Pacha of Rhodes, who
is said to have embarked with a Body of Troops in the Squadron
of Russian and Turkish ships gone against Alexandria, has made
good his Landing and retaken that Port from the French.
With perfect Respect & Esteem &c. &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to A. Hamilton.*

London, Dec. 19th, 1798.
Dear Sir :

The same uncertainty continues to perplex us concerning the
recommencement of the war. One day we are told that Naples
has really begun, and that Austria is on the way to support her ;
the next, that Naples is kept back, by Austria, to whom the Direc-
tory have made the most advantageous offers. It is certain that

* Works of Ifa??iilton, vi., 376.

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 495

France feels the change that has, within the last six months, taken
place in Europe, and is extremely anxious to defeat the projected
coalition. Prussia observes, and seems inclined to adhere to the
same cautious policy that for some time has governed her admin-
istration. Poor Spain is completely under the influence of the
Directory, and, however strange it may seem, the King, who most
cordially hates England, shed tears and was inconsolable on the
news of Nelson's victory. Portugal is threatened with a war with
Spain, unless she concludes a peace on the terms of the Directory.
There is great discontent in many of the French departments, but
still the levy of the new requisition proceeds. The insurrection
of Brabant extends itself ; but though it will give the Directory
some trouble, cannot prove successful unless the war soon recom-
mences. Mr. Grenville, an elder brother of the Minister, has gone
on a special mission to Berlin. He is said to be very clever, and
has therefore refused to go into the diplomatic course. Unless
favorable circumstances of success exist, one would scarcely be-
lieve that the Minister would just now have employed his brother.
The French will lose all their islands, trade and influence in the
Mediterranean. Minorca has been taken by the English. Malta
must fall. Corsica will probably expel the French, though England
will not again accept of their capricious allegiance. Zante, Cerego,
and Cephalonia, and probably Corfu, have fallen into the hands
of the Turks and Russians.

A report from Constantinople states that Buonaparte has been
assassinated ; though probable, it wants confirmation. Mr. Pitt
will be supported in the tax of 10 per cent, on the income of the
nation ; indeed, the people appear firm and resolved to support
the government, and the prosperity of their manufactures and
trade enable them to do so. Adieu.

Yours truly, &c.

P. S. — I make you my hearty congratulations on the settlement
of the question of rank.

R. King to Secretary of State. No. 14.

London, Dec. 21, 1798.
Dear Sir :

On the 7th instant France declared war against the King of
Naples and Sardinia. The Neapolitan troops, headed by their
King, had before entered the Roman Territory, alleging that it

4g6 rufus king. [1798

had been revolutionized subsequent to Campo Formio, and not
acknowledged as a Republic either by the Court of Naples or its
ally, the Emperor.

The King of Sardinia has for many months been a Prisoner in
his own capital, enjoying a mock liberty of service only to his
Gaolers. He cannot be degraded lower, and the causeless attack
upon him is one more proof that safety cannot be found in sub-
mission, and that no degree of Humiliation can satisfy this im-
moral and tyrannical Power.

It is not natural to suppose that Naples would have taken this
decisive step without being confident of support from the Em-
peror, and this presumption is strengthened by the known charac-
ter of the Austrian General Mack, who under the king commands
the Neapolitan army. Our next dispatches from Vienna are
therefore expected with anxiety & impatience. There is little
doubt that Corfu has surrendered, and information was yesterday
received of the surrender of Malta with the Ships in that Harbour,
which escaped from the battle of the Nile. Minorca is undoubt-
edly in the hands of the English, and was taken, as we hear, with-
out resistance. By the capture of Corfu and Malta, the two ships
of the line and the two frigates which escaped from Aboukir, have
fallen into the hands of the allies, so that the whole of the Toulon
Fleet attacked by Admiral Nelson is taken or destroy'd.

We have no further accounts relative to the Death of Buona-
parte or concerning his Army.

With Perfect Respect & Esteem &c. &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Secretary of State. No. 15.

London, Dec. 22, 1798.
Dear Sir :

A single Paris paper of the 19th instant brought by a Packet
Boat from Gravelines was received in town this morning, and
states that a large body of Neapolitan troops were beaten on the
4th by a column of French troops commanded by Genl. Macdon-
ald. From the scenes where this action took place, it may be in-
ferred that Rome was in the hands of the Neapolitans. Piedmont

1798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 497

had been entirely overrun by the French. Admiral Nelson had
taken possession of Leghorn & with his fleet blockaded the
Ligurian ports. Not a word is said concerning the Austrian army
in Italy and we are left quite at a loss whether it has or will ad-
vance to support the Neapolitans. If Naples gave the attack
without being confident of this support, her conduct has been less
prudent than perilous ; as without it Naples as well as the whole
of Italy must quickly fall under the power of the French.

The same Paper asserts that information was just received by
the Telegraph that the Deputation of the Empire had just ac-
ceded to the French ultimatum, and that peace with the Empire
was concluded. If this is true there is much reason to apprehend
that the Emperor has resolved not to engage in the war. Loose
and inaccurate as this information is, I think it my duty to send

it to you.

With perfect Respect and Esteem &c. &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to the Duke of Portland.

Great Cumberland Place, Dec. 26, 1798.
My Lord :

The Treaty of Peace between the United States and Great
Britain forbids any further confiscation of Estates.

The late Treaty of Amity and Commerce provides that citizens
of the United States holding real Estates within the Territories of
Great Britain and the Subjects of Great Britain holding real
Estates within the Territories of the United States shall continue
to hold them, and that the same shall descend to their Heirs,
provided they are not sold during the lifetime of the Proprietors,
which may freely be done.

According to the inclosed Report of the Judges in His
Majesty's Colony of Newfoundland, the Estate therein described
belonging to Abigail Lillie, a Citizen of the United States, was
not confiscated during the American War, but was held and en-
joy'd by her during that period and for several years afterwards ;
but in the year 1788 was taken from her by order of the Governor
because she had become an alien. This plain statement of the

VOL. II.— 32

498 RUFUS KING. [i799

Case, will, I am confident, satisfy your Grace that this Proceeding
has been altogether erroneous and contrary to the existing stipu-
lations relative to this subject between the United States and
Great Britain.

Extensive real Estates within the United States which belonged
to British subjects before the American War continue to be held
by their original holders or their Heirs, and these Estates are
secured from Escheat by the Provisions of the Ninth Article of
our late Treaty above cited.

I will not give your Grace the trouble of any further observa-
tions on this subject, and will only request that Instructions may
be given for the Restoration of the Estate in question and for the
loss sustained by the dispossession of the lawful owner.

With the most perfect Consideration and Respect &c. &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to the Secretary of State. No. 16.

London, Jany. 3, 1799.
Dear Sir :

The Elbe being closed by the late severe frost, no Packets have
arrived from Hamburgh within the last three weeks, so that at
this critical and interesting moment in respect to the affairs of the
Continent, we are without information except such as is collected
from the Paris papers, which are irregularly received from Grave-
lines. Mr. Grenville who embarked in a Frigate about a fort-
night since for Hamburgh on his mission to Berlin has returned,
not being able to land.

The Newspapers which I send by this conveyance detail the
intelligence contained in the late French papers. Hadonville has
returned to France from St. Domingo, and in his last Proclama-
tion intimates that Toussaint and his advisers meditate the Inde-
pendence of that Island. Subsequent to Hadonville's return an
Advice Boat arrived at L'Orient with an Aide de Camp & Dis-
patches from Toussaint.

The Bill calling for a Tenth of every man's Income in addition
to the old Taxes last night passed the House of Commons. This
measure has received a very general and zealous support, and is

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 499

a high proof of the Firmness and Capacity of the Nation in sup-
port of the war.

With perfect Respect and Esteem &c. &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to the Secretary of State. No. 17.

London, Jany. 10, 1799-
Dear Sir :

The situation of St. Domingo* having on repeated consideration
appeared to me to be likely materially to affect certain great in-
terests of the U. S. and consequently to require of them a compre-
hensive as well as cautious Policy to protect those interests and
to turn to profit if possible the changes of which the Indepe?idence
of Saint Domingo is the forerunner, / went some days since to
Lord Grenville, and after stating to him my reflections upon this
subject, observed that the principle motive that led me to submit
them to him was in order to ascertain his opinion whether it would
not be of great and mutual benefit that we should act in concert as
well in respect to the present as the expected condition of this Im-
portant Island. He could best decide the advantages and disad-
vantages which they were likely to expect from the emancipation of
that Colony. With regard to us we had to apprehend some incon-
veniences from the Influence of the example upon our slaves in the
Southern States, and it would be incumbent upon us to pursue such
measures as should promise security against, and, if practicable,
effectually prevent the depredations and Piracy to be apprehended
should St. Domingo become the Resort and Asylum of Buccaneers 6°
rovers. We had never attempted to foment insurrections among
our neighbours, nor to persuade the Colonies near us to throw off
their allegiance ; but we should neglect what we owe to ourselves, if
in the present case and in others which may be like it, we did not
adopt such measures as should seem best calculated not only to
render them harmless, but as far as possible to make them beneficial
to us. What those measures would be, it was not possible for me
to form an opinion ; but that they and we should take care not to
embarrass each other, and so disappoint the views of both, appeared
to me very plain.

* Italics in cipher.

500 RUFUS KING. [i799

Ld. Grenville said that it seemed highly probable that St. Do-
mingo would become independent, and that he entirely agreed in the
opinion I had expressed in reference to the Policy and advantage
of a concert of measures betwem them and us. At present they had
not formed any distinct views on that head ; the late engagements
of himself and colleagues in Parliament had delayed the Business,
but they were then engaged in the consideration of the subject which
in a variety of lights they considered an important one ; that Col.
Grant had not yet gone out, and would be detained until they had come
to some further determinations upon the subject of his Mission.

That they desired to secure their colonies from the influence of
the example of St. Domingo and to prev at the existence of a new
Barbary power in that quarter of the world. They moreover had it
in view to propose to Toussaint to put the Trade upon such a foot-
ing as might afford to him the supplies that he should require, and
at the same time guard against the mischiefs that they and we
desire to prevent : that he had thought of an exclusive company com-
posed jointly of British and American subjects j that the Idea had
not been examined, and that as soon as he had more fully consid-
ered the subject, he would invite me to meet him and his Colleagues
for the purpose of considering it.

The foregoing is the outline and substance of our first consul-
tation, in the course of which other things were said, not however
of sufficient importance to be repeated. The following queries
and their answers are exceptions to this remark. I asked Ld. Gren-
ville if the lndepende?ice of St. Domingo must not inevitably have a
great influence upon Jamaica and the other Islands? he answered
that certainly it must j must it not be soon followed, notwithstand-
ing all your vigilance, by the abolition of the whole Colony System in
that quarter of the world? the Colony System must fall to the ground,
we have foreseen it, and nothing remains but to postpone it as
long as possible and to employ such measures as seem best
adapted to diminish the Evils of the event when it arrives, and I
have no reserve, added his Ld.Ship, in saying that in whatever we
do, we must act in Harmony with you.

Last evening I received a letter from Lord Grenville, a copy of
which and of the enclosed Minute are annexed, and according to
his Ld.Ship 's invitation I met him and his Colleagues this morning.
The Conference began by my saying that before / made any obser-

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 50 1

vation upon our present equivocal situation in regard to France, or
upon the division of the Trade between us and them, as proposed,
I ought to express my belief that the Plan would be objected to
as well on account of the general unpopularity of monopolies in
America, as on the score of a defect of power in Congress to create
an Exclusive Corporation for the Purposes of Trade. Such a
Power is not expressly given, and if it exists must be taken by in-
ference from Powers which are distinctly given. Questions of this
sort are liable to much debate, and in this case would perhaps be
opposed by some who might think the Power exists, but who dis-
like monopolies. Besides our merchants are numerous and full of
enterprize, and no way has suggested itself by which a limited
number of them could without undue preference be selected to
compose a company. In respect to the proposed Division of the
trade between us and them, I said, that the distinction in the supplies
seemed plain and natural enough, but there were articles supply d
to St Domingo not of their manufacture nor of our production, such
as Wines, Brandies, nankeens & probably other commodities that
did not occur, in respect to which it might be agreed that such
articles might be supplied by either. In regard to our situation with
France it is easier to say what it is not, than what it really is, &
I could only express my hope that it might soon become less
doubtful & better denned.

Mr. Pitt observed that it would be presumptuous in a stranger
to give an opinion on the Powers given to Congress by our Constitu-
tion, wh. possibly were not as large as we ?night find to our advan-
tage that they should be, but the present case was of great strength,
and the mischiefs with which ive were menaced were such that it
wd. be singular indeed, if an adequate Power did not exist to
guard against them. Our Southern States were open to Emissaries
of St. Domingo, and perhaps all things considered it was not
stating it too widely to say that we had as much or more to appre-
hend than they had fro??i St. Domingo becoming the Resort and
Refuge of Buccaneers &> Pirates. If the proposed project affords a
fair probability of preventing those Evils, it would be unfortunate
that it should fail from a defect of Power in Congress : and per-
haps we should think it expedient in that case to refer the Plan to
the respective States for their co?ifirmatio?i. In respect to the
articles ?iot of growth or manufacture of either, it will, said Mr.

502 RUFUS KING. [l799

Pitt, be best to divide the supply between us in some equitable and
convenient manner, betraying to my apprehension, a fear of an
open competition.

Ld. Grenville after making several observations explanatory of
the minute he had sent me, asked what other plan could be devised
that would be likely to avoid the objections which I had suggested
and which would secure the principal objects in view.

I reply'd that if it should turn out Congress had not the Power,
or were unwilling to erect an exclusive Commercial Company, the
Power, to form Treaties and to regulate Trade with foreign nations,
were expressly given, and under them in the shape of Treaties and
Laws, we could establish such regulations as our Interest and
Safety, & those of our friends should require j going upon the idea
of the entire Independence of St. Domingo, we and they might form
Treaties with Toussaint, by which it should be agreed that the
citizens of the U7iited States a?id the subjects of G. Britain alone
should trade to that Island. These Treaties might contain such
special stipulations relative to the particular Ports of Trade — the
coasting Vessels to be employ'd between these Ports — the supplies
which should or should not be carried there — emigrations — the
suppression of Privateers, and all such other points as may sug-
gest themselves upon a full consideration of the Question.

A Convention might likewise be made between the United States
and G. Britain that should prescribe the regulatio?is to be observed
by Each in carrying on the trade which should be open to all the
subjects of the two Countries. This Convention to be valid when
Laws conforming and providing for the execution of its stipulations
sho'd be enacted by the Legislatures of both nations — these regula-
tions might be as minute and extensive as the various objects to be
attained shou'd require.

Lord Grenville made several objections to this Plan, grounded
upon the insecurity there would be in enforcing the observance of
the requisite regulations when the Trade should be open to all the
People of the two Countries. Mr. Pitt appeared less decided on
this Point and agreed as they all did in my observation that concert
in this business between us and the?n, was on many accounts of the
first importance j that if the best Plan was inconsistent with con-
cert, one must be devised that will secure this primary object and as
many others as possible ; and that the more liberal the terms were

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 503

in respect to Toussaint, the more advantageous the connexion would
be to the Inhabitants of St. Domingo, and the less likely to be de-
feated by the instigation of Emissaries. I asked what probability
there was that Toussaint would agree to a Plan that should leave
him but a limited Independence j Mr. Dundas reply V that taking
all their information together, he thought it quite probable that
Toussaint would consent, and with respect to his intentions he had
told one of their officers lately returned, that he would throw off the
yoke of France, if he could be supported.

It was remarked that something must be done immediately. I
replied that I could see no objection to Col. Grant's going forward
according to their first intention. He might open the Plan to Tous-
saint and state the difficulties likely to exist against its adoption
by the United States — that whatever should be agreed upon be-
tween Toussaint and G. Britain should be open for the accession
of the United States, and also open to such modifications as should
enable the U. S. to become a party in case they decline or are
unable to agree to the proposed Plan — that full information should
be given to the President thro' me, as well as by Id. Grenville thro'
Mr. Liston, with the assurance that G. Britain desires the coopera-
tion of the U. S., and will agree on such equitable commercial
stipulations, as shall be compatible with the attainment of the
pri?icipal objects they have in view in respect to their Colonies. To
this Id. Gretwille and his Colleagues asse?ited and the Conference
ended with the suggestion that the President would think it advise-
able to send some person to join Col. Grant in settling the arrange-
ments with Toussaint.

This is a subject that me?'its deliberate and extensive considera-
tion. Whatever we do, should be done with a view as well to the
present Colony system, as to future events still more important than
the present. It is certain that Great Britain desires to act with
us, and we may be sure of her cooperation if we will concur in her
Plans. She will even risk something to obtain our concurrence, but
she will act without us in case we disagree as to the terms of a joint
cooperation. We also can act without her and should, as she un-
doubtedly does, balance the advantages & disadvantages of a
separate and a joint negotiation.

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c. &c.

Rufus King.

504 RUFUS KING. [1799

Lord Grenville to R. King.*

Copy (annexed to previous letter).

Cleveland Row, Jany. 9, 1799.
My dear Sir :

In consequence of our last conversation relative to St. Domingo,
I have, after discussing the subject with some of my Colleagues,
prepared the enclosed minute, which I send for your considera-
tion, as the basis of an arrangement which would I think provide
equitably for the Commercial Interests of our two Countries as con-
cerned in that business, and what is infinitely more important, wd.
afford us as good security as the nature of things allows of,
against the infinite dangers to which our Islands and your Southern
Provinces would be exposed from an unrestrained intercourse with
St. Domingo in its present state.

If you should be at leisure & could meet Mr. Pitt and Mr. Dundas
here to-morrow morning at Eleven, half an hour's discussion
might very probably so far terminate the business as to enable us
to write to Amei'ica and to dispatch Col. Grant. If you had any
wish to see me earlier, I shall be at home.

Believe me &c. &c.

Grenville.

Minute.

The whole Trade of Import and Export with Toussainf s part of
St. Domingo to be confined to one port — viz. Port-au-Prince. The
supply to be restricted by agreement with Toussaint and by compact
between G. B. and the U. S. to a Joint Company to be formed by the
two Governments and to consist of — British and American subjects.

This Co7iipany to be confined to furnish no manufactures but from
the British Territories, and no articles of Produce or live stock but
from America. To send the returns for the former in St. Domingo
produce to Jamaica or G. Britain only ; and for the latter to the
United States only. An agent on the part of this Company to reside
at the specify'd Port, and to have on the part of the Compa?iy the
exclusive conduct of the whole coasting trade, which he shall carry
on by Boats of the Country to a sufficient extent for the supply
of the different parts of the Island under Toussaint 's authority, and

* Italics in this copy in cipher.

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 505

for bringing back their Produce to Port-au-Prince : all British or
American Vessels not belonging to the Company, and all vessels be-
longing to France or any other Power or to any person in any part
of the Island of St. Domingo and trading to or from any of its
Ports, coastwise or otherwise, except those employed by the agent
of this Company as above, and furnished with proper Passports, to be
liable to seizure, and Toussaint to engage on his part to the ut??wsl of
his power to discourage and prevent all such trade.

The exportation of Blacks from St. Domingo to any other place,
(or of any other persons without previous permission to that effect)
or the carrying on any intercourse whatever between that Island and
any other place, except as above, to be prohibited under the severest
Penalties.

Both Powers to guarantee this arrangement to each other, and to
agree that in case of its being violated o?i the part of Toussaint,
with respect either to G. Britain or America, the whole shall be
suspended, and neither the subjects of G. B. nor America to be at
liberty to carry on any trade there from thenceforth j and the present
prohibition continue as to all the rest of the Island.

T. Pickering to R. King. No. 37.

Department of State, Jany. 8, 1799.
Dear Sir :

I am directed by the President of the United States to transmit
to you the inclosed narrative of Lewis Tresevant and Wm. Tim-
mons of an outrage committed on the flag of the United States,
together with extracts of a letter from George C. Morton, Con-
sular Agent of the United States at the Havanna.* As soon as
Captain Phillips arrives and makes his official report to the Navy
Department, it shall be transmitted to you. In consequence of
this insult, the President has directed the inclosed order * to be
issued to all our naval commanders to resist every future attempt
of the kind to the last extremity. A copy of this order I have
sent to Mr. Liston with the letter of which also a copy is
inclosed.

* As the facts are presented in the accompanying letter to Mr. Liston, and
the order to the naval commanders is summed up in Mr. Pickering's letter, they
are omitted here.

506 RUFUS KING. [l799

This act of Captain Loring excited, as you may imagine, no
little sensation. It drew the attention of the House of Repre-
sentatives, who passed the inclosed resolution, in pursuance of
which, the narrative above mentioned and extracts of Mr. Mor-
ton's letter have been communicated to them.

To the extracts from Mr. Morton's Letter laid before the House,
I have now added other parts relating to the capture of three
American vessels bound to the Havanna by Capt. Loring's
Squadron — the pretence that 4^. & 6d. nails and oznaburgs are
contraband of war, the latter as sail cloth and the former because
other than " unwrought iron." It is impossible that these articles
should have been contemplated as falling within the 18 article of
our Treaty with Great Britain : the interpretation that would
comprehend them appears to us a perverse one : yet they have
been made the occasion of much injury and vexation to our
Merchants and Mariners, as I formerly wrote you, when com-
plaining of the iniquitous proceedings of Judge Cambauld at
Cape Nichola Mole. It is true that Capt. Loring released two
of the vessels captured, as above mentioned, near the Havanna ;
but an erroneous construction of the Treaty should not furnish a
pretence for so serious an injury as the detention and carrying
into port of the third to gratify his resentment against a sturdy
Master. If this abuse in the construction of the 18 article of
the Treaty has not yet attracted the notice of the British Govern-
ment, or if orders for correcting it have not been issued, the
President desires that it may be a subject of representation
together with the insult which is the immediate object of this
letter.

With regard to the insult on our flag, it will readily occur that
the right of searching and stripping public Vessels of War of their
hands, if it exists at all, must be reciprocal, and it need not be
asked whether a British Naval Commander would submit to it :
neither will ours. But if such search for and taking away of sea-
men were at all admissible in practice, it should be in our favor,
because American Seamen are generally aboard British Ships only
by impressments, whereas the British Seamen to be found in the
armed Vessels of the United States are all Volunteers ; and you
will recollect that the British Government have made a distinction
between Volunteer and Impressed Americans, releasing the latter

I798] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 507

when their citizenship was proved ; but detaining the former
altho' they had entered and taken the bounty only in consequence
of a previous impressment.

After these observations, candour demands an acknowledgment
of the general friendly and polite behaviour of the British Naval
Officers towards ours, and of their readiness to protect our mer-
chant vessels against the Plunderers of the World, and to afford
them relief when in distress. An instance has very lately occurred
in the Chesapeake. A British Vessel of War seeing an American
vessel aground on a dangerous shoal, sent down cables, anchors
and thirty Seamen, who got her off and thus saved a valuable
ship and cargo, which in the next four and twenty hours would
have been dashed to pieces and lost.

You cannot too strongly express the desire of the President to
maintain a perfect harmony between the two countries and his
regret at any incident tending to disturb it, and which, while it
sensibly wounds the real friends to their country, furnishes a
topic of popular clamour to others whose enmity to their own
Government is equalled only by their hatred to Great Britain.

I have the honor to be, &c.

T. Pickering.

T. Pickering to Robt. Liston.

" Department of State, Philadelphia Dec. 31, 1798.
''Sir :

"... The principal facts stated are these. Capt. Phillips having
under his convoy several American vessels bound to the Havanna
saw, not far from that port, a fleet of three ships of the line and
two frigates, which, as soon as he discovered them to be British,
he approached and spoke the Commodore, the above named
Capt. Loring. This officer told Captain Phillips that he should
take from him all the seamen who had not protection as citizens
of the United States. Capt. Phillips remonstrated against it, ob-
serving among other things, that the public flag of the United
States was their protection, and that if he carried his declaration
into effect, the Baltimore would not have men enough for her de-
fence. His remonstrances were fruitless. Capt. Loring took
from the Baltimore fifty five of her crew. Afterwards finding
Capt. Phillips indisposed to comply with some other propositions

508 XUFUS KING. [1799

and demands, Capt. Loring thought proper to return fifty of the
men, retaining five, among whom was the Baltimore's Boatswain.
It is impossible, Sir, for the American Government to imagine
that this outrage can be the consequence of any orders from his
Britannic Majesty, and equally impossible for the United States
quietly to bear the repetition of insults and injuries of this kind.
The President of the United States has therefore directed that all
attempts to commit them be resisted."

Joseph Hale to R. King.

Boston, Jany. 14, 1799.
Dear Sir :

Tho' not insensible of the tax you will be exposed to by this
& its accompaniments travelling from Liverpool to London, I
cannot forbear giving you a specimen of the Congressional
Temper.

The Kentucky & Virginia resolutions, which will doubtless
reach you thro' another channel, will prove that there is still
sufficient scope with us for industry, talents, & patriotism.

In the New England States the alien & sedition acts make less
noise than the land tax. Its novelty & immediate application to
the purse-strings excite soft but general murmurs. Yankee good
sense will soon silence these & the support of the tax be universal
in the northern states.

We are daily increasing our naval preparations. It is said five
ships of the line are to be built & the proposal in a few days to
be brought forward in Congress. The ready concurrence of both
houses said to be unquestionable. With the army now organizing
we shall shortly assume the aspect of a well regulated govern-
ment. The sedition act operates as a check upon the disorgan-
izes, tho' they still indulge themselves too freely in their favourite
bias.

Permit me, Sir, to congratulate you on the resignation of the
Judge of Admiralty. His successor is a man of business. Hav-
ing been an advocate for the Crown, he will have great merit in
divesting himself of that character in his judicial decisions.
Doctor N.'s successor will doubtless do justice to his appointment.

Joseph Hale.

CHAPTER XXXI.

King to Secretary of State — New French Decree against American Commerce
— St. Domingo — Affairs on the Continent and Egypt — To R. Troup —
Situation of Americans in Paris perilous — Sedgwick to King— Congress
should have acted firmly, declared War, treated Spain as an Ally of
France, and seized the Mouth of the Mississippi — Composition of the Sen-
ate not improved ; of House, better — Virginia's Opposition growing
worse — Surplus of Revenue — Conduct of Commissioners under sixth Arti-
cle outrageous — Not a single enlisting Order for the Army issued — King
to Hamilton — St. Domingo and Miranda — Pickering's Son suggested as
Secretary to King — King to W. Wickham — Miranda to Secretary of State
— Mission of Colonel Maitland — President's Speech able — Admiralty De-
crees— Tobacco Ships Captured by the French — Secretary of State to King
— Outrage of Captain Loring — Captain Phillips's Conduct pusillanimous —
Troup — Summary of American Affairs — King to the President — Weakness
of continental Governments — Firmness of England — Pride in the increas-
ing attention in Europe to the able and dignified Administration of the
American Government.

R. King to Secretary of State. No. 18.

London, Jany. 14, 1799.
Dear Sir :

The Moniteur contains a Report made by Boullay Paty in the
Council of 500, on the 21st of Decemr. in the name of a Commit-
tee to whom a reference from the Tribunal of Cassation had been
sent on the subject of the Law of the 29. Nivose, which authorises
the capture of all vessels loaded wholly or in part with articles of
the growth or fabric of the British Territories. The questions
referred from the Tribunal of Cassation were whether the Law is
applicable to all captures made after its publication, or only to
such as were made in consequence of a knowledge of its publica-
tion, and whether the terms, articles of the growth or fabric of the
5IO RUFUS KING. [i799

British Territories, include Commodities of the growth or fabric
of Portugal ? The Report is in the usual strain of violence against
England and of Injustice and Contempt towards the neutral
Powers, all of whom are treated with great indecorum, tho' I think
none with so large a portion as the U. S., " whose Commerce,"
says the Reporter, " is serviceable alone to England who directs
their wavering Politics." The Reporter concluded by proposing
the two following Resolutions.

Art. iier. La loi du 29. Nivose, an 6, qui a etendu sur mer
l'execution de celle du 10. Brumaire, continuera d'etre executee,
a compter du jour qu'elle a ete rendue.

Art. 2nd. La loi du 29. Nivose sur les marchandises Anglaises
est, a compter de ce jour, applicable aux navires charges de mar-
chandises et productions provenant des Possessions ou des manu-
factures de toutes les puissances qui seront en guerre avec la Re'pub-
lique Fran$aise.

The discussion of these resolutions was adjourned, but judging
from the support they received when reported they have probably
been adopted. As a violation of our national right, and a De-
cree in contempt of Public Law, this will be nothing new, being
only an extension of the application of a former Decree ; yet it
is an extension that having regard merely to our interest, will be
found materially to affect our Trade to Petersburgh, Portugal and
the Wine Islands.

The decree in another view will merit attention, inasmuch as it
will disprove the repeated declarations that have been made, that
the Laws of France against the Trade of neutrals were a retalia-
tion upon Great Britain, a punishment upon the neutrals for sub-
mitting to the injuries received from that Nation. Neither Russia
nor Portugal have interrupted or vexed the Neutral Commerce.

Several of our Tobacco and other valuable ships, including one
bound to China, have been lately captured by French Privateers,
which suffer nothing to escape them which they can master.

Genl. Allen who had been sent to the Temple, after several
weeks' confinement procured his discharge, but was again impris-
oned at the same time that two other Americans, Mr. Tailor, for-
merly of Boston, and Mr. Joseph Sands of New York, were sent
to the Temple. From Mr. Fosdick, who lately arrived here from
Paris, I hear that the situation of our citizens there is unquiet and

S799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 511

in every respect, disagreeable. Mr. Fosdick went to Paris with
his uncle, Col. Hitchborn, who, as he states, on being lately sent
for by Talleyrand, and asked whether the President wd. send
another Envoy to Paris, told him that he certainly would not.
With perfect Respect and Esteem &c. &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Secretary of State. No. 19.

London, Jany. 16, 1799.
Dear Sir :

I went this morning to Ld. Grenville to* state to him what I had
written as the substance of our late Conferences respecting St.
Domingo, especially on the point of their agreement with Toussaint
being left open to such modifications as should enable us to accede
to it. I found that I had faithfully reported to you what had
passed, and that upon further consideration of the subject, of the
difficulties that might attend the execution of their project & the
danger to be apprehended from delay, they have concluded imme-
diately to send Col. Maitland to New York with full power to Mr.
Liston, assisted by Col. Maitland, who made the Convention with
Toussaint, to settle the business between us and them 6° then to pro-
ceed immediately to St. Domingo in order to conclude it there. I did
not omit to express my satisfaction with this determination, and
added what I afterwards repeated to Mr. Dundas that as Col,
Maitland was well acquainted with the whole subject, a circum-
stance that would be of great importance to Mr. Liston, it was
very much to be desired that every point should be left open to such
practicable and safe arrangements as should be devised at Phila-
delphia, instead of particular plans being sent there, which with the
best disposition on our part might be found impracticable, and
might moreover have an unfavorable influence upon the adoption
of a substitute. Both Ld. Grenville and Mr. Dundas assented to
this observation, and I hope the subject will be found, as I think
it, susceptible of an adjustment mutually safe and advantageous
to all Parties. It would be well to provide that our Ships should
be at liberty to proceed with their cargoes from St. Domingo to

* Italics in cipher.

512 RUFUS KING. I~i799

G. Britain as well as to the U.S. If the Plan of taking off the
Drawback or a part of it, referred to in former letters, should be
approved, perhaps we could obtain a stipulation for the Repay-
ment to us of the duty paid on the importation and detained on
the Exportation of the Commodity here : unless this is done, and
the Drawbacks are taken off, it will be our interest to oblige our
Ships to return Home with their Cargoes instead of proceeding
with them to Gt. Britain.

With perfect Respect &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Secretary of State. No. 20.

London, Jany. 17, 1799.
Dear Sir :

I can send you no news ; we are almost as ignorant of what has
been doing upon the Continent within the last two months, as if
we were at Philadelphia ; the only foreign intelligence received
since the beginning of December, has been received from Paris.
The ice which extends several leagues from the shore all along the
northern coast of Europe continues to interrupt all intercourse
with the mainland. Our papers from Philadelphia, New York
and Boston are later than those from Hamburgh, tho' we have not
yet received the President's Speech. The winter has been uncom-
monly severe, the weather is now becoming more moderate and
the usual channels of communication with the Continent must
soon be free of impediments. We are left to mere conjecture
respecting the accounts which we shall receive from Vienna &
Berlin : my apprehensions are stronger than my Hopes. When
Naples is overrun, as Piedmont has been, Austria may move ; and
after her armies are driven out of Italy, Prussia may think it time
to begin. Deliberation is wisdom, but Doubts after decision are
proofs of weakness. When the weights that hang about great
occasions are removed, wings should be added in their place ; the
ruinous consequences of all timid hesitation and delay in the con-
duct of public affairs, have been so often exemplified, that we shall
be without Excuse if we repeat the Fault.

With perfect Respect and Esteem &c. &c.

Rufus King.

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 513

R. King to Secretary of State. No. 21.

London, Jany. 19, 1799.
Dear Sir :

Several mails arrived last evening from Hamburgh, but they were
those longest due, and bring little news of importance. The Pas-
sage being at length open; we may every moment expect authen-
tic, late and interesting intelligence. Buonaparte escaped, and
was not assassinated as first reported, in the insurrection at Cairo.
His situation is said to have become very critical and difficult.
The effect of the latest information from the Continent, is an
opinion that a recommencement of the war is almost unavoidable.
With very great Respect & Esteem &c. &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to O. Wolcott.

London, Jany. 19, 1799.
Dear Sir :

By the last mails from Hamburgh, I am informed by Mr.
Adams that we cannot obtain a single Musket from the Prussian
manufactories ; and the increased probability of the recommence-
ment of the war with Austria and the Empire diminishes the
hope of a considerable supply from any Part of Germany. I
shall continue to give the subject the most careful attention and
will endeavour to obtain a few thousand more from the German
manufacturers.

If the war is renewed, the exchange will run against us, but
this in my opinion will be a less Evil than to remit in the present
state of Exchange which is favorable, and risque the Funds at
Hamburgh.

With great Respect &c. &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Rob. Troup.

London, Jany. 19th, 1799.
Dear Sir :

The frost has at length yielded, and last night we received

some of the many mails due from the continent. Tomorrow they

will probably all arrive, and we shall be able from the news they

VOL. II.— 33

514 RUFUS KING. [1799

bring to form a pretty good opinion respecting the Recommence-
ment of the War. The last french order seems to put it beyond
doubt ; the Empire will not be able to stop the advance of the
Russian Troops, & without it, the french declare the negotiations
for peace to be at an End. . . . We have not yet reed, the
Pr's. Speech, tho' we have New York Papers of the 10th Dec. &
Boston Gazettes of the 15th. This is provoking as we are very
anxious to see what Mr. Adams says of the return of the Envoys
and state of our affairs with France.

One or two Americans who have escaped in a Neutral Vessel
from France, say that the situation of the Americans at Paris is
unquiet and perilous. Gen. Allen after several weeks imprison-
ment in the Temple was set at liberty, but has since been arrested
and is now confined in a prison of less distinction.

Young Mr. Sands, son of Comfort Sands, and a Mr. Tailor,

formerly of Boston, have been lately arrested at Paris and are

confined in the Temple. No crime was alleged — perhaps things

are, in this as most other cases, reversed, and Creditors instead

of Debtors sent to Gaol. What will the Lyons and other parti-

zans say upon this violation of Liberty in the Person of Genl.

Allen ?

Yrs.

R. K.

Theodore Sedgwick to R. King.

Philadelphia, 20 Jany., 1799.
Dear Sir :

. . . You know how anxious I had been for some time to
retire from public life. My own happiness, connected with the
interests of my family, afforded motives which, to my own mind,
justified my determination. I was well assured my successor
would be worthy & respectable — accordingly I declined, Dexter
was chosen, and I was happy. But my evil destiny has conquered,
my friends would not permit me to indulge my own wishes, their
arguments & importunities have again seduced me, and after the
third of March I shall again be a representative.

The letter which I wrote you, at the conclusion of the last ses-
sion, will have given you the reasons why this government has
exhibited our country in the awkward attitude which you justly

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 515

deplore. Our measures in themselves were not only feeble, but
taken with that gradation and hesitation, which shewed a want of
system, & of spirit & vigor. The extent & shape of our measures
were divided, not by comprehensive policy and wisdom, but by
the feeble minds of the Tillinghasts, the Bullocks & the Coits of
the house of Representatives. We ought at once to have put an
end to the cooperation of external & internal enemies — to have at
once, as far as in our power, prevented the possibility of their carry-
ing on that most dangerous species of warfare, for the seduction
of our people, " diplomatic skill." This could not in my opinion
have been done effectually but by a declaration of war. This
would have conduced equally to the honor & interest of the
U. S. To have taken advantage of that measure, it would have
been necessary to consider Spain, as in fact she is, a Colony of
france. Besides, acting under the orders of her principal, Spain
had given us sufficient cause, by innumerable aggressions, to jus-
tify our conduct. Having assumed the character of Enemy, as
such, I would have rendered myself respectable by a prompt and
decided blow. The mouth of the Mississippi & the countries
connected with and dependent on it should have been immedi-
ately seized. The immense benefits to have been derived from
that position, whether for treaty, or a continuance of the war, are
obvious. In the mean time we should have superseded the
necessity of alien & sedition laws — without them we might have
hanged traitors and exported frenchmen. This was the policy I
would have pursued instantly after the publication of the dis-
patches. But it was ordered otherwise.

The State of the Senate is not improved for the next Congress.
In N. Hampshire Livermore is re-elected. This has put him in
some what better humour. In Massachusetts you know the altera-
tion. It certainly is not worse. In New York Watson is more
firm & stable, so far as I have yet been able to observe, than I
had thought him. In New Jersey Dayton, now furiously federal
& antijacobin, replaces Stockton one of the most trustworthy men
in our Country. He could not be prevailed upon to continue — I
believe could not well afford it. Rutherfurd firm, decided, hon-
orable & intelligent is afflicted with an inveterate rheumatism, &
has resigned. A successor is to be chosen this week & it is said
that either General Dickinson or Doctr. Elmer will be the man.

516 RUFUS KING. [1799

You know them both. Ross in this State is a candidate for the
government and I hope will prevail ; but I need not say to you
that he will be a serious loss to the Senate. In Delaware an
Election will be made this week to supply the vacancy. The
Candidates are all good. Tazewell in Virginia is reelected. In
N. Carolina Governor Martin, always theoretically right, tho'
generally practically wrong, is replaced by Franklin a furious but
feeble Jacobin. Hunter from S. Carolina, who in the modern
language of our country, had from the pride of being in good
company " turned about," is succeeded by Charles Pinckney.
Gunn gives us hopes of a reformation in Georgia, but Baldwin,
who has lost his election as a member of the house, will I fear be
chosen. So much for the Senate.

In the house of Representatives there is on the whole an
amelioration. In the New England States there will not be more
than two antifederalists. One of these may be Lyon, but of that
election we as yet have had no authentic information, and the ac-
count in the papers of his election is only the result of conjecture.
In New York the election is against us in the proportion of six to
four. By districting New Jersey the opposition has obtained two
members — In this State they are eight to five. — In Delaware they
have again chosen Mr. Bayard, a young Gentleman of great re-
spectability. In Maryland our old tried friend Hindman has lost
his election and they give us now five on the side of the govern-
ment to three against it. In North Carolina they want seven for,
to three against us ; and in S. Carolina & Georgia all but one
right. But in these three last states several are counted, who have
been lately converted, and as they are not well established in the
faith and in good works, they may fall from grace. In Virginia
there is every reason to believe the spirit of opposition is every
day growing more & more rancorous. In that state it has
always been the policy to keep the members in subjection, and
therefore they have not elected the members of the house, untill
the month of March, and after their term of service had expired.
The legislature is now in session, and it is in contemplation to
provide for the election of their members, for the next Congress,
by a general ticket ; from an apprehension that otherwise some,
not friends to their kind of Liberty, may be elected. I am not
acquainted with the characters of the majority of their Legisla-

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 517

ture, but they must be men bold and adventurous indeed, or
rendered desperate by faction, if they dare adopt a measure, so
little consonant to their circumstances, and so opposed to the
general tendency of their democratic doctrines. Should they,
however, do it, I entertain no doubt, that it will produce the in-
tended effect — a solid homogeneous column in opposition to Gov-
ernment ; but I believe, ultimately, it would ruin its authors. In
any event we may, I believe, promise ourselves that the next house
will, at least, possess as much firmness, as much principle, and as
much talents, as the present.

Notwithstanding the plunder of our commerce, and notwith-
standing a real pressure which has been occasioned by it, and the
still greater which has resulted from the failure of those wild
speculations which have pervaded every part of our country, &
more particularly the eastern states, our finances still remain solid
& productive — We have an annual surplus of revenue, exceeding
two millions and a half, beyond permanent appropriations. This
is, and by monied men & institutions will be deemed, ample se-
curity for loans ; and the one to be opened in February will, I
have no doubt, immediately fill. The terms offered 8 per cent &
a limited irredeemability are certainly high, but the necessity of
obtaining the subscriptions promptly, and the present high market
rate of Interest, from causes which you perfectly comprehend, in
my opinion justify the measure.

Since writing the above poor Tazewell has died suddenly. The
government will derive no benefit from this, because there is no
chance of getting a good man from that State. We are told that
either Monroe, Madison or Nicholas, a brother of the Representa-
tive of that name, and whom the Virginians represent as a man of
talents, will be chosen. I hope the first, from reasons which you
will understand.

The legislature of Virginia has abandoned the project of elect-
ing their representatives by a general ticket. Our friend from
that state tells us this was occasioned by a conviction that, in the
event contemplated, the whole representation would have been
federal — I cannot believe so well of the disposition of the state,
but imagine their conduct was the result of the dread of the loss
of popularity. John Taylor, the former Senator, has brought for-
ward in the house of Representatives of that state, an address to

5 1 8 R UFUS KING. [l799

the people on the subject of the measures of the national govern-
ment, particularly the alien & sedition Laws, which will doubtless
pass both houses and is little short of a declaration of war.

Since writing the former part of this letter, Mr. Wells of whose
talents and decided federalism, those acquainted with him speak
handsomely, is elected a Senator from Delaware in the stead of
Mr. Clayton — The election in New Jersey has not yet taken
place.

You have seen an account of the motion of Mr. Griswold, oc-
casioned by the mission of Citizen Logan, and of the debates &
bill to which it gave rise. It has passed the Senate — Bloodworth

6 Langdon only dissenting. As well the policy as the utility of
this measure might, in my judgment, have been originally doubt-
ful, yet after it became a question of party there was no hesitation
that it ought to have been supported.

The majority of the commissioners on the 6th arte, of the
British treaty are outrageous in their decisions. It is impossible
in this letter to enter into the detail, but it is to be feared that it
will become indispensable on the part of the minority, (Fitzsimons
& Sitgreaves) to secede. This will afford to you a subject of un-
pleasant discussion, but I confide in it that the British government
has too much wisdom not to perceive her interests, and too much
justice to give support to the extravagance of her agents.

The object of the present session of Congress will be to " in-
vigorate " the systems adopted at the last : perhaps it is not go-
ing too far to say that our consideration ought to have been,
exclusively confined to those. We ought, however, to have con-
sidered an increase of revenue as a principal cause of this invigora-
tion, but in this opinion few of our friends in the house concur.
The army & navy must be attended to — In regard to the former,
the conduct of the executive has been astonishingly dilatory — As
yet not a single inlisting order has been issued. It will not be
expedient, at present, to increase the numbers, but authority
ought to be given to the President to raise a provisional army,,
the act, which passed the last session, for that purpose having,
expired at the commencement of this. As to the Navy it ought
to be increased exactly in proportion to our utmost ability.

Your friend,

Theodore Sedgwick.

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 519

R. King to A. Hamilton. *

London, January 21st, 1799.
Dear Sir :

We have the New York papers to the 15th ulto. These con-
tain the speeches as well as the answers of the two Houses. All
seems intended for the best, but it gives me an ill idea abroad of
our zeal, to find that our army, decreed so many months since, re-
mained to be raised. The difficulty and time necessary to find
suitable officers, reminds one of the like impediments which pre-
ceded the appointment of Monroe to Paris. I hope the results
will differ.

I am entirely disposed, indeed resolved, to treat the subject as
the good principles of all concerned merit, but I can't conceal
from you my very great apprehension that too much is left to the
chance and influence of intrigue and diplomatic skill. In the
light in which I alone can see the views of France, there seems
to be no secure alternative, and the sooner we say so and act, the
less will be our danger.

For God's sake, attend to the very interesting subject treated of
in my ciphered dispatches to the Secretary of State of the 10th,
1 8th, and 19th instant.f Connect it, as it should be, with the
main object, the time to accomplish which has arrived. Without
superstition, Providence seems to have prepared the way, and to
have pointed out the instruments of its will. Our children will
reproach us if we neglect our duty, and humanity will escape
many scourges if we act with wisdom and decision. I am more
confirmed than before, that an efficient force will be confederated
to act against France. The combination is not yet completed, but,
as I have reason to believe, will soon be.

That will be the moment for us to settle upon immutable foun-
dations the extensive system of the American nation. Who can
hinder us ? One nation alone has the power ; and she will co-
operate in the accomplishment in South America of what has so
well been done in North.

P. S. Mr. Church knows very well Col. Maitland.

* Works of Hamilton, vi., 389.

f loth January (No. 17). No. 18, 14th January ; No. 19, 16th January.
In connection with the St. Domingo question, the Miranda project is probably
here referred to. — Editor.

520 RUFUS KING. [i799

Lord Grenville to R. King.

Most Secret.

Cleveland Row, Jany. 20, 1799.
My dear Sir :

No apology was necessary ; you know the pleasure with which

I communicate to you whatever may be useful to your Govt, to

know, particularly when it is good news ; but keep our secret

here — We are on the point, as I trust, of concluding a Convention

with Russia for the march of a second & much larger army, &

our expectations in other quarters are certainly better, tho' not

yet {even yet) decisive.

Ever most truly yrs.

G.

R. King to Secretary of State. No. 22.

London, Jany. 21, 1799.
Dear Sir :

All the mails are received. With the last, Couriers arrived
from Petersburgh and Berlin. In consequence of Dispatches just
received* from the Continent, England is on the point of concluding
a Convention with Russia for the march of a second 6° much larger
army, and the Expectations of this Govt, in other quarters are cer-
tainly better, tho'' not yet decisive. Consider this as authentic, though
secret. Russia would not march a second army, unless assured that
the Emperor, or Prussia, or both would join them.

With perfect Respect &c. &c.

Rufus King.

Mr. Dandridge, of Virginia, had been acting as Secretary
for Mr. King, but having expressed a desire to take a com-
mission in the Troops to be raised in 1798-9, was nominated
and appointed to a commission. Mr. Pickering in a private
letter, dated Jany. 20, 1799, under these circumstances wrote
to Mr. King, to ask him to receive his son, John Pickering,
in his place, he being at that time with Mr. Smith, U. S.
Minister at Lisbon, by whom he was highly appreciated, and

* Italics in cipher.

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 52 1

who had " manifested an esteem and attachment honorable
to my [his] son." Mr. Pickering after speaking of his char-
acter and qualifications, says :

" He had begun to study the law, when it was proposed to me
to let him accompany Mr. Smith. I felt a reluctance to interrupt
studies which were to form the basis of his pursuit for life ; having
long since determined to bring up my sons to some employment
suited to their capacities and dispositions by which they might
support themselves and families independently without any public
expectations — But for public employments, a previous study of
the law is highly useful."

As his son had been nearly two years with Mr. Smith, Mr.
Pickering had thought of ordering him home to resume his
studies, when, observing that Mr. King was

" likely ere long to be without a secretary, it occurred to me
that could he be placed in that office, it would gratify him, be
imcomparablymore useful than a longer residence at Lisbon, and
at the same time procure to you as diligent, as able and as faithful
a secretary as you would anywhere find. . . . Without mean-
ing to be importunate, I cannot withhold an assurance to you, that
I know not any circumstance which could give me so much satis-
faction as to have my son spend a year with you in London —
because he is indeed an excellent young man. This is not the
effusion of a father's fond affection but the testimony of all who
know him." *

R. King to Wm. Wickham.

Great Cumberland Place, Jany. 21, 1799.
Dear Sir :

Martin, to whom the enclosed letter is addressed, is Miranda,

and Quatremere whose nom de guerre is subscribed to it was a

member of the Council of Five hundred, and of the number

ordered to be banished at the Revolution of the 4. September

* See Mr. King's answer to this and other letters on the same subject, March
16, 1799.

522 RUFUS KING. [*799

1797. Since that period he has remained in concealment at
Paris. The late Decree, applying the Laws respecting Emigrants
to the victims of the 4th of September, who shall not within a
limited time surrender themselves & submit to banishment, has
obliged Quatrem£re to quit France and to seek an asylum here.
I have reason to believe him to be an honest man, and that his
principles are good considering where they were formed.

He will bring us pretty exact and recent information respecting
the situation of France ; and if you see no special reasons to the
contrary, I shall be obliged to you to give instructions to your
officer at Yarmouth, to permit him to come to London, where he
desires to reside. He seems to prefer to keep his assumed name ;
if however you have any rule on that point, his gratification in
this respect can be of no importance. Be so obliging as to give
me your answer in season to write by the mail of tomorrow. I
have an interest in seeing this character that leads me to this
application.

With great truth, &c, &c,

Rufus King.

T. Pickering to R. King.

Department of State, Jany. 22, 1799.
Dear Sir :

... In my letter of 8th I promised to send you the official re-
port of Capt. Phillips, as soon as it should be received, in reference
to the outrage of Capt. Loring on the U. States Ship Baltimore.
But I find it is not necessary ; it is a detail of his own pusilani-
mous conduct, so disgraceful to himself and unworthy an officer
in the American Navy, that in consequence of his own statement
of the facts the President has dismissed him from the service.
He suffered some British Lieutenants to take the command of his
own ship ; on their requisition he gave them a list of his crew,
and called them up to answer to their names, and to the enquiries
of these British officers ! He suffered 55 of his men, to be taken
away by Capt. Loring's boats, without any resistance. When
50 of these had been returned, and a Lieutenant of the Thunderer
by Captain Loring's orders, demanded the delivery of four others,
whom he called British subjects, and Capt. Phillips told the officer

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 523

that he should not consent to their being taken from him, the
officer desisted and went away because he would not use any force.
This demonstrates that if Captain Phillips had at first declared
that if any were taken, it should only be by a superior force
actually exerted, none would have been impressed.

This easiness and pusilanimity of Capt. Phillips, however,
will not justify Captain Loring. Before he proposed an exchange,
he dema?ided of Capt. Phillips and told him he would take all who
had not protections, and he sent his boats and took them accord-
ingly and surrounded by three ships of the line and some frigates,
Captain Phillips submitted to the outrage.

To the information in my letter of the 8th, I have now to add
the further direction of the President, that you make application
to the British Government for the five men taken and detained by
Captain Loring. . . .

Mr. Liston informs me that he has written to Sir Hyde Parker,
who is chief in command of the British naval force in the West
Indies, representing the impropriety of taking even known British
subjects from public armed vessels of the United States ; remark-
ing that the right of doing it, if it exists at all, must be reciprocal ;
but to the exercise of which right no British Naval Commander
would submit.

R. Troup to R. King.

New York, 23 January, 1799.
Dear Sir :

. . . Since the meeting of Congress nothing important has
occurred. The President's speech and the answers of the two
houses you have before this seen. Nothing will be done towards
accommodation with France until she makes our government an
assurance that she will respect the rights of embassy and receive
a minister from us with due honor. On this part of our Presi-
dent's speech our friends in Philadelphia were divided. Some
thought that we should wait for a Minister from France ; but the
President thought differently.

Our government is opening a new loan at 8 per cent, which
does not seem to be relished. It is universally thought the money
wanted will be subscribed in less than half an hour. The in-

524 RUFUS KING. [l799

terest is complained of ; I fear in Europe it will look like the giv-
ing of two per cent a month by an individual.

Our army is progressing but slowly. ... I think the great
naval victories of Great Britain have tended powerfully to dimin-
ish our ardor, and to bring on a languor fatal to all our energies.
. . . Our Navy is increasing and growing respectable. There is
every appearance that it will be a favorite and popular object of
the government. . . .

The proposition for amending the Constitution by excluding
aliens from a seat in Congress, has been rejected by our Legisla-
ture now in session. Burr has made a speech, which is published
in the Aurora on this question. He contends that the only
instances of corruption we have had are a corruption in our own
countrymen. Foreigners amongst us have always been virtuous,
honorable and faithful servants of the public. . . .

More business in the mercantile line has never been done in
this city than has been done since November. Insurance has
fallen 50 per cent ; this agreeable change is ascribed to our Navy
which has rendered our commerce more secure. . . .

When General Washington was in Philadelphia, he was in per-
fect health and his mind was thought to be as alert as ever. Since
he left Philadelphia we have had a report of his death — but thank
God it has proved to be groundless — He is not even sick — The
shock this report gave, I cannot describe. . . .

Adieu,

Robt. Troup.

R. King to Secretary of State. No. 23.

London, Jany. 25, 1799.
Dear Sir :

Col. Maitland is a character that I* think well chosen for the
business that carries him to Philada. All his family, which is Scotch,
are remarkable for their talents and independence. The Colo, was
a member of the last Parlia??ient and with his brother, Lord Lauder-
dale, in opposition.

In a conversation that I had with him he appeared to be con-
vinced of the force of the objections that we should offer to the

* Italics in cipher.

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 525

Project first proposed by Ld. GrenvilU and also of the necessity of
concerted measures between us and this country. He went very far
upon this point, and as his Powers, or rather those given to Mr.
Liston, {for Col. M aitland will have no public character) are very
full, I am greatly in hopes that an adjust??ient will be made that will
be satisfactory in the present case and open the way to future and
beneficial Regulations respecting the West Indies. What is now done,
should have in view, and if possible should be so settled as to assist
what hereafter must be done. Colojiel M aitland is well acquainted
with Mr. Liston, and from peculiar circumstances will be likely to
have much influence with him.

We have just received the President's speech. The king who
had before more than once asked me whether it had yet arrived,
told me yesterday that he had read it and that he found it an able
and excellent speech. This opinion is expressed by every one,
and our national reputation is daily increased by the steady and
dignified conduct of our Government.

I have not heard that any of our Ships have made use of Cer-
tificates purporting that no part of their cargoes was of the growth
or fabric of the British territories. Some Danish or Swedish ships,
lately detained by the English cruizers are provided with Certifi-
cates of this sort ; indeed the merchants and navigators of their
Nation, appear to conform to the Regulations from time to time
made by France respecting the Commerce & Navigation of Neu-
tral Nations.

In a late trial of these detained Ships, the Judge of the High
Court of Admiralty took notice of the French Decree respecting
British Productions and manufactures belonging to Neutrals and
laden upon Neutral ships, spoke of it as a violation of the essen-
tial maxims of the Law of Nations, intimated that an acquiescence
in it by Neutral Nations appeared unfriendly to England as well
as humiliating to themselves, and that Certificates granted by
French Consuls resident in Neutral Countries declaring that no
part of the Cargoes of Ships laden in such Countries was of British
production or fabric, afforded a presumption that such Cargo be-
longed to France or to her citizens. After this intimation it is not
improbable that vessels provided with such certificates will be de-
tained and sent in for adjudication. On the other hand France
adheres to her Decrees, and our vessels are captured because

526 RUFUS KING. [1799

their Passports or Roles d'Equipages do not conform to the law
of March 1797, and upon the pretence that their Cargoes are
wholly or partly of English fabric or production.

Several of our Tobacco and other valuable ships have lately
been taken and upon one pretence or another all vessels met by
French Privateers & which are unable to defend themselves are
captured ; and it is nearly or quite two years since I have heard
of the discharge of any American Ship sent into a French Port as
Prize. Upon our own Coasts & in the West Indies, the Privateers
have decreased, but they have during the winter increased in the
North Sea, the Bay of Biscay and about the Western Islands.

The Privateers are nourished by the capture of Neutral Prop-
erty. The Trade of England sails in fleets and under Convoy
and in this way is essentially protected. Why should we not
collect our Rice and Tobacco Ships and send them to market
under our own convoy ? We see that the English East and West
India Trade isScarry'd on in fleets which are convoyed in safety to
their Ports of discharge. More time is requisite to perform the
voyage, but a much less premium insures the ship and cargo, and
the measure would be no inconsiderable national saving.

Should any of our Frigates come to Europe, and touch at any
of the English Ports, I think by no means improbable that we
could obtain the discharge of the American seamen who have
been taken in French Privateers and are confined here as prisoners
of war. They are upwards of an hundred and perhaps double
that number.

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c. &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to John Adams, President of the United States.

London, Jany. 26, 1799.
Dear Sir :

I had some weeks past the pleasure of receiving your Letter of
the 16th October. The Enclosure was immediately forwarded,
tho' from the obstructions which interrupted the Passage to Ham-
burg, I fear it was a long time on its way to Berlin. We are still
uncertain what is to be the Situation of Europe during the ap-
proaching summer ; on this topic I must refer to my Dispatches

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. $2?

to Col. Pickering. It would be hardly decent to express what I
think of the weakness, corruption & indecision of most of the
Continental Govts. The aristocracies are as unwise and as base
as their Princes ; and if Europe shall be rescued from the Bar-
barism, with which Philosophy is about to overrun it, it will be
effected by the moderation & virtues of the People, who in Spain,
Italy & throughout Germany are less guilty, & more meritorious
than their Magistrates and Rulers. This is a melancholy pros-
pect, and one that may appal, tho' it ought not to discourage, the
boldest minds. The firmness, the courage and the resources of
England, joined to the docility of the people and the wonderful
ease with which the Laws are adapted to the new and dangerous
condition of surrounding circumstances, are the highest Eulogium
of its Constitution, afford a rational Hope of ultimate security
and confirm what is so well proved in the best work that has
been written upon the intricate subject of Government.

Amidst this mighty storm, it is my greatest pleasure, and the
source of the most gratifying Pride, to mark the increasing atten-
tion with which Europe continues to observe and applaud the
able and dignified Administration of the American Government,
— which in its open & manly proceedings towards France has
not only done much for its own Security, but more for that of
Europe than many portions of it have had the courage or wisdom
to do for themselves. This language is involuntary, for every-
where throughout Europe, strong tho' ill founded prejudices
existed against us and our Institutions.*

With unfeigned Respect & attachment, I am, &c.

R. King.

* J. Adams to T. Pickering, Secretary of State.

Quincy, 13th Ap., 99.

I regret I cannot have an opportunity of receiving Genl. Maitland and
Colonel Grant, and conversing with them on several subjects of importance.
I hope Mr. King's public dispatches to you were written in better
spirits than his private letter to me (probably Jany. 26 p. 29). You will please
return it to me. Mr. King was, you know, at times a little subject to croak-
ing. I fear, however, in this case he has too much reason. The people of
Europe see little difference between the new and old state of things. The
highest and lowest of mankind are desperately corrupt and wicked, and the
middling people are almost destroyed.

CHAPTER XXXII.

King to Secretary of State — Neapolitans beaten in every Quarter — Union of
Great Britain and Ireland considered — To General Maitland — His Mission
should be no Misunderstanding between England and United States — King
to Lord Grenville — Will England receive the Construction of France as
conclusive on the Points in which France and United States disagree ? —
Shows the Wrong of such a Decision — Secretary of State to King — Presi-
dent approves his Interposition to prevent the Emigration of the Irish
Traitors to the United States — Difficulties with Commissioners under the
6th Article — Act of Congress against French Privateers — King nominated
as Commissioner to make a commercial Treaty with Russia — Cabot —
Troubles with the Commissioners under 6th Article — Confidence in R.
King to act wisely — Secretary of State to King — Virginia Resolutions dis-
approved of — King to Dundas on the East India Trade and his Answer —
To R. Varick — Counterfeit Notes — Cabot to King — Effect of Conduct of
France — Speculations on commercial Relations — Affairs in the United
States — Truxton captures LTnsurgente — Scarcity of Copper prevents the
Sale of it to the United States.

R. King to the Secretary of State. No. 24.

London, Jany. 27, 1799.
Dear Sir :

Letters were yesterday received from Adml. Nelson, dated
Naples Bay Deer, the 2 2d, which state that the Neapolitan Army
is beaten in every quarter, that the cowardice of the soldiery is
only equalled by the Treachery of the officers, that the King &
Queen with the British Ambassador Sir Wm. Hamilton have es-
caped and were on board the Admiral's Ship on their way to
Palermo in Sicily. Genl. Mack was at Capua & Naples in the
hands of the French. Thus all Italy, excepting Tuscany, which
will not escape, especially as Leghorn has lately been occupied
by the Neapolitans protected by the Br. fleet, is completely in
1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 529

the Power, and its wealth & resources entirely at the disposal of
the Directory. It does not appear that the least effort was made
by Austria to assist Naples ; the Casus Foederis it is alleged did
not exist. The Conquest of Italy in itself is a most important
Event, but the influence of these rapid Successes will exceed all
calculation, on the one hand in dissipating the effects of the late
naval victories of England, and by animating & hastening the
new Levies of France ; and on the other by increasing the hesita-
tion of Austria & Russia, and adding to the embarrassments
which retard the projected Confederacy.

The subject of an Union has been brought before the Parlia-
ments of G. Britain and Ireland ; in the former an answer to the
King's Message has been voted without division engaging to take
the subject into consideration ; in the latter the address to the
same effect in answer to the Soeech of the Lord Lieutenant was

A.

carried in the House of Commons only by 106 against 105 Votes.
This, I presume, is an unexpected Division. What will be the
next step I can only conjecture. The Minister here stands pub-
lickly pledged to pursue the measure until it shall be crowned
with compleat success. At present perhaps nothing further will
be attempted in Ireland ; but the Plan will I think be laid before
the Br. Parliament, where its advantages as well to Ireland as to
the Empire being fully discussed and laid open, may become the
Foundation of a renewed attempt with the present or a future
Irish Parliament.

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c. &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to General Maitland.

London, Jany. 27, 1799.
Dear Sir :

I cannot omit the opportunity before your departure to express
to you the satisfaction that I feel in your going to Philadelphia.
The Business that carries you there in itself is of considerable im-
portance, but taken in connection with the harmony and friendly
intercourse that so happily subsist between our two Countries, and
which it is so much the wish of both to preserve and to perpetu-
ate, the subject becomes ten fold more interesting ; and it is

VOL. II. — 34

530 RUFUS KING. [*799

principally in this latter view that I think it truly fortunate that
the questions which shall arise in the course of your discussions
are certain to receive an equitable, as well as an unprejudiced and
liberal decision. The late news from Italy, the whole of which
except Tuscany is in the possession of the French, will on the
one hand serve to diminish the Influence of the late naval Vic-
tories of this Country and to hasten and animate the new Levies
of France ; while on the other, it will increase the Doubts and
indecision of Austria and Prussia, and raise up fresh embarrass-
ments against the projected Confederacy. Without stopping to
inquire where all this will end, does not the present situation of
Europe eminently strengthen and confirm the Policy of removing
as soon, and as effectually as possible, every cause of future mis-
understanding and jealousy between Gr. Britain & the U. States ?
I am truly happy in believing that this must be your opinion ; and
in this way I derive some consolation from those disasters which
cannot fail to excite our commiseration and Regret.

With the most perfect Respect &c. &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Lord Grenville.

Great Cumberland Place, February 4, 1799.
My Lord :

I persuade myself that your Lordship will feel the Equity of
our Expectations in respect to the Subject of the enclosed Note.
Precedents are conclusively applicable only to cases strictly anal-
ogous. We present a case without Example, and therefore not
within the reach of Precedents. France asserted a construction
of a public Treaty that we denied ; she persisted and we dissolved
the Instrument, the provision of which she construed in abuse.

A Question involving the settlement of much Property occurs
before your tribunals, which on its merits can only be decided by
deciding the Point and Construction on which we & France dis-
agree. Will you receive the Construction of France as conclusive
against us ? What would have been proper had we acquiesced in
& submitted to the Interpretation given to the Treaty by France
is another point ; but circumstanced as this question is, and with
the knowledge of the violence and little regard to Justice that un-

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 53 1

fortunately prevail in France, and which no man can exclude from
his mind, I cannot believe that we are to be thrown out of your
Courts, on the Plea that respect is due to the Decisions of the Tri-
bunals of France against the most explicit Denial of their Justice
and Validity by us. All we ask is that the facts should be decided
without a reference on the one hand to France, or on the other to
us. If the demand is novel, so unhappily are the times in which
we live ; and so much so indeed, that the application of maxims
established upon the former usages and ancient faith of nations,
to occurrences and cases originating from the Subversion of these
maxims, would often defeat instead of securing the Justice they
were formed to support.

In regard to the Laws respecting Neutral Ships laden with
articles of the growth or fabric of the British Territories, and be-
longing to neutrals, can I suppose that your Courts will receive
a French sentence condemning such property on account of growth
or fabric, as conclusive evidence against a suitor, who comes be-
fore them to prove the Property to be neutral ? Would not such a
decision be an acquiescence in and an admission of the Justice of
the Law — and how can one sentence be rejected and another
received ?

I will only add my Desire that this Subject may with as little
Delay as convenient receive your Lordship's attention as I am in-
formed that one or two of the Cases in question are in a state
very soon to be argued and decided by the Court of King's

Bench.

With most perfect Consideration & Respect

Rufus King.

R. King to the Right Honorable Lord Grenville.

Copy.

London, February 4, 1799.

The undersigned Minister plenipotentiary has received the ex-
press order of the President of the United States to represent to
the Government of his Britannic Majesty that immediately upon
the breaking out of the present war in Europe, the United States
in the most public and solemn manner announced their determina-
tion to take no part in the same, but on the contrary to observe

532 RUFUS KING. [*799

during the continuance thereof the most exact and impartial
neutrality ; a Resolution alike influenced by a just regard to the
welfare and happiness of their own People and an earnest desire
to preserve the Relations of Peace and amity which happily sub-
sisted between them and the different Nations of Europe.

These views continued invariably to regulate the conduct of
the Amn. Govt, until the period when that of France, unmindful
of the obligation of Treaties, and disregarding the Rights of In-
dependent and friendly Nations, passed certain laws injurious to
those Rights & which authorized extensive Depredations upon
the Amern. Commerce.

The Undersigned refers in particular to an Order of the French
Directory of the 2d of August 1797, and to a Law of the two
Councils of the 18 January 1798. The first declares liable to
capture and condemnation as lawful Prizes, all American Vessels
not provided with a Role d'Equipage in the form thereby pre-
scribed ; a Document which the American Vessels never pos-
sessed, which was not required by any stipulation in the treaties
between the two Nations, & which according to express Provisions
of such Treaties was wholly unnecessary. The Second, in viola-
tion of the acknowledged and hitherto universally reed. Law of
Nations, declares liable to capture and condemnation all Neutral
Vessels laden wholly or in part with articles of the growth or
fabric of any of the Territories of Great Britain, notwithstanding
the same shall bona fide belong to Neutrals.

The United States, whose Commerce became the Victim of
these Regulations did not fail to present to the French Govern-
ment repeated and friendly Remonstrances against them ; in
which they demonstrated their inconsistency with the stipulations
of existing treaties, refuted the pretended reasons upon which they
were alleged to be founded & called upon the Justice of France
for their revision and repeal.

This pacific and friendly course failed to produce its natural
and proper Effect ; and the U. States, finding that neither the
faith of treaties could restrain the Govt, of France, nor reasona-
ble remonstrances induce a recall of its unjust and vexatious
Regulations, by a solemn Act of their Legislature declared the
treaties between them and France dissolved, void and no longer
binding upon them or their People — gave orders to their Ships of

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 533

war & authority to their merchant vessels, the Masters whereof
should apply for and receive Commissions for that purpose, not
only to resist, but to attack, capture and make Prize of any armed
French vessel found upon the high seas, and prohibited all trade
& Commercial Intercourse between the Territories of the United
States & the Dominion of France.

The undersigned flatters himself, from the facts thus concisely
stated, the truth whereof is equally notorious and incontestable,
that it might be evident to the British Government, that the
United States have never acquiesced in, but on the contrary that
they have constantly denied the Justice and validity of the above
recited Regulations ; and that unable by friendly Remonstrances
to recall France to an observance of her treaties and a deference
for those long established maxims of public Law, which no Nation
is free to change or to disobey, they have dissolved and cut off
all commercial Intercourse between the two Nations, & armed in
defence of their just & violated Rights.

It has been in consequence of the above mentioned Regulations
that American vessels laden with valuable cargoes of innocent
merchandize & insured in Gr. Britain have been captured by
French cruizers, and tho' acknowledged to be American Property
have been condemned as lawful Prizes in the Tribunals of
France.

These condemnations, made in violation of public faith, and
which have led to the dissolution of the treaties by which they
were pretended to be justified, are resorted to, and attempted to
be used as just and conclusive sentences before the Judiciary of
Great Britain, for the Purpose of defeating the Citizens of the
United States in their claims against such of his Majesty's Sub-
jects, as upon adequate consideration took upon themselves the
Risque and became the assurors of the Property so unjustly con-
demned. It is with a view to Property in this peculiar situation
that the Undersigned is ordered to present this note ; and with-
out discussing the nature and true extent of precedents, founded
undoubtedly in the Justice as well as convenience of Nations, and
which enjoin a Respect for the Decisions of foreign Tribunals, or
asking with what Propriety such precedents can be made to bear
upon cases circumstanced like the present, the Undersigned con-
tents himself in referring these Enquiries to the Justice and im-

534 RUFUS KING. [i799

partiality of the Br. Govt, in full confidence that they must lead
to the adoption of such measures as will effectually secure to the
citizens of the United States the Remedies to which the Justice
of their Claims in the above described Cases gives them a solid
title. Whether this object is to be attained by Legislative or
other Provisions for that Purpose, the Undersigned does not pre-
sume to enquire ; but he is bound to express the reasonable Ex-
pectation of his own Government, that adequate means will be
devised to remove any Impediments that may be supposed to
stand in the way of real and substantial Justice in the cases before
alluded to.

Rufus King.

T. Pickering to R. King.

Department of State, Feby. 5, 1799.
Dear Sir :

. . . The resignation of Sir James Marriott is a fortunate
occurrence ; the expences of long and indefinite delays in the
proceedings of the high Court of Admiralty in England, added to
the ordinary heavy charges of suits in that Court, rendered them
insupportable.

Your timely interference to prevent the emigration of the Irish
Traitors to this country is extremely acceptable to the President ;
but if removed to any other country many of them will probably
find their way hither, and therefore not only a List of their names,
but descriptions of their persons and their ages would be very
useful, if attainable. . . .

The difference of opinion among the Commissioners here under
the 6th Article of the British Treaty will doubtless suspend their
proceedings ; the claims not only surpass immensely in amount
whatever was contemplated by us ; but are advocated on princi-
ples which appear quite inadmissible. They go the length to
make the United States, at once, the debtor for all the outstanding
debts of British subjects contracted before the peace of 1783,
and in effect reduce the Board to a company of clerks, whose
chief business would be to examine and see that the accounts
were rightly cast. The amount of the claims presented exceeds

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 535

Nineteen Millions of Dollars. I expect a statement will be made
of the claims and arguments on one side, and of the reasons with
which they are combated on the other, which with the requisite
Documents will be transmitted to you. They will in that case be
the subject of instructions from the President.

. . . The Decree of the Directory of France of the 29th of
October, received in your No. 9., has by the President been laid
before Congress, with the remark you made upon it. The chair-
man of a Committee of the Senate told me yesterday that a Bill
was prepared to be introduced on the subject this day. The
suspension of the execution of that Decree, as mentioned in your
No. 10, cannot change the disposition of any measure on our
part ; and especially as the Decree of March 2d 1797 prescribed
the same sanguinary treatment of our Seamen, and that Decree is
neither repealed nor suspended.

The Law prohibiting Commercial intercourse with the French
Dominions was to continue only until the end of the present ses-
sion of Congress. A new Bill, with material alterations has passed
the House of Representatives, by a very great majority, and will
probably be adopted to day in the Senate. It is proposed to vest
the President with power to open the intercourse with such places
in the French Territories, into which our vessels may enter with
safety ; and consequently where the licenced piracies of French
Privateers shall no longer be practised. It is not a secret that
this may be expected in St. Domingo ; and it would be unwise in
us not to benefit by such an event. If this discrimination in the
bill should produce such an effect we cannot be blamed. If by a
Commercial arrangement we disarm an enemy, the measures can-
not be censured. The profits of that Commerce, should it be
opened, will tend to compensate our Merchants for the interest of
the immense capital of which French Captures, seizures and the
non-fulfillment of Contracts have deprived them. . . . The
injuries we have sustained by such captures and partial condem-
nation (by the British cruizers in the West Indies) are very con-
siderable. It is time that on both sides the meaning of the 18th
article was understood. It has lately been stated that one Insur-
ance Company in this city (Philadelphia) has in the last six
months paid for losses by British captures to a much greater
amount than for those arising from French captures.

536 RUFUS KING. [1799

P.S. The President has this day nominated you Commissioner
Plenipotentiary to negociate a Commercial Treaty with Russia.
6th Feby.

G. Cabot to R. King.

Feby. 7th, 1799.
My Dear Sir :

. . . I anticipate the chagrin you will feel at the falling off
so visibly in our Country since the meeting of Congress & I par-
take of the inquietude & perplexity which you are to suffer from
the secession of our Comms. at Phila. Altho I am wholly unin-
formed of the grounds of misunderstanding yet I can think of no
other than is suggested by the Newspaper relative to confiscated
debts or property, & I shou'd not have imagined that serious pre-
tensions cou'd have been raised on either Treaty to revise those
acts. Whatever it may be, you are to negotiate the accommoda-
tion & your success good or bad will be decisive, in the judgment
of this country, of the policy G. B. will habitually pursue towards
the U. S. Every thing has conspired to satisfy me that you per-
sonally wou'd give to our country a fair & full chance for the
operation of every favorable motive & incident, & if under these
circumstances we cannot procure a liberal system of intercourse
the fault must be in the intractable temper of G. B. But nothing
short of experience will convince me that she can be so blind to
her own interest. I know your moderation and equanimity &
with these your knowledge & Industry can hardly fail to accom-
plish all our wishes. I have heard nothing of the commercial pro-
jects you have transmitted — my own head has been often filled
with extensive schemes which G. B. & the U. S. might execute
with infinite advantage if they cou'd be brought to act together
with that perfect good faith & good humour which alone can
result from a common interest well understood by both parties.
Men who live out of the world always wonder its affairs are not
better regulated ; but when they are made to see the innumerable
& apparently insuperable obstacles which Vice & Folly every
where produce they wonder that any thing like order subsists. I
send you Mr. Pickering's Report which you cannot but approve
as a good antidote to Gerryism which has a little infected some of
the very Great & some of the very Little. I dare not commit to

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 537

writing my ideas on the subject but you wou'd be charmed with
Pickering if you knew the great part he sustains.

Vive vale.
G. C.

Mr. Pickering in the following letter enlarges upon the
suggestions in a previous despatch relative to a designation
of a more particular description by name of articles which
have been considered and treated as contraband, under the
18. article.

T. Pickering to R. King.

Private.

Department of State, Feby 6th, 1799.
Dear Sir :

. . . I wish you to turn the subject in your mind ; and the
more as you may yourself have occasion, I believe, very shortly to
concur in making an arrangement which will embrace it, and in
which, as in all acts of the kind, precision is of the highest
importance. . . .

I inclose a very candid and sensible address (printed) from the
Minority of the House of Assembly of Virginia to the people of
that State, to counteract the Address and Resolves of the majority
which were of the most inflammatory nature and hostile to the
General Government. . . . They have been rejected by every
other Legislature, which has yet taken them up. In short, Vir-
ginia and its offspring Kentucky will stand alone in those outra-
geous attempts to break the union of the States ; their proceedings
excite only contempt mingled with some resentment, proportioned
to the degree of force with which they could assail the union.

T. P.

R. King to Secretary of State. No. 25.

London, Feby. 13, 1799.
Dear Sir :

The last French papers contain a long Message of the Directory
to the Councils delivered on the 13th ulto., recommending a re-
vision of the Prize Laws and a transfer of the Power to decide
Prize questions in the last resort from the ordinary Tribunals to

538 RUFUS KING. [l799

the Executive Directory. Probably the last is the real object of
the Message. The Profits now divided among the Tribunals
would upon this modification of the Laws, center in the Hands
of the Directory & its particular Agents. I shall send you a copy
of this Message, and a Report of the proceedings of the Councils
upon it, as soon as I am able to obtain them.

No mails have been received from Hamburgh since the middle
of January, and we know nothing of what is doing upon the Con-
tinent, except from the French Papers. Italy has completely
fallen without the Emperor's moving. Ehrenbreitstein is likewise
reported to have surrendered without any attempt by Prussia to
retain it. Portugal is menaced with an army, to which Spain is
said to have given permission to march thro' her Territories ; and
another Expedition is undoubtedly preparing at Brest ; naval
Stores are carried overland from Dunkirk to Brest for its equip-
ment, and the French papers say they are to make another effort
to throw a body of troops into Ireland ; ten or twelve Ships of
the Line with Frigates and Transports are to be employed in the
attempt.

I annex copies of a Note that I lately sent to Lord Grenville in
consequence of your Letter of the 13. of December (No. 35), and
of a letter to Mr. Dundas respecting the interruption of our Ships
returning from the Danish Provinces in India to Europe. The
former has been sent to the Law Officers of the Crown for their
opinion and Report ; and to the latter I have yet received no
answer.

The Swedish Envoy will leave a few days hence on his return
home ; his secretary remains as Charge d'Affaires : this recall is
to be understood as a mark of displeasure of Sweden on account
of the seizure of its ships in the course of the last Summer ;
these vessels are still detained and are to be tried by the Prize
Courts.

Mr. Smith our Minister at Lisbon lately inquired of me whether
we were likely to recover anything here on account of the capture
of the Ship Fortune, the vessel employed by Barlow to carry the
captives from Algiers to Marseilles. I have answered him after
a full examination of the Case, and taking the opinion of Counsel
here, the claim has been abandoned as desperate. I think that
I have already given you an exact report of the circumstances of

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 539

this Case ; if not, you may obtain it from Donaldson, who has re-
turned to Philadelphia ; the vessel was never American property ;
the whole transaction was a fraud, of which (in the most charita-
ble light that it can be said) Barlow was the Dupe.

With the most perfect Respect and Esteem &c. &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Henry Dundas.

Great Cumberland Place, Feby. 13, 1799.
Sir :

Your official connexion with the whole subject of British India,
leads me to address this Letter to you directly instead of passing
it into the Department of Foreign Affairs. The Representations
of the Masters of the American Ships Iphigenia and Kensington,
and which I take the liberty to send you inclosed, are so full and
satisfactory that it seems unnecessary that I should restate the
cases for your information.

I presume that no question exists concerning the reality of the
Danish Settlement at Serampore and therefore that none can exist
concerning the Right of Denmark to regulate the trade between
it and the Danish Dominions in Europe. These ships then were
engaged in lawful voyages when the Governor of St. Helena act-
ing, as he alleges, under instructions from the East India Com-
pany, detained and sent them to England charged with having
violated the Provisions of the Treaty between Gr. Britain and the
United States.

That we shall experience occasional interruptions from the
agents of the Company in our trade to India, I am disposed to
believe ; as it is of the essence of their employment to render as
exclusive as possible the trade of the Company, and the advan-
tages it enjoys.

But I have the satisfaction to know that other and more just
and liberal views are entertained by you on this subject, and I
flatter myself that you will be disposed to temper and moderate
a spirit, that left to its natural impulse will expose our commerce
to unceasing and most inconvenient interruptions.

These ships are not detained on suspicion that they or their
cargoes are enemy's property, but on a principle against which I

540 RUFUS KING. [i799

cannot too early offer my Protest, and which I persuade myself
a due regard to the stipulations of our treaty and to the mutual
harmony and friendship of our Countries will cause to be re-
linquished. So far as I am able to understand the conduct of the
Governor of St. Helena, it was not influenced by an opinion that
these cargoes were not exported from the Danish, but from the
British Territories in India, and according to the Provisions of
our Treaty ought to have been carried directly from there to
America, instead whereof being bound to Denmark, they became
liable to seizure by the officers of the British Government. It is
this influence that I resist ; and admitting the case to be the re-
verse of what it is, and precisely what it is supposed to be, we
cannot allow that these ships were liable to seizure by any person
deriving his authority from Great Britain. The stipulation in
question, in terms as well as meaning, is an agreement on the
part of the United States that their people shall carry the articles
exported from the British Territories in India directly to America,
and moreover that the United States shall adopt such regulations,
as from time to time may be found necessary to enforce the faith-
ful performance of this agreement. It is the United States and
their officers, and not Great Britain or her officers, who have the
right and are. bound to enforce the observance of this rule ; and
in this as in other Stipulations of Treaties between Nations, the
performance rests upon the good faith of those who have made
the promise. If the citizens of the United States evade or dis-
obey the rule contained in the stipulation, the United States,
and they only, have the Right, and by express clauses in the
Treaty are obliged to punish the offenders. The remedy on the
part of Great Britain, if this stipulation is violated, is by calling
on the American Government to enforce the observance of it ;
and in case of neglect or refusal, a fact however not to be pre-
sumed, the Treaty itself may justly be considered as at an
End.

Thus then whether these ships were engaged in a voyage with-
out the reach of the Treaty, or in a voyage contrary to its pro-
visions, in either case their detention is illegal and they ought to
be restored.

With the most perfect Esteem & Respect &c. &c.

Rufus King.

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 54 1

R. King to Richard Varick, New York.

London, Feby. 14, 1799.
Dear Sir :

Having obtained information that a person was employed in
printing a quantity of American Notes or Bills of Credit, I took
immediate measures to have him and his work seized by the
Police. It turns out to be a forgery of the Small Notes issued by
Mr. Phoenix by order of the Corporation of New York, feb 20.
1790. The printer had worked off 20.000 sheets, each sheet con-
taining 4 notes for threepence, and 2 for twopence ; the work was
to have been delivered the evening of the day it was seized. The
printer says that he intended to disclose the business to me before
the delivery, and as evidence of his honesty pointed out the dif-
ference between the letters in the words " two pence " on the back
of the false Bills from those of the true, as well as some other
variations. We are now endeavouring to detect the Employer,
whose name and residence the printer says he does not know, but
whom he understood to be an American. I have promised to re-
lease the Printer (by the way I don't find that he could be pun-
ished) and to give him a few Guineas if he will effectually assist
the Police officers in discovering the Employer.

I wish that this new proof of the risque as well as injustice of
these small paper money Schemes may operate to discourage us
from resorting to them. The Corporation would have detected
and refused to pay these counterfeits ; but the citizens and that
class of them least able to bear the loss would have been sufferers
to the amount that should have been thrown out of circulation. *

With sincere Respect & Esteem &c.

Rufus King.

* Richard Varick to R. King.

New York, February 1st, 1800.
Dear Sir :

Some time in April last I had the honor of receiving your very friendly favor
of the 14th February last, advising me of the measures you had adopted for
securing the counterfeiters of our City small change commonly called Penny
Bills alias Fhcenixes, and covering a specimen of the false bills which are in my
opinion sufficiently well executed to deceive 9 tenths of the Citizens, and as
you observe the poorer class in particular.

At the first Common Council thereafter and which was held within a few
days after the receipt of your letter, I laid it with its contents before the Board.

542 KUFUS KING. [1799

G. Cabot to R. King.

Feby. 16, 1799.

My dear Sir :

If the Seditious were hardy enough to denounce you for the
great service you have render'd the country in shutting its doors
against Irish Desperadoes you wou'd still have reason to be con-
tent, for the praises of the good wou'd be increased in proportion
to the clamours of the vicious ; but I believe the measure is so
generally approved that Faction will hardly dare to condemn it.
I mention'd in a late letter the secession of our Comms. ; my
only authority was the Newspapers but it stood uncontradicted
until it was universally credited — the truth of it is now denied by
Porcupine, so that we may at least suppose the acct was ex-
aggerated, & altho' I know there are some unexpected proceedings,
I hope they are not of so great moment as I had feared.

You are not more chagrined than many other Federalists at the
inconsistency of Congress in their last session. I believe how-
ever there is no great secrecy in the cause of it ; a maxim a 1000
times repeated & a million times verified since the day of De Retz
may serve for a general explanation — how often do we lament the

They in the first place requested me to present to you their thanks for the
attention you have manifested to the interest of your fellow citizens of New
York, and to declare to you their readiness to reimburse any expence which you
might have incurred on the subject to serve us ; They also took immediate
measures for calling out of circulation those notes so as to put a stop to farther
evil and the little Fraud by means thereof.

[Mr. Varick then states that though he had sent an answer to Mr. King's
letter shortly after his was received, he had learned from him that it had not
reached him and therefore in this repeated what had been written in it. He
finishes the letter by saying :]

I agree with you in the opinion that we ought not to hold our real property
cheap on account of a few visits of the Yellow Fever. Indeed I mention with
pleasure that it has not depreciated as much as our friends at a distance from
us would be led to suppose, or as some of our desponding ones here imagine.
It is true that Real Estates do not command as high prices now as 4 or 5 years
since, when every monied man, alias paper dealer, considered himself a Nabob ;
but our citizens in general are not yet disposed to abandon their residences or
to part with their Real Estates under fair prices.

I transmit you nothing new, as I suppose Mr. Low and many other friends
give you all our country affairs. I pay my respects to Mrs. King and wish you
both every happiness.

With great respect and esteem, &c.

Richd. Varick.

799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 543

impossibility of combining the efforts of those who truly aim at
the same end ! but in the present case Genl Marshall unfor-
tunately held the decided opinion that France woud declare war
when the Dispatches shou'd appear : & T. Sewell with other good
men were so strongly impressed with the advantage of such a
declaration by them that they cou'd not be persuaded to relinquish
the belief in it — I was astonished that they shou'd have attributed
to the French such miserable policy.

You will be more mortified at the strange language lately held
on the practicability of a safe & pacific system of intercourse
being at the option of France to restore &c &c — when a public
man allows himself to become the advocate of Inconsistency in
another, he necessarily becomes inconsistent himself. The spirit
of our country which was rising to a just indignation has un-
doubtedly been damped by some who had great merit in exciting
it. You will see however that it is not wholly repressed & the
violent & seditious temper of Virginia operates powerfully to re-
vive it. The addresses of our Legislature to Govr Sumner & their
spirited proceedings in opposition to Virginianism will show
plainly that the people are better than Congress.

The ideas you suggest respecting Commerce with the Levant
& Constantinople are very important & if a treaty can be formed
that shall secure for us an easy access to those Regions, our people
will rate its value full as high as they ought, for they outstrip
Dutchmen & Jews in the love of trade & its profits ; they will
also see in such a measure the difference between english &
french sincerity. I don't yet understand the policy of G. B. in re-
lation to Hispaniola, but to me it appears evident that they ought
to seize*that Colony from France effectually & forever — the Com-
merce of England with the two Indies & the U. S., upon principles
of liberality toward us, might be maintained superior to competi-
tion or hostility, & if the advantages were to be used with modera-
tion, might be permanent. In a word Hispaniola shou'd be
independent & this Independence guaranteed by G. B. & acknowl-
edged by France at the peace : if Royalty is restored or estab-
lished, this wou'd be a reasonable indemnity, but if the Monster
called Republic continues it is indispensable to strip him of this

possession or there wou'd be no security in his neighborhood

Yours

G. C.

544 RUFUS KING. [i799

H. Dundas to R. King.

Somerset Place, 18th Feby., 1799.
Sir:

I postponed answering the letter I had the honor to receive
from you a few days ago, in order that I might make enquiry how
far the detention of the Ships Kensington and Iphigenia had
taken place in consequence of any special order on the part of
the Directors. I do not find this to have been the case, and
therefore take the liberty of suggesting to you the propriety of
addressing yourself to Lord Grenville on the Subject, as some of
the most material points contained in your Letter can only, with
regularity, be treated of through the channel of his office.
I have the honor to be &c &c.

Henry Dundas.

R. King to Lord Grenville.

Great Cumberland Place, Feby. 19, 1799.
My Lord :

I take the liberty to send your Lordship enclosed copies of a
Letter that I lately wrote to Mr. Dundas and of his answer. Your
Lordship will perceive by the Letter to Mr. Dundas my motives
for addressing myself to him upon a subject that it seems accord-
ing to strict form, can only be treated of with the Department in
which your Lordship presides.

Under these circumstances it has appeared to me adviseable to
present the subject to your Lordship exactly in the form in which
it was before Mr. Dundas, rather than to give to the application
the shape of another Letter of the same purport, addressed to your
Lordship. I flatter myself that your Lordship will agree with me
in the Interpretation of the Stipulations of our Treaties, and I
will only add my request of your Lordship's interference, in order
that these Ships with their Cargoes, with as little delay as possible,
may be discharged.

With the most perfect consideration & Respect &c &c.

Rufus King.

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 545

G. Cabot to R. King.

Feby. 22d, 1799.

My dear Sir :

In your letter of the 19th Oct, which is this moment received,
you express some discontent with a sentiment in one of mine to
Gore on the affairs of South America — I cannot trace in my
memory any of my ideas on that subject except the general one
of an open trade which may be enjoyed by us & the English ; if
any thing better is attainable you know my readiness to approve
it.

Congress will soon close its session & considering the singular
temper with which it was addressed at the commencement I feel
thankful that our affairs are no worse — the strange expression
that France might at her option renew the intercourse of com-
merce & friendship with us has caused much inquietude among
our best men but I believe you may rely that the system of the
last session will be pursued & that the spirit of the country is
sustained notwithstanding this inauspicious circumstance.

We are to be sure very much exposed to the arts of France if
they wou'd practise them in a masterly manner but Fortune has
often counter-balanced our blunders & I trust will not wholly
desert us now ; — we ought to have declared war or at least author-
ized universal Reprisals & prohibited personal Intercourse — I
have urged the adoption of these measures, but among my mas-
ters a majority cou'dnot be interested in its favor — so like a good
subject I acquiesce & hope that after the lying & intriguing of one
more anxious summer, our Govt will be able to do what its own
dignity & the public good imperiously & plainly demand, & if the
cursed French Republic shall then subsist I hope we shall be
prepared to resist its arts & its arms until it sinks — this will hap-
pen from the weight of its own vices if from nothing else.

Altho' /have been unwilling to commit to paper the details of
our affairs which wou'd be the most interesting to you yet I pre-
sume you are always sufficiently informed — indeed your own re-
flections must often be as satisfactory as positive testimony ; you
must have discerned the cause of an apparent inconsistency in
the sentiments of some of our greatest men — a man can hardly
venture to palliate still less to vindicate the inconsistency of
another without being guilty of inconsistency himself — it is unfor-

VOL. II. — 35

546 RUFUS KING. [i799

tunate that a man shou'd mistake obstinate adherence to error for
consistency of opinions. — G. cou'd offer no apology for his stay
but his declaration " that he believed there was sincerity " & who-
ever repeats the apology & sanctions it is obliged to persist in
declaring that it may be true.

I hear nothing further of the secession of our Commrs. at Phila.,
therefore conclude the story is misunderstood & that the embar-
rassment tho' unpleasant is not so important as was reported.

Your sincere & faithful friend

G. C.

R. King to Secretary of State. No. 27.

London, March 1, 1799.
Dear Sir :

It was customary for the Privy Council to grant special permis-
sions for the Exportation of Copper in Sheets and Bolts to the
United States upon my certificate that the Ships were American
and the Masters Citizens.

During the last Summer from an apprehended scarcity of Cop-
per, I was informed that no such permission would in future be
granted except upon my certificate that the Copper was ordered
by and intended for the public service of the United States, and
several orders of this sort have been executed. But permission
having lately been refused on the application for Copper for the
Frigate building at Charleston, South Carolina, I wrote a letter to
Mr. Fawkner, Clerk of the Privy Council, stating the disappoint-
ment to which we should be exposed by such refusal, especially
with the expectations we had been authorized to entertain on this
subject, and desiring him to renew the request for permission to
export the requisite Copper for the Frigate building at Charles-
ton. I annex his answer by which it appears that for the present
we are not likely to obtain any farther supply of Copper from this
Country.

We are still without mails or news from the Continent. Your
No. 35 of 15th December is the last that I have received from
you.

With perfect Respect & Esteem, &c. &c.

Rufus King.

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 547

W. Fawkner to R. King.

Council Office, Whitehall, 26th February, 1799.
Sir:

(Mr. F. acknowledges receipt of application, &c, &c, and says :)
' I am directed to acquaint you that their Lordships, desirous as
they may be to afford assistance to the Government of the United
States, in forwarding their armament against a power equally hos-
tile to both Countries, are sorry that, from the very high price of
Copper, and the great demand for that article, for the Navy and
Manufactures of this Kingdom, they are under the necessity for
the present of refusing to permit the Export of any Copper
Sheathing or Nails in any case whatsoever, even to the Powers
that are in alliance with his Majesty, and actually engaged in the
War against France ; and I am to add that this subject is of so
pressing a nature, that their Lordships have reason to believe that
it will soon be brought under the consideration of Parliament.

I have the honor, &c.

W. Fawkner.

T. Pickering to R. King.

Department of State, March 6, 1799.
Dear Sir :

. . . The Constellation, Captain Truxton, has taken the

French Frigate L'Insurgente, and carried her into St. Kitts. She

was one of the two Frigates which came with General Desfour-

neaux to Guadaloupe, in December last, and is one of the fastest

sailing frigates in the French Navy. L'Insurgente had 50 men

killed and 30 wounded. The Constellation, 6 killed and 3

wounded. We have not yet an official account ; but there is no

doubt of the fact.

T. P.

CHAPTER XXXIII.

Pickering to King — Proposed Negotiation with France regretted — King to-
Pickering — On current Events — Cabot : Nomination of Minister to France
condemned — Secy, of State — St. Domingo will be independent — Insurrec-
tion in Pennsylvania against direct Tax — President gone to Quincy — King
to Lord Grenville — Protest against Outrage on the Baltimore by Capt.
Loring — To Count Woronzow — Commercial Treaty with Russia — To Lord
Grenville demanding a sealed Package addressed to him and detained by
the Court of Admiralty — To Secy, of State — Conference with Lord Gren-
ville relative to Capt. Loring — Also one relative to Contraband of War —
Impressment of Seamen and other Points in Dispute — Count Rumford to
King — Military Suggestions — King to Secy, of State — Premature in naming
a Commissioner to Russia — Plans of Russia and England to cut off the
Trade of Neutrals with France — LaFayette — Irish Affairs — Joseph Hale
to King — Reflections on Mr. Murray's Appointment to Holland — King to
Troup — On the Prize Courts of England — To Pickering — His Son as Sec-
retary— Recommends C. Gore as Minister to Constantinople — To J. Mc-
Henry relative to Count Rumford — To O. Wolcott respecting Arms sent
to the United States — To Count Rumford.

T. Pickering to R. King.

Private.

Philadelphia, March 6, 1799.
Dear Sir :

The nomination to negociate with the French Government was

exceedingly regretted by every friend to the President and to the

United States. I do know an exception. A committee of the

Senate (Sedgwick, Stockton, Read, Bingham and Ross) were

prepared to report against the nomination of Mr. Murray on the

morning of the 25th ulto. when the President sent in his second

Message, putting the negociation in Commission, and postponing

its commencement until the receipt of the assurances required by

his Message of the 21st of June last. This palliated the evil in

the only possible way in which it could be lessened. This latter
1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 549

nomination was readily approved. Mr. Ellsworth (painful as the
acceptance will be) will not decline the Mission : there has not
been time to ascertain Mr. Henry's mind. The only negociation
compatible with our honor or safety is that begun by Truxton in
the capture of L'Insurgente.

We shall recover from the shock of Murray's nomination ; no
preparation for war is lessened. . . . Congress have substantially
provided for all the measures suggested in the reports of the Sec-
retary of War and of the Navy ; and amid every untoward event,

my motto is " Nil Desperandum."

Yours most truly

T. P.

P. S. The President has just signed a Proclamation for a gen-
eral fast, in which are these expressions : " As moreover the most
precious interests of the United States are still held in jeopardy
by the hostile designs and insidious arts of a foreign Nation as
well as by the dissemination among them of those Principles sub-
versive of the foundations of all religious, moral and social obli-
gations, that have produced incalculable mischief and misery in
other Countries," &c, and in the subjects of prayer to the Deity
" that he would (make) succeed our preparations for defence and
bless our armaments by land and by sea."

All this you will say is not very consistent j true, but the evil of the
nomination may thus be counteracted ; both meastires are exclusively
the President 's own acts* . . .

R. King to Col. Pickering.

Private.

London, March 9, 1799.
Dear Sir :

I avail myself of the offer of a Passenger in the Packet to send
you the Dispatches of Mr. Adams and Mr. Murray received by
the last Hamburgh Mails. As fourteen or more mails arrived at
the same time, and Mr. Murray's Letters to me do not mention
whether his Dispatches are originals or duplicates I have no
means of distinguishing the one from the other. Tho' we have
the Newspapers containing Mr. Gerry's subsequent correspond-

* Italics in cipher.

550 RUFUS KING. [i799

ence, and your excellent and useful Report to the President, I
am still without any Letters from you since the middle of Decem-
ber. This I the more regret, as we have heard of the seism of the
Commission under the 6th Article of the English Treaty, and are
totally ignorant of the Points of disagreement. I have carefully
abstained from saying a word respecting the outrage of Captain
Loring upon our Flag, preferring to wait till I should be in full
possession of the Case. According to everything I hear, this
Government will probably be disposed to give us satisfaction.

Notwithstanding our great impatience on account of the inter-
ruption of the Communication with the Continent, we seem to be
in equal uncertainty respecting the Recommencement of the war,
since the arrival of the mails as we were before. The same hesi-
tation, the same jealousies and the same temporising System, from
which so much ruin has already proceeded, continue to prevail
at Vienna & Berlin. Mr. Grenville arrived at the latter place on
the 17th ulto., but it is much to be feared that he came too late.
I hope to be able to write you more particularly upon this topic
tomorrow or the day after. I shall [put] you this year to a little
additional Expence in order to obtain information from France ;
and as foreign Postage is paid here, and the Dispatches of some
of our Ministers, which pass thro' my Hands are large and heavy
my Postage account will be proportionally increased.

I see no evidence of an effectual change towards us or others on
the part of France ; great and increasing numbers of our valuable
Ships are captured and condemned by them ; I have heard of the
release of one from Dieppe, and of one or two others suffered to
proceed when met by their Privateers. It is confidently said that
certain vessels under Danish, Swedish and American Flags have
safe conducts from the French Directory : if so, we can account for
their being permitted to pursue their voyages when met by
Privateers.

While writing I have received your Dispatches to the 6th of
February. At present I can only mention their receit. I am
apprehensive that B. S. & B. will be disappointed in not receiving
Remittances as they are considerably in advance to the Spoliation
Fund.

Very truly and faithfully yours,

R. K.

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 55 1

G. Cabot to R. King.

March 10, 1799.

My dear Sir :

You will partake of all the unpleasant sensations which have
been excited by the nomination of a minister to the french Re-
public*— this measure was unexpected and unknown to every
member of the Govt, until announced to the Senate — Surprise,
indignation, grief & disgust followed each other in quick succes-
sion in the breasts of the true friends of our country, & a flat
negative wou'd probably have been given by the Senate if the
modification had not taken place which you will see in the
enclosed paper & which mitigates the evil it cou'd not wholly
prevent. The origin of this extraordinary proceeding is not ex-
posed & perhaps ought not to be, but may be sought in the weak-
nesses to which the best of men are liable — Egotism — vanity —
wounded pride — Gerryism — distrust of men who lay too much
stress on the public welfare as opposed to personal — implacability
toward those who maintain that it was more important to keep
the sceptre from the hands of a known Enemy than to place in
the hand of any one in preference to another well tried faithful
friend — these topics are sufficiently familiar to you & your mind
will be driven to them for the causes of this afflicting incident :

* In Life and Works of John Adams , vol. ix., p. 249. In the 5th Letter to
the Boston Patriot, Mr. Adams says: "They" (the gentlemen of the Senate
sent to confer with him on the nomination of Mr. Murray to France) * " then in-
quired, why I had not nominated Mr. King. I answered that if Mr. King had
been in Holland, I certainly should not have thought of any other character.
But he was our Ambassador to England, then at war with France, and it would
be considered by France as an insult to send them our Ambassador, who, as
soon as he had accomplished his business was to return to England and carry
with him all the information he might have collected in Paris. That the French
government would suspect me of a design to send them a spy from the Court
of St. James. That I presumed Mr. King at that time would not be pleased to
be removed from England to France for perpetuity or permanence," &c, &c.

1 A committee of the Senate of which Mr. Sedgwick was chairman was sent to
endeavor to persuade Mr. Adams to withdraw the nomination of William Vans
Murray on the 18th of February, 1799, as Minister to the French Republic.
Mr. Adams refused to withdraw him, but on the 25th of February, 1799, he
nominated in addition to him, two more, Messrs. Ellsworth and Patrick Henry,
to be Envoys Extraordinary and Ministers Plenipotentiary to the Republic of
France.

552 RUFUS KING. [i799

at present there is a disposition to let the subject subside, but
it is so easy to render it mischievous that I am full of fears lest it
shou'd be used with success to divide us anew & by combining
many of the Federalists and half federalists with real jacobins
form a strong majority whose power will be directed to crush
those who have been foremost in supporting the national dignity,
but who like Aristides are too much praised by some to be ever
forgiven by others. The new nomination of Ellsworth & Henry
I conceive to be a real relinquishment of the original measure ;
but still it is pernicious to turn the mind again toward negotiation
after it was reconciled to the true doctrine that in Resistance alone
there is safety.

We blunder along & Providence keeps us from falling — you
will see some consolation in the enclosed paper which if it is the
first you receive will be worth the postage, — in this hope I send it.

Yours faithfully,
G. C.

R. King to the Count de Woronzow.

Private.

Great Cumberland Place, Mar. n, 1799.
Dear Sir :

I have received answers from Philadelphia to my Letters in
which I communicated the conversation that passed between you
and me on the subject of a better understood and more intimate
connection between our Countries.

The President as well as his Ministers seem pleased with the
suggestion, and I am persuaded will most cheerfully do what
depends on us to fulfil so desireable an object.

Nothing was accurately determined when the Packet sailed :
should the President be desirous that the Negotiation should
take place in London, he will most probably confide it to me,*

* Pickering to Hamilton ( Works of Hamilton, vol. vi., p. 398), Feby. 25,

1799.

" . . . We have all been shocked and grieved at the nomination of a min-
ister to negotiate with France. There is but one sentiment on the subject
among the friends of their country and the real supporters of the President's
administration. Pains have been taken to ameliorate the measure by throwing
it into a commission. But the President is fixed. The Senate must approve
or negative the nomination. In the latter event perhaps he will nominate com-
missioners. I beg you to be assured, that it is wholly his own act, without any
participation or communication with any of us. It is utterly inconsistent with

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 553

and I will not say how truly gratified I should be to cooperate
with you, in a work that I flatter myself would not only be dura-
ble, but mutually advantageous to our respective Countries.

I know that the idea of negotiating the Treaty in a third place,
proceeds from considerations entirely compatible with the most
perfect respect for his Imperial Majesty ; and should the plan of
conducting the negotiation here be finally adopted by the Presi-
dent, I shall feel myself anxious until I learn that it will likewise
be agreeable to the Emperor.

Though I have no information of any decision of the President
upon this Subject, I have thought it due to the frankness and
friendship, that I have always received from you, to send you
this private Note, and I beg you to be assured of the very great
esteem and respect with which I have the honor to be

Your obt. and faithful Servt.,

Rufus King.

R. King to Lord Grenville.

London, March 11, 1799.

The Undersigned, Minister Plenipotentiary has received the
order of the President of the United States * to transmit to Lord
Grenville in order that the same may be laid before His Britannic

his late nominations of Mr. King to negotiate a commercial treaty with Russia,
and of Mr. Smith to negotiate a like treaty with the Porte. Both these objects
will now be defeated. . . ."

* J. Adams to T. Pickering, Secretary of State.

Quincy, June 7th, 1799.
Sir:

I return you all the letters of Mr. King and Mr. Humphreys, which were
inclosed with your letter of May 30th. Encourage Mr. King, I pray you, in
your letters and instructions to him, to persevere, with all the decision which
may be consistent with decency and politeness, in denying the right of British
men of war to take from our ships of war any men whatever, and from our mer-
chant vessels any Americans or foreigners, or even Englishmen. There is no
principle under heaven by which they can justify taking by force, even from
an American Merchant Vessel, even a deserter from their army and navy, much
less private seamen. If they have a right, we have the same. I know not
whether the exercise of it would not be most useful to us. Their merchant
ships are more numerous than ours, and they have more foreigners, Swedes,
Italians, Portuguese, Spaniards, Danes, Dutch, &c. , than we have. If our
men of war had a right to take them, we might easily man our navy ; but the
thing has no principle.

554 RUFUS KING. [l799

Majesty, the annexed Pieces, which contain the Reply made by
the American Consul at the Havannah, of the outrage or insult
upon the American Flag and Nation, committed by the Com-
mander of his Majesty's ship of war, the Carnatic.

According to this Report which has been fully confirmed by
that of the Commander of the American ship of war, the Carnatic,
commanded by John Loring Esquire, in company with two other
British ships of the Line and two Frigates, on the morning of the
seventeenth of November, on the high seas, fell in with a number
of American Merchant Ships under the orders and protection of
the Baltimore, a twenty Gun Ship of war belonging to and bear-
ing the Flag of the United States and bound to the Port of
Havannah.

After it was ascertained that the Baltimore was an American
National Ship of War, Captain Loring required of her Comman-
der to surrender to him such of her Crew as did not possess Cer-
tificates of American Citizenship ; and on this being refused by
the means of his superior force took out of the said Ship Balti-
more fifty five of her crew and carried them on board the Carna-
tic. Fifty of these seamen were afterwards returned to the
Baltimore, but the other five were detained and carried away by
the said Captain Loring, who not content with this act of violence,
added to it the indignity of a demand of the wages alleged to be
due to these seamen.

The undersigned is persuaded that it cannot be necessary to
employ much time in showing the injustice and insolence of this
unparalleled proceeding. No Nation holds higher the honor of
its Flag than England ; none cherishes more assiduously the
Rights of its Navy ; none therefore is more capable to appreciate
the insult that has been received or the satisfaction that ought to
be given.

The Undersigned notwithstanding thinks himself obliged to
remark that had the whole crew of the Baltimore been composed
of British Subjects, the reverse whereof was the fact, they were in
the public service of the United States, by voluntary engagement,
a reason constantly assigned and received for the refusal to dis-
charge American Citizens serving in his Majesty's Navy, tho'
such discharge is demanded by respectable and authorized agents
of the American Government.

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 555

Besides no principle of maritime law is more clear, no national
Right more perfect, than those which mutually secure to the
ships of war of friendly Nations, sailing upon the main ocean, an
exemption from search and detention, and for still stronger
Reasons from such acts of violence as were committed on the
present occasion ; if the conduct of the Commander of the Car-
natic can be justified, the like conduct of an American Ship of
war must be lawful ; it is needless to suggest the consequences.

The undersigned entertains too high a respect for the equity
and justice of his Majesty to believe for a moment that a proceed-
ing so overbearing and offensive toward a nation with which his
Majesty lives on terms of harmony and friendship, can be seen
with any other than sentiments of displeasure, & of marked dis-
approbation. He therefore entertains no doubt of an early com-
pliance with the demand of the President of the United States,
that orders be given for the exemplary punishment of the said
John Loring, Commander of the Carnatic, and for the immediate
return of the men taken from the Baltimore and detained on the
Carnatic.

The undersigned feels great satisfaction in adding that this is
the only instance of irregularity on the part of his Majesty's naval
officers towards those of the United States, and he flatters him-
self that his Majesty's prompt and public animadversion upon
that first delinquency will not only prevent a repetition thereof,
but moreover operate to strengthen and to preserve the mutual
good will and Harmony that so happily subsist between the two

countries.*

Rufus King.

R. King to Lord Grenville.

Great Cumberland Place, March 12, 1799.

Mr. King presents his compliments to Lord Grenville, and

takes the liberty to inform his Lordship that a sealed packet

addressed to Mr. King in his public character, of the contents or

importance of which he is entirely ignorant, has lately been

brought into the Registry of the Court of Admiralty, by the

King's Proctor, where it is still detained.

* The documents which accompany this note contain the details respecting
the outrage.

556 RUFUS KING. [1799

That this packet, if found on board a ship, detained for adju-
dication, should have been sent with other Papers to the Admi-
ralty is not very extraordinary, but that an officer of that Court
should think it his duty to detain it, is not altogether reconcile-
able with what seems due to the Minister of a friendly Nation
accredited to and residing near his Majesty.

Mr. King feels himself obliged to complain of this indecorum
(which is by no means mitigated by the circumstance of its pro-
ceeding from a quarter where the Laws of Nations are presumed
to be professionally understood and discussed) and the more so
as according to his information it is but a few weeks since by
the direction of an officer of the same Court, a public Dispatch
from the Minister of the U. S. at Paris to the American Secretary
of State, after having been intercepted and long detained, was
printed and appeared among the Papers exhibited as Proofs in a
prize cause before the Lords of Appeal.

Mr. King will not permit himself to doubt that on the recep-
tion of this Complaint Lord Grenville will take immediate meas-
ures for the delivery of the Packet now detained and for the
correction of a Practice so derogatory from the Rights of
Embassy.

T. Pickering to R. King.

" Department of State, March 12, 1799.
" Dear Sir : "

Mr. P. acknowledges the receipt of R. K.'s " letters 1 1
and 12, dated Dec. 7 and 11. Their arrival was fortunate,
as Dr. Edward Stevens, appointed our Consul-General for
St. Domingo, is on the point of departing for that Island."

He incloses several papers to Mr. K., among others his
Instructions to Dr. Stevens, and says :

" We expect that Toussaint will put an end to the depredations
on our Commerce and thereby enable the President to open the
trade with that Island. I hope Col. Grant, who is going thither
from Great Britain is a discreet person, and that both his disposi-
tion and Instructions will induce him to cultivate a good under-
standing with Dr. Stevens. . . ."

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 557

T. Pickering to R. King.

Private and Confidential. In Cipher.

Philadelphia, March 12, 1799.

My public letter of this date will inform you of the Proceedings
of our Government respecting St. Domingo. We meddle not

with the politics of the Island. T 1 will pursue what he

deems the interest of himself and his countrymen ; he will prob-
ably declare the Island independent. It is probable that he
wished to assure himself of our commerce as the necessary means
of obtaining it. Neither moral nor political reasons could induce
us to discourage him ; on the contrary both would warrant us in
urging him to the Declaration. Yet we shall not do it. We go
no further than the Act of Congress directs. We shall never re-
ceive from the French Republic indemnification for the injuries
she has done us. The commerce of St. Domingo presents the
only means of compensation, and this I have no doubt we shall
obtain. We fear no rivals. Toussaint respects the British ; he
is attached to us ; he knows our position, but a few days' sail
from St. Domingo, and the promptitude with which we can sup-
ply his wants. He cannot form a black (Colony) ; the blacks
are too ignorant. The Government must be military during the
present war, and perhaps for a much longer period. The com-
merce of the United States and of other nations (for you will ob-
serve we aim at no exclusive privileges) will amply supply all
their wants, and take off all their produce. So that there will
not, and ought not to be, any inducements to withdraw the Blacks
from the cultivation of the Island to navigation ; and confined
to their own Island they will not be dangerous neighbours.
Nothing is more clear than, if left to themselves, that the Blacks
of St. Domingo will be incomparably less dangerous than if they
remain the subjects of France ; she could then form with them
military corps of such strength in a future war, as no European
or other white force could resist. France with an army of those
black troops might conquer all the British Isles and put in jeop-
ardy our Southern States. Of this the Southern Members were
convinced, and therefore cordially concurred in the policy of the
Independence of St. D., if T 1 and his followers will it. Mr.

558 RUFUS KING. [i799

Read was the only exception to this opinion, and his opinions
are sometimes unaccountable. Mr. Liston appears to be also
equally convinced of the policy of that independence, as it would
respect the British Isles. For as he observes, the radical evil is
already done, and becomes irremediable, in France making the

Blacks free. T 1 will command 50 or 60,000 Black troops, if

necessary ; they are jealous of France, that she intends, if possi-
ble, to bring them back to their former slavery. This jealousy is
incurable. We, therefore, confidently reckon on the Indepen-
dence of St. Domingo. Rigaud is a subordinate chief, and a
Mulatto. This race in the Island are but a handful, not above
one eighth of the population of the Blacks, and must be crushed
if they resist the will of T 1.

It has been impossible yet to make out your instructions to
negotiate with Russia, or those of Mr. Smith for the Porte. They
will be further retarded by the Insurrection in Northampton
County in Pennsylvania. Some people, generally very ignorant,
have resisted the Commissioners and Assessors of the Direct tax.
The inclosed Proclamation gives the facts. A military force will
in a few days march to apprehend the Principals. It is fortu-
nate, seeing some opposition has been threatened, that it hap-
pened so near the seat of Government, and where the deluded
creatures will be so easily subdued. They are Germans and the
most ignorant in the State.

In the midst of the great Executive business arising out of the
late Session, and with an Insurrection begun, the President has
left the Seat of Government. Yesterday he started for Quincy
where I expect he will remain these eight months ! Of one
thing, however, I am happy to inform you — before his departure
after a serious consultation with all of us, it was concluded unani-
mously that certain terms should be demanded of France, with-
out which no Treaty should be made. These terms are what we
have a clear right to, and our interest and honor oblige us to in-
sist on. Yet I very much doubt whether France will yield them.
I am morally sure she will not ; and this has put us all much at
our ease.

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 559

R. King to Secretary of State. No. 28.

London, March 14, 1799.
Dear Sir :

Immediately on the receit of your numbers 37 & 40, I pre-
pared and sent a Memorial to Lord Grenville on the subject of the
Outrage committed upon our Flag by Capt. Loring ; annexed you
have copies of this Memorial * and of the answer that I have
received.

In a Conference that I have since had with his Lordship on the
subject of the embarrassment of our Trade from the want of pre-
cision in the Clause of our Treaty that enumerates the articles of
Contraband, I adverted to the affair of Capt. Loring, and ex-
pressed my hope that his Conduct would be animadverted upon
in a manner that should correspond with the aggravation of the
offence, and the friendly disposition of our two Countries.

His Lordship after mentioning the old affair of the Nautilus
and another of a later date of which I had seen no particular
account, added that justice required that they should receive
Captain Loring's Report, to obtain which measures would be
immediately taken ; but that he would not conceal from me that
the Publication of the Instruction of our Secretary of the Marine
to the Commanders of our Ships of war, placed our demand
respecting Captain Loring in a situation somewhat different from
what it would have stood, had not that Instruction been published ;
that they owed and would do justice to all Nations, but the man-
ner of doing it would naturally vary according to the circumstan-
ces attending the demand of it, and that what might be proper in
this respect, when satisfaction was required in the ordinary man-
ner by a friendly Nation, must appear humiliating if granted under
circumstances of menace.

This remark led to a conversation of which I shall send you a
Report when I give an account of what passed on the Subject of
the Article respecting Contraband.

With perfect Respect and Esteem &c. &c.

Rufus King.

P.S. Lord Grenville's answer is not yet, as I supposed, reed.
A copy shall be sent as soon as it comes to hand.f

* March 11, 1799. f See copy March 21, 1799.

560 RUFUS KING. [1799

R. King to Secretary of State. No. 29.

London, March 15, 1799.
Dear Sir :

Contraband of War.

In the Conference with Lord Grenville mentioned in my last, I
stated to his Lordship the great embarrassments and losses of our
Navigation arising from the seizure and detention of our vessels,
having on board Nails and oznaburgs, for the Spanish Colonies,
and intimated that I was authorized to arrange with him an
additional Article to our Treaty, by which the Articles of Con-
traband should be more precisely denned, or to concur in such
other effectual measure as would secure our trade from the
injury to which it is exposed from the want of a more precise
enumeration of the articles agreed to be Contraband. His Lord-
ship replied that it would be necessary for him to institute an
Enquiry on this head and desired that for such purpose I would
send him a Note of the articles supposed by us to be erroneously

included in the Catalogue of Contraband ; at the same

time, that they should find it important to insist upon the compre-
hension of whatever was essential to Ship Building, they should
have no wish to include articles not fairly of that character. We
conversed upon the manner of forming a new article, should it be
found necessary : I promised to send the Note his Lordship had
requested, and the subject was postponed.

Impressing of Seamen.

I then mentioned our dissatisfaction with the continuation of
the practice of taking out of our Ships, met on the main Ocean,
such of their crews as did not possess Certificates of American
citizenship ; denying, as I had often done in former Conferences
upon the Subject, any right on the part of Great Britain upon
which this practice could be founded ; and suggesting that our
Ships of war by permission of our Government might with equal
right pursue the same practice towards their Merchantmen.

That not only Seamen who spoke the English Language and
who were evidently English or American Subjects, but also all
Danish, Swedish, and other foreign Seamen, who could not receive
American Protections, were indiscriminately taken from their vol-

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 56 1

untary service in our Neutral Employ and forced into the war in
the Naval Service of Great Britain.

That on this subject we had again and again offered to concur
in a Convention which we thought practicable to be formed, and
which should settle these Questions in a manner that would be
safe for England and satisfactory to us.

That to decline such Convention, and to persist in a practice
which we were persuaded could not be vindicated, especially to
the extent to which it was carried, seemed less equitable and
moderate than we thought we had a right to expect.

Lord Grenville stated no precise principle upon which he sup-
posed the practice could be justified, and the conversation upon
this point, like many others on the same Subject, ended without
a prospect of satisfaction. The French and Spaniards and every
other Nation might pursue the same conduct as rightfully as Great
Britain does. With respect to foreign Seamen in our Employ, this
Government has, if I recollect, yielded the point ; but their officers
continue the practice. We are assured that all Americans shall
be discharged on application for that purpose, and that Orders to
this effect have been given to their Naval Commanders : but this
is far short of satisfaction — indeed to acquiesce in this is to give
up the right.

Copt. Loring.

Recurring to the affair of Capt. Loring, and to the observation
of his Lordship respecting it at the beginning of our Conference,
I remarked that the instruction to which he had alluded was in
itself proper, that it enjoins no more than what we had each the
right to do, and what I presumed every British Naval Officer
would think it his duty to do ; that the affair of Capt. Loring had
called for it, and as the Service was new, it was of consequence to
our Officers to be informed of their Duty in this, as in other
important and delicate points.

Its publication had not taken place by order of the Government,
but being sent with other Papers to the House of Representatives
in compliance with the request, it had in this manner come before
the public.

That with respect to what his Lordship had said concerning

VOL. II. — 36

562 RUFUS KING. [l799

the Case of the Nautilus and another of a later date, with which
I was not particularly acquainted, but which I understood to have
happened within our Territory, I could not admit that the Cases
were parallel. Besides in respect to the affair of the Nautilus,
his Lordship would recollect the answer that was given to our
complaint of the contemporaneous conduct of Capt. Home ; if
one, so the other should be put out of view ; and that I could not
believe, were the cases the same, that it would be thought a wise
Policy to propose to balance one complaint against another. His
Lordship interrupted me by saying, that nothing could be more
remote from his intention ; but that he did not see the connec-
tion of the Cases, and Mr. Liston had very properly, on this
occasion, reminded you of their Proposal to form an Article for
the surrender of Deserters.

I continued by observing that my own opinion had been to
defer the Article respecting Deserters, until we could agree in one
concerning the Seamen employed in their and our Service, and
that most probably in both the cases to which he alluded, it
was for want of such agreement that they had found occasion of
complaint.

That with regard to the Cases mentioned by his Lordship and
that of the Baltimore there was this difference : the jurisdiction
in the one was exclusive, and in the others divided : that a
National Ship sailing on the ocean carried with her and is covered
by the jurisdiction of her Nation ; but when she enters the Ports
and Territories of a foreign friendly Nation, she loses a portion
of that entire Dominion and retains only so much thereof, and
no more than is necessary to maintain her Discipline and interior
Police. To that extent, and no greater is the Nation where she
enters supposed to yield her a portion of its Jurisdiction, retain-
ing the residue.

That this Rule would apply to foreign armies passing thro' the
Territories of a Friendly Power, and that I presumed that numer-
ous precedents would be found to this Effect. His Lordship
concluded by saying that he had ordered a Search to be made
into the usage of European Nations in respect to men of war,
which resort to and make use of the Ports of friendly foreign
Powers ; that his belief was that it would be found that the Com-
mander's word must be taken whether there were any Persons of

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 563

the Nation, whose Territories we had entered, among the Crew
and that no examination was permitted.

The next day, at the Queen's drawing room, the first Lord of
the Admiralty, Lord Spencer, in a very obliging manner expressed
to me his regret at hearing that they were likely to receive from
me a complaint against one of their officers. I said what I
thought suitable to the friendly manner in which his Lordship
expressed himself, and then observed that I had sent a memorial
to my Lord Grenville complaining of the conduct of Cap. Loring.
He replied that it had not yet reached the Admiralty. I then
intimated to his Lordship what had passed between me and Lord
Grenville and expressed a hope that the circumstance of the
publication alluded to by Lord Grenville would not be seen in a
light never intended, and that no past circumstance would be
allowed to embarass our attainment of satisfaction in this very
extraordinary Case. His Lordship's reply was liberal and friendly,
but sufficiently guarded.

Case of the Ship Aurora.

Mr. King remarks that he had not yet had leisure to examine
it.

Insurance Cases.

To my memorial on this Subject, and it is one of considerable
importance, I sometime since received a note from Lord Gren-
ville, inclosing the opinion of the Law Officers of the Crown, which
states that the Questions could only be decided in the competent
Tribunals, and that the executive Power could not influence the
Decisions, and that it was not usual for Parliament to interfere
to alter the Rights of Individuals in respect to their contracts.
To this Note I immediately replied, in order to show that the
opinion of the Crown Lawyers might be perfectly correct, and
still nothing to the purpose, as we did not request the interfer-
ence of Parliament to alter the Rights of Individuals in respect
to their Contracts, but for the purpose of protecting such rights
and to prevent their being altered by a proceeding subsequent to
and without the Contracts, and which against justice it was pro-
posed to make use of to defeat them. I have received no further

564 RUFUS KING. [i799

answer, nor do I know that I shall ; tho' I hear that the Lord
Chancellor entertains an opinion favorable to our Case — a cir-
cumstance of importance should it go before the House of
Lords.

6th Article of the Treaty.

Mr. Liston has sent no account of the interruption of the Com-
mission under the 6th Article of the Treaty, and I am not with-
out hopes that the business may be arranged without being
sent here. We have had our share and a great deal of
trouble in getting along with the Commissioners under the 7th
Article, which still promises a satisfactory issue, and I shall be
sorry to have anything to do with the 6th Article. You will not
from thence infer that I think we should submit to the interpre-
tation of that article intimated in your No. 42. So far from its
being my opinion, I would sooner relinquish the benefits of the
7th Article than acquiesce in an interpretation of the 6th, so
grossly abusive. We must proceed with Temper and take care
that we are right, and as to the consequences, let them take their
course.

High Court of Admiralty.

Since the appointment of Sir William Scott in this Court, the
business proceeds with great dispatch, tho' I hear that Sir Wil-
liam's decisions manifest an extension instead of a greater limi-
tation of the Rights of Belligerents in respect to Neutrals.

In a number of recent condemnations that have taken place
for Breach of Blockade, the Judge has laid it down as incontro-
vertible Law, that a Blockade is a legal interdiction of all Trade
inwards and outwards of the Place blockaded. That all vessels
with their Cargoes seized in the attempt to enter, after Notice,
and all vessels with their Cargoes seized coming out, provided
such Cargoes were laden after notice, are liable to condemnation ;
and that all vessels entering during the Blockade and seized when
coming out, are also liable to condemnation, the penalty of con-
fiscation attaching itself to all Vessels which break the Blockade.

I am also informed that the Judge has intimated an opinion
that seems strong and vigorous in respect to neutral vessels, which
with a view to the French Decrees and Regulations possess Cer-

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 565

tificates issued by French Consuls resident in neutral Countries,
purporting that the Cargoes of such vessels are not of the growth
or fabric of the British dominions.

That the possession of such Certificates may evince an unbe-
coming submission to the injustice of France, and one too not
particularly friendly to Great Britain, may be true, but that they
incur the forfeiture of the ship or cargo, is an opinion that cannot
be made out or maintained by those Laws which alone ought to
influence the Decisions of Prize Courts ; and if persisted in will
tend to prove what has so often been alleged that the Judges of
these Courts too frequently make the Law, instead of expound-
ing it.

I don't hear that Sir William Scott has yet given an opinion
upon the Question of a Trade carried on by a neutral between
the French and Dutch Colonies, and their respective Mother
Countries, nor has the Court of Appeals, tho' pressed to it, yet
decided that question.

Arms.

I am rejoiced to learn from your last Dispatches, that we have
a fair prospect of manufacturing at home Muskets as well as
Cannon to any extent that our affairs may require. If this hap-
pens a real and most important Benefit will have arisen out of
the difficulties which have prevented our obtaining arms from
abroad : for no Nation is really independent that does not make
at home every sort of arms and Military Stores. I observe that
money is appropriated for the establishment of National Foun-
deries. Considering the numerous Founderies in different parts
of our Country, would it not have been far more ceconomical and
better to have collected the requisite information for the use of
these Founderies, and to have employed them to cast our Cannon,
giving liberal prices till the business was well understood and
established ? The practice of this Country on this point as well
as that of the Fabrication of small arms, is in favor of this policy.
Founders perfectly acquainted with the business may easily be
obtained.

As in some measure connected with this subject, I annex the
copy of a Letter from Count Rumford to me, and referring
to a private Letter from me to you for my sentiments respecting

566 RUFUS KING. [l799

the Count, I shall await your reply to enable me to send him an
answer to this Letter.

Copper.

I understand that it is in contemplation to take off the Duty
on the importation of foreign Copper ; what Effect that, when
added to the discontinuance of the Copper Coinage, may have in
respect to the permission to export Copper in Sheets and Bolts,
I can't at present decide. The English mines yield annually
about seven thousand tons of Copper ; those of Sweden, which
next to those of England are I believe the most considerable in
Europe, do not yield more than one thousand tons. The famous
Anglesey mines fail, but from the high price of Copper the old
and deserted Cornish mines are now worked ; so that there is
reason to expect the quantity annually produced in England, will
be as great as before the failure of the mines of Anglesey. I

don't find that Copper is anywhere so well or at all in Sweden

or Denmark.

Maryland Bank Stock.

I can only repeat what I have again and again been obliged to
write on this Subject. I from time to time flatter myself with the
belief that I am near the attainment of my object, when new and
trifling Difficulties spring up and defeat my expectations. The
Chancellor is now, and for some weeks past has been, so unwell
as to decline Business ; when he re-engages in the affairs of his
office, I shall renew my Efforts. I still hope, but dare not, after
so many disappointments, promise ultimate success.

Laws against Neutrals.

By this opportunity I send you a copy of the Message of the
Directory to the Councils on the subject of Privateering. The
Report upon this Message has not yet been made, or if it has I
have not yet seen it. The discussion still continues in the Coun-
cil concerning the time when the Law respecting neutral Vessels
having on board Goods of the growth or fabric of England shall
be deemed to have commenced its operation.

The Council of 500 resolved that it should operate from the

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 567

day of its Publication in the Bulletin. The Debates before the
Ancients, instead of confining themselves to the Question, turn
chiefly upon the Policy of the Law itself, and judging from the
Members who condemn the Law, one would be inclined to be-
lieve that it would be repealed. The Message of the Directory
holds a language more moderate, as well as more artful, than
formerly concerning the Trade of neutrals ; but it is supposed
that the Council of five hundred has too direct and considerable
an interest in the Laws, as well as in the mode of Trial that now
prevails, to consent to alter the one or the other.
With perfect Respect & Esteem &c &c

Rufus King.

Count Rumford to R. King.

Copy.

Brompton Row, 13 March, 1799.
Dear Sir :

I send you herewith a small Pamphlet which will explain to
you the causes which have rendered it impossible for me to go to
America this Spring, as I had intended. I have not however
given over the idea of visiting that Country, at some future
period ; very far from it. I really hope and expect to be able to
go there next Spring, and will most certainly do so if it should be
possible, provided you should continue to advise it and encourage
me with a hope of a kind reception.

I beg you would do me the honor to present one of the inclosed
Pamphlets to his Excellency the President of the United States,
and accompany it with my best respects and most cordial
wishes for his health and happiness and future prosperity of the
United States.

The model of a Field Piece on a new and, I believe, on an im-
proved construction which I have destined as a Present to the
United States I shall pack up and send to you in order to its be-
ing shipped to America as soon as I shall get it from his Royal
Highness, the Duke of York, who has desired to have a copy of it.

You will recollect that in a conversation we had at your house,
on the great importance to the United States of the Speedy Es-
tablishment of a Military School or Academy, I took the liberty to

568 RUFUS KING. [l799

say that to assist in the Establishment of so useful an Institution,
I should be happy to be permitted to make a present to the
Academy of my Collection of Military Books, Plans, Drawings
and Models. I now repeat this offer and with a request to you that
you would make it known to the Executive Government of the
United States, and that you would let me know as soon as may
be convenient whether this offer will be accepted.

I have the honor to be with the most sincere regard & Esteem
&c &c

RlJMFORD.

R. King to the Secretary of State. No. 30.

London, March 16. 1799.
Dear Sir :

I am somewhat fearful that we are a little premature in naming
a Commissioner to negotiate a Commercial Treaty with Russia* in-
asmuch as we are not yet ascertained of the sentiments of the
Russian Cabinet, either in respect to the Negotiation or the Place
of conducting it ; everything that has passed on that Subject
having been a personal Conversation between me and the Russian
Envoy at this Court.

I have lately written him a private Note intimating that I had
received answers to my Letters, in which I communicated to you
our Conversation, and tho' nothing was decided, that I had some
reason to believe that the proposed Negotiation would be agreeable
to the President, and that if it should be carried on here, it was
quite probable that the President would commit it to my Hands.

He answered that he was pleased with the information and
that he would immediately write to his Court upon the subject,
stating what he said as proceeding from our personal Conversations,
and that he hoped a Treaty might be concluded and that we might
respectively keep Ministers at Peter sburgh and Philadelphia.

I learn that the Governor General of Canada is to be changed,
and that Admiral Vaudeport is to be succeeded. Neither of
the Successors in these commands are yet chosen. I expressed
to Lord Spencer my hope that the Admiral would be a man of
prudence and of a temper calculated to preserve harmony and
good will between us, and he assured me that he thought the ap-

* Italics in cipher.

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 569

pointment an important one. I shall take an early occasion to
speak with Mr. Dundas respecting the character of the Governor
General of Canada.

Simcoe* should, and I presume will, not be the man ; tho' he
throws the blame off from himself respecting the Proceedings of
1793, still his opinions about America disqualify him for that
Command.

We are impatient for the expected Letters from Hamburgh, as
the affairs of the Continent are at a crisis. The last mail which
left Cuxhaven on the nth brings an account not altogether au-
thentic, tho' much credited, that the Directory had declared war
against Austria, and that the French army had actually crossed
the Rhine at Kehls. Mr. Grenville in a private Letter from Berlin
to his brother, says tho' he cannot send the intelligence officially,
that it is generally believed at Berlin. Great hopes have been
entertained that Prussia could be induced to combine with Eng-
land and Russia; but if Austria is engaged, such is the jealousy
between her and Prussia, that the latter will probably remain
Neutral.

It is a day or two ago that I was told by one who had it from
the Duke of Clarence that among other projects to be produced by
Mr. Grenville at Berlin was one to be executed by England and
Russia to cut off all the Trade of Neutral Nations with France and
her Dominions. A report of the same sort, with the addition
that the United States are to join England and Russia for this pur-
pose is in circulation among a lower Rank in society. I don't
know the degree of credit due to the whisper ; but Rumours of
this sort are not frequently destitute of all Foundation.

Towards the last of January La Fayette went into Holland ; I
have not heard of his return ; he could not go there except by
permission, and nothing is done in Holland, repugnant to the
views of the French. Some foreign Journals say he has returned
to France, where his wife has been for some months past, and
conjectures of various kinds are made in consequence of this in-
formation. Some assert that he has made his Peace by his
American Popularity, and that he will be sent Minister to Phila-
delphia to heal the differences between the two Countries, and to
prepare the way for the next Presidential Election ; but this is
* See letter to R. King May I, 1800, by J. G. Simcoe. — Ed.

570 RUFUS KING. [i799

all so much an affair of conjecture that I relate it merely as such.
The present Directory, or at least a majority of them, have
within eighteen months spoken in the harshest manner of La
Fayette, and were they or their Government to be interpreted in
the way we construe others, we should not for a moment lend an
Ear to such a tale.

The apprehension of another attempt of the French upon Ire-
land gains strength, and the internal disorder of that country is
such as leaves little doubt that the United Irishmen are again
preparing for the reception of the French. A new Directory is
supposed to exist, which regulates the motions of the disaffected,
tho' in a manner so secret as to elude detection. Martial Law is
again authorized by the Irish Parliament and the most vigorous
measures employed for the Safety of the Kingdom.

I will obtain the names of the Irish State Prisoners whose
Pestilential Flight to the United States was fortunately arrested.
They amount to Ninety, and a list of their names is easily
procured.

I omitted at the time to inform you that at the particular desire
of Lord Cornwallis, communicated to me through the Duke of
Portland, I consented that one of these State Prisoners, by the
name of Lynch, brother to a merchant of the same name in New
York, should be permitted to go to New York, for which place
he sailed some months since. He was represented to me as of
inferior consequence as a Conspirator, and by no means likely to
be mischievous among us. It is proper that you should know
the fact, that he may be identified and remembered.

With perfect Respect and Esteem &c. &c.

Rufus King.

Joseph Hale to R. King.

Boston, March 16, 1799.
Dear Sir :

Before this comes to hand, you will probably be advised of the
nomination of our Minister at The Hague as Minister Plenipo. to
the French Republic ; of the surprise & agitation thereby pro-
duced among all good men ; of its being specially committed by
the Senate ; of a large majority therein resolved upon a negative ;
& of the subsequent modification of this extraordinary measure
by adding Mr. Ellsworth & Patrick Henry, making of the three

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 57 1

a joint commission & restricting the departure of the two latter
until suitable assurances are received from the Greal Nation.

You will perhaps have been informed that the gun act embra-
cing a right to recapture foreign vessels, prizes to the French, was
lost by this executive measure ; that however the Federal tone
was at length so far restored as to produce the adoption of the re-
port on the Sedition & Alien acts, & of three accompanying resolves
imparting the inexpediency of repealing those acts & any of the
acts relating to the military, naval, or fiscal arrangements ; that
the act for raising 24 instead of 12 Regiments was passed ; also
that for encreasing the salaries of the heads of departments & that
to empower the President to retaliate should the French decree
be put in execution.

I now take the liberty to inclose via Dublin, the President's
proclamation for a Fast to prove to foreigners that our Execu-
tive has not & does not mean to abandon the system of defence
against France by any mean compliances. It may not be im-
proper to add that the nomination of Mr. Murray is said to have
been made with a view to outmanoeuvre the arch Talleyrand &
by no means intended as an overture at conciliation ; or to hold
up the prospect of peace. It has more than once happened that
weakness of intellect is reconcileable with soundness of intention.
— The bad tendency of the measure will it is presumed produce
no very serious effects in the interior. The influence abroad is
very justly deprecated. With a blockhead at St. James to repre-
sent our Country our fears would be inexpressible. Even a man
of the best talents will find employment for them all on this oc-
casion. Yet the measure candidly viewed ought not to lessen the
friendship or excite the jealousies of the British Cabinet. Their
most solid interests unquestionably dictate a liberality & candour
particularly in this instance.

Your most obed. servt.

Joseph Hale.

R. King to R. Troup.

London, Mar. 16, 1799.
My dear Sir :

If practicable I will procure for you some information respect-
ing the Process, &c,of the Prize Court of this Country. There is
no book extant that gives any satisfaction upon this Subject. The

572 RUFUS KING. [l799

present judge of the H. C. of Admty. is a man of uncommon
abilities ; I don't recollect much of his Predecessors, but I am
inclined to think him the ablest Judge that has presided in that
Court. His Predecessors can have no reason on earth, as Lord
Kenyon says, to complain of this opinion. You must not infer
from hence that Sr. Wm. Scott does not condemn neutral Ships
and Cargoes, for I am quite apprehensive that he will in this as in
most other respects hold the same distinguished Pre-eminence
over his Predecessors. I have taken some pains to enquire of
those who ought to understand the mode of proceeding in the
Prize Court, but my enquiries have been made to little purpose ;
for here as in all other Cases of Knowledge passing by Tradition,
the reports of the initiated are not only imperfect but various.

The College of Doctors, who alone are counsellers or Speakers
in this Court, does not consist of more than twenty members, who
perpetuate themselves by the admission of new Brothers. These
are persons educated at one of the Universities, where they must
have resided Eleven years before they could have received the
Degrees which form the indispensable qualification for an admis-
sion into the College of Doctors Commons, where they rarely
arrive before they have attained thirty years of age. Give us good
Lord peace in our Days, is not one of the prayers of this Brother-
hood. It does not appear that the laborious acquisition of what
has been written in poetry and prose, in English, French & Latin
upon the Law of Nations is of much consequence or necessary
to become a Doctor. Indeed Genet is not the only one who
despises those worm-eaten authors. I shall have a great deal to
tell you & Hamilton & Harrison and others, that you will think
passing strange ! Between ourselves I have seen much less reason
to discredit our own Courts, and lawyers, and learning and blind
Justice, as well as somewhat less to admire those of foreign Lands
than my simplicity had lead me to think I should ! !

We hear and at present believe that the directory has declared
war agt. Austria. Ireland is again in a dreadful condition &
in daily apprehension of another attempt at invasion from
France. . . .

Yrs.

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 573

R. King to Colonel Pickering.

Personal and Private.

London, March 16, 1799.
Dear Sir :

It would have been quite agreeable to me to have received
your son as my Secretary, had Mr. Dandridge chosen to have ac-
cepted of his late Military appointment ; I took occasion imme-
diately on the receit of your friendly Letter on this subject to
speak to Mr. Dandridge respecting his appointment in the army
and to say that in case he thought of returning to America, I
should be inclined to receive your Son as his successor ; observ-
ing to him at the same time that I had reason to be satisfied with
him, his staying with me, or returning would be left entirely to his
choice.

He told me that his application for a military appointment was
made before he had any expectation of coming into my family,
that he found the Dutch Climate disagree so much with his health,
that he was obliged to resolve upon a return home, and as an em-
ployment when he came there had sought a Commission in the
Army, but that he had relinquished the idea of the army as soon
as he joined me, and should not resume it, if I had no objection
to his remaining with me.

Under these circumstances I shall not forward the letters on this
Subject to Mr. Smith and your Son, as I entirely agree with you
that it may be of considerable advantage to him to spend some
time here before he engages in his profession. I brought my
youngest Brother with me with this view, and he returned home
after remaining about a year with me.

If you will allow your Son to come here, tho' for the reason
above stated I cannot secure him a Salary, as my Secretary, I
shall be happy in receiving him as one of my Family and he may
consider my house and table his own in like manner as tho' he
was my Secretary. In this proposal, which is not offered as a
token of civility, I shall be grateful if you agree.

With sincere regards &c. &c

Rufus King.

574 RUFUS KING. [i799

R. King to Colonel Pickering.

Private and Confidential.

London, Mar. 16, 1799.
Dear Sir :

If the President should think of sending a minister to Con-
stantinople for the purpose of negotiating a commercial Treaty, I
know of no one that I think more capable of conducting the nego-
tiation than my early and worthy friend Mr. Gore. I have some
reason to believe that such a mission would not be disagreeable
to him, and it is but strict justice to observe that the patience,
diligence and ability with which he has conducted the affairs of
the by no means pleasant Commission of which he is a member,
give him, exclusive of his respectable personal Qualifications,
some title to the public notice and favor. Whether you will ap-
preciate the advantages to our Trade that would be gained by
such a Treaty I can only conjecture ; nor do I know that any
means are or will be likely to be taken in order to ascertain the
Disposition beforehand of the Porte upon this Subject. I don't
think we should take any ostensible step unless we are previously
ascertained of a favorable Disposition at Constantinople. You
will observe that I think we have been a little hasty in regard to
Russia ; tho' I have not much doubt that this Power will consent
to negotiate, expecting perhaps that the negotiation be carried on
at Petersburgh.

With great truth I am, dear Sir, your faithful Sert.

Rufus King.

R. King to James McHenry, Esq.

London, March 16, 1799.
Dear Sir :

I annex the copy of a Letter from Count Rumford, formerly
Sir Benjamin Thompson, to me upon a subject somewhat inter-
esting. I am persuaded that the establishment of an American
Military Academy is an object of the first importance to us.
Count Rumford founded one in Bavaria that enjoys a very high
reputation, and I have reason to believe that he would receive
very great pleasure in communicating to us the result of his ex-

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 575

perience on this Subject. I have not seen his Military Books,
Drawings, &c, but am informed that they are inestimable. The
Cannon he proposes to make a present of to the United States is
a perfect model, and will serve to assist in the Casting and Mount-
ing Field Artillery. I have sent a copy of the Count's Letter
likewise to Col. Pickering, and must wait for the President's in-
structions, thro' him or you, in what manner I shall answer it.
Count Rumford proposes to return with the view of residing a
part of his time in his Native Country. On this Subject I take
the liberty of referring you to a Letter from me to Col. Pickering,
and will only add that it would undoubtedly be encouraging and
grateful to him to receive an answer from the President, thro' me
or in any other way, that he will be received in a kind and friendly
manner.

I have not for a long time received any Letters from you ; nor
do I know that you have received your Books, Medals, &c, that I
have at different times sent you. I shall by the earliest oppor-
tunity send you the Dies which have been ready these four
months.

I am always happy to hear of and from you, and beg you to
accept the assurance of my Sincere Esteem & Respect.

Rufus King.

R. King to O. Wolcott, Esq.

London, March 16, 1799.
Dear Sir :

I was in hopes to have heard from you by the last packet, and
to have received your opinion respecting the arms sent by Pit-
cairn from Hamburgh to New York. You know that I have had
considerable apprehension that their quality would disappoint us.
I don't know what is the quantity Pitcairn has engaged. The in-
terruption during the winter has been such as to cut off all cor-
respondence. Not having an immediate Demand for the whole of
the money in the hands of the Mess. Barings, I have requested
them to pay Mr. Williams about ^5000, to assist him in the pros-
ecution of our prize Cases ; this saves us from borrowing here for
that purpose, which we shall be obliged to do unless we receive

576 RUFUS KING. [i799

further Remittances. I have also lately ordered the Mess. Barings
to remit Pitcairn^7ooo.; the exchange is much in our favor, the
Bills at two and a half and three usances, which I have desired
might not be discounted, except as the money should be wanted.
This step has been influenced by the Persuasion that circum-
stances were at hand that would materially affect the exchange
between this and Hamburgh, and the Bills being at long sight
will in a great measure preserve us from Casualties. I shall
send you soon the late Reports of the Committee on Finance and
such other publications relative to that subject as have lately ap-
peared. Send me in return your Reports and Statements to Con-
gress. Without I obtain them I am not able to answer a thousand
questions, that it is of use to us should be answered, and correctly.

Yours &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Count Rumford.

London, Mar. 17, 1799.
Dear Sir :

That your numerous and respectable friends in this Country,
should be gratified by the postponement of your voyage to
America is extremely natural. But I foresaw such advantages
from your return among us, to our various public institutions,
many of which are but now beginning to establish themselves,
that I cannot refrain from expressing to you my sincere regret
that it is likely to be so long deferred. I console myself however
with your obliging assurance that it is not entirely relinquished.

Though I think I might before hand thank you in the Presi-
dent's name for the many valuable tokens of friendship that you
kindly offer us, I have preferred to send your Letter to the Secre-
tary of State, with a request it might be laid before the President
in order that I may receive his Instructions, in what manner I
shall answer it. I beg you, my dear Sir, to pardon the delay that
has occurred in my acknowledgment of the receit of your Letter,
which has been occasioned by pressing Engagements, and to be
assured of the sincere Regard & Esteem, &c, &c.

Rufus King.

799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 577

Lord Grenville to R. King.

Downing Street, March 21, 1799.

Lord Grenville presents his compliments to Mr. King and has
the honor to acknowledge the receipt of his memorial of the nth
of this month relative to the conduct of the Commander of his
Majesty's ship Carnatic.

The Government of the U. S. may be assured that the King is
always solicitous to respect the Rights and Honor of those powers
with whom his majesty entertains the relations of friendship ; that
the instructions, which by his majesty's orders are given to the com-
manders of his fleets or ships of war, affirm the strictest attention
to this principle, particularly in the case of the ships of war of any
of those powers ; and that his majesty, desirous at all times to
manifest his friendship towards the U. S., will certainly see with
displeasure any act which may have been committed by any
officer in his majesty's service in derogation of the attention and
respect due to their flag.

With regard to the particular facts mentioned in Mr. King's
memorial the most immediate inquiry will be instituted into them
that the distance of the service upon which the Commander of his
majesty's ship Carnatic is now employed will allow, and on the
result of this inquiry his majesty will pursue with delay such
measures as the case may appear to require in conformity to the
principles above stated.

VOL. II.— 37

CHAPTER XXXIV.

King to Jay — Domestic and foreign Affairs — Sedgwick — Nomination of Mur-
ray— Virginia and Kentucky Resolutions — Troubles of Commission under
sixth Article — King to Secretary of State — French Movements — Louisiana
— Blindness which prevents a general Confederacy against France — Lord
Grenville and King — On Outrage by Capt. Loring — Blockade of the Ports
of Holland — King to Lord Grenville, advising recasting eighteenth Article
of the Treaty of Amity, etc., to obtain more Precision of Terms — Naval
Stores — To Wm. Smith — Mission to Russia and the Porte — Count Rumf ord
— Hindman — Result of the Elections — King to Secretary of State — Modifi-
cations of French Regulations against American Commerce — French mili-
tary Operations in the Tyrol — To Jay — Muskets bought in Hamburg for
New York — Troup — Disgust at Murray's Nomination — Insurrection in
Pennsylvania — King to Sir Joseph Banks — United States Mint and Coins
— To Lord Grenville — Specification of proposed Alterations in eighteenth
Article.

Rufus King to John Jay.*

London, March 18th, 1799.
Dear Sir :

The opposition of Virginia, and of her offspring, Kentucky,
appears bolder and more considerable than I had apprehended.
The reform that seems to have taken place in the Carolinas is,
however, a consoling and important circumstance. I have been
inclined to believe that the Congressional election was the princi-
pal object of those inflammatory proceedings, which discredit and
injure us abroad, and when passed, that these States would display
less turbulence.

According to present appearances, the war must recommence
between France and Austria, if it has not already begun ; but that
an honest and solid confederacy against France is likely to take

* Life of John Jay, vol. ii., p. 296.
1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 579

place between the great powers is more than I dare even to expect.
Russia is uncommonly zealous. Passawan Ouglou has accepted
pardon and promotion ; and it is just now said, how accurately is
another point, that Russia and Austria are to lay aside their mu-
tual jealousy, and to consult and act together for their common
safety.

The commercial condition of England is extremely prosperous
and notwithstanding the hazardous and really dreadful situation
of Ireland, this country is united in an uncommon degree, and
appears resolved to persevere in the war. The minister, at the
opening of his budget, estimates the total income of all the peo-
ple of Great Britain at a hundred million per annum ; and it is
confidently expected that the taxes of this year will considerably
exceed one-third of this sum.

The Directory lately hold a language respecting America more
moderate, but not less artful and dangerous. Whether any change
in their privateering laws will be made, I think uncertain ; if my
conjectures respecting the views of the Directory are correct, these
laws will be now modified, or at least for a time suspended. After
the experience we have had, it will be humiliating if we are de-
ceived by the artifices that will be practised among our people.

Obedt. & faithful Servt.

Rufus King.

T. Sedgwick to R. King.

Stockbridge, 20th March, 1799.
Dear Sir :

. . . You will have seen the nomination of our friend Mr.
Murray as Minister to the french republic, and its consequences.
The immediate document to which the President refers, the Let-
ter from Talleyrand to Pichon, which in the President's opinion
affords " a plausible appearance of probability " (a degree of
evidence I do not perfectly comprehend,) of french sincerity, is
published. That letter refers to one of the date of the 4th fruc-
tidor. It is unfortunate that the fructidor letter asserts the claim
of france to treat only with those " who are truly american, not
seduced by Great Britain, neither friendly to royalty nor inimical
to france." No good, it is stated, can be expected by a negotia-

580 RUFUS KING. [i799

tion in other hands ; and that fairness requires that he should
warn the government of the U. S. of " these rocks." Nothing
has, at any time, been communicated to our government more
arrogant & offensive. In my opinion, and in this the federal
sentiment is unanimous, our honor and of course our interest, re-
quired, that the scene of negotiation should have been the United
States, and nothing should have induced us to relinquish this
ground but severe calamity. Nothing could, in my belief, have
been more unfortunate than this measure. After infinite embar-
rassments we had attained a point of all, on this side open and
declared hostility, the most desirable, and which should not, but
on great consideration, have been relinquished. The state of our
affairs as well at home as in Europe required a firm adherence to
the system which had been adopted ; and we must fear the effect
which may be produced on the proposed negotiation with Russia
and the Porte.

Our funds, notwithstanding all the depredations on our com-
merce, are productive beyond the expectation of any body. The
surplus of permanent revenue, the last year, after satisfying all
permanent appropriations, exceeded two millions and a half.
Credit, from the effect of the last loan, appears sound and
effective ; there having been nearly three times the proposed
amount subscribed in one day. The Jacobins say that it is clear,
from the result, that the terms proposed, by the Secretary, were
excessive, for, it is argued, if eight per cent will produce 15
millions surely seven would have secured the proposed amount.
But the facts authorize, conclusively, the proposed terms. The
basis of his calculation was the actual market rate of interest
ascertained by the price of the various species of stock. No other
principle could have been adopted.

The conduct of the Legislature of Virginia, and its Satellite
that of Kentucky,* you must have considered attentively. The

* The reference here is to the celebrated Virginia resolutions of 1798, prepared
by Madison for the Virginia Legislature and by Jefferson for the Kentucky
Legislature, presented by Nicholas, passed in the latter, and known as "the
Kentucky Resolutions." They resolved that the United States were united by
a compact, the Constitution, to which each State acceded as a State, its co-
States forming the other party ; " that every State has a natural right, in
cases, not within the compact, to nullify, of their own authority, all assumptions
of power by others within their limits." This principle was summed up by Mr..

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 58 1

conduct of the national government was openly denounced as
hostile to liberty, proceeding by usurpation, insidiously to estab-
lish a Tyranny, in violation of the constitution & of oaths. If
these charges were true, resistance was not only justifiable but a
duty, and hence they were preparing for it by arming the People.
Their address to their constituents is a justificatory memorial,
little, if at all, short of a declaration of war. The effects of this
strange production were, in some degree, counteracted by the
address of the minority, a masterly performance, for which we are
indebted to the pen of General Marshall, who has, by it, in some
measure, atoned for his pitiful electioneering epistle. But what
has been infinitely more beneficial is the firm, dignified & patriotic
conduct of the other State legislatures, whose unanimity will in
some degree redeem our character, disgraced by Virginia democ-
racy ; and has, we are informed, arrested the progress of the de-
signs of the leaders in that state.

I ought to have told you, for the honor of our executive ad-
ministration, that none of the ministers, nor, I believe, any body
else, was consulted by the President relative to the nomination of
Murray.

The Secretary of State has, I presume, informed you of the
unhappy divisions which exist among the commissioners on the
subject of the British debts.* From all I know it is pretty cer-

Nicholas in these words : " That the several States who formed that instrument
(the Constitution) being sovereign and independent, have the unquestionable
right to judge of its infraction ; and that a nullification of those sovereignties,
of all unauthorized acts, done under color of that instrument, is the rightful
remedy."

Though the doctrine was denounced at the time by other States, to which
Virginia appealed to support her in declaring the acts of Congress — among
others, and, chiefly, the Alien and Sedition laws — unconstitutional and to take
the " necessary and proper measures to maintain unimpaired the authorities,
rights, and liberties reserved to the States respectively or to the people," the as-
sertion of these principles has since been on several occasions the cause of
danger to the country, and was the ground on which the rebellion of 1861 was
pretended to be based. The crushing of that settled forever the principle that
the United States is not a compact of States, with reserved rights, but a " gov-
ernment of the people, by the people, and for the people." — Ed.

* " The commission sitting at Philadelphia under the sixth article, the ap-
pointment of the fifth commissioner or umpire of which had fallen to the
British, was by no means so harmonious (as the 7th at London). Claims of all

582 RUFUS KING. [*799

tain that a secession must take place on the part of our gentle-
men. I hope no very mischievous effects will ensue. In any
event, however, I believe, all dispassionate men will concur in
opinion that great indiscretion, if nothing more, has marked the
conduct of the commissioners on the part of G. Britain.

There have been serious embarrassments experienced in every
part of our country from three causes, overtrading externally, the
plunder of our commerce, and speculating internally. The latter
has been most severely & extensively felt. It has pervaded every
part of our country from the Potomack, & more especially from
the Hudson to the eastward. The rage for acquiring property
by other means than industry and economy was not confined to
towns but extended to almost every neighborhood in the country,
& the effects have been such as might have been expected. The
only remedy has been applied, and altho' a severe one, it is
already in the towns, and will be in the country effectual. Many
are, and more must be ruined ; but the essential interests of the
country will not be injured, nor, ultimately, its strength or re-
sorts had been filed, including many by expatriated Tories, for the value of
their confiscated property, to the amount, in the whole, of twenty four millions
of dollars ; and the ground taken by the majority of the commission was such
as threatened a very heavy burden to the United States. There was a differ-
ence in the commission both as to the allowance of interest while the war con-
tinued and as to the classes of persons entitled to claim under the treaty. The
British majority of the commissioners were disposed to hold the United States
responsible, in the first place, for all unpaid debts, and to throw upon them the
burden of proving that, had due diligence been used, these debts might have
been collected. The American commissioners maintained, on the other hand,
that as the United States were only responsible for those debts the recovery of
which had been prevented by legal impediments, it rested on each claimant to
show that due diligence had been used, and that the recovery of his debt had
been prevented by legislative obstacles, or by the debtor's becoming insolvent
during the continuance of such obstacles. After much discussion, some of it
very warm, and before one claim had been definitely adjudicated, the Ameri-
can commissioners, with the approbation of their government, prevented any
awards by their withdrawing. When this became known in England, the
British government withdrew their members from the board sitting there ; and
both commissions thus came to a full stop. But, notwithstanding this interrup-
tion, both governments expressed their anxiety to carry out the treaty in good
faith ; and Sitgreaves was soon after dispatched to England to co-operate with
King in obtaining, if possible, some explanatory article on the subject of
British debts." — Hildreth, History of the United States, 2d ser., ii., p. 339.

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 583

sources impaired. The pursuits of sober industry were never
better rewarded — commerce is generally protected ; and there
never was, probably, a time when it was more lucrative. Human-
ity will regret that so many men, should by an excessive ardor to
become rich, have plunged themselves into serious difficulties,
from which they will be able by severe & long exertion only, if
at all, to extricate themselves ; but the greatest mischief, politi-
cally considered, is that in too many instances ruined speculators
commence zealous patriots.

The salary Act compared with what ought to have been done
is certainly a paltry measure, but considered as the best that could
possibly be done it is of immense importance — The measure had
been defeated in the house by the votes of some who especially
acted on the federal side — when it was revised in the senate, it
was necessary, that it should be done, on a scale which would
insure the assent of those men. This information is due to the
character of the Senate, in general, to my own in particular, as I
originated the measure there.

It is with extreme pain that I anticipate becoming again a
member of the house. It was my ardent wish, & I thought my
firm determination to have retired forever from public life, but an
adherence to that resolution was, under the circumstances, impos-
sible. Another two years will, I hope, afford a better prospect.
With much sincerity I am my dear Sir, your friend

The. S.

R. King to Secretary of State. No. 31.

London, Mar. 21, 1799.
Dear Sir :

The Packet is still detained in order that I might receive Lord
Grenville's answer to my memorial, respecting Capt. Loring ; if it
is sent in season I shall annex it to this Letter.

The crossing of the Rhine by the French armies on the first
instant, and a correspondent movement that probably took place
at the same time against Tuscany, were the preludes to the declara-
tion of war that followed against the King of Hungary and
Bohemia and the Grand Duke.

Thus, as all impartial observers foresaw, the temporizing at
Vienna during which Switzerland and Piedmont and Naples have

584 RUFUS KING. [1799

been overturned and France at her leisure has recruited and re-
established her armies, has been worse than useless, has been the
loss of favorable moments and of precious occasions.

As yet we have no intelligence from Vienna of the temper with
which this explosion has been received, nor do I think it by any
means certain that Prussia will even now heartily unite her strength
in an honest confederacy, which alone can bring back France
within those limitations the safety of Europe requires. We are in
hourly expectation of the news of a battle between Jourdain and
the Arch Duke. The rapidity of the advance of the French col-
umns sufficiently announce their expectation of reaching the
Austrians before they are entirely prepared.

We have the French papers to the 15th, but I see nothing in
them directly relative to us, and the new objects that must now
engage their attention will for the present most likely put us and
our affairs out of view.

I send you a copy of Carnot's answer to his denunciation by
his colleagues : there seems no doubt that it is an authentic per-
formance. Our late Envoys, or at least General Pinckney, be-
lieved that Carnot entertained more equitable opinions concerning
the United States than the majority of his colleagues.

This answer discloses his project respecting Louisiana ; and if
such views were entertained by him, whom we believed the most
just and moderate, can we suffer ourselves to doubt the intention
of his colleagues ? Is there the slightest reason to suppose they
have changed their purposes ? Ought we not rather to believe
that it has been confirmed by the manner in which we have
opposed it ? And can we persuade ourselves after such an op-
position that we shall escape the alternative of war or submis-
sion ?

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c. &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Secretary of State. No. 32.

London, March 22, 1799.
Dear Sir :

Lord Grenville's answer was not in season for the mail of yes-
terday ; I have since received it and a copy is annexed to this
Letter which will probably overtake the Mail at Falmouth. Our

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 585

information from Berlin, by the Hamburgh post, confirms the
opinion that Prussia resolved on the system of neutrality the
moment that France renewed the war against Austria. Mr.
Grenville's mission must consequently fail, and the war will be
prosecuted upon unequal terms and with the greatest vigour
against a partial and disjointed confederacy. The 25,000 Rus-
sians, who have for some time been in the neighborhood of
Vienna, are on their march for Italy where the combined army
will be commanded by the Russian General Suwarrow. The first
blow has been unfortunate to the confederates ; the whole of the
Austrian Corps that occupied Coire in the Country of the Grisons
having, it is said by surprize, been made Prisoners by the French
under Massena. I should be happy to believe that this first suc-
cess is not likely to be followed by future and more important
victories. One is tired with beholding, and with endeavoring in
vain to account for the blindness that even yet prevents an
honest and general confederacy against the overbearing Power of
France.

With the most perfect Respect and Esteem &c &c

Rufus King.

Lord Grenville to Mr. King.

Downing Street, March 21, 1799.

Lord Grenville presents his compliments to Mr. King, and has
the honor to acknowledge the receipt of his Memorial of the nth
of this month, relative to the conduct of the Commander of his
Majesty's Ship Carnatic.

The Government of the United States may be assured that the
King is always solicitous to respect the Rights and Honor of those
Powers with which his Majesty entertains the relations of friend-
ship : that the instructions which by his Majesty's order are given
to the Commanders of his Fleets or Ships of war enjoin the
strictest attention to this principle, particularly in the case of the
Ships of war of any Such Power ; and that his Majesty desirous
at all times to manifest his friendship towards the U. S., will cer-
tainly see with Displeasure any act which may have been com-

586 RUFUS KING. [1799

mitted by any officer in his Majesty's service in derogation of the
attention and respect due to their Flag.

With regard to the particular facts mentioned in Mr. King's
memorial, the most immediate enquiry will be instituted into
them, that the distance of the service upon which the Commander
of his Majesty's Ship Carnatic is now employed, will allow, and
on the Result of the Enquiry, his Majesty will pursue without de-
lay such measures as the Case may appear to require in conformity
to the Principles above stated.

R. King to Secretary of State. No. 33.

London, March 22, 1799.
Dear Sir :

It has occurred to me since closing my Letter of this date, that
in consequence of the Enquiry ordered to be instituted into the
conduct of Capt Loring, it may be adviseable to obtain and send
to me proofs more direct and regular than those included in the
Report of the Consul at the Havannah. I judged it proper to
strengthen the statement of the Consul by alleging in my me-
morial, as I was authorized to do by the purport of your Num-
ber , that the same was confirmed by the subsequent Report
of the Commander of the Baltimore. It would have been more
regular to have drawn up a Statement from the Report of the
Commander of the Baltimore, which should have been signed by
him and his principal officers, and addressed to the Secretary of
the Marine.

I submit to your consideration whether this should not yet be
done. It may be sent to me to be used if the Result of the En-
quiry, that has been ordered, should render it important. My
apprehension is that Loring will excuse himself by * saying and at-
tempting to prove that the Commander of the Baltimore acquiesced in
and cofisented to all that was done.

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c. &c.

Rufus King.

* Italics in cipher.

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 587

R. King to Secretary of State. No. 34.

London, March 23, 1799.
Dear Sir :

I last evening received a note from Lord Grenville, a copy of
which is annexed, announcing a Blockade of all the Ports of Hol-
land. I think I have before informed you that the High Court
of Admiralty here consider a Blockade as an interdiction of all
Trade inwards and outwards of the Blockaded Port, an interdic-
tion to be enforced by the confiscation of all Vessels with their
Cargoes seized in the attempt, after notice, to enter into or come
out of the same ; the only exception is in favor of Vessels coming
out of the Blockaded Port, and which entered the same before
the Blockade commenced ; and even in this case the Cargo to be
exempt must have been received on board before notice that the
Blockade existed.

Actual notice is given by the men of war of the nation estab-
lishing the Blockade, when the same is presumed to have been
unknown at the place from whence the Neutral Vessel cleared ;
but such notice is not deemed to be necessary when the Blockade
was known at the place of clearing.

I suggest for your consideration whether after formal notice, as
in the present case, it will not conduce to the security of our
Trade, that the Collector of our Ports should officially be ad-
vised thereof, with Instructions not to grant clearances for such
Blockaded Ports. Such Clearances are granted for Amsterdam,
notwithstanding the notice given to us of the Blockade of the
Texel, and altho' it is done in the hope of escaping the French
Privateers, it on the other hand exposes our vessels to be sent in
here for adjudication.

With perfect Respect & Esteem, &c, &c

Rufus King.

R. King to Lord Grenville.

London, March 25, 1799.
My Lord :

With a view to greater precision it might be advantageous to

recast the whole of the 18th Article of our Treaty of Amity,

Commerce & Navigation ; but this would require more time and

588 RUFUS KING. [i799

attention than could perhaps at this moment be spared from other
and more urgent engagements, or than would consist with the
speedy attainment of the particular object of the Conference that
I lately held with your Lordship on this Subject.

Referring therefore to some future period the general subject, I
submit to your Lordship's consideration the proposal that I am
ordered to make in respect to a more exact definition of the
Articles of Naval Stores, which according to the intention of the
Parties, and the Law of Nations, ought to be esteemed as Contra-
band of War.

Our Treaty after enumerating certain articles as arms and im-
plements serving for the purpose of war, adds, " and also Timber
for Shipbuilding, Tar or Rosin, Copper in Sheets, Sails, Clamp
and Cordage, and generally whatever may serve directly to the
Equipment of Vessels, unwrought Iron and Firplanks only ex-
cepted."

It is in consequence of this great comprehension of the last
Clause of this Paragraph, that the Ships of the United States,
trading to the Dutch and Spanish Colonies, are subjected to great
Loss and Damage by seizure and detention for having on board
either Iron Nails of various sizes which seem directly and chiefly
for the construction of houses and other buildings in the said
Colonies and for the making of Sugar Casks, Boxes, & other
Packages ; or Oznaburghs, an inferior sort of their coarse linen
and used chiefly for Negro Clothing.

Nails of this description are of a size that cannot supply the
place of Spikes which are directly for Ship Building ; and Ozna-
burghs is wholly unfit for the Sails of Vessels even of the lowest
Tonnage that frequent the Ocean. Notwithstanding this differ-
ence between Sail Cloth and Oznaburghs, and between Spikes and
House Nails, as well as between their respective uses, the one is
confounded with the other by the British Cruizers in the West
Indian Seas.

In order to avoid the interruption and loss arising from this
error, we propose by way of an additional article, to agree upon
the enumeration of those articles which alone should be deemed
to serve directly for the equipment of Vessels, or upon an enu-
meration of such as shall not be so considered ; or if it shall be
proposed to exchange Declarations, to be followed by corre-

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 589

spondent Instructions to your Ships of war, Cruizers and Courts
of Admiralty, to except the Articles above mentioned from the
Catalogue of Articles deemed to be Contraband of War.

In any of these modes the object at which we aim may be
attained ; the choice is submitted to your Lordship in the per-
suasion that the end is one that must receive your Lordship's
Approbation.

With perfect Consideration & Respect &c, &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to W. Smith.

London, March 26, 1799.
Dear Sir :

Farther consideration serves to strengthen my first impression
respecting the step that has been taken in regard to Russia and
the Porte. I thought it a little premature, and I still think that it
will require some management in order to give to it a turn that
may not embarrass us. There has been, as you will probably
recollect, an awkward circumstance concerning our Consular ap-
pointment to Russia ; this would have been easily overcome, and
the coincidence of the opinion of Russia & of the United States
in respect to France would have gone far to smooth the way to
the attainment of the object of the President's late appointment.

The negotiation with the Porte is an affair of still more interest ;
and in my opinion it must be a preliminary measure to ascertain,
thro' some friendly quarter, the disposition of the Turkish Gov-
ernment before you or any other public character appear there :
indeed I understand that this practice is invariably adopted. I
don't know whether the subject has been mentioned in your cor-
respondence with our Government, but it has constantly been
treated of in mine for two years past — not the manner of conduct-
ing the negotiation, but the importance of a Treaty with the Porte,
as well in respect to the advantage and extension of our Com-
merce, as to the Security that it would give to our Treaties with
the Barbary Powers.

Previously to the return to Constantinople of the Turkish Am-
bassador, whom I found here on my arrival, and who was a quiet

59<D RUFUS KING. [l799

good old man, I had several conversations with him upon the
Subject of a commercial Treaty, and on his going, gave him a
short memoir, drawn up chiefly with a view of shewing the advan-
tages which such a Treaty would give to Turkey.

Upon the coming of the present Ambassador, who is a more
intelligent man, who shewed his exact knowledge by saying, when I
was first presented to him, that he was glad to see a man who
came from the country of Diamonds and of Gold ! ! ! !, I took an
early occasion to renew the Conversation with him, but with more
caution as I was unable to discover his sentiments.

As soon as we received the advice of Lord Nelson's victory, it
appeared to me that a favorable occasion was about to offer itself
for me to take measures for the conclusion of a Treaty with the
Ottoman Empire ; and in the very next conference I had with
Lord Grenville, I mentioned the project to him, entirely as
from myself, and observed that the influence that England must
acquire by the victory of the Nile, that with her favor and the
good will of Russia, which we had no reason to suppose would
be withheld, we might probably succeed in establishing a Treaty
that, exclusive of some commercial advantages, would be of value
to us by giving stability to the Treaties, which at great expence
we had lately concluded with the Barbary Powers : his Lordship
answered that he could beforehand assure us that we might rely
upon the influence and good office of the King in the course of our
negotiation.

About the same time, a conversation took place between me
and the Russian Ambassador, which began on his part, relative to
a Treaty between Russia and the United States, in the course of
which I said possibly we might desire to avail ourselves of the
present moment to negotiate a commercial Treaty with the Porte,
in the course of which negotiation the influence of Russia would
be of great service to us : his answer was such as I could have
desired ; but the whole was merely a personal conversation, and
ended by a mutual promise to send to our respective Govern-
ments a report of it. It was in November last that I reported to
Col. Pickering as well my conversation with Lord Grenville as
with the Russian Ambassador.

In a Letter of the 6th of February he barely mentioned the
matter as one of importance, that was under consideration : My

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 59 1

next intelligence is the appointment announced in the News-
papers.

I went immediately to the Turkish Ambassador in order to
give the intelligence in his mind a turn that might prevent em-
barrassments. I told him of the conversation I had had with Lord
Grenville, and of his answer : that I had reported the same to my
Government, as well as the conversation I had before had with
him and with his Predecessor : that according to our Forms, the
Senate must approve the appointment of Ambassadors ; that the
Senate was not a body in permanent session, but like the English
Parliament commonly assembled only in the Winter ; that it is
therefore often necessary that an appointment should be made a
longtime beforehand, and that notwithstanding the news that you
were appointed, which I believed tho' I had no regular informa-
tion of it, still all the customary measures would be observed in
order to manifest our respect to the Sultan and to ascertain
whether it would be agreeable to him to receive our Ambassador :
and tho' I was not authorized to speak to him on the subject, yet
perhaps he would think it adviseable to send an account of our
conversation in order that unfavorable impressions might be pre-
vented, adding that I had only to desire that he would not state
the conversation so as to give the idea that any answer was
expected.

He told me that he would pursue the course I recommended
which I believe he will do : he then said his Predecessor had spoken
with him on the Subject, and that after his arrival at Constanti-
nople he had made some favorable communications to the Reis
Effendi concerning it. He said that in August last he mentioned
the Subject to Lord Grenville, and added that if England
approved, who was their Great Ally he thought it would be
favorable.

He then enquired particularly respecting you, your age, Profes-
sion, former Employment and political opinions. I answered that
you were about 38 or 40 (too young a man would not do), a
Gentleman of fortune, a man of Letters, always employed in great
affairs and a distinguished member of Congress, answering to
Parliament, lately come abroad and for the first time, a pronounced
friend of order and an enemy of the Philosophy and Politicks of
France. The answer shewed that all this pleased, and he en-

592 RUFUS KING. [1799

gaged to report the whole, and if he received anything on the
Subject, to communicate it to me. I shall wait for my Letters
before I say anything further to Lord Grenville.

I have thought it adviseable to send you this — and shall cheer-
fully assist in collecting such books and information as may be
useful to you.

With respect to myself, I am persuaded that my nomination has
been made on the supposition that the Treaty with Russia would
be negotiated here : this cannot be done, and I presume the
business will pass into other hands.

I send you a letter from Murray, who complains that he shall
never again hear from Philadelphia, that Dispatches from the
Secretary of State, which I forwarded passed his letter on the
way. I received notice a day or two since that all the Ports of
Holland are blockaded by the English Fleets. The war has,
according to our accounts, recommenced, and the first affair has
been against the French. But I am afraid to expect what I hope
for, so often and great have been our former Disappointments.

Nothing interesting from Philadelphia. We have to-day a Re-
port that Truxton in the Constellation has taken the Insurgente
French Frigate after an action of two hours, and carried her into
Martinique. The Report wants confirmation and I hope will

have it.

I am with great Respect & Esteem

Your faithful friend

Rufus King.

T. Pickering to R. King.

Private.

Philadelphia, Ap. 2, 1799.
Dear Sir :

. . . Count Rumford will be cordially welcomed to his
native land. I showed your letter concerning him to the Presi-
dent. Count Rumford's works are read with avidity. A man
whose studies and labours are directed to the service of mankind
must meet a friendly and honorable reception wherever real worth
and excellence can be duly estimated.

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 593

Wm. Hindman to R. King.

Talbot County, Maryland, Aprl. 8th, 1799.
My dear Sir :

I presume You have heard that Mr. Joshua Seney (whom
You must have known in Congress) defeated Me at the last
Election ; the Fatigue & Exposure He underwent in his Exertions
to give Him Success occasioned his Death — I did not again come
forward as a Candidate — The Contest lay between Jacobin Jo.
Nicholson (who I am sorry to say carried his Election, He had
however only a Majority of 74) & Federalist Jno. Goldsborough ;
had the latter declared Himself sooner than He did, He would
have been elected.

In One of my Letters to You, I gave You a hasty Statement
of the new House of Representatives, (which it is expected will
be more fcederal than the last was) perhaps the enclosed list may
be more correct. The last Congress died gloriously, I never
knew the fcederal men hang better together, & act with more
Firmness than at the last Session. I wish the new Congress
with their Accession of Fcederalism may do as well.

The last Information I had from Virginia was, that Genl.
Marshall would be elected ; if so, it will be complete Victory
over the Jacobinic jeffersonian Junto ; & many Gentlemen have
been so sanguine as to think there will be returned from that
State 7 or 8 fcederal Members ; the People there are certainly
fcederalising very fast.

I have great Hopes that our Friend Sedgwick will be the
next Speaker, his Merits are great, He behaved nobly in consent-
ing to be chosen to the House of Representatives, to keep out
the late insignificant Member from that District, or some other
who might be equally bad & contemptible.

I rejoice much to hear of the late French Disasters, I sincerely
pray They may speedily be shut up within their own Territory,
or extirpated from the Face of the Earth.

I was elected last Winter to a Seat in our State Senate, which
I have accepted.

Yours very sincerely & affy.

Wm. Hindman.

VOL. II.— 38

594 RUFUS KING. [1799

R. King to Secretary of State. No. 35.

London, April 12, 1799.

Dear Sir :

I have received another Note from Lord Grenville on the sub-
ject of the Blockade of the Dutch Ports. We are now informed
that all the Ports of the United Provinces are in a state of vigour-
ous Blockade. The former notice of which I sent you a copy
with my last Letter respected the Ports of Holland only.

Tho' I have carefully watched the French papers, I have not
yet seen any Report of the proceedings of the Council upon the
Message of the Directory mentioned in my No. 14. A master
of one of our ships who arrived here a few days past from France
brought the copy of a Letter written and published in English
in Paris by Dupont, formerly Consul at Charleston, to the Com-
missary of the Directory with the Court of Cassation. This
Letter purports to be written at the Desire of the Commissary,
and in order to explain the kind of papers ordinarily given to
American vessels. The explanations are tolerably correct, and
the Letter throughout is in favor of the Restoration of all Ameri-
can Vessels and Cargoes captured on account of a supposed
irregularity in their papers. Most probably you will have seen
Copies of this Letter before this reaches you, as there can be no
doubt that it was written for the purpose of appearing in our
newspapers.

This Letter seems also to have had some relation to the late
Arrete of the Directory of the 18th of March, a copy of which
taken from the Redacteur of the 23d ultimo, is annexed. It is
not obvious what the Alteration is, that is professed to be made
by this arrete, in that of the 2d of March 1797. We complained
that any other Paper than the ship's Passport was demanded and
justified ourselves in doing so by the Treaty. The present arrete
applies to us in common with all Neutrals, the Regulations of
1744 and 1778, and consequently lays the Treaty out of the ques-
tion. It is true that the Regulations of 1744 and 1778 do not
require any precise form in the Roles d'Equipages and it maybe
intended to leave the Liberals at liberty to admit our ship's
Articles as the Roles d'Equipages required by their regulations.

We have received American Newspapers containing the two

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 595

Messages of the President respecting another Mission to France ;
and about ten days before a mail from the West Indies brought
us an account of the capture of the French Frigate l'lnsurgente
by the Constellation.

With perfect Respect and Esteem &c, &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Secretary of State. No. 36.

London, April 16, 1799.
Dear Sir :

In a former Letter I have taken notice of a Resolution of the
Council of Five hundred adopted upon a reference from the
Tribunal of Cassation, and which declared that the Law author-
izing the Capture of Neutral Vessels having on board Articles of
the growth and fabric of Great Britain should operate from the
date of its passage. This Resolution has been the subject of long
and elaborate discussion in the Council of Ancients, where it was
finally rejected according to the late French Papers by a large
majority on the first of March. The Tribunal of Cassation was
divided, a part of the Members being of opinion that the Law was
to take effect from the day of its Passage, and the residue con-
tending that previous notice should be given to all Neutral
Nations before their Vessels could be affected by it. The two
Councils are also divided upon this question : the immediate
consequence must be a delay in pronouncing Sentences by the
Tribunal of Cassation. I have no means of judging how the
Question will finally be settled.

We have Paris Papers to the 18th instant ; There seems no
longer any Doubt that Joardain after several severe actions in
Suabia has been driven back by the Arch Duke ; and that
Massena has not been as successful as was for some time sup-
posed in his repeated Efforts to penetrate from the Grisons into
the Tyrol.

The French Papers state that their Army has entered the
Dominion of Tuscany, and that the Grand Duke has retired to
Vienna. I have not a word from France respecting the Capture
of the Insurgente Frigate, nor of our appointment of another

596 RUFUS KING. [i799

Mission to the Directory, tho' the news of both these events was
probably known at Paris on the 6th or 7th instant.

With perfect Respect and Esteem &c &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to John Jay.

London, April 19, 1799.
Dear Sir :

By my Letter of the 7th of December, I informed you that I
had given orders to Mr. Pitcairn, our Consul at Hamburgh, to
purchase three thousand German Muskets for the State of New
York. Under date of the 25th ulto, he informed me that he had
accordingly engaged two thousand five hundred Muskets at
26/6 d. sterling each. Under date of the 5th instant he informs
me that on the 10th he should be called on for part and in one
month for the remainder of the Payment for these arms, and on
the 12th he adds that the 2500 Muskets for New York were prin-
cipally received, and that he should give me information when
they are shipped. As the funds are not yet arrived, I authorized
him to draw on the house of Bird, Savage and Bird, who will
accept his Bill in the expectation that the Remittances will come
to hand before their acceptance falls due.

The Muskets will be shipped from Hamburgh in Vessels bound
to New York, and Insurance may be made accordingly, tho' the
name or names of the Vessel or Vessels are not known.

With great Respect &c. &c.

Rufus King.

R. Troup to R. King.

New York, 19th April, 1799.
Dear Sir :

. . . I am almost afraid to write to you about the State of
our political affairs. We have experienced a sad reverse in the
temper, ardor and zeal of our fellow citizens. The late nomina-
tion of the President for the purpose of renewing negotiations
with France has given almost universal disgust. This measure,
besides the intrinsic unfitness of it, was secret and without advice,
which has also contributed to render it more disgusting. There

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 597

certainly will be serious difficulties in supporting Mr. Adams at
the next election if he should be a candidate.

The army is progressing like a wounded snake. Last year its
progress was obstructed by the President's retiring to Braintree.
He is now there and likely to continue there during the whole
season. All the measures of the government are retarded by this
kind of abdication. The only apology, in my opinion, for the
present abdication is that Mrs. Adams was left sick last Fall at
Braintree and that she has ever since continued there. General
Maitland, who lately arrived here on the supposed St. Domingo
business, has, we understand, been delayed and embarrassed by
the President's absence in the objects of his Mission, the result of
which has not yet transpired.

The insurrection in Pennsylvania may be considered as quelled.
All the ringleaders, very few excepted, are apprehended and
in prison. Their conduct has been dastardly and without con-
cert. * . . .

Burr is again a candidate for the Assembly and I believe he
will succeed. He is acquiring much influence and is disposed to
profit by it. The last winter he procured a bill to pass for incor-
porating a company by the name of the Manhattan Company.
Its ostensible object is to bring water to the city ; but its real
object is to furnish new projects and means for speculation. The

* This insurrection was caused by a resistance against the direct tax, which
was ordered by the late Congress, to increase the revenues of the government ;
among the articles to be taxed were houses, of which the classification was
made by measuring the windows. The officers appointed to do this work were
resisted in several of the counties, and the Marshal, under "the warrants
from the District Court of Pennsylvania " was unable to execute his writs against
the rioters. " The President immediately issued a proclamation requiring sub-
mission to the laws. He called upon the Governor of Pennsylvania for a
detachment of militia," which was granted. " No opposition was made to the
troops and Fries and some thirty others were secured and carried to Philadel-
phia. Fries was indicted for treason . . . and was found guilty. The
court held that to resist a law by force, with intent to defeat its execution alto-
gether, amounted to levying war. But as it appeared after verdict that one of
the jury, previous to being impanelled, had expressed his opinion that Fries
ought to be hung, a new trial was granted. Several of Fries' companions were
found guilty of misdemeanor." Fries was tried a second time and found guilty,
but was pardoned by the President. — Hildreth, Hisiojy of the United States, 2d
ser., vol. ii., pp. 312-366.

598 RUFUS KING. [1799

capital of the company is to consist of two millions of dollars.
The shares are $50. each ; and the capital may be applied to any
monied operations whatsoever. The charter is to be forfeited if
the company within ten years does not supply the city with
water. . . . Burr governs everything by a decided majority
amongst the directors. . . . The most respectable mercantile
and monied interests are decidedly opposed to the measure ; and
they attach much blame as well to the Council of Revision as
to the Assembly and Senate. I have no doubt that if the com-
pany carry their schemes into effect, they will contribute power-
fully to encrease that bloated state of credit, which has of late
essentially injured us, by repeated and heavy bankruptcies. It is
given out that we are to have a new bank established by the Com-
pany and that they will also embark deeply in the East India
Trade — and perhaps turn their attention to marine insurance. . . .
Mr. Gouverneur Morris is at Morrisania. . . . He is in excellent
health and is very happy to see his friends, to whom he is all hos-
pitality. His wines are of superior quality and given with great
liberality. His attachments to his own country and government
have encreased by what he has seen in Europe. . . . He seems
determined to remain a farmer, and not again to embark in pub-
lic life. . . .

God bless you.

Rob. Troup.

R. King to Sir Joseph Banks.

Great Cumberland Place, Ap. 21, 1799.
Sir:

I have too much pleasure in obeying your commands to delay
my reply to your polite and obliging Note of yesterday. By a
Law for the Establishment of our Mint passed in 1792, we settled
the proportionate Value of Gold to Silver in the Coins of the U.
S. at 15 to 1, according to quantity in weight of pure Gold or
pure Silver.

By the same Law the standard of our gold coins is established
to be eleven parts fine to one part alloy, the alloy to be composed
of silver and copper in such proportions not exceeding one half
silver, as should be found convenient ; and the standard of our
silver Coins to be fourteen hundred and eighty five parts

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 599

fine, to one hundred and seventy nine parts alloy ; the alloy
to be wholly of copper.

Our Gold Coins are Eagles, half-Eagles and quarter-Eagles ;
the Eagle is of the value of Ten Dollars, and contains 270 grains
of standard gold, of which 247 grains and \ part of a grain are of
pure Gold. The half-Eagles and quarter- Eagles express the
Proportions of the Eagle they respectively contain.

Our Silver Coins are Dollars, Half-Dollars, quarter-Dollars,
Dimes & half-Dimes. The Dollar (which corresponds in value
with the Spanish milled Dollar, current in the U. S. at the Estab-
lishment of our Mint) contains 416 grains of standard silver, of
which 371 Grains and a \ part of a Grain, are pure silver ; the
Half-Dollar, quarter-Dollar & Dime & half-Dime respectively con-
tain the half, the quarter, the tenth and the 20th part of the
standard silver Dollar.

The Dollar is our money unit ; the money of account of the
U. S. is expressed in Dollars, dimes, cents & mills, corresponding
to units, tenths, hundredths, thousandths ; and the public ac-
counts, Proceedings of the Judiciary of the U. S. are kept and
had in Conformity to this Regulation.

With perfect Respect &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Sir Joseph Banks.

Gr. C. Place, 21st April, 1799.
Dear Sir :

I am sorry that I have not a piece of each denomination of our
Coins to offer you ; but I take the liberty to send and beg you to
accept as Specimens of our Coinage, a half-Eagle, a Dollar and a
quarter-Dollar. I add to them three medals as samples of a large
number that by order of our Govt., and under my direction were
last year struck by Boulton, for the purpose of being distributed
among the Indians within our Territory. A small ring is soldered
to the edge of the medal by which according to the Indian cus-
tom, it may be suspended as an Ornament of Dress.

The Devices * have been chosen with a Reference to our En-

* The Devices were made by the Painter, John Trumbull at the request of
Mr. King. Mr. Trumbull was at this time in London, a member of the Com-
mission under the 7th Article of the Treaty with Great Britain.

600 RUFUS KING. [^799

deavours to change the manners of the Indians, & as far as prac-
ticable to civilize them. For this purpose, we at stated periods
deliver to them seeds of various kinds, Cattle, Sheep & the differ-
ent implements of Agriculture.

With perfect Respect &c. &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Lord Grenville.

Gt. Cumberland Place, 30th April, 1799.

Mr. King presents his Compliments to Lord Grenville, & has
the honor to acknowledge the rect. of his Ldp's. Note of the
2 2d inst., enclosing a specification of such Nails as are understood
not to be included in the Catalogue of Articles deemed Contra-
band of War. Mr. K. is not certain that the proposed Specifica-
tion includes the different Sorts of Nails used for Housebuilding
and various other purposes other than Shipbuilding in Gt. Britain,
as the rose headed Nail, & perhaps others are omitted ; & he is
the more apprehensive that any description by mere names will
be insufficient, as different names are given to nails of the same
sizes in the U. S. and Engd., the American names being generally
taken from the uses to whh. the nail is apply'd, or from the price
per hundred or per thousand ; other names differing from those
of Engd. & the States may be given to the same nails in the Brit-
ish Colonies & the article intended to be explanatory may itself
require explanation.

To avoid this want of precision Mr. King takes the Liberty to
suggest instead of the enumeration or a Specification as has been
proposed, that it shd. be agreed that all Iron Nails under the size
of Spikes or Deck Nails should be excepted from and not in-
cluded within the provisions of the 18th article of the Treaty of
Amity, Commerce & Navigation between the U. States & Gr.
Britain.

APPENDIX I.

The kindness of Mrs. Daniel Kilham Dodge, of Brooklyn,
N. Y., enables the Editor to publish here, though properly
belonging to the previous volume, some letters, found in
March, 1894, in an old trunk of her husband's great uncle,
Daniel Kilham, of Newburyport, Massachusetts. They are
letters between Dr. Kilham and Rufus King, and throw some
new light upon the public affairs of the day and illustrate
Mr. King's private as well as public life.

R. King to D. Kilham.

Boston, Feby. 18th, 1784.
Dear Kilham :

By the Gazette you learn that the def. Treaty is at last ratified
by Congress. The General Court are now agitating the propriety,
and calculating the expence of some public exhibitions of Joy,
accompanying the proclamation of the peace completed. Some
say it has become an old story, others reply that granting the fact
it will bear telling again and again. How the question will be
determined is perhaps immaterial ; but the spirit which governs
very generally here, is very pitiful and I fear will prove prejudicial.

Notwithstanding a liberality of sentiment upon some subjects
and a general toleration of almost all opinions, except political,
prevail, yet is it certain, that there is not a great deal still to be
corrected ? The ability of the country is substantial — her debts
are trivial, but there is a parsimony which many in office call Re-
publicanism, that casts an ill feature upon all public doings. This
mistaken sentiment of political economy checks all public grants
6o2 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

to the servants of Government ; and in effect discourages men of
abilities from qualifying themselves for national departments ; of
consequence the state is badly served. When justice is withheld
from those who have ably and faithfully served the public, little
is to be expected from such a government in favor of the arts and
sciences : and the prevailing spirit above referred to, I fear, will
wholly suppress an institution which I could wish at least at-
tempted ; I mean that of a Botanical Garden at Cambridge.

By a letter from St. John, the French Consul at N. York, ad-
dressed to President Willard and Doctr. Holyoke, as Pres. of the
Academy, it appears that the King of France in aid of such an
institution has directed his minister to communicate to the Uni-
versity of Cambridge in Massachusetts that, as a testimony of the
Respect he bears to that University and to enable them to effect
a purpose ornamental as well as beneficial, he will, by their per-
mission, cause to be sent and transported to them annually, at the
proper season, free from every charge, the annual seeds and plants
of his own Royal Gardens, of every description. No answer has
been as yet made. It strikes many persons agreeably, and it is
supposed that the purpose would be very extensively practical at
Cambridge. Amongst a few friends I have heard the subject can-
vassed— and my own sentiments have been flattered in the fre-
quent observation of others, that, should the distribution be
attempted, it would be most safely trusted to your protection and
guidance. Could a fund be established that would give an indepen-
dent annuity to a man of genius and letters, for his attention to such
an institution, I should feel most happy in seeing you in such a
character. I have some sentiments upon the practicability that I
will waive until we meet. Perhaps the matter is not so Utopian as
you may imagine. I am anxious to attempt something for the
medical professors. I wish altho' it is small, that it may succeed
— something like a general infirmary at Cambridge, to be under
your care &c — this last idea you will receive in confidence —
Should you meet with good Parson Bass congratulate him for me
on this intelligence, viz

" His holiness the Pope has caused to be written to Congress a
letter congratulatory upon the peace and independence of the
United States, and to convince them of the sincerity of his con-
gratulations, informs, that as the English Church have a special

APPENDIX. 603

union with their civil government in the King of the one being
the head of the other, and as a difficulty from that source may be
in the way of a regular ordination of Ministers of the Gospel in
the United States thro' the English Bishops, he offers to ordain
such person or persons as Congress shall designate as Bishop or
Bishops in the United States by the true apostolic imposition of
hands — and agreeable to such ritual as Congress may adopt."

This information is true — I expect in a few days a copy of the
Letter. But your time nor friendship can be no apology for me
adding, — except that I am with the utmost sincerity your friend &

Hum. Servt.

Rufus King.

R. King to D. Kilham.

Trenton, 12th Dec, 1784.
Dear Sir :

I have been here so short a time, that I can say very little to
you upon the subject of our general affairs ; wait a little time,
and I will give you a general state of them. This place for the
residence of Congress has many inconveniences and a motion was
a few days since made to adjourn to Philadelphia, but passed in
the negative. We shall however adjourn I think from this place,
either to the city of New York or to Philadelphia.

We have before us a serious remonstrance from the Spanish
Agent against our navigating the River Mississippi ; they deny
the right under our treaty with the Court of London, and say that
any American Vessel which may come into that River will be
confiscated.

This is a subject that alarms the Southern States, and will
require a considerable degree of delicacy and firmness to be con-
ducted with safety.

No account from the British Court favors the idea of a cordial
amity towards the United States, and the detention of the Forts
on the western frontier is probably under positive instruc-
tion.

With esteem and friendship,

R. King.

604 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

R. King to D. Kilham.

New York, March 8, 1785.
My dear Sir :

. . . I wish to know how you proceed in your affairs : how
is honest Nat. Carter ? Does he think of me ever as he smokes
his pipe ? If he does, pray tell him that I am gratified, that my
idea associates with agreeable objects ; for such alone pass the
mind of a hearty smoker. You will oblige me in mentioning me
to Swett that I am truly interested in his friendship and pros-
perity. I think he deserves as much as he has a prospect of
obtaining, and his prospect is good in the situation where he is.
When I shall be fortunate in meeting him and you again, which I
hope is not far distant, I think I can remark to him some ideas
which will be to his benefit.

Smith I suppose gives you a dinner twice or thrice in a winter
— you take your supper with him, hear a German battle and ogle
Miss Hannah once a week. . . .

With real esteem,

R. King.

R. King to D. Kilham.

New York, Ap. 26, 1785.

Yours of the 30th of March was received this evening ; it is
written in the stile of friendship and with the most obliging ex-
pressions of attachment ; accept in return my most sincere ac-
knowledgments, and rely upon this, that my friendship is founded
on so long an acquaintance, and so full a conviction of ingenuous
merit, that I shall not soon relinquish it. . . .

You obligingly inquire of my affairs ; I reply that I never have
spent any period of my life with so close an application to busi-
ness, or with so few amusements as since I left you. In a situa-
tion the duties of which may subject me to public examination,
and with some little ambition, I have been desirous of pursuing a
conduct that would not hazard me in the first view, nor dishonor
me in the second. As to my victim condition, that you say is re-
ported, I assure you that there could no report be circulated con-

APPENDIX. 605

cerning me that would be less true. At present I think it
improper to bow to beauty or bend to fortune. So negligent
have I been on this subject, that upon my honor I assure you that
I think of neither except when I think of home.

Adieu yours affectionately,

R. King.

R. King to D. Kilham.

New York, July 25th, 1785.
My dear Sir :

I have yours of the ninth instant for which accept my thanks.
Little is to be immediately expected remedial of the embarrass-
ments which almost the whole of the American Commerce is ex-
posed to. The Gentlemen in trade, almost universally through
the States, are uneasy and complaining. It has been the fashion
to suppose all grievances originated with the British nation ; but
in this instance much of the pressing difficulty, of which constant
complaint is making, is to be carried to the account of the exces-
sive importations made on credit, and the mismanagement of the
importers in the sale of their merchandize.

Congress it is said must have additional powers or commerce
will be totally ruined ; do those, who make this observation, know
the difficulties of effecting what only costs them a breath to ex-
press ? Have they considered the mode of effecting their wishes?
Do they know that one third of the States are individually inter-
ested in opposing any commercial treaty or negotiation whatever ?
Have they heard the Southern States remark that their countries
yielded a plentiful and valuable export in their Indigo, Rice,
Wheat, & Tobacco — that the freer the trade the more valuable to
the State possessing these staples — that the more numerous the
nations are, who come to their countries to buy their produce, the
greater the competition among the purchasers, and consequently
the higher the price at which the produce will sell ; whilst the
quantity of goods in different hands suitable for their market may
be purchased at a lower price than if the laws of trade restricted
any power or nation in their intercourse ?

These are some of the difficulties which will authorise an opin-
ion that little can at present be expected from Congress. The

606 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

Eastern States will consent to vest powers in Congress competent
to a regulation of foreign Commerce, but the Southern States will
never consent to regulations which will effect what the Northern
States desire. . . .

Adieu your's affectionately,

R. King.

Supplement — Mr. Adams was received with the usual cere-
monies and honors at the British Court on the first of June. We
have dispatches from him, informing only of his reception &c. &c.
— his private interview with the King must have been curious.
What he will negotiate time must manifest. Young Mr. Adams
arrived here a few days since, having left his father about the
middle of May on his departure for London. As late as the last
of May the drought had continued to be most severe ; the corn
will be short in Europe, the herds are greatly diminished for want
of forage, and the apprehension is great as common in populous
countries that the human race will suffer from famine.

This remark may be drawn from this information, that if the
United States had energy sufficient to prevent the supply of pro-
visions to the West Indies and wheat to Europe, we should be
able to negotiate commercial treaties on more advantageous terms
than at present.

R. King.

R. King to D. Kilham.

New York, Aug. 24, 1785.
My dear Friend :

. . . When I shall meet you is wholly uncertain ; I fear not
so soon as I could desire. I am in a situation which perplexes
me ; was I a man of moderate fortune, I would follow my present
pursuit ; for I think I could do it with honor and with a prospect
of some service to my country ; but if this opinion should prevail,
I must abandon my profession ; by this I could live with con-
venience, in peace and without hazard ; leaving this quiet pros-
pect, I find much at hazard and little certainty except constant
vigilance of numerous enemies, for Parties will exist. I am unde-
termined.

APPENDIX. 607

At present adieu ; love me as I love you ; think for me ; you
are my friend, you know every thing concerning me and can judge
perhaps more justly than I myself can.

Again adieu,

R. K.

R. King to D. Kilham.

New York, Oct. 10th, 1785.
Dear Kilham :

. . . I thank you for your last of the nth of September. I
find that some of my friendly admonitions to you were unneces-
sary. I am perplexed with your opinion upon my subject — Pol-
iticks or Peace. I do assure you that I balance. Even in my
profession I could better my prosperity by removing from New-
buryport. But I think I never shall remove.

I can only bid you adieu.

R. King.

R. King to D. Kilham.

New York, Oct. 12th, 1785.
My dear Friend :

. . . I have nothing politically important to communicate.
The subject of commercial embarrassments is exhausted — Con-
gress have no powers — and their recommendations are nugatory. —
A Treaty of commerce has lately been concluded between Prussia
and the United States. This Treaty contains some articles in
favor of humanity and for the protection of the weak, which are
new and without precedent between any nations. But Prussia un-
derstands the principles of war better than those of commerce.
The Treaty gives an important friend to the United States, so far
as paper, ink and seals can convey, but will in a very small de-
gree advance their commerce or riches. A negotiation is upon
the tapis with Spain — but the progress is cautious and slow — and
when the business will terminate, no mortal can conjecture.
England will form no Treaty of commerce in her present exas-
perated temper. The loss of America and the difficulties in Ire-
land irritate the nation to an extreme degree. However well the

6o8 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

King's ministers may be upon the subject of a commercial Treaty,

they will not dare proceed under present circumstances.

Unless the several States vest power in Congress to regulate

commerce, or will themselves agree in some uniform measures,

no Treaty can ever be expected — the reasoning of the British upon

this subject is so obvious, that I will not state it to you. — But

enough — I bid you farewell for this time

And am your

R. K.
This is currente calamo.

To this letter Dr. Kilham gave the following answer :

"Both yours of the 10th & 12th are come to hand and are
favors indeed. . . . The Treaty with Prussia was new to me.
It is always happy when I find a Prince who recollects the cause
of humanity. . . . What are the advantages expected by the
mercantile interest of this country from a treaty of commerce
with G. B. I cannot conceive. Will she stipulate a repeal of her
navigation laws ? Will she oblige herself by treaty, which is an
irreversible law, to admit us to a free commerce in her W. I.
Islands, where she will not admit us by an Act of her Legislature,
revocable at pleasure ? We have nothing to give her which she
esteems an equivalent for those favors ; and to expect her to en-
tertain a partiality for our interest in opposition to her own, we
must be young indeed. We must devise to make her less neces-
sary to us by becoming our own manufacturers notwithstanding
the two mighty objections of want of people and high price of
labor. The observation is so obvious as to be almost frivolous
that if our population is small the consumption of manufactures
must be proportionally so. Our population is quite sufficient for
a proper division of labor and that is all that can be requisite.
When there are a sufficient number of subjects for every species
of industry, they ought to be introduced by Government, for by in-
creasing the species of industry there will be an increase of the gen-
eral ?nass of industry, for many children and infirm persons, out
of the whole variety, will find something to which they may apply
themselves.

The high price of labor operates equally against exporting as
against manufacturing and is the reason why many cargoes are
sold abroad for less than they cost.

APPENDIX, 609

R. King to D. Kilham.

New York, Deer. 8th, 1785.
My dear Friend :

. . . The unaccountable policy of the commercial powers
of Europe concerning the Barbary powers renders it necessary
that America should also pay tribute to these Pirates.

I am very grateful to my friends for any inquiry they may make
about me or my affairs, and hope before many months elapse to
convince them in person of the sincerity of this declaration. Not
even the Ladies of this city, agreeable as many of them are
shall with all their Frailties detain me. I am, I thank God, no
prisoner — my system will not admit the idea. Both you and I
have passed that feverish age, which leads to indiscreet attach-
ments and subjects the reason to the passions.

You ask me what are my habits of business, of amusement ; you
know my disposition upon the general pursuits of life, by having
observed my practices. I have too much pride to be an ignorant
man ; and that constant industry to understand, and form dispo-
sitions of, the complicated and various business before Congress,
is to me a pleasure and amusement.

The amusement of leisure men here lies in the frequent and
elegant private Routs or parties given by the Ladies and Gentle-
men of the city. In addition to these a public assembly and
concert alternately every fortnight. A company of players fur-
nish the pleasures of a theatre three nights every week. I con-
fess this last amusement is very agreeable, and that I partake of
it more frequently and with more satisfaction, than of any other
which this gay City affords.

This is not a letter from the Delegate, but from your friend
and is confidential. I embrace you, adieu !

R. King.

R. King to D. Kilham.

New York, March 5th, 1786.
My dear Friend :

. . . Our domestic affairs are greatly embarrassed, the sub-
ject of revenue is intricate even in the simplest forms of Govern-
ment ; but complex as our federal Government is, all questions
of revenue are complicated in the highest degree. A late act of

vol. II. — 3Q

6lO LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

Congress, stating some of their money engagements, and their
means of complying with them, is a plain statement and refers to
the determination of the States a question infinitely important to
the existence of the Confederacy. The doctrine of Expedients
has brought us thus far ; but expedients serve only to postpone,
and not to remove, the evils which for a time they alleviate. They
are therefore improper and impolitic in a Republic, where the
people determine on all governmental acts, and consequently
ought not only to know, but also to feel, every evil which sur-
rounds them. A false delicacy has sometimes governed the pub-
lic acts of Congress ; an apprehension has been formerly enter-
tained that foreigners would not sufficiently honor and esteem us
if they knew our real situation. This has been a mistaken policy
— America was respectable in arms, she was admired. But peace,
so far from advancing her fame, has diminished her former repu-
tation ; and there are few nations whose public credit is at so low
an ebb as our's. The only method of repossessing what we have
lost, is by giving true information to the people and submitting to
their judgment the promotion and establishment of their own
Glory and Honor. . . .

I am authorized to affirm that I am with the purest esteem and

regard your sincere and obliged friend,

Rufus King.

R. King to D. Kilham.

New York, Apr. 5th, 1786.
My dear Kilham :

Have you wholly forgotten me — if this is the case the event
which I wish to communicate will afford you no pleasure, but like
many pieces of uninteresting intelligence will be read and thought
of no more. I will not believe this to be the case, since the very
information will be an apology why I have not been so diligent a
correspondent as you had good right to expect. The lady to
whom six days since I was married has merits to demand your
esteem ; and when you know her, which I hope will soon be the
fact, will convince you that I ought to be, what I really am, ex-
tremely happy.

I cannot be particular ; time will not permit it, and perhaps
the patience of friendship would be exhausted with the detail. I

APPENDIX. 6ll

hope and expect to take you by the hand in June, when we will
put and answer questions till we are mutually satisfied.

Pray present my respects where they are due — my gratitude to
my fellow townsmen was never more lively than at this moment ;
to them I am indebted for an unmerited partiality and with them
I hope to spend a life not destitute of grateful recollection.
Adieu my dear friend — I embrace you.

R. King.

R. King to D. Kilham.

New York, June 17, 1786.
Dear Kilham :

I was pleased with the instructions of Newburyport to their
Representatives, but much more so when I found you was chair-
man of the committee which reported them for the town's adop-
tion. They have been reprinted in all the newspapers this way,
and have received the approbation of liberal men. . . . You
never have mentioned a word in any of your letters concerning
Doctor Swett ; by the Gazette account of the medical Society, I
am satisfied in finding his name mentioned among the living. I
earnestly wish he may long continue their friend and physician.
When you see him, be good enough to tell him that there is a
Doctor White in Congress from North Carolina who has fre-
quently mentioned to me his acquaintance with Doct. Swett at
Edinburgh. White is a very clever fellow and loves good Bur-
gundy as well as his friend Swett.

I have nothing new to mention to you, except that it is an un-
pleasant thing to be the daily witness of the humiliating situation
of the federal government ; without power, destitute of revenue,
pledged for engagements, and without ability to execute them.

Adieu.

R. King.

R. King to D. Kilham.

New York, Oct. 29, 1786.
Dear Sir :

Two posts have arrived and I heard not a word from any
member of the General Court. You must be impressed with the
sentiment that we are extremely anxious to be informed of every

6l2 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

step taken by the Legislature at this critical juncture of the Gov-
ernment. What measures you will pursue to preserve the Com-
monwealth, it is your duty diligently to inquire. Wisdom and
Fortitude ought most highly to distinguish the present Assembly.
Upon what they do, or omit, in an eminent degree must depend
the national safety. The evil is of great magnitude, and the
remedy must be equally extensive and wholly efficacious. I con-
fess that I was greatly surprized when in Boston to find such
apathy among the people when the Government was convulsed
and the existence of the Commonwealth was in danger. Very few
men appear to be informed (or if informed continue silent) of the
dangerous principles avowed by the leaders of the Insurgents.

These men publicly avow the opinion — that all America, which
was formerly under the British Government and now within
the United States, was acquired by the people of the United
States, and by their joint exertions ; that all men being by
nature equal, the Property ought to be equally divided among all
the citizens of the United States ; and that upon the principles of
this acquisition, and the dissolution of the Government existing
before the Revolution, all debts contracted before that period are
annihilated and any attempts to inforce their payment are attempts
for plunder and robbery.

I have the best authority for affirming that these pernicious
principles are cherished and industriously propagated by the lead-
ers of the Insurgents. If when opinions so fatal to the Common-
wealth are openly taught and justified, they, who by their office
are bound to watch for the safety of the Government, content
themselves with limited applications and detail reforms, when the
evil is general, and the disease has possessed itself of the vitals,
there is good reason to despair of the Commonwealth and to give
up all to Anarchy and confusion.

Farewell yours sincerely
Rufus King.

R. King to D. Kilham.

New York, Nov. 19, 1786.
My dear Sir :

Your account of the proceedings of the General Court has

afforded me much more information than I had received from any

APPENDIX. 613

other quarter ; pray continue to write to me, as you must be con-
vinced of the anxiety I entertain concerning the public affairs at
this very critical juncture. I will write to B. T., but I wish you
had been particular in suggesting the points that I should
dwell upon.

I can hardly suppose it possible that he should entertain any
Ideas unfavorable to public or private credit. As to the griev-
ances of the People, so loudly and generally complained of, I
confess myself in opposition to the opinions of those who unite in
these complaints. Grievances can not be suffered in a Govern-
ment constituted as our Government is. The laws are the acts
of a majority of the people — every citizen by the nature of the
social compact is bound to submit to this majority — the execution
or administration of such laws are not grievances. If the laws
are incautiously or unwisely enacted, and the majority think so,
they may be annulled by the new Legislature — the operation of
a law, inconvenient or unwise in itself, can continue but a single
year, because it will be repealed, if the majority unite in opinion
that it is inconvenient or unwise. No law would be passed which
would be so enormous or bad, that it would be intolerable for one
year ; what reason is there then for the complaints, and rash pro-
ceedings of the present opponents of our Government ?

I will not add upon this subject — you have fully considered
and are extremely capable of examining, the subject — my re-
marks must therefore be either erroneous, or unnecessary because

they have before passed in your mind.

Farewell

R. King.

We have not yet made a Congress. Who will be President is
yet uncertain ; probably Mr. Nash of No. Carolina, or Mr. Jno.
Langdon of New Hampshire should the latter come on.

R. King to D. Kilham.

New York, Jan. 28, 1787.
Dear Kilham :

. . . Nothing has taken place in the general affairs of the
Union since I saw you of any consequence except the measures

6 14 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

that you are well acquainted with. Indeed Congress separated
in October and have not since been organized. Seven States will
probably be represented tomorrow, when possibly we may elect
a President. I pray you to write me. . . .

Farewell, be assured that I am most affectionately yours,

Rufus King.

Dr. Kilham writes to Mr. King about the same date.

" I think the proceedings of the Gt. in its present sessions must
give you the greatest pleasure, & the present spirit I doubt not
will be a remedy superior to the great misfortunes we have actu-
ally suffered, and to prevent the of Rebellion. They
passed an act disqualifying all who have acted as non-commis-
sioned officers or privates from holding any civil or military
or town offices for a term, and conditioned also from being elec-
tors in the choice of any of these offices. This we hope will
be a security against corruption in the approaching election.
Gen. Lincoln is to be continued with a force of iooo or 1500 men
in the disaffected counties till the peace shall appear to be per-
fectly restored and confirmed. The time being nearly expired for
which the first drafts were made, they are to be replaced by them-
selves or others, and good funds are provided for their subsist-
ence and payment. This last circumstance is the most material.
Gentlemen of property are growing prudent and begin to insure
by advancing liberally, and the dishonest part of the Legislature
begin to discern that faith is as necessary in politics as in religion.

" After the spirit of Rebellion is completely subdued the busi-
ness will be half done ; a spirit of obedience and industry is to
be restored which is the greatest object of Legislation.

" I have learned by the Gazette that Congress have assembled.
The affairs of the Union are daily growing more serious. I
should be much gratified to know what order will be taken on
them. In my last I wrote you on the subject of the Con-
vention. I hope to have your opinion before you receive this.
To me the difficulties appear unsurmountable."

APPENDIX. 615

R. King to Daniel Kilham.

New York, Nov. 25, 1787.

It is a long time since I heard anything from you. Permit me
to inquire of you how the public opinion stands relative to the
measures of Government in the suppression of the Rebellion ?
How goes Electioneering ? Men and measures are now very inti-
mately united. Displace men and you disapprove measures such
men supported.

Farewell

R. King.

On the reverse of this, without date, is the following in
Dr. Kilham's handwriting :

" I have of late been absent, therefore did not receive your's of
25th ult. till you must have learnt the public opinion on the
subject of your enquiry.

" You will perceive by the new Elections that the public are
dissatisfied & very unhappy & so long as the people remain their
own governors and mistake the cause of their misfortunes they
must continue so. In this country there will be almost a total
change of Senators — those most probably elected are Mr. Good-
hue, Mr. Coffin, Mr. Wood, Mr. Osgood ; some of whom have
never been men in any public office. There will undoubtedly
be as great changes in the House, but what they will be is yet too
early to determine. Many draw the most unfavorable conclu-
sions from these circumstances. I do not. If the people are
pleased with their governors they will more patiently submit to
the government, and it is essential that a free people should be
satisfied with their Rulers. After the present change the people
I wish may begin to be composed, but if not, though I believe G.
himself scarcely knows by what operation it is to be effected,
some material change must take place in our national government.
So many men & so much property can never be without some
government, & if they are very corrupt and very licentious, it
must be an absolute one, which G. avert — I expect to hear from
you in B." (No signature.)

6l6 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

APPENDIX II.

Endorsed in Rufus King's handwriting :
"Conference with Ld. Grenville Aug. ioth, 1796."

According to Ld. Grenville's appointment I waited on him at
11 o'ck A.M.

I stated to him that I brought with me Dispatches altogether
favorable to a firm Friendship & perfect Harmony between our
two Countries and that my endeavours would be directed to this
object.

After shewing him my second Commission authorizing a con-
tinuation of Mr. Jay's Negotiation, &c, I observed that the objec-
tion to the XII Article was the limitation of the Tonnage, and
the Restriction not to export from the U. S. certain enumerated
articles — that altho' formerly perhaps f of our Vessels, employed
in the W. In. Trade were at or under 70 tons, that now perhaps
not one in Eight of our Sea Vessels were of so small a Tonnage —
that the duration of the article wd. not in Prudence permit the
building of New Vessels, and besides that they wd. be un-
profitable as nearly the same men and expenses would navigate
a vessel of perhaps 100 tons, and that in the carrying of Lumber
the Freight wd. not be an object in a vessel of that Tonnage.

That in respect to the Restriction not to export the enumerated
articles, we had thought we might agree in applying it solely to
such as were reed, from the Br. Islands, and that our system of
Drawbacks wd. execute the Stipulations — but that on a fuller
consideration, we had found that if we entered into this Stipula-
tion with G. B. the other Powers holding W. In. Cols. wd. expect
us to form a similar Stipulation, the consequence of wh. would
be to reinstate the Article in its originally objectionable shape.
That we thought the regulations of little consequence to G.B. in-
asmuch as we shd. rarely take from them any articles except their
Rum ; their other productions being ordinarily higher in their
price than in the neighbouring Islands. Besides all the coloniz-
ing Powers had for the last half Century opened their W. In. Cols,
in time of war without any such Restriction and that it would be
better to suffer the Commerce to stand on its ordinary Footing

APPENDIX. 617

which wd. give us a share of it in time of war, than to form a
Stipulation that would contain the Restraints proposed.

Lord Grenville said that the limitation of the tonnage was de-
sired by them on the same principle as they wished a Restraint
agt. our re-exporting W. In. Produce — that they wished to pre-
vent our becoming the carriers of their W. In. Produce to the
different European Powers — that they had not been sensible that
so few of our vessels were of the proposed tonnage — that it would
be requisite that he shd. confer on these Points with those at the
Head of the Trade and Colony Systems, &c. &c.

I then observed that no subject was so embarrassing as that of
our Seamen — and that I hardly knew how to express myself re-
specting it — that I fear our claims might be wide of each other,
and that the true mean wd. be difficult to agree in. His Lordship
said that he was sensible of the Difficulty ; that placing himself
on our side it was obvious, and he requested me to take his Place
for a moment in order to perceive the motives which influenced
them — that their Navy was their safeguard — that their Admirals
and Admiralty Board were constantly complaining that the navy
was decaying from the Embarrassment experienced in manning
their Ships — that the British Seamen were escaping the public
service by engaging in the American Employ and challenging the
Protection of the American Flag.

I said that my Ideas were far from settled on any precise plan
— that we thought, after fair reflection, and a full view of the
situation of the claim of G. B., that we were entitled to pass the
High Seas without interruption — that when we came within the
Br. Jurisdiction a right of Examination in order to obtain Br.
Seamen wd. not be contested — that in the Ports of the Kingdom
some Embarrassment might result from the Examination, yet it
wd. be much less than would be the Case in the Colonies where
the exercise of this Claim was very injurious to our Citizens, and
ruinous in some cases to our Merchants.

That if we could by convention adjust these Points in a fair
and reasonable manner, it would wonderfully tend to promote
Friendship & Good Will between us.

That a Plan of Protection had been adopted, (here I explained
to Ld. G. the Tenor of the late Law, which his Lordship appeared
to have in some degree misconceived and to have thought very

6l8 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

lightly of) but the ex parte Representations would be of little
avail to compose the public opinion entertained on either side :
hence the advantage of an adjustment by Convention : that the
Proofs after all would constitute the real Difficulty. We did not
desire to withdraw from their Duty their people, in order to en-
gage them in our Employ ; our only wish was to secure our own
People from being forced out of our Ships, whereby they were
injured and our Commerce exposed to infinite Embarrassment.

Lord Grenville said that with respect to an exemption from
examination, &c, on the High Seas, unless great latitude was
given to their Doctrine of the four Seas, &c, the Position would
differ from what they had practiced, and as they supposed with-
out injustice to for. stations — that they man their Navy by
cruising with their Frigates in the chops of the Channel where
they met their Merchantmen, which, as soon as they have come
near their Ports, usually suffer their seamen to go on Shore, leav-
ing only the Officers & a Boy or two, with Protections on board
to Navigate the Vessel.

It was understood between Lord G. & me that this conversa-
tion shd. be viewed as only breaking the Subject, that he shd.
consult with Lord Spencer and his Colleagues, and that instead
of writing we shd. freely converse on this and such other Topics
as shd. come up, and shd. we advance towards any Result, that
then it shd. be put in Paper.

Lord Grenville here adverted to our late Law authorizing the
appointment of an Agent to reside in their VV. Ind ; he said he
wished this measure had been considered, and if it should have
been found proper, that Instructions shd. have been given to their
Governors &c respecting it — that at present it was not allowed to
any Nation to send an Agent into yr. colonies, that looking at
their laws, he apprehended that their Governors wd. not think
themselves authorized to permit the Residence of such a charac-
ter, and he felt uneasy lest the sending away of such agent should
be unfavorably construed in America. I suggested the expedi-
ency of an early attention to the subject, promised a copy of the
Law and intimated the idea of an Instruction wh. shd. allow such
agent to reside, say in Jamaica, there to receive applications from
Amer. Seamen &c, confining his agency to a correspondence with
the Govr., who shd. in this respect have authority to enquire of

APPENDIX. 619

their Navy officers. This arrangement suggested itself from Ld.
G's having said that a secret correspondence between such Agent
and the Admirals, Captains & seamen would undiscipline their
Navy.

We were here interrupted by a Messenger with Letters, wh.
Lord Grenville on opening found to come from the D. Portland's
office, being dispatches of the 11 & 18 June from Lord Dor-
chester. He read them and said he wd. send me copies. They

stated Cap. Lewis' arrival at Quebec, his dispatches from

and his arrangements to give up the Posts immediately, wh. he
says Cap. Lewis desired might be delayed till our Troops arrived
to receive them. The last letter mentions Lewis' Departure from
Quebec & the order being issued to the several Posts by the Adj.
Genl., duplicates of wh. were given to Cap. Lewis for the delivery
of the Posts to the American Detachments.

I mentioned to Ld. Grenville that it would be satisfactory,
could I have it in my Power to say when I wrote to America that
the Commissioners on their and our part had formed their Board
and that the preparatory arrangements were in train for their
commencing business. He replied that Mr. Hammond had reed,
his instructions to have the Commission to yr. Commrs. prepared,
and he had signed an order for the placing the Great Seal to it,
but that Mr. H's departure wh. was sudden, had produced some
delay ; that the measure shd. advance, and if the Commissioners
could agree to meet on Saturday or Monday, he wd. endeavor
that Dr. Nicholl & Mr. Anstey should be previously furnished
with their commissions.

I then asked his Lordship whether he had any Evidence of the
authenticity of the Letter published a day or two since, as from
the Directory to M. Barthelemi, announcing the determination to
stop neutral cargoes bound to Br. Ports, &c, &c. He said he be-
lieved it authentic, but had no other than the same Evidence that
was before the Public, that he had intended to have spoken to me
about it, indeed he had been desirous of writing to me in order
that I might have it in my power to contradict the allegation that
G. B. had issued any order of the tenor alleged in the letter in
question, but that he did not know how to take notice of a Docu-
ment of the authenticity of whh. he was not fully and regularly
ascertained ; but that he expected shortly to hear from the King's

620 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

minister at Basle, when if the Document proved, as he believed it,
true, he would write me a letter on the subject.

He added on my enquiry that no new order had been issued on
the subject of captures, &c.

APPENDIX III.

The great importance of the proper adjustment of the
questions involved in the settlement of the claims of Ameri-
can citizens against Great Britain, under the 7th article of
Jay's treaty, is sufficient warrant for giving here the long
dispatch of Mr. King to the Secretary of State, showing
both the ability and excellent spirit with which the case was
stated and maintained by Mr. King and responded to in
the same temper by Lord Grenville and the Lord Chancellor.
The consequence was, as will be seen, that the proceedings
of the Commission, which had been interrupted and seemed
likely to come to an end without accomplishing the purpose
for which the Commission was appointed, were renewed and
continued, with one slight break, until the claims were set-
tled to the satisfaction of both governments.

In the letter of January 14, 1797, to the Secretary of State,
Mr. King refers to the embarrassments which had occurred
in the proceedings of the Commissioners in London, under
the 7th article of the treaty with Great Britain, and which
had been happily removed, and promised a more detailed
report of the occurrences. This report, with that of an ad-
ditional conversation with Lord Grenville on the subject, is
presented in this appendix.

R. King to the Secretary of State.

London, Feby. 26th, 1797.
Dear Sir :

Having already informed you, that the embarrassments, which
have been experienced by the Commissioners under the 7th arti-
cle of the Treaty with this country had been satisfactorily removed,

APPENDIX. 62 1

it may seem useless that I should send you a particular report on
that subject. But as the provisions of the 6th article are analo-
gous to those of the 7th, the proceedings which have taken place
respecting the latter may have some influence in giving a con-
struction to the former, and hence the propriety of your being
made acquainted with them.

The repeated objections to the jurisdiction of the Commission-
ers, having about the middle of December brought the board to a
stand, I considered it to be my duty to ask of Lord Grenville
a conference upon the subject, which took place on the 16th of
December in the following manner.

I have desired this conference, my Lord, in order to state from
the communications of the American Commissioners what I under-
stand to be the situation of the Questions that have been brought
before them ; it is my duty to report the same to my Government ;
but it is previously proper to ascertain with precision how far the
proceedings under the directions of the King's Advocate General
are to be considered as having received the approbation of his
Majesty's Government, and whether they are to be followed up
in the consequences to which they lead. A case of each class
into which the American claims divide themselves has been
brought before the Commissioners by Mr. Bayard, the American
agent. These cases, pursuant to a rule of proceeding adopted by
the Board, have been severally notified to Mr. Gostling, the King's
Proctor, who has, in each case, given in an answer denying the
jurisdiction of the Commissioners. Thus in the class of cases,
which have been decided in the High Court of Appeals, Mr. Gost-
ling replies that the Commissioners have no jurisdiction, because
the sentence of that Court is definitive : in the class depending be-
fore the High Court of Admiralty, and before the High Court of
Appeals, that the Commissioners have no jurisdiction, because
the claimants, if entitled, may obtain compensation in the ordi-
nary course of justice ; in the class, in which unsatisfactory De-
crees have been rendered in the lower Courts, and against which,
for various reasons, appeals have not been claimed, or prosecuted,
that the Commissioners have no jurisdiction because it has been
from the neglect of the claimants, that they are unable to obtain
compensation in the ordinary course of justice. — The consequence
of which replies appears to be that there is no case in which the

622 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

Commissioners can act. — The Commissioners on the part of his
Majesty's Government have moreover intimated an opinion that
it was their duty, in every case in which the King's Proctor should
deny the jurisdiction of the Board, to abstain from deciding such
question of jurisdiction, and to refer the cases to their Government
for instruction ; and that, in case a majority of the Board of
Commissioners shall differ from them in this opinion, it would be
lawful for them to withdraw and thereby incapacitate the Board
from deciding such Question.

I am not prepared, said Lord Grenville, to answer officially
upon this subject. I have read over the Papers presented to the
Commissioners by Mr. Bayard, and the answers of Mr. Gostling,
and they are in circulation preparatory to a meeting of the Council,
where the subject must be considered before I can give you a
regular answer. I have no difficulty, however, in communicating
to you my way of thinking upon most of the points. Without
making professions, I may be allowed to say that I have an
earnest desire that this Business should proceed in a satisfactory
manner. I labored much in forming the Treaty with America,
and I have considered it as an act that was likely to afford me
much pleasure and some reputation. I must, therefore, wish the
removal of every obstruction that can in any way defeat the ob-
ject of my labor ; but we are obliged, sir, to pay great deference
to every thing connected by law, or usage, with our national
marine, which forms our national safeguard. England, therefore,
holds high those maxims of the Law of Nations, which respect
maritime questions, and she has always maintained what this Law
sanctions, that every nation has a perfect right by her own Tri-
bunals to decide questions of Prize. Her Supreme Court for the
trial of such questions is composed of characters distinguished for
their learning and respectable for their rank ; it is the Highest
and most honorable Court of the Nation, excepting only the
House of Lords. It is natural, therefore, that we should en-
deavour to preserve all possible respect for, and by every suitable
means prevent the existence of a doubt concerning, the justice of
this Court. I am fearful, continued Lord Grenville, that these
questions have been unadvisedly raised ; a few which might have
been omitted, have given birth to reflections, that with a little more
caution would not have existed. Mr. Bayard should not have

APPENDIX. 623

alleged, an illegal and unjust decree of the High Court of Appeals,
as the ground of his applications to the Commissioners. In cases
of Costs, Demurrage, Freight, &c, in which there have been no
appeals, and in which the omission or delay can be accounted for ;
in cases under the order of the 6th of Novr. ; in cases where new
evidence can be procured ; in cases where a general opinion pre-
vailed that it would be of no advantage to appeal ; and possibly
in other cases, there would be a propriety, said Lord Grenville,
that the Commissioners should afford relief. In respect to the
cases in which the Decrees of the High Court of Appeals were
not satisfactory, it is now somewhat difficult to form a correct
opinion. Had no question arisen, it would be much less embar-
rassing. It would seem to be an extraordinary situation for
England to place herself in, to appear before the Commissioners
to contest a precise charge of illegality and injustice in the Decree
of the High Court of Appeals, and upon a re-examination of the
matter of such Decrees to see them reversed. Would not the rule
that each Nation has an exclusive right of deciding maritime
questions be weakened thereby ? Might not foreign Nations,
hereafter, impeach the justice of our High Court of Appeals and
adduce in support of their charge a decision of these Commis-
sioners reversing its Decrees ? It must not, however, be under-
stood that the King's Government will of course support the pleas
offered by Mr. Gostling. The Government employ him as their
Proctor, who in imitation of the lawyer of other clients, will en-
deavour to make the best defense for his principal, and in doing
so may offer a plea that the Commissioners will perhaps adjudge
a bad one. The conduct of our Commissioners, continued Lord
Grenville, appears to have been cautious and prudent, the right to
withdraw is perhaps countenanced by that part of the 7th Article
that requires the presence of one commissioner at least of each
side ; thus leaving with the respective Governments a power, by
instructing their Commissioners to withdraw, to prevent the deci-
sion of any question not intended to be submitted to them. Thus
if ihe Lot should give to Great Britain the fifth Commissioner
under the 6th Article, and these Commissioners should attempt
to draw within their jurisdiction questions clearly without the
same, perhaps the American Government might instruct their
Commissioners to withdraw and thereby in such cases arrest the

624 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

proceedings of the Board. Under all circumstances, said Lord
Grenville, it may be adviseable to defer for the present giving any
information to your Government upon this subject. I shall proba-
bly be able to answer officially in the course of a week and the
Packet will sail in the beginning of January : If you think it requi-
site in the present posture of the Business to write to your Gov-
ernment, I must also write to Mr. Liston.

I am quite content, my Lord, to defer writing in hopes that it
will become unnecessary ; I will however ask your Lordship's at-
tention to a few short observations at this time ; and I will begin
by observing, that I am persuaded, and might add that I know,
that the few objectionable points which are found in Mr. Bayard's
memorials to the Commissioners, did not originate with us ; they
were suggested by and added at the instance of Doct. Nicholl,
one of your Commissioners, and of this fact I will take care to
furnish your Lordship with satisfactory proof. We adopted the
language of the Treaty, which was sufficient for our purpose, and
were, therefore, without inclination or motive to impute injus-
tice to the High Court of Appeals. We well understood that the
Commissioners were not to be considered in the precise light of
an appellate Court, having authority to reverse the Decrees which
have been rendered in any of his Majesty's Courts of Admiralty,
or to order the restoration of the thing which had been condemned
by them. The Remedy of the Treaty, instead of such restoration,
is a compensation in money for the loss of it, which supposes the
sentence of condemnation, as between the original parties, to
stand unreversed, and the property vested accordingly. We, how-
ever, never doubted, nor, in our opinion, does the language of the
Treaty permit a doubt, that we may demand compensation, in
money to be paid by his Majesty's Government for losses and
damages sustained by reason of the condemnation, as well as on
account of the irregular capture of our ships and cargos. Without
going into a particular examination of the Article, I can not sup-
pose that any difference of opinion will exist upon its true con-
struction in this respect. Disclaiming the opinion that the
Commissioners can reverse the Decrees of your Courts of Ad-
miralty so as to affect the title to the property held under them,
we conceive that every question to be decided by the Commis-
sioners is between different parties, and that their awards will

APPENDIX. 625

operate not against the original Captors, but upon the King's
Treasury.

But, my Lord, I am not surprized that difficulties of this sort
have arisen without ascribing improper, much less impure, motives
to Doctr. Nicholl, from whom they have proceeded, or to any
others of the learned corps to which he belongs. I will take the
liberty to observe, that I have apprehended a strong and sys-
tematical, as well as a skilful and persevering opposition to any
interpretation of the Treaty, which will remove the many Ameri-
can Causes depending in the Courts of Admiralty and submit
them to an extraordinary and more summary Tribunal. It is
natural enough that this should happen — three or four hundred
Causes, prudently managed, would prove very profitable, and for a
long time so. This is a delicate suggestion, and I rely upon your
Lordship's candor for my apology. Of one fact, we can give your
Lordship the strongest assurances, which is, that we have no pref-
erence of mere forms ; that which shall be efficacious to pro-
cure for us the compensation we claim and expect, and which
shall be most satisfactory to you will be most agreeable to us.

Lord Grenville entered into no farther observations on the sub-
ject and concluded the conference by expressing a wish that
I would have a conversation upon the subject with the Lord
Chancellor.

On the next day I met the Lord Chancellor at the Duke of
Portland's, who told me that he was desirous of conversing with
me respecting Questions which had arisen relative to the powers
of the Commissioners. On my replying that I should be happy
to meet him at any time that he should appoint, he named the
next morning. I accordingly waited on him, when he began by
observing, I have been reading Mr. Bayard's & Mr. Gostling's
papers, and I do not think either of them such as they ought to
be. It was not necessary for Mr. Bayard to allege formally, that
the Decree of the High Court of Appeals was illegal and unjust,
in order to make out a case proper for the examination of the
Commissioners. It seems to me, therefore, that Mr. Bayard
should take back, or amend, or prefer in a different form his
claim, so that it should adopt and follow the terms of the Arti-
cle ; and on the other side, these general demurrers of Mr. Gost-
ling are absurd and he must take them back. The reasons

VOL. II. — 40

626 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

assigned by him against the Jurisdiction of the Commissioners, or
in bar of the claim, are the very cases which it was intended
should be examined and decided by the Commissioners. I told
the Lord Chancellor that his observations confirmed me in my
opinions, and then stated to him the observations which I had
made to Lord Grenville. Having with me an abstract of the
Papers of Mr. Bayard and Mr. Gostling, I referred to several of
the cases, and the Lord Chancellor concurred in the remarks that
I made respecting them. Adverting to the Case of the Betsy,
Furlong Master, in which the High Court of appeals had con-
firmed the condemnation in toto, I suggested that this was under-
stood to be a case in which upon every principle the claimants
ought to be compensated ; and saying this, I asked the Chancellor
in what manner and on what allegations it could in his opinion be
brought before the Commissioners — He replied that the Decree
might have been proper as between the captor and claimant,
though the claimant might thereby have suffered loss and damage,
on account of which according to the stipulation of the Treaty,
he may have a fair demand upon the King for compensation ;
that therefore it might be alleged that on all the circumstances
of the case, the claimant was under the Treaty entitled to com-
pensation for loss and damage from the King's Treasury.

I said that I was apprehensive that the Corps of civilians would
embarrass us. He replied that he thought he had seen in that
question a dislike to the article and to the proceedings of the
Commissioners ; but that if Mr. Gostling persisted in his Demur-
rers, they must change him. I again alluded to an opposition
from Doctor's Commons, and added that I had understood that
they expressed themselves pretty strongly upon this subject — some-
times intimating an opinion that the order of the King for pro-
longing the time within which appeals could be claimed was
illegal, and at others, going still farther and declaring that the
King had no right or power to make a Treaty, stipulating what is
contained in the 7th Article. The Chancellor said, this was go-
ing very far indeed — that he however was not a stranger to the
character of Doctor's Commons, that he had himself found some
trouble with them, and related a decision that had lately taken
place in the Probate of a will which appeared extraordinary ; he
added that Sir William Scott was undoubtedly a fair and honora-

APPENDIX. 62 7

ble character, and in his belief would be disposed to give the
natural and proper course to the business that should be brought
before the Commissioners. I expressed my hope that this would
be the case and observed that the complaints of our merchants
and the commercial injuries which we sustained induced Mr.
Jay's mission — that we have always conceived that these cases were
to be fairly and liberally examined and that those who have suf-
fered were to be fully compensated — that in respect to the amount,
great or small, if just, it was due ; and the sum was of small con-
sequence compared to a liberal settlement which should inspire
harmony and a friendly correspondence between the two coun-
tries. The Chancellor replied that these reflections were cer-
tainly just. I suppose, said he, the sum will be large, but that is
of no importance. He then expressed a desire to see our Com-
missioners, and concluded by asking me to send him a formula,
such as I would approve, to be used by Mr. Bayard in presenting
our claims to the Commissioners.

On the following day I sent him the formula ; and likewise
sent to Lord Grenville a copy of a letter written to me by Messrs.
Gore and Pinkney, explaining the manner in which the objec-
tionable part of Mr. Bayard's memorials had been adopted. My
note to Lord Grenville likewise supplied an omission that had
occurred on my part in the conference I had had with him. The
following is a copy of the note :

Mr. King presents his compliments to Lord Grenville, and in order that the
origin of the form employed by Mr. Bayard in presenting the claims of the
American citizens to the Comms. under the 7th Article of the Treaty between
his Britanc. Majesty and the United States may be fully understood, he takes
the liberty for his Lordship's information, to inclose the copy of a letter on the
subject, that he has received from Messrs. Gore & Pinkney the Amer. Comrs.
In reviewing the conference which Mr. King had the honor to hold with Lord
Grenville on Friday, it occurred to him that he had omitted to state to his Lord-
ship an opinion that he has supposed to be correct, respecting a point of some
importance which his Lordship may have seen in a light somewhat different
from that in which it has appeared to Mr. King.

Mr. King alludes to the intimation of an opinion on the part of the British
Commissioners that in every case in which the jurisdiction of the Board of Com-
missioners should be questioned by his Majesty's Proctor, it would be proper that
the Board should refer such question to the decision of the two Nations and in
the meantime forbear to act respecting such case — and that if after the sugges-
tion of a question of jurisdiction by his Majesty's Proctor, the Board should at-

628 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUE US KING.

tempt to proceed, it would be justifiable in the British Commissioners to with-
draw and thereby prevent the Board from acting on any question that should
arise in such case. The provision in the Treaty which requires the presence of
at least one Comr. of each party to make a Board, is supposed to authorize this
course of proceeding ; and a supposed case of an obviously improper extension
of jurisdiction has been stated as one, that would require to be thus arrested.

Without detaining his Lordship with a recital of the numerous references, and
endless negotiations that must result from this practice, it seems pertinent to
observe, that neither of the reasons appear sufficient to excuse, much less to
authorize, so hazardous a course. It was essential to the impartiality of the
Board, and conformable to common usage in private submissions, that one of
the arbitrators named on each side should be present at the examination and
discussion of every question : but has it ever from hence been inferred, that the
arbitrators of either party could with propriety be withdrawn in order to arrest
the hearing and defeat the decision of the question submitted ; or, is this the
only, and therefore the proper, mode of avoiding the inconveniences of the de-
cision of a question, not submitted, or without the jurisdiction of the Commission-
ers ? The decision of a question not submitted, or without the jurisdiction of the
Comrs. would be utterly void and in no degree obligatory. If, for example, the
Board should receive a complaint, and award the payment of money in the case of
a capture that happened since the exchange of the Ratification of the Treaty, or
before the commencement of the existing war, as such award would be plainly
without jurisdiction in the Board, it would be void, and his Majesty's Govern-
ment would not be bound to pay the money so irregularly and illegally awarded ;
and so in every case in which the Commissioners should make a decision with-
out, or beyond the limits of their jurisdiction ; and in this principle which seems
incontrovertible in public as well as in municipal law, is found a perfect security
against every irregularity of this sort that can be imagined or apprehended. Mr.
King has taken the liberty to present these hasty reflections to Lord Grenville,
which he omitted when this topic was the subject of their late conversation : as
that was understood to be not official, Mr. King requests the favor of Lord
Grenville, to receive these observations as a part of that conversation which was
omitted.

Great Cumberland Place, Dec. 18th, 1796.

Nothing further occurred till the 26th of Dec, when on the in-
vitation of the Lord Chancellor, Messrs. Trumbull, Gore and
Pinkney accompanied me to his Lordship's house ; who, after the
customary salutations, observed that he had gone over all the
cases, except one, which had been presented by the Commission-
ers ; and that he thought these cases would divide themselves into
three classes.

The First, including the cases of condemnation in the High
Court of Appeals,

APPENDIX. 629

The Second, including the cases in which there have been Decrees
of restoration, but without costs and damages and if con-
demnation without freight and costs.

The Third, including the cases in which the right of appeal had
been lost.

In respect to the first class, the Lord Chancellor said that the
Decrees must stand ; that they settled the property and could not
be affected by any act of the Commissioners. There may have
been sufficient reasons for the Court of Appeals to condemn as the
questions stood before them — and nevertheless there may exist a
fair and equitable claim upon the King's Treasury, under the pro-
visions of the Treaty for complete compensation for the losses
sustained by such condemnations.

The like observation is applicable to the second class ; the de-
cree of restoration in the opinion of the claimant was just, but he
thinks it did not go far enough and claims Costs and Damages ;
and the decree of condemnation in certain cases has been legal,
but the claimant expected freight ; the captures under the order
of the 6th of Novr. fall within this class. Here the captors had
colour of authority to seize and send in for adjudication : the
Court would restore the property, but would not condemn the
captors in Costs ; and yet it will be just that the claimants should
receive his Costs and Damages.

In respect to the Third Class, the Court of Appeals were obliged
in some instances to refuse the appeal, because a limited time
having been allowed to prefer the appeal, and that time having
expired, the captors thereby acquired Rights, not within the dis-
cretion of the High Court of Appeals to impair. Still the claimant
may be able in a satisfactory manner to account for his not having
come seasonably forward with his appeal. This is undoubtedly a
case within the provisions of the Treaty. The property will not,
it cannot, be restored ; but the full value thereof may be, and in
such cases, must be paid out of the King's Treasury.

The Commissioners are not a Court of Appeals, above our High
Court of Appeals : they are however competent to re-examine
questions decided by the High Court of Appeals as well as all
other cases described in the Treaty ; and they can give redress,
not by reversing Decrees, already passed, and restoring the iden-

630 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

tical property, but by ascertaining the amount of the Loss or
Damages that the claimant has sustained and awarding the pay-
ment thereof to be made by his Majesty's Treasury. The Chan-
cellor continued by saying, he had examined the case of the
Betsey — Furlong, Master ; there is no reason, said the Chancellor,
assigned by the Judge of Bermuda sufficient for the condemna-
tion. The circumstance of this capture's being made as the vessel
was coming out of Guadaloupe (which Island, Admiral Jarvis, in
a letter he wrote upon the subject, declares to have been blockaded
from the date of the arrival of his Majesty's fleet in the West In-
dies) did not authorize the Vice- Admiralty to condemn her, nor
for this cause & any of those alleged by the Vice-Admiralty Judge,
could the High Court of Appeals have affirmed the decree of con-
demnation. The question of Blockade is one of fact ; there
cannot be a blockade by construction : the capture must be by
the fleet, or ship, which makes the blockade ; and the vessel must
be in the act of attempting to enter the blockaded place — A vessel
on her voyage, and at a distance, but intending to go to a place
blockaded, is not for such intention liable to capture, but two
points which were new, and which the claimants could not be pre-
pared to meet, were made before the H. C. of Appeals ; one was,
that Patterson, one of the claimants, was a British subject ; the
other, that another of the owners was domiciliated at Guadaloupe.
Now if the claimants are able to controvert these points, and can
shew the allegations not to be true, the Commissioners will cer-
tainly award compensation for their Loss and Damage to be paid
out of his Majesty's Treasury. The Chancellor added that he
thought the Formula that I had sent him was a proper one ; that
in his opinion, it would be adviseable that Mr. Bayard should take
back his memorials and prefer others ; and that Mr. Gostling
must take back his Demurrers. Upon its being suggested that
the same embarrassments might arise in future, if upon every ob-
jection to the competency of the Commissioners, a reference must
be made to the respective Governments for their Instructions, in-
stead of such questions being decided by the Commissioners
themselves, the Chancellor said that the doubt respecting the
authority of the Commissioners to settle their own jurisdiction
was absurd ; and that they must necessarily decide upon a case's
being within, or without, their competency.

APPENDIX. 63I

Soon after this conference with the Lord Chancellor, Parlia-
ment adjourned for the Christmas Holidays, and the business of
the Commissioners remained suspended till the 24th of January,
when by appointment I met Lord Grenville at his office, who in-
formed me that he had experienced much uneasiness on account
of the delays which had taken place in the business of the Com-
missioners ; but they had not been able sooner to come to a
decision respecting the subject of our former conferences. He
now hoped that the Commissioners would go on with farther in-
terruption. He had sent for (he said) their Commissioners and
had told them " that it was the opinion of the King's Govern-
ment that they should proceed in examining and deciding every
question that should be brought before them according to the con-
viction of their consciences ; in doing which they would examine
cases already decided and award on them and all others according
to the Provisions of the Treaty, which it would likewise be their
duty to consider and interpret."

Lord Grenville added, that they had thought it would not be
adviseable to put any thing in writing, as that would have the ap-
pearance of a new or explanatory article ; and he thought there
would not arise any future embarrassment. I replied, that I was
happy to perceive that the business would now proceed ; that I
had no desire that anything should be in writing : but as many
persons were interested in the questions depending before the
Commissioners, and as a rumour had gone abroad that the busi-
ness had for some time been at a stand, which rumour would un-
doubtedly reach America, I should think it proper, in order that
no inconvenience should proceed from these reports, to state the
result of the Conferences that I had had with him ; I added that
so confident had I been, that ultimately there could not be a dif-
ference of opinion, that I had already ventured to say that I was
persuaded that every embarrassment would be removed — and
concluded my reply by saying that I should have great pleasure
in being able in consequence of what had now passed, to write to
my Government that, agreeable to my former intimation, 1 was
authorized to say that the Commissioners would in future proceed
to consider & decide, according to the provisions of the Treaty,
every question that should be brought before them. I thought
the occasion a suitable one to insinuate an opinion respecting the

632 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

instruction of that part of the Treaty which limits the time within
which claims must be presented to the Commissioners ; after
speaking of a letter that I had written to his Lordship complain-
ing of the delays of Sir James Marriott's Court, which Lord
Grenville observed was in train to bring the subject under con-
sideration, I said that I sincerely hoped the High Court of Ap-
peals would also proceed with greater expedition than hitherto
they had done ; that for various considerations it was much to be
desired that the many American Cases now before the Court, as
well as those which may soon be expected to be there, should be
decided by them, in preference to the Commissioners. But the
limitation of time within which our claims must be presented to
the Commissioners, necessarily limits the time during which the
Court of Appeals can have the custody of these causes ; and all of
them, undecided by the Court, upon the last day for the reception
of claims by the Commissioners, will undoubtedly be removed
before that Board, who would thereafter be fully competent to
examine and decide them. As the Commissioners could not, in
like manner with the Court of Appeals, decree the restoration of
the property by the captors, but must award compensation in
money to be paid by the King's Treasury, the Government have
an interest that may perhaps urge the H. Court of Appeals to
make greater dispatch. 'T is true the Commissioners may order
assignments, which will put the Government in the place of the
claimants, and enable them to pursue the captors, but they will
be exposed to the inconveniences of an advance of the money to
the claimants, and will have the trouble and uncertainty of a
recovery from the captors.

Lord Grenville made no observation upon this construction,
and observed only that he hoped the business would be accelerated
from other considerations, meaning, as I conceived, the obliga-
tions of the Court to administer justice without delay. I replied,
that I had thought it proper to intimate at an early stage of the
business these reflexions, and that I sincerely united with his
Lordship in hoping that no unnecessary delay would be ex-
perienced hereafter in the proceedings of the High Court of
Appeals.

The result of the Conferences I communicated to our Commis-
sioners, who now met their colleagues in a temper correspondent

APPENDIX. 633

to that which had been shown by the Government upon this
occasion.

The Memorials of Mr. Bayard and the Demurrers of Mr.
Gostling have been withdrawn, and the Commissioners, in conse-
quence of the renewed application of Mr. Bayard have already
decided several important cases ; and I am in hopes will hereafter
proceed without experiencing a renewal of the embarrassments
which for some weeks entirely arrested their proceedings.

Dr. Nicholl in our behalf and Sr. William Scott in behalf of the
Br. Government have likewise recently gone through the cases of
costs and damages, which have been provisionally submitted to
their decision. I have not yet received from Mr. Bayard a list of
those cases, but from eight or ten cases that I have seen, I am in-
duced to believe that these have been such as will be pretty
satisfactory.

With perfect respect, I have the honor to be, Dear Sir,

Your obt. & faithful Servt.

Rufus King.

R. King to Lord Grenville.

Great Cumberland Place, 18 Dec, 1796.

Mr. King presents his compliments to Lord Grenville. . .
In reviewing the conferences which Mr. King had the honor to
hold with Lord Grenville on Friday last, it occurred to him that
he had omittted to state to his Lordship an opinion that he had
supposed to be correct, respecting a Point of some importance,
which his Lordship may have seen in a light somewhat different
from that in which it has appeared to Mr. King.

Mr. King alludes to the intimation of an opinion on the part of
the British Commissioners, that in every case, in which the Juris-
diction of the Board of Commissioners should be questioned by
his Majesty's Proctor, it would be proper that the board should
refer such question to the Decision of the two Nations, and in the
mean time forbear to act respecting such case : and that if after
the suggestion of a question of Jurisdiction by his Majesty's
Proctor, the board should attempt to proceed, it would be justifi-
able in the British Commissioners to withdraw and thereby
prevent the board from acting on any question that should arise
in the Case. The Provision in the Treaty which requires the

634 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

presence of at least one Commissioner of each party to make a
board, is supposed to authorize this course of Proceeding ; and a
supposed Case of an obviously improper extension of Jurisdiction
has been stated as one that would require to be thus arrested.

Without detaining his Lordship with a recital of the endless
References and numerous negotiations that must result from this
practice, it seems pertinent to observe that neither of the reasons
appear to be sufficient to excuse, much less to authorize, so
hazardous a course.

It was essential to the impartiality of the board and conform-
able to common usages in private submissions, that one of the
arbitrators named on each side should be present at the Examina-
tion and Decision of every question. But has it ever from hence
been inferred that either party could with propriety be with-
drawn in order to arrest the business and defeat the Decision of
the question submitted ? or is it the only, and therefore a proper
mode of avoiding the inconveniences of a Decision not submitted
to or without the Jurisdiction of the Commissioners ?

The decision of a question not submitted or without the Juris-
diction of the Commissioners would be utterly void and in no
degree obligatory. If, for example, the board should receive a
Complaint and award the payment of money in a case of capture
that happened since the exchange of the Ratifications of the
Treaty, or before the commencement of the existing war, as such
an award would be plainly without Jurisdiction in the board, it
would be void ; and his Majesty's Government would in no
degree be bound to pay the money so irregularly and illegally
awarded. And so in every case in which the Commissioners
should make a decision without or beyond the limits of their
Jurisdiction ; and in this principle which seems incontrovertible
in public, as well as in municipal Law, is found a perfect security
against every irregularity of this sort, that can be imagined or
apprehended.

Mr. King has taken the liberty to present these hasty Reflec-
tions to Lord Grenville, which he omitted to do when this Topic
was the subject of their late Conversation : as that conversation
was understood to be not official, Mr. King requests the favor of
Lord Grenville to receive these observations as a part of that
conversation which was omitted.

APPENDIX. 635

APPENDIX IV.

THE REBELLION IN IRELAND IN 1 798.

The means of communication between the United States and
England were so uncertain and dependent on the time occupied
by sailing vessels between the two countries — several months
often intervening between the sending of a despatch and the
reception of an answer — that, as has been said in the course of
this correspondence, Mr. King was obliged on many occasions to
exercise the discretion he was permitted by his government to use,
when the necessity of prompt decision and action forbade his
awaiting definite instructions. The new questions constantly
arising in the troubled and almost daily changes occurring in
European politics, and especially as they affected American
interests, could only be met by general instructions from the
United States ; while much must be left to the minister in Eng-
land, requiring his careful watchfulness and wise judgment. It
was requisite that he should not only have the confidence of his
government in his ability, judgment and fidelity to his country's
welfare, but that he should maintain in a courteous but decided
manner the positions which, either as directly instructed, or acting
upon his own convictions of duty, he felt himself called upon
to take. While under these circumstances, Mr. King was ever
vigilant of events, and kept his government fully informed on the
special business of the mission, he gained the confidence of those
with whom he had to deal, by his intelligent handling of the
questions before them, by the honesty and integrity of his char-
acter, and by the conviction that he sought only the best
interests of his country, whose history, people, and wants he
thoroughly understood.

Among the matters he was unexpectedly called to decide was
one which presented entirely new features, for the settlement of
which no instructions could have been prepared. It was conse-
quent upon the suppression of the rebellion in Ireland, the dis-
posal of the leaders in that unfortunate and unwisely planned
revolt against the English government. Before engaging in the
examination of the record of Mr. King's agency in preventing the
British government from sending the leaders to banishment in

636 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

the United States, it will be well to ascertain and show why he
acted as he did ; and to do so it will be proper to bring forward
some matters, relating to the earlier history, in which he had taken
a conspicuous part.

It has been shown in the correspondence how he had been im-
pressed with the crafty and impudent designs of France, through
her emissaries from abroad and treacherous sympathizers at home,
to bring his country under the control of that government, and to
excite the people against the wise administration of Washington
by discrediting the motives under which he acted. While reck-
lessly striving to win the people over to French ideas, they de-
nounced the treaty recently made with England as a violation of
our treaties with France, and an insult to her. Mr. King, whose
especial instructions in conducting his mission were to settle the
commercial relations with England, found that the hostility be-
tween that country and France was constantly a hindrance to
reaching any definite results. France, while professing to be a
friend, was plundering our vessels, insulting our ambassadors, and
using all the arts of a subtle diplomacy to blind the eyes of the
American people, and endeavouring to engage them in the war she
was waging against England. While England, to protect her own
interests, and claiming that her action was due to French decrees
and aggressions, in part, embarrassed the commerce of the United
States, suffering her naval officers to detain and capture American
vessels, engaged in legitimate commerce, permitting her admiralty
courts to condemn them on the most frivolous pretences, and
impressing American seamen in her seaports and from American
vessels.

The recent insult to the envoys in France, and the duplicity
with which the rulers sought to cover their plans, only increased
Mr. King's horror and disgust at the demoralizing tendency of
French principles, and to the possible danger to his own country
from the dissemination of them, — a feeling and conviction which
were not likely to be changed by the views of those with whom
he consorted in England, but were strengthened by the efforts
there made to resist the machinations of France to bring the
English people also under her control.

Ireland was the only side on which England could be attacked
with any hope of success ; and the disturbed condition of that

APPENDIX. 637

island, seeking to gain independence, gave to the French an op-
portunity of embarrassing England by plotting with the discon-
tented Irish to wrest their island from her control and establish a
hostile government upon it. Formidable as was the threatened
danger to England, the plans of assistance were unsuccessful.
The expeditions were injudiciously planned, inefficiently carried
out, through the watchfulness of the British navy and the want
of proper support on the Island, and failed to accomplish their
purpose. The rebellion was overcome at last by the power of
England, and the leaders were captured. The government, how-
over, consented to spare their lives, which had been forfeited by
their acts, on the condition that they should be transported to, or
voluntarily emigrate to some other country. Choosing the latter
course they selected the United States as that to which they would
go. Upon the first hint of such a disposition, and of the inten-
tion of the British Government to send them there, Mr. King felt
himself called upon to protest against any such action on the part
of the government, for reasons which are contained in the corre-
spondence elsewhere presented, but are here brought together for
a full justification of his action, viewed in the aspect of the times.
On May 11, 1798, Mr. King wrote to the Secretary of State :

" . . . Ireland is in a wretched state ; martial law prevails throughout
the country, and every day supplies new proofs of the intimate connection that
subsists between the Chiefs of the Malcontents and the Directory. . . .
Several persons have been taken up and confined. . . . The government
are said to have obtained proofs of a conspiracy formed by some of the Mem-
bers of the Corresponding Societies to assist the French in case of a descent,
to set fire to London, . . . The trial of O'Connor and the other persons
indicted for Treason, will come on the week after next ; after which the Gov-
ernment will publish the proofs of the conspiracy."

Again, on June 14th, he directed the Secretary's attention to
the probable early suppression of the rebellion, and to the
opinion

" that thousands of the fugitive Irish will seek an asylum in our country.
Their principles and habits would be pernicious to the order and industry of
our people, and I cannot persuade myself that the Malcontents of any country
will ever become useful citizens of our own."

638 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

After saying that in this communication he had discharged his
duty, he remarked that it belonged to others to decide what was
to be done.

In a private letter to Mr. Pickering, of July 19, 1798, Mr. King
recalled to him the intimation of his official letter of the 14th of
June, and said :

" I perceive that members of the disaffected Irish will be expelled and that
they will be disposed to plant themselves among us. It was the practice of the
Emigrants from Scotland to bring with them Certificates from the religious
societies to which they belonged, of their honesty, sobriety and generally of
their good character. Why should we not require some such document from
all [italics by the Editor] Emigrants, and it would be well to add to the testi-
monial that the person, to whom it was granted, was not expelled from his
country and had not been convicted of any crime. I am, I confess, very
anxious upon this subject. The contrast between New England and some
other parts of the United States is in my view a powerful admonition to us to
observe greater caution in the admission of Foreigners among us. If from the
emigrations of past time we have suffered inconvenience, and our true national
character has been disfigured, what are we to expect from the Emigrants of the
present day."

Again, on the 28th of July, he writes to the Secretary of State :

" In Ireland the rebellion is at an end, a general amnesty with a few excep-
tions, will soon be proclaimed ; many of the inferior chiefs will be permitted to
go into exile. I have before intimated the probability of such a measure and
hope the President will have power to exclude from our country all such
foreigners, whose residence among us would be dangerous."

The same views are repeated in a letter to Colonel Hamilton,
July 31, (p. 376 of this volume) and, on the 3d of August, he
wrote the private note to Colonel Pickering a portion of which
follows.

Private.

London, 3d., Aug., 1798.

. It appears from the accounts from Ireland that nearly 100 persons,
including Lawyers, Physicians, Merchants and others, who have been engaged
as Chiefs in the late Rebellion are to go into Exile for Life. A Bill for this
Purpose has been brought into the Irish Parliament. Although I do not hnow

APPENDIX. 639

it to be the intention of the Exiles, I have many reasons to suspect that they
expect to find an asylum among us.

I do my duty in apprising you of the probability of the Measure, it belongs to
others to make those Regulations that will enable the President to take care of
the public safety.

Yrs. &c.

R.K.

Having thus discharged his duty in reporting to his government
the facts above noted and awaiting instructions, he writes on the
5th of September of an ill-conceived landing of French troops, on
the 2 2d of August, at Killaloe in Ireland, with military stores from
three frigates, which had driven back a corps of British troops, but
against which Lord Cornwallis had gone with a considerable
force. Without speaking further of this, or of a subsequent ex-
pedition from Brest to the Irish coast, which was broken up by
the capture of the vessels engaged in it, or giving any further
details of the events which led to the putting down of the re-
bellion and the surrender of the leaders, he says in a letter to the
Secretary of State September 13, 1798 :

" The Invasion of Ireland has ended in the Surrender of the Invaders. As
yet we have no returns of their numbers nor of that of the Irish who joined
them ; both are supposed to be inconsiderable. The Reports of the Secret
Committee of the Irish Parliament, which I send to you, fully disclose the prin-
ciples and views of the leaders of the Rebellion. These are so conformable to
those which have prevailed in France, so false and so utterly inconsistent with
any practicable or settled Government, that I have taken occasion to express
my wishes that the United States might not be selected as the country to which
any of the State Prisoners should be permitted to retire."

The letter to the Duke of Portland will show the manner in
which Mr. King's " Wishes " were communicated to him, and the
answer of the Duke will show how they were received.

R. King to the Duke of Portland.

Private.

Margate, Sep. 13, 1798.
My Lord :

The publication of the Reports of the Secret Committee of the

Irish Parliament relative to the late Rebellion seems to put beyond

all doubt the object and expectation of its Leaders ; the pnnci-

640 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

pies and opinions of the men are in my view so conformable to
those which have unhappily prevailed in France, so dangerous, so
false and so utterly inconsistent with any practicable and stable
form of Government, that I feel it to be a duty to my Country to
express to your Grace my earnest wishes that the United States
may be excepted from the countries to which the Irish State
Prisoners shall be permitted to retire.

I certainly do not think that they will be a desirable acquisition
to any Nation, but in none would they be likely to prove more
mischievous than in mine, where from the sameness of language
and similarity of Laws and Institutions they have greater oppor-
tunities of propagating their principles than in any other country.

I have on many occasions been sensible of your Grace's friend-
ship for my Country : but at this period of national alarm, when
all that has been best and most wisely settled by our common
ancestors is attempted to be torn up and subjected to new specu-
lations and experiments, your Grace can afford us no stronger
or more valuable token of your regards than by an interference
with his Majesty that shall prevent any of the Irish State Pris-
oners (who appear to be the converts and agents of the new
School of Philosophy and Politicks) from seeking an asylum in

America.

With most perfect Consideration &c &c.

Rufus King.
Duke of Portland to Rufus King.

Private.

London, Saturday 22d Sept., 1798.
Dear Sir :

I sincerely beg your pardon for having so long delayed an
answer to the Letter you did me the honor of writing to me on
the 13th inst, on the Subject of the Countries to which the Irish
State Prisoners shall be permitted to retire.

It is unnecessary that I should trouble you with a detail of the
difficulties and objections which will embarrass the choice of a
proper residence for them ; and much more so I trust that I
should assure you of my entire concurrence in the opinions and
wishes which the Consideration of the Subject has led you to
express. I can assure you with the most perfect confidence

APPENDIX. 64I

that the King will never permit any of the persons in question
to set his foot in the Territory of any State in amity with his
Majesty by whom there is any reason to suppose that such a
visitor would be objected to.

I cannot but be flattered by the manner in which you express
your sense of my conduct, tho' you really do me no more than
justice ; and I will therefore take the liberty to add from myself,
that from the knowledge that my particular situation has furnished
me with, of the sentiments and declarations of these Prisonerz,
ever since their confession, the country of the United States is the
last in the World which I should wish to see become their resi-
dence. Believe me, Sir,

with very sincere regard & Esteem
Your faithful and most obt. Servt.

Portland.

October 6, 1798, sending to the Secretary of State copies of his
correspondence with the Duke of Portland, Mr. King says :

" Though they are both private letters, I have not thought it proper to omit
communicating them to you. There are occasions, and this is one of them, of
delicacy, as well as of importance, and in which we can only act from our own
view of what the public welfare appears to require : I flatter myself in this in-
stance it will not be thought either that my opinion was ill-founded, or that the
step it gave rise to was impolitic."

The next communication to the Secretary of State, October 19,
1798, says :

" The newspapers continue to announce that preparations are making to
send the Irish State prisoners to the United States. I wrote another letter to
the Duke of Portland upon the subject, a copy of which is annexed, and like-
wise a copy of his Grace's letter to Lord Cornwallis that has been sent to me
and which will, I presume, relieve me from any further concern on that head."

R. King to His Grace, the Duke of Portland.

Great Cumberland Place, Oct. 17, 1798.
My Lord :

I am concerned to trouble your Grace again on the subject of
the exile of the Irish State Prisoners, especially after the friendly
assurances your Grace has had the goodness to give me and

VOL. II. — 41

642 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

which have induced me to believe that they would not be per-
mitted to go to America. But the late accounts from Ireland
which, I hope inaccurately, state that preparations are making to
send them to the United States, give me much anxiety least I
have omitted any further Step that might have been expected or
proper in order to prevent it. It is true that the President of the
U. S. has power to deny, and in my opinion will refuse, them a
Residence among us, provided he is apprized of their names and
delinquencies ; but of these he may be ignorant, especially as I
have expressed to him my expectation that they would not be
permitted to go to America. If his Majesty's Government is still
free to decide, I must repeat my earnest hope that these delin-
quents may not be permitted to proceed to the United States. If
the permission of Government has already been given, I take the
Liberty to ask of your Grace a List of the names and a Descrip-
tion of the Persons of those of the State Prisoners who are to be
sent into my Country, in order that I may, if possible, in season,
apprize my Government of the measure.

It is quite possible, and I still hope, that these Publications are
altogether erroneous ; in this case I must beg your Grace's par-
don for having thus unnecessarily troubled you on a Subject that
thro' your obliging interference had already been satisfactorily
decided.

With the most perfect Esteem and Respect, &c. &c.

Rufus King

Duke of Portland to the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland.

Copy.

London, 17th Oct., 1798.
My Lord :

The systematick attempts which have been constantly making
by the French Government to overturn the present Constitution
of the United States have naturally rendered the American Min-
ister particularly attentive to every circumstance which bears the
appearance of contributing in any degree to the accomplishment
of that design. In the publication therefore of the terms upon
which the lives of the Irish traitors were spared, he thought he
saw that his country was threatened by a prospect of the intro-
duction not only of principles of that dangerous tendency, but of

APPENDIX. 643

missionaries of the most alarming description, and those appre-
hensions being increased and confirmed by newspaper reports
and extracts of private correspondence, he wrote me the Letter,
of which I enclose your Excellency a copy, to which I returned
the answer which you will receive enclosed, by which your Ex-
cellency will see what has passed between him and me upon this
subject. But that your Excellency may have no doubt of the
sentiments of the King's confidential servants upon the question
generally of the right which our State possesses to transport its
subjects into the Territories of another, I am to inform you that
we are clearly of opinion that no such right exists according to
the Law of Nations, and consequently that his Majesty has not
the power to banish any one of his subjects to the Dominions of
any other State or to authorize him to settle or to land them with-
out the consent of that State having been first specifically ob-
tained. It is unnecessary therefore for me to enter into the
Policy of this measure ; but I must not abstain from adding, that
if the question of right was uncontrovertibly established to be
the reverse of what I have stated it to be, considering the actual
circumstances of the United States and their relative situation to
this country and France, his Majesty wd. not permit any step to
be taken, which could give the United States any sort of umbrage
or offence, and this step less, if possible, than any other, from the
effects it might be capable of producing on that Government, and
the injury which might result from it to the general happiness of
mankind. The paragraph which I have seen within these two or
three last days, purporting the immediate departure of your State
Prisoners for America have made me feel it necessary for me to
write thus fully to your Excellency upon this subject and to
acquaint you that it is his Majesty's commands that not one of
the Traitors, whose lives have been spared upon condition of
being banished from Ireland and passing the remainder of their
days in the dominion of a State in amity with his Majesty, shall
be suffered upon any account whatever to go to or reside within
the Territories of the United States until his Majesty's express
permission for that purpose shall have been signified to your
Excellency by one of his Majesty's principal Secretaries of State.

I have the honor to be &c. &c.

Portland.

644 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

In a letter to Hamilton, Nov. 9, 1798, Mr. King says :

" You will see that I have prevented the sending to you of about fifty Irish
State prisoners, who were at the head of the rebellion in Ireland, and closely
connected with the Directory at Paris. Probably our patriots will think my
conduct presumptuous. In the present posture of affairs, I could have no
hesitation."

Wm. Bingham to R. King.

" Sept. 30, 1798.

" I deprecate the consequence of the insurrection in Ireland — if successful,
as it regards England, — if otherwise, as regards this country. In which case
we shall have immense emigrations of an ignorant and deluded class of people,
who will make a merit of resisting every Government they live under. I can-
not see how we can shut our doors against their admission — a late law has ren-
dered a longer residence necesssary to naturalization, but this will not prevent
their seeking an asylum here, altho' it will deprive them of the power of influ-
encing elections."

Wm. Bingham to R. King.

"Dec. 8, 1798.

" I entirely agree with you in the danger that may arise from the emigration
of so many Irish insurgents to this country ; amongst whom it appears there
are many professional characters, who will be able to make an impression on
society, much greater than the common class of disaffected Irish. They will
join the party in opposition to the Government and will vent their resentments
against Great Britain by attacking those who are disposed to be on friendly
terms with her. They will be discontented and therefore disorganizing char-
acters whose residence among us cannot be otherwise than injurious in the present
moment of political agitation."

The manner in which the President received the above
communication and approved of the action of Mr. King, is shown
by the following extract from a letter of the Secretary of State.

T. Pickering to R. King.

" 5 Feb., 1799.

" Your timely interference to prevent the emigration of the Irish traitors to this
Country is extremely acceptable to the President — And if removed to any other
Country many of them probably will find their way hither and therefore not
only a list of their names but a description of their persons & ages would be
very useful to us if attainable."

March 16, 1799, Mr. King writes to the Secretary of State :

" I will obtain the names of the Irish State prisoners, whose pestilentias
flight to the United States was fortunately arrested. They amount to ninety
and a list of their names is easily procured.

APPENDIX. 645

" I omitted at the time to inform you that at the particular desire of Lord
Cornwallis communicated to me through the Duke of Portland, I consented
that one of these State prisoners, by the name of Lynch, Brother to a merchant
of the same name in New York, should be permitted to go to New York, for
which place he sailed some months since. He was represented to me as of
inferior consequence as a conspirator, and by no means likely to be mischievous
among us. It is proper that you should know the fact that he may be identi-
fied and remembered."

Henry Jackson to R. King.

Dublin, 22d July, 1799.
Sir:

I am one of the many that has been implicated in this unfortunate country
and having obtained the Lord Lieutenant's permission to go to America, pro-
vided I go with your consent, I beg leave to refer you to the American Con-
sul in this city for my general character.

I have been for many years in the Iron Trade and lately sold part of my
Works for ^"26.250 — and there remains yet to be disposed of what has cost me
upwards of ^10,000 — a principal part of that sum I have vested in American
defer'd stock and American Bank Shares. The whole of this property I intend
removing to America with my family as soon as possible. I have long had a
predilection for the American form of Government, but my being so engaged
in manufactures in this country prevented my removing. Should I meet with
a situation to my liking I hope to make my knowledge of the Iron Manufac-
ture and Foundry business an acquisition to any part of the Country I may
settle in.

The Joseph, belonging to New York, is now here and intends sailing the

loth of next month ; if I am so fortunate as to get a favourable answer to this

application, I intend going by her. I take the liberty of sending this open to

Joseph Wilson Esq to be forv/arded.

I am with great respect &c.

Hen. Jackson.

Mr. Wilson enclosed this in a letter dated July 24, 1799, to Mr.
King — in which he speaks in strong commendation of Mr. Jack-
son as to his moral and business qualifications, founded on an
acquaintance of fifteen years.

Mr. King's answer to this letter follows.

R. King to Henry Jackson, Esq.

Brighton, Aug. 28, 1799.
Sir:

I ought to inform you that I really have no authority to give, or refuse per-
mission to you or any other foreigner to go to the United States : the admission
and residence of Strangers in that country being a matter that by a late Law
exclusively belongs to the President. It is true that the Government of that

646 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

country in the course of the last year, in consequence of my interference gave
me an assurance that a particular description of persons in Ireland, who it was
understood were going to the United States, should not be allowed to proceed
without our consent ; this restraint would doubtless be withdrawn in favor of
individuals against whose emigration I should not object ; and I conclude that
it is upon this supposition that you have taken the trouble to communicate to
me your desire to go and reside in the United States. Without presuming to
form an opinion on the subject of the late disturbances in Ireland, I entertain
a distinct one in relation to the political situation of my own country. In com-
mon with others we have felt the influence of the changes that have successively
taken place in France, and unfortunately a portion of our Inhabitants has
erroneously supposed that our civil and political institutions, as well as our na-
tional policy might be improved by a close imitation of the models of France.
This opinion, the propagation of which was made the duty and became the
chief employment of the French agents resident among us, created a more con-
siderable division among our people, and required a greater watchfulness and
activity from the Government, than could beforehand have been apprehended.
I am sorry to make the remark, and shall stand in need of your candour in
doing so, that a large proportion of the emigrants from Ireland, and especially
in our middle States, has upon this occasion arranged itself upon the side of the
malcontents ; I ought to except from this remark most of the enlightened and
well educated Irishmen who reside among us, and with a few exceptions I may
confine it to the indigent and illiterate, who, entertaining an attachment to free-
dom, are unable easily to appreciate those salutary restraints, without which it
degenerates into anarchy. It would be injustice to say that the Irish emigrants
are more national than those of other countries, yet being a numerous, tho' very
minor portion of our population, they are capable, from causes it is needless
now to explain, of being generally brought to act in concert, and under careful
leaders may be, as they have been, enlisted in mischievous combinations against
our Government. This view leads me to state to you without reserve the hesi-
tation that I have felt in your case ; on the one hand we cannot object to the
acquisition of Inhabitants from abroad possessing capital and skill in a branch
of business, that with due caution, may without risque or difficulty, and with
public as well as private advantage, be established among us ; but on the other
hand if the opinions of such Inhabitants are likely to throw them into the class
of malcontents, their fortune, skill and consequent influence would make them
tenfold more dangerous, and they might become a disadvantage instead of a
benefit to our country. You must be sensible that I possess no sufficient means
of forming an opinion respecting your sentiments, but the motives which lead
me to interfere with your Government to restrain the Emigration of the Persons
above alluded to, oblige me to observe a due caution on the present occasion.
At the same time I desire not to act with illiberality and should be unwilling
to bring upon my country the slightest imputation of inhospitality. What Mr.
Wilson has written, so far as it goes, is satisfactory ; and on the whole I have
concluded after this unreserved communication, which I hope will be received
with the same candour as it is made, to inform you, authorizing you to make

APPENDIX. 647

use of the information, that I withdraw every objection that may be supposed to
stand in the way of your being permitted to go to the United States, adding
only my earnest wish that you may carry with you an unbiassed mind, may find
the state of the Country, as I believe you will, favorable to your views of
business, and its Government deserving your attachment.

I must beg your Excuse for the great delay that has occurred in sending you
this answer, which I assure you has arisen from other causes than the want of
due respect to your letter.

With great Consideration, &c, &c,

Rufus King.

Mr. King, under the existing circumstances, could not have
acted otherwise, as he says, than he did. It was not a question
simply of interfering to prevent Irishmen from emigrating to
America, as was afterwards charged against him, but of his duty to
look after the interests of his country and after those chiefs whom
he characterized as imbued with French principles and would be
leaders in propagating them among his own people, who were at
that very time so largely under similar influences and causing
much embarrassment to the Government. It was the leaders
that he would keep out, men who had made trouble in their own
country and were not likely to be quiet in a country where speech
was free and where much discontent was in the air. The Con-
gress also had passed Alien and Sedition laws (whatever may be
thought of their wisdom), which clearly indicated the sentiment
of the country and the determination that French principles and
disorganizing ways should be checked by even such questionable
means. Mr. King therefore must be judged by the circumstances
and conditions in which he was placed, which show that he acted
wisely, for those very men who found their way over became
leaders among those who opposed the government. It was not
Irishmen because they were Irishmen, that he objected to ; for
he well knew the services of Irishmen and their descendants in
the War of the Revolution and in the councils of the nation — his
own associates in public affairs, — but he feared the present leaders,
for he knew the principles they avowed and by which they had
been governed, in carrying out what, as men aiming at liberation
from what they deemed the oppression of the British rule, they
believed they had the right to do. It was the principles avowed
and the associates to whom they allied themselves that made
those men at that time dangerous citizens for the United States.

648 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

As will be seen in subsequent periods of his life, indeed
throughout his public life, this action was the source of bitter
hostility to him and his family whenever they were candidates
for public office. In the year 1806, and in 1816, when he had
been put forward for election as Governor of the State of New
York, Mr. King wrote for publication an answer to charges, with
which the newspapers were filled, a vindication of his action in
this matter, based upon the grounds above noted, as will be seen
when the events of those years are under consideration.

In the Life of Hamilton^ J. C. Hamilton, vol. vii., p. 156, we
find this expression of opinion by him in 1819 — a writer who
was not inclined to say anything favorable to Mr. King.

" The oppressed and infuriated Irish also sought an asylum here from their
poverty and their wrongs. Long suffering from misrule, this impassioned peo-
ple were led to regard established government as an abuse. Craftily prejudiced
with the belief, that neutrality was subservience to England, and that Federal-
ism meant more than a love of the Constitution, of law and liberty, they were
soon marshalled in the Democratic ranks, of which they became and have con-
tinued a most efficient part. . . . The great mass of the Irish were
prompted by misguided prejudices. Warm in their affections, faithful in their
trusts, their women constituting a part of every household, holding its children
in their arms and watching over their infancy ; their men building the cities,
and the public works, and ranging themselves among the first in battle for
American rights, to them the gratitude is large. But among them were their
political offenders, who, abandoning their fealty to England, placed their affec-
tions on France and became her active partisans. . . . The Democratic
societies organized by Genet, had been denounced by Washington and were
suppressed. An association was now proposed and entered into, better suited
to the bolder character of these recent emigrants. . . . ' The American
Society of United Irishmen' was founded, 'of all such and such only as
had suffered in the cause of freedom, or who by their zeal for the rights of man-
kind had rendered themselves distinguished and worthy of trust.' The mem-
bers were bound by a test oath, ' organized with military gradation and preci-
sion ; pledged to act with energy and union ; to act upon instant warning—
what was this monster other than a conspiracy against the government.' Ham-
ilton characterized it as threatening ' an internal invasion,' and 4 its existence
was the leading and all sufficient motive for the enactment of a law for the
removal of aliens,' ' judged dangerous to the peace and safety of the United
States,' &c."

Among other evidences that the conduct of Mr. King was sus-
tained by those whose opinion he regarded, is a letter from Mr.
G. Cabot, February 16, 1799. He says :

APPENDIX. 649

" If the seditious were hardy enough to denounce you for the great service
you have render'd the country in shutting its doors against Irish Desperadoes,
you would still have reason to be content, for the praises of the good would be
increased in proportion to the clamours of the vicious ; but I believe the meas-
ure is so generally approved that Faction will hardly dare to condemn."

APPENDIX V.

Miranda.

To understand better the circumstances which gave rise to the
project with which the name of Miranda is connected, the follow-
ing narrative may be given. The dependencies of Spain in South
America were very restive under the government of the mother
country, and especially after the success of the American Revolu-
tion, and many ardent spirits in these colonies of Spain sought to
obtain for them their independence. Among those who were
most prominent, was Francisco de Miranda, a native of Caracas,
who had studied and observed in the United States the system
under which they were living, and who had in previous years
" disclosed his views, among others, to Hamilton, upon whom he
fixed his eyes as a coadjutor in the great purpose of his life. Nor
was Hamilton slow to perceive its importance and its ad-
vantages." * There was no active co-operation at that time, and
Miranda betook himself to Europe, and endeavored to engage
some of the European nations in his plan, but without success.

Taking advantage of a threatened war between England and
Spain, he had communicated with the British Ministry with a view
to effecting the liberation of the South American colonies of
Spain ; but was disappointed by the restoration of good feelings
between the two countries, though he had been listened to with
favor. Soon after he had gone to France, hoping to reap some
benefit from the revolutionary ideas of the leaders, obtained a
commission in the French army, and under Dumouriez served
with some distinction. With a change of rulers there, he was
banished from France and took refuge in England, then engaged
in a war with France, hoping again to get a hearing from the min-
istry, and to show that as Spain was the close ally of France, they

* Life of Hamilton, vol. vii., p. 212.

650 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

might, by engaging in his scheme, cripple the latter's resources.
We find that he was successful in obtaining a hearing, and we
have in the following letters of Mr. King to the Secretary of State
the evidence of the position he occupied in England.

On February 7, 1798, Mr. King wrote, in cipher, a letter to
the Secretary of State :

" I have had some reason to believe that the prospect of our being engaged in
the war has renewed the project that on more than one occasion has been meditated
against South America. I think I am not mistaken in this conjecture. Mi-
randa, who was certainly engaged in this scheme at the time of the affair of the
Nootka, and who since has served under Dumouriez in France, came to this
country a few weeks since. He has been with the ministry and is here by their
desire or with their permission : the object is the complete Independence of
South America to be effected by the co-operation of England and the U. S."

On February 26th, he again writes in cipher to the Secretary of
State. No. 65 :

" Two points have within a fortnight been settled in the English Cabinet
respecting South America. If Spain is able to prevent the overthrow of her
present Government and to escape being brought under the entire controul of
France, England (between whom and Spain, notzuithstanding the war, a certain
understanding appears to exist) will at present engage in no Scheme to deprive
Spain of her possessions in Sth. America. But if, as appears probable, the army
destined against Portugal, and which will march thro Spain, or any other
means which may be employed by France, shall overthrow the Spanish Govern-
ment, and thereby place the resources of Spain and of her Colonies at the disposal
of France, England zvill immediately commence the execution of a Plan long
since digested and prepared for the compleat independence of So. America.

If England engages in this Plan, she will at Philadelphia propose to the U. S.
to co-operate in its execution. Miranda will be detained here, tinder one pretence
or another, until events shall decide the Conduct of England. The Revohiiion
of Spain is decreed ; the attempt will be made, and the success is scarcely doubt-
ful. The President may therefore expect the overture of England, and will, I
am persuaded, act upon it, under the influence of that wise and comprehensive
Policy, which, looking for zvard to the Destinies of the New World, shall in the
beginning by great and generous Deeds lay deep and firm the foundations of
lasting accord between its rising Empires. If possible, I will bring together
and seasonably arrange, and send to you such information, as I have been able
to procure upon this interesting and very consequential Subject, having found
out and acquired the confidence of certain Jestuts, natives of So. America, who
with a view to its independence are, and for several years have been, in the ser-
vice and pay of England. I have conversed with them and seen the Reports*

* It is probable that these " reports " are the document referred to by Mr.
Charles Francis Adams in his Life of John Adams, vol. i., 523, and published

APPENDIX. 65 1

which they have prepared for their Employers. These communications throw
much light upon the population, the Resources, the oppression and the Tei?iper
and character of the Spanish Americans. . . ."

It will be seen that the plan suggested and prepared in England
was that, " if England engages in this plan, she will at Philadel-
phia propose to the U. S. to co-operate in its execution." Mi-
randa was to be detained until England decided upon her course,
and then " the President may expect the overture of England."
In the meantime Mr. King promises that he will gather and send
to the Secretary such " information as I have been able to pro-
cure," and states some of the sources from which he has obtained
it. There is no evidence that this matter was previously known
in America, or even thought of, so as to set the plan of co-opera-
tion in motion, and yet Mr. C. F. Adams, in his Life of John
Adams* insinuates that Mr. Hamilton had the idea of this co-
operation in view as early as January 24, 1798, at which date Mr.
Adams consulted his cabinet as to the coarse proper to be taken,
in case the commissioners, who were in France, failed to accom-
plish the objects for which they were sent. Mr. Hamilton was
not in the cabinet, but was consulted by the friends with whom
he generally acted in the Federal party, and Mr. C. F. Adams
says that the only one, Mr. McHenry, who answered in writing, so
far as appears, drew his ideas upon the subject from Mr. Hamil-
ton. In this paper Mr. McHenry suggests among other things
that " authority, in case of a rupture, be given to the President to
provide ' by such means as he may judge best,' ships of the line,
not exceeding ten, the suspension of the treaties with France, an
immediate army of sixteen thousand men and a provisional one
of twenty thousand more." It was also proposed, instead of mak-
ing an alliance with Great Britain, which would not be wise, or
entering into a formal treaty with her, to give instructions to Mr.
King to "sound Great Britain as to a plan of co-operation in case
of open rupture, pointing the co-operation to the Floridas, Louisi-
ana, and the South American possessions of Spain, if rupture, as

in full in an appendix G. It is dated Paris, Dec. 22d, 1797. Mr. J. C.
Hamilton, in his Life of Alexander Hamilton, vii., 213, refers to the same
document, as furnishing " early in the following month the general terms of the
agreement arranged with Pitt."
* Vol. i., p. 515.

652 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS ICING.

is probable, should extend to her " ; lodging authority with the
British Minister for all these purposes.*
Mr. Adams says :

" The recommendations are almost identically those which appear in Mr.
Hamilton's private letters to Mr. Pickering. But in addition to this the paper
closed with some suggestions which show a coincidence even more marked with
the peculiar policy which that gentleman was at the time advocating in his cor-
respondence."

Now in the letters from Mr. Hamilton to Mr. Pickering, and of
the latter to Mr. Hamilton, which are from March 17th to April
9th f inclusive, there is not one word about a plan for anything
more than a general co-operation with Great Britain in case of a
rupture, without a hint of making use of the vessels to be bought
or hired, or of the troops to be raised, in endeavoring to set free
the Spanish possessions in America. They are not even men-
tioned, except that Mr. Pickering says that despatches had been
received which rendered it probable Spain had ordered the evacu-
ation of the posts about New Orleans, probably thinking to do
us a grateful thing before surrendering Louisiana to France.
On March 17th Mr. Hamilton says that the serious condition of
affairs calls for a " temperate but grave, solemn, and firm commu-
nication by the President to Congress" in consequence of the com-
munications which had been received from the commissioners in
France, and recommends generally the same provisions suggested
by Mr. McHenry ; but there is not one word about Spanish posses-
sions in it ; nor is there a hint about them in a letter from him to
Mr. King, cited by Mr. J. C. Hamilton as " probably March,
1798," nor in two other letters to Mr. King of " May, 1798," and
May 12, 1798, in the former of which he says :

"It is a great while since I have received a line from you, nor have I
deserved one ; the vortex of business in which I have been, having kept me
from writing to you. At this moment, I presume, you will not be sorry to
know my opinions as to the course of our public affairs." \

Mr. Hamilton in his letter to Mr. Pickering, March 17th, closes
with these words :

* Life of Alexander Hamilton., i., 516.

f Hamilton s Works, vol. vi., pp. 269 to 279.

X Ibid., p. 287.

APPENDIX. 653

" In my opinion, bold language and bold measures are indispensable. The
attitude of calm defiance suits us. It is vain to talk of peace with a power with
which we are actually in hostility. The election is between a tame surrender
of our rights or a state of mitigated hostility. Neither do I think that this state
will lead to general rupture, if France is unsuccessful ; and if successful, there
is no doubt in my mind, that she will endeavor to impose her yoke upon us." *

Thus far, whatever may have been Mr. Hamilton's wishes or
hopes respecting the South American colonies of Spain, no written
expression appears, and the next communication from Mr. King,
relative to this matter, is found in the letter in cipher to Messrs.
Pinckney, Marshall, and Gerry, the commissioners in Paris, April
2, 1798.

On the same date Mr. King wrote to the Secretary of State, in
cipher :

11 Dear Sir :

" General Miranda has informed me that his associate and Countryman Mr.
Caro, is about to return to So. America, and that he will take Philadelphia in
his way, in order to deliver to the President a Letter that the General has for
that purpose committed to his care.

" Having been made acquainted with the object of Mr. Caro's voyage, I take
the liberty of introducing him to you and of requesting that you will assist him
in the delivery of the Letter with which he is charged for the President.

" With perfect Esteem & Respect,

" Rufus King."

On April 6, 1798, a further communication is made by Mr.
King to the Secretary of State, also in cipher, in the following
words :

" South America must soon pass through a Revolution ; we have an immense
interest in the Event, as well as in the manner in which it shall be effected.
In a former Letter, I have communicated to you the views and intentions of
England, who will not provoke the Revolt in Case Spain shall be able to save
herself from a Revolution and keep the French out of Portugal: and thd there
seems little probability that this will be the case, England since the arrival of
Miranda here, but without his knowledge , has informed Spain not only that she
will not countenance or assist the Spanish Colonies in becoming independent, but
that she will join her in resisting the Endeavours of others to accomplish it, pro-
vided that Spain will oppose the views of France against her own Dominions
and those of Portugal. At the same time that this communication has been
made to Spain, an Expedition has been prepared and the correspondent arrange-

* Hamilton s Works, vol. vi., p. 271.

654 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

ments at Trinidad have been ordered, for the purpose of beginning the Revolution
of So. America ; in this event, as I have before intimated to you, England will
at Philadelphia open herself to, and ask the co-operation of, the United States.
Miranda who is impatient zuith the Delays that he experiences, as well as igno-
rant of the provisional Decisions of this Cabinet, has concluded to send his Friend
and associate, Mr. Caro, to Philadelphia with a Letter for the President ; and
I have given him a Letter to identify him and introduce him to you. Conjectur-
ing the intentions of Fratice, and knowing zuith precision those of England, we
shall be the belter able in season to consider and regulate the conduct that it shall
be proper for us to pursue."

Mr. J. C. Hamilton quotes from the Edinburgh Review, xiii.,
291, a paragraph from a letter to Mr. Hamilton from Miranda,
dated April 6, 1798 :

" This will be delivered to you, my dear and respectable friend, by my com-
patriot, Don . . . charged with despatches of the highest importance for the
President of the United States ; he will inform you confidentially what you
would desire to learn on this subject. It appears that the moment of our eman-
cipation approaches, and that the establishment of liberty over the whole Con-
tinent of the new world is confided to us by Providence. The only danger that
I foresee is the introduction of French principles, which would poison liberty
in her cradle and finish by destroying also yours."

To the same M. Caro, Miranda committed a letter to President
Adams, which is here given, taken from the Life and Woi'ks of
John Adams, viii., 569 :

F. de Miranda to John Adams.

A Londres ce 24 Mars, 1798.

Monsieur le President. — C'est au nom des colonies Hispano-Americaines,
que j'ai l'honneur d'envoyer a votre Excellence les propositions ci-jointes. Elles
ont ete presentees egalement aux Ministres de sa Majeste Britannique, qui les
ont reeu tres favorablement, en temoignant beaucoup de satisfaction d'avoir a
agir dans un cas pareil avec les Etats Unis de l'Amerique. Et il me semble
que le delai que j'eprouve (affligeant reellement, dansun moment aussi pressant)
resulte precisement de l'attente ou le gouvernement Anglais paroit etre, de voir
TAmerique du Nord decidee a rompre definitivement avec la France ; par le de-
sir qu'ellea de faire cause commune, et de co-operer ensemble a l'indepen-
dance du continent entier du Nouveau Monde.

Comme l'esprit de justice, generosite et atachement de mes compatriotes
vers les Etats Unis, se trouve mieux exprime dans le document qui me sert de
pouvoir, autant que d'instruction, j'ai voulu y joindre une copie complete. Per-
suade que cette demarche amicale et franche servira plus efficacement a ac-
celerer la decision . . . comptant toujours sur la reserve indispensable,

APPENDIX. 655

dans tout ce qui ne regarde pas directement les Etats Unis. Si quelque article
de ceux qui sont contenus dans cette instruction (ou toute autre chose qui soit
relative) eut besoin d'explication. D. Pedro Josef Caro, un denies compatriotes,
commissaire aussi des colonies Hispano-Americaines, et charge de vous
remettre celle-ci, pourra satisfaire amplement et completemment a tout. *

Sa mission apres avoir recu les ordres de V. E., est de se rendre sans delai
au continent Hispano-Americain afin d'instruire nos commettans et com-
patriotes de l'etat actuel des negotiations a nous confiees, ainsi que la situation
politique de l'Europe. Je vous prie de vouloir bien lui faciliter tout-ce dont il
auroit besoin pour cet important objet, et pour se rendre incessamment a la
province de Santa Fe de Bogota.

Je ne vous dissimule pas, Monsieur le President, mes inquietudes sur l'entree
prochaine des troupes Franeaises en Espagne. Crainte qu'un movement con-
vulsif dans la metropole ne produise pas des secousses anarchiques dans les
colonies ; et que l'abominable systeme de la France ne s'introduise chez nous,
faute d'avoir pris des mesures promptes et efficaces pour l'empecher. DU
avertant. Enfin j'espere que le petit secours dont nous avons besoin pour
commencer, et qui se reduit a. six ou huit vaisseaux de ligne et quatre ou cinq
milles hommes des troupes, nous les trouverons facilement tant en Angleterre
que dans l'Amerique . . . Mes souhaits seraient que la marine fut Anglaise
et les troupes de terre Americains. Veuille la Providence que les Etats Unis
fassent pour ses compatriotes du Sud en 1798, ce que le roi de France fit pour
eux en 1778 ! Je me felicite tou jours de voir a la tete du pouvoir executif Ameri-
cain cet homme distingue, qui par son courage rendit son pays independant, et
qui par sa sagesse lui donna apres un gouvernement bien balance, en sauvant
ainsi la liberte. Nous profiterons sans doute de vos savantes lecons, et je me
rejouis de vous apprendre d'avance que la forme de gouvernement projete est
mixte, avec un chef hereditaire du pouvoir executif sous le nom d' Ynca, et, ce
que j'aime davantage, pris dans la meme famille : un S/nat compose de families
nobles, mais non hereditaire ; et une Chambre des communes elue parmi tous
les autres citoyens qui auront une propriete competente. Telle est l'esquisse de
la forme du gouvernement qui parait reunir la majorite des suffrages dans le
continent Hispano-Americain, et qui empechera sans doute les consequences
fatales du systeme Franco-Republican, que Montesquieu appelle la liberte
extreme.

En vous addressant directement ces propositions, j'ai cru mettre toute la
reserve requise dans une affaire aussi extraordinaire qu'importante. J'ai l'hon-
neur en outre d'y joindre un etat de la population, produits, exportation et
consommation de l'Amerique Espagnole, qui etant fait sur des notices les plus
exactes, ainsi que les plus recentes, m'a paru meriter votre attention.

Avec les sentimens de la plus haute consideration et de l'estime la plus

parfaite, j'ai l'honneur d'etre, &c.

Francisco de Miranda.

* M. Caro did not come. Being in great haste to return home, he sent a
letter to Mr. Pickering, Secretary of State, May 10, 1798, asking him to deliver
the documents to the President.

656 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

The letter of Miranda to the President did not reach America,
as will be seen, until the 20th of August. In the meantime Mr.
King on May 12th wrote to Mr. Hamilton :

" Nothing but vigor and energy will save our country. Unanimity cannot
be expected. . . . The people of America will support their government,
if that government acts with decision ; if it appeals to the pride, the patriotism,
and the honor of the nation ! But if it temporizes, if it wastes itself in words,
if it stops short of the only course that remains for its adoption, consistently
with the public safety, the next election will convulse the country, and may, as
the Directory intend and expect it shall, give the government to those who
will deliver us up to the same ruin that continues to desolate Europe. . . .
I received a short letter from you a few days since without date, which gave
me great satisfaction, as it authorized the hopes that public opinion was sounder
than that of its representatives. War will increase the public taxes. These
are unpleasant subjects for meditation ; the passions must be attended to, they
must have an object — there is a great one. I can't explain myself. I have had
no occasion for reserve with the Secretary of State, because I can write to him
in cipher." *

On July 14th f Mr. King in a letter to Mr. Hamilton sketches
the condition of affairs in Europe with the remark that

*' the struggle is left to England, who certainly maintains it with increased
zeal and resolution. For some months past we have not a word about peace.
. . . In this state of things, we are (for so I consider our situation) forced
into a war of defence. Have you received a former letter of mine on this sub-
ject ? It is of infinite importance that we are not deceived by ourselves or
others. We must do more than merely defend. I still think that the object
that I have before suggested, demands all our consideration and energy. Don't
suppose that I would combine fortunes with those of others. On the contrary,
whatever our interest may require in regard to a co-operation with others I am
averse to indissoluble engagements with any one. The Continent of Europe
cannot be saved, but this is no reason why America should perish likewise.
France is the only nation that projects enterprises, or succeeds in putting them
into execution ; all others are puzzled in a perpetual effort to find out and de-
feat the plans of France, without concerting and attempting to execute one that
might give to France the disadvantage of defence. If we follow this course, I
dread the issue."

On 31st July, 1798, in a letter to Col. Hamilton, Mr. King,
after adverting to the firmness of the English Government in its
course towards France, and his opinion that in consequence the

* Works of Hamilton, vi., 285. f Ibid., vi., 3.

APPENDIX. 6 $?

people will be more and more likely to support it in the measures
to be taken, says :

" This opinion should be taken in connection with an observation (the import-
ance of wh. appears to me the greater the oftener I consider it) that I have
suggested in more than one of my late letters. The composition of addresses
and the forming of volunteer associations who will have nothing to do, are for
the present well ; but they will cease to be novelties and soon become tiresome ;
and to be secure you must have some sufficient object that will interest and em-
ploy the passions of the nation. The mere defensive system of the enemies of
France has been the principal cause of her success, and if we adopt the error
we shall be exposed to greater risque than by a bold and active system, which,
exclusive of being the most certain means of safety, would promise the acquisi-
tion of great and lasting advantages.

" The Destiny of the new world, and I have a full and firm persuasion that it
will be both happy and glorious, is in our hands. We have a right and it is
our duty to deliberate and act, not as secondaries, but as Principals. The object
and the occasion are such as we ought not in respect to ourselves and others to
suffer to pass unimproved."

This letter was not acknowledged by Mr. Hamilton until
October 2d, when he says :

" Mr. R. delivered me your letter of the 31st July. The opinion in that and
other of your letters concerning a very important point, has been acted upon
by me from the very moment that it became unequivocal that we must have a
decisive rupture with France. In some things my efforts succeeded, in others
they were disappointed ; — in others I have had promises of conformity to lay
the foundation of future proceeding ; the performance and effect of which
promises are not certainly known to me. The effect, indeed, cannot yet be
known." *

As before stated, Miranda's letter of March 24th, and docu-
ments with it, reached the Secretary of State on August 20th,
as appears by a letter from him to the President, of the 2ist,f
with which he also inclosed Mr. King's letters of February 2 2d
and April 6th :

" Sir:

" I inclose a letter which I received last evening under cover from M. Pedro
Josef Caro, accompanied by a letter from Mr. King, intended as an introduc-
tion to M. Caro ; but the latter having missed a passage to the United States,
in the British cutter which sailed from Falmouth for New York on the 20th of

* Works of Hamilton, vi., 362.

\ Life and Works of John Adams, viii., 5S3.

VOL. II.— 43

658 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

April, and circumstances requiring his arrival in South America with as little
delay as possible, he forwarded the packet to me. A copy of the translation
of his letter to me I have the honor to inclose.

"Under the same cover were inclosed two letters, one for Colonel Hamil-
ton,* the other for General Knox, which I forward by this post to those
gentlemen."

The inclosed letter of M. Caro is dated,

" Falmouth, 10 May, 1798.

"Sir — The annexed letter of the Hon. Mr. King to you will serve as a cre-
dential in my favor in presenting myself to you with the important mission it
announces. An unforeseen accident has frustrated my voyage hence to your
Continent in his Majesty's Cutter, which sailed for New York on the 20th April
last ; and a combination of circumstances requiring my arrival in South America
with as little delay as possible, I have received instructions immediately to
depart by the shortest route of the leeward islands, and am ordered to com-
municate it to the government through the medium of you, by transmitting the
pamphlet which I inclose, and should have conveyed personally. I pray you
to deliver it into the hands of His Excellency the President ; and, as eventually
some answer may be practicable in so interesting a business, General Francis
de Miranda, our compatriot and principal agent of all Spanish America in
union, a person extremely well known, and in particular to the Hon. Mr.
King, whose intervention is as to both parties safe and secret, will remain in
London.

" I also hope you will have the goodness to receive the first tribute of my re-
spects in the Spanish language and style, as I am unable to render it in Eng-
lish and that you will not confide the secret to interpreters who are not known."

In reference to the letter, inclosed in M. Caro's package, to
Colonel Hamilton, sent by Mr. Pickering to him, Mr. Picker-
ing says August 22, 1798 :

" Not to miss a mail, I wrote" you one line today and inclosed a letter from,
I suppose, General Miranda. If its contents give rise to any questions which
it will be prudent for you to ask, and for me to answer by the mail, it may be
done ; otherwise the information may be suspended until we meet." — Hamil-
ton's Works, vi., 343.

There does not appear to be any answer to this.

Alexander Hamilton to Rufus King.

New York, Aug. 22, 1798.
My dear Sir :

You will be no doubt fully instructed of the measures which have taken place
on the part of our government and you will have seen in the numerous addresses
to the President a confirmation of the opinion I gave you respecting thedisposi-

* Letter of February 26, 1798.

APPENDIX. 659

tion of this Country. From both you will have derived satisfaction though you
should not think we are yet where we ought now to be. But console yourself
with the assurance that we are progressive in good. The indications are to my
mind conclusive that we are approaching fast to as great unanimity as any
country ever experienced and that our energies will be displayed in proportion
to whatever exigencies shall arise.

I have received several letters from General Miranda. I have written
answers to some of them, which I send you to deliver or not according to your
estimate of what is passing in the scenes where you are. Should you deem it
expedient to suppress my letter, you may do it & say as much as you think fit
on my part in the nature of a communication through you.

With regard to the enterprise in question, I wish it much to be undertaken,
but I should be glad that the principal agency was in the U States — they to fur-
nish the whole land force necessary. The command in this case would very
naturally fall upon me — and I hope I should disappoint no favorable anticipa-
tion— The independency of the separated territory under a moderate govern-
ment, with the joint guarantee of the co-operating powers, stipulating equal
privileges in commerce, would be the sum of the results to be accomplished.

Are we yet mature for this undertaking ? Not quite — But we ripen fast, and
it may (I think) be rapidly brought to maturity, if an efficient negotiation for
the purpose is at once set on foot upon this ground — Great Britain cannot alone
ensure the accomplishment of the object. I have some time since advised cer-
tain preliminary steps to prepare the way consistently with national character
and justice. I was told they would be pursued, but I am not informed whether
they have been or not.*

Yrs. Affecly.

A. H.

A. Hamilton to General Miranda.

New York, August 22. 1798.
Sir :

The sentiments I entertain with regard to that object have been long since
in your knowledge. But I could personally have no participation in it, unless
patronised by the Government of this Country. It was my wish that matters
had been ripened for a co-operation in the course of this Fall on the part of this
Country. But this can now scarcely be the case. The Winter however may
mature the project and an effectual co-operation by the U States may take
place. In this case I shall be happy in my official station to be an instrument
of so good a work.

The plan in my opinion ought to be a fleet of Great Britain, an army of the
U. States. — a government for the liberated territory agreeable to both the Co-
operators, about which there will be probably no difficulty. To arrange the

* This letter was received by Mr. King on October 20, 1798, as appears by
his letter of that date.

660 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

plan a competent authority from Great Britain to some person here is the best

expedient. — Your presence here will in this case be extremely essential.

We are raising an army of about Twelve thousand men. Genl. Washington

has resumed his station at the head of our armies. — I am appointed second in

command.

With esteem and regard

I remain Dr. Sir,

Yr. very Obt. Servt.

A. Hamilton.

In the meantime Mr. King, on August 17th, communicates
in cipher to the Secretary of State the following report of a
conference with Lord Grenville :

Our conference here took a turn to the probability of the Revolution of
S. America *: He was fuller and more explicit than he had been on any former
occasion, always understanding that my conversation on this subject was personal
and wholly unauthorized. The digression which treated of the practicability
and of the means of effecting the measure, tended to shew to me that they have
at times considered and combined with their views of a future connection with
the United States, the independence of the Spanish Continental Colonies. I did
not perceive, nor do I believe it to be the case, that they have any recent infor-
mation of the present temper, disposition or plans of these Colonies, a knowledge
more easily procured from the United States than from Europe and which is in-
dispensably requisite to the success of an enterprize to accomplish the Revolution.
He spoke of the government to be established in these as a Revolution ; he thought
our System would attract and receive their approbation, and made some remarks
upon the apprehension to be entertained on account of their genius and charac-
ter, which especially in Peru, was said to be highly animated and full of en-
thusiasm, and concluded by observing that he was more and more confirmed in
the opinion, that none but Englishmen and their descendants knew how to make
a Revolution.

On the same date, General Miranda wrote another letter to the
President, Mr. Adams, f in which he says :

" Depuis le depart de ma depeche, les circonstances sont devenues plus
favorable encore. Les evenemens survenus et en Europe et aux Etats Unis
rendent merae la separation des colonies Hispano-Americaines indispensables ;
d'autant plus qu'elles sont decidees a ne pas devenir les agens, encore moins les
sujets, de la republique Francaise. . . . Je vois avec plaisir que l'Angleterre,
sentant enfin que son salut et son bonheur futur dependent absolument d'une

* Italics in cipher.

\ Life and Works of John Adams, viii., 581.

APPENDIX. 66 1

alliance et d'un attachement intime avec l'Amerique, est resolue, en deposant
tout esprit de jalousie et de monopole commercial, a co-6perer avec vous en
faveur de cet important objet, dont le succes assurera non seulement le bonheur
reciproque, mais encore la gloire immortelle, des trois parties interesse'es.

" Mr. King, votredigne ambassadeur aupres desa Majeste Britannique, etqui
joint ici a tant de titres de l'estime generate, entrant dans tous les details, vous
communiquera les renseignemens qui vous seront necessaires, tant a l'egard de
l'Europe qu' a l'egard de l'Amerique du Sud. Nos interets etant les memes,
et mes commettans ayant mis toute leur confiance dans leurs compatriotes du
Nord, j'ai cru ne pouvoir mieux remplir leurs desirs qu'en agissant d'accord avec
lui, sans la plus legere reserve, et avec une confiance mutuelle.

" Puisque votre reponse doit en quelque sort decider le sort de l'Amerique
meridionale, et combler les souhaits de mes compatriotes, jevousprie, Monsieur
le President, de vouloir bien me la faire parvenir le plutot qu'il vous sera possi-
ble."

"F. de Miranda."

These letters were not received in America until the following
October, on the 3d of which month the President wrote to T.
Pickering, Secretary of State, from Quincy :

"Dear Sir :

" Inclosed is a duplicate of a letter from Miranda, with some estimates. Read
it and think of it. A number of questions and considerations occur. We are
friends with Spain. If we were enemies, would the project be useful to us ? It
will not be in character for me to answer the letter. Will any notice of it, in
any manner, be proper ? " *

It does not appear that the Secretary ever answered these ques-
tions, " and," Mr. C. F. Adams says, " the grand plan thus
perished by inanition." f Of course, without the President, no
efficient action could be taken. But the fact is that the com-
munication from the British Government, to that of the United
States, of which Mr. King had spoken as a preliminary to any
arrangement, was not ever made ; the whole correspondence had
been unofficial, except that of Mr. King to the Secretary of State,
as to the possibility and probability of co-operation between the
two countries, and that of General Miranda with the President and
Mr. Hamilton, Miranda himself being earnest and sanguine, and
believing that Great Britain seriously contemplated the expedition
which he desired and which perhaps at one time it apparently did.

* Life and Works of yohn Adams, viii., 600.
\ Ibid., ii., 532.

662 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

For had it not done so, how could Mr. King have written in a
private letter to Mr. Hamilton, as he did on October 20th ?

" My dear Sir :

" I have received your letter of the 22d August, with the enclosure that has
been delivered as directed. On that subject things are here as we could desire.
There will be precisely such a co-operation as we wish the moment we are
ready. The Secretary of State will show you my communication on this sub-
ject. Though I have not a word from him respecting it, your outline corresponds
with what has been suggested by me, and approved by this government. For-
tunately some months past I obtained a fac simile of the latest map of the coun-
try. It has been now two months in the hand of an engraver, who has engaged
to deliver the copies in January. This government has considerable informa-
tion respecting the interior, as well as concerning the condition and dispositions
of the inhabitants, though I apprehend it is not of a recent date. What we
know is favorable ; but if we are to be betrayed by France, the glorious oppor-
tunity will be lost. I am gratified on receiving your opinion of the good con-
dition of our public affairs, but I do not feel confident that we are as safe as you
appear to think we are. It is fraud, not force, I fear. ... A Paris paper
of the 8th instant, which is the latest that takes any notice of the United States,
says : Les dernieres lettres de Bordeaux assurent qu'ily est arrive un courier ex-
traordinaire porteur d'ordres pour remettre l'embargo sur les navires Ameri-
caines. Voila done la guerre inevitable avec ce peuple, du moins toutes nos
correspondances coincident."

In a private letter to Mr. Pickering, October 20, 1798, Mr. King
says :

" You are silent concerning South America *y I have again and again touched
upon it ; I have wished to say much more, but I have not thought it prudent.
As England is steady, she will furnish a fleet and military stores, and we should
furnish the army. A map of the cozmtry that some time since I procured, is in
the hands of the engraver ; the copies will be delivered in January."

R. King to A. Hamilton.-^

London, March 4, 1799.

Our opinions do not differ upon a very important subject that has more than
once been mentioned in our correspondence. I am entirely ignorant of the sen-
timents of the President, though I have again and again treated of it, and
sometimes with earnestness, in my dispatches. This silence gives me some

* Italics in cipher.

f Works of Hamilton, vol. vi., 402.

APPENDIX. 663

inquietude.* Mr. G. will send you the reflections that have occurred to him,
and will also explain the motives for putting them into your hands. I cannot
at this distance decide upon the expediency of publishing these reflections, but
I am much inclined to recommend it, as all our conjectures, explained and
confirmed by everything we see, enjoin us to look for safety only in our own
courage and upon our own continent.

With perfect regard and attachment, &c.

R. King to A. Hamilton.

London, March 9, 1799.
Dear Sir :

By Mr. Erskine, whom I have introduced to you, I send you a copy of the
famous Map of So. America that Fayden has lately engraved. It is a facsimile
of the Spanish map so carefully concealed at Madrid.

Fayden is employed in another map upon the same scale of the Spanish Ter-
ritories North of the Isthmus ; it will be less accurate and authentic, but such
as it is it will supply a desideratum. I am from many considerations restrained
from saying what ought to be said and must not be delayed respecting this im-
portant Country. I am entirely convinced, if it and its resources are not for
us, that they will speedily be against us.

Spain and Portugal are completely in check ; and the game may be termi-
nated with them at the pleasure of France. The next step is plain and will be
by and by unavoidable. What do we expect, what, without infatuation, can we

expect of France ? Why then any further Reserves ?

Yrs. truly

R. K.

It does not appear that anything further was done in Miranda's
business. Tired of awaiting the decision of Great Britain to
commit itself to and engage in his scheme of revolution, finding
also that the earnestness of England varied with the success or
disaster of France in her affairs on the Continent, and being
straitened in means, he desired to come to America, possibly to
see if he might meet with a more favorable reception. On the
21st of January, 1799, Mr. King applied for a passport for him to
leave England for the West Indies, which was not granted to
him, and again on the 1st of August he addressed a private note
renewing his request, to Mr. Huskisson, Under Secretary with
Mr. Dundas, which, with Mr. King's note to General Miranda
and one to Mr. Pickering, are here given :

* The only notice of the President's opinion is to be found in his letter to Mr.
Pickering, Secretary of State, on October 30, 179S, which does not appear to
have been communicated to Mr. King.

664 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUE US KING.

R. King to W. Huskisson, Esq.

Private,

G. C. P., Aug. i, 1799.
Dear Sir :

It is not without reluctance since the receit of your note of that I renew

the subject of a Passport for General Miranda ; my sole inducement proceeds
from the extreme embarrassment in which I see him, and from which he has
no means of extricating himself while he remains in England.

It is not suitable that I should enter into or even entertain an opinion, on
the policy of granting or denying a Passport for Trinidad ; besides that point
is decided. He now desires a Passport to leave England to go to the U. S.,
and as I have no reason to think his going there would be disagreeable to the
American Government, I take the liberty of asking you to submit to Mr. Pitt,
this request of the requisite permission for him to leave England for the U. S.,
and that you will at the same time explain to him that my interference origi-
nates in the knowledge of the pecuniary Embarrassments of General Miranda,
and of his utter want of resources to enable him any longer to subsist in this
country.

With Sentiments &c. &c.

Rufus King.

Rufus King to General Miranda.

Brighton, Sept. 1, 1799.
Dear General :

I have just received a note from Mr. Dundas, informing me that on applica-
tion to Lord Grenville, a Passport will be granted to you to leave England for
the U. S. of America. As you may wish to take immediate measures on the
Subject of your Passage, I do not suffer the Post to return without sending you
this agreeable information.

We shall be at home on Wednesday or Thursday, when I shall have the pleas-
ure of seeing you in Cumberland Place. I charge myself with the completion
of your wishes respecting the Passport.

Ever & with great truth yours &c.

Rufus King.

Rufus King to Col. Pickering.

London, Sept. 9, 1799.
Dear Sir :

I take the liberty to introduce to you the Bearer General Miranda to whose
name and reputation you cannot be a Stranger : few persons have had greater
opportunities of seeing the different Countries of Europe, of observing their
various institutions, or of being acquainted with their distinguished Statesmen
and Men of Letters.

APPENDIX. 665

Numerous and favorable as these occasions have been for the acquisition of
extensive and useful information, you will perceive by conversing with the
General, that he has not suffered them to escape unimproved.

As he proposes to pass some time at Philadelphia, I shall be particularly
obliged to you to receive him with the kindness and respect due to a man of
uncommon Talents and rare acquirements.

With the greatest Truth and Attachment &c. &c.

Rufus King.

Note— Mill Hill, Middlesex, Oct. 18, 1799.

Miranda could not obtain permission to leave England for the U.S. — this
letter will not therefore be delivered.

The detail with which this proposed adventure of Miranda has
been given, is to meet a suggestion made by Mr. C. F. Adams,*
that " Mr. King's public and private papers, not yet before the
world, must throw a flood of light on these transactions." They
are now before the public, and certainly do not warrant the
charge that Mr. Hamilton at the time of making the suggestion
for " a more extensive force than was needed merely for defence,"
was doing more than to prepare for an emergency that might
arise under the strained relations with France. Whatever was
done was to be done under the direction and with the consent of
the government, though he might justly look forward to the com-
mand of an expedition, should one be organized, " to attack
where we can. France is not to be considered as separated from
her ally. Tempting objects will be within our grasp." f The
Floridas and Louisiana were " tempting objects."

There was no opportunity for testing any plans he may have
had, for the action of the President, Mr. Adams, in determining to
send another Envoy to France, to meet what he considered the
advances of the French Government towards a settlement of the
questions between the two countries, put an end to all active
movements on the part of the United States.

As regards the conduct of Mr. King in urging this co-operation
between England and the United States, there can be no doubt
of its having been the result of the strong desire to punish France
by decisive measures, for her perfidy and atrocious acts against
the United States, that prevented him from foreseeing that such

* John Adams's Works, i., 525.
f Hamilton's Works, v., 184.

666 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

co-operation, as was proposed, was really to ally the country with
a foreign power against a mutual enemy, and that such an alli-
ance would have been full of danger to the United States. It is
the more extraordinary because his correspondence will show how
little confidence he had in the certainty that the British Govern-
ment would act against her own interests, were peace in Europe
restored. The United States would have been left alone to carry
out the plan, which must have failed, and failure under the cir-
cumstances would have justified the friends of France in their
clamor against the government.

\

/


===== Rufus King - The Life and Correspondence of Rufus King (ed. C. R. King, 6 vols, PD) (vol. 3) =====
Source: https://archive.org/download/lifecorresponden03king/lifecorresponden03king_djvu.txt

Lerox Library

l/m-dmacC* in 1^9^

~*« *■■ l«»

Aa

\

c & n |

V

'•'-,

THE LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

OF

RUFUS KING

VOLUME III.

1 799- 1 80 1

Of this Letter-press Edition
j 50 Copies ha ve been Printed for Sale

No..

"HjJ

January, 1896

Rufus King

From the engraving by Leney, after the painting by Wood, 1817
Published in Delaplaines " Repository'

THE LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

OF

RUFUS KING

COMPRISING HIS LETTERS, PRIVATE AND OFFICIAL

HIS PUBLIC DOCUMENTS AND

HIS SPEECHES

EDITED BY HIS GRANDSON

CHARLES R. KING, M.D.

FELLOW OF THE COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS, PHILADELPHIA, AND

MEMBER OF THE NEW YORK AND PENNSYLVANIA

HISTORICAL SOCIETIES

VOLUME III.

1 799- 1 80 1

NEW YORK
G. P. PUTNAM'S SONS

®Jj* Imicktrbocher !piess
■

< 4 c

COPYRIGHT, 1896
BY

CHARLES R. KING

< 1 ^

Zbc TRnicfeerbocfcet press, 1ftew Jl?orfe

PREFACE TO THE THIRD VOLUME.

This third volume takes up the correspondence at the
point of time when President Adams had proposed to send
a new embassy to France to take advantage of what
appeared to him an opportunity to settle the questions
which had caused the breaking off the amicable relations
with France and the annulling of the treaty with that
country. Constant decrees against all vessels, carrying arti-
cles of the growth or manufacture of England or its colonies
and confiscations under them were aimed chiefly against the
commerce of the United States, and the President hoped
through the instrumentality of a new commission to France
to restore the harmony and peaceful conditions between the
two nations. As is well known this course was disapproved
of by the Federalists generally, and with other causes led to
a want of confidence and good feeling between them, and
resulted in his failure to be re-elected to the Presidency.
The history of this unfortunate event, of the change of
administration caused by the election of Jefferson, and of
the policy which he adopted, are the subjects which fill the
letters of Mr. King's correspondents in the United States,
often revealing in their remarks his own opinions. Abroad
he is shown to have earnestly endeavored to bring to
a conclusion the questions in dispute between the United
States and Great Britain, hopeful, yet constantly disap-
pointed by evasions and delays on the part of Great Britain,
explained partly by the pressure of her relations with
France and the continent, and partly by a change of minis-
try. Of the events on the continent during this period the

VI PREFACE TO THE THIRD VOLUME.

Secretary of State was regularly and intelligently advised,
the letters giving a full account of their constantly changing
political as well as military aspects.

There are also some interesting memoranda of men and
measures from his private books in an Appendix and in the
body of the volume. Among them are conversations with
Miranda which show that he sought Mr. King and volun-
tarily laid before him his plans and his relations with the
British Government, after Mr. King had informed him that
he would converse with him about them without committing
himself or his government to any approval of them, but for
the purpose of gaining information to transmit to the Presi-
dent respecting the important measures suggested, being
matters of the deepest interest to his own country. Not a
word of the Hamiltonian plot charged against General
Hamilton, but rather showing that he was not anxious
to do anything to forward the proposed project.

CONTENTS OF VOL. III.

CHAPTER I.

PAGE

Mr. King expected early in 1797 soon to return Home — In 1797 he made
Arrangements for a longer Residence abroad — Sends his Sons to Har-
row— Once a great Smoker — Gave up Smoking — Pickering to King —
Agreement with General Maitland relative to St. Domingo — Cabot to
King — President's Alienation from Hamilton and his Friends — Un-
successful Endeavor to change this — Gerry a Solitary — Murray's Nomi-
nation— The Directory said to intend sending Lafayette as Ambassa-
dor to the United States — Cannon for Charleston — King to be sent
Ambassador to Russia — Marshall chosen for Congress from Virginia —
Virginia and Kentucky Resolutions — Troup to King — Federal Success
in New York — Jay's Administration not successful — The President
at Braintree — King to Secretary of State — French military Movements
— King to Lord Grenville — Detention of Ship Prosper, with United
States Arms on Board — Pickering relative to Misinterpretation of
1 8th Article of the Treaty — King to Lord Grenville — No News of
Troubles of Commission in Philadelphia — Pickering — Trial of In-
surgents in Pennsylvania — King to Hamilton — Continental Affairs . I

CHAPTER II.

King to Lord Grenville — Blockade of the United Provinces — Request
for Release of American Vessels — To Count de Woronzow — Russian
Treaty — To Secretary of State — Interruption of Commission under
6th Article — Blockade of the United Provinces — To Lord Lough-
borough— Maryland Bank — To Troup — Cannot understand Affairs at
Home — Pickering to King — Captain Loring's Insult to American Flag
— Mission to Constantinople — King to Lord Grenville — Complains of
the Vice-Admiralty Courts — To Secretary of State — Mission to Con-
stantinople and to Russia — Cabot to King — Dissatisfaction with
President — Lawrance to King, relative to the 8 percent. Loan — Great
Demand for Credits in Bank — Pickering to King — St. Domingo —
Toussaint promises Safety to Commerce — King to Pickering — Disap-
proves of the Nomination to France — Recommends Prudence in
Dealing with her — English Opinion on French Affairs — Trade with
Russia — Troup to King — Latter's Remarks about English Courts — St.
Domingo — East India Trade — Confidence in Adams's Discretion im-
paired— King to Lord Grenville on Provisions of the 18th Article
of the Treaty ........... 20

vii

VI 11 CONTENTS.

CHAPTER III.

PAGE

Cabot to King — Doubts Toussaint's Plans, and Wisdom of Interference
with Colonies of European Neighbors — La Fayette's Mission to the
United States — King to Hamilton — Continental Affairs — To Secre-
tary of State — Condition of War in Europe — Ames to King — France
must be fought with till fought down — Review of Affairs at Home —
Prospect more favorable — Trade flourishes — King to Secretary of
State — Conference with Lord Grenville relative to Proceedings of
Commissioners under the 6th Article — Their Secession would cause
those under the 7th to be stopped, notwithstanding King's Remon-
strances— St. Domingo — Pickering to King — Directs him to persevere
in denying the Right of British Men-of-War to take any Man what-
ever from our Ships of War 37

CHAPTER IV.

Letters to and from Dr. Drury — Sons' Education — King to Lord Gren-
ville— Blockade of Dutch Ports — Suspension of Commissioners under
7th Article — To Pickering — Silence about Situation of those under 6th
Article — Blockade of Dutch Ports — Detention in England of Ship
Providence — To Lord Grenville — Blockade not effective and Deten-
tions of Vessels unjust — To Secretary of State on the Blockade —
Always remonstrates when American Property captured — England
will not change her Policy towards Neutrals — Vice-Admiralty Courts
filled by incompetent Judges — Our Case not peculiar — Other Neu-
trals suffer also — Sees no Remedy — Recaptures — Impressment, Eng-
lish will not agree on a Convention — Contraband, not able to conclude
an explanatory Article — King to Secretary of State — French meet with
ruinous Defeats — Jacobin Revolution in Paris — St. Domingo — To the
Sec. of State — Treaties with Barbary Powers should call for Payments
in Money or Products of the U. S. — To Hamilton — Continental Af-
fairs— King to S. Bourne — Advises American Vessels should remain
at Amsterdam ........... 48

CHAPTER V.

'King to Pickering — Smith's Mission to Constantinople delayed — Expedi-
tion to Holland — Revolution in Paris Jacobinical — To Sir J. Nichol
— Trade between Surinam and Holland — Sedgwick to King — Presi-
dent's Course relative to France disapproved — Genl. Marshall's Elec-
tion will give Tone to federal Politics South — Delay in raising the
Army — Death of Govr. Sumner — Western New York prosperous —
People happy — Massachusetts' Affairs — King to Secretary of State —
Talleyrand's Resignation — Danes and Swedes exclude Privateers
from their Ports — Consul from Denmark — Bonaparte's Retreat from

CONTENTS. ix

PAGE

Acre — King to E. Nepean — Claim for Indemnity for a Broadside
fired into an American Ship — To Lord Grenville, complaining of Con-
duct of Govr. of St. Helena — Contraband of War in West Indies —
Piracy of Crew of American Brig Nancy — Vessels illegally condemned
in Jamaica — To Wm. Fawkener — Asks Permission to export Copper
— King's Remonstrances against British Acts 65

CHAPTER VI.

Silverhjehm to King — American Vessel runs down a Swedish Cutter —
Protest of the Latter's Captain — Pickering to King — Commissioners
under the 6th Article — Causes of Separation and Comment — Remedy
must be by Negotiation — King rents a country Place — King to Lord
Elgin, Ambassador to the Porte — Views relative to intended U. S.
Mission to Constantinople — To Lord Grenville — President's Procla-
mation— The Trade with St. Domingo — To E. Benson — Govern-
ment of France embarrassed — Allies full of Courage — To Secretary
of State — Delays in Negotiations — Vessels detained at St. Helena
restored — Continental Affairs — English Expedition to Holland started
— In Paris, the Directory have shut up the Clubs — Troup to King —
Captures of Vessels in the West Indies — Commissioners under 6th
Article — Mission to France — General Davie appointed — Gore to King
— Work of Commission under 7th Article not to be resumed at Present
— Bingham to King — Dissatisfaction with Mission to France, though
perhaps the Time opportune — Affairs in United States prosperous,
though yellow Fever has appeared again 78

CHAPTER VII.

Pickering to King — Character of the Commissioners under Article 6, and
Points of Disagreement — Desire of the President to do Justice ; will
propose an explanatory Article — Trumbull to King — Resignation of
Sir James Marriott — King to Secretary of State — English landed in
Holland — Prussia proposes the Restoration of the Prince of Orange —
French Defeats in Switzerland — Want of Union among the Allies —
Cabot to King — Feeling against Appointment of Ministers to France ;
it will probably cause Apprehension in England and Russia — King
to Count Rumford, urging him to visit the United States — They have
established a Military Academy, and would commit it to his Super-
intendence— To Secretary of State — Baron Silverhjehm's Letter —
Expedition to Holland ; Russians join it — To Mr. Hammond — Ex-
planatory Article relative to the 18th Article of the Treaty — Rumford
to King ; would gladly visit the United States and accept the Offer of
the Executive Government — His present Engagements prevent this . 95

X CONTENTS.

CHAPTER VIII.

PAGE

King to Lord Grenville — Impressment of an American Sailor in Lisbon
by the Mermaid — Outrages against American Citizens in Jamaica
by British Officers — Strong Demands for Redress — Cabot to King —
The President persists in sending the Envoys — Earnest Efforts to
prevent it — Thinks of the Difficulties to King in Consequence in
England — Hale to King — Anxiety caused by the President's Policy
towards France — Pleased that King is in England at this Time —
Cabot to King — The President's Course reprobated — King to Lord
Grenville — Argument against the Impressment of Seamen and other
international Questions — Injurious Acts of Sir Hyde Parker — Earnest
Appeal to Lord Grenville ........ 108

CHAPTER IX.

King to Secretary of State — Conference with Lord Grenville on the With-
drawal of the Commissioners under the 6th Article — Lord Grenville
in one of the Conferences said that the U. S. in publishing its Minis-
ters' Dispatches must inspire Caution in making Communications to
them — King had observed a Coldness towards the U. S. and conse-
quently he had been more reserved also — Character and Principles
of the British Government — States his Reasons and gives in Cipher
the Conversations held with Lord Grenville — King to Secretary of
State — Said he had referred to an explanatory Article to Lord Gren-
ville, who preferred to await further News — Admiral Pringle's Proc-
lamation against Whalers at the Cape of Good Hope — The President
to Pickering — Explanatory Article — Cabot to King — Mission to
France suspended — It will be difficult to recover what had been
gained in public Opinion — The pecuniary Troubles in G. Britain and
their Consequences — King to Secretary of State — Reverses of the Allies
— Bankruptcies on the Continent — Consuls in France improperly giv-
ing irregular consular Papers to Vessels bought in France — Maryland
Bank Mystery and Delay in Settlement ...... 122

CHAPTER X.

King to Secretary of State — No Instructions relative to Commission in
Philadelphia — Regrets it because the Mission to France is on its Way
— Estimate of Affairs on the Continent — Unfavorable to the Allies —
Troup to King — Sailing of the Envoys — Evil Effects of the Action
of the President — Especially on the next presidential Election —
Pickering to King — Envoys sailed — Character of their Instructions
confined to making commercial Regulations — Cabot to King — Ap-
prehensions from the Mission — Jacobin Overthrow — Effect of Sus-
pension of specie Payments in England — Sedgwick to King — Facts
relative to the President's Decision — Loss of Confidence in his Wis-

CONTENTS. xi

PAGE

dom and Prudence — Will cause Division among the Federalists —
Candidate for Speaker — Measures that should be taken by Congress
— J. Trumbull to King — Relative to the Publication of N. Webster's
Epidemics — King to Lord Grenville — Complains of continued Depre-
dations in American Seas by Admiral Sir Hyde Parker's Squadron,
and asks that prompt Remedy may be afforded — King to Secretary
of State — Regrets he had not received the Report of Commission
under 6th Article — Report that the Mission to France had not sailed
led him to a Conference with Lord Grenville, which he gives . .139

CHAPTER XI.

Sedgwick to King — Bad Effect of possible Disbandment of the Army —
Loan would be necessary to maintain it and increase the Navy — Next
presidential Election — Confidence that Federalists will succeed — King
to Secretary of State — Threatened Withdrawal of Russian Troops —
Want of Confidence in the Austrians — Russia makes Treaty with
Denmark, etc. — What Effect will this have on American Commerce
with France, and with the Conduct of England? — Restoration of
Commerce with France may help Negotiations in England — Make
her restrain Abuses — Consider stopping Impressment — King to Troup
— Consuls named Talleyrand to meet the Envoys — Louis XVII. —
King to H. Grant relative to the Capture of the Woodrop Sims, with
U. S. Arms on Board, by the French — To Comte Wedel Jarlsberg —
Laws of the U. S. relative to Inheritances — To N. Low — Recom-
mendation of B. Dandridge in business Relations — Sedgwick to King
— Death of General Washington — Shall the Army continue to be re-
cruited?— If Treaty with France made, it would be disbanded — Presi-
dent will probably be authorized to stop Enlistments — General Mar-
shall is much relied on — Sedgwick hopes no Treaty with France will be
made — King to O. Wolcott — Many Embarrassments in England cause
Stagnation in Business — No Peace probable — King to Pickering —
Little Probability of Peace — The Effect of the Mission — Should it
succeed, England and Russia would probably be offended — New
French Constitution accepted by the People 154

CHAPTER XII.

Condition of European Countries in the Beginning of 1800 — Its Relation
to the United States — Troup to King — Death of Washington — Plans
for honoring his Memory in New York — Oration to be pronounced by
G. Morris — A cold historical Narrative — Nothing to move the Feel-
ings— General Mourning — Pickering to King — President will send
Mr. Sitgreaves to England about the Interruption of the Commission
under the 6th Article — Might not be acceptable to Mr. King — Mr.
Sitgreaves's Position — Hamilton to King — Shall the Friends of the

xii CONTENTS.

PAGE

Government risk Schism by Attempt to change — Mass of the People
want Peace — He wants the Navy increased — Renewed Animosity to
England — King to Lord Grenville — No Instructions yet relative to
Suspension of Commission under 6th Article — Lord Grenville to King,
inclosing Dispatch from Liston and an Article from Pickering to Peter
Porcupine justifying the Conduct of the American Commissioners —
Requires King not to allow the former to go beyond himself — King to
Lord Grenville — Answer to him and justifying his Course in freely
communicating with his own Government, though Prudence should
be exercised in publishing Information. — Delay in sending King
Instructions not for Delay's Sake — Not to await Arrival of the
Envoys — Warmly justifies his own Government .... 167

CHAPTER XIII.

Cabot to King — President in private Circles distrusts France — Opinions of
leading Men on the Result of the Mission — Especially of the southern
Politicians — King to Secretary of State — Disposition to couple Delay
in his Instructions with Mission to France — Has positively stated that
is not so — Yet feels himself embarrassed — Nothing will be done until
these injurious Suspicions are removed — Envoys not yet in France —
England, Russia, and the Porte pledged not to make a separate Peace
with France — King to Troup — Thought in England the Envoys will
make a Treaty — Cannot see how when Mission once broached it could
be laid aside — Lord Buchan — Condolence on the Death of Washington
— King to Troup — Death of Washington — His Character a steadying
Power — To Secretary of State — Unfair and dishonest Condemnation
by French Prize Tribunals used by English Underwriters against
Americans — King to Lord Grenville — Georgia Records lost during
the War — Sedgwick to King — Bankrupt Bill and proposed Amend-
ments— Pickering to King — Hopes that an equitable Adjustment
relative'to Commission on 6th Article may soon be made — President's
Sense of Injury done by the unjust Suspicions ..... 182

CHAPTER XIV.

Sedgwick to King — His Task to accommodate the Differences with G.
Britain — France's Conduct viewed with Disgust, even Horror — King
to Secretary of State — Russian and Austrian Disagreements, also
Austrian and English financial ones settled — Envoys at Corunna —
King to Lord Grenville — Relative to the Disagreement of the Com-
mission at Philadelphia — To Secretary of State — Speaks of Confer-
ence above referred to — Scarcity of Bread in Great Britain — Expe-
dition preparing possibly to assist the Revolt of the Spanish Colonies
— To Pickering — Will be glad to see Mr. Sitgreaves — Envoys to
France — Insurance in England affected by Decisions of French

CONTENTS. xiii

PAGE

Courts — To Secretary of State — On the News of the Death of Wash-
ington, he put his Family in Mourning — Attending next Levee of the
King and of the Queen — Neither made Allusion to the Event — Con-
certed Neglect — Dinner at Carleton House a Year before ; Washing-
ton toasted — The Prince of Wales broke up the Party — General
News ............ 191

CHAPTER XV.

'Bingham to King — England may declare Blockade of French Ports — Not
advantageous to the U. S. — At Home antifederal Party gaining
Ground — Fall of Prices in Europe injurious to Merchants — King to
Sec'y of State — Envoys arrived — Troup to King — Gov. Jay living
too retired — Beneficial Use of Oxygen Gas in Consumption — Jay
may retire — Should declare his Intentions — Coming Elections — Deep-
rooted Disgust with Adams — Cabot to King — Cannot avoid opening
an Intercourse with France if she concedes our Demands — Hopes he
will remain in England — The Country has the highest Confidence
dn him — New Alliance with France to be dreaded — King to T.
Hume — Missing Georgia Records — To Pickering — Liston's Letters
to J. Buchanan — Says he must lead Mr. Adams by the Nose —
Constable to King — Envoys arrived — Well received — King to Sec'y
of State — Note about 6th Article not yet answered — Campaign on
the Continent not yet opened — Intentions of Russia uncertain — To
Sec'y of State — Lord Grenville does not wish to enter into formal
Discussions relative to explanatory Articles of 6th Article — King to
Lord Grenville — About new Commissioners — General Answer to his
Communication on that Subject — Lord Grenville's specific Answer
to King's Note of 18th Feb'y — Accepting only the Making of a new
Board ............ 204

CHAPTER XVI.

King to Secretary of State — Conference with Lord Grenville relative to
his Note — Suggests the probable Wisdom of paying a gross Sum for
the Settlement of all Claims by British Creditors — To Pickering —
Advantages from such a Mode of Settlement — To Secretary of State
— Unless Russia unite with the Allies, Denmark and Sweden will
continue neutral — Misunderstanding between Russia and the Allies
rather increases — Gore to King— Events in the U.S. — Lord Grenville
to King — His Report of Conference correct — Suggests the Principle
that the Decision of one Cause in a Class of Claims should settle
all of this Class — King to Secretary of State — Campaign in Italy
recommenced favorably to the Allies — No Change in Russia's
Plans — The Terms of Union with Ireland — Simcoe to King
— His Conduct in the Government of Canada the reverse of that
charged by the Duke of Liancourt-Rochefoucault — He endeavored

XIV CONTENTS.

PAGE

to preserve Peace — King to Governor of Georgia — Records of
Georgia found — To Lord Grenville asking their Restoration —
Pickering to King — Speculations as to the coming presidential
Election — Public Offices to be removed to Washington in June
or July — King to Troup — Presidential Election — Pleasant House
nine Miles from London — Must have a Farm — Pickering's Re-
moval— Law of Blockade — Sedgwick to King — Bankrupt Bill passed
— Secretary of Treasury to report on Revenue at Beginning of
each Session — Influence of Marshall in Legislation — His Character
— Strong reasoning Powers, but weakens their Influence frequently
before exerting them — An Instance in the Passage of a Law for
counting the Votes for President in Case of a Dispute — His Objec-
tions, though abandoned, caused it to be lost — Adams and Pinckney
will be the federal Candidates ........ 221

CHAPTER XVII.

J. Hale to King — Adams must be the Candidate for President — New
York against Jefferson — Strong elected Governor over Gerry — Gore
to King — Conversation with Liston about 6th Article — Bayard Died
— King to Secretary of State — Attempted Assassination of the King
— Moreau defeats the Austrians on the Rhine — Misunderstanding be-
tween Russia and the Allies increasing — Sweden and Russia offended
by England's Capturing merchant Ships under Convoy — Project of
uniting the northern Powers against France at an End — King re-
joices at its Failure — King to Secretary of State — Eaton wishes him
to buy the Presents for the Bey of Tunis promised to him when
Treaty of Peace was made — Has no Authority, though he gets an
Estimate of Cost — Pickering to King — His Removal from Office —
Coalition between Adams and Jefferson — Marshall appointed Secre-
tary of State — Gore to King — Pickering Removed — Pinckney and
Adams for President and Vice-President — Cabot to King — Pickering's
Removal — Coalition of Adams and Jefferson — England will find Pre-
tence to war on Commerce of United States and France — King to
Secretary of State— N. Webster's History of pestilential Diseases —
G. Morris to King — Their Friends are in sad Anarchy — A direct
Tax always unpopular — King to Secretary of State — The Lord Chan-
cellor thinks a gross Sum the best Way of settling the Differences
under the 6th Article — Campaign in northern Italy . . . 240

CHAPTER XVIII.

King to B. West — Monument to Washington — Bushrod Washington to
King — Proposes to publish Life of Washington — King to Secretary
of State — Jewels for the Bey of Tunis — To N. Webster — Robinson ;
Objections to publishing his Work — Jay to King — Impatient to learn

CONTENTS. XV

PAGE

about the Campaign in Europe — Affairs in United States not Free
from Agitation — Federalists not active or united — Their Opponents
diligent, united — Troup to King — Dr. Romayne's Plans — Separation,
Bitterness, and Hostility among the Federalists — Especially against
those of New England — Cannot say who will be the Candidate for
Governor — King to General Chalmers and the Governor of Georgia
— Trunk containing the Georgia Papers — McHenry to Pickering —
Liston's Letter to Buchanan — Pickering to King — Liston's Letter —
Explanation by Liston — Not serious — Adams says there is no Coali-
tion with Jefferson — Never said there was a British Faction in the
Senate — Violent Feelings against Hamilton — Goodhue to Pickering
on this Subject — King to Secretary of State — Disasters to Austrian
Army — Probable Treaty of Peace between Austria and France — Dis-
satisfaction between northern Powers and England — Influence of
England on the Continent less than at any Period of the War . . 254

CHAPTER XIX.

N. Low to King — Suggests other Investments than U. S. Loans — King
has entire Confidence in the U. S. and its Loans — Hale to King —
Hamilton's Visit to Boston — Hale for the Re-election of Adams —
King to Lord Grenville — American Vessels captured off Cadiz under
Pretence of Breach of Blockade — No Notice of it given — Request
that an End be immediately put to these Abuses — To H. Dundas
— Maryland Bank Stock — Statement relative to it — F. Ames to King
— President's Toast — Intrigues about the Presidency — Hamilton's
Visit — Adams's Violent Language — Speculations relative to the
coming Election and the Action of the Jacobins — King to Secretary
of State — Treaty between England and Austria loaning Money to the
Latter, who shall not make a separate Peace — French so superior to
the Austrians they may be obliged to make Peace — Cabot to King
— Adams departing from the Policy of 1798 now denounces high
Federalists — Congratulates the Country that King is in his Position
Abroad 268
CHAPTER XX.

King to Pickering — Unfeigned Regrets at the Changes in the executive
Departments — Though with his Reputation pure and unblemished —
His Son with him — King to Adams — Danish Frigate resisted a
Search of a British Squadron — May increase the Dissatisfaction
of northern Powers with England — McHenry to King — Acknowl-
edges with Thanks Faden's Collection of Maps and Count Rumford's
Field-Piece — Presidential Election — Bingham to King — Duane's
Arrest ordered by the Senate — Absconded until after Session closed
— Treated as a persecuted Patriot and Martyr to Liberty of the

xvi CONTENTS.

PAGE

Press — Lack of Energy in the Government because of Jacobinical
Principles — Government moved to Washington — A general Peace
would be advantageous to this Country — King to Secretary of State
— Austria may be obliged to treat with France— English Expedition
probably to Belle Isle — Search of Convoy under a Danish Frigate —
May lead to important Consequences — Right of Search cannot be sub-
mitted to by Neutrals as a Principle, though perhaps in a modified
Form— Blockade at Cadiz— Troup to King— New York Legislature
consists of the Essence of Jacobinism— Armstrong likely to be made
Senator — Hamilton has been, Burr is going, to the East . . . 281

CHAPTER XXL

Cabot to King — Effect of Election of Adams or Pinckney or Jefferson —
Pinckney's Election would array true Men on his Side — Hamilton
thinks Jefferson will be chosen — King to President Adams — Envoys'
Negotiation with France probably broken off — Ames to King —
Shallow Reason, Impulse, Caprice, and Prejudice for Mission to
France — Unless Federalists unite and run the two federal Candi-
dates, Jefferson will be elected — Our Government is republican,
our Opinions democratic — Adams's Ground the same now as before
— Federalists never knew where they were — Clamor loud he is to be
sacrificed — Unless Massachusetts Electors vote for Adams and General
Pinckney both, Jefferson will be elected — Adams acts as if he did not
hate him — Speculations on European Affairs as affecting those of U. S.
— King to Pickering — Cannot explain late Occurrences at Home —
Choice of Electors in New England — May not the Issue of the Mis-
sion to France influence this? — Deprecates the Policy of exciting
Prejudices and Passions of New England — Liston's Explanations such
as he expected — To Secretary of State — Negotiations between
France and Austria going on ; both recruiting their Armies — Troup
to King — Adams's Letter to French Consul — Jefferson attacked on
Ground of his religious Opinions — Burr's Return from the East —
Democrats say he is to run with Jefferson ..... 291

CHAPTER XXII.

King to Secy, of State — Expedition to Belle Isle failed — Envoys in Paris
— To Smith — Impressment of American Seamen in Lisbon by the
English — Complaint properly against Portugal — To Prest. Adams —
Unsettled State of Relations between France and Austria may
hasten the Work of the Envoys at Paris — Food Riots in London —
Ames to King — Will not decide there is a Coalition — But too much
Complacency of Adams towards his Antagonist as shown here — A
Creature of Impulse — Irritated against sound Men — Thinks it would
be a light Matter to have a War with Jefferson, and the Jacobins,

CONTENTS. xvii

l'AGE

would prefer Adams to Pinckney — Sedgwick to King — Passion
displayed in Dismissal of Pickering displayed now without Disguise
— Motives that led to the Election of Adams were with many to
prevent that of Jefferson — Adams's Resentment aggravated by sub-
sequent Events — He does not conceal his Opinions — A Consequence
the Disorganization of the federal Party — Marshall says Union alone
can save the Country — On Massachusetts will depend the Result of
the presidential Election — Cabot to King — Flow to secure neutral
Rights — King and Gore quoted as thinking Peace not improbable
and as Proof of the Wisdom of Adams's Course . . . .301

CHAPTER XXIII.

King to Secretary of State — Strange Conduct of Emperor of Austria —
Reasons for it — English Envoys to be received at the Congress
at Luneville — Russia dissatisfied with England — Depredations on
American Commerce in West Indies due to pillaging Spirit of English
Officers — Mr. Merry to succeed Mr. Piston — Troup to King —
Hamilton thinks of publishing Grounds of his Opposition to Adams
— Laments the Scattering of Federalists — Insurrection in Virginia —
King to Murray — Mode of Expenditure of Money for Claims in the
Prize Courts — Under King's Control — Character of them — W.
Constable to King — Convention with France signed — First Consul's
Toast at Feast in Celebration : Perpetual Amity between France
and the United States — King to Smith — The President approves of
Purchase of Jewels for Bey of Tunis under the Circumstances — To
Discourage Expectation of future Purchases — To Secretary of State
— Austria probably to conclude a separate Treaty with France —
Crops in England good — Not sufficient for a Year's Supply — King
to Lord Grenville — President's Congratulations on the King's Escape
from Assassination — To Secretary of State on same Subject — Lord
Grenville's Answer to J. White — Acknowledges the Receipt of a Piece
of Plate from Lloyd's for Captain Truxton, to be sent to him —
Lord Grenville to King — Mr. Soren's Pamphlet — He complains of
Inattention to his Business — Denied by Lord Grenville — King to
Secretary of State — Convention with France — Lord Grenville finds
no Fault except as to Convoys and the Rights of Neutrals — King
thought Regulations for Trade of Neutrals might be made by Convoys
without affecting injuriously the Right of Search — Lord Grenville ad-
mitted the Fairness of the Project — Mr. Merry the Successor of Liston
favorably spoken of . . . . . . . . . -313

CHAPTER XXIV.

Mr. Strickland to King — Reprinting his Paper on Agriculture in United
States — Objects to minute Division of Land — King to W. Smith —

XVI 1! CONTENTS.

PAGE

Has declined to advance Funds to pay for Articles ordered by Mr.
Eaton for Bey of Tunis — They should be paid for in London or
Paris, not through Traders — Troup to King — Strictures on Hamil-
ton's Letter to the President — General Impression injurious to him
and his Party — Cabot to King — Treaty with France cannot be a
"Subject of Joy" — King to Secy, of State — Reports his Readiness
to confer with Ld. Grenville on 6th Article — Relations of Austria
and England with France about Peace — Latter wants separate
Treaties — England seems ready now to support the First Consul
— King will push Conference on 6th Article, but hopes for little
while War lasts — Schoenbron to King — Announces to him the Ap-
pointment of Minister Resident and Consul-General from Denmark
to U. S. — King to Secy, of War — Maps — W. Wilberforce to King —
Abolition of the slave Trade — King to Eaton — Gives Reasons for
not ordering the Jewels made and sent to Tunis — The President does
not see the Necessity, but is impressed with the Impolicy of sending
them — Presents from America possibly sufficient — Urges him to try
to extricate the Country from Promises of Others — To Secy, of
State — Minister from Denmark, why not simply a Consul — Wilber-
force to King — Friendly Greetings — How to prosecute Masters of
Vessels breaking the Law to prevent slave Trade by American
Vessels — Would reporting Names, etc., to the Abolition Society?
— Troup to King — Adams and Pinckney will be chosen — Hamilton
prefers Jefferson to Adams — Many Answers to his Pamphlet —
King to Mr. Netzel relative to Conduct of two American Vessels
against a Swedish Cutter ......... 327

CHAPTER XXV.

King to Secretary of State — England and Austria decline, France insists
on separate Peace — France hopes to effect Reconciliation with
Russia — Prussia cautious — Russia displeased with England — Malta
surrendered to the English — France would revive the armed Neu-
trality— Effect of this on maritime States — King to Wolcott — Suffi-
cient Arms manufactured in the United States — To Secretary of
State — England must have Grain — Will take all United States can
spare — Temper of England favorable to Negotiations — Should first
settle Matter of the 6th Article — Proposal to pay a precise Sum
— Calculation of how much — Should not exceed ^400,000 — J.
McHenry to King — Retired from Department of War — Jefferson
and Burr President and Vice-President — King to G. Morris — Peace
more uncertain — Effort will be made to draw United States into
the War — Our Policy Neutrality — Pickering to King — Relative to his
Son — Result of the presidential Election — Jefferson incapable of
removing his Opponents from Office — If Treaty with France ratified

CONTENTS. xix

PEGE

Navy will be hauled up — King to Eaton — Has, under the Secretary's
Instructions, ordered the Jewels — If any Payments in making
Treaties hereafter, make them as small as possible — Cabot to King
— Speculations on Result of the Election — Does not think there will
be violent Changes in Office — All calm — Less Exultation on one Side,
much less Depression on the other — Hale to King — Federalists prefer
Burr to Jefferson — Whichever chosen, Men of Prudence do not expect
the Evils predicted, if either elected — Peter Porcupine's Writings
serve to feed Jealousies between us and Great Britain — Troup to King
— Hamilton says if Burr is elected he will withdraw from the Party
and public Concerns — He would ratify French Treaty — His Letter
shows he wants Discretion — The Future very uncertain . . . 342

CHAPTER XXVI.

McHenry to King — Jefferson or Burr equal Votes — Whichever chosen,
Changes in Conduct of the Government — Burr's Professions of
Fidelity to the Wishes and Expectation of the United States — Opposi-
tion in violent State of Apprehension lest Jefferson be not chosen —
King to Secretary of State — The King's Title changed by adding
"and Ireland " — Pickering to King — Jay nominated as Chief Justice,
but refused — Both Parties reprobate the Convention with France —
Election still doubtful — If Burr, fewer Changes in Office ; If Jefferson,
more — Speculations on the possible Result — Lawrance to King —
Convention with France — General Wish it should be taken as it is —
Changes may bring King Home, where he will be cordially received
— King to Secretary of State — France and Austria to treat separately
— Probable maritime War between England and the Rest of Europe
— This should favor speedy Adjustment of our Affairs with England —
Asked to discuss the Arrangements respecting the 6th Article with
Mr. Anstey, Lord Grenville pleading Press of Business — If Result
satisfactory well, if not will fall back upon an explanatory Article —
Lord Grenville to King — Explanation of Captain Bainbridge's enter-
ing Harbor of Constantinople with Algerine Flag flying — Objection
made — Asked to be put under the Protection of the English Minis-
ter— To take down Algerine Flag and substitute the American
Pendant — Hale to King — Senate ratified the Convention with France
with Modifications — Negotiations with France show a Want of Firm-
ness— Prefers Burr to Jefferson — Richard Peters to King — The
pending presidential Election — Turnbull to King — Offer of Services
of his Firm at Gibraltar to the Consul there ..... 360

CHAPTER XXVII.

King to Secretary of State — England notifies Members of the Northern
Confederacy that she would use all her Resources in Defence of her

XX CONTENTS.

PAGE

Rights — If Prussia joins she is cut off from the Continent — Public
Opinion disturbed in England — Present Moment favorable for a
satisfactory Settlement of United States Affairs — Difficulties, In-
decision, and Delay by Ministers — Urges Reforms in Admiralty
Courts, and Settlement of Questions under 6th Article — W. Wilber-
force to King — Confidence in him — King to Pickering — England
excluded from the Continent — America will adhere to her old
Maxims — Cabot to King — Federalists prefer Burr — Hope that King
will not come Home — Northern Coalition unfavorable to Neutrals
— King to Bainbridge, relative to the Misunderstanding at Constan-
tinople— King to Stoddard — Same Subject — Bainbridge to King —
Report of the Case — King to Truxton — Lloyd's Gift of Plate to him
— King to Troup — News of Jefferson's Election — Hopes for the Best
— Northern Confederation — King to Secretary of State — Tenor of
the Northern Confederacy not exactly known — Effect on Hanover
— League a hostile Aggression to be resisted with Force by England
— Conference with Lord Grenville — If Blockade of the Baltic, the
United States would claim to enjoy her Rights of Trade — Lord
Grenville said a Relaxation with Reference to the United States
might be agreed to — Interruption of Trade through New Orleans —
Change in English Ministry — Pitt and Colleagues have resigned on
Question of the Emancipation of the Catholics — Duke of Portland
First Lord of the Treasury — Thought a Proposal will be made to
France to treat for Peace — Disagreement among Northern Con-
federacy— Russia's Intrigues — King to Lord Grenville — Regrets his
Resignation, both on public and private Grounds — Had hoped to
settle with him the Questions under Discussion between the Govern-
ments— Lord Grenville to R. King ....... 374

CHAPTER XXVIII.

Troup to King — Counting presidential Vote — Burr's Election prob-
able— Hamilton profoundly chagrined — Democrats disappointed —
King to Secretary of State — New Ministers not yet in Office — Ratifica-
tion of French Convention will benefit our Commerce — To Ld. Gren-
ville relative to Taxes levied in Scotland against Major Lenox — They
should not be levied — Pickering to King — Gives Action of the Senate
on the Convention with France — Election of President still in Doubt
— Suggests that Adams may be nominated for Governor of Massa-
chusetts with Gerry — Hopes there is enough good Sense to reject
both — Lawrance to King — No Election yet — King to Secretary of
State — The King's Illness causes Delay in forming new Cabinet —
Northern Confederacy still unsettled — England will resist it — Nego-
tiations between Great Britain and United States at a Stand — Vice-
Admiralty Courts to be reformed — King to Lord Hawkesbury — Cap-
ture and Condemnation of S. Girard's Ship, on Ground he is a French-

CONTENTS. xxi

PAGE

man — Denial of this — lie is an American Citizen — Services in yellow
Fever in 1793, in Philadelphia — King to Secretary of State — The
King's Sickness continues — No Business— King to Troup — Condition
of Affairs in Europe — Lord St. Vincent promises to repress the West
India Privateers — King to Lord Hawkesbury — Summary of Matters
in Dispute — To T. Erskine — Impressment of Seamen — Suggests that
neither Party shall impress on the high Seas — Erskine to King — Says
he has sent his Letter to Lord St. Vincent — King to Lord Hawkes-
bury— Captures of American Vessels bound to an Enemy's Colony
not according to the Law of Nations — Cause great Complaints —
Demands a precise Instruction to Officers in West India Seas to
put an End to this — King to G. Rose — Arbitrary and oppressive
Conduct of revenue Officers in the Port of London .... 390

CHAPTER XXIX.

Cabot to King — Jefferson's Inaugural gives Federalists much Hope — Bad
Omen if King leaves his Post — Persuaded England will triumph —
King to Southgate — Expects a Successor — Affectionate Expressions
— Cabot to King — Jefferson's Speech more liked by Federalists than
Democrats — Troup to King — Similar Opinion — Cabinet and other
Appointments — Generally believed he was not to be suspended —
New York Appointments — Right claimed by Gov. Clinton — Lord
St. Vincent to T. Erskine — Expressing high Respect for Mr. King
— Hard to draw a Line on Impressments — King to Secretary of State
— New Ministry — Sir Hyde Parker gone to Baltic with a Fleet —
Debate in Parliament on free Bottoms make free Goods — Neu-
tral Rights — Overtures of Peace — Affairs of United States delayed
but pushed — Cession of Louisiana and Floridas to France — Fears
injurious Effects upon the Union — Gen. Collot's proposed Voyage to
United States — Importance of having an able Minister at Paris —
King to Lawrance — Had not the Ministers gone out, believes he
would have been able to settle United States Affairs satisfactorily —
Cabot to King — England will triumph — King to remain — No war
with England — Some Changes of Officers made — King to Lord
Hawkesbury — Vices of the Vice-Admiralty Courts in West Indies
and Nova Scotia, and Reforms suggested — Asks when the Delays
in taking up the Negotiations with the United States will cease —
King to Addington — Relative to Commission under 6th Article —
Asks for a Decision — To Secretary of State — English Ships excluded
from the Continent — France supplied by Neutrals from England —
Peace yet uncertain — If Egypt evacuated, Peace more probable . 406

CHAPTER XXX.

King to Secretary of State — Advises Publication of his last Letter to
Lord Hawkesbury on the Seizure of Vessels loaded with Spanish

xxii CONTENTS.

PAGE

Goods, and the Answers from Lord Hawkesbury and Duke of Port-
land— Sentence of the Vice-Admiralty Courts erroneous — King to
Secretary of State — English Fleet at Copenhagen — Death of
Emperor Paul — Probable Break of Northern League — Nelson's
Victory at Copenhagen — King to Sir W. Scott, asking how long
before Appointment of new Judges in Vice- Admiralty Courts —
King to Strickland— Estimate of Jefferson— King to Secretary of
State — United States Affairs, though delayed, may be settled on
reasonable Principles — Lord Hawkesbury promised early Attention
— Mr. Addington favors Settlement on the 6th Article on Terms
proposed — Obliged to Mr. Sitgreaves for his Help— King to Secretary
of State — Action at Copenhagen — Russia to re-establish friendly Re-
lations with England — Prussia has taken Possession of Hanover —
Negotiations between Paris and London going on — The King's
Relapse — Uncertainty of his Recovery — Jewels etc., sent to Bey of
Tunis — Wants Money to pay for them and for various Salaries and
Commissions — King to Secretary of State — Interviews with Minis-
ters on several Matters, especially the Debts — Reasons for a more
favorable Disposition towards United States — King to Lord Eldon
— Asks his Attention to the Matter of English Debts and urging a
Settlement — King to Troup — Jefferson's Speech well received —
English Affairs — Cabot to King — Ellsworth gives a gloomy Account
of Europe — Hopes King will not return Home .... 426

CHAPTER XXXI.

Vargas to King — Cession of Louisiana to France Result of Volney's Sug-
gestions— Possibly to be used as a Compensation to the United States
for Indemnities demanded — Lord Buchan to King — Life of General
Washington — A. Stephens to King — Wishes to write a Life — Has
Lord Buchan's and Others' Papers — King to Secretary of State —
United States Frigates in the Mediterranean may check Insolence of
Barbary States — To Lord Eldon — Urges warmly the Resumption
and Settlement of American Affairs — To Secretary of State — Admiral
Parker ordered Home — Bill for Vice-Admiralty Courts in America
— Sir W. Scott to King — Glad he approves the Bill — Troup to King
— Democracy triumphs — Gallatin Secretary of Treasury — An Outrage
— Sedgwick to King — Presidential Election — Preferred Burr, who
could not administer Government without federal Aid, which he could
only get by preserving their System — Jefferson's Principles absolutely
opposed to them — Hence Burr supported — Jefferson's Speech the
Result of his Timidity — His Followers disgusted — His Attachment
to his Friends shown by violent Removals from lucrative Offices —
Cabot to King — Regrets he is disposed to resign — His Opinions have
generally coincided with those of his Friends at Home — Troup to
King — Lands look up — New York prospering — Jefferson's Removals
from Office — Burr — Marriage of his Daughter — Hamilton's small
Charges — Edward Livingston's Appointment ..... 447

CONTENTS. xxiii

CHAPTER XXXII.

PAGE-

King to Addington — Complaint of Abuses to American Vessels brought
into English Ports — To Lord Hawkesbury — Illegal Proceedings in
Vice-Admiralty Court in Gibraltar — King to Secretary of State —
Question of Debts in the Cabinet — Addington's liberal Views on this
and other pending Matters — Hopes of a speedy Decision on them —
King to Troup — Peace the earnest Wish of Ministers — Probable
Convention limiting the Right of Search — To Secretary of State —
Letter from Lord Hawkesbury relative to Depredations in West
Indies — Conference, among other Topics, on Cession of Louisiana to
France — His strong Feeling against it — We preferred it in the Hands
of Spain or transferred to United States — Report of King's Advo-
cate on Vice-Admiralty Courts — King to Secretary of State — The King
attends to Business — Affairs in Egypt — Probable Peace between Eng-
land and Northern Powers — Threatened French Invasion of Eng-
land— Harvests good — King to Lord Hawkesbury — By President's
Direction he presses the Settlement of the Reform of the Prize
Courts in West Indies — H. Lee to King — Expressions of Friendship
and Regard — Begins to doubt Jefferson's professed Moderation —
King to Lord Hawkesbury — Demands the Discharge of an American
Shipmaster because not liable for Charge against him in an English
Court— To Lord Eldon — Asking if he has given, as promised, his
Opinions on the Debts, etc. — To Lord Hawkesbury about Cunning-
ham the American Shipmaster — Bird, Savage, & Bird to King —
General Allen's Affairs — King to Addington — Urging him to bring
the Questions pending before the Cabinet — To the Secretary of State
— Parliament prorogued — Law regulating Prize Courts passed —
French Government may not ratify the Convention with United
States ............ 463

CHAPTER XXXIII.

King still at his Post — To Lord Hawkesbury — Desires to bring Discussions
to speedy Issues — To Secretary of State — Dale's Squadron in the
Mediterranean will have good Influence — Ministry promised Deci-
sions— To Commodore Dale — Hospitable Offer of Supplies from
British Ports — Presents to Bey of Tunis — King to Secretary of State
— Continental Affairs — Convention between England and Russia —
Enemy's Goods on neutral Ships liable to Capture — Right of Search
of Vessels under Convoy abandoned — Duroc, French Ambassador,
strove to thwart Negotiations — King to Secretary of State — Bill for
regulating Vice-Admiralty Courts a Law — Scott to King — Answer to
Congratulations on Russian Convention, etc. — King to Gore —
Patience with Ministry almost exhausted — King to Troup — Threat-
ened French Invasion — King to Secretary of State — Doubts the

Xxiv CONTENTS.

PAGE

proposed French Invasion — Difficulties of French in Egypt increase
— Cahot to King — Spirit of the Country more democratic than the
Form — King's Tour on the Continent — Hale to King — Wishes King
to return Home — Cabot to King — Hopes England will not make
Peace, but carry on the War — Jefferson's Answer to New Haven
Remonstrants — Troup to King — Jefferson's System — Burr goading
him on — Hamilton disgusted — King to remain till End of eight
Years — King to Secretary of State — Sends Atlas and Maps — Turnbull
to King — Malta a free Port — Recommends Higgins as Consul —
King to Secretary of State — Affairs at Tunis — To Eaton — Cloths
for Bey of Tunis .......... 482

CHAPTER XXXIV.

King to Lord Hawkesbury — Project of Convention concerning 6th Article
agreed to — Hopes other Questions will soon be settled — King to Sec-
retary of State — Conference with Lord Hawkesbury — The Awards in
full Satisfaction of all Claims — Lord Hawkesbury saw no material
Objection to Settlement of all other Questions, except relative to the
Port of New Orleans — Commission under 7th Article to reassemble —
King to Lord Hawkesbury — Detention of American Vessels, instead
of warning them of Blockade of French Ports, and demands Release
of the Vessels — King to S. Hanbury — Maryland Bank Stock — King
to Secretary of State — Blockade of Havre — Continental Affairs — To
Lord Hawkesbury — Demanding Release of an American Seaman
about to be tried for Mutiny — Cabot to King — Often able to supply
Facts, etc., through him, but without compromising him — England's
Empire of the Sea renders her invincible — Wilberforce to King —
Desires a general Abolition of the slave Trade — Hopes for Help from
Bonaparte — King to Lords Hawkesbury and Eldon pressing for a
Settlement of Claims — Troup to King, about William Coleman —
Cabot to King — Always avoided compromising him — Glad he will
remain in England — Neutral Rights — Mr. Erving — King to Secretary
of State — Continental Affairs — Concordat of France with the Pope
important to the Stability of the First Consul — To Lord Eldon —
Maryland Bank Stock — Dawson's Notification to King that the Presi-
dent wishes him to remain — Anecdote of Rumford .... 501

CHAPTER XXXV.

King to Secretary of State — Impatient at Delays in Negotiation — To J.
Madison — Delays — Peace with France and Revision of Treaty with
England about Seamen and Contraband seem to require a Plan to
be adopted — A Conference at Home if Mr. King is to conduct the
Negotiation advisable — To Secretary of State — Preliminaries of Peace

CONTENTS. xxv

PAGE

with France — F ranee may turn Attention to Louisiana — J. Q. Adams
to King — Return to America — How much the Country improved —
Removals from Office a Subject of Censure — Mr. King not to be re-
moved— Troup to King — Removals from Office in New York — Fed-
eral Party dying out — Anecdotes of Jefferson and Chancellor Liv-
ingston— King to Secretary of State — Conferences with the Lord
Chancellor and Lord Hawkesbury on 6th Article — King to Secretary
of State — Further Conferences on same Subject, on the 7th Article,
and on the Maryland Bank Stock — King to J. Madison — The Course
he will pursue if Objections persisted in . . . . . . 520

Appendix I 537

Appendix II 540

Appendix III 543

THE LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF

RUFUS KING.

CHAPTER I.

Mr. King expected early in 1797 soon to return Home — In 1797 he made
Arrangements for a longer Residence abroad — Sends his Sons to Harrow
— Once a great Smoker — Gave up Smoking — Pickering to King — Agree-
ment with General Maitland relative to St. Domingo — Cabot to King —
President's Alienation from Hamilton and his Friends — Unsuccessful
Endeavor to change this — Gerry a Solitary — Murray's Nomination — The
Directory said to intend sending Lafayette as Ambassador to the United
States — Cannon for Charleston — King to be sent Ambassador to Russia —
Marshall chosen for Congress from Virginia — Virginia and Kentucky Reso-
lutions— Troup to King — Federal Success in New York — Jay's Admin-
istration not successful — The President at Braintree — King to Secretary of
State — French military Movements — King to Lord Grenville — Detention
of Ship Prosper, with United States Arms on Board — Pickering relative
to Misinterpretation of 18th Article of the Treaty — King to Lord Gren-
ville— No News of Troubles of Commission in Philadelphia — Pickering —
Trial of Insurgents in Pennsylvania — King to Hamilton — Continental
Affairs.

Mr. King had, at the date of the letters which closed the
previous volume, passed more than two years and a half in
performing the duties of his mission in England satisfac-
torily to his government, with advantage to his country, and
agreeably to himself in the pleasant relations which he en-
joyed socially and with the ministry of the country to which
he was accredited. If we look back, however, it will be

VOL. Ill — I T

RUFUS KING. [i799

found that he had not anticipated remaining so long abroad,
for writing from London, March 17, 1797, to his brother-in-
law, Dr. Southgate, he said * :

" We are so far apart and both at a period of life at which we
are liable to occurrences that may prevent our reunion, that I
feel the force of that uncertainty, which darkens the prospect of
our meeting. I hope for the pleasure of the event, and flatter
myself that it will not be long postponed. Where I am now I am
not quite my own master, but it is not my intention to remain
long in England ; and it will be one of the earliest pleasures of
my return home to visit and embrace those branches of my family
from which I have been so long separated."

The close of the administration of Washington, with the
uncertainties of the changed condition under the adminis-
tration of Adams, may have been one of the causes of this
thought of returning home soon ; but it seems to have con-
tinued to occupy his mind, for we find in his private corre-
spondence with N. Low, in whose hands his property in the
United States was placed, and who was for long years his
warm friend, that in the summer of 1798 he was determined
to purchase a farm, upon which he would settle himself
when he returned. In October 2d of that year, Mr. R.
Troup f in a letter on the general affairs of the country
says:

" Do you know that Mr. Low has communicated to me your
wish to purchase a farm on the North River in Dutchess County ;
and as I am better acquainted in that quarter than he is, I have
undertaken to assist him in procuring information for you."

He then names several properties again on November i6thj
of the same year, when he says : " Quitting the subject of
farms, I proceed to give you a general sketch of our politi-
cal state." These, as well as other evidences of an expecta-
tion of returning home, did not, however, interfere with the

* Vol. ii., p. 160. f Vol. ii., p. 433. % Vol. ii., p. 464.

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 3

faithful performance of his duties, which became daily more
important under the changing aspects of European politics,
and especially of our relations with France. The fact that
the conduct of his mission was satisfactory to, and in accord-
ance with the views of, the administration of the new Presi-
dent, and that his old and trusted friend Mr. Pickering was
the medium through whom the foreign affairs of the govern-
ment were shaped and communicated to him, probably soon
after led to a change of views on Mr. King's part, which
was strengthened by the expressions of satisfaction from his
friends at home that he was the Minister in England.
Hamilton, among others, wrote * October 2, 1798.

" Why does not Gouverneur Morris come home ? His talents
are wanted. Men like him do not superabound. Indeed I wish
that you were here rather than where you are, though I think
your position an important one at the existing juncture. But we
want to infuse more abilities into the management of our internal
affairs."

He found himself at this time in a position of great and
growing influence in behalf of his country, with whose gov-
ernment he was in hearty accord in its policy towards Eng-
land, and of pleasant relations with the English Ministers,
who recognized his intelligence, firmness in maintaining his
country's cause, and courteous and dignified demeanor,
while at the same time he enjoyed close and confidential
intercourse with his colleagues representing other countries,
as well as with distinguished men of all countries then in
England.

His own home, where everything contributed to his hap-
pinesss and where a charming wife presided quietly over a
household in which mutual esteem and confidence were the
ruling traits, attracted all who came within its hospita-
ble and quiet influence. Though there were not many of
his own countrymen at that time abroad who shared his
intimacy, there were several who were lifelong friends : Mr.

* Vol. ii., p. 427.

KUFUS KING. [1799

and Mrs. Christopher Gore, Col. John Trumbull, and Mr.
Samuel Cabot, with whom his intercourse was of the pleas-
antest character and with whom he could counsel at times
when new questions should arise and demand prompt and
decided action.

Thus agreeably situated, there is no more said of return-
ing home, and Mr. King entered upon arrangements which
betokened a continued residence abroad. He had, during
the summer months, left London for some of the seashore
resorts, or inland watering-places, where his family could
enjoy the benefits of country air, and he himself relaxation
from the confining business of his office, which at that
period, as the correspondence shows, made a greater demand
upon his time and personal attention than in later years ; for
the details of duties had not then been portioned off to
various officers, and the Minister was called upon to act in
cases which were afterwards otherwise provided for.

We shall see that about this time he rented a country
place for a term of years, and that he made provision for
the education of his three eldest sons, who had been
at private schools. They had arrived at an age when they
might profit from a more systematic course of studies with
the competition which, among intelligent boys, stimulates to
greater efforts. He made a careful examination of the dif-
ferent public schools, and finally selected that of Harrow, *
then under the charge of Dr. Drury, as offering the most
advantages for thorough and careful discipline and excellent
scholarship ; and after a clear understanding with Dr. Drury
to advance them as rapidly in their studies as their abilities
would permit, he sent his two eldest sons, being then eleven
and ten years old, to him, in full confidence in the system

* Harrow School and Its Surroundings, by Percy M. Thornton.

" The sons of Rufus King, a distinguished American Minister, early in the
19th century, were Harrovians sent to the Hill because social distinctions were
there unknown." — P. 363.

No authority for this statement is given. Among their fellow-students were
Lord Byron, Sir Robert Peel, Lord Aberdeen, Lord Palmerston. — Ed.

1 7 99 J LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 5

of the school and in the head master. His third son was
placed in charge of a private tutor for the present. It may
be here said, that he never had reason to regret the selection
he had made, Dr. Drury entering heartily into the plans
agreed upon, the boys helping him in carrying them out, by
diligent and intelligent study and by a manly deportment,
for which they were constantly commended.

There is an anecdote of Mr. King related by his eldest
son, John A. King, which is interesting in many ways. Be-
fore he went to England he had been an inveterate smoker ;
so much so that the room in which he worked was always
full of the fumes and smell of tobacco. It may be recalled
that in a letter to Dr. Kilham *he had asked about " honest
Nat. Carter. Does he think of me as he smokes his pipe ?
If he does, pray tell him that I am gratified, that my idea
associates with agreeable objects ; for such alone pass the
mind of a hearty smoker." When Mr. King reached Eng-
land, he found that the gentlemen there did not smoke ; so
he gave up the habit and never resumed it. The effect of
example was shown in the lives of his three eldest sons, who
were educated in England and afterwards in France ; they
never smoked. Under the rules at Harrow smoking was
positively forbidden.

The correspondence in this volume opens with a letter from
T. Pickering to R. King.

T. Pickering to R. King.

" Department of State, April 22, 1799."

In this letter Mr. Pickering sends a copy of an agreement
made with General Maitland and Mr. Liston, the British
Minister, relative to the intercourse of the United States and
Great Britain with St. Domingo, and specifies two articles,
which at first had met with objections, but were finally
adopted,

" Providing that the commercial vessels of both nations should
be restrained from entering the port or ports of St. Domingo till

* Vol. ii., p. 604.

6 RUFUS KING. [1799

a certain day be fixed. Our objections did not proceed from any
desire to obtain for our commerce the earliest market, in prefer-
ence to the British, for we considered that the operations of Great
Britain in St. Domingo, had essentially contributed to that state
of things which opened to the United States the prospect of a
lucrative commerce with the Island ; and that her fleet alone
could ensure protection to our commerce, as well as her own ;
but Dr. Stevens arriving, as we have reason to believe, at Cape
Francois by the Tenth or Twelfth of April, we expected him to
make an arrangement with Toussaint in a few days, which would
enable the President to proclaim a renewal of the commerce of
the United States, perhaps two or three weeks sooner than if he
awaited the result of Genl. Maitland's negotiation ; and knowing
that our merchants were on tiptoe to recommence that trade, we
wished to avoid giving them or others any pretence to complain
of delay, and especially that we were sacrificing their interest to
promote that of the British merchants.

" However General Maitland, who is perfectly acquainted with
Toussaint and the affairs of St. Domingo, having strongly ex-
pressed his apprehension that the just interests of Great Britain,
and especially the safety of the West India Colonies, would be
hazarded if, by the previous arrangements with Dr. Stevens,
Toussaint should consider himself secure of obtaining all neces-
sary supplies from the United States, and also that the existing
orders to the British cruizers on that station might occasion vexa-
tious and injurious interruptions to our vessels destined for St.
Domingo, which by the proposed delay of a few weeks might be
prevented ; and considering finally, how important and essential
to our respective interests it was, that a perfect harmony should
exist between the two nations, and particularly respecting the ob-
ject in question, we assented to the fifth and sixth propositions
before mentioned."

Mr. Pickering says that Mr. King will see that the instruc-
tions given to Dr. Stevens in relation to a renewal of the
trade, go as far as any that could be proposed to Toussaint
by Great Britain.

*' Yet for the reasons assigned we saw no middle course, con-
sistently with the safety of our trade. At the same time we con-

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE.

sidered the terms as perfectly compatible with the ultimate
dependence of St. Domingo on France. It is not, however, to be
denied, nor have we aimed at any concealment, that we have
strong expectations that Toussaint will declare the Island inde-
pendent. Unquestionably he has long contemplated that event.
But it is absolutely false, what Hedouville declared in his last Pro-
clamation, that the United States had intrigued with Great Britain
to bring him into that measure. We have, in fact, not intermed-
dled in any manner whatever in the political affairs of St. Domingo.
If Toussaint declares its independency, it will not be owing to
the intrigues, nor the advice, nor even the suggestion of the
United States. It will be his own act. The negroes and people
of colour of St. Domingo, formerly slaves, have become incurably
jealous (and I believe with reason) that France intended in the
end to bring them back again to slavery, or to destroy them and
repeople the Island from Africa."

He further states " that the President being absent and
the business urgent," General Maitland was informed that
the arrangement was " subject to the President's determina-
tion," which the officers of the government had no doubt
would be obtained, as they, after careful consideration, were
satisfied of its wisdom.

This assent was given, as we learn by a letter of Mr.
Pickering to Mr. King of the 9th of May in these words :

" I am very glad you did not detain Genl. Maitland till you
could hear from me. Upon the whole I think the negociation
has been conducted with caution and prudence, and the result
has my fullest approbation."

G. Cabot to R. King.

April 26, 1799.

My dear Sir :

I have frequently revolved in my mind the possible events to
be produced by the Revolution of Spain which seems now to be
threatened anew, after having been long spared, as I suppose, on
account of her colonies — these it must have appeared to the

8 RUFUS KING. [1799

French wou'd be liable to become associated with England &
with U. S. unless the Sea cou'd be opened to France — a despair
of this now determines the Directory to seize Spain & Portugal
whose plunder is at length indispensable ; such are my reflections ;
but what profit will the U. S. make of the events ? Our first con-
sideration is & ought to be how we shall most effectually secure
ourselves from the Revy. Hurricane that is sweeping the civil-
ized world. I had flattered myself that the tide of affairs wou'd
be turned by the English successes, but it appears that Continental
Europe is grown worse than ever & that we are relapsing. There
was a period when we might have been placed in a state of safety
& it is yet possible tho' more difficult ; our Country like Switzer-
land seems destined to suffer from the Defects of its Rulers as
well as the folly of its people. The jealousy which the P. has felt
of H. he now indulges toward P. tw'd W. & to'd very many of their
friends who are suspected of having too much influence in the
Community, & of not knowing how to appreciate his merits. The
consequence is that his ears are shut to his best real friends &
open to Flatterers, to Time servers & even to some Jacobins.
These things, not yet extensive nor very much known, give infinite
pain to me & to all my Intimates. We have hitherto sought in
vain for a remedy & from the nature of the case I think an
effectual remedy is not to be found : if we can palliate it we shall
be glad. You will naturally suppose that H., disappointed of the
high distinction he sought & embarrassed in his money affairs,
wou'd be a discontented man & that he wou'd insinuate danger-
ous doctrines when he cou'd with secrecy. — I lately dined at
Quincy in a family way & tho' I was treated with a cordial hospi-
tality & with great confidence in many respects, yet I found it im-
possible to speak upon the subject which oppressed my heart. I
wanted to speak freely of the dangers to which we were exposed
from suffering the temper of the Country to cool & its indignation
to subside. I wanted to speak freely my opinion of the motives
which impelled some men to cultivate the seeds of distrust which
nature has sown more or less profusely in every bosom & whose
growth wou'd be pernicious in the extreme. I wanted to show
that there was no deficiency of attachment or respect among those
who assisted in the administration of our national affairs, & in a
word I wished to restore or establish a just confidence among men

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE.

who must act together if they wish to save their Country or them-
selves, but I was distanced in every path which led to these topics.

Amid so many discouraging circumstances as attend us within
& without, it is some consolation that Federal men are extremely
alarmed & are becoming more decided & active, & at this moment
some trial of forces is to be had in the election of our State Repre-
sentatives ; in the votes for Govr. & Senators our opponents have
availed themselves of the odium inseparable from New Taxes &
Great Expenses. They have produced a considerable number of
votes but not enough to answer any of their purposes. I am
ready to join you as well as Ames in reprobating the publication
of Marshall's sentiments on the Sedition & Alien Acts, but I still
adhere to my first opinion that Marshall ought not to be attacked
in the Newspapers, nor too severely condemned anywhere, because
Marshall has not yet learned his whole lesson but has a mind &
disposition which can hardly fail to make him presently an accom-
plished (political) Scholar & a very useful man. Some allowance
too should be made for the influence of the Atmosphere of Vir-
ginia which doubtless makes every one who breathes it visionary &,
upon the subject of Free Govt., incredibly credulous ; but it is cer-
tain that Marshall at Phila. wou'd become a most powerful auxiliary
to the cause of order & good Govt., & therefore we ought not to
diminish his fame which wou'd ultimately be a loss to ourselves.

Gerry is a Solitary in all respects : he was spared in the News
papers because it was apprehended no attack cou'd be made upon
him that wou'd not be likely to excite a temper in the P. unpro-
pitious to the public welfare — the event however is thought to
have proved the reasoning bad. It is now said if G. had been
treated properly the P. wou'd have been deterred from all appear-
ances of temporizing. I believe however that the reading Mar-
shall's journal has compelled the P. to be silent & to acquiesce in
the unqualified condemnation of Gerry. I have taken some pains
to stir up the proper powers to alter the mode of electing the
President but without success & I fear some embarrassment will
be again felt & possibly a French President may be elected. At
present I think if this danger shou'd press, it wou'd be prudent to
elect W. again, who would doubtless yield to the necessity of such
a Conjuncture. Such an idea wou'd now raise a terrible storm,
but if the storm comes without it, this wou'd appease it. It has

10 RUFUS KING. [i799

lately been intimated to me in confidence that our excellent friend
wou'd be gratified with an appt as M. P. : this has often occurred
to me & to others of his friends, all of whom wou'd be highly
pleased to see the object attained, but I fear it will not be in my
power to aid it much. I shall write to Mr. Wolcott as well as
Pickering upon the subject but it is doubtful whether they will be
consulted. If an opportunity presents I will also speak to the P.
but no such opportunity may be found if I seek it.

The political disputants have been much occupied in discussing
the propriety of the P's nominating Mr. Murray. I think how-
ever the subsequent nomination with the extraordinary precau-
tions accompanying it prove the first measure to have been unad-
vised. The first was a seeming compliance with the views of
Talleyrand, but the 2d on the contrary is a measure of some irri-
tation. The whole proceeding shows the P. to have underrated
the spirit of the Country & that he was made sensible of it by the
strong spontaneous expression of general discontent among the
friends of Govt. It is not to be supposed that the P. did feel
more complacent toward France than before ; on the contrary he
has thro' the whole period of the transaction & to the present
moment expressed unreservedly his detestation of French & re-
grets that our Country did not act against them in concert with
England. God bless you & yours

G. C.

The following letter from Mr. Liston, the British Ambas-
sador to the United States, to Mr. Pickering, April 10,
1799, refers to an interesting incident in the friendly rela-
tions between the two countries :

"When you proposed to me last year that the cannon belong-
ing to the Foudroyant French Man of War, afterwards presented
to the Province of So. Carolina by his late Majesty George the
Second, and which were then lying at Halifax in Nova Scotia,
should be delivered to the United States, with a view to the de-
fence of Charleston, it was not in the power of the Commander
in Chief of the King's troops at Halifax, to comply with the re-
quest otherwise than upon condition that the guns should be con-
sidered as a loan, and should be sent back to any part of his

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. II

Majesty's American possession, when re-demanded. But his
Majesty has now been pleased, as a testimony of friendship tow-
ards the United States, to direct me to return the engagement to
that effect entered into by the Secretary of War, in order that the
same may be cancelled. I have the honor of inclosing that Paper
accordingly, and am happy to be the instrument of thus termi-
nating a transaction, which, while it discovers on the part of my
Sovereign a perfect confidence in the sentiment of the American
Government, cannot but tend to consolidate the connection so
happily subsisting between the two countries."

Mr. Pickering's answer, May 1st, is:

" I transmitted to the President of the United States your note
of the 10th of April, and this morning have received his directions
to say that he considers the present of cannon, transported last
autumn from Halifax to Charleston, ' as a testimony of the friend-
ship of his Britannic Majesty to the United States ' and to com-
municate through you, 'the thanks of the American Government
for this mark of his Majesty's confidence in it's sentiments.' All
who discern and who wish to promote the true interests and safety
of our two nations, will view with satisfaction every act which, man-
ifesting a mutual confidence and good will, shall tend to strengthen
the connection so happily subsisting between the two countries."

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 37.

London, May 1, 1799.
Dear Sir :

Though I have nothing material to communicate, I cannot
permit the Packet to sail without writing. The French army that
entered Swabia has finally been obliged to relinquish the offen-
sive and to retire behind the Rhine. The Austrians are preparing
to enter Switzerland, where the French are sending strong rein-
forcements. Jourdan has been removed and Massena made
Commander-in-chief ; it is with him the Arch Duke must contend
in his effort to restore the Swiss to their ancient freedom and
Independence.

12 RUFUS KING. [1799

In Italy the Austrian arms have acquired more brilliant and
important victories than upon the Rhine ; the contest in this
quarter has been obstinate, often repeated and fatal to great
numbers in each army ; the French have been compelled to
retreat, and here, as upon the Rhine, the Commander-in-chief has
been dismissed. Moreau is now General-in-chief of the French
armies in Italy. The Russian reinforcement will join the Austrians
in the hour of victory. Other columns of Russia are on their
march towards Italy and we hear that the Grand Duke Constan-
tine, the Emperor's second son, is with one of them.

The French Papers mention as an article of intelligence the
appointment of another mission from the United States, and I
have not heard that they have taken any notice of the Capture of
the Insurgent, tho' the news must have reached Paris before that
of the new mission.

Your Number 42, of the 5th of February is the last Letter that
I have received from you. With perfect Respect & Esteem
&c., &c. Rufus King.

T. Pickering to R. King.
(Private?)

Philadelphia, May 4, 1799.
Dear Sir :

Your instructions, after much more delay than I had anticipated,
are prepared and will be forwarded as soon as they receive the
President's sanction, for negociating a Treaty of Amity and com-
merce with Russia. The notice which I have before given of
your appointment to this charge, I presumed would be sufficient
to authorize the Russian Minister at London to send to his Gov-
ernment for his full powers, and your instructions I trust will
arrive in time for commencing the negociation. . . .

The events of the war of France with Naples — the easy transi-
tion from the latter country to the Turkish Dominions in Europe
— the feebleness of the Turkish Government — the torpidness of
the European continental Powers, which opposing no effectual
barrier for their own territories — will certainly not stop the
march of the French to Constantinople and the very possible sub-
version of the Turkish Empire in Europe. All these considera-
tions have induced us to think it inexpedient to hasten Mr. Smith's

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 1 3

voyage to Constantinople. By the mail of Monday (the sixth
instant) I shall submit the question to the President's decision.
My Colleagues and I are unanimous in the opinion that the mis-
sion should be suspended.

This naturally reminds me of the proposition I made to you
last January, respecting my son now with Mr. Smith.* He must
either go to London, or return home. He is now two and twenty,
and cannot much longer delay resuming his professional studies.

The most agreeable domestic intelligence, and it is the more
agreeable and important as it affects our foreign relations, is the
federal election in the City of New York for their State Legisla-
ture. Their federal Senator had a majority of near seven hun-
dred votes ; and all the gentlemen on the federal list for the
House of Representatives are also unquestionably elected. The
information is in a letter dated yesterday from Col. J. Morton to
his brother in this city ; he pleasantly exclaims " we have beat
the French."

The other domestic intelligence, still more important, is, that
Genl. Marshall is elected a member of Congress for his district ;
that seven or eight other federal members are chosen ; that prob-
ably a majority of the Virginia delegation will be decidedly fed-
eral, and that even in their State Legislature the democratic
predominance will be lost. The mad and rebellious resolves of
the Legislatures or House of representatives of Virginia and Ken-
tucky, which were transmitted to all the other Legislatures in the
Union have been rejected by all ; by some with pointed disap-
probation, and by others with contempt. The real object of the
leading Jacobins has been declared. Giles, at the house of Mr.
Burwell at Richmond, said expressly that he desired that the
Union of the States might be severed. He has attempted a de-
nial, but Mr. Burwell, a man of veracity and fair reputation,
positively confirms the charge.

. . . The Circuit Court now sitting is engaged in the trial
of the Insurgents in the northern parts of Pennsylvania ; rather
in the counties immediately north of Philadelphia. . . . All
opposition was subdued without bloodshed.

* That in case Mr. Dandridge, Mr. King's secretary, should return to
America (see letter May 6, '99) to accept a position in the new army Mr. King
would receive him as his secretary.

14 RUFUS KING. [i799

R. Troup to R. Ring.

New York, 6 May, 1799.
My dear Sir :

. . . Burr has for two years past been a member of the As-
sembly, and by his arts and intrigues he has done a gread deal
towards revolutionizing the State. It became an object of pri-
mary and essential importance to put him and his party to flight.
. . . The election was the most animated I have ever experi-
enced. All men of property stood forth and appeared to act as
if they were persuaded that everything valuable in society de-
pended on the success of their efforts. The merchants in par-
ticular were zealous and active. The consequence is that we
have obtained a glorious triumph. . . . We have broken the
democratic fetters with which we have lately been bound. . . .

We are looking forward with anxiety to the next election for
Governor. . . . The idea is that Mr. Jay will retire from
public life. . . . Would you believe, my good friend, that our
influence on a general scale has been considerably diminished by
Mr. Jay's administration ? This, I am persuaded, will to you
appear incredible : the fact nevertheless is so. With the best in-
tentions his administration has injured his reputation and lessened
our weight. This disappointment has contributed more than any
event that has ever occurred to shake my confidence in our pres-
ent system of government. I have long been anxious to com-
municate this extraordinary fact to you, but I have been restrained
by motives which will readily occur to you. I can conceal it no
longer. His last election bore no sort of comparison in point of
zeal and exertion with the one preceding it. . . . The causes
I will one day or other explain to you. The opinion I give you
is not confined to a few of our friends. . . .

The insurrection in Northern Pennsylvania is suppressed. . . .
The President suddenly, and without notice, left Philadelphia for
Braintree just after this rebellion had broken out, and his depart-
ure at that crisis excited much dissatisfaction. His stay from the
seat of Government, which is likely to continue till next Novem-
ber or December, is a source of much disgust. It embarrasses
the public business and has the air of an abdication. The Presi-
dent appears so whimsical and unsteady that I have no doubt that
serious difficulties will be experienced if he be our candidate at the

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 5

next election. The faux pas he committed in the late nomination
of Minister to France has so shaken the public spirit and the
public mind, that he can never regain the ground on which he
lately stood. . . . Very truly yours

Rob. Troup.

R. King to Lord Grenville.

Gr. Cumbd. Place, 10th May, 1799.

Mr. King presents his compliments to Lord Grenville and
requests his Ldship's interference that the American ship, Prosper,
Daniel Williams master, bound from Hambg. to New York,
detained and sent into Yarmouth by his Majesty's ship Latona,
may with her cargo be released and suffered to proceed to the
port of her Destination. This ship has on board five thousand
Muskets, that have been purchased by Mr. King's order by the
American Consul at Hamb.g, 3500 of them for the U. S. and the
other 1500 for the State of N. York. If the Prosper has been
detained on account of these arms, he presumes that she will be
immediately released upon this assurance that they belong and
have been shipped, as expressed in the Bills of Lading, duplicates
of which have been received by Mr. King from Hamburgh and
are sent enclosed with a request that they may be returned to
him.

Several letters from Mr. Pickering to Mr. King direct his
particular attention to the effects of the misinterpretation,
by the British prize courts in the West Indies, of the 18th
article of the Treaty of Amity and Commerce with Great
Britain. The British cruisers were constantly capturing
American vessels on the forced construction of what was
contraband of war, and the courts condemned the vessels,
interfering very materially with the American commerce
and causing great losses to the owners of the vessels. The
correspondence points out clearly and forcibly what was
deemed to be not only a misinterpretation of the character
of the articles objected to, but of the apparent wilfulness of
the proceedings. In a letter of the nth of May, 1799, he
says:

1 6 RUFUS KING. [1799

" To the perverse transactions (as I think myself warranted in
calling them) of the 18th article of the British Treaty respecting
Contraband, noted in my letter of the 8th inst, I have now to
add, that Linseed Oil and Painters Colours have been pronounced
contraband by some of the British Vice-admiralty Courts ; for a
vessel when built and equipped may have some of her upper
works painted. This, tho' of less moment in itself than some
others, is as sheer an abuse as can well be imagined. The truth
of the matter is that when the naval officers who in this sort of
business are too eager, either for their own honor, or our tran-
quillity, have once seized upon their prey and carried it into port,
there seems to be a wonderful sagacity in discovering something
to be contraband, whereby the Captors are screened from paying
damages and our fellow citizens condemned in heavy costs. The
citizen of the United States dwelling in the Mississippi Territory,
as well as the inhabitants of Louisiana receive their clothing and
necessary supplies in American Vessels by the way of New
Orleans. But the British cruizers say they shall not have
1 unwrought Iron ' to be wrought into Husbandry utensils, nor
nails to build houses, nor paints to shield these from the weather
and the burning sun of that climate and for internal decorations,
nor coarse linens for their negroes and servants and to make bags
for their cotton. It was not easy to have foreseen such abusive
construction of the general words ' whatever may serve directly
to the equipment of vessels,' but they may have their use in our
negociating future Treaties by preventing the admission of any
article to be contraband unless expressly mentioned. . . .

" I have lately received a Proclamation, apparently an original
of Rear Admiral Pringle, commanding at the Cape of Good Hope,
forbidding all vessels, the British only excepted, killing whales or
seals on the Coast of that Colony within 5 leagues from the land ;
threatening in case of disobedience to his order, to seize and send
them to the Cape, to be proceeded against according to law. . . .
This unlawful order was doubtless levelled against American
vessels alone, for I believe they are the only vessels, besides
British, accustomed to take whales on that Coast. This, I also
believe, was a region where our vessels had usually taken whales
long before the British got possession of the Cape ; and where we
had no reason to expect interruption. . . . With these Docu-

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 7

ments (inclosed) you can state the case to Lord Grenville and I
trust have removed all obstructions to our Fisheries on the
African Coast. At any rate it will be best to come to some
decisive understanding on this subject.

" According to the Proclamation one would suppose the British
Admiral considered the vast territory from Cape Negro on the
west to the Bay Delagoa on the southeast coast, as pertaining to
the quondam Dutch Colony of the Cape of Good Hope."

R. King to Lord Grenville.

Marlborough, May 17, 1799.
My Lord :

I had this morning the honor of receiving your Lordship's let-
ter of the 15th, and at the same time a letter from Col. Pickering
of the 2d ulto ; but neither in this Letter nor in those reed, by
the mail that arrived on Tuesday, does he take any notice of the
Business of the Commissioners. It is true that a Letter of the
last of February or of the beginning of March is wanting to com-
plete his series : this will probably come to hand by the Chester-
field Packet, due before the Lady Harriet that brought the last
mail. Possibly his Letter may, tho' I hope it will not, respect
the disagreement that seems to have existed between the Comms.

Tho' I am equally with your Lordship without information
upon this subject, I shd. not have hesitated to have immediately
waited upon you at Dropmore, had I not been anxious first to see
my family conveniently placed at Bath. We shall be there this
even'g and I propose being in London early on Wednesday next,
When I will have the honor of attending your Lordship in Cleve-
land Row. With great Respect &c

Rufus King.

P. S. Col. Pickering's Letter of the 2d. April mentions the
arrival of Genl. Maitland.

T. Pickering to R. King.

Department of State, May 22, 1799.

. . . The Jury who tried Fries, the leader of the Insurgents
in this State of Pennsylvania, agreed on their verdict Guilty with-
out debate or hesitation ; but some testimony being adduced be-

VOL. III. — 2

1 8 RUFUS KING. [1799

fore sentence was pronounced that one of the jurors had declared
his opinion before the Trial, and subsequent to his being sum-
moned as a juror, that Fries ought to be hanged, a new Trial was
granted. Yet that juror only thought and spoke, as any other
person did who was equally informed of the facts, without any
symptom of malice. The mode in which the Jury made their
determination was remarkable. Without the least discussion,
after the cause had been committed to them, they agreed that
each should write on a ticket his opinion ; they did so, and on
examining the tickets each was inscribed guilty. The new trial
will be in October. Some of the principal Insurgents (near
twenty) remain imprisoned for trial at the same time. Four or
five were tried for misdemeanours, convicted and fined and
imprisoned.

King to Hamilton. *

London, May 22d, 1799.
Dear Sir :

War is again declared by France against the temporizing
Cabinet of Vienna, and this has been the signal for Prussia to
resume her former system of insecure neutrality.

We may every hour expect the result of a battle between Jour-
dan and the Archduke, who, according to our last accounts, were
respectively advancing upon each other. The first blow has
been unfortunate for the allies ; the whole of the Austrian Corps,
5000, at Coire, in the country of the Grisons having fallen into
the hands of the French, commanded by Massena. I wish that
I felt more confident that this first success would not be followed
by more important victories. The 25,000 Russians, who were
some time in the neighborhood of Vienna, are on their march for
Italy, where Suwarrow, an old Russian officer, is to command
the combined armies.

If Prussia, with the North of Germany, which together have an
army of more than 300,000 men, had joined heartily and hon-
estly in the league against France, the Directory might have been
shaken ; but my hopes are weaker than my fears with regard to
the partial and ill-joined Confederacy with which it is at present
engaged.

* Works of Hamilton, vi., 407.

1 7 99 J LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 9

The publication of the treaty of Campo Formio, so disgraceful
to the court of Vienna, will prove hurtful to the Directory, by
confirming the jealousy of Prussia, and exciting distrust of the
Emperor throughout Germany, the interest and safety of which
was sacrificed by that treaty.

CHAPTER II.

King to Lord Grenville — Blockade of the United Provinces — Request for Re-
lease of American Vessels — To Count de Woronzow — Russian Treaty — To
Secretary of State — Interruption of Commission under sixth Article — Block-
ade of the United Provinces — To Lord Loughborough — Maryland Bank —
To Troup — Cannot understand Affairs at Home — Pickering to King — Cap-
tain Loring's Insult to American Flag — Mission to Constantinople — King to
Lord Grenville — Complains of the Vice-Admiralty Courts — To Secretary of
State — Mission to Constantinople and to Russia — Cabot to King — Dissatis-
faction with President — Lawrance to King, relative to the 8 per cent. Loan
— Great Demand for Credits in Bank — Pickering to King — St. Domingo —
Toussaint promises Safety to Commerce — King to Pickering — Disapproves
of the Nomination to France — Recommends Prudence in Dealing with her
— English Opinion on French Affairs — Trade with Russia — Troup to King
— Latter's Remarks about English Courts — St. Domingo — East India Trade
— Confidence in Adams's Discretion impaired — King to Lord Grenville on
Provisions of the eighteenth Article of the Treaty.

R. King to Lord Grenville.

Gr. Cumberld. Place, 23d May, 1799.
My Lord :

I take the liberty to ask your Lordship's interference in order

to procure the discharge of the American ships, Mahala Windsor,

Loring Master, Ocean, Parker Master, Polly, Channock Master,

America, Burger Master, and Genet, Barrett Master, with their

respective cargoes. The two former of these vessels were bound

from Rotterdam to America, and the three latter from the

Texel. They have all been detained and sent into Yarmouth

by the English Fleet in the North Seas. These vessels, as

I am informed, arrived in the Dutch Seas before the late order

of the Blockade of all the Ports of the United Provinces. The

passage to Rotterdam was quite free &, notwithstanding the order
1799J LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 21

of June for the Blockade of the Texel, the blockading fleet during
a part of the winter returned into the English Ports, and no force
was present at the Entrance of the Texel, when these ships &
other American vessels, now at Amsterdam, entered the Port.

It seems scarcely necessary to observe that the presence of a
competent force is essential to constitute a Blockade ; that altho'
it is usual for the Belligerent to give notice to neutral nations
when he institutes a Blockade, it is not custom to give any notice
of its discontinuance, and that consequently the presence of the
blockading force is the natural criterion by which the neutral is
enabled to ascertain the existence of the Blockade ; the like man-
ner as the actual investment of a besieged Place, is the only
evidence by which we decide whether the siege is continued or
raised. A siege may be commenced, raised, recommenced and
raised again ; but its existence at any precise time must depend
upon the Fact of the presence of an investing army. This inter-
pretation of the Law of Blockade is of peculiar importance to
nations situated at a great distance from each other, and between
whom a considerable length of time is necessary to send & receive
information.

Besides the ships which are the immediate object of this Letter, I
am informed by the American Consul General in Holland, that a
number of other American vessels which arrived in the Ports of Am-
sterdam and Rotterdam during the winter and before the late order
for the Blockade of all the Dutch Ports, are now detained there
with their Cargoes from an apprehension of being interrupted in
their return to America. The same observations are applicable to
these vessels as to those detained and sent into Yarmouth, and I
must request your Lordship to enable me to give to the Am. Cons.
Gen. in Holland for the information of the Masters of these ships
an assurance on the part of your Government that they may pro-
ceed on their voyages without danger of interruption from your
Cruisers.

Our Expectations on this occasion appear to me to be founded
in reason & Justice, & I persuade myself that they will not appear
otherwise to yr. Lordship.

With the mo. pert. Respect, &c, &c,

Rufus King.

22 RUFUS KING. [i799

R. King to Comte de Woronzow.

Great Cumberland Place, May 24, 1799.
Dear Sir :

I am going again to Bath to join my family which I left there a
few days ago ; possibly it may not be in my power to return to
town before you leave it. I need not express to you my unfeigned
regrets upon this occasion, nor my sincere hope that your absence
from England may be of short duration.

Suffer me to recall to your recollection a subject* of which we
have more than once conversed and at the same time to commend
it to your good offices and friendly protection. I shall feel my-
self particularly obliged for any information that you may be
enabled to give me respecting the sentiments of your Court upon
this important Topic. My late accounts from America are satis-
factory ; you know my sentiments upon those subjects, which
mankind have so great concern in seeing well and soon settled ;
these sentiments are I am convinced those of the American Gov-
ernment ; and it will afford me the greatest satisfaction to see the
cause of Order and of Religion in America supported and strength-
ened as it would be by a public intercourse and connexion be-
tween the Governments of our two Countries.

With sincere attachment & Respect, &c, &c,

Rufus King.

R. King to Secretary of State. No. 39.

London, May 25, 1799.
Dear Sir :

With the exception of your No. 43, I have received your Letters

to No. 47 inclusive. Altho' you are silent upon the subject, I

am sorry to learn that Embarrassments of so serious a character

have occurred in the Commission under the 6th Article of the

English Treaty. Lord Grenville sent me a few days since a

printed copy of the Proceedings in the case of Bishop Inglis,

which he received from Mr. Liston by the last Packet, and at

the same time enquired from me whether I could give him any

further information upon the subject. In a conference that we

* Probably the making of a commercial treaty between Russia and the United
States. — Ed.

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 23

have since had, his Lordship intimated to me that they should
find it difficult to allow their Commissioners under the 7th Article,
to assist in any further awards, so long as the business of the
American Commission remained suspended. We went a little
way into the Proceedings in Bishop Inglis' case, and I en-
deavored to show his Lordship, which indeed is satisfactorily
done by Messrs. Fitzsimons & Sitgreaves, that the grounds
taken by their Commissioners could not be defended. As Mr.
Liston's Dispatch, which was intended to have been sent with
the printed Proceedings, was not sent, and as I had received no
information from you upon the subject, it was thought best to
postpone a further Discussion of the Business, with an under-
standing that the Commission here, which happens to be ad-
journed for a few weeks, should continue adjourned until we
receive more precise information from Philadelphia. But whether
we are right or otherwise, it appears to me extremely probable
that the Commission here will be suspended until that at Phila-
delphia is again put in motion. Lord Grenville observed and I
think with justice, that we have found by the discussions relative
to the powers of the Commissn. under the 7th article, that con-
structions in either extreme must be given up ; and I think he
felt the full effect of my observation, that whatever may be the
importance of the Claims before the Comrs. at Philadelphia, it
was very subordinate to the Harmony and good understanding
that happily subsist between the two Countries. It is much to
be regretted that no awards have been made by the American
Commission : even a single one would have prevented the mis-
representations that ill disposed persons feel themselves at liberty
to make.

The Chesterfield Packet has been taken in her passage home ;
and the affair that occurred at New York is not thought of any
consequence. Mr. Liston has stated the Privileges of their Packets
and of their officers to be greater, as I have reason to believe,
than this Government would concede to those of any other na-
tion, or than they are desirous to obtain for themselves. Indeed
Lord Grenville, who considered the late transaction as of no sig-
nificance, told me that what had happened, showed that it wd. be
convenient that some conventional rule should be established
relative to the reception and treatment of Packets, and that we

24 RUFUS KING. [1799

might chuse such rule as we liked. There is no settled practice
in Europe upon this subject, — the safety of the Revenue and the
just distinction due to the navy, seem to forbid that Packets
should be put on the same footing as men of war.

A number of our Vessels with valuable cargoes bound home
from Amsterdam & Rotterdam have been captured and sent into
the British Ports for breach of the Blockade, that has been insti-
tuted at the Entrance of the Ports of the United Provinces. I
shall render them all the aid in my power ; but if the law of
nations upon this subject, as it is here interpreted, is enforced
against neutrals, we must use greater precautions in clearing and
ordering our ships to Places that we have been notify 'd are in a
state of Blockade. Instead of clearing our vessels for such
blockaded place, upon the presumption that the Blockade is
raised, it wd. be just as well, and entirely safe, to clear them for
a neighbouring Port not in a state of Blockade, and to give the
Masters Instructions to proceed to the Port for which they are
cleared, or to the Port, the Blockade whereof is believed to be
raised, in case they shall receive satisfactory information that
such Blockade is discontinued.

We have no certain intelligence yet of the Destination of the
Brest fleet ; it was seen on the 1st instant off Lisbon, and the
present opinion seems to be that it is bound into the Mediter-
ranean after having formed a junction with the Spanish fleet at
Cadiz. Nothing has lately occurred between the Austrians and
French upon the Rhine. The Victory of Suwarrow upon the
Adda, which has been followed by the Conquest of the Cisalpine
Republic, has rendered the situation of the French in the Nea-
politan and Roman territories more critical, and seems to threaten
their total expulsion from Italy.

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c. &c.,

Rufus King.

R. King to Rt. Hon. Lord Loughborough.

{Private.)

Great Cumberland Place, May 25, 1799.
My Lord :

As I am on the point of returning to Bath where I left my

family a few days ago, I cannot have the honor of waiting upon

your Lordship at Hampstead agreeably to your obliging permis-

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 25

sion. My sole object beyond the opportunity of paying my
respects to your Lordship, was to recall to your recollection the
Maryland Bank Stock claim, and to express to your Lordship
how anxious I am, and much I shall feel obliged by your Lord-
ship's assistance, to bring that long depending suit to a conclu-
sion. Really, my Lord, on my part nothing has been omitted
that I have conceived to be likely to remove the obstacles that
have stood in our way. I cannot express, nor is it at all neces-
sary that I should, the trouble that I have had in the course of
this Business. I mention it only as some apology for this note,
as well as for the liberty I have before taken upon the same sub-
ject. If your Lordship's health, and the business of the Court
will allow it, I permit myself to hope that the affair will be settled
before the next vacation.

With the most perfect Respect &c. &c,

Rufus King.
P.S. Assurances have been given to Woodcock & Cotes that
they shall receive their costs the moment the stock is trans-
ferred.

R. King to R. Troup.

May 29, 1799.
. . . I am unable to account for some late Proceedings,
which are alike unexpected and difficult to comprehend. I am
afraid of those measures that certain men applaud and concerning
which others preserve a prudent silence. It will be worse than
mortification, if after all that has passed before our eyes, we suf-
fer ourselves to be the Dupes of our adversaries. Steuben used
to say, since the Jews were cast off, the Americans had become
the chosen People ; it may be, and that in this way we are to be
saved in spite of ourselves. A Min. to the Porte, another to
Russia, a Consul General to Toussaint and a new set of Envoys
to the Great Nation ! ! ! R. K.

T. Pickering to R. King.

Department of State, May 29, 1799.
Dear Sir :

In your letter, received last week, stating your conversation

with Lord Grenville on the insult offered by Capt. Loring of his

Britannic Majesty's ship Carnatic to the Flag of the United

26 RUFUS KING. [x799

States, in impressing seamen from their ship of war, the Baltimore,
you suggest the propriety of your being furnished with a state-
ment of facts by Capt. Phillips, her commander. I now inclose
it, with reluctance, I confess ; for altho' it establishes the reality
of the insult, it fixes the disgrace on Capt. Phillips. The dis-
honor, which his conduct brought on our infant navy, I hope has
been wiped off by his instantaneous dismission. It was unfor-
tunate that he quitted the merchant service, where his good
behaviour had procured him a fair reputation. With the best
intention to serve his country, he has subjected himself to
reproach. He has not mended the matter by his attempt at a
vindication, in his letter to the Secretary of the Navy. ... I
hope your apprehensions in respect to the negociating a Treaty
with Russia will be removed before this gets to hand, by the
appointment of the Minister of that court at London to treat with
you there. It would not be desirable to us to send a Minister to
Petersburg for that object ; nor would the American Govern-
ment, I imagine, have determined on the negociation, if the
necessary consequence was to be placing a Resident Minister in
Russia. I am inclined to think the number of our foreign min-
isters will rather be diminished than increased.

In a former letter I have mentioned the suspension of Mr.
Smith's Mission to Constantinople, and the probability, that it
will be further suspended on account of the state of things in that
quarter of the world. You suggest that it would be favorably
received by the Porte, and I believe your idea to be just. But
how shall we ascertain this point ? Can you do it thro' the
Turkish Minister at London ? or in any other way ? I persuade
myself that the President will be much gratified by your taking
immediate steps for this purpose. . . .

R. King to Lord Grenville.

Great Cumberland Place, June i, 1799.

Mr. King presents his compliments to Ld. Grenville, and takes
the liberty to state for his Ldp's information that he has reason to
be satisfied that a practice continues to prevail in certain of the
English Vice-admiralty or Prize Courts, and especially in the West

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 2J

Indies, according to which the citizens of the U. States, whose
property has been adjudicated in those Courts, and who are desir-
ous to appeal to the Court of Appeals in Prize Cases, are required
to find sureties upon the spot in certain penal sums for the prose-
cution of such appeals ; a requisition difficult from the want of
correspondents to be complied with, and always attended with
inconvenience & expense, as counter-security is required by the
sureties & commissions charged to and paid by the claimants.

Mr. King is informed that this proceeding is irregular & entirely
unnecessary and by no means authorized by those Laws which
should regulate the same : he therefore requests Ld. Grenville's
interference to the end that instructions be given to the several
Vice-admiralty or Prize Courts in the British Colonies to abstain
from, & discontinue a practice useless to the Captors and burthen-
some to the American Claimants.

G. Cabot to R. King.

June 2, 1799.
Dear Sir :

. . . The unpardonable exposure of our Country to in-
trigues from which 5 years incessant efforts had just recovered it,
will justify all Europe in taking back the praise they had prema-
turely given us. I wish a little disgrace was the only penalty of
our folly, but we must suffer much & suffer long. The influence
of the measure upon the spirit of the country has indeed been
much less pernicious than was feared, there having been great ex-
ertions everywhere to counteract it & the strange inconsistency
of the P. himself cooperated strongly to the same purpose. But
there is one mischief produced which I think a very great one &
without present remedy. A man having done so weak a thing &
in so unwarantable manner will never forgive those whose
opinions he greatly respects & which condemn him altogether ;
his vanity wou'd not allow him to consult those whose advice
wou'd have saved him from error ; nay he avoided them because
he knew they wou'd dissuade him, & he now is cold to them & to
their friends because in every countenance he reads reproof.
There is however a perfect disposition to treat him with all pos-
sible delicacy & respect, but you know his weaknesses as well as

28 RUFUS KING. [*799

his virtues & you must know that he wou'd naturally under the
circumstances incline to hear those who flatter him rather than
those who presume to question his infallibility. We all think well
of his heart & of consequence feel none of those resentments
which wou'd be just if we thought otherwise.

Amid all these discouragements you will see with pleasure that
the federal elections have terminated well, compared with what
was apprehended. I believe too in the States, notwithstanding
the odium of new Taxes ; the people are steady & have become
confirmed in the belief of great danger from France. From the
information contained in my 2 letters from London I thought my-
self authorized to guard the public against the trick which might
be played with Fayette,* & I have no doubt if he shou'd come
here he will meet with all the distrust which the villainous dis-
position of his new masters ought to inspire ; I have made it a
practice to use every hint you have given me in this way without
disclosing the source of my intelligence, except in cases or to persons
with whom it wou'd be your own desire to communicate unre-
servedly.

J. Lawrance to R. King.

Philadelphia, June 4, 1799.
My Dear Sir:

. . . There never was a time, my good friend, that money
was in greater demand, and prices so low, except some articles of
produce, as within some time past. Bills on London at New York
10 per cent under par — here I2j, the New Loan on the payments
made 8 per cent under par. Since I have been a Director in the
Bank, the demand for credit has not been greater. Very liberal
aid has been afforded, &, I believe, in a short time, the press will
considerably lessen. Our Commerce at present absorbs an im-
mense capital. The trade round the Cape of Good Hope has
increased, beyond what could have been contemplated. Indeed
nearly all our Capital, as well actual as nominal, is engaged in
Commerce. Scarcely any is left for any other object. The
Eight per cent Loan was an object, with many, of Speculation,
but it has not answered. The payment not having been made

* See note Letter of June 8th.

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 29

stock, but resting in the shape of script, has been prejudicial, as
it prevented its negociability, where money was to have been had
for it, and the Capital of our Country, would not admit of so
much being taken from it, to remain inactive — but one half the
payments will be consolidated into stock the next month, and I
suppose it will aid it something. This Loan started with great
advantages, but in its course it has lost them, and it is probable
when we borrow again, and borrow we must, the lenders may not
be so numerous as they were at 8 per cent. I have had nothing
to do with it. My capital, you know, is gone into Land, and as
far as I get cash I apply it to lessen my Debts. No Script or
Stock, shall tempt me to risk a dollar until I have cleared my
concerns.

The Insurrection in this State, which was truly contemptible,
is done with — the principal has been convicted of Treason ; but
a New Trial granted — Some of the subordinate culprits fined and
Imprisoned. Our Country is increasing in strength and resources
and we shall be able to maintain, I believe, the rights we
assert. . . . Yours with the utmost sincerity,

John Lawrance.

R. King to the Secretary of State. — No. 40.

London, June 5, 1799,
Dear Sir :

The English Ambassador, Lord Elgin* is not yet gone upon his
mission to the Porte. Altho' you have given me no instructions to do
it, I have thought it advisable as of myself to speak again to Ld.
Grenville respecting the negotiation we are about to commence in
that quarter. From the peculiar character of that Govt., and espe-
cially at this moment, Mr. Smith will want the assistance of, and,
as I am informed is the custom in regard to Nations with whom
the Porte has never treated, must be made known at Constantinople
by the minister of some nation with which the Porte is in friendship.
Ld. Grenville renewed the assurances which he had formerly given
to me and added that before Lord Elgin's Departure, he wd. take
an opportunity of conversing with him more particularly upon this
subject. Ld. Grenville at the same time added that Sir Charles

^Words in italics in cipher.

3<D RUFUS KING. Lz799

Whitworth, their Minister at Peter sburgh had lately informed him
that we should find no difficulty in concluding a commercial Treaty
with Russia 6° that a Dispatch had been sent to Count Woronzow,
the Russian Envoy here, to signify to me the Disposition of his Court
upon this Subject. Accordingly Count Woronzow yesterday told me
that he had received a Dispatch from his Coitrt informing him, that
in consequence of his information that the American Govt, pro-
tected the cause of order and Religion, was in friendship with Eng-
land'6° the allies of Russia, and held in abhorrence the conduct of the
Erench, that Russia was ready to concur in a more direct intercourse
with the U. S. and to cone hide a commercial Treaty between the two
Countries. The Count added that the communication of this infor-
mation was referred to his discretion and to be governed by circum-
stances ; that he had no reserve in remarking to me, that the suc-
cess of the negotiation must in his opinion at least for the present
depend upon our situation with France. If we were about a nego-
tiation with France, it would, in his opinion be advisable for us to
suspend further proceedings with Russia : that for the want of
information on this point, he did not officially make the communi-
cation to me that he was authorized to do, the? he had thought it
proper to say thus much personally and confidentially with the view
that I might if I chose communicate what he had so said to my
Govt. On this occasion, as formerly, he told me that the negotiation
whenever it took place according to the unvaried usage of their
Court must be conducted either at Peter sburgh or Philadelphia.

With perfect Respect &c. &c.

Rufus King.

T. Pickering to R. King.

Department of State, June 5, 1799.

. . . We have advices from Dr. Stevens at St. Domingo.
He was received by General Toussaint with all possible attention
and with joy by the Inhabitants ; but the act of Roume, the
Directorial Agent, is very far short of the regulations contem-
plated as necessary to warrant a renewal of our commercial inter-
course. Dr. Stevens and Toussaint were sensible of this and
therefore the letter gave private and verbal assurances, that all
we desire for the safety of our commerce, should in reality be

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 7.\

granted, and that altho' the public Act of Roume proposed to
regulate privateering, there should in fact be nothing to regulate,
privateering should be abolished. . . .

R. King to Col. Pickering.
{Private?)

London, June 5, 1799.
Dear Sir :

. . . As you cannot have misconceived my sentiments and
opinions concerning the late nomination to France, I will not give
you the trouble to read, nor myself the pain of saying a word re-
specting it. Here I have observed a line of conduct that on
mature consideration appeared to be prudent, both as regards the
respect & duty I owe to the President, and which it would be an
indecency to violate, and likewise the importance of maintaining,
as far as possible, the high and advantageous ground that in the
opinion of this and of the other countries, we had attained. I flatter
myself that my explanations have not been without their utility,
as I also do that what was subsequently done with you, assisted
by what has lately passed, and is passing in Europe, and which
may possibly be followed by events of great magnitude as well as
of the highest interest to mankind, will operate to correct or re-
trieve any mistakes that we may have made in our negotiations
with France.

The President may be informed by those whose advice, as I
conjecture, has had its influence in producing the late appoint-
ment and whose infallibility urges them to support their first
opinion, that the Reverses and present embarrassments of France
present an occasion favorable to the adjustment of our disagree-
ments. We may be deceived again as we have been before con-
cerning the state of France, as well as with regard to the power
of the Allies ; but little prone as I am to confide in the consist-
ency of confederacies, or the constancy of victory, I am per-
suaded that at no period of the war, not even in 1793, did the
affairs of France appear in so difficult a situation as they do at
present : and for that reason Prudence seems to require that we
should not be in haste.

Sieyes' acceptance of a seat in the Directory has given birth

32 RUFUS KING. [l799

pretty generally to an opinion, that a Proposition will soon be
made by France, and some say it will come thro' the King of
Prussia, for a general Peace upon the Basis of the ancient Limits.
England expects it and has, if I mistake not, beforehand decided
against it. The late speeches in Parliament of the Ministers Pitt
& Windham throw some light upon the opinions of the Cabinet.
The re-establishment of Monarchy in France seems to be repre-
sented as the only event that can give a secure peace to Europe —
Perhaps the Policy of these Declarations and opinions may be
questioned, admitting even that no Peace can be durable and no
country safe or independent, so long as the immoral and restless
Principles that for some years have influenced France, continue
to exist and to govern it.

You are doubtless sufficiently acquainted with the character of
the Russian Government and of its chief, to account for the com-
munication contained in my public letter of this Date. The Em-
peror is more heartily and zealously engaged against France than
any of the Allies, and is not likely to make nice discriminations
upon the Rights of Nations, the whole of whom, in his eyes, are
required to enter the list on the side of the Allies, instead of pur-
suing measures calculated to reconcile themselves or their affairs
with the French. I am endeavouring to collect and methodize
information concerning the footing of different nations in their
trade with Russia. If I am not mistaken, the Result will show
the considerable disadvantages under which our trade is carried
on, when compared with that of others with whom Russia has
concluded commercial treaties ; as yet I cannot speak with con-
fidence on this subject — you see that the negotiation cannot be
carried on or considered at a third place.

I must do as well as I can, but I very much regret that I am
wholly without any information from you respecting the interrup-
tion of the Comn. under the 6th Article of the Eng. Treaty — Lord
Grenville has received such accounts as may lead to some meas-
ures that we should wish to avoid concerning the Commission
here. We are to confer upon this subject, as also upon the busi-
ness that carried Genl. Maitland to Philadelphia in a day or two.
I have reason to apprehend that what has been done at Philadel-
phia & which I only know from Lord Grenville, does not meet his
Lordship's approbation : tho' you must not infer that there will

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 33

exist any serious opposition — Indeed I cannot form any satis-
factory opinion on this subject, as I am not acquainted with what
has been done, nor shall I be until I see the agreements. . . .
I have once mentioned to you the very small salary of Maj.
Lenox ; his services here are necessary and he certainly ought to
be better paid. His economy in the expenditure of the public
money, as you will perceive by his accounts, is very great, and
the expenses are consequently much less than they wd. be in
many other Hands ; this is an additional motive to his being
allowed a more adequate compensation. Not knowing when Mr.
Smith wd. leave Lisbon, nor how his Mission to Constantinople
wd. affect the situation of your Son, I sent a few mails since to
Mr. Smith your letters to him & to your son, and copies of your
letter to me and of my answer, stating to Mr. Smith my motives
for doing so, and the satisfaction I shd. have in receiving your
son, should he conclude to leave Lisbon before he heard further
from you.

With sincere attachment I am,

K.

R. Troup to R. King.

New York, 5 June, 1799.
My Dear Sir :

. . . I have nothing new that is worth communicating. Our

little navy is increasing. In a day or two we shall have a ship

launched that is building for Valentine Morris, one of the

sons of the late General Morris. In the Fall, the forty four

gun ship now building at Corlear's Hook will be ready for sea.

Our seventy fours also are getting on the stocks, and we shall in

the course of the next year be in possession of a respectable naval

force. Our trade is very active and extensive and is supposed to

be lucrative. The advantages we have derived from our naval

exertions are incalculable. Our ships of war have been treated

with great attention and respect in the West Indies. Truxton has

lately returned to the United States. . . . He is everywhere

received with addresses and public entertainments. . . . The

French privateers have lately abandoned our coasts ; we are now

obliged to hunt them up in the West India seas. Truxton's vic-

VOL. III. — 3

34 RUFUS KING. [i799

m ■■ -■■■■ ■ ■- -■• ■ . ■ ■.- —■■■■■ -— . , , , ,. mm

tory has had a happy tendency to increase the ardor of our naval
spirits. . . . Our army is also beginning to display itself. . . .
Genl. Hamilton appears to be much occupied with his military
correspondence and arrangements. The law has nearly aban-
doned him, or rather he has forsaken it. The loss he sustains is
immense ! . . . I am really surprised at the remarks which
you make about the English courts and lawyers in your letter of
the 16th March last. As the profession is divided in that country,
I have always conceived there was more learning and ability to
be found both on the bench and at the bar than could be met
with here. At present, our bar is very able, and our bench is
improved, and bids fair to be eminent. Kent and Radcliff our
two young judges are emulous and studious. Dallas has lately
published a second volume of reports, and part of it comprehends
adjudications of the Supreme Court of the United States. I think
they would be read in England with avidity by the lovers of legal
disquisitions. . . .

The next Congress will of course be perfectly safe, and I trust
all will go right. A war with France would not shock the feelings
of the nation ; on the contrary they would be gratified with the
measure. . . . The situation of St. Domingo is to me incom-
prehensible. Roume and Toussaint say they are well attached to
the French Republic — and Roume calls himself a special agent of
the Directory lately arrived from France at St. Domingo. Des-
fourneau at Guadaloupe was so much enraged with Truxton's
victory that he has in form declared war against us. Dr. Stevens,
Hamilton's friend, has been formally received by Roume and
Toussaint as Consul General from the United States. . . . The
situation of Genl. Maitland's Treaty with Toussaint, we cannot
learn. All is thus far enveloped with obscurity. It is certain
that commercial speculations are now maturing for the St.
Domingo market.

Our trade to the Indies and China is immense ; and the late
voyages are said to have been very profitable. Take the whole
of our Commerce into view, and it is certainly in a very flourish-
ing state. The late shipments of specie to India and China have
so drained the vaults of our banks, that at present we have a
heavy pressure for money. This pressure is increased by a reso-
lution of the Manhattan Company lately announced to set up a

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 35

new bank. ... I cannot avoid dwelling upon our glorious
triumph [the result of the election in New York City.- — Ed.]. ... It
is considered as forming a new era in the annals of federal politics.
If Burr had continued two or three sessions more in our Legisla-
ture, it is a pretty prevalent opinion that he would have disorgan-
ized the whole state. The democratical system, for some time
past, has been to establish a preponderating influence in the state
Legislatures under a despair of being able to control, for the
present, the measures of Congress. With this view, Mr. Madison
has lately gone into the Virginia Legislature. We are told, how-
ever, that Mr. Patrick Henry has followed into the same branch
of the Legislature to oppose him. . . .

No opinion is yet formed in relation to our next election of
President and Vice President. Mr. Adams has been so desultory
n his administration, that the public confidence in his discretion
is greatly impaired. To govern by fits and starts — without the
advice of his friends around him — nay without even consulting
them — in order to be characterised as an independent man — free
from influence — is not a system calculated for solid and durable
fame. He still continues at Braintree, and the government, like
Pope's wounded snake, drags its slow length along. He will
never recover from the wound he gave himself in making the
advances he has made, since Gerry's return, towards the

Directory. . . .

God bless you,

R. T.

R. King to Lord Grenville.

Gt. Cumberland Place, June 5, 1799.
My Lord :

I have had the honor to receive yr. Ld. p's Note of the 27. ulto.,
inclosing a Copy of Mr. Nepean's letter to Mr. Hammond respect-
ing the description of Nails not included in the provisions of the
18th article of our Treaty of Amity, Commerce & Navign. This
description appears to me to be satisfactory, and nothing now
remains to attain the object of my Note of the 25. March, but to
agree in a like satisfactory description of such Cloth, as upon the
allegation of its being Sail-Cloth, is erroneously supposed to be

36 RUFUS KING. [1799

contraband of war, and so included within the Provisions of the
above mentioned Article.

On this head I take the liberty to propose to yr. Ld.p. that it
shall be agreed " that Oznaburghs, Ficklenburghs, Russia Sheet-
ing and all other cloths made of Hemp or Flax, and not generally
and chiefly made use of for the sails of ships," shall be excepted
from the Provisions of the aforesaid Article of our Treaty.

It seems hardly necessary to remark that the comprehensive
Provision of the Treaty in question in respect to articles deemed
contraband of war, secures all the material or important Rights &
Interests of the Belligerent, & that it cannot be desireable to en-
large the construction of these Provisions, so as to embarrass the
Neutral in a Trade little or not at all capable of being any way
prejudicial to the Belligerent. With the most perfect Reliance on
yr. Ld.p's liberality & moderation on this, as on other & more
important occasions,

I have the honor to be &c. &c

Rufus King.

CHAPTER III.

Cabot to King — Doubts Toussaint's Plans, and Wisdom of Interference with
Colonies of European Neighbors — La Fayette's Mission to the United
States — King to Hamilton — Continental Affairs — To Secretary of State —
Condition of War in Europe — Ames to King — France must be fought with
till fought down — Review of Affairs at Home — Prospect more favorable —
Trade flourishes — King to Secretary of State — Conference with Lord
Grenville relative to Proceedings of Commissioners under the 6th Article —
Their Secession would cause those under the 7th to be stopped, notwith-
standing King's Remonstrances — St. Domingo — Pickering to King —
Directs him to persevere in denying the Right of British Men-of-War to
take any Man whatever from our Ships of War.

G. Cabot to R. King.

June 8, 1799.
Dear Sir :

If we may judge from the Documents published by Citizen
Roume the affairs of Hispaniola are proceeding in a train some-
what different from what Gen'l Maitland intended & in this case
I shou'd hope the U. S. & G. B. wou'd be equally determined to
discountenance them. — it may be a finesse to answer some party or
personal purposes that they assume the present shape or it may
be intended to amuse the Directory & therefore allowed, but I
confess my own apprehensions are that Toussaint with his
advisers is practising with his Enemies upon the expectation of
giving the Colony to France. I know nothing but from the
Newspapers. It has been repeatedly intimated to me from your
side the water that we ought to be prepared to take active meas-
ures for guiding the Revolution which seems to be expected
among our Southern Neighbors — it is obvious enough that such
an event, if it happens, will have great influence upon our affairs
whether we wish it or not — but is the event desirable ? There
are several points of view in which the present state of things ap-
38 RUFUS KING. [i799

pears more favorable to our interests than a change wou'd be : I
wou'd say particularly that there is a considerable degree of
political consequence derived from our being the only power
bordering upon the Colonies of the European Nations & this
consequence must increase in the double ratio of our own incre-
ment & that of those Colonies. It has already procured us some
avowed consideration & if I mistake not much that is dissembled.
If our Govt, was so consolidated as to have anything like a steady
policy we cou'd from our local situation maintain as much influ-
ence among the maritime nations as wou'd be necessary. Spain
must always know that we could give to her american subjects
Independence : France can never hope to vie with England on
the Sea, nor even to support her Colonies in war without a good
understanding with us. Whatever value our friendship in this
respect may have in the estimate of France, it must for the same
reason have in that of England & the unwillingness of each to
throw us into the scale of the other will in ordinary times be an
adequate security for their treating us with moderation &
respect.

If the Colonies of Spain were independent they cou'd be used
against us by any patronizing power — now they can not be so used
& are a very strong tie upon the parent State. I can hardly con-
ceive of any State possessing a greater advantage over another
than the U. S. over Spain. If we have not realized it, it still is
evident that while Spain holds South America in subjection she
must be extremely unwilling to be embroiled with us.

Nevertheless we ought to provide for every probable contin-
gency & if a new power is in parturition which will grow up by
our side we ought to attend to its birth & so to regulate its edu-
cation as to render it as good a neighbor as possible.

You will see by the Gazette that we take some pains to guard
the Community against the deceptions of La Fayette if he shou'd
come, & I am persuaded very few will in reality be deceived, for
I don't call those deceived who look only for a pretext to cover
their weakness or mischief ; but I don't mean to express an
opinion that he will do no harm ; I certainly think every Minister
wou'd do harm who shou'd come & offer every thing tho' nothing
shou'd be performed.*

* The allusion in this and in the letter of June 4th is to several articles pub-

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 39

We are now felicitating ourselves with the hope that Revolu-
tionary France is going to that Ruin which must ultimately be
her fate ; if the Austrians follow their strokes for a few weeks
only all Europe may be again free — the French will soon crumble

lished in J. Russell's Gazette — Commercial and Political, Boston, May 30, June
3, and June 6, 1799.

The first states that in the belief of writers of letters, both at home and
abroad, " the country was never in greater danger than at this moment," when
the Directory of France, which " know perfectly well the nature of parties and
their relative strength, are persuaded that our people will not voluntarily submit
to great burdens and sufferings to secure themselves against those who profess to
be their friends. . . . It is probable that a new minister will be sent to
Philadelphia. . . . It is easier to manage the people home, than the Dele-
gates of their government here, especially if you send for the purpose a man
who enjoys the reputation of being their friend."

This is followed, on the same date, by a communication, signed American
Independence, most probably from Mr. Cabot, beginning :

" It is most probable that the Directory have recalled from exile a certain
Ex-General, supposed to be popular in America, professes a great regard for
both countries, for the purpose of sending him Envoy Extraordinary to the
United States. If this be true, it is probable that the measure was foreseen by
the President and was one of the reasons which led to the late nomination ; for
it must be admitted that it is infinitely better to meet the French on their own
ground than to have their intriguing emissaries among us. And I contend that
a more dangerous man than La Fayette could not be sent here . . . He
would recall the tender remembrances of his former embassy . . . when
he flew . . . to fight the battles of freedom and would conjure us by the
past, the present, and the future to hear him and believe him.

" In the talents and integrity, the patriotism and the experience of the Presi-
dent of the United States, we have the most solid and consolatory pledges that
nothing will be done by the Executive which will commit the independence and
security of the country. . . . Let then honorable confidence in the con-
stituted authorities, so essential to our prosperity and safety, be inculcated
and cherished, foreign intrigue constantly exposed, and domestic faction stripped
of its veil. . . ."

On June 3d another commuuication, signed as above, is published, speaking
of another letter received from Europe. This article warns the people against
the seductive wiles of the French Directory, and says : " The President's con-
duct must have greatly disconcerted them, but I am still inclined to think they
will persevere in sending an Envoy."

On June 6th a continuation of this subject is presented, in which reference is
made to the wrongs and blustering of France, until they found " John Adams
was not to be scared, when they changed their note and whined and almost wept
about their dear Sister's love. . . . The Directory cannot send armies, but

40 RUFUS KING. [i799

under adversity, & there must be in the enslaved Countries Vol-
canoes of vengeance ready to burst forth.

I hope you don't grow tired with your office &, if you do, I
entreat that you will not yield to personal considerations, but stay
where you can render the country infinite service — I am too proud
& I hope too sincere to flatter but I can not and ought not to
conceal my opinion that you can do us more good than any man
in the various & uncertain conjunctures which a little time may

bring about.

Yours truly,

G. C.

R. King to R. Troup.*

London, ii June, 1799.
Dear Sir :

I congratulate you upon the issue of our City Election, as also
of that wh. has lately taken place in Virginia — The mail of this
Morning brings us further advices of the Progress of the Allies
both in Italy and in Switzerland — there is a good Prospect that
both these Countries are soon to be delivered from the Plunder
and Tyranny of the french — The English are preparing an Army
to be employed on for. service, and the conjecture is that Holland
is the object — the 45,000 Russians in Eng. Pay are in full march
and will soon reach the scene of action — The Brest fleet, whose
real object was to form a junction with that of Spain, were at the
date of the last advices at Toulon. Ld. St. Vincent has followed
them with a force sufficient to fight or block them up. On the

they can send Lafayette, if he is mean enough to come on such a trickish
errand."

The embassy was not sent. The President's purpose was carried out, but it
is interesting to see how earnestly the warning against the possible issue of such
a proposition was given by those old patriots when they believed their country's
welfare was at stake. There is a note on page 628, in vol. viii. of the Life and
Works of John Adams, which says : " General Lafayette in a letter addressed
to Mr. McHenry on the 18th of April, which has not been printed, says : ' I
must express the happiness I have felt in hearing that plenipotentiary Ministers
are going from the United States to bring about a reconciliation with France.
I am persuaded, as I have formerly writteti, that the French government are in
earnest.' "

* Hamilton Papers, vol. xvi., p. 197.

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 4 1

whole the prospects of the Allies are favorable & promising, and
the Difficulties of france greater than at any former period. Still
the french are a most formidable and extremely dangerous
Enemy.

YrsK.
[Endorsed] R. King,

June 11. 99.

R. King to Secretary of State. No. 41.

London, June 11, 1799.

Dear Sir :

The Packet will sail before I shall be able to give you any pre-
cise information concerning the effect of the Embarrassment of
the Commission at Philadelphia upon the Business of the Com-
mission here or relative to the affair that carried Genl. Maitland
to America.

I am in hopes of being able to agree upon an explanatory &
satisfactory Article respecting Sail cloth and Nails.

By the mail of this morning accts. are received of the Surren-
der of Citadel of Milan. Moreau after an unsuccessful attack
upon the Austrian and Russian advanced Posts has retired from
his Camp in the fork of the Janaro & the Po to Coni. This pre-
serves his communications with France and gives to the army of
Naples still a chance of forming a junction with him. The Arch
Duke has entered Switzerland where several actions have taken
place with the French under Massena, whose head quarters at
the date of our last accounts was at Zurich, near which it seems
probable a battle will be fought that must decide the fate of
Switzerland. The 45,000 Russians in the pay of England are in
full march and will soon arrive at the scene of action.

England is preparing an Expedition supposed to be intended
for the deliverance of Holland. No certain accounts have been
received of the Brest fleet since its arrival at Toulon. Lord St.
Vincent has followed it with a sufficient force to block it up in
Toulon or to fight it. . . .

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c. &c.

Rufus King.

42 RUFUS KING. [1799

F. Ames to R. King.

Boston, June 12th, 1799.
My Dear Sir :

I would be, or seem to be, too civil by half, if I were to tell you
that it is the fashion to think we are strong in England ; which
however was the phrase of Genl. Washington. Now if any thing
goes wrong in regard to the amiable dispositions which the Chroni-
cle accused me of crediting G. B. for, you are to expect to be
holden to answer. If the Emperor fights faint, if the K. of Prus-
sia will not fight at all, or if Buonaparte fights too long or too
hardly in Egypt we must look to some one in office to lay the
blame upon. For your sake, I wish that Trowbridge may glean
some laurels in Nelson's field &c, &c, &c. We shall never turn
our eyes on ourselves and see how much we expect from others,
how little we do for ourselves. Gore and our friends in London
are mortified and sadly disappointed in the events of our politics.
I admit you have reason to be so. The mission of new envoys
was strange indeed, and though I am less surprised, I am no bet-
ter pleased than I was at first. Yet, after all, I am not clear that
our ground could have been by other, and I admit more sound
measures, essentially better than it is. France is to be fought
with till she is fought down, till her Power is moderate, and her
ambition, which never will be moderate, will then be harmless.
But as fighting for some years, building great ships and spending
millions is not to our Dutch taste, and the most resentful of the
enemies of France among us dare not say half as much as I do,
the Public Spirit is yet a mere braggart, and spends itself in ad-
dresses. I think we ought to be and ought long ago to have been
in open war. Even then a treaty offered by France, rich in
promise, soothing to our pride, and an excuse for our parsimony
that grudges the charges of self defence, would nearly as much
paralise our energies as it wd. at present, if La Fayette should
come with one. It is however due to our citizens to say they
have outrun the Govt, with their purses and their zeal which was
more precious. In March and April I saw clouds and thick dark-
ness in our horizon. The antis were buzzing with their work of
sedition and electioneering and seemed sure of getting the State
Govts, into their hands to play them like batteries on the U. S.
govt. They have been successfully counteracted, old Masstts.

17991 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 43

stands firm — a few more antis say 5 or 10 at most in the house,
the rest firmer and warmer on that very acct. In N. York all is
going right as we hear. Burr is out of credit, tho' his water or
bank scrip has turned reputation into the ready. Virginia sends
say ten federalists (so called) and N. Carolina another set. Con-
gress will be impressible, if public opinion should point to meas-
ures of energy. But I scarcely know what in our awkward pos-
ture ought to be proposed. To be active in planning and urging
such measures is not to be expected in any govt, except from the
high responsible officers, who unfortunately are excluded from our
Congress. Events must be waited for, and if you take care that
the Arch Duke is not beaten, we shall I think jog on as well as
we have done till Jeff, becomes again the candidate for the chair.
Then clamorque virorum clangorque tubarum ; I mean in the
newspapers.

The Merchants say our trade flourishes, is well protected, little
loss by captures : our navy is of course very popular and pro-
digiously so among the farmers. The Land and House Tax
progresses and will yield something ; it may be made a great
resource.

Mr. Warren will inform you of the death and pompous funeral

of Gov. Sumner. Lt. Governor Gill, whom you know, proceeds to

the chair for the year.

Yrs. truly

R. King to Secretary of State. No. 42.

London, June 14, 1799.
Dear Sir :

I last Evening received a note from Ld. Grenville* requesting

to see me this morning. I waited upon his Lordship in Cleveland

How, who said that he had read with care the Proceedings of the

Commissioners under the 6th Article of our Treaty in the case of

Bishop Inglis, and that he was sorry that the difficulties that had

arisen at Philadelphia had not been removed in some such way as

* Italics in cipher.

44 RUFUS KING. [1799

we had found successful here ; that he thought that construction
had been pushed too far, & doubtful points more pertinaceously
insisted on by both sides at Philadelphia than was consistent with the
real object of the Commission, the attainment of Justice to the
British Creditors and in a manner so far as practicable compatible
with the ordinary course of our Judiciary.

He was moreover ready to confess that on our side there did
not appear to him sufficient Evidence to warrant the conclusion
that Bishop Inglis could not have recovered his Debt in the ordi-
nary course of Judicial proceedings ; and on the other side it
must be evident if the construction of our Comi?iissioners was in-
sisted upon, that it would in a great measure perhaps wholly
defeat the end of the Article. Under these circumstances he said
he had concluded to write to Mr. Liston by the next Packet, to open
a negotiation with our Government with a view of making some
such agreement respecting/^ Provisions of the 6th Article, as had
taken place between him 6° me relative to those of the yth. A
Time might be agreed on, as was the case here, within which our
Courts should decide the Cases brought before them, — this must be
a convenient time having regard to the nature of the business ;
and being mutually understood would require no formality. A
number of cases in each class might in this way be decided by our
Courts ; he presumed that we would not insist that each Case
should go through the Courts ; assignments might then be made
and the money paid as had been agreed to be done here.

They had given up the Posts, and hitherto done whatever de-
pended upon lhe?n to carry into full Effect the Stipulations of the
yth Article j this they had done from a confidence that on our side
correspondent exertions would be made to give effect to the Provi-
sions of the 6th Ai'ticle. Thoy Mr. Liston had given them but little
information respecting the Commission at Philada., what he had
given was very important. In his last Dispatch, which informed
them of the secession of our Commissrs., he expressed his opinion
that the Commissioners would not agree in any awards and that
nothing would be recovered under the Commission. In this situa-
tion of that Commissn. they could not consent that the Co?nmission
here should proceed ; he had no idea of breaking it up, but it must
be suspended until that at Philada. was again put in motion.

From the tenor of this communication, as well as from some

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 45

expressions made use of by Lord Grenville, I plainly saw that the
measure had been considered & settled in the Cabinet and conse-
quently that it was very little likely that any observations of mine
wd. effect a change in what had been so agreed on j still / judged it
suitable to observe that I received with much concern the communica-
tion that his Lordship had just made j that true it was that the Pro-
ceedings in the case of Bishop Inglis bore strong marks of a temper
ill suited to the occasion, but that we could not consent to take any
portion of Blame on this account, as most clearly the construction
asserted by their Commissrs., and from which we only exhibited the
reasons of our dissent, was extravagant, and not to be acquiesced
in or defended. We had promised compensation for the loss and
damage of British Creditors where the same could not be recovered
in our Courts. There was no evidence in Bishop's Inglis1 case
that compensation could not there be recovered, and consequently
no case was made out for the interference of the Commissrs. So
important did the question appear to me and especially in respect
to our National Faith that I did not see how we could acquiesce
in the reproach that wd. be fixed on our character by consenting
to the inferences attempted to be established by their Commissrs.,
and that I had entertained the hope that the conduct of their
Commissrs. would have appeared to them in such a light as to have
produced an instruction calculated to have removed the embarrass-
ments that had arrested the progress of the Commission.

That if from considerations of expediency it should be thought
adviseable to suspend for the present awards upon their Treasury by
the Commission here, I hoped there would be no objection to the
Commissrs. proceeding in such preliminary Examinations as wd.
bring the Business to a state to be soon finished after the satisfac-
tory re?noval of the Embarrassments which at present stop the Com-
missrs. at Philada. Lord Grenville made some further remarks &
we entered into a fruitless conversation respecting the Construction
given by their and our Commissrs. to the Provisions of the 6th Arti-
cle, and his Lordship concluded by saying that it would be most
satisfactory that the two Commissions should proceed pari passu,
and therefore that the stopping of one should be the signal of the
stopping of the other j if during the suspension of the Commissn. at
Philada., that at London should be employed in carrying on its busi-
ness to its last stage, nothing would remain to be done here when

46 RUFUS KING. [i799

the present suspension at Philada. should cease, but to sign awards
which might be completed in a week, the Commission here brought
to an end before any real progress had been made at Philada.
where new difficulties and farther suspension might occur.

With respect to the Treaty signed^ Genl. Maitland, Lord Gren-
ville said he could not speak to me with the same decision as he
had done respecting the two Commissions, as it had been concluded
to wait for information from the General after his arrival at St.
Domingo. His own opinion at present was that the Treaty left
their Islands exposed to great Danger, & that it might be neces-
sary to relinquish the project of arrangement with Toussaint, and
to protect their Trade and their Colonies in the best manner in their
power. As I had reed, no information from you on this subject I
only observed that we had had no share in bringing about the state
of things existing at St. Domingo j that we as well as they had
important interests liable to be affected by this new State of the
Negroes and like them were called upon to adopt measures of
prudence & foresight for our safety. We desired to act in concert
with England for obvious reasons, and for one stronger than the
rest ; that notwithstanding the Treaty between Genl. Maitland and
Toussaint, England might treat St. Domingo as an enemy country
&* our Trade, should it be opened with that Island, might, in this
event, again be liable to interruptions.

Lord Grenville assented to the justice of these observations, and
the conference ended after some further conversation concerning the
Dangers to the British West Indies as well as to our Southern
States from the numerous Inhabitants of St. Domingo.

I expressed my opinion in favor of the complete Independence
of the Island, and of a free trade with it as the best means of re-
taining the negroes in the state of mere Cultivators and of guarding
against the Dangers that are apprehended from them. I am not
sure that the late successes of the allies against France, and the rash
confidence that seems to prevail that France must soon submit to her
enemies, have not some influence upon this Cabinet respecting the
future condition of St. Domingo, and possibly upon other objects
in which we have important interests.

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c, &c,

Rufus King.

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 47

T. Pickering to R. King.

Department of State, June 14, 1799.
Acknowledging the receipt of R. King's dispatches to No.
36, Mr. Pickering says that they had been transmitted to
the President, who returned an instruction,

" To encourage you to persevere with all the decision which
may be consistent with decency and politeness, in denying the
right of British Men of War, to take from our Ships of War any
men whatever, and from our merchant vessels any Americans, or
foreigners, or even Englishmen. There is no principle by which
they can justify taking by force, even from an American merchant
vessel, even a deserter from their navy or army, much less private
seamen. If they have a right, we have the same. I know not
whether the exercise of it would not be useful to us. Their mer-
chant vessels are more numerous than ours, and they have more
foreigners, Swedes, Italians, Portuguese, Spaniards, Danes, Dutch,
&c than we." But the President considers the measure as desti-
tute of principle.

CHAPTER IV.

Letters to and from Dr. Drury — Sons' Education — King to Lord Grenville —
Blockade of Dutch Ports — Suspension of Commissioners under 7th Article —
To Pickering — Silence about Situation of those under 6th Article — Blockade
of Dutch Ports — Detention in England of Ship Providence — To Lord Gren-
ville— Blockade not effective and Detentions of Vessels unjust — To Secre-
tary of State on the Blockade — Always remonstrates when American Prop-
erty captured — England will not change her Policy towards Neutrals —
Vide- Admiralty Courts filled by incompetent Judges — Our Case not pecu-
liar— Other Neutrals suffer also — Sees no Remedy — Recaptures — Impress-
ment, English will not agree on a Convention — Contraband, not able to
conclude an explanatory Article — King to Secretary of State — French meet
with ruinous Defeats — Jacobin Revolution in Paris — St. Domingo — To the
Same — Treaties with Barbary Powers should call for Payments in Money
or Products of the U. S. — To Hamilton — Continental Affairs — King to S.
Bourne — Advises American Vessels should remain at Amsterdam.

In a previous chapter it was mentioned that Mr. King
had placed his sons under the charge of tutors and in pri-
mary schools, their ages being such that they were too
young to enter in either of the great public schools of Eng-
land. The correspondence between him and the instructors
to whom he had entrusted them is carefully preserved, and
the boys are spoken of as docile, intelligent, and diligent in
their application to study. The more probable continuation
of Mr. King in his office as Ambassador, and the advance of
the boys in age and studies, led him to examine the charac-
ter of the leading great schools, so that he might place them
where they might derive most profit from their advanced
scholarship, and from their careful, manly, and moral train-
ing. As the result of his deliberate investigation, he decided
to place them with Dr. Joseph Drury at Harrow on the
Hill, as the following note to him will show.
I799J LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 49

R. King to Rev. Dr. Drury, Harrow.

June 15, 1799.
Sir :

I have concluded to send you my two boys, one eleven and the
other ten years old, if you can receive them at the end of the
approaching Holydays. It would be agreeable to me that they
should make part of your family as soon as you can give them
room ; and it will confer the greatest and most lasting benefit
upon them as well as upon me, if they are confided to a Tutor,
who under your direction and with your assistance shall lay the
foundation of an Education upon which their future condition
and character must chiefly, and I might add solely, depend.

I beg the favor of your answer, and in case you receive my
children, that you will also be so obliging as to inform me when
the Holydays end, and to suggest any other information upon the
subject that you may think it useful for me to receive.

With most perfect respect I have the honor to be, Sir, yr. obt.

& very H.ble Servt.

Rufus King.

Joseph Drury to R. King.

Harrow, June 16, 1799.

Sir:

I shall be happy to receive your sons under my care any day
after the 4th of September, at which time the School will begin to
assemble after the vacation : every attention shall be shewn them
on my part, and I am confident, that the Gentleman to whose
Tuition they are to be intrusted will fully discharge his duty
towards them. If the Eldest boy has not yet learned the Prosodia
in his Grammar, I coud wish him to do it as soon as possible,
and if he has already been taught to make Verses, to continue
that Practice. This direction is of less consequence to his
brother, who is a year younger ; but if he is perfect in the other
Parts of his Grammar, I coud wish him also to turn his thoughts
to Prosodia. The great object to be pursued by those of their
age, is to be made perfect in the rules of their Grammar and to
be taught their use by a constant application of them to the sen-
tences in Latin which they render into English ; and for this Pur-

VOL. III. — 4

50 RUFUS KING. [1799

pose should define every Noun, conjugate the Verbs and give
their rules for dependence of one on the other, but probably they
have hitherto been employed in this way. . . .*
Your respectful and obedt. Servt.

Joseph Drury.

R. King to Lord Grenville.

Gr. Cumberland Place, June 28, 1799.
My Lord :

I have had the honor to receive yr. Ld.p's note of the 14th inst.
in answer to mine of the 23d of May respecting the American
Ships in the port of Amsterdam, as well as those stopped in their
voyages from the Dutch ports to America.

I will not give your Ld.p the trouble of any observations upon
the question whether the momentary absence of the investing
force from the station chosen to maintain a Blockade amounts to
its discontinuance, it being understood, in the present instance,
that the investing fleet had actually returned into port, and that a
few frigates only were occasionally employed as the season wd.
permit in short cruises off the Texel.

In this situation of the blockading fleet, the Ship George
Washington, the master whereof had precise orders to proceed to
Hamburgh and to avoid all blockaded Ports, being unable to reach
the Port of his destination bore away for and arrived in the Texel,
where the cargo was discharged and a return cargo taken on
board antecedent to the resumption of the effective Blockade of
that Port.

I take the liberty to send to yr. Ld.p inclosed the Declaration

* Mr. J. Winter, from Oxford House School, writes on April 2, 1799, upon
notification that the young gentlemen would be transferred to another school :

"So far as they have advanced in their English, French and Latin, they
have been well grounded and I have made it my study to inculcate into them
the early seeds of Virtue and Religion, which will prove the best barrier against
future temptation and the head strong passions of youth."

The same gentleman, speaking of the third son, James, on August 10th
writes :

" Your young gentleman is indeed a prodigy in learning for his years, nor
do I remember in the course of a quarter of a century (the time my school has
been established) to have seen his equal."

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 5 1

of the Master of the Ship in proof of this statement and to renew
the request that I may be enabled to inform him that he may pro-
ceed with his Ship & Cargo from the Texel to the United States
without interruption by his Majesty's Cruisers.

With perfect Respect &c &c
R. King.

R. King to Lord Grenville.
{Private.)

Gr. Cumberland Place, July 5, 1799.
My Lord :

I understand that the Commissioners under the 7th article of
our Treaty, stand adjourned to, and will meet tomorrow. I
called at your Lordship's Door yesterday with the view of saying
a word or two upon this Business ; if the Progress of the Com-
mission must be arrested, I think it of little moment whether it is
done by the tacit consent of our commissioners, or by an instruc-
tion to yours not to assist for the present at the meetings of the
Board ; but as I have received no information from Col. Picker-
ing upon this Subject, I am inclined to prefer the latter. I natter
myself from the silence of Col. Pickering that the Business at
Philadelphia is in a train of accommodation, & that the suspen-
sion of the Commission here, will therefore be of short duration.
With Sentiments of perfect Respect, &c, &c,

Rufus King.

R. King to Col. Pickering.

[Private.)

July 5, 1799.

I am at a loss to explain your silence respecting the situation
of the Commission at Philadelphia. Mr. Liston has not been
communicative, so that we have but little information upon that
subject. Here the Business was in good train and we had a pros-
pect of its satisfactory conclusion ; but what has passed at
Philad. has arrested our progress here. From your silence I am
inclined to infer that some arrangement is forming by which the
Business will go on. The Construction of the English Commissn.

52 RUFUS KING. [1799

is abusive & will not be supported nor insisted upon by their
Government, tho' it maybe difficult in the shape of negotiation to
agree upon what is or ought to be the limits of such engagements.

I have some reason to hope that we shall not be exposed to the
Embarrassment I have apprehended in the affair that carried G.
M. to Philadelphia. I will explain myself in another letter.

Our vessels stopped in their voyages from the Dutch ports to
the United States are still detained and waiting for their trials. I
am full of concern on their account. You really did me no more
than justice in the answer you sent to the Letter from R. I.
respecting the Ship Providence. I do, as I always have done,
make it an invariable rule to interfere with this Governt. in every
case of the Detention of our vessels when I have any reason to
believe such interference will prove serviceable : tho' in almost
every instance the uniform answer is that the Courts alone are
competent to examine and decide the matter of Complaint. I
have more than once intended to give you this information in
order that you might beforehand give the answer that after all
will be received.

In general our countrymen have understood and done justice
to my interference on their behalf : but there are some men, and
I am happy to say that I have not found them numerous, to whom
the most careful and unremitted attention to their affairs would
not give satisfaction, and who would manifest their discontent
chiefly because they did not find countenance and support in Pre-
tensions which could not, because they ought not to, be insisted
upon. I shall send you an exact account of the case of the Provi-
dence by which you will be able to appreciate the justice of Mr.
Clark's complaint.

The late Revolution at Paris will according to present appear-
ances increase the Energy and Exertions of the Govt. There
seems to have been a pause in the motions of the allies both in
Italy and in Switzerland. If the Austrians & Russians do not
soon compleat the Deliverance of these Countries, I should appre-
hend they will in their turn be compelled to act on the defensive.
The prospects of the allies are still good, but it will be several
months before the campaign closes.

Yrs. &c,
R. King.

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 53

R. King to Lord Grenville.

Great Cumd. Place, July 8, 1799.
My Lord :

The great Expense and Embarrassments to which the Proprietors
are liable in consequence of the Detention of their Ships & Car-
goes, lead me to repeat the application that in the Month of May
I made to yr. Ld.p respecting the Am. Ships Mahala Windsor,
Ocean, Polly, America & Genet. These vessels, together with
the Charlotte stopped in her voyage from America, are laden with
valuable Cargoes shipped as and asserted to be bona fide Ameri-
can Property. The oftenerl consider the question, and the more
I am made acquainted with the facts relative to the Blockade of
the Texel during the uncommon severity of last winter, the
stronger is my persuasion that upon a full and impartial view of
its circumstances, it will not be thought just or reasonable to con-
sider the same to have amounted to an investment, the non-ob-
servance whereof ought to be followed by these forfeitures which
are alone incurred by the wilful breach of an Effective Blockade.

With pleasure I entertain the expectation that corresponding
sentiments will be found to exist and to have their proper influ-
ence in the Tribunal before which their cases are to be examined ;
and I take the liberty to desire yr. Ld.sp's interference in order
that this examination may be had with the least possible delay ; a
claim, when yr. Ld.p considers the value of the Property, and the
time it has already been detained, that will I hope appear to be
founded in the principles of ordinary justice, and moreover sup-
ported by explicit engagements between the two Countries.

With perfect Respect &c, &c,

R. King.

R. King to Secretary of State. No. 43.

London July 15, 1799.
Dear Sir :

Excepting the numbers 43 and 58 I have received your letters
inclusive : the chief points in your late letters relate to the cap-
ture of our merchant Ships and the impressment of our Seamen in
different quarters by British cruisers, to the abusive interpretation

54 RUFUS KING. [1799

of the article of the English Treaty concerning Contraband, and
to the Proclamation against our whale fishery issued by Admiral
Pringle at the Cape of Good Hope.

Seven or eight of our vessels laden with valuable cargoes have
been lately captured and are still detained for adjudication. These
vessels were met in their voyages to or from the Dutch Ports
declared to be blockaded. Several notes have passed between
Lord Grenville and me on this subject with the view on my part
of establishing a more limited and reasonable interpretation of the
Law of Blockade, than is attempted to be enforced by the English
Government. Nearly one hundred Danish, Prussian and other
neutral ships have within a few months been in like manner in-
tercepted, going to and returning from the United Provinces.
Many of them, as well as some of ours, arrived in the Texel in the
course of the last winter, the severity of which obliged the English
fleet to return to their Ports leaving a few frigates only to make
short cruises off the Texel as the season would allow.

My object has been to prove that in this situation of the invest-
ing fleet there could be no effective Blockade, which in my opinion
cannot be said to exist without a competent force stationed and
present at or near the entrance of the blockaded port : in oppo-
sition to which it is asserted that the momentary absence of the
blockading fleet, however occasioned, does not amount to a dis-
continuance of the Blockade ; a construction intended to apply
to the situation of the fleet charged with the Blockade of the Texel
& which will, I apprehend, notwithstanding the remonstrances of
all the neutral ministers be enforced by the Courts of Admiralty.
Immediately after the notification of the Blockade of the Dutch
ports, as a measure of prudence I communicated the same to our
Minister in Holland, and since it has appeared to be the intention
of this Government to consider the Texel in a state of blockade dur-
ing the whole of the last winter, I have advised that two or three
of our Ships which are still at Amsterdam should remain there or
come out only in Ballast.

The Vessels captured for breach of Blockade with two ships
stopped at St. Helena in their voyage from Bengal to Hamburgh,
are the only American Ships that for some months past have been
sent into the English Ports. I do not include recaptures, fre-
quent instances of which continue as heretofore to occur. I have

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 55

of late heard of many vexatious captures in the West Indies and
of one or two on the coast of Spain ; but I have received no
particular information except from you concerning any of them.

Altho' I have more than once intimated to you that I saw no
prospect of a favorable change in the general system of England
towards Neutral Nations, I am nevertheless led from some obser-
vations in your last letters to recur to that subject for the pur-
pose of adding a few remarks founded in my experience, and
which the occasion seems to require. In no instance do I omit
to interfere in behalf of such of our People whose Property has
been captured by the English cruisers, when I have reason to be-
lieve that such interference will be followed with the smallest
Benefit, whether the case is received immediately from the parties
or thro' your Department. These interpositions, which since my
residence here have been numerous, and I wish I could add,
generally, advantageous, have been supported in my conference
with the Ministers by every argument that suggested itself to me
as likely to manifest the injustice & to shew the ill policy of these
Depredations upon our Trade. I have been always heard &
answered with much civility, but the Evil has continued, because
it grows out of and is inherent in the naval power of the Nation.
A discretion given to the Commanders of several hundred cruisers
and privateers, with the most upright and best regulated inten-
tions would often in its exercise be productive of injury and
oppression, and when it is considered that but few of these com-
manders belong to the wealthy classes, and for this reason that
many of them are more anxious to make Prizes than to gain Vic-
tories, we at once discover the chief source of the abuse of which
we and others have so often and so ineffectually complained.

The common & technical answer is that the Captors have vested
rights, which cannot be controuled by the Executive Govt., and
that the matter is the subject of an exclusive cognizance belong-
ing to the Prize Tribunals. This reply is calculated at once to
put an end to all further interference, as it does not consist with
decorum nor usage, to solicit the Judges concerning the business
to be brought before them.

I know these Courts have the power and that they ought to
protect the rights of Neutrals ; but to do it effectually they should
oblige the Captors to make ample compensation for the Loss &

$6 RUFUS KING. [1799

Damage of the claimants, not only in cases manifestly oppressive,
but in all others, in which the Claimant establishes his title to
have pursued his voyage without interruption. But this is not
done, or so rarely done, as to have little or no influence in con-
trouling future abuses.

The number of Vice-Admiralty Courts, which from the want
of adequate salaries are generally filled by incompetent Judges,
is the occasion of many of the irregular and vexatious decisions
of which we complain.

The Judge of the High Court of Admiralty undoubtedly pos-
sesses great learning and distinguished abilities, but he is also a
member of the King's Privy Council, occupied in the discussion
of questions of State, and consulted concerning those maxims
that have so far extended and which are employed to increase &
to preserve the dominion of England upon the seas, and he can-
not therefore avoid carrying the recollection of these views into
the Court, nor prevent their influence upon the questions that are
there to be decided. It is not alone against the Decrees of the
subordinate Courts that we have reason to complain, but an Evil
nearly as great proceeds from the impediments which retard or
defeat a decision in the Court of Appeals ; these Impediments
are the Distance of the inferior Courts from the Court of Appeals,
their neglect & sometimes their Disinclination to furnish Copies
of their Proceedings, the accidents to which such Copies are ex-
posed on their way to this Country, the Rigour with wh. the Court
of Appeals refuse to receive appeals made after the time limited
for that purpose, & the vast accumulation of cases to be decided
by the Lords of Appeal, all of whom are members of the King's
Privy Council, and otherwise engaged in the Judiciary, Executive
and Legislative Departments of the Nation, and none of whom
for this reason can bestow the requisite time or an undivided
attention upon the increasing catalogue of undecided cases.

This is not all, for after a Decree of Restoration is at last ob-
tained from the Court of Appeals, the intricacy and succession of
the process for carrying it into effect are such as to put it in the
power of the Captor to delay almost indefinitely the Compensa-
tion expected from the Decree.

I might add if it would mitigate the case that our situation is
neither peculiar nor new : the Swedes, the Danes, the Prussians

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 57

and other Neutrals repeat during the present war the same un-
availing complaints which both England and France have been
accustomed to receive during every war of the present century.
I am able to suggest no immediate remedy : perhaps none can at
present be devised. If our Treaties contained more precise
Rules & Stipulations on the subject of Maritime Law, they might
have some effect in lessening the Injury ; but it is by no means
certain that England will agree to such Stipulations as shall mate-
rially affect or alter the System she has so long & so successfully

pursued.

Recaptures.

I have not seen the Laws of the Last Session and am therefore
ignorant of the alterations that may have been made in the Law
concerning Captures and recaptures, nor do I know whether its
Provisions extend to any other than Cases of American Ships and
Property. Some time since I took notice of this subject in one
of my Dispatches to you, and expressed an opinion that with re-
gard to Foreign Vessels and Property recaptured by our Ships of
war, the English, which is the lowest rate of Salvage, should be
adopted, and for this reason that the English will recapture more
of our Vessels than we shall of theirs, & consequently we shall
be gainers by their rule.

In cases of the recapture of foreign Vessels and effects by the
English cruizers the Recaptors are entitled to the whole or only a
portion of the Property according to the usage of the Nation
to which the recaptured Ship or effects belonged, and when no
usage can be ascertained, the Salvage is regulated by the law
concerning the recapture of English property. By a Resolve of
Congress, passed I believe in 1780, the recaptors of a French
vessel are entitled to the whole of the recapture if it had been
twenty four hours in the enemy's possession. I have not exam-
ined this Resolve, nor do I recollect whether it can be considered
as a rule applicable to all cases of foreign property recaptured by
our Ships on the High Seas, or whether it is confined to the Ships
of particular nations. It is a point of much consequence &
should be seasonably attended to. Hitherto the English rule has
been applied in cases of recaptured American Ships, because it
has been believed that we had no established usage on this
Point.

58 RUFUS KING. [1799

Seamen.

In respect to the Impressment of our Seamen, they continue to
be taken from our Merchant service, whenever they do not pos-
sess certificates of Citizenship, and sometimes these fail to afford
them that protection they were issued to secure. There appears
to be a real disposition to discharge our Seamen upon satisfactory
proof of their citizenship, provided they have not voluntarily
entered in the English Navy (the reciprocity of which exception
they however refuse), but the known and habitual carelessness of
Seamen, the consequent hardship of obliging them to prove their
citizenship, the scruples with which their certificates are received,
the evidence upon which they are discredited, and the many in-
stances of real Americans detained for want of satisfactory proof
of their citizenship have confirmed me in my first opinion of the
ill Policy of the Law by which we acquiesced in this Certificate
regulation. As you know I have attempted again and again but
without success to convince this Governt. that both Justice and a
friendly Policy required of them to agree with us in a convention
upon this subject, that should at the same time give to them as
well as to us adequate and reasonable security in regard to our
respective Interests. Latterly I have ceased to urge it from a
full persuasion that my exertions would be fruitless ; nor do I
believe that any such agreement will ever be made during a war,
tho' it may possibly be concluded in time of Peace.

It is very generally known throughout the English navy, that
Major Lenox resides here for the purpose of assisting our Sea-
men, from whom he receives daily applications and thro' whose
interference with the Admiralty many of them are discharged. I
see no probability that the office can be discontinued during the
war, nor do I think it can be executed with more fidelity and
success.

Contraband.

I have not yet been able to conclude an explanatory article
respecting Naval Stores. As I understand the present state of
the negotiation Lord Grenville has agreed to two of three propo-
sitions that I have submitted to him.

1st. that all Iron nails of less than four inches long should be

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 59

excepted from and not deemed to be included within the provi-
sions of the 1 8th Article of our Treaty.

2d. that Oznaburghs, Ticklenburgs, Russian sheetings and all
other cloth made of flax or hemp, and not generally and chiefly
used for the sails of Ships, should also be excepted from & not
deemed to be included within the Provisions of the Article.

The third proposition made since the receipt of your last let-
ters, that Iron in flat and square bars should in like manner be
excepted, is in a train of Examination and will I hope be acceded
to. Other articles might be added, but so much time is required
for consideration and so many persons must be consulted that I
shall be glad to conclude an Article containing these three propo-
sitions. Even these have been several months in discussion &
remain still to be settled.

The copy of the Proclamation that you sent me, with a verbal
alteration, is genuine. I have laid it before Ld. Grenville, who
has told me that he had taken measures to be informed upon the
subject and hoped soon to be able to confer with me respecting
it. I cannot tell beforehand how this complaint will be answered,
but since the analogous complaint of England respecting the
conduct and pretensions of Spain in the affair of Nootka, I
do not perceive, if they even wish it, how they can justify the
Proclamation.

With perfect Respect and Esteem &c. &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Secretary of State. No. 44.

London, July 15, 1799.
Dear Sir :

The armies in Switzerland have remained inactive for several
weeks : perhaps the Arch Duke waits the arrival of the large body
of Russians, that has been for a long time on its march, and must
soon be upon the Rhine, if such is its Destination.

The late actions in Italy which have been so ruinous to the
French with the surrender of the Citadel of Turin and other
strong Places, must in all probability be followed by the total
expulsion of the French armies from that country. MacDonald
is said to have left his heavy Artillery, Baggage & Plunder with

60 RUFUS KING. [i799

the small garrisons that remain in the south of Italy, but these
must fall into the hands of the allies, if they are not already taken
by the inhabitants, who everywhere manifest a Disposition to rise
and cooperate with the allies. We have no satisfactory account
of the French fleet in the Mediterranean, nor does it seem to be
known whether they are in Toulon or at sea. The English are
vastly superior in that sea to the forces of both France and Spain.

The prevailing opinion has been that the late Revolution at
Paris was effected by the Jacobins, and that it would be the sig-
nal for measures of great and extensive energy : but it is nearly a
month since the change took place and we have yet seen no evi-
dence that such measures have been or are likely to be adopted.
Moreau has received no reinforcements, and the few thousand
troops sent to Massena had for several months been encamped in
the neighbourhood of Lyons : The interior of France is much
agitated ; insurrections prevail in some of the Departments,
and the levy of taxes and recruits meets with open Resistance.

Nothing transpires concerning the object of the expedition
ostensibly preparing in this country ; the troops are assembling
at Southampton, and transports are collecting for their transpor-
tation.

I find very little in the late French papers respecting America,
nor do I hear anything from Paris concerning the opinion of the
new Government. Perhaps nothing can be inferred from the
silence that seems to be observed upon our affairs ; but the Party
that has overturned the Directory, as has formerly been the case
on similar occasions, are disposed to enumerate and publish the
faults of their Predecessors. The Ex-Directory are charged
among other crimes, with having by their plans disaffected and
plundered the allied Republicks, alluding to Italy & Switzerland ;
but not a word in reference to America has escaped any member
of either of the Councils, altho' they seem anxious to swell the
catalogue of offences imputed to the Triumvirs. Again all the
Ministers except Talleyrand have been changed ; he still remains
in place and is supposed to be protected and supported by both
Sieyes & Barras. It is said he will be Sieyes' successor at Berlin.
One of the last French papers states as an article of intelligence
that all the Commissions granted to American Consuls in the dif-
ferent French Ports were repealed.

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 6 1

But I am uncertain whether this paragraph inaccurately refers
to the act of our own Government, or announces the withdrawing
of the Exequaturs of our Consuls by the Directory. Mount,
florence who was sent by Mr. Murray to receive the Papers of our
Consul General & who was permitted by the overthrown Directory
to reside in Paris for that purpose, has been ordered to quit Paris
and the French territories by their successors.

No intelligence has yet been received from Genl. Maitland
since his arrival at St. Domingo, & no decision has therefore
taken place upon that subject. From a conference that I have
had with Mr. Dundas (to whose Department whatever relates to
St. Domingo belongs) I am led to expect fewer Difficulties in the
progress of that Business than I had apprehended from the tenor
of my conference with Lord Grenville. England is in open war
with France, she is therefore at full liberty to concert measures
with Toussaint, or with others for the separation of St. Domingo
from the Dominions of France. A war between us and France
would in like manner do away the well founded scruples on this
subject that belong to the relations of Peace.

The Commission under the 7th Article of the English Treaty
stands suspended, and will remain so until some means are
devised to put in motion the Commission at Philada.

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c. &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Secretary of State. No. 45.

London, July 15, 1799.
Dear Sir :

Mr. Smith, our Minister at Lisbon, informs me that he is ap-
prehensive that O'Brien will be obliged to draw upon him beyond
the amount of the funds in his hands, and requests of me to in-
form him whether he could borrow money in London. I have
just answered that from the Disposition manifested heretofore by
Baring's house I have little doubt that they would on my applica-
tion pay the bills he should draw on them for the purpose of dis-
charging his acceptance of O'Brien's drafts, and that by the next
mail I should probably be enabled to give him more precise
information on this point. Mr. Smith at the same time sent me

62 RUFUS KING. [1799

Extracts of several of O'Brien's Letters, stating that the Dey of
Algiers & his Ministers had requested him to write to Mr. Smith
to procure for them from England twenty 24 Pounders (Brass), a
Sextant, some mathematical instruments, charts and other articles
of which they made out a list ; the guns to be paid for by the Al-
gerine Govt, when they are delivered. I have taken the liberty
to give my opinion to Mr. Smith that this request should by no
means be gratified.

When we have once concluded a Peace with the Barbary
Powers, which in my judgment should be purchased with money
or the Productions of our own country, we ought to avail our-
selves of the circumstances of our great distance and of our being
ourselves obliged to purchase in foreign Countries the articles
that the Barbary Powers might otherwise ask of us, to avoid their
capricious & irregular Demands. It would be natural, as I have
intimated to Mr. Smith, for O'Brien to say that we make no brass
in America ; that neither brass Cannon, nor Sextants, nor charts,
nor any other of the articles required can be purchased there ;
that we have no^agent in England authorized, or who has funds
to make such Purchases ; that England does not allow the Ex-
portation of Copper, or Brass, or any military or naval stores,
being herself obliged to purchase these articles, to carry on the
war against France.

If we yield to the Execution of an order of this kind, we estab-
lish a Precedent that it will be difficult to get rid of, and our Con-
sul will be engaged in perpetual and expensive Brokerage for the
Dey & his Ministers. How far we have already gone in this
course I do not know ; if we have begun, the sooner we stop the
better ; and if we have not begun, I am confident that we ought

not to.

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c. &c,

Rufus King.

R. King to Wm. Smith, Esq., Lisbon.

London, 15th July, 1799.
Dear Sir :

(This letter is nearly verbatim the same as the above, and
concludes) :

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 63

I make these observations for your consideration, remarking at
the same time that as this Business is confided to you & not to
me, and as your particular knowledge of our Barbary affairs, as
well as of the views of our Govt, concerning them, enable you to
form a better opinion respecting them than I can, I shall notwith-
standing my objections against the measure, do whatever shall be
in my power to execute any order upon this subject that you shall

send me.

With sincere Regard & Attachment &c. &c.

Rufus King.

King to Hamilton.*

London, July 15th, 1799.
Dear Sir :

The French still maintain themselves in Switzerland, and
though unless soon and strongly reinforced, they will be driven
out of it. The success of the allies has been almost uninterrupted
in Italy, from whence, according to present appearances, the
enemy must in a short time be totally expelled. Thus far, the
coalition has performed prodigies ; but the confederates are not
without mutual jealousies, which will increase with their success,
and which already has had the effect of preventing an agreement
upon a precise and ultimate object. Between England and Russia
the greatest union and confidence exist ; and these powers do not
disagree in what ought to be the end aimed at and avowed. An
uncommon coldness, and even more than coldness, exists between
Austria and England ; and between the former and Russia there
is less cordiality than could be wished and expected. The issue
of the campaign, for these reasons, is less certain than it would be
were the allies heartily and disinterestedly engaged in the only
species of war that can give peace and security to the different
nations of Europe.

It is extremely difficult yet to understand the late changes in
Paris. There are persons who see in them the death blow to
French republicanism. I doubt very much this opinion, and am
inclined to consider the last in the same light as I have done the
former revolutions. I did expect that the changes would be fol-

* Works of Hamilton, vi., 410.

64 RUFUS KING. [i799

lowed by measures of more energy than have been adopted.
There seems to be no reason to suppose that we are likely to be
benefitted by the revolution. Sieyes' opinions concerning America
are no secret, and they give us no room to expect a treatment
different from that we have so long and patiently endured. . . .

R. King to Sylvanus Bourne, Consul, Amsterdam.

London, July 16, 1799.
Dear Sir :

I have received an answer to my application concerning the
George Washington and the other American Vessels at Amster-
dam. After considering the Papers which disclose the circum-
stances in which the George Washington entered the Texel, this
Government declines to give any assurance that this vessel with
her Cargo may without interruption pursue her voyage back to
the U. S. ; the inference is that the English Cruisers will capture
the vessels remaining in the Texel, in case they leave that Port.

My advice is that they remain where they are, or come out only
in Ballast. We are ascertained that they will be taken if they
come out with Cargoes, and I am afraid that they will not escape
even in Ballast ; but I think the risque of capture and even of
condemnation is less if they are without Cargoes.

With great Respect &c. &c.

Rufus King.

CHAPTER V.

King to Pickering — Smith's Mission to Constantinople delayed — Expedition to
Holland — Revolution in Paris Jacobinical — To Sir J. Nichol — Trade be-
tween Surinam and Holland — Sedgwick to King — President's Course rela-
tive to France disapproved — Genl. Marshall's Election will give Tone to
federal Politics South — Delay in raising the Army — Death of Govr. Sum-
ner— Western New York prosperous — People happy — Massachusetts' Af-
fairs— King to Secretary of State — Talleyrand's Resignation — Danes and
Swedes exclude Privateers from their Ports — Consul from Denmark —
Bonaparte's Retreat from Acre — King to E. Nepean — Claim for Indem-
nity for a Broadside fired into an American Ship — To Lord Grenville, com-
plaining of Conduct of Govr. of St. Helena — Contraband of War in West
Indies — Piracy of Crew of American Brig Nancy — Vessels illegally con-
demned in Jamaica — To Wm. Fawkner — Asks Permission to export Cop-
per— King's Remonstrances against British Acts.

R. King to Col. Pickering.

{Private.)

July 16, 1799.

Dr. Sir :

Mr. Smith tells me that you had given your consent that your
Son should accompany him to Constantinople, and, as the state of
things which is understood to have recommended a suspension of
the mission is again changed, the mission may be resumed : hence
your Son appears undecided respecting his visit to this Country.
In a late letter from Mr. Smith he expresses an inclination to
come here himself during some part of the next winter with the view
of gaining information and making the requisite Preparation for
the Treaty. If nothing more important shall detain him at Lis-
bon, which is not likely to be the case, I should think his visit
here would be of considerable advantage.

Lord Elgin will embark in a few days ; he goes on an Extraor-
dinary Embassy, and will therefore probably have left Constanti-

VOL. III. — 5
66 RUFUS KING. [1799

nople before Mr. Smith's arrival. Perhaps we shall lose little by
the Delay. Nothing can be done at the Porte without the appro-
bation of the Grand Vizier, who as we hear has gone with an
army into Syria and is ordered to deliver that country as well as
Egypt from the Pollutions of the French. When the Vizier is
absent it is, as I am informed, customary for Foreign Ministers
residing at the Porte to keep agents in the Camp of the Vizier for
the transaction of any Business requiring his approbation. This
with the necessary Couriers would be attended with great Ex-
pense, & we should find it a most inconvenient way of negotiating
a Treaty.

In one of my public Letters I have made a remark or two con-
cerning the office of Maj. Lenox ; but I will add a word here in
answer to your letter upon that subject. I think the office as
necessary, indeed more so than when it was first instituted. The
Consul is otherwise employed and cannot bestow the requisite
personal attention to the Protection of our Seamen. The busi-
ness requires the constant care of a discreet and methodical
officer, whose personal credit and interference are often more
useful than the customary & written applications. It is due to
Maj. Lenox to say that no one can discharge these Duties with
more intelligence, regularity and success than he does. With
regard to his Salary I can only say that it is manifestly too small.

With sincere Regards &c

R. King.

R. King to Col. Pickering.

(Private?)

London, July 20, 1799.

The detention of the Packet gave me the opportunity of adding
a word or two to my late letters. We have Paris Papers to the
15th. They confirm the accounts received by Hamburgh of the
critical situation of Moreau and MacDonald in Italy. The alter-
native seems to be a speedy retreat into France from the Genoese
Territory, or a surrender to the allies after a fruitless and obsti-
nate struggle. Nothing new has lately occurred upon the Rhine
or in Switzerland.

The Expedition going from this country is in great forwardness.
We are told that its object is certainly Holland ; or that a Corps

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 6?

of Russians and another of Swedes, to be landed at Lubeck, are
to cooperate ; as these are rumours which on such occasions are
busily circulated, we cannot place much Reliance upon their
accuracy ; that England will act in concert with some other
power, if Holland is the object, I am disposed to believe ; and
several circumstances render it probable that some other Powers
are disposed to give their assistance. If Russia wd. act with de-
cision, the Business would be finished this Campaign ; no confi-
dence is entertained that this Event is likely to take place.

There can be no longer a doubt of the character of the late
change at Paris, which has been purely Jacobinical : the Clubs are
again opened, and the Jacobins are everywhere active to electrify
the People. The junction of the French and Spanish fleets at
Carthagena may possibly enable them, notwithstanding the superi-
ority of the English, to return to Cadiz or even to Brest, from
whence they would threaten and alarm both England & Ireland.

Lord St. Vincent's ill health has obliged him to give the com-
mand of the fleet to Keith — an event much regretted, as the
former enjoys, and deservedly, the greatest consideration.

We have just heard of the death of P. Henry — will a successor
be named ? I answer yes ! ! ! is the present a suitable moment
for negotiation ? and with what consistency can it be pursued at
the same time that Stevens is executing his orders at St. Domingo ?

Yrs. with great truth

R. K.

R. King to Sir Jno. Nichol.

(Private.)

Gt. Cumbd. Place, 22 July, 1799.
Dr. Sir :

Will you give me leave to request of you to read the enclosed
Paper delivered to me this morning by Capt. Robinson, master &
owner of the American Ship Eliza & Cargo. You will at once
perceive that entertaining the opinion I do respecting the legality
of the neutral trade carried on between Surinam & Holland, I
cannot make an official application to your Govt, for the purpose
of attaining the end aimed at in this paper ; because this would
be tacitly to relinquish a principle that I think to be founded in

68 RUFUS KING. [1799

Justice. Still the ruin that must follow an adverse Decision in
the ordinary terms of the Sentence, and the very great Distress
in which I see Capt. Robinson, whom for many years I have known
and esteemed as an honest, industrious and worthy man, lead me
to ask your consideration whether in the event of an adverse Sen_
tence in the Court of Appeals (wh. I continue to hope will not take
place) it will not be practicable to draw up the Sentence, if the facts
will warrant it, in a manner that shall preclude the Underwriters
from making use of it to defeat the Demand of the assured.

I entreat your indulgence in favor of this application from the
regard due to the motives which alone have produced it, and with
sentiments of sincere respect and esteem, have the honor to be
&c &c. R. King.

T. Sedgwick to R. King.

Stockbridge, 26th July, 1799.

Dear Sir — . . . Immediately before I left Philadelphia
in March, if I recollect the time, I gave you a particular history
of the disgusting message, announcing " the plausible appearance
of probability " of a pacific temper on the part of the french
government. Nothing could have been more mischievous in its
tendency, but it has not, very extensively, had the effect you
feared to divide the subordinate friends of the government. Senti-
ment and opinion, among them, is perfectly unanimous. I have
never conversed with an individual, on the subject, who did not,
unequivocally, reprobate the measure. In another view the

measure has produced very pernicious effects. The P 1 by a

fortunate concurrence of circumstances had obtained an elevation,
which, certainly, his friends did not expect. The principal cause
of this was a supposed just appreciation of the conduct of france
toward our country, a strong resentment of our wrongs and a
dignified firmness in supporting our honor and steadily adhering
to that system, such as it is, which had been adopted by the
friends of Government. The foundation on which confidence
rested has been, by this strange measure, destroyed, and the con-
sequences are disagreeable and may be more so. I do not
undertake even to conjecture their nature or extent, but it is im-
possible to reoccupy the ground which has been lost.

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 69

The events of the next congressional campaign, it is impossible
to foretell. They may, and probably will, be influenced by those
of the military campaign in Europe. They must, however, be
conformed to the character of the federal majority of the house
of representatives. The result of the election has, on the whole,
been as favorable as could have been expected. The federal
majority is very large — We have heretofore experienced that
there were shades of federalism, and we know that there are
infinite degrees as well of firmness of nerve, as of mental com-
prehension. It is not enough to ensure success to right
measures that a majority of the members approve, generally, the
conduct of the administration. These considerations were never
more important than at the present moment.

The opinions I have entertained of the course of conduct, which
it would have been and is wise and prudent to pursue in the
critical & delicate state of our affairs are greatly strengthened by
your approbation of them. Hitherto they have not been
approved by a majority. Their ultimate prevalence will, proba-
bly, depend considerably, perhaps altogether, on individuals.
General Marshall you know is a member of the House of Repre-
sentatives. His talents, his character and the situation he has
been in, will combine to give him an influence, which will be
further aided by the scene which he immediately represents. He
may and probably will give a tone to the federal politics South of
the Susquehannah. I well know the respect he entertains for you
and for your opinions. I have brought this subject to your mind
that you may decide on the propriety of a communication of
your sentiments to him, which you may do in season to be useful.
Should he, which, indeed, I do not expect, conform his political
conduct generally, to what seems indicated by his public declara-
tion relative to the alien & sedition acts, it would have been
better that his insignificant predecessor should have been re-
elected. There never has been an instance where the commence-
ment of a political career was so important as is that of General
Marshall.

The delay in raising the army, for which provision was absolutely
made the session before last, has been shameful and almost
unpardonable. Whether this is attributable to the Secretary
alone or ought to be shared between him and his Principal I am

70 RUFUS KING. . [1799

not positive, but believe the latter. What makes this conduct the
more unaccountable is a comparison of it with another executive
measure.

The considerations which induced the provision to raise abso-
lutely the small force of 12 regiments were indispensable and are
obvious, — they were such as admitted not of delay in the execu-
tion. Yet the recruiting service is hardly begun under it — I have,
however, much pleasure in hearing that it is generally successful,
as far as I have had any information. At the last session, [a
similar one of the preceding session, having expired,] an act was
passed giving eventual authority to the President to augment the
Army. This authority was to be exercised only " in case a war
should break out between the U. S. and a foreign european power,
or in case of imminent danger of invasion." Before the recruit-
ing service was begun to raise the 12 regiments & even before the
officers in this neighborhood had received their commissions, a
resolution was taken and published to appoint the officers of the
eventual army. When I saw this, and was requested to make a
nomination of officers, I took the liberty of remonstrating against
the measure & I have since received from the Secy, at war an at-
tempt to vindicate the measure — It is a feeble one — I have, also,
received the most certain evidence that the Secy, of state and of
the treasury were not consulted at all on the subject. You will
see from all this, my dear sir, that our situation is not a pleasant
one. It is now about seven weeks since I wrote on the subject
and I have not heard whether the business is progressing or has
been abandoned.

It was with infinite reluctance that I agreed to go into the House
of Representatives and I shall find my situation there painful
beyond expression, if the federalists can not be brought to act
homogeneously. I shall attend at the commencement of the
session & hope that I shall not be subjected to the chagrin I have
endured the three last sessions. I never liked half measures, and
at present I think them disgraceful and dangerous — In point of
reputation I wish not to appear as approving measures which to-
my mind are obviously feeble & unmanly. Hitherto I have per-
mitted myself to be carried unresistingly down the current, be-
cause it has been thought imprudent to exhibit a difference of
opinion among the federalists. But we have assumed an awkward

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. Jl

attitude which cannot, I believe, be long maintained. Our sta-
tion is indefensible ; for admitting the justness of assuming it,
it follows irresistibly that we ought to have ascended much
higher.

The death of Governor Sumner is a deplorable event. It will
be difficult if not impossible to obtain a successor in all respects
his equal. Great talents aren't indispensable, but those which
are so, he possessed, in an eminent degree. As he died during
the session of the legislature, the federal members ought instantly
to have fixed on a candidate, to have given to the public an object
to rest upon. At present there are not less than a dozen men who
have their particular friends who appear attached to them, & I
fear a division of good men which cannot easily be reconciled.
Nothing now can be ultimately determined on, untill a meeting
of the Legislature, which does not take place untill January.

I have never been more pleased with an excursion than the one
I lately made into the western part of the state of New York — I
went about 140 miles to the west of the settlements on the Mo-
hawk— the face of the country is delightful and the crops exceed
any thing I have ever before seen ; but what is infinitely more
agreeable, the people every where are contented & happy & well
disposed to support the measures of the Government, except in
that part of the country called the military tract where there is
great uncertainty as to the titles of the Lands & the settlers com-
posed, generally, of a character different from the rest. — Drawing
a meridian line thro' Schenectady and longitudinal one at the
confluence of the Mohawk and Hudson, I have not the smallest
doubt that west of the former & north of the latter, the emigrants,
within the last 12 years, settled in the state of New York, are
more than 120000 souls.

By any thing you saw before you left the Country you can form
no idea of the degree of malignity of our Jacobins. Their indus-
try is equal to their malignity. In this County this is eminently
the case. During the administration of Adams, (S.) it unfortu-
nately happened, that he had the appointment of all the Judges
of our common pleas, the Sheriff, the Judge & the Register of
Probate, and all, except one, are antifederal. Their influence,
from their official relations and their standing in other respects,
and the decency of their conduct, is considerable but is not &

*] 2 RUFUS KING. [i799

probably will not be prevalent. It is, however, such as to require
vigilance and exertion among the enlightened & well disposed.
This is an instance, among many others, which shews the import-
ance that the executive should be lodged in pure hands.

The wonderful successes of the Allies in Europe were not ex-
pected here. It is evident that the Directory trembles as well
from the risque they have run by sending their last maritime force
into the mediterranean, as the infinite pains they take to impress,
on their miserably enslaved subjects, a belief of an incredible fact
— that the french ministers were assassinated by the orders of the
Austrian Government. If they cannot rekindle the spirit of en-
thusiasts, which at present seems extinct, it seems probable that
in the present campaign, a serious impression, if nothing more,
will be made upon them. In alliance every faculty ought to be
exerted in the onset, because a cordial cooperation for any length
of time, cannot, reasonably, be expected. I dread the common
effects of disunion and jealousy, and I most sincerely hope they
may, in the present instance, be prevented or at least delayed,
until the enemy shall have become more impotent than at
present.

I have mentioned the conduct of the English commissioners on
the sixth article of the late treaty — Since that I have heard nothing
on the subject. It would be unfortunate should any occurrence
take place to interrupt the existing harmony between the two
countries : and ought if possible to be prevented. The reason
why I have mentioned this subject must be obvious to you.

I pray you, my dear sir, to write me as frequently as you can
with convenience. There never was a time when communications
were so ardently desired & so grateful. . . .
I am ever sincerely your friend.

R. King to Secretary of State. No. 46.

London, July 30, 1799.
Dear Sir :

Talleyrand having been denounced by the Clubs and in the

Journals, has been obliged to give in his resignation, which, as we

hear, has been accepted ; he has also published his Vindication

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 73

in which he repels among other charges that of having alienated
the United States from the Republic, by asserting that it has been
in consequence of a language full of deference and moderation,
as well as of dignity, addressed by him to the U. S., instead of
expressions severe and irritating, desired by his accusers, that
American Negotiators have arrived in France. The Denunciation
and Apology are unworthy of notice except so far as they may be
considered evidence of an opinion that a declared war with us
would not be profitable ; a Criterion however immoral, which the
Denunciation and apology of the same parties for not sending
an Expedition against Portugal, as well as the encreased activity
of the Privateers, prove still to be the Standard of French Policy.

We have rumours of a Naval Battle between the English and
combined fleets in the Mediterranean ; but are without any infor-
mation from that quarter since the 8th instant, the date of the
last advices from Gibraltar.

Three or four Frigates from Syria fell into the hands of the
English Squadron on the Coast of Genoa about the middle of
June ; by these Ships the Reports from Constantinople of the re-
treat of Buonaparte from Acre are confirmed and according to the
latest intelligence from that quarter, the fate of this celebrated
Soldier cannot be long deferred.

The Danish and Swedish Envoys here have delivered a joint
note to this Government, communicating a recent Regulation,
adopted by their respective Nations, by which the Privateers of all
Nations are excluded from the Danish and Swedish Ports, and
the sale of Prizes prohibited under the penalty of being seized
and restored to the original Owners. I am promised a copy of
the Note which I shall send to you. Since the date of my last,
the Danish Envoy, by order of his Court, wrote me a letter an-
nouncing the King's intention to name a consul to reside in the
U. S. I replied that I would immediately communicate the inti-
mation to my Government, and that I could beforehand, without
any reserve, express my personal conviction that the Consul pro-
posed to be sent to us, would be received in a manner that would
not fail to be satisfactory ; it will be expected that you will author-
ise me to renew this assurance in the name of the President,
should he approve of it.

Nothing has occurred in Italy since the bloody Battles upon the

74 RUFUS KING. [l799

Trevia ; 35,000 of the 45,000 Russians in the pay of England are
to join the Arch Duke in Switzerland, and the other 10,000 to be
sent to Suwarrow.

The English Expedition is in great forwardness, if we credit
the reports which are published with uncommon and somewhat
suspicious zeal ; the marches of the Troops increase the proba-
bility that Holland is the object.

General Maitland has arrived from the West Indies ; I have
not yet seen him, nor have I received any authentic information
of his Report to the Government.

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c, &c,

Rufus King.

R. King to Evan Nepean, Esq.

Great Cumberland Place, July 31, 1799.
Sir :

I take the liberty to send you enclosed the copy of a letter,
with sundry Papers, that I have lately received from Col. Picker-
ing, Secretary of the State of the U. S., respecting the damage
sustained by the American ship Aurora from a Broadside fired
into her by his Majesty's Ship of War Latona. Some of these
Papers were formerly before me, and I advised the agent of the
owners of the Aurora to institute a suit against Capt. Southern ;
but as doubts are entertained whether under the circumstances of
the case such suit can be supported, and as no suit can be insti-
tuted against the King as against a private owner, I request you
to submit this claim for indemnification, which appears to me to
be in all respects just, to the consideration of the Lords Commis-
sioners of the Admiralty ; observing only that in a case not
altogether dissimilar in its circumstances and the same in the
Principles by which it was decided, the American Government
lately paid to the British Claimant & Sufferer a sum more than
double to that claimed in the present instance. The case alluded
to is that of the British Letter of Mark Niger, captured by an
American Frigate. A judicial remedy is impracticable, and un-
less the Government indemnify the owners, their claim will
entirely fail.

With very great Respect &c. &c.

Rufus King.

1799.1 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 75

R. King to Lord Grenville.

Great Cumberland Place, Aug. 1, 1799.
My Lord :

In consequence of the loss and expence arising from the deten-
tion of the American Ships Iphigenia, Martin Master, & Kensing-
ton, Kerr Master, I take the liberty to recall to your Lordship's
recollection my note of the 19th of February last, complaining of
the conduct of the Governor of St. Helena in detaining them.

I persuade myself to believe that your Lordship will upon a
simple view of these cases, see and be disposed to interfere for
the purpose of removing the hardships to which their owners are
exposed by not being able to obtain a Trial.

I at the same time take the liberty to renew my application of
the 20th ultimo, respecting the capture and detention of the
American Ship Acteon, Wilson Master ; as this vessel is laden
with Muskets purchased for the United States, and for the State
of Virginia, I have nattered myself that your Lordship would
agree with me in the opinion that on this account the case is en-
titled to some priority in the order of Decisions.

With perfect Respect &c. &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Lord Grenville.

Great Cumberland Place, Aug. 1, 1799.
My Lord :

The number of complaints that I continue to receive of the
interruption of the American trade in the West India Seas by his
Majesty's cruisers, occasioned by a mistaken interpretation of our
Treaty in respect to the articles of Contraband, will be my apol-
ogy for recalling your Lordship's attention to my former Repre-
sentations upon this subject.

As I understand the import of our past correspondence, the
explanations concerning Nails and Sail Cloth are settled, and
nothing remains but to agree that " Iron in Square or flat Bars "
is not contraband of war : a proposition so plain and reasonable
that I flatter myself no difference of opinion respecting it, can
exist between us.

A short article to this effect, and including the other two points,

j6 RUFUS KING. [i799

would at once put an end to the greatest portion of the Com-
plaints, that have so frequently occurred in the course of the last
ten months.

With very great Respect &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Lord Grenville.

Great Cumberland Place, Aug. 2, 1799.
My Lord :

As a preliminary step, I take the liberty to send your Lordship
inclosed a Letter with Sundry Papers that I have received from
the American Consul for the Port of London, and which relate
to a Piracy lately committed by a part of the Crew of the Ameri-
can Brig Nancy. This Vessel is now in the Harbour of Cork
and the seamen are on the British ships of war under the com-
mand of Admiral Kingsmill. Measures have been taken to inform
the Captain of this vessel, who was left at Cadiz, of her arrival at
Cork, and he may in a short time be expected here to assist in
the prosecution of the offenders.

I request your Lordship's interference in order that the Sea-
men in question may be secured for trial, and that the vessel and
Cargo may be detained for their legal owners.

With great Respect &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Lord Grenville.

Great Cumberland Place, August 2, 1799.
My Lord :

I have received the orders of the President of the U. S. to
represent to your Lordship the cases of the Ships Blenheim and
Voluptas, belonging to American Citizens, and illegally con-
demned in the Vice Admiralty Court at Jamaica.

Exact statements of these cases, as the same can be established
by satisfactory evidence, are contained in the Petitions to his
Majesty in Council, that are herewith transmitted to your Lord-
ship. These Statements are so particular and demonstrate in so

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. J J

clear a manner the Right of the Claimants to be heard on appeal,
that I am not willing to detain your Lordship by any observa-
tions on my part, to prove what is thereby so well established.

I content myself therefore by requesting your Lordship's inter-
ference, in order that the Claimants in these cases may be allowed
to prosecute their claims in the competent Tribunals for a Resto-
ration of their Property.

With perfect Consideration & Respect &c. &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Wm. Fawkener, Esq.

Great Cumberland Place, Augt. 3. 1799.
Sir:

According to advices that I have lately received from Phila-
delphia, the Government of the U. S. is in want of Copper
Sheathing and other copper materials to sheath eight or ten
Frigates and six ships of war, which are now building, and in the
course of a few months will be ready for sea. Between fifteen
and sixteen tons of copper are necessary for the sheathing of a
Frigate, and between eight and nine tons for a Sloop of War :
ten Frigates and six Sloops of war will therefore require about
Two Hundred Tons of copper to sheath them.

I am sensible of the present peculiar situation of the copper
Trade, and that the Price of copper continues to be very high ;
but as the quantity we want is not large and as the purpose to
which we shall apply it, is one that will be beneficial to England
as well as the U. S., I permit myself to hope that their Lordships
of the Privy Council will grant us permission to export in the fall
ships bound to America, if not the whole two Hundred Tons of
copper, at least a great proportion of that quantity.

I beg the favor of you, Sir, to present this application to their
Lordships, and to express to them in my name how much we
shall be obliged by the permission requested ; without which our
Ships must go to sea liable to all the injuries and disadvantages,
against which copper bottoms are so effectual securities.

With perfect Respect &c. &c.

Rufus King.

CHAPTER VI.

Silverhjehm to King — American Vessel runs down a Swedish Cutter — Protest
of the latter's Captain — Pickering to King — Commissioners under the
6th Article — Causes of Separation and Comment — Remedy must be by
Negotiation — King rents a country Place — King to Lord Elgin, Ambas-
sador to the Porte — Views relative to intended U. S. Mission to Constan-
tinople— To Lord Grenville — President's Proclamation — The Trade with
St. Domingo — To E. Benson — Government of France embarrassed —
Allies full of Courage — To Secretary of State — Delays in Negotiations —
Vessels detained at St. Helena restored — Continental Affairs — English Ex-
pedition to Holland started — In Paris, the Directory have shut up the Clubs
— Troup to King — Captures of Vessels in the West Indies — Commissioners
under 6th Article — Mission to France — General Davie appointed — Gore to
King — Work of Commission under 7th Article not to be resumed at Present
— Bingham to King — Dissatisfaction with Mission to France, though
perhaps the Time opportune — Affairs in United States prosperous, though
Yellow Fever has appeared again.

It cannot be a matter of wonder, that the government
and people of the United States, while condemning the in-
sults and studied assaults upon their commerce of the French,
should be exasperated by the wanton outrages committed
by the English upon their seamen and commerce, while they
professed friendship and a desire to be at peace, and even
to induce the United States to unite with them in the war
with France. The correspondence with Mr. King which has
been thus far presented shows that he was constantly re-
quired, by advices from his government and of his own mo-
tion under pressing complaints, to remonstrate with the
British government for acts done against the commerce of
the United States and in utter disregard of international law,
as well as against the Treaty of Amity and Commerce, and
1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 79

to demand redress in most decided terms for their un-
friendly acts.

At one time it is the impressment of seamen in the seaports
of England, taking them from out the merchant vessels and
even, in one instance, from a man-of-war through the
cowardice of her commanding officer, for which they justified
their course by various excuses, their right to claim their
own subjects, the want of proper papers, etc., but which Mr.
King disposes of in his dispatches home by asserting that
the necessities of England, in carrying on the war with
France, compelled her to use every means to strengthen her
navy ; and he presses his belief that nothing can be done to
put an end to these outrages while the war lasts, and that
at present his instructions on this point, though faithfully
carried out, will prove fruitless.

At other times, and constantly, he protests against the
capture and condemnation of vessels engaged in legitimate
commerce, by reckless officers seeking their own emoluments,
regardless of the rights of the merchants, and depending
upon the colonial Vice-Admiralty courts, with ignorant and
possibly corrupt judges, to enable them to escape the
penalty of their acts through the wilful misconstruction of
the treaty, and delays in making their decisions ; and latterly
he denounces the inefficient blockade of the Dutch ports, by
which, during the absence of the blockading squadron, vessels
had no difficulty or restraint in entering what were termed
the blockaded ports. It is not necessary to go into a more
detailed account of these irritating acts, to show how con-
stantly and vexatiously Mr. King was called upon to de-
mand of the British government interference in putting an
end to these outrages and indemnity for the infringement
of international law. It was even necessary to charge the
inefficiency of the Lord Chancellor Marriott himself, who
was compelled to vacate his office.

Unpleasant as the duty of constant remonstrance was,
there was always a courtesy of expression in making his
claims, and a firmness of tone, which won for him attention

80 RUFUS KING. [1799

to them, and the respect of those with whom he had to deal,
though, as subsequent correspondence would show, not al-
ways with success. The complaints continued to be made, de-
mands for redress were earnestly sent in to the king's officers,
delays in aggravation of the offences were interposed, and
the consequence was that restraints upon the enterprise of
our merchants were experienced and justly provoked indig-
nation against the British government, which thus wantonly
took advantage of the inability of the United States, at
that time, to compel a due regard to its rights as an in-
dependent nation.

George de Silverhjehm to Rufus King.

{Copy.)

Sir:

The inclosed official Protest made before a Notary Public will
inform you of the particulars relative to the most unaccountable
conduct of some American Vessels lately towards a Ship of
war of his Swedish Majesty, the Hawk, under the command of
an officer of the Swedish Navy, Capt. A. G. Von Gerdlen at the
time cruising in the British Channel for the protection of some
Swedish East Indiamen then expected on their home bound
Voyage.

The good understanding subsisting between our respective
Governments, their mutual interest in the protection, honour and
safety of the Flag the unprovoked and wanton manner in which
its rights have been violated in the present instance by several
subjects of the United States, will I am perfectly convinced lead
you to concur with me in having this matter fully investigated,
the guilty punished, indemnity given for the damage sustained
by the Swedish cutter, and satisfaction made for this most daring
violation of the rights of the Swedish Flag.

I have the honor to be with great Esteem

& Consideration &c, &c,

George de Silverhjehm.

799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 8 1

Protest of Capt. A. G. Von Gerdlen.

By this public Instrument of Protest be it known and made
manifest to all persons, that upon Friday the 26th day of July
1799 personally appeared before me John Simpson, Notary Pub-
lic, residing at Deal in the County of Kent in the Kingdom of
Great Britain by lawful authority admitted and sworn Axel
George Gerdlen, a Lieutenant in the service of the King of
Sweden, and commander of his Swedish Majesty's Cutter of war
called The Hok, of the force of twelve Guns, and under cruising
Orders, and did through the interpretation of Johan Brunn, of
the town and Port of Dover, in the said County of Kent, a Broker,
a person to me the said Notary well known and worthy of credit,
upon his faith and honesty solemnly declare and for truth affirm
and witness as follows, that is to say that the said Cutter being
on the 2 2d instant off Dungeness in the British Channel, with the
wind South East, and very thick and hazy weather, about half-
past ten o'clock at night, a strange Ship hove in sight, just ahead
the cutter, then having her starboard and the Ship her larboard
tacks on board, when the ship was immediately hailed from the
cutter about off, but this not being taken notice of, the

cutter's head was put on Lee in order to clear the Ship, but at
the same time the Ship hauled her wind, and seemed determined
to run foul of the cutter, which she immediately did, notwith-
standing every possible means was used to avoid her, whereby
the Ship struck the said Cutter on her Larboard bow abaft the
cathead and the Ship's Jib-Boom & Bowsprit became entangled
with the Cutter's Stay, and greatly damaged her Jib and Foresail
which were thereby rendered useless and were therefore cut away,
together with the Rigging thereto belonging, and the mainstay
was cut away in order to get the cutter clear from the Ship, but
the Ship's anchor having caught hold of the cutter's Shrouds,
they were also obliged to be cut away with a great deal of running
Rigging, and the whole of the Larboard side of the cutter re-
ceived a great deal of damage and the Mainyard was broke occa-
sioned altogether by the pressure of the ship on the cutter, having
all her sails set, and on sounding the Pumps they found the cutter
to make much more water than usual : that during the whole of
the time the officers and crew of the Cutter used their best en-

VOL. III. — 6

82 RUFUS KING. [*799

deavours to get clear from the Ship, and at the same time the
Ship used all possible means of grapling the Cutter to sink her,
by reason that the Cutter was taken to be a French Privateer,
notwithstanding the officers and crew on board of her frequently
declared they were Swedes ; but the Ship, which has since been
discovered to be an American, named the Fair American whereof
Forster is Master, still pressed upon the Cutter and endeav-
oured to let their anchor fall on board of her in order to sink
her, but which was happily prevented by the Exertions of the
Cutter's Crew ; that the Swedish Commission was then shown to
Capt. Forster to convince him of the Truth, but he still persist-
ing they were Frenchmen, ordered his People to board the Cut-
ter, which they did armed, notwithstanding the friendly and
amicable behaviour of the Cutter's officers and crew, and during
which time the said Lieutenant was on board the American Ship,
endeavouring to convince the people they were Swedes. That
soon after the said Lieutenant returned on board his Cutter, and
the Americans returned on board their Ship, and by the great
exertions of the Cutter's crew they fortunately got the Cutter
clear from the Ship, but instantly the said ship together with two
more ships and a brig which were near began to fire into the
Cutter, and one shot struck in the Gangway and another between
wind and water on the Larboard side, and an armed boat came
on board, when again they were told that the Cutter was Swedish,
and which they might plainly perceive by their friendly behaviour,
and on this being reported, the ships and Brig ceased firing, and
a Boat having again come on board the cutter, the Lieutenant
went on board the American Brig Unanimity, a letter of Marque,
commanded by Captain William Earle, to whom his Commission
was shewn, and he was then persuaded that the cutter's crew were
Swedes. That he then sent his Boat back with the Lieutenant,
who on his return, discovered that six boys and one Boatswain
were missing, who had got on board the American Ship, being
fearful of the Cutter's sinking, and who have since returned on
board the Cutter. That the rigging was repaired as well as cir-
cumstances would allow of, and also the Damage sustained in the
Hull, but it was found absolutely necessary for the safety of the
Cutter to run into the Downs to reinstate her Loss, and to have
her damages repaired, and she arrived and came to an anchor

7 799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 83

there about 8 o'clock the next morning, and where she now re-
mains. And Therefore the said Lieut Gerdlen doth by these
presents make & enter his Protest in due form as well against the
wind and sea, and American Ship Fair American, Captain Forster
his officers and Crew as also against all and every other Person
and Persons whom it doth and may concern. . . .

John Simpson,

A Master in Chancery.

T. Pickering to R. King.

{Private?)

Philadelphia, Aug. 6, 1799.
Dear Sir :

At length a final separation of the American Commissioners
from the Board sitting here under the 6th Article of the Treaty
of Amity with Great Britain, has taken place. During their sit-
tings the following points have been introduced by Mr. Mac-
donald in long and formal resolutions and adopted by a majority
of the Board.

Mr. Pickering then enumerates these positions, and con-
tinues :

I have said that doctrines maintained by Mr. Macdonald are of
course adopted by Mr. Rich and Mr. Guillemarde ; because I
understand that they have never, in a single point or circumstance,
given or intimated an opinion contrary to his ; that if he were
acknowledged to possess i7ifallibility, there could not be a more
uniform and implicit assent to his opinions ; they have not even
attempted to check and to moderate his petulance, overbearing
and rude demeanour. With a different leader, such is the appar-
ent mildness and goodness of their disposition, I should suppose
their conduct would also be different. That the two British
Commissioners, appointed by that Government should consult
and agree on sentiments and resolutions to be proposed to the
Board, is perfectly natural ; but the fifth Commissioner, the

84 RUFUS KING. [i799

umpire between the Commissioners of the two Nations, should
have kept himself aloof ; avoided consulting, or being consulted
by either side ; have heard both publickly at the Board, and then
have given his own opinion. This has not been the conduct of
Mr. Guillemarde. Circumstances have occurred which demon-
strate a previous consultation. In short every thing has appeared
to be prepared and privately agreed to by the three ; and when
proposed by Mr. Macdonald to the Board, the other two Mr.
Rich and Mr. Guillemarde had only to say "Yes." I have not
learnt that either of these two ever attempted to argue on a single
question.

It was unfortunate that arbitrators could not have been ap-
pointed who were divested of all national feelings, on either side.
I suppose the idea to be impracticable. As we now disagree on
important principles a remedy must be attempted by negotiation*
The materials are prepared and preparing for this purpose ; and
by the next Packet I expect will be transmitted to you with the
President's Instructions. You too well know the individual
characters of the members of the administration to suffer it to be
imagined that the interruption in the proceedings of the Board is
in any manner to be ascribed to improper views on their part :
and I believe you are well enough acquainted with the two
American Commissioners to pronounce them incapable of undue
bias, or that their opinions have been opposed to the opinions of
the other Commissioners on any other ground than their sense of
Justice and equity.

T. Pickering.

Mr. King at this time decided to take a house in the
country for the summer season, as the following letter will
show. It may be here said that he was fond of the country-
life, which, after his return to America, he sought and con-
tinued to enjoy during the portions of the year when he was
not engaged at the seat of government. In his new home
at Mill Hill, he experimented in horticultural matters, among
which, he often spoke of his endeavor to raise sweet corn,
but unsuccessfully, as the climate was too cold.

17991 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 85

R. King to Sam. J. Davis.

Brighton, Aug. 8, 1799.
Sir :

. . . I notwithstanding agree to take your house at Mill
Hill upon the terms mentioned in your last letter for one year
beginning on the 15th of this month, which is several weeks
sooner than I can occupy it. ... I beg the favor of you to
inform me what you have paid the gardener and how much help
he has been allowed : if he works with the same alacrity that he
talks, he must be an excellent servant. . . .

R. King to Lord Elgin, Ambassador Extraordinary to the

Porte, etc., etc.

{Private.')

Brighton, Aug. 10, 1799.
My Lord :

I promised myself the honor, and was much disappointed in not
having found an opportunity, of paying my respects to yr. Lord.p
before I left town ; I had a twofold motive to have done so, that
of taking leave of yr. L.p before yr. departure for Constantinople,
and of adding a word or two to what had already passed between
us, upon the Subject of the intended Mission of the U. S. to
Porte. I avail myself of yr. L.p's permission concisely to explain
our views in this mission, the Success of which will so materially
depend upon the favorable Sentiments, and well earned influence
of your Government

It need not be remarked that our remote situation must exclude
on the one side as on the other, every idea of political influence ;
and I can imagine only two motives that can recommend a negotia-
tion between the American & Turkish Governments ; the first is the
extension of our Trade to Constantinople and its dependencies ;
and the second, the obtaining of the influence of the Ottoman
Government in our favor with the Barbary Regencies, not for the
Purpose of negotiating treaties with them, but to preserve those
that at great Expence we have already concluded. In respect to
our Trade, we naturally desire to place it upon the most advan-

86 RUFUS KING. [J799

tageous footing, and if we could put it upon the same as that of
England, we could have nothing further to desire. According to*
my information (which however is I fear far from being accurate)
with the good will and favor of your Government, it is probable
that we should not have much difficulty in the attainment of this
principal object of our wishes. The second Point will in some
degree follow of course the accomplishment of the first, and in its
nature must chiefly depend upon our future intercourse and good
understanding with the Turkish Government. Our system is
one of strict economy, and from which we shall be unwilling
to depart in even a negotiation with the Porte. The customary
Expences must be defrayed, and we shall be disposed to reduce
and confine them as far as shall be found practicable. Should
Mr. Smith arrive while yr. Lp. remains at Constantinople, he will
derive essential advantages from yr. Presence and Support, and I
persuade myself that you will find in him a most valuable addition
to yr. Society among a People, whose thoughts and manners are
so very different from ours. With the most sincere wishes for
yr. Lp's welfare and for the compleat success of your Embassy, I
have the honor to be with the greatest consn. & Respect &c. &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Lord Grenville.

(Private.)

Brighton, Aug. 10, 1799.
My Lord :

I have been obliged to come here for a short time on account
of the ill health of a part of my family. As General Maitland
had been in London for several days, I was in hopes that I should
have been able to ascertain the result of his late voyage to St.
Domingo, before I left town. I have no letters from Col. Pick-
ering of a date so late as to give me any information on this
head, but I observe in the American News Papers, a Proclama-
tion by the President, opening after the first day of the present
month a trade between the U. S. and two of the Ports of St.
Domingo. As I am ignorant whether General Maitland has in
concert with Mr. Stevens, our Agent at St. Domingo, concluded an
arrangement respecting the Trade to that Island, that is likely to*

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 87

receive the sanction of your Government, I feel some concern,
least from the want of such concert, or from a misunderstanding
by yr. naval officers in those seas, of what has been settled by
Genl. Maitland, our vessels trading to St. Domingo may be inter-
rupted by your Cruisers. The eagerness with which our Mer-
chants are likely to reengage in this trade, satisfies me that
American property to a large amount is already embarked in
voyages to that Island, and this consideration will I hope appear
to your Lordship a sufficient apology for the liberty I take in in-
quiring whether Genl. Maitland has concluded an agreement with
Toussaint on the Basis of what was before settled between the
General and Col. Pickering at Philadelphia.

With the highest consideration &c &c

Rufus King.

R. King to Egbert Benson.

Brighton, Aug. 21, 1799.
Dear Sir :

I have received your letter of the 8. June, with Mr. Liston's
Bill in your favor upon the Treasury for the amount of the
Moiety of your salary as Fifth Commissioner. ... I am at
a loss what to say to you respecting Politicks. I avail myself of
your authority to take back what was written to Sedgwick, tho' it
was correct at the time and ought to have encouraged our perse-
verance. The Duke however has nothing to reproach himself
with. The Turks as well as the Austrians being engaged in the
war, Russia has become a zealous and most powerful ally of
Engd. against France, whose armies are expelled from Italy and
according to appearances will soon be called upon to defend their
own Territory against the invasion of the allies. The affairs and
government of France were never more embarrassed. The allies
are full of courage and of hope. Still I do not participate in the
confidence so generally entertained that the present campaign
will close the war. England is employed in sending a powerful
expedition for the deliverance of Holland. A corps of Russians
is to cooperate with the English and an extensive revolt and in-
surrection are expected throughout the Dutch territories. We
are told that Russia has been successful in her efforts to engage

88 RUFUS KING. [i799

Sweden in the coalition. Denmark is at this time hardly pressed
towards the same object both by Engd. and Russia ; and the
latter has declared war, or will soon do so, against Spain, because
she does not withdraw from the peace with France. The Poli-
ticks of St. Petersburg, which will not be opposed to England,
would divide the whole world into two parties, the friends and
enemies of France ; and if the war continues, the question will
be brought to this issue.

With great truth and attachment &c

Rufus King.

R. King to Secretary of State. No. 47.

Brighton, Aug. 29, 1799.
Dear Sir :

The Dispersion of the Members of the Government, as usual
at this season, is accompanied with the postponement of all busi-
ness excepting the most pressing and important. This circum-
stance joined to the activity with which England negotiates at all
the Courts upon the Continent for the purpose of so extending
and cementing the coalition against France, will account for
the delay we suffer in receiving answers to our various appli-
cations.

No further progress is yet made in the negotiation of the arti-
cle respecting Contraband, nor can I add anything to what I
have formerly said concerning St. Domingo. I have again and
again pressed the conclusion of the former, and more than once
recently, tho' unsuccessfully, inquired respecting the latter.

The cases of the Ships Kensington and Iphigenia (an account
of whose detention by the Governor of St. Helena I have before
sent you) have been at last decided ; the ships and Cargoes have
been restored, and the legality of the trade between Serampore &
Denmark allowed. The Ships detained for breach of Blockade,
are not yet tried, owing as we are told to the number of older
cases. From what has been lately decided with regard to the
Danes, Swedes and Prussians under circumstances not very
dissimilar, I am not encouraged to expect a favorable issue of
these cases.

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 89

The News Papers of the 23d instant contain a Report of the
Trials of the American Ships Minerva and Nymph, captured by
a French Privateer and recaptured by an English Frigate. Ac-
cording to this Report, the Recaptors not content with the Sal-
vage of an Eighth as heretofore, demanded a condemnation in
toto upon the absurd doctrine that twenty four hours enemy pos-
session divests the first Owner of his property. The Report
makes the Judge decree that the property shall be sold, that an
Eighth share immediately be paid to the Recaptors, and the other
8ths vested in the funds to wait a final decision. The Report
likewise contains some remarks of the Judge alike unexpected
and extraordinary. As these Papers may reach the United States
and produce the like sentiments there as they have excited here,
I think proper to inform you that these Reports in every excep-
tionable point are wholly erroneous. — Sir William Scott sent for
Mr. Williams to express to him how much he had been hurt by
the misrepresentations that had gone abroad concerning these
Trials ; and Mr Williams informs me that the demand of a con-
demnation in toto was made not in right of the recapture, for
which service \ is the customary salvage in the case of a national
Ship, but upon the allegation that the whole property is good
prize on account of the illegality of the trade, these Ships being
engaged when first taken in a voyage from the Spanish Colonies
to Old Spain.

Before this reaches you, you will have heard of the safe arrival
at Brest of the French and Spanish Fleets. The English, who
are mortified and disappointed that the junction has been
effected, and that the combined fleet has escaped from the Medi-
terranean, where they expected to confine them, have reinforced
their Channel fleet which is now equal or superior to that of the
Enemy at Brest.

Mantua, as well as Alexandria, has capitulated, and at the date
of the latest advices, the allies were masters of all Italy, except-
ing a few Ports in the Roman Territory that cannot be defended,
and the Coast of Genoa, upon which the little army of Moreau,
united with the Remains of that of MacDonald, still kept
possession.

In Switzerland nothing material has lately occurred, the army
of Massena, if we believe the French accounts, is superior to that

90 RUFUS KING. [i799

of the Arch Duke, and may perhaps resume the offensive before
the arrival of the Russians.

It is now a fortnight since the first division of the English Ex-
pedition against Holland sailed from the Downs ; a week ago it
was off the Texel, but had not attempted to land. Whether
General Abercromby waits for the Russians who are to come thro'
the Sound, or for a second division from England we know not,
possibly a negotiation is going on between the English and Dutch
fleets, and il may be that the English are likely to meet with
greater opposition than was expected.

The Struggle which began to appear between the Clubs and
the Directory seems to have subsided. At Paris the Club has
been shut up by the Directory, which has taken the ascendency
with united support of the Councils.

Great efforts are making to complete the new loans, which we
are told are attended with much success ; at the same time
that it is evident, as well from the Messages of the Directory,
and debates of the Councils, as from the letters from the armies,,
that money is extremely scarce, and the finances in the greatest
embarrassment.

Partial and premature insurrections have broken out in many
of the Departments, without concert or hope of support, and have
generally been easily suppressed.

The attack of the allies is imminent, and will be formidable ; it
remains to be seen with what energy and success it will be resisted.

With perfect Respect and Esteem,

Rufus King.

Mr. Gore, who, while the proceedings of the Commission!
under the 7th Article were suspended, was making a journey
through England and Scotland, wrote to Mr. King, from
Glasgow, a letter from which the following is an extract :

C. Gore to R. King.

Glasgow, August 31.
My dear Friend :

... I foresee much delay in our commission and that in

addition to the obstacles inherent in the business itself, its further

progress must be much influenced & impeded by the general

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 91

politics of England, and our awkward relation to the belligerent
powers. From what I see in the papers, G. B. will not be very
inclined to do more than justice requires towards us or others.
I am doomed to pass several months at least in listless inactivity
— However, complaining will do no good, my chagrin & mortifi-
cation may be increased, but cannot be diminished by anything
I can do. . . . Trumbull says Anstey informed him that he
and his colleagues would not receive permission to cooperate
in the execution of our duties until the B. Government had
received notice that awards had been made and paid in
America. . . .

Yours &c.

C. Gore.

R. Troup to R. King.

New York, 2d Sept., 1799.
My dear Sir :

. . . The late captures in the West Indies by British cruisers
are enormous, and a late Judge, who has come to the Bahamas,
condemns with the rapacity of a shark every vessel that is
brought in ; a single contraband article, however trifling in
value, is held by the Judge in all cases to be sufficient cause for
condemning the whole vessel and cargo. Serious public discon-
tents are arising against the British in consequence ; and I do
not see how our government can avoid interference.

Our Commissioners under the article of the Treaty respecting,
British debts have some time since seceded, and the proceedings
of the whole board are for the present suspended. I hear that
Mr. Rich, one of the B. Commissioners goes home in the packet
by which I send this. The construction put upon the Treaty by
the British Commissioners, I am well persuaded, will never be
submitted to by this country. The confiscated debts are univer-
sally by us considered as having been relinquished by the Treaty
of Peace. The demand on the part of the British Commissioners,
excites much ill blood.

Patrick Henry having lately died, the President has nominated
General Davie of North Carolina to accompany Chief Justice
Ellsworth in the Mission to France. A letter has lately been.

92 RUFUS KING. [*799

received from Talleyrand complying with the President's requi-
sition as to the reception of our ministers. The Chief Justice
and General Davie will sail in the course of three or four weeks
at farthest. I am told the Chief Justice goes sorely agt. his will.
The whole measure is very nauseous to the friends of the govern-
ment. . . .

We again have the yellow fever in the City. Things however
are not so bad as last year at this time. The eastern and lower
parts of the city are abandoned, and this is assigned as the
reason why we have not been so sickly. Philadelphia is worse

off than we are. . . .

God bless you

R. T.

Wm. Bingham to R. King.

Lansdown, Sept. 2, 1799.
Dear Sir :

Our Commission will take its Departure for France in the
Course of the present Month. You will have heard that the
President has appointed Mr. Davie of No. Carolina, in the stead
of Patrick Henry, deceased.

The French Directory readily caught at the opening for a new
Negotiation, & removed all the Difficulties in its way, by acced-
ing to the preliminary Points, that had been insisted on.

But this Measure is not very popular amongst the best Friends
of the Administration — for in the actual Position of our Affairs,
having incurred all the essential Expense of protecting our Com-
merce, & from the present Character of the French Government,
when such little Reliance can be placed on its Engagements, it
would have been more advisable to have continued the System
of armed Neutrality. Besides, if this Attempt should eventuate
in a Renewal of the Treaties with France, there will doubtless be
found a strong Party in Congress, in favor of disarming ; by
which, if they should succeed, we shall again expose our Com-
merce to Insult & Depredation, & lose the Opportunity of estab-
lishing a naval Force, which is so essential to the Interests, as
well as conducive to the Respectability of the Country.

There never was a period, when the Extent of our Trade &

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE.
our Resources drawn from its success, would so fully enable us
to support the heavy Establishment of a Navy. The Measure
has therefore met with less opposition, than it has usually en-
countered ; for it has been clearly ascertained, that the Savings
in the Premiums of Insurance, will nearly counter ballance the
Expences that will attend the operation.

I am afraid our Cabinet will not derive much Credit for a dig-
nified Deportment amongst the Nations of Europe, from this
premature Mission to the French Directory : the Measure will
certainly be invidious, & may eventually be attended with some
serious Consequences.

If the combined Powers continue their Successes, there will be
but little difficulty in the Negotiation, and perhaps Experience
may have discovered to the French Government the Infatuation
of quarreling with neutral Nations, at a time when they are de-
prived of all means of introducing supplies into their own Coun-
try, or of furnishing them to their own Colonies.

A Report prevails that France has ceded Holland to Prussia ■
this may effect a great Change in the Destinies of the War ; for
it is probably the Price of Prussia's Cooperation, which must
have viewed with a jealous Eye the Aggrandizement of Austria,
from the Acquisition of Venice, & must have been equally am-
bitious of becoming a maritime Power. As for the Manner of
obtaining them, neither Power would possess many Qualms or
Scruples, as the Morality of the States is conveniently regulated
by their Interests.

Altho' in general the affairs of our Country are in a very
flourishing State, yet we experience a very considerable Draw-
back both in domestic Happiness & pecuniary Interests, from
the continued Attacks of a pestilential Fever, to which our large
Cities have been exposed, for several preceding Years ; It has
again appeared in New York & Philada, & altho' not so
alarming, from being of a less virulent character, has occasioned
a general Emigration of the Citizens & all the Expence & De-
rangement that can arise therefrom.

The electioneering Campaign has been opened very early in
the Season & immense exertions have been made by both Par-
ties— the whole Strength of the State will be drawn out, on this
occasion. I have little apprehension for the Result, as the federal

94 RUFUS KING. [i799

Party has gained a great Accession of Strength, by the miscon-
duct of the French. Ross's Interest in the western Counties
will enable him to run higher than any other Candidate, we
could have nominated.

Yours &c.

Wm. Bingham.

CHAPTER VII.

Pickering to King — Character of the Commissioners under Article 6, and
Points of Disagreement — Desire of the President to do Justice ; will pro-
pose an explanatory Article — Trumbull to King — Resignation of Sir
James Marriott — King to Secretary of State — English landed in Holland —
Prussia proposes the Restoration of the Prince of Orange — French Defeats
in Switzerland — Want of Union among the Allies — Cabot to King — Feeling
against Appointment of Ministers to France ; it will probably cause Appre-
hension in England and Russia — King to Count Rumford, urging him to
visit the United States — They have established a Military Academy, and
would commit it to his Superintendence — To Secretary of State — Baron
Silverhjelm's Letter — Expedition to Holland ; Russians join it — To Mr.
Hammond — Explanatory Article relative to the 18th Article of the Treaty
— Rumford to King ; would gladly visit United States and accept the
Offer of the Executive Government — His present Engagements prevent
this.

T. Pickering to R. King.

Department of State, Sept. 4, 1799.
Dear Sir :

A letter received last evening from Mr. Fitzsimons informed

me that Mr. Macdonald * and Mr. Rich, Commissioners appointed

by Great Britain under the 6th Article of the Treaty of Amity

and Commerce, were going to embark for England in the Packet

to sail this week from New York. It appears from his letter to

have been to him a sudden and unexpected movement. But I

do not know that this step, if it could be prevented, should be

objected to, because I see no probability that the business of the

Board can ever be executed by the present members. Indepen-

dentlyof the opinions stronglyexpressed, which it would not be easy

to retract, there appears to me an incompatibility of temper. If I

am rightly informed, it would be difficult for any set of American

Commissioners to act harmoniously with Mr. Macdonald ; unless

* In another he states that Mr. Rich alone went to England.
96 RUFUS KING. [*799

they possessed such meek and yielding dispositions as to submit
implicitly to his dogmas. Such meekness is in his colleagues,
Mr. Rich and Mr. Guillemarde, who tho' they appear, and I verily
believe them, to be worthy men, have not in a single instance,
dissented from Mr. Macdonald, or started an objection to any-
thing he has advanced ; so that it would be perfectly equal, as to
the final issue of their proceedings, whether they continued mem-
bers of the Board, or that Mr. Macdonald were authorized, on
every question, to give three votes. . . . If I am rightly in-
formed Mr. Macdonald is not only thus predominant, but that
towards the American Commissioners he has been in the highest
degree overbearing and arrogant ; and not very delicate towards
our Country.

I think it fortunate that you are acquainted with the individual
characters of the American Commissioners ; you know all the
members of the Executive Government, except the Secretary of
the Navy ; and you know the members of the two Houses of
Congress, of leading influence in the measures of the U. S. ; and
you know that all these, besides detesting every species of fraud
and evasion, and that above all things they are ambitious of
maintaining the character of unblemished integrity and good
faith, are particularly desirous of completely executing what
they so indefatigably laboured to establish, the Treaty of Amity
and Commerce between the United States and Great Britain.
Here is a pledge on which Great Britain may rely. But the
Commissioners differ essentially in the construction of the
Treaty. The points of difference must then become the subjects
of further negociation between the two Governments.

These points have been laid before the President by the At-
torney General ; the American Commissioners will do it more
fully ; and the result will undoubtedly be an Instruction to you
to confer with the British Ministers, and agree in an explanatory
article which may be satisfactory to both Countries.

In a subsequent letter, Nov. 7, 1799, Mr. Pickering says:

" As soon as the President comes to town, he will determine on
the Instructions to be given to you concerning the different inter-
pretations by the American and British Commissioners of the 6th

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. gy

article. . . . The desire of the President to do perfect justice
to British Creditors will certainly dispose him to admit every
principle which that article was intended to comprehend, and I
cannot doubt but that you will be able speedily to settle with the
British Ministers such rules as shall be necessary to a recom-
mencement of the investigation of those claims."

On the 31st of December, 1799, Mr. Pickering in his
official letter says :

" That the President has determined to propose that the true
interpretation of that article (the 6th) should be settled by such a
mutual and friendly explanation as will give full effect to the just
engagements which were thereby formed on the part of the
United States."

He notifies Mr. K., that he will receive the necessary-
papers " containing every thing essential to be known " ;
and at the same time a statement of " the principles proper
to form the basis of an Article or Articles explanatory of
the 6th Article . . . and for facilitating its due execu-
tion." Mr. P. continues.

<<

I have further to inform you that Mr. Sitgreaves having as
one of the Commissioners, assiduously and thoroughly investi-
gated this subject ; and thereby acquired an accurate knowledge
of every question to be discussed between you and the British
Government, the President has thought it expedient that he
should go to London to facilitate your researches and render you
every assistance which his intimate acquaintance with the business
will enable him to give. It is also apprehended that you may
derive much useful information from Mr. Sitgreaves relative to
transactions in the Board, which the written documents either do
not contain or will not suggest ; and finally that by this measure
the conclusion of the negotiations may be expedited ; For altho*
Mr. MacDonald, Mr. Rich and Mr. Guillemarde in their letter of
the 14th of August to Mr. Fitzsimons and Mr. Sitgreaves, as plainly
as indecorously, insinuated that the latter seceded from the Board
for the purpose of delaying payments by the United States, you

VOL. III. — 7

98 RUFUS KING. [1799

will know that nothing can be more unfounded than this imputa-
tion. The President is anxious to have the expected explanations
speedily agreed on, that the business of the Boards in London
and Philadelphia may be resumed. There is not any branch of
the Government, nor within my knowledge an individual officer,
who would not view with disdain the insinuation above mentioned.
But the disposition and opinions predominating with the Commis-
sioners from Great Britain are utterly incompatible with harmony
in the proceedings, and, as we conceive, with justice and equity
in the adjustment of British claims. Besides, the personalities
which have taken place between the members rendering any
future cordiality between them hopeless, show the dissolution of
the present Board to be indispensable.

J. Trumbull to R. King, Margate.

London, Sept. 5th, 1799.
Dear Sir,

I have this moment had a visit from a Gentleman whose infor-
mation may be relied upon to tell me that St. James Marriott has
this morning made a proposition to Government, to quit his pres-
ent situation on condition of certain terms which he has named.
These I understand to be rather high, and such as the Govern-
ment may hesitate to comply with. As therefore it is of vast im-
portance to neutral nations (and to none more than to us) that he
should be replaced by a more efficient man, and as the represen-
tation to this purpose of some of the Ministers of Neutral powers,
coinciding at this time with his proposal of retirement, would
probably decide Government to comply with his offers, it is sug-
gested to you, whether this is not an occasion worth the trouble
of a ride to town. The moment is the more important from the
strange temper of the man which may induce him, if there should
be much hesitation on the part of the Government, to fly from
his proposed terms and resolve to die in his chair.

If it should appear to you as important as I confess it does to
me, and you should determine to come to town (which it will be
best to do immediately) I will wait on you as soon as you let me
know your arrival, for the purpose of saying more than is proper

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 99

to say here, and of communicating to you my authority from
whom personally you may receive further useful information. . .

Most truly yours,

Jno. Trumbull.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 48.

London, Sept. 5, 1799.
Dear Sir :

The first division of the English of 10,000 men under General
Abercrombie has made good its landing upon the mainland on
the right of the entrance of the Texel : the descent was vigorously
opposed and cost the English between 400 and 500 men killed
and wounded. The fort of the Helder as well as the Texel Island
soon submitted, and a division of the English fleet having without
molestation entered the Texel and summoned the Dutch fleet, the
whole of it consisting of nearly thirty sail of which eight or ten
are of the line, under the command of Admiral Story, surrendered
to the English in trust for the Stadtholder. The second division
of English troops arrived and landed the day after the landing of
the first, and we hear that 5000 Russians have joined them.
These Corps will be immediately followed by the Commander-in-
Chief, the Duke of York, with 12,000 more English Troops, and a
further body of 10,000 Russians. It was expected that Sweden
would have co-operated with 8000 troops in the pay of England,
but the subsidy demanded was so high, having regard to that
paid to Russia, that England refused to give it. Unless the infor-
mation from Holland is extremely erroneous, the disaffection to
the present Government is general thro' all the Provinces : the
Dutch army cannot be depended upon by the Directory, and
great numbers of the Inhabitants are proposed to join with the
allies in the effort to drive out the French and restore the Prince
of Orange.

A most extraordinary change was on the point of taking place
a few weeks ago in the Politicks of Prussia : the English and
Russian Ambassadors were suddenly sent for to concert with
Prussia a Treaty for the purpose of effecting by force the rein-
statement of the Prince of Orange. The negotiation proceeded

100 RUFUS KING. [*799

with the greatest rapidity, and Mr. Grenville was so confident of
its immediate and successful conclusion, that his dispatch stated
that he should probably sign the Treaty before a return Courier
could arrive from England. The day after the date of this dis-
patch, the Russian Minister informed the English and Russian
Ambassadors that the King had just received such advices from
Paris, as authorized the expectation that the restoration of the
Prince of Orange could be effected by negotiation and that under
these circumstances the conclusion of the proposed Treaty must
be postponed. This versatility has excited the greatest dissatis-
faction ; the Prussian Envoy has in consequence thereof been
ordered to leave St. Petersburgh, and no one would be astonished
should this order be followed by a Declaration of war. Since the
surrender of the Dutch fleet, the North Sea Squadron employed
in the Blockade of the Texel has returned to Yarmouth, to which
place the Dutch Fleet will probably follow it.

The combined Fleet still remains at Brest ; it is represented to
be ill-manned, and otherwise in no condition to meet the superior
English fleet now in the Channel.

The Rumour gains credit, tho' not confirmed, of a great battle
between Suwarrow and Joubert, Moreau's successor in the com-
mand of the army of Italy ; in which Joubert is reported to have
been beaten and killed. The French Papers give an account
of late actions in Switzerland to the disadvantage of the Austrians ;
and there is considerable anxiety concerning the Army of the
Arch Duke ; but unless he has suffered great disasters, the arrival
of the Russians must give him most decided superiority.

Those who know nothing of Cabinet secrets are nevertheless
able to see that there is a manifest want of union, as well as of
confidence in the news of the allies ; Russia and England prefer
to act disinterestedly and to desire the integrity and restoration
of the Subverted Governments ; Austria on the other hand has
organized a provisional Government over her late conquests in
Italy, including therein Tuscany as well as Piedmont ; and it is
said that the old magistrates and Government are not restored in
those Cantons of Switzerland from which the French have been
driven out.

Denmark, tho' hardly pressed, still declines entering into the
Coalition. Russia has declared war against Spain.

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. IOI

We hear nothing from you respecting the Commission at Phila-
delphia ; here the Commissioners are still suspended.

With great Esteem & Respect, &c. &c.

Rufus King.

G. Cabot to R. King.

Sep. 7, 1799.
My Dear Sir :

. . . Before this reaches you the Newspapers will have
announced the appointment of Mr. Davie of N. Carolina to fill
the vacant commission of P. Henry. The Aurora has assured us
that the New Envoys will sail in this month & I have no doubt
the President has given orders for that purpose — the Aurora tells
lies when lies will do mischief but it will faithfully relate the
truth when the truth is most favorable to its views. Our good
men all have been incredulous ; they would not admit it possible
that the President shou'd persist in a measure so flagrantly incon-
sistent with the general policy, with his own uniform declared
sentiments & with the well known opinions feelings & wishes of
all the best friends of the Country including T9oths of his personal
friends. I have not scrupled to express freely my abhorrence of
the measure as capable of doing us no good in any way but of
exposing us to the most serious inconveniences without necessity
& without apology. Every one I meet expresses an apprehension
that the jealousy & perhaps the resentment of the coalesced
powers will be excited to a degree that will produce new irrita-
tions & increase the difficulty of adjusting the old differences :
my first wish is to see the demolition of the cursed ^system of
France, but I begin to see plainly that we may become obnoxious
to her enemies. England & Russia cannot feel complacent
toward us when they see us officiously tendering our friendship to
those whom we detest, whom we know to be as inimical to us as
to them, & whose humiliation is the effect of their valour. They
will charge us with basely trafficking for their blood, which has
purchased for us the security, tranquility & prosperity we enjoy.

Sentiments like these will be natural & will enkindle anger if
those powers are unsuccessful, & insolence if successful. While
I place the greatest reliance on your discerning all the means by
which such embarrassments may be alleviated or prevented, I am

102 RUFUS KING. [*799

sensible you cannot be expected to use them with success if there
is not a coincidence of Executive policy. Many sensible men
expect that the British Govt will be so well informed of the true
state of our politicks as to lay no stress on the New Embassy,
justly considering it as the unadvised & capricious movement of
a Simple Individual, & that it will produce no consequences be-
cause it is known to be contrary to the general wish of the Coun-
try who wish sincerely to avoid all intercourse with France
during the continuance of her present system.

Your affte & unfeigned friend

G. C.

R. King to Colonel McHenry.

London, Sept. 7, 1799.
Dear Sir :

I have duly received your letter of the 3rd. of July respecting
Count Rumford. We have had some conversation upon the Sub-
ject which will be resumed. I however conclude from what has.
already passed that tho' much gratified with the offer, he will
wisely decline accepting. I shall hereafter send you a more exact
report upon this subject.

The Count's letter to you accompanying the Models of the
Field Piece and ammunition Waggons was written and sent
before he had any knowledge of the subject of your Letter of
the 3rd. of July. I hope we shall not be disappointed in sending
you the Boxes which contain these Models by the General Wash-
ington, a stout ship now ready to sail for Philadelphia.*
With sincere Respect & Esteem &c, &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Count Rumford.

London, Sept. 8, 1799.
Dear Sir :

I have more than once expressed to you a wish that you might

find leisure as well as inclination to visit your native country

where I have been persuaded that you will meet with a friendly

and cordial reception, and by your presence and advice might be-

*The models mentioned had been presented by the Count to the U. S..
Government.

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 103

of great advantage to our public Institutions, the establishment
of which upon approved principles is an object of the highest
consequence. I am happy that it is in my power to assure you,
that I have not been mistaken in these sentiments, and it affords
me peculiar satisfaction to execute the orders that I have lately
received from my Government to invite you in its name to return
and reside among us, and to propose to you to enter into the
American Service.

In the course of the last year we have made provision for the
Institution of a Military Academy, and we wish to commit its for-
mation to your Experience, and its future Government to your
care. It is not necessary on this occasion to send you a detailed
account of our necessary military establishment, which indeed
would be best explained by a reference to the Laws upon which
it depends. These are in my possession and shall be put into
your hands, if you desire it. In addition to the Superintendance
of the Military Academy, I am authorized to offer to you the
appointment of Inspector General of the Artillery of the United
States ; and we shall moreover be disposed to give to you such
rank and emoluments, consistent with existing Provisions, and
with what has already been settled upon the former of these
Heads, as would be likely to afford you satisfaction and to secure
to us the advantage of your services.

If your engagements will allow of your entering into our Ser-
vice, which I sincerely hope may be the case, I will ask the favor
of you to take an early opportunity of signifying the same to me,
in order that we may proceed to further and more particular
explanations upon the Subject.

With the greatest consideration,

Rufus King.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 52.

London, Sep. n, 1799.
Dear Sir :

Herewith * I send you Copies of a Letter that I lately received
from Baron Silverhjelm, the Swedish Charge d'affaires at this

* See page 80 of this volume.

104 RUFUS KING. [1799

Court and of my answer. I find upon Enquiry that the Ameri-
can Ships against which this complaint is exhibited, were going
down the channel on their passage to the Ud. States, where they
have probably arrived.

No Event of importance has occurred in Holland since the
surrender of the Dutch fleet. The Duke of York has departed
with large Reinforcements to take command. The first division
of the Russians who were at Yarmouth a few days ago have by
this time joined the English, and other divisions are hourly ex-
pected. We have no accounts of any considerable Risings among
the Dutch in favor of the allies. Probably they will wait until
they can form a more accurate opinion than they as yet can do of
the probable Result of the Invasion.

The News Papers will give you the Details of the last Battle in
Italy, and of what at the same time occurred in Switzerland.

Parliament are unexpectedly to meet on the 24th. instant. It
is conjectured that this has become necessary in order to author-
ize the Enlistment of a greater body of Militia than the existing
Laws permit. Prussia has peremptorily refused her aid in favor
of the Stadtholder & England must supply, if she can, what she
expected from that quarter.

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c &c

Rufus King.

Count Rumford to R. King.

Brompton, Sept. 12, 1799.
Dr Sir :

I am to acknowledge the rect. of your Excellency's most flat-
tering Letter of the 8th inst, the perusal of which has filled my
mind with sentiments much more easy to be conceived than ex-
pressed. I am deeply sensible of the honor that has been con-
ferred upon me by the Govt of the U. States, by the kind invita-
tion they have sent me to come & reside in my native Country,
and also by the other distinguished and most flattering proofs of
their confidence and esteem with which that invitation has been
accompanied.

Nothing could have afforded me so much satisfaction as to have
had it in my power to have given to my liberal and generous
countrymen such proofs of my sentiments as would in the most

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 105

public and ostensible manner have evinced not only my gratitude
for the kind attentions I have received from them, but also the
ardent desire I feel to assist in promoting the prosperity of my
native Country ; but my Engagements, which great obligations
have rendered sacred and inviolable, put it out of my power to
dispose of my time and services with that unreserved freedom
which would be necessary in order to enable me to accept of
those generous offers, which the Executive Govt, of the U. States
has been pleased to propose to me. But tho' it is not in my
power to dissolve those ties by which I am bound, yet I have no
doubt of being able to obtain Permission to visit America ; &
should that permission be granted, I shall take an early opportu-
nity of crossing the Atlantic in order to pay my personal respects
to the President of the United States and to return him my thanks
for the distinguished honor he has been pleased to confer on me.

I cannot finish this letter without requesting that you, Sir,
would accept my best acknowledgments for the many civilities I
have received from you and more especially for the very polite
manner in which you have been so good as to communicate to me
the favorable sentiments of the Govt, of the U. States with
respect to me.

With the sincere wishes for the Prosperity of the U. States, I

have the honor to be, Sir, &c, &c.

Rumford.
His Excellcy Rufus King.

Count Rumford to R. King.

Brompton, Friday Sept. 13, 1799.
My dear Sir :

It was my intention to have called on you this morning to
thank you in person for your very obliging & most flattering let-
ter, and to have consulted with you respecting the answer which
it would be proper for me to give to it : but the weather turns out
so bad, that I am afraid in the present state of my health to go
abroad. . . . With the most sincere regard & much gratitude
for all your kindnesses, I am &c.

Most faithfully & affectionately yours,

Rumford.

106 RUFUS KING. [*799

R. King to Mr. Hammond.

Mr. King presents his compts. to Mr. Hammond and according

to his Request takes the liberty to send him enclosed the Draft of

the proposed additional article of the Treaty of Amity, Commerce

and Navigation between the United States and G. Britain, which

Mr. King is more and more anxious on account of the continued

interruption of the American Trade should be concluded with

the least possible delay.

Grt. Cumbd. Place, 14th Sep., 1799.
Geo. Hammond, Esq.

Explanatory Article to be Added to the Treaty of Am-
ity, Commerce and Navigation Between His Britan-
nic Majesty and the U. S. of America.

Whereas by the 28th article of the Treaty of Amity, Commerce
and Navigation between his Britannic Majesty and the United
States of America, signed at London on the 19th day of Novem-
ber 1794, it was agreed that the contracting Parties, from time to
time would readily treat of and concerning such further Articles
as might be proposed, and that such Articles, after having been
duly ratified, should be added to and made a part of that Treaty.

And whereas Doubts have existed whether according to the
just interpretation of the 18th Article of the said Treaty, the
Goods and Merchandize hereinafter mentioned might not be con-
sidered as included within its Provisions, and treated as Contra-
band of war.

And as it is expedient that the Doubts aforesaid should without
delay be removed, the undersigned being respectively named by
his Britannic Majesty and the U. S. of America, their Plenipoten-
tiaries for the purpose of treating of and concluding such articles
as may be proper to be added to the said Treaty, in pursuance of
the above mentioned stipulation, and having communicated to
each other their respective full Powers have agreed and concluded
and do hereby declare that Iron in flat and square Bars, Iron nails
of less than four inches in length, Osnaburghs, Ticklenburghs,
Russia sheeting, and all other Cloth made of Hemp, or flax, and
not generally and chiefly used for the Sails of Ships, are excepted
from, and not included within the Provisions of the said 18th

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 107

Article ; and that none of the said Goods and Merchandize shall
be considered or treated as contraband of war.

This explanatory Article when the same shall have been rati-
fied by his BritannicMajesty and by the President of the United
States, by and with the advice and consent of their Senate, and
the respective Ratifications mutually exchanged, shall be added
to and make a part of the Treaty of Amity, Commerce and Navi-
gation between his Britannic Majesty & the U. S. of America,
signed at London on the 19th day of Nov. 1794, and shall be per-
manently binding upon his Majesty and the United States, and
upon their respective Subjects & Citizens. In witness whereof,
&c. &c.

Count Rumford to R. King.

Brompton, 14 Sept., 1799.
My Dear Sir :

I should consider it as a particular favor, if you would be so
kind as to look over the inclosed Paper & make such alterations as
you think would be proper.

You will easily believe that I must be uncommonly anxious
that my answer to your kind letter of the 8th instant should be
such as to meet with the entire approbation of all reasonable
Persons.

I am, dear Sir, with unfeigned Esteem & Attachment most

faithfully yours.

Rumford.

R. King to Count Rumford.
Mill Hill, Sept. 15, 1799.
Dear Sir :

I have received your obliging note of the 12th with the Draft

of a letter that you propose to write in answer to mine of the 8th.

With the exception of the decision that your engagements have

obliged you to make, I see nothing to correct in the proposed

Draft, which I return inclosed with the assurance of the sincere

attachment & Esteem of

Dr Sir yr. faithful Servt.

R. K.

CHAPTER VIII.

King to Lord Grenville — Impressment of an American Sailor in Lisbon by the
Mermaid — Outrages against American Citizens in Jamaica by British
Officers — Strong Demands for Redress — Cabot to King — The President
persists in sending the Envoys — Earnest Efforts to prevent it — Thinks of
the Difficulties to King in Consequence in England — Hale to King —
Anxiety caused by the President's Policy towards France — Pleased that
King is in England at this Time — Cabot to King — The President's Course
reprobated — King to Lord Grenville — Argument against the Impressment
of Seamen and other international Questions — Injurious Acts of Sir Hyde
Parker — Earnest Appeal to Lord Grenville.

R. King to Lord Grenville.

Great Cumberland Place, Sept. 14, 1799.
My Lord :

It is my duty to transmit to your Lordship the enclosed evi-
dence of the injurious conduct of R. D. Oliver, Esq., Commander
of His Majesty's Ship of war, the Mermaid, in the impressment &
detention in the Port of Lisbon of John Johnson, a seaman
belonging to the American private armed ship the Samuel Smith.

John Johnson, by birth German, regularly entered within the
United States on board the Samuel Smith, and engaged to pro-
ceed in her to Lisbon & from thence to some part in Asia & back
to the United States. On the arrival of the ship at Lisbon, John-
son being sick was sent by his Commander to the Portuguese
hospital where he soon recovered, and in his return to his Duty
on board the Samuel Smith, was seized by a Press Gang, under-
stood to be in the pay of the British Navy Commissioner at Lisbon,
and carried on board the Mermaid, whose Commander sent him
in his boat accompanied by an officer on board the Samuel Smith
to demand his clothes, where the Commander of the Samuel
1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. IO9

Smith, as he had an undoubted right to do, detained him as one
of his crew.

The Commander of the Mermaid demanded him and threat-
ened to employ force in case of refusal. This failing to accom-
plish his views, the Commander of the Mermaid suggested to the
American Consul at Lisbon, as an expedient by which the Disa-
greement might be satisfactorily settled, that Johnson should be
sent on board the Mermaid and that on the application of the
Consul he would immediately return him on board the Samuel
Smith. Upon the recommendation of the Consul, strengthened
by that of the American Minister at the Court of Lisbon, the
Commander of the Samuel Smith consented to the Proposal.
Johnson was accordingly sent on board the Mermaid, and his
return, as had been agreed, was demanded by the Consul ; but
Captain Oliver, the Commander of the Mermaid, refused to
return him on the evasive Pretence that Johnson preferred to
remain on board the Mermaid.

The injury done to our Navigation in this violation of its Rights
is too manifest to demand a farther elucidation, and I natter
myself through your Lordship's interference it will receive a
prompt and adequate satisfaction. For the rest I permit myself
to remark that Faith and Confidence are necessary to support the
mutually beneficial intercourse that subsists between friendly
nations, and I am not at liberty to doubt that his Majesty's
Government will on all occasions animadvert in a suitable and
effectual manner upon those who by acting under color of his
Majesty's authority in violation of these salutary principles shall
expose to discredit a service they are bound in duty to render
respectable.

With perfect Consideration & Respect, &c, &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Lord Grenville.

Great Cumberland Place, Sept. 16, 1799.
My Lord :

I have received the orders of the President of the United
States of America to represent to the Government of his Britan-
nic Majesty the Injury done to the said United States in the

110 RUFUS KING. [1799

violence and cruelty lately committed in the Island of Jamaica
by Lieutenant Harris (?) & certain other officers of his Majesty's
Ship of war, the Brunswick, upon the Persons of Eliphalet Lord,
John Edes, and Richard Carter, citizens of the said States and
then engaged in the prosecution of their lawful commerce. The
circumstances of this extraordinary affair are fully detailed in the
authentic Proofs that have been transmitted to me by my Govern-
ment which accompany this Representation. They are such as
unfortunately leave no room to doubt the enormity of the offence;
for what greater offence can be offered by one nation to another
than the seizure of their citizens in order to degrade and disgrace
them with stripes ?

I suppress the Reflections that so naturally suggest themselves
on this occasion, in the full conviction that the temperate, though
very grave, complaint that I am ordered to present will on this
occasion engage your Lordship's decided interference in order
that Lieutenant Harris & his associates in addition to his Majes-
ty's Displeasure may receive the Punishment due to those, who
suffer themselves to become the deliberate and guilty disturbers
of the repose of nations.

With perfect Consideration and Respect, &c, &c.

R. King.

Geo. Cabot to R. King.

Sept. 23, 1799.
My Dear Sir :

It has been determined long since by the President that the
New Envoys shou'd sail early in Oct. Infinite pains have been
taken to prevent this indiscreet & impolitic step, & as a last effort
a memorial from the heads of Depts shewing the inexpediency of
the measure was transmitted to the President last week, the effect
of which is unknown. Shou'd he retract now, much of the mis-
chief wou'd be unrepaired; the ill impression on the allied powers
wou'd remain & the motives for our change wou'd be not duly
appreciated. Meanwhile our friend Ellsworth is in great distress
& finds himself in toils from which he cannot escape : his early
concern to meliorate & palliate what he cou'd not altogether pre-
vent being done, led him to suffer his name to be used, vainly

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. Ill

trusting that the business wou'd afterward be got rid of. He
thinks he cannot now withdraw without dishonor, & the Federal-
ists rely upon his going to guard against the worst consequences.
Shou'd the President be induced to give up his projected negoti-
ations (of which I have no great expectation) there will then be
a little time in which attempts may be made by some frank &
friendly explanations to remove the jealousies he entertains of
every supporter of Govt — jealousies which are as unfounded as
they are ruinous to our affairs. But who is to be the
friendly Monitor that shall render this great service to our
Country I know not. I have long sought in vain to find the man
who cou'd do it properly, but they are all suspected persons.
You may think that I ought to perform this task. I have been
solicited by Great Men out of the Govt, as well as some that are
in ; I needed no persuasion. I made an early visit for the sole
purpose of reconciling the P. to his real friends &, what might
have been more difficult, to himself. I was treated with great
kindness & hospitality, but every heart was locked & every
tongue was silenced upon all topics that bore affinity to those which
I wished to touch. Mr. & Mrs. A. were the only persons present
a part of the time, & for a little while only the latter. Our friend
Judge Dana, who is an host himself & who has made immense
exertions of the best kind in our political field for several years,
partakes greatly of the present anxiety, but he too is distanced &
can not be heard. Ellsworth has done all in his power without
success & goes on the unpropitious errand against his will & in-
clination, only hoping by his fortitude & attention to mitigate its
evils.

Amidst all our crosses & perplexities I think of the difficulties
which must be created by them for you, & tho' I am sure you will
do every thing which can be done to preserve good humour be-
tween the two Countries yet I cannot but fear your failure at last ;
the increasing power of G. B. & the decline of that of France will
weaken the motives of the former to sacrifice anything to the God
of peace. Our immense commerce is a tempting object to those
whose armed ships cover the seas and cou'd so easily make them
a prey. I am persuaded however that it wou'd be a false calcula-
tion for the interest of England ; after the annihilation of our
commerce we shou'd become formidable to a Nation whose prop-

112 RUFUS KING. [1799

erty wou'd then be immense on the Sea & whose desires must be
for peace. We shou'd be then at sea as predatory as the french
have been on land. We must be active & shall certainly fight for
money if we are not left to the safe pursuits of industry. It
cannot be supposed that such a state of things wou'd not greatly
injure the Colonial property, & produce some considerable
inconvenience to trade & manufactures at home : it wou'd be
doubtless a great calamity to this country to get into a war with
England, but we shou'd soon recover from it ; it wou'd be more
tolerable to them while it lasted but its ill consequences wou'd be
much more durable.

God bless you

Joseph Hale to R. King.

Boston, Sept. 30, 1799.
Dear Sir :

. . . The general aspect of our interiour is pleasant, so far at
least as regards a perfect submission to, & apparent acquiescence
in, the laws of the Union. Our infant navy is daily acquiring new
strength. The regiments to be raised will probably be filled &
completely organized this autumn. But the inscrutable policy of
our government as relates to France, with the independent insu-
lated attitude of a certain great man amongst us, excites anxiety
in the breasts of all reflecting men for the great interests of our
nation. Considering the past conduct of France toward us &her
present convulsive state, it is difficult to account for the policy
which dictates amicable approaches on our part. Viewed as re-
lates to the combined powers, the solution becomes more perplex-
ing. The duties of your station hitherto would have discouraged
any man of ordinary stamp. The additional embarrassments you
may have to contend with from the present singular position of
the European world, our relation to it, & their misapprehension of
the state of our Country, or other causes, lead us all to repose with
confidence on your tried talents & virtues. We shoud deem it a
great public misfortune were you to withdraw from a station the
increase of whose duties renders the actual Minister the most
qualified of any other to discharge them. Few indeed are the
men to whom I should thus dare to express myself. A mean spirit

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. II3

of adulation is as much despised by me as I am ready to pay a
just tribute to acknowledged worth. It has unfortunately been
too much the practise of our country to disregard in her policy
the peculiar delicate situation of her Ministers at foreign courts.
A perseverance in that course, it is to be feared, will sooner or
later deprive us of the services of men of merit in those important
offices & compel us to rely on inexperience or intrigue to fill
them.

So important to the interests of both countries is a good under-
standing between G. B. & the United States, that we hope the
former will not be induced by partial consideration to pursue a
policy tending to interrupt it. The extensive capture of our ves-
sels in the West Indies, the admiralty construction relative to
Blockades & the special considerations of Sir Wm Scott in his
able decree upon the Swedish convoy, have created a jealousy &
excited an alarm in the minds of respectable men amongst us,
which if not removed may put in jeopardy the great concerns of
both nations. It is hoped G. Britain will not sully the great repu-
tation she has acquired, by wickedly adopting the outrageous
conduct against Neutrals which she has been foremost in repro-
bating when assumed by France.

As to the state of Mass. Gill is aiming at the chair. His
military talents have prompted him to review the militia through-
out the state. It is thought he will not succeed in his wishes.
Judge Dana is at present the candidate most spoken of ; but not
most appreciated by all.

Your most obed. Servt.

Joseph Hale.

G. Cabot to R. King.

Sunday, Oct. 6, 1799.
My Dear Sir :

Last monday the President set off for Trenton, his departure
was unexpected & was scarcely known until he had performed
half his journey ; this sudden movement may have been occa-
sioned by the memorial of the heads of Depts which I informed
you in my last had been sent to dissuade him from sending En-
voys to France. It is this day announced to me as a public re-

VOL. III. — 8

114 RUFUS KING. [i799

port that the Mission is suspended. I hope & believe it is so, but
how much happier shou'd I have been if it had never been pro-
jected ! At any rate it gives another chance for the President to
recover himself &to recover his old friends, the true friends of the
Country, if he desires it, which I cannot but hope. A little time
will unfold his views & discover whether he persists in the pitiful
politicks of Gerry or relinquishes them ; it is very certain that
for these 12 months past all temporizing feeble politicks have
been reprobated by y9otns of the good Federalists & by a good
majority of the people. I am sure the nomination of the Envoys
has given great uneasiness to most of our thinking men. They
have not seen how any good cou'd come of it & they have appre-
hended much evil, they have been reserved however in expressing
their sentiments from a reluctance to wound the feelings of the
President or to indulge a spirit of discontent which they condemn
in others. For my own part I doubted what course shou'd be
pursued ; at the request of a few of our friends I wrote half a
dozen short papers for the press, but finally did not publish them.
I feared they might irritate & prevent conciliation. As I know
how solicitous you must be to be well informed of whatever
passes in our political hemisphere I often wish to pass an evening
with you to tell you all I know & all I think ; as this cannot be,
I sometimes have resolved to write you the most copious details
of our domestic politicks ; but the labor discourages me, you
know my insuperable love of ease & therefore will never expect
an equivalent return for the many valuable letters with which you
have obliged me.

Col Morton on a visit here from New York informs me our
friend Hamilton manages with his usual superiority of skill the
difficult affairs of the Army. Genl. Pinckney is at Newport & is
coming to Boston ; I shall testify my esteem of his worth by
breaking from my Hermitage to visit him.

Yours aff'y & faithfully

I have read with great pleasure Sir Wm. Scott's adjudication in
the case of the Swedish Convoy.

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 115

R. King to Lord Grenville.

Gt. Cumb'd. Place, Oct. 7, 1799.
My Lord :

The peculiar circumstances of two nations whose language &
manners are the same, & whose maritime ceconomy does not differ,
but between which a distinction exists, arising from the practice
of impressing seamen in one country, but not in the other, has
given birth to a case of great importance, and one that requires
the establishment of special regulations for the security of their
most precious Rights.

A concise view of the present state of the navigation & of the
interfering claims in respect to the seamen of the U. States &
G. Britain will shew the importance of this subject, as well as the
impolicy of suffering slight objections to stand in the way of a
serious effort to arrive at a satisfactory agreement respecting it.

The mercantile tonnage of G. Britain is estimated at one mil-
lion six hundred thousand tons, & that of the U. States at nine
hundred thousand. Whatever may be the number of seamen
employed, they may respectively be taken to be in the proportion
of nine to sixteen ; so that of every twenty five seamen in the
civil employ of the two countries, nine are in the American service
and sixteen in the British.

Each nation desires the service of all its own seamen, and each
without the interference of the other is free to employ those of
any third power. No seaman is at present employed in the pub-
lic ships of war, in the coasting trade, the fisheries, or merchant
service of the U. States except upon his voluntary engagement.
This is likewise the case in the coasting trade, the fisheries, & the
merchant service of G. Britain, but not in the Navy, into which
service all British seamen, not specially exempted, are liable to
be impressed.

In the U. States no alien can be naturalized, who has not
resided fourteen years within their territory, a term nearly equal
to the average life of a seaman ; in G. Britain, every alien who
has served two years during the war on board a British merchant-
man, privateer, or man of war is thereby ipso facto naturalized
(13 Geo. 2, Cap. 3).

The United States naturalize aliens, and do not contest the same
right with other states ; G. Britain naturalizes aliens but effec-

Il6 RUFUS KING. [l799

tively denies this right to other states by reclaiming her subjects
and using force to seize them, notwithstanding such naturaliza-
tion.

G. Britain refuses to restore American Citizens upon the
demand of the United States when such Citizens have been nat-
uralized, have voluntarily entered the navy, or married, or settled
within the British dominions ; at the same time that she denies
the sufficiency of all these reasons when preferred in favor of a
British subject in the service of the United States.

G. Britain considers her flag to be a protection to those who
sail under it ; the United States in like manner ascribe the same
protection to the like emblem of their sovereignty ; but the naval
officers of G. Britain visit on the main ocean the American mer-
chant ships for the purpose of examining their crews, & of im-
pressing such and as many of them as they are pleased to determine
and pronounce not to be American Citizens.

G. Britain relying on the protection of her flag gives no certifi-
cate of citizenship to seamen employed in any branch of her
service ; but denying that the like protection is afforded by the
American flag, she requires of the seamen sailing under it proof
of their citizenship, the validity of which is often contested &
sometimes totally disregarded, tho' possessing the form prescribed
by the Laws of the Ud. States. Her officers even go further, and
impress from the American service into that of G. Britain persons
who are confessedly neither English nor American.

The Treaty of amity, Commerce & Navigation between the
United States and G. Britain provides for a free trade & inter-
course between the two countries, and mutually pledges the
public faith in the security of those engagements in the same ;
but the American seamen, who resort to the British ports are not-
withstanding liable to be, & are, daily impressed into the British
service.

By the same treaty each nation grants to the other the privi-
lege of sending Consuls to reside in their respective dominions,
who are there to enjoy all the rights belonging to them by the
Laws of Nations. According to this law, Consuls in certain cases
administer oaths, and grant certificates of citizenship ; those of
the United States within the British dominion, have notwithstand-
ing been forbidden to administer oaths in any case, or to grant

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 117

certificates of Citizenship to American seamen, altho' such cer-
tificates are & immemorially have been, granted by the Consuls of
other Nations, residing in G. Britain, and altho' the Consuls of
G. Britain do in fact administer oaths in foreign countries, and
those residing within the United States are moreover authorized
(28, Geo. 3, cap. 68) and required in certain cases to administer
oaths as well to the citizens of the United States as to British
Subjects.

The great embarrassment of the American commerce proceed-
ing from this fruitful source of disagreement, joined to the cases
of complaint preferred to the American Govt, by its citizens,
whose friends and relations have been impressed into the British
service, induced the President of the U. States to adopt the ex-
pedient of sending agents to England and to the British Islands
in the West Indies for the relief and protection of American
seamen.

Your Lordship will doubtless recollect the arrangement agreed
upon for the establishment of a direct correspondence upon this
subject between Majr. Lenox, the agent sent to England & Mr.
Nepean, the Secretary of the Lords Commissioners of the Ad-
miralty. Considerable advantage to our seamen has arisen from
this agency, and it would be uncandid not to allow that Mr.
Nepean has given great attention to the numerous applications
of Majr. Lenox & that a disposition has existed to comply with our
demands, when the same could be done consistently with the
maxims & practice adopted and adhered to by G. Britain. Col.
Talbot, the agent sent to the West Indies addressed himself on
his arrival in the most respectful manner to Adm. Sir Hyde Par-
ker, the Commander in Chief of the British fleet in those seas, to
whom he made known the object of his appointment, with ex-
pectation of being able to concert with him an equitable and
convenient plan, by which upon his application, the American
seamen impressed into the British service might be restored to
their own country.

The reception experienced by Col. Talbot was in every sense
discouraging, and his application to the admiral & to the com-
manders of the ships under his command failing to succeed, he
applied to the Tribunals of Justice in Jamaica, which by their
writs of habeas corpus liberated several mariners, detained on

Il8 RUFUS KING. [i799

board the British fleet & tho' attended with great expense, the
whole number, or the greater part of them in this way wd.
probably have been discharged, had not Sir. Hyde Parker refused
and given orders to his officers to refuse obedience to the process
of the King's Tribunals. Perceiving that he was notable through
the Tribunals of Justice, or an application to the Admiral, supported
by proofs that had been pronounced satisfactory by the Court of
Law, to procure the further release of our seamen from the fleet
commanded by Adml. Parker, Col. Talbot was ordered to return
home with the hope, notwithstanding his failure, that a sense of
common justice due from one nation to another, would restrain
the future impressment of our citizens. But instead of greater
moderation in this respect, which Policy as well as Justice at this
juncture seemed to recommend, the vexations of our seamen
increased in the American seas, & to such a degree that the
President was prevailed upon to make another effort, and to
appoint William Savage Esq., a British Subject and a Magistrate
of the Island of Jamaica, to be our agent for the relief & protec-
tion of our seamen, frequenting those seas.

This gentleman has endeavoured, but with even less success
than his predecessor, to procure the discharge of our seamen
detained in the fleet under the command of Sir H. Parker. On a
recent occasion he addressed a letter to the Admiral, requesting
the discharge of several American seamen personally known to
be so by the commander of the American Sloop of war, the
Montezuma, then at Jamaica, & who applied to Mr. Savage to
interfere for the purpose of obtaining their discharge. To this
application Sir Hyde Parker reply'd that he would discharge no
person from the fleet under his command upon such application,
nor upon any other unless made from the Executive Govt, of the
United States thro' the British Minister in America, & accom-
panied with the necessary documents to prove that the persons
whose discharge shd. be required, are natives of the United
States.*

* Copy.
W. Savage to Admiral Parker.

Kingston, Sunday, 7 July, 1799.
Sir:

I have this instant reed, a letter from Capt. Mullowny of the United States
Sloop of War, Montezuma, requesting me to apply to you for an order to dis-

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. II9

This answer has put an end to all hope of benefit from the
agency of Mr. Savage, and in other respects is unsatisfactory, as
it prescribes a mode of interference for the relief of our seamen,
circuitous, inconvenient, & for obvious reasons unfit to be em-
ploy'd ; & moreover, by direct inference, asserts through an
officer of high rank, a right in G. Britain to take out of our ships,
and to impress into her service all foreign seamen, not British
Subjects, nor American citizens, and also all American citizens
not natives of the United States.

It is by the express orders of the President of the U. States,
that I am required to make this representation to your Lordship,
and to complain of this injurious conduct of the commander-
in-chief, Sir Hyde Parker ; the correspondence between whom &
the American agent (a copy of which is herewith transmitted to
your Lordship) establishes the precision of this representation,
and at the same time demonstrates the haughty injustice of that
officer's proceedings — proceedings the more unaccountable and
extraordinary, as they differ from what in similar cases passes
before the eyes & under the immediate authority of the Lords
Commrs. of the Admiralty.

But it is not alone to the complaint against the Commander-in-
Chief, Sir H. Parker, that we desire to invite your Lordship's

charge Thos. Gosman, James Nill, Edd. Traverse, now on board his Majesty's
Ship Surprize. These men are personally known to Cap. Mullowny, having
formerly sailed with him, & are citizens of the U. States. If you will
extend this request to the liberation of Asale Harris & other Americans on
board the Carnatic, you will very much oblige, Sir, Yrs.

(Signed) Wm. Savage, Agent for the U. S. A.

Copy.

Admiral Parker to William Savage.

Admls. Pen., 7 July, 1799.
Sir:

I have received your letter of this date & in answer thereto have to acquaint
you that I cannot upon such an application discharge any men from his
Majesty's service.

Applications made from the Executive Govt, thro' the British Minister in
Ama., accompany'd by the necessary documents of men being natural born
subjects of the U. S. are the only grounds upon which I think myself authorized
to discharge men of the above description from his Majesty's service.

I am, Sir, yrs,
(Signed) H. Parker.

120 RUFUS KING. [i799

attention. The origin of this complaint, the conflicting claims of
the two countries, in regard to the seamen in their respective
service, continue to be the occasion of unceasing injury to our
citizens, and of embarrassment to our Government. It is here
that your Lordship will discover & I persuade myself that your
justice will engage you to concur with us in an effort to correct
an Irregularity, that not only steadily operates to the discourage-
ment and disadvantage of our navigation & commerce, but which
wounds the most important Rights as well as the Honor of a
friendly nation.

Hitherto the United States have put forth no claim on their
side by way of balance to these of G. Britain. This moderation
has proceeded from an earnest desire to prevent the dissatisfac-
tion that would arise from an order to the Ships of War of the
United States to pursue the same practice towards the seamen
employed in the navigation of G. Britain, as her ships make use
of towards the seamen employed in the navigation of the United
States, as well as from the constant expectation that a convention
might & would be concluded between the two countries by which
the Rights of each should be protected & secured as fully as the
nature of those Rights would admit.

Difficulties without doubt would occur in devising adequate &
convenient Provisions to attain the object of the just expectations
of the two Countries ; but without trial, have we sufficient reason
to conclude, with a spirit of moderation on both sides & a sincere
desire to overcome those difficulties, that they wd. be found to be
insurmountable ? few impediments, my Lord, even in more
difficult affairs have, against such a temper, been found to be so.

The United States have been desirous to conclude a treaty on
this important subject, and early in the present war invited G.
Britain to unite with them in a patient effort for this purpose.
Experience has since shown that ex parte regulations, instead of
affording mutual security, are the occasion of mutual dissatisfac-
tion, and there seems to be no adequate remedy short of a
Treaty.

I cannot therefore give to your Lordship a more satisfactory
proof of the sentiments which uniformly & on all occasions have
led the United States to desire an uninterrupted and lasting
Harmony & good understanding with Great Britain, which can

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 121

only be maintained in their greatest strength by acts of reciprocal
justice & convenience, than by renewing the overture and asking
your Lordship's high & merited influence with his Majesty's
Govt, to cooperate with us in the negotiation of a treaty, that by
ascertaining & securing the Rights of our two countries in
respect to their seamen, shall increase the Harmony, and render
safe as well as lasting the intercourse between them.

With the most distinguished Considn & Respect

Rufus King.

CHAPTER IX.

King to Secretary of State — Conference with Lord Grenville on the Withdrawal
of the Commissioners under the 6th Article — Lord Grenville in one of the
Conferences said that the U. S. in publishing its Ministers' Dispatches must
inspire Caution in making Communications to them — King had observed a
Coldness towards the U. S. and consequently he had been more reserved
also — Character and Principles of the British Government — States his Rea-
sons and gives in Cipher the Conversations held with Lord Grenville — King
to Secretary of State — Said he had referred to an explanatory Article to
Lord Grenville, who preferred to await further News — Admiral Pringle's
Proclamation against Whalers at the Cape of Good Hope — The President
to Pickering — Explanatory Article — Cabot to King — Mission to France
suspended — It will be difficult to recover what had been gained in public
opinion — The pecuniary Troubles in G. Britain and their consequences —
King to Secretary of State — Reverses of the Allies — Bankruptcies on the
Continent — Consuls in France improperly giving irregular consular Papers
to Vessels bought in France — Maryland Bank Mystery and Delay in Settle-
ment.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 51.

London, Oct. 11, 1799.
Dear Sir :

In a late conference with Ld. Grenville, he asked me if I had
reed, any account of the interruption of the Commission in
Philada., and upon my answer in the negative he said that he had
by the last Packet received information that the American Com-
missioners had withdrawn from the Board, that such withdrawing
must be considered as a Resignation, and he proposed instructing
Mr. Liston to apply to our Govt, to appoint other persons to
succeed them, according to the Provisions of the Treaty. I
observed that tho' I was not authorized to say anything officially
respecting the suspension of the Commission, I had reason to
1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 23

expect by the next packet full information and instructions re-
specting it, and without pretending to judge of the expediency of
the measure proposed by his Lordship, I wd. take the liberty of
saying that it did not appear to me likely to hasten a satisfactory
termination of the misunderstanding that had taken place, and
especially if, as I conjectured to be the case, the conduct of the
American Commissrs. was not disapproved by their Govt.

Ld. Grenville reply 'd certainly the approbation of their conduct
by their Govt, would very much alter the case, and after a con-
versation at some length, which, without an intention on either
side, entered into the discussion of several of the controverted
Points, Ld. Grlle. said he wd. defer writing to Mr. Liston upon the
subject until I should receive my instructions respecting it. From
the tenor of this conference we may anticipate the difficulties to
be expected in a further negotiation, & which the course of
Events may increase rather than lessen.

I annex the Copies of several notes which I have lately sent to
Ld. Grenville with such answers as I have received, respecting
the Impressment of our seamen.*

With Respect & Esteem &c.

Rufus King.

P. S. In one of my earliest conferences with Ld. Grenville, f the
conversation turning on the Publication by our Govt, of the dis-
patches of its ministers, his Lordship observed that the practice
must inspire caution in the communications that were made to
these and suggested that he 6° / might find it convenient to ob-
serve a distinction between our official and personal conversations,
& the first might be exactly repeated but the second shd. be con-
sidered in the same light as any other information, & in that sense
might assist us in forming our respective opinions.

I saw no objection & some advantages in agreeing to this sug-
gestion, and the distinction has been often made and observed
in our subsequent cofiferences.

For some months past, and ever since the news of another mis-
sion to France, I have observed here a coldness towards the U. S.f

* September 14, September 16, and October 7, 1799. Lord Grenville's
answer to the first two follows this,
f Words in italics in cipher.

124 RUFUS KING. [*799

an indifference to their affairs, a disposition to give unfavorable
interpretations to their conduct, and in my ordinary intercourse
with the Govt. I have met with more difficulties than / had before
been accustomed to experience.

Of so little importance has it been thought to conceal this tem-
per, which increased and extended itself with the victories <5r*
success of the allies, that for some time / have thought myself
obliged to observe a reserve on my part corresponding with that
practiced towards me ; and during the months of Aug. & Sept. L
did not see, except once at the Levee, and had little or no inter-
course zvith Ld. Grenville or any of his colleagues.

On the first of this month I rec'd a note from his Lordship,
requesting, in the usual form, to see me at Eleven o'clock the next
day in Cleveland Row. L was punctual in my attendance, and you
have an account of the official part of this co7iference in a letter to
which this serves as a P. S.

But after much consideration and a faithful comparison of the
language held by Ld. Gr. on this occasion, as well with the par-
allel opinions that / have heard of from other quarters, as with
the sentiments contained in a periodical Publicatio7i called the Anti-
Jracobi7i review, a work that uniformly supports & is said to be
supported by the Govt., I have believed it to be my duty to send
you i7i co7ifide7ice for the information of the Preside7it, a further
report containing the wiofficial conversatio7i that passed in this
conference, and I am the more disposed to do so, as the result of
a close observation of the real character and principles of this
Govt., has been an alteration in some degree of the opinions that
during the early part of my residence here L had formed respect-
ing the Justness and Sincerity of its Views and Professions con-
cerning our Country.

Ld. Grle. began the conference, as I have before stated, by inti-
mating his i7itention to instruct Mr. Liston to require of our Govt,
to appoint other co77i77iissioners in the place of Messrs. Pitzsimons 6°
Sitgreavesj and upon my suggestion that tho' I had no such
official information, it was not improbable that the co7iduct of the
A7nerica7i Co77ii7iissioners was approved by the Govt., & therefore
that the proposed instructions would not be likely to remove the
difficulties & disagree77ients that had arisen in the co7istruction of
the Treaty, his Lordship observed with less moderation than usual,

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. I2C

if you are authorized, Sir, to say that the secession of your Com-
missrs. was by order of your Govt., certainly the subject presents
itself in a quite different light. I have no doubt of the fact, my
Lord, but as I have already said I have no regular information
upon the subject, & can therefore say nothing officially respecting
it, except that I am informed that the American Commrs. in conse-
quence of a disagree?nent in the interpretation of the 6th Article of
the Treaty, have withdrawn in like manner as the English Comn.
last year seceded in consequence of a disagreement in the construc-
tion of the yth Art. of the same Treaty, and that by the next
Packet, I expect exact information & instructions respecting this
affair which may perhaps become the subject of a further negoti-
ation. Ever since Mr. Jay's arrival here we have pursued, said
Ld. Grenville, measures of conciliation towards the U. S., and have
cherished a disposition to overlook every unpleasant occurrence
we met with ; but I must say that we have not seen a like temper
6° disposition on the part of the U. S., and it is easy to foresee
that the spirit of conciliation must exhaust itself. I am told con-
tinued his Ldshp. that Mr. Jay has declared that he had no
notion of such a construction as has been given to the 6th Article,
and so I upon oath could declare that the ?th Article has been con-
strued in a way that I had never supposed that it could be ; but
nothwithstanding I advised his Majesty s Govt, to acquiesce in the
awards 6° to pay the money. Mr. J^ay 6° / endeavoured to agree we
found it impracticable. I believe we honestly disagreed, at length
however we concluded the 6th 6° yth Articles, by which the sub-
jects of our disagreement are submitted to arbitrators. A question
arose whether their decision should be final or subject to the confir-
mation of the respective Govmts., & we thought it would be most
prudent to make their decisions conclusive. How under these
circumstances can it be expected that we shall consent to begin a
new negotiation ? However just there would be no advantage in
recrimination; but I have no reserve in assuring your Lordship,
whatever may have been the disposition of Gr. Britain, that one
of equal sincerity has existed in the U. S. to maintain the most
perfect Harmony 6° good understanding between the two countries j
and I am wholly at a loss to conjecture to what i&ctsyour Ldshp.
can refer as evidence of a different temper. In respect to the
interruption of the Commission at Philada., I might content myself

126 RUFUS KING. [1799

with observing that if England found sufficient reason to justify
an instruction to her comtnrs. to secede, she cannot think it extra-
ordinary that the U. S. from the same or similar reasons have
given the like instruction to their conim. at Philada. But exclusive
of this observation, what passes in respect to ordinary Arbitrations
between individuals, which differ nothing in principle from those
between Nations, teaches us that matters not submitted, or sub-
mitted with limitations, are sometimes attempted to be drawn
within the Arbitration, or to be decided absolutely and without
regard to the conditions, and as in such cases Individuals are not
bound by these irregular proceedings, so in similar circumstances,
Nations must be free in like manner to refuse their acquiescence.

/ think, said Ld. G., I could show a distinction between what
passed here ivith respect to the Commission under the 7th Article, &
what has taken place at Philada. It is doubtless true that Arbi-
trators may exceed their powers but I cannot conceal from you
on this occasion, that an opinion exists & prevails very generally
among the creditors that it is the amount of the Debts and not any
error in the interpretation of the article that is the real cause of the
embarrassment.

I am convinced, my Lord, that no opinion can be more errone-
ous or unjust. I know the integrity of my own Govt, too well to
suffer the smallest doubt on this Point. No sum, however much
it might exceed our expectations, that could be awarded upon any
just interpretation of the Treaty, would have the least influence
upon our Govt, to elude its payment at the Expense of the public
Faith. The interruptio?i of the Commission, as I learn through
various and disinterested channels, has proceeded from the
extravagant & injurious co?istruction put upon the Treaty by your
Commissioners — a construction in which we cannot acquiesce with-
out humiliation, nor without opening a discussion respecting our
revolution, that was unalterably settled at the Treaty of Peace.
I do not suggest, said Ld. Grle. that your Govt, is unfriendly or
unjust, but the clamour of the Debtors and the dissatisfaction pro-
duced in consequence of the Law for granting Protection to your
seamen, which being without the requisite Provisions for the
security of our Rights, the protections granted under it have not
been respected, may have had some influence upon your Govt.
This Law has excited great irritation against England.

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. \2J

I must confess, my Lord, that I never expected that the Law
alluded to would be cited as evidence of the want of a friendly
disposition towards G. Britain., because I have considered it as
a singular proof of an opposite temper. When & why was this
Law passed ? Not until we had without success endeavored to
conclude some agreement with England for the security of our
seamen ; nor then but with sole & just view of exempting our
citizens from an injury and oppression practiced upon the People
of no other country.

Here a servant entered and announced Monsr. late Count
D'Artois. Ld. Gr. immediately rose from his chair, & observing
that it would not be civil to keep Monsieur waiting, asked me if I
would call upon him the next morning. I should readily have
acquiesced, had I not thought it incorrect that a conference asked by
his Lordship, and the only one that had existed for several months
should be terminated in this manner; I therefore replied that I
was going in the evening to my house in the country, but that I
would return in the morning in case the Tuesday or Wednesday
following would not be equally convenient to his Ldshp. He
answered that Tuesday would be the same as tomorrow.

/ attended in Cleveland Row on Tuesday at eleven o'clock. It
was two before I was received by Ld. Grlle. During the time
passed in the ante-chamber, Mr. Pitt 6° Mr. Dundas arrived and
had conferences with his Ldshp. as had likewise the under Secre-
tary Hammond. We had had that morning a Gazette Extra, with
the account of the Duke of York's success in Holland on the 2nd,
but there was a gloom on the faces of all these gentlemen, that ex-
cited the suspicion that bad news had been received from some
quarter that more than balanced the success in Holland. The
arrival of the Fretich papers a day or two afterwards brought us the
account of the victories of Massena in Switzerland.

Upon being admitted, I began by making his Lordship my compli-
ments upon the news from Holland j and a short conversation en-
sued concerning the situation of that country ; / waited for his
Lordship to recommence the conference, which he did by saying with
less stateliness and more good humour than were shewn in the con-
ference of the 2nd, that as the September Packet was not yet arrived,
we had no further accounts from Philada., and until we had he
did ?iot see that anything could be done concerning the Commission.

128 RUFUS KING. [*799

/ observed that on recurring to my last advices from Philada., I
found that I had no official account of the interruption of the Com-
mission, & that my letters only gave me reason to expect informa-
tion on that subject by the Septemr. Packet j I then added that
since I had seen his Ldp. I had considered with great attention the
import of certain observations that he had delivered in our last con-
ference, that I was aware the conversation between us had not been
strictly official, and it was in this sense that I had reflected upon
it, and the Result of my reflexions had been the thorough con-
viction not only of the error but of the injustice of those observa-
tions.

It was to two precise points that I alluded, one that the Ameri-
can Govt., from weakness or want of inclination did not manifest
towards England the same friendly disposition that since the arrival
of Mr. Jay, England had shewn to the U. S. ; and the other that
it was the amount of the Debts, and not any well founded objection
to the principles or manner of the proceedings of the Commrs. that
had occasioned their suspension. I proceeded by saying that I
could not but regret that these sentiments shd. be entertained by
any one, & much more so by his Lordship. On an impartial review
of the avowed principles & conduct of the American Govt, since
the epoch referred to by his Ldp, I was constrained to say if they
were not thought to be satisfactory evidence of a disposition to
live in ha-nnony and friendship with England, I should not only
despair of seeing such evidence, but I felt myself in candour
obliged to avow that I could not wish to see it, and that it only
surprised me that any one who possessed the means of under-
standing the political situation of the U. S., should entertain a mo-
ment's doubt on this point. I then added that I could not avoid
feeling the Injury of his Lordship's observations concerning the in-
terruption of the Commission at Phila., as it imputed to our Govt, a
want of sincerity and Integrity, that was alike refuted by the great
efforts it had made to conclude the Treaty with Engd. & by the
good faith that invariably and on all occasions had guided its
Discussions. The sum at its greatest estimate & under the most
abusive interpretations of the Treaty was nothing, when weighed
against the character of our ?iation j We know the value 0/ reputa-
tion, and were we not restrained, as every moral society ought to
be, to do right from duty, we were sufficiently enlightened to do

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 129

so from interest. Besides we were not a nation surrounded by-
more powerful neighbours, and to protect ourselves against whom
the Devices of the feeble were necessary. On the contrary, tho'
not as numerous, we were as unassailable and secure as any nation
in Europe ; and knowing our real Independence, we were also
awake to the destinies of our Country and influenced by the
just notions of national honor that so properly belonged to our
situation and prospects.

What were the chief points of disagreement between the Commis-
sioners ? The Treaty of Peace provides that creditors on either
side shall meet with no lawful impediments in the recovery of
their Debts ; such recovery could be had only thro' the agency of
the courts : complaints were made on the one side, tho' denied on
the other, that notwithstanding the Treaty, Debts could not be
recovered by reason of the existence of lawful impediments, &
without reference to the merits of these complaints, the U. S. en-
gaged in the last Treaty to compensate all loss and damage that
had arisen by lawful impediments, and which could not, at the
conclusion of the Treaty, be recovered by the agency of the
Courts. The Engagement is conditional and the U. S. are not
bound for any Debt that at the conclusion of the Treaty could
thro' the Courts be recovered of the Debtor. The Course of pro-
ceeding in the Execution of this engagement could scarcely be
misunderstood. Each Creditor in preferring his case to the
Commissrs. is required to shew that he is of the class in whose
favor the 4th Article of the Treaty of Peace was made, that with
due diligence he had not been able previous to the last Treaty, to
recover his Debt by reason of the operation of lawful impedi-
ments, and moreover that the same could not be recovered pos-
terior to that Treaty.

Instead of this course a majority of the Commissrs. has adopted
certain resolves, enlarging the class of Persons included within the
Provisions of the Treaty, relieving the creditors from the obliga-
tion of applying to the Courts of Law for the recovery of their
Debts, and in effect giving to them an absolute, in the place of a
conditional, Remedy against the U. S. ; a construction of the Treaty,
not only incompatible with the guards and cautions that should
attend the examination of the claims, but that impeaches the Inde-
pendence 6° Purity of our Tribunals. We, as well as others, desire

VOL. III.-

130 RUFUS KING. [1799

to preserve the Reputation of our Judiciary. What was your
Ldshfts language in a case by no means so strong, but that was
attended by circumstances that bore an analogy to the present
question ? Our courts, said your Lp. on the occasion, cannot be
presumed to be incompetent or unwilling to do justice : We can-
not consent to see them set aside or discredited, and I am really at
a loss, added your Lordp., how any honest man upon his oath can
say, when the experiment has not been made, that justice cannot
be obtained in our Tribunals. 1 added that I knew the integrity
of the Government I served. I had been the witness of its sincere
Disposition and earnest efforts to live in Harmony with Engd. I
had long believed that Harmony 6° friendship would be mutually
advantageous, and that I had come to Engd. with the desire of
being in this respect useful to my country. But if the sentiments
that I had been controverting, were really entertained by the Eng.
Governt., / could not expect to see much good will or good
humour between the tivo countries, and we should I feared differ so
essentially upon the cause of this interruption of the Commission
at Phila., that there would be but little prospect of a satisfac-
tory negotiation upon that subject.

Ld. G. whom I carefully attended to while I delivered these
observations, & who it was pretty plain was not prepared to re-
ceive them, after making some attempt to discriminate between the
Commission here 6° that at PhiVa & to shew against all reason
that the courts here should be resorted to, but that such course was
not necessary at Philada., added that every letter he had seen
agreed in the opinion that it was the sum & not the co?istruction of
the treaty that constituted the embarrassment.

/ replied that the Claimants would doubtless send over exagger-
ated reports & false opinions, and those of them who had the
least pretensions to complain, would probably complain the
loudest ; that if my Govt, had formed its opinion of the Court of
Appeals from Letters sent from this country respecting the
American Claims, depending for these six years before that
Court, it would not be much in favor of its competency or
Justice.

Ld. G. said a new negotiation would be extremely difficult, as
the creditors thought they had tried their cases and obtained a
decision in their favor : that if all the Commissioners were changed.

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 131

still the new ones would have before them the decisions of their
predecessors.

I answered that this was a consequence of an erroneous mode
of proceeding. Ld. G. said he certainly wished the business had
been done in another manner.

The conversation being at a stand, / observed that I must say
something to you by the Packet that was soon to sail, but thai I
could write nothing decisive upon the subject of our Conference.
His Lp. said that he should defer writing to Mr. Liston until the
arrival of the next Packet, in expectation that she would bring
my instructions. If nothing cou'd be agreed between me 6° him,
he should then instruct Mr. Liston to make such representations
to our Govt, as the occasion called for. They had given up the
pledge they held for the fulfillment of the Treaty of Peace, and
they must consider the non-performance of the last Treaty o?i our
part as a breach of Faith.

His Ldp. having again adverted to the friendly disposition of
Engd. towards the U. S., I took occasion to remark that it was
not my intention to make a formal complaint against the last
number of the Anti-Jacobin Review, but I could not avoid re-
questing His Ldp. to read what is there called the Summary of
Politics ; adding that the Invective was not only offensive to our
Govt., but that it contained assertions that were both false and
injurious to the Harmony of the two countries. His Ldp. replied
that he would certainly read it.

Tho' I think it likely you may procure the Anti- Jacobin Review
for September from Cobbett, the Printer of Porcupine's Gazette, I
nevertheless send you that part of the number that is called, the
Summary of Politics. I think I am not mistaken in believing
that a principal part of the information of the Editors of this
Publication is derived from the Editor of Porcupine's Gazette, a
Paper that I have been often mortified to observe is here con-
sidered as the most authentic source of information respecting
the United States.

132 RUFUS KING. [i799

R. King to the Secretary of State.

No. 52.

London, Oct. 14, 1799.
Dear Sir :

I omitted in my last to inform you that at the close of the Con-
ference with Lord Grenville concerning the Commission at
Philada., I mentioned the explanatory article respecting Contra-
band, and repeated what I had so frequently before urged in favor
of its conclusion. His Lordship replied that there was not any
disagreement in our opinions on that subject, but at present,
alluding without doubt to the interruption of the two commis-
sions, it wd. be adviseable to defer the conclusion of the pro-
posed article.

It was more than three months since I had complained of the
Proclamation of Admiral Pringle, forbidding the whalemen to
take whales upon the coasts of the Colony of the Cape of Good
Hope. I asked if the Proclamation, a copy of which I had
delivered to his Lordship, was genuine, and whether orders had
been sent to correct the error into which the Admiral had fallen.
His Lordship answered that the Proclamation was genuine, and
that he had given directions for an enquiry into the usage &
practice of the Dutch Government, observing that having acquired
what the Dutch possessed, their usage & practice must become the
Standard of the Rights of England. I then inquired what was the
situation of the agreement made with Toussaint, and mentioned
the capture of our vessels by Sir Hyde Parker's Squadron. He
said that the agreement was, as he understood, in the course of
Execution & that the Letter of Mr. Liston to Sir H. Parker wd.
he hoped be sufficient to correct the mistaken interpretation that
the Admiral had adopted.

The French Papers just reed, contain accounts of a series of
Battles, in which Massena, according to the report, has nearly
destroyed the Austrian and Russian armies in Switzerland. If
these victories are as decisive as the French papers represent them,
they may & probably will give an active turn to the campaign, &
its conclusion may be as disastrous as its commencement has been
glorious to the Allies.

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 33

No farther accounts are received from Holland since the affair
of the 2nd. More troops are about embarking to join the Duke's
army. The public expectation from this Expedition are much
lowered, and the late French news will still more deeply depress
the hopes of success. With perfect Respect, &c.

Rufus King.

It was probably in consequence of these letters, that Mr.
Adams wrote to the Secretary of State the following letter,
which, though of later date, is, with the extract from Gibbs's
Administration of John Adams, vol. ii., 306,* explanatory
of the steps that were taken in coming to a decision relative
to the difficulties which arose in the commission under the
6th Article of the Treaty.

* By Mr. Gibbs we are told that these matters had been discussed at a Cabinet
meeting on November 13th and 14th ; Mr. Wolcott, Secretary of the Treasury,
recommended, that a copy of every paper exchanged between the Commissioners,
with the letter of the Attorney-General to the President, and a copy of the
Journal of the Board, should be immediately sent to Mr. King ; that a paper
should be prepared and sent to him stating the objections of the American
Government to the principles assumed by the majority, distinguishing some
which are doubtful, and such as are expedient, from those which the American
Government will resist at all hazards ; that Mr. King be required to press the
adoption of an explanatory article or a system of instructions to the board and,
in case of success, to propose a new board chosen as the old one had been,
with one eminent British subject as an umpire.

He also states that a report on this subject was made to the President on nth
December. Mr. Gibbs says : " On the 19th of December Mr. Lee's explana-
tory letter and" project were transmitted to Mr. King." Mr. King endeavoured,
as this correspondence shows, to act upon the plan above suggested, but finding
great difficulties in making a settlement this way, was finally authorized to meet
a proposition, by which the United States should settle all the claims for a stipu-
lated sum. Upon this principle a convention was signed by Lord Hawksbury
and the American Minister in January, 1802, the United States paying 600,000
pounds sterling, in three equal and annual payments ; and the commissioners
under the 7th Article resuming their sessions in London, their work was
finished satisfactorily in 1804.

134 RUFUS KING. [i799

J. Adams to T. Pickering, Secretary of State.*

Philadelphia, Dec. 7, 1799.

The Attorney General has left with me, and I now send to you
a project of an explanatory article or treaty, and a project of a
letter to Mr. King, desiring an ultimatum. There is no business
before the government, at this time, of more importance than this
and I pray you to turn your attention to it and prepare a draught
of a letter to Mr. King, to be considered, if possible, on Monday
evening at six o'clock at my chamber, where I ask the favor of
your company, with all the heads of departments.

Geo. Cabot to R. King.

Oct. 16, 1799.
My dear Sir :

The mission to France is suspended never to be revived I
hope ; this gives general joy, but how shall our Govt, recover its-
lost reputation ? It can never get rid of the imputation of weak-
ness, inconsistency & dishonor. I wish this disgrace may be all,,
but I fear more. A man who forfeits the good opinion of the
wise & the good imposes upon himself the necessity of accommo-
dating himself a little more to men of an opposite character ; he
places himself in a situation which men of sense & principle dis-
approve : his pride forbids him to relinquish it & he flies for sup-
port to those who will give it. I shall be happy if this is not
exemplified.

Altho we cannot get back to the envied position in which we
stood 12 months ago we may get part way ; or at any rate we
may travel no further in an opposite direction. Nothing can be
more mortifying than the reflection that after the unwearied
labors of good men had brought our Country to a just way of
thinking, its best hopes have been blasted by one act of folly. I
shall not be surprised to see an appeal made to every popular
prejudice & especially the inexhaustible one of animosity to the
English. It will be so easy to cover this with a patriotic garb
& there is so much of the reality of jealousy & prejudice on this
point in the breast of the that it can not fail to be used. Un-

* J. Adams's Life, in vol. ix., p. 42, relative to the 6th Article.

1 7 99 J LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 135

der an affected independency of sentiment & with a desire to keep
the nation clear of foreign bias a great many things may be said
which tho' abstractedly true yet as they will be applied may be
extremely pernicious. Nothing wou'd be more easy than to form
a commanding party in this way which shou'd consist of all the
Jacobins & many weak half-formed & half-informed Federalists.
I hope it will not happen but until I see decisive measures of a
contrary character I shall be full of fears. You have a great &
difficult part to act & I know you will merit success but you may
fail nevertheless. The pecuniary affairs of G. B. are in a state
that I do not perfectly approve : their means are ample but it is
an operation of immense difficulty to draw from the people 30
millions annually to pay to Individuals ; the machinery requisite for
such a purpose must be very powerful & its management delicate.
If I understand the effect of their arrangements with the Bank it
is now a paper system whose equivalence to Gold & Silver is sup-
ported in spite of a contrary tendency : but true principles only
will remain, the laws of nature must prevail & Gold & Silver
must be actually demandable for Bank Notes or the Metals cease
to be the measure of Value & will be abandoned as such. You
know more of all this than I can see here, perhaps you have
already estimated the consequences of a state of things which
may happen in G. B. There are those who apprehend that a
great crisis approaches in which the Financial powers must be
renovated & that in the paroxisms which the nation will expe-
rience they will find it difficult to keep at home their Commer-
cial & Manufacturing Capitals, their Skill & their industry & that
to prevent their emigration to this Country an open Rupture will
be necessary. These ideas are profound, they are however a
little too refined, I hope, to be just ; I will not trouble you with
all my conjectures on this subject. I received a few days ago an
excellent letter from Gore dated July 27 — it is full of good sense
& written in his agreeable manner but I don't entirely agree with
him in his comparative view of talents. There is 7nore solid sober
sense among the Bull Calves & something less among the Baboon
the Tyger-Monkeys than he admits. I have always thought
English Greatness was better seen abroad & French at home —
but enough. God bless you.

I36 RUFUS KING. [i799

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 53.

London, Oct. 21, 1799.
Dear Sir :

If we credit the French accounts the Allies have been entirely-
driven out of Switzerland with the loss of 30,000 men since the
24th of September. There may be some exaggeration in these
reports, but it cannot be concealed that the Allies have been
forced in all their positions in Switzerland, and that their loss has
not only been severe, but such as must apparently decide the
issue of the campaign upon the Northern & Eastern Frontiers of
France.

The Eng. & Russian army is to be withdrawn from Holland,
where it has lost upwards of 10,000 men, without any material
co-operation or risings of the Dutch. Some concern exists upon
the subject of its retreat, but if the country in its front can be
inundated, it may re-embark without molestation.

A Message of the Directory to the Councils of the 14th inst.
announces the extraordinary event of the arrival of Buonaparte
at Frejus, with Berthier & several other of his Generals, who are
stated to have left the army of Egypt in the most satisfactory
situation.

This Country will suffer exceedingly from the badness of its
corn Harvest, wh. has been very much injured by the rains that
have continued without intermission for the last two months. It
is apprehended that no considerable succour can be obtained
from the north of Europe, where, from the same cause, there is
likely to be a failure of crops. Bread is already at two prices &
it is believed that it must be still dearer. The ports are opened
to the importation of corn, flour & meal, and are to continue
open until the 30th Sept. next.

The great Bankruptcies that commenced at Hamburgh, are ex-
tending to Altona, Copenhagen, Amsterdam, Rotterdam, and
some of the large towns of Germany, & notwithstanding the aids
of the Bank, and even of Parliament, it is feared that Capital fail-
ures will happen in London, and other great commercial towns of
this country. From an intimate & extensive connection with
Hamburgh & London, as well as from the great fall in the W.

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 37

India Produce, I am apprehensive that we also shall be sufferers
to a very great extent.

Immediately after the rect. of your No. 60, Major Lenox ap-
ply'd for the discharge of Thos. Jervey of So. Carolina, whose
case had been recommended to you by C. L. Rea of the Senate, &
was answered, as he had before been upon a former application,
that Jervey having voluntarily entered on board the Edgar and
reed, the King's bounty, coud. not be discharged.

Several of our vessels captured in coming out of the Texel, as
well as the Maes, have been condemned in the High Court of
Admiralty for breach of Blockade ; and three or four lately cap-
tured in their passage from France to the U. S. will soon receive
their trials. These expeditions, upon the notion of a dispensing
power in the President in individual cases, are encouraged by our
Consuls in France and particularly by Mr. Barnet of Bordeaux,
who, as has improperly been the general practice of our Consuls
in that Country, has no scruples in delivering to vessels, purchased
by Amers. in France, consular papers in imitation of Amern.
Register Sea Letters, and other Documents which ought not to
be issued by any officer without the limits of the U. S. These
fraudulent proceedings mislead our citizens, & throw suspicion
upon the regular ship's papers issued from the proper & compe-
tent offices.

It was a similar irregularity practiced by Barlow & Cathelan
that brought upon us the claims of the Baceres of Algiers in the
case of the Fortune. Would it not be adviseable to instruct
these Consuls to abstain from this improper Practice ?

I have received your letter with Mr. Chase's Note concerning
the Maryland Bank Stock, & am very much at a loss in determin-
ing what sort of a Reply I can in prudence make to it. On the
one hand I still entertain hopes by the means that I have em-
ployed, & which I continue to use, the stock will be transferred
by the present Chancellor ; on the other, the mystery & delay
that continue to prevail on this subject, notwithstanding the
repeated and explicit assurance of Ld. Loughborough that the
business wd. be soon & satisfactorily finished, ought perhaps to
discourage all expectation that this will happen while the present
Chancellor remains in office.

138 RUFUS KING. [i799

The present is in every Sense an unfavorable moment for the
adoption of any new course & I think I shall be better able a few
months hence to give a safer opinion respecting the business than
I am now able to do. . . .

With perfect respect & esteem

R. King.

CHAPTER X.

King to Secretary of State — No Instructions relative to Commission in Phila-
delphia— Regrets it because the Mission to France is on its Way — Estimate
of Affairs on the Continent — Unfavorable to the Allies — Troup to King —
Sailing of the Envoys — Evil Effects of the Action of the President — Espe-
cially on the next presidential Election — Pickering to King — Envoys
sailed — Character of their Instructions confined to making commercial
Regulations — Cabot to King — Apprehensions from the Mission — Jacobin
Overthrow — Effect of Suspension of specie Payments in England — Sedg-
wick to King — Facts relative to the President's Decision — Loss of Confi-
dence in his Wisdom and Prudence — Will cause Division among the
Federalists — Candidate for Speaker — Measures that should be taken by
Congress — J. Trumbull to King — Relative to the Publication of N. Web-
ster's Epidemics — King to Lord Grenville — Complains of continued Depre-
dations in American Seas by Admiral Sir Hyde Parker's Squadron, and
asks that prompt Remedy may be afforded — King to Secretary of State —
Regrets he had not received the Report of Commission under 6th Article
— Report that the Mission to France had not sailed led him to a Confer-
ence with Lord Grenville, which he gives.

R. King to Secretary of State.
No. 54.

London, Nov. 4, 1799.
Dear Sir :

I have reed, a complete series of your dispatches to No. 66 in-
clusive. I expected that the last wd. have included my instruc-
tions on the subject of the Commn. at Philada. I wish that they
may soon arrive, as 1 shd. regret the appearance of Delay,
especially if, as I suppose to be the case, the Mission to France
is on its way.

The official reports of the two sides differ very materially con-
cerning their respective losses in the battles that have forced the
Allies to evacuate Switzerland ; a fact that in itself is decisive in
140 RUFUS KING. [1799

respect to these contradictory accounts. The News papers before
this letter reaches you, will have told you all we know of the
terms upon which the Duke of York has been permitted to with-
draw his army from Holland. Many of the regiments have re-
turned, & the rest of the army will be reimbarked with all possi-
ble expedition. If before the conclusion of this Convention,
hopes might have been entertained that the Allies wd. before the
close of the campaign be able to resume the offensive with the
view of again entering Switzerland, these hopes must now be
given up, as the French Army in Holland will doubtless be sent
to reinforce the Army of the Rhine, which by an irruption into
Germany will compel the Arch Duke and Suwarrow to make such
large detachments as will leave the Army of the Danube under
Massena an overmatch for the allied army to which it is opposed.
It is to the moral effects of these successes that we shd. direct
our attention. In France the factions are silenced, and at least
for the present the Directory is confirmed in its ascendency &
power. The insurrections ill-combined & always an useless &
cruel waste of blood, will be soon suppressed, & from the like
cause, the People will submit to new experiments to raise Taxes,
for the want of which the Directory was in the greatest embar-
rassment.

There has been little mutual confidence at any period of the
campaign between Austria & Eng. Defeats as well as victories
beget jealousies ; moreover the occasion of mutual recrimination,
which ends in mutual animosity and ex parte treaties. If Austria
conclude a separate Peace, as France will omit no means to in-
duce her to do, Russia has beforehand told us she will withdraw
her Armies and the war will continue between France and Eng-
land.

The great Bankruptcies upon the Continent cannot fail to be
followed by considerable failures here. The symptoms of revolt
that manifest themselves in Ireland, the hearts of whose inhabi-
tants are incurably disaffected, must be matter of great and con-
stant inquietude to the Govent., which must see with grief the
distresses of the poor from the scarcity of Bread, and the morti-
fication of the nation being obliged to ransom the Army sent for the
deliverance of Holland* The natural effect of this posture of

* Italics in cipher.

17991 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 141

public affairs is to debilitate instead of raising the national courage ;
and it wd. not surprize me if in the course of the winter there sh.
arise thro' the nation a general cry for peace.

My numbers 51 & 52 will suggest to you the reasons why I
judged it requisite to suspend asking of this Govt, its interference
to ascertain the disposition of the Porte in respect to the proposed
Mission to Constantinople. I am convinced that this Mission as
well as that to Russia must at least for the present be relin-
quished.

I cannot yet learn whether the Blockade of the Ports of Hol-
land will be raised. I think it likely to be because this country
has a great interest in opening the markets of that, for the sale of
the West India products with which it is glutted ; there is no
doubt that the Blockade of the Dutch Ports, through which the
products of the East & West Indies were distributed thro' Ger-
many, Flanders & the Northern provinces of France has been a
principal cause of the failures at Hamburgh.

With perfect Respect &c.

Rufus King.

R. Troup to R, King.

New York, 6 November, 1799.
Dear Sir :

By this time I suppose the Chief Justice and Governor Davie
of North Carolina have sailed from New Port in the United States
Frigate, commanded by Commodore Barry, on their mission to
France. It is said they will sail directly to France. I have not
met with a single person, who approves this measure in the present
posture of affairs : and it may be said to be universally disgusting.
The President, we understand, has embarked in it not only without
advice, but against the opinion of all his friends. The Chief Jus-
tice is particularly opposed to it, and, I am told, it is far from being
agreeable to Governor Davie ; and they have been induced to go
by the solicitation of their friends, as being safe persons to be
entrusted with the execution of a bad measure. Their instruc-
tions, however, are unexceptionable, and they have no power to
interfere with existing Treaties, or to do anything but restore the
state of amity and the relations of commerce to the two countries.

142 RUFUS KING. [1799

The old Treaty or Consular Convention they have no power to
renew.

You can scarcely form an idea how this measure from its com-
mencement to the present stage of it has damped the ardor of the
friends of the government. It will have a serious effect on the
next election of President. An attempt will certainly be made, by
the best friends of the government, to get rid of Mr. Adams, and
nothing but extreme necessity will induce the support of him.
Situated as we are now with Great Britain in regard to our late
Treaty, I am far from believing that we run no risk of breaking
with her. . . .

As usual great efforts are making in every part of our country
to vilify the government and its administration, to serve Jefferson
at the next election. I have my anxieties about the event ; but
we must stand to our posts and manfully face the enemy. Under
our government it is vain to look for repose ! . . . Little
Gerry is crawling out of his obscurity and giving entertainments
as a candidate for the office of Governor of Massachusetts. I
understand he expects to be supported by the independent of both
parties. . . .

Most truly, R. T.

Mr. Pickering in his " private and confidential letter of
Nov. 7, 1799, writes in cipher to Mr. King.

" The Envoys (to France) must be on the point of embarking at
Newport. The British Government may probably feel some solicitude
on the nature of their instructions j and you may wish to give it rea-
sonable satisfaction. All the right pledged to the British by Treaty
will be sacredly maintained. The Envoys are particularly enjoined to
form no agreetnent inconsistent with our stipulations in the 24th and
25th articles of the British Treaty. The outrages of the French
Republic, having occasioned the dissolution of the Treaties between the

United States and France, the particular has lost the priority

of privileges, to which the twenty-fourth article above mefitioned,
referred.

" You will naturally expect the present instructions to go beyond the
former. The question then was, how to amend existing Treaties, and

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 43

without making new sacrifices, to give satisfaction to France. Now
it was to be considered what satisfaction for injuries received was due
to the United States ; and what new stipulations, their future interest
required. Old obligations being rightfully and forever dissolved, we
of course refuse to resut?ie any of the burthens they i??zposed. However,
on the suppositio?i that our just claims would be provided for, and all
subjects of difference adjusted, it was natural to turn our thoughts to
the regulations adapted to a commercial intercourse. These few ob-
servations will, I think, suggest to you everything material for your
information.

" The changes in the external relations of France, and their effects
on its interior, made us hope that the President would suspend the
mission, until a Government promising some stability, should afford a
prospect of useful negotiation. As soon as the instructions were finally
arranged, (in which he adopted the opinions of the Meads of Depart-
ments) he gave peremptory orders for the mission to proceed. This
determination was deprecated by enlightened Federalists, especially in
New England. I know in particular that your friends Cabot, Ames,
and Higginson were on the rack ; and Mr. Ellsworth had expressed
his opinion by letter to the President before he left Quincy, that it was
expedient to suspend the mission. It remains to be seen whose opinion
was correct. The President thinks the Fre?ich Government will reject
the terms to which the Envoys are limited j that they will soon return,
and enable him to recommend a formal war ! But we make no
demands, which we have not a right to insist on, and if we did, far
from rejecting them, the Directory, pressed as they now are, would
sooner give us carte blanche, and when we should have written it, on
our own terms, it would still be, in the view of that infernal Govern-
ment, but a carte — while we should be disarmed and exposed to all the
mischief of a new political intercourse. As to the Republic, instead
of being near its end, the President says it will last yet seven years."

The Civil War in St. Domingo between Toussaint and Rigaud
will probably soon terminate in the destruction of the latter
and his adherents. In that event we shall see what have been
Toussaint's ultimate views. Notwithstanding all u his prof essions
of devotion to the French Republic, I continue to think he is merely
temporising and that he will ere long declare St. Domingo indepen-
dent."

144 RUFUS KING. [l799

G. Cabot to R. King.

November 9, 1799.
My Dear Sir:

Our Envoys have sailed. Sic vult sic jubet Preses. Not-
withstanding a suspension of this measure was notified to Mr.
Ellsworth by the P. yet upon the arrival of the latter at Trenton
their departure was order'd by him ; this determination of the P.
having been previously made upon mature deliberation 6° not possible
to be changed, * delicacy forbad the consultation of others whose
advice must have been rejected. You will easily imagine how
unpropitious this whole transaction proves to our internal as well
as to our external politics. I have formerly expressed my appre-
hensions of the new divisions which it wou'd produce & which
wou'd strengthen the Jacobin party : this is already realized in
some degree & will be more so ; much will depend however upon
the conduct of G. B. toward us ; they may succour or defeat the
Jacobins. If they extend their depredations beyond the just
limits of Belligerent Rights, they will occasion our Govt, to
change hands & to pass over to the Jacobins, but if they confine
their Captures to those who violate their Rights, I trust the Govt,
of the U. S. will not be wrested from federal hands. I am dis-
appointed in the expectations I had formed of the Swiss, instead
of the spirit of revenge which wou'd have been terrible to
Frenchmen had it been felt, they appear to be poisoned with the
noxious doings of the Jacobin Doctors & must yet suffer much
more before they will be radically cured — in every other quarter
the success of the Enemies of the Revolutionists corresponds to
my full expectations & altho' from the discordancy of the allied
powers & the weak or wicked projects of some of them the Great
Catastrophe of total Destruction to the Revy. Sect may be pro-
tracted, yet I think the force of the Sect is broken ; it cannot
overrun countries again with facility. The popular material wont
immediately effervesce again ; there must be a space of time before
new fermentation can be produced by similar means. If we have
war it will be more of the old sort, & in France I think there
must be a Reaction of Royalism which will endeavor to extir-
pate every root & seed of the infernal Sect.

* Italics in cipher.

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 145

How is England to manage the difficult affair of money? the
power to refuse Gold & Silver for notes is still continued to the
Bank & to the Minister. If this power is used paper must fall
below the level of the Metals : even the fear of its use has a
tendency to produce this effect. Mr. Pitt doubtless knows all
this & either contemplates a paper system or he must restore
things soon to their natural course.

Vive vale.

T. Sedgwick to R. King.

Stockbridge, 15 Nov., 1799.
Dear Sir :

. . . The suspense of the mission to France, the miserable
jealousy which has been imbibed by, probably infused into, the
great man, * of those men, who were, in my opinion, best entitled
to the public confidence, and their impaired respect for him —
these circumstances and their consequences gave me an uncon-
querable aversion to writing to you : but there are facts lately
come to my knowledge, how is immaterial, but they may be relied
on as true, which I think it my duty to communicate.

You have already my opinions and reasonings, on the subject
of a treaty with france, in two letters, that I wrote to you, not
long after the rising of congress.

The assurances given by the Executive Directory, are as I un-
derstand in the very words required by the P — t's declaration.
What, my friend, could have been more soothing, than thai a govern-
ment so haughty 6° unbending to all besides, should be so compliant
and submissive to the dictates of the great ma?i, at the head of a
great powerful, and independent nation? This having been com-
municated from D y to the ministers, the three senior Secre-
taries joined in a communication, which without declaring,
expressly, an opinion of their own, contained objections to the
measure, which to every ordinary mind would, probably, have
appeared conclusive. To this no answer, either written or verbal,
has yet been made. Soon after it was received, the Prest. set out
for Trenton, where at that time the public offices were kept, and
on his way there he saw the Ch. Justice at Hartford. From him,

* Italics in cipher.

VOL. III. — IO

146 RUFUS KING. [1799

it is understood, the same objections, which were expressed in the
Secretaries' communication, or similar ones, were expressed and
inferred. To them no answer was made. When he arrived at
Trenton, he did not deign to communicate with the Secretaries on
the expediency of the measure. The Secretary of State had been
previously, or then was, directed to draw up instructions. These,

indeed, were submitted to the advice of the P t's council &

approved by it ; but the great question was studiously avoided.
You know the rest.

In my recluse situation, I cannot say, for I do not know, the
actual result of the feelings & reasonings of the best friends of
the government on this occasion. I know, however, what con-
sequences are to be expected — a total loss of confidence among
the best friends of the government, in the wisdom & prudence, of

the P 1, a belief that he is influenced by caprice alone, or by

the advice of men of intrigue, who have infused into his mind an
incurable jealousy of those whom he formerly deemed his best
and ablest friends. It is also to be expected that an irreconcil-
able division will in consequence of this state of things take place
among the federalists, the effects of which will be incalculably

mischievous ; whether as they affect a future election of a P 1,

the systems of administration, or what is still, if possible, worse
an increase of strength to the opposing faction. The latter has,
in some important scenes in the U. S., already obviously taken
place. Cool and dispassionate men to this ascribe the election of
McKean, (an event most disgraceful to our national character)
to the government of Pensyla. It is supposed to have rendered
more certain the future election of Monroe to the same office in
Virga. ; and from the latter State we shall have a Senator
Nicholas, a brother of the Representative, a man more dangerous,
because of greater ability.

All these things, unpleasant and gloomy, as they are, ought not
certainly to produce despair but to stimulate to exertion. The
present house of Representatives, in the character of the members,
certainly affords a source of consolation. In any events should
the Jacobins be unable to procure, for their candidate for the
presidency, a majority, a well founded hope may be entertained,
that a good decision will be made by the house. But there is
reason on the other hand, to fear that the subjects I have already

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 147

mentioned, will have a very inauspicious influence, even there.
There is, too, another source from which mischief is to be appre-
hended, of which I am the innocent cause.

As soon as it was known that I was elected a member of the
house of Representatives, it was given out that I must be the
Speaker. This suggestion was enough to stimulate the opposition
to every possible exertion, to defeat the wishes of my friends. It
was evident, that if there was a general attendance of the mem-
bers, an anti could not be chosen. It is said a system has been
adopted, which in my opinion, promises them success. They have
fixed on their candidate ; and to induce the federalists, from
the south, to vote for him, they represent the present as a new
england administration, & thereby endeavor to excite jealousy,
by taking advantage of local prejudices ; and to counteract the
affections of party, they speak of me and my character with re-
spect. It is said that the gentleman, they at present contemplate
as the rival candidate, has agreed to be held up ; but as I have
ever thought of him with respect and indeed affection, I will not,
at present, mention, even to you, his name. This must, of neces-
sity, have an influence on southern Gentlemen, of a certain de-
scription ; and should its influence prevail it may add, infinitely,
to our embarrassments.

If the real federal majority can act together much may and
ought to be done to give efficiency to the government, and to re-
press the efforts of the Jacobins against it. We ought to spread
out the judicial so as to render the justice of the nation accepta-
ble to the people, to aid national economy, to overawe the licen-
tious, and to punish the guilty. We ought to extend protection
to commerce by efficient force. We ought to facilitate communi-
cation between different parts of the country as well by rendering
our roads more safe and practicable, as by the means of canals.
And we ought, at the same time, that we promote the real happi-
ness & welfare of the people, to court thereby their favor.

It is a truth, unfortunately, but too evident that faction has,
since you left the country, become more persistent & systematic ;
and, I believe, its leaders have decided that the duration of the
government shall depend on the actual force of its friends & ene-
mies. This appears to me evident from the conduct of the gov-
ernment of Virga. and its satellite Kentucky. With regard to the

148 RUFUS KING. [i799

former, it has displayed an anxiety to render its militia as formid-
able as possible, and to supply its arsenals & magazines, and for
those purposes it actually imposed a tax on its Citizens.

But I will no longer continue this style of croaking. As soon
after the session shall commence as I can form an opinion of our
prospects I will detail it to you.

Benson informed me that Mr. Jay, he believed, would decline
a future election as Governor. Such is the abuse of every good
man who is a candidate for office, that it requires strong nerves
indeed to encounter it. I am persuaded that the delicacy and for-
bearance with which slander has been endured has had a most
mischievous effect.

You shall, again, soon hear from

Your affect.
S.

Jno. Trumbull to R. King.

London, Nov. 16, 1799.
Mr. Trumbull in this letter gives statements in detail of
the business which had come before the Commissioners of
the 7th Article of the Treaty between the United States of
America and Great Britain, and remarks that he trusts

" that the plain result of the whole will be that the Business, so far
as it has been suffered to proceed, has not been conducted with
negligence or partiality.

" I have seen Dr. Lettsom, who informs me that he has submitted
Mr. Webster's work * to the Messrs. Robinson, who are the most
liberal Booksellers and Publishers of the present time, that they
are pleased with it and regard it as an ingenious and able work ;
but they offer no more than one hundred Guineas for the copy-
right— a sum so far below the lowest named by Mr. Webster in

* Mr. King had received from Noah Webster the manuscript of his work on
Epidemics, consigned to Messrs. Gore, Trumbull, and King, the receipt of
which was acknowledged in a letter from the last dated Sept. 9, 1799. They
were asked to make "preliminary enquiries respecting the sale and printing it
on his own account." Mr. K., however, declined any ostensible share in the
contracts.

The above letter from Col. Trumbull gives the result of the enquiry.

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 149

his letter to you, that I presume such a bargain cannot be con-
sented to.

The remaining alternative of causing the Book to be published
on his own account does by no means meet the approbation of
the Doctor, who says that he speaks from experience when he
foretells that it must prove a very injurious enterprise in the low
state of public curiosity on the subject treated of and the very
high price of material. If therefore Mr. Webster insists upon the
publication, the Dr. is persuaded that the best thing which can
be done is to accept Mr. Robinson's offer for an edition of 500
copies and that a publication on the author's own account would
prove ruinous.

" Will you have the goodness to write decisively to Dr. Lettsom
on the subjects or call upon him (which will be a nattering and
perhaps not unmerited attention) &c. &c.

" Your faithful servant & friend,

" Jno. Trumbull."

R. King to Lord Grenville.

Great Cumberland Place, Nov. 18, 1799.
My Lord :

I have heretofore represented to your Lordship the frequent
interruption received by our navigation in the American seas
under the Pretext that Bar Iron Nails, Russia Sheeting, and some
other articles of innocent merchandize might be considered and
treated as Contraband of War. The conferences that I have had
with yr. Lordship upon this subject gave me reason to expect that
these embarrassments, so detrimental to us, and so little bene-
ficial to others, wd. in future be checked by an explanatory arti-
cle to our Treaty, that shd. distinctly exclude these articles from
the catalogue of Contraband.

But these interruptions instead of ceasing, as we hoped wd.
have been the case, have of late been increased and extended :
for not only the private armed ships in those seas, but the squad-
ron under Sir H. Parker have together fallen upon our naviga-
tion, and a large portion of our ships engaged in the Trade be-
tween the U. S. & the Spanish colonies have been seized & their
cargoes condemned ; as we are informed upon the extraordinary
& erroneous pretence that Spain had interdicted the trade of for-
eigners with her colonies ; and this at the same time that numer-

150 RUFUS KING. [^799

ous adventures to the Spanish colonies, composed in some
instances, of the very cargoes taken from the Amers., were
undertaken by, & on acct. of British subjects residing in the
Islands to which the Amern. ships were sent for adjudication.

We are ignorant whether orders have been given that can in
any degree countenance these ruinous depredations, or whether
they proceed from some less excusable motive on the part of the
captors : it is our inclination to believe that no such orders have
been given, but the effect is nearly the same on either hypothesis,
as the great loss by the disadvantageous sale of our Cargoes under
the Decrees of the Provincial Courts of Admiralty, joined to the
time & expense requisite to bring to an issue our claims before
the Court of Appeals, produce a result that in a plurality of cases
makes it a measure of prudence to abandon our Property instead
of pursuing the remedy that is held forth to us.

It is my duty to complain to yr. Ldp. of the injury, that under
color of his Majesty's authority, is thus committed upon the citi-
zens of a country that has given, and continues to give, unequivo-
cal proofs of a sincere desire to live in friendship with G. Britain,
& in doing so I am anxious to press upon your Ldp.'s considera-
tion the uneasiness & dissatisfaction so unfavorable to the inter-
course & harmony between our respective countries, that must,
& especially at the present moment of commercial embarrassment,
proceed from losses so unexpected and considerable.

Your Ldp. will, I persuade myself, order the complaint to be
investigated without Delay, & so unjustifiable has been the con-
duct of the Captors, that I flatter myself that not only a prompt
& adequate remedy will be afforded to the sufferers, but moreover
that such precise instructions will be given as shall secure us
against the like injuries hereafter.

I have the honor to be &c.

Rufus King.

| R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 55.

London, Dec. 2, 1799.
Dear Sir :

The late Revolution at Paris meets with as little opposition as

any of those that have preceded it, & seems to differ in nothing

from them, except that no royal conspiracy has been denounced in

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 151

its justification ; the soldiery has been more openly caressed, & a
more undisguised contempt has been shown for the degraded
Nation, that has been so long and so cruelly the victim of
political experiments.

On the arrival of the October Packet, I went to the office of
foreign affairs & requested the under Secretary Mr. Frere to
inform Lord Grenville that I had been disappointed in not
receiving my instructions respecting the suspension of the com-
mission at Philada ; & that I ascribed the Delay to the interrup-
tion that had arisen from the reappearance of the Fever there,
which had obliged the officers of Govt., with the other inhabitants
to remove into the country. As this suspension is the effect of the
secession of our Commrs. I concluded that you would be anxious
that no time should be lost in the explanation of our motives, &
I therefore thought it adviseable to suggest what I conceived to
be the occasion of the Delay. On this account as well as because
the present time has appeared to me not imfavorable * I think it is to
be regretted that you are not likely to receive the report of Messrs.
Fitzsimons & Sitgreaves in season to send before the sailing of
the Packet of the present month, which will not arrive before
Feby. when the Govt, will be busily employed in preparations for
the next campaign and for that reason will be less patient in the
examination of any propositions we may have to submit to its
consideration.

On the 15th of last month several private letters were received
by a ship that left Boston on the 20th of October, all of which
agreed in stating that the President had suspended the mission to
France. After a short consideration of the subject it appeared
to me to be a measure that might possibly be turned to advantage
in regard to our situation with England & under this impression
I decided to go immediately to Lord Grenville, whom I had not
seen except at St. James' since the Conference reported in the P.S.
of my No. 51. His Ldp. was at home received me immediately
6° with marks of cordiality. Without preface I communicated to
him the information that I had just received, remarking that the
measure was not only of consequence to us, but in my eyes of
great importance to Eng. 6° her Allies. His Ldp. fully assented
to this observation & expressed his satisfaction in receiving the
intelligence. I then added that I wd. without reserve explain tie

* Italics in cipher.

152 RUFUS KING. [*799

motives which had induced me to make this communication. It
was a gross error to suppose that the People of the United States
were attached either to England or to France, but it was certainly-
true that in reference to our own Interests, we were not unani-
mous in the opinion that an intimate commercial connexion
with England was under all its circumstances more advantageous
than a connexion with France, and as these are the two most
important Nations of Europe, especially in a commercial sense,
the only one that could have much influence upon our foreign
Politics, no measure of our Govt, tending to increase or diminish
our commerce with either of them could pass without the most
scrupulous examination, nor without being made the occasion of
a comparison between the injuries, as well as the benefits, received
from each.

I was therefore persuaded that the suspension of the Mission to
France wd. produce a fresh discussion upon this subject, when
our just complaints against the naval officers of G. Britain on
account of their impressment of & cruelty towards our sea-
men, as well as for their late depredations upon our Trade in the
American seas, would unavoidably have a very considerable influ-
ence upon the public opinion of the United States ; that I might
mention other topics that would invite discussion, and had not
his Ldp. lately expressed himself as strongly as he had done with
respect to the Commission at Philada., I should have been
inclined to have represented the great &, as we believed, unre-
mitted inconvenience proceeding from the suspension of the
Commission here because that at Philada had been stopped in
consequence of the indefensible conduct of the English Commrs;
that I would however say nothing on that head, as I had not yet
received my instructions. But if the representation that I had
just made appeared to his Ldp. of the same importance as it did
to me, I should hope that immediate measures would be taken
not only to do us effectual justice for the past, but moreover to
secure us against a repetition of the injuries we have so often
sustained. Justice was of perpetual obligation, but there were
times when those who render it may be benefited even beyond
the ordinary recompense that follows the performance of a duty,
and the present in my view was such an occasion.

Ld. Grenville after a few observations of a tenor to persuade

799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 53

me, he placed a proper value upon the friendship of the United
States, & that he should always be inclined to remove as well as
to avoid occasions of misunderstanding replyd, that there were very
few subjects upon which he wd. say that he might not alter his
opinion, but that he could not help avowing that it seemed very
unlikely that he should adopt the sentiments I had just expressed
respecting the two Commissions. At present he knew not what
we should have to propose ; possibly the return of one of their
Commrs. from Philada. might facilitate the Business. With regard
to the Impressment of our seamen, he perceived that an old con-
troversy had been revived between their Admirals & the Colonial
Courts, & that we had named an agent at Jamaica for the Protec-
tion of our seamen, a measure considering its innovation upon
the Colonial system, that could not be thought of any validity
without his Majesty's consent. These remarks led to a short
conversation that turned upon the points discussed in my late
note upon this subject, & ended by his Zdp's acquiescence in the
opinion that a special convention could alone secure the respec-
tive Rights of the two countries.

His Ldp. to my surprise then added that he had not before
heard of the late captures in the West Indies to which I had
alluded. I restated the nature & extent of these depredations,
and complained of the countenance & encouragement they had
received from the Commander in chief Sir H. Parker. His Ldp.
asked me if I had any official information on this subject : I
replied in the affirmative & that I would send his Ldp. a note,
complaining of these excesses, if I might expect an answer that
would afford us Hope of redress. His Ldp. said if I would send
him such a note he would immediately institute an enquiry into
the complaint.

I accordingly sent the note, a copy of which is annexed. I
have not yet received an answer. The note from Ld. Grenville,
a copy of which is subjoined, notifies the discontinuance of the
Blockade of the Dutch Ports.

With perfect Respect &c. &c.

Rufus King.

CHAPTER XL

Sedgwick to King — Bad Effect of possible Disbandment of the Army — Loan
would be necessary to maintain it and increase the Navy — Next presiden-
tial Election — Confidence that Federalists will succeed — King to Secretary
of State — Threatened Withdrawal of Russian Troops — Want of Confidence
in the Austrians — Russia makes Treaty with Denmark, etc. — What Effect
will this have on American Commerce with France? and with the
Conduct of England — Restoration of Commerce with France may help
Negotiations in England — Make her restrain Abuses — Consider stopping
Impressment — King to Troup — Consuls named Talleyrand to meet the
Envoys — Louis XVII. — King to H. Grant relative to the Capture of the
Woodrop Sims with U. S. Arms on Board by the French — To Comte
Wedel Jarlsberg — Laws of the U. S. relative to Inheritances — To N.
Low — Recommendation of B. Dandridge in business Relations — Sedgwick
to King — Death of General Washington — Shall the Army continue to be
recruited — If Treaty with France made, it would be disbanded — President
will probably be authorized to stop Enlistments — General Marshall is much
relied on — Sedgwick hopes no Treaty with France will be made — King to O.
Wolcott — Many Embarrassments in England cause Stagnation in Business
— No Peace probable — King to Pickering — Little Probability of Peace —
The Effect of the Mission — Should it succeed, England and Russia would
probably be offended — New French Constitution accepted by the People.

T. Sedgwick to R. King.

Philadelphia 12th Dec. 1799.
Dear Sir :

At present parties have not assumed a shape — The federal
nerve seems to have become palsied by the mission to france,
and there is real cause to apprehend that good men may be
misled. The great effort will be made against the army. Should
it be disbanded we shall send home, as many, with few exceptions,
active & resentful agents to disseminate discord, as there are per-
sons that at present compose it. On the other hand good men,
1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 55

in New England, where tranquility generally prevails, can not
easily be led to understand, for what purposes the Army can be
necessary, provided a peace be made with france. The existence
of the army, too, by the terms of inlistment will terminate, " with
the differences between the U. S. & france." Indeed the Army
could not have been carried, in the house of Representatives, on
any other terms. To continue it beyond that period, therefore,
a new inlistment will be necessary. This will not, probably, be
so difficult with the Jacobins, as with the Legislature. But as to
disband the army would at the present time be extremely
dangerous, if not absolutely ruinous, it must, if possible, be
prevented.

By the best information I can obtain from the Secy, of the
Treasury, a loan will be necessary to the amount of very nearly
5,000,000 dollars, provided we maintain the Army in its present
numbers, between, I suppose 5 & 6000, exclusive of the old
establishment, & progress, as has been contemplated, by law, in
the increase of our Navy. A loan cannot be had, without letting
in foreign competition, under eight per cent interest, nor at that
with the same alacrity as the last. The fact is, that many of the
subscribers to the last loan lost by it — The avidity to subscribe
was such that many without the means of paying the instalments
were induced to adventure; the consequence was that the stock
was brought into the market, and, in some instances, sold at a
discount. This evil was foreseen, but at that time, it was said,
could not be prevented for want of time. At present that species
of stock is two or three percent above par. The loan, therefore,
can probably, be had, on the same terms ; but if a stock of three
per cent is created much more money can be obtained, for the
same annuity. And this for myself I should much prefer. But
on whatever terms the loan is to be made, the practise in G.
Britain of receiving proposals, is greatly preferable, to an indis-
criminate offer to every body.

In all our measures, we must never lose sight, of the next elec-
tion of President. In Virginia, the election will, doubtless, be by
the people & by a general ticket. Altho' several of our friends,
in that state tell us that this will be so unpopular, that the federal
interest will prevail, yet, I confess this is an event, for which I
cannot form the faintest hope. It is to my mind probable, that

156 RUFUS KING. [l799

No. Carolina will follow the example of Virginia & in that case,
I expect all the votes again against us. In this State there is
no existing Law, and no election, you know, can be made with-
out one ; and the best men here tell us, that none unfavorable to
the federal interest will be assented to in the Senate, where the
majority is not only considerable, in point of numbers, but in
character firm & decided. On the whole I have, notwithstand-
ing the gloominess of the prospect, much confidence that we shall
prevail. From hence to the eastward we expect the votes will be
nearly unanimous, not probably for any two, but against the one
whom we all dread ; and if his election by the electors can be
prevented, we may place, I think, the utmost confidence, in the
house of Representatives. — In Maryland & Georgia we shall have
several votes, and S. Carolina & Delaware all.

I will write to you again in a few days, and as soon as a
reasonable conjecture can be formed of the system which will be
pursued. . . .

I am sincerely yours

T. S.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 56.

London, Dec. 14, 1799.
Dear Sir :

The publication of Suwarrow's dispatches in the Gazette of
Petersburgh confirms in the fullest extent the rumours that of late
have been circulated of the jealousy & misunderstanding that
have for some time existed between the two Imperial armies. It is
believed that in consequence of Suwarrow's reports, the Em-
peror of Russia has sent him orders to return home with his
army. Means have been found to delay the execution of this
measure, and Engd. is active in her endeavours as well to prevent the *
retreat of the Russians as to soften & explain at Viemia the indis-
creet publication of Suwarrow's dispatches. In the first she will
succeed, but as this open rupture embittered by the reproach upon
the Austrians contained in the Ukase, appointing Suwarrow Gen-

* Italics in cipher.

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 57

eralissimo, offers new means of negotiation to the French, as the
English Cabinet is not supposed to have much influence at Vien?ia,
great anxiety exists lest Austria shd. again conclude a separate
Peace. Since the late Resolution at Paris, & immediately before
the inteinperate expression of the dissatisfaction of Russia, the cabi-
net of Vienna gave explicit assurance to the English Ambassador
that it had no intention of negotiation, and the Ambassador added
to this information his own opinion that it might be relied upon.
It will however be very difficult after what has happened to re-
establish confidence or even harmony between the Austrians &
Russians ; and if neither withdraw, it will be necessary that they
should act separately. England is firm in her resolution to con-
tinue the war, and she will use all the means in her power to put
in execution against France the plan in respect to Commerce,
that France has been desirous to see enforced against her. It is
with this view chiefly that Engd. & Russia have at length con-
cluded a Treaty with Denmark, which engages that Power in the
war against France. Russia is negotiating at Stockholm, & since
the Treaty with Denmark will be more likely to draw Sweden
also into the coalition. The positive aid to be derived by the
allies from these two Kingdoms must be inconsiderable ; but the
withdrawing their ships from the French Ports will affect France
as well in the sale of her productions, as in the purchase of vari-
ous supplies, & especially of naval Stores.

Important reflections in respect to the United States arise out
of this probable state of Europe. If an uninterrupted commer-
cial intercourse between the U. S. & France could be established,
the advantage expected by the allies from the coalition of Den-
mark & Sweden would essentially fail, inasmuch as the naviga-
tion of the U. S. is superior to that of Denmark & Sweden
together. The loss of the Danish & Swedish Flags & markets
will naturally increase the desire of regaining those of the U.
States, & may lead the Provisional Govt, to employ plausible &
even earnest & direct measures to remove the misunderstanding
between the two Countries. You are much more able than I am
to decide how far the restoration of the former commercial &
political intercourse will be likely to increase the prosperity of
our commerce, or the stability of our Govt, upon the supposition
even that England would take no new measure to disturb our

158 RUFUS KING. [i799

trade. I do not feel authorized to express a distinct opinion
upon either of these topics, tho' the best information which I
have been able to collect in regard to the trade of Denmark &
Sweden with France, since our absence from the French markets,
has given me no very favourable opinion of the French trade in its
present exhausted and precarious State. But the subject merits
consideration in another point of view, and without giving you
the trouble of reading a dissertation explanatory of the reasons
of my Belief, I will only express my entire persuasion founded
upon the efforts that have been made to engage Denmark & Swe-
den in the coalition, the temper that appeared upon the news of
the last nomination of Envoys to France, the opinion openly
avowed that Engd. rights for existence, & that the present
differs from all preceding, and that our reconciliation with France
wd. be followed by an almost indiscriminate capture of our ships
trading with the French Dominions, a reconciliation with France
will according to this opinion be the signal for a rupture with
England, for /presume that we shd. no more acquiesce in the law-
less depredations of the one than of the other. If we remain as
we are or go farther 6° place ourselves in a formal state of war,
the English will without doubt treat the trade between the Hanse
Towns 6r° France with very little ceremony. It is possible that
the interest of Fngd, as well in the reservation of her own con-
nexion with us as in the preve?ition of that of France, may inspire
its Cabinet with greater moderation in regard to the several im-
portant subjects that must ere long become matters of serious
discussion ; and if we decline to renew our Connexion with France,
ought we not to avail ourselves of the occasion to restrain if possible
the abuses we have so long sustained in the impressment of our sea-
men and the illegal capture 6° condemnation of our ships. I have
lately submitted to you my opinion upon the obstinacy & extent
of these Evils. The latter might in a good measure be cured by
a reform in the English system of Prize courts, a reform that any
friendly nation has a just right to demand ; for the former a
remedy is in our own hands, tho' we may have various scruples
against using it ; ivhen we adopt the practice of impressing sea-
men for our navy, Engd. will agree with us in a reasonable conven-
tion by which the rights of both shall be respected. And why
should we not by law under just limitations authorize the impress-

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 59

ment of seamen ? We and other nations have impressed, and from
the main end of society all have a right to compel their People to
serve in the army, & on the like principle to serve in the navy.
Besides we are a commercial nation 6° must consequently build
and support a navy. No nation ever did or can man its navy at
a rate of wages arising from an unlimited competition among
private adventurers & between them & the nation. The wages
we now give is double to those given by any other nation, and would
consequently pay double the number of seamen in any other ser-
vice. This may now appear heresy, but it is what we shall
believe & practice the first considerable war in which we are
engaged.

With perfect respect & esteem &c. &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to R. Troup.

Dec. 14, 1799-

Dear Sir :

If any one finds fault with the President for suspending the
Mission to France, tell them that the Consuls (for I suppose
that you know that the Directors have been turned out of the
Luxemburg) hearing that our Envoys were on their way named
Talleyrand to the office of forn. affairs to receive them. The
newspapers are filled with accounts of the Jealousy and Misunder-
standing between the two imperial armies, & that the Russians
are going home. The first part of these accounts is but too true
but I do not believe the latter, &c. . . .

Denmark has joined the coalition, and negotiations are going
on at Stockholm & Petersburg to induce Sweden likewise to come
in. If these powers range themselves on the side of the allies,
and we continue to interdict commercial intercourse with France,
the Hanse Towns will alone send ships to France, which the
English, if I am not mistaken, will treat with very little Ceremony
and with precisely the same freedom that they will use towards
our ships in case a Reconciliation takes place between us & the
Consuls.

We are all amusing ourselves with the last news from Paris,
which states that the Dauphin Louis XVII., who was believed to

l6o RUFUS KING. [i799

have died in the Temple in June 1795, is living ; having been
saved by Sieves who substituted from one of the public Hospitals
a child of corresponding age, incurably affected with the Scrofula,
and that the Consuls have resolved, being tired of the tragi-
comedy that they have been playing, to restore the young King
to the throne of his Fathers. R. K.

R. King to Harry Grant, Esq., America Square.

Great Cumberland Place, Dec. 15, 1799.
Dear Sir :

My first inclination upon the news of the capture of the
Woodrop Sims was to transmit to our Consul at Bordeaux
authentic proofs that the 1500 muskets on board her had been
shipped by my order. A little consideration has shewn me that
I should perhaps have compromitted our Government as well as
myself by that step.

A public Law of France authorized the capture & condemna-
tion of all property, produced or manufactured in the Br. Terri-
tories ; on account of this and other unjust Laws, the U. S. have
authorized the capture & condemnation of all French armed
vessels & their cargoes ; and we have actually taken a French
national frigate, that is now in our service. In this condition of
the two countries, it may be doubted whether the U. S. could
without impropriety ask or accept even the restoration of their
property taken in the Woodrop Sims ; at any rate it would appear
officious in me should I take the decision of so important a ques-
tion into my own hands.

I have therefore concluded to observe that reserve upon this
subject that belongs to my limited authority, leaving it to those
who alone have the power to settle when & in such manner as
they may think proper, the misunderstanding between the two
countries.

In following this course I know I do my duty ; in the other I
may not only fall into errors myself, but be the occasion of lead-
ing others astray. You cannot doubt that I should be zealous to
promote your interest, and I believe you will be the first to ac-
quiesce in the sentiments I have just expressed.

Sincerely & with much regard &c.

R. King.

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. l6l

R. King to Count de Wedel Jarlsberg.

Great Cumberland Place, December 18, 1799
Sir:

I have had the honor to receive your Letter of the 16th instant,
stating the application of certain inhabitants of the United States
to be freed from the Tax established in Denmark upon Inheri-
tances removed into foreign Countries ; & desiring to be informed
what are the Laws of the United States in analogous cases. I
hasten to reply that no such Tax exists within the United States,
and that all foreigners may demand & remove at pleasure, and
that free of any Tax or deduction, all Personal Property to which
they may be entitled as the next of kin, or as the Legatee of any
person dying within the U. States.

Personal Property includes every species of Property except
Houses & Lands ; which cannot pass by inheritance or testamen-
tary devise to an alien. But those who desire that their Property
in Houses & Lands should pass to aliens, may by testament
authorize their executors to sell the same and pay the proceeds
to such aliens as are named in their last Testament ; and in this
way Estates of every sort may be passed into the possession &
enjoyment of aliens, free of every restraint & deduction.

The Laws of the United States upon this subject are precisely
those of England, which are probably well understood in Den-
mark.

With perfect consideration &c. &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to N. Low.

London, Dec. 20, 1799.
Dear Sir :

Mr. B. Dandridge, who has been for some time my Secretary
and whom you may remember in the same capacity with his rela-
tion Genl. Washington, after consulting his friends and acquaint-
ances, has determined to settle at New York as a merchant. He
will probably arrive there in one of the spring ships with three or
four thousand pounds worth of English goods with which he pro-
poses to begin. ... At first he will stand in need of the
service and support of men of experience and credit and without
introducing him to many persons for these purposes, I have given
him letters to you and to Mr. J. Waddington, believing that both

VOL. III. — II

1 62 RUFUS KING. [1799

of you will be disposed at my desire to afford to Mr. Dandridge, for
whom I have a real friendship and in whose prosperity I feel a
sincere concern, all the countenance and assistance that his honor
and integrity so eminently deserve. . . . You cannot confer
upon me a greater proof of friendship than in fulfilling my earnest
recommendation in favor of Mr. Dandridge, who to the most
correct principles unites a mildness of temper and manner that
must every where engage the confidence and esteem of those who
have the satisfaction of knowing him.

With respect and regard, &c.

Rufus King.

T. Sedgwick to R. King.

Philadelphia, Dec. 29, 1799.
My dear Sir :

The lamentable event, of General Washington's death, is
marked with more regrets, and deeper sorrow, than any which
have taken place since I have been on the stage ; yet it will not
be uncandid to say, that in the leaders of the opposition, it has
produced sentiments of a very different & opposite Kind. On
this subject your own mind, from a knowledge of our affairs, will
afford materials for reflection. It will probably accelerate the
crisis which I believe to be unavoidable.

The federal part of the house will, I think, be brought to act
together ; but to produce this union of action, there must, I fear,
be a sacrifice of the opinions of some, whom I deem among the
best and most enlightened men of our Country. The question of
most delicacy which has hitherto pressed us is what shall be done
with the Army ? The new raised twelve regiments are about
three fifths full according to the best information I can obtain.
The term of their inlistment is during the existing differences
with France. Shall we continue to recruit, in these terms, at a
considerable expense when it is probable that a treaty will soon
disband them ? Shall we endeavor a reinlistment for a definite
period, by giving an additional bounty ? Should a treaty be
formed, may not the resentment, excited by a supposed sympathy
of our Country & government with france, render troops as neces-
sary, for other purposes, as it was supposed they would have been
against France ? Is it consistent with the duty of the guardians

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 163

of the public safety to provide no force against that spirit of tur-
bulent ambition, which menaces & defies, in undisguised language,
the national Government ? This subject suggests these &
innumerable other highly, if not equally, important questions.
The result of all will be that we shall soon — be not astonished, —
authorize the President to suspend further inlistments ; and we
shall do — nothing else. On much investigation I am persuaded
this is the case at present, nor do I expect, unless some new ob-
ject should arise, that we shall at all be able to do anything much
better. We are told, — &, I suppose, truly — that the army every-
where to the southward is very unpopular, and is growing, daily,
more so. That it is represented as intended to destroy republican
liberty, & to establish monarchy, and that these representations
are not ineffectual.

I have been much in Company with General Marshall since we
arrived in this City. He possesses great powers and has much
dexterity in the application of them. He is highly & deservedly
respected by the friends of the Government from the South. In
short we can do nothing without him. I believe his intentions
are perfectly honorable, & yet I do believe he would have been a
more decided man had his education been on the other side of
the Delaware, and he the immediate representative of that
country.

The late reverses of fortune in Europe have, as you may well
suppose, had considerable effect on the spirits of the parties in
this country ; and while you would not, probably, have so readily
believed, they are rendering the late mission to france popular.
This is a very unpleasant indication of a want of national spirit,
or, if you please, national pride. What are we to think of
the late events ? Is jealousy shedding its baleful influences
among the members of the coalition ? Was the Arch Duke out-
generaled, or was he, as is suggested, commanded to give way to
Suwarrow, that he might have the glory of beating Massena ? To
what was owing the defeat of the Project in Holland ? From
those disasters I derive one consolation — a hope that they may
defeat a treaty which, should it be made, whatever may be its
terms, will be as mischievous as its commencement was unwise —
and mischievous as in the terms of it liberal on the part of france.

Yours sincerely, T. S.

1 64 RUFUS KING. [1799

R. King to Oliver Wolcott.

London, Dec. 31, 1799.
Dear Sir :

I took an early occasion after the receit of your letter of the
4th of October to mention its contents to Mr. Pitt, who appeared
to think that your views in the main agreed with his, and desired
me to give him the earliest information of the result of such pro-
positions as you should make to Congress. In consequence of
the pecuniary embarrassment arising in part from the fall in the
prices of West India Productions, the Law that took off the Draw-
back on Sugar and Coffee was during the last session of Parlia-
ment suspended for a year. Should the embarrassment continue,
as is not improbable, it will be requisite to prolong this suspen-
sion. Notwithstanding the unexampled liberality of the Bank in
its discounts, the Permission to bond the duties on Sugar, Coffee,
&c, instead of paying them as formerly, at the time of entry,
and the reestablishment of the Drawback, the difficulties among
Commercial men are extensive & serious. The early & severe
setting in of the Frost, which has totally cut off the Trade to
Hamburgh, and which impedes that of Holland, has added to
the distress, that will scarcely be removed before the disappoint-
ments expected in the remittances from America, will begin to be
felt ; so that whatever the commercial difficulties may now be, it
is apprehended that they may be still greater towards midsummer.
With all the management of Govt., the necessary collection of
money to pay the half-yearly dividends, is supposed considerably
to affect the circulation, and united with other occasional causes,
produces a periodical stagnation, that excites inquietude, as well
as impairs the general Prosperity. This evil increases with the
increase of the public debt, and in the eyes of some speculative
men is already formidable.

My persuasion is that no Peace will be made this winter, and
that the next campaign will be as vigorous & bloody as the last.
I hope the Washington, in which as I informed you in my letter
of the 7th of September we have 2000 muskets, & some other
articles of public property may arrive safe. The Woodrop Sims
in which as I also informed you in my Letter of the 7th of Sept.,
we had 1500 muskets with two or three Boxes, containing the

1799] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 65

Dies of the Indian medals, ordered by Col. McHenry, some books,
charts & a few other small articles, has been taken & carried to
Bordeaux.

With sincere Regards &c,

Rufus King.

R. King to Col. Pickering.
{Private?)

London, Dec. 31, 1799.
Dear Sir :

I have no letters from you later than the 4th of October. The
frost has for the last fortnight cut off our communication with
Hamburgh, so that we are indebted lately to the French papers
for continental intelligence. From those even which give us the
last edition of the Constitution with the names of those who are
to administer it, we are the more disposed to believe that there is
little probability of Peace between France and any of the allies.
Bonaparte is pledged by his revolutionary harangues to give
Peace to France, & he will without doubt make overtures to the
allies, which agreeing neither with his, nor with their situation,
will prove abortive. But what will the admirers of French Liberty
say of the new Charter at length devised for its security ? Those
who excused the atrocities of R. will be at no loss for reasons,
good or bad, & it matters not which, on the present occasion.

You will have observed that I fully believed the report of the
Suspension of the Mission to France. Your letter of the 4th of
Oct. strengthened this opinion. It seems that I have been mis-
taken. If the envoys have arrived, it will not, I presume, be long
before their success or failure be known. Should they succeed,
you know what I am inclined to think likely to be the conduct of
this country, & it would surprize no one should Russia adopt a
similar proceeding towards us, as a few months since she adopted
towards Denmark & Hamburgh.

The French Govt, has two powerful motives to reconcile
America. The first to obtain the aid of its Flag, the second, to
embroil us with England. Still there are intrinsic difficulties in
the negotiation, besides the Pride that must be eaten up.

Mr. Dandridge who for some time has been with me as my
Secretary, has decided to engage in Trade. He is preparing a

1 66 RUFUS KING, [1799

quantity of goods with which he proposes to embark in one of
the early Spring ships for New York ; this has made a vacancy
for your son, who has consented to succeed Mr. Dandridge.

With sincere Regards, &c. &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 57.

London, Dec. 31, 1799.
Dear Sir :

The new French Constitution was put in operation on the 25th.
The people are said to have rivalled the discipline of the armies,
in their obedient acceptance of this new Charter of Liberty. The
Provisional Govt, repealed on the 20 inst. the Law of the 29.
Nivose 6th year (18th January 1798) & declared that the regula-
tions of 1778 in respect to the Rights of Belligerents & neutrals
should in future be strictly observed.

The probabilities of a continuance of the war between all the
Powers at present engaged in it, have gained strength within the
last month. The Proclamations of the chief Consul since his in-
stallation, afford no consolation to the anxious expectants of
Peace ; & everywhere the most active preparations are making
for the ensuing Campaign. The last French papers assure us that
our Convoys have arrived, and some recent accounts from.
America add considerable credit to this intelligence. . . .

With perfect Respect &c. &c.

Rufus King.

CHAPTER XII.

Condition of European Countries in the Beginning of 1800 — Its Relation to
the United States — Troup to King — Death of Washington — Plans for
honoring his Memory in New York — Oration to be pronounced by G.
Morris — A cold historical Narrative — Nothing to move the Feelings —
General Mourning — Pickering to King — President will send Mr. Sitgreaves
to England about the Interruption of the Commission under the 6th
Article — Might not be acceptable to Mr. King — Mr. Sitgreaves's Position —
Hamilton to King — Shall the Friends of the Government risk Schism by
Attempt to change — Mass of the People want Peace — He wants the Navy
increased — Renewed Animosity to England — King to Lord Grenville — No
Instructions yet relative to Suspension of Commission under 6th Article —
Lord Grenville to King, inclosing Dispatch from Liston and an Article
from Pickering to Peter Porcupine justifying the Conduct of the American
Commissioners — Requires King not to allow the former to go beyond himself
— King to Lord Grenville — Answer to him and justifying his Course in
freely communicating with his own Government, though Prudence should be
exercised in publishing Information. — Delay in sending King Instructions
not for Delay's Sake — Not to await Arrival of the Envoys — Warmly justi-
fies his own Government.

The beginning of the year 1800 exhibited a very compli-
cated condition of affairs both on the continent of Europe
and in England, which had, as has been and will be seen in the
correspondence, a serious influence upon the status of the
United States with the two leading powers, France and
England, in their diplomatic relations. The return of Bona-
parte from Egypt, the ascendency he had obtained in
France, overthrowing the Directory and establishing a new
constitution, under which the consular government, with
himself as first Consul, had given new vigor to the Govern-
ment, and the successes of the French arms in Switzerland
1 68 RUFUS KING. [1800

and in other quarters, had emboldened France to continue
the war against England and the Allies. Money alone was
wanting to carry out its plans, and that was hard to get,
and as France stood alone to resist the pressure against it,
it is not to be wondered at that the opportunity was taken
through the mission from the United States, unwisely sent
by the President, as was then generally thought, to en-
deavor to recover the amicable relations with that country,
with which all commercial intercourse had been stopped, to
reopen the French ports to commerce, and to endeavor to
enlist the United States against England, because of the
very natural feeling of anger at her refusal to remedy the
just claims made upon the British Government.

It has been seen with what urgency and unanswerable
arguments Mr, King had, by the direction of his govern-
ment, appealed for a fair hearing and a decision of the im-
portant points at issue with England ; how this had been
postponed or denied ; and how he had communicated his
belief that that government was not disposed to make any
settlement, as he had lost confidence in their desire or inten-
tion to do justice to the claims made upon them. The
interruption of the proceedings of the Commission at Phila-
delphia, under the 6th Article of the Treaty of Amity and
Commerce, afforded a pretence for most unworthy charges
against the character of the American Government, which
were promptly and indignantly denied by Mr. King, and
now the mission to France, it was feared, would give color
to a charge that it was the intention to foster French com-
merce to the injury of that of England, and was therefore
an inimicalact which England would resent against the
United States, and thus check every amicable settlement of
claims.

It will readily be seen that there were many causes for
anxiety on the part of Mr. King, in dealing with this com-
plicated condition of the relations of the European coun-
tries, and especially as affected by what his friends in the
United States considered the unwise course of the President,

1800] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 69

who would not listen to advice and alienated the best friends
of the country. His own duty was a plain one to insist
firmly upon the rights of that country — especially as his
government never faltered in the determination to obtain
them — a conduct which won their approbation, while it in-
creased his influence with the British Minister.

It may be here noticed that the Allies on the Continent
opposed to France were, as it would seem, hopelessly em-
bittered against each other and that unity of action was for
the time arrested. Russia had withdrawn her troops, or was
doing so, from co-operation with Austria in Italy and
Switzerland, but she had made treaties with Sweden and
Norway and Denmark, by which these countries could no
longer supply the French, which they had done, as neu-
trals ; and Prussia still continued to hold herself aloof from
any connection with France or the Allies. France was,
under the new regime, doing what she could to recover her
losses on the battle-field. The United States was the only
country from which she could look for help, and therefore
she seemed to be anxious to receive the new Envoys with
an apparent change of policy in shaping her commercial re-
lations with that country, and England, looked with unfavor-
able eyes upon the possible making of a new treaty with
France, which would virtually interfere with the advanta-
geous commerce, which her position, as well as other reasons,
seemed to warrant her to consider properly her own.

This summary of the existing and possible change of
affairs in Europe will show the difficulties which might, and
did, embarrass the American Minister in pushing the inter-
ests of his own country, without estranging the good-will of
England, and embroiling the United States in her hostile
measures against France. It required an amount of tact and
good judgment, which the following correspondence will
show was not wanting on his part.

170 RUFUS KING. [1800

R. Troup to R. King.

New York, January 1, 1800.
My dear Sir :

Since my last letter to you, we have been so unfortunate as to
lose our good and great General Washington. He died on the
14th ult. of an inflammation in his throat owing to a cold he had
taken. His illness lasted but about 24 hours and during the
whole time he was perfectly possessed of his senses, calm and re-
signed. . . . No man, who was not amongst us when his
death was announced, can realize the profound grief which the
mournful event universally occasioned. The emotions in every
breast, too big for utterance, held the mind for some time in a
state of complete inactivity. All business was suspended and the
only object of attention after the mind recovered its usual tone,
was the manner of paying suitable honor to the memory of the
illustrious founder of our Empire.

We soon had the public well collected and the result was the
appointment of a general committee with plenary powers to form
a plan and carry it into effect. The plan was a grand civil and
military procession to be concluded by a funeral oration to be
delivered by Gouverneur Morris, and yesterday was the day on
which the affecting tragedy was acted. . . . The awful gran-
deur of the scene — the heartrending notes of the musick — the
melancholy sound of the bells — the tears which were constantly
flowing from every eye — What shall I say ? The subject over-
whelms me, and I have not words to express my feelings.

At church, where the oration was pronounced, we had a short
but excellent prayer from Bishop Provoost. When Mr. Morris
rose to speak, all was profound silence ! Perhaps upon no occa-
sion was more expected from an orator than was expected from
Mr. Morris on the mournful event he was to commemorate. Had
ever an orator a sublimer theme for the display of his eloquence ?
No — And yet, my good friend, I left the church a most mortified
and wounded man ! Not a tear was compelled to roll ! hardly
was a sigh excited ! The oration, take the toute ensemble, had
the effect of a cold historical narrative, not that of a warm and
impassioned address. ... I give you this character of the
oration merely from my feelings. ... I have no doubt how-
ever that when the oration comes to be read, it will be found to

1800] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 171

contain good sense clothed in very classical language. The
whole city, except amongst our particular friends is expressing its
disappointment. Such a failure will be apt to deter others from
making attempts hereafter ! Indeed for various reasons the mis-
fortune is to be deplored. I give this account merely for your own
use. It would be a source of deep regret to me to hear that I
had given currency to a report injurious to Mr. Morris' talents.
I have a great respect for them, and I have always esteemed his
virtues. . . . The whole nation at present exhibits all the
symbols and badges of grief. Our churches are all hung with
black cloth, and our bells have long been muffled. The tongue
of envy and malice is dumb — and not a word and not a whisper
is heard from any mouth but in the General's praise. . . .

Jefferson has just arrived in Philadelphia. He has taken care
to avoid all ceremonies of respect to the memory of General Wash-
ington. . . . Burr appeared to take no part in our late honors
to the memory of General Washington,

Yours,

R. T.

T. Pickering to R. King.

{Private.)

Philadelphia, January 3, 1800.
Dear Sir :

My official letter of the 31st ulto. announces the determination
of the President that Mr. Sitgreaves should go to London. The
idea was suggested by his colleague, Mr. Fitzsimons. It struck
me agreeably, and I mentioned it to the President, who said he
would consider of it. The same evening at his house, Mr. Sit-
greaves being present, the President mentioned the proposition of
his going to London, and expressed strongly his approbation.
This was unexpected — for if any one of the heads of Departments
(all were present) was of a different opinion, it could not well
have been expressed. Today Mr. Wolcott, upon my speaking of
the project manifested his fears of the consequences. He ap-
prehended that it might not be grateful to you ; and that Mr.
Sitgreaves himself, seeing he could appear only as a private
American citizen, would eventually be dissatisfied. That Mr.
Macdonald would of course return to London, and that the pres-

172 RUFUS KING. [1800

ence of him and Mr. Sitgreaves might produce there the like
feuds, as unhappily existed in the Board.

These could be real evils, and I shall be extremely pained, if
either of them should flow from Mr. Sitgreaves' voyage to London.
If you were a subordinate diplomatic character, the surmise would
not be unnatural that Mr. Sitgreaves was sent to supply your
defects. But your superior talents, well known among all the
public men in London, and universally acknowledged in your
own country, must repel every idea of the kind ; and it appears
to me impossible that the mission of Mr. Sitgreaves should dero-
gate from your dignity and well-established fame. On the contrary,
I conceived that Mr. Sitgreaves might greatly lessen your labour in
the investigation of a subject incumbered with a load of papers
and that as you were personally acquainted with him, and could
justly appreciate his talents, the information to be derived from
his conversation would be as grateful as useful.

With respect to Mr. Sitgreaves himself, he perfectly understands
the character in which he is to appear — that of a private A?ner-
ican Citizen, and that as such only you will introduce him where-
ever you accompany him.

To prevent collision between him and Mr. Macdonald, they
need never see each other. But if their several communications
to their respective Ministers are to produce dissension, doubtless
Mr. Macdonald's letters have already laid the foundation for it :
doubtless they may already have produced prejudices injurious at
least to the American Commissioners, if not to the Government and
Nation. In this point of view, I thought it of some importance that
particular accusations or reproaches might receive a contradiction
from a Member as well informed and as worthy of credit ; for
it would be impracticable for you to send to America for this
reputation. Not that I suppose you would ever start any subject
of altercation, or engage in any discussion not regularly connected
with the questions of negotiation ; and certainly Lord Grenville and
you will not suffer any personal animosities of those two Commis-
sioners to disturb the tranquillity of your conferences, or to affect
the amity subsisting between the two nations. Mr. Sitgreaves'
presence by enabling you to give the other side of every question,
and to remove prejudices ought to promote and secure, instead of
hazarding the existing friendship

:8oo] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 173

I hope these ideas are not visionary ; but however you may
view this measure, I trust you will believe in the purity of my in-
tentions, and that I am and ever shall be desirous of maintaining
the honour and respect to which your character justly entitles you
and with which

I remain, sincerely your friend & ob. Servt.

Timothy Pickering.

A. Hamilton to R. King

*

New York, Jany. 5, 1800.

It is indeed a long time, my dear Sir, since I have written to
you, and I feel my obligation to you for the continuance of your
correspondence, notwithstanding my delinquency.

Had it been true that I had left everything else to follow the
drum, my delinquency would not have been so great. But our
military establishment offers too little inducement, and is too pre-
carious to have permitted a total dereliction of professional pur-
suits. The double occupation occasioned by these added mili-
tary duties, and the attention which circumstances call me to pay
to collateral objects, engage my time more than ever, and leave
me less leisure to communicate with distant friends. . . I must
however, give you some sketch of our affairs. At home every-
thing is in the main well ; except as to the perverseness and capri-
ciousness of one and the spirit of faction of many. Our measures
from the first cause are too much the effect of momentary impulse.
Vanity and jealousy exclude all counsel. Passion wrests the helm
from reason.

The irreparable loss of an estimable man removes the control
that was felt, and was very salutary.

The leading friends of the government, are in a sad dilemma.
Shall they risk a serious schism by an attempt to change ? Or
shall they annihilate themselves and hazard their cause by contin-
uing to uphold those who suspect and hate them, and who are
likely to pursue a course for no better reason than because it is
contrary to that which they approve?

The spirit of faction is abated nowhere. In Virginia it is more
violent than ever. It seems demonstrated that the leaders there,

* Works of Hamilton, vi., 416.

174 RUFUS KING, [1800

who possess completely all the powers of the local government, are
resolved to possess those of the national, by the most dangerous
combinations ; and, if they cannot effect this, to resort to the em-
ployment of physical force. The want of disposition in the people
to second them, will be the only preventive. It is believed that it
will be an effectual one.

In the two houses of Congress we have a decided majority.
But the dread of unpopularity is likely to paralyze it, and to
prevent the erection of additional buttresses to the constitution, a
fabric which can hardly be stationary, and which will retrograde
if it cannot be made to advance.

In the mass of the people the dispositions are not bad. An at-
tachment to the system of peace continues. No project contrary
to it could easily find favor. Good will towards the government,
in my opinion, predominates ; though a numerous party is still
actuated by an opposite sentiment, and some vague discontents
have a more diffused influence. Sympathy with the French Revo-
lution acts in a much narrower circle than formerly, but the
jealousy of monarchy, which is as actual as ever, still furnishes a
handle by which the factions mislead well meaning persons.

In our councils there is no fixed plan. Some are for preserving
and invigorating the navy and destroying the army. Some among
the friends of government for diminishing both on pecuniary
considerations.

My plan is to complete the navy to the contemplated extent ;
say six ships of the line, twelve frigates and twenty-four sloops of
war ; to make no alteration for the present as to the military force ;
and finally, to preserve the organs of the existing force, reducing
the men to a very moderate number. For this plan there are vari-
ous reasons that appear to me solid. I must doubt, however, that
it will finally prevail.

The recent depredations of the British cruisers, sanctioned in
various instances by the courts, have rekindled in many hearts an
animosity, which was fast being extinguished. Such persons think
they see in this circumstance a new proof of friendship towards
this country on the part of Great Britain which will always be
measured by the scale of her success. A very perplexing conflict
of sensations is the result of this impression.

I must hasten to a conclusion. It was unnecessary for me to

1800] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 75

have told you that for the loss of our illustrious friend every heart
is mourning. Adieu.

God bless you.
P. S. — Who is to be Commander-in-Chief ? Not the next in
command. The appointment will probably be deferred.

R. King to Lord Grenville.

Gr. Cumb. Place, Jany. 7, 1800.
My Lord :

I some time since mentioned to your Ldp. that my instructions
relative to the suspension of the Commission under the 6th Art. of
our treaty of Amity and Commerce were delayed for a full report
that the American Commissioners were preparing upon that sub-
ject, & which was retarded by the unavoidable interruption occa-
sioned by the contagious fever that for some months prevailed at
Philada. By the October Packet, Col. Pickering expressed to me
his concern lest from the same cause & the consequent dispersion
of the Members of our Govt., he shd. not be able to send me these
instructions earlier than by the December Packet. Notwithstand-
ing this intimation I was not without hopes that they might be
prepared in season to have been received by the Packet of No-
vember that arrived on Friday last. By her I have received
Dispatches from Col. Pickering which inform me that the public
offices, which had been removed from Philada. during the fever,
had just returned & that as soon as the President arrived in
Philada., which would happen in a few days after the date of my
Letters, my instructions would be submitted to him for his appro-
bation. I therefore expect to receive them by the packet that
leaves the United States early in December. This packet will be
due on the 14th inst., and may be daily expected. No time shall
be lost after the receipt of my instructions in the sincere endeavor
to concert with your Ldp. such arrangements as being calculated
to establish the just and equitable views of the Parties, will operate
to preserve the usual intercourse & Harmony on which in some
degree depend the mutual Prosperity of the two countries.

With perfect consideration &c.

Rufus King.

1/6 RUFUS KING. [1800

Lord Grenville to R. King.

{Private?)

Dropmore, Jany. 11, 1800.
Dear Sir :

I inclose you the letter which I have received from Mr. Liston *
with the only one of the inclosures which you probably have not.
Observing the use which Mr. Pickering makes of your communica-
tions you will not be surprised at my desiring from you as a man of
honour a promise that this communication shall not go beyond
yourself. I make it in order that you may see the subject such as
it is now laid before me & brought to its issue. I think you are
too candid and just to imagine that men doing their duty to their
country, can see in the delay of sending your instructions any-
other object but the delay. It is not, however, for the purpose of
putting you in the unpleasing difficulty of either acknowledging
that which must be painful for you to acknowledge, or defending

* Mr. Liston's (No. 60) to Lord Grenville, concerning the stoppage of the
Proceedings of the Commission, under the sixth Article of the Treaty of Amity,
by the refusal of the American Members to attend. This incloses a letter from
these Commrs. giving the reasons for their action, with a Copy of a letter from
Col. Pickering written to Peter Porcupine (William Cobbett), attempting "to
justify the conduct of the American Commissioners by the argument perpetually
and triumphantly brought forward in their favor in this country (U. S.), the
Example of those of G. Britain acting under the 7th Article of the Treaty."
This letter of Col. Pickering is dated Phil. Aug. 19, 1799, and contains among
other things the following :

" The simple fact is, that the British & American Commrs. differ totally on
some fundamental principles — and there being no way but that of secession to
avoid their sweeping effects, the Amern. Commrs. have seceded. This is not a
novelty. The Commrs. in London, under the 7th Article of the Treaty, differed
in certain points, & the two British Commrs. twice seceded. By the friendly
communications between Mr. King, the Amer. Minr. , & Lord Grenville & the
Lord Chancellor, the difficulties were removed, the points contended for by the
British Commrs. were abandoned by their Government & the Commission pro-
ceeded. One of those points the Lord Chancellor frankly told Mr. King was
absurd ! I hope & I trust that not one of the principles insisted on by the Amer.
Comrs. here & for which they have seceded, will be found to merit a similar
Epithet. Nothing was said of these British Secessions seeing the causes were
satisfactorily removed & the manifest interests of the two Nations rendered
mutual silence expedient. A like course by negotiation will now be pursued.
Mr. King will be instructed on the subject & I have no doubt of an amicable
result. I am &c. Timothy Pickering."

1800] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. \JJ

that which is indefensible, that I trouble you with this confidential
letter. It is simply to ask whether anything has come to your
knowledge which varies the state of this case, such as it is repre-
sented in Mr. Liston's letter, & such as I must therefore bring it
under the immediate consideration of the King's servants.

No man more laments this state of things than myself. No one
has gone, or would have gone greater lengths to avoid it, & I am
sure, if the thing had been possible, I should have found in you a
hearty co-operation. But when the business is brought to its issue
we must do our respective duties & hope we shall do so without
diminishing that personal esteem which I flatter myself is mutual
and with which I shall ever be

Most sincerely, my dear sir, your faithful humble Servant,

Grenville.

R. King to Lord Grenville.

{Private.)

Jany. 13, 1800.

My Lord :

Having written the enclosed letter to yr. Ldp., I will not detain
it for my answer to yr. Ldp.'s letter of the nth instant, which I
will send as soon as the Copy of a lengthy Paper, that I propose
should accompany it, can be made.

I have the honor to be &c.

R. King.

R. King to Lord Grenville.

{Private.)

Great Cumbd. Place, Jany. 13, 1800.
My Lord :

I return Mr. Liston's letter with its enclosure & desire yr. Ldp.
to be assured that I shall consider them together with yr. Ldp's
letter as a communication strictly personal and confidential.

Your Lordship can be at no loss to discriminate between the
Duty of a Foreign Minister in the full & unreserved information
he gives to his Gov't and the prudence that in all countries should
restrain the unnecessary publication of his correspondence. I
will only add upon this subject what I flatter myself is in some de-

VOL III — 12

178 RUFUS KING. [1800

gree unnecessary to remark to your Lordship that on all occasions
I have aimed at accuracy as well as impartiality in my communi-
cations of whatever passed between any member of the Br. Gov't
& myself. On the present occasion I have concluded to send
your Ldp. in confidence an entire copy of my letter to Col. Pick-
ering referred to in his letter to Mr. Cobbett, in order that yr.
Ldp. as well as the Ld. Chancellor may be enabled to appreciate
the justice of the preceeding remark. The aim of Mr Liston's
letter appears to be not only to vindicate the character of his
countryman Mr. Macdonald & to sanction by his opinion the
proceedings of the three British Commrs., but to fix upon the
American Govt, the charge of an intentional Delay in preparing
its instructions to me upon the subject of the disagreement be-
tween the American & British Commrs. In respect to the first,
I can perceive no advantage in adding a single reflection to those
that must unavoidably suggest themselves to any impartial & un-
prejudiced individual, who reads the papers exchanged between
the Commrs. In a public note that I have this morning sent to
yr. Lp. I have stated the purport of the information that I have
reed, from Col. Pickering, accounting for the delay that has
occurred in the completion of my instructions, which I am in
daily expectation of receiving. I will not, however, conceal from
yr. Ldp. my regrets that this delay has happened, because, purely
casual as I believe it to have been, when seen solely in connexion
with some other contemporaneous occurrences, it has appeared to
me capable of producing the very effect that by the tenor of yr.
Ldp's letter I am sorry to perceive it has done.

So far from feeling any embarrassment in consequence of yr.
Ldp's letter I am glad of the occasion it affords me of assuring
you, that the suspicion which yr. Ldp. appears to entertain with
so little hesitation, is not only unsupported by a single presump-
tion within my knowledge, but it is my sincere & firm persuasion
that time will shew that it is incapable of support. That Delay
can be sought for Delay's sake, and with the intention at the same
time of a fair and ultimate adjustment of the disagreement be-
tween the Commissrs. is a supposition that will not gain credit
with yr. Ldp., nor with any one not heated by personal contro-
versy, which is almost sure to throw even the fairest minds off
their natural Bias. But if other measures in themselves of im-

l8oo] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. \ 79

portance are supposed to be combined with the Delay in question,
I am free to admit that it loses the character of casualty that
constitutes its apology ; or to speak more plainly, if the Delay is
believed to be intended for the purpose of giving an opportunity
to our Envoys to ascertain the result of a previous negotiation
with France, it would be natural to expect that yr. Ldp. should
see & recommend to others to act upon the subject in the obnox-
ious light in which it has been represented. But my conviction
that this cannot be the fact arises not only from the respect I feel
myself inclined to bestow upon the integrity of the Govt. I serve,
but from my intimate knowledge of the sentiments and of the
manner of thinking of almost every member in its administration.
Nor is it from the public relation I bear to these characters, that
I arrive at this Confidence ; it proceeds from having acted with
them in the public service for a series of years, in the course of
which frequent occasions occurred that called forth their opinions
upon analogous subjects. The President, as well as his Ministers,
were all of them in favour of the adoption of the Treaty negotiated
by yr. Ldp and Mr Jay, a fact, by itself, it seems to me, sufficient
to do away the suspicion of a Plan calculated to overturn one of
the most public & important measures of their Lives ; for the
decision of that question was considered as deciding (and that
too in a state of the public opinion, as well as of the relative
situation of Engd. & France, very different from the present) the
degree of intimacy & political friendship that our welfare and
prosperity required that we should maintain with the former of
these Countries in opposition to the wishes of the latter. Your
Ldp. cannot be unacquainted either with the exertions of our
Governmt. aided by the very characters now at the head of its
affairs, together with the most enlightened and influential men in
all parts of our Country, to accomplish this purpose, or with the
dissatisfaction that immediately manifested itself in France upon
the establishment of good will & harmony between our respective
Countries. What reason then can be suggested, & especially in
the present condition of the affairs of France for a change in this
well considered system of Policy ? a system that our uniform
conduct, as well as our military preparations in opposition to
France, have given satisfactory proof of a disposition to maintain.
I have heard of none, nor am I able to conjecture any, unless it

l8o RUFUS KING. [1800

be the unfounded as well as inadequate one, of avoiding the Pay-
ment of the Debts secured to British creditors by the Treaty of
1783 : I say unfounded, because I possess the recent unqualified
& explicit assurance of the President, communicated thro' Col.
Pickering, that he entertains a firm determination to give complete
effect to the stipulations upon this subject of the Treaty of 1795,
& that the overtures that I shall be authorized to make to his
Majesty's Gov't will be calculated fully to attain this salutary end.
I consider this reason is inadequate, because the obvious conse-
quence would be the loss of all compensation of the claims of
American citizens under the 7th article of the same Treaty, which,
as to the mass of these claims, remains unexecuted & constitutes
an interest under the controul of G. B. that may be considered as
equivalent to that of the Posts, which while in his Majesty's pos-
session were thought an adequate Pledge for the payment of the
Debts due to Br. Subjects.

I cannot refrain from pursuing this subject a little further, and
always on the supposition that is contested. If the gaining of
time to ascertain the issue of the negotiations with France, is the
object of the Delays, it must be with the intention of a fair and
satisfactory settlement of the disagreement between the Commis-
sioners, in case the negotiation fails — an event that wd. be certain
to lessen the probability of such a settlement, or it must be with the
expectation of an open rupture in case the mission to Paris should
effect a restoration of the former intercourse & harmony between
France & America. If we were restrained by no other considera-
tion, wd. it not be to ascribe to our Govt, an incapacity & want
of foresight greater than anything in its character will warrant,
and beyond what any Govt, has shown, to believe that we are
willing to incur the certain losses that from an extensive naviga-
tion we should be sure to sustain, and the unavoidable expense
& derangement to which we should be exposed in the course of a
war, at the conclusion of which we might be required and should
perhaps consent to do what upon the assumed hypothesis, we
entered into the war to avoid ?

I abstain from touching upon those other considerations, which
respect the nature and continuance of our present relations to
Gr. Britain, so dissimilar from those subsisting between us &
France, or upon some other Topics that your Ldp. will doubtless

:8oo] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. l8l

examine & particularly as they may be supposed to relate to the
further extension of the false & dangerous notions in Morality
& Politics which have been and continue to be the source of so
much mischief in Europe, and which I am confident yr. Ldp.
would sincerely regret to see prevail in America. I cannot how-
ever help observing that situated as Mr. Liston was at the date of
his dispatch, (the Epoch of the order for our Envoys to proceed
to Paris) in a scene much agitated by a recent popular Election,
which seems to have excited in an unusual degree the public
passions & prejudices, he was in some measure disqualified to
judge of the real public opinion of the country, & in some danger
of confounding the great mass of the Nation with the zealots by
whom he was surrounded. The like observation applies to his
remark upon the unfair use of the American Presses. I will say
nothing concerning the vindication that was intended to have
been published, nor of the impediment that is supposed to have
prevented it. But confident as I am of the Error of the opinion
that ascribes to us a systematic plan to elude the performance of
a public Engagement, I am unwilling to close this letter without
repeating to your Lordship my firm Persuasion that the Delay
has proceeded from causes altogether foreign to those that have
been imagined, & that with a little Patience we shall in a little
time see the refutation of the former of these opinions, in the
evidence that will be exhibited in confirmation of the latter.

With sincere esteem &c. &c.

Rufus King.

CHAPTER XIII.

Cabot to King — President in private Circles distrusts France — Opinions of
leading Men on the Result of the Mission — Especially of the southern
Politicians — King to Secretary of State — Disposition to couple Delay in
his Instructions with Mission to France — Has positively stated that is not
so — Yet feels himself embarrassed — Nothing will be done until these in-
jurious Suspicions are removed — Envoys not yet in France — England,
Russia, and the Porte pledged not to make a separate Peace with France
— King to Troup — Thought in England the Envoys will make a Treaty —
Cannot see how when Mission once broached it could be laid aside — Lord
Buchan — Condolence on the Death of Washington — King to Troup — Death
of Washington — His character a steadying Power — To Secretary of State
— Unfair and dishonest Condemnation by French Prize Tribunals used by
English Underwriters against Americans — King to Lord Grenville —
Georgia Records lost during the War — Sedgwick to King — Bankrupt Bill
and proposed Amendments — Pickering to King — Hopes that an equitable
Adjustment relative to Commission on 6th Article may soon be made —
President's Sense of Injury done by the unjust Suspicions.

G. Cabot to R. King.

January 20, 1800.

My dear Sir :

We feel now many of the ill effects which the mission to France
was supposed likely to produce. The firm and active supporters
of antijacobin politics are no longer trusted or countenanced by

the P nt, on the contrary he thinks or affects to think them

his enemies, and in this description are included Pg, Wt. &
McHy. The embarrassment is felt everywhere and no one of
the Leading Politicians at Phila. con suits freely or is consulted by
the others. Moderate men are made jealous of their guides and
all the temporizing Federalists incline to the side of those who>
are the advocates for the mission. Some would think it strange,,
:8oo] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 83

butyou will not, that the P. shou'd still hold the same antijacobin
language in private circles he used to do before the mission was
proposed. It is true however that he does and has often ex-
pressed an opinion that the safety of our country requires that
full scope shou'd be given to the sentiments of distrust, indigna-
tion and even detestation toward revy. France. It is pretended
that all these feelings, which are just and necessary, will be
revived and increased by the mission ; that the overtures of
France were seen to be insidious and intended to divide us, and
that our measures have defeated theirs and that the Directory
are totally disappointed of their aim, while we are consolidating
our union, strengthening our Govt, and preparing the country for
a unanimous declaration of war.

There was a period it was said by some that France was no
longer to be feared and that a general peace was unavoidable.
Then again it was said, there wou'd be no peace, but the allies
from success would be insolent and dangerous, so that policy
required every weight to be thrown into an opposite scale to pre-
serve the equilibrium of Europe. Nov/ it is discovered that the
coalition is dissolving ; France renewing her triumphs, confirm-
ing her power, ought to be conciliated by those who wou'd avoid
the vengeance of an irritated and virtuous nation. All these
speculations in their turn amuse without satisfying us, and leave
us to lament that our own course was plain on every supposition
and that we have unadvisedly diverted from it.

The Southern opposition men say that the P. has been forced
by public opinion to attempt negotiation again contrary to his own
wishes, but that he has selected improper persons, and by the
advice of bad ministers has demanded such terms as must render
success impracticable. They admit, however, he has some merit
in listening at all to the public voice, and they hope much from
french magnanimity which knows how to appreciate every circum-
stance and will doubtless make great allowance for the depressed
state of Republicanism under the present administration. On
the other hand the Southern Federalists insist that the whole pro-
ceeding is sincere, wise & prudent, & if it fails, will be a new proof
of the perfidy, injustice & irreconcilable enmity of the French
rulers.

If the mission succeeds, the antiswill argue from it that all the

1 84 RUFUS KING. [18

oo

former allegations against France were false ; and if it fails, they
have already said it is not a fair trial and another ought to be made.
These views of the subject are a little different among the
Southern Politicians from those entertained here & they render
a union of action difficult between the Federalists and ours ; on
their ground the mission is justified, on ours it is not.

In Congress, you see Genl. M. is a leader. He is I think a vir-
tuous & certainly an able man ; but you see in him the faults of
a Virginian. He thinks too much of that State, & he expects the
world will be governed according to the Rules of Logic. I have
seen such men often become excellent legislators after experience
has cured their errors. I hope it will prove so with Genl. M., who
seems calculated to act a great part.

I am greatly chagrined at the disastrous close of a Campaign,
which promised everything to my hopes. The States of Europe
seem to have profited by the Revy. lessons as little as we have
done. I trust however they will find sufficient instruments, as
they certainly possess abundant means, to crush forever the mon-
ster that has risen in France.

Yours faithfully & affectionately

G. C.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 58.

London, Jany. 22, 1800.
Dear Sir :

A disposition has appeared to couple the delay that has occurred
in the Transmission of the instructions concerning the disagree-
ment between the commissioners at Philada. with the Mission to
France. The influence of this suspicion upon the relations be-
tween the U. S. & Engd. need not be suggested. It has been my
aim to do away this impression by ascribing the Delay to the
derangement in consequence of the fever, and to other causes
equally foreign to those that have been imagined ; and I believe
I am not mistaken in supposing that the subject will not be
brought before the cabinet, as was intended, before the arrival of
the next packet. Tho' I have taken care not to state positively,
or with confidence, that the instructions will be sent by the Deer.

t8oo] life and correspondence. 185

Packet, I shall deeply regret, & may be much embarrassed in case
they shd. not be, for with the temper I have for some time per-
ceived, and after the evidence of its character that I have sent
you, I should not be disappointed if it manifests itself to our dis-
advantage on the first occasion that may be deemed convenient.
I receive no answers to the notes, copies of which I have trans-
mitted to you, nor shall I receive any until the injurious suspi-
cions of our views are removed.

I omit no means proper to be employed to keep things in a
condition favorable to a candid and satisfactory explanation &
adjustment. In doing so you may be assured that I maintain
with firmness the Rectitude of our Govt, preserving always a due
respect for those to whom I address myself. My language is that
we are & shall continue to be just to every nation ; that we desire
to avoid misunderstandings with any ; and having entered into
no engagements, which oblige us to depart from this system, our
efforts to remain at Peace with all nations cannot be the occasion
of dissatisfaction to any.

We have no account that our Envoys have reached France,
tho' they sailed from Lisbon on the 21st of Decemr. It is mere
conjecture that I am inclined to believe that they will be received
with marks of respect & esteem, & that they will conclude a
treaty. Shod, this be the case, I hope we may not be precipitate
in relinquishing our naval & military preparations ; if France is
insincere, or incapable to perform what she promises, we shall
again want them ; if the contrary shd. happen, we may not have
less occasion for them.

The newspapers contain the whole correspondence between
this country & France on the subject of Peace. I will not there-
fore increase my postage by including a copy of it. The inter-
ruption of the mails from Hamburgh for the last six weeks
prevents our knowing whether the like overtures have been made
to Austria and Russia.

Engd. & Russia, Russia & the Porte, and probably Engd. &
the Porte are pledged to each other not to agree to any negotia-
tion for a separate Peace, and some of the friends of the admin-
istration say this shd. have been the short answer to the overture
of France. Parliament met yesterday, Mr. Fox & the other
members of the opposition who seceded, will resume their seats.

1 86 RUFUS KING. [1800

The expedition to Holland & the refusal to treat with France will
be the subjects of altercation. The Union of Ireland according
to present appearances will soon be accomplished. I have reed,
your letters to No. 70 inclusive.

With perfect respect,

Rufus King.

R. King to R. Troup.

London, Jany. 24, 1S00.

I have yours of Nov. 6. England, as you will see by the pub-
lication of the correspondence between Lord Grenville & Mr.
Talleyrand rejects all overtures for a negotiation. Some per-
sons, who approve of the Refusal, say the answer slid, have been
confined to the single point of her engagements to her allies,
Russia and the Porte, not to conclude a separate peace. We
hear that the opposition mean to attack the answer, and also to
move an Enquiry into the Dutch Expedition.

Our Envoys sailed from Lisbon for L'Orient on the 21 ult. and
are without doubt at or near Paris. It is here thought almost
sure that they will conclude a treaty with the first Consul. You
will naturally enough suppose the effect of the measure on my
situation, and that it will not strew my path with roses — don't
infer from this that I disapprove of the Mission. I cannot decide
in a case, the circumstances of which are unknown to me, and
therefore say nothing of the first nomination ; but that, having
been publickly made, I have never been able to perceive how it
could be laid entirely aside. I do not understand the disagree-
ment to which you allude, nor upon what Points our political
Friends at Albany are in danger of dividing — be more explicit as
I should think it a serious calamity to the State slid, any such
event happen. . . . Rufus King.

Lord Buchan to R. King.

Lord Buchan presents his respectfull compliments to the
Minister of the United States of America, sincerely condoling
with him on the heavy loss they have with all good men sustained
in the death of General Washington and entreating of him to for-
ward the inclosed letter.

Dryburgh Abbey Jany 28. 1800.

1800] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 87

R. King to R. Troup.

London, Feby. 1, 1800.
I have your obliging and friendly Letter of the 12th of Dec,
and also an afflicting one of a later date by the Packet. It is but
a few days since we reed, this distressing news ; but so far as my
information extends, it has produced sentiments and expressions
highly honorable to the deceased and which reflect honor upon
our country. The authority of his character was a steadying
power in our System, of the force and influence of wh. we were
ignorant during his life. My hope, and I will add, my belief is,
great as it certainly was, that we shall still go on pretty much as
formerly and without any material derangement. . . .

R. King.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 59.

London, Feby. 3, 1800.
Dear Sir :

The Grantham Packet has arrived after a short passage &
brought me your dispatch concerning the 6th article of the
English Treaty. I have this day sent a note to Ld. Grenville on
that subject that will probably lead to the commencement of the
negotiation. At present therefore I cannot give you any opinion
respecting it. No exertion on my part will be wanting to bring
it to a satisfactory conclusion & I can be answerable for nothing
further. We are still without news of the envoys, tho' I enter-
tain no concern respecting them. They went to L'Orient, and
all that quarter is in revolt, so that no communication exists be-
tween L'Orient & Paris. Our people have a large property in-
sured in this country & condemned in the French prize Tribunals.
The sentences of these Prize courts are unfairly and dishonestly
made use of by the English underwriters to defeat us in their
courts. I know not whether the subject occurred to you in draw-
ing up the Instructions to the Envoys ; but I am considering it,
and tho' I have judged it prudent to avoid all correspondence
with the Envoys, I am preparing a letter which I think of sending
to them, representing the importance of the subject & suggesting

1 88 RUFUS KING. [1800

the advantages that we should receive by the reversal in the
French Tribunals of the last resort of these sentences. Tho' I
have not yet given the subject all the consideration that it is my in-
tention to do, I do not perceive any Reason likely to influence
the French Govt, to refuse what would be our interest in this
respect ; while I think I see more than one motive to induce
them to agree to it.

It is believed that arrangements have been fallen upon to pro-
duce a reconciliation between the two Imperial Courts & that the
campaign will soon be opened ; but we are without late mails,
and, therefore, without late & positive information on this head.

With perfect Respect, &c.

R. King.

R. King to Lord Grenville.

London, Feby. 6, 1800.
My Lord :

I have lately received a letter from the Gov. of Georgia, repre-
senting the very great embarrassment to which many of the In-
habitants of that State are exposed in consequence of the loss
which happened during the war of a variety of records & other
public papers belonging to the office of the Secretary and Sur-
veyor Genl. of that State.

It has been apprehended that these papers were destroyed or
totally lost ; but on enquiry in some of the public offices of this
country, I have reason to believe that several trunks containing
these papers together with others belonging to the State of So.
Carolina were brought from the U. S. & deposited at the Treas-
ury, from whence it is believed they were removed together with
the Papers which related to the claims of the Amn. Loyalists to a
vault under Somerset House. It is not I am confident requisite
to observe to your Lordship that it was agreed by the Treaty of
Peace that all papers of this description should be restored. The
fact has doubtless been that both Govts, have hitherto been
ignorant of their existence & situation. When I remark to yr.
Ldp. that the titles to the lands of many of the Inhabitants of
Georgia, as well as the security of their Estates under the Laws
of the Colony materially depend upon the repossession of these

i8oo] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 89

missing records & papers, I am confident that I state a circum-
stance that will engage yr. Ldp. to present this application to his
Majesty, with the view that orders may be given for a search for
these papers & for their delivery to me for the use of the States
of Georgia & So. Carolina respectively.

With the greatest consideration &c

Rufus King.

T. Sedgwick to R. King.

Philadelphia, 6 Feby., 1800.
Dear Sir :

. . . I am sorry that I cannot write to you more satisfactorily
than is in my power on the result of the present session. It was
always my opinion that the public were greatly interested in ren-
dering meetings of congress as short as possible, consistently with
doing the necessary business of the nation. That idea, however,
never appeared to make less impression than at the present session ;
none of the great measures which are indispensable are yet ma-
tured, by the reports of Committees, for the consideration of the
legislature.

The Bankrupt Bill has not yet passed thro' the House of Rep-
resentatives & to my mind it is doubtful whether it will pass. This
measure I believe to be important as well in a commercial as in a
political view. Respecting the latter it will lessen opposition to
the Government by the most active & clamorous description of
persons, debtors finding an interest in its support ; while the whole
of our commercial men will have additional reasons for their
activity in their favorable regard to it. It will, too, more than any
measure the Government can adopt, render an extension of the
judiciary necessary. These and other tho' less important benefits
to the Government are clearly discerned by the opposition, and
consequently every member of it, except Livingston, who has con-
flicting motives, will vote against the Bill. On the other hand
there are causes which detach several federalists from its support.
In New England it will break in upon our system of attachment
laws, which from habit & education have more favor than their
merit entitles them to ; and in Virginia, in one instance, will ren-
der lands liable to the payment of debts and may form a precedent

190 RUFUS KING. [1800

for the extension of that principle. During the progress of the
Bill, Gen. Marshall has made provision to decide on two subjects
by jury, if required by the party, 1. the question of bankrupt or no
bankrupt & 2. the amount of the debt. The second may not in
practice be found very perplexing, the first I presume will be infi-
nitely so. To this the friends of the bill were obliged to submit
or render its rejection certain. This gentleman is, as you know,
a man of fine talents, and I have no doubt, of perfect honor and
integrity, but like all the men I have seen from that State, who
have talents, too much guided by the refinements of Theory. . .

Yours very sincerely,

T. S.

T. Pickering to R. King.

Department of State, Feby. 7, 1800.
Dear Sir :

My letter of the 31st December expressed to you the ideas and
conclusions of the President on the several subjects of negociation
relative to the question of the sixth article of the Treaty of Amity,
Commerce and Navigation between the United States and Great
Britain. It was then expected that a further consideration of the
matter would have suggested and required additional instructions ;
but the President is satisfied to leave it on the basis at that time
proposed. The additional documents which Mr. Sitgreaves takes
with him will give you a more perfect knowledge of the extent and
nature of the claims, the equitable adjustment of which is the ob-
ject of the proposed negociation ; and with views mutually upright,
the President trusts it may soon be brought to an honorable
conclusion.

But this letter cannot be closed, without expressing to you the
President's sense of the injury done to the American Commission-
ers and Government by the suspicion which appears to have been
suggested, if not entertained, by the British Administration, that
the final secession of the American Commissioners from the Board
was caused or influenced by any considerations of interest either
to individuals or the States, to arise by delaying awards and pay-
ments. Such a suspicion should be repelled with earnestness and
even with disdain.

CHAPTER XIV.

Sedgwick to King — His Task to accommodate the Differences with G. Britain —
France's Conduct viewed with Disgust, even Horror — King to Secretary of
State — Russian and Austrian Disagreements, also Austrian and English
financial ones settled — Envoys at Corunna — King to Lord Grenville — Rela-
tive to the Disagreement of the Commission at Philadelphia — To Secretary
of State — Speaks of Conference above referred to — Scarcity of Bread in
Great Britain — Expedition preparing possibly to assist the Revolt of the
Spanish Colonies — To Pickering — Will be glad to see Mr. Sitgreaves — En-
voys to France — Insurance in England affected by Decisions of French
Courts — To Secretary of State — On the News of the Death of Washington,
he put his Family in Mourning — Attending next Levee of the King and of
the Queen — Neither made Allusion to the Event — Concerted Neglect —
Dinner at Carleton House a Year before ; Washington toasted — The Prince
of Wales broke up the Party — General News.

Theodore Sedgwick to R. King.

Philadelphia, ii Feby., 1800.
Dear Sir :

Again I write to you by our friend Mr. Sitgreaves. The busi-
ness which sends him to you I have long apprehended might
assume a serious aspect, and I am much mistaken, if you will not
be gratified, that the government has afforded you the aid of his
information and talents in the adjustment of it. His manly and
intelligent conduct, in the management of a business so important
and intricate and delicate, has, in the opinion of all our friends,
added to the respectability of his character.

It will be an arduous task to accommodate our differences with
G. Britain, and splendid will be the reputation of that man who
can effect it. That task is yours. There never existed two nations
which had a stronger interest in mutual confidence & amity than
that country and this. It is in her option whether they exist, or
I92 RUFUS KING. [1800

the reverse take place. If her councils respecting us are wise and
temperate and just, the powers of our government will continue in
the hands of men who discern and will pursue the public interests.
But, on the contrary, if her conduct towards us is intemperate &
irritating, the alternative is inevitable ; we must retaliate or lose
the public confidence & with it the power of government, which
will pass into hands, whose enmity to G. B. is deadly and
irreconcilable.

That a late measure may be deemed by some an evidence that
our government sympathized with France, I am sensible ; and
yet I know that such a conclusion would be untrue. I do not
believe, I never did believe that measure to be wise. I know the
motives from which it originated ; I have heretofore detailed
them to you, in confidence. It is a misfortune that they
cannot, creditably, be exposed. I do know that the conduct of
France, her policy & designs, at the moment that measure was
taken, were viewed not only with disgust, but with a degree of
horror.

The late explosion in France affords here abundant materials
for conjecture. Many, I believe most, of our friends hope, and
therefore believe, it indicates a reestablishment of royalty. I
hope too, but I do not believe. There is nothing in the character
of the principal agents, nor do their circumstances render that
event probable, if indeed it be possible. Is the coalition in
Europe dissolved ? Can the Emperor resist the efforts of
France ? Are not the resources of England nearly exhausted ?
Does not the revolutionary state of France, in the conflict she is
maintaining, give her infinite advantages over the opposing states
under regularly organized governments ? Are not the affairs of
France in hands as firm, and guided by as much wisdom & genius
as at any period of the revolution ? Have not all the materials
composing the present power of France qualities irreconcilable
with royalty ? and must not all its ministers and agents first be
removed before the former order of things can be restored ?

Here we are moving on slowly. If we have not the power to do
much good, we shall I hope prevent any positive evil. The house
has passed a resolution to rise on the first Monday in April. I
fear we shall not be able to effect it. The subject of finance is
not yet brought forward. We contemplate a reform of our judi-

:8oo] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 193

cial by creating a number of new districts, by associating the dis-
trict judges to form circuit courts, and by instituting the office of
Justice of the peace with merely ministerial powers. The bank-
rupt bill, I fear, will be lost, tho' it has passed to a third reading
this day. I have a project for extending turnpike roads under
the authority of this government, but, as yet, I know not how far
it may be rendered palatable. . . .

Ever yours affectly.
T. S.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 60.

London, Feby. 14, 1800.
Dear Sir :

I have not yet had a conference with Lord Grenville, whose
time, as I have been informed, is at present wholly taken up by the
active and urgent negotiations in which this country is engaged
relative to the approaching campaign. / have not pressed his
Lordship by a second* application, because were he ready I should be
obliged to defer a final agreement on every point until the arrival of
Mr. Sitgreaves. As I have before informed you, the disagree-
ment between the two Imperial Courts in consequence of the
complaints of Suwarrow, was settled, and not only the order that
had been given to him to return home with his army was revoked,
but new corps were put in motion to reinforce the Russians, who
were to act upon the Rhine. Of a sudden this order is recalled,
in consequence of some fresh misunderstanding that has taken
place between Petersburgh & Vienna. We are told altho' the
Russians will not cooperate with the Austrians, that they will accept
the subsidies of, & concur with England and against the common
enemy ; but where & how they are to be employed is not ex-
plained. The pecuniary disagreement between Austria & Eng-
land is settled, and the latter will grant German subsidies &
probably guaranty another loan to Austria. Our Envoys landed
at Corunna, & have demanded & received Passports to proceed
to Paris where Mr. Murray, who will leave the Hague on the 18th
instant, expects to meet them.

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c. &c.

Rufus King.

* Italics in cipher.

VOL. III.— 13

194 RUFUS KING. [1800

Mr. King, having received such information by official
instructions as warranted him in making to Lord Grenville
a formal communication of the views of the American Gov-
ernment relative to the disagreement of the Commission
under the 6th Article of the Treaty of Amity, Commerce,
and Navigation between the United States and Great
Britain, delivered at a conference with Lord Grenville on
February 18, 1800, the following paper.

R. King to Lord Grenville.

a

Without discussing the disagreement that ended in the suspen-
sion of the Board of Commissioners, acting under the 6th Article
of the Treaty of Amity, Commerce & Navigation between the
United States & Great Britain, it not being perceived that any
advantage, in reference to the future and satisfactory execution
of that article would be likely to arise from such discussion ; it
is proposed on the part of the United States, that the Plenipoten-
tiaries of the two countries should endeavour to agree in such
explanation, respecting the said article, as shall secure to the
creditors on the side of Great Britain the full benefit of all the
rights to which they are entitled, whether in virtue of their respec-
tive contracts, or from the provisions of the Treaties between the
two countries; and at the same time mark more clearly the limits
of the Engagements of the United States.

" From the extensive Commercial Dealings between Great Britain
and America, Debts to a considerable amount were due to British
Creditors at the Commencement of the American War ; these
Debts, exclusive of the irrevocable losses occasioned by the insol-
vency of Debtors in the course of that War, were affected by
various Laws passed in several of the States, as well as by the
apprehension lest the creditors might after the Peace be obliged
to receive payment in a depreciated Paper money ; to guard
against this apprehension, as well as to remove every obstruction
proceeding from the Laws of any of the States, the fourth Article
of the Treaty of Peace provided ' that Creditors on either side
shall meet with no lawful impediments in the recovery of the full
value in sterling money of all bona-fide Debts heretofore con-
tracted.' Complaints were afterwards made by divers British

l8oo] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. I95

Creditors that lawful impediments had been suffered to exist
within the United States contrary to the aforesaid Provision of
the Treaty of Peace, and that by the operation thereof they had
sustained Losses & Damages which could not be repaired in the
ordinary courts of Justice ; in consequence of which complaints
it was agreed by the 6th Article of the Treaty of Amity, that in
all such cases, where full compensation for such Losses & Dam-
ages could not be obtained in the ordinary Courts of Justice, the
same should be made by the United States, it being at the same
time understood & further agreed that this Provision should in-
clude such Losses only as were occasioned by such insolvency of
the Debtors, or other causes, as would equally have operated to
have produced the same, if the said impediments had not existed,
nor the Losses & Damages been occasioned by the delay, neg-
ligence or wilful omission of the claimant.

" From hence it appears that the aim of the Treaty of Peace was
in this respect to do away every impediment in Law to the recov-
ery of all bona-fide Debts therein described, and to leave to the
Creditors the free legal remedy to which they were respectively
entitled at the time when the Debts were created ; and that the
object of the Treaty of Amity, so far as it respects this subject,
was not the removal of lawful impediments, for none existed at
its Conclusion, nor to pledge the United States to pay the Debts
due to British Creditors ; but to secure to the Creditors, under
certain limitations, compensation from the United States for all
losses as had been occasioned by the operation of lawful impedi-
ments since the Treaty of Peace, and which could not, at the
conclusion of the Treaty of Amity &c. be recovered from the
Debtors in the ordinary Courts of Justice.

" To establish a claim then against the United States, in virtue
of the Treaty of Amity, it is conceived that the Creditors should
give satisfactory proof to the Commissioners,

" 1. That the debt was bona-fide contracted before & remained
unpaid at the Peace.

" 2. That the Debtor was solvent at the Peace & that the
Creditor used reasonable diligence to obtain Payment.

" 3. That lawful impediments prevented his recovery of pay-
ment, and that during their operation, the Debtor became insol-
vent & continued to be so at the conclusion of the Treaty of
Amity &c.

I96 RUFUS KING. [1800

" To avoid misapprehension, it is thought adviseable informally
to present in the shape of separate articles such principles as,
according to the spirit and object of the 6th Article of the
Treaty of Peace, are deemed on the part of the United States
proper to constitute the Basis of the desired Explanations.
These are also accompanied by a few observations suggesting
some of the reasons on which they severally depend for support."

This examination of the articles, and the explanations of
the principles upon which the United States considered the
disputed points should be settled, are of such length and in
such detail, covering ten pages of closely written foolscap
paper, as to forbid their introduction here. The general
result is that there has been a failure on the part of the
present Commissioners under the 6th Article of the treaty
to agree in construing its meaning as it was understood by
the Commissioners of the United States, which resulted in
the withdrawal of the American members from the confer-
ences, and that it is evident

" after what has passed no reasonable expectation can be enter-
tained of a satisfactory execution of the 6th Article of the Treaty
of Amity by the present Commissioners. Whoever reads their
correspondence or the minutes of their Proceedings, whatever
may be his opinion of their respective merits, must agree in this
conclusion. The appointment of other Commissioners appears
therefore to be indispensable ; and that they may not succeed to
the controversy, in succeeding to the duties of their predecessors,
the proposed provision with respect to the decision of the present
Board of Commissioners seems equally necessary.* ... It
is proper that there should be a limitation of time within which
each side should produce their proofs."

* " All claims preferred to the Board heretofore appointed, and not dis-
missed by the said Board, shall be considered as depending before the Commis-
sioners to be appointed in virtue hereof ; but the Commissioners appointed in
virtue of this Article shall not be bound by any acts or resolutions passed or
proposed to be passed by the former Board in any cases not dismissed by the
said former Board."

l8oo] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 97

To this communication no answer was given until June
9th, when Lord Grenville, in a private note to Mr. King,
stated, as will be seen, that

" any discussion of them [the Proposals] would have been on our
part an admission of the propriety of treating afresh upon a sub-
ject long since settled by a Treaty, the British part of which has
been faithfully and unreservedly executed, and under circum-
stances of objection not materially differing from those now urged
by the Government of the United States as a plea for opening a
fresh negotiation."

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 61.

London, Feby. 25, 1800.
Dear Sir :

In a conference with Lord Grenville on the 16th inst, I deliv-
ered to him a verbal note containing such explanations as on our
part are deemed requisite to the satisfactory execution of the 6th
article of the Treaty of Amity ; these additional articles were
accompanied by such short observations as appeared to me calcu-
lated to explain and recommend them. As it was the first inter-
view upon that subject, I was not disappointed in his Reserve,
who only remarked that it would be best to waive any observa-
tion on the Subject, until he should have had an opportunity of
giving it a full consideration. I have not since heard from him.

I annex the copy of a note from his Lordship respecting the
Blockade of the Port of Genoa.

It is rumoured, tho' no authentic information has been re-
ceived, that the last order to the Russian Army to return home
has been recalled, and that after being reinforced Suwarrow will
march to the Rhine. The orders and counter-orders that have
been issued to this army give a degree of credit to the report ; but
no one can be sure that the revoking order may not again be re-
called, and Suwarrow for the third time required to withdraw.

The Insurrection of the Chouans, which a few weeks ago
appeared so formidable, seems to be nearly suppressed, and if the
insurgents have been obliged to give up the arms received from

198 RUFUS KING. [1800

this country, these Departments must at least for some time
remain quiet.

The scarcity of Bread in all parts of Great Britain & Ireland
exceeds the expectations of those who began to be alarmed on
this subject as early as October ; and were not the numerous
poor not only throughout the Metropolis, but in all parts of the
country fed from the Soup-Houses established & maintained by
voluntary contributions, the vigour of Government would be
scarcely able to prevent extensive and serious popular commo-
tions. The Embarrassments which affected the merchants con-
cerned in the West India Trade are supposed to be diminished,
and the commercial profits of the last year, judging of them by
the Returns of the Custom House, have exceeded those of any
former year. The terms upon which the Minister has borrowed
Twenty Millions (an interest under five per cent) are generally
ascribed to the Prosperity of the Manufacturers & Trade of the
Country ; tho' some persons who admit the favorable terms of the
loan account for it by the facility with which money is made &
issued by the Bank. The salutary restraint, arising from the
obligation to give cash for its Notes, being suspended, the temp-
tation to pass the limits of prudence is almost irresistible ; and if
the Directors have wisdom & firmness sufficient to perceive &
perform their Duty, they will do more & better than has ever
been done by other men in the like circumstances.

An Expedition is preparing * in this country ; and according to
my information is nearly ready to sail, the destination of which is mat-
ter of earnest speculation among those who are apprized of it, for
the preparations are made with great secrecy. Tho' I do not positive-
ly know that it will even proceed, I have some reason to believe that
it may be, and probably is, destined to assist the revolt of the Spanish
Colonies, near the Isthmus of Panama. The Inhabitants of Caraccas
6° Santa Fee are deeply and generally disaffected, and if aided by
a Foreign force & supplied with arms, it is said would openly
throw off the Spanish Dominion. If I am founded in my con
jecture the 12,000 Troops that will go from this country will be dis-
tributed thro' the West India Islands to relieve the seasoned Troops
now there, who will be e?nployed in the Expedition. This circum-

* Italics in cipher.

1800] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE.

I99

stance which cannot pass unobserved, will enable you to judge how
far this speculation, for it is really nothing more, is well
founded.

With perfect Respect and Esteem &x. &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to T. Pickering.
{Private?)

London, Feby. 25, 1800.
Dear Sir :

I am obliged to you for your private Letter of the 3d ultimo.
It is of value to me on account of the sentiments of friendship
that it contains, & I assure you without the least reserve that so
far from Mr. Sitgreaves's coming here being the occasion of the
smallest uneasiness or dissatisfaction on my part, I shall be glad
to see him as well on account of the esteem I entertain for him,
as that I may have an opportunity, should it be requisite, of
receiving from him such particular details & information as may
not be found in the voluminous documents that I have reed, from
you. At the same time I will remark to you that it seems to me
improbable that we shall have occasion for minute knowledge in
respect to particular cases &c, as, if I am not mistaken, whatever
is done must be effected by a general view of the subject, &
which those with whom I am to treat may have leisure & inclina-
tion to consider.

Mr. Gore, who avails himself of the suspension of his official
duty to visit his friends, will tell you what I might otherwise com-
municate respecting the situation of our affairs in this country.
If you have not sent me a new cipher & the counterpart of Mr.
Jay's cipher, which I have found among the papers of the Lega-
tion, has been preserved, I will make use of it. I take the liberty
to recommend that your Dispatches, if very large, be sent by
private ships addressed to the care of the Consul of the Port
where they arrive. Your Dispatches by the Last Packet were
charged upwards of Forty guineas postage.

With sincere respect & esteem &c.

Rufus King.

200 RUFUS KING. [1800

R. King to Messrs. Ellsworth, Davie, and Murray.

Gentlemen : LoNDON' Feb^ 2^ l8oa

Property warranted American to a large amount has been in-
sured in this Country, & condemned in the French Tribunals, in
some instances generally as good Prize, or as Enemy's Property ;
in others for the want of Sea-Letters, Roles d'Equipage & other
Documents said to be required by Treaty, or by the French Or-
dinances ; in others, because papers were alledged to have been
destroyed ; the Master or a certain portion of the Crew to have
been of the enemy's country, or the Bills of Lading to have been
unsigned ; and in others, on account of the Property's being the
Growth or manufacture of the British Territories.

The Conduct of the Underwriters has in many of these cases
been unfair and against good faith ; that of the Courts, on most
occasions, unfavorable to our demands against the Underwriters
— the common refuge of the Underwriters has been the French
sentence, produced to disprove the warranty contained in the
Policy. It is here held that the sentence of a foreign Court of
Admiralty is binding upon all parties as to what appears on the
face of it, and if the sentence proceeds upon the ground of the
property not being Neutral, it is received as conclusive evidence
against the Insured that he has not complied with his warranty.

In the King's Bench it has been decided in the case of a ship,
warranted American and condemned as enemy's property, for not
having on board a Role d'Equipage, which the Court of Admi-
ralty adjudged to be requisite within the meaning of the Treaty
between France and America, that the sentence was conclusive
against the warranty. This doctrine, respecting Documents re-
quired by Treaty, has been carried still further, and in the case
of a ship warranted American, which sailed without such a pass-
port as is required in the Treaty between France & America, and
was lost, the Underwriters were discharged on the ground that
the warranty was not complied with ; tho' it was admitted that
the ship suffered no inconvenience from the want of the Pass-
port ; the Warranty being construed to mean, not only that the
property was American, but that the ship was entitled to all the
privileges of the American Flag, & consequently regularly
documented.

l8oo] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 201

If however the ground of the sentence be not the want of
neutrality but a foreign ordinance, unjust & contrary to the Law
of Nations, it has been decided that the sentence does not dis-
charge the insurer ; and likewise if the property is condemned as
good Prize, if the ground of the sentence contradicts the conclu-
sion, the sentence will not discharge the Underwriters.

I can express no opinio?i of the probability or manner of our ob-
taining compensation from France in these cases ; and in the present
shape of the sentences, I see little prospect of our receiving it from the
Underwriters. But if the sentences could be revised 6° corrected, we
should find few i?npediments in recovering from the Insurers : we
are entitled to this revision, and it has occurred to me, that you will
in many instances be able to effect it. The arguments likely to be
listened to by France will naturally suggest themselves to you, and
are, as it seems to me, of a persuasive character. You will re7?iem-
ber that one of the first acts of this Government in the course of Mr.
Jay's negotiation, was to prepare the way for a revision of sentences
in cases in which the property was distributed, and the Right of Ap-
peal gone j and under this arrangement, since confirmed by An act of
Parliament, almost all these sentences have been & will be reversed.

The Confederacy, Jenke Master, a rich American Indiaman* cap-
tured on her return voyage was condemned in France, tho' ad-
mitted on the face of the sentence to be American Property, for
the want of a Role d'Equipage. The owners Pierpoi7it and others
were deeply insured in this country. The suits against the insurers
are depending ; many other cases wait their decision, which will, I
fear, be against the assured unless the se?itence be reversed.

With perfect Respect &c &c

Rufus King.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 62.

London, Feby. 28, 1800.
Dear Sir :

It was my intention to have mentioned to you in my last letter,
that immediately on receiving information of the Death of General

* Italics in cipher.

202 RUFUS KING. [1800

Washington, and that a public mourning had been ordered, I put
myself & family in mourning, as was universally done by the
American citizens in this country. The Newspapers, excepting
the Gazette, all announced the General's death & in a manner
honorable to his memory ; they also took notice of the public
mourning that had been recommended, so that no one could be
ignorant of it. Mr. Liston's Dispatch, without doubt, also men-
tioned the Death of the General as well as the respect shown to
his memory ; but no Extract from it was inserted in the Gazette,
tho' an extract from a Letter from Mr. Wickham, the English
Minister to Swabia, to Ld Grenville, received about the same
time, & which gives an account of the death of Stiegner, one of
the late advoyers of Berne, was published in this official Paper. I
attended the next Levee in full mourning ; my colleagues made
me the customary compliments of condolence, but the King, tho*
he spoke to me as usual on other topics, took no notice of the
occasion of my being in mourning, & was silent respecting
America. The next day, being the Queen's drawing-room, I was
at court & in mourning as on the preceding days ; both the
King & Queen observed the same reserve, as the King had before
done. I went again to the Levee, still in mourning, & the King
still maintained his former silence, The Ministers are not regular
in their attendance & commonly come late ; some of them were
however present on each day, but none of them said a word to me
concerning the Death of this great man ; so I conclude, and the
President, who well knows the character of this court, will think I
had sufficient reason to do so, that this disrespectful omission &,
as I consider it, want of magnanimity was a concerted neglect.

The following Anecdote which was told me by one, who was
himself a witness of its truth, proves that this want of cordial
reconciliation reaches beyond the King. At a dinner at Carleton
House* more than a year ago, the party having as usual remained
at table till a late hour, the Duke of Norfolk, who has been uniform
in his sentiments respecting America, addressing himself in an
audible voice to another of the guests, said, We have been drink-
ing to the health of great men, I will name one whom we must all
agree to be really a great & virtuous man — I drink to the health
of Genl. Washington. The name was no sooner uttered than the

* Italics in cipher.

1800] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 203

Prince rose from his chair, left the room and broke up the
Party.

Some time since I informed you of my motives in taking pains
to effect the Publication of Sir Wm. Scott's Decisions in Prize
cases. Having by way of encouragement subscribed for a num-
ber of Copies, some of which have been sent to you, I shall send
you a dozen more by Mr. Dandridge, who leaves me in a day or
two.

With perfect Respect & Esteem, &c,

Rufus King.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 63.

London, March 6, 1800.
Dear Sir :

I have not yet heard anything further from Lord Grenville re-
specting the verbal note I delivered to him on the 18th ulto. I
understand that it has been circulated among his colleagues, & is
still under consideration. We have French papers to the 28th of
last month, when Mr. Murray had probably arrived at Paris, &
Messrs. Ellsworth & Davie were daily expected. I have written
& sent to them a letter upon the subject mentioned to you in a
former dispatch. Owing to the severe weather six mails are now
due from Hamburgh, and the Government is altogether in the
dark, whether the Russians march to the Rhine or back to their
own country. This interruption of its communications with the
Continent is the more perplexing as the campaign is on the point
of opening.

With most perfect Respect & esteem &c.

Rufus King.

CHAPTER XV.

Bingham to King — England may declare Blockade of French Ports — Not
advantageous to the U. S. — At Home antifederal Party gaining Ground—
Fall of Prices in Europe injurious to Merchants — King to Sec'y of State —
Envoys arrived — Troup to King — Gov. Jay living too retired — Beneficial
Use of Oxygen Gas in Consumption — Jay may retire — Should declare his
Intentions — Coming Elections — Deep rooted Disgust with Adams — Cabot to
King — Cannot avoid opening an Intercourse with France if she concedes our
Demands — Hopes he will remain in England — The Country has the high-
est Confidence in him — New Alliance with France to be dreaded — King
to T. Hume — Missing Georgia Records — To Pickering — Liston's Letters to
J. Buchanan — Says he must lead Mr. Adams by the Nose — Constable to
King — Envoys arrived — Well received — King to Sec'y of State — Note
about 6th Article not yet answered — Campaign on the Continent not yet
opened — Intentions of Russia uncertain — To Sec'y of State — Lord Gren-
ville does not wish to enter into formal Discussions relative to explanatory
articles of 6th Article — King to Lord Grenville — About new Commissioners
— General Answer to his Communication on that Subject — Lord Grenville's
specific Answer to King's Note of 18th Feb'y — Accepting only the Making
of a new Board.

Wm. Bingham to R. King.

Philada., March 5, 1800.

Dear Sir :

. . . The Evils you predicted from the want of concert amongst
the allies have been fully matured. I am sorry to see that they
extend to that Degree as to occasion the Defection of the Russian
Troops. I was not unprepared for the Event, as my Letters, from
my Friends, announced the Views of Austria to be her National
Aggrandizement, whilst those of Russia were directed to curbing
the Power & overthrowing the Government of France.

We have been long deprived of any Intelligence from that
Country. I do not expect that the recent revolution will have
i8oo] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 205

any Tendency to promote a general Peace, as a military Des-
potism cannot be supported without a large Military Estab-
lishment.

Denmark having acceded to the coalition, it is probable that
G. B. (if the war continues) will attempt to form a League of the
Maritime Powers, whose object will be to distress France, by
withholding all Supplies thro' the Medium of the Neutral Flag, by
declaring the Ports of that Country to be in a state of Blockade.
In connection with Holland, she had recourse to this desperate
measure during the last century. Should she again resort to it,
the United States will be placed in a disagreeable Predicament ;
especially if a Treaty should be formed with the great Republic,
as will offer such conditions as will induce the Expediency of
ratifying it. A continuation of our prohibitory System would
have been much more eligible & dignified than a Renunciation of
our Intercourse with France, thro' the Medium of an extraneous
Interference opposed to the Principles of the Law of Nations.
However such conjectures may be ill formed, but if unlooked for
Changes take place, we must adapt our Policy & arrange our
Measures so as to conform to the new State of Things.

We have a very decided Majority in the House, and that in the
Senate nearly in the same Proportion, as when you left. Any
official System which will not too violently oppose the Temper of
the Times may be readily adopted. Unfortunately by unremitting
Industry & Perseverance, aided by the most skilful Address to the
Passions & low Interests of the People, the Antifederal Party in
some of the States, is gaining Ground. It will not be determined
on any National Calculation, untill the Result of the State Elec-
tions of New York & Jersey is known, what will be the probable
Issue of the next Election of a President. In this State there
will be no Election of Electors or an arrangement for district
Elections, in Consequence of a Compromise which will neutralize
the votes ; as each Party has its Majority in either one or other
of the Branches.

A Schism which has taken place between the President &
some of his Friends on the Subject of the French Mission, will
tend to weaken the Efforts, if not divide the Interests of some
influential Persons. It is not determined who will be the federal
Candidate as Vice President. General Pinckney has some warm

206 RUFUS KING. [1800

Supporters ; whilst others are disposed to prefer the Pretensions
of a Character from the middle States.

Your Suggestion of the Sufferings of our Merchants from the
Failures & Fall of Prices in Europe are too well founded. Balti-
more in particular has experienced the greatest Calamities, hav-
ing from too prevalent a Spirit of Enterprise adventured far
beyond its Resources. Many Bankruptcies have taken place
& many more are expected & such is its Distress, that its
Merchants have asked the aid of the Government, by suspending
for a limited Time, the Collection of the Duties in that Port,
which is a Mode of Relief, which does not altogether meet my
approval for various Reasons. Other trading Cities will likewise
suffer, but not in the same degree. This Country's remote Situa-
tion from Europe will always be an Obstacle to availing itself of
the Variety of Circumstances which influence the Rise & Fall of
its Exports.

The Death of General Washington has exhibited the literary
character of our Country in a Variety of funeral Orations & Eulo-
giums, some of which have a great Share of Merit, & others are
below Mediocrity. As soon as I can find a direct Opportunity, I
will send you a copy of each of them.

With Sincerity & Esteem &c.

Wm. Bingham.

R. King to Secretary of State.
No. 64.

London, March 13, 1800.
Dear Sir :

We have the Paris papers to the 9th inst. which state that
Messrs. Ellsworth & Davie arrived there on the 4th, & that Joseph
Buonaparte, Fleurieu & Roederer were appointed to treat with
them & Mr. Murray who had before arrived. According to the
intelligence received by these Papers, the Austrians, as well as
the French are making the greatest preparations for the Campaign
that seems on the point of opening. We are still without mails
from Hamburgh, & therefore without any other information than

i8oo] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 207

that of the French Papers respecting the Russians, who it is be-
lieved have returned home.

I have received your number 72, and am in daily expectation
of the arrival of Mr. Sitgreaves. No further progress is yet made
in the negotiation concerning the 6th Article of our Treaty with
this Country.

With perfect Respect and Esteem &c.

Rufus King.

R. Troup to R. King.

New York, 9th March, 1800.
Dear Sir :

. . . General efforts are now making in the Legislature by
Mr. Williamson & his friends to have the western roads turn-
piked ; and if the object can be accomplished, of which I am far
from despairing, the improvement of the country will travel on
with much quicker step. . .

The Governor's (Mr. Jay) mode of living is too retired. His
house is unfavorable to the entertainment of company, and Mrs.
Jay has not been in a situation to be with company for several
months past. I never saw her when at Albany last October, nor
during my last visit. She is undoubtedly in the first stage of
a decline. At present she is living on a species of air, prepared
by Dr. Stringham at Albany (Oxygen gas) from which she is sup-
posed to have derived some benefit. This air seems to have
renovated Genl. Schuyler and Mrs. Patroon, both of whom
within eighteen months past, were considered as in a dying state.
Mrs. Patroon appears nearly as well as I ever saw her. . . .
Genl. Schuyler is so recovered that he really gives ground for
believing that he is immortal. . . . Lawrance resolved to
resign as soon as the present sitting of Congress is over. Watson,
it is also generally supposed, will resign. His senatorial duties
interfere with his duties as naval agent of the United States for
New York. Mr. Morris, in all probability, will succeed one of
these gentlemen. Who will be the other Senator I cannot divine.
The Patroon would accept, and indeed it is said he wishes the

208 RUFUS KING. [1800

appointment. But his friends are rather inclined to keep him in
the State with a view to succeeding Mr. Jay as Governor. Our
election for Governor comes on next April twelve month, and if
Mr. Jay should leave us we have no other man that we can hold
up as his successor. This is universally assented to. The
Patroon declares against the measure, but we shall be constrained
to insist upon his serving, if elected, and to reject his refusal.

It is desirable that Mr. Jay should now declare his intention,
but he says he is uncertain whether he will consent to be sup-
ported again, and that he cannot declare himself till the meeting
of the Legislature in November next for the appointment of
Electors of President and Vice President. My suspicion is that
if we lose the ensuing election of members of the Legislature,
which will be all important as to the election of President and
Vice President, Mr. Jay will consider it as a decisive index of
the public mind as to his own election and that he will quit us.
If we succeed in the ensuing election, he will then consent to be
a candidate. It is certain that we cannot take up a federal can-
didate who will run more heavily than he will. Our party is
considerably weakened, and causes exist and are daily operating,
which will most probably render it still weaker a twelve month
hence.

During the present administration we have lost not a little
ground. This I have heretofore suggested to you, and I have no
doubt you received it with astonishment. The fact is neverthe-
less so. The chancellor and Burr have unquestionably a view to
the office of governor, and it will be fortunate for us if they both
persist in their pretensions. . . .

This election will be all important, (to choose a Legislature to
appoint electors) and particularly so as there is a decided and deep
rooted disgust with Mr. Adams on the part of his best old friends. I
understand from correct authority that the Eastern delegation in
Congress, almost entirely, if not wholly, believe that the preserva-
tion of the federal cause essentially depends on removing Mr. Adams
and appointing a 7nore discreet man to the Presidency. You will
naturally exclaim, is this possible ? It is more than possible, it is
really too true. By the next Packet I will be particular on this
head, at present I merely announce the fact. Hence you will see
the necessity of making every possible exertion to have a decided

1800] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 209

majority of sound electors. If Adams should be abandoned,
and nothing but great hazard of losing the election will prevent
it, it is probable, but not yet settled, that the Chief Justice and
General Charles C. Pinckney will be run by us — the former as
President and the latter as Vice Prest. We are full of anxiety here
about the election of our members of the Legislature. It is next
to an impossibility, to get men of weight and influence to serve.
I do not however despair that we shall be successful. We must
bring into action all our energies ; if we do not the election is
lost — and if our Legislature should give us anti-federal electors,
Jefferson will be in. On the other side, they will lose the aid of
Pennsylvania. That state will not appoint electors — their Legisla-
ture is so divided, and so obstinately divided, that they will not
pass an election law. The House of Assembly being democratical
wish a law for a general ticket, and the Senate being federal pre-
fer and adhere to a law for a district ticket. This is an event
from which I derive no small degree of consolation. . . .

As ever yours

G. Cabot to R. King.

March 14, 1800.

My dear Sir :

. . We are looking with much anxiety for the issue of our
mission to France. Doubtless our Commissioners know where
all the danger is, but if their antagonists are as subtle, as French
Negotiators are commonly supposed to be, they will carry their
point ; if they yield everything they will gain everything. I am
not able to see how we can avoid opening an Intercourse with
France, if she concedes all we demand, & she must be stupid not
to make concessions which will cost her nothing but a sheet of
parchment & will obtain for her every thing in our power to give.
1 say this upon the idea that France by meeting us on our own
terms, may draw us so far into her vortex as to give to her Enemies
the appearance of our being her accomplice & thus provoke them
to measures of hostility against us. This view of the subject sup-
poses the coalesced powers to be the Dupes of their own passions,

VOL. Ill— 14

210 RUFUS KING. [1800

but I am forcibly struck with your remark that the influence of
Pride upon nations is as certain as that of interest, & perhaps
more frequent. I also subscribe to your opinion that the magni-
tude of the events which daily occur give unusual force to this
sentiment.

I have seen nothing from Philadelphia for a long time. There
is apparently a good majority of Federalists in Congress, but it did
seem as if the spirit of Federalism was neutralized by the peculiar
state of its head. Our Newspapers will inform you that my Col-
league Strong is our Candidate for Governor, & that Gerry is his
Competitor. If the latter shou'd possibly succeed, I shall attribute
it to the influence he has derived from Great patronage & which
doubtless still continues. I ought however to say to you that
Strong may be carried with certainty, if the Federalists exert
themselves as much as they have done for several years past.

I have been silent on the irreparable loss of our Great and
Good Washington, because without writing a book, it wou'd be
impossible to say enough. It seemed to be a time when we cou'd
ill spare him. I will send you what Ames & some of the best men
have written upon the occasion. You may recollect that I have
formerly intreated you to persevere in your present duties until
the end of this cursed Rebellion which the French have excited
against God & Man. I think the worst of it is past, & I still in-
dulge the hope of seeing its total extinction in one successful
campaign, or in one well concerted enterprise of the Anti-revolu-
tionists in France. But be this as it may, you are expected to
maintain with the English that good understanding & amity
which is so truly for the interest of both, but which is constantly
endangered.

I know the confidence placed in you by this country is great,
and perhaps more is expected than is in any man's power to per-
form, but there certainly is great scope for your talents in shewing
to the English the advantages of peace, and the dangers as well
as inconveniences of war with us. Our local situation, extent of
coast and numerous harbours enable us to be formidable to one
of the Great powers, when we are associated in tvar with the other j
the British Colonies on our right and left present many strong
dissuasions of war to the parent State ; there ought to be no in-
terruption to that beneficial commerce in which we are becoming

i8oo] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 211

inestimable customers to Great Britain ; if not forced to do other-
wise we shall for half a century consume of the manufactures of
G. B. more than all the world beside ; I mean, to exclude her own
consumption.

New animosities will surely prevent this in a degree ; as often
as necessity operates we make new efforts to supply ourselves, &
tho' many attempts fail, some always succeed ; & altho' our
pecuniary interest wou'd be best promoted by importation, yet
that interest may be made to yield to other interests. There is
nothing so much to be dreaded by a true American, as a new al-
liance with France ; yet something like it in effect wou'd follow
a war with England. Wou'd not this be madness in British policy
to produce ? her Rival wou'd finally be enabled to triumph over
her ; neither France, nor the U. S. can be conquered by the
English, but Canada, New Brunswick, Nova Scotia, and after-
wards the W. I. islands cou'd be easily conquer'd or ruined.

Yours truly and faithfully,

G. C.

R. King to Thomas Hume.

London, March 16, 1800.
Sir :

The Governor of Georgia having had some reason to believe,
that the missing Laws, together with the Records of the Land
Office & other important Papers belonging to the late Colony of
Georgia had been removed to this country, I have at his request
lately made application to Lord Grenville that a search should be
made for them at Somerset House, where we hoped to have found
them among the claims of the American Loyalists. This search
has been made but without success ; and though there seems to
be a faint recollection that one or two trunks of Carolina or
Georgia papers, were some years ago in one of the offices of the
Treasury, no one can give any account that enables us to discover
them. Speaking upon this subject to your nephew Mr. Houstoun,
he suggested the idea that it was possible that from your connec-
tion with the Colony of Georgia, you might be able to give some
such information respecting these papers, as would assist us in re-

212 RUFUS KING. [180a

covering them, an object that is daily becoming more & more
important in regard to the Titles of many valuable Estates in that
country. As I had not the honor of being known to you I begged
Mr. Houstoun to mention the subject of our conversation to you,
and to request you to be so obliging as to communicate to me in
his absence such information & conjectures, as in your opinion
would be likely to promote our wishes ; he accordingly sent me
the inclosed letter for you, just before his departure for Georgia,,
& I take the liberty to add to what he has written that we shall
be very much obliged to you for any hint that may put us in the
way of obtaining these important papers.

With perfect consideration &c &c

Rufus King.

R. King to Col. Pickering.

(Private, in cipher.)

London, 24th March, 1800.
Dear Sir :

James Buchanan an adopted American, by birth Scotch, and who
has lived many years as a merchant at Baltimore, has lately arrived
in this country with the expectation of settling his affairs which
are much deranged. He speaks of having been much acquainted
with Mr. Liston, as well as his confidential correspondent. I have
myself heard him express sentiments to this effect. In conversa-
tion he is loose, unguarded and imprudent, and from what I have
heard of him, unworthy of confidence. He shews several letters
from Liston to him and most probably received from him intro-
ductions to some subordinate men in office in this country. Hav-
ing heard of the extraordinary tenor of some of Mr. Liston's
letters to Buchanan, I have been desirous of obtaining a sight of
them. But as Buchanan has been admonished that they were of
a delicate nature and will naturally be on his guard against me
and my particular friends I may be disappointed. I have how-
ever obtained and now send you an extract from one of them,,
that will not fail to excite the same indignation in your mind that
it has produced in mine. You may give unreserved credit to the
authenticity of the letter as well as to the fidelity of the extract.
I desire that it may be communicated to your colleagues, whom

1800] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 213

it names and also to the President, if you and they think proper.
From the looseness and indiscretion of Buchanan, it is possible
that the letter may fall into hands disposed to make an unfriendly
and mischievous use of it.

Whether you will openly reproach Mr. Liston with his vanity
and falsehood, or observe towards him a reserve that his impru-
dence renders indispensable, is a question of some difficulty. Un-
less you shall see some advantage in making use of my name, it
may be as well that I remain out of sight. From this specimen
of Mr. Liston's statements you can be at no loss to conjecture the
tenor of his public dispatches, of the erroneous and mischievous
opinions they are likely to create here.

With sincere attachment &c

Rufus King.

Extract (referred to in foregoing letter) :

"We ourselves are anxious to change the scene and if the
President goes to Boston, as we flatter ourselves he will, about the
latter end of this month, we shall follow him as soon as possible.
You know as the House of Representatives are no longer in ses-
sion, I have no more taps on the shoulder to give for the present.
I must now endeavour to lead Mr. Adams by the nose (which is
not a task of such facility as some folks imagine) and with this
view I propose to fix my quarters for some time at Braintree.
You might perhaps suppose I should be as well employed in hold-
ing conferences with my bosom friend the Secretary of State or
in keeping Oliver Wolcott and Mr. Henry right. But they are all
so staunch that I have now no occasion to look after them ; they
are ready to go as fast and as far as I wish them to go. You will
observe that I have also got Genl. Washington to accept of the
command and to write a proper letter. I thought it essential, he
should give an unequivocal approbation to the President's con-
duct and touch up the Directory. I had prepared all this in the
autumn last year.

" In short, my dear Sir, I am the most successful and effective fly
upon the wheel, that ever pretended to raise a dust on any road in
any part of the world. Everything will soon be so completely in
train that I shall have nothing to do but run about and see my
friends."

214 RUFUS KING. [1800

Wm. Constable to R. King.

Paris, 30th March, 1800.
Dear Sir :

. . . Our Commiss'rs. have been very cordially received, but
as yet have not commenced operations. J. Bonaparte, Rcederer
and Fleurieu are named to treat with them, and Mr. Laboree,
Secretary of the Commission. Not one of the number speaks a
word of English, and ours are nearly as ignorant of the French ;
Mr. Murray alone having a very limited knowledge of it. . . .

With respect & esteem &c

Wm. Constable.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 65.

London, 3d April, 1800.
Dear Sir :

I am still without any communication from Lord Grenville
upon the Subject of the Verbal Note I delivered to him on the
18th of February. If the annexed pages from the Anti-Jacobin
Review for the Month of March, do not greatly exaggerate &
misrepresent the Sentiments of the English Cabinet, they will per-
haps assist you * in appreciating the nature and probable issue of
our present situation with this Country. \ It would afford me satis-
faction could I assure you that I consider these false & libellous
publications either as innocent in respect to our reputation &
public concerns, or as entirely differing from the opinions of the
Gov. The Delay that I experience after the Manifestation of
so much zeal to go on when I was not ready, may arise from the
pressure of more urgent concerns, or it may proceed from causes
that will protract the negotiation for several months.

We have Paris Papers to the 29th ultimo. The Campaign upon
the Rhine had not opened on the 20th tho' the armies were as-
sembled upon the Banks of that river, and great preparations were
made by the French to pass it. It is believed that the Austrians,
assisted by the English naval force in the Mediterranean have

* Simply underscored, f Italics in cipher.

1800] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 21 5

before this time attempted to expel the French from the Genoese
Territories, & great confidence is entertained that Malta has
fallen or will be obliged soon to capitulate. I hear that the Eng-
lish will neither assist nor impede the remains of Buonaparte's
Egyption army in their return to France.

From the North, we have contradictory reports of the inten-
tions of Russia, and it is not easy to decide whether the Emperor
will afford to the allies any material aid in the approaching Cam-
paign. The British troops, now embarking & which are said to
be 14,000 & destined for the Mediterranean, may possibly have the
destination intimated in my No. 61.

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 66.

London, April 7, 1800.
Dear Sir :

As I may not be able to see Lord Grenville again for some
days, he having gone to his Country House, where he will prob-
ably remain thro' the Easter Holidays, I think it proper to
acquaint you, that in a conference I had with his Lordship the day
before yesterday, he distinctly informed me that it was the unani-
mous opinion of himself & colleagues not to enter into the formal
discussion of the explanatory articles which I had proposed to him
on the 1 8th of February, as they saw no probability that the two
Governments would be able to agree in any Explanations on that
Subject ; but that they would consent to the dissolution of the
present Board, & to the appointment of a new set of Commissioners
who should be governed by the stipulations already concluded*
without regarding the constructive Resolutions of the former Com-
missioners ; the 5th Commissioner to be named by the King ; and
instead of two Americans being appointed by the President, and
two British Subjects by the King, that the President should ap-
point one American, & name a British subject to whose appoint-
ment the King's consent should be requisite, and that the King
should appoint one British subject and name one American to

2l6 RUFUS KING. [1800

whose appointment the President's consent should be requisite.
This modification of the choice of the Commissioners, it was sug-
gested, might diminish the influence of national prejudice on both
sides ; but I conclude that it is not thought of sufficient import-
ance to be insisted upon if the former mode of choice should be
preferred. I cannot now send you a detail of the Reasons upon
which his Lordship placed their refusal to agree to or discuss the
explanatory Articles that we had proposed. After hearing the
few words in which he communicated this decision, I only replied
that I would consider of what he had informed me, and take
the earliest opportunity of communicating to him the result of my
reflections.

I accordingly called to-day at his Lordship's house, but he had
left town early in the morning. It was my intention to have rep-
resented to him the Reasons why upon the appointment of a new
Board of Commissioners, it would be necessary that certain Ex-
planatory Rules should be settled for the government of their
Proceedings, & to inform him that I was not authorized to agree
to a new Commission without such Rules.

We have Paris papers to the 3rd. The Campaign had not then
opened. They state that the French Commissioners appointed
to negotiate with those of the United States met on the 1st instant
for the purpose of exchanging their Powers. The French and
Spanish Fleet at Brest, amounting to more than forty sail of the
Line are ready for sea. Upwards of 15,000 troops are actually
embarked, & here it is fully believed that they will come out.
Their destination, supposed to be Ireland or Portugal, probably
the latter. Lord Bridport was on the 31st ulto. off Brest with 28
sail of the line ; five or six more may since have joined him.

With perfect Respect & Esteem

Rufus King.

R. King to Lord Grenville.

{Private?)

Great Cumb. Place, April 8, 1800.
My Lord :

I called at your Lordship's house soon after you left town

yesterday with the view of expressing my ideas of the importance

1800] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 21 J

of a new board of Commissioners, & likewise to say that not hav-
ing authority to agree to the appointment of a new set of Comrs.
without such rules, I could do no more than transmit yr. Ldp's
answer to my Govr. I will do myself the honor of waiting upon
yr. Ldp. upon this subject at any hour that you shall name after
yr. return to town.

I have the honor &c. &c.

Rufus King.

Lord Grenville to R. King.

{Private. )

Dropmore, Apl. 9, 1800.

Dear Sir :

Having his Majesty's permission to be absent for the next ten
days, I shall not, except in the case of any particular business,
return till towards the end of next week, when our Easter
Holidays finish.

It appeared to all the King's servants that the Proposals con-
tained in the paper you left with me, were in no respect explana-
tory of the Treaty, but in manifest contradiction to it ; and that
any discussing of them would have been on our part an admission
of the propriety of treating afresh upon a subject long since settled
by a Treaty, the British part of which has been faithfully and un-
reservedly executed, and under circumstances of objection not
materially differing from those now urged by the Government of
the United States as a plea for opening a fresh negotiation.

If therefore your idea of explanatory Rules has reference to
these points, I cannot but express to you our resolution not to
accede to them. If only to matters of practical convenience &
arrangement of business, I will readily receive and submit for
consideration any suggestion of that nature with which you will
favor me, either by letter or viva voce when I return to London.

I have the honor to be &c.

Grenville.

2l8 RUFUS KING. [1800

Lord Grenville to R. King.

{Private?)

Dropmore, April 10, 1800.
Dear Sir :

I enclose you the answer of his Majesty's Government to the
proposals contained in the Paper which you delivered to me. It is
so full as to require no additional explanations ; and it is the result
of a most deliberate consideration of the subject, and an attentive
examination of the Papers which have passed in relation to it.

I am myself perfectly satisfied after the fullest investigation,
that the course proposed by your Government is one to which we
cannot in common justice to a most injured class of the King's
subjects accede ; and that if we did we should increase, in-
stead of removing the grounds of dissension between the two
countries.

If you wish for further conversation upon this subject, I shall
be very much at your orders, and I beg you to be persuaded of
the sincere personal esteem and consideration with which I have
the honor to be,

Dear Sir, your most faithful and most obedt. humble servt.

Grenville.

R. King to Lord Grenville.

{Private.')

Great Cumbd. Place, April n, 1800.
My Lord :

I have had the honor to receive your Lordship's Letter of the
9th instant, and am concerned to perceive so wide a difference
between your opinion & that of the American Government re-
pecting the just interpretation of the Sixth Article of our Treaty
of Amity, and the more so, as while this difference of opinion
continues to exist, there can be little reason to expect that the
majority of a new set of Commissioners, composed as it would be,
would be likely to dissent from the opinions of the majority of
the present board, or that the change of men would make a
change in the Principles & Proceedings to which we think our-
selves justified in objecting.

It is not my intention to slide into an examination of this sub-

1800] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 219

ject after notice that the door is shut against its discussion ; but
however defensible your Lordship may consider the principles &
proceedings in question, or whatever objection may prevent our
respective governments from entering into amicable and candid
explanations respecting them, I should be wanting in the frank-
ness that the occasion seems to require, if I did not without re-
serve express to your Lordship my conviction that the proposed
explanations have not been lightly or inconsiderately offered ;
that the interpretations, against which they are calculated to
guard us, are repugnant to the plain & natural meaning of the
article ; and that with a disposition to overlook unessential
errors, and to give full effect to our stipulations upon this sub-
ject, we ought not from a mistaken apprehension that the public
faith would be affected by the refusal, to acquiesce in a construc-
tion that appears to us, and as we believe will appear to others,
wholly to defeat the limitations and restraints of the article, and
on a subject of great magnitude to convert a conditional into an
absolute engagement.

I am not sure that I comprehend the nature and effect of the
Regulations to which your Lordship refers towards the close of
your Letter ; whether the desired explanations are formally or
informally adopted must be matter of little importance, & about
which there ought to be no disagreement provided they reach &
remove the objections which stand in the way of a fair & satis-
factory execution of the Treaty : but of what your Lordship calls
Rules of practical convenience and arrangement of business will
afford the security against the adventurous and groundless con-
structions which have occasioned the separation of the Board, it
would in my apprehension be fallacious to look for such a conclu-
sion of this business, as it was the original & mutual expectation
and interest of the two countries to attain.

In the present uncertain state of this affair, I see nothing that
it remains for me to do, but to request of your Lordship an
answer according to the intimation of your intention in our last
conference, to the propositions I had before submitted to your
consideration in order that I may send the same without loss of
time to my government.

With sincere Regard & Esteem &c. &c.

Rufus King.

220 RUFUS ICING. [1800

In response to the request of Mr. King that Lord Gren-
ville would send him, for transmission to his government,
an answer in accordance with the intimations of his inten-
tions at their last conference relative to the propositions
submitted to him, an answer was given on April 19th,
giving a history of the formation of the treaty, of the duties
and powers of the commissions provided for in it for the
settlement of the claims of citizens against their respective
governments for losses during the war, and of the appoint-
ment of the commissioners under the 6th and 7th arti-
cles ; of the troubles which had occurred in carrying out
their duties; disagreements in both, which had been happily
removed in reference to the 7th article, but which had
broken up that under the 6th article, and of the objections
to the settlement proposed by the government of the
United States. The length of this paper prevents the pub-
lication of it here, but it may be stated in general that the
suggestion of an explanatory article to be given to the
■commissioners for their guidance when reconvened, would
be virtually agreeing to make a new treaty about matters
which had been committed to them with definite instruc-
tions in the article itself, and for that reason that the British
Government cannot consent to reopen the discussion upon
the views and action of their commissioners in the conscien-
tious discharge of their duties, for the government had per-
fect confidence in their high character, integrity, and
capacity to decide the questions submitted to them ; but
that it is evident that

" the disagreements of the present Commissioners have rendered
it less likely that the business should satisfactorily proceed in
their hands than in those of persons to be named. His Majesty
therefore always wishing to contribute to conciliation and har-
mony, does not object to the proposal of withdrawing the present
'Commissioners and forming a new Board under the conditions
proposed ; a new Board to execute the same duty and to be in-
vested with the same discretion, which the Treaty has given to
the present Commissioners. . . ."

CHAPTER XVI.

King to Secretary of State — Conference with Lord Grenville relative to his Note
— Suggests the probable Wisdom of paying a gross Sum for the Settlement
of all Claims by British Creditors — To Pickering — Advantages from such a
Mode of Settlement — To Secretary of State — Unless Russia unite with the
Allies, Denmark and Sweden will continue neutral — Misunderstanding be-
tween Russia and the Allies rather increases — Gore to King — Events in the
U.S. — Lord Grenville to King — His Report of Conference correct — Suggests
the Principle that the Decision of one Cause in a Class of Claims should
settle all of this Class — King to Secretary of State — Campaign in
Italy recommenced favorably to the Allies — No Change in Russia's
Plans — The Terms of Union with Ireland — Simcoe to King — His
Conduct in the Government of Canada the reverse of that charged
by the Duke of Liancourt-Rochefoucault — He endeavored to preserve
Peace — King to Governor of Georgia — Records of Georgia found — To
Lord Grenville asking their Restoration — Pickering to King — Specu-
lations as to the coming presidential Election — Public Offices to be
removed to Washington in June or July — King to Troup — Presidential
Election — Pleasant House nine Miles from London — Must have a
Farm — Pickering's Removal — Law of Blockade — Sedgwick to King
— Bankrupt Bill passed — Secretary of Treasury to report on Revenue
at Beginning of each Session — Influence of Marshall in Legislation — Hi's
Character — Strong reasoning Powers, but weakens their Influence fre-
quently before exerting them — An Instance in the Passage of a Law for
counting the Votes for President in Case of a Dispute — His Objections,,
though abandoned, caused it to be lost — Adams and Pinckney will be the
federal Candidates.

Having received the specific answer from Lord Grenville,
Mr. King reports in a letter to the Secretary of State that
he had been asked at the last conference :

" If I was authorized to offer any specific sum of money on the
payment of which Great Britain should engage to satisfy the claims
of the British Creditors ? Having no such power, my answer was
of course in the negative."
222 RUFUS KING. [1800

The answer of April 19th having placed the negotiation in
a situation that had not been foreseen, Mr. King considered
it his duty to refer it in its present stage to the further con-
sideration of the President.

He also asked for a conference with Lord Grenville for a
more precise idea of the nature and extent of the regu-
lations suggested by him, which was immediately granted ;
and in the following letter, April 22d, the free conversation
was reported to the Secretary of State.

R. King to Secretary of State.
No. 67.*

London, April 22, 1800.
Dear Sir :

So much impatience has appeared in respect to the Delay that
happened in the transmission of my instructions concerning the
separation of the Commissioners at Philadelphia, that I judged it
expedient to lose no time after their arrival in beginning the nego-
tiation : I accordingly informed Lord Grenville on the day after
the receit of your No. 71, that I was ready to proceed, and would
either write to him an official note as the commencement of the
negotiation, or prepare & deliver to him an informal paper, con-
taining the propositions we had to offer, and which might
become the subject of free discussion in future conferences. His
Lordship intimated a preference of the latter course, and I accord-
ingly delivered to him the Paper mentioned in my No. 65, f a copy
of which is annexed. In my No. 66\ I gave you an account of
what passed between Lord Grenville & me in our next conference ;
in addition to which I might have added that his Lordship asked if
I was authorized to offer any specific sum of money, on the pay-
ment of which Great Britain should engage to satisfy the claims
of the British Creditors ? having no such power my answer was of
course in the negative.

* Appendix II.
f April 3, 1800.
% April 7, 1800.

1800] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 223

On the 19th instant I received his Lordship's written answer to
the proposals I had delivered to him on the 18th February, corre-
sponding, as you will perceive by the subjoined copy, with the
verbal answer that had before been given to me. As this answer
precludes all discussion of the articles we had proposed on the plea
that the whole subject had been finally settled by the Treaty of
Amity, and that the United States are bound by the decision of
the majority of the Commissioners whether the matter decided
was within or above their powers, my first thought was to prepare
and send to his Lordship a Note exposing the errorof a principle
that confounds the distinction between a limited and an unlimited
delegation of authority, and which should at the same time sup-
port by farther arguments, the justice and expediency of the ex-
planatory articles that we had offered.

But as the language of Lord Grenville in our conference was
equally explicit and decided, as that of the Paper delivered in
answer to our Proposals, I on reflection changed my first opinion,
from the persuasion that nothing would be gained by that course
in favor of the future execution of the articles ; and as the
answer had placed the negotiation in a situation that had not been
foreseen, that it was my duty to refer it in its present stage to the
further consideration of the President.

The written answer of Lord Grenville having intimated a dis-
position to accede to certain Regulations, which it was supposed
might facilitate the execution of the Treaty, I yesterday asked a
conference with his Lordship for the purpose of obtaining a pre-
cise idea of the nature & extent of these Regulations : this was
immediately granted, and afforded an opportunity for a free con-
versation upon the general Topic, as well as respecting the partic-
ular subject that brought us together. Many things were said on
both sides, which it would be useless to repeat ; these therefore
are omitted in this Report.

His Lordship observed that the object of the Delay, that took
place in London, was to allow time for the Court of Appeals to
decide the several Prize cases before their examination by the
Commissioners, and that a like arrangement might be made in
respect to the cases before the Commissioners at Philadelphia.
In regard to the Questions of impediment, solvency, insolvency,
and some others of equal importance, Lord Grenville said, their

224 RUFUS KING. [180a

decision must be left to the provisions of the Treaty, to the par-
ticular circumstances of each case, and to the sound discretion of
the Commissioners ; adding that upon a full investigation of the
subject he was convinced that no new & general Rule upon these
points could be made without affecting cases & claims that ought
not to be affected ; and that even with respect to an agreement to
delay the cases before the Commissioners at Philadelphia, in order
that the claimants should have an opportunity first to obtain the
decision of our Courts, it would be difficult, not to say impossible,
for him to form any satisfactory idea of what would be a conven-
ient time, unless he had a more adequate knowledge of our Judici-
ary proceedings & a particular instead of a general acquaintance
with the claims. Upon this point, as on most others, there seems to
be wanting a discretionary power always present, and ready to act
as occasion arose, and according to the nature & circumstances
of the particular question ; that the Persons, whom he has thought
of as two of the Commissioners to be appointed by the King, were
men of prudence & discretion, & with whom he thought we should
be satisfied ; that Mr. Liston, having repeatedly asked, & lately
received leave of absence on account of his health, might not be
at Philadelphia, & he saw no preferable course, in case we acceded
to the suggestion, to that of sending these two persons to Phila-
delphia to concert with us such analogous Regulations in respect
to the Commission there as were agreed to with regard to the
Commission here. We should by this means have an opportunity
of knowing the character and dispositions of the Persons sent to
prepare and agree to them & who would afterwards be appointed
to assist in the execution of the Treaty.

Lord Grenville asked me in what time I supposed the Courts
would be able to go through the whole of the cases ? I answered
that this must chiefly depend upon the diligence of the Credi-
tors, and that I could not form any satisfactory Estimate of the
time that might be necessary ; on the one hand, it should not
be so short as, with a disposition in the Courts to avoid delay,
should defeat the object of the Regulations ; and on the other
hand it should not be so long as to afford any ground from the
Delay to infer that there was a denial of justice. No precise time
was settled here, and perhaps none should be at Philadelphia.
His Lordship asked if there could be no means found to accel-

1800] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 225

erate the trials ? I repeated the observation that more would de-
pend on the diligence of the Creditors, than upon the Courts of
whose disposition to give the greatest despatch there could be no
doubt ; that a Law requiring extraordinary sessions of the Courts
or prescribing a more summary proceeding would not only inter-
fere with the established course of our Judiciary, but give birth
to other & still more difficult questions, which it would be unwise
to agitate.

His Lordship asked whether the cases before the Board are any
of them in a state for the new Commissioners to take up, suggest-
ing that it would be desirable that the new Board should at their
commencement have something to do. I replied that tho' I could
not then answer the question with any degree of accuracy, I was
inclined to believe that many cases were in a situation that without
recourse to the Courts, might soon be prepared for the Commis-
sioners to decide, also that the progress of the Trials would be
constantly furnishing additional cases.

Lord Grenville expressed his opinion that the new Board ought
to proceed in a different manner from their predecessors, by decid-
ing cases singly one after another, without attempting to decide
them by general Resolves & in classes.

I observed that it was possible that new difficulties might arise
in the course of future proceedings, & should Mr. Liston be ab-
sent there would be no one with whom we could confer for the
purpose of removing them.

Lord Grenville replied, that in this case we must endeavour to
find out a proper character to supply Mr. Liston's place.

I then asked Lord Grenville if he had formed any idea of the
gross sum, on the payment of which they would engage to com-
promise the claims of British creditors. His Lordship replied
that he had not, adding that he thought the creditors had not
been wise in swelling, as they had done, their claim to four or five
millions sterling ; tho' it might have no influence upon our Gov-
ernment, it would be likely to have some upon the People. That
he himself did not like the idea of the payment of a gross sum, and
that he mentioned it to me in compliance with the opinion of his col-
leagues ; but, that on the supposition the debt due to British
creditors did not exceed two millions, they might be willing to
accept a gross sum of between one and two millions.

VOL. III. — 15

226 RUFUS KING. [18

oo

I shall, as opportunity offers, endeavour to acquire further in-
formation on this subject, as it may possibly lead to the satisfac-
tory conclusion of a most difficult business.

If it is probable that we shall ultimately be required to pay
upon the awards of the Commissioners a sum equal to, or not far
short, of one for which the business could at once be settled,
would it not be the part of a wise policy to engage to pay-
such sum by installments, or in some other convenient manner ?
All further expense to Individuals, as well as to the public, would
in this mode of settlement be saved ; we shall moreover escape
the embarrassment of any future disagreement among the Com-
missioners, and consequent misunderstanding between the two
countries ; the trouble & vexation of numberless Law-suits would
be prevented, and instead of the dissatisfaction and ill-will
towards us that they would unavoidably excite, a general Release
to the Debtors would be a boon that could not fail to procure
opposite sentiments.

With perfect Respect & Esteem

Rufus King.

R. King to Col. Pickering.

{Private and Personal.)

London, April 22d, 1800.
Dear Sir :

In order that the President may have all the information in my
power to communicate on the subject of my official Letter of this
date, I have concluded to send you copies of the private letters
which passed between Ld. Grenville & me on that subject. I
desire, for obvious reasons, that this letter may not be considered
as belonging to your office, or in any respect a public communi-
cation. The more I think of the overture for the settlement of
the claims of the British Creditors by the payment of a gross sum
to their Government to take them off our hands, the better I like
it. I am aware of many objections to the Scheme, but, admitting
their force, will not the measure still be a wise one ? and may not
the Proposition be so made as to insure its success with Congress ?

1800] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 227

The business of the Commission here would, as I conceive, be
soon brought to a close ; and there would, I think, be no diffi-
culty in a satisfactory arrangement upon this subject, provided
the claims of the British Creditors were disposed of.

This sort of settlement might moreover afford an opportunity
to obtain the possession of the Maryland Bank Stock which is the
everlasting subject of fair words that are intended to mean
nothing.

With sincere regard & esteem, &c, &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 68.

London, April 23, 1800.
Dear Sir :

In my number 56, I informed you that a state of things existed
at the time, which made it almost certain that Denmark would* be
drawn into the war and that great exertions were employed to en-
gage Sweden to adopt the sa7?ie policy. The Retreat of Russia has
doubtless produced a material change in the politics of the North,
and I have been recently informed from the same authentic quar-
ter from whence I before derived my information on that subject,
that unless Russia shall again unite her armies with those of the
allies, and reengage in the war, it is pretty certain that both Den-
mark and Sweden tvill be suffered to continue their neutrality.
The Emperor of Russia having given assurances to the King of
Sweden, that he will support him against any innovations by the
Diet, and these assurances having been made known throughout
Sweden, it is likely that the Diet after assisting at the coronation
and adopting some Laws to retrieve and support the Public Credit,
will separate without attempting either Revolution or Reform.

The campaign has not yet opened tho' it is considered as
unavoidable.

By the Ship Active I have sent you a box, containing the addi-
tional volumes to complete your set of the Statutes down to the
present Session of Parliament, together with Crutwell's Gazetteer,

* Italics in cipher.

228 RUFUS KING. [1800

which is the latest, and I believe the best English work extant. I
don't find that there is any English Geographical work superior
to Guthrie's which may be had at any of the Booksellers at Phila-
delphia.

I will take measures to provide & send you an Atlas, which
shall contain all the good maps that can be collected. It will be
extensive but that is no reason why it should not find a place in
your office.

With perfect Respect & Esteem, &c.

Rufus King.

During the suspension of the sittings of the Commission
under the 7th Article of the Treaty with Great Britain, con-
sequent upon the breaking up of that under the 6th Article,
Mr. Gore took advantage of the present cessation of the labors
of the former to make a visit to the United States, and while
there wrote a number of letters to Mr. King, giving him ac-
counts of the condition of the political affairs at home.
Though, to a considerable extent, confirming the statements
made by other correspondents, they are the record of a clear-
headed man, who was thoroughly and intimately acquainted
with the leading statesmen at home and with the views on
public affairs held by Mr. King, in which he himself concurred.
The first of these letters written soon after reaching New-
York follows:

C. Gore to R. King.

New York, April 24, 1800.
My dear Sir :

Strong and Gerry were the candidates run in Massachusetts for
Governor and from all I can learn of the votes they are nearly
equal, though the good men say they have reason to hope the
former is chosen. Gouverneur Morris is appointed a Senator
from this State. Your fellow citizens here are busy electioneer-
ing. The parties are desirous of securing their favorites, and
each is sanguine. Hamilton is sure of success and I understand
the other side is equally so.

1800] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 2 29

From what I can gather there are some very good friends to
the Government who wish to set up Ellsworth and Pinckney as
Candidates for chief magistrate — others are for the present occu-
pant as chief. What will be the final determination does not yet
appear with certainty, tho' it is probable Adams will be sup-
ported.

Yours truly & ever,

C. Gore.

Lord Grenville to Mr. King.
{Private?)

Cleveland Row, April 24th, 1800.

My Dear Sir :

Your report seems to me perfectly correct. One question is
however omitted, the discussion of which seems to me likely to be
material ; it is whether there may not be means of classing the
cases, so as to give the Creditors the benefit not only of applying
to the Commissioners for redress when the existence of an im-
pediment actually applying to their class shall be ascertained by
trial in one case, but also the benefit of a speedy and effectual re-
dress from the courts, when, by the decision of one cause, any
question affecting a class shall be decided. If this is not done,
Debtors, who profit by delay, may oblige the Creditors to try each
disputed question over again as often as it occurs through the
whole class of cases to which it applies.

You must also allow me to remark, on the last point mentioned
in your letter, that though I permit myself to speak with freedom
to you of my personal opinions, I should be unwilling that any
expression of doubt, however slight, on my part, respecting the
opinions of those with whom I am so happy as to act in public
business, should get into an official correspondence.
Believe me ever, my dear Sir, &c.

Grenville*

23O XUFUS KING. [1800

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 69.

London, April 26, 1800.
Dear Sir :

In order that I might have it in my power to correct any mis-
take that I might have committed, I sent to Ld. Grenville an
extract of my No. 67, containing the report of what passed in
our last Conference ; the copy of my note and of his answer are
subjoined. On the supposition that a new Commission is ap-
pointed, I perceive fewer difficulties in the arrangement suggested
by his Lordship in respect to the Proceedings of the Board of
Commissioners than with regard to the Courts.

We are still without any account that the campaign has actually
commenced ; the misunderstanding between the Emperor of
Russia and the allies seems rather to increase than diminish.
Count Cobenzel, the Austrian Envoy at St. Petersburgh, was
sometime since ordered not to appear at Court, and an intima-
tion was at the same time given to the Foreign Ministers, that it
was expected they would break off their usual intercourse with
him ; for disregarding this extraordinary communication, the
Emperor, as we hear, has demanded the recall of the English
Ambassador, Sir Charles Whitworth, and the Envoy Extraordi-
nary, lately sent from Vienna, to announce the marriage of some
Branch of the Imperial family, has been denied an audience, and
on demanding Passports for a courier to inform his Court of
what had passed, these were also refused.

With Perfect Respect & Esteem, &c.

Rufus King.

J. G. Simcoe to R. King.

London, May 1, 1800.

The Duke of Liancourt Rochefoucault in the recent publication
of his Travels thro' North America speaks with much freedom of
M. General Simcoe then Lieut. Governor of Upper Canada. It
must evidently appear to any person who shall give the subject
due consideration that the conclusions which the Duke de Lian-
court draws from his supposed communications with the Lt.

l8co] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 23 1

Governor (while living in his family) are at variance and incon-
sistent with themselves, yet as a Servant of his King & Country,
M. General Simcoe deems it proper to say that the principles
which governed his conduct while in the administration of the
Government of Upper Canada were the reverse of what is insinu-
ated by the Duke de Liancourt, and that he was actuated by the
most sincere intentions to preserve Peace, good neighbourhood
and good will between the King's subjects and those of the
United States ; and he has ever been of opinion, in express con-
tradiction to Mons. de Liancourt, that the most strict union
between the two Nations, is the real Interest of each, & will make
the soundest policy & true wisdom in those who shall respectively
govern their councils. M. General Simcoe is so conscious of
having personally acted upon these principles during his adminis-
tration of that Government that he has claimed from the Duke
of Portland & Mr. Pitt protection and. consideration as having been
the principal means of preventing hostilities with the United
States from the mode in which he executed the military orders he
received in Upper Canada.

In testimony of these premises, M. General Simcoe begs leave
most respectfully to offer this representation to the Honble.
Rufus King, Minister plenipotentiary of the United States to the

King of Great Britain.

J. G. Simcoe.

Endorsed in R. King's handwriting: " M. General Simcoe,
I May, 1800. — Contradiction of Liancourt, &c."

"The General came to me on the 8th (May) and delivered me
this paper saying he was not at liberty to publish the Orders &c;
that he had vindicated himself in his memoirs, wh. he had ordered
his Executors to publish after his death : but that he would tell
me, that according to his instructions (wh. he was now convinced
Lord Dorchester had no power to have given) he ought to have
attacked Wayne, and thus have begun a war with the U. S.; that
when he received his instructions, he fully believed that his Govt,
had resolved to bring on a war with the U. S.. a measure that he
himself thought highly impolitic, but in wh. he was bound to
acquiesce."

232 RUFUS KING. [1800

C. Gore to R. King.

New York, May 5, 1800.

I have a moment, my dear friend, to write to you. Our friends
here have been defeated in the election — and on the fate of it
they fear the choice of P. & V. P. will depend. In Philadelphia
the parties are extremely divided. The P. has no confidence,
but great distrust of every man, I believe without exception, in
whom you and I have confided. Pickering, Hamilton and Hig-
ginson he seems to hate without any modification. Cabot and
Ames are not behind in his estimation, nor does he seem to think
much better of Wolcott, altho' his hatred is not so extreme against
them. . . . Farewell, God bless you.

Yours sincerely,
C. Gore.

T. Pickering to R. King.

{Private?)

Philadelphia, May 7, 1800.
Dear Sir :

. . . You will doubtless see by the newspapers the issue of
the elections in the city of New York. Governor Clinton, Gen-
eral Gates, Brockholst Livingston, &c, all democrats are elected
to represent the city and county of New York, and Dr. S. L.
Mitchell representative to Congress. It is concluded that the 12
electors of New York will all vote for Mr. Jefferson, as president,
and this will probably be decisive in his favour, unless New
England will concur in the federal candidates. Mr. Adams &
General Charles C. Pinckney are proposed. New England will
be nearly unanimous for the former, & South Carolina and part of
North Carolina will vote for General Pinckney ; hence the federal
election of President will perhaps not be in jeopardy, if Massa-
chusetts will give all her votes for General Pinckney as well as
Mr. Adams : but there is the danger ; that the miserable policy
of regarding men not measures will defeat the hopes of the most
enlightened and truly patriotic citizens.

I thank God that the folly of the people of Massachusetts has
not quite succeeded in making Gerry their governor ; you will be

i8oo] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 233

astonished to find how closely he pressed the heels of Mr. Strong.
Gerry had near 17000 votes ! you will perhaps be not less aston-
ished that while the election was pending, the President said it
was a matter of indifference whether Mr. Strong, Mr. Gerry or
Mr. Gill was elected.

The public offices will be removed to the city of Washington
in June or July. No preparations are made yet for the accom-
modation of the President & his family, and they will soon return
to Congress. Congress is to rise next Monday, the 12th inst. We
have heard by an American Vessel from Bordeaux that the envoys
arrived there about the 19th of February and had gone to Paris.
It was said that this vessel brought letters from them ; they may
be on their way from Norfolk. This vessel was captured, carried
to Bordeaux and what was American property released. She sold
& purchased a return cargo, and consequently is seized and must
be confiscated under the new non-intercourse law ; unless Con-
gress pass now a special act to prevent it.

Very truly & respectfully yours

Timothy Pickering.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 70.

London, 8th May, 1800.
Dear Sir :

The campaign has opened on the side of Italy on the 6th ulto
by the attack of the Austrians, who on the 10th had succeeded in
dispossessing the French of several strong Posts, which they held
in the Genoese mountains, and in breaking their line of commu-
nication between Genoa and Nice. According to the last advices
from that Quarter, the situation of the French army under Massena
was extremely critical ; it is believed that the Rhine was passed
by the French army, commanded by Moreau, at several points on
the 25th, and couriers are every hour expected with accounts from
the Austrian army. As Paris papers to the 4th inst have been
received, which mention the passage of the Rhine, but which are
silent concerning the subsequent engagements, it is inferred that
the French have either been unfortunate or that no considerable
battle has been fought.

234 fiUFUS KING. [1800

There are no symptoms of the return of the Russians. Sir
Charles Whitworth, the English Embassador at Petersburgh, who
has incurred the displeasure of the Emperor, is coming home ; and
with the permission to return, will receive information that he has
been created an Irish Baron, as a remuneration of his services.
The Russian troops employed in the Dutch expedition, and who
are at Guernsey, are recalled ; and will return home as soon as
the Baltic is open, unless the Emperor consents to their stay for
the purpose of succouring Portugal, which is kept in a state of
inquietude by the menaced attacks of France.

The British Troops mentioned in my No. 61, and who were
destined for the Mediterranean, have been disembarked, and the
expedition for whatever object undertaken, seems to be wholly
laid aside. Other projected expeditions, in which Russia was ex-
pected to cooperate, will in like manner be abandoned, in case the
expected cooperation continues to be refused.

Parliament is engaged in settling the terms of the Union with
Ireland, which meet with no considerable opposition. The dear-
ness of bread & meat has occasioned some popular irregularities
near some of the manufacturing Towns ; but by the prudence of the
magistrates, assisted by the presence of the military, they have
been quickly and easily suppressed. The season is uncommonly
fine, and the apprehension of serious embarrassments, on account
of the scarcity of food, is very much diminished.

Enclosed I send you a copy of the letter* that in my No. 63 I
informed you, I should write to our Envoys in Paris.
With perfect Respect & Esteem &c &c

Rufus King.

R. King to James Jackson, Governor of Georgia.

London, 8 May, 1800.
Sir:

Immediately after the receit of your Excellency's letter, I com-
menced an enquiry for the Georgia records, which were removed
to this country during the late war. It is needless to repeat the

* Relative to the fact that the underwriters in England claimed and were sus-
tained by the Courts, that the Decisions of the French Courts in cases of cap-
tures should be used in the settlement of claims for Insurance — these decisions
being most unjust.

1800] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 235.

disappointments that I have experienced in the prosecution of
this Enquiry. Let it suffice to say that I have received the most
ready assistance from the British Government, and that a large
chest of these Papers has been found in the office in which the
Papers of the late Board of Trade are deposited. I went myself
today to see it, and shall immediately renew my application for
its delivery.

With this Chest are two others supposed to contain the Records
of East and West Florida ; and as I have some reason to believe
that the Georgia & Florida Papers have been mixed, I will take
measures that all the cases shall be carefully examined, in order
that such Papers as belong to Georgia may be separated and
restored. I am not able to give you a more particular account.
With great consideration & Respect, &c. &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Lord Grenville.

Great Cumberland Place, May 8, 1800.
Mv Lord :

I was mistaken in supposing that the Georgia Records and

Papers which were conveyed to this country during the late war,.

had been deposited with the Papers of the American Loyalists at

Somerset House. On further enquiry I find that they are in the

custody of Mr. Chalmers, the keeper of the Papers of the late

Board of Trade ; and I therefore take the liberty of renewing the

request which I lately made to your Lordship, that these Papers

may be delivered to me.

With the most perfect consideration & Respects

Rufus King.

R. King to R. Troup.

London, 8 May, 1800.
Dear Sir :

. . I don't believe that the wise men of the East will do so*
indiscreet a thing as to offer Mr. E., or any other in lieu of Mr.
A., as the consequence will be defeat. Pray why do you not
think of Genl. Armstrong for the Senate of the U. S. He is cer-
tainly a man of talents and in my Eyes very sound in his politics..

236 RUFUS KING. [1800

Besides considering his connections & the part he has taken, has
he not claims wh. ought not to be neglected ?

I conclude that Mr. A. will be supported by his former friends
and as Pensylvania will lose her vote, the Election will depend on
N. Jersey & N. York. . . . The envoys continue to be civilly
treated at Paris ; I know nothing more. Hitherto I do not be-
lieve they have done anything, but I do not from hence infer their
success or failure. As the season here is fine, we are beginning

to hope that we shall not be starved.

Yrs

R. K.

P. S. . . . My family is at a pleasant house we have at
about 9 miles from town, and the preference we give to it over
the town, is constantly recalling my project of a farm &c. I
must have a farm.

T. Sedgwick to R. King.

Philadelphia, nth May, 1800.
Dear Sir :

. . . Tomorrow a long tedious and unproductive session
will close. At the commencement of it, I formed the most flatter-
ing expectations that much would be done to give efficiency &
security to the government. The general objects which I con-
templated I suggested in a letter which I wrote to you just before
I left home. None, almost, of my hopes have been realized. We
have, it is true, enacted a bankrupt law — a measure, in my belief,
of considerable importance ; but it is far from being such an one
as I wished. The acts in curing bankruptcy are too restricted,
and the trial of the question Bankrupt or not, by jury, will be
found inconvenient, embarrassing, & dilatory. This mischief
was occasioned by Virginia Theory. It was the whim of General
Marshall ; with him a sine qua non of assent to the measure, &
without him the bill must have been lost, for it passed the House
by my casting vote. Besides the bankrupt bill, we have passed
one more of great importance. It makes it the Duty of the Secry.
of the Treasury, at the commencement of a session, to report to
the Legislature on all the subjects of revenue & finance. This
will give splendor to the officer and respectability to the executive
Department of Govt. Besides these two laws, all the rest we

800] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 237

have made are, as to any permanently beneficial effects, hardly
worth the parchment on which they are written. The reason of
this feebleness is a real feebleness of character in the house.
Marshall was looked up to as the man whose great and command-
ing genius was to enlighten & direct the national councils. This
was the general sentiment, while some, and those of no incon-
siderable importance, calculating on his foolish declaration, rela-
tive to the alien & sedition laws, thought him temporizing, while
others deemed him feeble. None had in my opinion justly appre-
ciated his character. As his character has stamped itself on the
measures of the present session, I am desirous of letting you know
how I view it. He is a man of a very affectionate disposition, of
great simplicity of manners and honest & honorable in all his
conduct. He is attached to pleasures, with convivial habits
strongly fixed. He is indolent, therefore, and indisposed to take
part in the common business of the house. He has a strong
attachment to popularity but indisposed to sacrifice to it his in-
tegrity ; hence it is that he is disposed on all popular subjects to
feel the public pulse and hence results indecision and an expres-
sion of doubt. Doubts suggested by him create in more feeble
minds those which are irremovable. He is disposed to the erotic
refinement, and to express great respect for the sovereign people,
and to quote their opinions as an evidence of truth. The latter
is of all things the most destructive of personal independence &
of that weight of character which a great man ought to possess.
This gentleman, when aroused, has strong reasoning powers ;.
they are indeed almost unequalled. But before they are excited,
he has frequently, nearly, destroyed any impression from them.
I will give you an instance which will render this observation
perfectly intelligible.

Looking forward to the ensuing election, it was deemed indis-
pensable to prescribe a mode for canvassing the votes, provided
there should be a dispute. There being no law in the state, the
governor had declined, and the jacobins propagated the report,
that he would call on the people, by proclamation, to choose
electors, & that he would return their votes. A bill was brought
into the Senate & passed, wisely & effectually providing against
the evil, by the constitution of a committee with ultimate powers
of decision. Mr. Marshall in the first place called in question the

238 RUFUS KING. [1800

constitutional powers of the legislature to delegate such authority
to a Committee. On this question I had a long conversation with
him, & he finally confessed himself (for there is not a more can-
did man on earth) to be convinced. He then resorted to another
ground of opposition. He said the people having authorized the
members to decide, personally, all disputes relative to those elec-
tions, altho' the power was not indelegable, yet he thought, in its
nature, it was too delicate to be delegated, untill experience had
demonstrated that great inconveniences would attend its exercise
by the Legislature ; altho' he had no doubt such would be the
result of the attempt. This objection is so attenuated and unsub-
stantial as to be hardly perceivable by a mind so merely practical
as mine. He finally was convinced that it was so and abandoned
it. In the mean time, however, he had dwelt so much, in con-
versation, on these subjects that he had dissipated our majority,
and it never could again be compacted. The consequence was
that the bill was lost.

We have had a meeting of the whole federal party, on the sub-
ject of the ensuing election & have agreed that we will support,
bona fide, Mr. Adams and General Pinckney. If this agreement
be faithfully executed we shall succeed, but otherwise we cannot
escape the fangs of Jefferson. It is true that the late conduct of
the President has endeared him to the great body of the federalists,
but it is equally true that it has created an entire separation be-
tween him & those whom he theretofore deemed his best friends.
This is an evil of a more alarming nature than you can well form
an idea of.

We have for some days believed that the Legislature of New
York would be decidedly antifederal ; but yesterday I reed,
letters from General Hamilton, Mr. Van Schaak and a gentleman
in Albany, who seemed decidedly of opinion that our fears were
unfounded.

The election of Governor in Massachussets will to you, at a
distance, have an unpleasant appearance ; but it is by no means
an evidence of the real division of parties. The fact is that
Gerry was voted for as the friend of Peace, and what was more
efficacious, as the friend — the personal & confidential friend —
■•of the President. In both respects he was supported ; and what
is conclusive evidence to this point is, that the federal candidates

1800] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 239

for the Senate thro' the State had more than four fifths of the
votes.

Mr. McHenry has resigned his office of Secy, of War and Mar-
shall is appointed his successor. He will not accept ; he was not
consulted previous to the nomination, nor had the least intimation
of the President's intention. . . .

Ever sincerely yours,

T. S.

P. S. The duel between Bayard and Chaplin is an unpleasant
event. The cause was unworthy. A prosecution is set on foot.
They have fled, except poor Chaplin who I fear is unable to
get off.

CHAPTER XVII.

J. Hale to King — Adams must be the Candidate for President — New York
against Jefferson — Strong elected Governor over Gerry — Gore to King —
Conversation with Liston about 6th Article — Bayard Died — King to Secre-
tary of State — Attempted Assassination of the King — Moreau defeats the
Austrians on the Rhine — Misunderstanding between Russia and the Allies
increasing — Sweden and Russia offended by England's Capturing merchant
Ships under Convoy — Project of uniting the Northern Powers against
France at an End — King rejoices at its Failure — King to Secretary of
State — Eaton wishes him to buy the Presents for the Bey of Tunis
promised to him when Treaty of Peace was made — Has no authority,
though he gets an Estimate of Cost — Pickering to King — His Removal
from Office — Coalition between Adams and Jefferson — Marshall appointed
Secretary of State — Gore to King — Pickering Removed — Pinckney and
Adams for President and Vice-President — Cabot to King — Pickering's Re-
moval— Coalition of Adams and Jefferson — England will find Pretence to
war on Commerce of United States and France — King to Secretary of
State — N. Webster's History of Pestilential Diseases — G. Morris to King
— Their Friends are in sad Anarchy — A direct Tax always Unpopular —
King to Secretary of State — The Lord Chancellor thinks a gross sum the
best way of Settling the Differences under the 6th Article — Campaign in
Northern Italy.

Joseph Hale to R. King.

Boston, May 13, 1800.
Dear Sir :

I am duly honored with your favor by Mr. Gore. Good men
throughout the United States concur with you in the necessity &
policy of a united effort to reelect Mr. Adams. We were yester-
day told that the members of Congress, that is those worthy of a
post there, had unanimously agreed to support Mr. A. for Pres. &
Genl. Pinckney for Vice Prest. Notwithstanding the untoward
aspect of the late election in New York, influenced probably, by
the unconciliating conduct of Capt. Bellew of the Cleopatra, it is
hoped that the above gentlemen will be chosen.

You will be rejoiced to learn that Mr. Strong is elected Gov-
1800] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 24 1

ernor of Massachusetts. The rival candidate Mr. Gerry was
highly supported. Mr. S. has not a majority of more than two
hundred out of near forty thousand votes returned ; and there
was but about two thousand scattering votes. In some of the
neighbouring Jacobin towns, their representation has been en-
creased this year. This notwithstanding, we shall have a majority
of good men in the house ; altho' the result of to-day may exclude
Mr. Lowell & myself from the house and introduce Eustis &
Tudor. There will be a handsome majority of good men in our
Senate, altho' Norfolk has chosen Hitchbon, Aspinwall & one
Ellis. The bill relative to federal elections has passed the lower
house of Congress, tho' differently modified than in its first
draught. Congress were to have risen yesterday.

The fate of the army of Egypt, so correspondent to the inter-
cepted letters, would overset Bonaparte, were he less firmly
fixed. The public mind with us is upon the tip toe for informa-
tion from the Austrian & French armies. The event of the
present campaign is difficult to conjecture since the return of the
Russians. We do not wish France to prevail, neither are we satis-
fied that the conduct of another government towards us should
promote the cause of France in our country. The administration
of Great Britain must derive their information regarding our
Country from very impure and incorrect sources, or their policy
would be materially different. The solid interests of both
countries are reconcileable, or incompatible with each other ; if
the former, why treat us as she appears disposed to ? if the latter,
the sooner we prepare for a serious contest, the better. While we
deprecate the latter, we will not shrink, if called upon to meet it.

2, o'clock p.m. The poll is now closed & the last year's list
prevailed by a great majority. . . .

Your most obedt. servt.

Joseph Hale.

I have broken the seal of this to say that this day's post brings
intelligence from Albany, that the New York City election gave
such alarm throughout the State, as to produce exertions in favour
of true policy. The result is that New York will have a decided
majority in their House of Representatives against Jefferson.

Yours as above

J. Hale.

VOL. Ill— 16

242 RUFUS KING. [1800

C. Gore to R. King.

Boston, May 14, 1800.
My dear Friend :

When in Philadelphia I had several conversations with Mr.
Liston on the subject of the Commission under the 6th Article.
His private letter from Lord Grenville expressed great fear that
unless your instructions authorized the relinquishment of many
points in the precis given in by you that a harmonious result
could not be expected to the negotiation. He appears satisfied
with our construction of the Article which would exclude from its
benefits those who were with us after the dec'on of Independence
and then went to the British and also with that which would
oblige the claimant to prosecute, under certain modifications, his
debtor in the courts previous to his coming before the Board.
On these & several other points he declared himself to be of
opinion that the G. B. should not contend with us, that our con-
struction was right and that he would communicate his senti-
ments to Lord Grenville. McDonald and Guillemarde return to
England in the Lady Arabella. On the latter requesting permis-
sion from our Government it was given and Col. Pickering in-
formed him that the President had thought proper to make it a
condition in the negotiation that was pending that the Board
should be composed of new members.

The federal party have agreed to set up Adams & Genl Pinck-
ney. It is possible they may be so alarmed at the elections in
the City of New York as to be true to the agreemt ; but I much
doubt it. Strong is our Governor by a small majority only ;
Hitchbon is a Senator and Morton a Rep. from Dorchester. The
election for Reps, for this town was made yesterday and
the fed. ticket carried 2 to 1. Of course we are up again for
a moment.

A duel has been fought in Philadelphia by Champlin of R.
Island and Bayard of Delaware & both wounded ; it was the con-
sequence of some hasty remark by one or the other in a debate
on the floor of the House. There was a report that Hamilton
and Brockholst Livingston had fought in N. York ; but it was not
true. Mc. Henry has resigned as Secretary. The P. immediately
named Genl Marshall to succeed him, & it is said the Genl. as

1800] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 243

immedi'ely declined. I do not learn who is to fill the place.
Genl. Lee they suppose would be gratified by the appointment.
My affectionate regards to Mrs. King and the boys.

Yours truly

C. Gore.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 71.*

London, May 22, 1800.
Dear Sir :

The King's Life was twice in danger on the 15th ; in the morn-
ing at a review of a battalion of the Guards, when a gentleman a
few yards distant from him was wounded by a ball from one of
the soldier's pieces. Similar occurrences having before hap-
pened, this was considered as purely accidental, and doubtless
proceeded from the carelessness of the Ordnance Department
in having issued Ball Cartridges among those containing only
powder.

In the evening an assassin who had placed himself near the

* See answer of the President in note.

J. Adams to J. Marshall, Secretary of State.

Quincy, 2d Aug., 1800.

Dear Sir :

. . . Mr. King's despatches, Nos. 71. and 72. f I have read and if you
think proper, you may authorize Mr. King, if he thinks it proper, to communi-
cate to the Court, in any manner he thinks most decent, the congratulations of
his government, and, if he pleases, of the President, on the King's fortunate
escape from assassination. . . . The jewels for Tunis are a more serious
subject. When I read over all the despatches from the Barbary States, I re-
member your predecessor consulted me concerning these jewels. His opinion
was, that it was best to make the present, rather than to hazard a rupture.
After the expenditure of such great sums, I thought with him that it would be
imprudent to hazard an interruption of the peace on account of these jewels,
and I presume he wrote to Mr. Eaton or Mr. Smith accordingly. I am still
of the same opinion.

I see no objection against requesting Mr. Smith, and all the consuls in the
Barbary States, to keep Mr. King informed of the general state of affairs. It
will be of service to the public that our minister at London should know as
much information as possible concerning our affairs in those countries.

f May 22 and 25, 1800, pages 243 and 246.

244 RUFUS KING. [1800

centre of the front row of seats in the pit of Drury Lane Theatre^
fired a pistol at the King the moment he entered his Box ; the
two slugs with which it was charged lodged in the cornice of the
Box about twenty inches above the King's head. The King
asked Lords Salisbury and Chesterfield, who attended him, if it
was a Pistol ? and being answered in the affirmative, with cool-
ness and decision ordered them to stop, and, adding there may
be another, put his hand upon his breast, advanced to the front
of the Box, & saluted the audience.

The assassin, a disbanded soldier, who was severely wounded
under the Duke of York in Flanders, and is reported to be sub-
ject to fits of insanity in consequence of his wounds, was imme-
diately seized ; after which the play began, and the King with
the Queen & two of the Princesses who were behind the King,
but had not entered the Box when the Pistol was fired, remained
as usual until the entertainment was entirely finished. The
assassin will be tried by a special Commission. There are many
idle rumors of plots & conspiracies against the King's life ; but
they are not worthy of the smallest credit ; and it does not appear
that the Person who made the attempt at the Theatre has any
confederate. The two houses of Parliament, the City of London
& other Corporations have presented congratulatory addresses,
to the King on this occasion and the example will run thro' the
Kingdom.

The Austrian Army upon the Rhine, has suffered great losses,
both in killed and Prisoners in the several battles fought between
the first and twelfth of this month. The success of General Melas
in Italy, and the expectation that the French army would be so
completely destroyed in that quarter, that General Melas would
be able to enter the south of France, induced General Kray to
believe that the French army of the Rhine would not attempt to
march into Suabia ; and in this persuasion, according to a plan
previously concerted, General Kray advanced his magazines, and
put his army in a situation not to defend, but to pass the Rhine,
the moment he received information that General Melas had en-
tered France. In this position of the Austrian army, General
Moreau crossed the Rhine in great force, fell upon the Austrian
Posts, and pursued his attack with such vigour as left General
Kray no time to collect and concentrate his forces to oppose

1800] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 245

him. The consequence has been that the Austrians have been
obliged to retreat, after fighting several obstinate and unequal
battles, which they could not decline without exposing their sep-
arated columns to be cut off by the rapid advance of the French ;
further accounts are anxiously expected, as well from the
Danube as from Italy, whither Buonaparte is hastening with the
army of rescue to relieve Massena who is shut up in the city of
Genoa.

There seems to be no probability of a reconciliation between
Russia and the allies ; on the contrary, the misunderstanding be-
tween England and Russia is increasing. Since the recall of Sir
Charles Whitworth, the Emperor has recalled Count Woronzow,
his Envoy at this Court ; and we hear that Sir Horace Popham,
an English naval officer, sent to Petersburgh to superintend the
embarkation of the Russian Troops that were to cooperate with
the English in expeditions against France, is coming back ; and
that the Russian Troops employed in the Dutch expedition, and
who have wintered at Guernsey, are going home. Much coolness
still subsists between Sweden & England on account of the Fleet
of merchant men under convoy of a Swedish Frigate, taken by
the English in 1798. The British minister is on his return from
Stockholm, the Swedish Envoy having left London several months
ago. As Russia interposed her good offices with the British
Cabinet in support of the complaints of Sweden concerning the
capture of her Merchant Ships, while under a national convoy,
and is moreover understood to be ultimately connected at present
with Sweden, the disagreement between England and these two
Powers may be expected to increase, rather than to diminish ;
and the project of uniting the north of Europe in the conference
against France must now be relinquished. A less rigorous and
more liberal interpretation of the Law of Nations concerning
Merchant Ships, under National convoy, on the part of England,
with more steadiness and less caprice on the part of Russia, would
in all probability have overcome the obstacles to this important
measure which a few months ago was all but completed. * When
J recollect, and I think I ca?i never forget, the sentiments and lan-
guage of the British Minister concerning the United States at the
time he entertained the fullest confidence of success in this scheme, I

* Italics in cipher.

246 RUFUS KING. [1800

cannot help rejoicing in its failure nor hoping it may never be
accomplished.

Sir Hyde Parker is recalled : Sir Hugh Seymour succeeds him
on the Jamaica Station. I hope the change will produce a more
favorable and just treatment of our Flag in those seas. Sir Wil-
liam Parker, who is well spoken of, replaces Admiral Vandeput
on the Halifax Station.

With perfect Respect & Esteem, &c, &c,

Rufus King.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 72.

London, May 25, 1800.
Dear Sir :

I yesterday received a letter from Mr. Smith at Lisbon, includ-
ing a letter and several Papers, dated in October last, from Mr.
Eaton our Consul at Tunis. According to Mr. Eaton's representa-
tion the Peace which he states to have been concluded with the Bey
of Tunis, is in danger of being broken by the delay that has arisen
in the delivery of the stipulated supply of military and naval stores,
and for want of what is called the customary present of Jewels,
which, it is alleged, the Persons who negotiated the Treaty sanc-
tioned the Bey's expectation of receiving. The object of Mr.
Eaton's letter to me, is to engage me to purchase and send to
Tunis the Jewels and other articles, a list of which he has in-
closed, estimated by the Bey to be worth forty thousand dollars,
but which Mr. Eaton supposed may be purchased in England for
half that sum. The military stores which Mr. Eaton thought of
entering into a contract with certain English traders at Tunis to
supply, giving them bills on me, have, according to Mr. Smith's in-
formation, been sent from the U. S. Mr. Smith, who I presume
is acquainted with the state of our Barbary Affairs, gives no ex-
plicit opinion concerning the purchase of these Jewels, tho' I con-
ceive from the tenor of his letter that he is on the whole rather
disposed to acquiesce in the demand : but, as I am entirely without
information or authority on this subject, and have no knowledge
whatever respecting the intentions and measures of the Govern-
ment, I shall not without a direct and explicit request from Mr.
Smith comply with Mr. Eaton's demands. I will however immedi-

1800] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 247

ately apply to Mr. Boulton at Birmingham, who is able to manu-
facture and prepare, on lower terms than any other, the articles
enumerated in the list of Jewels, for an estimate of the price at
which he will engage to supply them ; this estimate I will send to
Mr. Smith, with an answer corresponding with the tenor of this
letter. I submit to your consideration whether it will not be expe-
dient, by some means or other, that I should be made acquainted
with the situation of our Barbary connections, if there is any prob-
ability that I am from time to time to be called upon to exercise
a discretion concerning them. Should Mr. Smith, before I can
receive your answer to this letter, ask my assistance in the execu-
tion of his Orders, I shall give it in the best way in my power,
but uninformed as I am, I shall do nothing of my own discretion,
nor shall I hereafter be inclined to interfere on any occasion, un-
less I hear from you, that such interference may, in the Presi-
dent's opinion, be necessary ; in this case, I must repeat the
observation, it will be proper that I should be kept fully ac-
quainted with the situation of our Barbary Affairs.

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c. &c.

Rufus King.

Note of Articles expected as a Present from the United States
of America to the Bey of Tunis, on the ratification of Peace be-
tween the two Powers.
For the Bey :

1 Fusee, 6 feet long, mounted with gold, set with diamonds.

4 with gold mounting, ordinary length.

1 pr. of Pistols mounted with gold, set with diamonds.

4 " " mounted with gold.

1 poniard, enamelled, set with diamonds.

1 diamond Ring.

1 Gold repeating watch, with diamonds, chain the same.

1 Gold snuff-box, set with diamonds.

6 pieces brocade of gold.

30 " superfine cloth of different colours.

6 " Satin, different colours.
The Bey's son :

1 gold mounted fusee.

1 do pr. pistols.

1 do watch with diamonds.

248 RUFUS KING. [1800

T. Pickering to R. King.

Philadelphia, May 28, 1800.
Dear Sir :

For some account of the changes the President has made in the
public departments, allow me to refer you to my Son, to whom I
have written at large, and yet but a little of what the occasion
suggested, of facts and observations, all of the like tendency, and
which would demonstrate the President's unbounded vanity, am-
bition, selfishness, revenge and a heart cankered with envy.
There were several worthy candidates for the place of Commis-
sioner of the Stamp Office. They called on me with their appli-
cations as usual. At length I found that Mr. Joshua Johnson
was a candidate. I then told gentlemen (my friends) that he
would be appointed, " for the President's son had married his
daughter." Mr. Wolcott, prior to the nomination, called and
asked me if I knew anything about him. I remembered your
letter of 1797 (private) in which you mentioned the current
report, that Mr. Johnson had quitted London dishonorably
leaving creditors in the lurch. This fact was well known other-
wise to many of our merchants. The Senate were equally divided ;
Mr. Jefferson gave the casting vote for Mr. Johnson, " from the
respect he had for the President's discernment," for he assigned
his reasons for his casting vote. With this demur about brother-
in-law Johnson, the President also upbraided Mr. Goodhue. Who
but Mr. A. would scold and reproach Senators for exercising their
constitutional right & duty respecting presidential nominations ?
Beyond a doubt there is a coalition between Mr. A. & Mr. J.,*
but I have not time to note the combined facts & circumstances
which prove it. Mr. J. never before stayed to the close of a ses-
sion. The Aurora announced the arrangement before it took
place. At Dallas' table it was openly mentioned several days be-
fore, that I was to resign and Mr. Marshall to be appointed Sec-
retary of State. He had refused the war office to which he was
named without notice, and left town for Virginia. On Monday,
the 12th, he was named Secretary of State and Dexter Secy, of
War. It is not known whether either will accept ; if General

* Gunn, says Dawson (member from Virginia & devoted to Jefferson) told
him there was a coalition. Another Virginian said the same to Dayton.

1800] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 249

Marshall declines, Dexter will doubtless be appointed to the Office
of State, and I think it not improbable that he will accept it.
Wolcott's place cannot be filled ; it would be too hazardous to
remove him. The President desired him to remain in office to
the 4th of March next.

May 28, 10 o'clock a. m. It is said that General Marshall
accepts the office of State.

Very truly yours,

Timothy Pickering.

G. Cabot to R. King.

May 29, 1800.

My dear Sir :

Mr. Gore will return in the Galen & will give you the most
ample details of our internal politicks. You will previously have
seen with regret the expulsion of Col. Pickering from an office
which he filled with ability, integrity & honor, but you are so well
acquainted with the sort of sensibility for which our chief is re-
markable, that you will be less surprised than most men. It is
believed that there is a good understanding between Jefferson &
Mr. Adams, & that they will make a. joint-stock of their influence
in the next election, which will probably issue in the elevation of
the former to the President's chair, and depressing the latter to
the Vice Presidency. If however Massachussets cou'd be induced
to act with a just regard to the support of the National Govt, and
not be biased by a predilection for persons, we shou'd see
General Pinckney President. You see we are about to act over
the fooleries which are incidental to Democracies & which at
last change them. I cou'd write you a few pages which might be
interesting, but you wou'd still demand more, and Mr. Gore will
satisfy you, for tho' he professes to avoid our domestic politicks,
he undoubtedly must know all that can now be known.

Presuming that we have swallowed the bait we shall find our-
selves hooked by France. I am apprehensive that England will
find pretences for warring upon the commerce which shall be
attempted to be carried on with France. Shou'd this be the case
I hope they will publish to the world the principles, on which
they mean to act, & if they are new, or uncommon, let them
allege openly the justification of them in the nature and extent of

250 RUFUS KING. [1800

the danger which equally threatens all nations, whose battles they
really fight, and have already fought with success. Perhaps they
may add that in the present contest a Neutral associating with
their Enemy may almost as well become an open enemy.

God bless you & yours
G. C.

C. Gore to R. King.

Boston, May 31, 1800.
My dear Sir :

The P. has removed Col. Pickering which, so far as I can judge,
produces general discontent. Genl. Marshall, who was named in
his stead, it is believed, will decline ; Dexter thinks he will not.
It is conjectured that should M. decline, D. will be appointed to
the office of State. He says he shall not & cannot take the place
as its duties are more than he can perform. Notwithstanding I
believe the place will be offered him and he will undertake the
business. Some suppose Mr. Wolcott will leave the Treasury
and it will be difficult to find a successor. The P. has gone to
Washington and will not return here before my departure. Fries
and the other convicts are pardoned. The intention of the fed-
eralists is to run Genl. Pinckney & Mr. Adams as Pres. and
Vice President. It is confidently believed that Mr. A. will have
a unanimous vote in Massachusetts. This may probably be relied
on, if the electors are chosen by the Legislature ; but I think very
doubtful, if they are appointed by the people. Middlesex would
choose such an elector as might vote for Mr. Jefferson, and it is
quite uncertain what would be the course of some others. This
State is doubtless strong & strictly federal with very few excep-
tions. . . .

A Treaty with France is calculated on and it is presumed the
P. will call the Senate to consider its merits about October, af-
fording this body time to finish Treaty business before Congress
meets. We hope your explanatory article will be here in season
for that meeting . . . Monday evening 2 June. I have this
afternoon seen Mrs. Adams. She says Marshall accepts the office

of Secretary of State. . . .

Yours ever,

C. Gore.

1800] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 25 L

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 73.

London, June 2, 1800.
Dear Sir :

I have received your No. — inclosing a Bill of Exchange for
£95. Sterling drawn upon me by Mr. N. Webster ; in his letter
of advice, Mr. Webster informs me that the Draft is on account
of 100 Guineas that Mess. Robinsons, Booksellers in Pater Noster
Row, agreed to pay him for the copy of his History of Pestilential
Diseases. I have given them notice of this Draft, but have not
received information whether they will make provision for its
payment. Through Dr. Lettsome I hear they are dissatisfied
with the publication of the same work in America, where, as they
allege, they expected to sell a considerable portion of the edition
printed here. I do not accept this Draft, nor shall I pay it, un-
less Mess. Robinson supply the money, which I am in hope they
will do.

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c,

Rufus King.

GOUVERNEUR MORRIS TO R. KlNG.

Morrisania, June 4, 1800.
My dear Sir :

I pray you will be so good as to forward the enclosed letter to
the Duke of Orleans. You have doubtless heard that our Legis-
lature is Antifederal & that our present system is somewhat wild.
Mr. Adams is known to you and of course certain things have
excited less surprise than they would have done had they been
performed by a Man of steadier Conduct. Living as I do in the
country, and thinking as little of Politics as I can, it is not in my
Power to tell you what Plans are in Agitation, much less what
Events will take Place, but nil desperandum de Republica is a
sound Principle. Let the Chair of office be filled by whomsoever
it may, Opposition will act as an outward Conscience, & prevent
the Abuse of Power. As to the discarding of it, we may fairly-
trust the Ambition which seeks Office for holding the Power
which it confers. In the mean time all our Friends here are in

252 RUFUS KING. [1800

sad Anarchy. Truth is that a direct Tax, unpopular everywhere,
is really unwise in America, because Property here is not produc-
tive. Of course the Democrats and their Demagogues have had
just cause to complain of the manner in which money is raised
and our Expenditure is so far from economical, that no applause is
to be expected on that Score. But the thing which in my Opinion
has done most mischief to the federal Party is the Ground given
by some of them to believe that they wish to establish a monarchy.

Adieu

I am truly yours

G. M.

R. King to Secretary of State, &c, &c.

No. 74.

London, June 6, 1800.
Dear Sir :

I was mistaken in supposing the Jewels enumerated in Mr.
Eaton's note could be obtained at Birmingham. Mr. Boulton
informs me that these articles are not made there and I have
taken measures to ascertain their cost, should we be obliged to
purchase them in London. In conversation with the * Lord Chan-
cellor a few days ago, he remarked speaking of the 6lh Article of
the Treaty, that the best 7na?iner of settling the late difference and
avoiding future disagreements would be the paying of a gross sum j
and that he never knew any a?-bitration, which did not come to
something of this sort. The Russian Envoy returns to the Con-
tinent, the Secretary of Legation has been named Charge des
Affaires ; the same thing has taken place at Vienna, and the Eng-
lish & Austrian Envoys have at length obtained Passports to
leave Petersburg, which were for a time refused. The latest in-
telligence from Italy or rather from the territories of Genoa, is of
the 14th ulto. Massena still defended himself and Melas leaving
General Ott to carry on the siege of Genoa, after driving Suchet
into the Department of the War, marched from Nice on the 14th
against Berthier, who had arrived by the route St. Bernard at
Aosta and was advancing towards Turin. General Melas ex-

* Italics in cipher.

1800] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 253

pected to encounter Berthier, whose division is supposed to be
without cavalry, and artillery, before its junction with the divi-
sion that marched by St. Gothard. The issue of the campaign
may depend upon the success of this Enterprize. We have no
account of any affair of any importance in Swabia, since
Kray has concentred his army upon the Danube ; but the two
armies were in presence of each other, and a general action was
expected.

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c,

Rufus King.

CHAPTER XVIII.

King'to B. West — Monument to Washington — Bushrod Washington to King
— Proposes to publish Life of Washington — King to Secretary of State —
Jewels for the Bey of Tunis — To N. Webster — Robinson ; Objections to
Publishing his Work — Jay to King — Impatient to learn about the Cam-
paign in Europe — Affairs in United States not Free from Agitation —
Federalists not Active or United — Their Opponents diligent, united —
Troup to King — Dr. Romayne's Plans — Separation, Bitterness, and Hos-
tility Among the Federalists — Especially against those of New England —
Cannot say who will be the Candidate for Governor — King to General
Chalmers and the Governor of Georgia — Trunk Containing the Georgia
Papers — McHenry to Pickering — Liston's Letter to Buchanan — Pickering
to King — Liston's Letter — Explanation by Liston — Not Serious — Adams
says there is no Coalition with Jefferson — Never said there was a British
Faction in the Senate — Violent Feelings against Hamilton — Goodhue to
Pickering on this Subject — King to Secretary of State — Disasters to
Austrian Army — Probable Treaty of Peace between Austria and France —
Dissatisfaction between Northern Powers and England — Influence of
England on the Continent less than at any Period of the War.

R. King to Benjamin West, Esq.

Mill Hill, June 9, 1800.
Dear Sir :

I am sorry that I happened to be out when you did me the
honor to call in Great Cumberland Place a few days ago. I have
received, and beg you to accept my respectful acknowledgements
of the Design of a Monument to the memory of our illustrious
countryman, General Washington.

Little acquainted with the arts as I am, it would be impertinent
in me to express any opinion upon a subject decided by so dis-
tinguished a Master. But I cannot avoid saying that the sim-
plicity & grandeur of the plan give to it in my eyes a merit that
makes me hope it may be approved by the President, to whom I
shall take the earliest opportunity of sending it. If motives of
1800] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 2$$

Economy, or any other to which I am a stranger, should prevent
its adoption, I cannot be mistaken in assuring you that it will, not-
withstanding, be received as a precious memorial of the affection-
ate attachment of a Citizen, whose talents and reputation reflect
so much honor upon his native country.

I have the honor to be with great respect &c

Rufus King.

R. King to Secretary of State, &c.

No. 75.

London, June n, 1800.
Dear Sir :

Mr. West, the President of the Royal Academy & who is indif-
ferent to nothing that concerns his native Country, lately sent me
the inclosed letter with the Design of a Monument to the memory
of General Washington.

The plan has, as I understand, been approved by the principal
architects of this country, and in their opinion is worthy of the
great character whose Virtues it is intended to commemorate.
With most perfect Respect & Esteem &c.

Rufus King.

Bushrod Washington to R. King.

Mount Vernon, June 12, 1800.
Sir:

Being in possession of all the papers of my late uncle Genl.
Washington I have been very much solicited by those who feel an
interest in the many important public events which occurred in
his time, and which he contributed in some measure to produce,
to prepare for publication a history of his life. This I have at
length consented to do, and with such assistance as I can obtain,
the work will be completed as expeditiously as my other employ-
ments will permit.

Whether a history formed from the Journals and other papers
of the General will be more authentic than any other which can
be written, I will not pretend to say ; but finding that proposals
have been made by others both here and in England for publish-
ing a similar work, I deem it proper that as early and as general

256 RUFUS KING. [1800

a notice as possible should be given of my intentions upon this
subject.

If, Sir, you will, in any mode which you may deem most proper,
make known these intentions in Great Britain, I shall feel myself
very much gratified. . . .

With sentiments of very high respect &c, &c

Bushrod Washington.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 76.

London, June 12, 1800.
Dear Sir :

. . . There has not been time to hear anything further from
Mr. Smith, concerning the Jewels mentioned in a former letter,
and I am in hopes that he will find means to avoid the demand :
as they could not be procured at Birmingham. I have with the
assistance of the consul Mr. Williams, obtained an Estimate of
the cost in London ; according to which we could not purchase
them for less than ^7000. Sterling. The principal articles could
not immediately be furnished at any price, as they were never
made except by order & it would require a year to complete
them.

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c

Rufus King.

R. King to N. Webster Esq.

London, June 12, 1800.
Dear Sir :

I sometime since received from Col. Pickering a Bill upon me

for ^95. Sterling, with the letter of advice that accompanied it.

Before it came to hand, Dr. Lettsome had written me a Letter,

expressing his disappointment and concern in having just received

a note from Messrs. Robinson, with a copy of your History of

Pestilential Diseases. In a subsequent conversation with the Dr.

I perceive that in his opinion the work ought not to have been

published by you in America, where, as he observes, Messrs. R.

expected to have sold a considerable portion of their Edition ;

that as the American Edition was published first, it could not be

1800] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 2$?

expected that Messrs. R. would consent to pay ioo Guineas, for
a manuscript Copy, instead of waiting a few weeks for a printed
one, at the common price ; and that according to the Laws con-
cerning literary property it is free for any one to reprint in England
a work first published in a foreign country.

When your Bill arrived, I desired Dr. Lettsome to give notice
of it to Messrs. R., and when due, I directed my Banker to present
it to Messrs. Robinson for payment, " which they refused to
make, stating that as Mr. Webster had published the Book him-
self in America and sent several copies over here to be disposed
of, they did not consider themselves as engaged for the purchase ;
but had printed the Book for Mr. Webster's account, and any
profit that may arise on the sale they shall hold themselves ac-
countable to him for."

Under these circumstances I am obliged to return the Bill to
Col. Pickering unpaid.

I have the honor to be &c
Rufus King.

John Jay to R. King.

New York, 16 June, 1800.
Dear Sir :

Altho* I could write to you a long letter, and on interesting
Subjects, yet the Liberties often taken with Letters on the Ocean
make Reserve and Caution necessary. We are impatient to learn
whether any and what great Events have as yet marked the present
Campaign in Europe ; and whether it is probable that the Expecta-
tions which seemed to be formed from it will be realized ; as yet
this Question appears to be a difficult one.

You will perceive from our public Papers that the affairs of this
Country are not free from agitation ; and that the ensuing Elec-
tion for the Presidt. of the United States causes much attention
and activity. What will probably be the issue of it, cannot at
present be foreseen ; coalitions are talked of, but if they should
take place I doubt their being durable. The Political World ap-
pears to be in a strange state everywhere, nor is the moral world
in a much more eligible condition. These things excite curiosity
and the rising Generation may have theirs gratifyed, tho' perhaps
at some Expence.

VOL. III. — 17

258 RUFUS KING. [1800

In this State Parties continue much the same ; the Federalists
not uniformly active nor united, and their most influential men,
at least too many of them, devoted to their professional or personal
affairs. Their opponents on the contrary are persevering, united,
diligent and unsparing of Time or Trouble, or Expence. These
collisions may yet produce Sparks and fire ; but the Extent of
our Country and the Temper of our People are favorable to
Tranquillity.

With great Esteem and Respect as your most obedt. Servt.

John Jay.

R. King to Geo. Chalmers, Esq.

Great Cumberland Place, 18 June, 1800.
Sir :

I have received a note from Lord Grenville, in answer to one
from me respecting the Georgia Papers, in which his Lordship
informs me that you will deliver them to me or my order. I ac-
cordingly request that you will have the goodness to deliver them
to the bearer, John Munro who will give you the requisite receipts
upon their delivery.

With great Respect &c

Rufus King.

R. Troup to R. King.

New York, 24 June, 1800.
Dear Sir :

. . Suffer me to say a word or two about Dr. Romayne, by
whom I send this letter. The Doctor, since the failure of his
scheme with Governor Blount for establishing themselves in the
possesion and government of the Floridas and Louisiana, has be-
come so disgusted with politics, that he seems to have abandoned
them forever, and his object in visiting London, is to settle there
for life and devote himself to medical pursuits. It is certainly a
departure from all delicacy and propriety, to say no more of it, for
any person to embark in any political project affecting his country
without the concurrence of its government. Yet I cannot charge
the Doctor with intending to do his country the least degree of in-

1800] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 259

jury. His imagination was heated with an idea that the French
were negotiating with the Spaniards for those countries, and that
the possession of them by the French would prove a source of the
greatest mischiefs to us. Hence he thought it not amiss, provided
he could make a great man of himself, to form a combination with
the British government to defeat the plan of the French, and
thereby give us friendly neighbours. . . . The Doctor con-
ceiving that his countrymen look upon him with a suspicious eye
has left us forever. . . .

As to our State politics, they certainly are in an unfortunate train.
Mr. Jay's seclusion from the world and his distant manners have
been constantly diminishing the popularity of our party ; and it has
so happened by various untoward events that our best and most in-
influential friends in the northern part of the State have separated
from each other, and are setting themselves up against each other's
views with much bitterness and hostility. This has arisen in the
first instance from a suggestion dropped by Mr. Van Vechten (a
lawyer of the first consequence at Albany and at the head of the
federalists) that the New England people were gaining an influ-
ence with too much rapidity and that it was time to check them.
You will naturally suppose from his name that he is a Dutchman.
The person to whom he made the suggestion was also a Dutch-
man and a particular friend of Mr. Van Vechten. This person
(a Mr. Sanders) mentioned incautiously Mr. Van Vechten's idea.
, . . It was soon spread and made a powerful objection against
Mr. Van Vechten and his Dutch friends at the last election by
one or two gentlemen who had become jealous of Mr. V.'s ascend-
ency with the federal party. . . . Van Vechten's suggestion
with Burr's manoeuvres for two or three years in the Legislature
and Cooper's ridiculous and overbearing conduct in Oswego
County have cut up our influence in almost all the upper Counties
by the roots and the last election has furnished us with melancholy
proofs of the fact. It is impossible to say who will be the man
set up as Governor by the Democrats, Burr has undoubtedly a view
to the office, if he should fail in being President or Vice President.
He certainly means to avail himself of all chances to become a
great man ; and if he should be finally disappointed, it will not be
owing to his want of industry — or to his modesty or virtue. . . .

If Mr. Jay sets up as Governor, I think it probable we shall

260 RUFUS KING. [1800

lose the election. We shall certainly do better with the Lt.

Governor.

The French & British cruisers are making sad havock with our

trade. Our Underwriters have within four months lost half a

million of dollars. I speak of the Underwriters of this City. . . ,

God bless you
R. T.

James McHenry to T. Pickering.

{Copy.)

Philadelphia, June 24, 1800.
Dear Sir :

I saw this morning and showed to Mr. Liston the extract of the
letter which you communicated to me last evening dated Philadel-
phia 19th July 1798, transmitted for a letter written by him to
James Buchanan, late of Baltimore.*

He scarcely had read two lines when he said he wrote the
letter ; he had not finished half of it, when he presented it to me,
saying, must not every one perceive that it was mere badinage ;
that the tap on the shoulder — the bosom friend — and leading of
Mr. Adams by the nose, were allusions to what he had been
accused of by the opposers of government, in the papers ; and
that the observation of the fly upon the wheel must satisfy the
most prejudiced that it was a letter of sport merely.

I observed that I had so considered it ; and that as it respected
myself, I was perfectly satisfied. It was certain, however, that
the contents of the letter made a different impression in London,
where it had been shown as a confidential letter, and where the
circumstances which gave rise to the allusions were not known ;
and that when these should be forgotten in this country it might
be used by disingenuous men to effect party purposes.

I asked him if he had preserved Buchanan's letters, which might
serve to show, in case of need, that it was a mere sportive effusion;
that if so, I thought it would be proper he should communicate
them to Mr. Pickering, who stood most prominent in the piece.
He did not know that he had, but would examine.

I am, dear Sir, yours truly

James McHenry.
* See page 213 for the extract.

1800] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 26 1

T. Pickering to R. King.

Philadelphia, June 26, 1800.

Dear Sir :

I lately received your private letter of the 24th of March, giv-
ing an account of James Buchanan and of his correspondence
with Mr. Liston ; and subjoining an extract of one of Mr. Liston's
letters to Buchanan, dated July 19, 1798. This extract was of a
nature so extraordinary, that I declared I should utterly disbelieve
it being genuine, had you not asserted that I might rely on its
authenticity. I shewed it to Mr. Wolcott & Mr. McHenry. The
latter having always regularly read the Aurora, said at once, that
it was merely a piece of sportive irony ; for, said he, in the Auroras,
preceding the date of Mr. Liston's letter, Mr. Pickering was called
the bosom friend of Liston ; it mentioned taps on the shoulders
of members of Congress, and Liston's leading the President by
the nose. It was thought by us proper that Mr. Liston should
see the extract ; and most expedient that McHenry should copy
& shew it to him ; for if any ill use should hereafter be made of
the letter by Buchanan, or any one else, Mr. McHenry could ex-
plain the matter more satisfactorily than I who was distinguished
in the letter as the " bosom friend " of Liston. Besides as you
desired not to appear in the affair, unless it was necessary, Mr.
McHenry as the townsman of Buchanan, might exhibit the ex-
tract, without exciting any suspicion of the source from whence
the extract was received. Mr. McHenry accordingly waited on
Mr. Liston, & the enclosed copy of Mr. Mcllenry's letter to me
of the 24th shews the result. We consider Mr. Liston entirely
exculpated — except of indiscretion in holding such a correspond-
ence with such a person as Buchanan.

Yesterday Mr. Liston called on me and read to me some pas-
sages in Buchanan's Letter, which not unnaturally led to the kind
of answer which was given. But Buchanan is inexcusable in ex-
hibiting it as a serious communication. You say that Buchanan
was in London in order to settle his affairs, which were much
deranged, and he might think his views might be aided by shew-
ing his credit & consequence in being the confidential correspond-
ent of Mr. Liston. The latter mentioned the origin of his
acquaintance with Buchanan ; that his connexions in Glasgow

262 RUFUS KING. [1800

were respectable (you know I presume, that he is the brother of
Thomas Buchanan of New York) and the acquaintance of Mrs.
Liston, who received of course, with Mr. Liston, letters to James
Buchanan, and on their way thro' Baltimore, they had been treated
by B. with much attention. The " proper letter " which Mr. Lis-
ton says he got Genl. Washington to write was the General's letter
accepting, in July, 1798, the command of the army. This was an
event which no human being could foresee, and Mr. Liston's say-
ing, ''that he had prepared all this the preceding autumn," con-
firms (if confirmation were necessary) the correctness of the
explanation which has been given. More strongly to throw ridi-
cule on the consequence & influence in the administration of our
government ascribed to him in the Aurora, he here assumes to
have contemplated what no man can be imagined to have thought
eight or ten months before.

I am informed that the President denies that there has been
any coalition between him & Mr. Jefferson. He has also denied
that he ever said there was a British faction in the Senate and
among those American citizens who may be called public men.
On this I will only say that the President is not always consistent
or accurate in his remembrance. To me, he said, that Mr. Jeffer-
son had very little of that knowledge which was necessary for a
statesman ; and shortly after to McHenry, that Mr. Jefferson was
a very proper person to be President of the U. States ; " and that
he would sooner serve as Vice-President under him, or even as
Minister resident at the Hague than be indebted for his election
to such a being as Hamilton ; " whom in the same sentence he
called a bastard and as much an alien as Gallatin. No one could
have imagined Mr. Adams capable of such billingsgate language.
But a man so entirely under the dominion of violent passions, is
capable of anything. In his conversation on the 9th of May with
Mr. Goodhue he vehemently expressed his resentment at some
past measures of the Senate, which he asserted were designed by
a "damned faction to wound his feelings." But I will give you
the substance of this conversation in the inclosed extract of Mr.
Goodhue's letter to me. Mr. Goodhue had forgotten some
things, which he had recited to me the next morning ; among
others, the charge against the Senate in this elegant expression,
" and you crammed Hamilton down my throat."

1800] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 263

The President arrived here last Friday (or Thursday) and
stayed till Monday and then proceeded eastward ; unnoticed by
any number of persons, and those, few of those who had been, or
are, public men. By endeavoring to conciliate the democrats, he
has excited only their contempt. The Aurora, I am told, is dis-
tinguished in this style.

If I continue a correspondence with you, I hope in future it
will be on more agreeable subjects.

With Sincere respect & esteem &c

Yr. obed. Servt.

T. Pickering.

The President passed thro' New York unnoticed. You will be
gratified by the reception of Genl. Hamilton at Boston, as stated
in Jno. Russell's paper.

Extract of a Letter from B. Goodhue, Esq., dated Salem,

June 2, 1800, to T. Pickering.

" You ask me to give you the substance of the conversation
which passed between the President of the U. S. & myself on the
9th of May, when I waited on him to bid him adieu, previous to
my leaving Philadelphia for home.

"The conversation or rather his relation of injuries which he
thought he had received with his resentful observations relative
thereto, took up a considerable time ; 'tis impossible to recollect
the words precisely made use of ; the substance was as follows.

" Soon after being with him, he introduced, by some previous
observations, his very uneasy sensations in his public situation,
resulting from some past measures of the Senate, which he with
much warmth, and even vehemence, asserted were designed by a
damned faction purposely to wound his feelings & character : upon
asking for an explanation, he said he alluded to the rejection of his
son-in-law Col. Smith, when he nominated him Adjutant General
with the rank of Brigadier ; that we had killed his daughter by
doing this ; that rejection originated with Hamilton, and from him
to Pickering, who he said (with extreme agitation and anger) influ-
enced me & others to reject him ; that Col. Smith was a man of

264 RUFUS KING. [1800

the first military knowledge in the U. S., and was recommended
to the appointment by Genl. Washington, &c, and dwelt long on
this subject with great irritation.

"Another instance he observed, with the same excessive anger,
had just occurred in the Senate, purposely to wound him & his
family, with respect to his late nomination of Mr. Johnson to be at
the head of the Stamps, which they had postponed, postponed,
postponed from day to day ; and when at last they voted upon it,
they were equally divided, and the V. President gave his casting
vote in favour of the nomination ; that all this was done because
his son had happened to fall in love with Johnson's daughter and
married her. I endeavoured to moderate his passion, by abstain-
ing from any language that would irritate, but to no purpose ; for
his resentment appeared implacable towards the conduct of the
Senate in those instances, which resulted, as he said, with no
other view than to wound his feelings and those of his family j
and that Hamilton, Pickering and some others whom he named in
Massachusetts were constantly endeavouring to ruin him ; that
Pickering wrote a letter to Boston to S. Higginson on the subject
of his sending his last envoys to France, filled with expressions of
hatred to the measure and calculated to injure him in the view
of the public, and that Higginson read the letter with the same
design at the insurance office in Boston ; that the measure of
sending the envoys was one of the most glorious deeds he ever
did ; and that he would order it to be engraved on his coffin, &c,
that he was sensible that he should not be re-elected ; and after
40 years' service for the public, that he should be obliged to return
to Quincy and follow the plough for a living, &c, in the strain of
excessive anger on the subjects I have mentioned, and others that
had an affinity to them. The conversation continued until I left
him. In short, it was one continued theme of the most bitter
complaint, relative to the conduct of the Senate in the cases I have
mentioned and some others, whose sole object he said was to
wound and ruin both him & his family, and through the whole
discovered a perfect rage of passion that I could not have ex-
pected from the supreme executive."

* The President's ascribing every official act of the Senators, as

* Marked from the duplicate of Mr. P's letter. — J. M.

1800] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 26$

well as the private conversations and letters of others, who I am
certain have the public good as much at heart as the P. reminds
me of his abrupt declaration made at his table last winter (as re-
ported to me by different persons). That the King of Great Britain
and his ministers had for five and twenty years past, entertained a
particular resentment towards him, and this brings to one's recollec-
tion the anecdote of Dennis the critic & Louis XIV.

T. P.

R. King to His Excy. the Governor of Georgia.

London, July 2, 1800.

Sir:

Since I had the honor of writing to your Excellency, I have
received from this Government a large trunk & chest of Georgia
Papers, which are now on board the Ship Independent soon to
sail from this Port for Savannah. These Papers are in such con-
fusion, that I have not been able to form any judgment of their
importance or value. The trunk, which was much decayed has
been repaired, and from the care observed in protecting both it
and the chest with mats, I am in hopes they will arrive without
damage. I know not whether these are the papers seen by the
person mentioned in your letter to me ; they were found among
the Papers of the late Board of Trade in one of the apartments
of the building occupied by the Treasury, but I have not been
able to ascertain when or by whom they were brought hither.
The suggestion that they were deposited in the Tower, could not
have been correct, as no such papers, nor indeed any of so modern
a Date are to be found there.

I shall be gratified, should these Papers supply to any con-
siderable extent the chasm in the records of the State, and I beg
you to be assured that it would afford me still greater satisfaction,
if by any farther exertion on my part, we should succeed in com-
pleting them.

With perfect Respect & consideration &c

Rufus King.

266 RUFUS KING. [1800

R. King to Secretary of State, &c.

No. 77.

London, 5 July, 1800.
Dear Sir :

The repeated disasters experienced by the Austrian Army in
Swabia, must have made a strong impression upon the imperial
cabinet, and being followed by the overthrow of the Army in
Italy, and a conviction by which General Melas was obliged to
purchase a retreat to Mantua, by the Surrender of the Fortresses
and the entire evacuation of Genoa, Piedmont & Lombardy, it
will surprize few persons if the Emperor has already entered into
negotiations for a Second and Separate Peace. It is now more
than three months since the ministers of this Country, have been
in constant expectation of the conclusion of a treaty with Austria,
by which in consideration of Loans, Subsidies and detachments
of Bavaria & other auxiliary troops, hired by England, Austria
should engage to go on with the war, and not to enter into any
negotiation with France except jointly with England. This Treaty
is not yet concluded, at least no information has been received of
its conclusion and tho' money was prepared, I have reason to be-
lieve that not a shilling has been remitted to Vienna. This want
of good understanding and mutual confidence between Vienna
& London strengthens the probability that the former will pursue
the course of her apparent interest, disregarding the wishes and
views of the latter.

Should Austria make a peace with France, there is little doubt,
whatever may be the inclination of the Ministry, that the voice
of the English nation will be loud and irresistible in favor of
Peace.

The Russian Troops, which served in Holland, have been em-
barked on board the Russian men of war, which were likewise in
the English service ; and the whole sailed a few days ago for the
Baltic ; the Emperor still continues his dissatisfaction towards
England as well as Austria, and apprehensions are entertained
among those engaged in the Northern and Eastland trade of this
country, that projects are on foot between the Northern Powers
that will materially affect their Interest as well as that of the
Nation in the articles of Naval Stores. There are various rumours

1800] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 267

of Engagements, about to be formed in the North for the protec-
tion of their Trade against the English. These may be well
founded, or, which is full as likely, they may be mere conjectures
originating in the known dissatisfaction between England and
the Northern Powers.

You will have seen the accounts of the recommencement of the
war in Egypt ; the blame is thrown upon England, and has doubt-
less much injured her influence at Constantinople, where the
Russians will do nothing to assist her in regaining what she has
lost.

On the whole let the decision of Austria be for peace or war,
the Reputation and influence of this Country upon the Continent,
if I am not mistaken, are at this time at a lower ebb than they
have been at any period of the war : this certainly is not the
present condition of France.

With great Respect & Esteem &c

Rufus King.

CHAPTER XIX.

N. Low to King — Suggests other Investments than U. S. Loans — King has
entire Confidence in the U. S. and its Loans — Hale to King — Hamilton's
Visit to Boston — Hale for the Re-election of Adams — King to Lord Gren-
ville — American Vessels captured off Cadiz under Pretence of Breach of
Blockade — No Notice of it Given — Request that an End be immediately
put to these Abuses — To H. Dundas — Maryland Bank Stock — Statement
relative to it — F. Ames to King — President's Toast — Intrigues about the
Presidency — Hamilton's Visit — Adams' Violent Language — Speculations
relative to the coming Election and the Action of the Jacobins — King to
Secretary of State — Treaty between England and Austria loaning Money to
the Latter, who shall not make a separate Peace — French so superior to the
Austrians they may be obliged to make Peace — Cabot to King — Adams
departing from the Policy of 1798 now denounces high Federalists — Con-
gratulates the Country King is in his Position Abroad.

Mr. Low, to whom Mr. King had given in charge the care
of his property in N. York during his residence in Eng-
land, wrote to Mr. King to suggest other investments than
in the funds of the United States Government, being alarmed
by the uncertainty in his mind of their stability in conse-
quence of the political condition of the country and want
of confidence in the future. To this letter Mr. King sent an
answer, showing that he had no alarm as to the Government
and that he will continue to invest in the funds.

R. King to N. Low.

London, July 7th, 1800.
Dear Sir :

. . . I have also duly received your letter of the 24th of
May written as I suspect under the gloomy apprehensions proceed-
ing from the political disappointments of the four preceding
1800] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 269

weeks. I certainly have in common with others my preferences
both in regard to men and measures, and consequently in the
changes that occur must feel frequent disappointments. But I
have no notion that our Government, or the security of our pro-
perty can or will be, in any material degree, affected by any
changes that have happened or that in my opinion are likely to
happen. I should be sorry for the important change that you
(mention) but which I do not think will take place ; should your
conjecture however prove true it would doubtless be followed by
the removal of several persons whose continuance in office might
be agreeable to the impartial public as well as themselves, and
likewise by variations more or less considerable in the measures
of administration. But I should not from thence conclude that
the Government was lost, that the public faith and character were
destroyed, and that property would be thrown off its foundation
— really if I did believe so I should consider it the highest folly to
approve not only an useless but a criminal conduct to endeavour
to Support a Constitution, which at each periodical election would
expose the country to so great and critical a risque ! I believe in
no such consequences, and therefore will continue to invest my
property in the Funds, which rest upon a security, that I am not
convinced nor inclined to believe will fail. Presidents, Secre-
taries, Generals and Ministers — myself among them — may be re-
moved, still the machine will move on ! Soberly and gravely
there is but one change that would materially and deeply affect
me, and that is the change of my Agent, whose equal I am con-
vinced I could never obtain.

Truly & faithfully

Rufus King.

J. Hale to R. King.

Boston, July 9, 1800.
Dear Sir :

By this conveyance you will receive five small pamphlets pur-
porting to be didactick Orations. Respect for you & my other
friends about you, not the merits of the performance, induces me
to transmit it.

Our late public papers contain nothing.

270 RUFUS KING. [1800

A report has prevailed within a few days of Jefferson's death.
This is not credited.

Hamilton has paid us a visit. Electioneering topics were his
principal theme. In his mode of handling them, he did not ap-
pear to be the great general which his talents designate him. As
November approaches the feelings of parties are excited & dis-
played & not in the most liberal manner by either of the three
parties. I am decidedly for the re-election of Mr. Adams ; &
notwithstanding the opinions of men of more weight & intelli-
gence than myself to the contrary, I believe Mr. A. will be the
successful candidate. The interests of the country require it, in
order that something like a system may appear to actuate our
public councils. At present we appear all " up in the wind."
Our first men are opposed to each other from false pride or
ill-founded jealousy. Many resignations have taken place in the
lower house of Congress. Men who have not sufficient firmness
to be in a minority when a faction is predominant are vacating
their seats to avoid the humiliation they would in their view other-
wise experience. As the crisis approaches & as untoward circum-
stances seem to prevail my own evil forebodings decrease. It is
sometimes easier to declare one's creed than to support it upon
satisfactory ground.

Your friend & most obed srvt.

J. Hale.

R. King to Lord Grenville.

Great Cumberland Place, July 10, 1800.
My Lord :

During the command of Lord St. Vincent before Cadiz, and
while the Spanish fleet was in that Port, the intercourse of neutral
merchants with Cadiz, was subject to a limited and occasional
interruption, and the Ships of the United States, laden with inno-
cent merchandize, tho' strictly visited, were rarely prevented from
pursuing their accustomed trade with that market.

Since the departure of the Spanish fleet, and the succession of
Lord Keith to that command, the vessels of the U. S. bound to
and coming from Cadiz, including, as I am informed, some that
had entered the Port after having been visited by the fleet under

l8oo] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 2JY

Lord St. Vincent, have been captured under the pretence of a
breach of Blockade, as well in the European seas, as in those of
America ; in which quarter some very richly laden ships, regularly
and openly cleared in the American Ports for Cadiz, have lately
been captured and sent to Halifax by one of his Majesty's frigates,
commanded by Capt. Pellew.

Several other vessels returning from Cadiz to the U. States,
have on the like pretence been taken & sent for adjudication to
the West Indies.

As the usual notice has not been given of the Blockade of the
Port of Cadiz, I am led to conclude that none has been insti-
tuted, and consequently that the interruption of our trade, upon
the charge of breaking a Blockade which did not exist, or of
which we are ignorant, has been altogether irregular. I pray your
Lordship to inform me whether I am correct in this supposition,
and in case I am, I persuade myself that your Lordship will think
it reasonable that immediate orders should be given to put an
end to these Abuses in future.

I have the honor &c

Rufus King.

R. King to H. Dundas, Esq.

{Private.)

Mill Hill, July u, 1800.
Sir:

Sir William Pulteney has been so obliging as to inform me of
the conversation between you and him respecting the claim of
the State of Maryland to a quantity of Bank Stock that belonged
to the colony of Maryland, and in consequence of his opinion
that I might without impropriety write you a confidential letter,
with the hope of engaging your influence in favor of a speedy set-
tlement of that claim. I have drawn up from memory, for the
Papers are not before me, a short statement, that I believe ex-
hibits a pretty accurate view of the case. In different conversa-
tions with Lord Grenville, I have always found in him a disposition
favorable to the claim, but his Lordship has constantly ended by
referring me to the Lord Chancellor. I have often, tho' not

272 RUFUS KING. [1800

lately, conversed with the Chancellor, who has uniformly ex-
pressed himself upon this subject in a way that led me to suppose,
and to assure the State of Maryland that the Stock would be
transferred to me for it's use. Of late I have declined mention-
ing the subject to the Chancellor, lest I should give occasion to
his Lordship to think me importunate ; but I may be permitted
to observe to you, that the delay that has happened, has on more
than one occasion proved injurious to our public affairs, always
affected by public opinion ; and as an apology for the solicitude
that I now feel upon this subject, as well as for the trouble I give
you in receiving this letter, I take the liberty to add that it is my
sincere opinion that a most favorable and beneficial influence
upon a measure of great importance to the United States, and
perhaps not indifferent to others, would be effected by the trans-
fer of this Stock in season to be known by the Legislature of
Maryland at its meeting in the beginning of November.

With great Respect &c
Rufus King.

Maryland Bank Stock.

Several years before the American War, the Colony of Maryland
by a tax collected from its inhabitants, raised a sum of money
which was remitted to three London Merchants of the name of
Hanbury, Grove and Russell, to be invested in Bank Stock.

The object of the investment was the creation of a small an-
nuity applicable to certain public purposes in the Colony. This
Stock, the Dividends having been invested in new capital, must
amount at this time to about ^100,000.

In the course of the American War, the real estates of all Brit-
ish subjects were confiscated by the State of Maryland, and prop-
erty belonging to both Hanbury & Russell was included in the
confiscation. On the return of Peace, Maryland called upon the
Trustees, Hanbury, Grove & Russell to account. Grove lost
nothing in Maryland, and did not object to account. Hanbury
consented to account in consequence of an agreement made with
the Agent of Maryland by which his loss is to be compensated as
soon as the Stock is transferred to the State. Russell refused to
account, and set up a claim to indemnify himself out of the Stock,
for his Property confiscated in Maryland ; taking care notwith-

1800] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 273

standing to prefer his claim with those of the American Loyalists
for compensation from the British Government. At this stage of
the Business the Agent of Maryland filed a Bill in chancery
against the trustees to oblige them to account. Grove was in-
different which side prevailed ; Hanbury united with the Agent
of Maryland, as his compensation depends upon the transfer being
made to the State. Russell still opposed, and preferred his claim
for compensation out of the Stock, which was ordered to be trans-
ferred to the Accountant General of the Court of Chancery, in
whose name it now stands.

The suit has been upwards of 15 years depending.

After hearing one or two arguments, the Chancellor informally
gave his opinion that the Stock had belonged to the Colony of
Maryland, a corporation created by the Crown ; that this Cor-
poration had been dissolved, and that the property in question
accrued to the King ; that the suit before him was brought by an
independent State, over which he had no jurisdiction, and for this
reason that he must dismiss the Bill, suggesting at the same time
that he would suspend doing so, as perhaps his Majesty might
signify his pleasure that the Stock should be transferred to the
State of Maryland.

As soon as this opinion was pronounced, Russell communicated
it to the Commissioners charged with the claims of the American
Loyalists who thereupon granted their certificate of the amount
of Russell's Loss, which was immediately presented and paid at
the Treasury. This payment put an end to the only impediment
on the part of the Trustees to the transfer of the Stock.

Lord Baltimore and several others, who had no connexion with
the Suit, but who lost Property in Maryland, preferred claims for
a share of this Stock. All these claimants, except the Assignees
of a Bankrupt of the name of Buchanan, who are said to have
neglected to ask compensation as American Loyalists, have it is
understood been compensated by the British Government, and
none of the claims except Buchanan's, are thought meritorious by
the Chancellor ; Buchanan is stated, to have been tenant in com-
mon with Russell, of an Iron-Work in Maryland, the whole

of which is alleged to have been confiscated on account of the
supposed delinquency of Russell, and tho' there is really no foun-
dation for this allegation, it seems to have had sufficient influence

VOL. III. — 18

274 RUFUS KING. [1800

to discriminate the case of Buchanan from others. Except this
case there is not any known impediment against the signification
of the King's pleasure to the Chancellor that the Stock in question
should be transferred to the American Minister for the use of the
State of Maryland.

To remove this impediment, the American Minister is ready, if
it shall be required, to engage his influence, which he doubts not
would prove effectual, that a reasonable consideration and settle-
ment of Buchanan's claim shall be made ; or he would himself
provisionally settle the claim as soon as the stock is transferred.
On the other side, Hanbury, one of the Trustees, who neither
asked nor received compensation from the British Government,
but relied upon the settlement with the Agent of Maryland, by
which his losses are to be compensated as soon as the stock is
transferred to the State, can obtain nothing until that transfer is
effected.

The Legislature of Maryland, not feeling the force of the Fic-
tion, by which the property in question is supposed to have ac-
crued to the Crown, in consequence of the dissolution of the
colonial corporation, a dissolution to which the King gave his
consent in the Treaty of Peace, which is understood to have
secured to the State all the Property belonging to the Colony, is
annually engaged in an Enquiry respecting this Property, the
Delays and impediments in the recovery of which excite and dis-
seminate dissatisfaction, and every year do more and more injury
to that harmony and good-will, which it is so much to be desired
may long subsist between the two countries. There are, more-
over, weighty and peculiar considerations belonging to the present
time which it is hoped may have an influence in bringing this
long depending claim to a satisfactory settlement. July 1800.

R. King to R. Troup.

London, July 13, 1800.
Dr. Sir :

. . As I can say nothing new about the late changes, I
will say nothing. No one esteemed or respected Col. P. more
than I did & do. I am solicitous to learn what Effects this re-

1800] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 275

moval will have at the Eastward, where the Col. has many and

influential friends. . .

R. K.

P. S. Gore says you told him that Hamilton denies Sr. Wm.
Scott's Law respecting Blockades ; I have excellent dispositions
to do the same, and have given the Subject some consideration
but the argument after all has Force. I shd. be glad if H. wd.
send me a precis of the Argument in opposition.

F. Ames to R. King. (To William Payne.)

Boston, 15th July, 1800.
My good Friend :

It is getting to be the fashion here again to call the
federalists the British faction. Nothing can be more false, for
though such men respect the laws and Courts and Government of
Britain and detest the arbitrary tyrants of France yet they allow
no country any kind of competition in point of respect & affec-
tion with our own. You will be surprised to hear that the P. of
the U. S lately at the Faneuil Hall dinner on the visitation of the
Schools gave as a volunteer toast " The proscribed Patriots Han-
cock & Adams." This was well understood by the Jacobins
whom it will not gain, and begins to be comprehended by a small
number of correct thinkers whom it will not embolden to speak
out. Never was there a more singular and mysterious state of
parties. The plot of an old Spanish play is not more complicated
with underplot. I scarcely trust myself with the attempt to un-
fold it.

There is no doubt that the Legislature of this State determined
to choose Electors by the Legisle. (instead of the district mode
as formerly) with the view to secure the votes for ftvo federal can-
didates. The friends of a certain great man manifested at the
time a strong dislike of the measure and the Jacobin Gazettes
poured forth accusations agt. the Federalists as intriguers agt.
that man whose re-election they had secretly resolved to defeat
by art & management, though they did not dare to confess it.
Since his return to the State the new position of parties begins to
be perceived. Gen. H. came this way and spoke in most compa-

276 RUFUS KING. [1800

nies without reserve. You know he is the most frank of men.
A real or affected alarm is attempted to be spread & the Massa-
chusetts feelings are to be called up to defend their own State
born patriot. The great man has been south as far as Alexandria,
making his addressers acquainted with his revolutionary merits,
and claiming, almost in plain words at New London, office as the
only reward. Whether these answers and toasts are to be con-
sidered as the first steps towds. reviving the revolutionary spirit
you must judge for yourself ; his language is bitter even to out-
rage and swearing and calling names against many who once
were and I believe still are thought as good as any men in the
Country, he inveighs against the British faction and the Essex
Junto like one possessed. I have not seen him and from the
reception given to one person I do not anticipate any pleasure
in a visit. It would be embarrassing to know what to say or
how to behave in case of rudeness & insult which I have
reason to believe wd. not fail to be thrown in the faces
of some persons unaccustomed to such things. In the mean
time, every exertion is making to spread the passions that enrage
and almost madden him, and it seems to be expected that the
ferment of the people awe the Genl. Court in Nov. next to choose
Electors who will vote for Mr A & throw away the votes
for the other Candidate. This game will be played in Connecti-
cut, N. Hampshire and R. Island, and no measures will be too
intemperate that tend to make the Citizens revolutionary enough
to make the man of 1775 the man of 1800. Whether this fervor
will melt the tender hearts of the Jacobins is not clear. At
present it seems they are not disposed to give up their old
favorite and chief for a new one whose repentance and conversion
are rather late. But I think it probable that his sincerity will be
made more & more manifest till they perceive that he is no longer
the supporter of, or supported by, the federalists Then perhaps
they will take him, if they find they cannot carry their own can-
didate. This ultimate resort to him is the more a matter of fair
calculation in this political jumble, as it may then appear to be
the best thing they can do for their own cause & the most fatal
to that of their adversaries, as it would insure their division &
their discomfiture. Their Chief also might be satisfied with a
place which would confer the first power and the second rank,.

1800] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 2JJ

but without any responsibility. Thus the party and its' head
might severally find their interests in such an arrangement. Col.
B. of New York also is at market and may give his influence to the
highest bidder. Thus you see no affair can be more involved in
doubt or more dependent on intrigue, caprice or accident I have
not half disclosed the thoughts that hurry along through my brain
and leave as they pass some very unpleasant marks.

There is also another consequence to be apprehended Those
who have need of the aid that popular impulse can lend to their
designs probably will know that to command that impulse and to
have all it's force it is necessary to agitate the popular passions.
A cold multitude like a cold iron is too hard for the hammers —
red hot, they are ductile to the pincers. How shall this heat,
this welding heat, be imparted, and kept up ? no way is so sure
and obvious as re-exciting the rage against G. B. A war, or
measures leading to war will heat every body red hot. Whether
these steps are to be taken in all events, and of choice, or whether
they are to be only the expedients of necessity and are to be
adopted as occasions call for them, I will not say But when a
man thinks no cause good or safe without him, he may possibly
act with as much blindness as extravagance when he resolves
rather to hazard the ships than his captaincy.

Yr friend.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 79.

London, July 18, 1800.
Dear Sir :

On the 20th of June and probably before the convention con-
cluded between the French and Austrian Generals was known by
the Cabinet, a Treaty between England and Austria was signed
at Vienna, in which the former engages to advance to the latter a
loan of two millions Sterling, to bear interest from the expiration
of six months after the conclusion of the war, and each engages
to the other to prosecute the war with vigour, and not to enter
into separate negotiations, nor to conclude a separate peace
during the continuance of the treaty, which for this purpose, is
limited to one year, commencing on the 1st of last March. Tho'
we are without precise information of the terms of Peace, offered

278 RUFUS KING. [r8oo

to the Emperor, as well as of the tenor of his answer, it seems to
be believed that the terms did not differ materially from those of
Leoben, and that the answer turned upon the Emperor's engage-
ments, not to treat separately, than upon the terms themselves.

The French continue to maintain their superiority upon the
Danube, and having obliged the Austrians to retire from Ulm,
the greater part of Bavaria, including Munich, has fallen into
their hands. We hear of new armies to be levied in the heredi-
tary States of the Emperor, but the campaign seems to be irrecov-
erable ; and from the Position and apparent superiority of the
French, the Emperor may be obliged to make peace as the sole
means of saving his Capital.

We have no late intelligence from Paris respecting our Envoys.
Some weeks ago I entertained a hope that their mission was near
to a satisfactory termination. I feel some concern on account of
the Delay of this Event, which under the present circumstances
I cannot but consider as desireable.

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c &c

Rufus King.

G. Cabot to R. King.

July 19. 1800.
My dear Sir :

We all have felt as much as you can the necessity of union —
but as in physics there is a heterogeneity which will sometimes
prevent the amalgamation of substances, so in Morals which in-
clude politics there is often the same difficulty.

Mr. Gore can give you a complete view of our affairs to the
time of his departure since which they have advanced in the same
course according to my expectations — it was foreseen very early
that the P. after departing from the policy of 98 which was the
Washington System wou'd necessarily separate himself from the
principal advocates of that system & that he wou'd indemnify
himself for the loss of their personal support by recruits levied
among their opponents — it is not extraordinary therefore that he
shou'd now denounce the high Federalists as ''a Junto of incorri-
gible Aristocrats " an Oligarchy " a british Faction &c " " as a set
of men more inimical to the Country than the worst Democrats

i8oo] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 279

or Jacobins " — nor is it extraordinary that he should toast " the
proscribed patriots Hancock & Adams " last week in Fanueil
Hall. — This last incident & some others of a similar nature will
open the eyes of judicious & discerning men. Yet for a thou-
sand reasons public opinion will come right but slowly if at all.
Many will shut their eyes against the light because it wou'd shew
them what they do not wish to see. I am often struck with the
opposition that is made to truth by men who have probably no
other motive than the desire to shun an unpleasant duty, which
the admission of truth wou'd impose. No tolerable opinion can
yet be formed of the issue of the presidential Election — great
pains are taken here by Mr. A's friends to engage the popular
passions on his side with a hope of influencing the Legislature in
the appt. of Electors, & I have no doubt Mr. A will favor the
election of Jefferson in preference to a federal Rival, as far as he
dares : it is too obvious that these disgraceful divisions at home
are an encouragement to foreign nations to treat us with disre-
spect ; nothing however can be more impolitic than it wou'd be
for any nation antijacobinic to do any thing which must destroy
the antijacobinical party in the U. S. — this party is undoubtedly
composed of men who will again govern after some vicissitudes
unless events from abroad shou'd be so unpropitious as to divest
them of the influence which they deservedly enjoy among the
people. — it is among the most consoling ideas I entertain at this
moment that you will by doing ample justice to this argument save
us from misfortunes which for many years wou'd be irreparable.

Your faithful & affte friend
G. C.

G. Cabot to R. King.

July 21, 1800.
My dear Sir :

It is not because the P. has done many things which are in

themselves unwise that he is strongly censured by certain men,

but it is because those things taken in connection with others &

illustrated by his own comments prove that he has in a good

degree deserted the system which was established by Washington

& which as understood & practised has been conceived to be wise

& just.

28o RUFUS KING. [1800

Departing himself from the principles & policy of which those
men are the strong advocates he must separate from the men
themselves : this general motive is daily strengthened by a thou-
sand collateral ones. Envy of the fame of Washington & a de-
testation of the men who are pretended to have contributed to it
without believing it to be merited, has operated too powerfully to
be concealed. As the most decided Federalists & most respecta
ble men are daily detached from his train, their places are filled
in the ratio of 10 to 1 from other sorts of men. The patriots of
75 are invoked & every one who is the Enemy of his Enemies

will of course be admitted to be his friend. It is said at Q y

that Mr. Jefferson is a wise & good man, & if elected P. will con-
duct well, & the Country has nothing to fear but from a british
faction &c. These things are alarming to sensible men who see
in them a desperate disposition & resentment as dangerous as
implacable : but the community will learn to think right but slowly
if at all. . . .

It is too soon to conjecture who will be P. I will write you
my opinion when I have one.

Yours fideliter,

G. C.

CHAPTER XX.

King to Pickering — Unfeigned Regrets at the Changes in the executive Depart-
ments— Though with his Reputation pure and unblemished — His Son with
him— King to Adams — Danish Frigate resisted a Search of a British
Squadron — May increase the Dissatisfaction of Northern Powers with
England — McHenry to King — Acknowledges with Thanks Faden's Collec-
tion of Maps and Count Rumford's Field Piece — Presidential Election —
Bingham to King — Duane's Arrest ordered by the Senate — Absconded
until after Session closed — Treated as a Persecuted Patriot and Martyr to
Liberty of the Press — Lack of Energy in the Government because of
Jacobinical Principles — Government moved to Washington — A general
Peace would be advantageous to this Country — King to Secretary of State
— Austria may be obliged to treat with France— English Expedition prob-
ably to Belleisle — Search of Convoy under a Danish Frigate — May lead to
important Consequences — Right of Search cannot be submitted to by Neu-
trals as a Principle, though perhaps in a modified Form — Blockade at
Cadiz — Troup to King — New York Legislature consists of the Essence of
Jacobinism — Armstrong likely to be made Senator — Hamilton has been,
Burr is going to the East.

R. King to Col. Pickering.

London, July 25, 1800.
Dear Sir :

Before the receipt of your letter of the 28th of May, we had
heard of the changes in the executive departments which it men-
tions. So far as you are affected by them, I may be permitted to
express my unfeigned concern and regrets, in common with your
numerous and respectable friends ; to whom it is no small satis-
faction, that your Reputation, obtained and established by many
years of public service in different employs, remains pure and un-
blemished. I cannot help hoping that something will occur to
divert you from the plan of retirement that you speak of in your
letter to your son, and which may place your family in a situation,
to preserve a more easy intercourse with the society in which it
282 RUFUS KING. [1800

has been accustomed to live. It will afford you great pleasure to
know that your son, who is with me, continues to preserve, and
in all respects to merit, the excellent character with which he
arrived in this country ; to an amiable disposition, and uncom-
mon diligence and attention, he adds a thirst for knowledge, a
precision in attaining it, greater than I recollect to have observed
in any person of his age, and such, should I be so happy as to
witness it, as shall reward all my solicitude concerning the Edu-
cation of my own children.

I wished your son to visit France, while our Envoys were there
but on account of his connexion with me, I thought it expedient
first to consult them, which I did thro' Mr. Sitgreaves, who pro-
ceeded to Paris soon after his arrival here ; not having received
any reply, I have concluded that they are not disposed to en-
courage his journey. If our misunderstandings with France are
settled, he may see Paris, and even make a short tour in Germany
this autumn or next Spring. I shall take care to provide him with
such letters as would be likely to increase the advantages of his
German Excursion ; as he is destined for the profession of Law,
I think he shd. not remain in Europe more than a year from this
time, and taking into view the prospect of a turn upon the Conti-
nent, I am disposed to believe it will be for his advantage to
remain abroad for that term.

With Sincere Regards &c

Rufus King.

Your son's constitution and health appear to me to be stronger
and better than when he arrived in England ; both are good.

R. King to Mr. Adams.

London, July 28, 1800.
Sir:

I avail myself of the opportunity of a vessel about sailing from
Hull for Boston to say that a Danish frigate with a small number
of ships under her convoy, having resisted a search attempted by
a squadron of British frigates, has been together with the Mer-
chant Ships captured and sent into an English Port, several per-
sons on each side were killed in the action between the frigates.

1800] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 283

If Denmark on this occasion acts in concert with the other
Northern Powers, this encounter may be followed by most im-
portant consequences. Some very recent regulations, adopted in
France, respecting the importation of English productions in
neutral bottoms, are supposed, but with what truth I am unable
to judge, to have relation to the dissatisfaction of the Northern
Powers towards England.

The Armistice concluded in Italy has been extended to the
armies upon the Rhine and the Danube, and appearances are
strongly in favor of the existence of a negotiation for Peace.

I hear & know nothing of our Envoys,

With the most perfect Respect &c

Rufus King.

J. McHenry to R. King.

Baltimore, Aug. 1, 1800.
Dear Sir :

I have received your letter (duplicate) dated 23d April last,
advising me that you have sent an Atlas collected by Faden,
which contains almost all the best maps and latest published in
England and upon the Continent, but that not having received
Faden's account you cannot tell the cost. ... I beg you, Sir,
to accept my sincere acknowledgments for the trouble you have
taken in causing the collection to be made, . . . having al-
ways intended the collection for my private use, of course on my
private account. I have acknowledged in an official letter, written
towards the close of my duties as Secretary of war, the receipt of
a model of a Field piece, together with a memoir from Count
Rumford, and at the same time, addressed to the Count himself
my considerations and thanks. I also have written to you re-
specting the incombustible cartridge paper, one shipment of which,
owing to some error in the address, as was represented to me, was
lost to the public, having arrived at New York, been lodged in
the Custom house, remained there the legal time, and then sold
as common coarse paper. The particulars being on the files of
the War office, I have not now access to, but take the liberty of
referring you to my letters on the subject, which I hope have ere
this been received.

^284 RUFUS KING. [1800

The minds of our citizens, particularly of our politicians, are
now directed towards the Presidential election — how it will event-
uate, is perhaps uncertain ; a pretty general disposition seems to
be expressed by those of a certain cast to run Mr. Adams and
General Charles Cotesworth Pinckney equally and as strongly as
possible. The other side adhere as heretofore to Mr. Jefferson.
Many of your former friends are much induced to wish ultimate
success may be the lot of General Pinckney, and for this wish
they conceive reasons to exist of the greatest magnitude.

Your friend & Hble Servt.

James McHenry.

W. Bingham to R. King.

Philadelphia, August 6th, 1800.
Dear Sir :

From the opinion you entertain of the Want of Decision on
the part of the Senate, with respect to Duane,* you will not be
surprised at the Result. After many tedious preparatory Steps,
which seemed to argue a Doubt of the Competency of their
Powers, they at length issued their Warrant, & Duane absconded.
Very little Exertion was made to discover & arrest him. He ap-
peared publicly immediately after the Session & assumed great
Consequence from his sufferings, as a persecuted Patriot, & Mar-
tyr to the Liberty of the Press. He elevated himself into such
Notice, as to be repeatedly toasted at the democratic Feasts, on

* The coming election of President promised to be close and might give rise
to disputes in counting the electoral vote. That of Pennsylvania was doubtful
and dependent upon the mode of choosing the electors. A republican Gover-
nor, McKean, had just been elected and the House of Representatives desired
to have the electors chosen by general ticket in which the Senate which was
federal refused to concur, for a new election might change this state of the
things and thus give Jefferson the vote of the State. To meet this condi-
tion Senator James Ross of Penna. was instrumental in bringing a bill into
the Senate to decide disputed Presidential elections and to determine the legal-
ity or illegality of the votes, by referring these to a committee appointed by
ballot from both Houses of Congress who should examine the ballots in secret
session and decide absolutely what States to admit or reject. The bill was
passed through a second reading, but immediately afterwards it was published
in full in the Aurora, with, comments by the editor Duane, showing that it

;8oo] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 285

the 4th July. As the sedition Law contemplated this offense, &
attaches a Penalty to it, I thought it would have been more ex-
pedient to have sent him to the Courts, which would have effect-
ually punished him. D. & C's Letter passed off, without any
Notice on the part of the Senate.

I every day see & lament the Want of Energy in the Adminis-
tration of our Government, which is rather an increasing Evil, &
I fear, will be the Cause of much Tribulation before it is corrected.
Whilst the Nations of Europe are benefitting by the Excesses of
the French Revolution, & invigorating their Executives, this
Country is about experiencing a greater degree of Relaxation in
its Government, from the prevalence of Jacobin principles, which
are certainly gaining Ground in many of the States. The Party
which is attached to them have a better System & more Industry
than their Opponents & from Congeniality of Sentiment, make
a greater Impression on the lower Class of People. I am appre-
hensive of the Result of the Contest, which is about taking place
for the Election of a President. I flatter myself in its terminat-
ing favorably : but there can be no well grounded Hope, whilst
one Party is disorganized, & the other acts as a firm & united
Phalanx.

The Government has already removed to Washington, which I
hope will be able conveniently to accommodate its different De-
partments. I shall attend the approaching Session, but not after-
wards ; having long since determined on my Resignation, which
was not essentially influenced by a Change in the local Position
of Congress.

would enable the committee to disqualify some of the electors for reasons which,
either technical or other they might deem sufficient to accomplish their purpose,
and because the bill itself had been drafted in a caucus of federal members,
secretly convened, and possibly controlled by a portion of the members. The
Senate, under the influence of the federal members, deeming this a breach of
its privileges and the comments " false, defamatory, scandalous and malicious,"
summoned Duane before it and tho' he at first appeared, he finally, by the ad-
vice of his counsel, refused to plead upon the merits of the case, having been
denied the right to question the power of the Senate to pass such a measure.
In consequence he was found guilty of contempt and a warrant was ordered to
be drawn for his arrest. He however avoided its service by absenting himself
until the close of the Session, and thus the matter passed over. The Bill
passed the Senate, but not the House. " D. & C.'s letter" was that sent to-
Duane by his Counsel Dallas & Cooper, upon which he acted. — Ed.

286 RUFUS KING. [1800

Should a general Peace take place in Europe, this Country will
experience great advantages from the new & more orderly State
of Things. At present the Minds of our People are as much
heated by the Events which are passing in Europe, as if they were
engaged in the Contest. We seem to have less National Pride &
Affection than any other People. However there appears to be
some reason to suppose that a maritime War may exist, after the
Continental Powers have settled their present Differences as a
jealousy towards G. Britain, from its naval Preponderance, seems
to be taking possession of some of the Northern Powers.

Our Friend Col. Pickering has removed to Easton & is prepar-
ing to make a bold Incursion into the Wilderness & there estab-
lish his Family. His Lands are good & well situated & I have
no doubt will fully recompence the Labor & Expence attending
their Improvement. He will add great Value to his property
from his personal Residence as he will attract a great Number of
Settlers, who will be induced to give a Preference to his Neigh-
borhood. . . .

With sincerity & Esteem

I am

Yours &c
Wm. Bingham.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 80.

London, August 6, 1800.
Dear Sir :

The armistice in Italy has been extended to the Rhine and the
Danube, and notwithstanding the recent Convention between
Austria and England that neither Power during its continuance
shall treat separately, should England show a backwardness to
negotiate, Austria may be obliged to conclude a separate Treaty.
Some persons believe that a negotiation for a general peace has
been begun, while others suppose that England will endeavor to
induce Austria to try one more campaign before she sincerely ac-
quiesces in another attempt to negotiate. The English forces
assembled at Minorca are supposed to be 12 or 15 thousand
strong ; these would probably be employed with the Austrians in

1800] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 287

Italy, should the war continue. An Expedition of considerable
force is sailing from the English Ports, which from the manner of
its equipments is conjectured to be going against Belleisle, an
Island that in possession of the English would enable them to
interrupt the communication between Brest and the French Ports
to the south of it, and from whence Brest receives the chief sup-
plies for the support of its marine.

A small Squadron of English frigates having fallen in with a
Danish frigate bound to the Mediterranean with several Danish
merchantmen under her convoy, insisted upon searching them ;
which being refused a battle ensued that ended in the capture of
the Danish frigate and the ships under her convoy, the whole of
which has been sent into the Downs.

The Danish Government has been accustomed in former wars
to send convoys with her merchantmen, and has never acquiesced,
as is alledged, in the claim of the Belligerents to search them.
Immediately after the capture of the two Swedish Envoys in 1798,
Denmark explained her sentiments upon this subject to England,
in opposition to which England maintained the claim, and as I
hear in March last year, gave notice at Copenhagen that she
would enforce it.

The capture of this convoy has excited considerable attention,
and if I am not mistaken some inquietude ; a Fleet of English
merchantmen about sailing for the Baltic has been stopped, and
a person sent to Copenhagen to ascertain the view of its Govern-
ment.

It was at first supposed that a league to restrain the maritime
pretensions and practices of England, had been formed between
the four Northern Powers, and that, for the purpose of bringing
the Question to issue, this convoy had been sent with express
orders to the Commander of the frigate to resist with force any
attempt to search them. At present it is thought that no such
league has been concluded, on the contrary that the most perfect
harmony does not exist between Denmark & Russia, and tho'
the capture may lead to important consequences with regard to
the commercial intercourse between England and the North of
Europe, that the sending of this convoy was not a measure con-
certed between Denmark & any other Power.

In a late argument in the Swedish case before the Commission-

288 RUFUS KING. [1800

ers of appeal in Prize cases, it was asserted by the King's advocate
that we had given orders to our ships of war to permit the search
of our merchant ships under their convoy. I have been asked
whether that assertion is correct ; but not having received any
such information, I have not been able to satisfy the enquiry.
Many modern Treaties and several of ours contain a stipulation
that the Presence of a national ship of war shall exempt the ves-
sels under her convoy from search. However correct the general
principle may be upon which England founds the right of search
and capture, the execution of this right for reasons heretofore
suggested is in general so partial to the Belligerent and so injuri-
ous and often oppressive to neutrals, that it seems to me impossi-
ble that the latter can submit to it, if they are able to devise any
prudent means of avoiding it. It was from this conviction among
other causes that the project of the armed neutrality was resorted
to. However desirable, there is reason to believe that this system
can never become general, and, without it, it will never afford the
security it aims at.

But may not a more limited, and under equitable Regulations
a more unexceptionable and practical Plan be devised for the pro-
tection of the innocent trade of neutrals by national convoys ? And
is it certain that England may not be willing to agree to it? The
Doctrine that free bottoms make free goods, is in direct opposition
to the ancient Law, that war gives the Belligerent a right to seize
the goods of his Enemy, wherever he meets with them without
the Territory of his friends ; but as war does not give to the
Belligerent a Right to seize the goods of his friends, is he not re-
quired by the principles of Justice to agree in such equitable Regu-
lations, as by distinguishing the goods of a friend from those of
an Enemy, shall secure his friend from the injuries to which he
otherwise might be exposed, and does not the courtesy and mu-
tual convenience of nations engage them to respect each other's
word in matters of equal or superior moment ?

Some Americans recently arrived from France, and who pretend
to know what is passing between our Envoys & the French Gov-
ernment, state that the negotiation a few days ago was on the
point of breaking off, but that it has been resumed & may yet at-
tain a satisfactory termination ; tho' I am not able from any in-
formation I have on the subject to appreciate the credit due to

1800] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 289

this Report, the continuance of the Envoys at Paris gives me hopes
that they will not return without finishing the business of the
Mission.

Having heard of the capture of several of our vessels by British
Cruizers both in the American and European seas under pretence
of a breach of the blockade of Cadiz, I wrote a note to Lord
Grenville on the 10th of July representing this interruption of our
Trade, and observing that while Lord St. Vincent commanded be-
fore Cadiz, and the Spanish Fleet was in that Port, our Ships, tho'
strictly visited, were permitted to enter it ; that since Lord Keith
had succeeded to the command and the Spanish fleet had left the
Port, our vessels had in some instances been turned away, and in
others captured ; that as the usual notice of the existence of the
Blockade of Cadiz had not been given, I inferred that none had
been instituted, and requested that orders might be given to put
an end to the abuse arising from the supposed Blockade of that
Port. I have received no answer to this note, but have heard that
a vessel taken on her passsage to Cadiz, and lately sent into an
outport, has been released.

With perfect Esteem & Respect &c.

Rufus King.

R. Troup to R. King.

New York, 9 Augt. 1800.
Dear Sir :

. . . There is no doubt that some honest Jacobin will be
appointed to succeed Lawrance (as U. S. Senator). Our Legis-
lature now consists of the very essence of Jacobinism. It is not
unlikely that Armstrong will be appointed, who being weary of
waiting for federal honors has at length declared that he has dis-
covered that he has long worn his political coat wrong side out,
and that he now wears the right side out. He has lately published
some of the most virulent and Jacobinical pieces agt. the adminis-
tration of the government and particularly agt. General Washing-
ton, Hamilton, Jay, Gouverneur Morris, &c, that have made their
appearance for a long time. I never have believed and I never
shall believe, after his attempt to create a mutiny in the army at
the close of the Revolutionary war, that he has a heart fit to be

VOL III — 19

29O RUFUS KING. [1800

trusted with any important interests of his country. I allude to
his celebrated address to the Soldiers.* . . .

Hamilton lately returned from a tour through the Eastern States,
where he was very attentively and affectionately received. It is
said the most honorary dinner ever known in Boston was given to
him by the Magistrates.

Burr, whom Church calls our chief Consul, is in very high glee ;
He entertains much company and with elegance. I understand
he is in a day or two going to the Eastward, and, I presume, on
business of the ensuing election. He seems from his manners to
be very sanguine of success. . .

Yours, R. T.

* Newburg Letters.

CHAPTER XXI.

Cabot to King — Effect of Election of Adams or Pinckney or Jefferson — Pinck-
ney's Election would array true Men on his Side — Hamilton thinks Jefferson
will be chosen — King to President Adams — Envoys' Negotiation withFrance
probably broken off — Ames to King — Shallow Reason, Impulse, Caprice
and Prejudice for Mission to France — Unless Federalists unite and run the
two federal Candidates, Jefferson will be elected — Our Government is re-
publican, our Opinions democratic — Adams's Ground the same now as
before — Federalists never knew where they were — Clamor loud he is to be
sacrificed — Unless Massachusetts Electors vote for Adams and General
Pinckney both, Jefferson will be elected — Adams acts as if he did not hate
him — Speculations on European Affairs as affecting those of U. S. — King
to Pickering — Cannot explain late Occurrences at Home — Choice of Elec-
tors in New England — May not the Issue of the Mission to France influ-
ence this — Deprecates the Policy of exciting Prejudices and Passions of
New England — Liston's Explanations such as he expected — To Secretary
of State — Negotiations between France and Austria going on, both recruit-
ing their Armies — Troup to King — Adams's Letter to French Consul —
Jefferson attacked on Ground of his religious Opinions — Burr's Return
from the East — Democrats say he is to run with Jefferson.

G. Cabot to R. King.

Augt. 9, 1800.
My dear Sir :

. . . The newspapers will give you some ideas of our politicks
& I cou'd give you little more than conjectures if I were to add to
them. Mr. Gore observed before he left us that the separation of
the P. from his former friends wou'd detach from us many good
men. This is already verified ; we have the unpopular side & you
know how few men are willing to be ranged on that side ; I think
however we are strong in our principles, patriotic in our views &
unanswerable in our arguments. The P., I am told, acts like him-
self ; he sometimes praises us in strong terms ; at others he
denounces us in a manner that outrages all decency. Altho' I
shun politicks as much as I can & wish to avoid them altogether,
yet you see I use the terms us & we, for I am made one of the
292 RUFUS KING. [1800

" damned Faction " by the opinions I am known to maintain. In
looking forward to the election of President there is obviously
such a balance of advantages & disadvantages in each possible
issue as makes one almost at ease about it : if Adams prevails
it may be expected that he will persist in strengthening his popu-
larity by sacrificing the old federal cause & all its advocates who
shall have virtue enough to adhere to it, to their opponents : if
Pinckney shou'd be elected he will have the cordial support of
those only who are now detached from Mr. Adams, but he will be
feebly supported by Mr. Adams's present adherents & by many
of them he will be abandoned & probably opposed. If Jefferson
is elected the Federalists will be reunited & will be perhaps suf-
ficiently powerful to deter him from Jacobin excesses. On the
whole I see but one reason to wish strongly for the success of
Pinckney & that is the true men will then be arrayed on the side
of the Chief of the Nation under the banner of the Constitution :
they will be in the places where the wise & good ought always to
be found, & if they can not do all the good they wish & the
Country needs, yet ultimately they will succeed there if it is
possible for them to succeed anywhere.

Meanwhile let us hope that, while we encounter these difficul-
ties incidental to the nature of our Govt., no nation which
opposes the spirit of Jacobinism will contribute to its establish-
ment here. This may be done or prevented in a great degree by
the policy G. B. shall pursue. The blind animosity of our people
to G. B. is a powerful instrument for Ambition to work with.
Men who know its injustice will nevertheless use it & if we engage
in hostilities the Clamourers against G. B. will be the idols of
popular worship & those who have resisted this madness will be
disgraced. It is so manifestly for the interest of G. B. to prevent
if possible this disaster to the party here, whose policy must be
always anti-gallican, that it wou'd seem to reflect on the sagacity
of the British Cabinet to doubt their seeing it.

While I am writing, a letter is put into my hand from Hamilton
which contains the information he has collected concerning the
election — from all which it is probable that Jefferson will be
President — but it is too soon to judge satisfactorily.

Yours aff'y & faithfully,

G. C.

1800] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 293

R. King to His Excellency John Adams.

London, August 11, 1800.
Sir:

In the Paris papers of the 6th instant is an article respecting
the American negotiation that is drawn up with more care and
greater knowledge of the subject than is usual in a mere Para-
graph of the Editors ; and when considered in connexion with the
present state of the French Press, and the rumours of a like tenor
that have prevailed during the last week, leads to the belief that
our mission has failed. I inclose the article, the authenticity of
which will be ascertained in the course of a few days. If the
negotiation is broken off upon the points, and in the manner rep-
resented, we can be at no loss for the object, and in order to give
it a greater chance of success, I shall not be disappointed in hear-
ing that Commissioners will be sent to the United States as soon
as our Envoys leave France.

With the most perfect Respect &c. &c.

Rufus King.

F. Ames to R. King.

August 19, 1800.

I put myself prodigiously at my ease in writing to you, and as
I have a knack of flattering myself, I make it out that you will
not dispute my claim. It is exceedingly convenient to me to
ascertain my footing — for I struggle with my indolence before I
can undertake to write at all, and I believe never fail to write so
lackadaysically as to convince my correspondent that I have not
gained the victory.

I had some thoughts of writing to Gore, but perhaps he is taken
and at this moment professing to love soup maigre better than roast
beef. I ought and intended to write to Payne to whom I owe every
sentiment that belongs of right to a prodigiously clever fellow. But
I am sure he w'd curse my politics and wish from his soul I could
write the news from Boston. He must excuse me. The Boston
Fair are not communicative to me and for my life I could not fill
a single page with anecdote or scandal, which latter I know he
abominates. Therefore it is, excuse me, Hopson's choice to

294 RUFUS KING. [1800

write to you, which I mention as an excuse for obtruding a letter
so unlike, as I foresee this will be, to any other that a statesman
will receive. Our affairs are so much influenced by tattle and
vulgar prejudice that nothing w'd more surely mislead you
than the position of correct political principles and the proper
inferences from them. Therefore your very wise political cor-
respondents will tell you anything sooner than the truth. For
not one of them will look for anything but profound reasons
of state at the bottom of the odd superstructure of parties here.
There is nothing of the kind at the bottom. There is indeed a
good deal of it on the outside. In other words, no such reasons
are motives, they are pretexts. Calculations of prudence and
almost the gift of prophetic foresight are offered as a vindication
by some apologists for the Mission to France, now established
and glorified by Buonaparte's victories. Others pretend that the
exorbitant Naval power of G. B. is an evil, & a close alliance
with France the remedy. Never was there a time when such
shallow reasons were imagined to vindicate a thing that did not
originate from any reason, but sudden impulse, caprice & preju-
dice. You are no stranger to multitudes, nor to the things that
give them their creeds & their passions. Judge how difficult
it is for men who never once suspected that they are not of the
multitude to analyse principles, measures and characters, and who
cannot perceive that they ought not to stir when their leader has
deserted them. It is incomprehensible to them that any Federal-
ists should pretend that the 7iew ground he has taken is not the
same he occupied before he openly accused his friends and
awkwardly tried to win his adversaries. They never knew where
they were, they only knew who was with them and before them.
This confusion of ideas, so natural to those who have but few of
them, has animated the State street patriots of our Metropolis..
I mean nothing disrespectful to them in the observation, for I
think them clever & well informed. But though abundantly cap-
able of reasoning, they are like seven eighths of mankind, too
much at ease to submit to so irksome a task. Opinions that lie
on the surface are better than such as are in the mine, and are to
be had only by hard digging. Popular opinions too defend
themselves and give fees to their advocates. But such as are
sound and profound require labor to find and Courage, Patience

1800] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 295

and Talent to maintain. Boston, like the rest of the world, is
impressible and is impressed.

There is no doubt that our Legislature was strongly disposed to
chose Electors to vote for Adams & P. But since a certain
Great Man returned from the seat of Gov't, the clamor has been
loud that he is to be sacrificed and tricked out of his place.
The Essex Junto is cursed and lampooned. Now, what
is to be the consequence ? apparently this. Unless South Caro-
lina should be Federal, (and an effort is making to elect a
federal State Legislature,) Jefferson will have a majority and be
chosen. Unless the Federalists unite and run the two Federal
Candidates, Jeff: will have more than either of them, though per-
haps not a majority. On the whole it is highly probable that
Jeff : will be elected. Every thing smoaks with political fermen-
tation in the U. S. You must watch and pray for the country,
that we may not have a war with G. B. which would augment
the danger of revolution exceedingly, both to G. B. & the U. S.
The former may be again in a state to dread this danger more
than it does at present. The U. S. have yet to learn almost all
that experience can teach. Our Govt, is republican, our
opinions democratic. The latter must rise or the former will
sink.

Yrs. truly,

Incog.

2d Sheet.

August 26, 1800.

The friends of a certain great man are trying to rouse the revo-
lutionary spirit, to awaken personal local party and national
prejudices to secure for him the concentration of all the chances
of the political game. It is obvious that wd. make the chance of
the Federal Cause the worse and his not the better unless by some
miracle people who do not prefer him wd. act just as if they did.
Inclinations are not to be thus put in requisition, and so many
from their souls dislike and dread the caprices, prejudices and re-
sentments which seem to have acquired a despotic power over
him, that it is impossible to extort a vote from them in favor of
such a man unless by faithfully complying with the agree??ient
fairly and equally to vote for the other. No doubt you will have

296 RUFUS KING. [1800

read Harper's letter to his Constituents. In that is stated the
vote to be given by the Federalists. But every intrigue and prob-
ably rage enough to spoil it will be practised to gain over our
Legislature which is to meet on the first of November to choose
Electors who will vote for Mr. A. and throw away their votes for
some other person than General P. This will be known before-
hand and will inevitably divert some southern votes from Mr. A.
which wd. otherwise be given to him. Thus Mr. Jeff's election
seems to be almost certain unless the Electors will stand to the
agreement made at Philadelphia to vote for both. If Gov. Mc-
Kean and Dallas shd. effect their design of sacking a Legislature,
all Pennsylvania will be thrown into that scale. Mr. Jeff, will
have nearly 70 on the best calculation that we can make, and any
dependence on So. Carolina is very precarious. If the coast
should be as bad as we apprehend, all hopes of seeing the coun-
try safe in the enjoyment of property or constitution must ulti-
mately rest in the spirit and union of men of principle. The
measures pursued by the friends of Mr. A. tend to dissipate this
last hope. On the contrary the compromise to vote for Gen. P.
and Mr. A. affords a good ground for harmony now, acquiescence
hereafter in the success of either Mr. P. or Mr. A., and energy and
zeal if Mr. J. shd. be elected. Therefore on the whole I cannot
but think that a truth so obvious so deeply important will extort re-
spect and obedience from our Legislature and that they will
choose Electors who will vote for both. Even Mr. A.'s friends
wd. see, if rage would let them see anything, that by pursuing the
object of throwing away P.'s votes they will infallibly exclude
Mr. A. It is intended that the race shall be a fair one, all the
Federal Electors voting for both, thus leaving it to chance and to
Congress to decide which shall be President. But if one of the
two will persist in playing foul, the consequence must be that his
chance will be made as bad as it ought for that reason to be.
Whether Mr. A. is willing to be Vice under Jeff is a problem and
opinions in respect to its solution are various. He acts as if he
did not hate nor dread Jeff — and it is clear that his friends pursue
a course in conversation and in the papers which can help no-
body's cause but Jefferson's. Indeed the Adams writers offer to
fraternise with Jacobins whom they denominate old friends, and
openly rail agt. the " exclusive Federalists," " Hamiltonians,"

1800] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 297

"Essex Junto," " Royalists," "British Partizans," as they affect
to call the men who stick to the good old principles and old
cause. These facts, some queer toasts and a number of whis-
per'd anecdotes corroborate but fall short of fully proving the
opinion that a coalition has been made and that if Mr. A. shd. be
only Vice it wd. be revenge if not victory.

The tendency of our Politics to intestine troubles is obvious.
These wd. spring from the same causes that lead to a British
War. Good Lord defend us from both. Buonaparte's successes
are believed here to produce coldness towds. promising our En-
voys compensation. Very good. Will Austria make peace ? If
the Minister shd. be inquisitive to know my opinion, which may
possibly be the case, you may tell him not to be afraid, but to
fight on alone till France is exhausted, weary and humbled. That
the cause of the war was the exorbitant power of France, that her
increase of territory, the subjugation of Spain, Italy, Holland,
Belgium and Switzerland and the exclusion of all spirit from her
people but the military and the enthusiastic exaltation of that, are
so many aggravations of the original evil, and that of course it is
foolish to consider the remedy as springing out of the monstrous
growth of the evil ; that a state of danger shd. become a state of
security merely by the augmentation of the danger. Therefore
he must war till peace is safe and tell his Englishmen to pay and
fight on till that time comes without ever stopping to think or

enquire when that will be.

Yours truly,

Incog.

R. King to Col. Pickering.

London, Sept. 2, 1800.
Dear Sir :

I have not received a line from the Department of State since
you left it, which I the more regret, as every moment is not alike
favorable to the satisfactory settlement of the points to be adjusted
with this Country. Without your late letters (that of the 26 of
June is the last) I could not have had an adequate notion of the
extraordinary situation of our Government and even with this
aid, I am at a loss to explain some occurrences of a late date. Is

298 RUFUS KING. [1800

it intended to agitate and inflame the Prejudices and passions of
New England for the purpose of awing the Legislature in the
choice of Electors, and these in their choice of President ? It
will not be difficult to awaken resentments, that the impolicy-
takes no pains to extinguish; but must not the success of the pro-
ject in a great measure depend upon the issue of the mission to
France ? and is there ever a Probability that this will prove satis-
factory ? Difficulties have been opposed to the Envoys, which,
if persisted in, are insurmountable. It is true they remain at
Paris still, and we ought to conclude from hence, that they do
not wholly despair of success. But should N. E. be brought to
refuse her votes to any but native Patriots, what will this accom-
plish ? According to present appearances it will inevitably secure

the election to the Virginia Candidate ! . . .

R. King.

P. S. Mr. Liston's explanations are such as I expected : and
I have no doubt are perfectly correct. Still he is not free from
the charge of extreme indiscretion. Such letters should by men,
situated as he is, never be written; and no letters except those of
business should be written to such men as his Baltimore corre-
spondent. Don't consider rny solicitude and unfeigned esteem for
your retired situation as affectation or words of course. You can-
not be ignorant of the respectful attachment of your numerous
friends ; and after what has happened, it seems to me that it
would be false delicacy in them to suppress or in you to miscon-
strue the assurances of their unalienable regards.

R. K.

R. King to Secretary of State.
No. 82.

London, Sept. 2, 1800.
Dear Sir:

I can give you no authentic information respecting the prob-
able issue of the negotiation that we are told is going on between
Austria & France. Since the commencement of the armistice
between these Powers, the convention between England and
Austria is understood to have been ratified by the latter, and some
persons believe that preliminary steps have been taken to open a

1800] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 299

negotiation between France & England. In the meantime neither
France nor Austria appear to discontinue in the slightest degree
their efforts to recruit their respective armies, and all that can
with confidence be inferred from circumstances of a public
nature is the utter uncertainty respecting the conclusion of the
war. Public opinion rather leans in favor of the probability of a
pacific settlement of the misunderstanding with Denmark ; tho'
there is an impatience to know the idea of Lord Whitworth's
mission to Copenhagen.

Our Envoys are yet at Paris! My last letter from your office
is dated the 3d of May.

With perfect Respect & Esteem, &c,

Rufus King.

R. Troup to R. King.

New York, 14 Sept., 1800.
Dear Sir:

. . . Mr. Gore has before this informed you how Mr. Adams
stands in the estimation of his old friends. Some of them enter-
tain a sovereign contempt for him. The newspaper accom-
panying this contains the letter which he wrote to Tench Coxe
in the year 1792, concerning which there has been so much
said. It is a curious brimberion, to use a word coined by Mr.
Adams himself. It is worthy of remark that although the
British Cabinet, according to Mr. Adams, exerted its influence to
procure Mr. Pinckney's appointment, yet he never was agreeable
to the British Court. Quite the reverse, as I have understood
from Mr. Jay, for they considered him during his whole residence
at London, as too much attached to the French Revolution. The
letter is doubtless a genuine one.*

Jefferson is pretty fiercely attacked in different parts of the
Continent on the ground of his religious principles. The pam-
phlet accompaning this is an attack said to have been made by Dr.
Linn, one of the Ministers of the Dutch church in this city. It

* This was a private letter — published at that time in the Aurora — " avowing
the suspicion that the appointment of Pinckney to the Courts of London had
been procured or promoted by British influence." This letter does not appear
in the Life and Works of J. Adams by Charles Francis Adams.

3<DO RUFUS KING. [1800

is not probable, however, that all that has been, or will be,
written on this subject will deprive Jefferson of a single vote, so
irrevocably bent is his party on forcing him into the President's
chair. Things begin to look more favorably towards his election
than they did some time ago. . . .

Burr has just returned from the Eastward where he has been
for the purpose of effecting a division in the New England vote.
It is confidently given out by the democrats that Burr is to be
run with Jefferson. I recollect no period in Burr's life in which
he has been more complacent than since our last election in this
city. All the electors of this state will consist of Burr's creatures.
He now considers himself as the most efficient man of that
party. . . .

Adieu.

CHAPTER XXII.

King to Secy, of State — Expedition to Belle Isle failed — Envoys in Paris — To
Smith — Impressment of America Seamen in Lisbon by the English — Com-
plaint properly against Portugal — To Prest. Adams — Unsettled State of
Relations between France and Austria may hasten the Work of the Envoys
at Paris — Food Riots in London — Ames to King — Will not decide there
is a Coalition — But too much Complacency of Adams towards his Antag-
onist as shown here — A Creature of Impulse — Irritated against sound Men
— Thinks it would be a light Matter to have a War with Jefferson and
the Jacobins would prefer Adams to Pinckney — Sedgwick to King —
Passion displayed in Dismissal of Pickering displayed now without Dis-
guise— Motives that led to the Election of Adams were with many to
prevent that of Jefferson — Adams's Resentment aggravated by subsequent
Events — He does not conceal his Opinions — A Consequence the Dis-
organization of the federal Party — Marshall says Union alone can save
the Country — On Massachusetts will depend the Result of the Presidential
Election — Cabot to King — How to secure neutral Rights — King and Gore
quoted as thinking Peace not improbable and as Proof of the Wisdom of
Adams's Course.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 83.

London, Sept. 6, 1800.
Dear Sir :

The same uncertainty respecting Peace continues that existed

at the date of my last letter. The expedition under Sir James

Pulteney having found the situation of Belle Isle too formidable to

attack with a prospect of success, proceeded against Ferrol,

where the troops were landed, but quickly reimbarked, the

Defences being more formidable than they had been represented.

Whether the troops will be employed in some other attempt

against the enemy, or sent to Portugal menaced with invasion.

or return home is more than I am able to decide.
302 RUFUS KING. 1800]

We have no accounts of the Envoys since the 1st inst., when
they were in Paris. The annexed copy of the convention
between England & Denmark will show the manner the late
misunderstanding has been settled.

With perfect Respect, &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to William Smith, Esq.

London, Sept. 23, 1800.
Dear Sir :

I have duly received your letters of the 16th & 18th inst., and
will make application for the discharge of the American seamen
named in Mr. Bulkeley's letter, tho' I am not entirely free from
doubts concerning the propriety of a complaint to this Govern-
ment grounded upon the circumstance of their having been im-
pressed within the Territory of Portugal. I think with you that
the complaint is against the Government of Portugal for permit-
ting the abuse of the Rights of Hospitality, the enjoyment of
which the People of friendly nations may respectively claim
within each others Territories. It is certainly true that England
has no sort of Right to compel the People of any other nation to
engage in her service, and equally so that Portugal can give her
no such authority except over her own people. If Portugal suffers
England to seize our People resorting to her dominions on the
faith of a friendly reception and Protection, it is against Portugal
that we should complain ; and if she allows England to search for
and seize its own people found within her Territories, in doing
which the personal security of our seamen is violated, it is still
against Portugal that we should complain, since she does not
limit the permission to England so as to protect us from injury.

I am tired and disgusted with the repetition of complaint upon
this head ; our system of Protection is in my eyes a pernicious
one ; but as it has the sanction of Government, we are bound to
support it. As a further aggravation of the injustice we suffer
from the impressment of our seamen upon the open seas and
within the British Dominions, I will explain in the next I make,
what is understood to have lately happened in Lisbon.

With sincere Esteem &c.

Rufus King.

1800] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 303

R. King to His Excellency John Adams.

London, Sept. 24, 1800.
Sir :

Overtures and even direct propositions on the subject of Peace
have been made between England and France, as well as between
the latter & Austria. Indeed it seems that certain preliminaries,
not yet entirely disclosed, were signed on the 29th of July at Paris
by Count St. Julian on the part of the Emperor, and the dis-
avowal of which at Vienna has produced the stipulated notice
from France that has put an end to the armistice.

We are now told that the negotiations will again fail to termi-
nate the war, that the Emperor has placed himself at the head of
his army on the Danube, and that we may daily expect accounts
of new battles. Whatever may be the consequences of this de-
plorable condition of Europe to its principal states, I am mistaken
if it does not revive a strong motive on the part of France to
bring to a conclusion the negotiation with our Envoys, whose con-
tinuance at Paris strengthens the hope of a satisfactory termina-
tion of their mission. Popular tumults occasioned by thedearness
of Provisions, have lately manifested themselves as well in Lon-
don, as in the chief cities in the interior of the country ; but the
presence of the military has overawed the populace, and as the
harvest has been plentiful, it is hoped that Provisions, especially
bread, will soon be attainable at a more moderate price. That
food will be cheap, while rents and taxes are so high, is a
prophecy in which I cannot believe.

With perfect Respect & attachment &c. &c.

Rufus King.

F. Ames to R. King.

Sept. 24, 1800.
My Dear Sir :

You will be anxious to hear from the U. S. at this eventful
crisis. You will have other letters than mine, and I do not know
whether the light I may shed will lessen your anxiety or curiosity.
I am so much plagued with my prudence when I write that 1 al-
ways make out to be stupid, though I generally miss of being
cautious. It is indeed running a risk to send free thoughts in a

304 RUFUS KING. [1800

letter so far and across the sea where so many pirates may hap-
pen to furnish so much entertainment to as many pimps if they
shd. intercept this. It is ten to one you will not thank me for ad-
dressing such letters as I must, if I express the thoughts of my
heart to you, as the receiver may be inculpated as well as the
author. Perhaps you may not think as I do, but I will try to be
communicative and hope that this will reach you safely.

It is not easy to describe our political state nor perhaps to do
it with any clearness, unless by some delineation of character
and a bold exposure of weaknesses. The classification of parties
is not to be made out in any other way — especially as they appear
in this scene.

Whether there is any ground, (and if any whether there is
much) for the coalition charged upon the two heads of parties I
will not decide. I think there is rather too much complacency
on the part of our man towards his antagonist, and too little
towds. the intended second of the former. This proceeds from
several causes — but chiefly from the lofty idea he entertains of
his own superior wisdom and greatness which disdains to have
either for a second or a successor any less personage than the
first of the other side. He has also a strong revolutionary taint
in his mind, admires the characters, principles and means which
that revolutionary system exacts and for a short period seems to
legitimate, and as you know holds cheap any reputation that was
not then founded and top'd off. Accordingly he respects his rival
and the Gazette here, absolutely devoted to him and in the hands
of his personal friends exclusively, is silent and has been for some
months in respect to that rival. His irreligion, wild philosophy
and gimcrackery in politics are never mentioned. On the con-
trary the great man has been known to speak of him with much
regard, and an affected indignation at the charge of irreligion,
asking what has that to do with the public and adding that he is
a good patriot, citizen and father. The good Lady his wife has
been often talkative in a similar strain, and she is as complete a
politician as any Lady in the old French Court.

Besides these motives, vindictive feelings will concur to dis-
appoint those who would disappoint him, and to be excluded by
his own party would be justly more mortifying than to be ousted
by a majority on the side of his rival. How much character is

1800] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 305

expected to be patched up by a little courtship of the other party
you may infer from his saying that the measure which has so
much afflicted us all is the most glorious act of his life and he
will order it engraven on his tomb stone. His partizans boast of
its popularity and that only a very few like Hamilton and the
Essex Junto condemn it. It is also true that the Jacobins allow
that the act was good, though they intimate that it's motive was
to gain them, and not a sincere right principle.

The man I allude to is too much the creature of i7?ipulse or
freakish humour — he is a revolutionist from temperament, habit
and lately what he thinks policy — he is too much irritated against
many if not most of the principal sound men of the country ever to
bestow on them his confidence or to retrieve theirs. In particular
he is implacable against a certain great little man whom we
mutually respect. With so much less than the old & requisite
harmony with the best friends of the country, he has certain antipa-
thies and prejudices connected with them that are equally strange,
stubborn & pernicious. He really thinks it a light matter to have
a war with G. B. as he hates that Governt. in every thing but it's
theory, believes it corrupt and affects to believe it possesses in-
fluence here ; he can scarcely refrain and he seldom tries to re-
frain from inveighing against British influence, and to conciliate
to himself the mob honors that cant will obtain. He does not
hesitate to say that public debt wd. go down and paper money
come up in that case. But he loves to bluster and vapor about
the courage he once displayed when he was not afraid of that
great power when we had not half our present force. He has
the os magne soniturum and with all the ignorance of men &
business that must belong to the possessor of the before mentioned
tenets, he indulges the vanity, so much his favorite & his master.

The effect of having him at our head is for you and everyone
to consider. The Jacobins plainly say they prefer him to his in-
tended second. It is plain they choose we should be without a
head or with one that will not fit the shoulders.

Accordingly I have long thought it probable that the Leader
of the Jacobins willing to hide behind his rival's back will not
be sorry to see him prefer'd, believing that he will be only nomi-
nal chief, that the ruin of the Feds by discord & inefficiency will
be safely and securely procured, while he, the second, would be

VOL. III. — 20

306 RUFUS KING. [1800

safe not responsible, yet actually the ruler, and that by flattery
the other might be inclined and by blowing up his resentments
against his federal supporters, driven to may acts of Jacobinism.
Policy so refined will not prevent this man from ousting the pres-
ent occupant if he can. But if he can discern beforehand that
his own chance is desperate, I am almost sure the Jacobins will
vote for the present rather than to let Gen. P. be chosen. The
votes, as we now count them, will be nearly equally divided.
South Carolina is yet uncertain as the legislature is not elected
and many adverse contingencies may lessen our number. On
the whole, it is probable that J. will be elected ; if he cannot be,
that A. will be voted for by many Jacobins and therefore his
chance is the next best. People differ much on this subject and
few believe as I do that the Jacobins will act as I have settled
in case of their despairing of their first object.

J's election will greatly endanger our peace abroad, and order
at home. The prejudices of another will perhaps with an equally
bad tendency towards war dispose him to neglect every proper &
reasonable step to secure peace and to take affront & sound the
tocsin on the first cause of irritation given by B. Take care of our
peace. I should think the present desponding crisis in B. affairs
a good moment for adjusting matters of difference with them.

My former letters have probably stated my conjectures respect-
ing the votes in New England. Some foolish writers in the
Gazettes have tried their talents to divide the Feds and with some
success at first. The better knowledge of the subject which has
been spread more by conversation than in print has mended pub-
lic opinion a good deal and I now have hopes, though I am less
sanguine than most others, that our Legislature will act right.

Newspaper essays have not been much resorted to and it is
thought would irritate. We have been and still are placed in a
difficult pass. You will not get half as much information as you
desire, because probably not one of your correspondents will be
" so loose of thought " as I have been. I take no thought before-
hand what I shall write and will thank you to burn this immedi-
ately after perusal.

Sept. 26.

I have just seen a gentleman of South Carolina who says that
his intelligence from there is very recent & very encouraging, that

1800] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 307

a federal legislature is confidently expected to be chosen in Octo-
ber and that the votes will be fairly, liberally and faithfully given
to the two federal candidates.

T. Sedgwick to R. King.

Stockbridge. 26. Sept., 1800.

Dear Sir

. . . The dismissal of Mr. Pickering alone would have been
regretted by every man acquainted with his character, who justly
appreciated his merits and virtues ; but had he been only an
object of distrust and resentment, the injury would have been
less fatal to the cause which we have endeavored to support.
The same extends to almost every man, in our country, who has
been active & zealous in the support of the executive administra-
tion. The sentiment or passion, which has, in this instance, dis-
played itself, was long smothered, but has lately burst forth, and
is now permitted to rage without controul or disguise. It had its
origin with the events of the last election.

When General Washington notified his intention to retire from
public life, the wish that Mr. Adams should be his successor
was unanimous amongall the friends of the government. This wish
was, however, entertained by gentlemen with different modifica-
tions. While some were disposed to consider the election of Mr.
Adams as the first object, others more strongly impressed with
the mischief which would result from the success of Jefferson, or
thought that success more probable, directed their efforts to
insure his exclusion. The latter, of whom I was one, endeavored
to induce the electors to give their votes, homogeneously, for Mr.
Adams & Mr. Pinkney. This conduct was deeply resented at
the time & has never since been forgotten. Mr. Adams was then
imprudent enough, I say what I know, to declare to several
gentlemen, at several times, in substance, that he was to be
sacrificed to the personal enmity entertained against Mr. Jeffer-
son, whose pretensions were preferable to Mr. Pinckney's — In
some instances he went further and pretty plainly hinted, that

308 RUFUS KING. [1800

some wished Mr. Pinckney to succeed against him, because he
could be more easily influenced. The principal object of his
resentment and jealousy was Mr. Hamilton, who, possessing great
influence, had, in his usual open and undisguised manner, exerted
it all on this occasion. Here those feelings, which since indulged
have been so mischievous, had their commencement. The
jealousy which took place at that time has, from a vast variety
of circumstances, which have since assumed acquired strength —
such as the hesitation of some to assent to the nomination of his
son as Minister to Berlin — the anxiety which was expressed, to
him, that General Washington should be placed at the head of
the army — his wish & that of his friend that Hamilton should be
second in command — the opposition which was made to the
appointment of Gerry, and the chagrin occasioned by Gerry's
conduct — the negative of the nomination of W. Smith as adjutant
general — the nomination of Murray & what then took place —
the disgust which was created by the last mission to france — the
President's conduct towards his ministers on that occasion, and
their manly avowal of their opinions, and above all the recom-
mendations of the whole federal party of General Pinckney as a
joint and equal candidate with him for the office of President,
have excited the most furious indignation in his mind & which he
is at no pains to conceal. He every where denounces the men,
and almost all the men in whom he confided, at the beginning of
his administration, as an oligarchish faction, who are combined
to drive him from office, because they cannot govern him, and to
appoint Pinckney, by whose agency, under the controul of this
faction & particularly of Hamilton its head, the country is to be
driven into a war with france & a more intimate, if not an indis-
soluble, union with great Britain. In consequence of these repre-
sentations by him, which are diffused thro' this state by his
friends, and more by the indefatigable industry of his enemies
the jacobins, the federal party here has been disorganized, and
every where thro' the nation its energies are paralized. By the
most painful industry, and the most perfect union the friends of
the Government had attained a height on which they appeared
to be impregnably intrenched ; but by the conduct of an
individual, the whole force is disheartened, on one hand, and on
the other the adversary is inspired with fresh confidence.

1800] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 309

The appointment of Marshall as Secy, of State was a fortunate
event — I believe there is not a man in the U. S. of better inten-
tions, and he has the confidence of all good men — no man regrets
more than he does the disunion which has taken place, and no one
would do more to heal the wounds inflicted by it. In a letter
which I received from him a few days since he says, " by union
we can securely maintain our ground — without it we must sink
& with us all sound, correct American principle." His efforts
will, I fear, prove ineffectual.

With regard to the ensuing election, the result at present can
not be known, but my hopes greatly preponderate. The event
will I think depend on N. England, & particularly Massachusetts.
The laudable conduct of the Legislature in retaining to them-
selves the choice of electors was intended to prevent the scatter-
ing of votes. Every art which wickedness & falsehood could
invent has been practised, to defeat this intention, by seducing
the members ; I hope & believe without success. At the time
we agreed on Mr. Pinckney as a candidate, which was at a meeting
of the whole federal party in Congress, we had every assurance
which could be given by the members from S. Carolina, that
whatever might be the character of their electors, such was the
popularity of General Pinckney, that all the votes of that state
would be given to him — if federal of course for Adams & Pinck-
ney, if antifederal for Pinckney & Jefferson. I had a letter a few
days since from Harper, who is settled in Baltimore. He says,
that we may, with certainty, calculate on ten votes there. It is
almost reduced to a certainty that no votes will be given in
Pennsylva. — The candidates are the gentlemen above mentioned
& Burr, but of him I am confident there is no danger. I have
inclosed a conjectural list of votes.

The accomodations in Washington, I fear, will not in any re-
spect, be very eligible, but, doubtless, many inconveniences must
be submitted to before a removal is contemplated. Among the
inconveniences which I foresee the most mischievous will be the
secession of men of talents and experience. In any situation the
inducements to serve are so few & the sacrifices so great and ob-
vious ; on one hand neither power to stimulate ambition nor
patronage to sooth benevolence, and on the other, slander and
falsehood to deter, that much of imbecility might be expected.

3IO RUFUS KING. [1800

Our old friend Strong will, I hope, make us a pretty good gov-
ernor— We are not, indeed, to suppose that opposition will be de-
terred by imposing frowns — nor are we to expect that much of
dignity will be added to Govt, by a commanding ascendency of
character, but every thing that a pleasing suavity of manners,
pure morals, integrity and a spirit of conciliation can effect may
be relied on. Firmness, in cases where expedients can not be
resorted to, will not be wanting, but that is a resource which
never will be resorted to but in cases of necessity ; nor will he ever
assume unnecessary responsibility.

You will probably receive this Letter at a time when you are
uncertain of the elections in Essex. Our friends, there, think
there is no danger in either. For myself I fear that Lincoln will
prevail. We could not send from this state a worse man. He is
dangerous from his weight of character, and more from his being
an enthusiast. He is in fact, in principle, a democrat. It was a
misfortune that Foster was chosen into the senate, in the first
place for reasons you know, and in the second because there was
no other man whose popularity could ballance against that of
Lincoln. But the Legislature had no other choice. The office
of senator went a begging and was rejected by many — I believe
no changes will any where else be made unfavorable to the gov-
ernment.

I should have resigned my seat in Congress at the same time I
declined a future election could I have foreseen, with certainty,
the result of the ensuing election of President. But should there
be no choice or should the choice fall on Jefferson I should wish
to be present.

I am sincerely yours

T. S.

G. Cabot to R. King.

Sep. 30, 1800.

My dear Sir :

I have a thousand times thought of the regulations you con-
template to mitigate to neutral Commerce the oppressions it suffers
from Belligerent nations under the sanction of law & to satisfy

1800] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 311

those nations in a fair & ample manner that their Enemies' prop-
erty is not covered. I have no idea however that such a system
will be ever established or maintained by armed neutralities or
combinations of that kind. I shou'd think it might nevertheless
be brought about by particular stipulations between nation &
nation which if fairly performed & not abused wou'd in time be-
come a law. So far am I from "deciding hastily " (in this case I
mean) that I have often reflected upon the means which a nation
possesses of assuring to another what that other, being in a state
of war, has a right to know, & I think a nation cou'd by its own
laws & regulations give to another better evidence of that which
it has a right to know than that nation can ordinarily derive from
the proceeding now used. It is not impracticable to secure to
neutrals the full & unmolested exercise of every right, on which
they can reasonably insist, by fair conventions with the great fight-
ing nation, if the same parties have a sincere disposition to do it ; but
neutrals will not always be satisfied with this alone, & one at least
of the warring powers will be still less satisfied. France, for ex-
ample, while inferior to England in maritime force, can never be
reconciled to any arrangement respecting neutrals which cannot
be made to shield her own Commerce in time of war, & every
arrangement convertible to this purpose will certainly be opposed
by England or by any predominant maritime power.

By your letter of the 28th July it appears you think a peace not
improbable. I had previously heard that this opinion was quoted
by the President & enlarged upon as a proof of his wisdom & the
errors of those who have been alarmed at his measures. Perhaps
you little suspected that such a use wou'd be made of your name,
but I am assured it has some effect in increasing the animosity
or rather the avowal of enmity to G. B. among men whom fear or
prudence has kept silent.

Our friend Gore too is quoted as having found by experience
that the English do not merit so much respect as the damned
british faction (which they are sometimes called) are disposed to
pay them ; thus you see that men who think the most correctly
& whose conduct corresponds to their opinions, are made to tes-
tify against their friends & even against themselves.

I remain constantly & faithfully,

Yours

312 RUFUS KING. [1800

Long as are several of these letters from the valued corre-
spondents of Mr. King in America they are here given in full,
for they present, as do some subsequent ones, a picture of
the political views of his friends during the canvass preced-
ing the election of the President and of the personal feelings
of the leaders of the federal party under their changed rela-
tions with Mr. Adams. In the confidence that Mr. King
sympathized with them and felt a deep interest in the wel-
fare of the federal party, which they, as well as he, knew had
laid firmly the foundations of the Government and caused the
country to prosper and gain the respect of other nations,
they wrote to him their firm belief that a continuation of the
Government in the hands of Mr. Adams, who had become
alienated from those with whom he had until a short time
past always acted, would endanger the welfare of the coun-
try, by his evident affiliation or sympathy with their oppo-
nents, and that their own influence in the conduct of public
affairs was gone unless by union and prudent concert they
might be able to counteract the energy, recklessness, and
activity of those with whom Mr. Adams seemed inclined to
unite himself, and who held opinions so fundamentally
opposed to their own. The choice among the candidates for
the Presidency was of one whom they did not trust, or of Mr.
Jefferson whom they detested and whose principles they held
to be tainted with the worst features of French democracy,
which they had found from the inauguration of the Govern-
ment threatening to overthrow the wise measures which had
hitherto caused it to prosper. It is therefore not to be won-
dered at that these patriotic leaders were earnest in their
desire to counteract the efforts of their opponents and to
place in the Presidency a man who held the views which
they advocated, and believed to be best for the general good,
and calculated to establish the country in its proper position
among the nations of the earth. As they felt, so they ex-
pressed themselves and there is no doubt that they addressed
their thoughts to a sympathizing correspondent and trusted
adviser.

CHAPTER XXIII.

King to Secretary of State — Strange Conduct of Emperor of Austria — Reasons
for it — English Envoys to be received at the Congress at Luneville — Rus-
sia dissatisfied with England — Depredations on American Commerce in
West Indies due to pillaging Spirit of English Officers — Mr. Merry to
succeed Mr. Liston — Troup to King — Hamilton thinks of publishing
Grounds of his Opposition to Adams — Laments the scattering of Federal-
ists— Insurrection in Virginia — King to Murray — Mode of Expenditure of
Money for Claims in the prize Courts — Under King's Control — Character
of them — W. Constable to King — Convention with France signed — First
Consul's Toast at Feast in Celebration : Perpetual Amity between France
and the United States — King to Smith — The President approves of Pur-
chase of Jewels for Bey of Tunis under the Circumstances — To Discourage
Expectation of future Purchases — To Secretary of State — Austria proba-
bly to conclude a separate Treaty with France — Crops in England good —
Not sufficient for a Year's Supply — King to Lord Grenville — President's
Congratulations on the King's Escape from Assassination — To Secretary
of State on same Subject — Lord Grenville's Answer to J. White — Acknowl-
edges the Receipt of a Piece of Plate from Lloyd's for Captain Truxton,
to be sent to him — Lord Grenville to King — Mr. Soren's Pamphlet — He
Complains of Inattention to his Business — Denied by Lord Grenville —
King to Secretary of State — Convention with France — Lord Grenville
finds no Fault except as to Convoys and the Rights of Neutrals — King
thought Regulations for Trade of Neutrals might be made by Convoys
without affecting injuriously the Right of Search — Lord Grenville admitted
the Fairness of the Project — Mr. Merry the Successor of Liston favorably
spoken of.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 84.

London, Sep. 30, 1800.
Dear Sir :

It is not easy at this moment to explain the conduct of the
Emperor in disgracing Count St. Julian and refusing to ratify the
preliminaries signed by him at Paris, and afterwards going to his
3 14 RUFUS KING. [1800

Army, where his first act has been the Delivery of the Fortresses
at Philipsburg, Ulm & Ingolstadt to the French as the price of a
prolongation of the armistice and the pledge of his sincerity in
the negotiation for Peace immediately to be opened on the Basis
of Count St. Julian's preliminaries at Luneville near Nanci in
France. Some persons perceive the explanation of this apparent
inconsistency, in the Russian armies assembling in Transylvania
and which in a few weeks may be ready to cooperate with the
Austrian forces : others, in the fidelity of Austria, which would
do nothing without England ; and others in the discovery of the
comparative superiority of the French army, and the consequent
conviction of the Emperor that Peace was the only means of
safety. France consents to receive the Envoys of England at the
Congress of Luneville, provided England immediately agrees to
a naval armistice. Negotiations upon this point are going on, and
the armistice will be settled if England believes that Austria is in
earnest to put an end to the war.

The sequestration of British property in Russia, in consequence
of the passage of the Sound by the English squadron sent to
support Lord Whitworth's negotiation at Copenhagen, was re-
voked as soon as the misunderstanding with Denmark was under-
stood to be settled ; but the measure was one that has not only
excited a lively sensation in this country, but may be regarded as
complete proof of the unabated dissatisfaction of Russia towards
England. The squadron which was prepared to bombard Copen-
hagen, had a decisive influence on the negotiation, and hastened
its conclusion ; but the knowledge of the fact that Lord Whit-
worth, on delivering his ultimatum, limited the Danish Govern-
ment to a categorical answer to be given in eight days is not likely
to moderate the jealousy of the English naval superiority that
has become so generally prevalent. The convention was signed
on the evening of the eighth day.

Having seen in the late American Newspapers frequent articles
concerning the depredations of the English Cruizers upon our
coasts and in the West Indies, I have taken some pains to ascer-
tain whether any new orders affecting our Trade had been issued,
or whether these increased irregularities proceed from the un-
checked and base spirit of Plunder, that influences so many of the
English naval Commanders. The result of my inquiries satisfies

1800] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 315

me that they are to be ascribed to the latter cause, which will gain
strength and continue to operate until the Prize-Courts compel
the Captors to give complete indemnity to Neutrals for their
losses and the Government shall be willing to discourage the pil-
laging spirit of its officers by a few instances of severe and exem-
plary Punishment.

I have reason to believe that it is the intention of this Govern-
ment to send Mr. Merry to the U. States, as the successor of Mr.
Liston, who has leave of absence & will not return to America
after he leaves it. Mr. Merry was several years in Spain, and I
think as Consul General is said to have acted with ability in the
affairs of Nootka, and has lately returned from Denmark, where
he has served in a diplomatic character. I do not know him, but
will take measures to obtain and send you more particular in-
formation respecting his character and dispositions
With perfect Respect & Esteem &c

Rufus King.

R. Troup to R. King.

New York, i Oct., 1800.

My dear Sir :

. . . I have nothing new for you, except that the late elec-
tion in Connecticut has produced a decidedly federal legislature ;
more so than they have had in that State for some time. And
yet it is acknowledged on all hands that democracy is on the
growth in that State ! This information is given to me by
General Hamilton who is just from Hartford where he has been
to attend our State trial. . . .

Hamilton has thoughts of publishing the grounds of his opposi-
tion to Mr. Adams ; and from circumstances I expect daily to see
him in the newspapers on this subject.

My good friend, I cannot describe to you how broken and
scattered your federal friends are ! At present we have no rally-
ing point ; and no mortal can divine where or when we shall
again collect our strength ! . . . Shadows, clouds, and dark-
ness rest on our future prospects. My spirits, in spite of all my
philosophy, cannot maintain the accustomed level. For the

316 RUFUS KING. [1800

present they have sunk me into an apathy for public concern, and
forced me into the bosom of my own family — where after all is
centered the only happiness we can expect to enjoy on earth.

In Virginia * they are beginning to feel the happy effects of
liberty and equality. A serious and tremendous insurrection was
on the point of breaking out there a few days ago. It was dis-
covered as it was about being executed. The reports from that
quarter say that it was planned by Frenchmen, and that all the
whites, save the French, were to have been sacrificed. The whole
state has been in consternation — their courts are sitting — trials
are taking place and the gallows are in full operation. . .
We are also told that there actually has been a rising of negroes
in South Carolina. . . .

Genl. Armstrong is said to be Jefferson's religious cham-
pion. . . . Hamilton thinks worse of the state of our affairs
than I do. I cannot bring myself to believe that the same conse-
quences will result which he apprehends. . . .

R. T.

R. King to William Vans Murray.

Mill Hill, Oct. 4, 1800.

Dear Sir :

I yesterday received by Capt. Hill your letter of the 27th of
July and can answer in very few words your enquiry respecting
the expenditures of public money in this country for the prosecu-
tion of claims in the Prize Courts. Since my residence here this
expenditure has been made under my control and direction.
Conceiving that the appointment of Mr. Bayard, the agent
charged with the care of the American Claims, arose from the
almost indiscriminate capture of our vessels in 1793 & 1794, and
that it was not the intention of the Government to maintain a
permanent agent, nor to take upon itself the charge and expense

* Jefferson says in a letter to Dr. Rush Sept. 23, 1800 :

" You will hear an account of an attempt at insurrection in this State. I am
looking with anxiety to see what will be its effect in our State. We are truly
to be pitied." — jfeffersoris Complete Works, vol. iv., p. 336.

1800] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 317

of conducting the claims for Property, captured subsequent to the
Treaty with England, Mr. Bayard was instructed by me to afford
his advice and personal assistance to all our countrymen, whose
property might be captured by the English, and to require of
them to engage their own Proctors and provide their own funds,
and in no case to engage the U. States, or to advance their
money to prosecute claims occurring subsequent to the English
Treaty. This instruction was approved by the Secretary of
State, and has been scrupulously observed by Mr. Williams, who
succeeded Mr. Bayard.

The only disbursement of public money that has been, or that
continues, to be made is to the Proctors of the Prize Courts, who
had been engaged in cases older than the Treaty, and to the
agent (first Mr. Bayard, now Mr. Williams) for his salary and
contingent account, including his postage and the expense of the
copies of the Vice-Admiralty proceedings ; and no money has
ever been paid for the support of captains, witnesses or private
agents. Indeed it would in my eyes be money thrown away to
support the Supercargoes, Masters or other officers of the
captured vessels, whose presence is of no use, and who can afford
no assistance in the Trial. One intelligent agent, such as we
have here, is enough, and the business which I found a chaos,
has been methodized and arranged so as to enable the agent to
give every information respecting it to the Proctors as well as the
Proprietors. The agent requires a regular account of the
Proctors, to whom he pays no charge not sanctioned by a Bill
taxed by the Register, and in every case, deducts from the
property recovered or restored, the public advances in the
prosecution of the Suit ; when the same claimant has more than
one suit, the agent detains the whole of the public advances in all
of them, including as well those decided against the claimant as
those still undecided, and in this way we hope to get back the
chief part of the public money. I will write to you again shortly.

Pray deliver the Books purchased for me to Mitchell or Cod-
man, who will forward them ; let those which are not bound be
bound before they are sent.

With truth and attachment, &c. &c.

Rufus King.

318 RUFUS KING. [1800

W. Constable to R. King.

Paris, 6th October, 1800.
Dear Sir :

The Convention between this Country and the U. S. was con-
cluded the last of September, as you will most probably be
apprised by our Envoys. The question of compensation is for
the present waived, the Role d'Equipage given up, and the only
Papers in future required are a Sea-Letter & Register, which rule
is to be applied to all property captured and not finally con-
demned. . . .

Ellsworth & Davie will arrive at Havre to day, having set off
from Joseph Bonaparte's Country Seat 2 days since, where there
was a most superb fete given on the occasion of the pacification
with America when the first Toast by the first Consul was,
Perpetual Amity between France & the U. S. He mentioned
the telegraphic despatch, received in the eveng. of the fete, of
Thugut's removal and Cobenzel's coming to Paris. Stocks have
risen exceedingly in consequence. Rentes Provissoires, which
were at 6, when I arrived here, are now 36 pr. 100. Murray
will set off in a few days for the Hague.

With sincere regard &c.

W. C. Constable.

R. King to Charles Lee, Esq.

Office of the Department of State, City of Washington.

No. 85. *

London, Oct. 7, 1800.
Dear Sir :

I have the satisfaction to inform you that the Paris papers just
arrived, under the article and sanction of official information,
state that a Treaty of Amity and Commerce between the United
States of America and France was signed on the 1st instant.

I have the honor to be with great respect & esteem, &c. &c.

Rufus King.

* Note by R. K.

Mr. Pickering was removed from the Department of State in May — but no
official intimation of this change was received till the arrival of a letter dated
23 May, from Mr. Lee, the Acting Secretary, and from this time, despatches
were no longer addressed to Col. Pickering.

1800] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 319

R. King to William Smith.

London, Oct. 8, 1800.

Dear Sir :

I yesterday received a letter from the Secretary of State, dated
the 1 6th of Augt. respecting the Jewels for the Bey of Tunis ;
tho' the President is not satisfied with the claim, he thinks it
prudent under the circumstances of the case that the Articles
enumerated in Mr. Eaton's list should be purchased ; but as in
your letter of the 7th of June you express a hope, in consequence
of the arrival of the Hero, richly laden with stores at Tunis, that
the Jewels might not be insisted upon, I shall take measures that
the Tagan shall be mounted as soon as possible according to the
Bey's directions and wait till I receive your answer and opinion,
whether under present circumstances it will be adviseable to pro-
ceed in the execution of the Commission for the Jewels. If you
have any information that leads you to believe that the claim is
not relinquished, I think it will be our duty in consequence of
the President's instruction to provide them. I submit to your
consideration whether it will not be prudent that you should im-
mediately inform Eaton that I have received orders to purchase
the Jewels and other articles enumerated in his List, at the same
time suggesting that a twelvemonth is required by the manufac-
turers to prepare them, that the greatest difficulty and expense
will attend the execution of the commission, none of the articles
being made in America, and some of them no where made except
by order, and that he should by all suitable means discourage the
expectation that we should on any occasion make the like present
in future.

With great Respect & Esteem &c

Rufus King.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 86.

London, Oct. 18, 1800.
Dear Sir :

Parliament is summoned to meet on the nth of November.
This sudden measure may have been called for by the unexpected

320 RUFUS KING. [1800

and extraordinary political situation of the country as well as by
the alarming distress which still continues from the scarcity and
high price of provisions.

We cannot suppose that the signature of the Convention be-
tween England and Denmark has wrought any change in the
sentiments of the latter, concerning the question in dispute, and
circumstances daily manifest themselves, which prove the pre-
carious nature of the friendly connection that subsists between
England and the three Northern Powers.

The appointment of Count Cobenzel to succeed Baron Thugut
in the Cabinet of Vienna, if it be not merely an ostensible meas-
ure, goes far to confirm the opinion that Austria has resolved to
conclude a separate Peace with France, and tho' neither govern-
ment disclosed what has passed, it is understood that the cor-
respondence between Paris and London is suspended if not
entirely broken off.

This country has not for a long time grown sufficient corn to
feed its inhabitants ; it has been usual to have corn enough for
three months' consumption when the new crop is gathered ; but
the harvest of 1799 having been very short, (not more than half a
crop) and with the savings of former years nearly or quite con-
sumed before the last harvest was gathered, the country has been
obliged to begin immediately upon the new crop, which, tho' a
good one, will not be sufficient for a year's food, much less for
the supply of fifteen months ; and should the next be a late or
short harvest, there will be still greater distress than the present,
which without doubt is encreased by the apprehension of these
events.

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c. &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Lord Grenville.

Great Cumberland Place, Oct. 21, 1800.

My Lord :

The President of the United States having with the most lively
concern heard of the late desperate attack upon the Person of the

1800] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 32 1

King, has given me orders to present his unfeigned congratula-
tions to his Majesty upon his happy escape from the blow by
which his life was so seriously endangered. Participating as I do
in the sentiments which upon this occasion I am charged to ex-
press, I receive peculiar satisfaction in obeying this instruction,
which I pray your Lordship to be assured alike proceeds from
the high Respect for his Majesty entertained by the American
Government, and the friendly interest it at all times takes in
whatever affects the welfare and happiness of the nation to which
his Majesty's life is on every account so justly dear.

With the most distinguished consideration &c. &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 87.

London, Oct. 26, 1800.
Dear Sir :

A day or two after the information that a Treaty had been
signed between France & America, I received your letter of the
1 6th* of August, and finding upon enquiry that the King had
been congratulated upon his escape from the attempt to assas-
sinate him, by almost every other State in amity with Great Britain,
I thought it adviseable, conformably to the President's directions,
to present his congratulations likewise. The Copy of my letter
to Lord Grenville and of his answer are annexed. The occasion
seemed to me a suitable one not only to renew the assurance of
our friendship, but also to endeavour to discover the temper with
which our Reconciliation with France is likely to be treated ; I
make no unfavorable inference from the tenor of the answer.

With perfect Respect & Esteem

Rufus King.

* The first letter received from John Marshall, Esq., after his appointment
to the office of Secretary of State — despatches afterwards addressed to him.

VOL. III. — 21

322 RUFUS KING. [1800

Lord Grenville to R. King.

Downing Street, Oct. 25, 1800.

Sir :

I have the honour to inform you that having laid your letter of
the 21st of this month before the King, I have received his
Majesty's command to express to you the lively sense which his
Majesty entertains of the friendly interest which that letter ex-
presses on the part of the Government of the United States, on
the occasion of the failure of the late attempt against his Majesty's
life.

I have the honour to be with great consideration &c

Grenville.

Lord Grenville to R. King.

{Private.)

Dropmore, Oct. 25, 1800.
Dear Sir :

I have received from a Mr. Soren, with whose case you are
acquainted, a printed statement of his business, which I presume
he will also have communicated to you. Having more than once
interposed in his favour, in a matter which from the beginning
had no relation to the official business of the foreign department,
& of the final issue of which I was ignorant till I read his
Pamphlet, I cannot but be hurt at the insinuations which it seems
to me to contain, particularly in p. 25, of inattention on my part
to his sufferings or claims.

I have directed a reference to be made to the dates of the cor-
respondence on the subject, by which it appears that Mr. Soren's
letter, dated Sept. 19, was by me referred to the King's advocate
by a special letter of reference on the 25th of the same month —
and that finding from his opinion that all means of legal redress
were shut against Mr. Soren, I wrote myself to Mr. Dundas to
recommend the case to his attention as one which might receive

1800] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 323

some redress by orders from his department, tho' from the foreign
office it could not. This letter was dated the 27th September
1798.

I trouble you with this detail because it was at your desire that
I first interested myself in a business which (if I had not been de-
sirous of contributing my endeavours to procure to Mr. Soren
some redress for the injuries he has suffered) I might in the first
instance have returned to you, as not coming within the line of
my official duty.

The sort of feeling which sometimes urges a complainant to
attack those who have most endeavoured to serve him is not un-
common, & I have had too much experience of the circumstances
of a public situation to be much surprized by it. Certainly it
will not lessen my wishes to be still of some use to a person who
seems to me to have been hardly used.

Believe me ever, my dear Sir, most truly & sincerely yrs,

Grenville.

R. King to Thomas White, Master of Lloyd's Coffee House.

Great Cumberland Place, Oct. 29, 1800.

Sir:

I have had the honour to receive your letter of the 25th instant,
together with the piece of plate, destined by the Merchants and
Underwriters of Lloyd's Coffee House, as a Testimony of their
sense of the gallant conduct of the Commander of the American
Frigate Constellation in capturing the French frigate LTnsur-
gente, and thereby increasing the security of Commerce in the
West India seas.

I beg of you, Sir, to do me the favour to inform the Merchants
and Underwriters from whom this tribute of respect proceeds,
that I will avail myself of the earliest opportunity to forward it to
Captain Truxton together with a Copy of the Letter that you
have written to me on this occasion.

The Portsmouth frigate having merely touched off Weymouth
immediately after sailed on her voyage to America.

I have the honour to be &c. &c.

Rufus King.

324 RUFUS KING. [1800

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. %%.

London, Oct. 31, 1800.
Dear Sir :

The Convention with France having been published in Paris,
immediately found its way into the English newspapers, in which
it appeared the day after Mr. Ellsworth's arrival in London ; its
authenticity being confirmed by him, it became my duty to en-
deavour with as much diligence and as extensively as in my power
to communicate * such sentiments and opinions respecting it as would
be likely to procure to it a favorable consideration.

After conversing with the Lord Chancellor and some other of
the Ministers, / found an occasion to mention the subject to the
King, and tho' this was not altogether regular I had no reason to
be dissatisfied with having done so.

After waiting several days during which /might see and con-
verse with the persons about the Court, I yesterday asked a con-
ference with Lord Grenvilh, which took place this morning. The
conversation began by my observing that I wished to speak with
him respecting our Reconciliation with France, in order that I
might communicate to my Government which would be desirous to
understand the light in which it was considered by the British
Government. This beginning led to a free and apparently candid
conversation respecting it, which was followed by Lord G's saying
to me that he saw nothing in the Convention inconsistent with the
Treaty between them and us, or which afforded them any ground of
complaint ; nor did he perceive in it anything that might not have
been expected, unless it was the Article respecting Convoys, which
we were certainly free to make, but which nevertheless, just at the
present juncture had somewhat of a less friendly appearance than
might have been wished. I expressed my satisfaction that I had
not been mistaken in believing that the British Govern?nent would
find nothing to object to in the Convention, and remarked that the
article of free Bottoms having made a part of the old Treaty, it
was natural enough that it should be inserted in the new one, and
the provision respecting Convoys seemed to be no more than a
convenient consequence of that article, by which the visit of the

* Italics in cipher.

1800] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 325

belligerent is not only restrained in its object, but placed under
special Regulations as to the manner in which it shall be made ;
and moreover that Convoys would be indispensable to protect our
Trade against French Corsairs in the West Indies, which could
not at present be controuled by France.

Lord G. who had not manifested any marks of his disappoint-
ment or discontent concerning the Convention, shewed no in-
clination to controvert what I had just said contenting himself by
repeating, but without seeming to place much importance upon
the observation, what he had before said with regard to their mis-
understanding with the Northern Powers.

As the subject of Convoys was before us, I thought the occasion
not an unfavorable one, concisely to suggest certain reflection
which had passed in my mind concerning it, and which are the
foundations of the observations contained in my No. 80. After
some general Remarks respecting the Rights of Neutrals and
Belligerents, I observed that it seemed to 7ne practicable to devise
Regulations by which the Trade of neutrals might be secured by
Convoys without affecting injuriously the Right of Search. It
might for example be stipulated that no Ship should be entitled
to sail under Convoy, which should not possess a certificate, in
an agreed form, attesting her neutrality and the neutrality and
innocence of her Cargo ; the Consuls or other Agents of the Bel-
ligerent residing in the neutral Countries might assist in taking
the Proofs upon which such certificate should be granted ; and it
might moreover be settled that the visit of the Belligerent should
be confined to the Convoying ship, the commander of which on
exhibiting the Certificates of the Ships under his Convoy should
with them be entitled to proceed unmolested. Other Regulations
might be decided for the places where the agents of the Belliger-
ent could not on account of the War assist in receiving the proofs
of neutrality.

Lord G. without hesitation admitted the fairness of the Project,
adding that it would be indifferent to them as belligerents, whether
the examination was made by their agents before the sailing of the
Neutral Ship, or upon the Ocean by their naval officers.

At the close of the Conference Lord G. spoke to me in favorable
terms of Mr. Merry, the successor of Mr. Liston, saying that he
flattered himself that we should find him an agreeable man. I

326 RUFUS KING. [1800

mentioned to him that I expected to receive farther instructions
respecting the execution of the 6th article of our Treaty, and pro-
posed that Mr. Merry should wait till they arrived ; to which he
consented, tho' it was intended that Mr. Merry should have em-
barked for America in a few days.

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c. &c.

Rufus King.

CHAPTER XXIV.

Mr. Strickland to King — Reprinting his Paper on Agriculture in United
States — Objects to minute Division of Land — King to W. Smith — Has
declined to advance Funds to pay for Articles ordered by Mr. Eaton for
Bey of Tunis — They should be paid for in London or Paris, not through
Traders — Troup to King — Strictures on Hamilton's Letter to the President
— General Impression injurious to him and his Party — Cabot to King —
Treaty with France cannot be a "Subject of Joy" — King to Secy, of State
— Reports his Readiness to confer with Ld. Grenville on 6th Article —
Relations of Austria and England with France about Peace — Latter wants
separate Treaties — England seems ready now to support the first Consul
— King will push Conference on 6th Article, but hopes for little while
War lasts — Schoenbron to King — Announces to him the Appointment of
Minister Resident and Consul General from Denmark to U. S. — King to
Secy, of War — Maps — W. Wilberforce to King — Abolition of the slave
Trade — King to Eaton — Gives Reasons for not ordering the Jewels made
and sent to Tunis — The President does not see the Necessity but is im-
pressed with the Impolicy of sending them — Presents from America possibly
sufficient — Urges him to try to extricate the Country from Promises of
others — To Secy, of State — Minister from Denmark, why not simply a
Consul — Wilberforce to King — Friendly Greetings — How to prosecute
Masters of Vessels breaking the Law to prevent slave Trade by American
Vessels — Would reporting Names, etc. , to the Abolition Society ? — Troup
to King — Adams and Pinckney will be chosen — Hamilton prefers Jeffer-
son to Adams — Many Answers to his Pamphlet — King to Mr. Netzel
relative to Conduct of two American Vessels against a Swedish Cutter.

William Strickland to R. King.

York, Nov. i, 1800.
Dear Sir:

I received a letter yesterday from Mr. Nicol informing me of
your intention of reprinting my Paper on the Agriculture of the
United States, and requesting that I would make any alterations
I thought necessary. I have accordingly carefully revised every
part of it, but see no reasons for making any alterations in it
328 RUFUS KING. [1800

beyond literal or verbal mistakes in the printing nor any material
additions. ... If you choose to prefix to the republication any
introduction I shall be satisfied with your doing it in any terms
you may think proper ; were your name annexed to it, it certainly
would be flattering to me to be seen in your company, but as you
may have reasons for wishing your name not to appear, which
might not influence a private individual, I do not expect it, if
you do not approve of it. . . .

I must request that you would be so good as to communicate
to me hereafter any observations your countrymen may think
proper to make on what I have said ; without your assistance I
may not be able to come at the knowledge of them ; if they con-
vict me of any misstatement of facts, I shall pay them all possible
attention & take care to correct what I have asserted in a future
volume of the publication of the Board of Agriculture ; opinions
are one's own, & those I may not be ready to retract ; the former
is possible, as the information of a traveller, notwithstanding all
his care, may be inaccurate, but I do not think it probable ; the
latter, I am well aware will not accord with the sentiments of
many of your countrymen ; but that I cannot help ; they may not
be less substantially founded on that account ; what will be most
disputed will be what I have said on the division of landed
property ; but I fully believe that the greatest evils will arise to
America from this minute division of property : it is a system
that never has been authorized by the Laws of any country ; &
were it practised in this would in a short time reduce us to bar-
barism & want. It is impracticable in any country, that wishes
to be well cultivated, to be commercial or manufacturing ; and
however beautiful in theory, it will be found in practice, that to
have property well cultivated it ought to be of sufficient extent
to command the attention of a man of capital. I have never seen
an instance of the possessions of Freeholders being as well
cultivated or as productive of commodities for the market, as
the occupations of the tenantry of equal extent, & they are
invariably worse cultivated in proportion as they are small :
because the capital employed in them is small, & the powers of the
capital decrease in greater proportion than the extent of the land
diminishes ; that is to say, double the capital will more effectually
cultivate double the quantity of land than half the capital will

1800] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 329

half the quantity. This equal division of land has been custom-
ary among the lower orders in some parts of France, & in
proof of the evils attending it, I beg leave to refer to you various
chapters, in the second part of the first Volume of Mr. Young's
Travels in France, the best work he ever wrote & the best work
of the kind ever published. . . .

I am ever your much obliged

Wm. Strickland.

R. King to William Smith.

London, Nov. 7, 1800.
Dear Sir :

Mr. Walmesby of the House of Mawhood, Walmesby & Co. of
London, called on me yesterday with a letter from Mr. Eaton (a
copy of which is annexed) to enquire whether I would advance
the Funds to enable them to execute Mr. Eaton's orders. The
articles are precisely the same as those contained in the list sent to
me through your hands. My answer was in the negative, accom-
panied with a recommendation to Mr. Walmesby to suspend at
least the execution of the order, which he undoubtedly will do.
The Tagan is in the hands of the workmen and will be mounted
in about two months ; I will either send it to you or directly to
Tunis as you shall prefer.

Eaton must not be allowed to enter into arrangements of this
sort. If these articles are supplied, they should be obtained and
paid for either here or at Paris ; contracts formed with Traders
frequenting the coast of Barbary will subject us to unnecessary
expenses, if they are even executed with fidelity. As there is no
regular course of exchange between Barbary & Europe, we should
be obliged to send money to the Consuls to enable them to per-
form their engagements : the obtaining the specie would be liable
to difficulties and disadvantages, and the sending of it attended
with some risque and a considerable expense. As Eaton's letter
. . is dated several months after his letter on the same
subject to me, I am apprehensive that we shall be obliged to pro-
cure the Jewels ; but being uncertain whether the ship Hero,
with the presents from America, had then arrived at Tunis, I
cannot deduce from his letter any conclusive inference, and must
therefore still wait for your advice.

330 RUFUS KING. [1800

As the Convention with France has been published, you have
by this time seen and considered it. Mr. Ellsworth, whose health
is precarious, being afraid of a winter's passage, was landed in
this country, where he will remain thro' the winter, unless his
complaint shd. oblige him to go to the South of France.

It will give you pleasure to know that this Government finds
nothing in the Convention with France, which in its opinion we
were not free to stipulate or that gives to England any ground of
complaint ; in an official conference with Ld. Glle. he gave me
this opinion which I have transmitted to our Govt. Mr. Ells-
worth has been at Court where he was received not only well, but
with distinction. Murray has resumed his station at the Hague.
The rest of the Mission excepting Mr. E, returned home in the
Frigate.

Yr. obt. faithful Servt.

Rufus King.

R. Troup to R. King.

New York, 9 Nov., 1800.
Dear Sir :

. . . The subject which now occupies the public mind and
excites much attention is a letter from General Hamilton to the
President,* which you find annexed to this letter. It seems Gen-
eral Hamilton did not intend, although he had a number of

*The Pamphlet was entitled a "Letter from Alexander Hamilton concerning
the public Conduct and Character of John Adams, Esq., President of the
United States." It was published on the 22d of October, 1800, and contained
a virulent attack upon him, personally as well as politically. Hamilton
claimed that it was printed not for general distribution, but for convenience in
sending it to his confidential friends. Mr. J. C. Hamilton, in his Life of A.
Hamilton, vol. vii., p. 407, in a note, says: "That a spy had been placed in
Hamilton's office is to be inferred from the early disclosure to Burr of the
printing of this paper, &c."

"Col. Burr ascertained the contents of this Pamphlet and that it was in press.
Its immediate publication he knew must distract the Federal party and thus
promote the Republican cause in those States where the election had not yet
taken place. Arrangements were accordingly made for a copy as soon as the
printing of it was completed, and when obtained John Swartout, Robert Swart-
out and Matthew L. Davis, by appointment, met Col. Burr at his own house.
The Pamphlet was read, and extracts were made for the press." — M. L. Davis,
Life of Aaron Burr, vol. ii, p. 65.

1800] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 33 1

copies printed, that the letter should come into general circulation
until after the election. His object was to have it circulated in
the mean time amongst his friends in order to give them a just
view of Mr. Adams' character. His printers, however, in all
probability played him a trick, and it happened that the Aurora
got a copy, and proceeded to publish extracts from it. This led
to the general circulation of it. When publication of the letter
was first announced to the General, he was arguing a cause at
Albany. At first he was apparently confused but soon afterwards
he recollected himself, and I think he appears pleased with it.
After reading the letter I expressed to him my apprehension that it
would in the present state of things do harm to him personally,
and to the federal cause generally. He replied that he had well
considered it and had no doubt it would be productive of good.
The letter has been read by all parties with prodigious avidity,
and the spread of it has been extensive.

The general impression at Albany among our friends was that
it would be injurious and they lamented the publication of it.
Upon my return home I find a much stronger disapprobation of
it expressed every where. In point of imprudence it is coupled
with the pamphlet formerly published by the General respecting
himself; and not a man in the whole circle of our friends but
condemns it. The impression it has made among our friends in
other states, I have not yet learned. Our enemies are universally
in triumph. I have little or no doubt the latter will lay the
foundation of a serious opposition to General Hamilton amongst
the federalists, and that his usefulness hereafter will be greatly
lessened. Noah Webster is open mouthed against him, and is
supposed to be the author of Aristides. . . .

My good friend, my heart really bleeds at the prospect before
us. In this state everything for the present is lost. Mr. Jay is
determined to retire and so universal is the dissatisfaction with
his administration that it has deterred every man of the federal
party, who has pretentions to office, from suffering himself to be
a candidate. The Lt. Governor (S. Van Rensselaer) has decidedly
refused to be a candidate. The consequence is that no federal
candidate will be supported — and from all appearances it is
probable that the old Governor Clinton will be again brought
forward.

332 RUFUS KING. [1800

After stating the general opinions relative to the probable
vote for President in several States, Mr. Troup says :

Upon the whole in my opinion the chances are considerably in
favor of Jefferson, and I believe little short of a miracle will
exclude him considering the manner in which we are distracted.

. . . The President lately passed through this for the seat of

government, but he made no stay with us. On the contrary he

appeared to travel with the expedition of an express. When here

he met with General Hamilton's letter, which had just begun to

circulate. . . .

Yours

R. T.

P. S. General Hamilton's letter appears to have been written
and put into print without advising with any of his friends here.

G. Cabot to R. King.

Nov. 13, 1800.
My dear Sir :

I hardly know how any kind of Treaty with France can be " a
subject of joy " ; it may be the seed of sorrow & if the war is
continued in Europe, as it ought to be, I expect a copious harvest;
we are on sufficiently ill terms with G. B. already & on such
with France as are best situated to our condition.

I send you the Centinel of this day which gives you a good idea
of the presidential election : the federal vote will prevail & I
think Adams be 1st & Pinckney 2d. . . .

Yours truly

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 89.

London, Nov. 22, 1800.
Dear Sir :

I have duly received your letters to No. 5 inclusive ; Soon after

the receipt of No. 2., which was not before the 6th instant, I sent

a note to Lord Grenville, informing him that I was ready, in

consequence of the answer that I had received to my Despatches,

transmitting to America what had passed between him and me

1800] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 333

concerning the 6th article, to resume our conferences upon that
subject. His Lordship appointed an early day for that purpose ;
but no meeting has yet taken place owing to his having been
wholly engaged in the Negotiation of Peace, begun by Austria, but
which, if we may credit the declaration of the Emperor, will not
proceed unless jointly with England. To this mode of treating
France has hitherto objected. The negotiation upon this subject
that took place before the meeting of Parliament is now published
and a copy of the correspondence is herewith transmitted.

Upon the arrival of Count Cobenzel at Paris, whither he was
invited by letters which met him on his way to Luneville, he
repeated the Declaration before made, that the Emperor would
not treat of Peace separately and without England, and a messen-
ger was dispatched by him to London for the purpose of announ-
cing this Declaration ; in answer to which it is understood that
England immediately signified her readiness to send Mr. Gren-
ville as minister on her part to Luneville. Some delay occurred
in the arrival of Count Cobenzel's second courier, who it is
thought brought the consent of France to the admission of the
English minister at Luneville, but upon certain conditions in the
nature of preliminaries between the two countries ; after several
days' deliberation the English Cabinet has returned an answer by
the same courier, the purport of which is entirely unknown. The
desire of England is to negotiate jointly, while France manifests
strong preference to separate negotiation. If the conjecture be
well founded, that a preliminary negotiation is going on by
couriers, the principal points may probably be settled beforehand,
and the business of the meeting at Luneville thereby freed from
the chief difficulties it would otherwise have to encounter.

Upon the probability of the conclusion of Peace, well-informed
persons continue to differ extremely in their opinions. Austria
will make Peace if she can make a good bargain, which, as in
former wars, she may probably be able to do ; England, I mean
the Government, desires to make peace with Buonaparte, and,
from the language made use of by the English Ministry one
would almost be led to think that she is now willing to counte-
nance and support the First Consul upon the very principles which
have induced her to oppose those who hitherto have been at the
head of affairs of France.

334 RUFUS KING. [1800

Not a moment shall be lost on my part in the endeavor to
concert a satisfactory arrangement respecting the 6th article of
the Treaty of Amity and Commerce ; but as the subject is of
inferior consideration, it will be obliged to give place to the busi-
ness, which at present engrosses the attention of the Cabinet.

I am particularly thankful to you, for the trouble you have
taken in looking over the correspondence respecting the subject
of your No. 5, as well as for the able consideration you have
bestowed upon it. As soon as I discover an opportunity that
promises an impartial consideration of the subject, I will again
bring it forward, tho' I am apprehensive that we shall obtain little
satisfaction so long as the war continues.

Whatever may have been* the temper or inclination of this Gov-
ernment in a different posture of its affairs and before the Conven-
tion with France was published, its sentiments in respect to that
Instrument and the distinguished manner in which Mr. Ellsworth
has been received by the Court has a tendency to shew that,
at present, it has no animosity nor unusual prejudice against us ; on
the contrary those who disseminate its opinions encourage the
people to bear their distresses arising from the dearness of Bread,
by holding forth to them the abundant harvest of America, and
the prospect of a great supply from thence.

At present there in an entire interruption of Diplomatic inter-
course between this country and Sweden. I will notwithstand-
ing devise some means of sending the answer you recommend to
the complaint of that Government.

Some short time before Col. Pickering went out of office, he

informed me that as soon as good Bills could be had, he would

send the annual remittances usually made to our Bankers in this

country . . .

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c.

Rufus King.

e. p. schoenbron to r. klng.

London, Nov. 23, 1800.
Monsieur :

S. E. Monsieur le Comte de Wedel Jarlsberg en faisant part

dans son terns a. sa Cour de la reponse que vous a donnee Votre

Gouvernement, Monsieur par rapport a l'intention de Roi, de

* Italics in cipher.

l8oo] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 335

nomraer un Consul qui dut resider dans les Etats-Unis de
l'Amerique, a, temoigne avoir remarque le desir du dit Gouverne-
ment, d' entrer avec le Danemark dans les relations plus directes
qu'il n'en a existe jusqu'a present. Les sentimens * etant egalement
ceux de Sa Majeste, Elle a resolu de ne pas se borner a la nomi-
nation d'un Consul, mais d'accrediter aupres des Etats-Unis un
Employe revetu d' un caractere Diplomatique. Elle a fait choix
pour ce poste du Sieur Bluher Olsen, jusqu'ici Son Consul a
Maroc, et celui-ci vient d'etre nomme Ministre Resident et Con-
sul General du Roi, pres le gouvernement Americain.

En m' acquittant des Ordres de ma Cour de vous faire part,
Monsieur, de cette nomination, j'ai a vous prier de vouloir bien
donner a connaitre a Votre Gouvernement, que le Roi se flatte, qu'il
la regarde comme une marque ouverte des dispositions amicales
de Sa Majeste, et qui' Elle espere que le Sieur Olsen sera accueille*
d'une maniere conforme a ces sentimens.

L' absence de Monsieur le Comte de Wedel Jarlsberg, ayant
fait tomber sur moi la presente notification, je m' empresse de
profiter de cette occasion de vous temoigner, Monsieur, le plus
vif interet, que je prens a la resolution du Roi mon maitre,
d'etablir ces nouvelles relations d'amitie entre les deux Etats, et de
vous assurer en meme terns de l'estime et de la plus haute con-
sideration avec lesquelles

J'ai l'honneur d'etre, &c. &c.

C. S. SCHOENBRON.

R. King to Secretary of War.

London, Nov. 24, 1800.
Dear Sir :

. . . I have taken measures, tho' considerable time will be

required, to procure another collection of maps for your office,

but with the utmost diligence I apprehend it will not be quite as

* R. King to His Excellency Count Wedel de Jarlsberg, Envoy

from Denmark.

London, Jan. 17, 1800.

Sir:

I have received, by the last mail from the U. S., an answer to my Dispatch
which inclosed the copy of your letter to me, intimating the Disposition of his
Danish Majesty, to appoint a Consul to reside in the U. S., and I am author-
ized to assure you that the Consul whom his D. M. shall send to the U. S. will
be readily received.

With the most distinguished Consn. &c. &c.

Rufus King.

336 RUFUS KING. [1800

copious as the collection in the possession of Col. McHenry, some
few of the maps being scarce and difficult to be met with.

I have the honour &c.

R. King.

Wm. Wilberforce to R. King.

Palace Yd., Nov. 24, 1800.

My dear Sir :

In conversing the other day with a friend concerning the abo-
lition of the Slave Trade, he said he would ask you & another
person to dine with him on Saty. next, & I promised to be of the
party. Under these circumstances it occurs to me that I ought
to remove any unpleasant feelings which might arise in your mind
from an Idea that I had mention'd to my friend some particulars
which recently took place in connection with the above interest-
ing subject. I recollected, & this consideration I own kept me
silent, that it was not my own secret & that it did not affect &
involve myself only but others, in whose case there was not in any
measure the same motive to prompt a disclosure (I mean the
fear of appearing to have kept from the knowledge of a friend
what ought to have been imparted to him & against whom the
Disclosure might have produced unpleasant & even in a degree
injurious Suspicions). If I were sure of being able within a day
or two to drive up to get a sight of you, I would wait to explain
more fully in person ; but I believe you will understand what I
have said, & it will prevent any uncomfortable sensations of the
kind I have mentioned. I trust nothing will prevent our meeting
on Saty., and I am with cordial esteem & regard, my dear sir,

yours very sincerely,

W. W.

Either before we meet on Saty., or on our first meetg., I will in
3 words state to you how I find matters are situated in relation to
the subject of my solicitude. They are not in so good a train as
I would wish.

1800] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 337

R. King to William Eaton, Esq.

London, Nov. 24, 1800.
Sir :

Soon after the receipt of your letter of the 6th of Oct., 1799,
which I did not receive before the 24th of May, I mentioned the
subject in a letter to the Secy, of State, in order that I might
learn the opinion of the Government, respecting the proposed
present of Jewels to the Bey of Tunis, and at the same time wrote
to Mr. Smith, our Minister at Lisbon, giving it as my opinion that
we should try to get rid of this and of every similar order, as
highly impolitic, if not unnecessary. I was surprised a few days
ago by Mr. Walmesby, of the house of Mawhood, Walmesby &
Co., calling upon me to shew me your Letter to Mr. Jno. Jackson,
their agent, desiring him to procure and send to Tunis the Jewels
and other articles enumerated in your letter to me. I not only
told Mr. Walmesby that I could not supply him with the money
to make the purchase, but desired that they would suspend, for
the present, sending the articles to you to be paid for, according
to your request at Tunis.

My reasons for this proceeding are, that the President is not
satisfied of the necessity, and strongly impressed with the im-
policy of the measure, and tho' he has authorised me to complete
it, if circumstances require it, I do not think it proper to do so,
until I am ascertained of the Effect of the Presents from America
which had not arrived at the date of your letter to me. The ob-
ject of this letter is then to ascertain whether we cannot avoid
making the present of Jewels. The sabre or Tagan, sent here to
be mounted, has been sometime in hand, and will be finished and
sent thro' the house of Mawhood, Walmesby & Co. in a few weeks.
No measures have yet been taken to procure the Jewels, as we
are in hopes that the value of the Presents already made, will
enable you to obtain a release from this pretended engagement.

We persuade ourselves that you have exerted, and will continue
to exert yourself, upon this particular subject, and tho' you can-
not be answerable for the imprudence, or looseness of engage-
ments made by other Persons, it will be a high proof of your
Talents, if you should be able to extricate us from Inconven-
iences proceeding from their misconceptions and errors.

As the enclosures of your letter were carried by Dr. Shaw from

VOL. III. — 22

338 RUFUS KING. [1800

Lisbon to Philadelphia, I know nothing more respecting their

Business than what is expressed in your letter to me. I wait for

your reply to decide whether we shall be obliged to furnish the

Present of Jewels or not.

With Great Respect &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 90.

London, 29 Nov., 1800.
Dear Sir :

The annexed note from the Secretary of the Danish Legation
announces the appointment of a Minister Resident by the King
of Denmark to the United States.

I think it proper to send with this communication copies of my
answer to it, as well as of the answer which by the President's
orders I gave to a former note stating the intention of Denmark
to appoint a Consular Agent to reside in the United States, in
order that you may be the better able to appreciate the motive
which is suggested to have induced his Danish Majesty to give a
diplomatic character to the person whom he at first thought of
sending to America merely as a Consul. I should add that no
conversation on my part has gone beyond the sentiments ex-
pressed in the correspondence between me and Count Wedel,
copies of which are in your possession.

You will * soon be able to ascertain whether the mission of the

Sieur Bluher Olsen has any relation to the views at present ascribed

to the Norther?i Powers in respect to the commercial rights of

maritime nations.

With perfect Respect & Esteem, &c. &c.

Mr. King to M. Schoenbron.

London, Nov. 29, 1800.
Sir:

I have had the honour to receive, and will immediately trans-
mit to my Government, the communication on the part of his
Danish Majesty which you have been pleased to make to me of

* Italics in cipher.

1800] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 339

the appointment of the Sieur Bluher Olsen as Minister Resident
and Consul General to the United States of America.

I entreat you to accept my respectful acknowledgements of the
obliging manner in which you have announced the Mission of the
Sieur Bluher Olsen, together with the assurance of the high con-
sideration and Esteem with which I have the honour &c. &c.

Rufus King.

W. WlLBERFORCE TO R. KlNG.

Palace Yd., Dec. 2, 1800.

My dear Sir :

I return you my thanks for your very obliging communication.
It is gratifying to me from the subject of it, and still more from
its being the friendly attention of one for whom I entertain a sin-
cere Esteem & Regard. I cannot help taking this opportunity
of expressing my sincere regret that my indifferent Health &
numerous occupations compel me in so great a degree to deny
myself the pleasure & advantages of social Intercourse, &
among those whose company I give up the most unwillingly, you
(excuse the freedom of the declaration) are included. I still hope,
howr. that I may have the pleasure of meeting you occasionally,
& shd. be especially glad to meet you out of London, when living
nominally in the same town might not imply being 2 miles
asunder.

I have had intentions of writing to you on the Subject of
American Vessels trading on the coast of Africa. All I meant
to say is not now in my mind, full of other matters. But I re-
raemr. one object I had in view was to ask you to be so kind as
to advise me (en ami & relying on my perfect secrecy) how we
had best proceed in order to prosecute the Owners or Masters of
such vessels as should break the law enacted for preventing the
carrying on of the Slave Trade by American Vessels. I under-
stand it is a common fraud to clear out for the Canaries or
Teneriff. Might it not answer the desired end if we were to
transmit from Sierra Leone the Names & Descriptions of the Ves-
sels, the. masters &c. to the Abolition Society in America, or is

340 RUFUS KING. [1800

there any Officer of the Govt, to whom it might be more proper
to apply. I hope Mrs. King & all your family are in good health.
I am, my dear Sir, yours very sincerely,

W. WlLBERFORCE.

Endorsed by R. King :

Ansd. 9 Deer, recommending the Abolition Society as the best
agents &c.

R. Troup to R. King.

New York, 4 Dec, 1800.
Dear Sir :

. . . This is the day appointed for the election of President
and Vice President. The calculations now are that Adams and
Pinckney will outrun Jefferson & Burr. Indeed the last named
gentleman is considered as standing no chance whatever of suc-
cess. . . . This opinion is based upon the votes of the States,
now known, and, that, in South Carolina, all our accounts agree
that the last election of members of the Legislature terminated
in the triumph of the federalists, and that the electors appointed
by them will of course be decidedly federal. General Pinckney
who wrote a letter to General Hamilton after the election, and
before the event was certainly known, puts much confidence in
the appointment of federal electors and says that they would vote
honorably according to the agreement in Philadelphia for Adams
and himself. It is this success in S. Carolina that determines the
event of the election. ... My own opinion is that Adams
will be President ; there are calculators, however, who think
Pinckney stands the best chance. General Hamilton makes no
secret of his opinion that Jefferson should be preferred to Adams„
. . . This letter (Hamilton's) continues to be disapproved of
here. I have not yet met with a dissenting voice here. General
Hamilton, however has received some consolatory letters from
gentlemen of distinction in other States. The letter has added
much to his unpopularity here, and I have reason to think it is
likewise the case to the Eastward. . . .

Mr. Jay has publickly declined being a candidate for the office
of Governor at the ensuing election in April next. When the
Legislature sat in the last month, for the appointment of electors,

1800] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 34 1

the democrats nominated the old Governor (Clinton) for the
office. This nomination is said to be one not agreeable to Burr,
who wished after the event of the general election was known, to
be in a situation to run himself as Governor. . . .

Numerous pamphlets have appeared under anonimous signa-
tures agt. Hamilton's letter. It is possible he may answer them.
The reception of his letter here has been a source of pain to

him. . . .

Yours,

R. T.

R. King to Mr. Netzel, Charge d'affaires of his Swedish

Majesty.

London, December 5, 1800.
Sir:

By reason of the casualty to which the distance of America
sometimes exposes the correspondence of its European agents, it
was a long time before the arrival of the Dispatch, enclosing to
my Government the Letters of the Baron of Silverhjelm to me of
the 9th of August, 1799, complaining of the conduct of two
private armed American Ships towards a Cutter of his Sweedish
Majesty.

The answer to this communication, which I have but just re-
ceived, instructs me to state to you for the information of his
Swedish Majesty that immediately upon the receipt of this com-
plaint, precise orders were given by the President of the United
States to inquire into the circumstances thereof ; and provided
they shall appear to be such as they have been represented, I am
authorized to assure you that ample damages will, if demanded,
be decreed by the American Tribunals against the commanders
of the said ships, and moreover that their conduct will be anim-
adverted upon in a manner corresponding to the nature of the
offence ; it being a fixed principle of the American Government
to maintain its claim to a friendly treatment of its own Flag &
People, by the respect and friendship it requires of them to
practice towards those of other Nations.

I await myself, &c. &c.

Rufus King.

CHAPTER XXV.

King to Secretary of State — England and Austria decline, France insists on
separate Peace — France hopes to effect Reconciliation with Russia —
Prussia cautions — Russia displeased with England — Malta surrendered
to the English — France would revive the armed Neutrality — Effect of
this on maritime States — King to Wolcott — Sufficient Arms manufactured
in the United States — To Secretary of State — England must have Grain —
Will take all United States can spare — Temper of England favorable to
Negotiations — Should first settle Matter of the 6th Article — Proposal to
pay a precise Sum — Calculation of how much — Should not exceed
^400,000 — J. Mc Henry to King — Retired from Department of War —
Jefferson and Burr President and Vice-President — King to G. Morris —
Peace more uncertain — Effort will be made to draw United States into
the War — Our Policy Neutrality — Pickering to King — Relative to his Son
— Result of the presidential Election — Jefferson incapable of removing
his Opponents from Office — If Treaty with France ratified Navy will be
hauled up — King to Eaton — Has, under the Secretary's Instructions,
ordered the Jewels — If any Payments in making Treaties hereafter, make
them as small as possible — Cabot to King — Speculations on Result of the
Election — Does not think there will be violent Changes in Office — All calm
— Less Exultation on one Side, much less Depression on the other — Hale
to King — Feds prefer Burr to Jefferson — Whichever chosen, Men of Pru-
dence do not expect the Evils predicted, if either elected — Peter Porcu-
pine's Writings serve to feed Jealousies between us and Great Britain —
Troup to King — Hamilton says if Burr is elected, he will withdraw from the
Party and public Concerns — He would ratify French Treaty — His Letter
shows he wants Discretion — The Future very uncertain.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 92.

London, Dec. 12, 1800.
Dear Sir :

Tho' Count Cobenzel was still at Luneville as late as the 4th

instant & Austria and England continue to decline separate

negotiations, & France persists in refusing a joint one ; it seems

that hostilities are about to be resumed, unless prevented by the
1800] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 343

rigour of the season, with the view of compelling the Emperor to
conclude a separate Peace. It is on many accounts the manifest
policy of France to negotiate with her enemies separately ; and
having, as is believed, effected a Reconcilation with Russia,
whose resentment against England has recently displayed itself
in the Embargo imposed upon upwards of two hundred English
ships, and the sequestration of more than three millions sterling
of English property, France will make great efforts to disembarrass
herself of Austria, in order that her whole force may be free to
act in concert, as she may hope, with the North of Europe
against England. Whether the Northern Powers will enter into
such a confederacy, as will give to France the advantages and
support she may expect, is uncertain, although their dissatisfac-
tion towards England is by no means doubtful.

The system of Prussia is that of extreme caution, and there is
reason to believe, notwithstanding the late measure of her send-
ing troops to occupy Cuxhaven, that she has given such answers
to the explanations demanded by England, as well in respect to
that measure as with regard to a Northern Confederacy and the
proceedings of Russia, as are satisfactory. Both Denmark &
Sweden, which desired to be backed by Russia in order to give
weight to the representations against the maritime pretensions of
England, are, it is understood, unwilling to go either so fast or so
far as their imperial neighbour seems disposed to do. During
the winter no fleet can enter the Baltic or the Euxine, a circum-
stance which affords an opportunity for explanations, which may
be sought for by the interference of Prussia. These endeavours
will be skillfully counteracted by the policy of France, which
has already done much to produce the extraordinary measures
of the Russian government. The first symptoms of displeasure
on the part of Russia against England are ascribed to the too
great moderation of the latter in supporting the complaints of
the former against Austria.

After the complete secession of the Russians, the First Consul
proposed at Vienna and afterwards at London, to exchange the
Russian prisoners against an equal number of French prisoners,
soldiers or seamen ; this was refused. The proposal could not
be unknown at Petersburgh, and at a proper time in the course
of the summer, and when it might have been foreseen in France

344 RUFUS KING. [1800

that Malta could not hold out much longer against the besiegers,
the French Government went a step farther, and to complete the
breach between Russia and the Allies, offered to deliver Malta
into the possession of the Emperor as its Grand Master, and to
release the Russian prisoners in order that they might be employed
to garrison the Island.

Measures are said to have been in great forwardness to give
effect to this Proposal, when Malta surrendered to the English
forces. The effect of the Disappointment has been essentially
such as was probably expected, and England has not only been
subjected to the indignity of the sequestration laid upon her
Property, and the imprisonment of four or five thousand of her
seamen, but may find it difficult with her utmost endeavours to
avoid a war with the Nations from which she draws the principal
means of maintaining her naval superiority.

France is too adroit to suffer the present occasion to pass
without endeavouring to revive the scheme of the Armed
Neutrality. The influence of Russia will be (made) use of to
engage the consent of Sweden and Denmark. Other Powers will
be invited to join the coalition, and measures may perhaps be
devised to restrict the commerce of such nations as shall refuse
to accede to it.

Against the success of the Project, in addition to the precarious
nature of all confederacies, we may reckon the possible defeat of
the French armies, should hostilities recommence ; the unwilling-
ness of Prussia to enter into the Confederacy, and her presumed
disposition even to defeat it ; the reluctance of Denmark, which
is here understood to have intended nothing beyond mere
demonstration ; and the unavoidable embarrassments of the
Confederates, arising from the sudden and almost total stagna-
tion of their Trade. Should however the winter pass away
without producing a Reconciliation, England must engage in a
war with Russia, which cannot fail to draw in Denmark and
Sweden, and which in its progress will involve the Porte in new
and critical embarrassments ; a war, whether we regard the
Nations engaged, the object of their disagreement, or the
advantages it may afford to maritime States, which refuse to take
a part in it, which must materially and extensively affect our
Navigation andj commerce, and which will call upon us deliber-

1800] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 345

ately to appreciate the wisdom of adhering to the policy which
has hitherto led us to avoid all political connections with
Europe, as well as impartially to estimate the uncertain value of
the object that may be held forth for the purpose of drawing us
into the Confederacy.

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c. &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Oliver Wolcott, Esq.

London, Dec. 12, 1800.
Dear Sir :

I have the honour to receive your letter of Oct. 6th and am
happy to learn that the manufacture of arms is now so well
established as to preclude the necessity of further importa-
tions. . . .

With greatest Respect & Esteem &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 93.

London, Dec. 13, 1800.
Dear Sir :

Parliament is still in session, and chiefly employed in devising
means to economize and encrease the food of the country, whose
embarrassments are encreased by the various impediments which
will materially diminish the supplies expected from the North of
Europe. America is the only country from which a considerable
and certain importation is looked for, and such is the deficiency
of corn, that all we can spare, and of every species, will find a high
and certain market.

I am not unmindful that the present is a favorable moment for
the discussion of the Questions of disagreement between us & this
Government ; and in one or two conferences with Lord Grenville
I have thought I perceived a temper which promises rather more
than I have of late been accustomed to expect ; but owing to his
constant engagement between the business of Parliament and the
Duties of his office, I have not yet been able to make any positive
progress in the negotiation. Having long believed that Govern-
ments which have distinctly expressed an opinion upon a contro-

346 RUFUS KING. [1800

verted point are rarely induced to change it by reasons which are
subsequently presented, I have preferred to begin with the proposal
to get rid of the 6th Article, instead of renewing the attempt to
explain and amend it. This has been done in a way that will not
prejudice our Demand of an explanatory Article, should we fail
to agree upon terms which will wholly supersede it. Having men-
tioned to Lord Grenville that I was authorised to consent to the
payment of a precise sum, in lieu of whatever might, pursuant to
the 6th Article, be awarded against the U. S., and he having con-
sented to discuss any proposition to that effect which I might offer,
I prepared and sent to him the annexed paper ; He has since
informed me that measures have been taken on his part with the
view to ascertain how far my estimates are correct, adding that as
soon as he is able to proceed, he will give me notice in order that
we may resume our conferences. In the mean time some other
points are brought forward and put in a train for discussion. But
I am bound to add that so little progress has yet been made, and
ail that has passed has been of so general a nature, that nothing
with certainty can be inferred in respect to the issue of the
negotiation.

With Perfect Respect & Esteem &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Lord Grenville.

It seems impracticable to ascertain with any degree of precision
the amount of debt due at any one time from American Debtors
to British Creditors, and every estimate must therefore be liable
to considerable uncertainty. As the Debt arose from the supply
of goods furnished by British Merchants, the List of British Ex-
ports seems to offer the best material for forming an Estimate.
So far as the American Merchants and Planters purchased their
goods in England with cash, which to a limited extent they are
understood to have done, the list of Exports will require correction,
as the value of the goods paid for before they were exported,
should be taken from the aggregate amount of the exports, in
order to ascertain the value of goods annually supplied on Credit.
It is reasonable to infer from a long series of annual credits a
correspondent series of annual payments ; but although the pay-
ments may be supposed to have nearly kept pace with and balanced

1800] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 347

the new Debt annually contracted, since otherwise the Trade would
have been discontinued, it is nevertheless probable that there was
at all times an average arrearage of old and doubtful Debts, upon
the Recovery of which there was little Reliance ; and against the
loss whereof, the Creditors indemnified themselves in the price at
which their goods were charged : It may however seem proper to
make some allowance on account of these doubtful Debts, in form-
ing an Estimate of the amount of the American Debt at the break-
ing out of the war. As it is wholly uncertain at what sum this
arrearage should be estimated, it seems to be a fair manner of
disposing of it, to place its uncertain amount against the equally
uncertain amount of the goods paid for by American Merchants
and Planters before their exportation, and which should be de-
ducted from the value of their Annual Exports, if the amount
thereof be taken as the amount of new Debt annually contracted.
Assuming then, which may be done, without much risk of Error,
the average amount of annual exports of Great Britain to the
United States for a certain number of years before the war, as the
best evidence of the amount of the Debt due from the American
Debtors to British Creditors when the war commenced, it remains
only to ascertain the average amount of the Exports in order to
fix the amount of the Debt.

Mr. Chalmers in his Estimate of the comparative strength of
Great Britain, states the average Exports of British Manufactur-
ers to the United States for 6 years ending with 1774 (the period

immediately preceding the war) at ^2,216,324

If this sum be increased by \ 443,264

(which is a large proportion on acct. of

goods not of British manufacture) the

result will stand at ^"2,659,588

Lord Sheffield states the average exports

of England to the United States for 10

years ending with 1770 at 1,763,409

If this sum be increased by adding \ of the

whole Exports of Scotland estimated

at ;£8oo,ooo 200,000

The result is 1,963,409

The average of the two estimates gives an

annual Export 2,311,498

348 RUFUS KING. [1800

A sum that probably approaches pretty near the true amount of
the American Debt at the period before mentioned.

If the condition of the Debtors, the influence of the war, and
above all the operation of the paper money be understood and
considered, it will be thought a moderate estimate that the British
Creditors suffered a loss of 50 per cent, upon the whole of their
Debt by the insolvency of their Debtors between the commence-
ment and conclusion of the war. To judge from the proportion
recovered by the Creditors in those parts of the United States, in
which it is not pretended that any legal impediments have stood in
their way, the loss by insolvency during the war would come nearer
to f than to \ of the original debt. Estimating it at one half, the
Debt on the return of Peace would be ,£1,155,749.

As in a majority of the States, including the large commercial
towns, the Creditors have experienced no material Difficulties in
collecting their Debts, it is reasonable to believe, that at least as
much as one half of the sum, which the Debtors were able to pay
at the close of the war has been recovered, this deduction would
leave £"577.874 of the sum due at the return of Peace ; which by
the addition of interest having nearly doubled itself may now
amount to the sum of £1.155.749.

The amount of the claims exhibited at Philadelphia will not
serve to invalidate the foregoing observations, when it is under-
stood, besides their general and acknowledged inaccuracy, some
of them presenting only the Debtor's side of the account & others
no account at all, that these claims include the Debts due from
Persons insolvent before the war as well as from those who be-
came so during its continuance ; so that without the trouble of a
particular examination, it will be found that they will rather cor-
roborate than weaken the preceding Estimate.

If it could be ascertained how much of this sum can be recov-
ered of the Debtors, the difference would shew the amount for
which the Creditors have a claim upon the United States.

Notwithstanding the complaints of the Creditors, it is certain
that such of them as have taken the requisite pains, have been
gradually recovering their Debts ; and it is probable that their
success would at this time have been much more complete, had
they not in many instances been seduced from the pursuit of
their Judicial Remedies by the expectation they believed them-

l8oo] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 349

selves authorized to entertain from the Proceedings of the Board
of Commissioners at Philadelphia. At present no legal impedi-
ments obstruct their suits, and from the general Prosperity of
every part of the United States during the last ten years there is
reason to conclude that the circumstances of British Debtors have
improved in common with those of their neighbours.

The Debt still outstanding is chiefly due in those States which
produce the principal staple articles of American Commerce, the
aggregate value of which articles exported from the five Southern
States from 1700 to 1770 exceeded according to Lord Schef-
field's tables by ten millions sterling the aggregate value of
the Goods imported into the United States from Great Britain
during the same period. Another circumstance in respect to the
ability of the Debtors deserves consideration. In most of the
States the British Debtors were American Merchants who resided
in the large towns and sold their goods on credit to the Traders
and Shopkeepers dispersed throughout the country. When the
Paper money had depreciated, the Country Traders and Shop-
keepers paid their Debts to the American Merchants, who having
no way to make Remittances to their British Creditors, lost by
farther Depreciation the Payments received from their Debtors
and the chief means of paying their own Debts. In some of the
States, including those from whence the largest portion of the re-
maining Debt is supposed to be due, it was the usual practice
that a partner or agent of the British House came with the goods
to America, where he retailed them on credit among the Planters
and being on the spot received his payments in the Productions
of the Country. On the breaking out of the war these Partners
and Agents returned to Great Britain, and thereby avoided the
payment of their Debts in a medium, which finally suffered a
ruinous Depreciation ; their Debtors were numerous, and in gen-
eral owed but moderate sums, and tho' sufferers in the course of
the war by the loss of Slaves and the dilapidation of their Estates,
their property was not diminished in an equal degree with that of
the American Merchants, who received in a depreciated paper,
the Debts upon which they depended to pay their British
Creditors.

The tendency of these Reflections is to prove, that in the present
unobstructed course of justice, the Creditors may be able with

350 RUFUS KING. [1800

the care and diligence which it is their duty to employ, to recover
a great proportion of their outstanding Debts ; if this proportion
should be equal, as it is believed it would be, to f ds of the whole,
the claim against the U. States would not exceed £400,000.

R. King.

London, Nov. 23d, 1800.

James McHenry to R. King.

Baltimore, 18th Deer., 1800.

Dear Sir :

. . You have long ere this known of my quitting the De-
partment of War. I now have the satisfaction of informing you
with sincerity, that the circumstances which preceded my retire-
ment, have given a double zest to my enjoyment of domestic ease
and comforts. Mr. Pickering was displaced, as you must have
heard, soon after myself, and Mr. Wolcott, the last shred in the
Washington administration, has notified his intention of retiring
at the close of this year, with the consent of the President.

Public men, you will observe, are changed and changing.
Whether there will be a total revolution in measures also, time
must discover. Mr. Jefferson & Burr have certainly been elected
by the electors, the one President the other Vice President. It
is also highly probable, that the government, must in a little time,
be exclusively in the hands of the opposition. Who is to blame
for all this ? The men who sincerely supported Mr. Adams or
Mr. Adams, who insincerely deserted his supporters ?

Your faithful and obliged hble. servt.

James McHenry.

Copy of a Memorandum in R. K's Handwriting.

19th Dec, 1800.

A. No person shall upon the high sea, be impressed or taken
against his will, out of any ship or vessel belonging to the inhabi-
tants of other nations by the men of war or privateers of the
other: and every offence against this stipulation shall be severely
punished

l8oo] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 35 1

B. Explanatory article respecting naval stores formerly agreed
to ; a Draught sent to Mr. Hammond in 1798.

C. His Majesty consents to relinquish all claims to the Bank
Stock which belonged to the colony of Maryland, now standing
in the name of the accounted general of the Court of Chancery ;
and measures shall without delay be taken to transfer the same
to the Agent of the State of Maryland.

New Orleans to be considered as an Amer. Port — Vice ady.
courts in W. Indies Orders &c.

N. B. Articles A, B & C delivered to Lord Grenville 19th
Dec, 1800.

R. King to Gouverneur Morris.

London, Dec. 20, 1800.
Dear Sir :

I am in your Debt for one or two letters which you had the
goodness to write to me in the course of the summer, and tho'
my acknowledgements have been so long delayed, I am still
unable to accompany them with any satisfactory conjecture even
respecting the conclusion of the war. Some months ago there
was an appearance of a general Peace ; instead of which new
embarrassments have arisen in the North which threaten to
involve Nations which have hitherto remained neuter, and Peace
is likely to become more uncertain, and the war more extensive
and difficult than ever.

Pains will still be taken to draw us in ; but our policy is so
connected with our interest, which I think is well understood,
that I am willing to believe that we shall adhere to the system
we have so discreetly adopted upon the subject of European
Connections. The two last years' profits of our Farmers are
arguments of no contemptible weight, and with all the supplies
which England will be able to procure, and her chief dependence
is upon America, such is the deficiency of corn that little or none
will be on hand at the commencement of the next harvest, and,
should it be even an abundant one, the country will require large
supplies during the next year.

With Sincere Esteem & Respect, &c.

Rufus King.

352 RUFUS KING. [1800

T. Pickering to R. King.

Easton, Deer. 27, 1800.

My dear Sir :

Your letters are dated April 22. (marked "private & personal")
July 25 and Sept 2d. Of the first I have reed, a duplicate ; and
as it relates wholly to a subject of great public concern, I think
I ought to transmit it to General Marshall, confidentially, for the
purpose for which you wrote it ; tho' I cannot but suppose that
you have made to him a similar communication, since you found
him in office.

The character you give of my son corresponds with the testi-
mony of others ; but your discernment stamps it with double
value. His profession will separate him from me ; for with a
mind stored with useful knowledge, with a sound judgment, great
industry, & probity, he will be qualified to act on a theatre less
private and obscure than that to which I am destined for the
remnant of my life. I shall regret the separation : but it is an
event in no wise singular : and for his interest I would cheerfully
make a greater sacrifice. — As to the time of his return to America.
I have left it to his own decision, upon your advice, which I know
will be given hkn with the truest regard to his advantage. I
wish he may have visited the continent the past autumn — if to be
visited at all — that he may be ready to return in the Spring with
Mr. Sitgreaves. In this event he will come directly to Pennsyl-
vania, and see the family, prior to his settling down at Salem, to
pursue the study of the law. When qualified for the bar, and
initiated in the practice, his success will determine his permanent
abode : I shall be pleased if he shall find it for his interests to
remain at Salem.

The issue of the great election is known ; Mr. Jefferson & Mr.
Burr are chosen for President and Vice President. It is said in
one of the newspapers that General Pinckney has written to Mr.
Jefferson, that So. Carolina gave 8 votes for him and 7 for Mr.
Burr. Their votes for them in the other states were equal, so far
as they have been published : for the votes of Kentucky and Tenn-
essee have not yet appeared ; tho' nobody can doubt of their
unanimity for J. & B. General Pinckney might have been chosen
— at least have stood on a par with Mr. Jefferson, if the federalists

1800] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 353

in the legislature of So. Carolina would have consented to have
placed Mr. J. on the ticket : but the latter considered themselves
pledged to vote for Mr. Adams & General Pinckney. But as it
was manifest that So. Carolina held the scales — that Mr. A. could
not possibly be elected — and that Mr. P. might be — the principle
of the federalists of the Union, to ensure a federal president
would have warranted a departure from an implied agreement
(explicit on the part of a few leading men) predicated on the
ground of their commanding the votes of that state.

Democratic principles seem to be evidently increasing : and
tho' Mr. J. is incapable of acting the part of the Governor of Penn-
sylvania, in removing from office all his opponents, yet when
vacancies happen, no doubt he will fill them with his friends ; and
the hopes of office will add to their number.

You will see that Mr. Wolcott has resigned ; the resignation to
take effect the last of this month. I know not who is contem-
plated for his successor. I hazard a conjecture that it may be
Mr. Dexter, to whom the treasury will be more congenial than
the War Office.

The treaty with the French Republic is before the Senate. We
have a copy published in the news-papers, taken, I believe, from
the French publication at Paris. If it be ratified, our little navy will
be hauled up. This will restore to me my second son ; and if he
incline (which I count on) to join me in the Woods, I shall prose-
cute my rural improvements with fresh spirit. He has a hardi-
hood well adapted to the undertaking.

There is a news-paper report that Judge Ellsworth is about to
resign : I should be gratified to see our friend Sitgreaves on the
Bench. If Judge Ellsworth contemplated a resignation, when at
Paris, I hope he may have mentioned it to Mr. S. & that he may
be authorized to recommend the latter to the P.

By a letter from Mr. Liston, dated at Norfolk the 10th instant,
it appears that he was to embark the next day for Antigua : and
he expects to arrive in London the next April. Great Britain
may not be in haste to appoint a successor. However, I earnestly
hope that nothing will occur to deprive the U. States of your
services at that court.

Faithfully yours

Timothy Pickering.

VOL. III. — 23

354 RUFUS KING. [1800

Geo. Cabot to R. King.

Dec. 28, 1800.

We are disappointed in the election at South Carolina notwith-
standing the indubitable assurance received from thence. There
is a remarkable calm here since the success of the Democratic
Electors has been known. Some of the Jacobins are afraid Mr. J.
will not administer the Govt, according to their wishes, others of
them think it was easy & pleasant to rail & find fault but difficult
to govern & vindicate ; they are unwilling to take responsibility
upon themselves or friends : others are afraid Burr will be Chief.
Violent Adamsites are chagrined to see an issue the fear of which
they treated as chimerical or artificially wrought up to serve
Pinckney : the Anti Adamsite Fedts see no greater evil in this
issue than one which their own measures might have produced
& some of Mr. Adams' friends doubtless are reconciled to this
as much better than the Election of Pinckney. If Jefferson or
Burr support the existing policy, the opposition will be broken,
& if they grossly violate it, we shall grow stronger. You will
rejoice to see that New England has behaved well in this business
& to learn from me that the disposition to maintain the National
Union & Govt, is cultivating with much zeal.

Wolcott leaves his office in excellent order — the public creditors
are safe against everything but total Revolution ; a little abuse
or mismanagement will be easily rectified by & by.

I am so much out of the world that it is not extraordinary if I
differ from those who live in it. You know my habits of think-
ing perfectly & therefore will not wonder that I am still for war.
Ames & I still adhere to the opinion that England must not yet
make peace & fully believe if she persevere she will triumph over
France. But now France is too strong for the safety of her
neighbors. She must therefore if possible be reduced & from
the nature & composition of her power she will be reduced if
England persevere, Jacobinism in France is dead & the stock
of force it yielded will be soon diminished so as to be con-
trouled.

Yours faithfully & affectionately.

i8oo] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 355

R. King to William Eaton, Esq.

London, Dec. 28, 1800.
Sir :

Since the date of my Letter of the 24. ultimo, I have received
yours of the 1st. of April. Though neither the Hero nor the
Anna Maria had then reached Tunis, and consequently you
could not determine what influence the delivery of the naval and
military stores might have in support of your exertions to get rid
of the present of Jewels, yet according to the tenor of the Sec-
retary of State's letter of the 17th of January last, I think you
were authorised to procure them ; and if your Letter, enclosing
a copy of the Secretary's Letter to you, had arrived as soon as
your letter to Mawhood & Co., I should have desired them to
execute your order, instead of requesting them to suspend it.
Though I do not relinquish the hope that you will be able to get
rid of a part, if not the whole of the present of Jewels, I have
determined to take immediate measures to procure all of them.
Some articles may soon be prepared and sent ; others will re-
quire a long time before they can be made ; if by your exertions
they are not required at Tunis, they will be ready when occasion
calls for them elsewhere. It may not be amiss to remark to you
that we should avoid, if possible, admitting Spain, the Proprietor
of Peru, as well as the ancient and inveterate Enemy of the Bar-
bary Powers, as the standard by which our Tribute is to be
measured. Our circumstances bear a greater resemblance to
those of Denmark & Sweden, and our Tribute ought not to ex-
ceed what is paid by them. Both these Powers complain heavily
that we have gone to work so full handed with the Barbary
Powers, and in our Ransoms, Presents & Tribute have been so
lavish as to have materially disturbed the economy with which
they had immemorially managed their affairs with those Regen-
cies ; and to confess the truth there is but too much reason in
this complaint. Would not your letters reach England expedi-
tiously thro' Malta ?

With great Respect &c

Rufus King.

356 KUFUS KING. [1800

G. Cabot to R. King.

December 28, 1800.

I wrote you a short letter this morning which goes to Cowes &
is accompanied by a half sheet of the Centinel containing the
best intelligence we have of the state of the Election. By that
you will see that Jefferson & Burr have a majority of 3 votes ;
the former will probably be chosen by the house if they are equal :
this at least is my opinion altho' many persons of good judgment
think otherwise.

I am unable to comprehend the consistency of Mr. Ellsworth's
6th article with the 25th of Mr. Jay's Treaty. There appears to
me an incompatibility, but I hear & see no remarks of this kind
abroad. It is taken for granted by many that the decided Fed-
eralists in high office will generally be dismissed & their places
filled by Democrats. I do not think there will be many violent
changes if any ; I only expect that whenever vacancies do happen
they will be then filled with our opponents. In the meantime
those of our friends who are in office will be a check on our foes
& will at least delay, perhaps avert great mischief. You know
my disposition to see things in a gloomy light, but I rather in-
dulge this disposition when evils are before us than after they
arrive. In the present case I am far from being satisfied that our
National affairs will essentially suffer. I think a President re-
putedly federal wou'd have injured us more by a defective
administration than one of an opposite name ; in the case of
wrong policy by a federal President the federal Party are of con-
sequence divided & broken, but under a President of an opposite
character they are consolidated & strengthened by his bad con-
duct. On the other hand if a Democratic President supports the
existing Systems he weakens the Democratic party. If the new
President attempts to tie us too closely to France, if wantonly or
unjustly he exposes us to an unnecessary & ruinous war with
England, if he disturbs public credit, he will reanimate & recom-
bine with fresh zeal the whole federal party against him & if he
forbears he will disappoint & divide his friends. We are all
calm here ; there is less exultation on one side & much less de-
pression on the other than you wou'd imagine if you did not see
the movements of men's hearts as well as listen to their words.

1800] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 357

I spare you the trouble of reading what is unnecessary for me to

write in explanation of these phenomena. There is here a Mr.

Dunn, an Irish Gentleman, who has been in this Country several

years — he brought a letter to me from Fitzsimons ; I have not

seen him very often ; his manners are singular but he possesses

much sense & information & has my promise of a letter to you.

It wou'd have been well for you if the world did not know the

friendship which subsists between us, or if it did not estimate my

claims upon you by the esteem, respect & regard which it is known

I entertain for you.

Yours truly,
G. C.

Joseph Hale to R. King.

Boston, 29 Dec, 1800.
Dear Sir :

. . . It seems you have been apprized of the feuds & ani-
mosities which have had their full scope with our prominent
federal men. The result you have probably anticipated to be the
triumph of antifederal candidates. Mr. Jefferson & Burr have
doubtless a majority of the electoral votes & probably each the
same number. It will therefore rest with the house to give the
precedency. It is fashionable with feds to declare in favor of
Mr. Burr. May their predilection be gratified ! tho' upon the
whole I do not think it probable. Men of the most judgment
with us do not expect those evils to follow the adminn. of Jeff,
or Burr, which while they were candidates it was thought politic
to predict. The experience of the past seven years has probably
corrected the wild notions heretofore imputed to them. Un-
happily indeed are we placed when our principal consolation is to
be derived from the very source of our misfortunes. The possible
prudence, sagacity & firmness of federalists ought to furnish us
with another source of comfort.

We are really in the dark upon the subject of European poli-
tics. The indications of peace & of war perplex our under-
standings. The internal distresses of England, we lament, not
only for the sake of Englishmen, but from their possible tendency
to procrastinate the return of peace to the European world & to
give to their enemy too great a preponderance. We feel an in-

358 RUFUS KING, [1800

terest in their welfare notwithstanding the insults & injuries we too
frequently experience in our very harbours. But yesterday a gen-
tleman from Newport informed me that a Halifax privateer had
been laying off & on the Island for several days with a supposed
intention of capturing two or three American vessels about to
sail from Newport. Notwithstanding the idle gasconade of Peter
Porcupine in his first London paper, the Halifax squadron with
the ten great ships would not, were we in actual hostility, be capa-
ble of thus insulting our coasts with impunity. If Peter could
permit himself to take a fair view of the subject he would find
that the conduct of the English marine towards Americans justi-
fies a greater degree of coolness, than we have yet manifested
towards that country. If he with all his vaunted sagacity & long
residence here were capable of appreciating the American char-
acter, he would find that Americans of all people are least influ-
enced by slavish motives to resent insult and injury. His writings
under the idle pretence of manly sentiment serve so directly to
kindle & to feed undue jealousies between our country & Gt.
Britain that had not I long considered him as one of the most in-
consistent of beings I should certainly conclude him to be a
hireling of Buonaparte.

Your friend & most obed. Servt.

J. H.

R. Troup to R. King.

New York, 31 Dec, 1800.
Dear Sir :

. . . Perhaps you will be still more astonished to hear that

a serious opinion is growing up among our friends at Washington

that Burr ought to be preferred to Jefferson in case both have the

same number of votes ; that is that the House of Representatives

ought to prefer Burr ! Dayton of New Jersey, and in the

Senate, is a warm advocate of this preference ; but he is not equal

in influence to other federalists who advocate it. I rather think,

however, that Jefferson will have more votes in the House of

Representatives than Burr. Our friend Hamilton declares that

if the federal party play so dangerous a game as to support Burr,

and he should succeed in consequence of it, he will withdraw

from the party and from all public concerns. Hence you may

1800] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 359

conclude that he is exerting all his might against Burr ; and this
is really the fact. . . .

Our late Convention with France has been published in our
papers from a London paper. It is popular with the great mass
of the community. The Senate now have it under consideration.
. . . The general opinion is that it will be ratified. Hamilton
is labouring to procure its ratification ; he has received a letter
from Mr. Ellsworth, with its enclosure ; but before the letter came,
he had decided that under all existing circumstances with us, it
would be the wisest course for the Senate to ratify. . . .

The current of public opinion still sets strongly against the dis-
cretion of Hamilton's late letter respecting the character and
conduct of Mr. Adams. I do not believe it has altered a single
vote in the late election, and yet letters from respectable federal-
ists in South Carolina assert that it accomplished the democratical
majority in the South Carolina Legislature. The influence how-
ever of this letter upon Hamilton's character is extremely unfor-
tunate. An opinion has grown out of it, which at present obtains
almost universally, that his character is radically deficient in discre-
tion, and therefore the federalists ask, what avail the most pre-
eminent talents — the most distinguished patriotism — without the
all important quality of discretion ? Hence he is considered as
an unfit head of the party — and we are in fact without a rallying
point. I have for some time past consoled myself with the idea
that Mr. Ellsworth would form a rallying point for us. This idea,
however, has vanished with his resignation of the office of Chief-
Justice. We fear he is lost to public life forever ! What destinies
await us must be left to that Supreme Governor who directs all
things according to his sovereign pleasure. . . .

Adieu

R. T.

CHAPTER XXVI.

McHenry to King— Jefferson or Burr equal Votes— Whichever chosen,
Changes in Conduct of the Government — Burr's Professions of Fidelity to
the Wishes and Expectation of the United States — Opposition in violent
State of Apprehension lest Jefferson be not chosen — King to Secretary of
State— The King's Title changed by adding "and Ireland" — Pickering to
King — Jay nominated as Chief Justice, but refused — Both Parties reprobate
the Convention with France — Election still doubtful — If Burr, fewer
Changes in Office ; If Jefferson, more — Speculations on the possible Result
— Lawranceto King — Convention with France — General Wish it should be
taken as it is — Changes may bring King Home, where he will be cordially
received — King to Secretary of State — France and Austria to treat sepa-
rately— Probable maritime War between England and the Rest of Europe
— This should favor speedy Adjustment of our Affairs with England — Asked
to discuss the Arrangements respecting the sixth Article with Mr. Anstey,
Lord Grenville pleading Press of Business — If Result satisfactory well, if
not will fall back upon an explanatory Article — Lord Grenville to King —
Explanation of Captain Bainbridge's entering Harbour of Constantinople,
with Algerine Flag flying — Objection made — Asked to be put under the
Protection of the English Minister — To take down Algerine Flag and sub-
stitute the American Pendant — Hale to King — Senate ratified the Conven-
tion with France with Modifications — Negotiations with France show a
Want of Firmness — Prefers Burr to Jefferson — Richard Peters to King —
The pending presidential Election — Turnbull to King — Offer of Services
of his Firm at Gibraltar to the Consul there.

The last chapter closes the year 1800 and ends with the
announcement of the defeat of Mr. Adams in the Presiden-
tial election and the certainty that Mr. King's old friends
were to lose the power to control the destinies of the coun-
try, whether Jefferson or Burr succeeded to the struggle.
The whole policy and the principles upon which the public
affairs had, except perhaps in the last years of Adams's ad-
ministration, been conducted were certainly to be changed,
if Jefferson or Burr were true to those they had advocated.
1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 361

Both of these had made vague professions, intending to win
for themselves the office they coveted and to give currency
to the belief that no great changes would be made either in
administration and in those who were holding public offices,
yet, as has been seen, these promises were distrusted by even
the most sanguine of their opponents.

Mr. King could not help feeling anxiety in reference to
the effect of the change in policy which might take place,
and to his own position as the representative of his country
in England, where he held a conspicuous and respected as
well as influential position, and where he had now a settled
home and an enviable social standing. Would he have the
confidence of those who were to direct his course in the
troubled affairs of European rivalry and war, as hitherto he
had been able to do among the most trying circumstances,
and with manifest advantage to the country, or would he be
removed from his field of usefulness by the appointment of
another as Minister, or he himself be continued in office,
yet hampered by instructions. He had for many years no
doubt that he enjoyed the friendship as well as support of
those in authority at home, and the consciousness that he
often counselled wisely in the conduct of affairs, and that
those with whom he had to deal abroad had learned to
respect his straightforward presentation of his case in mat-
ters under discussion, his firm yet courteous demands for his
country's rights, and his personal character and integrity.

The coalition of the Northern powers of Europe against
England threatening her commerce and the maritime rights
she claimed, the recent convention with France, with the un-
certainty whether it would be ratified at home, the effect it
might have upon England, as showing a partiality to her
enemy, and interfering not only with existing relations, but
with the negotiations which had been intrusted to him and
were progressing slowly indeed but still under way with
some prospect of success, and in which he had confidence
that results good for his country would follow his careful
management, and the possible removal from the field in

362 RUFUS KING. [180 1

which they were to be prosecuted, may well have caused him
anxiety and possibly a natural disappointment that his labors
should be lost, or that another should reap the credit for
what he justly felt was his due. Though he had no doubts
of what might be his duty, he had of the policy that, if
retained abroad, he might be called upon to advocate, judg-
ing from the antecedents of those who were certainly coming
into power.

J. McHenry to R. King.

2 January, 1801.

It is now officially ascertained that Mess. Jefferson & Burr have
each 73 votes for President & Vice-President. Mr. Adams 65 &
Genl. Pinckney 64, consequently that the House of Representa-
tives must decide between Mr. Jefferson & Mr. Burr.

Seneca, or somebody for him, observes : " Whatever happens,
think that it ought to happen, and cast no reproach upon nature."
I cast no reproach upon nature ; but I sincerely wish Mr. Adams
had taken the advice of his best friends, who counselled against
sending the last mission to France, and had not made incurable
inroads on the federal party, by taking a course which has lost to
him the Presidency, and led to his utter debasement. Where is
all this to end ? If the House of Representatives should choose
Mr. Jefferson we undoubtedly have to apprehend a change in
some most essential points of our Government, and great national
interests. If Mr. Burr succeeds, we may flatter ourselves that he
will not suffer the Executive power to be frittered into insignifi-
cance ; but can we promise ourselves, that he will not continue
to seek and depend upon his own party, for support ? These are
problems we must leave to time to solve.

Genl. Saml. Smith, who is extremely anxious for the election of
Mr. Jefferson, has drawn a letter from Mr. Burr, dated the 16 Deer,
from which he has published the following extract, on the 27
Deer. ulto. : " It is highly improbable that I shall have an equal
number of votes with Mr. Jefferson ; but if such should be the
result, every man who knows me ought to know, that I would ut-
terly disclaim all competition. Be assured that the federal party

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 363

can entertain no wish for such an exchange. As to my friends,
they would dishonour my views and insult my feelings, by a sus-
picion that I would submit to be instrumental in counteracting
the wishes and expectation of the United States, and I now con-
stitute you my proxy to declare these sentiments if the occasion
shall require."

Some of our Federalists who have been here on a Christmas
visit, seemed determined to run Burr notwithstanding this letter.
They do not consider that in it he has committed himself, not to
accept of the office of President, if elected by the House of Repre-
sentatives. They think they understand Burr, and that he will
not be very angry at being aided by the Federalists, to outwit the
Jeffersonians. The fact is, the opposition are in the most violent
state of apprehension lest Mr. Jefferson should not be chosen.
The calculation at the Seat of Government now is : N. Hamp-
shire, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut, Delaware, South
Carolina in favor of Burr, Vermont & Maryland divided. This
leaves but 8 States to vote for Jefferson and the probability is that
N. Jersey will be for Burr. If so it makes seven for Burr & seven
for Jefferson and two divided.

Understand that the democrats in Congress are in a rage for
having acted with good faith, that they swear they will never do
jt again and mutually criminate each other for having done so
now ; each declaring if they had not had full confidence in the
Treachery of the others they would have been Treacherous them-
selves, and not acted as they promised to act at Philadelphia last
winter viz : to give equal votes for Jefferson and Burr.

Rhode Island it is understood gave Mr. Adams four votes and
Genl. Pinckney but three votes. I lament this defection & the
more so because the Electors were all federalists.

The federalists in the other States kept good faith. Genl.
Pinckney acted nobly. He could have secured the 8 votes of S.
Carolina for himself but because he could not obtain as many for
Mr. Adams they were refused.

The convention lately entered into with France is before the
Senate. Is it liked ? No. As to it's fate ; some think it will
be rejected ; others that it will be accepted with modifications
and exceptions ; no one that it will be ratified as it is.

Mr. Dexter was nominated on the 30th ulto. Secretary of the

364 RUFUS KING. [180 1

Treasury in the Room of Oliver Wolcott Esqr. resigned. I do
not learn who is to be Secretary of War, in the room of Mr.
Dexter ; and I am at a loss to comprehend the motive which may
have induced the President to make this nomination, or those
which can weigh with Mr. Dexter to change his Situation for two
months.

Your faithful & obliged Humble Servt.

James McHenry.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 96.

London, Jany. 3, 1801.
Dear Sir :

The annexed Paper is the copy of a Note which I have received

from Lord Grenville, announcing the alteration of the King's Style

and Title in consequence of the Union of the Kingdoms of Great

Britain and Ireland.

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c.

Rufus King.

Lord Grenville to Rufus King, Esq.

The undersigned principal Secretary of State for foreign Affairs
has received the King's commands to inform Mr. King that his
Majesty has thought proper in consequence of the Union of this
Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, to make an alteration in
His Majesty's Stile and Title, and that henceforth the Stile and
Title appertaining to the Imperial Crown of Great Britain and
Ireland will be expressed in the Latin language by the words

" Georgius Tertius Dei gratia Britanniarum Rex, Fidei De-
fensor," &c. &c. &c.
and in the English language by the words

" George the Third by the grace of God of the United King-
" doms of Great Britain and Ireland King, Defender of the Faith,"
&c. &c. &c.

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 365

The undersigned requests Mr. King to communicate this altera-
tion to his Government in order that the Ministers of the United
States may be apprized of the form in which all letters to the King
are hereafter to be addressed.

The undersigned requests Mr. King to accept the assurances of
his high consideration.

(Signed) Grenville.

Downing Street, January I, 1801.

R. King to the Rt. Hon. Lord Grenville.

Great Cumberland Place, January 5, 1801.

The undersigned, Minister Plenipotentiary, has the honour to
acknowledge the receipt of Lord Grenville's Note of the 1st in-
stant, announcing the alteration in the Style and Title of his
Britannic Majesty in consequence of the Union of the Kingdoms
of Great Britain and Ireland, and agreeably to his Lordship's re-
quest has transmitted a copy of the Note to his Government.

The undersigned requests Lord Grenville to accept the assur-
ance of his high consideration.

Rufus King.

T. Pickering to R. King.

Philadelphia, Jany. 5, 1801.
Dear Sir :

Letters received here on Saturday (the 3d) from the City of
Washington, mention the nomination of Mr. Dexter to be
secretary of the Treasury. — The President has nominated Mr.
Jay to be Chief Justice in the room of Judge Ellsworth. The
Senate of course ratified the nomination ; but the P. as well as
every body else must know that Mr. Jay will not accept the office.
He formally announced to the Legislature of New York his
determination to retire from public life, on account of his ad-
vanced age and infirmities. Under such circumstances, nobody
but Mr. A. would have made the nomination without consulting
Mr. Jay. Until I came to Philadelphia I was uncertain whether

366 RUFUS KING. [1801

Mr. Ellsworth was in Europe, or had come home with Governor
Davie. I find he went from France to England. You will learn
from him the motives which induced him and his colleagues to
make such a convention with France ; it is reprobated by both
parties, and if ratified, it will be with exceptions ; and a con-
ditional ratification will put it in the power of France to abandon
the whole ; and after all the delay and expence of the negotiation,
(to say nothing of the infinite mischief resulting from the mission
in the U. S.) we shall be left exposed to all the evils which the
envoys hoped to avoid, by finishing it before a general peace took
place in Europe. — Thus the issue of this negotiation appears to be
as unfortunate as its instigation was unwise.

It is now ascertaified, that Mr. Jefferson and Mr. Burr have an
equal number of votes each, 73 ; and the devoted friends of the
former are alarmed lest the federalists should prefer the latter ; or
by an equal division of the states in the house of representatives,
prevent any choice. This would place the Executive Power in
the hands of the President of the Senate for one year, and give the
federalists a new chance to elect a federal President. From all
that I hear, I am rather inclined to think Mr. Burr will be pre-
ferred. Fewer changes in office will then be necessary. General
Marshall may then remain in the department of state ; but if Mr.
Jefferson be chosen, Mr. Marshall will retire. Mr. Dexter, I
think, will remain in office, whoever may be President : Some
men possess a happy temper of accommodation. I conjecture
that General Wilkinson will be appointed Secretary of War, and
General Samuel Smith of Baltimore Secretary of the Navy.
Smith & Burr are now in this city — doubtless by concert. — There
are said to be many ingenious reasons why the federalists at Wash-
ington are inclined to prefer Mr. Burr. I am not informed of
them ; but besides the one above intimated, they probably suppose
that the federal interests will not be so syste?natically opposed
under Mr. B. as under Mr. J. Perhaps this may be previously
understood. In case of a war with any European power, there can
be no doubt which of the two would conduct it with most ability
and energy.

The President, I am told, is in a state of deep dejection ;
His feelings are not to be envied. To his unadvised (to use a
mild term) measures are traced the evils with which the whole of

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 367

our country is now perplexed & depressed. And many discern-
ing federalists, at least doubted, which was most to be deprecated,
— his re-election, or Mr. Jefferson's elevation to the Presidency.

As. Mr. Jay will certainly refuse the Chief Justiceship, I
presume Judge Patterson will be appointed ; and his vacancy, I
am disposed to think, will be filled either from N. York or Penn-
sylvania. If from the former, perhaps by Judge Lawrance.

I am very sincerely yours,

Timothy Pickering.

J. Lawrance to R. King.

New York, Jany. 12, 1801.
My dear Sir :

Our political affairs have undergone a change. It is very well
ascertained that Mr. Jefferson and Mr. Burr, have an equal
Number of votes, and both a Majority, a case contemplated by
the Constitution ; but it is yet uncertain who will be elected by
the House of Representatives voting by States, if either will be.
Some Persons conjecture we shall be left without a President ;
the Constitution, in case a Majority is not obtained, not being
provisional — an Event much to be regretted, if it should occur-
but I hope it will not, and of the two Persons Mr. Jefferson may
be chosen. Our latest intelligence from the City of Washington,
makes it very problematical, whether the Convention with France
will be ratified, except conditionally, and with a clause limiting
its duration. The policy of this measure is by some of our sensi-
ble Men much questioned. The general wish, I believe, here is,
that it should be taken as it is, however I am induced to believe,
from what I have heard, that it will not be. What change in
sentiment, the late Intelligence from Europe may occasion at
Washington, or whether it will occasion any, is now only Con-
jecture ; but it may, probably, render a decision on it, rather
more delicate than it was — I hope all will go well, although I fear
our tranquillity may be hazarded.

The Scarcity of Grain in England has had an Effect on our
Prices here. Our Agricultural Interest will feel the benefit of it,
and I hope will improve the Circumstance more to their benefit,

368 RUFUS KING. [1801

than was done some years since, when the Prices were rather
higher.

It is not improbable our political changes may bring you home
again. I know not whether they will, but should that be the
Case, you will have here a very cordial reception from your
Friends. I rank myself as one of the number, and I should be
sorry to take my Departure from hence, without again having the
pleasure of seeing you.

Yours very sincerely,

John Lawrance.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 97.

London, Jany. 15, 1801.
Dear Sir :

It was pretty generally believed to be probable the superiority,
and farther successes of the French arms have obliged the
Emperor to demand a new armistice, which has been granted
upon his engagement to treat separately for the conclusion of
Peace with France. Accordingly by a recent message of the First
Consul to the Legislative Body, the terms of Peace will not be
rendered more burthensome upon Austria, than would have been
executed before the last resumption of Hostilities.

As France gives the Law to her enemy, the war of the conti-
nent seems about to be closed, and according to every appear-
ance will be followed by a maritime war between England single
handed on one side, for Turkey and Portugal cannot be of much
importance on whatever side they may be engaged, against the
rest of Europe on the other. It is hoped that Prussia will not join
the Confederacy, which has at length been concluded between
Denmark, Sweden, & Russia. England is resolved to resist with
all her means the Pretensions of the Confederates ; and so far as
it is yet practicable to discover the public sentiment upon the
Question, the Government will receive all the support it can
expect from every Quarter of the Nation. An order of Council
was yesterday passed, laying an embargo upon all Russian, Swed-

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 369

ish, and Danish vessels in the Ports of Great Britain and Ireland,
and war with these powers appears unavoidable ; perhaps the die
is already cast.

This intelligence, Sir, is the fruitful source of important reflec-
tions with regard to the real interest and true policy of the United
States. It is fortunate that our disagreement with France is
settled ; and not only the justice of our demands but the present
posture of Europe ought to have their proper influence in favour
of a speedy and satisfactory adjustment of our affairs with this
Country ; but that this result may be expected is more than I can
engage, tho' I do not yet perceive that it is to be despaired of.

With perfect Respect & Esteem, &c,

Rufus King.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 98.

London, Jany. 17, 1801.
Dear Sir :

I wish I could send you a more satisfactory account of the
Negotiation with this Government with which I am charged ;
some time ago Lord Grenville informed me that on account of his
numerous and pressing engagements, he should be obliged to
employ some Person to discuss with me the arrangement respect-
ing the 6th article which I had proposed, and after mentioning
Mr. Anstey, one of the Commissioners under the 7th article, asked
me if I had any objection to confer with him ; adding that
although it had occurred to him that any definite article might
better be concluded between himself and me, if I had any scruple
in holding the preliminary discussions with Mr. Anstey, he would
give him a commission not only to treat, but to sign. As I pre-
ferred that the final descision of the business should remain with
Lord Grenville, I signified my acquiescence in the course he had
suggested, and several papers have been exchanged between Mr.
Anstey and me ; though I cannot yet determine what may be the
issue of our discussions, I think I shall be able in a short time to
ascertain the expectations of this government. Shd. a satisfactory
conclusion become unattainable in the course in which we are

VOL. III. — 24

370 RUFUS KING. [r8oi

now engaged, it will be my duty to terminate the conference
upon the proposition I have made, and insist upon the justness
and propriety of the explanatory articles we have before demanded.
In consequence of late letters from Tunis, I shall cause the
whole of the articles contained in the List of Presents to that
Regency to be prepared and sent to the Consul Mr. Eaton.
Funds must be remitted for this Purpose ; to guard against
accidents, I shall order the goods to be insured. The annexed
Note of Lord Grenville requires no commentary.

With perfect Respect & Esteem,

Rufus King.

Downing Street, Jany. u, 1801.

Lord Grenville presents his compliments to Mr. King ; and has
the honour to send him inclosed the extract of a dispatch which
he has received from his excellency, the Earl of Elgin, his
Majesty's embassador at Constantinople.

Extract of dispatch from his Excellency the Earl of Elgin to
Lord Grenville, dated Constantinople, November 29, 1800 :

" A few days ago a Frigate anchored in this Harbour under
American colours, and having at her main the Algerine Flag.
She proved to be ' The George Washington ' American Frigate,
commanded by Capt. Bainbridge, and having on board the
Ambassador and Presents from the Dey of Algiers.

" Nothing material passed on the arrival of the ship, although
the appearance of the first American Vessel that had ever been
seen on these seas, and the neglect of Captain Bainbridge to at-
tend to the ceremonial observ'd by all foreign Powers in entering
the Dardanelles has created a good deal of surmise ; when how-
ever this came to the knowledge of the Captain, he called upon
me, and having explained the accidental circumstances that had
led to this voyage, he stated that he was both unapprized of
the necessity of his having the protection of a foreign Resident
Minister at the Porte, and unprepared to apply in a proper way
to any one here ; but from his belief that the United States were
in perfect amity with Great Britain, and from his hearty desire
that it might be so, he begged leave to put himself under the
protection of the King's Embassador.

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 37 1

" Your Lordship will recollect the conversations which I was
authorized to hold with Mr. Rufus King previous to my leaving
England, and the recommendation I received from him with your
knowledge in favour of the interests of America with Turkey. . . .
I further have been informed by his Majesty's Consul at Algiers
that this Frigate has come here in some degree to accommodate
Lord Keith. Under these circumstances I shall not hesitate to
accept Captain Bainbridge's proposal. In the meanwhile Capitan
Pasha charged Mr. with requesting Captain Bainbridge

in my name to take down the Algerine Flag. The Captain was
called to a meeting when he readily complied with his demand,
and obtained very civilly the permission to substitute the American
Pendant."

Richard Peters to R. King.

Writing to Rufus King about the capture of some of
Stephen Girard's vessels * and his claim to protection as
one domiciliated in the United States, etc., Mr. Peters says
about public affairs:

Philadelphia, Jany. 18, 1801.

You will have better information than I can give you relative
to the state of Parties and Politics here. I know enough to dis-
gust me and I do not wish to transfer any of my Desagremens
over the Atlantic. 'Tis heavy with us poor Feds. We may rise
like Antaeus after touching the Earth. We are now in the Dirt,
if that is a step to rising. Whether Mr. Jefferson or Mr. Burr
will be the President, no mortal can now tell. The Federalists in
Congress incline to the latter. Why, I cannot tell unless it be on
the principle of the man who had to choose a wife, either one or
the other, of a tall or short woman ; and he took the short one
on the old adage, of two evils choose the least. The Federal
members voting in States, have not strength to choose, tho' they
may prevent a choice. But I cannot believe they will take the
responsibility of leaving the Government without an Executive.

I am with very sincere esteem &c.

Richard Peters.

* See R. K.'s letter to Lord Hawkesbury, March 6, p. 397.

372 RUFUS KING. [1801

J. Hale to R. King.

Boston, 21 Jany. 1801.
Dear Sir :

By a line from Mason last mail I am informed that our Senate
have rejected the second & third articles of the French treaty by
a majority of sixteen to eleven ; that they have unanimously
determined to have a clause inserted which shall prevent any
possibility of interference with the British treaty ; & that it will
be limited in its duration to ten years or two years after the war ;
& that with these alterations it will be ratified.

It thus seems to be the sense of the Senate to abandon all
claims for indemnity and also to preseverein the abandonment of
former treaties without aiming at any after negotiations upon these
subjects, and to consent to this famous treaty as a mere com-
mercial arrangement for the sake of peace with the wonderful
French nation.

It has been suggested that the conduct & feelings of some
gentlemen lately in France bear a little analogy to those of Mr.
Gerry when there. A strange quality indeed there must be in
the air of Paris to un-tone the nervous system. By a strange
fatality, our negotiations there have at all times shown the least
firmness where a man with the true feelings of a man would have
at least affected the most. The battle of Marengo instead of
obviously lowering ought to have seemingly elevated the crests
of our Envoys. Every day tells me not to be too lavish in my
respect for many men viewed as most respectable ; especially
our old seventy-five men grow out of fashion with me. Most of
these have too much exclusive knowledge & yet very few indeed
of them know how to profit of their many years' experience.

Whether Jefferson or Burr will be our next President depends
upon the suffrages of our House of Representatives. I am
inclined to think B's chance about equal to the other. He has
my voice because I consider his opposition hitherto to have
arisen from ambitious motives. His talents & information pre-
clude the possibility of his being considered as honest in his
politics as Mr. Jefferson.

Your friend & most obed. servt.

J. Hale.

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 373

Mr. J. Turnbull, of the house of J. Turnbull & Co. at
Gibraltar, wrote on January 17th to Mr. King, offering their
services in case of the absence or indisposition of the American
Consul, Mr. Gravino, to citizens of the United States who
might need them, Mr. Gravino himself being satisfied that
this would be personally agreeable to him. To this Mr.
King answered in a letter addressed to J. Turnbull & Co.,
acknowledging " this proof of the friendly and obliging dis-
position . . . of a house so long established and exten-
sively known and respected throughout the Mediterranean,"
and requesting their good offices in favor of such of his
countrymen as might ask for them. Writing afterwards, on
March 23d, Messrs. Turnbull & Co., expressing their thanks
to Mr. King for his good opinion of them, say:

" The American Trade to this quarter, within these few years
last past has increased most surprisingly, and the importations and
the number of vessels that weekly arrive and call in on the pas-
sage to and from the Mediterranean are very considerable. It
will give us, you may depend, the utmost pleasure to be useful to
them."

CHAPTER XXVII.

King to Secretary of State — England notifies Members of the Northern Con-
federacy that she would use all her Resources in Defence of her Rights —
If Prussia joins she is cut off from the Continent — Public Opinion disturbed
in England — Present Moment favorable for a satisfactory Settlement of
United States Affairs — Difficulties, Indecision and Delay by Ministers —
Urges Reforms in Admiralty Courts, and Settlement of Questions under
6th Article — W. Wilberforce to King — Confidence in him — King to Pick-
ering— England excluded from the Continent — America will adhere to her
old Maxims — Cabot to King — Federalists prefer Burr — Hope that King
will not come Home — Northern Coalition unfavorable to Neutrals — King
to Bainbridge, relative to the Misunderstanding at Constantinople — King
to Stoddard — Same Subject — Bainbridge to King — Report of the Case —
King to Truxton — Lloyd's Gift of Plate to him — King to Troup — News of
Jefferson's Election — Hopes for the Best — Northern Confederation — King
to Secretary of State — Tenor of the Northern Confederacy not exactly
known — Effect on Hanover — League a hostile Aggression to be resisted
with Force by England — Conference with Lord Grenville — If Blockade of
the Baltic, the United States would claim to enjoy her Rights of Trade —
Lord Grenville said a Relaxation with Reference to the United States
might be agreed to — Interruption of Trade through New Orleans — Change
in English Ministry — Pitt and Colleagues have resigned on Question of the
Emancipation of the Catholics — Duke of Portland First Lord of the Treas-
ury— Thought a Proposal will be made to France to treat for Peace — Dis-
agreement among Northern Confederacy — Russia's Intrigues — King to
Lord Grenville — Regrets his Resignation, both on public and private
Grounds — Had hoped to settle with him the Questions under Discussion
between the Governments — Lord Grenville to R. King.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 99.

London, Jan'y 22, 1801.
Dear Sir :

In the late conferences which the Envoys of Denmark and

Sweden have held with Lord Grenville relative to the Northern

Confederacy, he informed them, that after giving to the subject

that deliberate and full examination which its importance
l8oi] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 375

required, England could not avoid considering the measure as
an aggression upon those Maritime Rights which she had im-
memorially claimed, which have been acknowledged by all
Europe, and which she could not relinquish without at the same
time giving up the use of those means upon which her security as
a Nation chiefly depended ; that she had therefore resolved to
call forth the whole Resources of her People in the defence of
Rights which belonged to her by indisputable Title and were
moreover essential to her safety and independence.

As there is little probability that what has been concluded will
be altered, it daily appears more certain that war is unavoidable
between this Country and the three Northern Powers. It is said
that Prussia has acceded to the League upon certain conditions ;
not being a maritime Power she is to employ arguments instead
of arms in support of it. A Peace with France is necessary to the
existence of the Austrian Monarchy. All Italy must receive the
Law, and Portugal will no longer be able to refuse it. Should
Prussia be considered as having entered into the Confederacy,
England will be shut out of every Part of Europe from the ex-
treme North to the Territory of the Turk in the South. Our
Merchants from the spirit of enterprise with which they prosecute
their commerce will be likely to send their ships to the Baltic in
greater numbers than formerly. But I am not sure that this
Country, which is understood to have on hand of the various sorts
of naval Stores procured from the North sufficient for two years'
consumption, may not institute a Blockade at the entrance of the
Baltic Sea, in which case all trade in that quarter will be cut off.
This is mere conjecture ; but, after what we have heretofore wit-
nessed, it is by no means improbable.

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. ioo.

London, Jan'y 23, 1801.
Dear Sir :

The situation of this Country is replete with Difficulties in
which the Merchants and Underwriters are deeply affected by the
embarrassments and losses proceeding from the interruption of

376 KUFUS KING. [180 1

Trade, and fearful to engage in new adventures to any part of
Europe, some of the Manufacturers are beginning to complain,
and the whole of that influential body may be expected to follow
the example of those of Leeds, should the present difficulties,
according to every appearance, increase and extend themselves.
The Funds continue falling, and the public opinion is manifestly
disturbed and unstable.

The United Parliament has just met, and it will be attempted,
without doubt, to hold forth such sentiments as shall be calculated
to rouse the national courage and dispel those apprehensions
which are so contagious, and at the same time so dangerous in
populous countries.

I have not been unmindful that the moment is favorable to
a fair and satisfactory Settlement of our affairs, and by all the
means in my power have endeavoured to hasten it. But those
who have had an opportunity of studying the character of this
Government must know that one of its greatest vices is indecision
and delay ; measures are therefore often postponed to the last
hour and then decided upon the casual impression of the mo-
ment. Whether my discussions with Mr. Anstey will attain a satis-
factory termination is still uncertain : the business has nearly
reached the stage, at which this point must be decided, and I shall
lose no time in communicating the result.

In repeated conferences and notes I have urged the necessity of
a reform in the Vice-admiralty Courts of the West Indies, as the
best means of putting a stop to the depredations upon our com-
merce. This measure has at length been decided upon, and
orders were yesterday despatched to the West Indies, suppressing
all the Vice-admiralty Courts, except two, one at Jamaica, another
in the Windward Islands. It is proposed to establish permanent
salaries for these two courts, and to appoint men of learning and
ability to preside in them. Captain Pellew of the Cleopatra, who
has vexed our trade upon our own coast during the summer, has
upon my request been recalled and neither he nor Captain
Cochran will hereafter be employed on that Station.

Some weeks ago I delivered to Lord Grenville a Draught of
three articles to be concluded at the same time with the arrange-
ment respecting the 6th article ; the first defining with greater
precision the articles of naval Stores ; the second, mutually

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 377

agreeing that no seaman or other person should be impressed or
taken upon the high seas, by one party out of the merchant ves-
sels of the other ; the third, that the King should release all
claim to the Maryland Bank Stock, and that immediate measures
should be taken to transfer it to that State. I cannot determine
what will be ultimately decided respecting them. The ist and
the 3rd will probably be agreed to, provided we make a settle-
ment respecting the 6th article ; the second is of the greatest im-
portance and for that as well as other reasons will meet with the
most difficulty.

I shall write to you again in a few days.

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c. &c.

Rufus King.

W. WlLBERFORCE TO R. KlNG.

Palace Yd., Saty., Jany. 24. 1801.
My dear Sir :

I wish much for the pleasure & may witht. compliment say the
Benefit of a little more conversation with you, & time being a rare
article with me I take the liberty of sendg. previously to ask if it
will be quite convent, to you to allow me to call on you to-day.
I love frankness so much, except where it is requisite to resort to
ceremony in order to keep those at a distance whom we don't
wish to approach, that I will add, that if you happened to be dis-
engaged & have no company, I shd. be happy to partake of your
family dinner, if you are not a very late man, my Health render-
ing an early dinner Hour indispensable to me. In truth, my dear
sir, besides one point of importance on which I wish to have some
conversation with you, I am extremely desirous of profiting from
that kind confidence you are disposed to repose in me. I hope I
need not assure you on the word of a gentleman, or what I esteem
a much more sacred pledge, on the truth of a Christian, that any
obligation of secresy which you impose on me shall be scrupu-
lously maintain'd ; and the Sentiment I express'd the other day
of a sense of the Benefit of conferring with any one who was an
observant & impartial Bystander, was not a hasty effusion but the
result of deliberate Reflection.

378 RUFUS KING. [1801

I wish to act rightly & to pursue truth & Rectitude & my
Country's Happiness with Earnestness, & I therefore eagerly
court the opportunity of availing myself of the Benefit of your
Intelligence & Experience. Excuse this effusion ; it is pour'd
forth with sincerity & the Effect of that Esteem, Regard & full
confidence with which I am, my dear Sir,

Your faithful Servt.

W. WlLBERFORCE.

R. King to Col. Pickering.

London, Jany. 26, 1801.
Dear Sir :

. . . You will be surprised at the changes which the Conti-
nent has exhibited within the course of a few months. The
armed neutrality is resumed in the North. France is the soul of
this measure, and according to present appearances England will
be excluded from every part of Europe, from the Extreme North
to the Regions of the Turk. All Italy must obey and Portugal
can no longer refuse the law.

America will be courted to unite in the League, but notwith-
standing the issue of the Election, which we believe to be in favor
of Mr. Jefferson, I believe and say to all who ask my Opinion, &
the subject is one of earnest enquiry, that we shall adhere to the
maxims upon which we have hitherto acted and form no political
connexions with any of the powers of Europe. Our Ships are al-
ready in great demand &, be the result what it may, we are sure
of advantage by adhering to an impartial neutrality.

Very truly and sincerely &c

Rufus King.

G. Cabot to R. King.

January 28, 1801.
My dear Sir :

Jefferson & Burr have each 73 votes & it is, as you well know,
for the house to decide which shall be first : the Federalists in

l8oi] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 379

general are for Burr & great efforts are making to secure his
preference in the house. I think however they will not suc-
ceed & I think they ought not unless Burr will & Jefferson
will not previously engage to uphold essentially the existing
policy.

We every day hear speculations upon the probable course of
the new administration. It is generally thought here that Mr.
King will certainly come home. This is extremely regretted &
especially by the best men. It seems as if the North as well as
South of Europe is at length to be employed in the service of
France. I am mortified to see the folly of the Neutral Powers in
swallowing the baits held out to them without examining them.
It is to my mind perfectly clear that the doctrine of " Free Ships
make Free Goods " is the most pernicious to Neutrals that cou'd
be devised. Neutrals necessarily derive great pecuniary advan-
tages from the universal insecurity of Belligerent property on the
Seas : but let this property be allowed the protection of a Neutral
Flag and those advantages are at an end. The profit to Neutrals
of merely carrying the goods of the Belligerent is contemptible &
wou'd be overbalanced at the close of every war by the great ex-
cess of shipping on hand which wou'd be of little or no value —
the profit of Neutrals does not arise from carrying the property
of Belligerents but it arises from the opportunity which war pro-
duces of selling extremely dear & buying extremely cheap — that
is of trading where the market is under supplied with what they
sell & overstocked with what they buy. You have been so accus-
tomed to pursue inquiries on these subjects that I shou'd save
you very little trouble of investigation by filling my paper with
examples to prove the justness of my opinion, but I may attempt
in the newspapers to display ideas which are of some importance
to be understood by our people.

The Treaty or Convention is terribly mauled in our Senate : it
will not pass without express conditions to save existing Treaties,
& probably some of the articles will be totally rejected & others
modified.

Yours faithfully

G. C.

380 RUFUS KING. [1801

R. King to W. Bainbridge, Esq.

London, Jany. 30, 1801.
Sir:

It is only a few days since I received your Letter dated at Con-
stantinople the 20th of November last ; the inclosure will be for-
warded by the first opportunity to the Secretary of the Navy.

As your being obliged to go to Constantinople is understood
to have been occasioned by the omission of Lord Keith to fur-
nish a suitable ship for the conveyance of the Algerine Ambassa-
dor, I cannot doubt that Lord Elgin has employed his influence not
only to facilitate your return but that he will do what may be in
his power to prevent any dissatisfaction or misunderstanding on
the part of the Bey of Algiers, should the detention of his Ambas-
sador oblige you in obedience to your orders to leave him at Con-
stantinople.

I shall make an immediate representation to this Government
upon this subject, in expectation that it will make use of its influ-
ence as well at Constantinople as at Algiers, to prevent any em-
barrassments that may be apprehended, should you, in conse-
quence of the uncertain duration of the detention of the Algerine
Ambassador, have left Constantinople without him. Under such
circumstances it is my opinion that you should obey your orders
and leave him behind.

A convention was concluded between the U. S. and France in
the beginning of October, and when ratified, of which there is in
my opinion no doubt, it will restore the former friendship and
commercial intercourse between the two countries.

I have the honour to be with great respect &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Benjamin Stoddart, Secretary of the Navy.

London, Feb. 3, 1801.
Sir :

I have the honour to forward a letter, which I lately received
from Captain Bainbridge for you, and to annex for your informa-
tion copies of a letter from him to me and of my answer. Having
applied to this Government as I informed Captain Bainbridge I
should do, I have received assurances that its influences should

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 38 1

be employed as well to facilitate, the departure of the Frigate
from Constantinople, if she had not sailed, as to prevent any
embarrassment with Algiers, should the Dey's Ambassador be left
behind. Lord Elgin will be able to assist us at Constantinople ;
but I am not sure that England has at this moment much influ-
ence at Algiers.

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c.

Rufus King.

W. Bainbridge to R. King.

On Board the United States Ship of War
George Washington in the Port of

Constantinople, 20th November, 1800.
Sir:

The United States Frigate George Washington under my com-
mand, in August last was sent by the Government with part of the
amount of stipulations due the Regency of Algiers in October ;
when ready to sail from there to execute the orders of the Presi-
dent of the United States I was obliged by an arbitrary demand
from the Dey of Algiers to carry his Ambassador and presents to
the Grand Signor at Constantinople. There was no other alter-
native but war with that Regency.

Inclosed you will see a Letter from the Secretary of the Navy,
by which you can see my present situation.

I will thank you for your advice relative to a compliance of the
detention of the Frigate in this Port, and also to inform me
whether our Envoys have negotiated a Treaty of Peace with the
Republic of France.

I have the honour to be with great Respect &c.

Wm. Bainbridge.

R. King to R. Troup.

London, 3d Feb., 1801.
Dear Sir :

Our last intelligence puts it out of doubt that J & B are elected
P & V. P. While the canvass was going on, each side made use
of arguments addressed to the fears as well as to the understand-
ing of the Public ; & much exaggeration was employed. Now
the Event is fixed, we become calm, and without effort convince

382 RUFUS KING. [1801

ourselves that the Evils in respect to the Great measures of the
Govt, are not likely to happen.

A Day or two will decide the Part Prussia takes as one of the
northern confederates, and consequently whether the Amity be-
tween her and this Country will be broken ; in this case Hanover
falls. The present condition of Europe will turn to our advan-
tage unless we are blind to our best Interest.

Our ships alone will be employed between the Belligerents, and
by an impartial neutrality our claim to better treatment from the
Belligerents will be strengthened, and I am not without Hopes
that the injustice practised towards us by a Rule common to fair
and unfair neutrals will be lessened when we become, as we seem
likely to be, the only neutral Power.

I think the West Indian Courts of Vice Admy. will be all abol-
ished except two, one at Jamaica & another in one of the wind-
ward Islands. These it is proposed to put upon a footing which
will engage able men to preside in them. I am now attacking the
Halifax Court, whose late Decisions have been an outrage to all

Notions of Justice.

Yours &c.

R. K.

Rufus King to Thomas Truxton, Esq.

London, Feb. 4, 1801.
Dear Sir :

I have the pleasure of sending you annexed copies of a Letter
which I sometime ago received from the Master of Lloyd's Coffee
House and of my answer : the Piece of Plate referred to in that
correspondence, will be delivered to the particular care of the
Master of the Ship Two Friends which will sail in a day or two
for New York.

As no one has been more persuaded of the importance of our
little navy, nor more gratified by its conduct, in every instance in
which its gallantry has opportunity to show itself, I beg you to be
assured that no person could receive greater satisfaction than I
do, in transmitting to you this Suffrage in its favour from a
nation, familiar with Naval Talents and capable of appreciating
the merit it so honourably applauds.

With great Respect and Esteem &c.

Rufus King.

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 383

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 1. 3d Series.

London, Feby. 6, 1801.
Dear SiR :

According to the last French Papers the Treaty of Peace has
been signed between France and Austria. No mails have been
received from Hamburgh since the news of the Embargo upon the
Russian, Danish and Swedish ships reached the continent ; the
exact tenor of the Northern Confederacy is not yet known ;
Prussia, it is understood, has acceded to it. In the League of
1780, the Confederates engaged to make common cause against
the Belligerent Power, by which any of them should be aggrieved :
if the new Confederacy contain a similar article, and the accession
of Prussia have been unconditional, the Embargo imposed by
England is a casus foederis ; Prussia must perform her engage-
ments. England will apply to her the same treatment as to the
other confederates, and she will take possession of Hanover, and
exclude the English from the Elbe and the Weser.

Among the surmises which circulate in the present moment of
uncertainty, one which is not the least curious, nor most improb-
able, shows a division of the Cabinet respecting Hanover ; to
preserve which against the King of Prussia, it is said to have been
proposed that the Elector should join the Northern League at the
risque of a misunderstanding with the King of Great Britain !

You will perceive by the King's speech, as well as by the
addresses of the two Houses of Parliament, that the Nation has
determined to refer the Question to the issue of the Sword. " It
must now be decided," said Lord Grenville in the House of Peers,
"it cannot be postponed to a future day ; we should not now have
to discuss the Question, had it been met with firmness on a
former occasion." In the note delivered to the Envoys of Den-
mark and Sweden, when the Embargo was imposed, the League
is considered as an hostile aggression upon the rights of England,
which, it is declared, she will repel with force. If I can obtain
a Copy of this Note, which I have seen, I will send it by this
opportunity.

With all this apparent Union and Firmness, the Government as
well as the Country will be deeply affected, should its intercourse

384 RUFUS KING. [1801

with the North of Europe be entirely cut off, as it will be, if the
Elbe and the Ports of Hanover are closed.

If Prussia take no such part in the League, as shall engage her
in the war, such are the interior communications by the canals and
Rivers of Poland, that the Hemp and Duck of Russia will find a
market at Dantzik, and our trade to the Baltic, in consequence
of our Treaty with Prussia, will be more secure in her Ports than
it would be in those of Russia.

Within a few days I have had a conference with Lord Grenville,
for the purpose of stating to him our dependence upon the Baltic
for a supply of Iron, Hemp, and Sail cloth for the equipment of
our ships, public as well as private ; and that in the event of a
Blockade of the Sound, we must claim to enjoy unmolested a
direct trade between the United States and the Ports of the
Baltic for the purpose of obtaining these indispensable supplies.
I took occasion at the same time to mention that our intercourse
with France and its Dominions would be revived in consequence
of our late reconciliation : and that our trade to the French
Territories, as in every other Quarter, would become more exten-
sive and considerable, should the Northern Confederacy terminate
in War ; that we should expect that new and special orders should
be given to the British Cruizers to exercise the Rights with the
greatest moderation ; and that our Trade should meet with a
treatment corresponding to the impartiality with which it has been
carried on.

Lord Grenville, tho' he gave no explicit answer to the claim of
an uninterrupted trade with the Baltic in the case which was sup-
posed, estimated that should the Blockade take place, a relaxation
to this extent, and for the purpose I had stated, might be agreed
to ; upon this point he would confer with his colleagues should it
become necessary.

Upon the subject of our Trade with France and other coun-
tries with which England might be at war, he could assure me that
they should be disposed to treat the American Flag, which would
perhaps be the only Neutral one, with all the moderation consist-
ent with the preservation of those Rights, upon the upholding of
which her National safety depended.

I alluded to the Reform of the Vice-admiralty Courts ; he told
me the measure was in train ; I complained of the vexation we

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 385

had experienced, and especially of late, from the decisions of the
Vice-admiralty Court at Halifax, and hinted that should it not
be suppressed, its reform might become more necessary in conse-
quence of the reform of the West India courts. Lord Grenville
admitted the justice of this observation, and I have reason to
believe that this court will be put upon a better footing than it
heretofore has been.

I represented the peculiar situation of New Orleans, which,
though a Spanish Port, is also the Depository of the increasing
commerce between the people of our Western States with those
of the States upon the shores of the Atlantic ; and after explain-
ing the nature and importance of this Trade, and the pretences
upon which it has been interrupted, I proposed that it should be
agreed that no article bona fide American property, and destined
for New Orleans, should be deemed contraband. Lord Grenville
replied that he would enquire whether New Orleans was a place
where Spanish Privateers were equipped ; adding in case it was
not, that he did not perceive any material objection to the
Proposal. I shall repeat my applications upon these points, and
endeavour to expedite and obtain a satisfactory decision concern-
ing them.

Relative to the 6th article, I can add nothing to my last, except
that I made it the subject of a very free and full discussion with
Lord Grenville ; and I think it must be brought to a point in the
course of four or six weeks.

With perfect Respect & Esteem, &c,

Rufus King.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 2.

London, Feby. 9, 1801.
Dear Sir :

The delay which occurred in the delivery of the King's Speech,
after the assembling of Parliament, occasioned a variety of sus-
picions, that the Cabinet was divided in respect to the opinions
to be inserted in that Discourse. The expediency of an immediate
and direct overture to France and the political Emancipation of

VOL. III. — 25

386 RUFUS KING. [1801

the Catholics in Ireland, were the points upon which the King
and his principal Ministers were supposed to be at variance.
Neither the Speech, nor the debate which followed, afforded any
satisfaction upon this subject, and the public curiosity continued
to be excited by successive rumours of a change in the Ministry,
until yesterday, when it became public that a change had actually
taken place. Mr. Pitt and Mr. Dundas, Lord Grenville & Lord
Spencer have resigned their places (upon being out-voted in the
Cabinet, as is said, upon the Question of the Emancipation of
the Catholics, to which they were pledged as a condition of the
Union with Ireland) and a new Ministry under the Duke of
Portland as First Lord of the Treasury is forming, and will be
composed, as is understood, exclusively of the Friends of the
Ministers who have resigned, not a single person of the
opposition being talked of as likely to be brought into office.

Mr. Addington, the Speaker, succeeds his particular friend
Mr. Pitt as Chancellor of the Exchequer, with an engagement,
as is given out, on the part of Mr. Pitt and his Associates to
support him in the House of Commons.

It is not positively known who is to be Secretary of State for
the Foreign and Home Departments ; so far as public opinion
has as yet manifested itself, it is by no means favourable to the
ability or discretion of the new Ministry ; it is thought that an
immediate proposal will be made to France to treat for Peace ; a
measure that will certainly be popular.

No news is yet received from Prussia of a date posterior to the
information of the Embargo on the Russian, Danish and Swedish
ships having reached Berlin. Rumours are in circulation of
jealousies & disagreements having already appeared in the North,
and there is daily more reason to doubt, whether the maritime
League, in appearance so formidable to England, will eventually
be persisted in. The fluctuation of policy to which the principal
Confederate is subject renders a permanent concert improbable.
The Emperor of Russia seems to be entirely won by Buonaparte.
The English Dispatch was returned unopened having been cut
through and through by the Emperor with a Dagger ; it is even
said that the Emperor has entered into a Treaty by which he
guarantees Egypt to France, receiving in return the guaranty of
Malta ; and the news just received from Constantinople adds

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 387

credit to this report by stating that the Russian Ambassador had
in a most decisive manner required of the Turkish Government
to refuse the aid of the English army under General Abercrombie,
which had arrived at Rhodes for the purpose of uniting with the
Turks in an effort to expel the French from Egypt.

With perfect Respect & Esteem,

Rufus King.

R. King to Lord Grenville.

{Private.}

Great Cumberland Place, Feby. 12, 1801.
My Lord :

It being not any longer doubtful that your Lordship, with your
principal Colleagues, has retired from Office, I cannot refrain from
expressing my sincere concern that a measure of so much conse-
quence should have been found unavoidable at a period still so
momentous and critical. I am confident that your Lordship will
give credit to the motives which lead to the expression of my
regrets upon this occasion. I have too clearly seen the Danger to
which the Principles which are the Foundation of all social
Happiness have been exposed, not to have conceived the most
favourable sentiments of the Persons, who have displayed so much
firmness and perseverance in their Defence. Much has been done?
but the Labour is unfinished, and a change in the face of the
adversary may prove as dangerous in Politics, as it sometimes has
done in war : the preservation of the confidence and civil dis-
cipline of a free people requires an uninterrupted and steady
Administration ; and the Duty of governing is never more arduous
than when circumstances, such as at present exist, place the ill-
disciplined and the ignorant in the power of the unprincipled and
the ambitious. These are considerations which must have been
carefully weighed before the Decision was adopted ; and it is
only to be deplored that the occasion, which it is hoped will not
relate to the principles of which Great Britain has shewn herself
the champion, could not have been deferred to a future and
more convenient Day.

388 RUFUS KING. [1801

To these causes of public concern, I must add what is peculiar
to myself, the unexpected disappointment of my hopes, that I
should have been able, had your Lordship remained in office, to
effect a satisfactory settlement of those points of disagreement
the continuance of which can promise no possible advantage to
either, and may prove injurious to the more important interests
of both our Countries.

If, as there is reason to believe, a change have taken place in
the Executive of the United States, tho' the general course of our
affairs may surfer no material alteration, the new President will
not be likely to go farther upon the subjects we have lately dis-
cussed than his Predecessor, to whose administration he is
supposed to have been in opposition. I mention this observation
merely to justify my solicitude upon a subject which I know to
be important, and which I now fear, by remaining unsettled, may
become the occasion of still farther misunderstandings between
our respective Countries ; but I need your Lordship's excuse for
these reflections, so distant from the object of this Letter, which
is to express . . . my unfeigned sorrow in reference to the
great interests which depend upon the issue of the contest, that
your Lordships and colleagues should withdraw from Office at a
time when the firmness and vigour of experienced statesmen will
with difficulty be able to save those invaluable Rights, for the
preservation of which, for others as well as for herself, Great
Britain has so nobly contended.

With the most respectful Attachment

and unalterable Esteem &c. &c.

Rufus King.

Lord Grenville to R. King.

Cleveland Row, Feb'y 13, 1801.
My dear Sir :

I am extremely sensible to the kindness of your letter, & I beg
you to be assured that in the moment of quitting the public sta-
tion which I have so long occupied, few things can be more grati-
fying to me than the hope of preserving the esteem of those for
whom I entertain sincere and merited regard & attachment.

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 389

It would be a foolish affectation in me to disguise the concern
I feel in being under the necessity (according to the public prin-
ciple on which I have ever acted) of quitting the public service
in a moment like the present, when the storm appears to augment,
and yet when I am persuaded that perseverance in our former
course will soon bring us into port. But there are duties which
an honest man feels too sacred to be trifled with, or compromised ;
and if I have ever been able to render any service it has been by
openness and plain dealing — qualities utterly inconsistent with
the disguise or dereliction of one's opinions on great public
questions.

I do not agree with you in the effect which this event is likely
to produce as to the great questions which are still afloat in the
world. Sudden impressions of alarm are easily received in such
a country as this where they are propagated by newspapers and
debates. But they are so easily effaced — and it would be to know
very little of the present composition of the two Houses of Par-
liament to believe with the vulgar in the present moment, that
there will be any want of great abilities to be called forth by great
occasions.

Be assured that in all situations I shall always be anxious to
deserve & to retain your esteem and friendship.

Ever, my Dear Sir, most truly and sincerely
Your obedient Humble Servt.

Grenville.

CHAPTER XXVIII.

Troup to King — Counting presidential Vote — Burr's Election probable —
Hamilton profoundly chagrined — Democrats Disappointed — King to Sec-
retary of State — New Ministers not yet in Office — Ratification of French Con-
vention will benefit our Commerce — To Ld. Grenville relative to Taxes levied
in Scotland against Major Lenox — They should not be levied — Pickering to
King — Gives Action of the Senate on the Convention with France — Elec-
tion of President still in Doubt — Suggests that Adams may be nominated
for Governor of Massachusetts with Gerry — Hopes there is enough good
Sense to reject both — Lawranceto King — No Election yet — King to Secre-
tary of State — The King's Illness causes Delay in forming new Cabinet —
Northern Confederacy still unsettled — England will resist it — Negotiations
between Great Britain and United States at a Stand — Vice-Admiralty
Courts to be re-formed — King to Lord Hawkesbury — Capture and Con-
demnation of S. Girard's Ship, on Ground he is a Frenchman — Denial of this
— He is an American Citizen — Services in Yellow Fever in 1793, in Philadel-
phia— King to Secretary of State — The King's Sickness continues — No
Business— King to Troup — Condition of Affairs in Europe — Lord St. Vin-
cent promises to repress the West India Privateers — King to Lord
Hawkesbury — Summary of Matters in Dispute — To T. Erskine — Impress-
ment of Seamen — Suggests that neither Party shall impress on the high
Seas — Erskine to King — Says he has sent his Letter to Lord St. Vincent —
King to Lord Hawkesbury — Captures of American Vessels bound to an
Enemy's Colony not according to the Law of Nations — Cause great Com-
plaints— Demands a precise Instruction to Officers in West India Seas to
put an End to this — King to G. Rose — Arbitrary and oppressive Conduct
of Revenue Officers in the Port of London.

R. Troup to R. King.

New York, 12 Feby., 1801.
My dear Sir :

. . . Yesterday was the day appointed for counting the votes

for Prest. and Vice Prest. We have yet no information of the

result. The general opinion here is that Burr will ultimately be

chosen. Upon the first ballot it is thought Jefferson will have all

the democratical States, but as they are not sufficient to elect him,
1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 39 1

the conjecture is that a second ballot will be taken and that in
this event some of the Demos, will come over to vote for Burr, to
prevent the election falling through. So that although it be un-
certain who will be the man, yet there is considerable probability
that Burr will be successful.

Hamilton is profoundly chagrined with this prospect ! He has
taken infinite pains to defeat Burr's election, but he believes in
vain. So he has to procure the complete adoption of the French
convention, which is at length ratified, excepting the 2d article,
and with a limitation of 8 years to the whole instrument. . . .
Hamilton declared that his influence with the federal party was
wholly gone — that he could be no longer useful. He has a hor-
rible opinion of Burr's principles and views, and thinks that his
administration must fasten itself on the least respectable men
belonging to both parties. He cannot bring himself to believe
that the respectable men of either party will connect themselves
with Burr. . . . All the leading demos, are cut to the quick
with the idea of Burr's being President, with a very few exceptions.
It is said that Madison has written to a member of Congress a
strong and angry letter on this subject. The Clintonians here
execrate Burr as President. . . .

The newspapers will show you a letter written by myself and
others to Gov. Jay, and his answer. He is a decided advocate for
Jefferson in preference to Burr. . . .

God bless you.

R. T.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 4.

London, Feby 17, 1801.
Dear Sir :

Enclosed I send you a copy which I have just received of the
Treaty of Peace between France and the Emperor, concluded at
Luneville on the 9th instant.

We do not learn that the last mail has brought precise informa-
tion of the decision of Prussia ; the opinion gains strength that
England will have to cope with all the maritime Powers leagued
against her.

392 RUFUS KING. [1801

The new Ministers are not yet in Office ; as such of them as are
members of the House of Commons must be re-elected, some time
will be necessary for this object. Mr. Pitt yesterday made his
Loan for 28 millions for which he gives in three per cents., when
at something under 5 per cent., a little more than 49 millions ; the
terms are deemed favorable to Government. Perhaps the bold-
ness with which the Bank lends its Paper to individuals, enabled
the Government with less difficulty to borrow it.

The loss of the Danish and Swedish Flags has increased the
demand for ours ; if our ships which will soon arrive with Flour
bring accounts of the ratification of the Convention and restora-
tion of commercial intercourse with France they will obtain im-
mediate and profitable freights.

T. Pickering to R. King.

Salem, Feb. 17, 1801.
Dear Sir :

In a letter to my son written since my arrival at this place, I
mentioned the French Convention pending before the Senate ;
but was obliged (not to miss a conveyance) to quit the subject
abruptly. A committee of the Senate reported a resolution, for
advising the P. to ratify the Convention, on condition that the
2d. & 3d. articles be expunged, the 6th modified by a provision
that it should not operate against any existing treaties, and that a
new article be added, limiting the duration of the convention to
eight years. S. S. Mason moved to strike out all the conditions ;
and they were stricken out, except the last, limiting the duration !
Then a question was taken on the remnant of the resolution,
when the yeas & nays were as in the inclosed paper — 16 for the
treaty, 14 against it ; of course it is rejected. You will be sur-
prised at some of the federal yeas : But I have correct information,
that a certain influence was exerted from a quarter from which
heretofore better things would have been expected. I have no
doubt that S. D. [exter] was the agent to exercise this influence,
at the desire of the P. that his mighty mission might not end in a
nullity. It is suggested however, as a thing to be expected from
the Democrats, that a reconsideration may be proposed, in order
to ratify with conditions, rather than lose the entire treaty.

l8oi] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 393

Mr. Marshall has been nominated, and I presume will be ap-
pointed Chief Justice. Mr. D. will then be " promoted " to the
station originally in view when he accepted the War Office.

The choice of President remains in doubt. Mr. Jefferson has 8
states ; and if one federal member of Maryland join the 4 antis
of that state, he will be elected. But I have it from Theo. Par-
sons at Boston, that Pierrepont Edwards has written to Judge
Reeve at Litchfield (who married Mr. Burr's sister) — assuring
him, that the New York Electors had given one more vote for
Mr. B. than Mr. J. — It seems, however, incredible, that a fact of
this kind, if it existed, should so long have been kept secret.

Some gentlemen at Boston apprehend that Mr. Adams will be
set up with Mr. Gerry, for Governor & Lieutenant governor of
Massachusetts ; and if chosen, no one doubts his readiness to
accept the office. But if there be not good sense enough in
Massachusetts to reject both those gentlemen, the people ought
to suffer everything which folly and prejudice can produce. But
I feel a confidence that their present excellent governor will be
reelected.

I remain Dear Sir

Yr. faithful friend & servt.

Timothy Pickering.

J. Lawrance to R. King.

New York, Feb. 18, 1801.
Dear Sir :

The choice of President, by a Letter I have this Day received
from Washington of the 13th Instant, was not then made. My
Correspondent mentions that the House of Representatives had
that day ballotted again, without being able to change a Vote,
both parties seem'd obstinate and it was not easy to see who would
first give way. Conjecture was busy on both sides and on both
there was nothing but conjecture. More than thirty ballots had
been taken without the least variation.

It is singular our Wise Men who made provision for the Choice,
in case of two having a Majority, did not suppose that no choice
might be made and provide for that Event, but it seems this was

394 RUFUS KING. [1801

overlooked ; however I cannot believe we shall be without a
Chief Magistrate, after the 3d of March, notwithstanding the ob-
stinacy which prevailed on the 13th Instant.

In this State a Majority of the Council of appointments being
antifederal, many new appointments, it is said, are in contempla-
tion but at present they have stumbled at the Threshold. The
Governor has claimed the right exclusively to nominate, and has
exercised it in the Case of a Sheriff for the County of Dutchess.
Eight nominations by him for that office have been rejected. If
he persists which I believe from what I have heard, he will, he
will probably disappoint the Expectants. Heretofore the Gov-
ernor applied to the Legislature suggesting the propriety of a
declaratory Act ; but none passed. It was left to his own Inter-
pretation, and he has given it, what I always supposed to be the
proper one. The Agitations that those questions occasion will
shortly all go off, and we shall settle down in our usual tranquil-
lity. The Commonwealth must be saved. Whether we shall see
you or not the present year, or the next I suppose is still doubt-
ful— but whenever you come you will meet with a cordial re-
ception.

Yours very sincerely,

John Lawrance.

In answer to a letter from Rufus King to Lord Grenville,
February 7, 1801, respecting certain taxes of inheritance
assessed against Major Lenox in Scotland, agent for seamen
in London, asking a remission of the taxes, Lord Grenville
wrote a note on the 17th inst. which is thus answered by
Rufus King:

Great Cumberland Place, Feby. 19, 1801.

Mr. King presents his compliments to Lord Grenville and has
the honour to acknowledge the receipt of his note of the 17th,
communicating the opinion of the Law Officers of the Crown,
that Major Lenox, not being entitled to any of the privileges of a
foreign Minister, is liable to pay taxes to the King during his

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 395

residence in this country. Without inquiring into the precise
provisions of the Laws regulating the levy of the King's Taxes,
according to which it is presumed the Law Officers have formed
this opinion, Mr. King takes the liberty to state to Lord Grenville
that he is not able to distinguish the principle upon which Foreign
Ministers are by public Law exempted from the payment of Taxes
in the country of their residence, from that upon which he has
claimed a like exemption in favour of Major Lenox. Neither re-
sides abroad from private or personal considerations ; both are in
the public service of their Country, to promote the convenient and
uninterrupted performance of which, each by the comity of nations
has a claim to be freed from those demands which apply to the
people of the Country where they reside. It was upon this ground
that the American Commissioners under the Treaty of Amity and
Commerce have been exempted from Taxes.

The service performed by Major Lenox for a time was dis-
charged by the American Minister, but on account of its detail
and importance was assigned to a particular Agent, who may be
considered as attached to and making a part of the American
Legation, and entitled to the exemption which it may justly claim.

Any new difficulties to which this particular service may be ex-
posed would enhance the unpleasant sentiments, with which from
its nature it is unavoidably attended ; and Mr. King cannot but
flatter himself, that, upon a revision of the subject, orders will be
given to discharge Major Lenox from the demand for personal
Taxes, which has been made upon him.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 5.

London. Feby. 25, 1801.
Dear Sir :

Lord St. Vincent has been appointed First Lord of the Admi-
ralty and Lord Hawkesbury Secretary of State for Foreign
Department in lieu of Lord Spencer and Lord Grenville. Mr.
Pitt and Mr. Dundas remain in office tho' they have sent in their
resignations, and their successors have been named but not form-

396 RUFUS KING. [180 1

ally appointed. In this singular and disjointed condition of
the Cabinet, the King was taken ill, and considerable mystery-
prevailed for a day or two in respect to the nature of his illness.
It is now avowed that he has been attacked by a violent Fever
and Delirium. Dr. Willis attends him and the Bulletin of this
morning says : " His Majesty still has fever but none of the symp-
toms are worse." No overture has yet been made to France.
The King is not able to attend to business, and the situation of
the Country is critical and full of difficulty.

The last accounts from Germany still lessen the probability that
Prussia will be able to avoid taking a part in support of the North-
ern Confederacy ; the convention between Russia and Sweden
has been published by the latter, and in its principles and pro-
visions seems the renewal of the League of 1780. At present I
perceive no change in the opinion that England must and will
resist the claims of the Confederacy. Sweden has retaliated by
an Embargo upon the few English ships in her Ports ; but this
has not yet been done by Denmark or by Prussia. The advance
of the French army into the territory of Naples must soon be fol-
lowed by measures to exclude the English from every part of
Italy ; and Portugal must in her turn submit.

The progress which had been made in our negotiation with this
Government was such as must have brought it to a speedy con-
clusion, had not a change taken place in the Department of For-
eign affairs ; that the result would in the main have been satis-
factory is more than I am authorised to say, tho' I flatter myself
with the hope that it would be so. Lord Hawkesbury assures me
that he will give to the several subjects which have been pretty
fully discussed, an early and impartial consideration ; and I am
in hopes that Lord St. Vincent will likewise be inclined to attend
to our re-iterated remonstrances against the impressment of our
Seamen and the Vexations of our Trade.

The Court of Halifax is to be immediately reformed ; hereafter
there are to be but three Vice-Admiralty Courts in America, two
in the West Indies and the third in Halifax. The judges will be
taken from the Corps of Civilians, and as they are to receive ade-
quate and permanent salaries will not, like their Predecessors,
depend upon their condemnations for support.

I yesterday received the duplicate of your No. 9. Such is the

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 397

situation of the negotiation that we cannot with propriety relin-
quish the attempt to adjust the disagreement respecting the 6th
Article upon the principle of paying a sum in lieu of what might
be awarded under its Provisions. . . .

With perfect Respect & Esteem

Rufus King.

R. King to Rt. Honble. Lord Hawkesbury.

Gr. Cumberland Place, March 6, 1801.
My Lord :

The Brigantine Sally, John Dorton, Master, owned by Stephen
Girard, a citizen and merchant of the United States, and laden
with a valuable cargo, on her voyage from Batavia to Philadelphia,
has been taken by his Majesty's frigate Cleopatra, Israel Pellew
Commander, and condemned by the Vice-Admiralty Court of
Halifax, because the owner was born in France tho' he has been
naturalized and resident in America for more than twenty years.

Mr. Girard has not only been long and permanently settled in
Philadelphia where he has carried on business as a Merchant or
Trader with different Countries, but has given the most indis-
putable Proofs of the ties which unite him to the place of his
Residence. In 1793 when the Epidemic Fever desolated Phila-
delphia which was deserted by almost every person, who had the
means of leaving it, Mr. Girard, with a few others, who might
also have withdrawn, remained and under the denomination of a
Board of Health administered succour and comfort to their suf-
fering fellow citizens at the peril of their own lives.

Not only the cause assigned for the condemnation of this vessel
and cargo is unjust and vexatious, but the circumstances &
manner in which the property was disposed of were illegal and
purposely calculated to impair the remedy which the claimant
might expect by carrying his case before the Tribunal of Appeals.
The papers which accompany this Note are in every respect
so full that it would be superfluous to add any Reflections for the
purpose of demonstrating the injustice and oppression of this
transaction. The case has been sent to me with express orders
from the President of the United States to lay the same before
his Majesty's Government and to call upon its justice to take such

398 RUFUS KING. [1801

measures as shall afford immediate and complete redress to the
claimant.

The ordinary course of appeals is attended with so much delay-
that I cannot but flatter myself in a case so considerable in
property and so strong in right, that an immediate examination of
this claim will be made and the full value of the property, with
exemplary damages, will be decreed to the Claimants.

Mr. Girard has sent a special agent to this country for the sole
purpose of recovering this property. I am instructed to give him
all the aid in my Power, and he will remain here until the case be
decided.

With great Consideration & Respect &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 6.

London, Mar. 7, 1801.
Dear Sir :

Owing to the continuance of the King's illness, the change of
the Ministry is still incomplete, and very little business, beyond
the ordinary routine is transacted. It is supposed to be on this
account that no measure has been adopted in consequence of the
Prussian Note, avowing the King's accession to the Northern
Confederacy, the principles of which according to every appear-
ance are to be disputed at the mouth of the Cannon.

The Squadron from Brest has entered the Mediterranean, and
is without doubt destined for Egypt, where the English Expedi-
tion under Lord Keith and General Abercrombie will have
previously arrived. Much and perhaps equal concern exists at
Paris and London respecting these Expeditions, as the issue of
them must have considerable influence upon the commencement,
as well as the conclusion of the Negotiations for Peace.

I am assured that our affairs shall be taken into consideration
as soon as the new Cabinet is settled. I am not without hopes
that they may be satisfactorily adjusted.

!545, x34°5- IJ70- 644- 354- 985> 36°- I2°°- r47- 7°9- 8S3. 1125
consent 644. 312. 721. 881. 153. 1495. 1412. 1226. 29. 321. lieu

l8oi] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 399

1410. 240. 253. 554. 10. 2935. 985. 769. 637. 19. 641. 379. 107.
779. 369. 16 Decision 815. 95. 352.*

With perfect Respect & Esteem,

Rufus King.

R. King to R. Troup.

London, March 7, 1801.
Dear Sir :

The malady of the King still continues tho' it is confidently
said he is convalescent ; the suspension of the Executive Govern-
ment is attended with much inconvenience, both in respect to
foreign and domestic concerns. According to present appearances
the question of the armed neutrality must be disputed by the
mouth of the Cannon — Prussia has acceded and avows her
Decision to support the Confederation. Owing to the extraordi-
nary situation of the Eng. Executive, no ostensible measure has
been adopted in consequence of this avowal.

Egypt is the present object of attention a small squadron from

Brest has reached the Mediterranean, and is bound without doubt

to relieve the french in Egypt. Lord Keith with Genl. Aber-

crombie will probably be at or near the mouths of the Nile, when

the french squadron arrives — Considerable anxiety, if I be not

mistaken, exists as well at Paris as at London, respecting Aber-

crombie's expedition, the fate of which may have a Great

influence upon the conclusion, as well as the commencement of

negotiations of Peace — We know nothing decisive respecting the

Election of President.

Yrs. very truly

R. K.

In a memorandum bookf of Mr. King's are found the
following extracts, the resignation of the Pitt Ministry in
February having previously been noted.

* Not deciphered.

f This memorandum, which was kept from December, 1796, to March, 1803,

is full of interesting material, which should have been given at the proper

dates. But in some way it was not placed with the other papers, and was not

used in preparing the previous pages. It is necessary therefore to print the

arlier portion in an Appendix, III., to this volume. — Ed.

400 RUFUS KING. [1801

Mar. 7, 1S01.
Lord Landsdown, in conversation respecting the Northern Con-
federacy, told me this morning that when this question was
brought forward during the Amer. war, Russia was very urgent
for its adoption and made great assurances, thro' the

Ambassador, of what she would do that wd. be acceptable to G.
Br. in case it was asreed to. That Fox, who was in the Cabinet

O 7

at this period, was in its favor, that he, Ld Landsdown was agt.
it, as he found the promise of Russian equivalents meant nothing
and she wd. not give an army to assist Engd. (as to America
probably) and that upon the final question in the Cabinet, he car-
ried his opinion agt. Mr. Fox by only one voice ! ! !

March 8.

Dined at Mr. Erskine's with Fox, Sheridan, St. John and other
members of the opposition. The conversation after dinner turned
chiefly upon the King's illness, the new Ministry, &c. Otto was
present and the subject of Peace occurred. It was confidently
said the Prince of Wales was for immediate overtures to France,
and had he been declared Regent, that Fox would have been sent
Ambassador to Paris.

Touching upon the Northern League Fox intimated very dis-
tinctly that the principle must be given up by Engd. Sheridan
said it wd. affect the Navigation Act. Fox treated the objection
with scorn and sd., the Navigation Act had been and must be de-
parted from; that Engl, skill & capital wd. secure to them a proper
portion of navigation and breed seamen for their navy.

Adverting to Abercrombie's Expedition agt. Egypt & the pos-
sibility of its failure, some one said France wd. keep Egypt at the
peace ; suppose she does, said Mr. Fox, why shd. we object ? evi-
dently consenting to her doing so.

Mar. 8th.

Lord St. Vincent yesterday sent me a message assuring me
that he would take measures to repress the irregular and
vexatious conduct of the West India Privateers, & that the new
courts should be established without Delay. . . .

Ld. St. Vincent sent for Sr. Wm. Scott and told him that he
gave to him the nomination of the new Judges, that the office

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 4OI

shd. be suitably provided for, and if the Judges were found
incompetent, Doctor's Commons must be responsible.

In a note from Mr. King of March 10, 1801, to Lord
Hawkesbury, he calls his attention to the matters in dispute
between their two Governments, specifying them and re-
ferring to his correspondence with Lord Grenville and to
points which are presented, as additions to his letter, restat-
ing them and urging upon the British Government a speedy
settlement of them.

R. King to Hon. Thomas Erskine, Esq.

{Confidential.)

Great Cumberland Place, March 11, 1801.
Dear Sir :

As I know your disposition to do every thing in your power to
strengthen and prolong the good will and friendship between our
respective countries, I take the liberty to mention to you one of
the causes which, as much as any other, has occasioned great
irritation and been for a long time the subject of ineffectual com-
plaint.

I refer to the practice of the British Navy to impress the Sea-
men of American Vessels on the high seas, as well as within the
British Ports. We have repeatedly offered to agree in any
practicable way which could be devised upon measures to dis-
criminate American from British Seamen : our vessels are navi-
gated with as large a proportion of native seamen, as the Ships
of Great Britain or of any other country ; and we might with equal
right impress the seamen of British vessels as Great Britain does
those of ours.

If the practice proceed it must become common ; as there will
be no other means left either to compensate the disadvan-
tages of our Trade, or to convince your Government of the incon-
venience and injustice of the practice.

I have lately by order of my Government proposed to you an
article, to be added to our Treaty of Amity, &c, by which it shall
be agreed " that neither Party shall upon the high seas impress

VOL. III. — 26

402 RUFUS KING. [1801

Seamen out of the Vessels of the other." This proposition is
now before your Government ; the opinion of Lord St. Vincent
will probably be decisive in respect to its adoption, and from the
just value which I have reason to believe his Lordship places upon
your opinions, I am, I confess, very desirous to engage your
influence in our favour. I need not say, that were I not con-
vinced of the justice of the measure, I should not think of recom-
mending it to your Protection.

The pretence upon which our Seamen are taken is that the
King has a right to the services of his Subjects, and all who speak
English are, in the practice of the Navy, considered so, unless
they can prove the contrary, a fact not easily established by a
seaman, on account of the habitual carelessness of his character,
even before an impartial Tribunal, and one that will be rarely
proved to the satisfaction of a British Naval officer desirous of
keeping his ship well manned.

Admitting that within the territorial Limits of a Nation, meas-
ures may be employed to detain such of its Seamen as may be
found in the service of another Nation, yet upon the open seas,
where the rights of all are equal and independent, these measures
cannot be lawfully adopted : the practice derives no support from
a state of war, more than from one of Peace, and may, and has
been, pursued in Peace as well as in war. Leaving the question
for the present open within the respective Territories of the two
Countries, we desire to obtain a just security for our Merchant
Ships against the loss of their Crews, which are taken away in the
open seas ; and thereby the property as well as the lives of the
officers and such of the Seamen as are not taken exposed to the
perils of the Ocean.

With great truth and attachment &c,

Rufus King.

Thos. Erskine to R. King.

Sergrants' Inn, March 12, 1801.
My Dear Sir :

I am very much obliged by the confidence which you repose in
me, & for the justice which you do to my regard ioi your coun-
try whose interests I cannot be indifferent to without forgetting

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 403

my duty to my own. We ought to " grapple America to us with
Hooks of Steel," and not provoke a war by the same contempti-
ble narrow policy which originally provoked the revolution. I
sent your letter to Lord St. Vincent without copying it, & I there-
fore hope you have preserved a copy of it. I told him that thro'
the correspondence with my son in America I had the means of
knowing the delicate situation in which we stood towards your
great & growing country, & I called upon him in the most earn-
est manner to attend to the important subject of your letter. I
have no doubt that Lord St. Vincent will, as a man of good sense
{which I know He is) attend deeply to it. It is high time he
should, as by a letter I have from Yarmouth roads from a captain
of one of the ships of the line, I find they are getting under weigh,
or in other words that the signal in made for universal war. In
these days it is dangerous to prophecy, but I may have leave to
rejoice that part of my property is safe from the violence & in-
justice of my own country ; having a perfect confidence in the
integrity of yours towards a stranger whose life has been spent in
wishes to unite the world in Harmony & peace.
I ever am, Dear Sir, your most

faithful & obliged Humble servt.

T. Erskine.

Endorsed in R. King's handwriting :

Answer to mine respecting his interference with Ld. St. Vincent
respec. the proposed Article that neither party wd. impress seamen
out of the vessels of the other on the high seas.

R. King to Lord Hawkesbury.

Great Cumberland Place, 13 March, 1801.
My Lord :

The decree of the Vice-Admiralty Court of Nassau, a copy of
which is annexed — concerning the cargo of an American vessel
going from the United States to a port in the Spanish Colonies
on the ground that the articles of transient Merchandize compos-
ing the same, tho' bona fide neutral Property, were of the growth
of Spain, having been sanctioned, and the Principle extended by
the Prize Courts of the other British Islands, and particularly by

404 RUFUS KING. [1801

the court of Jamaica, has been sufficient authority to the Com-
manders of the Ships of war and privateers cruizing in those seas,
to fall upon and capture all American vessels bound to an
Enemy's Colony, and having on board any article of the growth
or manufacture of a Nation at war with Great Britain.

These captures which are vindicated by what is termed the
" Belligerent's " right to distress his Enemy by interrupting the
supplies which his habits or convenience may require, have pro-
duced the strongest and most serious complaints among the
American Merchants, who have seen with indignation a reason
assigned for the capture and confiscation of their property, which
is totally disregarded in the open and protected Trade carried on
between the British and Spanish Colonies, by British and Span-
ish subjects, in the very articles, the supply of which by neutral
Merchants is interrupted.

The Law of Nations acknowledged in the Treaty of Amity,
Commerce and Navigation between the United States and Great
Britain, allows the Goods of an Enemy to be lawful Prize, and
pronounces those of a friend to be free.

While the United States take no measures to abridge the
Rights of Great Britain as a Belligerent, they are bound to resist
with firmness every attempt to extend them to the equally incon-
testible Rights of Nations, which find their interest and duty in
living in peace with the rest of the world.

As long as the ancient Law of Nations is observed, which pro-
tects the innocent Merchandize of Neutrals while it abandons to
the Belligerent the goods of his Enemy, a plain Rule exists and
may be appealed to to decide the Rights of peace and of war :
the Belligerent has no better authority to curtail the Rights of
the Neutrals, than the Neutral has to do the like in regard to the
Rights of the Belligerent ; and it is only by an adherence to the
ancient code and the rejection of modern glosses, that fixed and
precise Rules can be found, defining the Rights and regulating
the Duties of independent States.

This subject is of such importance, and the essential Interests
of the United States, whose Policy is that of peace, are so deeply
affected by the Doctrines which during this present war have
been set up, in order to enlarge the rights of Belligerents, at the
expense of those of neutrals, that I shall without loss of time sub-

l8oi] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 405

mit to your Lordship's consideration such farther reflections
respecting the same as its great importance appears to demand.

In the mean time as the Decisions referred to cannot from the
unavoidable delay which attends the presentation of appeals, be
speedily reversed and as the effect of those decrees will continue
to be the unjust and ruinous interruption of the American Com-
merce in the West India Seas, it is my duty to require, that pre-
cise instructions shall without delay be dispatched to the proper
officers in the West Indies and Nova Scotia, to correct the abuses
which have arisen out of these illegal decrees, and put an end to
the depredations, which are wasting the lawful commerce of a
peaceable and friendly nation.

With great Consideration & Respect

Rufus King.

R. King to George Rose, Esq.

Gt. Cumberland Place, Mar. 16, 1801.
Sir:

Though it would be more regular that I should make the appli-
cation, through Lord Hawkesbury's office, I save time, which is of
importance, by addressing myself immediately to you. To the
Facts stated in the enclosed Letter from Dickson & Co. I think it
proper to add, that according to my information, the conduct of
the Revenue Officers of the Port of London has become so arbi-
trary and oppressive, always under the plea of Duty, that with
the most scrupulous attention to the Laws, the American Ships
employed in the Tobacco Trade are not only exposed to great
detention, and embarrassment, but frequently obliged to pay con-
siderable sums of money to ransom themselves from suits upon
false and frivolous Pretexts, with which they are menaced. In
the instance of the Mehitable, Follansbee Master, an offer is at
length made to release the 10 Hogsheads of Tobacco, which had
been seized, and to discharge the Ship, provided the seizing
officer be paid 20. Guineas. I know that you will disapprove and
take pleasure in correcting these abusive irregularities, and there-
fore make no apology for bringing these cases before you, or
requesting your interference to do us justice.

With perfect respect &c.

R. King.

CHAPTER XXIX.

Cabot to King — Jefferson's Inaugural gives Federalists much Hope — Bad Omen
if King leaves his Post — Persuaded England will triumph — King to South-
gate — Expects a Successor — Affectionate Expressions — Cabot to King —
Jefferson's Speech more liked by Federalists than Democrats — Troup to
King — Similar Opinion — Cabinet and other Appointments — Generally
believed he was not to be suspended — New York Appointments — Rights
claimed by Gov. Clinton — Lord St. Vincent to T. Erskine — Expressing
high Respect for Mr. King — Hard to draw a Line on Impressments — King
to Secretary of State — New Ministry — Sir Hyde Parker gone to Baltic with
a Fleet — Debate in Parliament on free Bottoms make free Goods —
Neutral Rights — Overtures of Peace — Affairs of United States delayed but
pushed — Cession of Louisiana and Floridas to France — Fears injurious
Effects upon the Union — Gen. Collot's proposed Voyage to United States —
Importance of having an able Minister at Paris — King to Lawrance — Had
not the Ministers gone out, believes he would have been able to settle
United States Affairs satisfactorily — Cabot to King — England will triumph
— King to remain — No war with England — Some Changes of Officers
made — King to Lord Hawkesbury — Vices of the Vice- Admiralty Courts in
West Indies and Nova Scotia, and Reforms suggested — Asks when the
Delays in taking up the Negotiations with the United States will cease —
King to Addington — Relative to Commission under 6th Article — Asks for
a Decision — To Secretary of State — English Ships excluded from the Con-
tinent— France supplied by Neutrals from England— Peace yet uncertain
— If Egypt evacuated, Peace more probable.

R. King to Robert Southgate, Esq.

London, Mar. 16, 1801.
My dear Sir :

I am extremely obliged to you for your kind letter of the 2d of

January. The information it gives me is such as for a long time I

have been solicitous to receive. At present I have only time to

say that my continuance here is uncertain. When I left America

we expected that the war would be at an end in two or three

years ; and that an opportunity would then present itself for a
1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 407

revision of the Treaty concluded by Mr. Jay, which would be ad-
vantageous to the U. S. and favourable to my reputation. The
war still goes on and the change of men in America will probably
be followed by correspondent changes in Europe : I therefore
expect a successor. In this event I shall pass the winter upon
the continent and return home in the summer of 1802. Mr. Pick-
ering, who is my present Secretary, being destined to the profes-
sion of the Law, will embark for America in six or eight weeks ;
I shall not engage any one in his place, which you may consider
as belonging to your Son, should I continue here.

I will only add, that I am under no stronger obligation to any
one than to you, and that I shall find peculiar satisfaction, should
the opportunity occur, in repaying to the Son, those tokens of
kindness and Protection, which I myself received from his father.
To the expression of my affectionate regards for my Sister, and
the other branches of the family, I must add the assurances of the
sincerest attachment with which I remain &c.

Rufus King.

Geo. Cabot to R. King.

March 20, 1801.

My dear Friend :

All our newspapers have copied the inauguration speech of Mr.
Jefferson, you cannot fail therefore of having seen it before this
will reach you. It is so conciliatory that much hope is derived
from it by the Federalists ; it certainly contains some foolish &
some pernicious as well as many good ideas. On the whole how-
ever its temper entitles it to respect & whatever may be the
sincerity of its professions, good policy requires that they be
trusted till contradicted by actions.

Much anxiety has been felt lest the new administration shou'd
involve us in a quarrel with G. B., to which we had made some
approaches by the strange negligence of their Predecessor. I
have some reason however to believe that accommodation is as
likely to be made with the present as former President. We shall
think it a bad omen if you quit your station ; we know of no one
who can so well serve us in it.

408 RUFUS KING. [1801

Our accounts from your side of the water lead us to expect the
most vigorous maritime war between England & all the Fools of
Europe in the service of France. I pray God their Fleets may
meet in nearly equal numbers & that England may reap new
laurels. She alone defends & has defended those neutrals who
are combining against her ; & if they succeed in their project
the liberty of the Sea will be like the liberty of the land, the
liberty of serving France. If the English are not disordered by
scarcity they have nothing to fear ; they are an overmatch for all
the Naval forces that can be brought against them & the Con-
federacy of their Enemies like all Confederacies will dissolve &
be disgraced. At any rate I am persuaded England will triumph
on the Sea if she perseveres ; & you will see Russians, Danes &
Swedes vanquished if their Ships put out. I am mortified to see the
Neutral nations made the Dupes of France under the shallow
pretence of aiding Neutral Commerce. Nothing is more certain
than that Neutral Commerce is much more lucrative under the
operation of the old maritime Code as com?nonly enforced, than it
wou'd be with the reformations which are professed to be aimed
at. We discuss these subjects lately & think more justly than we
used : we see now that Neutrals wou'd lose & Belligerents alone
wou'd save anything by the maxim of " Free Ships make Free
Goods." The Neutrals will gain most when the Belligerent prop-
erty is most exposed : the true interest of Neutrals requires only
that their own bona fide property be protected, & all the regula-
tions & stipulations between them & Belligerents shou'd refer to
the ascertainment of that property & its protection.

Yours affy.
G. C.

G. Cabot to R. King.

March 20, 1801.

My dear Friend :

We are all tranquil as they say at Paris after a Revolution. Mr.
Jefferson's conciliatory speech is better liked by our party than
his own : how he will act remains to be proved, but hopes are
entertained now which cou'd not have existed if his speech had
partaken of the temper of his party. A large majority are better
satisfied than they wou'd have been with a Reelection.

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 409

John Bull is finally disencumbered of all his Allies — he is not
the less likely to have a glorious campaign & I pray God he may !
— a good beating will serve the northern powers & prevent them
in future from being the Dupes of France ... I sometimes
feel angry that the English are so haughty & oppressive to
Neutrals but I think if the power of France were to predominate
on the Sea there woud be an end of Neutral Rights & we should
look to the departed power of England with inexpressible regret.

G. C.

R. Troup to R. King.

New York, 23d March, 1801.
My Dear Sir :

. . . Jefferson's inaugural speech is particularly worthy of
notice. It has displeased the most violent of the party attached
to him. The federalists, in general, are taken with it and hope
better things than they were led to expect from him. Madison
is Secretary of State. . . . Some say that Gallatin and Smith
are ridding themselves of commercial concerns and other business
in order to enter upon their offices a short time hence in a freer
and purer state. . . .

The chancellor (Livingston) was offered the Secretaryship of
State, but he preferred being resident minister at Paris, and he
has been appointed accordingly. DeWitt Clinton and Spencer
of Columbia county, with another democrat associated with
them compose a majority in the Council of Appointment, and a
violent disagreement now exists between them and the Governor.
They claim a concurrent right with him to nominate ; he insists
on his exclusive right. In this state of things the council sepa-
rated. The Governor applied to the Legislature for an explana-
tory law. They have refused to interfere. All appointments are
therefore at a stand. The members of the Council published a
manifesto justifying their conduct. . . .

It is not, however, thought that Jefferson will carry his displac-
ing system to an extreme. It seems to be generally believed by
our friends from Washington that you are not to be suspended ;
and nothing to contradict this idea has yet transpired.

4IO RUFUS KING. [1801

Gov. Jay has resolved, if possible, to make a compromise about
the office of Chancellor in order to get Lawrance on the Supreme
Court Bench in the room of Benson, appointed to be judge of the
circuit composed of this State, Connecticut and Vermont under
the late Judicial Bill. For this purpose his present intention is
to nominate Chief Justice Lansing to the office of Chancellor.
He is the safest man of all that party, and they will be puzzled
to negative him, or to express any dislike to his appointment. . . .

We are now in a state of profound quiet ; and I see no cause

for expecting a different state of things. If Jefferson conducts

with moderation and good sense, he will be supported by all the

enlightened federalists. . . .

Yours,

R. T.

Thos. Erskine to R. King.

Serjeants' Inn, March 23, 1801.
My Dear Sir :

Lord St. Vincent immediately answered my letter, but as I was
at Derby I did not get it until my return. It would give me the
greatest possible pleasure to be useful at any time in promoting a
good understanding between America & this country, & in shew-
ing the regard with which I always am

Most sincerely yours,

T. Erskine.

Enclosed in the above is Lord St. Vincent's answer
dated :

Admiralty, 13th March, 1801.
My Dear Sir :

My first object on coming to this Board, was to restore the
Courts of Admiralty in the Colonies with a view to check the
vexations which the American Commerce has been subject to,
and Sir Wm. Scott, who is to name to the new appointments, has
it now under consideration.

Mr. King is probably not aware of the abuses which are com-
mitted by the American Consuls in France, Spain, & Portugal,

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 41 1

from the generality of whom every Englishman, knowing him to
be such, may be made an American for a dollar. I have known
more than one American Master carry off Soldiers in their Regi-
mentals, arms & accoutrements from the Garrison of Gibraltar,
and there cannot be a doubt but the American Trade is navi-
gated by a majority of British Subjects, & a considerable one
too. Thus it becomes a very difficult point to draw the line, and
I have always considered this as the greatest evil arising from the
separation.

I entertain a very high respect for the public & private char-
acter of Mr. King, and I prize your friendship still higher, and
you may rest assured that whenever Lork Hawkesbury makes to
me a communication on this subject, I will do everything con-
sistent with my duty to the Public to cement the union between
the two countries.

Yours most truly,

St. Vincent.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 7.

London, March 26, 1801.
Dear Sir :

Though the King has recovered, he does not yet hold a court,
nor is it understood that he attends to any but the most pressing
and indispensable business. The chief of the new Ministers are
in their places, and all of them will be so in the course of a few
days. The Duke of Portland remains in the same Department ;
Mr. Addington, the late Speaker, is at the head of the Treasury ;
Lord Saint Vincent of the Admiralty ; Lord Hawkesbury of the
Foreign Affairs ; Lord Chatham of the Ordinance ; Lord Hoburt
is Secretary of War, Lord Hardwick, Lord Lieutenant of Ireland,
and Lord Eldon will be the Chancellor. With the exception of
Lord St. Vincent, the new administration is taken from among
the political friends of the old one, which in return has pledged
itself to support its successors.

It is more than a fortnight since the Fleet, under Sir Hyde
Parker, sailed from Yarmouth Roads for the Baltic for the pur-

412 RUFUS KING. [1801

pose of disputing the Question of Armed Neutrality. No news
has been received from it since its arrival in the Cattegat. If I
am not mistaken, the expectation here is that Denmark and Rus-
sia will be detached from the League ; tho' after what has been
done it is a little difficult to conceive upon what reputable pre-
text these Powers will withdraw. England thinks that Denmark
and Prussia will decline the issue of force, and from all I hear,
it is quite likely that both of them believe that England will
not, as she certainly has resolved to do, carry matters to that
extremity.

In the Debates which have lately taken place in both Houses
of Parliament the Doctrine that Free bottoms make free Goods
became a topic for discussion. The Ministerial side of the two
Houses treated the question in a high and positive tone, denying
the Right claimed by Neutrals in this respect, and declaring its
importance to be such that if from notions of expediency it
should be given up, the chief means upon which the safety of the
Nation depends would thereby be relinquished. The opposition
likewise denied the Right, but argued that its importance was
overrated, and that instead of forcing the question to the decision
which was now appealed to, it should have been got rid of in like
manner as it was in the year 1780. In the course of this debate,
which I attended in both Houses, it was broadly denied by Lord
Grenville and Mr. Pitt, tho' little pains were taken to support
their opinion either by argument or authorities, 1st. that Free bot-
toms make free goods ; 2nd. that neutrals may trade with block-
aded Ports ; 3rd. that naval stores are innocent merchandize ;
4th. that convoys protect from search ; 5th. that neutrals may
carry on during war a trade from which they were excluded in
peace.

These questions which were treated with great positiveness on
one side were ill-understood and feebly discussed on the other.
I was curious to hear what could be offered to disprove the last
point, the denial of which has always appeared to me to be a
limitation of the Rights of Neutrals, inconsistent with the equality
and mutual dependence of Nations, and I was not disappointed
in finding that it has no better or other support than the mere
convenience and advantage, which it is calculated to procure to
the Belligerent.

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 413

From the Levant no such intelligence has been received as en-
ables any one to do more than conjecture the result of the Expe-
dition to dislodge the French from Egypt. Little reliance seems
to be placed upon the efficacious cooperation of the Turks ; and
should Gautheau's squadron have reached Egypt before the
squadron of Lord Keith, the principal part of which wintered in
the Bay of Macis on the coast of Caramania, the French army-
will have received such supplies of every sort, as will put them on
an equality with the forces under General Abercromby, and tend
much to lessen his best chance of success, that of inducing the
French army, anxious to return to France, to consent to a Con-
vention for the evacuation of Egypt. This, should it happen,
would remove a thorny point in the way of peace, overtures for
which are understood to have been already made by the new
Ministry. The old question respecting the boundaries of France,
and the form and stability of its Government will be kept entirely
out of sight. The terms may be difficult to adjust, but not in-
surmountably so, unless France should insist upon the recognition
of the maritime Rules, laid down in the Northern League, to
which England will not consent so long as her present naval
superiority shall continue.

In respect to our own affairs, I can do no more than repeat
what I am weary of having repeated to me, that the King's illness,
the change of Ministry, and the attention to more urgent and
indispensable business have, against the inclination of the Govern-
ment, hitherto prevented them from coming to a decision con-
cerning them. I have been very lately assured that the business
shall be soon taken up ; and as the several points have been fully
discussed, a little time only will be requisite to decide them. I
have not thought it necessary to send you copies of my corre-
spondence ; preferring to submit it entire together with the result,
whatever it may be, of the negotiation. It will then be seen that
I have not been insensible to the disadvantages arising from the
delay, which as far as prudence and decorum would permit, I have
endeavoured to prevent.

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c. &c.

Rufus King.

414 RUFUS KING. [1801

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 8.

London, March 29, 1801.
Dear Sir :

In confirmation of the rumours of the day, Carnot's answer to
Bailleul, published during the exile of the former, states the pro-
ject which had been discussed in the Directory, to obtain from
Spain a cession of Louisiana and the Floridas. A reference to
that performance, copies of which I at the time sent to the De-
partment of State, will shew the manner in which it was expected
to obtain the consent of Spain, as well as afford a clue to the
views of France in taking this establishment. What was then
meditated, has in all probability since been executed : the cession
of Tuscany to the infant Duke of Parma by the Treaty between
France and Austria, forms a more compact and valuable com-
pensation to this Branch of the House of Spain than was formerly
thought of, and adds very great credit to the opinion, which at
this time prevails both at Paris and London, that Spain has in
return actually ceded Louisiana and the Floridas to France.
There is reason to know that it is the opinion of certain influential
persons in France, that nature has marked a line of separation
between the People of the United States living upon the two sides
of the Range of Mountains which divide that Territory. Without
discussing the considerations which are suggested in support of
this opinion, or the false consequences, as I wish to believe them,
deduced from it, I am apprehensive that this cession is intended
to have, and may actually produce effects injurious to the Union
and consequent happiness of the People of the United States.
Louisiana and the Floridas may be given to the French Emigrants,
as England once thought of giving them to the American Tories ;
or they may constitute the reward of some of the Armies which
can be spared at the end of the war.

I hear that General Collot, who was a few years ago in America,
and a Traveller in the Western Country, and who for some time
has been in disgrace and confinement in France, has been lately
set at liberty, and that he, with a considerable number of dis-
affected and exiled Englishmen, Scotchmen and Irishmen, is soon
to proceed from France to the United States. Whether their

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 415

voyage has any relation to the cession of Louisiana is matter of
mere conjecture ; but having heard of it in connection with that
Project, I think it proper to mention it to you.

What effect a plain and judicious representation upon this sub-
ject made to the French Government by a Minister of talents and
entitled to confidence, would be likely to have, is quite beyond
any means of judging which I possess ; but on this account, as
well as others of importance, it is a subject of regret that we have
not such a character at this time at Paris.

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to John Lawrance.

London, March 29, 1801.
My Dear Sir :

I have just received your kind letter of the 18th ulto. We had
however before heard of the issue of the Election, which I hope,
and on the whole believe, will not produce all the mischiefs which
have been predicted or feared. I shall not have the pleasure of
seeing you this year. We hope that Peace must and will be con-
cluded this summer ; in this event I shall pass the Autumn &
Winter upon the Continent. My Successor will probably arrive
by Midsummer, and in this event I hope to return home early in
the spring of next year. . . .

The new ministers are at last in office ; the King has recovered,
and overtures, it is believed, have already been made to France on
the subject of Peace. The old Topics, respecting the restoration
of the Monarchy, & the prudence of waiting for the evidence of
Facts, that the new Govt, is able to maintain the relations of
Peace &c. &c. will be omitted, and the negotiation will turn upon
mere terms. If France insist upon England's acceding to the
Doctrine that free bottoms make free goods, the negotiation will
soon be at an end, as upon this point there is at present no prob-
ability that Eng. will yield. Had not the old ministers gone out
I have reason to believe (this in confidence) that I should soon
have been able to settle our affairs in a pretty satisfactory way.
The subject is new to their successors, and tho' what has been
done will not, I hope, prove useless, more time will now be

41 6 RUFUS KING. [1801

necessary than could be wished, before the matter can be decided.
The West India & Halifax Courts are reforming. They will be
put on a good footing. Orders go by the next Packet to repress
depredations upon our trade to the Spanish Colonies.

The new President has much in his power, and if he conduct as
to public measures with moderation and wisdom, he will save our
Govt, and Country from the Reproaches which the invidious and
obstinate Partizans of a different Scheme are waiting to cast
upon both.

Very truly your faithful friend

R. K.

G. Cabot to R. King.

March 30, 1801.

My dear Sir :

I have reed, your letter of the 19th January which gives me
some satisfaction as it strengthens my hope that the British Em-
pire will yield nothing to the New Confederacy acting under the
auspices of France. I am perfectly satisfied if Britain is true to
herself she will yet triumph over all her Enemies : she has
abundant means & if she uses them with tolerable skill, they will
be successful. The miserable states of Sweden & Denmark can
do but little to injure England while they may be made to suffer
extremely, & the petulance & capricious temper of the Russian
Emperor renders his perseverance after one campaign very improb-
able. . . . Probably you will learn from others before this
reaches you that Humphries, Smith & Murray are to be recalled.
I have not been informed who are to replace the two latter but
the immaculate Citizen Chs. Pinckney is to go to Madrid. Mr.
Ellsworth or Mr. Murray is to consummate with Bonaparte the un-
finished Treaty which is carried out by Dawson of Congress.
" Mr. King is to remain at the British Court ; " " the President is
sincerely determined to preserve the peace with the British Em-
pire." You may be assured that it will give great pleasure to all
the good men in our Country to find that you are to continue ; I
beg therefore you may rightly appreciate all the circumstances
which bind you a little longer to the service in which you are
engaged. I have long considered a war with England at this

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 417

period as an event the most fatal to the United States that cou'd
happen — even if it shou'd prove a successful one to us — perhaps
the worse for being successful ; such a war wou'd overthrow com-
pletely all good principles & all good men in the United States; it
wou'd bring in the reign of that diabolical spirit which has proved
such a curse to France until it was laid by the sword of Bonaparte.
Jefferson & Madison don't intend war but their policy always
has been & probably will be to keep up the highest animosity that
can be borne without open war. If such is their system we shall
come to a rupture if the affairs of England by any new turn of
things shou'd make a war desirable to the Ruling Party there. I have
so often expressed anxieties on this point that you have been led
to think I magnified the danger of a War with England. I know
full well the force of some of those reasons which must operate in
the mind of a British Statesman against provoking new Enemies ;
but I know also that those who govern here may render a quarrel
unavoidable by overrating that force, & I repeat that the evils re-
sulting from such an event are of a kind that ought to be dreaded
much more than the mere pecuniary losses we shou'd suffer,
immense as they wou'd be. I understand from Stoddert that our
public vessels are not to resist the search of the British when
attempted of those under their convoy. Stoddert is out of office
but I am not informed who succeeds him. Dexter will leave the
Treasury in a fortnight from this time & Gallatin will preside over
our Money affairs. I know not what his principles are but if he
connects his views of fame & of interest with the maintenance of
public credit he will be able to secure more of both than in any
different course. A few changes are made already of officers at a
distance from the seat of Govt. & more are expected.

Yours faithfully & afftly,

G. C.

R. King to Rt. Hon. Lord Hawkesburv.

Great Cumberland Place, April 1, 1801.
My Lord :

The enclosed affidavit made before the Governor of Bermuda

will make your Lordship acquainted with the very reprehensible

conduct of the Vice-Admiralty Court of that Colony, in refusing

VOL. III. — 27

41 8 RUFUS KING. [1801

its assistance to give effect to the Court of Appeals in Prize
causes, and by reason whereof, the definitive Sentence of Resti-
tution pronounced by this Tribunal, has, in the cases referred to,
become altogether illusory.

It having been already determined by his Majesty's Govern-
ment to reform the Vice- Admiralty Courts in the West Indies and
Nova Scotia, I make this representation not only for the purpose
of procuring immediate redress in the cases to which it relates,
but with the hope that it will moreover be considered as an addi-
tional and urgent reason for the speedy completion of the Reform
which has been decided upon.

As this measure is still under consideration, I take the liberty
to observe that however sufficient the reasons may have been in
the early institution of Prize courts, when the Territory subject to
their respective jurisdiction was more confined than at present, to
justify the variety and succession of Process, issuing from the
Court of Appeal to enforce a definitive sentence of Restitution,
the application of this practice to the distant Colonies of Europe,
especially since the very great extension of Navigation in modern
Times, is found to be productive of such great and unreasonable
delay, expence and uncertainty, as in all cases to impair, and in
many to defeat the remedy, it is the duty of this Tribunal to offer.

These disadvantages are most frequently and seriously experi-
enced in the process against the Commanders and owners of
Privateers which have been commissioned in the Colonies.
According to the understood and necessary course of Proceeding,
after a decree of restitution is pronounced by the Court of Ap-
peals, as in the cases enumerated in the inclosed affidavit, Process
issues and is sent to the Colonies against the Commanders of the
Privateers, who to avoid the same in most cases, abscond from
the Ports where their Privateers were commissioned. Upon a
return to this effect, the Court of Appeals are moved to issue a
second process against the bondsmen of the Commanders of the
Privateers if their names can be ascertained. This is likewise
sent to the Colonies, and frequently disobeyed by the Bondsmen,
if they do not chance likewise to have absconded.

Upon the return of this second process, the Court of Appeals
is moved to issue a third one against the owners of the Privateers,
who are already likewise the agents of the Crew ; and possessing

i8oi] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 419

the captured property are interested in detaining the same by
every dilatory means, which it may be in their power to employ :
in a word such are the various inconveniences in carrying into
effect a decree of Restitution, that in a plurality of American cases
it has become a question whether it is not the part of prudence to
abandon the property unjustly captured rather than to pursue a
remedy so expensive, dilatory and liable to ultimate failure.

If the proceeds of the captured Property should be placed in
the hands of an officer of the Court, who should be precluded
from employing the same for his private emolument, a great source
of abuse would be cut off ; it would moreover be a still greater
reform, if a joint and effectual process not only notifying the
sentence of Restitution, but peremptorily enforcing obedience to
it, should issue against the Owners and Commanders of Privateers
instead of distinct and successive monitions — the cause having
been definitively decided, justice seems to require that the process
intended to give effect to such decision, should be direct and
peremptory, reaching all the Parties, and compelling them to
obedience.

With perfect consideration & Respect &c

Rufus King.

R. King to Rt. Hon. Lord Hawkesbury.

Great Cumberland Place, April 1, 1801.
My Lord :

I take the liberty to recall to your Lordship's recollection the
Letter which I had the honour to write to you on the 10th ultimo.

The unsettled situation of the business to which that Letter
relates is productive of great and increasing Disadvantages to the
United States, and although its adjustment may be matter of
secondary consideration and for this reason may continue to be
postponed to other and more pressing concerns, on the part of his
Majesty's Government, it is nevertheless a subject not only of
great importance but of the most urgent nature on the part of the
United States. Having had reason to expect that a final adjust-
ment of the mutual claims of the two countries would have been
effected before the close of the last year, I sent to my Govern-
ment information to that effect, and from time to time have

420 RUFUS KING. [1801

likewise explained what I conceived to be the causes of the delays
which have since arisen ; the negotiation having been reduced to
precise points, which have been fully discussed, it has become
my duty to transmit to my Government more authentic informa-
tion respecting the delay which still prevents its conclusion ; and
to enable me to do so, I take the liberty to request your Lordship
to inform me, whether his Majesty's Government has, or is likely
soon to, come to any decision, respecting the several propositions
referred to in my Letter to your Lordship of the 10th ultimo.
With high consideration & Respect &c

Rufus King.

Mr. King writes in his Memorandum Book:

1 801, Apr. 3d (Good Friday).

Dined at Ld. Lansdown's, reminded him of the papers respec-
ting the American Loyalists and relative to the Amer. Peace,
wh. he had said he wd. shew me. He repeated his determination
to shew them to me, said he wd. be in town in May, when he
wd. look them out ; and then added that he had a wish that they
shd. be preserved in some of the public offices of the U. S. I
applauded his proposal and offered to deposit them there as testi-
monial of the enlightened views wh. governed his conduct in
making the Amer. Peace.

Referring to that negotiation, he said Lawrance was a Rascal !
that he believed himself sure of him, when he left England ; in-
timated that he had disappointed his expectation. Franklin, he
said, wanted to do every thing by cunning wh. was the bottom of
his character ; that the Amer. Peace was a stock jobbing one ;
that D'Aranda & the French Minrs. gambled in the English
Funds ; he knew the persons whom D'Aranda employed ; that
he himself was faithfully and honorably served by Ld. St. Helens
(Fitzherbert) to whom he offered a pension of ^2000 a year after
the Treaty was made, wh. he refused.

That there was no secret agency as in the peace of 1763, when
there were three skins, one within another, the outside one the
Duke of Bedford knowing nothing of the second, which con-
trolled his measures, and the second ignorant of the efficient one
which really did the business. At the same hour that an official
dispatch ordered the Duke of Bedford to hold a certain high

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 42 I

language to the French Ministers, a second one gave instructions
to the confidential agent to inform the Duke Choiseul beforehand
that the Duke of Bedford wd. hold a certain language, of wh. it
was expected that no notice wd. be taken ; &c —

Mr. King writes in his Memorandum Book:

April 8.

Having requested an interview with the new Minister, Mr.
Addington, I went to his house in Downing Street this morning —
having prepared a Precis of the Question * respecting the Br.
Debts. I took it with me, and after expressing the object of my
visit delivered him the paper with the observation that what I had
to say wd. chiefly apply to that statement. The object of my re-
marks was to impress upon his mind that any farther delay in
bringing them to a close would be impolitic, and might prove inju-
rious to the harmony of our respective countries. He received this
communication in a satisfactory manner, said that Lord Hawkes-
bury had last evening, in mentioning his appointment with
me, alluded to the negotiation wh. he said must be brought to a
conclusion, and added for himself that the business shd. posi-
tively be attended to, in a few days, or in other words, as soon as
a momentary pressure of business had passed by. In a more
general conversation wh. ensued, he expressed sentiments such as
an English Minister ought to entertain respecting America. As he
knows nothing of the particular subject of the Debts, he made no
other observation respecting it, than that in his opinion other con-
siderations arising out of the mutual and peculiar advantages of
a friendly intercourse between G. Br. & America ought to have
their influence in the settlement in question.

I inquired of the King's health. He said it was certainly im-
proving ; the seven last days had done much to restore him ; he
had during that term slept well every night, his appetite had re-
turned and his usual habits and manners towards the persons
about him had become such as before his illness. This had not
been the case before — probably he wd. ride out today.

He certainly has not been as before insane : the derangement

has been that of a violent nervous turn, and the delirium subsided

with the fever. The physicians are still with him, tho' they say

in any other case, they shd. think it suitable to retire ; but that as

* The Precis delivered by Mr. King follows.

422 KUFUS KING. [180:

his age is critical and the same remedies, wh. were formerly
beneficial, have been otherwise during his present attack, they
think it proper to watch the state of their patient's health till it
shall be completely restored and confirmed. That he attends to
urgent and indispensable business only, reads the newspapers, &c,
but does not engage in the full amount of affairs.

Speaking of the extraordinary state of the country, with a
ministry partly old and partly new, he intimated that the chan-
cellor (Loughborough) wished a Regency ; that the Prince sent
for him three times and, as was his duty, he waited on him ;
that in his first visit he told the Pr. that he was not in office ; that
Mr. Pitt was the Chancellor of the Exchequer ; that the Pr. then
sent for Mr. Pitt, who declined going without him Mr. Adding-
ton ; that when they went together the Pr. intimated his deter-
mination to employ the person chosen by the King ; that he
expressed his sentiments with great respect, but said nothing
manifesting any wishes for the continuance of the King's favor-
able attentions by the Prince. What would have happened he
could not be sure ; the Regency project presented to and refused
by him, so that had it become unavoidable he might not have been
in very good odour.

Alluding to the disagreement with the Northern Powers, he
said, that the King had a pretty strong opinion that Hanover wd.
be preserved to his family by the mutual jealousy between France
and Prussia, neither of wh. would be willing that the other shd.
possess it, tho' both might covet it & be ready to deprive his
family of it.

Respecting the Catholic question, he said, he was disposed to
complete toleration, but there were certain offices to wh. he could
not consent to admit Catholics, without being ready, wh. he was
not, to abolish the constitutional principle that England was a
protestant kingdom.

He cd. not consent that a Catholic shd. be Lord High Chan-
cellor, by wh. means the Protestants might have Catholic Bps and
Arch Bps set over them, and the King's conscience might be in
other hands than their ancestors had thought worthy of keeping
it. He wished to reform Ireland, to emancipate it, but the reform
and emancipation wh. he desired was not to convert the poor, the
ignorant and the besotted into Legislators, but by salutary laws,

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 423

to rescue them from poverty, ignorance and religious errors, wh-
alone could make them either happy or respectable.

Touching upon the late Debate respecting the rights of belliger-
ents and neutrals, I disapproved the doctrine laid down both by
Ld. Grenville and Mr. Pitt in respect to the colony trade, adding
that they were not called upon to discuss or defend that point ;
wh. certainly was less capable of support than that upon wh they
were at issue with the North of Europe, and the maintenance of
wh. might raise up prejudices in quarters not disposed to unite in
the Northern League. He said he quite agreed with me in the
impolicy of these extrajudicial opinions.

Delivered to Mr. Addington at a Conference.

8th April, 1801.

According to the course of the Trade between Great Britain
and America before the war, the term of credit never exceeded
twelve months ; the greater part of the Remittances were made
in the Produce of the Colonies, which according to the Provisions
of the Navigation Act, was chiefly sent to the Mother Country,
and, subject to particular exceptions, the payments were annual.
According to different Documents it appears that during the last
year of the mutual dealings between Great Britain and the Colonies,
which now form the United States, the new debt created did not
exceed one tenth of the usual annual amount, while the payments
were greater than those of any former year ; so that it may be
presumed that a very large proportion of the govt. Debt was
actually paid before the intercourse was broken off by the war.

British Debts were in some instances sequestered in the course
of the war at the close of which it was stipulated, in the Treaty of
Peace, that all legal Impediments to the recovery of bona fide
Debts should be removed in both cases.

The British Creditors complained that, notwithstanding the
stipulation, they were not, in all cases, able to recover their Debts
by reason of the continuance of legal impediments ; and the 6th
article of the Treaty of Amity and Commerce of 1794, provided
that a Commission should be established with authority to award
Compensation to be paid by the American Government for losses
sustained by the British Creditors, by reason of the continuance
of such legal impediments ; provided the same could not be
recovered in the ordinary course of the Judicial Department.

424 RUFUS KING. [1801

The Proceedings of this Commission were arrested on account
of a difference of opinion among the Commissioners in the inter-
pretation of their Powers ; and the United States ordered their
Minister in London to propose to the British Government an
article explanatory of the Treaty of 1794, and which should
ascertain its opinion with greater precision.

Great Britain declined the proposal of an explanatory Article,
and offered to suppress the Article which it was proposed to
explain, provided the United States would pay a sum of between
one and two millions Sterling, which should be received in full
satisfaction of the whole Debt claimed by the British Creditors.
As many of the American Debtors have paid their Debts, and
most of those who had not were able to pay them ; and as the
American Courts were completely open to enforce such payments,
the United States declined the proposal of paying a sum in lieu
and satisfaction of the whole Debt, and authorised her Minister
to offer a sum in lieu of what ought under the Treaty of 1794 be
awarded to be paid by the American Government, leaving to the
Creditors their full rights to recover their Debts in the ordinary
course of the Judiciary.

This last proposal having been fully discussed, and the negotia-
tion brought to a point, it now only remains to be decided whether
it shall be closed upon the proposed Terms, or left open and
liable to the casualties and mutual Disadvantages to which the
changes of the present times may expose it.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 9.

London, April 10, 1801.
Dear Sir :

The unexpected occupation of Hamburgh by the Danes and
the Treaty between France and Naples have nearly completed
the exclusion of the Ships of England from the Ports of the Con-
tinent ; if the King of Prussia take possession of Hanover, as it is
believed he will do, the Ems and the Weser will in like manner be
closed ; and as Portugal is unable to resist the measures employed
against her, the Ships of England must very shortly be excluded
from every Port of the Continent from Archangel to Venice.

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 425

Notwithstanding these impediments, Goods of all descriptions
have been sent in unusually large quantities in Neutral Ships,
directly from England to France. The difficulty in procuring
Neutral Flags since the misunderstanding with the Northern
Powers has somewhat checked this Commerce, which will however
be now resumed with fresh vigour in American Bottoms. French
Merchants have openly attended the sales of the East India Com-
pany, and their purchases are shipped directly to France, under
Licenses granted by the Privy Council, which although they do
not specify the ownership, protect the property in its Passage.
Each Country seems disposed to encourage this intercourse ;
France by opening her Ports to Vessels coming immediately from
England, and England by protecting Frenchmen, who come
hither as Swiss merchants, in their purchases and assisting them
by taking off the Sequestration upon Debts due to Persons re-
siding in France, on condition that the money be laid out in the
purchase of Goods to be exported to the Continent.

Tho' frequent couriers pass and repass between Paris and
London Peace continues to be the subject of doubtful expecta-
tion, and will remain so till the uncertainty which hangs over the
Expeditions against Egypt and the Baltic shall be removed. It is
quite probable that something decisive has by this time taken
place in Egypt. Accounts are hourly expected of the proceedings
of the Fleet under Sir Hyde Parker ; the delay which occurred in
attempting the passage of the Sound, after the Fleet reached the
Cattegat, has given rise to the belief that negotiations were still
going on, notwithstanding the English Legation has left Copen-
hagen, and the Danish Envoy leaves London tomorrow ; but the
delay is more naturally explained by the fact that a steady and
leading wind is necessary to enable the Fleet to proceed.

If Egypt be evacuated by the French, a very thorny point in
the way of negotiation will be overcome, and Malta in this event
might be given to Russia as the price of reconciliation with that
Power. France will doubtless put forward a demand that England
shall acknowledge the Principles of the Northern League, but
may perhaps be willing to abandon the claim, when every other
difficulty in the way of Peace shall be got over.

With perfect Respect and Esteem &c.

Rufus King.

CHAPTER XXX.

King to Secretary of State — Advises Publication of his last Letter to Lord
Hawkesbury on the Seizure of Vessels loaded with Spanish Goods, and the
Answers from Lord Hawkesbury and Duke of Portland — Sentence of the
Vice-Admiralty Courts erroneous — King to Secretary of State — English
Fleet at Copenhagen — Death of Emperor Paul — Probable Break of
Northern League — Nelson's Victory at Copenhagen — King to Sir W.
Scott, asking how long before Appointment of new Judges in Vice-
Admiralty Courts — King to Strickland — Estimate of Jefferson — King to
Secretary of State — United States Affairs, though delayed, may be settled
on reasonable Principles — Lord Hawkesbury promised early Attention —
Mr. Addington favors Settlement on the 6th Article on Terms proposed —
Obliged to Mr. Sitgreaves for his Help — King to Secretary of State —
Action at Copenhagen — Russia to re-establish friendly Relations with Eng-
land— Russia has taken Possession of Hanover — Negotiations between
Paris and London going on — The King's Relapse — Uncertainty of his Re-
covery— Jewels etc., sent to Bey of Tunis — Wants Money to pay for them
and for various Salaries and Commissions — King to Secretary of State —
Interviews with Ministers on several Matters, especially the Debts —
Reasons for a more favorable Disposition towards United States — King to
Lord Eldon — Asks his Attention to the Matter of English Debts and urging
a Settlement — King to Troup — Jefferson's Speech well received — English
Affairs — Cabot to King — Ellsworth gives a gloomy Account of Europe —
Hopes King will not return Home.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 10.

London, April 12, 1801.
Dear Sir :

I lose no time in sending you the annexed copies of a letter
which I lately wrote to Lord Hawkesbury and of his answer, re-
specting the seizure of our vessels carrying from the United
1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 427

States to the Spanish Colonies articles of the growth and manu-
facture of Spain.

Though I had seen in the American Newspapers frequent ac-
counts of these Depredations upon the Trade, the Decree of the
Vice-Admiralty Court of Nassau, in the Case of the Leopard, Ropes
Master, was the first Document which I met with, that possessed
sufficient precision to enable me to make it the grounds of a
Remonstrance.

I take the liberty of suggesting the expediency of publishing
these copies in our Newspapers, as the most expeditious means of
communicating them to the cruising Ships and Privateers in the
American Seas. Having intimated this suggestion to Lord
Hawkesbury before he prepared and sent me his answer, there
can be no exceptions here against such publication.

With perfect Respect and Esteem &c.

Rufus King.

Lord Hawkesbury to R. King.

Downing Street, April 11, 1801.
Sir:

I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your Letter of
the 13th of last month, and to inform you that in consequence of
the Representations contained in it, a Letter has been written, by
his Majesty's command, by his Grace the Duke of Portland,
to the Lord Commissioners of the iVdmiralty, a copy of which
Letter I herewith inclose to you for the information of the Gov-
ernment of the United States.

I have the honour to be with great truth &c. &c.

Hawkesbury.

The Duke of Portland to the Lords Commissioners

of the Admiralty.

Whitehall,, 30th March, 1S01.
My Lords :

I transmit to your Lordships herewith a copy of a Decree of

the Vice-Admiralty Court of Nassau, condemning the cargo of

an American Vessel going from the United States to a Port of

the Spanish Colonies ; and the said decree having been referred

428 RUFUS KING. [1801

to the consideration of the King's Advocate-General, your Lord-
ships will perceive from his Report, an extract of which I inclose,
that it is his opinion that the sentence of the Vice-Admiralty
Court is erroneous and founded in a misapprehension or misap-
plication of the Principles laid down in the decision of the High
Court of Admiralty referred to, without attending to the limita-
tions therein contained.

In order therefore to put a stop to the inconveniences arising
from these erroneous Sentences of these Vice- Admiralty Courts,
I have the honour to signify to your Lordships the King's pleas-
ure that a communication of the doctrine laid down in the said
Report should be immediately made by your Lordships to the
several Judges presiding in them, setting forth what is held to be
the Law upon the Subject by the Superior Tribunals for their
future guidance and direction.

I am &c.

Portland.

Extract of the Advocate-General's Report dated the 16th
March, 1801 :

I have the honour to report that the Sentence of the Vice-
Admiralty Court appears to me to be erroneous and to be founded
in a misapprehension or misapplication of the Principles laid
down in the decision of the Court of Admiralty referred to, with-
out attending to the limitations therein contained.

The general Principle respecting the Colonial Trade has in the
course of the present war been to a certain degree relaxed in
consideration of the present state of Commerce. It is now dis-
tinctly understood, and it has been repeatedly so decided by the
High Court of Admiralty and the Court of Appeal, that the Pro-
duce of the Colonies of the Enemy may be imported by a Neutral
into his own Country, and may be re-exported thence even to the
Mother Country of such Colony ; and in like manner the pro-
duce and manufactures of the Mother Country may in this cir-
cuitous mode legally find their way to the Colonies. The direct
Trade, however, between the Mother Country and its Colonies
has not, I apprehend, been recognised as legal either by his
Majesty's Government or by his Tribunals.

i8oi] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 429

What is a direct Trade, or what amounts to an intermediate im-
portation in the neutral Country, may sometime be a question of
some difficulty ; a general definition of either, applicable to all
cases, cannot well be laid down. The Question must depend
upon the particular circumstances of each case. Perhaps the
mere touching in the Neutral Country to take fresh chances may
properly be considered as a fraudulent evasion, and is, in effect,
the direct Trade ; but the High Court of Admiralty has expressly
decided, and I see no reason to expect that the Court of Appeals
will vary the rule — that landing the Goods and paying the Duties
in the Neutral Country breaks the continuity of the Voyage, and
is such an importation as legalizes the Trade, altho' the Goods be
re-shipped in the same Vessel, and on account of the same Neu-
tral Proprietor, and be forwarded for sale to the Mother Country
or the Colony.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 11.

London, April 14, 1801.
Dear Sir :

The last mail from Hamburgh brings the news that the English
Fleet having passed the Sound without material injury, had taken
its Station before Copenhagen. Every measure on the part of
the Danish Government is marked with the character of deter-
mined hostility. The English Property in Hamburgh and Altona,
as well as throughout the Danish Territories is put in a state of
sequestration. Prussia has marched troops into, and taken pos-
session of the Electorate of Hanover ; and the confederates seem
each to be executing the part which the tenor of the League may
have bound them to perform.

At this critical moment a Courier has arrived here from Peters-
burgh with the news of the sudden death of the Emperor Paul ;
and the peaceable accession of his son Alexander to the Throne
of Russia. It is said that he is likewise the bearer of Dispatches
to the British Government, expressing a desire to reestablish the
good understanding which formerly subsisted between the two
Countries.

Without pretending to give you any exact information of the
measures which this sudden event may have already produced, it

430 RUFUS KING. [1S01

may without rashness be concluded that it will be followed by
important changes among which the breaking up of the Northern
League (in which Russia, being without a commercial marine,
has no direct interest) is likely to be the first. How instructive
to America, whom Providence has separated by a friendly Ocean
from the ancient world, are these great and endless changes in
Europe, and how forcible the admonition which they give us, not
to disturb the prosperity and happiness of our Country by
political ties which can in no event prove advantageous !
With perfect Respect & Esteem &c.

Rufus King.

April 15th.
P. S. An officer has just arrived with Dispatches from Sir
Hyde Parker, with the account of the attack made on the second
instant by Lord Nelson, commanding the Van of the English
Fleet, upon the Danish Line stationed off Copenhagen, consisting
of twenty three ships (seven of which were of the line) and sup-
ported by Gun boats and Floating Batteries. The contest was
bravely, tho' unskilfully maintained by the Danes ; Eighteen of
their Ships, including all the ships of the line, were taken or
destroyed with the loss in killed and wounded of 5000. men. On
the side of the English the killed and wounded amounted to 600,
including in the former two Captains. None of the English
Ships, according to this account, were materially damaged. A
Truce for four days succeeded to this action, which may be em-
ployed in a negotiation that, it is hoped, will put an end to the
war with Denmark ; the death of the Emperor of Russia, which
is fully confirmed, and the opinion that his successor will adopt

a new system of Policy may hasten this desirable result.

R. K.

R. King to Sir William Scott.

Mill Hill, Middlesex, April 15, 1801.
Dear Sir :

The accounts which we every day receive from America of the

irritation and sense of injury which are spreading themselves

throughout our commercial towns, occasioned by the vexations of

our Trade by the cruising ships and Privateers of G. B. in the

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 431

American Seas, make me extremely solicitous that no farther
delay should take place in completing the intended reform of the
Vice-adm. Courts in the West Indies and Nova Scotia.

In January last I was authorized to inform my Government
that their reform had been approved by the King, and from not
having foreseen the difficulties which have retarded its execution,
I accompanied the information with assurances, which have I fear
occasioned expectations in respect to the speedy abolition of the
old, and the immediate establishment of the new, Courts that will
be greatly disappointed.

I persuade myself that you will excuse my troubling you with
this communication, as well on acct. of the importance of the
subject, as because it is one much connected with the theories of
Public Law which at this time engage the attention of every one,
and I shall feel myself particularly obliged to you, if in your
power, to inform me how long, according to your view of the
Subject, before the new Judges may be expected to be at their
stations and ready to open their respective courts.

With very great respect &c

R. K.

William Strickland to R. King.

York, April 15, 1801.
Dear Sir :

. . . I should otherwise have returned you earlier thanks

for the copies you have sent me of my own publication ; if it
prove of any use to your country, my object in some of the
remarks I have made in it will be fully answered. . . .

This is a momentous period teeming with the destinies of sev-
eral countries & with circumstances that may materially affect
both yours and mine. We have experienced a change long
wanted, rather I suspect in name than in substance. You have
had a change of men which may be productive of a change of
measures, because principles are imputed to them differing much
from those of their predecessors, & there are those who are in-
clined to anticipate more evils as likely to arise from it, than 1
can possibly foresee. I am not unacquainted with Mr. Jefferson,
& if I can form a correct judgment of his system, he will be
desirous of promoting the internal improvement of his country,

432 RUFUS KING. [1801

and preserving it as much as possible from being entangled with
any European connections : nobody will contradict the propriety
of the first, and few will doubt the propriety of the last ; tho'
there may be those on this side of the Atlantic who might wish
it to be otherwise.

Wishing prosperity to your country & happiness to yourself
&c. &c.

I am, dear Sir yours most sincerely & faithfully

Wm. Strickland.

From R. King's Memorandum Book.

Apr. 20.

Having understood that Ld. Hawkesbury meant to consult Ld.
Grenville, I asked the latter to see me. He received me this
morning at Lady Camelsford's. After speaking of the state of
politics, I told him that I came to complain that since he left the
office of for. affrs., our business, the nature & urgency of wh. he
understood better than anyone, had stood still ; that I was sen-
sible the subject was new to Ld. Hawkesbury and comprehended
more detail than perhaps he had inclination to examine ; but that
tho' we could offer only good arguments in favour of our opinions
respecting the mode of settlement, we had a right to demand an
answer, especially as the affairs had been many months under
consideration ; that I cd. go no farther. I believed fully that I
had been authorized to go far enough ; that the claim was in fact
the remnant of old scores ; and moreover that I had no reason to
expect that a larger sum wd. be given ; that the unsettled state of
the business was disadvantageous to both countries, and that an
erroneous settlement was better than none. Besides if there were
doubts on their side of the sufficiency of the offer, they shd. throw
into our scale the just inference arising from the comparison of
the conduct of Amer. with that of any other neutral nation. Eng-
land had subsidized some nations and had been at expense of
blood and treasure to defend her own rights agst. the claims of
others.

America had stood up in defence of her own rights, had re-
sisted the common danger and had conducted in a manner hon-
ourable to herself and friendly to England.

Ld. Grenville said he was ready to admit all I had said ;

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 433

certainly the conduct of America had been correct and he had
not been ten years in office without learning that the creditors
\vd. be dissatisfied with any settlement wh. even the Eng. Govt,
wd. think it quite reasonable to make ; and that as they wd. be
dissatisfied by any settlement likely, their mere dissatisfaction
must be laid out of the question ; that he wished the business to
be closed & would have a conversation to that effect with Ld.
Hawkesbury.

It was in this conference that Ld. Grenville, speaking of the
armed neutrality, told me that Bernstoff, the father, was opposed
to the measure in 1780, and tho' he signed as Min., he im-
mediately gave in a strong paper upon the subject with his
resignation. Ld. G. said Sweden had manifested no spirit or
zeal since the detention of her Convoy.

It must have been a source of gratification to Mr. King,
while so deeply engrossed in the duties of his ministerial
office, to receive from Dr. Drury, at Harrow, such accounts
of his boys there as were sent to him.

Joseph Drury to R. King.

Harrow, 20th April, 1801.

With your permission I will consign your sons to the care of
Mr. Henry Drury (as Tutor) who will to the utmost of his power
endeavour to fulfil your wishes ; but I hope if your inclination
leads you to prefer any other of my coadjutors, you will not hesi-
tate to tell me so, as any such decision on your part can never
take from the interest I feel for your truly amiable boys. Indeed
there is little merit in such a declaration, as their conduct and
disposition must always insure to them the affection of those to
whose care they are committed.

I remain, Sir, with great respect &c.

Joseph Drury.

This letter is followed on the 26th of April by one from
Mr. Henry Drury, thanking Mr. King for committing his
sons to his care, and saying that though he has but slight
acquaintance with them, " he is happy to say that from the

VOL III — 2l

434 RUFUS KING. [1801

character I have always heard from Mr. Kerr (a former
Tutor), and the kind terms in which Dr. Drury speaks of
them, I have no doubt they will fully justify your ex-
pectations.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 13.

London, April 21, 1801.

Dear Sir :

Although the negotiation respecting the Debts is not yet con-
cluded, and I am unable to give you any positive assurance how,
or even when, it will be, I have thought it proper that I should
avail myself of the opportunity of Mr. Sitgreaves' return to send
you a copy of my Correspondence upon this subject, as well as of
that which relates to other points that are still under considera-
tion. I am inclined to believe that we should before now have
come to a satisfactory conclusion upon the subject of the Debts,
had the old Ministry remained in office : their successors profess
sentiments respecting our concerns with which we can find little
fault ; and though they have not given me any official assurances
concerning the adjustment of the several points now before them,
I might, did not experience teach me that foreign circumstances
have their influence in deciding the business of this as well as of
other cabinets, infer with some degree of confidence from their
language, that our affairs will ultimately be settled upon reason-
able principles.

You will, I think, perceive from the tenor of the Correspond-
ence, that I have not been insensible on the one hand to the
great disadvantage of the delay which has already taken place,
nor on the other to the risque to which a reasonable settlement of
our affairs may be exposed by any such material changes as would
be likely to alter what appear to be the present views of this
Government.

Lord Hawkesbury has more than once informed me that he
would attend to our concerns at the first moment after he had
extricated himself from the very pressing and critical State of the
foreign and domestic affairs ; and the Under Secretary, Mr.
Hammond, who is almost the only person who has any acquaint-
ance with our affairs, has lately told me that he wished the Ques-

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 435

tion of the Debts to be settled on the terms I had offered, and
which are mentioned in my No. 6, and I asked that he should so
express himself to his Superior.

Mr. Addington, as well while Speaker of the House of Com-
mons as since his late appointment, has uniformly expressed
himself to me as well as others in a favourable manner not only in
respect to the propriety and justice of the conduct of America
during the present war, but of the importance of our Friendship
to Great Britain and the policy of removing whatever stood in the
way of its continuance ; and in a Conference upon this Subject,
which I lately asked of him, he told me that he would act upon
those Principles, which he had often avowed to me respecting
America, and that as soon as they could get rid of the weight of
urgent business which at present bears upon them and which he
said would be in a short time, the Questions respecting America
should be taken up and decided.

Lord St. Vincent too, whose opinion concerning the impress-
ment of our seamen, I had reason to believe would be of great
authority either for or against the proposed article upon that Sub-
ject, has explicitly told me that he thought the article a reasonable
one, adding at the same time that the general subject both to
England and America was full of difficulties, which were becom-
ing more and more important as America advanced in Commerce.

You must not, however, from all this infer that our business
will be settled in a way which a wise policy requires that it should
be. I think, however, that a Decision cannot be much longer de-
ferred ; and I certainly do give such a degree of credit to the
temper which has of late shown itself, and the language which is
held respecting America, that I am disposed rather to hope for,
than despair of, such a settlement.

The Committee of the Creditors, if consulted as they probably
will be upon the terms, will be clamorous against them. But the
Government may, notwithstanding be sufficiently wise and firm to
decide this Subject upon Principles, not only more just, as they
regard its merits, than those which the Committee would recom-
mend, but with views sufficiently comprehensive to render their
decisions subservient to the promotion of good will and harmony
with their best, and in all respects, most important Customers.

It will not I hope be thought improper that I take this oppor-

436 RUFUS KING. [1801

tunity to express to you how much I have been obliged to Mr.
Sitgreaves for the assistance which he has given to me upon the
Subject of the Debts, and my full persuasion, had the negotiation
taken the turn which it was expected it would have done, that his
information and talents would have enabled us completely to
have established the justice of the explanatory article we de-
manded, and which had become necessary to protect us from the
injurious effects of the erroneous construction of the Treaty
which had been attempted at Philadelphia.

With perfect Respect &c. &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 14.

London, April 25, 1801.
Dear Sir :

There seems to have been something mysterious in the conduct
of the King of Sweden, who is said to have been at the Fortress
of Helsingbourg, opposite to that of Helsinger, when the English
Fleet passed the Sound under an incessant, tho', as it turned out
to be, a harmless fire of the Danish Batteries : for as the Swedish
Forts were silent, the Fleet kept close to the Swedish shore, and
passed without being touched even by the Danish Cannon : ex-
cepting a few of the leading Ships the English Fleet did not even
return the fire.

The action which ensued off Copenhagen was more critical than
it was at first represented to have been. The Commander in chief
who was in a situation to observe all that passed, after the ships
had been several hours hotly engaged, made the signal to call them
off ; Nelson, it seems, did not see it, tho' others did ; and by per-
severing under circumstances of very great difficulty, at length
succeeded in destroying the Danish line of defence.

The Armistice for fourteen weeks which has been concluded
between the Danish Government and Sir Hyde Parker, has been
received here with great coldness, and is said to be not only un-
authorized by the Admiral's instructions but directly contrary to
them. The avowed object of the Expedition was in the first
instance to compel Denmark, by destroying its Fleet and mena-
cing Copenhagen with a Bombardment, to secede from the Confed-

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 437

eracy. This is not attained. The Convention will be confirmed,
but Sir Hyde Tarker will probably be recalled, and the command
of the Fleet given to Lord Nelson, who will moreover be raised a
degree higher in the Peerage.

The next attack, it is understood, will be upon the Swedish Ships
of War at Carlscrona which is represented to be accessible to the
English Fleet.

The character and views of the new Emperor of Russia are at
present the subject of interesting speculation. Nothing decisive
upon these points has yet shewn itself ; favourable inferences are,
however, drawn from his circular Letter announcing his Father's
death, having been sent to this Court ; a circumstance it seems
unusual between nations at war. Count Woronzow, too, formerly
the Russian Envoy here, and whose Estates had been recently
sequestered from some unjust and capricious motive of the late
Emperor, has been ordered to signify to this Government the new
Emperor's desire to re-establish the former friendship between the
two Countries, and to add, if England will name an Envoy to
Russia, that he shall be authorized to resume his Diplomatic char-
acter here. In this posture of affairs, great exertions will be made
to detach the Emperor of Russia from the Confederacy, as well
as to confirm him in it. The King of Prussia has taken full pos-
session of Hanover notwithstanding it has been constantly paying
him money to protect its neutrality ; but as it is confidently be-
lieved that this step is inconsistent with the views of France, which
may treat Prussia with less reserve since the Peace with Austria
and the Empire whatever may be the fate of the Electorate, it is
not thought probable that the King of Prussia will be permitted to
keep it.

The English army effected a landing in Egypt on the 8th of
March ; the Disembarkation was opposed, and several partial en-
gagements took place between Aboukir and Alexandria from the
8th to the 16th, the date of the last news. We may daily expect
farther and more important news from that Quarter. The issue
of the contest is doubtful ; especially as the army expected from
India, thro' the Red Sea, may fail in its co-operation.

I mention these detached facts to prove that the negotiation,
which still goes on by courier between Paris and London, must
wait for and depend upon, events still undecided in the North,

438 RUFUS KING. [18
as well as in the South, and that all conjectures concerning its
result must therefore be illusory.

The King's recovery has not been * complete, the same remedies
have not had the same effect as on a former occasion, the fever and
the delirium having subsided it was believed that he would soon
recover, but by too early attention to business, or the news respecting
Hanover, or perhaps the nature of his disease, he has suffered a
relapse, and tho' not quite as ill as he has been, he is so much so as to
inspire great, and I believe well founded, anxiety lest he should never
completely recover : his present state is that of extreme debility. Cir-
cumstanced as the Ministers are their difficulties, as well as those of
the country, are much encreased by this uncertain state of the King's
malady. With perfect Respect & Esteem &c. &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 15.

London, April 26, 1801.
Dear Sir :

Some months ago I received instructions from the Department
of State to take measures to procure a quantity of Jewels as a
Present to the Bey of Tunis. According to the Estimate which I
had previously obtained and sent to the Department of State the
articles will cost about Seven Thousand Pounds Sterling. That
part of the Presents, which consists of silks and woollen Cloths,
to the amount of about a Thousand Pounds, has by my direction
been sent to Mr. Eaton, our consul at Tunis, by the House of Maw-
hood & Co. whom he recommended to me to do this branch of the
business, and with whose character I had reason, upon enquiry,
to be satisfied. Such of the articles as are strictly Jewelry have
been for several months preparing by Rundel & Bridges, and will
probably be finished in June, about which time the Guns, Pistols,
&c, will also be completed by Mortimer. I have applied directly
to the Manufacturers, instead of employing an agent to do so, who
would have charged us with a commission. Mawhood & Co. would
have allowed a discount of 6 per cent, upon the Silks and Wool-
lens supplied by them for prompt payment ; this I could not make,
as no funds have been remitted. They will expect payment at the

* Italics in cipher.

i8oi] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 439

expiration of six months from the shipment of the goods ; and
Rundel & Bridges, as well as Mortimer, will expect payment upon
the delivery of the Articles which they are severally preparing.
Mawhood & Co. have by my direction insured the goods which
they shipped, and, to guard against accidents, I think it will be
prudent to insure the residue of the articles when they are sent.
My object in making this communication is to recall the subject
to the recollection of the Government in order that seasonable and
adequate funds may be prepared to defray this expence.

Sometime before Col. Pickering went out of office, he informed
me that he should soon remit the usual sums for the Salaries of
the Legations to this country and to Prussia, as well as for the
Salaries and contingent Expenses of the Commissioners under
the 7th Article of the English Treaty, together with a further sum
for the Relief and Protection of our Seamen, and to defray the
Expences of carrying on those maritime suits, with which the
Government had charged itself.

This was not done before Col. Pickering's retirement, and only
eighteen hundred pounds have since been remitted from the De-
partment of State. As we now are advanced into the second year
since the usual annual Remittances were made, and as, moreover,
our accounts have been burthened with advances made to Mr. Ells-
worth and Mr. Sitgreaves, our bankers Mess. Bird, Savage & Bird
are considerably in advance, and the Proctors, as Mr. Williams
informs me, have of late become pressing for the payment of
their Bills. With perfect Respect & Esteem &c &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 16.

London, May 1, 1801.
Dear Sir :

Having learned that the law which prohibited our commercial

intercourse with France had ceased, and judging that great

numbers of our vessels would be immediately cleared out for the

different Ports of that country, and probably, among others, for

Ports in a State of Blockade, I wrote a note to this effect to Lord

Hawkesbury, and requested that immediate instructions should be

given to the Commanders of the Cruizers and investing Ships to

440 RUFUS KING. [1801

warn and turn away, instead of detaining for adjudication such of
our vessels as might be met on their way to the Ports of France,
which are blockaded by the English forces ; and I yesterday went
to Lord St. Vincent to enquire whether these orders have been
given. His Lordship informed me that although my Letter had
not reached his Department, he thought the request so entirely
reasonable, that he would that evening dispatch the requisite
orders to comply with it.

From Lord St. Vincent's I went to Lord Hawkesbury, agree-
ably to his appointment, and upon the Subject which, notwith-
standing my unremitted attention bestowed in every quarter likely
to promote its progress, has been so long delayed, his Lordship,
after expressing his regret that the business had not been settled
before Lord Grenville went out of office, and excusing the delay
which, on several accounts had since taken place, told me that so
far as regarded himself, he had, in respect to the settlement of the
affairs of the Debts, come to a decision : that he must however,
confer with his colleagues, and particularly with the Lord Chan-
cellor Eldon, but that he was disposed himself to close with the
offer, which ;I had made and which is mentioned in more than
one of my Letters. On my suggesting the great disadvantage of
further delay, arising from a minute examination of the subject
by the Chancellor, he replied that he would have a conversation
with him ; and that he presumed that his opinion might be formed
from a general view of the Question, and that therefore no con-
siderable delay would be likely to happen.

Upon the other points I have great hopes we shall not experi-
ence much difficulty ; but, in the system of this country, there
are many and inseparable reasons, why every thing of this sort
advances but slowly ; and in the present situation of the Execu-
tive Power, these tendencies to delay are considerably encreased.

The reform of the Admiralty Courts, a measure of the greatest
importance, and which I expected would have been completed be-
fore this Time, has been found more difficult than was at first
supposed ; and instead of being effected by mere orders of the
Executive Power, as was intended, a Law has been thought neces-
sary and the Bill is now before Parliament. I have had several
meetings with Sir William Scott, upon this subject, who is charged
with its Execution, and professes to be solicitous that the Reform
should give us reasonable and full satisfaction.

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 44 1

I have endeavoured to understand the variety and nature of the
Admiralty Process and think, notwithstanding the objection of
innovation, that the practice of these courts, as well as their Pro-
cess, will receive some very material improvements. You will see
by the Debates of the House of Commons, that both sides unite
in the acknowledgment of the great injury we have suffered from
the ignorant, vexatious, unjust, and as Mr. Hobhouse called them,
corrupt decisions of the West India and Halifax Courts. I shall
send you copies of the papers laid before Parliament upon this
subject.

It is to the opinion which of late has become general in the House
of Commons, respecting the injuries we have sustained from the
Depredations upon our Commerce, added to others derived from
a comparison of our conduct with that of other neutral nations,
that we owe a temper more favourable, than has heretofore
existed, with respect to our affairs.

It seems to be generally believed that the late Emperor of Rus-
sia suffered a violent death ; the accounts differ only in respect to
the agents, and means employed in its execution. The effect of
this change upon the Northern League, is not yet fully ascertained.
Here it is hoped and believed that it offers an opportunity for
mutual explanations which may put an end to further testimony
in that Quarter.

Lord St. Helens, formerly Mr. Fitzherbert, who negotiated
the American Treaty of Peace, is named for St. Petersburgh ;
and the last Packet brought official accounts that Russia and
Denmark had receded from their former determination to exclude
the English from the North of Germany by closing the Elbe, the
Weser and the Ems against them ; and not only that these Ports
were again free, but that the prohibitions against the exportation
of Corn and Naval Stores from the Ports of Russia and Prussia are
also revoked. Exclusive of the Events which have happened in the
North, the encreased facilities which the English Trade has lately
experienced in the Ports of France and Holland, may have con-
tributed to produce this change of measures.

A Report which arrived yesterday from Paris, but which needs
confirmation, states the complete success of Abercrombie in
Egypt.

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c &c.

Rufus King.

442 RUFUS KING. [180:

R. King to Right Honble. Lord Eldon.

Mill Hill, Middlesex, May 3, 1801.
My Lord :

It is frequently less troublesome for men of business to receive
and consider an application by Letter, than to receive the visit of
him who makes it ; from this consideration only I am led on the
present occasion to prefer this mode, and to trouble your Lord-
ship with the enclosed brief statements of a case of some conse-
quence, which has been the subject of a pretty free discussion
between me and his Majesty's Government, and which I have
reason to believe awaits only for your Lordship's approbation to
be satisfactorily adjusted.

It is quite probable that the Creditors, if consulted, may de-
mand a larger compensation than I am authorized to offer ; but
experience has taught me that the expectations of interested Per-
sons can seldom be received as rules of Justice, and never as the
grounds of accommodation depending on mutual concession ;
the sum we offer is, in our view, a liberal one, considering that
the debt still outstanding is the remnant of old scores, and, to use
a homely expression, the fag-end of the ancient dealings of the
two Countries.

A question like this, and which does not admit of exact proof
on either side, seems to be the proper subject of compromise ;
I therefore flatter myself that your Lordship will be inclined to
recommend a settlement of this long-standing concern, in the
only manner it is in my power to propose, and which, upon the
most impartial views of it that I have been able to form, appears
to me to promise advantages to the Creditors, superior to those
they could expect to attain in any other way.

With respect to the renewal of the Commission, exclusive from
the lesson derived from the Proceedings of the former Board, I
cannot help remarking that this, like many other Projects, which
Theory seems to recommend, is found to be of very little value in
practice ; arbitrations do well enough in private concerns, and
under control of courts of Law, but have rarely succeeded in
the affairs of nations, where the Principals are mutually inde-
pendent.

Were I not satisfied of the justice which we are willing to per-
form on this occasion, I would ask your Lordship to throw into

l8oi] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 443

the Scale the just influence in our favour, arising from the com-
parison of our conduct and that of any other Nation during the
present war. To some Great Britain has paid subsidies to enable
them to exert themselves in their own defence, and against others
she has been obliged to incur heavy expencesof blood & Treasure
for her own security. America alone, among the Neutral States,
has borne up against the common Danger, and throughout the
War has maintained a Conduct honourable to herself and friendly
to the rights of Great Britain.

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c.

Rufus King.

From R. King's Memorandum Book.

May 6th. Went to Mr. Addington the Minister, who received
me in a friendly manner and told me that he had not been in-
attentive to our business, that it had been before the Cabinet,
that Lord Eldon had read the papers and meant soon to ask me to
come and dine and discuss the matter with me : that he had said in
the Cabinet that he thought no connexion more important than
that of America and that he considered the question of the Debts
as the thread upon wh. the amity, by wh. I mean he added to me
the good humour and friendly intercourse of the two Countries
in a considerable degree depended.

That his Colleagues, he believed, viewed the subject in a favour-
able light and that he hoped it wd. soon be settled ; that I shd.
find the Chancellor a very different man from his Predecessor, who
he said would have been willing to have remained with him in
office ; but as he had no absolutely fixed character, and was a per-
son to whom he cd. not act in that entirely unreserved way that he
knew he cd. do, with the certainty of a full and honest reciprocity,
with Lord Eldon, he had preferred the latter and declined the
former Chancellor's services.

Speaking of the Prize Courts he expressed his hope that the
West Ind. Courts wd. be put on a satisfactory footing ; and that
with regard to the Court of Appeals he was determined to have a
certain number of persons, who shd. make it a business. . .

Of politics he said they hoped for peace ; that neither success
nor adversity wd. change their wishes. Moderate and reasonable
in their views, they should not enhance their demands, nor de-

444 RUFUS KING. [1801

part from what their own safety & honour required ; that in
respect to the negotiation, they seemed perpetually approaching
without being any nearer ; but that this was intelligible enough
& had respect to Egypt and the North. The public knew all they
knew from Egypt, & with regard to the North he was not without
expectation that things wd. attain a more satisfactory situation.

R. King to R. Troup.

London, May 9, 1801.
Dear Sir :

It is nearly two months since we have received any political
news from America : indeed we scarcely know anything which
has passed since the completion of the Presidential Election. At
first and by the help of Porcupine (who by the by is going very
fast out of repute, having been entirely cast off from those gov-
ernmental sources of information which he at first boasted of,) a
considerable sensation was excited and many people believed
there would be a war with America ; in a little time these fears
have vanished, and the speech of Mr. Jefferson has been very
generally well received. The new ministry act with much mod-
eration, profess to be in earnest for Peace, and openly avow that
neither success nor disappointment shall change their views upon
this interesting subject.

Some measures of justice towards us have been adopted, and I
entertain considerable hopes that our affairs will at last be satis-
factorily adjusted.

The King's health is still critical, and he continues to be unable
to enter into the current of Business. The affairs of the North,
I mean the Controversy about the armed neutrality, will according
to present appearances be settled ; from Egypt we are in daily
expectation of intelligence which will prove decisive of the suc-
cess or failure of Abercrombie's Expedition. The negotiation
for Peace, which still goes on, tho' like the asymptotes con-
tinually approaching without meeting, will then be brought to a
conclusion.

With great truth very sincerely, &c.

R. K.

1799] L1FE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 445

G. Cabot to R. King.

May 10, 1801.

My dear Sir :

I have enclosed you under a blank cover two of my specula-
tions on the tendency of the new doctrine set up for Neutrals.
Whether I am so fortunate as to convince others or not I cer-
tainly am convinced myself of the truth which I attempt to
maintain — I wish you to examine Americanus No. 4 & if you
think any part unsound to suggest it to me.

Brother Ellsworth gives us a frightful picture of Europe & a
discouraging one of England. I am inclined to allow a little in-
fluence from peculiar circumstances & ill health upon his strong
mind but am obliged to confess I am alarmed lest England shou'd
be induced to yield too much. . . . Govr. Strong is re-elected
as well as Gilman & Trumbull, but we deteriorate in our politics
in New England notwithstanding these favorable events — our
legislature will certainly be worse composed than it has been for
many years & may perhaps be absolutely Jacobinical. Rhode Isl-
and is as bad as it was in 87 & 88. We are anxious for New
York where Hamilton has made great & brilliant efforts in favor
of Rensselaer ; our reports are favorable but by no means satisfac-
tory. It was thought by some well informed men that a certain
Diplomatic Character abroad might have been carried with cer-
tainty had he been on the spot. I wish him the honor & the
public the benefit when he returns, but I am persuaded his ser-
vices are more important wThere he now is. I am not well pleased
to hear that you are disposed to return & I hope you will find
motives to postpone it one year longer at least. My prayer is, &
not without hope, that the British Sun will shine brighter & in
this I am patriotic as well as pious ; for altho' I am frequently
irritated as well as others at the injuries we suffer in their Colonial
dominions, yet I am unwavering in my belief that the Naval
superiority of G. B. is the best security against the power &
domineering spirit of France.

We are still quiet & shall remain so — at least we ought to —
Jefferson will experience no opposition & of course will be more
circumspect — if his party are angry they will support him in any
thing, but if the Country is cool it will be requisite that the
administration furnish no strong & obvious ground for com-
plaint.

446 RUFUS KING. [1801

Ellsworth is in better health than I expected to see him. — I last
evening received a letter from you of the 8th of March which tho'
not so late as our Newspapers by three weeks contained some in-
formation & some sentiments which give me pleasure. I had two
days before received one of the 4th of March. The demand of
Neutrals, or of others in their name, is so absurd that in this
country where it has been always popular with most of our great
men & all others it is growing daily into discredit.

Yours affectionately & faithfully

G. C.

CHAPTER XXXI.

Vargas to King — Cession of Louisiana to France Result of Volney's Sugges-
tions— Possibly to be used as a Compensation to the United States for
Indemities demanded — Lord Buchan to King — Life of General Washington
— A. Stephens to King — Wishes to write a Life — Has Lord Buchan's and
others' Papers — King to Secretary of State — United States Frigates in the
Mediterranean may check Insolence of Barbary States — To Lord Eldon —
Urges warmly the Resumption and Settlement of American Affairs — To
Secretary of State — Admiral Parker ordered Home — Bill for Vice-Ad-
miralty Courts in America — Sir W. Scott to King — Glad he approves the
Bill — Troup to King — Democracy triumphs — Gallatin Secretary of Treas-
ury— An Outrage — Sedgwick to King — Presidential Election — Preferred
Burr, who could not administer Government without federal Aid, which he
could only get by preserving their System — Jefferson's Principles abso-
lutely opposed to them — Hence Burr supported — Jefferson's Speech the
Result of his Timidity — His Followers disgusted — His Attachment to his
Friends shown by violent Removals from lucrative Offices — Cabot to King
— Regrets he is disposed to resign — His Opinions have generally coincided
with those of his Friends at Home — Troup to King — Lands look up — New
York prospering — Jefferson's Removals from Office — Burr — Marriage of
his Daughter — Hamilton's small Charges — Edward Livingston's Appoint-
ment.

M. Vargas to R. King.

Londres, io Mai, 1801.
Monsieur :

A mon depart de Paris, il y a plus d'un mois, Mr. Smith me

chargea de vous communiquer quelques idees relatives aux Et.

Unis de 1' Amerique, dont les details sont ci-adjoints dans un papier

separe. Quelques accidens, et une maladie assez grave m'ont

empeche d'arriver ici plus tot. A peine l'ai je fait que je me suis

rendu chez vous ; mais sachant que vous etiez a la campagne, et

ne pouvant m'y transporter, j'ai l'honneur de vous addresser,
448 RUFUS KING. [1801

Monsieur, cette lettre avec la note ci-adjointe. Je serais trop
heureux si elle peut remplir encore les vues de Mr. Smith.

En attendant je suis avec le plus profond respeet, Monsieur?
votre tres humble Serviteur

P. Vargas.

Reservee.

Mr. Smith ayant scu la nouvelle de la cession de la Louisiane a
la France, s'est empresse de la communiquer a Mr. King par le
moyen de Mr. Shober, qui etait sur le point de venir en Angle-
terre. Mr. Smith ayant eu une occasion casuelle de parler au
Citoyen Volney sur les affaires de l'Amerique, celui-ci lui a fait
quelques observations generates sur la disposition des habitans
d'au dela des Apalaches pour se rendre independant du reste des
Etats-Unis ; mais qu'il ne paroissait pas nullement dispose a croire
que la France devoit s'en immiscer. Cependant tout le monde
s'accord a dire que c'est en consequence du plan de Volney que
la France a demande a l'Espagne la cession de la Louisiane.

II parait que le resultat du dit plan doit etre la compensation
en proprietes territoriales a ceux des emigres qui ont perdu les
siennes en Europe, par suite de la revolution — Moyen de les
eloigner et de les tranquilliser. En outre de ca Fexportation de
planches, goudron, &c, pour les services de la marine francaise.

Ce sont les bruits publics, mais on croit que, sous main, l'idee
est de tenir en echec l'accroissement de la Republique Americaine,
et peut-etre de bouleverser les Etats du Sud en ebraulant la
fidelite des negres, &ca.

Mr. Smith a cru que etant un des Americains, ou peut-etre le
seul des Americains, plus en contact avec ceux qui approchent le
gouvernement francais, a cru qu'il etait de son devoir de faire
quelques efforts particuliers pour empecher l'establissement de ce
nouveau voisin en Amerique.

A cet effet il y a en quelques conferences avec Mess. Lafayette
et Dupont qui ont vu avec peine les idees du Gouvernement
francais et qui ont promis a. M. Smith de le seconder par le moyen
de Joseph Bonaparte dont ils ont quelque confiance, et a qui ils
ont convenu de le presenter.

Mr. Smith avait redige en consequence un memoire tres succint
dont le sens etait, " qu'il etait impolitique, apres les plaintes

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 449

recentes des Et. Unis et apres la conclusion d'un traite, d'alarmer
de nouveau le gouvernement Americain qui reposait tranquille
sur la trempe pacifique de l'Espagne, et dont le voisinage ne
causait le moindre inquietude qu'on voyait deja dans cette
demarche un germe de soupcon et peut-etre de querelle entre les
deux Rep. qui obligerait celle de l'Amerique a reserver ses liens
avec Angleterre. Qu'il y avait un moyen de tranquilliser les E.
U. en leur donnat, comme objet de compensation des indemnites
demandees, la possession de la Louisiane, dont l'acquisition pour
la france etait si peu de chose relativement aux objets de marine,
et dont les vues pouvaient etre bien remplis par rapport aux
emigres, lesquels pouvaient etre aussi heureux comme sujets de
l'Amerique que de la france." Ce memoire devait etre lu a
Joseph Bonaparte sous peu de tems.

C'etait l'etat des choses a mon depart. Mr. Smith veut que
Mr. King soit adverti, en outre, que le General Collaud devait
passer incognito aux Et. U. pour se rendre par terre a la Louisiane
pour y attendre une escadre avec 4000 grenadiers qui partira de
Brest pour prendre possession de ce pays la.

Si Mr. King veut empecher les idees ambitieuses de la france,
il peut faire ses observations a Mr. Otto dans l'intervalle que
l'Amerique envoye au Agent en france. Mr. Smith craint d'autant
plus le resultat de cette affaire que le gouvernement actuel de la
france, est tres populaire, ce qui n'etait pas le cas en tems du
Directoire.

Mais il laisse a la consideration de Mr. King si cette nouvelle
pourra produire quelque bon effet relativement a l'independance
de l'Amerique meridionale, car alors tout est dit, c'est le grand
plan auquel tous les autres doivent ceder.

Lord Buchan to R. King.

Dryburgh Abbey, May 12th, 1801.
Sir:

I am desirous that the example of my late honoured and illus-
trious kinsman and Friend General Washington may be rendered
as beneficial as possible not only to his own country and Nation,
but to the world at large, and with this view I have encouraged
Mr. Stephens of Chelsea, a respectable countryman of mine, to

VOL. Ill — 29

450 RUFUS KING. [1801

compile such materials for writing the life of the General as he

may be able to obtain, and as may tend to produce the good of

Society as well as the display of Mr. Washington's Virtues which

are very dear to me.

By the letter which I have written to Mr. Stephens on this

subject, and which I have desired him to communicate to you,

you will see what it is I have in view, and that I suppose it more

probable the work would be cleaner wash'd from party & prejudice

by being in the hands of a distant Philosopher & Scholar than in

those of even the equally competent to write on the other side of

the Atlantic. I am sir with much regard & due respect

Yr. obedt. hble. Servt.

Buchan.
American Minister at London.

Alexander Stephens to R. King.

12 South Parade, Queen's Elm, Chelsea, May 26, 1801.
Sir:

I have the honour to enclose you a letter from the Earl of
Buchan, an accomplished Nobleman, who has dedicated his life
to literature & deems himself peculiarly fortunate in having
enjoyed the friendship and correspondence of your illustrious
Countryman General Washington.

I also aspire, Sir, to write the life of the late President of the
United States,* and my principles can scarcely be misconceived,
when it is mentioned, that I declined, although an officer, to serve
against America, while gloriously contending for her just rights.

Lord Buchan has presented me with General Washington's cor-
respondence with him, & other Noblemen & Gentlemen have
evinced the utmost readiness in serving me. It is my wish to
apply to you, Sir, & through you, to Mrs. Washington, for
additional information & materials ; for this purpose I shall pay
my respects to you in person & in the meantime I have the
honour to be

Your Most Humble & Obedient Servant

Alexander Stephens.
His Excellency Rufus King, Esq.

* There is no answer to these letters, nor does it appear that such a Life was
written.

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 45 1

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 17.

London, May 15, 1801.
Dear Sir :

Lord St. Helens has sailed for Petersburgh, to which Capitol

Duroc, aid-du-Camp of the Chief Consul is likewise on his way.
From some recent communications which the Emperor of Russia
is said to have made at Copenhagen upon the subject of the
Northern Confederacy, it does not seem to be certain that Lord
St. Helens may not meet with greater difficulties than was at first
expected ; the influence of France will be exerted to defeat his
views, and as Russia is supposed to take an interest in the Indem-
nities to be made in Germany, in the settlement of which France
will have something to say, as well as in the re-establishment of
the King of Sardinia and the security of the South of Italy, objects
which depend entirely upon the will of France, this influence will
be very considerable.

The Battle of the 21st of March, in which the English were
victorious, though they lost their Commander in Chief, it is here
believed will enable them with the reinforcements which they will
receive to expel the French from Egypt.

We have a rumour which I wish may prove to be well founded
that several of our Frigates are on their passage to the Mediter-
ranean, where our Commerce, according to Mr. Cathcart's infor-
mation, is again exposed to the Piracies of Tripoli ; by blockading
that Port and cutting off its Commerce, the Bey may find it his
interest to become more reasonable, and the example would have
a beneficial influence upon the other Barbary States.

A Sabre which was sent to me by Mr. Smith several months
ago, to be mounted according to a model furnished by the Bey of
Tunis, is completed ; it costs ^370. sterling, and I will endeavour
to find an opportunity to send it to Malta to the care of some
English Officer there, to be delivered to the Commander of any
American Frigate which may call at Malta to forward to Mr.
Eaton by a safe conveyance from Malta to Tunis.

The arms and Jewels which are preparing likewise, as a Present
to the Bey of Tunis, may perhaps be forwarded to Malta by an
English Frigate to be disposed of in like manner as the Sabre.
If they go by a private vessel, I shall order them to be insured,
a precaution that will be omitted, if they are sent by a Frigate.
With perfect Respect & Esteem &c Rufus King.

452 RUFUS KING. [1801

R. King to Lord Eldon.

Mill Hill, Middlesex, May 18, 1801.
My Lord :

I have had the honour to receive your Lordship's obliging
Letter of the 7th instant and should not so soon think of recalling
to your recollection the subject to which it relates, were I not
strongly impressed with the impolicy of any farther delay in
bringing it to a conclusion. It is now more than two years since
this negotiation was begun, and upwards of six months that the
specific propositions, which your Lordship has lately received,
have been before his Majesty's Government. Lord Grenville gave
me reason to expect that this business would have been adjusted
during the Christmas holidays, and the communication which I
made to my Government corresponded with this expectation ;
tho' I have been fully aware of the disadvantages, which we have
suffered from the unsettled state of this negotiation, I have re-
spected the urgent engagements of his Majesty's ministers, in the
belief, that the affairs of America would be taken up and decided
when the pressure of other public business had a little subsided.

The favourable changes which have of late occurred, seem to
me to offer the occasion we have been waiting for, and I cannot
help thinking that our turn has in fact arrived ; should your
Lordship think so likewise, I am persuaded that our negotiation
may be speedily and satisfactorily concluded.

With the highest respect &c

Rufus King.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 18.

London, 19 May, 1801.
Dear Sir :

Though Captain Pellew of the English Frigate Cleopatra was
recalled, as I sometime ago informed you, Admiral Parker who
commands on the Halifax Station, and whose conduct has in
other instances been exceptionable in not restraining the plunder-
ing spirit of the Officers under his command, permitted him to
proceed to the West Indies instead of returning to England.
For this disobedience, joined to the persuasion that he has par-
ticipated too much in the avaricious passions of his subordinate

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 453

officers, the Admiral also is ordered home ; and the command
upon that station will devolve upon Captain Douglass. Orders
have followed Pellew to the West Indies to return to England.

Enclosed I send you a Copy of the Bill concerning the Eng-
lish Vice-Admiralty Courts in America. If you have ever at-
tended to the proceedings of these Courts and those of the Court
of Appeals, you will find that the Bill will work a very important
Reform. I am endeavouring to procure the addition of two
other regulations ; one requiring that all detained vessels be sent
into the Islands where the Courts are established ; that the pro-
ceeds of captured vessels shall in no instance go into the hands
of the Captors or their Agents, until it shall have been definitely
adjudged to belong to them as good Prize. The former Regula-
tion would prevent the delay and expense of sending the ship's
papers or their copies from one Island to another ; the latter
would destroy the motives of the captors to defer the trial, in
order to enjoy the use of the Property ; and both would operate
to discourage the Privateers of Bermuda, the Bahamas and
other Islands which lose their Courts of Vice-Admiralty.
With perfect Respect and Esteem &c &c

Rufus King.

Sir Wm. Scott to R. King.

May 21, 1801.
My dear Sir :

I am glad you approve the Bill (for the Regulation of the Vice-
Admiralty Courts) generally. It is my sincere wish that it may
be such as on a fair and dispassionate consideration between the
countries you wd. approve.

I can assure you that I expressed in our last conversation my
own favorite idea that the Cruizers might be compelled to carry-
in their Prizes to those Islands only, where the Jurisdiction is
established. I hope I am not violating official Confidence when
I say Mr. Nepean can inform you with what Ardour I preferred
it, and how I entered my Protest against the danger & Incon-
veniences that may ensue, when I was finally & determinedly as-
sured that the Exigencies of the Public Naval Service would in
no degree admit of it. It is solely on your account that I was
anxious to obtain a different Rule to be adopted ; I dread the

454 RUFUS KING. [1801

Hazard of Constitutional Questions between us and the disin-
herited Colonies. But you will be so good as to remember that
all I have to do, is to represent or (perhaps) remonstrate to Gov-
ernment, and after they have taken their Resolution, to carry it
into effect in the best manner I am able.

Your Intimation respecting Sales of Cargoes shall be taken into
honest & deliberate Consideration before the Bill goes into Com-
mittee. I thank you very much for your American News.

I am, my dear Sir,

Very faithfully yours,

W. Scott.

The Bill is read a 2nd time tomorrow (friday) — and will be
then ordered for the Committee against I come to town from vis-
iting my Constituents at Oxford during the Holiday week, being
my only opportunity of paying my Respects to them upon my
election.

R. Troup to R. King.

New York, 22 May, 1801.
Dear Sir :

. . . Democracy has obtained at our late election a complete
triumph over us. The revolution in the public mind has even
astonished the leaders of that party. Clinton will be our Governor
by a decided majority. In this city we failed in getting a majority
of even freehold votes ; a thing that has never happened before.

Gallatin is at length officially announced to us as Secretary of
the Treasury — an appointment by all virtuous and enlightened
men amongst us considered as a violent outrage on the virtue and
respectability of our country ; you know his history. . . .

Yrs. R. T.

T. Sedgwick to R. King.

Stockbridge, 24 May, 1801.

My dear Sir :

I have reed, a letter from you without date or signature. — I
wrote to you at the commencement and at the close of the last ses-
sion. With the last I wrote also to Messrs. Gore and Sitgreaves.*

* This letter is not found.

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 455

If these letters, which went by a Merchant ship from Phila. should
have miscarried I shall regret it, because they contained an expo-
sition of the motives which governed the federalists during the
session, and particularly in the election of a President.

You know my opinion of the two candidates, and it was not
suddenly that I determined which to prefer. It was evident that
Burr did not possess the confidence of his own party, & that he
was selected as a candidate, not from affection, but because it was
supposed his influence was indispensably necessary to secure the
votes of the electors of New York, which votes, it was foreseen,
were essential to their success. When it was known that he had
acquired an equal number of votes with Mr. Jefferson the party
did not conceal, nor attempt to conceal, their disgust and aversion.
Of this Burr could not be ignorant and hence it was believed, that
he would be sensible of the difficulty, if not impossibility, of ad-
ministering the government without federal aid ; and this he could
not expect to receive without giving his support to the preserva-
tion of those systems which the federalists thought necessary for
the public prosperity. On the other hand Jefferson was believed
to be a sincere Democrat — hostile to the principles of our consti-
tution, and the measures of the administration — desirous of
conforming in practice to the imbecile principles of the old con-
federation, a confederation whose measures would be directed by
the arrogance of Virginia aided by those states which looked up
to her with servile submission. It was believed that he had given
evidence of an entire devotion to france under every form of her
government, and that under the dominion of this political passion,
aided by a rancorous hatred to G. B., he might involve the country
in war with the latter, & what is worse form an intimate and sub-
ordinate connection with the former. We knew, possessing as he
did the full confidence of his party, he had means, which his rival
wanted, to carry into effect mischievous designs which he might
entertain. On the other hand Burr was secured against the evils
resulting from local or personal attachments or aversions, being
guarded by his selfishness against them. I cannot go into a detail
of the reasonings which produced a unanimous determination
among the federalists of the house to support Mr. Burr. The
above hints may afford materials for your reflections on this sub-
ject. It would be still more beyond my power to give you an

456 RUFUS KING. [1801

intelligible relation of those untoward events by which our inten-
tions were defeated — I am, indeed, restrained from doing it by
other considerations than merely that the relation, by its length,
would fatigue me and disgust you. When I see you and I hope I
shall enjoy that pleasure it shall be the occupation of a leisure
morning or evening.

The conciliatory speech of Mr. Jefferson at the time of his in-
auguration was the effect which the strong opposition made, by
the federalists, to his election, produced from his timidity. When
to him Burr was preferred by all, and when the greater part to the
last would risk every consequence rather than he should be Presi-
dent, he was sensible that the federal mind contemplated that
event with horror. Hence he was disposed to conciliate and to
soothe ; and hence he spoke of federal measures & federal men
with respect. This disgusted, beyond expression, the leaders of
his own party ; because it gave the lie to all those slanderous mis-
representations by which his election had been secured. To rein-
state himself in their good graces it was necessary to give serious
proof of his attachment, and this he has done by the most violent
removals from offices which are lucrative to the federal possessors
and filling them with furious democrats. The wit of man could
probably devise no measure more fitted to render party animosi-
ties incurable. This is " healing the wounds of party divisions "
with a witness.

The federalists in the state of New York were confident that
they should elect Mr. Van Rensselaer as Governor, but they now
confess that Clinton is chosen by a great majority. The system
of general expulsion, first instituted by McKean, will be there
practised with rigor. That we have succeeded in choosing Mr.
Strong in this state is a fortunate event, and beyond the expecta-
tion of many of his friends. At all events we shall remain tolera-
bly safe another year. Indeed in my opinion the federal party is
here, at present, rather increasing. In this County, at the late
election of a member of Congress, Bacon had a majority of more
than 900. This was the beginning of March. In April the ma-
jority for Gerry, & there never was a more strenuous effort made,
was less than 200.

At the time I declined being a candidate to the House of Rep-
resentatives, I had not the least doubt that Mr. Williams the federa

801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 457

candidate would have been elected. Had I foreseen the event
which has taken place I would not have declined. Yet nothing
could have been more painful to me than to have continued longer
a member of Congress, excepting exactly what has taken place.

An effort has been made in Connecticut to displace our old
friend Governor Trumbull, but from all accounts I am confident
that his majority was never so great. That is the only state where
the election of Jefferson has decreased the influence of his friends
and the number of his party. Should, however, the Democrats
get possession of the government of Massachusetts I have no
doubt that soon all New England will follow her example.

I am sincerely & affectionately yours,

TS.

G. Cabot to R. King.

May 25, 1S01.

My dear Sir :

. . . We all regret that you are disposed to leave your office.
Altho' a majority thinks wrong upon the subject yet our best men
are more decided than ever in their opinion that this Country has
a great interest in the success of England against France. Men
are compelled to see that England alone has resisted the most
terrible power that ever appeared & has prevented the final over-
throw of whatever is good to society. . . . Jacobinism gains
ground in the U. S. & threatens New England with its missive.
Already I hear many men complain that our systems must be
purged of their excessive democratic characters or we shall be
ruined. I shall tell Ames of T. Paine's unhappy fate but I don't
believe he will take warning. I have no doubt he will consent
that you shou'd cross the channel in full expectation that if you
leave your good sense behind you, you will resume it upon your
return. It has been among our few consolations to find that your
opinions have in the main perfectly coincided with ours thro' a
period in which we have been sometimes supported by too few on
this side the water. I have said " in the main " because possibly
local causes may for a moment have prevented us from seeing an
object in the same light. The affairs of Nations often appear

458 RUFUS KING. [1801

best when seen from a distant position ; you may therefore have
thought our condition better & that of England worse than we
have thought them. Whether the British Nation is so organised
as to use all its means is a difficult question to solve, but if it can
I am persuaded it can continue the war without impoverishment
until its Enemies wou'd of necessity make a safe peace.

Yours truly

G. C.

R. Troup to R. King.

New York, May 27, 1801.
Dear Sir :

. . . Governor Jay goes out of his office much gratified.
We have taken pains, by public expressions of our gratitude for
his services, to sweeten his recollection of his political life. At the
same time it is conceded by all his friends that his reputation has
not gained by the administration of the government. . . .

Lands by the by begin to look up. Last week 100 acre military
lots were sold at auction for 20 percent down and the residue in
30 days for 14/ per acre ; and Genessee lands, the quality of
which was not known were sold for 7/3 and 7/7 on the same
terms. The country is filling up fast and wheat for two years
past has been fluctuating from 13/ to 18/ a bushel. Go where
you will, you behold nothing but the smiling face of improvements
and prosperity. This City is still progressing with astonishing
rapidity ! Upon your return you will be agreeably surprised to
see the change for the better during your absence. Broadway
now presents one of the most delightful spectacles in all proba-
bility in the world ! The walks on both sides are pretty generally
planted with trees. All the vacant lots are filled up (except one)
with handsome houses ; and the open and extensive view of the
water charms me whenever I step from my door. It seems against
all calculations that such a situation should be a hotbed for the
yellow fever. At present I discover no apprehensions even that
this dreadful scourge is again to visit us this season. . . .

We all believe that it is not Mr. Jefferson's present plan to super-
sede you. Mr. Morris seems confident he will not do it. And

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 459

yet the course thus far pursued by Mr. Jefferson with regard to
removals has strong marks of an entire devotion to party.

No doubt is entertained that the next House of Representatives
will be democratic, and it is believed by many that the Senate is
now poised and that Burr will of course decide the majority. If
this be not the case, it is very nearly so. I see nothing, therefore,
to prevent Jefferson and his democratic friends from having the
complete possession of the general government, and I am content
that their skill and patriotism should be put to the test. The
Chancellor expects soon to embark for France. . . . His
quitting the Court of Chancery is a comfortable relief to us ! He
is now so deaf that, as a judge, he may be truly said to be deaf
to the voice of Justice ! With all my bawling I could hardly
make him hear me. At Buonaparte's table his situation must be
delightful to himself and the company. One of his sons will be
obliged constantly to sit alongside of him and cry out, Mr. Liv-
ingston— Mr. Livingston — Mr. Livingston ! Citizen sans culottes
speaks to you ! . . .

The citizen Vice-President is still among us. He has been
going for near a month to Charleston to see his daughter, who
last winter married a Mr. Allston — a young Carolinian of large
fortune. His person is ordinary — his manner pedantic — his tem-
per not very soft — his politics violent on the democratic side —
and his opinions savor much of the conceit and imperiousness
of the old dominion. It is understood here that the marriage
was an affair of Burr, and not of his daughter, and that the money
in question was the predominating motive. Mrs. Allston is a hand-
some round faced and black eyed woman, but much under size.
Her acquaintance say her reading has been wholly masculine,
that she is an utter stranger to the use of the needle, and quite
unskilled in the different branches of domestic economy.

Burr is an enigma that we cannot decypher. His present office
has drawn him from the Bar, where his practice (from the enor-
mous fees he was accustomed to take) was very lucrative ; and
no person doubts that his salary does not pay the interest of the
money he owes. As a proof of his enormous charging as a law-
yer, I give you the following instance. In the famous case of
Le Guen vs. Gouverneur Kemble, he was assistant counsel with
Hamilton, who was the leading counsel and whose talents and

460 RUFUS KING. [180 1

influence we all know pushed the cause through. Hamilton* would
take no more than $2500 for his services, and Burr (having got
previous loans from the Frenchman) worked him out of about
$6000.

We are told and we believe that Jefferson and he hate each
other ; and Hamilton thinks that Jefferson is too cunning to be
outwitted by him. At the breaking up of Congress in the spring,
Burr told a member, a friend of ours, that Jefferson had not con-
sulted him on the subject of appointments or measures and he
hoped he would not. And yet it is difficult to account for the
appointment of Swartwout to the office of Marshall of this district,
but through the influence of Burr with Jefferson. Swartwout is
notoriously the runner and tool of Burr on all occasions, but is
not generally known even in this City. How could he have been
known to Jefferson unless by Burr's recommendation ?

It was generally supposed that Burr had a hand in Edward Liv-
ingston's appointment to the office of District Attorney in the place
of Harrison, as Livingston was doubtless one of Burr's confidential
agents to manoeuvre him into the Presidency. But the member
of Congress above alluded to is of opinion that Livingston's ap-
pointment was a part of the price given to purchase Livingston's
vote for Jefferson's election. He adds that if Livingston had not
betrayed his trust, Burr would certainly have been President.

. . . The truth is that, independent of other considerations the
Chancellor wrote a very peremptory letter to his brother Edward
on the subject of an alarm which Hamilton gave the Chancellor
for the purpose. Pains were taken to inform Jefferson of the
plots and manoeuvres against him, and hence it is concluded that
there is, and can be, no cordiality between them.

Jefferson told the member of Congress referred to that it was
his determination to make no displacements ; but that when
vacancies occurred, he should fill up with his friends till the
scales of office were poised ; and then he should give an equal

* Le desinteressement en matiere d'argent, rare partout, plus rare en Amerique,
est un des traits les plus universellement reconnus du caractere de M. Hamilton
et quoique sa profession actuelle soit tres-lucrative. J'entends dire a ses clients
que leur seule contestation avec lui est sur la modicite des honoraires qu'il leur
demande. — Voyages dans les Etats Unis d'Ame'rique, vol. vii., 150. Par La
Rochefoucauld Liancourt.

l8oi] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 46 1

hand to both parties. This decision has been grossly departed
from as I have already shewn.

Jefferson's inaugural speech has had a wonderful lullaby effect.
I do not apprehend the serious mischiefs from his administration
that have been foretold ; but my opinion is, that it will be the
little contemptible thing that grows of a trimming system and a
studied adherence to popular notions. Hamilton is persuaded
that neither Jefferson nor his friends have sufficient skill or
patriotism to conduct the political vessel in the tempestuous sea
of liberty. Since the V. President's return from Washington,
after the adjournment of Congress, I have been to pay my respects
to him and he has returned the visit. . . He told me that the
members of Congress were so dissatisfied with their accommoda-
tions at Washington the last winter, that they were within an ace
of adjourning to this city ; and he thinks nothing prevented the
measure but the address of Mrs. Law and a few other ladies who
reside at Washington. Mr. Jefferson, however, is doing every
thing he can to induce a continuance of the government at Wash-
ington, and I presume he will succeed. Prodigious clamors are
made against the place ! . . .

Adieu,

R. T.

P. S. A squadron is now on the point of sailing under Cap.
Dale from Hampton Roads for the Mediterranean in quest of the
Algerines. Truxton was to have had the command of the squad-
ron, but it is said he would not consent to go without having leave
to fight if he saw fit, and without having his vessels better
manned.

We have a new President of our College in this City. He is a
Dr. Wharton, an episcopal clergyman settled at Burlington in Jer-
sey. He was bred a Jesuit, and some years ago renounced the
Roman Catholic faith. He is of the Carrol family in Maryland. I
hear him spoken of as an excellent scholar and as a man of genteel
manners. Dr. Johnson left the college about a year ago under
embarrassments arising from the land speculations of his sons.
These embarrassments are said to continue. He is again settled
in Connecticut.

462 RUFUS KING. [180 1

Mr. King's Memorandum Book.

May 24.

I suggested to him (Mr. Addington) the aid of England might be
given to us with the Barbary Powers by her influence with them as
well as with the Porte — He expressed a disposition to afford us
their aid, said our frigates shd. be supplied at Malta, Minorca &
Gib., shewed me a letter just received from Sir Wm. Pulteney
advising great moderation towards America and the sending
thither an Ambassador with a large salary. Mr. Addington asked
me if such a measure wd. disserve England. I answered not if
the character was a fit one, &c. . . .

CHAPTER XXXII.

King to Addington — Complaint of Abuses to American Vessels brought into
English Ports — To Lord Hawkesbury — Illegal Proceedings in Vice-
Admiralty Court in Gibraltar — King to Secretary of State — Question of
Debts in the Cabinet — Addington's liberal Views on this and other pending
Matters — Hopes of a speedy Decision on them — King to Troup — Peace the
earnest Wish of Ministers — Probable Convention limiting the Right of
Search — To Secretary of State — Letter from Lord Hawkesbury Relative to
Depredations in West Indies — Conference, among other Topics, on Cession
of Louisiana to France — His strong Feeling against it — We preferred it in
the Hands of Spain or transferred to United States — Report of King's
Advocate on Vice-Admiralty Courts — King to Secretary of State — The King
attends to Business — Affairs in Egypt — Probable Peace between England
and Northern Powers — Threatened French Invasion of England — Har-
vests good — King to Lord Hawkesbury — By President's Direction he
presses the Settlement of the Reform of the Prize Courts in Wrest Indies —
H. Lee to King — Expressions of Friendship and Regard — Begins to doubt
Jefferson's professed Moderation — King to Lord Hawkesbury — Demands
the Discharge of an American Shipmaster because not liable for Charge
against him in an English Court — To Lord Eldon — Asking if he has given,
as promised, his Opinions on the Debts, etc. — To Lord Hawkesbury about
Cunningham the American Shipmaster — Bird, Savage, and Bird to King —
General Allen's Affairs — King to Addington — Urging him to bring the
Questions pending before the Cabinet — To the Secretary of State — Parlia-
ment prorogued — Law regulating Prize Courts passed — French Government
may not ratify the Convention with United States.

R. King to J. H. Addington, Esq.

Great Cumberland Place, May 26, 1801.
Sir:

I take the liberty through you to represent to the Lord Com-
missioners of the Treasury the abuse, which has of late become
frequent in the Ports of England, and especially at Portsmouth,
464 RLFUS KING. [1801

of obliging vessels detained and sent into Port by his Majesty's
Cruizers upon frivolous pretences, and which are afterwards re-
leased, to pay the Light and Tonnage Duties payable only by
vessels which voluntarily and for purposes of business enter the
ports of England. The interruption of such vessels in their regu-
lar voyages is attended with very considerable losses, which on
many occasions, ought to be, though they very rarely are, com-
pensated by their Captors. But the injury is enhanced by the
demand of Duties, which upon no principle of justice should be
made in cases so circumstanced.

The American Cartel Ship, Benjamin Franklin, detained and
sent into Portsmouth by his Majesty's Ship the Loire, and upon
my application discharged by the Lords of the Admiralty, has as
you will perceive by the enclosed communication, made to me by
Mr Villers the Supercargo, been recently compelled to submit to
these unreasonable Demands.

I beg the favour of you, Sir, to lay this complaint before the
Lords Commissioners of the Treasury, in the persuasion that their
Lordships will adopt such measures as may be deemed efficacious
to put an end to these exactions in future.

With perfect Respect &c,

Rufus King.

R. King to Lord Hawkesbury.

Great Cumberland Place, May 26, 1801.
My Lord :

It is my duty to represent to your Lordship the irregular and
injurious proceedings of his Majesty's Judge of Vice-Admiralty
at Gibraltar, in holding trials on American property not within
the jurisdiction of his Court ; as well as to complain of the long
and oppressive detention of American Vessels captured by the
public and private armed ships of Great Britain, and sent into
the Port of Lisbon.

The enclosed Protest of the Master of the American Brigatine
Susannah, exhibits one of the several instances which have
occurred of this double irregularity.

The Susannah was taken in the bay of Cadiz by the Privateer

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 465

La Mouche, Robert Blair Commander, and sent into the Port of
Lisbon, where she was detained upwards of five months, and dur-
ing such detention tried and condemned in the Vice-Admiralty
Court of Gibraltar.

Upon every known principle upon which civil Law Courts pro-
ceed this trial was irregular, the vessel not being within or sub-
ject to the jurisdiction of the Court ; and it is not obvious how
this proceeding can be materially distinguished from the irregu-
larity, which during the present war has been practised by an-
other Belligerent Power, and against which Great Britain justly
and efficaciously remonstrated, that of erecting Prize Courts with-
in the territorial jurisdiction of Neutral States ; for it must be in-
different in respect to the acknowledged principles applicable to
this subject, as well as to those whose property may be affected,
whether the tribunal is carried by fiction to the thing concerning
which it may adjudicate, or the thing is brought by a like fiction
to the tribunal.

The ancient law of Europe, and the observance of which pro-
tected the mutual independence, as well as the peace of nations,
made it necessary that property taken as prize on the high seas,
should be carried for adjudication within the territory of the
nation to which the captor belonged ; and if this rule, doubtless
founded in public reason, was universally observed in former cen-
turies, how much more necessary has it become vigorously to
enforce it in modern times, when Commerce is so widely ex-
tended and the security of its Rights forms so important a branch
of the essential Duty of every nation.

It is not the violation of a barren Right against which the
Representation is aimed ; the injury complained of is accom-
panied by positive and very considerable Damages. The Gov-
ernment of Portugal declines all interference in respect to vessels
in this situation ; and as neither the High Court of Admiralty
nor the Vice-Admiralty Court at Gibraltar possesses any juris-
diction over property within the Dominions of Portugal, the con-
sequence is that the owners of neutral vessels are left to the jus-
tice of the Captors, and in some instances compelled to give
money, and in others to submit to disadvantageous compromises
in order to ransom themselves and their property from indefinite
Detention.

VOL. III. — 30

466 RUFUS KING. [1801

I cannot avoid, my Lord, on this occasion attempting to
strengthen my Demand of a prompt and effectual correction of
these abusive Irregularities by recalling to your Lordships' recol-
lection the decided manner in which the American Government
early in the present war, and upon the Representation of his
Majesty's Minister in the United States, interposed its authority
to prohibit the establishment of Prize Courts and the sale of
Prizes within the United States.

With perfect Consideration &c. &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 19.

London, May 30, 1801.
Dear Sir :

Since the date of my Letter, communicating Lord Hawkes-
bury's sentiments respecting the Debts, I have seen and con-
versed with Mr. Addington, who told me that he had called up
the subject in the Cabinet, as he had before assured me that he
would do, and that he had expressed his solicitude that it should
be brought to a decision, adding, that as the question from its
nature and circumstances was not susceptible of exact proof, it
was not extraordinary that it should appear in various lights to
different persons ; but as the mutual harmony of the two Coun-
tries in a certain degree depended upon its being settled, it was
in his opinion desirable that a measure, in its consequences of so
much importance, should be no longer deferred. Our conversa-
tion extended itself to other objects affecting the intercourse and
friendship between the two Nations, upon all of which he ex-
pressed himself with liberality ; concerning the depredations upon
our Trade committed by their cruizing Ships, he said that orders
had been despatched immediately after he came into office, to
their naval Commanders in every quarter of the world, requiring
them to respect the Rights of neutrals and to exercise those of
belligerents with the greatest moderation ; and as measures were
in train to reform the Vice-Admiralty Courts, he was determined

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 467

likewise to adopt such means as should prevent the Delay hereto-
fore complained of in the Proceedings of the Court of Appeals.

Yesterday I met by appointment the Lord Chancellor, who in-
formed me that he had fully examined and made up his opinion
concerning the subject of the Debts ; but that it was proper be-
fore he mentioned it to me, that he should communicate it to his
colleagues, which he engaged to do without Delay, & I asked him
if he had looked into the Papers respecting the Maryland Bank
Stock ; he replied that he had sent to his predecessor for them,
and as they had already been before him, the looking of them
over again would require but little time and attention.

From these communications joined to what Lord Hawkesbury
had before said to me, we may, I think, infer that the business
will now be decided in a short time ; whether the decision will
close the negotiation upon the terms I have proposed, is more
than I know, though I am inclined to hope that this will be the
case.

We have no news either from the Levant or the Baltic since the
date of my last ; from Paris private accounts state that there will
be no objection to the ratification of the Convention, according
to the modification advised by the Senate. Mr. Otto who is as
likely as any one to be sent as Minister to the United States has
informed me that the Consul has called for a list of persons to
be employed in America, which has been supplied by the Minister
of Foreign Affairs.

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c. &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to R. Troup.

Mill Hill, Middlesex, May 31, 1801.
Dr. Sir :

. . . Here though bread is dear, things are in this respect
improving ; and as the season has been hitherto a favorable one,
and the country has the prospect of a good harvest, it cannot be
long before the distresses arising from a scarcity of provisions
will be over. Peace according to the profession of the new min-
isters is the earnest and sincere wish of this country, and, when

468 RUFUS KING. [1801

the question respecting Egypt is decided, it is not improbable that
it may take place between England & France, provided Bona-
parte believes his personal authority will be as secure in peace as
in war. This will not depend upon the success of the English ;
for should they fail and be obliged to re-embark, I do not think
they would renew the attempt ; though at present the probability
is on the side of the success of the English in Egypt.

It is likely, though not certain, that the affairs of the North will
be settled : perhaps a convention may be made limiting the exer-
cise of the Right of visit & search ; denying it wholly to Priva-
teers where the Neutral is under convoy, and requiring certain
Precautions, where it is enforced by a National Ship, and provid-
ing for Damages &c, whenever it shall be exercised without just
cause. I have reason to know that shd. any such convention be
made, there will be a disposition to enter into the like stipulations
with us shd. we desire them.

From France we hear (private accounts only) that there will be
no objections to complete the convention according to the advice
of the Senate. When will the Chancellor embark ? Mr. Otto is
talked of as the Minister to the U. S., and would be as suitable a
character as is likely to be thought of.

Very truly

R. K.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 20.

London, June 1, 1801.
Dear Sir :

Annexed I send you the copy of a letter which I have just re-
ceived from Lord Hawkesbury on the subject of the Depredations
upon our Trade in the West Indies. As there can be no objec-
tion to its publication, you will perhaps think it adviseable to
have the Letter and its Enclosures printed in our News Papers,
by which means it will reach the West Indies and be seen by
those whose abuses it seems intended to restrain.

Two days ago by Lord Hawkesbury's request, I waited upon

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 469

him in Downing Street, where he informed me that having under-
stood that we were about to send a small Squadron of Frigates
into the Mediterranean for the protection of our Trade against
the Barbary Powers, he had received the King's command to state
to me for the information of the President, that his Majesty had
given orders that the Ports of Gibraltar, Minorca & Malta should
be open to our Ships of war, and that they should moreover be
supplied from his Majesty's magazines in those Ports, with what-
ever their necessities might from time to time require. I of
course made my acknowledgments for this friendly communica-
tion, and added that I would immediately transmit it to you for
the President's information.

On this occasion among other topics of conversation, his Lord-
ship introduced the subject of Louisiana* ; he had from different
quarters received information of its cession to France, and very
unreservedly expressed the reluctance with which they should be
led to acquiesce in a measure that might be followed by the most
important consequences ; the acquisition might enable France
to extend her influence and perhaps her dominion up the Missis-
sippi and thro1 the Lakes even to Canada j this would be realising
the plan, to prevent the accomplishment of which the seven years
war took place, besides the vicinity of the Floridas to the West
Indies and the facility with which the Trade of the latter might
be interrupted and the /stands even invaded, should the transfer be
made, were strong reasons why England must be unwilling that
this territory should pass under the dominion of France. As I
could not mistake his Lordship's object in speaking to me upon
this Subject, I had no difficulty nor reserve in expressing my
private sentiments respecting it, taking for my text, the ob-
servation of Montesquieu " that it is happy for Trading Powers,
that God has permitted Turks and Spaniards to be in the
world, since of all nations they are the most proper to possess
a great Empire with insignificance." The purport of what I
said was that we are content that the Floridas remain in the hands
of Spain, but should be unwilling to see them transferred except to

ourselves.

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c, &c,

Rufus King.

* Words in italics in cipher.

470 RUFUS KING. [1801

{Copy.)

Downing St., 30th May, t8oi.
Sir :

I have the honour to transmit to you for your information the
copy of a letter with its enclosures from Mr. King to Mr. Ham-
mond in answer to a representation which I had directed to be
made to the Duke of Portland on the subject of the capture of
American Vessels trading to the Spanish colonies in the West
Indies : and I trust that you will consider this communication as
furnishing an additional proof of the disposition of his Majesty's
Government to repress any practices on the part of his Majesty's
Subjects, which may tend to molest or impede the legal Com-
merce of the Citizens of the United States.

I have the honour to be with great consideration &c, &c.

Hawkesbury.

Rufus King, Esq.

Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty.

{Copy.)

Whitehall, 27th May, 1801.
My Lords :

I transmit to your Lordships herewith for your information an
extract of a letter from Mr. Thornton his Majesty's Charge d'Af-
faires in America to Lord Grenville with copies of its inclosures
relative to the Capture of American Vessels trading to the Span-
ish Ports, together with a copy of a Report of his Majesty's Ad-
vocate General, to whom by the King's command the Papers in
question have been referred.

I have at the same time the honour to signify to your Lord-
ships his Majesty's pleasure that you should direct the Judges of
our Vice-Admiralty courts to follow and be guided in their de-
cision in cases relating to the Trade carried on between a neutral
and a belligerent nation, by the rules and principles established
by the High Court of Admiralty and laid down in the inclosed
Report of his Majesty's Advocate General ; and the better to
enforce an uniform and strict adherence to those principles, I
am further to signify to you the King's commands that directions
should be given to withdraw Letters of Marque and reprisal in

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 47 1

cases where the owners thereof shall appear wilfully and know-
ingly to have captured and brought in for adjudication, contrary
to his Majesty's existing instructions vessels, trading between a
neutral country and the enemy's colonies.

I have the honour &c

Portland.

Report of the King's Advocate.

{Copy.)

Lincoln's Inn Fields, 23d May, 1801.
My Lord Duke :

I am honoured with your Grace's latter of the 19th inst. trans-
mitting to me several papers which have been communicated to
your Grace by Lord Hawkesbury from his Majesty's Charge d'Af-
faires in America, with a direction to take them into consideration
and to report to yo-ur Grace for his Majesty's information my
opinion, whether in consequence of what is contained in the
extract of Mr. Thornton's letter to Lord Grenville, especially that
part of it which states, " a principle to have been lately adopted
in the courts of Vice-admiralty at Jamaica and Providence, that
no commerce could be permitted between a belligerent and neu-
tral nation in the vessels of the latter except such as had been
authorized previously to the commencement of hostilities," it
would be adviseable to make any, or what, communication to the
Vice-admiralty courts at Jamaica and the Bahamas for their
guidance & direction.

In obedience to your Grace's commands, I have considered the
Papers referred to me, and I have the honor to report that the
principle stated to have been lately adopted in the Courts of
Vice-Admiralty at Jamaica and Providence, is directly in opposi-
tion to the decisions daily passing in the High Court of Admiralty
and the Court of Appeal. It has been held by the tribunals of
this Country, that neutrals cannot be admitted by the enemy,
under the pressure of war, to carry on his colonial trade, from
which in time of Peace, they were wholly excluded. But this
principle may be, and has been, on account of special circum-
stances during the present Hostilities to a certain degree relaxed.

His Majesty's Instructions of January, 1798, only ordered that

472 EUFUS KING. [1801

vessels should be brought in for legal adjudication which are
coming directly from the Enemy's Colonies to Europe, and not
being bound to England or a Port of their own Country. A
Trade between the neutral Country and the Enemy's Colonies is
now clearly permitted. Colonial produce actually imported into
the neutral country may also be re-exported from thence to
any other place, even to the Mother Country of that colony of
which it is the produce. His Majesty's existing Instructions are
therefore the rule by which at present the Judges of Vice-ad-
miralty Courts ought to govern themselves, and I humbly appre-
hend that it would be adviseable to convey to the Courts referred
to a direction to that effect ; as the application of the more ex-
tended principle upon which they are represented to act may be
productive not only of much injustice, but of great publick incon-
venience.

I have the honor to be &c

J. Nicholl.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 21.

London, June 8, 1801.
Dear Sir :

The King has so far recovered as to be able to attend to the
most important portion of the public Business, but he does not
enter into it generally or with his former assiduity. The foreign
Ministers were received by him a few days ago at the Queen's
House ; he seemed to be much debilitated having the appearance
of one who had been severely attacked by a fever from which he
was beginning to recover.

According to the last accounts from Egypt, which are of the
20th of April, the probability that the French army will be able
to maintain possession of the country is still farther diminished.
Should the Squadron which sailed originally from Brest under
Gantheaume ; and which has more than once attempted to pro-
ceed from Toulon to Egypt, be able to reinforce Menon by-
landing troops at different places on the coast westward of
Alexandria, he may hold out sometime longer than it will other-

1810] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 473

wise be in his power to do. But as the English, by being Masters
of the Mediterranean, are enabled likewise to reinforce their
army, and the Turkish forces have actually advanced and most
probably taken possession of Cairo, the chances are upon the
whole manifestly and greatly against the French. Tho' there is
no news from the Baltic since Lord St. Helens arrived at Peters-
burgh, there seems to be little doubt that peace and the former
intercourse will be reestablished between England and the
Northern Powers. The Embargo upon the English Ships having
been taken off in Russia and its seamen released and sent back to
their vessels, and Denmark having manifested dispositions
favourable to an amicable settlement of the controversy, the
English Government has in its turn removed the Embargo, which
had been laid upon the vessels of Russia and Denmark. Sweden
must act in concert with her neighbour, and the misunderstanding
will probably be adjusted, perhaps by a compensation for the
Regulation of the Right of Search. Having in separate conversa-
tions with Lord Hawkesbury and Mr. Addington alluded to the
probability of such a convention, they both assured me, without
however intimating that the measure was likely to happen, that
they should be ready, if desired, to secure to us by Treaty every
limitation of the Right of Search, which England might consent
to with any other nation.

Demonstrations are making all along the opposite French coast
for an invasion of the British Islands, and tho' the preparations
are not in such forwardness, as to induce a belief that any
attempt can soon be made, there are many who think that it will
not long be deferred, and be seriously undertaken ; but the return
of the English Fleet from the Baltic would render the enterprize
more hazardous by the additional squadron with which the
motions of the French might be watched and defeated.

The pinch of the scarcity is passed ; the season has thus far
been a favourable one, and there is a good and general prospect
of an early and plentiful harvest. Bread however will continue
to be dear till November. Such of our Merchants as ship flour
at the high prices and after the 25th of March will be losers,
though the profits of the year will be great to the country.

With perfect Respect & Esteem, etc.

Rufus King.

474 RUFUS KING. [1801

R. King to Lord Hawkesbury.

[Private?)

Great Cumberland Place, June 12, 1801.
My Lord :

Although the recent Instructions which have been sent to the
West Indies and Nova Scotia, may operate to curb, and the pro-
posed reform of the Vice-Admiralty courts, when made, will do still
more to correct the illegal Seizures and depredations, made under
cover of his Majesty's authority upon the lawful Commerce of the
United States ; they can do nothing to satisfy the injury, or
compensate the losses that have recently occurred by the capture
of American Property which has been condemned in the Colony
Tribunals merely because it was bound to the dominions of the
Enemies of Great Britain.

So considerable and extensive have been the losses that a sense
of irritation and injury has spread itself throughout the com-
mercial towns of the United States, which have called upon the
President to interfere for the recovery of the Property of which
they have been unjustly deprived, as well as to procure to their
Trade greater security from the depredations in future. In
consequence hereof, I have been instructed to represent to your
Lordship, on the one hand, the President's sincere desire and
Resolution to adhere to those principles of exact neutrality, which
have uniformly marked the conduct of the American Government
during the present war, and, on the other, his confidence, founded
upon the fidelity of his own Principles, as well as the sentiments
of respect which he wishes to entertain for the Justice of the
British Government, that immediate, efficacious and summary
measures will be devised to restore to the American Citizens, with
costs and Damages, the Property of which they of late have been
deprived by the unjust seizure and sentences in the West Indies
& Nova Scotia.

To wait for the Decisions of the Courts of Appeals, already
loaded with the accumulated Business of the War, and to be
obliged to incur the Expence and Delay of the requisite
Process to obtain such Decisions, would be to confound the
present cases of acknowledged irregularity and injustice with
the ordinary and doubtful business of the Tribunal of Appeals.

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 475

Under the peculiar circumstances of these cases, I have pre-
ferred in the first instance this private representation to your
Lordship, which, by bringing the subject under consideration,
may suggest the best course of attaining its object, and I shall be
ready to present an official note respecting it, as soon as I shall
be apprized of the mode in which a restoration of the property
can be made.

With perfect consideration &c,

Rufus King.

Henry Lee to R. King.

Stratford, Virginia, June 18th, 1801.
Dear Sir :

Altho I very seldom write to you, the feelings of my heart
toward you, correspond with the affectionate regard which sprung
up with our first acquaintance. I hear with the highest pleasure
the unvarying acknowledgements rendered on both sides of the
Atlantic to your private worth & yr. ministerial ability. The im-
portance of the station you fill to our Country will I presume
induce the govt, here (notwithstanding its radical Mutation) to
avail itself of your talents & influence by urging yr. continuance
in London.

Whatever may be yr. destiny my prayers for the felicity of
yourself, Mrs. King & family will be as constant as they are
sincere & as soon as the public interest will permit I shall rejoice
to find you restored to yr. native land.

Done with public life by a retirement long since resolved on, I
can give you no interesting information on political subjects.
The professed moderation of Mr. Jefferson, which was so pleasing
to us all, begins to be doubted from some late dismissions &
appointments — as yet the judicial department only has felt his
interference, how long it may be before he extends his reform as
it is termed to other departments is very uncertain. Left to him-
self I believe his conduct would be marked by much moderation,
& although his Cabinet is composed of mild and amiable men,
yet I fear he will be goaded by party into intemperance & unwise
proceedings.

47^ RUFUS KING. [180 1

Should this be the case the next election will be contested with
renovated ardor, & elections so keenly contested will not always
settle without disturbing the national tranquility.

We have just heard of the surpassing achievement of a division
of the British fleet off Copenhagen under the orders of the God
of the seas, if I may in the stile of antiquity thus term a mortal,
and, yesterday we learnt of the debarkation of Genl. Abercromby
in Egypt & of his successful advance to the vicinity of Alex-
andria. If both these expeditions issue favorably, the first consul
will be placed in a more disadvantageous situation by the powers
of Britain alone, than United Europe with the profuse waste of
blood & gold had been able to accomplish.

I profess I very much doubted the success of the Egyptian ex-
pedition, but never apprehended possibility of failure to the
Baltic.

Will the two events, terminating as they now promise, hasten
or retard peace ? — the world seems panting for this event.

Blessed will be the minister who restores to agitated man
repose. Even in this country all ranks look anxiously to this
happy event, notwithstanding the continuance of the war cannot
fail greatly to enrich our citizens.

I will stop as I am sure my reflections must be crude & can-
not be interesting to a man whose situation, information &
perspicacity enable him to view and understand the position
thoroughly, whereas limited — very limited indeed must be my
squint at it.

A friend's son visits London & Paris for the completion of his
education. He is truly amiable & respect for his parents as well
as regard for himself interests my heart in his success & comfort.
In no way can I contribute so effectually to promote the end of
his voyage as by asking yr. kind attention to him while in London.
This I do without ceremony, confident that it will be afforded on
yr. part with truth & pleasure. Thus to be informed will be
highly gratifying to me on act. of young Mr. Handsford, & be-
cause it will be a manifestation of the continuance of the same
disposition in you so long recognized by me with the most pleas-
ant sensations. . . .

Ever yours

Henry Lee.

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 477

R. King to Lord Hawkesbury.

Great Cumberland Place, June 15, 1801.
My Lord :

George Cunningham, a citizen of the United States and Master
of the American ship Orion, which lately arrived in England
from America, has been arrested and is now confined in the
Prison of Newgate, upon a charge of having by immoderate pun-
ishment killed John Gosner, one of his crew, and who was also
an American citizen, during the voyage from America to England.

According to the representation of this case which has been
made to me, it is manifest, first, that the charge preferred against
Cunningham is both false and malicious ; and second, whether
true or otherwise, that he is not liable to answer for the same in a
British Tribunal.

In cases of Piracy all nations have a concurrent jurisdiction,
because a Pirate is the common enemy of all nations ; but in
cases of homicide, and other crimes, committed upon the high
seas, and which by the Law of Nations, do not amount to Piracy,
the offence is cognizable only in the Tribunals of the Nation
to which the vessel belongs, in which the same was committed.

As Cunningham is an American Citizen, and the offence im-
puted to him was not committed within the territorial jurisdiction
of his Britannic Majesty, and is not a Piracy, he cannot be held
to answer for the same in his Majesty's Tribunals ; and I there-
fore demand his immediate Discharge, in order that he may
be enabled, without farther molestation, to pursue his lawful

Business.

With perfect Respect &c

Rufus King.

R. King to Lord Eldon.

(Private.)

Mill Hill, Middlesex, June 22, 1801.
My Lord :

Having received instructions to urge the conclusion without

farther delay of the Negotiation, which for a long time has been

depending between His Majesty's Ministers and that of the United

States, I take the liberty previously to presenting a Note upon the

subject to Lord Hawkesbury to enquire whether your Lordship

478 RUFUS KING. [1801

has yet found an opportunity to communicate to his Majesty's
Ministers the opinions, which, when I had last the honour of see-
ing you, you had the goodness to assure me it was your intention
to do, upon an early day, respecting the Debts due to British
Creditors, and the Bank Stock claimed by the State of Maryland.
With unfeigned Esteem & Respect &c, &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Lord Hawkesbury.

Gt. Cumberland Place, June 24, 1801.
My Lord :

I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your Ldp's
Note of the 20 inst. enclosing the copy of a letter which your
Ld.p had received from the Law Officers of the Crown, respecting
the case of Geo. Cunningham. Since the date of this letter Cun-
ningham has been enlarged by the Court of the King's Bench,
upon his entering into a Recognizance with sureties to appear
and answer to the charge preferred against him at the next session
of the C. of Ad.y.

Being convinced that Cunningham is not liable to be called
upon, and therefore that he ought not to be held to answer in a
British Tribunal, the charge in question, I send your Ld.p here-
with copies of the exculpatory affidavits which were read in the
Court of the King's Bench, and demand that he may be dis-
charged from his Recognizance.

The affidavits upon which he was committed are deposited in
the Crown office, and together with those exhibited on the part
of Cunningham make out the case upon which the demand of the
discharge is founded.

With perfect Consideration &c &c

Rufus King.

Bird, Savage, & Bird to Rufus King.

Jeffries Square, 24th June, 1801.
Dear Sir :

We are much obliged by the communication you have given us

of the papers * in General Allen's case, which we return, but can-

*Gen. Allen's letter of April 14, 1801, and the Secretary of State's, April 8,
1801.

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 479

not help expressing our surprise at the singularity of his conduct,
and his persisting in accusing others of delays which have origi-
nated solely from himself.

In answer to your inquiry what is the nature of the proofs
which Gen. Allen has been order'd to furnish, we inclose you
copy of a letter to him from Mr. Slade, his Proctor, explaining
them and calling on him to conform to the plan chalk'd out, in-
stead of following his own notions. We are sorry however to
say, that the General has not furnished the requisite proofs either
from France or America, and we much fear that, either from
inability to furnish the requisite proofs or from obstinacy, he
will not.

In the mean time we are sorry to say that Mr. Slade informs
us that there is every reason to fear that the Lords of appeal will
not much longer delay the decision, which, without these proofs,
must go against the General.

We shall by these means be expos'd to be great sufferers, only
a part of the Arms having been dispos'd of at prices much below
the estimate for which we became security, and the rest, being the
larger part, being yet unsold.

We explicitly acknowledge that in mentioning this business to
us, you desir'd that we would be entirely guided by our own
judgment, and not consider you as recommending us to engage in
it. Still it is certain that we shou'd not have embark'd in it, if
you had not introduc'd it to us, and if we had not suppos'd from
the countenance given by you to Genl. Allen that his cause was a
good one and capable of being supported by all the necessary
proofs. Nor shou'd we have engag'd in it, if we had not under-
stood that no mercantile speculation was more likely to succeed
than sending out these arms, and suppos'd that we were secure of
a sale either to the United States, or to some of the individual
States.

We therefore confide in your friendship and assistance to do
everything in your power to get us out of the scrape, both by
facilitating the sale of the arms, if possible, to the United States,
and by any representations that the case may admit of and require
to our Government.

Bird, Savage, & Bird.

480 RUFUS KING. [180 1

R. King to Mr. Addington.

(Private.}

Mill Hill, Middlesex, June 29, 1801.
Dr. Sir :

I have just received a Note from Lord Eldon, saying that early
in this week, he should bring before the Cabinet, the subject con-
cerning which I have more than once taken the liberty to com-
municate my solicitude. I should be wanting in the candour
which I know you approve in others, as well as practice yourself,
did I not on the present occasion state to you that the recent
Letters, which I have received from America, at the same time
that they profess the most earnest desire to cherish the subsisting
good will and harmony between our respective countries, express
both concern and surprize at the delay that has occurred here in
settling the points which have been so long under discussion.

Such is the tenor of my Letters, that I cannot be mistaken in
the opinion that any farther postponement of the business will
unavoidably lead to conclusions in respect to its cause, which can
have no tendency to facilitate its ultimate settlement, nor to en-
crease the mutual confidence of the two countries. I therefore
entreat of you, so far to interfere, when the subject is before the
Cabinet, as to cause it to be decided without any farther delay.

By my Secretary who embarks for America in the course of
twenty days, it will be necessary that I transmit an exact report
of the situation of this Business, and I need not say to you, that
on every account I anxiously wish that I may be enabled to state
that it has been satisfactorily adjusted.

With perfect Respect &c &c

Rufus King.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 23.

London, July 3, 1801.
Dear Sir :

Parliament is prorogued ; the address delivered by the Lord
Chancellor at the close of the Session, contrary to what some
persons expected, throws no light upon the negotiation with

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 48 1

France ; tho' the silence which has been observed on this occa-
sion may serve to strengthen the belief that no considerable pro-
gress has yet been made towards the attainment of Peace.

It being understood that it is not the intention of England to
renew the armistice in the Baltic, the negotiation of Lord St.
Helens will probably be concluded before it expires ; and from
everything I hear, there seems to be little or no room to doubt
that the late misunderstanding will be settled in a manner which
will prove mutually satisfactory.

The last accounts from Egypt state the arrival at Suez of a part
of the English army expected from India, and greatly encrease
the probability that the French will ultimately be obliged to evacu-
ate that country.

Portugal, it seems, has purchased Peace after an inglorious
shew of resistance upon the Frontiers. The Terms are not yet
known, but without doubt are hard & humiliating.

The Law respecting the Prize Courts in the West Indies and
Halifax having passed, no further difficulties now stand in the
way of the promised Reform, which will, I have reason to hope, be
carried into execution with as much expedition as can be ex-
pected from a Government habitually slow in all its measures.

We yesterday received information from Paris which states it to
be extremely doubtful whether the French Government will con-
sent to ratify the Convention upon the terms proposed by the
Senate ; it is even said that it has officially declined doing so.
With perfect Respect & Esteem &c, &c.

Rufus King.

VOL. Ill — 31

CHAPTER XXXIII.

King still at his Post — To Lord Hawkesbury — Desires to bring Discussions to
speedy Issues — To Secretary of State — Dale's Squadron in the Mediterra-
nean will have good Influence — Ministry promised Decisions — To Commo-
dore Dale — Hospitable Offer of Supplies from British Ports — Presents to
Bey of Tunis — King to Secretary of State — Continental Affairs — Conven-
tion between England and Russia — Enemy's Goods on neutral Ships liable
to Capture — Right of Search of Vessels under Convoy abandoned — Duroe,
French Ambassador, strove to thwart Negotiations — King to Secretary of
State — Bill for regulating Vice-Admiralty Courts a Law — Scott to King —
Answer to Congratulations on Russian Convention, etc. — King to Gore —
Patience with Ministry almost exhausted — King to Troup — Threatened
French Invasion — King to Secretary of State — Doubts the proposed
French Invasion — Difficulties of French in Egypt increase — Cabot to
King — Spirit of the Country more democratic than the Form — King's
Tour on the Continent — Hale to King — Wishes King to return Home —
Cabot to King — Hopes England will not make Peace, but carry on the
War — Jefferson's Answer to New Haven Remonstrants — Troup to King —
Jefferson's System — Burr goading him on — Hamilton disgusted — King to
remain till End of eight Years — King to Secretary of State — Sends Atlas
and Maps — Turnbull to King — Malta a free Port — Recommends Higgins
as Consul — King to Secretary of State — Affairs at Tunis — To Eaton —
Cloths for Bey of Tunis.

There are intimations in the letters of Mr. King and his
correspondents that he had contemplated returning home
on the coming in of the new Administration, for he feared
that its policy might not permit him to carry out the nego-
tiations in which he had been so long engaged and to bring
them to a satisfactory conclusion in a short time. The
change of ministry in England was as he thought unfavor-
able to this result, as it was the cause of delay and required
a restatement of the questions in dispute to the new minis-
1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 483

ters. The best dispositions on their part, as expressed by
them, were not followed by action, and he found himself
obliged to urge strongly a more prompt settlement of the
business of the United States while it was intrusted to him.
His friends at home wrote to him to remain at his post, as
it was intimated that he would not be removed, for they
trusted him from his known character, his familiarity with
the points in dispute, his high standing with the public men
and ministers in England, and a firm belief that his country's
interests were safe in his hands. As yet there were no official
communications of Jefferson's determination relative to his
continuance at his post, and Mr. King continued to press the
English ministers to some decided action.

Before entering upon his career as Ambassador, Mr. King
had built a large double house on Broadway in New York on
a part of the lot on which the Astor House now stands, and
had determined to occupy it on his return home. But in
the letter below to Mr. Low we see that he desired to sell it,
as he proposed to pass the greater part of his time in the
country, as it will be found he actually did. Mr. John Jacob
Astor became the purchaser of it, and also of the other lots
adjoining it, and after many years the Astor House was built.

R. King to N. Low.

London, July 3, 1801.
Dear Sir :

. . . I thank you for your attention respecting the sale of
my house in Broadway ; it continues to be my wish to sell, rather
than to repair, or lease, or keep it for my own residence. I ex-
pected when I built it, to live the chief of my time in town, and
for that reason made it larger and laid out more money than I
should have done had I thought of passing the greater portion of
my time in the country, as it is now my intention to do. A less
town house will be sufficient for me, and I would sell for less than
thirty five thousand dollars in case a reasonable abatement would
procure me a purchaser. . . .

Yr. obedt. Servt.

Rufus King.

484 RUFUS KING. [180 1

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 24.

London, July 10, 1801.
Dear Sir :

The day before yesterday, I received the Duplicate of your
letter of May 21st, and am persuaded that the appearance of
Commodore Dale in the Mediterranean must have a favourable
influence in our affairs in that quarter. My No. 20. will have
apprised you of the sentiments of this Government in respect to
this Squadron, upon the supposition that it was destined to the
Mediterranean ; these friendly assurances have been renewed to
me by Lord Hawkesbury upon my communicating to him the
purport of your letter of the 21st of May.

Annexed I send you the copy of a letter which I have written to
Commodore Dale for the purpose of acquainting him with the
Orders which have been given for the hospitable reception of his
Ships in the British Ports in the Mediterranean.

Together with the Duplicate of your letter, I received from the
Department of State Mr. Marshall's No. 12. dated Feby 26, and
Mr. Lincoln's letter dated April 29th, with respect to the Depre-
dations upon our Trade in the West Indies, to which both of
these letters relate. I can add nothing material to my former
communication. In future I think we have reason to expect
greater caution on the part of the public and private armed ships
of this country and more justice from its prize courts. In several
conferences with Lord Hawkesbury I have pressed the adoption
of some measure for the immediate restoration of our Property,
which has been recently and illegally condemned by the Court of
Vice-Admiralty. Could a plan be devised by which we could in
a summary way, recover back the Property, of which we have
been deprived, it would save the time and expense that will be
required if the Claimants are obliged to travel through the Court
of Appeals. I yesterday resumed the subject and his Lordship
promised me that it should without loss of time, be taken into
consideration ; but I cannot say that I have much expectation
that any special Regulation is likely to be adopted.

I complained in strong terms of the Delay which still continues
in concluding our discussions respecting the 6th Article, and was

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 485

explicitly assured that the Cabinet would come to a decision on
that subject in the course of a Fortnight.

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c. &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Commodore Dale.

London, July 10, 1801.
Sir :

The Government of this Country having been apprized that a
small Squadron of American Frigates was destined to the Medi-
terranean for the protection of our Trade against the Barbary
Corsairs, has notified to me, that by the King's commands, in-
structions have been given to his Majesty's naval and civil officers
for the hospitable reception of our Ships of war in the Ports of
Gibraltar, Minorca and Malta, and for their supply from his
Majesty's magazines with whatever their necessities may require.

Having just received information from the Department of State,
that the command of this Squadron has been given to you, I lose
no time in making you the above communication. Should any-
thing of importance occur during your cruize, and which would
be likely to affect our commerce to the Mediterranean, you will
perhaps think it expedient to make me acquainted with it in
order that I may be enabled to correct the misrepresentations,
which are usually made of distant occurrences.

Some short time since I sent by a British man of war, bound to
Malta, a small case, containing a richly mounted Sabre, for the
Bey of Tunis, directed to William Eaton our Consul at Tunis,
and addressed to the care of Mr. Eton, the English Superintend-
ant of Quarantine at Malta, and requested him to deliver the case
to the Commander of any American Frigate which might touch
at Malta, or if none arrived, then to forward it by the first good
opportunity to Tunis. Some other and still more valuable pres-
ents for the Bey of Tunis, which I have been ordered to procure,
are nearly completed, and will be sent to Malta by the first good
conveyance after they are finished. These will likewise be ad-
dressed to Mr. Eton of Malta, I mention these facts in order that
you may take measures to secure and forward them to Tunis, un-
less you shall have instructions to dispose of them in any other

486 RUFUS KING. [1801

manner. The articles are guns, pistols, sabres, watches, rings
&c, and will cost six or seven thousand pounds sterling.

With great Consideration & Respect &c. &c,

Rufus King.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 25.

London July 12. 1801.
Dear Sir :

Count Bernstoff, who lately arrived here from Copenhagen,
urges the restoration of the Danish Islands and the re-establish-
ment of the ancient friendship between Denmark & England.
Lord Hawkesbury equally solicitous to effect the complete res-
toration of good will and amity, proposes to include in the
negotiation the subject of the Northern Confederation, which
has occasioned the present misunderstanding. This the Danish
Envoy declines, referring the question to the issue of the discus-
sions going on at Petersburgh, and consequently the negotiation
is at a stand.

England, through Lord Carysfort at Berlin, demands the evac-
uation of Hanover, which was occupied in consequence of the
stipulations of the Northern League ; and Prussia declines to
withdraw her Troops, as England has not signified her acquies-
cence in the Principles of the League.

Sweden makes no diplomatic overtures to England, and is be-
lieved to be extremely hostile against her. Hence it seems that
the return of harmony between England and these Powers will
depend upon the success of the Mission of Lord St. Helens,
which is now understood to be confined to Russia ; upon this
point nothing conclusive has yet transpired, tho' there continues
to exist here the most confident expectation that the views of
Russia are favourable to the interest of England.

Among other articles of the late Treaty between Portugal and
her Enemies the Gaudiana was to become the Spanish boundary ;
the English to be shut out of the Ports of Portugal, the Territory
of Cayenne to be extended nearer to the Amazon, and a sum of
money to be paid to France ; but as the Treaty has been rejected

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 487

at Paris, the war will probably be renewed, and Portugal obliged
to submit to still harder terms.

Upon scrutinizing the latest news from Egypt, it does not ap-
pear certain that any troops had arrived at Suez with Admiral
Blankett, though a considerable detachment was expected from
India. It is believed that the French will be compelled to evacu-
ate Egypt, and the preparations which they are said to be making
to invade the Morea are supposed to be for the purpose of re-
gaining Egypt by way of Exchange.

Cross negotiations are going on in every quarter respecting the
Treaty of Luneville, the execution of which meets with consider-
able Difficulty. The Duke of Modena does not acquiesce ; the
Duke of Parma appears unwilling prematurely to relinquish his
Duchy in favour of his son, created King of Etruria. Prussia
with other German Powers objects to the Grand-Duke's receiving
his indemnity out of the Empire. Russia since the new acces-
sion, has made strong representations in Paris in favour of the
Kings of Naples and Sardinia ; and notwithstanding all we read
& hear of the progress of the Negotiation between England and
France, there are such contradictory appearances, and so many
circumstances on all sides, inconsistent with a well-founded ex-
pectation of immediate Peace, that the Probability of its speedy
establishment seems rather to lessen than encrease.

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 26.

London, July 14, 1801.
Dear Sir :

On the evening of the Eleventh, a cutter arrived from Peters-
burgh with a copy of the convention concluded on the 17th ulto.
between Lord St. Helens and Count Panin by which the mis-
understanding between England & Russia is amicably adjusted.
The Northern Confederacy, as you will recollect, aimed at the
establishment of two principles of Maritime Law ; one, that free
ships make free goods ; the other, that Convoys exempt neutral

488 RUFUS KING. [1801

Ships from search. The first is entirely given up, by its being
agreed that Enemy goods and contraband of war on board of
neutral Ships, shall be liable to capture ; the second is likewise
abandoned, so far as regards the visit and Search of Neutral
Ships under convoy by the public or National Ships of the Bel-
ligerent, but established against all private armed Ships. Several
Regulations are provided in the Convention concerning the man-
ner of visiting, search, and detaining, or adjudication of neutral
Ships under convoy, and the parties agree to negotiate farther for
the purpose of establishing the precise rules upon this particular
subject. The articles of contraband are well defined, and the
stipulations respecting the Right of Neutrals to trade to the Ports
of belligerents are liberal, if their plain meaning be suffered to
prevail. Two separate articles were executed at the same time
with the convention ; by the first, it is agreed that the Treaty of
commerce between the two countries shall be reinstated in all its
parts ; and second, that Denmark and Sweden be invited to
accede to the convention : that the armistice be prolonged three
months from the date of the convention and that Great Britain
will restore whatever she has taken from Denmark and Sweden ;
Orders for which purpose to be dispatched immediately after
those Powers shall have acceded to the Convention.

A declaration on the part of the Emperor was likewise delivered
to Lord St. Helens, by which the Emperor confirms the revoca-
tion of the Embargo and sequestration of British Ships and Prop-
erty, and moreover engages to make just and full compensation
for all losses which may have been sustained in consequence
thereof.

Duroc, aid-de Camp of the Chief-Consul, and Envoy to Peters-
burgh, and who arrived there a day or two before Lord St.
Helens, tendered the formal accession of France to the Northern
Confederation which had not before been offered, and which was
now declined, with an intimation that Russia herself was about to
withdraw from it. Count Panin proposed to invite Prussia, as
well as Denmark and Sweden to accede to the Convention, but
this was temporarily refused by Lord St. Helens.

Lord Hawkesbury having obligingly shewed me the Convention,
you may depend upon the authenticity of the foregoing abstract
of it. The issue of the negotiation is satisfactory to England,

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 489

and the returning of the Baltic Fleet, which takes place immedi-
ately, will be a circumstance of importance at the present moment,
when notwithstanding all that is said of the negotiation between
France and England, great and extensive preparations are making
to invade the British Islands.

Lord St. Helens is rewarded with a British Peerage ; he was
before an Irish Peer.

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c. &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Lord Hawkesbury.

{Private.)

Mill Hill, Middlesex, July 14, 1801.
My Lord :

I am truly obliged to your Lordship for the opportunity you
have given me to see the Convention with Russia. Holding the
opinions I uniformly have done, in respect to the justice and im-
portance of the right, for which England has on this occasion
been forced to contend, I am gratified with, and feel sincere
pleasure in offering to your Lordship my cordial congratulations
upon the safe and honourable manner in which the business has
been concluded.

For the sake of justice, as well as on account of the welfare of
England, and, I may add, of my own country, I rejoice that an
ill-understood and insidious question is at length put completely
at rest.

With Sincere Esteem & Respect &c &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Sir Wm. Scott.

{Private?)

M. H., July 14, 1801.

Dear Sir :

Lord H. having obligingly shewn me the Convention with Rus-
sia, I have much pleasure from personal as well as public con-
siderations in offering to you my cordial congratulations upon the

490 RUFUS KING. [1801

satisfactory manner in which this affair has been concluded. You
know my way of thinking in respect to the Principles and Views
of the Northern League, & will therefore be convinced that I re-
joice with you that an insidious question with which you and
others might hereafter have been troubled has been finally de-
cided ; for I hope and believe we shall never again hear of it.

Very faithfully &c

Rufus King.

Sir W. Scott to R. King.

July 16, 1801.
My dear Sir :

I thank you for your obliging Congratulations on the business
of the North. You will easily suppose that I have my share of
personal satisfaction in receiving them. I hope & trust that Den-
mark & Sweden will come in ; unless they are enthusiastically
bigoted in favour of Notions, which are utterly unsupportable (as
well upon the footing of their own particular Treaties as on that
of General Law) I think they must be disposed to close this dis-
agreeable matter upon the terms proposed which, in my appre-
hension, are liberal enough on the Part of this Country. I hope
& believe your Peace of mind is not at all disturbed by the con-
tents of one little Gazette of last night.

I am with my compts. to Mrs. King — very faithfully yours

W. Scott.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 27.

London, July 20, 1801.
Dear Sir :

The Court of Appeals having reversed several decrees of con-
demnation pronounced in the Vice- Admiralty Court of Bermuda,
Monitions were as usual issued against the Captors, and instruc-
tions sent with them to our Agent at Bermuda, to apply for and
return the names of the Captors' Sureties in order that process

l8oi] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 49 1

might, if necessary, be obtained against them likewise. Upon ap-
plication for this purpose to the court of Vice-Admiralty, the
Judge refused to permit the disclosure, alledging that the Bonds
were given to enforce obedience to the King's instructions, and
not for the purpose of satisfying Damages which might be decreed
to the claimants in the Prize Courts.

The Agent having made an affidavit of this refusal before the
Governor of Bermuda some time ago sent it with a letter, the copy
of which is annexed, to Lord Hawkesbury.

Tho' I have received no official answer, I have been informed
that upon a reference of the case to the Law Officers of the
Crown, they considered the Judge's refusal to be a denial of Jus-
tice and recommended that he should be removed from his office.

As the Judge at Bermuda goes out with the rest of his col-
leagues in the West Indies, by the reform of the Vice-Admiralty
Courts, I presume the recommendation will not be acted upon ;
and I am led to mention the subject, chiefly with the view of ex-
plaining the difficulties in respect to the process of the Court of
Appeals, which are now removed by the Act for the regulation of
the Prize Courts in the West Indies and America, and for giving
a more speedy and effectual execution to the Decrees of the Lords
Commissioners of Appeals. I have sent you copies of this Act as
it has finally passed which, if fairly executed as I hope it will be,
must go far to correct many of the abuses, which we have hitherto
sustained : the second section is an important addition to the Bill
as it was first reported, by preventing the captured property from
getting into the hands of the Captors, before by the final sentence
they become alike interested with the claimants to hasten the
trial instead of delaying it, as with the possession and use of the
property they were accustomed to do. The other provision which
I was solicitous to obtain, requiring that all captured vessels
should be taken into one of the Colonies, in which the Courts are
to be established, has not been accepted. If it had been, the
Business of the Privateers from the Bermudas and the Bahamas
would no longer have been pursued with profit ; and as the law
stands, it will be materially discouraged.

With perfect Respect & Esteem, &c. &c.

Rufus King.

492 RUFUS KING. [1801

R. King to C. and Mrs. Gore in Paris.

Mill Hill, July 23, 1801.
My Dear Friends :

. . . Pinkney said in reason that a Lord's fortnight must be
understood to be longer than a Commoner's ; the literal engage-
ment expires to-day ; as yet I have heard nothing farther from my
Lord, tho' I do confidently expect a decision soon. What it will
be is another point ; I have no particular reason to apprehend it
will be unfavourable ; on this head things remain as you left
them ; several little measures have been adopted which wd. en-
courage the hope of a satisfactory settlement rather than other-
wise. . . .

On learning that Dale was going with a small squadron of
Frigates to the Mediterranean, notice was given to me, and by me
sent to America that orders had been sent to the naval and other
officers at Gib. Minorca & Malta to receive and treat our Ships
with Hospitality and to supply them from the King's magazines
with what their necessities might require. All this is very well,
and in case it is followed up by a satisfactory settlement of the
points we have been so long discussing, I shd. think and speak
well of the good sense and foresight of the men who shall advise
it. On the whole I am inclined to hope that this will be the case ;
and for the mutual advantage of the Parties I earnestly wish it
may. My patience is at times nearly exhausted, but I endeavour
to recruit and preserve it. From home I have no particular or
personal intelligence. I have said nothing nor has anything been
said to me. . . .

Affectionately & always yours

R. K.

R. King to R. Troup.

Mill Hill, Middlesex, July 26, 1801.
Dear Sir :

. . . At present we have no other conversation except about
the menaced invasion, preparations for which are carried on with
great activity, but with so much eclat as leads many to doubt
whether anything will be attempted. The ports in wh. the arma-
ments are making are closely blockaded, the whole channel is

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 493

covered with Br. Pendants, and how the Invaders are to pass them
is quite beyond my comprehension.

Very faithfully

R. K.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 28.

London, July 30, 1801.
Dear Sir :

Although the military preparations are such on both sides, as
wholly to engross the public attention and inspire a very general
belief that an invasion will be shortly attempted by the French,
I am still incredulous and disposed rather to seek for the real
object in some other quarter, and which these demonstrations are
meant to conceal. It is needless to trouble you with my conjec-
tures, more especially as those who ought to possess the best
means of judging give to these appearances a meaning which I
am yet to be persuaded is the true one.

Whether Gautheaume succeeded in landing a reinforcement in
the neighbourhood of Alexandria, or has returned to Toulon
without effecting it, is matter of doubt. No accounts have been
received from Egypt since those of the 1st of June, which state
the repulse of the French by the Turks, in the vicinity of Cairo.
Up to this date, the Difficulties of the French had continued to
encrease.

Sweden has officially notified to this country her accession to
the Convention with Russia, and Denmark will without doubt
follow her example.

A letter from Mr. Cathcart to our Consul here, announces the

formal Declaration of war against the United States by Tripoli on

the 14th of May.

With perfect Respect & Esteem

Rufus King.
G. Cabot to R. King.

July 30, 1801.

My dear Sir :

I am greatly pleased with the information you have given me in
your favor of 9th May. Many of our good men have been irri-
tated by the wanton abuses of the British Cruisers & Courts &

494 RUFUS KING. [1801

shou'd the war continue it will be immensely important in a politi-
cal view that these shou'd cease. We are now a Democracy with
a Democratic Chief who may be impelled by the worst men
of his party if the circumstances of the times shou'd be favorable
to such men. The spirit of our Country is doubtless more demo-
cratic than the form of our Government & hitherto the former
has been restrained by the latter from those excesses to which it
naturally tends ; — but we are to look now for the ordinary effects
of popular power guided by mistaken men or men of unprincipled
ambition, — by Brissotins or Maratists : the physical condition of
our Country however as well as its habits & manners afford
ground to hope that we shall fall far short of France in the
extent of our Cancer & that we shall escape some of their worst
misfortunes.

I approve the predilection you feel for our Country & if it were
a prejudice I wou'd wish it to be perpetuated rather than extir-
pated. But in proportion to your attachment to its welfare must
be your chagrin to see us acting the same fooleries which have
disgraced & finally destroyed so many Free States before us. . . .
You see I detest France & Frenchmen more than ever. Still I
consent freely that you visit the Land of Abominations not in the
least doubting you will be amused & edified, & in no danger of
being corrupted, — go therefore & be happy ! & tell us when you
return whether Milton has truly described the Characters of
Pandemonium's Council in his 2d Book.*

Adieu.

J. Hale to R. King.

Boston, August 6, 1801.
Dear Sir :

. . . In this interim nothing very important has occurred.
Mr. Jefferson's inaugural speech is very clearly expounded in his
answer to the New-Haven remonstrance. In certain general
propositions all mankind are agreed. Their application dis-
tinguishes the man of sense & judgment from the visionary

* Mr. King had proposed, if he left his post in London, to take a tour on
the Continent before returning home, and had written so to his corresponden
in the United States.

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 495

theorist. Mr. J's soundness in a political view was not to be
expected. But that he would be left deliberately to betray so
much vanity, folly, weakness & presumption as the answer is re-
plete with, few of his most bitter enemies could have predicted.

Perhaps no man ever entered upon the administration of a free
government under more favorable auspices than Mr. Jefferson.
His political opponents were ready to support him in that part of
his duty against which popular clamour is naturally excited. The
mobocracy, to whose blind impulse directed by aristocratic sans-
culottism, he owed his elevation, were stupidly bent to yield an
implicit confidence in the idol of their creating. The support of
the farmers, the respectable part of the community, Mr. Jefferson
publicly declares to the Merchants of New Haven he wishes to
dispense with. Let him go on with his heads of department, all
experienced statesmen, not to mention the honble. Mr. Lincoln of
Worcester.

Hitherto I have wished your longer continuance at the Court
of St. James, but the sooner you return home the more agreeable
will it now be to me. George Erving may be charge d'affaires &
answer all the purposes of our wise administration.

Your friend & obed. Servt.
Joseph Hale.

R. Troup to R. King.

New York, 8th Augt., 1801.
My dear Sir :

. . . Mr. Jefferson in direct contradiction of his inaugural
speech is pretty generally displacing the federalists. In this
district the officers of Collector, Supervisor, Marshal, and Attor-
ney of the district are filled by new men. . . . Mr. Jef-
ferson's answer to the New Haven remonstrance, will show you
that the system of displacing is the avowed system of the govern-
ment. This system will be followed by our new Governor (Clin-
ton) and his Council who are now in session at Albany. . .

Burr is conjectured to be a laying a trap for Jefferson, and he
has the credit of secretly goading on Jefferson to pursue a violent
course. Gelston is Burr's devoted tool ; and it is difficult to
conceive that his influence has not been at work to procure
Gelston's appointment. . . .

496 RUFUS KING. [180 1

Hamilton is supremely disgusted with the state of our political
affairs. He has all along said and still maintains the opinion that
Jefferson and his party had not talents or virtue sufficient to admin-
ister the government well ; and he entertains no doubt that they
will finally ruin our affairs and plunge us into serious commo-
tions. Although he does not think this result will immediately
take place, yet he predicts it is not so remote as many might im-
agine. He assures me that nothing short of a general convulsion
will again call him into public life.

Lands are looking up. All your friends are receiving monies
from them — some more some less. . . .

The Chancellor will not embark for France until October. He
assures me you are not to be recalled till your eight years ex-
pire. This seems to be a limitation fixed by the government to

all embassies. . . .

R. T.

G. Cabot to R. King.

August 14, 1 801.
My Dear Sir :

I have just reed your favor of the 8th June. Mr. Ellsworth
had given me more information concerning France than I had
been able to collect from every other source ; I think however he
errs a little, where almost every other man errs a great deal, in
overrating the power of France & underrating that of England.
I hope you will not think me mad if I tell you I am not recon-
ciled to peace, on the contrary if England can carry on the war
she ought to persist 'till France is reduced from her exorbitant
powers to a state that shall consist with the safety & indepen-
dence of others — it may be said that the immense efforts England
makes cannot be kept up against the nation but it appears to me
the Govt, will not be justified by this plea if they make a peace &
that peace shou'd bring the evil it threatens. ... If an Army
of 100,000 men under Bonaparte were ready at every hazard to
cross the Channel, undoubtedly England wou'd find means to
meet them on Sea & on Shore with enough to beat them. Now
a greater danger than this is wrapped up in the peace. For my
own part I have always rejoiced at every threat of invasion on this
account, that it changed the public danger from an invisible to a

l8oi] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 497

visible shape. The British Empire woud be invincible & woud
finally limit the power of France if the Govt can use the resources
& direct the Spirit of the Nation.

You will see by our papers that our new Chief is less wise than
we thought him & yet we have been censured for depretiating his
wisdom — in his answer to the New-Haven Remonstrants he has
intimated pretty plainly his design to persecute the Washington
Sect. I have good reason to believe the present Admin, will be
very diligent in searching for the faults of their Predecessors, &
in the infinitude of transactions in the public offices it wou'd be
strange if a sufficiency of materials cou'd not be found to in-
flame the Country. There may be many cases in which what was
done was the best that cou'd be done at the time, but which in
this distant retrospect may appear to be quite otherwise. If they
are base enough, as I fear they are, to conduct in this manner I
shall not be surprised to see the former System & many of its
best supporters render'd odious to the majority of the community
for a ti?ne. This was the way in the Democracies of old times ;
of France in new times & it must be because it is human nature
& therefore belongs to all times. Our affairs however are better
than cou'd have been expected in many other respects for which
I thank God who certainly takes as much care of us as we deserve
& much more & better than we can take for ourselves, but they
must grow worse & worse before they can become essentially

better. . . .

Yours Sincerely & affectionately

G. C.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 29.

London, Aug. 14, 1801.
Dear Sir :

I have the honour to send you, inclosed copies of a letter

which I have lately received from Mr. John Turnbull and of the

order of Council therein referred to.* Mr. Turnbull is the head

of the respectable Commercial House of Turnbull, Forbes &

* Proclamation, "at the court of Weymouth the 30th July, 1801, Present
the King's most excellent Majesty in Council," of the Port of Malta as a Free
Port.

VOL. III. — 32

498 RUFUS KING. [1801

Compy., and chairman of the Committee of London merchants
which is the channel of the communications of the several manu-
facturing towns and the Government. I have no other knowledge
of Mr. Higgins than thro' this communication of Mr. Turnbull.

In the Ship Calliope, Watson, Master, bound to Philadelphia,
I have sent a Box, directed to you, and containing an Atlas in 5
volumes collected by Arrowsmith. One of the Bills of Lading
has been forwarded to the Collector of Philadelphia, with a
request that he would receive and send the Box to the Depart-
ment of State : another you will receive herewith. A second
collection of maps and charts is preparing by Faden and will
likewise be forwarded to your Department as soon as it shall be
completed. These Collections have been several months pre-
paring pursuant to the instructions of Col. Pickering and Mr.
Dexter.

With perfect Respect, &c.

Rufus King.

(Copy.)

J. Turnbull to R. King.

London, 10 Aug., 1807.
Dear Sir :

I beg leave to transmit to you herewith the Draft, which Sir
Stephen Cottrell has sent me this morning, of the Order of Coun-
cil to make Malta a free Port. This measure, I hope, will be
serviceable in many respects to the Trade of the United States.
The situation of that Island is well adapted for the rendezvous
of Ships of war, to overawe the piratical States, and very particu-
lar instructions have been given for the proper Management of
the Lazarettos. ... A Person of Experience and intelligence
has been sent to take charge of them, and Ministers have such
confidence in his care and attention to examine and air the goods,
that Cargoes coming with a clean bill of health from Malta, will
be admitted to immediate Prattic in England. My connections,
both in a public and private capacity, with the Trade in the
Mediterranean, having had a house at Gibraltar for nearly Forty
years, have enabled me to form an establishment at Malta under
the direction of Mr. William Higgins. If the President of the
United States should not have appointed any one to be American

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 499

Consul at Malta, and would do Mr. Higgins the honour to give
him that nomination, I would with great pleasure be answerable
for his conduct in every respect. I should be extremely obliged
to you, Sir, to have the goodness to recommend him for that pur-
pose. Messrs. Mackenzie and Glennie have lodged a Credit to
my House at Gibraltar, and which will be equally attended to at
Malta, for furnishing to the American Fleet what supplies they
may be in want of, during their continuance in the Mediterranean,
of Money, Provisions and Stores.

With sincere regard &c.

John Turnbull.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 30.

London, Aug. 20, 1801.
Dear Sir :

I am glad to learn from letters which I have received from
Mr. Murray and Mr. Dawson, that the exchange of Ratifications
has at length been satisfactorily completed at Paris.

The inclosed letter from Mr. Eaton* communicates the latest

information which I have seen of the situation of our affairs at

Tunis. A recurrence to my former correspondence with the

Department of State will show the reluctance with which 1 have

engaged in the execution of Mr. Eaton's orders, which indeed I

declined doing until the President's instructions left me no

alternative.

With perfect Respect &c.

Rufus King.

Answer by R. King to Mr. Eaton's Letter to Secretary of
State and copy to R. King.

R. King to William Eaton, Esq.

London, Aug. 20, 1801.
Sir:

I have duly received your letters of the 23d, 24th and 27th of

May, and am much concerned that the cloths, and other articles

shipped by Mawhood & Co., are not of the quality you expected ;

* To Secretary of State and Rufus King.

500 RUFUS KING. Ll8ci

these Gentlemen state in their own justification, that they exe-
cuted the order received from you with as great precision as it
was in their power, and that it would have been as convenient
for them to have sent cloths of a superior quality, as those
which you have received. I ought, moreover, to add that they
showed me the samples of the goods which they shipped, and
asked my opinion respecting their fitness ; but as I had no means
of judging, I desired them to follow your instructions as closely
as possible. Agreeably to your desire, I have requested Mr.
Hargreaves to choose such cloths as are suitable for the purpose
for which you intend them : this he has been good enough to do,
and the Cloths are now packing and will be forwarded by Maw-
hood & Co., by the first opportunity that shall offer for Minorca,
Malta, or Tunis.

It was an omission in these Gentlemen that they did not send
an invoice of their former shipment. Having desired them to
send one to me, I now inclose it to you. No part of the order
except the Woolens, will be executed anew. The Jewels are
nearly finished and will I hope be completed in time to go by
Mr. Hargreaves, if he do not return through France ; in this
case they will be sent in the best way that shall occur. With
this order Mawhood & Co. have no concern ; it will be executed
by Mortimer and by Rundle & Bridges.

With great Respect &c. &c.

Rufus King.

CHAPTER XXXIV.

King to Lord Hawkesbury — Project of Convention concerning 6th Article
agreed to — Hopes other Questions will soon be settled — King to Secretary
of State — Conference with Lord Hawkesbury — The Awards in full Satis-
faction of all Claims — Lord Hawkesbury saw no material Objection to Set-
tlement of all other Questions, except relative to the Port of New Orleans —
Commission under 7th Article to reassemble — King to Lord Hawkesbury
— Detention of American Vessels, instead of warning them of Blockade of
French Ports, and demands Release of the Vessels — King to S. Hanbury
— Maryland Bank Stock — King to Secretary of State — Blockade of Havre
— Continental Affairs — To Lord Hawkesbury — Demanding Release of an
American Seaman about to be tried for Mutiny — Cabot to King — Often
able to supply Facts, etc., through him, but without compromising him —
England's Empire of the Sea renders her invincible — Wilberforce to King
— Desires a general Abolition of the slave Trade — Hopes for Help from
Bonaparte — King to Lords Hawkesbury and Eldon pressing for a Settle-
ment of Claims — Troup to King, about William Coleman — Cabot to King
— Always avoided compromising him — Glad he will remain in England —
Neutral Rights — Mr. Erving — King to Secretary of State — Continental
Affairs — Concordat of France with the Pope important to the Stability of
the First Consul — To Lord Eldon — Maryland Bank Stock — Dawson's
Notification to King that the President wishes him to remain — Anecdote of
Rumford.

R. King to Lord Hawkesbury.

Great Cumberland Place, Aug. 20, 1801.
My Lord :

I have the honour to send your Lordship herewith the Project
of a Convention concerning the 6th Article of the Treaty of 1794,
drawn up according to the tenor of our Conference of yesterday.
I am not aware that any part of it requires explanation, except
the clause on the first Article, declaratory of the relative value of
the Money of the United States and that of Great Britain ; from
502 RUFUS KING. [1801

the fluctuation of the Exchange between America and England,
Bills at one time commanding a premium of five or seven per
cent, and at another time, being at a discount of eight and even
Ten percent, I have thought it would be advisable to provide that
the installments should be paid at par, having regard to the rela-
tive value of the pure or Standard Silver, contained in our respec-
tive coins ; four dollars and forty four cents or hundredths for
one Pound Sterling, is that par.

I take the liberty of suggesting the expediency of our executing
three originals to guard against the accidents which might attend
the transmission of a single copy to America.

As the claim of the State of Maryland is so analogous to the
claims provided for by this Convention, I rely upon it that no
farther delay or difficulty will attend the completion of the pro-
posed articles upon that and the other subjects, concerning which
no difference of opinion appeared in our last conference.
With perfect Consideration & Respect &c. &c

Rufus King.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 32.

London, Aug. 24, 1801.
Dear Sir :

Although I considered myself authorized by Mr. Lincoln's
Letter of the 25th of April to press the negotiation respecting the
6th Article of the Treaty of 1794, to a conclusion upon the Terms
mentioned in my No. 6., it has nevertheless been no small satisfac-
tion to me to receive your letter of the 15th of June, containing
the President's explicit sanction of my intentions upon this
subject.

The day after receiving it Lord Hawkesbury, having previously
requested me to meet him in Downing Street, informed me that
the Cabinet, after maturely considering the subject, was unani-
mously of opinion that not less than a million and a half Sterling
could be deemed a full equivalent for the abolition of the 6th
Article ; but that from a strong and sincere desire to attain an
amicable and final Settlement of the Business, it had consented
to accept the Sum we had offered, if the terms of payment could

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 503

be satisfactorily adjusted, and Provision made that the American
Courts should be open in future.

A conversation of some length and difficulty ensued upon these
two points. Among other plans that of applying the money in
payment of the awards which should be made in favour of our
citizens under the Seventh Article was suggested by me, and de-
cidedly objected to by Lord Hawkesbury, on the ground that it
would produce confusion, and was moreover an unnecessary
departure from the first Agreements.

His Lordship proposed that we should engage to enact a Law,
providing that our Courts should in future be open to the British
Creditors, and that the Federal Courts should have original juris-
diction in cases under Ten pounds Sterling. To this proposition,
after explaining what I conceived to be the present satisfactory
footing of our Courts, I explicitly answered that having experi-
enced so much difficulty from the Stipulations heretofore made
concerning the old Debts, we could not consent to enter into any
new ones respecting them ; that the Treaty of Peace was still in
force, and that its provisions were well understood and sufficient
to protect the Rights of the Creditors on both sides ; that the
Sum be paid in lieu of the 6th Article of the Treaty of 1794, must
be understood to be in full satisfaction of all Claims recoverable
at the close of the war, but which cannot now be recovered in
the ordinary course of Judicial Proceedings ; and in respect to
such claims as can now be recovered, nothing more can fairly be
required of us than to recognize the future operation of the
Fourth Article of the Treaty of Peace which we were willing to
do. The Conference, so far as respects these points, was here
closed, by Lord Hawkesbury's requesting me to draw up and send
him the Project of a Convention conforming to the tenor of this
conversation ; this I lost no time in doing.

The Project which has been several days in his Lordship's
hands provides that the 6th Article of the Treaty of 1794, shall
be cancelled and annulled and in lieu thereof that the United
States will pay at the City of Washington to such Person, as shall
be authorized, on the part of his Britannic Majesty to receive the
same the sum of Six Hundred Thousand Pounds Sterling, in
three equal annual installments, without interest, the first install-
ment to be paid in one year after the Exchange of the Ratifica-

504 RUFUS KING. [1801

tions of the Convention, and four dollars and forty four cents to
be reckoned equal to a Pound Sterling. The Project likewise
declares that nothing in the convention shall be construed to
abolish or suspend the future operation of the Fourth Article of
the Treaty of Peace, which, so far as regards such future opera-
tion, is recognized and confirmed.

It was Lord Hawkesbury's choice to give to this settlement
the form of a separate convention rather than that of additional
Articles. In respect to the proposed additional Articles relative
to Contraband, the Maryland Bank Stock, the Impressment of
Seamen and the Port of New Orleans, Lord Hawkesbury told me
that he foresaw no material objection to any of them except that
which regards New Orleans : that they were truly desirous to
avoid the interruption of the Trade of our People through the
Mississippi, but that having reason to be satisfied that Spain has
ceded the Floridas, including New Orleans, to France, they could
not, without disregarding their own security, consent to the pro-
posed Article concerning our Trade to that Island.

I expressed my hope and expectation that there would be no
farther delay in the conclusion of the other additional articles :
he replied, that he must take the final decision of his colleagues,
especially of Lord St. Vincent, concerning them, as well as upon
the project of the convention : that this, however, would require
but a few days. I then observed that the settlement concerning
the 6th Article, would remove the Suspension of the Commission
under the seventh ; and as the Commissioners under this Article
were dispersed, it would be proper to take immediate measures to
reassemble them. Lord Hawkesbury assented, and I charged
myself with this service. I thought it prudent to avoid the ap-
pearance of solicitude upon this head, as the commutation of the
6th Article, with an understanding that the seventh is to be
executed according to its provisions, instead of being likewise
commuted, which has again and again been urged, has been one
of the most delicate parts of the negotiation. I have prepared
and sent to Lord Hawkesbury a Draught of the additional ar-
ticles, and Lord St. Vincent has since informed me that they
shall receive his approbation.

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c. &c.

Rufus King.

i8oi] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. $05

R. King to General Deareorn.

London, Aug. 25, 1801.
Sir:

I yesterday received your letter of June 6th, and will without
delay take measures to execute your Commission. Dr. Hutton's
work, of which I have heard a good character, shall be immedi-
ately forwarded to New York, agreeably to your directions.
Some little time may be requisite to select the military works
of reputation from the mass of old and new Books upon the
subject of war to be met with in this Country. I have taken
great pains to procure two collections of maps and charts for the
use of your Department and the Department of State. One set
is already forwarded to the address of Mr. Madison ; the other
will go forward as soon as it is ready : they will be found to con-
tain almost all the good Maps and Charts published in the dif-
ferent States of Europe.

It will afford me great pleasure to render to your Department
any assistance in my Power, and I beg you to be assured, &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Lord Hawkesbury.

Great Cumberland Place, Aug. 29, 1801.
My Lord :

I have had the honour to receive your Lordship's note of the
26th instant, enclosing the Report of the King's Advocate General
respecting the American Ship Frederick detained off the Port of
Havre de Grace and sent into Portsmouth.

Without entering into the reasoning of the Advocate General
tending to show the inconvenience of suffering Neutrals, after
notice given to their Government of the institution of Blockade,
to excuse themselves when met on their voyage to such blockaded
Port, by alleging an intention to enquire at the entrance of such
Port, whether the same be blockaded or not ; I rely upon your
Lordship's justice to point out the distinction between the sup-
posed case, upon which the Report of the Advocate General is
founded, and the real and different one, upon which I claim the
release of the Ship Frederick as well as of the other American
Ships, since detained and sent into Port by his Majesty's naval
forces off the Port of Havre.

506 RUFUS KING. [1801

The letter, a copy of which I take the liberty of sending to
your Lordship, from the Masters of the two other American
Vessels recently detained off Havre, not only shews the unfair
practices of some of his Majesty's officers, towards the American
Commerce, but confirms what I had early foreseen and endeav-
ored to remedy, that the Blockade of Havre is not known in
America. Admitting that the Blockade was once notified, a Fact
with which 1 am unacquainted* yet the American Trade with
France has been entirely prohibited for several years past, during
which the two countries have been in a state of hostility ; and
upon the re-establishment of Peace, and the repeal of the pro-
hibitory Laws, no one has thought of enquiring concerning the
Blockades which might have been formerly instituted, but the
commercial intercourse has been resumed, as it was natural it
should be, upon the known and common Principles of Neutrality,
which require that Neutral Ships shall be warned and turned
away ; and not detained upon the charge of attempting to break
a Blockade, of which they were ignorant.

To enforce the Penalty of Confiscation in respect to Vessels
thus circumstanced, would be to confound cases manifestly dis-
similar, as well as to destroy the just distinction between the
innocent Merchants of a friendly Nation and the fraudulent
Traders engaged in the Service of the Enemy. If to this repre-
sentation be joined the recollection of my early application f to
your Lordship for the purpose of ascertaining which of the Ports
of France were in a State of Blockade by his Majesty's naval
forces at the period of the reconciliation between America and
France, in order that I might send seasonable notice thereof to
America, and requesting in the meantime that American Ships,
met by his Majesty's cruizers in their passage to such blockaded
Ports might be warned and turned away instead of being sent in
for adjudication, I persuade myself that it will not be thought
necessary that I should add any farther reflections for the pur-
pose of engaging your Lordship's interference to procure the
immediate release of the American Ships already detained, to
afford to me the information I have solicited in respect to the
Ports of France which are in a state of Blockade, and to renew

* Marked Error ! — R. K.
\ See letter, April 13, 1801.

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 507

the instructions which have already been given to turn away in-
stead of detaining American Vessels, met on their passage to
such blockaded Ports.

With perfect Consideration &c. &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Sampson Hanbury, Esq.

Mill Hill, Middlesex, Aug. 29, 1801.
Sir:

I am at length on the point of concluding an arrangement for
the transfer of the Bank Stock for the use of Maryland : in an
interview with the Lord Chancellor yesterday, he enquired
whether Barclay and others consented to the transfer's being
made to me : I answered that I understood they had consented,
but that I wd. write to you desiring that Barclay and the other
Executors of yr. father, with John Hanbury and Jno. Lloyd the
surviving partners would signify their consent to me, in order
that I might communicate the same to him ; I therefore desire
you to represent to these gentlemen the necessity of their con-
forming without delay to this arrangement in order that this
Business, so long and inconveniently protracted, may be brought
to a close ; stating to them at the same time my Engagement,
which I hereby confirm, to transfer to them the several sums to
which they shall be entitled in virtue of, and according to the
agreement made with Mr. Chace immediately after the stock
shall be transferred to me.

I shall be at my house in town on Wedy. next Sept. 2d.

With due respect &c.

Rufus King.

G. Cabot to R. King.

Sept. 1. 1 801.
My dear Friend :

I am just now favored with your letter of the 14th June, & am
glad you have mentioned the paragraph in the Centl. of April 20
because you might otherwise have remained uncertain whether I
had not at an unlucky moment supplied it. I have not yet pro-

508 RUFUS KING. [1801

cured the paper since your letter was received but I shall make a
point of it as soon as I go to Town. In the meantime be assured
that I have habitually guarded myself against every thing of the
sort that might by possibility be unpleasant to you or inconvenient
to the public. I have written nothing for the Centinel that I can
now recollect since the Palladium was established : what I have
published has been in the Palladium & by knowing me as you do
I think you must have commonly known my writings. In the
course of our correspondence I have often been enabled by your
communications to supply facts opinions & reasonings to the
Newspapers but I have cautiously avoided all possible compromit-
ment. . . .

I rejoice extremely in the issue of the affairs in the North &
the prospect of those in the South. I have no Country but the
one in which I live & my Children will be among its Inheritors.
I wish it to be left free from all foreign influence but I am per-
suaded if the French are left in their present State of predomi-
nance in Europe they will thro' the medium of a party here
govern the United States. For the sake of so much Liberty
Justice & Virtue as England contains the whole civilized world
shou'd pray for their success against the French & it has ever
been my opinion that if they are true to themselves & persevere
they will succeed at last in reducing the power of France to a
point that will leave Europe & England particularly safe & inde-
pendent. The British Islands from the circumstance of their
being Islands have nothing to fear while they maintain the Em-
pire of the Sea ; they can neither be conquer'd nor impoverished
in this Commercial Age. The present superiority of their Navy
over that of others is greater than that of the French Armies —
the Russians beat the French by land in Italy & the English are
beating them in Egypt : a single Campaign will make Soldiers as
good as those of France if commanded by men of Genius. But
who can beat the British Navy with equal numbers ? What Na-
tion can in Ten years create such a Navy in numbers and Skill ?
I repeat then their Fleets must be active till France declines &
she will probably decline from internal disorder or external force
before England will greatly suffer.

Yours faithfully & affy

GC

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 509

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 33.

London, Sept. 4, 1801.
Dear Sir :

Notwithstanding the assurances given me by Lord St. Vincent
that our vessels met on their passage to the blockaded Ports of
France, should be warned and turned away, instead of being
detained for adjudication, several of them, laden with valuable
cargoes, have within a fortnight been taken by the English Squad-
ron, charged with the Blockade of Havre de Grace. A letter
which I wrote to Lord Hawkesbury on this subject immediately
after the reestablishment of our commercial intercourse with
France, has not yet been acknowledged. I have called upon his
Lordship for an answer, and at the same time claimed the imme-
diate discharge of the detained vessels on the principle that
having been in hostility with France, since the notice of the
Blockade of Havre, which was given in 1798, it was necessary
that the notice should have been renewed upon the reestablish-
ment of amity between the United States and France. As Lord
St. Vincent actually issued the Order, which he promised me he
would do, admitting thereby the principle I have asserted, and as
some of our vessels have been warned instead of being detained,
I am in hopes that those which have been sent into Port will be
released by an Order of the Cabinet. I cannot, however, help
expressing my surprize, that our Merchants, after so much ex-
perience as they have had and the publication of the principles
(whether right or wrong is another question) asserted and acted
upon by the Belligerents, should continue to expose to the risque
of interruption such valuable Ships and Cargoes by destinations,
the regularity of which, if considered by them, would appear to
be at least matter of doubt.

The last French papers contain a circular Letter from Mr.
Eaton, our Consul at Tunis, dated July 25th, announcing the
Blockade of Tripoli by our naval forces, and notifying to friendly
Powers that it would be enforced by the usual sanctions of the
Law of Nations.

Denmark, which has been desirous of entering into a separate
negotiation with England, has at last, as I have reason to

510 RUFUS KING. [1801

believe, decided to accede to the Convention concluded at Peters-
burgh.

Prussia still persists, against the reiterated and fruitless de-
mands of this country, to keep possession of Hanover, and
Russia, which, if I be not misinformed, it was hoped and expected
would interfere in a peremptory manner to effect the restoration
of Hanover, wants rest to recruit her Army and Finances, and
will not therefore be inclined to take any measure which may lead
to a premature departure from this Policy.

The situation of Portugal, in respect to France, remains unex-
plicable ; the occupation of Madeira by English Forces looks as
if that Island has been or was about to be, ceded to France. It
is understood that Portugal has purchased Peace, but the terms
are not known ; tho' no one doubts the total exclusion of the
English during the war.

How long that is likely still to continue is a question of the
highest uncertainty ; those who know all are unable to answer it.
The negotiations for Peace and preparations to make, and to
defeat, invasion are carried on with much activity and eclat ; if
Egypt be lost, and the negotiation fail, nothing will remain but
the project of invasion, which will become more practicable, as
well as more likely to be undertaken during the short days of
winter, than at this season of the year ; if attempted, it will be
upon so large a scale, that whether successful or otherwise, it will
be followed by most important consequences.

With perfect Respect & Esteem

Rufus King.

W. WlLBERFORCE TO R. KlNG.

(Endorsed " Private")

Sept., 1801.

My dear Sir :

I have been for some days and I still continue extremely
desirous of seeing you for a few moments. You have met my
advances with such friendship & cordiality that I naturally accost
you & open myself to you with the frankness of a friend. If I
take an unwarrantable Liberty you have drawn it on yourself. I

l8oi] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 511

know at least that I am safe in your hands, & that my openness
can do no harm, if it be productive of no good. I scribble whilst
much pressd. for time, and must therefore be as short & as expe-
ditious as possible.

I have been reflecting with much Solicitude on the grand
project I suggested to you of effecting a general abolition of the
Slave Trade by a convention to be made in the negotiations for
Peace. I trust I shall be able to render our Government favour-
able, & France has so little apparent interest (real interest she
could in no case have, as I think Mr. Pitt, to say nothing of my
own arguments, has abundantly made out) in carrying on the
Slave Trade, that I am sanguine in my hopes as to France also.
But we may meet with serious objection on the part of Spain &
Portugal & Holland ; and the two former can set up a better plea
of necessity than any other powers on the ground of their mines
& the mortality which they may allege attends the working of
them. Yet if France be warm in the cause, the reluctance of
Spain & Portugal will be overcome. Now, I know no way so
likely to produce this last effect as to lay before Bonaparte the
short abstract of the Evidence adduced before the Ho. of Corns,
(especly. that affecting the Slave Trade in Africa, a subject little
understood or consider'd) & still more the printed account of 2
debates which took place on my motions, wherein are speeches of
Mr. Pitt & Mr. Fox, which are in different ways extremely im-
pressive, tho' but faint images of that strong & powerful elo-
quence which at the time bore down all opposition. Bonaparte
would be ambitious of effecting what Pitt & Fox had in vain
attempted. But how is the desired object to be attained ? Here
I want your kind advice, & may I farther ask for your friendly
cooperation. Any plan you should point out I would pursue.
But it occurred to me, whether measures might not be taken to
learn Mr. Otto's * way of thinking & feeling on the Slave Trade ;
and if he be favourably disposed (if only vacant on the Subject
the same publications might be laid before him) might not an
Interview be contrived between him & myself, wherein he might
be desired to transmit the above mentioned publications to Bona-
parte— or, without my meeting him, might he not be prevailed on
to execute this Commission. A foreign minister, tho* a French-

* The French Ambassador.

512 RUFUS KING. fi8oi

man, may I suppose be deemed capable of keeping a secret, and
therefore I might rely on his not making public what should
be going forward, for its prematurely becoming known to our
opponents, might & but too probably would defeat the whole
Design. The chief use of my seeing him wou'd be the givg.
him more particular informatn. on any points on which he might
wish for it.

Now after all this — if on consideration you think it would be
improper to engage in this Transaction, I beg you only to forget
that I have named it to you. I am persuaded that I hardly need
assure you, which however for your more entire satisfaction I
solemnly do, that I will keep my havg. had any Intercourse with
you on the matter just as secret as you wish or shall require ; and
I am sure you will permit me to impose on you the same obliga-
tion of strict secresy. One word more and I have done. I am
aware that tho' I think the Slave Trade not only unjust and cruel
but highly impolitic, yet that others have formed a different esti-
mate of its Value — therefore for reasons that I need not assign to
you because they are so obvious as not to need specification
I would not engage in any endeavour direct or indirect to per-
suade Mr. Otto to the desired purpose ; and indeed as the King's
Ministers are the only legitimate agents in transacting National
affairs with foreign Countries, I could wish so to manage the
whole Business, that it might wear the air of a mere literary Com-
munication, like that between Bonapt. & Sir Joseph Banks, and
if possible I had rather not be seen and known in the whole
Transaction except by you alone. But at least I shall be so
guarded as not to do anything which can be deemed contrary to
the Laws & Constitution of my Country ; tho' I honestly own to
you that I make a distinction (and that indeed is the ground of
my conduct on this occasion) between cases wherein my country
may justly require my Obedience, & a case which comprehend-
ing Robbery & murder, can be legitimated by no Earthly power.
I should have spared you this long letter but for my being so
much engaged that I fear it would be extremely difficult for me,
without the greatest inconvenience, to get up to Cumbd. Place ;
and I conceive for reasons which will occur to you if any thg. be
done in this matter, the sooner the better. In order to enable
you to write to me with the greater openness, I add that I will

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 513

destroy any letter with which you may favour me as soon as I have
received it.*

Believe me to be with Cordial Regard & Esteem, my dear Sir
yours very sincly.

W. WlLBERFORCE.

R. King to Lord Hawkesbury.

Great Cumberland Place, Sept. 10. 1801.
My Lord :

John Williams who states himself to be an American Citizen
and who against his consent was forced into his Majesty's naval
service, has been lately arrested, and is about to be tried at Ports-
mouth as a principal in the Mutiny, which six months past took
place on board his Majesty's ship Danae.

If Williams be an American Citizen, and did not voluntarily
enter into his Majesty's service, for the reasons stated in my notes
to your Lordship's Predecessor of the nth and 13th of July 1797,
in the cases of William Fish and of the two Hazelburghs, he is
not justly liable to punishment for the offence with which he is
charged ; and it is, therefore, my duty to demand your Lordship's
interference in order that these facts may be ascertained, and if
found as represented, that the said John Williams be forthwith
discharged.

With perfect consideration & respect &c. &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Lord Hawkesbury.

{Private.}

Mill Hill, Middlesex, Septemr. 10, 1801.
My Lord :

Unless our Business be expeditiously finished, another year

will elapse before it can be finally closed. Congress alone should

make provision for the stipulated Payments ; this body meets but

once a year and will soon assemble, and the season is at hand

* It is much to be regretted that the answers of Mr. King to the letters of
Mr. Wilberforce on the subject of the abolition of slavery and the slave trade,
in which throughout his life he was so deeply interested, cannot be obtained.

VOL. HI — 33

514 RUFUS KING. [1801

when passages to America are rare, long and precarious. I there-
fore take the liberty of pressing upon your Lordship the necessity
of this business being completed without further delay, in order
that I may be able to forward it to America, in time to be ratified
during the approaching session of Congress. I will do myself
the honour to wait upon your Lordship on Saturday, or any other
day which may be convenient to you for the purpose of explaining
to you the very peculiar and disagreeable condition of our Ships,
which have been detained on their voyages to Havre-de-Grace,
for which Port, I have reason to believe several other vessels are
now on their passage from America. I flatter myself that being
fully understood our difficulties on this head will immediately
cease.

With Respect &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Lord Eldon.

Mill Hill, Sep. 10, 1801.
My Lord :

As I am solicitous that the business in which your Lordship

has obligingly taken a part should be concluded in season to be

communicated to Congress at their approaching session. I flatter

myself that you will pardon my recalling it to your recollection.

The subject is one that if once looked at, can be soon adjusted ;

in regard to the terms to be made use of, I can foresee no room

to apprehend any disagreement.

With great truth & Respect

Rufus King.

R. Troup to R. King.

New York, 14th Sep., 1801.
Dear Sir :

. . . The pamphlet Mr. Caritat will deliver you respecting

Jefferson's answer to the New Haven Remonstrance was written

by a brother lawyer of mine William Coleman, who was the clerk

of our Court for this City — an office that brought him in at least

2500. a year. He came here under the patronage of Mr. Sedg-

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 515

wick, is a native of Massachusetts. We have set him up, in con-
sequence of his removal from his office by the late proceedings
of the Council, as a printer. His first paper will make its appear-
ance in October next, and I have little doubt from the specimen
given by the Pamphlet, it will be ably conducted. We wish him
to form a correspondence for the mutual interchange of news-
papers merely with one of the best informed and most respectable
printers in London. . . . We wish him to obtain early and
authentic information from London and from the most respect-
able source. All our friends have Mr. Coleman's paper much at
heart. We have not a paper in the City on the federal side that
is worth reading. . . .

God bless you

R. T.

G. Cabot to R. King.

Sept. 21, 1801.

My dear Sir :

I called on the Printer of the Centinel today to inquire for the
author of a paragraph you had seen of the 2 2d April. It was
furnished by Mr. J. Hale who doubtless thought it correct & did
not probably advert to its possible effect on you. Let me again
repeat that I have been scrupulously careful to avoid at all times
whatever might incommode you in this way ; indeed you may
recollect that you have not of ten communicated to me any of your
official business, tho' you have always been unreserved on every-
thing else : all this has been as I wished it to be.

I have just reed, your letter of the 28th July which gratifies me
very much. I hope you will remain where you are not only till
the Revolutionary Storm is entirely over, but until the dangerous
Calm which immediately succeeds shall yield to steady settled
weather.

I am much flattered by what you say concerning my ideas on
the interest of Neutrals & I am surprised, as I dare say you must
be to find the view I have given is everywhere thought to be new.
It is a fact that when I first advanced the doctrine that the in-
terest of Neutrals was opposed to the safety of Belligerent prop-
erty, I was listened to with surprise by almost every one, but so
obvious is this truth that all now wonder that it was not seen be-

5 16 RUFUS KING. [1801

fore by whoever sought it. ... I suppose by this time Mr.
Erving is arrived who is said to have recommended himself as a
suitable man to watch Mr. King — his appointment to the place
so honorably filled by Mr. Williams has exceedingly irritated our
Merchants.

Fare you well, yours affy.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 35.

London, Sept. 24, 1801.
Dear Sir :

The letters which I have received from you are dated May 21st,
June 15th & 30th and July 21st, 27th and 28th ; the three last
were delivered to me by Mr. Erving, to whom I will afford all the
assistance in my power in the discharge of his Several Duties.

My information that Denmark had acceded to the Convention
has proved incorrect ; Difficulties being still made by this Power,
which it is not doubted will in the end accede in order to regain
her possessions in the East and West Indies. Russia having re-
quired that the accession should be made at Petersburgh, all
information comes from that distant city and is often inaccurate.

The compensations to be made pursuant to the Treaty of Lune-
ville have not yet been settled by the City of Ratisbon, and some
late occurrences in Germany have led a few sanguine Individuals
to predict a new war upon the Continent. This, however is no
longer probable, the great Powers are in the main agreed and will
finally be completely so by the division of the Ecclesiastical and
other small States with which Germany abounds.

Indemnities have been offered to the Prince of Orange ; he has
asked the advice of this Cabinet, whether he ought to accept them
and renounce the Stadtholdership ; his answer has been that the
Cabinet declines giving any opinion upon the Subject.

Prussia instead of evacuating Hanover has modestly proposed
to this Government to pay her a subsidy for the maintenance of
the troops she has sent into the Electorate, alleging that France
will occupy it, if she withdraws her forces. The answer has been
that if Prussia evacuate, and France attempt to take possession

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 517

of Hanover, England may be willing to pay for the service of the
Prussian troops employed in defending it.

The Concordatum by which France and the Pope have settled
the Gallican Church, tho' not yet published, is represented to be
of importance to the repose of France, and the Stability of the
Power of the chief consul. The Bishops who have been required
by the holy Father to resign their sees, will be divided ; the younger
will conform ; their seniors will disobey ; their refusal will, how-
ever, be of small consequence, as the new Bishops and Arch-
bishops to be named by the chief Consul and confirmed by the
Pope, will supply their places, and they themselves from age and
infirmity must in a few years retire from the stage.

As soon as I received from Mr. Smith the account of the very
irregular conduct of the English Frigate Diana, Capt. Stephen-
son, towards three American Vessels in the Port of Lisbon, I
made a representation of it to Lord St. Vincent, who replied that
he would order an immediate inquiry into the complaint and hold
Capt. Stephenson answerable for the misconduct of his crew, in
case it should turn out that the violence was committed with his
knowledge. Since the receipt of your Letter of July 26th, Lord
St. Vincent has informed me that orders were immediately dis-
patched, to institute the Enquiry ; but that the Frigate having
sailed to Egypt, no report had yet been made.

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c.

Rufus King.

R. King to Lord Eldon.

{Private.')

Gt. Cumberland Place, Sept. 24, 1801.
My Lord :

I return enclosed to your Lordship the project we have been
discussing and consent to the substitute for the III Article,
which you delivered to me this morning.

The addition of the clause abolishing the 6th Article of the
Treaty of 1794, and which may be introduced at the top of the
second Page with the transposition of a word or two in the 2nd
Article, which I have made, are the only alterations desired.

5 18 RUFUS KING. [1801

I pray your Lordship to send the project as now settled to
Lord Hawkesbury in order that it may be engrossed so as to be
executed immediately. As I have in relation to this business
manifested a disposition to fall in with what has been deemed
requisite to meet complaints which may arise on one side, I must
beg of your Lordship in turn to enable me by an arrangement re-
specting the Maryland Bank Stock to bear up against the dissatis-
faction which may occur on the other.

With perfect Respect &c &c.

Rufus King.

"Sep., 1801.*

" In the beginning of this month Mr. John Dawson arrived in
England from France on his return to America. Mr. Dawson
was the bearer of the French Convention to France and of in-
structions to Murray to complete the ratification. Mr. Dawson
came to me at Mill Hill, and in our first conversation told me
that he was instructed by the President Mr. Jefferson to inform
me (which he remarked he had done in a letter wh. he wrote &
wh. I received in May last, dated in the Chops of the Channel)
that I should remain here if agreeable to myself. Speaking of
Col. Burr he said the Federalists wd. have been wholly disap-
pointed had Burr been chosen President, for that he himself
heard Burr say a day or two after Mr. Jefferson's choice, or entry
upon office (wh. I am uncertain) that he would deserve to be
damned if he suffered a single officer to remain in place twenty-
four hours. ! ! ! "

" Sep. 25.*

" In conversation with Mr. Hammond, U. S. of State, speaking
of Rumford and Ch. Huslang, the Charge d'Affaires of Bavaria,
I said I knew little of the latter, but said Hammond R. knows
him thoroughly. I asked him if he seriously believed the imputa-
tions wh. had been made respecting R. ; he said most certainly,
and that even was not all, for that he was a Traitor. On my ex-

* From Memorandum Book.

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 519

pressing surprise, he said Lord Grenville told me that Lord
Mulgrave had told him, if Lord Sandwich had lived, that R.
could not have lived in England ; that R. was connected with La
Motte the French Spy who was executed in 178- At that time
R. was under Secretary to Lord Geo. Germaine, * who learning
that Lord Sandwich was about to bring R. to trial, sent him a
message at the time that the motion was before Parliament to
address the King to remove from his confidence, &c, Lord Sand-
wich, that if he persisted in his intention about R., he Ld. Geo.
with all his friends would vote for the motion, wh. would have
carried it. Hammond added that this protection proceeded from
the scandalous intimacy between Ld. George and R.

" N.B. By referring to the trial of La Motte in the Annual
Register, the chief witness against him, alludes to a friend in a
certain office !

" No doubt this anecdote had its influence in preventing R.'s
reception as Minister from Bavaria. The reason assigned agt. it
was that R. had been & was a Br. subject & that it was a rule to
refuse the admission of subjects as Ambassadors."

* Minister for the Colonies during the Revolutionary war.

CHAPTER XXXV.

King to Secretary of State — Impatient at Delays in Negotiation — To J. Madi-
son— Delays — Peace with France and Revision of Treaty with England
about Seamen and Contraband seem to require a Plan to be adopted — A
Conference at Home if Mr. King is to conduct the Negotiation advisable —
To Secretary of State — Preliminaries of Peace with France — France may
turn Attention to Louisiana — J. Q. Adams to King — Return to America —
How much the Country improved — Removals from Office a Subject of Cen-
sure— Mr. King not to be removed — Troup to King — Removals from
Office in New York — Federal Party dying out — Anecdotes of Jefferson
and Chancellor Livingston — King to Secretary of State — Conferences with
the Lord Chancellor and Lord Hawkesbury on 6th Article — King to Secre-
tary of State — Further Conferences on same Subject, on the 7th Article,
and on the Maryland Bank Stock — King to J. Madison — The Course he
will pursue if Objections persisted in.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 37.

Oct. 4, 1801.
Dear Sir :

I have expected during the last fortnight that I should be able
to close the negotiations respecting the 6th Article of the Treaty
of 1794, in season to send the result by Mr. Dawson ; but as he
is on the point of embarking, and the business still remains open,
I can only transmit the annexed Report of what has passed since
the date of my No. 32. Be the consequence what it may, I shall
decline entering into any new engagement which may vary from,
or change the stipulations of the Treaty of Peace ; being fully
satisfied that a departure from this decision, would lay the foun-
dation of a future controversy.

After waiting a reasonable time I propose, in case I do not
hear farther from Lord Hawkesbury, to send him a Note demand-
ing a decisive answer.

With perfect Respect and Esteem &c &c.

Rufus King.
1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 52 1

After this follows the report, which is a very long one. In
the course of it appears the following letter from Lord
Eldon.

Lord Eldon to Rufus King.

Sept. 26, 1801.
Dear Sir :

I have taken all the means in my power to avoid postponing

the visit I promised you from this day till Monday, but I find

myself obliged so to do, and shall call upon you on Monday

about one o'clock.

Very faithfully &c &c.

Eldon.

Mr. King also writes :

Oct. 2.

" Went to Downing Street agreeably to Lord Hawkesbury's
appointment. His Lordship was prepared to receive my compli-
ments upon the Preliminaries of Peace with France, which were
signed last night ; but wholly unprepared to say anything more
respecting my business than that he had seen the Chancellor, and
that it would be requisite for him to bring the subject again be-
fore the Cabinet. I asked when this would be done, and expressed
pretty strongly my impatience at the delays which had taken
place ; he replied that he could not name a day, but that it should
be soon. It is now evident that little attention has been bestowed
upon our affairs ; the negotiation with France having excluded
the consideration of all other subjects."

R. King to James Madison.

{Private.')

London, Oct. 8, 1801.
Dear Sir :

I have nothing to add to my official letter respecting the
negotiation relative to the 6th Article. The additional articles
concerning Contraband and the Impressment of Seamen were

522 RUFUS KING. [1801

referred to Lord St. Vincent, who informed me that he imme-
diately reported upon them ; he had before told me that he was
in favour of their adoption ; the Chancellor has assured me that
he would attend to the settlement of an article respecting the
Maryland Bank Stock ; but this business will continue to be
deferred until the discussion of the Convention is finished.

The conclusion of Peace (the Preliminaries whereof will not
be published before they shall have been ratified) and the limited
period within which our Treaty must undergo a revision, render
the articles respecting Seamen and Contraband, less important
than they would have been had the war continued ; yet as one
of them is declaratory of the meaning of the 18th Article of the
Treaty of 1794, and would therefore be a rule of decision in the
Court of Appeals, and as it affects a great Principle, in the estab-
lishment whereof we are deeply concerned, I shall do all in my
power to bring them to a conclusion.

It was my earnest hope, when I came hither, that I should have
had before this period, an opportunity to assist in the revision of
our treaty with this country. We have sufficiently seen, and be-
come acquainted with, its operation during war : and the time is
come when it is to be tried as a rule of mutual conduct in Peace.
If I be not mistaken, it will be found to be our interest on every
account, to aim at its revision as soon as possible. The Treaty
with France may also require to be revised : ought we not to lay
down a common basis for these Treaties, and endeavour to form
them so as to act upon common and not upon interfering Prin-
ciples ? To do so will require concert in the projects, as well as
in the negotiations. Should the President confide the negotia-
tion here to me, might there not be considerable advantage in
my receiving his permission to pass a fortnight with you at the
Seat of Government, or with Mr. Livingston here or at Paris ?
If the Subject have not been fully discussed with Mr. L. before
his embarkation, the conferences in America would be most use-
ful. Upon the supposition that our affairs still depending here
be satisfactorily closed, I might embark in March directly for the
Chesapeake, pass a fortnight in Washington and returning by
New York be here again in July.

With perfect Esteem & Respect &c.

Rufus King.

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 523

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 3S.

London, October 9, 1801.
Dear Sir :

Information has been received from Paris that the Preliminaries
are fully approved and that the ratification will without delay be
completed. The Terms published in the News Papers are ad-
mitted to be correct. France receives back Martinique and the
rest of her foreign possessions, and in better condition than when
taken by the English. The Dutch and Spaniards likewise regain
the possession of their colonies with the exception of Ceylon and
Trinidad. Malta will be restored to the Order and Egypt to the
Turk. It is highly probable that Menon had capitulated at the
date of the Preliminaries, the effect whereof will be to exclude
the English and not the French from Egypt. The Dutch colonies
have been greatly enriched while in the hands of the English,
who have added more than thirty thousand slaves in the single
colony of Demerara. Upon a moderate calculation it is estimated
that the restored colonies carry with them Five Million Sterling of
English capital with which they have flourished since their
capture.

The armistice, counting from the exchange of Ratifications,
will be the same as at the conclusion of the American War. Lord
Cornwallis is to be sent to Amiens to conclude the definitive
Treaty ; this will be a mere ceremonial, as the Preliminaries will
constitute the definitive Treaty. The only point which is under-
stood to be open, is the agreement upon a Third Power to be the
Protector of Malta. England wishes Russia, France will prefer
a weaker Power, and the disagreement may end by their con-
ferring the Protectorship again on the King of the two Sicilies.
A Treaty of commerce is an affair of future consideration and
may not be concluded for several years.

Had France retained Egypt her commercial and colonial views
would have been chiefly confined to the Mediterranean ; espe-
cially as it is understood that a part of her plan was to have
established military colonies at Algiers & Tunis. This enterprize
having failed, Saint Domingo and her other American colonies
will engage her immediate attention, and perhaps Louisiana may

524 RUFUS KING. [1801

be coveted as an asylum for their Emigrants, as England once

thought of making it the refuge of ours. May the same fortune

which disappointed the views of England in like manner frustrate

those of France !

With perfect Respect &c.

Rufus King.

John Quincy Adams to R. King.

Quincy, 13 October, 1801.

Dear Sir :

On my arrival here, the 21st of last month, I received your
obliging favours of 30. June, 10 and 26. July, for which and for
your kind attention to my little concerns, I can only return you
thanks, the exchequer of the poor. . . .

We landed at Philadelphia, the 4th of last month after a tedious,
though not unpleasant passage of 58 days from Hamburg — My
wife, with her child went on to her father's family at Washington,
and I came here — The day after to-morrow I purpose setting out,
to go and bring her home — In the course of a month I hope to
be here again, and shall immediately resume the practice of the
law, and fix my residence in Boston.

The appearance of our country has much improved since I left
it in 1794. I find everywhere the marks of peace within our walls,
and prosperity within our palaces — for palaces they may truly be
called ; those splendid and costly mansions which since my de-
parture seem to have shot up from the earth by enchantment.

The pleasure of these prospects is in some measure damp'd by
that of the afflictions from which we are not yet exempted — Several
of our large towns — New York, Norfolk, Charleston S. C. and some
others are bleeding again under the scourge of pestilential fevers.
But as they did not appear untill a much later than the usual
period, and as the cold season is rapidly approaching, we hope
for speedy relief from this distressing calamity.

Upon the subject of our politics, I know not how far it may be
proper to tell you all I have observed since my return, arid should
I tell you all, it would not give you a clue to the projects and views
of any party — the meeting of congress will doubtless discover

l8io] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 525

some of them, and I shall write you again upon the subject, with
the utmost confidence.

The dismissal of some public officers and the appointment (pro-
visionally) of some others has given rise to considerable contro-
versy— Remonstrances, replies, and pamphlets pro and con have
furnished much conversation for idlers, and much discussion for
disputants. This has been hitherto the only topic of material
censure upon the present administration, and individual feelings
have given it a show of importance much beyond that which be-
longs to it — I am happy to know, that from the removals of public
officers abroad, it has been constantly determined to except you,
and that the President has expressed his entire satisfaction with
the manner in which you have served the public in your present
mission.

I am, Dear Sir, ever faithfully your's

A.

R. Troup to R. King.

New York, 14th Oct., 1801.
Dear Sir :

. . . Landed property is looking up ; and it is certain that
more monies have been received from settlers within eighteen
months past than in several preceeding years. The class of
settlers, now emigrating to Sir Wm. Pulteney's lands consists of
respectable and wealthy men — and principally from Maryland &
Virginia.

. . . All the federalists in this State who take a part in
politics are enraged with the violent proceedings of our Council
of Appointment.

Mr. T. enumerates many of the changes, discussing the
character of the new appointees, and then goes on :

— The displacing system here is bottomed on Jefferson's example ;
and I have no doubt it will be pushed still further, considering the
violence of DeWitt Clinton and Spencer. The system, as thus far
practised by Jefferson and Clinton's council, occasions great heart
burnings with some ; but I doubt whether they are so general as

526 RUFUS KING. [1801

materially to injure the democratic interest. The great body of
the people appear not to care whether A or B, be in this or that
office. I have always thought our governments from the texture
of them were destined to be in the hands of demagogues ; and I
believe they will remain there, until a convention, or something
like one, shall show the people that they are cheated. Public
spirit seems to have spent its force among the federalists. They
are wearied out with the warfare in which we have been engaged
ever since our general constitution has been framed ; and they
seem to pant so much for repose that they are ready to submit to
any state of things short of Parisian Massacres. . . . The
federal cause exhibits strong symptoms of a speedy dissolution.
At an election of Delegates (held in August) to our State conven-
tion appointed to heel tap our State Constitution, the federalists
made no stir ; they did not even vote. ... A well experienced
gentleman just from Philadelphia says the same torpor prevails in
that city, and indeed in the whole state. It is also the case with
Marvland. . . .

A gentleman who has spent a considerable part of the summer
in Virginia tells me that some of Mr. Jefferson's influential friends
are dissatisfied with his violent proofs of party spirit and are cry-
ing up Burr. Others complain that his familiarities with the
sovereign people lower the dignity of government. The latter I
think, is a curious objection. As to the former, I think they
must be pleased with the advancement of their own sect. Jeffer-
son certainly has his heart full of public censure. All the federal
presses are pouring down upon him vinegar and gall. I am in-
formed that some man to the southward lately dedicated a book
to him with the homage of his high respects, and that Jefferson
returned for answer he was happy to find one man, amidst the
host of calumniators, that was so virtuous and independent as to
say civil things of him. I believe this to be a fact ; and if so, it
proves that the saddle of power has galled his back. . . .

The Chancellor is here with his family on the way to the Jaco-
binical paradise. He will embark to-morrow or next day on board
the Boston frigate that has come to waft him across the ocean.
Report announces, and I believe truly, that the headquarter gen-
tleman wished him to go in a merchant vessel : but with true
democratic spirit he replied that he would not go at all if they

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 527

did not send him in a government ship. When he went on board
the other day to reconnoitre the accommodations the frigate
afforded, it was generally doubted whether he heard the honor-
able voice of the guns. . . .

God bless you

R. T.

R. King to Secretary of State.

No. 40.

London, Oct. 20, 1801.
Dear Sir :

The ship in which Mr. Dawson embarked, having been
forced by adverse winds to return into Port, affords me an op-
portunity of sending to you the annexed continuation of the Re-
port of my conferences with the Chancellor and Lord Hawkesbury.
It may be several days before I hear again from his Lordship, and
such is the present extraordinary situation of the negotiation, that I
will not venture even to conjecture the turn that it may now be
likely to take. Should it ultimately fail, however much we may
regret its inauspicious influence upon the good understanding and
harmony we have so assiduously laboured to preserve with this
country, we shall have the satisfaction to know that it did not
fail from a change of circumstances, or the want of good faith,
on our part.

With perfect Respect &c. &c.

Rufus King.

Notes of conferences with Lord Hawkesbury and others
concerning the convention relative to the 6th Article of the
Treaty of 1794.

i8or, October 8. Lord Hawkesbury informed me that he had
not yet an opportunity of bringing our Business before the Cabi-
net, and desired me to see the Lord Chancellor again upon the
subject. Accordingly I sent a note to the Chancellor informing
him what had passed between Lord Hawkesbury and me, and
proposing to meet him when it should be convenient.

9. Received the following note from the Chancellor.

528 RUFUS KING. [1801

Lord Eldon to Mr. King.

Downing Street, gth of October, 1801.
Dear Sir :

I have been out of town this morning, and it will perhaps
save time, if you would do me the favour to send to Bed-
ford Square the Convention, as you may think finally it would
be satisfactory to you, after the conversation you have had with
Lord Hawkesbury, and I will give it immediate attention and
take an early opportunity of seeing you.

With great Respect &c.

Eldon.

To this note I immediately returned the following answer :

R. King to Lord Eldon.

Great Cumberland Place, Oct. 9, 1801.
My Lord :

The Draught of the Convention, sent to me by Lord Hawkes-
bury, I delivered to your Lordship, when last I had the honour
of seeing you. I shall be satisfied with it, provided the under-
scored words in the enclosed copy of the 2d Article be changed
for those which I have written in the opposite margin. I beg
your Lordship to excuse the trouble I have given you in this
business which has been influenced by the persuasion that if
you and I could not agree upon the article, I might despair of
seeing a satisfactory conclusion of it.

With perfect Respect &c.

R. K.

UNDERSCORED WORDS IN 2D WORDS PROPOSED TO BE SUB-
ARTICLE, VIZ. STITUTED, VIZ.

" and so as that no creditor " and so as that the said
on either side shall hereafter creditors shall hereafter meet
meet with any lawful impedi- with no lawful impediment to
ment to such recovery as the recovery of the full value
aforesaid." in Sterling money of their bona

fide debts."

l8oi] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 529

October 14. Received a note from Lord Hawkesbury desiring
me to meet him and the Chancellor at 12 o'clock to-morrow.

15. Went to Downing Street agreeably to Lord Hawkesbury's
appointment. The Lord Chancellor began by saying he had no
objection to substitute the words I had proposed in the close of
the Second Article, in lieu of those which he had inserted, but
that on considering the fourth Article which I had proposed, he
was not sure that it might not interfere with the Second Article,
nor that we might not still misunderstand each other in regard to
what was to be the condition of the Creditors in prosecuting for
the recovery of their debts. His idea was that all legal impedi-
ments, by which he meant Laws and Acts of State, preventing
the recovery of bona fide debts, were to cease ; and consequently
that the Creditors would be able to prosecute for their recovery
in like manner as they might have done, had such lawful impedi-
ment never existed ; for example, continued his Lordship, if
during the American war, a Law were passed, disqualifying
British subjects, from prosecuting for recovery of debts in the
Courts of America, in like manner as during the present war, a
law has been enacted to prevent the recovery of Debts due to
Persons resident in France, such Law must henceforth cease.
But, if on trial, the demand fail for want of sufficient proof, or
for any other defect, that, in the ordinary course of Judicial Pro-
ceedings, would prevent a recovery, such failure would have no
relation to the Treaty. If, for instance, said Lord Hawkesbury,
the Court inform the Jury that there is no lawful impediment to
the Creditor's recovery, but the Jury, notwithstanding, give a
verdict for the Debtor, this would not affect the Treaty, since it
is not to be contended that the Government can engage how
Juries shall decide in cases submitted to their consideration.
All we expect is that there shall be no Impediment in Law to
the Creditor's recovery.

I replied that it was not very easy to define, what is and what
is not, a lawful impediment ; to which the Chancellor assented ;
but that I did not perceive that we differed in our ideas upon the
subject ; the Treaty of Peace engaged that lawful impediments
should cease ; the proposed Convention would confirm this en-
gagement ; and such was my understanding of its import. The
additional or fourth Article had been proposed by me for this

VOL. III. — 34

530 RUFUS KING. [1801

reason. As the second and third articles purported to explain
what the Convention does not mean, I had thought it expedient
to offer an article declaratory of what it does mean ; but if the
third article were omitted, I should have no objection to omit
the fourth. The Lord Chancellor expressed his approbation of
this Compromise, and said he would revise the Draught in order
to render it comformable to this agreement ; this, he added,
should be done in the course of the evening, and Lord Hawkes-
bury desired me to meet him to-morrow for the purpose of sign-
ing the Convention as we had noiv settled it.

The Chancellor, adverting to the Maryland Bank Stock, ob-
served that after looking more fully into the question, he felt
great difficulty in recommending that it should become the sub-
ject of a public Convention or Stipulation between the two coun-
tries. The claims of sundry Persons upon that Property,
remained still to be decided in the Court of Chancery ; and it
would be contrary to the usage of this country for the King to
enter into any stipulation, affecting or controlling the decisions
of his Courts ; that if any should be agreed to, it must be with
a provisional reserve in favour of these claims ; that an assurance
from the King's Government that his Majesty's right, subject to
such equitable claims as might be established, should be transferred
to Maryland, and an Instruction to the Attorney General to bring
these claims to a decision, would answer all the purposes of a
stipulation to the same effect.

I remarked that it was to be hoped that there was no intention
by the proposed reservation in favour of these claims, to establish
them against our Title, and that I could not but regret that that
decision had not been earlier communicated.

I then said that the difficulties, respecting the execution of the
6th article of the Treaty of 1794, being now terminated by the
Convention we had settled, I thought it my duty, with a view of
avoiding misconceptions, to state explicitly our expectation that the
Commissioners under the 7th Article, should be permitted to meet
and proceed in the execution of their duties ; their Meetings had
been suspended by a Letter from Lord Grenville to the British
Commissioners, and nothing more would be requisite than a
Letter from Lord Hawkesbury, instructing them to resume their
business. Lord Hawkesbury to whom I had before expressed

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 53 1

the same idea, appeared now to receive it as a matter of course.
The Chancellor replied that the subject was entirely new, to him,
and after a short pause, said it was an important one and that he
wished it had been mentioned before as it related to the subject
of the proposed Convention.

I observed that I could perceive no other connection between
the two Subjects, than that the Commission had been stopped
until a settlement could be effected, respecting the Commission
in America ; this settlement was now agreed upon, and it fol-
lowed of course that the impediment to the Proceedings of the
Commission here should be removed.

That there could be nothing new or unexpected in this commu-
nication inasmuch as it had before been distinctly explained by
me to Lord Hawkesbury when he informed me of the Cabinet's
decision to accept the ^600.000.

The Chancellor repeated that it was quite new to him, and
that in his opinion, it was of so much importance, that it would
be proper to submit it to the- consideration of the Cabinet.

Lord Hawkesbury immediately said he would summon a Cabi-
net for the next morning, and the conference ended by his request-
ing me to meet him again between 2 and 3 o'clock to-morrow.

Oct. 16. Attended Lord Hawkesbury's appointment. His Lord-
ship after stating the occasion, object and provisions of the 6th and
7th articles, and pointing out their similitude, said that upon a
full consideration of the various circumstances belonging to the
claims under the 6th article, and having regard to a practicable
and final settlement of them, they had agreed to accept ^600.000,
which, tho' less than they believed might have been recovered by
a fair execution of the article, was nevertheless a sum, that under
the circumstances of the claims, it was prudent and proper to ac-
cept ; but this decision had been made without adverting to the
situation of the claims under the Seventh Article. They now found
that they had agreed to accept what was less than fair Justice to
the British Claims, while by the execution of the Seventh Article
they should be called upon to do complete Justice to the Ameri-
can Claims : that this was the Light in which the subject was now
seen by all his Colleagues ; they had, however, come to no deci-
sion upon it ; it being their intention to consult Lord Grenville
and Mr. Pitt, for the purpose of understanding the motives which

532 RUFUS KING. [1801

influenced them to arrest the Proceedings of the Committee in
England.

I replied that the objection when made by the Chancellor yes-
terday had been wholly unexpected ; that having since deliber-
ately revised all that has passed in the course of this long and
serious discussion, the effect had been to encrease my surprise
that at this stage of the business, and after it had been so
thoroughly examined, an objection should be started which, if I
understood its object, would be likely to defeat every expectation
of a satisfactory settlement.

It must have been known that there was a Commission in
London for the American Claims : it had recently been proposed
by me and declined by his Lordship, as an arrangement of mutual
convenience, that an article should be inserted in the projected
Convention, agreeing that the ^600.000 to be paid by the United
States should be applied in discharge of the awards of this Com-
mission, in favour of our citizens, and that an equivalent sum
should be distributed by the British Government among the
British Creditors ; moreover that the very Draught of the Con-
vention, which we had just settled, and which the Cabinet had
approved, referred to the Commission in London, and to the
future execution of its Duties ; that a settlement of the diffi-
culties which had arisen in the execution of the 6th Article could
alone have been hoped for, or effected by an impartial reference
to the nature of these difficulties, and a due consideration of the
various circumstances of the Claims of the Creditors.

That the Commission in London was going on in a satisfactory
manner, when it was stopped by the interference of the British
Government ; tho' the circumstances of the American Claims
were altogether dissimilar from those of the British Creditors ;
and that there was nothing either in the manner in which the
Commissioners were proceeding, nor in the nature of the claims,
why the Commissioners should not proceed to do complete Justice.

Notwithstanding they might think ^"600.000 less than complete
Justice to British Claims, and they may have been influenced to
accept it, by the desire of seeing a final and friendly settlement of
the business, we were of opinion that it was not only equal to
what, upon the fair interpretation of the 6th article, we should
have been liable to pay, but more than we ought to pay, having

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 533

regard to the merit of the claims ; and even with a view to a final
and amicable settlement, that it was the highest sum that pru-
dence would permit us to give.

That the proposition of converting these Claims into a definite
sum and abolishing the Commission in America, had proceeded
from them, and that the negotiations, grounded upon this pro-
posal, had been carried on with an exclusive reference to this
Article ; that when his Predecessor Lord Grenville, at the com-
mencement of the discussion, enquired of me whether I had
Powers to enter into a similar agreement with respect to the
American Claims, I had explicitly answered that I had no such
power ; and in August last, when his Lordship communicated to
me the decision of the Cabinet to accept the ^"600.000, the only-
qualification of the decision related to the manner of paying the
Money, and the Right of the Creditors to recover their Debts in
our Tribunals, both which points, after repeated conferences, had
been settled : that at the interview just mentioned, I had dis-
tinctly informed his Lordship, with the view of preventing future
discussion, that it was our expectation that the Commission in
London would be allowed to meet, and proceed in the discharge
of its Duties, as soon as the Settlement respecting the sixth article
should be completed, and, as the American Commissioners were
dispersed, that it would be proper that measures should be taken
to reassemble them ; and upon his Lordship's assenting, I said
that I would charge myself with recalling them to London.

That I had sent a faithful Report of our several conferences to
my Government, in which it would appear that our expectation of
the reassembling of the Commission in London, had been season-
ably and often mentioned, and that with this Report and the
reputation which the British Cabinet everywhere enjoyed of never
deciding points, even of inferior importance, without seeing them
in all their bearings, it would not be extraordinary, if those who
had not had the advantage of personally knowing the characters
of the King's Ministers, should ascribe this sudden hesitation to
some other motive than that which had occasioned it.

Unfortunately too the affair of the Maryland Bank Stock would
serve to encrease, rather than to remove, suspicions of this sort.
Upwards of sixteen years had elapsed since the State of Maryland
had endeavoured to obtain a decision upon her claim to this Stock

534 KUFUS KING. [1801

in the Court of Chancery of this country, to whose Jurisdiction
she was willing to submit. Several years after the commence-
ment of a suit for this purpose, the Chancellor discovered, that
having no means of enforcing a Decree upon an independent
State, he had no jurisdiction to try the merits of the Question
before him. The Claim then became the subject of diplomatic
representation, and a number of years having been spent in ex-
plaining, conferring and exchanging Notes respecting the claim,
it has been recently discovered that it was still depending in the
Court of Chancery, and that it would be unusual and indecorous
to make that a matter of stipulation which was in the possession
of the Judiciary.

I concluded my observations to Lord Hawkesbury by saying
that I had no power to add a shilling to the sum which had been
offered and accepted as a settlement of the 6th Article ; nor
could I enter into a negotiation for the purpose of commuting
the claims under the 7th Article. If, therefore, the objection
which had been started by the Chancellor should be persisted in,
the claims under both articles would be set afloat, and that too at
a period, when our Commercial Treaty was about to expire, and a
new negotiation to be commenced for its renewal. Should that
fail, the commercial intercourse between the respective Countries
would become the object of separate and retaliating regulations.

Lord Hawkesbury made no other reply than by repeating
what he had before observed, that the Cabinet had decided
nothing ; being desirous to obtain information of the views of
Lord Grenville and Mr. Pitt.

R. King Probably to James Madison.

{Private.}

London, Oct. 20, 1801.
Dear Sir :

In addition to my official letter of this date, it may be satisfac-
tory to you to know, if more money shall be demanded, that I
shall refuse of course, and claim the execution of the Conven-
tion ; if a commutation of the 7th Article be asked for, I shall
decline entering into any discussion for that purpose, for the two-
fold reason, that I have no powers, and, if I had, I should decline,

1801J LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 535

the claims being plain and comparatively few, and the Commis-
sion, which was proceeding in an unexceptionable manner, was
the best means of ascertaining their amount.

In order that no mistake may be committed on our part, I am
calmly and beforehand considering the course it may be proper
for me to pursue. Should the objection that now stops us be
persisted in (the import of which seems to be that we should
give more money than they have consented to accept, or accept
less than we have a just claim to receive) I shall be inclined, ac-
cording to my present view of the subject, to offer to sign the
Convention that has been agreed to respecting the 6th article,
and, as a consequence thereof, to demand the removal of the
Impediment to the execution of the 7th Article.

Our Havre vessels are not yet released, tho' I have little doubt
that they will be discharged in a few days. Tho' General Smith's
valuable ship & Cargo were without excuse detained off the Texel,
I advised the Master by all means to take them back without pur-
suing satisfaction ; wh. wd. have been uncertain and at the ex-
pence of the long detention of ship and cargo.

Very faithfully,

Rufus King.

Sir W. Scott to R. King.

Commons, Oct. 22, 1801.
Sir :

I do myself the honour of returning herewith the Copy of the
Proceedings of the American Government upon the Complaint
which arose in the British High Court of Admiralty in conse-
quence of some undue Practices appearing in the case of the
Brig Sally to have been committed by Officers in one of the
American Custom-Houses. *

If I was not afraid of appearing to be guilty of an improper
Presumption in exercising any minute Judgement upon the Con-
duct of a great Government, I should venture to observe that the
Lenity shown to the old officer seems to be as properly applied,
as the Severity which has been practised upon the actual delin-
quents.

* Endorsed " Returning Proceedings of the Amer. Govt, respecting Coll.
Watson which are highly satisfactory."

536 RUFUS KING. [180 1

Perhaps it will be more becoming in me to content myself with
saying that as far as I am concerned (and I may add as far as our
Government is concerned) the Communication has fully answered
the Purpose of shewing that the American Government has no
disposition to connive at the misconduct of its officers.

With perfect Respect & Esteem I have the honour to be, Sir,
your obedient & very humble servt

W. Scott.

" Great Cumberland Place, Oct. 27, 1801.

" Mr. King presents his compliments to Lord Hawkesbury and
takes the liberty to ask whether his Lordship has yet completed
the Inquiry respecting the suspension of the committee under
the VII Article of the Treaty of 1794., that he was desirous of
making before the signature of the Convention which has been
settled relative to the 6th article of the same Treaty."

The above note to Lord Hawkesbury, to which no direct
answer appears to have been given, shows the persistency
with which Mr. King called upon the British Ministers to
make a settlement of the reasonable demands he made
upon them relative to the pending questions between the
two countries. The delays interposed were in part due to
the fact that the new Ministry were not familiar with the
whole case, but as he had carefully explained to them in
person and by note what had taken place before, it seems
that a captious spirit, on the part chiefly of Lord Eldon,
and a studied neglect of the American negotiations, caused
the non-action of which Mr. King justly complained. It
was merely a repetition of what he had said to his own Gov-
ernment before, that it was hard to bring the British Minis-
try to take up any matters at this time, except those which
required immediate attention, in consequence of their posi-
tion in reference to the war with France, and the attitude
of the continental powers. The further discussion and final
solution of these matters must be postponed to the next
volume.

APPENDIX I.

CORRECTING AN ERROR IN VOLUME II., PAGE 62.

In The Nation of April 10, 1895, there is a review of the
2d volume of this work, which contains a statement of a
"blemish," which requires a correction on the part of the
Editor, which was made and published in that paper on
April 25, 1895, as follows :

" . . . There is one ' blemish ' which requires a correction
inasmuch as there is an inaccuracy in the fact stated, and ap-
parent carelessness on the part of the gentleman who kindly had
the Hamilton Papers in the State Department at Washington
examined for me, giving me a list of those written by Rufus King.
The charge is : ' Nor have the Hamilton Papers been thoroughly
searched, as they contain the letters described by the Editor as
not to be found.'

" These letters referred to were two written on April 17th and
20th, the year not given, but in 1796, by King to Hamilton in
answer to three short letters by the latter, published on page 61
of this second volume. On page 62 the Editor regrets that these
letters cannot be found, ' as they must have given some interest-
ing facts, as well as the views of Mr. King relative to the import-
ant questions under review. ... A search for them in the
United States State Department among the Hamilton Papers by
Mr. Andrew H. Allen, Chief of Bureau of Rolls and Library, at
the Editor's request, has been unsuccessful.'

4< In this statement there are two serious errors : the first is,
that they are among the Hamilton Papers in the Department of
State ; and the second, that in the list furnished to me of the
$38 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

letters of King, these two letters are noted as No. 16, pages 141
and 143 of the Hamilton Papers. Mr. Allen asked me to mark
on the list such as I desired to have copied. For some reason,
for which I cannot account, possibly because the year in which
they were written was not in them, I did not mark the letters for
copying and they were not copied ; and as they did not appear
among my copies, I must have inferred, most carelessly, that they
did not exist. Mr. Allen, against whose accuracy I have most
unjustly recorded an incorrect statement, was therefore not in
fault, but really placed at my disposal the desired information. I
regret that I cannot make this correction where the charge is
made, on page 62 of this second volume, but I shall insert it in an
appendix to the third, where a copy of the letters shall be
placed.

"Charles R. King,
" Editor of 'Life and Correspondence of Rufus King/

"Andalusia, Pa., April 17, 1895."

Hamilton Papers, No. 16, p. 141.
Rufus King to Alexander Hamilton.

Monday Morning 17 Ap.

In general I agree in the course you recommend. Separate
Bills will be reported to the House this morning providing for
the Sp. Ind. & Alg. Treaties. They will pass the H. and be to
the Senate by the middle of the week. I perceive no impropriety
in adding to the first of these Bills received by the Senate, and in
succession to each of them if requisite, a provision for the Br.
Treaty. Such amendment, if rec'd in the House before they take
a question, it is believed would have influence.

[The Merchants and traders' is signed with unexampled una-
nimity. Baltimore have prepared a similar petition wh. will be
very generally signed. Genl. Smith, who is now there, writes that
the Treaty has gained many friends, that they are next to unani-
mous in favor of its execution, that Annapolis is likewise unani-
mous, and that he thinks nine-tenths of the State are for carrying
it into effect. He adds that a memorial has been drawn up and

APPENDIX. 539

signed by most of the respectable People in Baltimore, approving
the President's conduct in refusing the Papers], that he thinks a
counter memorial could be obtained, but that he has discouraged
it seeing the necessity of unanimity at the present crisis. He re-
turns to-morrow or next day & will be zealous for the execution
of the Treaty. His friends may be induced to act upon his mind,

which balances, so as to decide it. Adieu.

R. King.

(Addressed) Free. R. King — Alexander Hamilton, Esq., New

York.
(Endorsed) R. King, Esq. — Rufus King, April 17, 1796.

Hamilton Papers, No. 16, p. 143.

Wednesday 20. Ap.

The Petitions of the Merchants and others will be presented
to-day, and it is said they have been signed by almost every Mer-
chant and Trader in the City. Pettit, Barclay and some few
others are exceptions. A counter Petition has been very indus-
triously carried through the City and its suburbs ; and though
very few Merchants, Traders, or principal Mechanicks have
signed it, it will show a long catalogue of Names. The persons
engaged in this service have been very successful in the Northern
and Southern Liberties, and taking their stands upon the wharves,
they have collected the names of sailors and others, as well
foreigners as Citizens. Baltimore has become very jealous, and
I fear from the displeasure at the conduct of Colo. Smith, they
have hazarded his vote and influence whatever it may me [sic] in
the Question of Provision for the Treaty. They have drawn up
a Paper, which is signed by almost the whole body of Merchants,
in which they request and instruct him to promote by the proper
provisions the Execution of the Treaty. His inclination was in
favor of a Provision, but I am apprehensive, his Pride will be so
wounded by this instruction that he may vote against his judgment
to prove his independence. We shall probably receive from the
House today a Bill making an appropriation for defraying the
Expences of carrying into effect the Sp. Treaty.

We shall amend it by adding a provision for the Br. Treaty.
If the House disagree, we shall adhere, and they will lop the Bill

54-0 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING,

by refusing our amendment. We shall then add to the Algerine
Bill an amendment providing for the British and Spanish Treaties.
The House will also decide the Fate of this Bill. We shall then
add to the Bill providing for the In. Treaty an amendment pro-
viding for the British, the Spanh. and the Algerine Treaties. The
House will also decide the Fate of this Bill, we shall then offer
them a Bill, providing for all the Treaties ; this likewise they may
reject, but my Belief is that the opposition will give way before
we have gone through this course. Yrs. &c.

Rufus King.

(Endorsed) Rufus King Esq., (No date) April 20. No. 3.

APPENDIX II.

LETTERS FROM PRESIDENT ADAMS TO J. MARSHALL, SECRE-
TARY OF STATE, RELATIVE TO THE 6TH ARTICLE OF
THE TREATY OF AMITY, COMMERCE, AND NAVIGATION
WITH GREAT BRITAIN.

These letters relate to instructions to be sent to Mr. King
to meet the questions which had arisen in the discussion of
the suspension of the Commission on the 6th Article of the
Treaty between him and Lord Grenville ; the particulars of
this discussion had been reported to his Government in his
dispatch No. 67, April 22, 1800, p. 222.

John Adams to J. Marshall, Secretary of State.*

Quincy, August 1, 1800.
Dear Sir :

I have twice read the despatch of Mr. King. No. 67. . . .
I am glad to see that Lord Grenville expressed his opinion that
the new board ought to proceed in a different manner from their
predecessors, by deciding cases singly, one after another, instead
of attempting to decide by general resolves and in classes.

The idea of paying a gross sum to the British government in

-X-

Life and Correspondence of y. Adams, vol. ix., p. 68.

APPENDIX. 541

lieu of, and in satisfaction for, the claims of the British creditors,
seems to me to merit attention and mature deliberation. There
will be great difficulties attending it, no doubt. How can we
form an estimate that will satisfy the American government and
the British government ? How shall the claims of British credit-
ors be extinguished or barred from recovery in our courts of law ?
Shall the claim of the creditors be transferred to our government
and how ? or shall it be a total extinguishment of debt and credit
between the parties ? How will the British government appor-
tion the sum among the British creditors ? This however is their
affair. You ask an important question, whether such an arrange-
ment can afford just cause of discontent to France. But I think
it must be answered in the negative. Our citizens are in debt to
British subjects. We surely have a right to pay our honest debts
in the manner least inconvenient to ourselves, and no foreign
power has any thing to do with it. I think I should not hesitate
on this account. The difficulty of agreeing upon a sum is the
greatest ; but I am inclined to think this may be overcome. If
nothing of this kind can be agreed on, and the British government
refuse all explanations, I think good faith will oblige us to try
another board ; and I have so little objection to the modes of
appointing a new board, suggested to Mr. King by our government,
or by the British government, that I am content to leave it to Mr.
King to do the best he can.

<<

J. Adams to J. Marshall, Secretary of State.*

"Aug. II, 1800.

. . On the 1st of August I wrote you on the subject of a
sum in gross to be paid, instead of going through all the chi-
canery, which may be practicable under the treaty. I most per-
fectly agree with you and the heads of department, that the
proposition merits serious attention. My only objection to it is
one that cannot be seriously mentioned. I am afraid that as soon
as this point of dispute is removed, such is their habitual delight
in wrangling with us they will invent some other. Some pretext
or other of venting their spleen and ill humor against us they will
always find. This, however, cannot be gravely urged as a reason

* Life and Correspondence of John Adams, vol. ix., p. 72.

542 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

against settling this quarrel. I am willing you should write to
Mr. King instructions on this head. Take the opinions, however,
of the heads of department on the letter before you send it. If
they are unanimous with you for going as far as a million in the
latitude given to Mr. King in the negotiation, I will agree to it."

Mr. Marshall on 23d answered :

" I understand your opinion to be that the explanatory arti-
cles, if attainable, are preferred to any other mode of accommo-
dating the differences which produced the dissolution of the
board lately sitting at Philadelphia ; and that the most eligible
mode is the substitution of a sum in gross as a compensation for
the claims of the creditors of the United States. On this idea
the letter to Mr. King is drawn. For many reasons I am myself
decidedly of the same opinion, and I believe there is with respect
to it no difference among the heads of department."

J. Adams to J. Marshall, Secretary of State.

Quincy, Aug. 2i, 1800.
Dear Sir :

I received last night your letter of the 16th. I am well satis-
fied with all its contents. The only thing which requires any
observation from me, is the proposed instruction to Mr. King.
As far as I am able to form a conjecture, five millions of dollars
are more than sufficient, provided the British creditors are at lib-
erty to prosecute in our courts, and recover all the debts which
are now recoverable. I agree, however, with the heads of de-
partment, that it is better to engage to pay by instalments, or
otherwise, as may be agreed, the whole sum, than to be puzzled
and teased with a new board and two or three years' incessant
wrangles. I should be for instructing Mr. King to obtain the
lowest sum possible, but to go as far as five millions rather than
fail. I wish Mr. King may be furnished with as many reasons as
can be thought of for reducing the sum. I pray you to prepare a
Letter to Mr. King, as soon as possible ; and as we are all so well
agreed in all principles, I do not think it necessary to transmit it
to me, &c &c.

APPENDIX. 543

J. Adams to J. Marshall, Secretary of State.

Quincy, 30 August, 1800.
Dear Str :

My ideas are perfectly conformable to yours in your instruc-
tions to Mr. King, as you state them to me. The explanatory
articles, if attainable, are preferable to any other mode. The
next most eligible is the substitution of a sum in gross, that sum
to be as small as can be agreed to, or will be agreed to, by the
British government, but to agree to five millions of dollars, rather
than fail of explanations and substitutions both, and be compelled
to agree to a new board, and all their delays and altercations.
. . . Mr. King's letter of the 5th of July is a melancholy
picture of Britain. Alas ! how different from that held to view
in this country, twelve months ago, to frighten me from sending
to France ! However Mr. King is somewhat of a croaker at
times. He is apt to be depressed by what he thinks a train of
unfortunate events. There is, however, enough of likeness in his
drawing to give great spirits and a high tone to the French. It
will be our destiny, for what I know, republicans as we are, to
fight the French republic alone. I cannot account for the long
delay of our envoys. We cannot depart from our honor, nor
violate our faith, to please the heroic consul (Bonaparte).

APPENDIX III.

This appendix will contain extracts from a memorandum
book of Rufus King in which he recorded, as will be seen,
the conferences with the English ministers and other inter-
esting matters on the days of their occurrence. They formed
the basis of much of his official correspondence with the
Secretary of State, sometimes in full, at others with explana-
tions, which though interesting were not always necessary
for his reports. The dates of those here given are earlier
than those in the beginning of this volume, and therefore it
was deemed advisable to place these extracts together in
chronological order until they should correspond with the
period covered in this volume.

544 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUE US KING.

An explanation of the reason why the memoranda were
not published in their proper position is to be found in the
fact that in moving the King papers from one place to
another, as it has been necessary to do several times, the
volume containing them was placed at last in a drawer
covered over with other books, and remained undisturbed
until a search for other matters revealed it. Its contents
are now given. They throw light upon the events of the
mission, show the ability with which Mr. King discussed
questions which arose, and the confidential and honorable
position he occupied at the Court of St. James, and give
anecdotes of distinguished men.

" I met Lord Cornwallis at St. James, when he was to take leave
on his departure to India : he came to me and told me that he
had examined, as far as he had been able, the claim of the No.
Carolina Moravians for payment for supplies furnished his army
on their march through that country : That he did not think
they had been paid, certainly they were not paid at the time, for
he had no money in the military chest, and he well remembered
the supplies in the Moravian towns from this particular circum-
stance. The rum or whiskey they found among the Moravians
was so plenty, that the army got drunk and he was very uneasy
lest Gen. Green shd. attack him when the army were in a condi-
tion unable to resist."

April, 1797.
General Baron Hompesch, a German who served in the Prus-
sian and Austrian Armies, and who raised several corps now in
the Br. Service, called on me to ask my aid to carry 600 Germans
from San Domingo (where the Regiments to wh. they belong are
disbanded) to America. I told him that I had no authority to
make any arrangements of this nature. He afterwards wrote me
a note requesting me to recommend his project (which was to
settle these Germans on new lands) to such persons as I sup-
posed likely to engage with him. I replied that Sir F. Baring
had lately purchased lands in America and I had understood that
Mr. Hope was concerned with him, but whether they would en-
gage in his project I could not say.

APPENDIX. 545

Afterward the General called on me and told me he shd. go to
St. Domingo by Philadelphia, and asked letters, which I gave to
Mr. Bingham & Col. Hamilton.

May 3, 1797.

Mr. West called on me — we entered into politics after speaking
of the Dinner at the Royal Academy and of the Annual exhibi-
tion ; Mr. West said things respecting Amer. had changed very
much ; that people who cd. not formerly find words of unkindness
eno' now talked in a different language ; that the King had lately
spoken in the most explicit manner of the wisdom of the Ameri-
can Gov. and of the abilities and great worth of the characters
she produced and employed. He said the King had lately used

very handsome expressions respecting Mr. Jay and and that

he also spoke in a very pleasing manner of Mr. Gore.

But that in regard to Genl Washington, he told him since his
resignation that in his opinion "that act closing and finishing
what had gone before and viewed in connection with it, placed
him in a light the most distinguished of any man living, and that
he thought him the greatest character of the age."

Mr. West then observed that he had been very peculiarly cir-
cumstanced ; that he loved his own country, that he had always
felt the warmest attachment to it ; that he owed much to Eng-
land ; that he from a child had loved, honored & revered the
House of Hanover ; that the Quakers were all attached to that
House ; that moreover the King had been his friend ; that but
for him he should have been ruined ; that plots against him had
failed only by the faithful regards of the King ; that his inter-
course gave him frequent opportunities of seeing and hearing
things of which others were ignorant. That the King was a good
man, an amiable and virtuous character ; that he was step by step
led into the Amer. War ; that Lord Mansfield was a principal
agent and with the Scotch faction were the authors of the Amer.
war.

The King was persuaded that f of the Americans were agt. tne
claims of the Colonies ; that a few unquiet and disaffected char-
acters throughout the country were alone active or engaged in
the disturbances and that the mere appearance of force, a few
regiments only, and a firm language wd. chase away the agitators
and restore quiet and universal loyalty.

vol. Hi.— 35

546 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

That after the few disasters which happened in the scheme of
coercion, he was still told that a small additional force wd. be
sufficient, that a vast majority of the colonists were his friends,
that they were kept in awe by the violence of a few persons in the
several colonies, and that, if these characters were firmly opposed,
peace and order wd. return, that at an early stage of the war, the
King asked him, whether " Washington aimed at Sovereign
Power " ; on wh. occasion he told the King that his means of
information were good, that he "felt great confidence that he
was not deceived, and that from the language and opinions of
those who would not mislead him, he was satisfied that Washing-
ton entertained no wish to put himself in possession of Sovereign
Power, and that the power conferred upon him would be relin-
quished with more pleasure than it was reed."

At a later stage of the War when Lord Mansfield made a cele-
brated speech concerning Amer. in the House of Peers (called
the Rubicon speech) the King said to him, Have you seen his
speech (Lord M's) this is very different from what they have
always told me. Mr. West added that the Friends of the Amer.
War made the King believe that ^ths of the People of America
were his friends and in opposition to the Patriots and that ambi-
tion alone actuated Washington. In this belief the King used to
say to him, " Can I doubt my friends, ought I not to protect
them?" and alluding to Washington's aiming at a separation in
order to become the Amer. Sovereign he said I never will submit
to that ; I will go myself, I will put myself at the head of my
Armies and reduce my enemies. The retirement of Washington
from the army affected the King, but he was silent to Mr. West
upon the subject. The late resignation wh. corresponded with
what West had told the King led him to speak to him on the sub-
ject and to take notice of what he had predicted.

After the Amer. War, said Mr. West, the King resolved, and,
by the prosperous course of affairs under Mr. Pitt's administra-
tion, he was confirmed in his purpose, never again to go to war
during his reign. Pitt likewise determined to build his fame on
a policy of peace. It was therefore with the greatest difficulty
that the King was persuaded to engage in war agt. Fr. The
Queen was early disposed to take a part : formerly she did not
interfere much in politics ; but during the King's derangement

APPENDIX. 547

she had great authority and influence with him ; the projected
Regency confirmed that influence, and, tho' the King is restored,
he has not been able to free himself from the controul of the
Queen. . . . But Pitt, who had been placed at the head of
affairs while still a youth, who had caused the nation to flourish
so much and so soon after the waste of the Amer. War, and who
had with such firmness and wisdom rescued the King, during his
derangement, from a scheme of Regency that would entirely and
forever have excluded the King from the Throne, was firmly op-
posed to the War.

The French Emigrants, some of the dignified Clergy and the
remnants of the authors of the Amer. war all conspired to repre-
sent the situation of France to be such that a fair occasion was
presented to retaliate upon her the injury she did England by the
countenance and aid given to the Americans. The same false
representations were made to the King now, as had been made in
respect to the Amer. War. France was exhibited as divided,
convulsed, impotent, her enemies numerous, powerful, united,
and a single short bloodless campaign was alleged to be sufficient
to restore France, not to what she was, but to a situation of more
security to her neighbours, and that shd. insure the continua-
tion of the ancient order of things within his dominions. Un-
der this expectation the King consented to the War, and it is
said that Mr. Pitt was rendered less obstinate by the gift of the
Cinque Ports. The division that soon appeared among the coali-
tion (the Imperialists summoning in the name of the Emperor one
fortress, the English in the name of the King another, the Prus-
sians in their right a third, and the Emigrant Corps conceiving that
the restoration of the Monarchy and not the Partition of France
was the object of the war) disappointed all hopes of the speedy
termination of the war which had been promised and by the con-
tinuation of military operations gave an opportunity to the unfor-
giving enemies of America to project a scheme of revenge against
that country. This considering the past, and viewing the existing
state of things was not difficult ; tho' America conducted with
great prudence and her Government early and easily resolved to
remain neuter, yet the intrigues of the French agents in Amer.,
the sympathy that in the commencement of the French revolution
all Americans felt for the French, whom they saw, as they be-

548 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

lieved, struggling agt. ancient abuses & oppression, and to whom
they wished success, gave occasion to those, who sought for it, to
represent the Amer. neutrality as fraudulent — advantageous to
France but as detrimental to England as an open war. In this
belief the treatment of Americans in the same manner as French-
men was natural enough. Hence originated the speech of Lord
Dorchester to the Indians, hence the order of the 6th of Novem-
ber 1793. England at this time and for several months after-
wards, and until she began to experience defeats and disasters in
the war with France, meditated and intended a war with America.
Even when Mr. Jay arrived in England this opinion prevailed.
A cabinet council hesitated concerning (if they did not decide)
the recept. of Mr. Jay, even after he had landed at Falmouth.
The disasters wh. about this period happened to the Allies in
Flanders, added to the loss of Toulon wh. happened in Dec. in-
clined the balance to moderation, Mr. Jay was received on the
1 8th of June 3 days after his arrival in London, and 10 days after
he landed at Falmouth ; the negotiation commenced and ulti-
mately terminated in the American Treaty.

Reflection — This anecdote concerning the intention to have
gone to war agt America, places in the strongest light the wise
policy of Mr. Jay's mission, which carrying with it the most de-
cisive evidence of moderation and a desire to remain in peace,
more than the disasters of Toulon or of Flanders, influenced and
restrained the Ministry. The nation at large had no desire of
another American war, and the Ministry would not have dared to
make such a war after the mission of Mr. Jay, wh. would have
refuted all conjectures and imputations of a desire in Amer. to
engage in the war. But it is far from being certain that the Br.
Cabinet desired or meditated a war against the U. S. It is confi-
dently said that the orders given to Lord Dorchester did not
authorize him to make the speech he did make to the Indians ;
and in respect to the advance and taking post at the Miami it was
repugnant to his Lordship's orders shewn to me in the Duke
of Portland's office. Lord Dorchester had asked the question
whether he might advance beyond the old line and was answered
that the old posts were to be retained & defended, but that they
must not be passed and that he must not take any new post within
the American boundary. General Simcoe confirmed to me and said
if war had followed Lord Dorchester wd. have forfeited his head.

APPENDIX. 549

It seems, however, difficult to understand how L. D. ventured on
the measure, hostile certainly it was, wh. he took. Might there
not have been secret orders which were repugnant to those shewn
to me ? Compare the speech of L. D. and his proceedings
together with the order of the 6. of Nov. 1793 agt. the Ameri-
can Commerce, with the conduct of the British Diplomatic
agents at Stockholm, Copenhagen, Genoa & Florence which
held this language that whoever was not against France was
on the side of France and that every State, instead of remain-
ing neuter, was bound to take the side of France or her enemies.

The failures of the Allies in Flanders and at Toulon altered
this mode of thinking wh. grew out of the Treaties agt. the power
of France concluded in 1793, between England, Russia and Prus-
sia, the Emperor, Portugal & Spain ; all of which aimed ex-
plicitly at the destruction of the trade of France and of that of
every other State wh. sh. attempt to trade with France. See the
instruction of the Empress of Russia to her Admiral wh. explains
the views of the coalition more distinctly than any other docu-
ment. The order of Nov. 6. 1793 proceeded from this confeder-
acy and was recalled when all hopes began to fail and not before !

July 13.

The King to-day spoke to me of Mr. Adams' Speech delivered
at the late extraordinary meeting of Congress. It was Mr.
Adams' first Speech. The King said he liked the Speech ; that
he thought it shewed great dignity, and stopping a moment in his
conversation he added that he thought the Speech had more
dignity in it than he had seen in Genl. Washington's Speeches ;
whether as Washington had commanded the army he thought it
advisable to avoid the appearance of authority, or from some
other cause, he could not tell, but in his opinion Mr. Adams'
Speech bore a greater air of authority and firmness than he had
seen in any Speech of Washington. I said no one was better
able to form a sound opinion concerning his country than Mr.
Adams was, and having calmly made up his mind, no one had
more firmness. The King then, rather archly, with a wink of one
of his eyes, took notice of the difference in the address in Mr.
Adams' Speech from that of his Predecessor, Mr. Adams having
used the word " Gentlemen " & not those of " fellow citizens,"
and then proceeded with the observation that small circumstances

550 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

of this sort often had a great influence on pub. opinions ; he
then asked concerning the manner in which the President was
received when he delivered his Speeches, whether the members
were attentive to their dress on that oceasion, whether the Presi-
dent came with any attendants & in full dress ; I satisfied him in
these Enquiries, and he concluded by saying that tho' these were
things in themselves indifferent, still that an attention to them or
an omission of them, had a much greater effect in favoi of or agt.
the just authority of Magistrates than was commonly supposed.

July 29th, 1797.

Doct. Davies the Provost of Eton College, with whom I made
an acquaintance at Mr. Anstey's invited Anstey, Gore, myself and
our wives to come to the Eton election and to take our quarters
at his Lodge.

We accepted his invitation and went today. This College is
a noble institution, it contains about 400 boys from 7 to 19
years old. 70 are on the Foundation, who lodge and dine in the
College ; the others are called oppidans, live in the town and are
instructed in the College. Formerly the education was not ex-
pensive, at present it is otherwise ; for mere board and instruction
the charges will reach 80 Guineas a year. Some boys spend
^150, or 200 a year. Nothing is taught here but Latin & Greek.
The School or College as it is called certainly turns out a great
many excellent scholars, and as the sons of the nobility and of
others who are the most distinguished in the Govt, of the country
are educated here, it may be advisable for an Englishman to send
his children to this Seminary, since their early connections may
prove advantageous to them at future stages of their lives.

Ten or twelve years of the life of a young man seems too long
a space to be given to the mere acquisition of dead languages. . . .

Nov.

Col. Trumbull who had been to Stutgard returned by Paris
from whence he arrived on the nth. . . . He brought me no
letter from the Envoys.* He however had seen and confidentially
conversed with them : his report was this :

* He brought a cipher dispatch from the Envoys to be sent to the Secretary
of State.

APPENDIX. 551

The American Envoys after sending a note to Mr. Talleyrand
(the Min. of For. Affrs.) announcing their presence in Paris,
waited on him at an hour named for that purpose when they de-
livered a copy of their commission &c. Mr. Talleyrand said he
was preparing a Report on the subject of the U. S. to be presented
to the Directory, and as soon as he had delivered it, he shd re-
ceive their orders concerning their mission. Mr. Talleyrand said
something concerning Cards of Hospitality wh. were afterwards
sent to the Envoys naming them in their public character. Trum-
bull left Paris more than a month after the arrival there of the
Amer. Envoys.

Some days after the interview with Talleyrand Mr. Hotanger
and Mr. Bellamy, men in the intimacy of Talleyrand, with Mr.
Dotville also of Talleyrand's acquaintance made frequent visits
to the Envoys, which resulted in giving them this information,
that in order to enable them to conclude a Treaty &c. or in other
words to settle all misunderstandings, they must pay down a
million of Livres to be distributed among such persons as Mr.
Talleyrand shd. select ; that the U. S. must likewise agree to
make a loan of money to France, and these points being acceded
there wd. be no difficulty in respect to the terms. After repeated
conversations which connected these propositions with the Office
of For. Affairs, the Amer. Envoys gave a decided negative to
them, and caused it to be signified to Mr. Talleyrand that they
shd. hold no other conversations with any persons except such as
shd. be regularly and fully appointed and authorized.

Trumbull dined with Talleyrand who said that our Envoys were
slow, that they must come to some conclusion soon — that French-
men were impatient and decided as well as acted with prompti-
tude.

Trumbull replied that they were men of great prudence &
would weigh well every step in order that they might not pass
over their instructions.

Talleyrand said people who were going 3000 miles from home
shd. act on discretion, and that they shd. not be confined by in-
structions. The conversation of Talleyrand confirmed the truth of
the propositions made in his name to the Amer Envoys, and dis-
covered his impatience that they had not acceded to them. He said
nothing of the letter that I had written to him, asking a passport

552 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

for Trumbull. Paine (Thomas) was at Paris and went occasion-
ally to visit the Envoys. He cautioned them to avoid Trumbull,
wh., he said, was suspected to be sent to Paris by me. Gerry
answered with spirit, and even supposing this to be the fact, what
and who forbids an intercourse between the mins. of the same
nation residing in difft. countries. When Trumbull left Paris,
the probability was that the Amer. Envoys wd. be sent away.

Soon after Trumbull's return, or a little before it, Lord Gren-
ville informed me that France had lately renewed her demand
of Spain for the cession of Louisiana. (See my letter to the Secy
of State.)

Some days after this communication Ld. G. informed me that
Portugal paid down a considerable sum to obtain his Treaty and
that this money enabled the Directory to march the army wh.
effected the Revolution of the 4th of September.

In a letter (in Genl. Pinckney's cipher) I sent these two im-
portant facts to the Amer. Envoys in Paris.

Dec. 23d.

Col. Trumbull who had once or twice before told me that he
had information that proposals of Peace had been made thro'
Talleyrand to the Br. Govt, informed me this evening that such
proposals had last night been answd. in the negative by this
Govt. The terms offered were more favorable than those de-
manded at Lisle by Ld. Malmesbury, and the price or bribe of a
million sterling to be divided among Directory, ministers & others ;
Talleyrand's Department to share ^100,000 sterg. — Hotanger &
Bellamy (the same persons as were sent by Talleyrand to our
Envoys) began this project with Williams the agent of Beckford
at Paris. Williams was so sanguine that the Br. Cabinet wd. ac-
cept the project, that he went so far as to engage to pay down
;£i 0,000 sterlg. in case the Project was distinctly made and authen-
ticated by Talleyrand. This was agreed to by Talleyrand. The
papers were given to Williams of whom the ^10,000 Sters. was
asked. He gave a check on his Banker at Paris ; but before
making it felt some doubt whether he was not going too far, he
sent for his Banker and instructed him to refuse his check on
such reasons as were plausible and would the least compromise
the drawer. The Check or Draft was accordingly refused, and

APPENDIX. 553

Williams stated that he had no other means than to proceed to
Engd., where he could at once present the project and command
funds. He accordingly came to Engd., and the project was thro'
Beckford presented to Mr. Pitt, who was the person that last
night gave a negative answer to Beckford. Trumbull reed, this

account in order to be communicated to me, from , who

saw and read all the papers.

Dec.

The Speaker (Mr. Foster), in a conversation at Dinner at the
Master of the Rolls, said upon my making a query respecting the
policy of the King's subscribing to the voluntary contributions,
that the King had no money ; that the revenues of Hanover were
all spent in a parade court which was kept up there, and that the
^60,000 Sterg. which was all that went to his privy purse annu-
ally was barely sufficient to defray the expenses to wh. he was
unavoidably exposed. I replied that there was an opinion that
the King had hoarded and that he was rich, and that even I had
heard persons of some consideration say so, and point out Lord
Liverpool as having the King's confidence in the management
and security of his property. The Speaker said that he was well
satisfied that the opinion was quite ill founded in respect to his
riches, and that with regard to Lord Liverpool, he rarely saw the
King, that there had been a time when from the influence.of Lord
Bute, Lord Liverpool (then Hawkesbury or Jenkinson) might
have had a certain connection or a degree of confidence in the
King's affairs ; but that Pitt (who said the Speaker you will natu-
rally suppose sees everything that is going on) had told him that
the King rarely or never sees Lord Liverpool, who was of a cer-
tain consequence in reference to commercial regulations, but in
other respects wholly a negative character in the Cabinet.

It was at the same dinner at the Master of the Rolls, that the
Speaker, mentioning Lord Cornwallis in terms of approbation,
said to me, you certainly know the singular circumstance that oc-
curred to him concerning the Amer War. On my answering in
the negative, the Speaker said, Cornwallis was in the very begin-
ning opposed to the measures agt. America and protested against
them. Lady Cornwallis, who was about the Queen & the Court
and who was tenderly attached to her Lord, became extremely

554 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING,

anxious lest her husband shd. be called upon to serve agt. the
Americans, whose cause he thought well of. Being in favor with
the Queen she imprudently insinuated to her Majesty the embar-
rassments to wh. Ld. Cornwallis wd. be exposed sh. he be required
to serve in Amer. and in this manner desired to engage the
Queen's influence to prevent his being called into that service,
Ld. Cornwallis by some means obtained a knowledge of this im-
prudence of his wife, saw with anxiety the dilemma to wh. it had
exposed him and decidedly immediately as the only means of
preserving his character as a soldier to solicit a command in
Amer. which was immediately given to him. The consequence
was that Lady Cornwallis saw in its true light the indiscretion of
which she had been guilty and very soon after died with grief
and distress at her own misconduct.

Jany 24th, 1798.

Dined at Lord Bathurst's, Mr. Pitt, Dundas, the Chief Justice,
Master of the Rolls, Adml. Colpoys and the Speaker were the
Party. The evening was pleasant because the conversation was
without reserve and carried on as a meeting of public men, who
had been school fellows and early friends. Sitting next Mr.
Pitt he answered my enquiries with freedom respecting the state
of things upon the Continent, and particularly concerning the
probable fate of Hamburgh wh. according to the last accounts, it
was his opinion, was not in so dangerous a situation as we had
apprehended. Hopes were entertained, that Denmark wd. shew
some spirit and be disposed to aid the King of Prussia in main-
taining the neutrality and safety of the North of Germany.

Mr. Pitt after referring to the Law proposed by the Directory
affecting neutral ships laden with the manufactures or productions
of Eng. or of her dominions, said he earnestly hoped that we shd.
see this subject in its true light. My answer was that I thought I
could not mistake the opinions and conduct of our Govt. wh. wd.
be to resist with force a pretension so totally repugnant to the
rights of peaceable and independent states.

Mr. Pitt then said that they were about regulating by a new
law the business of Convoys, that it was their intention to compel
all their ships to go under Convoys, that some of the regulations
in their proposed system must depend on the opinions and per-

APPENDIX. 555

haps the co-operation of other friendly nations— that if the
neutral affected by the projected law of France (and if particu-
larly America wd. do so) and wd. agree to furnish a naval force
proportionate to their means, to be employed as Convoys, there
would be little difficulty in frustrating the views of France and of
effectually securing even beyond what it had been, the commerce
of the neutral nations ; for that Eng. herself was able to convoy
the trade of the neutrals, wh. she wd. be willing to do, and the
contingent or proportion of naval force, wh. in case of such con-
vention wd. be required of the neutrals wd. be nominal rather than
real ; that it shd. be something was of importance both to the
neutrals and to the effect desired in this respect to be made in
France. Such a system of Convoys might in this way be divided
as wd. give full security to neutrals and increase even that wh.
Engd. would give to her own ships ; because certain of the regu-
lations wh. will be requisite to inforce the system of Convoys
must depend upon the consent and co-operation of the neutral
Govts, (alluding I presume to the proposed regulation of refusing
an entry to a vessel that had refused convoy, or having taken it,
had by design or accident parted from it until the convoy to wh.
she belonged or shd. have been attached shall have arrived).

Mr. Pitt added that he hoped I saw and believed and knew to
be the case, that all the passions wh. once unfortunately existed
here concerning America were extinguished, and that, without in
his belief the exception of a single character of any sort of influ-
ence, the desire and the hearty & earnest wish of England was to
increase and perpetuate the friendship with America. If, said
he, there is any one event more than another that cd. inspire the
Eng. nation with confidence and enthusiasm in the present struggle,
it wd. be to find themselves engaged with America against a
common enemy.

Tuesday Jany 30. 98.

It is a fortnight or more since Mr. Calhoun (James jr. of Balti-
more) who had passed from Dover to Calais in expectation of
being allowed to enter the French Republic in order to claim cer-
tain property captured by their cruizers, informed me that in the
same Packet Boat in which he returned from Calais to Dover
General Miranda came to England. I had heard nothing respect-

556 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

ing Miranda since the Treaty between Spain and France until his
name was published as concerned with others in the pretended
conspiracy defeated by the Revolution of the 18th Fructidor (4th
Sept. 1797). Miranda had formerly been in England and left it
dissatisfied. He was engaged in a project for the liberation of S.
America under the auspices of France in the first stages of the
French Revolution, and afterwards served in the French Army
under Dumourier in Flanders. Having been in the French ser-
vice during the present war, it was plain his coming to Engd.
must be with the knowledge of the Eng. Govt.

Several hints and suggestions from high authority have induced
me to believe that Engd. is desirous of attempting to separate So.
America from Spain ; and that the ministry calculate upon the
probable co-operation of the U. S. of A. I have therefore been
attentive and inquisitive concerning the motions of Miranda.

This forenoon Miranda called on me, and after a few observa-
tions respecting our former acquaintance in Amer. wh. was very
slight, he turned to the state of our affairs with France ; spoke of
the great misfortunes to wh. we had been exposed by our two
appointments to that nation. Morris without discretion had
openly adhered to the Court at a moment when it was falling, and
Monroe had acted as the agent of an Amer. faction instead of
representing the sentiments and protecting the interests of his
nation ; that it was, however, now too late to correct these false
steps, and it was useless to complain, or to hope that any means
that wd. be yielded to by Amer. wd. prevent an open rupture —
perhaps good might even proceed from it. France is lost and all
the continent is nearly in the same situation. Nothing can save
them. But Liberty, rational Liberty, order and Government will
survive the ruin that awaits the nations upon the old Continent.

England will be able upon a certain system to preserve her
Government and property ; to do wh. she must cease to re-
gard Europe and look to the New World. She does look with
anxiety to the U. S. and desires to cultivate their friendship and
to establish the most perfect harmony with them. If the U. S.
and Great Britain shd. be driven by joint operations to oppose
France, nothing will then be more easy than to separate So.
America from Spain. I have, said Miranda, been with Mr. Pitt.
We have again come together, tho' I was ill used on a former oc-

APPENDIX. 557

casion. The Nootka Sound business was a mere pretence ; we
intended to have severed So. Amer. from Spain, but Mr. Pitt
relinquished the plan. But he now goes into it with zeal. I have
gone over with him the whole project — nothing is so practicable
— the population of the Span. Territories on the Contt. of Amer.
is equal to 10,000,000, 4 millions of whom are descendants of
Spaniards, the others are Americans. They are, however, civilized
and capable of being happy as members of a polished Society.
Every thing is ripe for the completion of the plan. Twenty five
Commissioners, now in Madrid, have lately sent to me to cooper-
ate with them and others in making So. Amer. independent.
There can be no disagreement between S. and N. Amer. — the
Mississippi is a strong marked and natural boundary, and the
state of society in the Northern and Southern Departments is
such that they must be mutually useful to each other and cannot
be rivals.

Spain has take the very grounds wh. give to the U. S. of Amer-
ica a just as well as a convenient reason to go to war with her.

I have, continued Miranda, as yet taken no measures to de-
velop the plan to the Amer. Govt. All must first be arranged
here with the Br. Government. I shall, if you will allow me, said
Miranda, communicate to you more fully what passes & is likely
to be arranged with Mr. Pitt and his associates, and at a proper
time I shall dispatch a confidential person to Philadelphia.

I think more passed at this interview than I here report, but
the above is an outline. I joined in the conference so far only as
gave an opening to Miranda to explain the object of his visit. It
is my duty to understand what is meditated upon this very im-
portant topic, but it wd. be wholly improper in any degree to
commit my country or myself.

Upon an intimation from me that Engd., I suspected, wd. engage
in the project under the influence of her commercial monopoly sys-
tem, and if so that the U. S., as well indeed as So. America itself,
might feel no strong or peculiar regard in its favor, Miranda said
this had been formerly the error of Engd., but that it was now
abandoned and that the benefits derived from the trade of the
independent U. S. of America had gone far to persuade her that
her former system and wishes were erroneous.

After mutual expressions of civility the conference ended.

558 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

In a conversation with Lord Grenville, Mr. King writes :

Feby. ist.

I touched upon Miranda's being here. Lord G. immediately
entered into a conversation respecting him and his project. I
found the turn of his mind not favorable to Miranda's character.
I spoke with reserve concerning the project, said I had seen Mi-
randa, who without in any degree knowing anything of my way of
thinking disclosed his project and spoke of his expectations from
Engd. In order to understand Lord G., I said that I did not
sufficiently understand Miranda to appreciate with any degree of
confidence his character, but that the enterprise was one of im-
mense size and wd. lead to inconsiderable and unimportant
consequences.

L. G. immediately said that he wd. without reserve say to me
that at this moment he did not much like the scheme. Perhaps
the attempt might lead to scenes of wretchedness upon our con-
tinent similar to those that had been exhibited in France ; that
the event wd. happen & cd. not long be delayed. The terrible
examples of France would in the minds of prudent men inspire
doubt whether the present moment was in all respects that wh.
wd. be wished in order to consummate the Independ. of So.
Amer. I carelessly said that we had a great interest in keeping
as far as possible from us the examples that had lately been given
in France and must therefore sincerely hope that they might not

be repeated in our neighbourhood.

Feby 8.

I returned Gen. Miranda's Visit. . . . He asked me if
in my dispatches I had mentioned him and his project ? I re-
plied that I had in a summary manner. He then read to me so
much as he had of a letter to Col. Hamilton (wh. on my return
home he sent to me to be forwarded). It spoke of a letter or two
that he had written to the Col. from Paris, to wh. he had received
no answer ; hinted at his project and observed that Harper's
Pamphlet had done much good in Europe.

We pretty soon fell into a conversation upon his plan. I asked
him if he had thought of a scheme of Govt, in case of success.
He answered that he had and that his part of his project was now
in circulation with the others among the Cabinet. I proposed,
sd. he, a Monarchy with a House of Lords and Commons.

APPENDIX. 559

It is immaterial who is king, all we want is an hereditary-
House. The family of the Incas still exist; I will do them jus-
tice so far as it is now practicable, and call them to the throne of
their ancestors. The Nobility will be found in the country and
may easily be brought into their proper place. The Representa-
tives will be chosen upon a safe and convenient plan. Do you
propose to unite Mexico to Peru under one Govt. ? The popu-
lation of both does not exceed 14 millions and my idea is to
unite them in one Govt. What of the Brazils ? Nothing for the
present : that will come afterwards. Where will you make your
descent ? On the E side of the Isthmus of Darien. Is there not
a considerable force there ? Perhaps 1400 men and many of the
Officers are in our plan. What force will you want ? I have re-
quired of Engd. 8000 foot and 2000 horse ; but they shd be sea-
soned or W. Ind. Troops : besides this Engd. must send a small
squadron into the Pacific Ocean wh. must appear on the Coast of
Peru — and from the U. S. we should want 5000 Woodmen or
soldiers who understand new countries — besides I should hope
for many of the old Amer. Captains and Majors who served in
the last war. So. Amer is now weak, their best troops having
been sent to relieve Manilla. We shd. effect the emancipation
without shedding blood.

What benefit do you hold out to Engd to induce them to aid
you ? Our future trade in common with the U. S. of Amer.,
and in order to avoid the never discharged claim of gratitude,
I propose to pay them in ten years thirty millions sterling. We
shd. impose a toll on the Passage of the Isthmus over wh. all the
trade to and from Asia will pass. Upon the Eng. & Amer. (that
is U. S.) goods say one per Ct., on those of others one & -J per ct
— this however is mere illustration. The Mississippi must be the
boundary between us — and with respect to the Islands, except-
ing Cuba, we care nothing about them ; they will be worth little
after Sh. Amer. shall be free. The Sugar, Coffee, Cotton and
other tropical productions whereof will be eno. for all the World.

Feby. 12.

Miranda called on me today and shewed me an instrument
executed in France in Dec. 1797 by him and two other Spaniards,
who qualify themselves as the agents of a Congress or society of
their countrymen now at Madrid, and as Commissioners or agents

560 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

of the Span. Provinces in So. America. (Mr. King gives the sub-
stance of the instrument similar to that Miranda had explained in
the previous conference relative to the expectations from G. B. &
the U. S.) The articles contained various other regulations which
we read thro' ; after which he asked me how far I approved
them ; I replied that it was best in all measures, and especially
in those of great importance to deal with frankness ; I therefore
would say that it gave me pleasure to renew my acquaintance
with him and that I was of course gratified in knowing what was
on the tapis concerning So. America ; but I should lead him
perhaps into an error and fall into one myself, if I did not say
that I had not the least knowledge of the sentiments of my own
Government upon the business in wh. he was engaged ; and that
therefore I could not be supposed to make any observations or
express any opinions that in any manner wd. commit my Govt.
After saying this I shd. have no reserve in conversing with him,
and shd. moreover be glad to know how he shd. find the senti-
ments of this Govt. ; that he would however naturally suppose
that I might think it my duty to apprize the Prest. of the U. S.
that he was here and entertained hopes that G. Britain might co-
operate in a plan for the emancipation of his country.

Miranda consented to our conversations standing on this
footing.

He spoke of Monroe and of his having applied to him by letter
to procure information that Hamilton had given him certain
papers to deliver to certain characters, or to be made use
of, in Engd, respectng the U. S. So. Amer. & England. He
said he had given him a proper answer, and sent to Hamil-
ton as well the copies of Monroe's letter as of his answer.
He said further that Monroe had contributed to mislead the
French in their opinions of the U. S. ; that Boissy d'Anglas told
him that Monroe had publickly said in the presence of the French
leaders, that Washington was " an Intrigant and an Aristocrat " ;
that this character was ascribed to Washington by the principal
Frenchmen, who had no hesitation in quoting Monroe as their
Authority.

P. S. Miranda in a subsequent conversation told me that Boissy
informed him that Monroe in the presence of the Comitt. of Pub.
Safety, said that Washington and his party in the Amer. Govt.

APPENDIX. 561

were aristocrats and intriguers — Trumbull was present when
Miranda made this communication.

Feby. 15.

In a conference with Ld. Grenville on other subjects, I said I
see Miranda is still here. Ld. Grenville immediately replied that
they had concluded to keep him here ; that if Spain shd. be able
to preserve her independence and prevent a Revolution in her
Govt., they shd. not enter into the project respecting S. Amer. ;
but if it was really to be apprehended Spain shd. fall beneath the
control of France, then it was their intention to endeavour to
prevent France from gaining to their cause the resources of So.
America. In this event they shd. immediately open their views
and commence a negotiation upon the subject with the U. S. At
present considering the risque of seeing the example of France
repeated in So. Amer., and that too under an aid and countenance
of G. Br., they thought it impolitic to engage in the plan of
Miranda. My business was to gain information, I was therefore
silent ; but this tenderness for Spain adds something to the evi-
dence before the public, that notwithstanding Spain and England
are at war, there is a secret understanding between them that on
the one hand restrains Spain from a vigorous and hearty co-
operation with France, and on the other induces England to do
as little injury to Spain as possible.

Feby. 15.
Count Staunburgh (the Austn. Minr.), in a conversation rela-
tive to the late peace between Austria & France, said the
Emperor is weak & honest. The Empress has great influence
over him and she has affections for other interests than those of
Austria. M. Thugut was deceived ; he thought M. de Gallo was
a plain, simple, honest man, when in fact he is a cunning Italian.
When M. Thugut sent de Gallo to the Camp of Buonaparte he
gave him ostensible powers only ; but there is reason to believe
that he had secret instructions from the Emperor, obtained
clandestinely by the Empress. It is plain that he, contrary to
Thugut's Sentiments or expectation, concluded a Treaty. Co-
benzel was then sent to Adina with de Gallo. Whether he was
bribed or not cannot be proved ; but he is poor, had been expen-
sive and did, at this epoch, pay off a Debt of 400,000 Roubles

VOL. III. — 36

562 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

that he owed in Russia. No one can account for the means
wh. enabled him to do so, and perhaps he is injured in the suppo-
sition that they were supplied by Buonaparte. He however
co-operated with de Gallo, and while Thugut was contriving to
defeat the Treaty Cobenzel definitively concluded it ; and what
is more he has succeeded to the influence in the Cabinet of Austria
that belonged to the integrity and firmness of Thugut.

March 20.

Our Convoy for America will probably sail from Spithead to-
day, as the wind is N. E. I should record the fact that this
convoy was wholly unsolicited, except by the merchants and
underwriters. Tho' I had determined not to suffer our spring
ships to sail without asking a convoy, in case it shd. not be volun-
tarily offered, and took this decision immediately after the pass-
ing of the Fr. law for the capture of all neutrals laden in whole
or in part with merchandize of the manufacture or production of
Engd. or of her Dominions, I also determined not to make the
request until the last moment. It never became necessary and
was not therefore made.

Conversing on the 20. Feby with Ld Grenville, relative to
affairs on the continent, Ld. G. said among other things.

Tn respect to Sweden France seems to have acquired her
former ascendency and of course nothing can be expected from
that quarter. No more decisive proof of this could be given
than the appointment of Baron de Stael, the Swedish Ambassador
to France. Sweden had ordered her Charge d' Affaires to an-
nounce the accession of the young King — France refused to receive
the Charge d'Affaires, on the pretence that he was not of a grade
usually sent in former times to the King of France to announce
a similar event. An apparent misunderstanding took place in
consequence of this measure between Fr. & Sweden. Count
Fursen was sent to Rastadt — Buonaparte treated him as all the
world knows. Afterwards Noel, the Fr. Ambassador at the
Hague, intimated to the Envoy of Sweden there, that Fr. was
desirous of exchanging Envoys with Sweden, and that the ap-
pointment of the Baron de Stael (who every one knows to be
devoted to Fr.) wd. be considered by the Directory as a proof of
the friendship and good disposition of the King of Sweden.

APPENDIX. 563

Sweden readily agreed to send and receive an Envoy to & from
Paris and proposed to send M. d'Asp then in London as Envoy,
(who sd. Ld. G. is likewise in sentiments a Frenchman) to Paris ;
the Directory refused to receive him, and gave it to be plainly
understood that they wd. receive no other person except the
Baron de Stael. Sweden has named the Baron de Stael its Envoy
to Paris with an intimation that he shd. make two conditions with
the Directory previous to his presenting his credentials. One
that Count Fursen shd. be reed, at Rastadt, another that Noel
shd. not be sent to Stockholm. The Baron de Stael has pre-
sented his credentials and been reed., without receiving either of
the Conditions. The inference Ld. G. made was that little
vigour wd. appear either in Sweden or Denmark in opposition to

France.

March 23d.

It is four or five days since Miranda called on me, and after
saying that he had concluded to send one of his associates who
was now here to So. America in order that their friends might be
exactly informed of the situation of Europe and the probability
that Engd. and perhaps the U. S. would assist them in throwing
off the Government of Spain, he observed that he intended to
send his companion first to Philadelphia ; and as he had now
wasted two months to know Mr. Pitt's determination, he had
drawn up a memorial to him calculated to ascertain it ; he had
the draft which he read to me. The part thereof, that announced
his intention to send a person to So. America by the way of
Philadelphia asserted that I wd. give to this person " letters of
recommendation." I told Genl. Miranda that I thought it wd.
be desirable to omit the clause wh. asserted that I wd. give a
letter of recommendation, and to say that the person went to
Philadelphia with my knowledge — avec la connaissance de Mr.
K. &c. After some farther conversation he altered his draft ac-
cordingly. A few davs after he sent me a French paper printed
in London, wh. speaking of the invasion of Portugal, suggested
that the Court and Grandees of Portugal, with the Navy, &c. wd.
retire to Brazil and endeavour to overthrow the Span. Govt, in
So. Amer. This project might go further ; they might endeavour
to bring abt. an alliance between Engd. & No. & So. America,
wh. wd. be able to resist the power of France.

564 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

The morning after sending me this paper he himself called on
me and said he had sent his memorial to Mr. Pitt, and instead of
saying that the person to be sent to Philadelphia wd. proceed avec
la connaissance de Mr. King, &c, he had said " avec lettre de M.
King," &c ; tho' I did not entirely approve of the alteration, I
took no notice of the change. He then shewed me the draft of
the letter with wh. he intended to charge the person going to
Philadelphia (and who, he said, wd. depart in the next Packet
for New York) to the President.

The draft was proper, and by reference to the copies of the
Precis that had been given by him to Mr. Pitt, which he said he
shd. transmit with the letter to the President, he disclosed his
whole project. 1 did not discourage this measure, as in the actual
state of our affairs with France & Spain it appeared to me advis-
able that our Govt. shd. possess an exact view of the probabilities
of the separation of So. America from Europe. I, however, re-
solved to take an early opportunity to speak with Ld. Grenville
or Mr. Pitt upon the subject, lest there shd. be an opinion enter-
tained that I was forming any authorized arrangements with
Miranda, and to say sincerely that my wh. object was to give to
the President an exact knowledge of what appeared to be passing
upon this very interesting and important subject.

March 26, Wednesday.

I called this morning on Ld. Grenville and explained to him
the import and extent of my Conversation with Miranda, and that
the letter wh. I should give to Mr. Caro wd. be merely introduc-
tory, without either approbation or disapprobation of the object
of Caro's visit to Philadelphia. We spoke of the situation of our
affairs with France, and I suggested to Ld. G. that according to
my view of the subject it did not appear improbable that our
Envoys might remain in Paris until they heard from home.

Respecting S. Amer. Ld. G. repeated to me the sentiments that
he had expressed on a former occasion. If Spain falls beneath
the power of France, England who is prepared, will begin the
business with So. Amer. ; and according to present appearances,
Spain is on the eve of a Revolution. The new French Ambassa-
dor Truguet has been received at Madrid, he appeared at Court
in his boots and upon its being remarked that this was contrary

APPENDIX. 565

to the usage of the Court, he replied that all that folly was passed
and that the Ambassadors of the Great Nation could not pay any
respect to customs so little reasonable & so perfectly frivolous.

Ld. Grenville said he had no hesitation to tell me that they had
lately made an offer to Spain to save So. Amer. from the approach-
ing Revolution & to defend it from French intrigues and attack
if Spain wd. resist the French and join in a common effort to save
Portugal ; but that there was not a likelihood that Spain would
adopt the plan. . . .

Speaking of Amer. his Lordship asked me if I had heard any
cause assigned for Liston's absence from Phila. ? I answered
in the negative. He said it was very odd, and that he did not
send him there to make the tour of America.

May.

The publication of the instructions and correspondence of the
Envoys from the U. S. to France has been read with great
avidity in this country. Mr. Sheridan said to Mr. Long of the
Treasury, " I quitted the Jacobins in season ; they must be given
up ; the American Negotiation is too strong to be denied or ex-
plained."

The King in his conversation with me appeared much pleased
with the discovery that the firmness &c of the Amer. Govt., espe-
cially in their determination to fulfill the Treaty with Engd.,
has had its effect in confirming the good w^ll of many persons
towards the U. S.

Mr. King, in dispatch No. 69,* March 17, 1798, to the
Secretary of State, had written that the English Govern-
ment would soon bring before Parliament a bill imposing a
2j per cent, impost upon the exports and imports of Great
Britain to afford convoys to the neutral trade, and to pay the
expense thereof ; and again on May 1 ith, that Mr. Pitt would
next week bring this matter before Parliament. On May
2 1st Mr. King, the bill having been introduced and adopted
by the House of Commons, sent to Lord Grenville a memo-
rial protesting against its provisions as injurious to the United
States and contrary to the spirit and provisions of the

* Vol. ii., p. 290, of this work.

566 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

treaty between the United States and Great Britain relative
to their commercial regulations. The memorial is a very
long one, as is also Mr. King's dispatch of June 1st to the
Secretary giving an account of an interview with Lord Gren-
ville and Mr. Pitt on May 25th for the purpose of discussing
the project as passed. But in the Memorandum Book there
is a report of this interview more succinct, but covering the
chief points, which is here given.

May 25th, Friday.

By appointment met Mr. Pitt & Lord Grenville at Mr. Pitt's on
the subject of my memorial of the 21st.

Mr. Pitt said that in respect to the Impost on Imports so far as
the discrimination on Cotton * was concerned it was in fact the
same Ad Val. Duty, and the sums were for simplicity, but that it
might be thrown into a difft. shape.

EXPORT DUTY.

That he hoped on consideration that I shd. not see the pro-
posed Tax so objectionable as I had done ; that in the first place
there was no restraint upon them in the Treaty wh. could prevent
them from adopting, consistent with good faith, the proposed
Tax ; that the Treaty only restrained them and us from pro-
hibiting the exportation by either of articles permitted to be ex-
ported from our respective countries by others, but was entirely
silent about equality of Duties and indeed concerning Duties on
Exports ; that the reason was undoubtedly a sufficient one that
had induced the U. S. by a fundamental law to abstain from
Duties upon their Exports ; that Great Britain had no such law,
nor was she restrained except by what she shd. deem sound policy
from imposing a Duty on her Exports ; that the sum she wd, im-
pose must therefore be regulated by those mere considerations of
policy wh. are applicable to the Question ; that I had intimated
in my Memorial the principal motives wh. influenced them in pro-
posing a discrimination ; it was alleged that their manufacturers
experienced a great competition in the European markets but not
in those of America, and in addition to this opinion it shd. be un-
derstood that the Tax was merely a war Tax, and though not

* The memorial had objected to the Duties as affecting injuriously various
articles in the trade between the twc countries — manufactures, tobacco, Cot-
ton &c.

APPENDIX. 567

coupled with, yet to be considered in connection with the protec-
tion in the shape of convoys, wh. it was intended shd. be afforded
to the Amer. as well as Br. trade ; that we had already a proof
that they were disposed to give to our ships the same convoy as
to their own, and that they shd. continue to do so, and tho' the
proposed Duty on Exports to Amer. was higher than that on Exp.
to Europe that it was the same as they had laid upon their own
colonies and upon other consumers in America ; and that on the
whole he hoped we shd. perceive the measure to be one that in
their present situation they could not give up.

I replied, after relating what I had said in my Memorial, that
tho' there was no express restraint in the Treaty equivalent to
that contained in our Constitution, still however from the obvious
intention of the parties to render reciprocal the advantage of
their commerce, I must infer that we could not have expected to
have been subjected to this Tax, more especially at a moment
when the interruption & embarrassment of the manufactures of
other nations did not leave us as wide a field in wh. to seek supplies
as heretofore was open to us. But if this consideration was given
up and if from the want of attention to and foresight of the
present state of the trade and manufactures of Europe we omit-
ted to secure ourselves by an express stipulation agt. a duty upon
the Exports of G. B. to the U. S. in like manner as Great Br. is
secured by our Constitution agt. such a Tax on our productions
exported to them, we certainly could not be mistaken in our in-
terpretation of the Treaty, discovered from the admitted object
and tenor of its provisions, that we shd. not be liable to pay a
higher Duty upon the Exportation to the U. S. of their manufac-
tures than was paid on the Exp. of like commodities by other
nations : that on this point I would venture to assure him there
could not be a difference of opinion in the U. S. ; that I did
know that they supposed that their custom was as good, and they
believed better than that of any other nation, and that we consid-
ered ourselves entitled to as favorable terms in our intercourse as
those enjoyed by any other nation ; that the case of their Colo-
nies did not at all apply to or illustrate ours : they might make
such regulations and require such contributions from them as
they shd. deem advisable, but that we had neither inclination, nor
were we in any way bound to, stand on this footing ; that in re-
spect to the Convoys we certainly had been obliged by that wh.

568 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

had been granted, and I understood the assurance of their dispo-
sition to afford them in future as a proof of their friendship, but
that the proposed Tax was an independent measure and moreover
that we might be disposed to arm our Vessels or convoy our own
trade, or, if an open war shd. take place, to enter into certain
arrangements on that subject in wh. we might afford a naval force
proportionate to our means for the common defence of our com-
merce. In such event, so far as the proposed Tax is deemed a
compensation for convoys furnished by G. B., it would cease to
operate ; that besides we raised our revenue principally by a Tax
on Imports ; that we carried it as high as we found the com-
modities wd. bear ; that if we had raised the Tax as high as in
reference to the consumption it wd. bear, it was plain that an im-
position of 3 pr. ct. or any other sum upon the Export of the
Com. wd. in that, and indeed in somewhat a greater proportion
increase, the price of the Com., and wd. compel us to reduce the
Duty on the Importation in the same degree.

If they had the right, not restrained by Treaty, to impose this
Tax, the policy of exercising it when its operation wd. be such as
I had pointed out and wh. could not fail to excite sentiments not
altogether cordial, wd. merit consideration.

Mr. Pitt expressed his regret that I supposed the measure wd.
be likely to be not well received, restated some of his former ob-
servations, said that we must be sensible of the necessity they
were under of having recourse to all the means that were fairly
within their reach of obtaining supplies ; that the measure in
contemplation was a very important one, and that as he did not see
how he cd. give it up he hoped it might not create the difficulty
that I apprehended.

He then observed that he hoped the proposed Tonnage Duty
wd. not appear as exceptionable as that on Exports and proceeded
to state what it was. I replied that as I had before observed in
my memorial that we were restrained from augmenting during
the war & for 2 years afterwards the Duty now paid on British
ships ; that the reciprocity of this restraint ought to exempt us
from any augmentation of the Tonnage now paid in the Brit,
ports by Amer. ships, more especially considering the disparity
that now exists in consequence of our paying the countervailing
Tonnage Duty in addition to double Light money : but if I was

APPENDIX. 569

answered here also as in the case of the Tax on Exports, that
there was no restraint upon G. B. in the Treaty that prevented
her imposing or augmenting the tonnage on Amer. ships, I wd.
appeal to the first clause of the XV Article thereof agt. the pro-
posed Duty on Amer. ships, as the proposed Duty on ships from
the U. S. is 2/ per ton, and that on the ships of Portugal and
some other European Powers is only 1/ per ton and the clause of
the Treaty wh. I quoted entitles us to come hither with our ships
on the payment of the lowest Duties paid by any for. nation.

Mr. Pitt said if such was the Treaty the discrimination must be
given up. After some further observations of a general nature we
separated, I having observed to him on parting, that the proposed
discrimination on the Exports gave me very much inquietude, as
I cd. not be mistaken in the light in which it would be seen and
considered in America.

June, 1798.

Observing that the alterations that I had expected had not
been made in the Convoy Bill, wh. had been the subject of my
note to Lord Grenville and of the conference with Mr. Pitt, I
wrote one or two private notes to the Office of For. Affairs upon
the same subject, and at the desire of Mr. Ross (Mr. Pitt continu-
ing indisposed and not able to attend Parliament) I met him at
Hammond's office. Our conversation was materially the same as
that wh. I had held with Mr. Pitt, tho' Mr. R. understood much
less of the subject than Mr. Pitt.

I did not perceive that the requisite alterations had afterwards
been made, tho' it was about to receive its last reading, and
therefore I addressed another note to the office of For. affairs ex-
pressing my surprize that the amendments had not been made
that from my conference with Mr. Pitt I had supposed wd. have
been adopted. This produced a request to meet Mr. Pitt again,
wh. I did this morning 18 June.

Mr. Pitt, without adverting to our objection agt. the Export
Duty, said he was in hopes that I should agree with him in the
construction that seemed to him to be the true one to be given to
the clause of our Treaty respecting the Tonnage Duty wh. I had
supposed repugnant to the proposed Duty that they thought of
imposing on our vessels trading to and from America.

The clause asserts that neither nation shall impose on the ships

570 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

of the other a higher Duty than is paid on the like ships of other
nations — what was intended by the like ships in his understanding,
is meant vessels of other nations in the like circumstances ; that is
that all vessels in the Amer. trade shd. pay the same Tonnage
Duty, and that all in the trade of Portugal shd. pay the same Ton-
nage Duty, but that as a vessel in the Portuguese trade was in
different circumstances from a vessel in the Amer. trade, the
Duties might be different ; all that was required to fulfil the
Article being that the ships of all nations employed in a given
trade shd. be liable to the same Duty — tho' the Duties might vary
in different branches of trade ; besides that this construction wd.
be found to operate equally among new and distant nations :
their object was to lay a given sum upon all vessels within a year.
But as the near nations make many & the remote few voyages
within a year, in order that each shd. annually pay the same Duty
per ton, the rate must be less on the ships of the first and greater
on the ships of the latter.

I replied that I must admit that this construction had the merit
of novelty, but that notwithstanding I was in hopes I shd. be able
to satisfy him that it must give place to one that was rather more
obvious as well as more correspondent to the views of the parties.
The stipulation is that the goods and ships of each shall be ad-
mitted by the other on the payment of as small Duties as the like
goods and ships of any other nation. We don't find a word
about the goods and ships " in like circumstances " of any other
nation : this is an addition to the text and when added gives it
a different signification from what it bears without such addition.
The sentence is a complex one and the word like on which he
relied was rather applicable to goods than to ships, tho' like ships
might fairly and really must mean ships of the same character
and burthen. In China it seems they impose the Port Duty
according to the number of masts of a vessel and a regulation of
the same sort formerly prevailed in France, and perhaps else-
where, without having any reference to burthen or tonnage.

Two objects were plainly in view in respect to the navigation
of the parties, one (which I have before contended was defeated
by the opposition of any further Duty on Amer. ships) that in
respect to the commerce between the U. S. and G. B. the
ships of each shd. be liable to the same Duties ; the other and

APPENDIX. 571

the principal object of the stipulation that the ships of neither
shd. pay a higher Duty than those of any other nation — and this
latter object is secured by the plain interpretation of the terms of
the Treaty, which says we shall not pay for our ships a higher
Duty than is paid on the like ships of any other nation — by wh.
can only be meant (consistently with the end of the stipulation)
ships of the like tonnage and burthen ; for if the construction
suggested by Mr. Pitt is established, it will be competent for
Cong, to impose a moderate Duty on ships trading between
France or the French Colonies and the U. S. and a heavy one on
the ships trading between G. B. or her colonies & the U. S., and
the discrimination may be carried to a length, if the Congress is
so disposed, that shall annihilate the trade between the U. S. and
G. B. Again if the construction is true in respect to ships, it is
likewise so in respect to goods, and a higher Duty may be im-
posed, on goods coming from G. B. to the U. S. than on the like
goods coming from France. In short it wd. change a general
Rule of great comprehension and wh. secures material points, to
a narrow Rule in the observance whereof the parties can have
very little interest.

For it is of comparatively small importance to G. B. whether
all nations are alike capable of carrying his merchandize to the
Amer. market on equally advantageous terms, or whether it is
confined to themselves and to the Americans ; but it is of great
consequence that their merchandize does not pay higher Duties
than those of other countries, inasmuch as by the discrimination
wh. might be established, the rival manufactures, tho' themselves
postponed to those of G. B., may be alone consumed in America ;
that in a few words as well the object of the stipulation, as its
plain and literal meaning forbid a discrimination between the
goods and ships of either and those of every other nation. The
proposed Tonnage Duty is a discrimination and therefore repug-
nant to the stipulation.

Some further but immaterial remarks were exchanged, and the
conference ended, both Lord Grenville and Mr. Ross being
present, but silent, by Mr. Pitt saying that they wd. give the sub-
ject a further consideration, when I shd. be informed of the result.

At a later date. P. S. The discrimination was given up by
Mr. Pitt and the Bill passed agreeable to our construction.

5/2 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

Sept. 22. Mr. King, in reporting a conference with Lord
Hawkesbury, partly summarized in his letter to the Secre-
tary of State, notes this in his Memorandum Book :

I took occasion to speak of Louisiana and to intimate our
aversion to any change in that quarter ; we disliked the reported
transfer to France, shd. use amicable means to prevent it, and
shd. in short be unwilling that Louisiana shd. pass into the hands
of new proprietors. He said that there could be no doubt that
France had obtained a cession of it. I asked if it was likely that
means wd. be used by Eng. during the war to prevent the French
from taking possession of it, or, in other words, whether England
had any views of taking possession of Louisiana. Ld. Hawkes-
bury replied that among other military projects wh. had been
before them one, and a well conceived one, for this purpose had
been offered : if the war went on and the French were expelled
from Egypt, they shd. have an army, a fine army, perhaps the
best army in the world, at their disposition ; how they should
employ it must depend on several circumstances and among
others upon the situation of Portugal. He thought it absurd to
send there 3 or 4 thousand men, who wd. not defend the country
and must be disgraced, but the country was in itself strong and
might be defended by a suitable force. With regard to foreign
conquests, he had a fixed opinion that they did not want adl.
colonies — colonies to a certain extent were if well governed use-
ful, but if multiplied too much and widely dispersed it was only
extending the points wh. they wd. be obliged to defend, and
weakening the Empire. France, however, seemed at present to
entertain different opinions and notwithstanding her encrease of
territory near home, was never more solicitous to obtain distant
and numerous colonies. At present Eng. had no thoughts of an
expedition to the Mississippi and they wd. adopt one at no time
but with the view of holding something to give up at Peace.

Oct. 15, 1798.

Mr. Hammond informed me that the Portuguese Minister,
lately arrived and dismissed from Paris, was permitted to come
only when Azara, the Span. Min. at Paris, assured the French
Govt, that the usual presents would be given by Portugal on the
conclusion of a Treaty.

APPENDIX. 573

The next memoranda are sketches upon which are based
the dispatches to the Secretary of State, relative to the prop-
ositions for laying taxes on sugar, and more particularly to
the condition of St. Domingo and its future as affecting
Great Britain and the United States.

Jany 5, 1799.

Mat. Montague, my neighbor, in a conversation in a walk in
H. Park, speaking of different public characters, concurred with
sentiments that had formerly been stated to me by Wilberforce
respecting Lord Grenville ; and alluding to the negotiations of
Ld. Malmesbury said that both Pitt and Dundas on that occasion
wished to have got rid of Grenville, between whom and Pitt a
real coolness took place that lasted for some time.

Pitt, he thought to be in his heart and principles a, good man ;
Dundas like all Scotsmen was fond of power and patronage. The
Cabinet was a divided one and Pitt was so imprudent as to say in
the H. of Commons at the time of the mutiny at the Nore that
the navy had gone entirely out of his hands.

Windham was unsteady, subtile and not of great authority.
Lord Spencer was a diligent, able and very honest man, much in-
fluenced, however, by his Irish wife, who had great vivacity and
is extremely capricious. She is said to have patronized Nelson
and in that instance has shown discernment. The Chancellor is
not a reputable character ; he is a pretty speaker and plausible
orator, but he discredits his office by frequenting gaming houses
and being present at other scenes unbecoming the gravity of his
station. Speaking of the colonial system he said it was unreason-
able, unjust and must soon come to an end. When Liverpool
and a few others are gone it will cease also.

Jany 6, 1799.

Sir Wm. Poulteney said in conversation : Pitt

is a great man in the H. of Commons, but he is not a bold
man ; this has been proved again & again. When Grenville
came in he looked over the Department and finding a consul
(Mr. Baldwin a very clever man) at Cairo with a salary of
;£iooo. a year from Govt, and of ^500 from the E. Ind. Co, he
said we have no employment for a Consul at Cairo ; and contrary

574 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

to the particular desire of Mr. Dundas he withdrew the salary in
consequence of wh. Baldwin returned home and when Nelson's
fleet arrived at Alexandria, there was throughout Egypt no Eng.
Consul or agent who could give the Admiral information or pro-
cure him supplies, for the want of which, instead of remaining
a while in those seas, he was obliged to return to Sicily.

Nelson was so mortified and disappointed that, when going the
second time to Alexandria, he told his officers that they must put
everything at hazard to accomplish something brilliant without
wh. they shd. never dare shew their faces in England. The same
parsimony prevented our having a Minister at Constantinople.
Mr. Liston left Smith Charge d'affaires, but he was wholly unfit as
well in rank as in other respects for the place. Jackson was
named Ambassador ; the practice has been to pay ^iooo Stg.
and the Levant Company to make the sum up to jQ .

The Company said the Mediterranean was completely in the
hands & power of the French, their trade at an end, & therefore
they cd. not continue to support the Embassy. Ld. Grenville
wd. neither admit this excuse nor supply the deficiency. No
Ambassador was sent and the Porte was left to the control of the
French — who have lost their game by over-confidence !

Jany 16, 1799,

Lord Grenville, in conversation held this day, said : An
event has lately occurred at N. Yk, alluding to the death of
the Eng. Consul, Sir J. Temple, that he could not avoid saying,
did not inspire regret, and then added that several persons
had been recommended to succeed to that office, and without
asking the opinion of the Amer. Minister he wd. beg me to tell
him my opinion of Hamilton, the present Br. Consul at Norfolk
and Major Barclay, formerly of N. Yk. and lately in the Commis-
sion for the St. Croix Boundary, between whom he hesitated. I
said I knew nothing of the first, that I did not remember to have
heard good or ill of him ; the reference then was in favor of his
conduct where he is. That I had seen Barclay, but personally
knew nothing of him, that he was a very fair and I had often
heard an amiable character. His family were quite respectable in
N. Yk, connected with our best people, and that among my

APPENDIX. 575

friends I recollect some who have a great attachment to Maj.
Barclay. He was what was called a Loyalist, but I considered
him such from correct principles, and so far as I had information
wd. be as little liable to objections on that acct. as any one of
that class.

L. G. said that they were bound to say and act upon the idea,
that the King was right in the controversy, at least so far so as
not to proscribe from office the whole class of Amer. Loyalists,
tho' it might be, & was a question of policy whether they shd. be
employed in America ; that where there were particular excep-
tions to individual characters it wd. be inexpedient to name them,
and the case of Arnold was instanced : but wThere such did not
exist they in justice shd. confound the Amer. Loyalists with the
mass of Br. Subjects. His Lp. then said he was glad I thought
of Barclay as I did, as he felt rather a preference in his favor.

Jany. 24. 1799.

The King told me today that he had read the President's
Speech and that he found it an able, wise and excellent one. The
Duke of Clarence afterwards said to me that he could wish to see
such a Speech in this country, or in other words that the King
should say he was willing to make peace when the French asked
for it. In the course of conversation the King spoke of the pro-
posed Union with Ireland and said that the Speaker (Foster)
who opposed it, when here a few weeks since, told a Bishop that
for the Empire at large the measure was a good one, but as an
Irishman he could not consent to it, and that the Bishop replied
that his opinion that it wd. be for the welfare of the whole con-
vinced him that it was his duty to agree to it. The King said
that a certain Marquis (a manner of speaking to describe the M.
of Lansdowne) had lately said that at present real estates in Ire-
land were worth but 17 years' purchase, while in England they
were 34 years' purchase ; that an Union wd. raise the Irish Estates
in one year to 20 and very soon to 25 years purchase, and such
an effect must be beneficial to Ireland. On its being observed
that the Marquis was a calculating head the King replied, Yes, yes,
he is a calculating head, and, notwithstanding the benefit to
Ireland, may find out motives to oppose the measure.

576 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.
Conversation with Mr. Montague:

Jan. 27th. 1799.

After speaking of the news from Ireland and Naples— the
question of Union carried only by 106 agt. 105, and the King &
Queen of Naples obliged to save themselves by taking refuge
aboard the Vanguard, Ad. Nelson's ship, we fell into a miscel-
laneous conversation. Mr. Montague said that the Union must
be suspended for the present in Ireland, but that the advantages
of it might be examined and displayed in the Eng. Parliament ;
that it was a difficult affair ; that it was doubtful how far the
people of Ireland would be benefitted ; that originally (referring
to the views of Mr. Pitt on the subject about 1791) Mr. Pitt cer-
tainly had it in contemplation to raise the Catholics from the
degraded political state in wh. they are by giving them a limited
portion of political power & influence ; but' that the chiefs of the
Protestant party opposed him, and those of them who have lately
been here for the purpose of discussing and preparing the sub-
ject, each requiring in the first instance an arrangement for him-
self, his family and dependents, and putting private entirely above
all public considerations, that it was extremely difficult to ascer-
tain and measure the portion of public benefit or general advantage
that wd. or cd. be secured for the people of Ireland.

Mr. Montague agreed with what had been stated to me by Mr.
Chs. Abbot (M.P.), that Foster laid patriotism entirely out of
sight & acted from personal motives among wh. vanity is most
predominant ; that it is customary under the denomination of
Improvements & other covers, to annually expend among the
Members of the Irish Parliament & their connections, for the
purpose of preserving to the Crown a majority, two hundred thou-
sand pounds Sterlg., and that Foster had the chief agency in this
distribution ; that this gave him an influence and authority wh.
were highly flattering to his vanity, and in short made him so
much more important than he could be with anything that could
be given him under the Union ; that with his sentiments, it was
not extraordinary that he shd. oppose the Union, if he was per-
suaded that the opposition wd. defeat it.

From this subject we went to the character of Mr. Pitt, and
after observing that the unfortunate situation of Naples wd. be

APPENDIX. 577

ascribed to G. B., who is believed to have excited and encouraged
the King of Naples to commence the war, I said that I had un-
derstood that Naples herself had asked the aid of Engd., and
instead of being encouraged was told by Eng. that without the aid
of Austria the war wd. be eminently dangerous to the very exist-
ence of the Kingdom and that finally after Naples had resolved
on the measure Eng. did no more than to promise such succour
as the fleet cd. furnish & her influence at Vienna to engage the
Emperor ; that if this was correct, it appeared to be desirable
that the truth shd. be revealed and the character of Eng. rescued
from the imputation that wd. be ascribed to her.

Mr. Montague replied that he entirely agreed with me in senti-
ment, and added that an omission of this nature had early in this
war happened that he had always regretted. He said that France
had circulated everywhere the opinion that Eng. was actively
engaged to unite the surrounding nations in a war agt. France
previous to the existence of the present war between Eng. &
France ; that so far from this being true Eng. was, at the time of
the declaration of war agt. Eng. by France, engaged in the most
active efforts to persuade the Emperor, Russia and Spain to leave
France to herself and to avoid with the utmost scruples all manner
of interference with the projects of reform, and that Mr. Pitt had
resolved after war commenced to have stated this fact in Parlia-
ment, but was prevented by indisposition from attending Parlia-
ment at the debate when he had determined to mention it. A
former conversation with Mr. Wilberforce confirms this state-
ment.

I observed that with all Mr. Pitt's wonderful talents, there was
an opinion that even after great consideration and an opinion
honestly and ably formed, he on several occasions had wanted
firmness to adhere to it.

Mr. M. said Pitt does want firmness and Dundas is able to
shake opinions notwithstanding his superiority in capaciousness
of mind over his colleague. Mr. Pitt has no religion, but is a vir-
tuous man. He is ambitious of the fame of great measures but
careless and indifferent to reputation obtained by small means.
He is proud of the credit of the Sinking Fund, wh. he wishes to
be believed the author of, tho' the principles, on wh. it rests, were
all taken from Price ; he claims with ostentation the reputation of

VOL. III. — 37

578 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

having originated the thought, and even of having digested the
Plan, called the Consolidating Act, bringing into one law the
various Regulations of the Customs ; when in truth the idea is an
old one and the materials were collected and arranged by Erving.
Pitt is disinterested but haughty & overbearing. His friends, ex-
cept in mere affairs of badinage, must receive and submit to his
opinions ; he does not bear opposition and affects, or rather feels,
an uneasiness when any one reasons with him.

His earliest political friend was my brother, said Mr. Mon-
tague ; he was intimate with him at the period of the Amer.
peace and from him I heard that the Marquis of Lansdowne
refused to bribe to obtain the approbation of the H. of Corns, to
the Amer. Treaty ; overtures were made but refused. Next to
my brother came Lord Bathurst, who is a man of humour and
disposed to quiping wh. when applied to others Pitt is fond of ;
to him succeeded Lord Mornington, who is a man of first rate
talents, tho' of a ruined constitution. Then followed Rider and
to him succeeded Canning who is a man of taste as a scholar, tho'
too metaphorical as an Orator.

Erving, said Mr. Montague is vain, conceited, very able in the
statements he makes, but a Tory and devoted Royalist.

Feb. 12, 1799.

I met the Marq. of Lansdowne at dinner at Mr. Nopes (Cav'
Sqr.). In the course of a miscellaneous conversation, speaking of
the conclusion of the Amer. peace he said he had the greatest
difficulties at every step and particularly in respect to the Bound-
aries ; that in a cabinet on that head he was quite exhausted
with efforts to produce an agreement in any demarcation what-
ever ; that at last the Duke of Richmond said to him if you will
suffer me to oppose it after I have traced the Boundary, I will do it
at once. I replied, said the Marquis, with all my heart, give us a
Boundary and act afterwards as you please. The Duke imme-
diately gave us the present Boundary & the Cabinet agreed.
Genl. Howe went to the Chesapeake instead of up the Hudson
River from a blunder in the clerks who had not prepared a paper
for the signature of Ld. Geo. Germaine, Genl. Howe's instruc-
tions. The Packet carried out Burgoyne's and left Howe's.

APPENDIX. 579

April, 1799.

On my first going to Court after the news that the Pr. had
resolved on another mission to France, I took with me the col-
umns of a Boston newspaper, just received as I was going into
my carriage, containing the Prest's. 2 message to the Senate on
that subject. The King alluded to the negotiation. I said we had
just reed, a newspaper, containing the messages of the Pr., and
that I wd. put it into the hands of the Lord in waiting who wd.
give it to him. The King thanked me and added that he had
some notion that the nomination was a finesse on the part of the
Pr. I replied that I did not know the particular facts upon wh.
the measure was founded, but that I inferred with much confi-
dence from the Pr.'s character that the nomination was bona fide.

In a subsequent conversation on a different day the King said
he hoped we shd. not be deceived and wished that our mission
might not end like the last attempt of Portugal.

May 2nd.

At a dinner at Lord Grenville's — Lord Auckland's and my
family — Mr. King writes that after the Ladies retired a general
conversation on politics ensued. It was said :

The affairs of Engd. are most prosperous. Ld Auckland never
felt uneasy except at the time of the mutiny. Ld. G. said that
was a serious moment, but the stoppage of the Bank much more
so. The augmentation of the Army pay was a measure of great
risque ; it was clamoured for and yielded, a policy always doubt-
ful and in that instance perilous. An anecdote of Mr. Pitt at
that moment is curious and is at the same time an extraordinary
proof of his firmness and perspicacity. The symptoms of discon-
tent in the army were many and particularly in the Woolwich
Corps of Artillery. Ld. Cornwallis, then Colonel, had been sent
to soothe them and some very criminal behaviour had been
slurred over. In this state of affairs, the mutiny at the Nore at
its height, a general officer of great name and rank at two o'clock
in the morning arrived express from Woolwich at Mr. Pitt's
house, demanded to be admitted and immediately conducted to
the Minister : he was carried to Mr. Pitt's room who was in bed.
With all the appearance of concern that belongs to the occasion

580 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

he told the Minister that he had come with the greatest expedi-
tion from Woolwich, that the state of the troops was such that
unless a sufficient body of forces was immediately marched to
check the revolt, the artillery would themselves march to London
with their cannon to demand a redress of what they considered
their grievances.

Mr. Pitt, without anything in the General's character to justify
the suspicion, immediately concluded from the story and manner
in wh. it was related that the General was deranged and accord-
ingly thanked him for his zeal and fidelity, desired him to be
again with him at 9 o'clock and went quietly to 'sleep. In the
morning he sent for Ld. G. and one or two others who were
present at 9 o'clock, and upon the reappearance of the General
they found Mr. Pitt's conclusion to have been well founded.

The notes for the remainder of the year 1799 contain
chiefly the drafts of conversations with Lord Grenville
on the Treaty with St. Domingo and on the suspension
of the Commission at Philadelphia under the 6th Article
of the Treaty of Peace. But they are fully reported to the
Secretary of State in Mr. King's official correspondence.

£-


===== Rufus King - The Life and Correspondence of Rufus King (ed. C. R. King, 6 vols, PD) (vol. 4) =====
Source: https://archive.org/download/lifecorrespondence04king/lifecorrespondence04king_djvu.txt

'— ■ ■ ^^\W 

'(^li'^^hW^'' 

THE LIFEjAND CORRESPONDENCE 

OF 

RUFUS KING 

VOLUME IV. 

1801-1806 

Of THIS Letter-press Edition 
750 Copies ha ve been Printed for Sale 

No. .^4: 

August y i8gy 

jrT^Tjf 

(^i,tM^iy% /<Any, 

Rttfus King 

From a painting by Gilbert Stuart, 1820 

THE LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

OF 

RUFUS KING 

COMPRISING HIS LETTERS, PRIVATE AND OFFICIAL 

HIS PUBLIC DOCUMENTS AND 

HIS SPEECHES 

EDITED BY HIS GRANDSON 

CHARLES R. KING, M.D., LLD. (Trin.) 

FELLOW OF THE COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS, PHILADELPHIA, AND 
MEMBER OF THE NEW YORK AND PENNSYLVANIA 
. -HISYORfCvL SOCI£TI£S , , 

•* • J * 

J J ■" > ) > , ~ 

VOLUME IV. 
1801-1806 

NEW YORK 
G. P. PUTNAM'S SONS 

g^bt ^nicherbocher ^ress 
1897 

jHENEW YORK 

PUBLIC LIBRARY 

;> 

S »ll 

A6TOR?LEMOX AND 
TlLDEtO FOUNDATIONS. 

COPYRIGHT, 1897 
BY 

CHARLES R. KING 

c c 

* C " 

t c « c ' 

Ubc fin(cfeerbocher press, "ftew Korh 

PREFACE TO THE FOURTH VOLUME. 

This fourth volume presents the correspondence to the 
time of the close of Mr. King's mission to Great Britain, 
and gives an account of several interesting events which 
occupied attention, and in which he was an interested actor. 
He returned to the United States finding the friends with 
whom he had been closely associated before his departure 
for Great Britain out of power, the political principles upon 
which they had founded the government discredited and 
supplanted by others of which they saw the dangerous 
tendency ; a condition of things which made many loyal 
men suggest disloyal 'expedients. Mr.- .King was not of 
these but was, indeed, sri earnest op^os^r of their plans; and 
when he came home untrsjmitiyllec- by personal connection 
with the political animosities wii^h prevailed, he was put for- 
ward by the leaders as the ropresent:ative of the old Federal 
Party, but only to be deieated. The circumstances connected 
with these efforts to recover power will be found explained 
in the correspondence. The relations with his friend Alex- 
ander Hamilton ; his connection with the duel which de- 
prived the country of its leading statesman ; his interest 
in seeing provision made to relieve the family, whose head 
had been taken away ; are all clearly stated, showing the 
warmth of his friendship, and the earnestness with which he 
sought to avert the consequence of this sad event. 

The threatened attempt of some of the New England 
men to seek relief from the political troubles of the time by 
severing the Union, received, as will be seen, his positive 
rebuke, as it had received that of Hamilton and of other 
sound men of the Federal party. It was not in that way 

vi PREFACE TO THE FOURTH VOLUME, 

that relief was to be found, but by a steadfast adherence to 
their principles and earnest appeals to the patriotism of the 
people. Without going into detail to show the events of the 
period covered by the correspondence, it may be proper to 
say that the Louisiana purchase occupies a considerable 
space, in which Mr. King in his letters to Mr. Livingston 
lays down clearly, in reference to the pending negotiation 
with France, the principle, since named the Monroe doctrine 
— that the United States would look with disfavour upon the 
attempt of any European nation, but Spain, to colonize on 
its borders. There is another subject which enlisted the 
warm sympathy of Mr. King during his residence in England, 
the liberation of the Spanish American colonies from the 
parent state. Full correspondence relative to this will be 
found in this volume, extending over several years, and in 
which its projector Genl. Miranda earnestly sought his help, 
especially, when, despairing of the often promised help from 
the British Government he came to the United States to en- 
list, if possible, the assistance o.f the Government and of indi- 
viduals to enable hmi topar^ d^this plans. Mr. King, much as 
he desired to help him, cpulql ^iC't do ?;o, because the expedition 
eould only be carried oii.t. by- atn. infringement of the laws of 
the United States/;./Tji^\rt^sUjtt; -proved his wisdom; the 
parties who were instrumental' in' sending it out were in- 
dicted, though not convicted, and the venture disastrously 
failed. 

In all the matters adverted to in the following paper, are 
evinced the intelligent understanding, sound judgment, wise 
foresight and prudent counsels which mark the life of Mr. 
King and the love of his country which was never shaken 
however much its welfare was threatened. 

CONTENTS OF VOL. IV. 

CHAPTER I. 

PAGE 

Affairs in the U. S. — Ames to King — Federal Views — King to Gore — 
Peace — King to Madison — Detention of Vessels charged with break- 
ing Blockade of Havre — King to Madison — Public Sentiment about 
the Peace — Patience in conducting Negotiations with England — Con- 
versation with Addington regarding them — The Latter thinks the 
Peace will be permanent — Mr. Otto — His Integrity and Discretion 
— King to Addington — Statement relative to 6th Article — King to 
Madison — Diplomatic Changes — Cabot to King — Looks for Storms, 
others more hopeful — King to Lord Hawkesbury — Vessels detained 
for breaking Blockade — G. Morris to King — On the Peace — King 
to Lord GrenviUe — Statyr.eijt of Latte/ in li. of I^ords, charging 
Misrepresentation and Perjury by. a Foreign ^linister — Lord Gren- 
viUe to King — Said it did not reflect, on, his Character or Conduct — 
King to Secretary of State— ; Spain ced2d Louisiana to France — No 
Allusion to Louisiana in the Negociadous between France and Eng- 
land— L. Littlepage to King — I-cuis^ara — Kin^ — Conference with 
Lord Hawkesbury, relative t3 fctn Article— French Expedition to St. 
Domingo^Also concerning Louisiana. ...... I 

CHAPTER n. 

Dinner at Addington's — Otto and Talleyrand — Wilberforce on Slave 
Trade and on Pitt — Anecdote about Expedition to Egypt — Lord 
Molesworth in Denmark — King to Lord Pelham — Complaint against 
McDonough, English Agent at Tripoli — Inciting War against the 
U. S. — Lord Pelham's Answer — His Conduct unauthorized — He is 
to be removed — King to Lord Hawkesbury — Presses for a Settle- 
ment of Negotiations — King to Secretary of State — Expeditions to 
St. Domingo — Otto to be Minister to the U. S. — King to R. R. Liv- 
ingston— Congratulations on his Arrival at Paris — Troup to King — 
Depressing Effect of the Peace — Duel of Hamilton's Son — Anecdote 
of Talleyrand and La Foret — Gambling in English Stocks — Genet 
wrote his own Instructions — Sir William Parker instead of curbing, 

vii 

vlll CONTENTS. 

PAGE 

permitted Depredations by his Officers on American Commerce — 
King to Eaton — Presents to the Bey — King to Addington — Delays in 
Negotiations — J. Q. Adams to King — The Peace will cause Incon- 
venience— King to Hamilton — Letter of Condolence — Sedgwick to 
King — Democratic Influence increased in New England — Jefferson's 
Removals have not hurt his Influence — Rupture with England feared 
by Jefferson's Friends — They aim at the Destruction of the Judiciary 
— King to Lord Eldon — Presses for a Settlement of Negotiations. . 20 

CHAPTER HI. 

Hale to King — Comments despondingly on the President's Message — 
Ames to King — On the Message — Virginia to Control — The Peace 
will not calm Agitation in U. S. — King to Secretary of State — Ves- 
sels detained for breaking Blockade of Havre released by Executive 
Interference — Lord Dunmore's outrageous Conduct in Virginia — 
Conversation with Lord Hawkesbury — French Expedition to St. Do- 
mingo— Louisiana — French desire to colonize to get rid of per- 
turbed Spirits — Bonaparte an extraordinary Character — King to Sec- 
retary of State — St. Croix Boundary — Prize Courts in the West Indies 
— Impressed Seamen — Peace has stopped Impressments — Outrages 
against Commerce continue — W. Pinkney's Congratulations on sign- 
ing Convention 4:^lati/f^ to Gtli and 7th ArHr,!es — Gore to King — On 
his Trials while ri-egotiatiwg— Kip^-^Signa\ute of the Convention — 
King to Secretary of Stat^ — Scen^dsjtha Convention — Mode of paying 
Claims — Maryland Bank-Stock ' tZla^m • soon to be settled — Kine 
to Madison — History oi. the Negotiation — Discouraging Delays — 
Looked only to his Puty-»-|^.ing tCSecretary of State — Congress at 
Amiens probably result favorably to* Peace — Mutiny in the Fleet for 
the W. Indies. 38 

CHAPTER IV. 

King to Madison — Asks Permission to travel on the Continent — King to 
J. Adams — Sending a Copy of the Convention just signed — King to 
Marshall — Explanation of the Convention — King to Secretary of 
State — Cession of Louisiana — Lord Hawkesbury's Views — King to 
R. R. Livingston — Cession of Louisiana — Not to be referred to at 
Amiens — Great Britain does not wish it — King suggests a temperate 
Statement against it with France — J. Q. Adams to King — Discus- 
sion of the President's Message — Treasury Report pleasing — Prob- 
able Action of the Administration — Aim for Popularity — King to 
Secretary of State — Conference with Lord Hawkesbury relative to 
the Footing of our Navigation on Return of Peace — To discontinue 
countervailing Duties — Harmony of England and continental mari- 

CONTENTS. ix 

PAGE 

time Nations will not be re-established by the Peace — King to Lord 
Hawkesbury — Expediency of abolishing alien tonnage Duty — King 
to Secretary of State — Treaty not yet signed — Fleet from Brest not 
yet sailed for St. Domingo — Sweden acceded to Convention of Pe- 
tersburg— Probable Change of Ministry unfounded — Madison to King 
— Appointment of G. W. Ewing as Consul — King to Parker — Send- 
ing his Son James to School at Paris. ...... 53 

CHAPTER V. 

King to Yansittart, Secretary' of State, and Madison — Discriminating 
Duties on commercial Intercourse — England prepared to abolish 
them — Commission under 7th Article resumed their sittings — Sedg- 
wick to King — Condition of Affairs in the U. S. as affected by Jef- 
erson's Election — Ames to King — View of the Future not cheering — 
King to Madison — Delay of Negotiations at Amiens — Believes Peace 
will be concluded — Napoleon at Lyons appointed himself President 

of the Italian Republic — King to Secretary of State — McDonough, 

British Agent at Tripoli, exculpates himself from Charges against 
him — Debate on Bill to suspend tonnage and countervailing Duties 
— Definitely settled by France to send a Colony to Louisiana, unless 
Affairs in St. Domingo prevent — King to Secretary of State — Ardor 
for Peace abating in England — Fleets to be put in Order. — Still be- 
lieves there will be Peace chiefly advantageous to France — King to 
Secretary of State — Erving's Appointment — King to Secretary of 
State — Negotiations at Amiens still unsettled — Public Opinion in 
England seems to favor Rupture. ....... 68 

CHAPTER VI. 

Presents to Bey of Tunis sent — King to Livingston — Louisiana — To pre- 
vent the sailing of the French Fleet — Iron or Gold — Former impos- 
sible— Gold might buy Louisiana by fair Purchase with Cash — 
Would the People consent? — Suggests other Means — Nothing will 
be done at Amiens — General Suggestions — Monroe Doctrine — King 
to Livingston — Explains the Convention between United States and 
England — Spaniards have fifteen Millions of Dollars in West Indies 
to buy Provisions for the combined Fleets — Hawkesbury to King — 
Announces the Signature of the Definitive Treaty — Lord Lansdowne 
on Louisiana — In the Discussions relative to it before the Treaty of 
Peace of 1783, he wished England to retain it — Cabot to King — 
Congratulates him for the Convention — Murray to King — Return 
Home and Reception — No Chief among the Federalists — Recom- 
mends him to stay Abroad — King to Troup — Does not feel any Fear 
of Reception of Convention by intelligent and reasonable Men — Con- 

CONTENTS. 

PACK 

trasts France and England in Ability to raise Money — King to Sec- 
retary of State — Definitive Treaty conforms in the Main to the Pre- 
liminaries— If no secret Articles, Indemnity to the Prince of Orange 
not given — Effect of Treaty in England — King to Secretary of State 
— Has suggested the Appointment of Mr. Merry as Successor to Mr. 
Liston 82 

CHAPTER VII. 

Troup to King — Congressional Acts — G. Morris on Judiciary Bill — Burr 
has lost Ground — Toast at a Dinner — Jefferson the Idol — Business 
dull — Cabot to King — Distrusts French Fleet — Does not fear French 
Settlement in Louisiana — Ames to King — France's Project of getting 
Louisiana can only do Good — Joy at Adjustment with Great Britain 
of the Negotiation about the Debts — J. Hale to King — Glad he will 
remain in London — Federalists more confident — Louisiana Project 
will operate well — King to Lord Hawkesbury — Cession of Louisi- 
ana, Effect on the Navigation of the Mississippi — How far is Eng- 
land concerned in the Cession — McHenry to King — Effect of Peace 
on the United States — Measures of the Administration criticised — 
King to Vansittart — United States should pay no higher Duties to 
export British Manufactures than other Nations — King to Secretary 
of State — Definitive Treaty ratified — Sweden joins Russia and Eng- 
land in annulling the System of armed Neutrality — King to Secretary^ 
of State, United States Funds — Means taken to secure their Safety 
and proper Disbursement, especially in Prize Cases — The Govern- 
ment having now made other Arrangements, he shall no longer re- 
gard the pecuniary Affairs under his Control — J. Marshall to King 
— Congratulates him on his Settlement of the Debt Claims. . . 102; 

CHAPTER VIII. 

King to Secretary of State — Bill imposing Duties on Exports and Im- 
ports passed — King to Secretary of State — Has asked Lord Hawkes- 
bury for a confidential Statement of Views of the British Govern- 
ment about Louisiana Cession — Lord Hawkesbury to King — Confi- 
dential Answer — King to Hamilton — Louisiana Cession — Troup to 
King — American Politics — Cabot to King — Sees Danger in the Euro- 
pean Peace — France ambitious, restless — King to Low — His Opinion 
of Samuel Williams — King to Secretary of State — Debate on the 
Peace — Convention between Great Britain and Russia — King to Sec- 
retary of State — Embarrassment with Trade through French Laws 
— Affairs of Bird & Co. embarrassed — King to Dr. Drury — Wishes 
his Sons advanced as much as possible — Drury to King — Does not 

CONTENTS. XI 

PAGE 

advise pushing them — Course at Harrow — Hamilton to King — He 
should return Home — Reasons given — General Opinion of Affairs in 
the United States — Troup to King — Affairs in United States, espec- 
ially relative to Burr 119 

CHAPTER IX. 

King to Secretary of State — Received President's and Senate's Approba- 
tion of the Convention — Sedgwick to King — Glad he will return 
Home — Federalism improving — District of Maine — King to Low — 
Confidence in Government Funds — King to Madison — Thanks for 
Permission to visit France, etc. — Will leave Mr. Gore Charge with- 
out Expense to the Public — King to Secretary of State— Commis- 
sion under 7th Article proceeding satisfactorily — Has postponed 
Discussion of the Repeal of countervailing Duty on Tobacco — King 
to Erving — Claims of Seamen for Relief — King to Lord Hawkesbury 
— Has received the Convention ratified, etc. — King to Secretary of 
State — Loan by Holland paid in Part to France to release Claims of 
the Prince of Orange — King to Lord Hawkesbury — Demanding Re- 
lease of impressed Seamen — King to Livingston — Floridas possibly 
not ceded — Free Navigation of the Mississippi essential to United 
States — Floridas must belong to us — Interesting Suggestion relative 
to them — Should not enter into a Guaranty as to their Possession by 
Spain — King to Secretary of State — Ratifications of Convention ex- 
changed— King to Secretary of State — Morocco declared war against 
the United States — Agricultural Prospects in England bad — King to 
Troup — Going to the Continent — King to Secretary of State — In- 
forming him of his Expenditure relating to the Publication of Robin- 
son's Admiralty Reports and why incurred 137 

CHAPTER X. 

King to Livingston — Has sent in his Resignation — King to Marshall — 
Plan of Settlement by the Convention completed before he received 
the Views of the new Administration, though approved by it — Has 
resigned his Office — King to R. Southgate — Has resigned his Office 
— King to Secretary of State — Resigns his Office and asks to return 
Home in the Spring in a Frigate — King to Madison — Desires to re- 
turn in a public Vessel, etc. — King to Secretary of State — Conference 
with Lord Hawkesbury on Maryland Bank-Stock and West India 
Trade — Hoped to settle these before he left — Louisiana, etc. — Gore 
to Lord Hawkesbury — Boundaries between Territories of United 
States and Great Britain — Troup to King— Burr ruined in Politics 
and Fortune — Sedgwick to King — Politics — Burr 152 

Xll CONTENTS. 

CHAPTER XL 

PAGE 

Journey of King to the Continent of Europe — Few Details of it — Gore to 
King — Correspondence, and about the Latter's Sons — King to Caze- 
nove — Complaint of Livingston against Talleyrand — King to Erving 
— He had received no Faculty to grant Passports to American Citi- 
zens— Mr. Gore has — How Slaves captured after an Insurrection in 
Virginia in 1800 might be disposed of — President Jefferson to King 
— Suggesting sending them to Sierra Leone, Africa — Also expressing 
his Satisfaction with Mr, King's Course in England — And his Desire 
for peaceful and friendly Relations with Great Britain — Gore to the 
President — Answers the Letter to King, giving the Refusal of the 
Company to receive the Blacks — J. Q. Adams to King — Condition 
of Affairs in the U. S. — Strength of the Administration increasing. . 163 

CHAPTER XII. 

George IH. to King — On his not being presented to Bonaparte in Paris 
— Also Precautions taken when riding on cold Days — Cabot to King 
— Affairs in Massachusetts — Murray to King — Talk of King as Can- 
didate for the Presidency — Democrats blame him in Maryland as 
neglecting the Bank-Stock. — T. Paine — Hotels refused to receive 
him — W. Hindman to King — Proposed Presidential Nomination — 
Maryland Bank-Stock — King to Livingston — Insecurity of the Peace 
— King to Secretary of State — War might be renewed — No Concert 
with Austria and Russia — Cabinet sees no material Change in Con- 
tinental Powers to warrant War — Difficulties relative to Malta and 
unsettled commercial Intercourse with France, etc — King to Eaton 
— Hargrave's Charges for Commission in purchasing Jewels, etc., for 
Bey, not Right — Wilber force to King — Distrusts the Ministry — 
King to Addington — Urges Settlement of Maryland Bank-Stock 
Question — King to Secretary of State — France the Arbiter of Peace. 179 

CHAPTER XIII. 

Troup to King — State of Parties — King to be run for President or Vice- 
President — King to Parker in Paris — Inquiry about Schools for his 
elder Sons — King to Secretary of State — In new Bill to be intro- 
duced in Parliament Duties will remain the same except on foreign 
Oils — Change in Corn Laws — King to Erving respecting Charges — 
King to President of United States — Resumes the Subject of Trans- 
portation of Slaves to Sierra Leone — Little Hope of Success in ob- 
taining Permission to send them there — Thanks him for his Apprecia- 
tion of his Services, etc. — King to Erving — No Danger that Mr. 
Williams will embarrass him or injure the Public — King to Madison 

CONTENTS. xiil 

PAGB 

— Acknowledging Refusal of a public Vessel for his Return and ask- 
ing for Letters of Recall before April loth — Madison to King — 
Cause of Refusal — Reasons given by the President for this Refusal — 
The Decision really a wise one. ....... 192 

CHAPTER XIV. 

Troup to King — Spanish Officers at New Orleans violating the Treaty — 
Jefferson's Message an Opiate — King to Vansittart — Duty on Oil 
proposed would materially injure U. S. in withdrawing skilled Sea- 
men— King to Wilberforce — Urges granting Permission to send 
emancipated Slaves to Sierra Leone — Wilberforce to King — Import- 
ance of cultivating Friendship between their two Countries — Mary- 
land Bank-Stock — King to Lord Hawkesbury and Sir Stephen Cot- 
trell relative to contagious Fever on Board of Vessel to carry Ameri- 
can Seamen to the U. S. — King to Erving, on the same Matter — 
King to Gallatin — Exchange with Holland and England — How best 
to make Remittances — King to Lord Hawkesbury — Claims equal 
Participation in the West India Trade — King to Governor of Mary- 
land, relative to Communications about the Bank-Stock — J, Jay to 
King — Domestic Afflictions have prevented writing — Sedgwick to 
Hamilton — Federalists should hold the State Governments — King 
for Governor of New York — King to Secretary of State — No further 
Progress in Settlement of pending Questions — French Troops pos- 
sibly going to Louisiana — King to Lord Hawkesbury — His Govern- 
ment wishes Settlement of Questions with England — King to Secre- 
tary of State — Failure of Bird, Savage, and Bird — King to Gallatin 
— Same Subject — Propositions to Sir Francis Baring. . . . 203 

CHAPTER XV. 

King engages a Country House near New York — King to Vansittart — 
Demands Restoration of Wines and Spirits, Remains of Stores on 
Merchant Vessels seized by the Customs' Officers — King to Bird, Sav- 
age and Bird — How Balances to be settled — King to Sir F. Baring — 
Terms of Money Arrangement — Baring to King — Answer — King to 
Livingston — Monroe appointed Envoy, etc., to France — King to 
Gallatin — Arrangement with Sir F. Baring as Financial Agent of the 
U. S. — King to Secretary of State — Northeast Boundary Line — King 
to Livingston — Relative to the Closure of the Port of New Orleans 
— King to Livingston — The King's Message to Parliament looks to 
War — Measures taken — Effect on the U. S. — Especially with refer- 
ence to Louisiana — King to Lord Hawkesbury — Vessels of U. S. 
from New Orleans denied Entry because a Spanish Port — Asks him 
to remove this Impediment — King to Secretary of State — Expedition 

XIV CONTENTS. 

PAGE 

to Louisiana will not proceed — King to Secretary of State — War 
more probable — France's Demands — England's Preparations — King 
to Secretary of State — England's Answer — Malta — Cabot to King — 
Affairs in U. S. — Regrets King's Return — King to Secretar)' of 
State — France's Answer to England — War inevitable. . . . 220 

CHAPTER XVI. 

King to Livingston — France's Alternative War or Evacuation of Malta 
— For Latter England requires Security — King's Successor not yet 
named — King to Secretary of State — Question before the Commis- 
sioners under 7th Article relative to awarding Interest during its Sus- 
pension— King to P, Sansom — Acknowledges Kindness from Ameri- 
can Merchants — King to Secretary of State — France's Answer to 
Lord Hawkesbury — Vindicating Conduct of France — England will 
continue to occupy Malta — War will probably ensue — King to Liv- 
ingston— Neither France nor England would care to begin the 
Assault — King to C. Abbot — How to preserve Public Records — 
King to Secretary of State — No Change — War inevitable — England 
without Ally — In Case of War, England should seek to benefit Neu- 
tral Commerce — Mr. Addington said England might attempt to oc- 
cupy New Orleans — King objected — Might involve Misunderstand- 
ing— King to Livingston — England will not Evacuate Malta — Affairs 
so critical, hopes his Successor will arrive before his Departure — 
King to Secretary of State — French Answer called Evasion — De- 
cision for War remains for France. ....... 233 

CHAPTER XVII. 

King to Lord Hawkesbury — Convention for Boundaries — King to Liv- 
ingstone—Notes between England and France — Hopes he has definite 
Principles respecting Louisiana in Case of War — Gallatin to King — 
Arrangements with Barings satisfactory — King to Secretary of State 
— Maryland Bank-Stock — Ownership settled — King — Memorandum- 
Book — Taking Leave of the King — Conversation with Lord Hawkes- 
bury respecting Contraband — Notes and Negotiations between Eng- 
land and France — Ambassadors of each receive their Passports — 
Early Information communicated by King to English Government — 
Dinner at the Duke of Portland's — Not England but Bonaparte has 
shown bad Faith in the non-Execution of the Treaty — Conference 
with Addington — England would be satisfied with the Cession of 
Louisiana to the U. S. — Russian Offer of Mediation refused — Con- 
ferences with Lord St. Vincent relative to Impressment — No satis- 
factory Result obtained — Last Conferences between England and 
France — Ambassadors of each receive their Passports — King to Earl 

CONTENTS. XV 

PAGE 

St. Vincent — Regrets the Failure of Negotiations to put an End to 
Impressment — Gore to King — Confirms this Failure — King to Secre- 
tary of State — Condition of Negotiations relative to Impressment 
— Neutral Flag — Colony Trade — South America — King to Lord 
Hawkesbury — Communicates Purchase of Louisiana — Lord Hawkes- 
bury to King — Response to above — The King's Pleasure at the In- 
telligence— Complimentary Remarks on the whole Course of King's 
public Mission. .......... 245 

CHAPTER XVIII. 

King sails from England — Reasons for asking Permission to return Home 
— Suggested to Madison the Revision of the Commercial Treaty 
with Great Britain — No Notice taken of it — No new Work entrusted 
to him — King to Hamilton, asking his Opinion as to his return — 
Hamilton to King — Thinks it advisable — Presence Home useful — 
Party in Power hostile to the Interests of the Country — He may suffer 
in their Disrepute, holding Office under them — King to J. Marshall 
and to Dr. Southgate, annt)uncing his Resignation — King continues 
to press pending Questions for Settlement — N. E. and N. W. Boun- 
daries of the U. S. — Impressment — The State of Maryland's Bank- 
Stock — King left without appointing a Charge d'Affaires, not having 
been instructed to do so — Gore to Madison — Will look after the 
Affairs of the U. S. until King's Successor arrives — Gore to King — 
Explains his Reasons for this Conduct — Gore to King — Defends him- 
self from a Charge of delaying Proceedings of the Convention — Re- 
fuses to grant Passports — Monroe has received his Commission — Boys 
well — King to John Adams — State of Affairs when he left London, 264 

CHAPTER XIX. 

Arrival in New York and Reception by Citizens — Cabot to King — Wel- 
come Home — Confidence in England — Louisiana's Cession a good 
Thing for France — Madison to King — Not Necessary as a Tribute of 
Respect — Written Communications sufficient — Gallatin to King — 
Baggage free from Duty — Thanks for his Manner of transacting the 
Business of his Department — Jay to King — Congratulations on his 
Return — Hale to King — Congratulations, etc. — J. Q. Adams to King 
— Thanks for Favors rendered in London — Cabot to King — Pleased 
with Firmness of British Government — J. Adams to King — Thanks 
for sending Papers — His Conduct in England satisfactory to him and 
honorable and beneficial to his Country — King to Gore — Cession of 
great Importance giving Control of the Mississippi — Offer to go to 
Washington — Sedgwick to King — Wishes to see him Governor of 
N. Y. — Gov. Mercer to King — Thanks him for Zeal, Ability, and 

XVI CONTENTS. 

PACK 

Perseverance in Maryland's Behalf — Gore to King — State of Com- 
mission's Work — Monroe expected — Public Dinner to King — King 
to Gore — Does not yet know his Successor — Gore to King — Rebellion 
in Ireland — English Confidence rises — Monroe arrives in London — 
King to Gore — Livingston or Monroe to succeed him — The Papers 
say Doubts arise as to the Utility and Prudence and Constitutional- 
ity of the Louisiana Purchase — King to Gore — Hears Nothing more 
of his Successor — Washington not a safe Residence in Summer — Yel- 
low Fever in N. Y. — Objections to certain Articles in the Louisiana 
Convention. ........... 278 

CHAPTER XX. 

Gore to King — Congratulates him on his Arrival in N. Y. — Boys well — 
Affairs in Europe — Monroe knows little that passes in London — Gore 
to King — Miranda desires to quit England for Trinidad — Affairs in 
Europe — Trouble with Ewing — King to Gore — Astonished by Eng- 
land enrolling the Militia — No reliable Opinions of Congress rela- 
tive to Louisiana — Search for a Farm — Gore to King — His Boys in 
England — Livingston's Memorial — South America — St. Domingo — 
Gore to King — Boys' Behaviour excellent — Anticipates a gloomy 
Winter — England duped by Spain — Monroe has received no Dis- 
patches since his Arrival in London — Gore to King — Wishes he 
might settle near Boston — Miranda — Gore to King — Merry sails un- 
instructed relative to St. Domingo — Monroe thinks it a good Place 
for emancipated Negroes — Threatened Invasion of England — Liv- 
ingston to King — Has as yet no Advices from U. S. of Reception of 
the Convention by the Government — Regrets that it has not yet been 
considered — State of Europe — Has not yet received his Congi. . 296 

CHAPTER XXI. 

Gore to King — Miranda to be dispatched to Trinidad — Breach between 
Monroe and Livingston — Monroe in England — English Fears of Ful- 
ton's Boat — Colony Trade — King to Gore — Approves of Gore's Con- 
duct in Connection with his Commission — Light in which Louisiana 
Treaty is viewed in the U. S. — Livingston's Memorial indiscreet — 
Monroe should have explained the Sentiments of his Government — 
Gore to King — Schools in P" ranee for his Boys — Volunteers in Eng- 
land training — Russia may interfere for Spain — Louisiana — Monroe 
— Madison does not notice his Communications — Maryland Bank- 
Stock — Miranda not permitted to sail — No new Treaty with G. B. at 
Present — King to Gore — Louisiana Treaty ratified — Conduct of Spain 
causes much Speculation — He knows little of public Affairs — King 
to Pickering — Slavery in Louisiana, should not Effort be made to 

CONTENTS. XVll 

PAGE 

prevent it ? — Would alter the Constitution to confine Representation 
and Taxation to free Inhabitants — King to Gore — Proceedings in 
Congress — Jerome Bonaparte in America — Account of their Friends 
— King to Gore — Government will take Possession of Louisiana — 
Gore to King — Claims an Outfit — Alarm of Invasion subsiding — 
Monroe presents a Memorial on Impressment of Seamen. . . 313 

CHAPTER XXII. 

Boundaries Convention with England — Madison to King — King to Madi- 
son— Answer removing Objections — Madison to King — Mr. Merry's 
etiquette Claims — Gore to King — Personal — Louisiana — Bonaparte's 
Invasion of England — Livingston's Position — Ingersoll to King — 
House in New York — King to Ingersoll — House rented and occu- 
pied— Gore to King — Cornwallis watching Brest — King's Views rela- 
tive to Louisiana — King to Gore — Invasion of England — Louisiana 
Convention — Col. Burr and the Federalists — Miranda — Merry — Gore 
to King — Merry and sombre Dispatches — Lord Hawkesbury's Opin- 
ion— Government seem to consider this a studied Affront — Erving 
told Memorials were not received from Consuls — Gore to King — 
The King's Sickness — Maryland Bank-Stock adjusted — Gore about 
returning Home. .......... 329 

CHAPTER XXIII. 

Grievances and Suggestions of certain Federalists for a Separation of the 
New England States — Proposal to nominate King for Governor of 
the State of New York — Hamilton to King — Urging him to allow 
himself to be nominated — King to Hamilton — He declines — Plan of 
Separation of the Northern States — Pickering — Cabot — Wolcott — 
Conversation with King about a Separation — J. Q. Adams — Conversa- 
tion with King on the Same — Hamilton's Views adverse to the Plan 
— Pickering to King — Louisiana — Judge Pickering's Trial — Picker- 
ing to King — Plan of Separation — King to Pickering — Protection of 
Seamen — Cabot to King — Experiment of Separation of the States. . 346 

CHAPTER XXIV. 

Settlement of the Accounts of King during his Mission — Letters from the 
Secretar)'- of Treasury, A. Gallatin — Secretary of State, J. Madison 
— Auditor of Treasury, R. Harrison — R. King. .... 372 

CHAPTER XXV. 

Burr disappointed — Sought Revenge by Death of Hamilton — King's Con- 
nection with the Duel between them — Charges against him of Cold- 

XVIU CONTENTS. 

PAGE 

ness of Heart and of not endeavoring to prevent the Duel examined 
and disproved — King to C. King, denying a Statement by Dr. Mason 
— C, King to R. King— Interview with Dr. Mason — Report Incor- 
rect— W. Wallace to King — Result of the Duel — Pendleton to King 
— Hamilton mortally wounded — Correspondence with Gen. Clarkson 
relative to the Duel — Pitcairn to King — Deplores the Death of Ham- 
ilton 389 

CHAPTER XXVI. 

Embarrassment of General Hamilton's pecuniary Affairs — G. Morris's 
Statement — King to Friends in Boston — They proposed giving Lands 
bought of T. Pickering to the Heirs of General Hamilton — Deed 
for them to be given by the Purchasers — King to Cabot — Statement 
of the Debts and Subscription in New York — Gore to King — Deeds 
made out — J. A. Hamilton's Account — Letter to Major Popham — 
King to Gore — Plan to purchase Hamilton's Estate — Gift of Land 
by Gen. Schuyler to his Daughter — Share of her Father's Estate — 
Charge against King in the Alexandria Expositor — King's Letter to 
Editor — Copy of the Article — J. Crowe, England, to King — Denies 
the truth of the Article — Dinsmore, Editor, to King — Will publish a 
Refutation — King to Dinsmore — Wishes no Apology, but the Truth 
published. ........... 403 

CHAPTER XXVII. 

King's Journey to Boston and District of Maine — Dinners at Salem and 
Newburyport and Portland — Return to Boston — Public Dinner there 
— Elections of Presidential Electors and for a Senator of the United 
States from New York — King defeated in Both — W. L. Smith to 
King — Friendly Wishes — Livingston to King relative to French 
Negotiations — Lafayette to King — Introducing General Moreau — 
Miranda's Project. . . . . . . . . .417 

CHAPTER XXVIII. 

Gore to King — About Pinkney of Md. — King to Gore — Personal — J. A. 
Smith to King — Mission to Russia — On public Affairs in U. S. — 
C. King to King — Hard Winter — Personal — Pickering to King — 
Trial of Judge Chase — King to Pickering — Judge Chase — Senate 
Business — Pickering to King — Arguments of Chase's Counsel — Ran- 
dolph's Speech on Georgia Claims — St. Domingo Bill — Pickering to 
King — Acquittal of Judge Chase — Pickering to King — Nomination 
of Attorney General — Burr's retiring Speech — King to W. Hope — 
Desires to place his Second Son in his House — King to Samuel 

CONTENTS. xix 

PAGE 

Chase — Congratulations on the Result of his Trial — Chase to King — 
Thanking him and stating Points in the case and the Attack on the 
Judiciary — Gore to King — Federalism will soon disappear — Living- 
ston to King — With Letter from Talleyrand relative to a Collection 
of Works of Art to be placed in the Museum at N. Y. — King to Gore 
— Current Events — Lord Suffolk to King — British Affairs — Gore to 
King — Commercial Ventures ........ 436 

CHAPTER XXIX. 

King to Gore — Miranda about to sail — Monroe's Failure in Spain — Yellow 
Fever in N. York — King at Rockaway — His Son James — Pitcaim to 
King — Seizure of American Vessels — Gore to King — British Interfer- 
ence with Trade of U. S. — Would it have been so, if King had been 
in England? — W. Vaughan to King — War in Disguise — Neutral's 
Rights — King to Gore — New Coalition in Europe — Effect on Ameri- 
can Trade — VVilberforce to King — Sends War in Disguise — Acting 
on the System recommended indispensable to England — Miss O. 
Southgate — Opinion of King — King to his Sons in Paris — King to 
Morris — Celebration of 25th November — Pickering to King — Treaty 
with Tripoli — Gore to King — Miranda cannot expect Help — Boston 
Merchants fear Depredations on Commerce — Suggest King as Minis- 
ter to England — Gore to King — President's Message — Breck to King 
— Bank of U. States — Pickering to King — No great Measures before 
Congress — King to Gore — Merchants alarmed — Proposal to urge his 
Appointment to England — King to Pickering — President's Foreign 
Policy 454 

CHAPTER XXX. 

Gore to King — Negotiations with England — King as Minister — Pickering 
to King — Logan's Motion relative to St. Domingo Trade — Parker 
to King about his Sons — Napoleon's change of Rulers in Europe — 
King to Gore — England's Pretensions about Colonial Trade — Affairs 
in Washington — Troup to King — Clinton carries the Council — Tracy 
to King — Report on Spoliation — King to Pickering — Desires to 
know the Plan of Government — Public Anxious — Pickering to King 
— Might as well search for Plan in Chaos — Detail of Opinions in 
Washington, relative to Florida Purchase — Pickering's own Views — 
Objected on Ground of the Immorality and Impolicy of the Measure — 
Pickering to King — Arguments against the Purchase of Florida as 
proposed in the secret Appropriation Bill — Jefferson incapable of 
managing Affairs in Trouble — Negotiations with Great Britian — 
King to Pickering — Disclaims the Authorship of the Answer to War 
in Disguise — Troup to King — Coalition of Clinton and the Burrites . 475 

XX CONTENTS. 

PAGE 

CHAPTER XXXI. 

Pickering to King — Answer of "War in Disguise" by Morris — Anecdote 
relative to and Criticism of Answer — Tracy to King — Speculations 
about Answer — Fatal Effects of Democracy — King to Pickering — 
Miranda — Denunciations by the President's Friends — Tracy to King 
— Armstrong elected — Pickering to King — Sends Capt. Lewis' Nar- 
rative— Remarks thereon — Smith's Bill to encourage Shipping and 
Navigation — Asks King's Views — King to Pickering — European 
News — Estimate of England — Pickering to King — Caramelli — Mir- 
anda— King -to Pickering — Sundry Subjects — Pickering to King — 
Death of Pitt — Relaxation of British commercial Regulations — 
Might make satisfactory Arrangements with G. B. — Speculations 
upon Monroe and Madison, as to the next Presidency — King to Pick- 
ering— Disapproves of Bills on Non-importation of British Products — 
Gore to King — Animadversions against the Government — Gore to 
King — Reasons for re-entering public Life — Pickering to King — 
Armstrong's Application of the Louisiana Fund — N. Webster to 
King — Should Legislatures express Opinions on the Conduct of the 
Government ........... 496 

CHAPTER XXXn. 

Miranda to King — Expects to embark for Trinidad — Asks for Help — King 
says unauthorized — Further Communications — King to Madison — 
Communicates confidentially Miranda's Plans — Miranda sails for N. 
York — Vansittart to King — England's Dealings with Miranda — Pre- 
sent Views of public Men in England — King to Secretary of State — 
Sends him Vansittart's Letter for the President to read — Miranda to 
Gore — Account of his Preparations to sail for Trinidad — Urging him 
to assist him — King to Gore — Miranda's Arrival in N. York and his 
Plans — Madison to King, acknowledging Receipt of his Letters — 
Miranda to King, urging him to ask his P'riends to contribute Money 
for him — Declined by King — Miranda to King — He sails — Estimate 
of Mr. King's Action in the Matter — Help in Congress invoked by 
Miranda's Friends against Prosecution — King to Gore — How his 
Name mixed with the Enquiry' — King to Vansittart . . . .517 

CHAPTER XXXIIL 

Tudor to King — Carrying Ice to the W. Indies — Dr. Romeyn to King — 
Election as Manager of the American Bible Society — King to 
Romeyn — Declines the Office, though approving the Object of the 
Society — Action of the Episcopal Church to circulate the Bible with 
the Common Prayer Book — Gore to King — Pinkney to London to 

CONTENTS. xxi 

PAGE 

assist Monroe — King receives Degree of LL.D. from Dartmouth, 
Williams, and Harvard Colleges — Trustee of Columbia College — S. 
Smith to King — Death of his Son — Tudor to King — Failure of 
Application relative to Ice Monopoly — Speculations on European 
Affairs — Williams to King — British and American Commissioners 
said to have made a Treaty — King on an Outrage against personal 
Liberty, in the Case of Alexander, a Lawyer in N. Orleans arrested 
by Gen'l Wilkinson .......... 533 

Appendix I — Bribery in Politics 551 

Appendix II — Interview between Gallatin and King — 1803 . . . 553 

Appendix III — Mary King to C. King 556 

Appendix IV — King to Hamilton 558 

Appendix V — Louisiana. Rights under the Convention of Purchase . 559 

Appendix VI — Louisiana. Value of the Acquisition and Effect on the 

Political Union .......... 567 

Appendix VII — Cession of Louisiana. The Price, Merits of Negotiating 

Ministers, and Policy of Purchase . . . . . . .571 

Appendix VIII — To page 407. Hamilton's Estate .... 575 

Appendix IX — To page 485. Miranda and the Sailing of the Leander . e^'j'j 

Appendix X — Review of the Foreign Relations of the United States . 586 

THE LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF 

RUFUS KING. 

CHAPTER I. 

Affairs in the U. S. — Ames to King — Federal Views — King to Gore — Peace — 
King to Madison — Detention of Vessels charged with breaking Block- 
ade of Havre — King to Madison — Public Sentiment about the Peace — 
Patience in conducting Negotiations with England — Conversation with 
Addington regarding them — The Latter thinks the Peace will be perma- 
nent— Mr. Otto — His Integrity and Discretion — King to Addington — 
Statement relative to 6th Article — King to Madison — Diplomatic Changes 
— Cabot to King — Looks for Storms, Others more hopeful — King to Lord 
Hawkesbury — Vessels detained for breaking Blockade — G. Morris to 
King — On the Peace — King to Lord Grenville — Statement of Latter in 
H. of Lords, charging Misrepresentation and Perjury by a foreign Min- 
ister— Lord Grenville to King — Said it did not reflect on his Character or 
Conduct — King to Secretary of State — Spain ceded Louisiana to France — 
No Allusion to Louisiana in the Negotiations between France and Eng- 
land— L. Littlepage to King — Louisiana — King Conference with Lord 
Hawkesbury, relative to 6th Article — French Expedition to St. Domingo — 
Also concerning Louisiana. 

At the beginning of this fourth volume it is well to look 
over the state of affairs in the United States, tho' perhaps 
this has only an indirect interest in shaping the actions 
of Mr. King abroad, for his now long residence in England 
prevented him from taking any personal share in the cur- 
rent events at home. His correspondence with old personal 
and political friends, however, kept him well informed on 

VOL IV- 

RUFUS KING. [1801 

what was passing among them, and he was thus enabled to 
understand the changes in political matters that were daily- 
taking place, and especially with regret to learn that the 
principles of the government, which he had so faithfully- 
sought to establish, were gradually changing under the new 
administration in a way that boded no good to the country. 
Among these most valued and intelligent correspondents was 
Fisher Ames, who gives, in the first letter presented below, 
a clear statement of the affairs in the country and a well- 
considered view of the opinions of their old federal friends 
under the changes which were taking place, which they 
deprecated but could not check. 

F. Ames to R. King. 

Boston, October 27th, 1801. 
Dear Sir : 

While Mr. Gore * is on the Continent, I may be allowed to 
address a letter to you, and if I could give either clear or comfort- 
ing information about our affairs I might hope that my letters wd. 
be acceptable to you without that excuse. But Democracy rides 
the high horse. Bradley is chosen a Vermont Senator, yet they 
say the assembly of that State is federal. Others say that all 
goes there by barter and that offices are trucked off to Feds & 
Jacobins without much discrimination, provided the high-con- 
tracting parties find their individual amount in it. Royal Tyler is 
a Judge of their Supreme Court, Israel Smith Ch. Justice. A 
motley bench which ought to try per mediatate?n. 

N. Jersey is said to be democratic. Delaware has a demo. 
Governor chosen by the people, Connecticut still shews a bold 
face, and vaunts of its Federalism which I fear is losing ground — 
yet so slowly that the pendulum may swing back again before the 
Demos get the majority. N. Hampshire still chuses Gilman, yet 
their '* intriguans " intend to run Langdon as soon as the full- 

* During the suspension of the sitting of the Commission under the Seventh 
Article of the Treaty with Great Britain, Mr. Gore, a member of the Commit- 
tee, made a visit to the Continent of Europe. 

:8oi] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 

ness of time has come — which is expected to be next spring. 
Here, Govr. Strong will be rechosen, but the most zealously fed- 
eral parts of the state are leavening and souring with the same 
fermentation that in other parts has passed beyond the vinous 
almost to the putrid. Where Jacobinism triumphs, it is probable, 
it's numbers do not increase — but it's insolence does, — and the 
Feds in those places yield the ground to them with less contest 
than formerly. So that on a fair calculation of force, we are weak 
indeed. New England ought to be roused and all our efforts 
ought to be directed to saving the remnants of federalism ; our 
life and being would be lost, if the skill of our masters had been 
equal to the felicity of the conjuncture when they conquered us. 
They had only to promise well — indeed they did — and to keep on 
promising smoothly, which they have not done, easy as the task 
was. Instead of it, they write foolish letters of excuse for them- 
selves and inculpating the Feds as a Sect. There is hardly any- 
thing that a skilful statesman may not do^ but there is very little, 
he can say. This prating vain letter * has certainly alarmed the 
Feds, who consider it as a manifesto announcing a violent 
Jacobin administration. And the knowing ones among the 
Jaco'. think it stiff. Already they whisper that little B. alone 
has the needed energy of character, and party for him will 
be form'd whenever it can be employed with effect. In the 
mean time he will push his Captain forward to do obnoxious 
things, and when resentments are concentered on him, then per- 
haps he will think the Feds despairing of victory will only seek 
revenge. To secure which, he will be wanted. It is indeed evi- 
dent that a govt, too democratic in it's structure, or a people too 
democratic in their notions to support any energetic form, will 
breed endless factions. We have hoped that our system was, as 
Mr. Jefferson says very sagely, the strongest in the world and that 
we are the people the fittest in it for such a system. I presume 
not to decide so grave a question. I think however our experi- 
ence soon will. In New York the rights & the property of the 
city and state are subject to the vice and folly and poverty of the 
society. The like will be brought about in every other state as 
in Pennsylvania unless the quill shall be found a weapon of power 

* Probably Jefferson's New Haven letter. 

RUFUS KING. [i8oi 

enough to counteract the progress we have commenced. Even 
that weapon will be wielded by champions who do not think all 
is at hazard. The popular consolation still is as much as ever 
that all goes well — Prosperity smiles on everybody — Wealth in- 
creases, and the New men promise to make great savings. The 
displacing a few exasperates a few hundreds, who soon forget 
their anger and the circumstances and occasion of it. Those 
who affect great concern for the people will be the men to have 
popular power committed to them and newspaper writers will fail 
as formerly in the attempt to make the understanding of those 
who will not reason an overmatch for the blind impulses of those 
who can only feel. Accordingly as I see the propensities of 
things, as I estimate the feebleness of the means to hinder their 
further and fatal decline, judge whether I am sanguine as to the 
effect of Federal Gazettes. Yet I think despair ought not to be 
confessed — still less circulated. Soon if the evil apprehended 
should be deemed inevitable, which is rather more than my belief 
— yet a certain manner of meeting it is necessary — otherwise it 
will come with aggravation. We must openly and zealously and 
with all our skill labor to prevent it. We must honestly and 
faithfully cling to the Govt and Constitution and to the rules of 
virtue and real patriotism to the last ; so that our fall, if fate de- 
crees it, shall be incontestibly due to our political adversaries, 
not to ourselves. As what is best and what is practicable are 
points depending on events, and not to be foreseen or decided 
before they happen, we shall thus stand ready to act as may be 
proper — we shall keep ourselves united with the public sentiment 
and when danger is obvious, the good and able will feel an im- 
pulse as strong as we vainly wish to inspire beforehand. There- 
fore the Gazettes are now of importance and the Feds are 
preparing this kind of ammunition in Pennsylvania, N York & 
Boston. Such gazettes will keep alive all the yet surviving respect 
for principles, and if the Jacos. in Congress are not callous may 
check their most outrageous designs. It is however obvious to 
me that charges of violating the constitution affect the Jacos. very 
little, while you know that the Feds when in power were exceed- 
ing affected by them — even when palpably false and frivolous — 
as if the Feds were rather cowards who feared to be indicted for 
breaking the Constitution, not really lovers of it who will not 

l8oi] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 5 

suffer any others to do it. The bold liberties taken with the 
power of displacing and appointing are abuses if not infractions — 
yet as the Jacos. care little for principles and as the Feds are 
averse to making a great clamor for what to most persons will 
appear a little thing, I do not expect much check from that 
source. On the contrary, I expect a repeal of the late Judicial 
Law and an ousting of the new Circuit Judges will be received 
with patience by all, and with approbation with some federalists. 
If repealing a law will deprive a Judge of his office and salary, 
there will be no independence of the Judiciary on the Legislature. 

As to the views and plan of politics of the ruling party in re- 
spect to foreign nations and to their own ultimate objects all is 
but conjecture. Probably one great man is a Democrat and 
thinks the extremes of Democratic principles are wise principles. 

Madison certainly knows better and yet there ever was a strange 
vein of absurdity in his head. But the second has no such non- 
sense, Jacobinism now uses and urges Democracy, as it did in 
France — We are now in the Roland & Condorcet act of our 
Comedy — Whether we go on to the Danton and Robespierre acts 
depends on time and accident and not on the discernment energy 
or force of the Feds. This I sometimes hope ; Jacobins will not 
hold power contentedly only for fair honest purposes and they 
cannot proceed to use it to any very profitable extent for any 
other, without rousing a late opposition that would delay if not 
prevent the crisis — They cannot oppress and rob without our 
knowing ; and the oppressed will not be coaxed. Excuse my 
running on thus into infinite space. I stand again on old firm 
ground when I assure you of my cordial regard with best respects 

to Mrs King — 

Yours &c. 

R. King to C. Gore, Paris. 

London, Oct. 30, 1801. 

. . . The K.'s speech & the addresses you will see in all the 
papers. Sheridan has in a sentence expressed a very just notion 
of the public opinion ; " the peace everybody is glad of, but no- 
body proud of." There will be an animated Debate in both 
houses on Tuesday next. ... In respect to our affairs here, 

RUFUS KING. [1801 

they remain as they were when I last wrote to you. At present 
we cannot gain a hearing — every one is armed with weapons of 
attack or defence for the Battle of next week. This over, per- 
haps we may again find a moment for our affairs. . . . 

R. K. 

R. King to Mr. Madison. 

Private. 

London, Oct. 31, 1801. 
Dear Sir : 

It is confidently believed that a considerable Expedition com- 
posed of land and sea forces is preparing in France and will soon 
proceed to St. Domingo and perhaps to the Mississippi. Should 
Toussaint resist, our commerce may experience fresh embarrass- 
ments in the West India Seas. On this account among others 
the presence of our Minister at Paris, becomes more and more 
desirable. 

To my surprise the Ship Frederick of New York, the first of 
our vessels detained upon the charge of having broken the 
Blockade of Havre de Grace, was two days ago tried and con- 
demned in the High Court of Admiralty. I had been assured 
that the trial of these vessels should stand over, until the Cabinet 
should find time to consider the subject, and I had, moreover, 
reason to expect that an intimation would be given to the Judge, 
that under all circumstances these vessels, at least such of them 
as had not been warned, ought to be discharged. As soon as I 
heard of this sentence, I called on Sir Wm. Scott (to whom I had 
already sent a copy of my correspondence with Lord Hawkesbury 
concerning the Blockade of Havre) who told me that not having 
received the communication he had expected from the Govern- 
ment when the case of the Frederick came on, he intimated the 
expediency of suffering it with such other cases as were in similar 
circumstances, to stand over ; that the King's advocate who on a 
former day had stated an expectation that he might receive par- 
ticular instructions respecting these cases, signified his readiness 
to acquiesce, but that the claimant's counsel pressed for a trial, 
and he could do no otherwise than condemn the vessel and cargo. 
The other vessels will not be tried before the Cabinet has decided 

l8oi] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, f 

whether it will interfere ; and that this decision may no longer be 
delayed I have required Lord Hawkesbury explicitly to inform 
me whether it is intended to make the cases of these vessels a 
subject of ministerial consideration. Should the Cabinet inter- 
fere, the vessels will be discharged with their cargoes ; if it de- 
cline, or delay to do so, I shall put my correspondence with Lord 
Hawkesbury into Mr. Erving's hands with directions to deliver it 
to the advocate of the claimant to be used on the Trials. 

With great respect &c. 

RuFus King. 

R. King to James Madison, Esq. 

{Private?) 

London, Nov. 2d, 1801. 
Dear Sir : 1 

The Newspapers, among which is the Porcupine, the paper of 
the new opposition, which Mr. Dawson's repeated disappoint- 
ments enable me to add to those I had before delivered to him, 
afford a pretty just view of the public sentiment concerning the 
Peace. Mr. Sheridan in a single sentence has happily expressed 
this sentiment — " It is a Peace everybody is glad of, and nobody 
proud of." Of the old Ministry Mr. Windham (the friend of 
Burke, and the Legatee of his opinions respecting the French 
Revolution) in one house, and Lord Grenville in the other, will 
censure the Preliminaries ; but a very large majority of both 
houses will approve them : there are notwithstanding some able, 
reflecting and influential men, both in and out of Parliament, who 
behold with deep concern the decided superiority that France has 
obtained over all her adversaries, and which in their opinion en- 
dangers the repose and independence of every State in Europe. 
The Peace according to these gentlemen is only the end of the 
first Punic war ; and tho' they may not live to see the last, they 
make no secret of their apprehension that it will prove fatal to 
the independence of their country. I have this morning seen 
Mr. Addington, and had an opportunity of explaining to him the 
extraordinary situation of the negotiation respecting the 6th Arti- 
cle. The light in which he sees the subject, encourages me to ex- 
pect that the business will yet take a satisfactory turn ; in the 

8 RUFUS KING. [1801 

meantime I am pressing Lord Hawkesbury for a definitive 
answer. 

I am no stranger to the feelings which would be gratified by a 
more peremptory mode of discussion ; but having from a pretty 
thorough acquaintance with the subject, become strongly im- 
pressed with the policy of our getting rid of a controversy which 
nobody seems willing to examine and in which we have to en- 
counter much interested misrepresentation ; I am led to doubt 
the suggestion of every measure that would afford a Pretext to 
decide the Question, upon which we are at issue upon any other 
than its true principles ; and it is to considerations of this sort, 
that I must refer myself, for the justification of the yet unex- 
pected stock of Patience, with which I have pursued the settle- 
ment of this unpleasant discussion. 

With sentiments of sincere Respect &c. 

RuFUS King. 

On the 2d of November a conversation * upon the state 
of the American negotiations was held with Mr. Addington, 
which was followed the next day by a private note to him 
from Mr. King presenting the steps by which it had reached 
its present condition. This note is dated on the 3d, and 
follows. Mr. King states that the conversation then turned 
to politics. 

Mr. A. was evidently contented with the state of parties. The 
King was at first staggered but finally acquiesced by saying as he 
had no allies upon the Continent the best must be done that 
could be. The Prince of Wales had written to him that he 
should have his full support, and Lord Camden, who some days 
ago appeared decided to oppose, had just written to him, to say 
he shd. go out of town on Tuesday when the Preliminaries are to 
be discussed and that he shd. give Mr. Addington his support. 

Speaking of Windham, he did credit to his integrity, sincerity 
and disinterestedness, and added that he shook hands with him at 
court with the observation of Sir Wm. Temple " friends here but 
enemies at Breda," alluding to the debate upon the Preliminaries, 
to which Windham replied enemies nowhere. 

* Memorandum Book. 

l8oi] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 

Of Ld. Grenville Mr. A. spoke with displeasure, and was willing 
to impart his and the Marquis of B.'s opposition to factions and 
interested views. Lord Grenville was already tired of retirement 
&c. ; but he miscalculated & his views are understood. It was 
utterly inconsistent that he who negotiated at Lille should censure 
the minister who had concluded the Peace. Lord Radnor was a 
particular man, he shd. a priori have inferred his opposition. 
Lord Carnaervon was a wild and irregular character. The whole 
Bench of Bps. with the exception of Rochester would support 
him. He felt that he deserved support. If the war had gone on, 
could he have abridged the power of France, could he have de- 
livered any of the Dominions which had fallen under its govern- 
ment ? If not, why prolong the war, especially when he found he 
could not make another campaign without bringing upon his 
country an additl. permanent burthen of two millions annually. 
Add to that, the probability that France wd. have completely 
overrun Spain and Portugal and made irruptions into other 
States. For it wd. have been necessary even for Bonaparte to 
have employed his army abroad in order to get rid of the expence 
of maintaining it at home. 

That on the whole, he was in hopes the Peace wd. be perma- 
nent, and he did not perceive anything in the relative condition 
of the countries wh. made it more likely than on former occasions 
to be of short duration. If it shd. not continue wd. not G. Br. 
be better able to measure herself apart with France, than she wd. 
have been had the war continued another year or two, which wd. 
have enormously increased the public burthen and weakened and 
exhausted those resources upon wh. the public safety must depend 
in the event of a future war. 

Speaking of the Negotiator, he thanked me for the character I 
had early given him of Mr. Otto, and said he had found it to be 
perfectly merited. That the King had lately expressed himself 
favourably respecting him and intimated a wish that he might be 
the Ambassador here. Mr. A. then said two circumstances re- 
specting him were highly creditable to his integrity and discretion 
— one that he certainly did not gamble in the stocks and the other 
that he had not any intercourse with the discontented people of 
G. Britain. Jos. Bonaparte he expected ^vd. be the Ambassador. 

lO I^UFUS KING. [i8oi 

R. King to Mr. Addington. 

Private. 

Nov. 3, 1801. 

Mr. King sends him a statement of the " Origin, Changes 
and present state of the Negotiation concerning the 6th 
Article of the American Treaty of 1794." 

1799, December. As soon as the Commission in America under 
the Sixth Article of the Treaty of 1794, discontinued its meetings, 
the American Government proposed to that of Great Britain an 
explanatory Article for the regulation of its future Proceedings. 

1800, April. The British Government declined agreeing to the 
proposed explanatory Article, but offered to accept a Sum of be- 
tween one and two millions in satisfaction of the Debts contracted 
before the Peace of 1783 ; to abolish the American Commission, 
and take upon itself the distribution of the Money among the 
British Creditors. This offer was not accompanied by a proposal 
in like manner to convert the American Claims under the Seventh 
Article of the Treaty of 1794 into a definite sum ; on the contrary, 
it was explicitly declared that the Commission in London, charged 
with the examination of these Claims, should be suspended only 
until a settlement could be made respecting the Commission in 
America. 

1800, August. The Government of the United States declined 
the proposal of giving a sum in satisfaction of the Debts, and 
offered a Sum in satisfaction of the Claims of the Creditors upon 
the American Government, leaving the Creditors to pursue the 
recovery of their debts in the ordinary Course of the Judiciary. 

At this Stage the British Government inquired if the American 
Minister were authorized to convert the American Claims upon 
the British Government into a definite Sum, and abolish the 
Commission in London in like manner as it was proposed to 
abolish that in America ; and on receiving an explicit answer in 
the negative, a discussion was ijnmediately commenced for the 
purpose of ascertaining the Sum to be given in satisfaction of the 
Claims upon the American Government, and most certainly with 
the mutual expectation that, this Sum being agreed upon, the 
Commission in London would be free to proceed in ascertaining 
the amount of the American Claims upon the British Govern- 
ment. 

l8oi] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. II 

i8oi, August. After a tedious discussion, this sum has been 
mutually ascertained and settled, as well as the Terms of its Pay- 
ment ; It follows, therefore as a matter of course, and good faith 
requires, that the Commission in London should be at Liberty to 
proceed in the execution of its duties. 

R. King to James Madison, Esq. 

Private, 

London, Nov. 5, 1801. 
Dear Sir : 

The War having ended has given occasion to a review of the 
diplomatic Corps of this Country, but few of which have lately 
been in service ; and I hear that Mr. Liston will be sent to Hol- 
land, instead of returning to America. Mr. Jackson, who was 
Secretary of Legation at the Hague and at Madrid before the 
war, and who was named Ambassador to the Porte soon after its 
commencement, but did not proceed to Constantinople, has been 
appointed Min. plenipo. to France and will reside at Paris during 
the Congress at Amiens. 

As soon as the definitive Treaty shall be concluded, Lord 
Whitworth (formerly in Russia) will go as Ambassador to Paris, 
and Mr. Jackson as Mr. Liston's successor to America. 

With great Truth &c. 

RuFus King. 

G. Cabot to R. King. 

Nov. 6, 1801. 
My Dear Sir : 

Perhaps there never were six months of more perfect tran- 
quillity than we have last enjoyed ; yet like the Seaman who 
calls a Summer day in the winter Season a weather breeder I look 
for Storms. I am however less solicitous than formerly about all 
these things. While I hoped, & believed it possible, to save our 
country from the terrible evils of Democracy I was full of anxiety, 
but perfectly convinced as I am now, that no human means cou'd 
have prevented them I reconcile myself, as Nature kindly dis- 

12 RUFUS KING. [i8oi 

poses us, to all unavoidable events. — We are going the course 
decreed by the Author of man for every popular State. . . . 

Our friend A. lately put into my hands a letter for you which 
I thought so good as to deserve transcribing that it might have 
two chances of arriving — my son therefore made a copy which I 
now enclose. — You will see by it that he adheres to the good old 
maxim of never despairing of the Co7nmonwealth yet if you observe 
his details I think you will determine that his faith is not only 
without evidence but in fact against it. Indeed I sometimes 
believe that a few hundred of such men as he is, properly dis- 
tributed thro' our Country, might save it, but we have only one 
in this quarter & not many elsewhere. After all I have said to 
chill your hopes I ought to say that the more enlightened part of 
our society think more justly & more ahke than at any former 
period & from thence some good expectations are formed. 

Yours truly, 

G. C. 

R. King to Lord Hawkesbury. 

Great Cumberland Place, Nov. ii, i8oi. 
My Lord : 

I had the honour on the 28th ulto. to recall to your Lordship's 
recollection the several representations which I had before made 
to you in behalf of the American Ships and Cargoes, detained in 
their passage to the Port of Havre de Grace ; the greater part of 
these vessels has been nearly three months in the Ports of Eng- 
land, during which time the Crews, tho' engaged on war wages, 
have been kept together in daily expectation of an answer from 
your Lordship to my repeated applications in their favour. 

As I cannot consistently with a due regard to the Interest and 
Rights of the Owners of these Ships and Cargoes, recommend to 
their Masters to remain here with their respective Crews, at the 
enormous expence which attends their detention, without a cer- 
tainty that their cases will be examined without farther delay, I 
take the liberty again to request your Lordship's answer to the 
representations I have made on their behalf. 

With great consideration &c. 

RuFus King. 

l8oi] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 3 

G. Morris to R. King. 

MoRRiSANiA 13 Novr., 1801. 
Dear Sir : 

I am much oblig'd by yours of the twentieth of last December 
which I ought sooner to have acknowledged but my Hermitage 
offers nothing to communicate to a Man in the Great World. 

I never believed that the Northern League would last long. 
Indeed I ventured to predict the speedy Dissolution of it and to 
ground some Reasonings as to our affairs on that Position. I do 
not now believe that Peace will soon be made. Necessity, or the 
Feebleness of Soul which calls Difficulty by that Name, may pro- 
cure the assent of the British Ministers to an armed Truce under 
the Semblance of Peace ; but if they leave France in Possession 
of her present Dominion and Authority they reduce their Country 
to the Rank of a secondary, perhaps a dependent Power. This 
seems so evident that it is wonderful Buonaparte did not propose 
an uti possidetis as the Ground Work of a Treaty. If it be said 
that War is necessary to him, one would think he might turn his 
Arms North Eastward : for if Austria, Russia and Prussia have 
not the Good Sense to aid England in restoring the Ballance of 
Power, the two first might be induced to agree with the first 
Consul on eating up the last. No more convenient Morsel could 
be found nor any which would better cut up into Indemnities. 
But whether the War shall now continue or the Parties agree to 
take a short breathing Time ; one of two things seems inevitable ; 
either that a Grand Alliance be formed against France, as at the 
Beginning of the last Century, or that all other Powers submit to 
her Domination. The part we may act must depend much on 
Circumstances, but I question whether our present Administra- 
tion (tho' quite as able as the last) be equal to the Business, 
which they will probably have to manage. I hope they may, and 
rely much on the scriptural Assurance that Heaven tempers the 
Wind to the shorn Lamb. . . . 

Believe me ever and truly yours 

GouvR. Morris. 

14 RUFUS KING. [i8oi 

R. King to Lord Grenville, &c. &c. 

Gr. Cumberland Place, Nov. 14, 1801. 
My Lord : 

In the Morning Chronicle of to-day your Lordship is stated to 
have said in the debate of last evening in the House of Lords, 
that while you were in his Majesty's service " a foreign Minister 
had by misrepresentation, and the most flagrant perjury, been in- 
structed to complain of the conduct of a British official of high 
reputation, and on enquiry it was found to be most grossly false, 
and the charge scandalous." It having been my duty during my 
residence in this country, as the Minister of the United States, to 
prefer various complaints founded upon proofs of delinquency 
against certain of the King's naval officers, I take the liberty of 
requesting your Lordship to inform me, whether the complaint 
alluded to by your Lordship, in the House of Lords, was made by 
the Minister of the U. S. and if so, that you would have the good- 
ness to mention the date of the complaint, and the Tribunal be- 
fore which the falsehood and perjury ascribed to it were 
established. 

With high consideration and respect, &c. 

RuFus King. 

Ld. Grenville to R. King. 

Camelford House, Nov. 14, 1801. 
Dear Sir : 

If an accurate report were made of what I said last night in the 
House of Lords, you would, I am sure, see, what I trust you would 
readily believe even without this assertion of it, that no part of 
my speech did, or could, in the smallest degree reflect on your 
character, or conduct, to both which I have always borne, both in 
public and in private, the testimony of that sincere esteem and 
respect which I feel towards you. 

Having said this, which was no less due to my own feelings 
than to your's, you must allow me to add that I cannot think it 
consistent with my duty as a Peer of Parliament to enter into any 
particular explanations with a foreign Minister, respecting an un- 

i8oi] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 15 

authorized publication in a newspaper, of opinions supposed to 
have been delivered by me in my place in the House of Lords. 
I have the honor to be with sincere respect & regard 
Dear Sir your most faithful & most obedient humble Servant. 

Grenville. 

RuFUS King Esq. &c., &c., &c. 

This letter is thus endorsed in R. King's handwriting. 

Lord Grenville, Nov. 14, 1801 — In consequence of this 
answer I deemed it expedient to consult with my corps, and after 
stating the subject to Count Woronzow, who was of opinion that 
this Reply was satisfactory and that I could not require of Ld. 
Gr. to enter into fuller explanations, I concluded to suffer the 
Business to stop here — purposing however to express any opinion 
to Ld. Gr. of the unfitness of his Language when I next meet 
him. 

Having myself heard his Speech, I know it to have been as 
exceptional as stated in the Morng. Chronicle. 

R. King to Secretary of State. No. 42. 

London, Nov, 20, 1801. 
Sir : 

If the annexed copy of the Treaty * between France & Spain, 
respecting the establishment of the Prince of Parma in Tuscany, 
be genuine, of which I have no reason to doubt, you will perceive 
the value which these Powers seemed to have placed upon 
Louisiana ; the cession whereof to France is confirmed by the 
5th article of this Treaty. 

I am in hopes that I shall be able to obtain and send you a 
copy of the Treaty ceding Louisiana to France ; this would 
enable us to determine whether it includes New Orleans and 
the Floridas. 

There is doubtless an understanding between England and 
France in respect to the expedition now nearly ready to proceed 
to Saint Domingo ; and I think I am not mistaken in the belief, 
whatever may be the intentions of France in respect to the 
occupation of Louisiana, that no part of the Forces now collect- 

* See p. 19 of this volume for Article 5. 

1 6 RUFUS KING. [i8oi 

ing, and which are going to St. Domingo, will be employed for 
this purpose. 

It is not a little extraordinary that during the whole negotiation 
between France and England, not a word was mentioned on 
either side, respecting Louisiana, though this Government was 
not ignorant of the views of France in this quarter. 

With perfect respect & Esteem &c. 

RuFUS King. 

R. King to Lord Eldon, &c. 

Great Cumberland Place, Nov. 22, 1801. 
My Lord : 

With view of explaining the origin and progress of the discus- 
sion in which I have now for upwards of two years been engaged, 
on the subject of the Sixth Article of our Treaty of 1794, I have 
drawn up the enclosed Paper,* which I ask the favour of your 
Lordship to peruse. 

I wished to have made it shorter, but could not without omit- 
ting what appeared to be material to the elucidation aimed at. If 
I be not altogether mistaken the Point upon which the Business 
continues to be delayed, will appear to your Lordship, from the 
perusal of this Paper, in a light somewhat different from that in 
which you have before seen it, and I am willing to hope that it 
may have some influence in bringing the affair to a satisfactory 
conclusion. With perfect consideration & respect &c. 

RuFUS King. 

P.S. I shall be obliged to your Lordship to put the Paper into 
Lord Hawkesbury's hands after you shall have read it. 

Lewis Littlepage to R. King. 

Private. 

Philadelphia, 28th of Novbr., 1801. 
Dear Sir : 

I have never forgotten the important conversation which passed 
between us the last time we met in St. James's Park. In a con- 
versation which I had with the President about a week past, I 

* The paper alluded to above, covers nearly six pages of folio. 

l8oi] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. \y 

mentioned the affair in question to him. He told me he had been 
informed of it for four months^ that it would be unfortunate^ but 
what were the means of prevention / That question you may- 
suppose, I was ill prepared to answer, totally ignorant as I am, of 
the politics and resources of my own County. I have here met 
with our Vice President Col. Burr, with whom I spoke a little on 
the same subject. He assured me that he had long studied it, 
had conversed upon it with Toman and Talleyrand, in this 
Country, had his opinion irrevocably fixed upon it, but could not 
declare to me what that opinion was, except in presence of the 
President. So far for external politics. With respect to our 
internal affairs the President thinks himself sure of a Majority 
in both houses. With respect to changes he is less precipitate 
than many expected. I believe he does not mean to descend to 
the lower offices. I was happy to hear him speak in high terms 
of you, and can assure you his opinion of you is general in this 
Country. I am surprised at the conditions of Peace between 
England and France. For Heaven's sake let me know how it 
came to pass. 

I have the honor to be with high respect &c 

Sir, &c 

Lewis Littlepage. 
Endorsed by R. King 

" Ans'd Mar. 22nd. private ; (probably 1802) 
Subject generally state of Exped'n to Louisiana — in wh. Eng. 
will not interfere and concern'g wh. the public welfare must be 
promoted or risqued by our own Exertions or omission." 

Mr. King having asked for a conference with Lord 
Hav^fkesbury it took place on Nov. 25, iSoi.* 

I began by saying I had desired to see him chiefly with regard 
to the negotiation about the 6 & 7 articles ; stated my solicitude 
for its conclusion, and that I must present a note upon the subject 
in case it was not likely soon to be again taken into consid'n. 

He said the Chancellor was much engaged in his Court, but 
that he hoped soon to have an opportunity of conversing with 

* Memorandum Book. 

VOL. IV. — 2 

1 8 RUFUS KING. [1801 

him, &c ; and then repeated what Hammond had before men- 
tioned to me, that Lord Grenville said he had agreed to nothing 
wh. committed the Government, and moreover that the Commis- 
sion under the 7 art. going on was a circumstance wh. wd. natu- 
rally have an influence (which it had not had as Lord H. 
observed) in deciding upon the sum for wh. the 6 article shd. be 
commuted. 

I told his Lordship that I had drawn up a paper upon this sub- 
ject wh. was in the Chancellor's hands with a request that it shd. 
be sent to him, & that I felt persuaded that it w'd shew the 
business in its true light and prove that the discussion upon the 
6 art. proceeded upon the basis of that article's being commuted 
and the 7 article's being executed. 

I then enquired concerning the Expedition to San Domingo, 
preparing in the French Ports. Asked if it wd. proceed before 
the definitive Treaty ; if its object were approved by Eng. and 
whether Louisiana formed a part of it. 

He replied that an understanding existed with respect to the 
Expedition to St. Domingo ; intimated that the Expedition cd. 
not wait for the defin. Treaty. On the subject of Louisiana not 
a word had passed during or since the negotiation with France 
abo. Louisiana — he would not speak positively and what he did 
say was confidential, but he shd. rather conclude that no part of 
the Expedition now preparing was destined for Louisiana. Spain 
had certainly ceded Louisiana. But he did not exactly compre- 
hend the Territory included under that Term. 

I said by Louisiana without other words one wd. understand 
only lands west of the Mississippi ; but we apprehended the 
Floridas and New Orleans likewise to be ceded. We then turned 
to a map and I pointed out to L. H. the boundaries of Louisiana 
as I understood them making the Mississippi on the East and the 
River Norde on the West the limits. He asked where New 
Orleans was and I pointed it out to him, and also explained the 
ancient claim of the Limits of Louisiana and such as was ad- 
vanced before the 7 years' war — adding that the Treaty of Paris 
in 1762 gave the countries east of the Mississippi to England, 
leaving Louisiana solely on the west of that River. I then 
enlarged upon the value and importance of Louisiana to Fr., 
provided New Orleans & the Floridas were added. His Lord- 

l8oi] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 9 

ship seemed to have never considered the subject, and remarked 
that it must be a very long time before a country quite a wilder- 
ness could become of any considerable value. 

I observed that we saw the subject in a different light and were 
desirous that this region shd. remain in the quiet hands of Spain, 
and then asked if Spain shd. continue to desire it, as well as we, 
and we shd. employ such influence as we might have to engage 
France to relinquish the cession, whether England wd. cooperate 
at Amiens by using her influence in favour of the restoration of 
this country to Spain. Lord H. said he wd. give me no answer 
on that point, adding what he had before asserted that they had 
taken no notice of the cession & he would not think that it wd. 
soon become of importance. 

Speaking of the act of cession, he said that they had seen a 
copy of it & on my asking for a copy he said he wd. give it to me. 
(He sent me the copy of a Treaty between Fr. & Sp. of March 
1801, securing Tuscany to the Prince of Parma, and wh., re- 
ferring to the cession of Louisiana, confirms it.* 

* Traite signe i Madrid le 21 Mars 1801 par le Prince de la Paix et Lucien 
Bonaparte. 

The fifth Article of this Treaty reads thus : " Ce Traite etant en conse'quence 
de celui deja conclu entre Le Premier Consul et S. M. E. par le quel le Roi cede 
k la France la Possession de la Louisiane les Parties Contractantes conviennent 
d'effectuer le dit Traite et de s'arranger a I'egard de leurs Droits respectifs. " 

CHAPTER II. 

Dinner at Addington's — Otto and Talleyrand — Wilberforce on Slave Trade 
and on Pitt — Anecdote about Expedition to Egypt — Lord Molesworth in 
Denmark — King to Lord Pelham — Complaint against McDonough, Eng- 
lish Agent at Tripoli — Inciting War against the U. S. — Lord Pelham's 
Answer — His Conduct unauthorized — He is to be removed — King to 
Lord Hawkesbury — Presses for a Settlement of Negotiations — King to 
Secretary of State — Expeditions to St. Domingo — Otto to be Minister to 
the U. S. — King to R. R. Livingston — Congratulations on his Arrival 
at Paris — Troup to King — Depressing Effect of the Peace — Duel of Ham- 
ilton's Son — Anecdote of Talleyrand and La Foret — Gambling in English 
Stocks — Genet wrote his own Instructions — Sir William Parker instead of 
curbing, permitted Depredations by his Officers on American Commerce — 
King to Eaton — Presents to the Bey — King to Addington — Delays in Ne- 
gotiations— J. Q. Adams to King — The Peace will cause Inconvenience — 
King to Hamilton — Letter of Condolence — Sedgwick to King — Demo- 
cratic Influence increased in New England — Jefferson's Removals have 
not hurt his Influence — Rupture with England feared by Jefferson's 
Friends — They aim at the Destruction of the Judiciary — King to Lord 
Eldon — Presses for a Settlement of Negotiations. 

Nov. 27. 1801. 

Nov. 27. 1801.* Dined at Mr. Addington's with eight or ten 
individuals, his personal friends he called them ; Otto & myself 
the only strangers. In my morning ride I fell in with Mr. Addi- 
son ; we rode together and conversed on different subjects. . . . 
He said, speaking of Mr. Otto, what he had before told me that 
his conduct had been most excellent and correct ; for him and 
his colleagues to have acted with fairness in respect to the funds 
was precisely their duty : but Otto had not been precisely in the 
same situation, yet he was persuaded that he had abstained with 
as much discretion and as entirely as they themselves had. I 

* Memorandum Book. 
20 

l8oiJ LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 21 

observed that it was certainly very creditable to Otto, but that it 
had surprised me that Talleyrand had not made use of his knowl- 
edge to job in the Eng. funds. Without replying, Mr. Addington 
in a sort of ejaculation, said he was glad Lord Cornvvallis had left 
Paris for Amiens ; as he believed things wd. do better at a dis- 
tance from that Man ! (Talleyrand) 

One of two inferences may be made from these words — either 
that Talleyrand was not trusted by Bonaparte in the negotiation 
carried on by Otto in London and might not be in that to be 
entered upon at Amiens ; or that the ex-Bishop had already 
gained an influence over Lord Cornwallis. Sitting by Wilber- 
force at Dinner I glanced at the latter interpretation which I 
thought he assented to — and in a loose conversation with Ham- 
mond I perceived the same idea was admitted by him. But Otto 
some time since told me that certain of his dispatches were sent 
with unbroken seals to Bonaparte. 

Wilberforce told me that he had not much hopes, that the 
Article abolishing the Slave Trade would be inserted in the de- 
finitive Treaty. Lord Cornwallis knew & cared little about it, 
but wd. act fairly, whereas Malmesbury, knowing the King's opin- 
ion, like a mere courtier as he was, wd. be sure to defeat any 
hopes wh. might exist in its favour. Addington was well enough 
disposed, as well as others of his colleages, but Hawkesbury par- 
took of his Father's sentiments on this topic and he had fairly 
told him that so long as he entertained these principles he W. 
would never look upon him with the friendship he desired to do. 
Wilberforce seemed to think (in wh. I believe he is quite mistaken) 
that Bonaparte was disinclined or lukewarm, on account of his 
wife, who is a Creole ! 

MR. PITT. 

Wilberforce spoke in high terms of Mr. Pitt and especially with 
regard to his disinterestedness and support of the new Ministry — 
adding that before he went out of office, he sent for him W. and 
explained his intentions, as well in regard to his own resignation 
as the forming of one new Ministry, asking him what he thought 
of his project. W. replied that he approved of it and encouraged 
him to persevere. Pitt replied that he was glad to receive his 
approbation especially as others had told him the new min. wd. 

22 RUFUS KING. [l8oi 

not do, and desired him to counteract that opinion. Mr. P.^ 
said, Wilberforce, is the only one of the old ministry who wd. 
have made the Peace the new Ministry has done and he has acted 
nobly in supporting them. 

Speaking of the Expedition to Egypt he lamented that they had 
been so misled by Canning's foolish Book (referring to the 
Preface and Notes to Bonaparte's intercepted Letters). Had 
Menou been an able instead of a weak General, they shd. have 
been defeated & disgraced at Aboukir : and after all Providence 
had saved them, for poor Abercrombie (who was certainly brave 
and whose gallant death shd. cover all his errors) was most com- 
pletely surprised by the French in the morning in which he was 
mortally wounded ! 

Anecdote. 

Lord Molesworth, the Eng. Envoy in Denmark, wrote an acct. 
of that Country which unveiled the tyranny of its Government. 
Scheel, the Dan. Envoy in Eng., complained to King William of 
this Publication and demanded reparation &c. The King who 
was attached to Lord Molesworth evaded the complaint of Scheel 
who renewed his representation and added that for such like 
offense committed by the Dan. Envoy in England, his Dan. 
Majesty wd. cut off the offender's head and send it to the offen- 
der's ally. 

King William good humouredly expressed his acknowledgments 
and said that such were not the laws of England and that he wd. 
command Lord Molesworth to put in his book what were the 
laws of Denmark upon this subject. 

King to Lord Pelham. 

Great Cumberland Place, Nov. 28, 1801. 
My Lord : 

It seems not the least extraordinary of the wonderful things of 
the age in which we live, when reforms of almost every sort, and 
in every direction, have been aimed at, and powerful Leagues to 
effect them have been formed and dissolved on all sides, that no 
one has thought of a confederacy to repress the piratical practices 

l8oi] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 2$ 

of the States of Barbary, which, at the very doors of the great 
Nations of Europe, have for so many Centuries laid them with the 
rest of the commercial world, under Contribution. 

It is true Great Britain, on account of her naval superiority, 
feels this Evil but lightly ; but were it permitted to others to ex- 
press an opinion on this head, it might be said, that the reason 
why she does not feel it more heavily is precisely that which 
should free her, as well as the rest of the World, from feeling it 
at all. 

For these Reflections, I ought, however, to crave your Lord- 
ship's indulgence, though in Truth they are not altogether foreign 
to the particular object of this Letter, which serves to communi- 
cate to your Lordship the enclosed complaint against the British 
Agent residing at Tripoli. The Bey of Tripoli has lately declared 
War against the United States, which, in consequence thereof, 
have been compelled to send a squadron of Frigates into the 
Mediterranean to protect their Commerce and curb the cruisers 
of this Regency. 

Bryan McDonough, the British Agent at Tripoli, has, as we are 
informed, materially contributed by his misrepresentations and 
influence over the Bey, to engage him to make war upon the United 
States. In addition to the information derived from the American 
Consuls at Tripoli and Tunis, Commodore Dale, Commander of the 
American Ships in the Mediterranean, after particular inquiry 
confirms, in the fullest manner, the complaint against McDonough. 

It will naturally occur to your Lordship, that this complaint, 
from its nature, does not admit of exact Proof, since it is from 
various and connected circumstances only that we are enabled to 
satisfy ourselves, in cases of this sort, that our suspicions are well 
founded : in the present instance, however, although we cannot 
accompany the complaint against his Majesty's Agent at Tripoli, 
with such Proofs as would judicially establish his Guilt, it is my 
duty to state to your Lordship that the evidence of delinquency 
is such as to convince us that the war in which we are engaged 
with Tripoli has been excited by the false and unfriendly represen- 
tations of this agent, if not chiefly produced by his mischievous 
influence over the mind of the Bey. How far his malignant 
views may have been promoted by his abuse of his public charac- 
ter is matter of conjecture ; but there can be no doubt that his 

24 RUFUS KING. [1801 

influence, whatever it may have been, must have arisen principally 
from his official situation. 

Relying, as we do, upon his Majesty's friendship and Justice, 
I flatter myself that this complaint will meet with a ready and 
impartial consideration ; and that his Majesty will not only mani- 
fest his displeasure at this highly criminal and injurious Proceed- 
ing, but that he will moreover give explicit instructions to his 
Consuls and agents throughout the States of Barbary, to pursue 
for the future a conduct in respect to the United States and their 
affairs, conformable to the harmony and good understanding that 
so happily subsists between our respective Countries.* 

With the most perfect consideration &c &c 

RuFus King. 

Lord Pelham to R. King. 

Whitehall Dec, 5, 1801. 
Sir : 

I have received the honor of your Letter, dated 28th. ulto,, in- 
closing a Copy of one from Mr. William Eaton, Consul for the 
American States at Turin, to Mr. Magra, his Britannic Majesty's 
Consul General at the same place, in which the conduct of Mr. 
Bryan McDonough at Tripoli is stated as highly reprehensible. 

It is, I should hope, unnecessary to assure you that any con- 
duct observed by Mr. McDonough hostile to the interests of the 
American Government in the Barbary States is totally unauthor- 
ized, and that every possible disposition is felt by the British 
Government to preserve in every quarter that harmony and good 
understanding, which so happily subsists between it and the 
United States of America. 

Were Mr. McDonough likely to continue in his present station, 
the circumstances of the charges against him (although the 
authenticity of them rests merely on the assertion of Mr. Eaton) 
should certainly undergo a full investigation, but as he is almost 
immediately to be superseded, such investigation is unnecessary. 
Lest, however, from any accidental cause, his supercession should 
not take place as soon as it is intended, a Letter shall be imme- 
diately written to him, cautioning him against persisting in the 

* To this is appended a report from Com. R. Dale, stating the charges 
against B. McDonough. 

l8oi] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 2$ 

conduct he is charged with, and his successor shall be fully ap- 
prized of the friendly sentiments, entertained by the British 
Government towards the American States. 

I have the honor to be &c 

Pelham. 

R. King to Lord Hawkesbury. 

Private. 

Great Cumberland Place, Nov. 30, i8or. 
My Lord : 

If your Lordship will advert to the really unpleasant situation 
in which I am placed by the great and continued delay of the 
settlement concerning the 6th article of our Treaty, I am per- 
suaded you will be disposed to do justice to my encreased solici- 
tude upon the subject. Preserving always a due confidence in 
the assurances which have given me reason to expect a satisfac- 
tory conclusion of this affair, I have from month to month and 
from year to year (for it is near three years that the business has 
been depending) endeavored to satisfy my Government in respect 
to this unusual and inconvenient Delay. 

Having nothing to add, or to alter upon a subject we have so 
fully considered, and as I thought settled, I may without further 
apology, appeal to your Lordship's impartiality for my justifica- 
tion in claiming, as it is my duty to do, a final decision of this 
affair. The season of the year offers but few opportunities to 
America ; the regular mail for New York will be made up in the 
course of this week, and I am anxious to give to my Government 
positive and explicit information upon this subject. I will only 
add, that I shall be happy to be enabled to say, that the business 
is finally and satisfactorily closed. 

With perfect respect &c., &c, 

RuFUS King. 

26 RUFUS KING. [l8oi 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. 43. 
Sir: 

London Nov. 30 1801. 

It is understood that Lord Cornwallis will leave Paris for 
Amiens in the course of a day or two, and as soon as the Minis- 
ters of France, Spain, Portugal and Holland shall arrive there, 
that the negotiation of the definitive Treaty will be commenced. 
As the principal Points were settled in the Preliminaries, and 
those of inferior note have been since discussed at Paris, the pre- 
vailing opinion seems to be that not much time will be required 
to bring the negotiation to a conclusion. 

The expedition to St. Domingo has not yet sailed ; but as Eng- 
land has really a squadron of ten or twelve ships of the Line, 
which is to be sent immediately to the Jamaica station, it is sup- 
posed that the French Expedition will proceed as soon as it shall 
be ready and without waiting for the definitive Treaty. 

Mr. Otto has received notice that he will be sent as Minister 
Plenipotentiary to the United States, tho' in consequence of Mr. 
Jackson's appointment as Minister Plenipotentiary of England at 
Paris during the Congress at Amiens, Mr. Otto may receive a 
corresponding appointment here, so that neither he nor Mr. Jack- 
son, who will probably succeed Mr. Liston in America, will be at 
liberty to leave Europe before the spring. 

Nothing decisive has yet taken place respecting the 6th and 7th 
Articles of our Treaty with this Country ; I shall, however, be 
able to send you more explicit, and, I am willing to hope, more 
satisfactory information upon this subject, in the course of the 
next month. 

I have called Lord Hawkesbury's attention to the subject of 
the Trade between the English West Indies and our Ports, which, 
without timely regulations, may be liable to great embarrassment 
upon the return of Peace ; but he is at present so engaged, that I 
have not yet been able to bring the subject fairly under consider- 
ation : I shall resume at the first moment I perceive a favorable 
opening to do so. 

Notwithstanding the fine and abundant Harvests of this Coun- 
try, Corn continues to be dear and in the opinion of all judges 

l8oi] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 2/ 

will SO far maintain the high price that the ports will be open 
throughout the year. 

With perfect Respect & Esteem, &c., &c. 

RuFus King. 

R. King to Robert R. Livingston, &c., &c. 

London, Dec. 3, 1801. 
Dear Sir : 

The French papers having announced your arrival atL'Orient, 
in the early part of the last month, I conclude that you have be- 
fore this time reached Paris, and therefore avail myself of the 
earliest opportunity to offer you my cordial congratulations on 
your mission, and to express my earnest hope that its success may 
in every respect correspond with the favourable anticipations, in 
which the public, as well as all those who have the satisfaction of 
knowing you, have beforehand indulged themselves. 

The return of Peace will serve to render your residence in 
Europe more agreeable, not only by the good humour and polite- 
ness it may be expected to reestablish, but by relieving you from 
the endless detail of business, in which you would have unavoid- 
ably been engaged by a continuation of the war. 

The distance between us is so inconsiderable, that I promise 
myself the pleasure of frequently hearing of your welfare ; and 
Mrs. King, who unites with me in sincere regards to Mrs. Living- 
ston, likewise joins me in the offer of our services in any way in 
which they may be made useful to you or any part of your family. 

With great Respect & Esteem, &c., &c. 

RuFus King. 

R. Troup to R. King. 

New York, 5th December, i8oi. 
Dear Sir : 

. . . We received the account of peace between Great 
Britain and France in this city on the 20th ulto, via Boston. It 
instantly operated almost like the hand of death upon all busi- 
ness. I had two auctions on that day on hand at the Coffee 
House : one of Sir Wm. (Pulteney's) real property in this city ; 

28 RUFUS KING, [i8oi 

the other of lands in my hands as an executor of an insolvent 
estate. There were several other auctions depending. All was 
knocked up, instead of being knocked down ! Not a bid was 
given ; every thing was buzz and confusion in the Coffee House. 
Ships have fallen. Wheat, corn and flour have been constantly 
on the fall ! In short all business dull and nearly at a stand. I 
hear however, of no bankruptcies, and much serious mischief does 
not seem to be apprehended. . . . 

For twelve days past the city has been much agitated with a 
duel * between Hamilton's oldest son Philip and a Mr. Eacher — a 
brother lawyer of mine and a violent and bitter democrat. . . . 
Young Hamilton was mortally wounded and soon after died. 
Never did I see a man so completely overwhelmed with grief as 
Hamilton has been. The scene I was present at, when Mrs. 
Hamilton came to see her son on his deathbed (he died about a 
mile out of the city) and when she met her husband and son in 
one room, beggars all description ! Young Hamilton was very 
promising in genius and acquirements, and Hamilton formed high 
expectations of his future greatness ! ... At present Hamil- 
ton is more composed and is able again to attend to business ; 
but his countenance is strongly stamped with grief. Eacher has 
not since made his appearance at the bar. There is a general 
current of opinion agt. him, except amongst the violent demo- 
crats. Very truly yours, 

R. T. 

Talleyrand and La Foret. \ 

London, Dec. 7, 1801. 

Otto called upon me in the evening to mention that he had 
received credentials as Min. Plenip. to this Court, and to make 
inquiry respecting the mode of dress, presentation, &c. After 
going over this subject we talked of various others and among 
them I spoke of the reputation he had established by keeping his 
secret so well and not gambling in the Eng. funds during the 
negotiation, and then observed that tho' I understood him well 
enough and could account for his discretion, which was so very 

* See vol. iii., p. 33. \ Memorandum Book. 

l8oi] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 29 

commendable, I could not tell how Talleyrand & La Foret, 
especially the first, were kept back and restrained, for they must 
have known all that was doing. Otto made no scruples about 
Talleyrand's character and likewise admitted that La Foret was 
fond of money and liked speculation, &c. In America he was 
always engaged in little bargains and calculating. Indeed it must 
be owing to something of this sort that he had been sent to 
Munich as minister — a place noways equal to that he held in the 
Post office. But he was Talleyrand's man and agent and very 
likely had been engaged in some affair wh. made it expedient to 
send him away from Paris. As to the negotiation here it was 
curious, early at the time of the proposed armistice. The first 
proposition which he received from France to be made to the 
Brit. Govt, arrived at 3 o'clock p.m.; before 8 o'clock it was 
known in the City, or rather he knew it was there known as soon 
as 8 o'clock, and might have been sooner known, & the purport 
of it appeared in the Morning Post ; all this before he had made 
his communication to the Brit. Govt. In his very next dispatch. 
Otto said, he took notice of this circumstance, justified himself 
and expressed surprise how the intelligence should have got air. 
In a future stage of the discussion, the purport of an important 
dispatch was actually known on the Exchange of London and 
produced a rise of 2 per cent in the funds before he, Mr. Otto, 
received it. In his next dispatch to his Govt, he stated this ex- 
traordinary fact and protested against the injury to his own char- 
acter, wh. wd. immediately proceed from it. In reply he was told 
that there could have been no disclosure thro' any of the officers 
of the Bureau, as the dispatch was written by Mr. Talleyrand 
himself and not trusted to any of his Secretaries. After this 
complaint, Otto remarked, an attempt was immediately made and 
persisted in to take the business out of his hands, and that under- 
standing the motive, he had to employ the best means in his 
power to prevent the success of the intrigue. 

During the late negotiation the Parties were doubtless re- 
strained by the resistance they had before met with ! ! ! Otto 
said he had been offered a share in a concern by wh. Talleyrand 
was to gain ^200,000 Stg, himself ;£^ 100,000 Stg, and the English 
concurred, he knew not how much, but he had peremptorily 
refused. 

30 RUFUS KING, [1801 

Genet. 

Otto told me that Genet was the author of his own instructions, 
wh. he published in America ; being a favorite of Brissot, who 
with the Commee. of his day was engaged in a thousand affairs, 
he was desired to draw a sketch of his own Instructions, wh. were 
brought at a late hour of the day, read over with haste & signed. 
Besides Genet was a known Royalist and in all his conduct in 
America played a part ! ! ! 

Admiral Sir William Parker. 

This Admiral was sent to Halifax, as Lord Spencer told me, 
because he was believed to be a prudent officer and would curb 
the plundering spirit of the squadron stationed on our coast. 

Instead of his conduct corresponding with this character, he 
turned out to be an avaricious and disobedient Commander — and 
during his command increased, instead of curbing, the depreda- 
tion on American trade. Captain Pelew of the Cleopatra was one 
of the most vexatious of those under Parker's command. On ray 
complaint, Lord Spencer recalled Pelew, but Parker instead of 
obeying and sending him home, gave him leave to make a cruise 
after Spaniards in the West Indies and Gulf of Mexico, where he 
ran the Cleopatra ashore and was obliged to return to Halifax, 
where her repairs cost upwards of ^2^8, 000 Stg. 

Parker also under the pretence of sending seven or eight re- 
fractory soldiers who were condemned at Halifax to serve in the 
fields as convicts or slaves in Jamaica, sent the America, a 74, 
with them to the West Indies with orders to cruize for Spaniards 
in the Gulf of Florida, where she was lost. Parker for these in- 
stances of disobedience and for sending the America off her 
station, was lately brought to a Court Martial at Portsmouth and 
acquitted ; owing as Nepean told me 40 the base spirit of gain, 
with wh. the majority of the court was influenced— a spirit, said 
he, which has done us more mischief than can be imagined, wh. 
not only excited the resentment of for. and neutral States, but 
occasioned the Mutiny wh. well nigh ruined the Brit. Navy. 

The system of secrecy as to the votes of the members of a 
Court Martial must be done away with as it serves to protect 

l8oi] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 3 1 

base men and cover base principles. An Act of Parliament 
must be made for this purpose and Sir Wm. Scott had engaged to 
go into a thorough reform of the Prize Courts in order thro' them 
to check these depredations. 

R. King to William Eaton, Tunis. 

LoNDOxN, Dec. 10, 1 801. 
Sir: 

The Jewels for the Bey being finished, and Mr. Hargraves pur- 
posing to embark in an English Frigate, which sails in a day or 
two, for Algiers, I have concluded to send them to you by him, 
without waiting for the arms, which, though in great forwardness, 
will not be completed in less than two months. Randall & 
Bridge, the King's Jewellers, who have executed this commission, 
have assured me that the Jewels should be most carefully and 
securely packed, so that I hope you will receive them speedily, 
and in good condition ; the invoice of these articles you have 
enclosed. As soon as the arms are finished, they shall likewise 
be forwarded to you. The Cloths, as I have before advised you, 
have been shipped and will, I expect, reach you before Mr. 
Hargrave's arrival. 

The Cloths and Silks first sent, tho' unsuitable for the purpose 
for which they were purchased, may sell for sufficient to reimburse 
their cost and charge, especially as the silks were supplied at 
reduced prices. 

Mr. McDonough will no longer remain at Tripoli ; his succes- 
sor will be instructed to observe in respect to the United States 
and their affairs a conduct conformable to the good understand- 
ing and harmony subsisting between the United States and Great 
Britain. With great respect &c &c 

RuFus King. 

R. King to Mr. Addington. 

Private. 

Gr. Cumberland Place, Dec. 11, 1801. 
Dear Sir : 

Will you do me the favour to inform me whether the business, 
concerning which I have but too perseveringly resorted to you. 

32 RUFUS KING. [l8oi 

has yet been decided by the Cabinet ? The delays which have so 
long prevailed, are doubtless such as belong to, and are usual in 
affairs of this nature. Experience has taught me that I had 
formed erroneous estimates of these matters, and I am now con- 
vinced of what I suspect others have long since been, that I con- 
sulted my zeal rather than my prudence, when I was prevailed 
upon to engage in a service, for which every day of ray life shows 
me my own incapacity. I however console myself that a little 
more time and patience will bring me my relief. I entreat you, 
my dear Sir, to pardon these observations, which are by no means 
designed to draw from you the slightest notice of the occasion of 
them, but merely to excuse myself in your good opinion for the 
endless trouble that it has been my misfortune (for such I shall 
always think it) to give you. 

I am, Dr. Sir, your obliged & faithful Svt. 

R. K. 
Note. Ansd. There had been a decision of the Cabinet, which 
Lord Hawkesbury would communicate. 

J. Q. Adams to R. King. 

QuiNCY, II December, 1801. 
Dear Sir : 

Since I wrote you last, (13 October) I have been to the city of 
Washington, and brought home my wife and child — We have 
spent a fortnight here with my father, and in a few days expect to 
get settled in Boston. 

At New. York, on my return home, I first heard of the peace 
concluded between France and England, which was very unex- 
pected here, as it appears to have been, even in London. Its in- 
fluence upon our affairs public and private will no doubt be 
important and not in every respect favourable. Much partial 
inconvenience is to be foreseen ; but if the enterprise and in- 
dustry of our country is checked in one quarter, I believe it will 
soon make its way in another. The prices of goods have gener- 
ally fallen, and some unremunerative stagnation of commerce must 
ensue. Our merchants and ship-builders, however, anticipate a 
temporary advantage from the want of vessels in France, where 

l8oi] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 

33 

they hope to find a good market for many of their supernumerary 
ships. 

Our internal affairs continue to present an aspect of great tran- 
quillity. The Session of Congress must have commenced, but we 
have not yet received the President's speech. 

About a fortnight since, General Hamilton's eldest son was 
killed in a duel with a Mr. Backer. He is said to have been a 
young man of great promise.* 

Faithfully your's 

John Quincy Adams. 

The letter of condolence of Mr. King to his friend, Gen- 
eral Hamilton, written on January 12, 1802, is here given, 
though out of date. 

R. King to Hamilton. 

Both as a friend and a father I do most unfeignedly partici- 
pate and condole with you in the heavy affliction that has fallen 
upon your family. It would be altogether vain for me to have 
recourse to the usual topics of consolation. In so severe a 
calamity it must be sought for among the treasures of your own 
mind, which nature has so eminently endowed ; and after a while 
it will likewise be found in the promising branches of your 
family which remain, to recall to your remembrance as well as to 
console you for the loss you have suffered. 

With most faithful regard & attachment, &c. 

T. Sedgwick to R. King. 

Stockbridge, 14 December, 1801. 
My Dear Sir : 

. . . I am retired to private life and as yet I am rejoiced 

that I am so. The little prospect of benefit which I saw from 

any thing that I could do, the injury which my private concerns 

* In \hQ. Life of Hamilton, vol. vii., p. 499, an account of this duel, with the 
circumstances which led to it, is given. The young man was only nineteen 
years of age, but warmly interested in the political questions of the day, the 
discussion of which involved his father's name and character, and brought on 
the quarrel which resulted in his death. 

VOL. IV — 3 

34 RUFUS KING. [i8oi 

sustained by my absence, and the importance of my presence to 
the welfare of my family, at the same time afforded cogent motives, 
& justified, in my opinion, a conformity of conduct to them. 

I confess to you, my dear sir, that I have been disappointed in 
the effect produced in New England by the election of Mr. Jef- 
ferson. I did believe that his known hostility to the federal 
measures, which are essential to its prosperity, & not less so his 
enmity to those institutions which habit, and as I supposed prin- 
ciple had endeared to the people, would, at the same time, have 
checked the progress of democracy, lessened the number of its 
adherents, and infused into the well disposed a spirit of union 
among themselves, & of exertion against their adversaries ; but, 
instead of this, democratic influence has increased, as I believe, 
in every state. This, as I think, is owing, more than to any other 
cause, to the spirit of avarice, which has been fostered not only 
by the general course of public events, but by the measures of 
the government, and the addresses which have openly & con- 
stantly been made to this odious, degrading & sordid passion. 
Every puny prater who talks much of the interest of the people, 
the necessity of public economy, and the importance of calcu- 
lating every public measure on the principle of taking the least 
portion possible of " the fruits of labor from the mouth which 
earns it," is sure of an affectionate reception from the people. 
Even well meaning men, perceiving the effects of these delusive 
professions, have employed them, as instruments to acquire popu- 
larity. Hence every warm, and generous, and manly sentiment 
is stifled ; and hence national degradation on one hand, and the 
glory of our country^ on the other, have become unmeaning & 
unintelligible expressions. The decrease of public burdens is 
represented, as certain, from the election of Mr. J. 

There is another circumstance which is equally discouraging. 
The aristocracy of virtue is destroyed ; personal influence is at 
an end. No length nor degree of popular service, neither the 
most shining talents, nor the most and disinterested conduct, give 
anything like weight and authority to character. What means 
are there, then, of regaining power by the federalists ? When- 
ever the federal systems shall be broken, and the feebleness which 
must result from a complete relaxation shall be felt, the people 
may remember those men whose wise counsels have once saved 

l8oi] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 35 

them from ruin & again place the government in their hands. . . . 
But should the blunders & folly of the Philosophers consign them 
again to insignificance, how long will the federalists be able to 
defend themselves against those means which have been found 
sufficient for the destruction of their influence ? . . . 

I do not think that Mr. J n has lost any influence by his re- 
movals from office. There is nothing more mischievous & mon- 
strous than the principle, and it is avowed, on which this conduct 
rests. It is, palpably, rendering the aggregate of the emoluments 
of all the offices, holden at the pleasure of the president, a mass 
of electioneering corruption. And yet there is a wonderful tran- 
quillity prevailing on the avowal and practice of this conduct. 
There was a time when the resentment of the people of Connecti- 
cut would have been roused, almost to frenzy, by removing such 
men as Chester, Goodrich and Whittlesey, from important offices, 
to fill them with such as Thirley, Bishop and Wolcott, let the 
motive have been whatever it might ; but on this occasion, tho' a 
most detestable motive is declared, no great degree of sensibility 
seems to be excited among even good men ; and so far from 
ruining the President's influence, the number of Jacobin voters at 
the last congressional election, in that state, was greater than at 
any former election. 

Amidst all the unpleasing reflections which are presented to 
the mind there is one which, to me, affords consolation. You 
will not be removed. There is nothing, unless I am greatly de- 
ceived, that the leaders of that party, a certain little great man 
excepted, view with more horror than a rupture with G. Britain. 
Yet do they consider that dreaded event as not improbable. 
They will, therefore, avoid everything that may furnish evidence 
to charge them with an intention to produce it. They will not, 
therefore, remove a federalist from, to send a democrat to, the 
court of London. And I do most sincerely hope, tho' there is 
not on earth a man whom I more wish to see, that it may not be 
too disagreeable to you to continue there. 

But what will be the course of conduct which this administra- 
tion will pursue ? As I have told you heretofore it will be the 
object of Mr. Jefferson's ambition to reduce in practice the 
administration of this government to the principles of the con- 
federation. . . . 

2,6 RUFUS KING. [l8oi 

The revenue is so abundant that, even, should all our expenses 
be continued, it will probably be supposed that some of the most 
unpopular taxes may be repealed. Perhaps the salt duty will be 
considered as the most grateful sacrifice. . . . 

There is nothing which the party more anxiously wish than the 
destruction of the judicial arrangements made during the last 
session, because of the impediments which that throws in the way 
of their rapid progress to the ultimate goal of democratic reform. 
It is certain that a demolition of this system is contemplated by 
the President ; for the Secy, of state has written to the marshals 
or clerks of all the eastern districts, & I suppose of all the dis- 
tricts, to report to him, the number of actions which have been 
determined in those courts, & the number now depending — the 
object undoubtedly is to show how much money is paid for how 
little business. Yet it is said, with what truth I know not, that 
some of the party are of opinion that the Judges who are ap- 
pointed cannot be displaced by a repeal of the law. This, I 
believe, is certain that a repeal will not be attempted, unless it 
can be assured beforehand that a majority in both houses can be 
obtained, in favor of the measure. I am not, myself, satisfied 
that a repeal of the law would be unconstitutional, for that would 
imply that a rational reform of the judicial, under circumstances 
which might reasonably be expected, would be impracticable ; 
but I shall be happy if such doubts, however founded, shall pre- 
vent so inauspicious a procedure. . . . 

What will be the result of peace in Europe I know not — in 
this country the effect must have a considerable influence on 
almost all descriptions of persons. Except those whose depen- 
dence for support is on salaries, there will be a general decrease 
of the means of expense, and a consequent reduction of the prices 
of all property. How far this will create discontent, and what 
will be the direction of it, you can conjecture. 

I am ever sincerely yours. 

R. King to Lord Eldon. 

Great Cumbd. Place, Dec. 17, 1801. 
My Lord : 

I take the liberty to send you enclosed a Draught of the pro- 
posed convention as it was settled in our former Conferences 

l8oi] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 3/ 

with the addition of a new article founded upon the demand that 
the payments on your side should be made by Installments corre- 
sponding with those to be made in America. 

With perfect Respect &c. 

R. K. 

R. King to Lord Eldon. 

Great Cumbd. Place, Dec. 21, 1801. 
My Lord : 

I called in Downing Street today in hopes that Lord Hawkes- 
bury would be prepared to give me a definitive answer concerning 
the Draught of the Convention which by your Lordship's permis- 
sion I took the liberty to send you. But as he had not seen it he 
could say nothing upon the subject. Will you have the goodness 
to send the Draught to Lord Hawkesbury, with such alterations 
as you may think proper to make upon it. 

Being desirous to finish this affair before the interruption of 
the Holidays, I pray you to pardon the solicitude with which I 
pursue it. 

With great Respect & Esteem, &c., &c. 

RuFUS King. 

CHAPTER III. 

Hale to King — Comments despondingly on the President's Message — Ames 
to King — On the Message — Virginia to Control — The Peace will not calm 
Agitation in U. S, — King to Secretary of State — Vessels detained for 
breaking Blockade of Havre released by Executive Interference — Lord 
Dunmore's outrageous Conduct in Virginia — Conversation with Lord 
Hawkesbury — French Expedition to St. Domingo — Louisiana — French 
desire to colonize to get rid of perturbed Spirits — Bonaparte an extra« 
ordinary Character — King to Secretary of State — St. Croix Boundary — 
Prize Courts in the West Indies — Impressed Seamen — Peace has stopped 
Impressments — Outrages against Commerce continue — W. Pinkney's Con- 
gratulations on signing Convention relative to 6th and 7th Articles — Gore 
to King — On his Trials while negotiating — King — Signature of the Con- 
vention— King to Secretary of State — Sends the Convention — Mode of 
paying Claims — Maryland Bank Stock Claim soon to be settled — King to 
Madison — History of the Negotiation — Discouraging Delays — Looked only 
to his Duty — King to Secretary of State — Congress at Amiens probably 
result favorably to Peace — Mutiny in the Fleet for the W. Indies. 

The two following letters will show the views of leading 

Federalists inspired by the Message of President Jefferson 

to Congress, and are therefore full of interest, conveying, as 

they did to Mr. King, the gloomy forebodings that filled 

their minds as to the future of the country under its new 

rulers. 

Joseph Hale to R. King. 

Boston, Dec. 19, 1801. 
Dear Sir : 

We yesterday received the enclosed message. This mode of 
testifying his homage of respect to the National Legislature, the 
President has preferred to that which custom & habit had already 
sanctioned. Would to God ! that in this manner only his admin- 
istration were distinguished from that of his predecessors ! 

38 

l8oi] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 39 

The Genevan & American Philosophers you will find more bold 
in experiment than wise & intelligent as statesmen. In their 
visionary brains the amount of our revenue by import is calculated 
even to a cent for preceding years. Its surplus is to astonish the 
citizens. The armistice lately signed at London is to produce 
general & perpetual harmony between Nations. Our government 
is only to state its claims upon other nations to have them at once 
recognized & improved. The wild principles of uproar & misrule 
which have given elevation & political consequence to our exist- 
ing administration are philosophically speaking to produce tran- 
quillity & subordination in an inverse ratio to their tendency 
towards anarchy & confusion. Our nation is to derive conse- 
quence from being stript of every national attribute & from the 
sovereignty & independence of the several estates. Our National 
credit is to be supported by withdrawing the sources of revenue 
by which alone it can be maintained. The independence of our 
Judiciary is to be confirmed by being made wholly subservient to 
the will of the legislature & the caprice of Executive visions. 
The farmer at the toil of his ploughshare is to learn military tac- 
tics & when diking his meadows the principles of fortification. 
To crown all, a National character is to be derived from freely 
admitting to the rights of citizenship the " unhappy fugitives '* 
from law & justice of every other nation upon earth. Such is my 
brief comment upon the inclosed text. Gloomy apprehensions 
may have rendered me unfit to give an opinion upon the subject. 
Your knowledge & experience will, I hope for the welfare of our 
country, enable you to entertain more agreeable reflections than 
at this moment irresistibly impress my mind. As under adverse 
prospects we are inclined to seek consolation, so in the present 
instance I am disposed to repose with a degree of confidence on 
the habits & principles of New England & the virtue, intelligence, 
& patriotism of men of talents & influence throughout our coun- 
try. Their temperate, still voice may for a time be drowned in 
the clamours of democratic frenzy, but their energies must & will 
eventually impress & correct the public sentiment & acquire ad- 
ditional momentum from the unreasonable tho' natural checks & 
opposition of weak & unprincipled men. 

Your friend & obed servt. 

Joseph Hale. 

40 RUFUS KING. [1801 

F. Ames to R. King. 

December 20th, 1801. 

My dear Sir : 

The new President's speech is out, he calls it a message. This 
difference is pretended to be important to save time, money and 
ceremony. Is not this philosophy, dignity &c &c. The message 
announces the downfall of the late revision of the Judiciary ; 
economy, the patriotism of the shallow and the trick of the am- 
bitious— It proposes that Congress shall legislate in every case to 
the very rim and outside edge of its power — lest executive dis- 
cretion should take its place and usurp its powers. Therefore 
the items for appropriation are to be designated specifically. In- 
stead of laying down rules of conduct, Congress is to apply these 
rules in detail and is to be president, as to army, navy and taxes, 
the U. S. Gov't has little to do, and is to be dismantled like an 
old ship. For it is evident that the state gov'ts are to be ex- 
hibited as alone safe and salutary. Thus Congress is to do every- 
thing instead of the heads of departments. Committees instead 
of Cong. The sovereign people are to be excited to controul 
these and Virginia is to be as strong as the union is made weak. 

I am full of commentary on this ample text, but you will not 
need my help to make your own. Those who lean for support on 
one state, and on exciting the passions of the people to weaken 
every obstacle to the domination of that state, will understand 
their part. You will see a broad hint about the carrying Trade. 
Expect Madison's resolutions over again and the pretty plan of 
the Report on the privileges and restrictions of our Commerce. 

You will see perhaps by some of the Mass'tts papers that the 
Farmer, alias Atty General U. S., alias Lincoln is outrageously 
agt. the federalists and the whole body of the Clergy and 
denounces the wrath of The People unless they abstain from 
their evil ways. The peace (between France and England) will 
not calm the agitations of this country : its terms present France 
as an object both of terror & admiration. Unless Buonaparte 
shd. die, her exorbitant power will be consolidated so as to over- 
turn Europe first, then the World. But his life is precarious. I 
am surprised at the kind of admiration lavished by wise men on 
this adventurer ; allow him heroism — allow him genius — yet his 

l8oi] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 4 1 

admirers invest him with qualities which he has given little evi- 
dence that he possesses. Political sagacity is ascribed to him as 
if he excelled Pitt and Thugut and all the old statesmen of old 
Govts. The vis major requires very little of it, . . . I can- 
not conceive of a long duration of peace, when all that exists is 
prodigious and out of nature. Ambition sees no obstacles and 
it's victims can have no shelter. Is not Europe as much a prey 
as Italy was to Rome after the war with Pyrrhus ? Spain, Portu- 
gal, Holland and Italy are so many provinces of France. 

This state affords no matter of news. It is quiet, but soon to 
be agitated by the intrigues to bring in Gerry Governor. The 
National Egis, a paper at Worcester, is set up for that end. 
Lincoln is said to have formed, as well as promoted, the plan, but 
when there was a call for money, he was off. It is hoped by print- 
ing frothy nonsense in that county to revolutionize the state. 
What sense we have is no match for our prejudice and nonsense, 
and soon or late, the contest will turn against us. I omitted to 
say that the Farmer in his Egis modestly and consistently rails 
agt. the Palladium as a gazette that is supported by the Federalists, 
and the Clergy. 

Yrs &c 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. 45. 

London, Dec. 23, 1801. 
Sir : 

In consequence of a letter written by lord Hawkesbury to Sir 
John Nicholl, the King's Advocate, a copy of which is annexed, 
a sentence of restitution has been given by the High Court of 
Admiralty in favour of all the American Ships and Cargoes, de- 
tained on their passages to Havre de Grace, except the Ship 
Frederick and Cargo, of New York, whose Agents, contrary to 
my instructions, brought on her trial before the interference in 
her favour, which we had reason to expect on the part of this 
Government. As an appeal has been made in this case, perhaps 
the sentence of condemnation may be reversed in the Court of 
Appeals. 

These cases are not more remarkable on account of the Execu- 

42 RUFUS KING. [i8oi 

tive intervention, by which a restitution has been attained, than 
for the singular circumstance that the Claimants' best interests 
and wishes have been against their own success ; inasmuch as a 
recurrence to the insurance offices would have been a less loss 
than will now attend the adventures from the fall of markets in 
consequence of the Peace. 

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c 

RuFUS King. 

To His Majesty's Advocate General. 

Copy. 

Downing Street, November 23, 1801. 
Sir : 

Mr. King, the American Minister at this Court, having repre- 
sented to me that several American Vessels, destined for the Port 
of Havre, have been recently captured off that Port, and that the 
Owners of these Vessels and their Cargoes were from special cir- 
cumstances ignorant of the Blockade of the Port and of the 
notification thereof, at the period of their departure from the 
Ports of the United States, and of their respective captures ; I 
have it in command to desire you to signify to the Judge of the 
High Court of Admiralty, that considering the ignorance of the 
Blockade of Havre de Grace (notwithstanding the notification 
thereof) under which the American Vessels lately taken, were 
going to that Port, and the special circumstances which have 
occasioned such ignorance ; and considering also the communi- 
cations which had passed upon the subject between Mr. King, 
the Minister of the United States and his Majesty's Servants 
previous to the capture of those Vessels, it is his Majesty's 
pleasure that all the Rights and Interests which may belong to 
him in such captured Vessels and their Cargoes shall be given up 
and released, and that the proprietors thereof, who were really so 
ignorant of the Blockade shall be relieved as far as by law they 
may from any penalties to which their property would otherwise 
be exposed on account of its being destined to a Blockaded 
Port. 

I have the honour to be &c 

Hawkesbury. 

i8oi] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 43 

Lord Dunmore.* 

Sir Andrew J. Hammond, who commanded the naval force on 
board of wh. Lord Dunmore, with Gov. Eden of Maryland, took 
refuge told me that not 4 Genn. of the Country joined Lord 
Dunmore, indeed he said he remembered none but Warmely ; 
that the negroes carried off were about 700 ; that those who 
adhered to Lord Dunmore were chiefly Scotchmen from the 
shores of Virginia. When he left the Chesapeake on Sir Wm. 
and Lord Howe's arrival at N. York, he had near 150 transports 
with Lord Dunmore and his adherents on board ; that Dunmore 
wished to have burned and destroyed the country ; that he re- 
sisted it and proposed to him the plan to leave the Chesapeake 
and to send his Lps. adherents to St. Augustine, Bermudas & 
Halifax, wh. he did. 

That owing to the attacks of the Provincials he cd. not water 
the Transports and was obliged to go up the Potomac with all the 
empty casks he cd. collect to take in fresh water. It was on this 
expedition, which was solely for water, that Dunmore wanted to 
land and burn Brent or Brett's house on the Potomac. This he, 
Hammond, resisted till the Provincials assembled on the shore 
and fired upon & wounded two or three of his men and killed one 
as they passed in their boats from ship to ship. Dunmore then 
renewed the proposal of landing, to wh. he consented, & Lord 
Dunmore landed with about 1000 men, drove the Provincials 
killing 18 or 20, burned Brent or Brett's house, &c, and laid 
waste the country for five miles round, reembarking in the evg. 
with a trifling loss. In the night a boat came to them from 
Alexandria, offering to pilot them and serve as guides to burn 
Alexandria & Gen. Washington's house. Dunmore was eager to 
embark at 12 o'clock that night ; he opposed, said the burning of 
houses & towns wd. not serve to reconcile America & Engd., and 
to Dunmore's great mortification informed him that so far from 
permitting the expedition agt. Alexandria, he wd. the next morn- 
ing weigh anchor and return down the Chesapeake, wh, he said 
he did tho' not more than | of the water casks had been filled. 

Afterwards he said that Genl. Washington whom he knew per- 
sonally & had before passed a week or more with him at Mount 
Vernon, sent his Aid de Camp Hamilton to thank him for his 
forbearance and moderation when near Alexandria. 

* Memorandum Book. 

44 

RUFUS KING. [1801 

Hawkesbury.* 

Dec. 26, i8or. 

Called on Ld. Hawkesbury and delivered to him the draught of 
a Convention including the articles before settled concerning the 
6th. Article of the Treaty of 1794, & an addl. one respecting the 
Commission under the 7th. Article. I had before sent him this 
last article, but now delivered the entire draught. He said he 
wd. take the earliest opportunity to see Ld. Eldon, and on my 
explaining the objections to the awards being paid into the Bank 
&c., as had been proposed, he appeared to acquiesce and approve 
the modification I had suggested. 

The conversation took a turn towards general politics. He 
asked my opinion of the success of the Fr. Exp. to St. Domingo, 
wh. gave me an opportunity to speak of the force sent ; wh. he 
said they were told by the Fr. Govt, would be 15 ships of the line 
and 20,000 troops. I said the best hopes of success were placed 
in managing Toussaint, who was ignorant, superstitious and as 
far as one cd. judge a suitable character for the experiment ; un- 
less the Fr. went this way to work they wd. fail, &c. Lord H. 
said that there were difft. opinions among their best informed 
men ; Maitland & he believed a majority of opinions inclined to 
this conclusion. 

He asked me if I had heard any thing farther from Paris re- 
specting Louisiana. — I answered in the negative, except that I 
had heard the Govt, had been offered to Massena at the same 
time that the Embassy to Petersburgh and Constantinople were 
offered to him. 

Ld. H. said that the French wd. make great exertions to im- 
prove & extend their colonies ; that during the negotiations 
they always insisted upon the necessity of their having extensive 
colonies at the close of the war, as Eng. had at the close of her 
civil war ; and whither they might send their perturbed spirits, 
&c. Lannes had been sent to Portugal, Macdonald to Copen- 
hagen and doubtless Massena wd. be persuaded to go to Con- 
stantinople, &c. Ld. H. then enquired if I thought Otto wd. 
remain here, adding if Bonaparte was sincere for peace, &c., it 
wd. be the best proof he cd. give to leave Otto here. Besides 

* Memorandum Book, 

l8oi] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 45 

London wd, not be a proper place to send Massena or any others 
of wh. he may be jealous, as from its proximity it wd. be convenient 
to carry on, and with the utmost safety, any conspiracy agt. him. 
It was impossible to say what the situation of France is to be ; 
whether the old family would be restored or a new dynasty estab- 
lished. Bonaparte was as strong and as well prepared as he or 
any one could be. St. Cloud which was repairing was one of the 
strongest military posts about Paris. All Europe at present held 
the same language ; all are rejoiced at peace ; it is popular every- 
where and the minds of men in every Cabinet and State, fatigued 
with the cares and efforts of war, are anxious for repose, so that 
from without Bonaparte has nothing to apprehend. . . . 

Bonaparte was certainly an extraordinary character ; he has 
satisfied his ambition as a warrior, and was now aiming at repu- 
tation as a statesman. His views were turned to commerce, 
manufactures, finance &c ; success in these pursuits peace. At 
present he has great difficulties on acct. of the state of credit, 
public and private ; and his most pressing labour must be to 
overcome these difficulties ; they certainly were formidable and 
one must wait to see the effect of his plans. 

William Pinkney to R. King. 

Bath, Jany 9, 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

I have had the pleasure to receive your letter of yesterday and 
have communicated the gratifying intelligence contained in it to 
Mr. Trumbull. 

I offer you my sincere congratulations on the successful close 
of the business, the whole course of which must have been to 
you a trial of patience,* for which nothing but the actual issue 
could compensate. 

* Mr. Gore, who was in Paris awaiting the decision as to the reassembling of 
the Commission under the 7th Article, had written to Mr. King, Oct. 15, 1801. 
I have known too intimately the trials which your patience has experienced in 
this unnecessarily protracted negotiation, and your repeated sacrifice of per- 
sonal feeling to public duty, not to appreciate the weight of this new disap- 
pointment, the more aggravated as it could not have been suspected by the 
most jealous distrust. Should the business fail now, it will display such a 
character in one party as to leave no doubts in the other of its future conduct, 
& of the relation, which the two countries must ever bear to each other. 

46 RUFUS KING. [180 1 

As it is stipulated that the Commission under the 7th Article 
is to recommence immediately, I presume that it will be proper 
that the absent members of the Board shd. repair with as little 
delay as possible to London. My own wish, indeed, wd, have 
been to remain here a few weeks longer for the benefit of the 
waters. 

Will you allow me to enquire whether it has been found practi- 
cable to introduce into the Convention a clause relative to the 

Bank Stock ? 

With unfeigned Esteem. 

Wm Pinkney. 

January (probably 8th) 1802. 

* Ld. Hawkesbury, having notified Mr. King that the 
draught of the Convention, having been agreed upon, shd. 
be engrossed and ready for signature the next day, he de- 
sired him to meet him then at his office for the purpose of 
signature. Mr. King says : 

On my arrival at the hour assigned, Mr. Hammond desired me 
to go into the room of Mr. Rolliston, the first Clerk, who had 
prepared two copies, & Lord Hawkesbury being engaged, I 
collated the copies with Mr. Rolliston, who put Lord Hawkes- 
bury's & my seals to them. As he was about to affix the seals I 
asked him if he had received any instructions how to place them, 
he answered no, but that they should be placed on a line. I ac- 
quiesced and the seals were so placed. Mr. Hammond then joined 
us and we went into Lord Hawkesbury's room, where we signed 
in the presence of Hammond, his Lordship signing first. I then 
mentioned that it was of no consequence, but I was not sure that 
the signatures and seals had not, as on former occasions, been 
one above the other & not on a line. Hammond immediately 
turned to the Treaty of 1794 and found that such had been the 
mode of execn. Lord Hawkesbury did not appear to think the 
difference of consequence, & I immediately said it was an affair 
of no importance — as between us and them there cd. be no dis- 
pute about questions of this sort, any interference of Pretensions 

* Memorandum Book. 

l8oi] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 47 

wd. doubtless relate to more interesting concerns. Lord Hawkes- 
bury treated the subject as of no significance — and the third and 
fourth copies, which were not signed until two or three days 
afterwards, were executed in like manner as the first. 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. 48. 

London January 9, 1802. 
Sir: 

At length I am able to send you a Convention which I yester- 
day signed with Lord Hawkesbury, respecting the 6th & 7th 
Articles of our Treaty of 1794. The Commutation of the 6th 
article of the Treaty of 1794, and the confirmation so far as it 
respects the future operation of the 4th Article of the Treaty of 
Peace remain as they were settled in October last : and I have 
nothing to add to my former reports upon these Points. The 
Claim upon us to consent to a commutation of the 7th Article 
has been given up, and it is agreed that the Commissioners shall 
reassemble and proceed in the execution of their duties, accord- 
ing to the provisions of the Article, except only that instead of 
their demands being made payable at such times as they should 
appoint, the same shall be payable in three equal instalments, 
corresponding with those to be paid in America. 

As our Claims are to be ascertained by the Board of Commis- 
sioners, which has heretofore added interest up to the day on 
which its awards were made payable, and which is at liberty to 
do so in respect to their future awards, the payment by instal- 
ment's may not be thought a material disadvantage, the main 
point, that of ascertaining the amount of our claims being satisfac- 
tory secured. Having already burdened my correspondence 
with pieces and reports upon these Subjects, which I fear have 
been thought both tedious and uninteresting, I do not add, by 
way of supplement, a particular account of what has passed since 
the date of my No. 40, especially as the discussion has related 
solely to the Commission in London, the agreement respecting 
which is too explicit to stand in need of explanation. 

48 RUFUS KING. [1801 

Two Copies of the Convention have been executed, one of 
which will be enclosed with the original of this Letter ; two more 
copies are preparing and will in like manner be executed as 
originals, and endorsed with the Duplicate and Triplicate hereof. 
I shall likewise send you copies of Lord Hawkesbury's full 
powers as soon as they can be prepared ; those which I made 
use of are dated June 10, 1796. 

Lord Hawkesbury has agreed to send a copy of the third, 
article of the Convention to the British Commissioners ; in like 
manner, I shall send a copy of it to the American Commissioners ; 
and as they are all upon the spot, they will be at liberty to resume 
their business without farther delay. It will perhaps be thought 
most convenient that the Ratifications should be exchanged here. 

The Lord Chancellor has assured me that the Maryland Claim 
shall speedily be decided in his Court ; a measure, it seems, 
deemed necessary to enable the Crown to signify its pleasure 
respecting the Bank Stock. Although the disappointments we 
have met with on this Subject must weaken our confidence in the 
course we have been pursuing, I think it would be impolitic at 
present to change it ; the claim, which in my conviction is most 
just, shall continue to receive my unremitting attention. 

With Perfect Respect & Esteem &c. 

RuFus King. 

R. King to James Madison, Esq. 

Private. 

London January ir, 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

Although for the reason suggested in my official correspondence 
I have omitted to send you an account of what passed respecting 
the Viand VII Articles of the Treaty of 1794, subsequent to Mr. 
Dawson's departure, I have on reflection thought it might be satis- 
factory and perhaps useful that I should in this way supply the 
omission. 

Lord Grenville on being consulted by Lord Hawkesbury having 
given an explicit opinion that he had in no respect pledged the 
Government concerning the settlement of the 6th & 7th Articles 
of the Treaty of 1794, and that the execution of the latter article 

i8o2] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 49 

according to its provisions would be a measure which ought to 
have a material influence on the ascertainment of the sum to be 
accepted for the abolition of the former, I prepared and sent to 
Mr. Addington a concise view of the origin, progress and present 
situation of the Negotiation, corresponding with a more detailed 
Statement which I likewise sent to the Lord Chancellor, and a 
copy of which is annexed. Special considerations induced me to 
prefer this manner of making the representation, to one that 
would have been more regular, and which I remained at liberty 
to make, should circumstances require it. In subsequent con- 
versations with Mr. Addington, I had reason to be satisfied with 
the steps I had taken ; for he told me that he saw the subject in 
its true light and was ready to admit that to those who were 
ignorant of personal characters, the objection if persisted in, 
would unavoidably have the appearance of a mere expedient. To 
him as well as Lord Hawkesbury I took pains to explain the 
mutual advantages of a friendly settlement, and the impossibility 
that I could consent to change the footing upon which the ques- 
tion was now placed. 

The business remained in this situation until the middle of 
December, when Lord Hawkesbury informed me that having 
again been considered by the Cabinet, it had been decided to 
close the affair of the Convention upon the Terms which had 
already been settled, and to agree that the Commissioners under 
the 7th Article should proceed, provided their awards instead of 
being payable as they should appoint should be payable by 
instalments corresponding with those to be paid in America ; and 
the money deposited in the Bank of England, to be applied on 
account of the American instalments, which, to an equal amount, 
should be converted into a fund to satisfy the awards in favor of 
American claimants. 

After taking time to consider this communication, it appeared 
to me to offer the means of bringing the business to a conclusion ; 
taken together it amounted to this proposition, that they would 
accept ;^6oo,ooo payable by instalments in lieu of the 6th Article, 
in the execution of which they had a majority of voices, and con- 
sent to the execution of the 7th Article according to its Pro- 
visions, in which we have a majority of voices ; provided the 
payments to be made by them should be at the same time as 

VOL. IV — 4 

50 J^UFUS KING, [1802 

those to be made by us. The two Commissions having been 
considered as reciprocal checks upon each other in the hands of 
the respective Governments, the converse of this arrangement 
will test its merits and determine whether we ought to have re- 
jected it. I thought not ; but disliked the mode in which the 
end aimed at was to be attained, and therefore prepared an article 
which, by making the awards payable by instalments to the 
Claimants, should attain the same end in a more convenient 
manner. The sum of the awards would be greater or less than 
;£6oo,ooo ; for it was not likely to be precisely that sum ; if less, 
a balance must still be remitted from America ; if more, in every 
instalment of every award, the American Claimant would have to 
receive part of his instalment in America and the balance in 
England. Besides the trouble of the accounts which must be 
kept upon this plan, it would create considerable inconvenience, 
and perhaps injustice ; for all the American Claimants had been 
called upon to execute Powers of Attorney and appoint Agents to 
conduct their claims in England, and with much trouble and some 
expence had complied with this demand. These Claimants, in 
some cases, had deceased ; in others, become insolvent ; and in 
not a few instances (including perhaps cases of insolvency) having 
anticipated the awards in their favour, had authorized their attor- 
nies to reimburse their advances out of the monies which might 
come into their hands from the awards ; besides the plan con- 
tained no provision in respect to awards in favour of British 
subjects. 

Upon stating these objections to the Lord Chancellor, he ex- 
pressed his preference of the article which I had prepared, and 
which was finally adopted. Another objection, which it was not 
necessary for me to mention to the Chancellor, had its influence 
upon my mind ; I mean the appearance which this arrangement 
would have produced, that the two countries had mutually re- 
leased each other and had agreed to pay their own Sufferers, an 
appearance that might have encouraged the Sufferers by French 
Depredations to call upon Congress to indemnify their losses. 
What Congress would be inclined to do upon such application it 
is in every respect unfit for me to conjecture ; tho* in forming a 
contract in behalf of the public, it was my duty to take care that 
its deliberations should not be embarrassed by even the appear- 
ance of a Precedent, should the supposed case arise. 

l8o2] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 5 1 

I take the liberty of adding a word or two to my former com- 
munications concerning the II. Article. What is to be deemed a 
bona fide Debt, in the sense of the last clause of that Article, will 
not depend upon a reference to what was once so, but is a judicial 
question within the competence of our Tribunals to determine, 
and which must consequently be decided by those general and 
acknowledged Principles, by which the Decisions are in similar 
cases uniformly governed. If I be not mistaken, it is here under- 
stood and expected that the affairs of the old Debts is finally 
settled as between the two Governments, and with that share of 
Prudence which it behooves the Tribunals of every country to 
observe in questions affected by national stipulations, I am per- 
suaded that we shall hear no more of them. 

Having for many years thought the settlement now accom- 
plished to be a measure of national importance, and one that had, 
in some degree, become indispensable to do away prejudices that 
interested and disappointed men had raised against our public 
faith, I may, I hope, be permitted, in a private letter to you, to 
observe that I have pursued this negotiation with zeal and per- 
severance, notwithstanding the mass of misrepresentation, preju- 
dice and error with which it has been encumbered. I have done 
so in circumstances often discouraging and sometimes apparently 
desperate ; cheering myself always with these reflections, which I 
have somewhere met with, that it is the duty of every one en- 
trusted with what concerns the welfare of his country, in the 
midst of Despair to perform all the offices of Hope. How far 
what is done has been well done remains to be determined. If 
the President and Senate approve, I shall have nothing to regret. 
With sincere regard and esteem &c. &c. 

RuFus King. 

Mr. King, having finally accomplished the work which he 
had so sedulously sought, under so many difificulties and dis- 
couragements, to bring to an end, naturally closes his private 
letter to Mr. Madison with a reference to these difificulties, in 
the overcoming of which he had been so patient and had been 
encouraged by a deep sense of duty. Those who have fol- 
lowed the correspondence on the subject will see how ably, 
clearly, and yet courteously, Mr. King met and finally over- 

52 RUFUS KING. [1802 

came the studied delays interposed by the British Ministers, 
and the frivolous pretexts for postponing action. It cannot 
be doubted that the personal respect in which he was held 
contributed largely in bringing about the result. 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. 49. 

London, Jan. 12, 1802. 
Sir: 

. . . There is reason to believe the business of the definitive 
Treaty is going on in a conciliatory way, and as soon as the 
variety of inferior points, brought forward by the Parties to the 
Preliminaries, shall have been discussed and decided, that the 
definitive Treaty will be completed. The consent of this Govern- 
ment to the sailing of the French expedition to St. Domingo is 
in itself a measure of such importance, as can leave no doubt of 
its opinion respecting the issue of the Congress at Amiens. 

It is true that an English squadron of equal force to that of 
France was to have proceeded to the West Indies about the same 
time, that the French squadron sailed, and that it was prevented 
only by a Mutiny of the crews of several of the ships, which had 
been ordered upon the Service. This Squadron which had been 
collected upon the Western coast of Ireland, has returned to 
Portsmouth, where a Court Martial is now sitting for the trial of 
the Ringleaders of the Mutiny. These to the number of ten or 
twelve will probably suffer ; after which the Squadron will pro- 
ceed to Jamaica whither a number of other ships have been sent 
in consequence of the Mutiny, and which will be relieved upon 
the arrival of those originally destined for that Station. The 
Mutiny is said to have arisen from an aversion to the West Indies, 
as an unhealthy service, joined to the desire of being paid off and 
discharged at the end of the war. It is somewhat remarkable 
that the Ringleaders in the revolt are all Englishmen, a distinc- 
tion that in the former Mutinies, belonged as exclusively to the 
Irish. . . . 

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c. 

RuFus King. 

CHAPTER IV. 

King to Madison — Asks Permission to travel on the Continent — King to J. 
Adams — Sending a Copy of the Convention just signed — King to Marshall 
— Explanation of the Convention — King to Secretary of State — Cession of 
Louisiana — Lord Hawkesbury's Views — King to R. R. Livingston — Cession 
of Louisiana — Not to be referred to at Amiens — Great Britain does not 
wish it — King suggests a temperate Statement against it with France — 
J. Q. Adams to King — Discussion of the President's Message — Treasury 
Report pleasing — Probable Action of the Administration — Aim for Popu- 
larity— King to Secretary of State — Conference with Lord Hawkesbury 
relative to the Footing of our Navigation on Return of Peace — To discon- 
tinue countervailing Duties — Harmony of England and continental mari- 
time Nations will not be re-established by the Peace — King to Lord 
Hawkesbury — Expediency of abolishing alien tonnage Duty — King to 
Secretary of State — Treaty not yet signed — Fleet from Brest not yet sailed 
for St. Domingo — Sweden acceded to Convention of Petersburg — Proba- 
ble Change of Ministry unfounded — Madison to King — Appointment of 
G. W. Ewing as Consul — King to Parker — Sending his Son James to 
School at Paris, 

R. King to James Madison. 

Private. 

London, January 12, 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

From the month of May till September or October, including 
what is here called the long vacation, very little business can be 
done in London, it being the custom of almost all official char- 
acters to pass the Summer in the Country and to visit London as 
seldom as they can. 

I am not aware that anything very pressing will in the course 
of the Summer, especially if the Peace be definitely settled, be 
likely to require my Services ; and I should like, if I could do so 
without interfering with my official duties, to employ the time in 
seeing a little of France and some parts of the neighbouring 

53 

54 RUFUS KING. [1802 

Countries. This I should not think of doing, if my visit to Wash- 
ington shall be thought advantageous nor in any event without 
the permission of the President. 

With Sincere Esteem, &c. 

RuFus King. 

R. King to His Excellency John Adams. 

London, January 12, 1802. 
Sir: 

I have the honour to send you enclosed the copy of a Conven- 
tion which I have signed with Lord Hawkesbury concerning 
the 6th & 7th Articles of the Treaty of 1794. As the discussions 
which have led to this result were begun and conducted under 
your instructions, I feel it to be my Duty, as well as a mark of 
Respect that is due to you, to send you this Copy by the same 
opportunity that I avail myself of to transmit the original to the 
Department of State. 

No one knows more thoroughly than you do the source of those 
Difficulties, often discouraging, & sometimes disgusting, which 
continue to encumber our negotiations with this Government ; 
the affair of the Debts of all others was the most likely to revive 
feelings and prejudices not yet extinguished, and which have been 
suffered to do so much real disservice to both Countries ; I have 
notwithstanding persevered and waded through — whether meri- 
toriously or otherwise, is a question that I must refer to those 
whose Province it is to decide. 

With entire respect and the most sincere attachment &c. 

RuFus King. 

R. King to Chief-Justice Marshall. 

Private. 

London, Jany. 12, 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

It was more than six months after you left the Department of 
State before I received your last official letter, which was accom- 
panied by a private one of nearly the same date. I ought sooner 
to have acknowledged its receipt but I have been waiting in hopes 
that I should be enabled to inform you, which I have now the 

l8o2] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 55 

satisfaction of doing, that the difficulties respecting the execution 
of the 6th & 7th Articles of the Treaty of 1794 had been settled. 
I have signed a Convention with Lord Hawkesbury by which 
England agrees to accept ;£" 600,000 payable in three equal instal- 
ments of one, two and three years next after the date of the Ex- 
change of Ratifications, in satisfaction of her claims under the 
6th Article, which is abolished ; and moreover consents that the 
Commissioners under the 7th Article shall immediately reassemble 
and proceed in the discharge of their duties according to the 
Provisions of the Article, excepting that instead of the awards 
being made payable at such times as they might appoint, the same 
shall be payable in three equal instalments corresponding with 
those to be paid by the U. S. The Second Art. of the Conven- 
tion is in these words, ^'Whereas it is agreed by the 4th Article of 
the definitive Treaty of Peace, concluded at Paris on the 3d day 
of September, 1783, between his B. M. and the U. S. that 
creditors on either side should meet with no lawful impediments 
to the recovery of the full value in Sterling money of all 
bonafide Debts theretofore contracted, it is hereby declared that 
the said 4th Article, so far as it respects its future operation, is 
hereby recognized, confirmed and declared to be binding and 
obligatory on his B. M. & the said U. S., and the same shall be 
accordingly observed with punctuality and good faith, and so as 
that the said Creditors shall hereafter meet with no lawful impedi- 
ment to the recovery of the full value in Sterling money of their 
bonafide Debts." 

This Article was inserted for the purpose of enabling the Eng- 
lish minister to meet the complaints of the creditors against the 
sum we are to pay, by referring them to their judicial remedies. 
We could have no objection to it, provided it was so drawn up as 
not to enlarge the legal operation of the Article it recognizes. 
Upon this point I have no doubt. It confirms the future opera- 
tion of the 4th Article, or in other words, limits its operation to 
what is now a legal subject for it to operate upon ; what is now a 
bona fide Debt, that is what is a legal subject, will not depend 
upon a reference to what once might have been so, but is a ques- 
tion of judicial competence, and must consequently be decided 
by those general and acknowledged Principles by which similar 
cases are decided. Here it is understood and expected that the 

56 RUFUS KING. [1802 

affair of the Debts is finally settled as between the two Govern- 
ments ; and with that share of Prudence which the Tribunals of 
every country are disposed to observe in questions affected by 
National stipulations, I am persuaded we shall hear no more of 
them. Being pressed for time to complete my official Dispatches 
in season for the Packet, I will only add to this hasty communi- 
cation the assurance of sincere regard & respect, with which 

&c., 

RuFus King. 

P.S. I have sent to the S. of S. a full and exact report of 
every material occurrence which happened in the course of a 
difficult and tedious discussion respecting this settlement. 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. 50. 

London, Jan. 15, i3o2. 
Sir : 

I have before mentioned to you that the cession of Louisiana 
(of which it seems to me, we can have doubt, notwithstanding 
what may be said to amuse us) was not once a topic of Enquiry 
or discussion in the negotiation of the Preliminaries ; and for the 
same reason that it was not heard of on that occasion Lord 
Hawkesbury has * recently informed me that it had not been and 
could not be mentioned at Amiens. It is impossible for me to 
suspect collusion in this aft'air and my persuasion, after the most 
careful attention, is that England abstains from mixing herself 
in it, precisely from those considerations which have led her to 
acquiesce in others of great importance to the Balance of Europe, 
as well as her own repose, and upon which she has been altogether 
silent. 

The expedition to St. Domingo did not sail without previous 
explanations between London and Paris ; its destination was 
understood to be exclusively to that colony ; at present it is 
conjectured should the situation of St. Domingo not require the 
whole force, that a part of it will be sent to take possession of 
New Orleans. 

* Italics in cipher. 

l8o2] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 5/ 

I have sent to Mr. Livingston a Copy of the Paper enclosed in 
my No. 42.,* and shall give to him whatever information upon 
this and other interesting subjects it may be in my power to do. 

As the object and words of the 2nd Article of the Convention 

will be sought for and examined with care and attention, it occurs 

to me upon the revision of my former communications to suggest 

a single observation in addition to those heretofore made. If the 

second article of the Convention had been entirely omitted, the 

4th Article of the Treaty of Peace would have remained in full 

force and operation ; the adoption of the second article of the 

Convention limits its force and operation in respect to subjects 

upon which it once might have so operated, but upon which from 

various causes it can and ought not in future to operate ; this 

reflection pursued in its detail will place the article in its true 

light. 

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c. 

RuFus King. 

R. King to R. R. Livingston. 

London, Jan. 16, 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

If you have received my letter of the 5 th, the enclosure, the 
authenticity whereof I have no reason to doubt, will cast some 
light upon the subject of your last. During the negotiation of 
the Preliminaries, I conversed again and again with the Prime 
Minister and Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs concerning 
the cession of Louisiana^ who f assured me that the measure was in 
their view of much importance, and one which they could not see 
but with great concern ; nevertheless that they were unable to 
interfere respecting it, for the same reason which compelled them 
to silence concerning other important objects, affecting the equi- 

* Vol. iv., p. 15. The Copy of the Paper referred to was in some way 
omitted on page 15. The 5th article of that Treaty is in these words : 

" Ce Traite etant en consequence de celui deja conclu entre Le Premier 
Consul et S. M. E. par lequel Le Roi cede a la France sa Possession de la 
Louisiane les Parties Contraclantes conviennent d'eflectuer le dit Traite et de 
s'arranger a I'egard de leurs Droits respectifs.'' 

The previous treaty to which reference is made was signed Oct. i, 1800, 

f Italics in cipher. 

58 KUFUS KING. [1802 

librium of Europe, and the welfare of Great Britain j and I am 
disposed to credit the assurances made to me that the cession was 
neither a subject of enquiry nor discussion during the negotiation 
of the Preliminaries. 

I have since more than once conversed with the same Persons, 
with the view of impressing upon them the great importance in a 
variety of respects of this cession, especially as it will affect the 
security of their colonies, and offers the means of rearing up and 
extending the commercial marine of Fra7ice, the only sure foun- 
dation upon which she can raise a navy that will be able to cope 
with that of England. Reflections and views of this sort have 
produced a revision of the Question, but with no other effect than 
to confirm the decision before made ; and you may infer with 
confidence that not a word has been or will be saidM^on the sub- 
ject at Amiens. 

In the explanations which took place concerning the Expedi- 
tion that has lately sailed from France, it was here understood 
that it was to be wholly confined to the West Indies : the answer 
to my Enquiries was to this effect ; lately however an opinion 
gains strength that a part of the force, should the situation of St. 
Do77iingo permit, will be sent to New Orleans. I have been ex- 
plicitly told that no such authentic information has been here re- 
ceived, and that it is not likely to happen before the definitive 
Treaty is concluded. On the whole I am persuaded that G. 
Britain will see with much concern the accomplishment of this 
cession ; that it is her interest, and that therefore she will be dis- 
posed, to throw impediments in the way of its being completed, 
but that she will use no open measure of opposition, nor such as 
would afford a Pretence to involve her in new difficulties. 

Unless Spain is besotted and blind indeed she must desire with 
anxiety to avail herself of every assistance to get rid of the cession 
of Louisiana. Mr. F — y has without doubt taken the earliest 
opportunity to explain the light in which the measure is viewed 
by us and he might with confidence infer the disinclination re- 
specting // of G. Britain. 

Whether it can now be prevented is a question of considerable 
difficulty ; but in whatever concerns the welfare of one's country, 
we are called upon even in circumstances of despair to perform 
the Duties of Hope. My principal reliance would, I confess, be 

l802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 59 

placed upon a temperate, plain, and explicit representation to the 
French Government, which should expose without reserve, and, if 
the first essay should authorize it, in great detail the extent of the 
mischiefs, which we may be made to suffer from the completion 
of the cession^ accompanying the same by assurances of our earnest 
desire to live in friendship and harmony with France^ and to cul- 
tivate and extend commercial relations between the two Coun- 
tries, and concluding with a direct insinuation that foreseeing as 
we do the pernicious influence of the measure upon our political 
and social happiness, it w^ll be impossible for us to see it carried 
into operation with indifference ; or afterwards to preserve unim- 
paired the Confidence we wish to do, in the friendship of a 
Nation, towards which we cherish the grateful Remembrance of 
important services. 

If France value our friendship, or if she care nothing about us, 
except as her own interest requires, to prevent our too intimate 
connection with her Rival, the development before hand, of what 
we believe will be the consequence of measures in the accomplish- 
ment of which she is engaged, may have the effect to prevent them. 

But I have to entreat your Pardon for any suggestions on my 
part upon Subjects which your superior Judgment and experience 
are much more capable than mine to conduct. 

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c. 

RuFUS King. 

J. Q. Adams to R. King. 

Boston, January 18, 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

. . . Our political atmosphere still remains serene. Since 
the meeting of Congress, it appears there is a large majority in 
the House of Representatives, and a decided, though small one 
in the Senate, favourable to the views of the Executive. The 
measures recommended by the President at the opening of the 
Session, are all popular, in all parts of the union — But they are 
all undergoing a scrutiny in the public newspapers more able and 
more severe than they will probably meet in either house of Con- 
gress. A writer in the New-York evening post, said to be General 
Hamilton, has undertaken particularly to point out great and 

6o RUFUS KING. [1802 

comprehensive errors of system in the message, and his doctrines 
find great approbation among the federalists, and among all those 
who consider themselves as the profound thinkers of the nation. 
These papers, will without doubt be transmitted to you by your 
friends at New York, and they, with the President's Message and 
the Report from the Secretary of the Treasury, will give you the 
fairest view of what our Administration and our opposition are at 
this time. As to Congress there has yet been no subject of de- 
bate before them, which has called forth any energy of opposition, 
The apparently leading ministerial members are General Smith, 
Mr. Giles and Mr. Randolph. The Vice-President has not yet 
made his appearance, being detained by necessary attention to 
his private concerns at New York. 

The report from the Treasury exhibits a pleasing view of the 
present state of our finances. It is merely a statement, and 
avoids with caution the proposal of any measures. The Presi- 
dent however has drawn from it the inference that our internal 
taxes ought to be repealed. This measure will probably be 
carried into effect. The established system of naturalization, and 
the judicial courts will have the same fate. Of all these changes 
the advantages are immediate, obvious, popular, and trifling. 
Their probable inconveniences are remote, are therefore not dis- 
cernible to the short sight of the million ; and are of the most 
weighty consequence. As popularity is the fundamental principle 
both of our legislature and Executive, they will be satisfied to 
provide for the occasions of the day, and leave the future times 
to take care of themselves. 

With the highest regard and esteem, I am, dear Sir, faithfully 

yours, 

John Q. Adams. 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. 51. 

London, Feb. 5, 1802. 
Sir : 

Having carefully examined what would be the footing of our 
Navigation with the British Dominions upon the return of Peace, 
I was quite prepared for, and indeed by several conversations 

l8o2] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 6l 

with Mr. Addington, and other members of the Administration, 
had already brought under consideration, the subject of your 
Letter, of the loth of December, which T received a few days ago. 

Immediately after its receipt, I intimated to Lork Hawkesbury 
my desire to confer with him, respecting the points to which it 
relates, and upon his naming a day for this purpose, I prepared 
and sent him the paper a copy of which is annexed. Yesterday 
I received a duplicate of your letter of December 22nd, which has 
enabled me to be more explicit than I otherwise should have 
been, in my conference of this morning with Lord Hawkesbury. 
I began it by observing that during the continuance of the war, 
which had the effect to procure to our vessels some preference 
over others, we had not called their attention to the inequality of 
their Laws in respect to the Commercial intercourse between the 
two countries : but as the war was now at an end, we could not 
delay calling upon them to revise these Commercial Regulations, 
in order that they may be made comfortable to the respective 
Rights of the two Countries. 

The revision of certain Branches of these Regulations being 
more urgent than that of others, and the countervailing Duties 
upon articles imported into Great Britain in American Vessels 
appearing to be the most urgent, I confined my observations 
chiefly to this point ; explaining to Lord Hawkesbury my mo- 
tives for doing so, and after suggesting some further reflexions in 
addition to those contained in the paper I sent to him, I proposed 
that they should agree 

either 

To discontinue the countervailing Duties on Articles imported 
from the United States in American Vessels, as soon as the differ- 
ence of Duties on articles imported into the United States in 
American and British Vessels shall be abolished, 

or 

To repeal the countervailing Duties upon imports and impose 
Duties upon all articles exported from Great Britain to the United 
States in American Vessels, corresponding with the difference of 
Duties, payable upon the importation of the like articles into the 
United States in American and British vessels. 

Lord Hawkesbury admitted that the only legitimate purpose of 
the countervailing Right reserved to Great Britain, was to equal- 

62 RUFUS KING. [l8o2 

ize the advantages and disadvantages of the vessels of the two 
countries in their commercial intercourse ; he said not a single 
word in vindication of the manner in which this right had been 
exercised ; and after intimating a preference of the first of the 
two propositions which I had made, he said he would submit the 
subject immediately to the Cabinet, and apprize me of its decision 
with as little delay as possible. 

The American Mail was to have been despatched to-morrow, 
but upon my expressing to I^ord Hawkesbury my hope that a few 
days only would be requisite to enable him to give me an answer 
upon the subject of our Conference, and my solicitude to trans- 
mit it to you by the Packet, he said he would order the Packet to 
be detained. 

The few words which I said concerning the Tonnage Duty were 
in every respect conformable to the observations on that subject, 
in the paper sent to Lord Hawkesbury ; and the more I con- 
sider it, the more am I satisfied we shall find the advantage of 
establishing Light-house Duties so as to be distinct from the 
public Revenue. 

Lord Hawkesbury assured me that the subject of the West 
India Trade should be immediately put in a train for examination. 

I have but one observation to add ; it is this, that the return 
of Peace will not reestablish cordial harmony and good humour 
between this Country and the Maritime Nations of Europe, 
among which a general opinion prevails, whether correctly is 
another point, that the commercial and financial Prosperity of 
England is in too great a degree at the expence of her neighbours. 

These sentiments may lead to restrictions and embarrassments 
upon the European commerce of this country, which will not fail 
to make its Trade with us an object of still greater value and im- 
portance than it is already known and confessed to be. 

Difficulties of this sort are anticipated, and the Government 
consoles itself with the expectation of a progressive increase in 
the sale of its Manufactures in America. 

The inference from these remarks is, that the present time is a 
favourable one to press for the consideration and admission of 
our past claims to a fair and equal share of the advantages 
to be derived from the Navigation and Trade between the two 
countries. 

l802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 63 

The Regulations upon this subject should in the first instance 
be temporary and ex parte ; in this way they may be adjusted to 
the reciprocal Rights of the Parties, and then become matter of 
national Stipulation. 

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c 

RuFus King. 

R. King to Lord Hawkesbury. 

Great Cumberland Place, Feby. 9, 1802. 
My Lord : 

On revising my letter from the Secretary of State, I perceive 
that the same idea has suggested itself there, which your Lord- 
ship intimated to me yesterday, I mean the expediency of abol- 
ishing our Alien Tonnage Duty as well as 10 per cent upon our 
import Duties on goods imported in foreign vessels, the counter- 
vailing Duties here being likewise abolished ; and I therefore take 
the liberty of suggesting to your Lordship the expediency, that 
your act be so drawn up as to authorize the repeal of either or 
both of your countervailing Duties, upon due notice of a corre- 
sponding act on our part. 

I have reason to conjecture that such has already been the 
tenour of the Act of Congress, and on the presumption that an 
entire abolition of all discrimination is mutually our true policy, 
I beg to express a wish that your Act may be prepared in con- 
formity with the suggestion now made. 

With perfect Respect &c 

RuFus King. 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

London, Feb. 9, 1802. 
Sir : 

The definitive Treaty is not yet signed, but the preparations 
which are here making to reduce the war establishments, suffi- 
ciently evince the expectation of the Government upon this sub- 
j,ect. The virtual annexation to France of the Italian Republic, 
notwithstanding the manner and character of the measure, will 
not be an impediment to the conclusion of Peace on the side of 

64 RUFUS KING. [1802 

England, and Austria and the residue of Italy have no voice at 
Amiens. 

I do not learn what the Peace establishment of this country is 
likely to be ; the point can scarcely yet be decided, though every 
one agrees that it will be larger than formerly, and especially at 
Sea. There will be a squadron of from 20 to 25 Sail of the Line 
at Jamaica, during the continuance of the French land and naval 
forces in that quarter ; The expedition from Brest sailed on the 15 
of Deer., and on the 28th it had encountered three successive Gales 
without being able to clear the Bay of Biscay. Admiral Gravina, 
who put into Ferrol, parted with the fleet on the 28th, when only 
13 of 32 sail were together. Another ship has since reached 
Cadiz in distress, and the naval officers here believe that the ex- 
pedition must have suffered very considerably. 

The Fleet is said not to have been provisioned for more than 
four months, indeed considering the number of soldiers it carried, 
it could not well contain provisions for a longer period. Whether 
Toussaint submits or resists, it seems probable that the greater 
part of these Ships must proceed to the United States for repairs 
and provisions soon after they reach St. Domingo ; and possibly 
a detachment of the English Fleet may follow them ; of this you 
will before hand be able to judge from the preparations that will 
have been made for their reception. 

Denmark, as I have already informed you, has acceded to the 
Convention of Petersburgh : Sweden at first hesitated, then 
ordered her Minister here to notify to this Court her intention to 
accede, afterwards hesitated again, and instructed her Minister 
to ask certain explanations of England in respect to the seizure 
of her Convoy, and the catalogue of Contraband ; and upon re- 
ceiving for answer that her accession to the Convention of Peters- 
burgh must precede all discussion upon these points, it is now 
said, she will accede. Prussia has not acceded ; and having 
nothing to gain by it, will not be likely to do so. 

You may perhaps have observed in the late Continental, as well 
as in the English Papers, paragraphs stating a concert between 
England and France to repress the piratical practices of the Bar- 
bary Powers ; but there is not the smallest foundation for these 
reports, and I have reason to be satisfied that so far from a 
change of former views in this respect, not an intimation even 

l8o2] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 6$ 

upon this subject has been made by either Government to the 
other. 

The rumours circulated in the English Papers, of another 
change of Ministers appear to be equally unfounded ; the present 
administration continues to be popular ; as yet they have imposed 
no new burthens upon the country, and although the ardour 
which was so general in favour of Peace has somewhat abated, 
and men begin to speak with freedom of the great uncertainty 
of its duration, still those, who made it, did so with honest views 
and in compliance with the public wishes, and on this account are 
thought deserving of applause and support. It is doubtless true 
that the Peace, joined to the prolonged negotiations at Amiens, 
has produced a great stagnation of business in all the commer- 
cial Towns of the Country, and it is said that the last Quarter's 
Revenue will fall considerably short of its former sum ; but these 
embarrassments may prove to be only temporary, and after a 
while men may resume and adjust their affairs, according to the 
new order of things which Peace may establish. 
With perfect Respect & Esteem &c 

RuFUS King. 

R. King to Daniel Parker, Paris. 

London, Feby. 12, 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

Our friend Mr. Gore having explained to you my desire to send 
one of my sons to a school in the neighbourhood of Paris, about 
which he took much pains to inform himself, I feel particularly 
grateful to you for the permission to place him under your imme- 
diate care. It has been my endeavour to impress upon his mind, 
that he is in every respect to regard you as he would me, and to 
use the same freedom in communicating to you whatever he 
ought and has been accustomed to communicate to me. My 
object is that he should obtain a solid education, and as I am 
pursuing the same plan with his two elder brothers here, I shall 
be enabled to compare and judge of their respective progress. 

Mr. Des Cassaignes, who does me the favor to take the charge 
of my son in his journey to Paris, will conduct him to your 

VOL, IV. — 5 

(^ RUFUS KING, [1802 

house ; and it is my desire, after you shall have permitted him to 
go and pay his duty to Mr. Livingston and Family, that he may 
without loss of time be sent to school. As he knows but little 
French and his school fellows and masters may know as little 
English, he will for a few weeks suffer some embarrassment, and 
on this account I take the liberty of begging you occasionally to 
call & see him. 

In respect to clothes, pocket money and whatever else regards 
the economy of the school, my wish is that he may be put upon a 
footing with his companions, and in no respect beneath them. . . 

With unfeigned regards, 

RuFUS King. 

It would appear that the journey to his school at Bag- 
neux was a pleasant one and that he immediately deter- 
mined to study his surroundings, for the following letter, 
the first he wrote to his father, shows that he certainly was 
curious. He was not then eleven years old. 

Bagneux, ce 9 Ventose, 1802. 
Dear Papa : 

I hope you and Mamma are both pretty well, as I am. 

I came here on Thursday and begin to like it very well. For 
the two first days we had but soup and eggs for dinner with some 
bread and wine and water, and after dinner five walnuts ; but 
to-day we had meat and eggs and after dinner we had each a 
cake. To-day we went to church (the protestants do not go). 
I turned myself catholic and in going into the church I dipped 
my finger in the Holy water, and touched my forehead and then 
my belly and then my two breasts, then I went into the church 
and the parson preached in French and Latin, and throwed 
frankincense about the church and the parson took a sponge 
upon a stick and throwd Holy water upon all in the church, 
and then on going out of the church we put our fingers in the 
Holy water, which was in a brass bowl in the beginning of 
the church. Give my love to Mamma (who I hope is well) and 
Edward and the little boy. 

I remain. Dear Papa, your affectionate Son 

James King. 

l8o2] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 67 

The tone of his letters, of which many are preserved, give 
evidence that he at once entered cheerfully upon his new 
situation among strangers, whose language and habits were 
so different from those he had been accustomed to, and his 
father had the gratification to learn from friends in Paris and 
his teachers that his conduct and diligence were all that 
could be desired. 

CHAPTER V. 

King to Vansittart, Secretary of State, and Madison — Discriminating Duties 
on commercial Intercourse — England prepared to abolish them — Com- 
mission under 7th Article resumed their sittings — Sedgwick to King — 
Condition of Affairs in the U. S. as affected by Jefferson's Election — 
Ames to King — View of the Future not cheering — King to Madison — 
Delay of Negotiations at Amiens — Believes Peace will be concluded — 
Napoleon at Lyons appointed himself President of the Italian Repub- 
lic— King to Secretary of State — McDonough, British Agent at Tripoli, 
exculpates himself from Charges against him — Debate on Bill to suspend 
Tonnage and countervailing Duties — Definitely settled by France to send 
a Colony to Louisiana, unless Affairs in St. Domingo prevent — King to 
Secretary of State — Ardour for Peace abating in England — Fleets to be put 
in Order. — Still believes there will be Peace chiefly advantageous to 
France — King to Secretary of State — Erving's Appointments — King to 
Secretary of State — Negotiations at Amiens still unsettled — Public Opin- 
ion in England seems to favor Rupture. 

R. King to Nicholas Vansittart, Esq. 

Private, 

Great Cumberland Place, Feb. 12, 1802. 
Sir: 

It will probably require three months to exchange the com- 
munications upon which our respective Governments can found 
their definite acts abolishing the discriminating Duties upon our 
commercial intercourse. It unfortunately so happens that these 
months will exclude the season, in which a considerable portion 
of our annual crops of Tobacco are shipped for a market ; and 
as a great number of our vessels are now out of employ, it will 
increase the embarrassments of their owners, if they are unable 
to engage in the carriage of Tobacco, as will be the case if your 
countervailing Duty upon this article be continued. 

While the war lasted, we did not complain, although we enter- 

68 

l802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 69 

tained the same opinion as I have expressed to you concerning 
the inequality of these Duties. If our acquiescence has been in 
some small degree beneficial to you, we have on that account no 
motive to regret it ; but it would in return be a considerable 
relief to us in the present situation of our navigation, if a clause 
could be inserted in the Bill proposed to be brought into Parlia- 
ment immediately repealing so much of the countervailing Duties 
as regards the article of Tobacco. There can be no doubt that 
the whole of these discriminating Duties upon our respective Im- 
ports will be done away, and I am" persuaded that we shall 
receive the anticipated repeal of the Duties on our Tobacco as 
another and liberal proof of your disposition to promote a friendly 
and harmonious intercourse between the two Countries. Should 
any difficulties arise in the execution of our present views, of 
which I have no apprehension, the subject will always remain 

under your control. 

With perfect Respect &c., 

RuFUS King. 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. 53. 

London, Feb. 13, 1802. 
Sir : 

I am authorized to inform you that the British Government 
will without hesitation accede to a proposal for the abolition of 
all discrimination of Duties, affecting the Navigation and com- 
mercial intercourse between our and their Territories, and in 
consequence of what has passed upon this subject, a motion has 
already been made in the House of Commons by Mr. Vansittart 
of the Treasury to bring in a Bill authorizing his Majesty, at any 
time after the passing of the act, by an order of Council, or by 
Proclamation, to cause the countervailing Duties upon American 
Vessels and upon Articles imported on American Vessels, or 
either of them, or any part of the same, or of either of them, 
wholly to cease, or to be suspended for such period or periods as 
may be deemed expedient. We may count with certainty upon 
the passage of the Bill to a Law, and that the extent of repeal 
will be made to depend upon our own choice. 

I have suggested the equity and importance of an immediate 

70 RUFUS KING. [1802 

suspension of the countervailing Duty upon Tobacco, and the 
Bill is so drawn up, as leaves the Government at liberty at any 
time to take it off, in particular cases by an order in Council, or 
to suspend it generally by proclamation. I have however re- 
ceived no assurance that this will be done, and we consequently 
must not be disappointed if it should be refused. I will resume 
the subject should a favourable occasion offer to do so ; in the 
meantime, individuals may, upon the circumstances of their cases, 
ask for a remission of this Duty. 

Perhaps a future day will be named in our Law, or in the 
proclamation which the Law may authorize, upon which our dis- 
criminating Duties shall cease ; due notice of such measure 
would become the grounds for a correspondent abolition of the 
Duties here. 

I annex the Copy of a Letter sent by Lord Hawkesbury to the 
British Commissioners under the 7th article of the Treaty of 
1794. A copy of the Convention which I have lately signed with 
his Lordship, has in like manner been communicated by me to 
our Commissioners ; in consequence of these communications, 
the Board will immediately reassemble and proceed to business. 
With perfect Respect & Esteem &c 

RuFus King. 

Copy. 

Downing Street, nth Feby,, 1802. 
Gentlemen : 

I herewith transmit to you the copy of a Convention concluded 
by me and Mr. King on the 8th of January last, explanatory of 
the 6th & 7th articles of the Treaty of Amity, Commerce and 
Navigation with the United States ; and I have to signify to you 
his Majesty's pleasure that you propose to the Commissioners on 
the part of the United States of the Board of which you are 
members, to reassemble and proceed with you in the execution 
of the Duties imposed upon you by the provisions of the 7th 
article of the said Treaty and by the third article of this Conven- 
tion. 

I am, &c 

Hawkesbury. 

To Maurice Swabey, LL.D. ) 

and John Anstey, Esq. ' 

l8o2] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 7 1 

R. King to James Madison. 

Private. 

London, Feb. 13, 1802, 
Dear Sir : 

I may and perhaps ought to say to you that I have found very 
proper dispositions in conversing with the different persons con- 
nected with the subject respecting the abolition of the discrimi- 
nating Duties upon our Navigation and Commerce. No one 
defends the unequal operation of the present Law. All prefer 
abolition to revision. But the proposition to transfer their 
countervailing Duties from the imports from, to the exports to, 
the United States has no friends, notwithstanding the exact 
equality of the measure in reference to the object for which 
equality is sought ; if they impose the same discrimination upon 
the Exports as we place upon the Imports, the operation in 
regard to Navigation would be equal : if we carry, they would 
receive the Duty, if they carry, we should receive it. Two objec- 
tions are made to this transfer : the first, that it is against their 
ordinary policy to impose Duties on their Manufactures ; the 
convoy Duty was an exception justified by peculiar circumstances 
and has ceased with the war ; the second, it would load their 
book of Rates with mere fractional proportions of a foreign 
Tariff, and moreover embarrass not only the business of the 
merchants, but that of the Custom house more than the sum of the 
Duties would justify. In respect to the abolition of discrimina- 
tions on both sides, it will depend upon us whether it be complete 
or partial. Perhaps it will merit to be well considered whether 
we ought not to impose Light-house Duties according to the 
usage of other nations, and preserve our Tonnage Duties, at least 
until something shall be ascertained in respect to the West India 
Trade.* Of this, however, I flatter myself I need have no serious 
apprehension, since the more I have considered the Question, the 
more I am satisfied of the justice and ultimate success of our 

claim. 

With sentiments of very sincere Respect &c 

RuFUS King. 

* Upon this subject, I mean the West India Trade, I am solicitous to under- 
stand the views of the President, least I should happen to cross them by being 
ignorant of them. 

72 RUFUS KING. [1802 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. 54. 

London, Feb. 18, 1802. 
Sir: 

I annex a copy of the Bill which has been prepared and 
brought into Parliament by Mr. Vansittart concerning the 
countervailing Duties upon our Ships & Cargoes : and I now 
have reason to expect that the Privy Council will issue an order, 
suspending the countervailing Duty on Tobacco for six months as 
soon as the act is passed impowering them to do so. I shall not 
omit sending you the earliest information in my power of the 
decision of the Privy Council upon this point. 

The Commissioners under the 7th article of the Treaty of 
1794, have reassembled and are proceeding in business. 

With perfect Respect &c 

RuFUS King. 

T. Sedgwick to R. King. 

New York, 20th. Feby., 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

. . . In the letter which I wrote you before the close of the 
last session I ventured to predict that you would not be recalled, 
partly because, I thought, and I do still think, that our rulers 
like you best at a distance, and partly because they deem your 
presence at the court of London a shield of the party, in the 
event of a rupture, which, I know, they, then, thought probable, 
and dreaded. The same motives, will, I think, continue to in- 
fluence their conduct. 

There are several of the measures of the administration which 
have been injurious to their influence, and, in fact stayed its pro- 
gress in the eastern states, and I think have had, tho' in a less 
degree, a similar effect in this state. Among these are their re- 
movals from office which in some instance? have been extremely 
injudicious. The officers removed in Connecticut were among 
the men the most popular and respectable in that state ; the sub- 
stitutes had nothing to recommend them but a noisy activity 
against the federal administration. 

I 

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 73 

. . . The repeal of the judicial act of the last session will, 
I am confident, have a more extensive effect. You know the 
character of Mr. Lansing & Mr. Lewis the chancellor & ch. 
Justice of this state. They are both zealous, and one, at least, 
a malignant supporter of Democracy. They have declared, and 
seem not to wish to have their opinions kept secret, that the re- 
peal, without providing a substitute, is unconstitutional. The 
opinion of these gentlemen must have considerable influence. 
Indeed all men who have been misled by an attachment to re- 
fined theory, and who really wish a security of property and per- 
son, will be shocked by the establishment of a precedent which 
renders the judiciary, the only instrument of this security, de- 
pendent on, and subservient to, the prevailing faction in the 
legislature : and the more so when they reflect that this measure 
is in direct violation of the constitution, & not only so but estab- 
lishes a principle of complete consolidation of all national & 
state authority. For if the legislature may do this there can be 
no established defence against legislative usurpation. Establish 
\.h.\s principle, and at the same time an txtcMtvYQ practice of ren- 
dering the emoluments of all the officers in the U. S. a mass of 
corruption at elections, and there is nothing left which can ren- 
der the government an object of affection to virtuous and 
intelligent men. 

The Democrats are in considerable degree indebted for their 
success to their address to the sordid & despicable passion of 
avarice ; and the President was not unmindful of his obligation 
to it, in his address to the legislature — to alleviate the burdens 
of his beloved constituents forms a prominent feature of his Mes- 
sage ; but he is rather unlucky in the means which he recom- 
mends for that purpose ... In his desire to abolish the 
internal revenue he has two principal objects i. a particular re- 
gard to the interest of the southern & western states, & 2. chiefly 
breaking down all the internal Machinery of the government, 
which, I presume, he considers as destroying the "lilliputian 
ties," as he predicted in that very decent letter which he wrote 
to his friend Mazzei. The cant expressions of the party now are 
the external and mutual relations of the states, which they seem to 
consider as the objects, exclusively, of national regard. This 
Theory will, I presume, decrease the number of their partizans 

74 RUFUS KING, [1802 

in New England. I am persuaded, and, principally, from my 
knowledge of the people of that country, that Democracy will, 
there, become less and less powerful during the present ad- 
ministration. 

I have the best evidence that Burr is completely an insulated 
man at Washington ; wholly without personal influence. Had 
he any influence it would be exerted to prevent a repeal of the 
internal taxes — an impoverished treasury is inconsistent with the 
vast objects which he has contemplated. It is a measure to 
which Gallatin, from his official situation, must be opposed, but 
he is too cunning to oppose, openly, the ardent wishes of his 
Master. The measure is hostile to the interests of the eastern 
states & I therefore doubt whether the repeal will take place, 
tho' our friends in Congress seem to entertain no doubt on the 
subject. I most sincerely wish the jacobins success, upon this 
occasion, because I am persuaded that it will prove injurious to 
their influence. 

Should the internal revenues be repealed I am apprehensive 
that, under the present management, it will be found that the 
import and tonnage duties will be inadequate to the public exi- 
gencies. The value of exported produce must measure the 
amount of expenditure ; the pressure which will take place, re- 
sulting from the establishment of habits which can no longer be 
gratified, will increase emigration to the frontiers, and emigrants 
contribute almost nothing by the consumption of imports. Hence, 
I think, there will be some decrease of revenue, & if there be, a 
deficit is inevitable. Should this event happen I know they rely 
on obtaining loans which they suppose may be effected with 
great facility, by the accumulation of capital and the difficulty of 
employing it profitably. . . . 

From the whole view which I am able to take of the political 
state of our country, and the past conjectures I can form of 
future probabilities, I am induced to believe that Mr. Jefferson 
will not be re-elected. But whether his successor will be abetter 
or a worse man is to me doubtful. The popular tide as far as I 
am able to discern it, seems to set towards that description of 
men who have heretofore possessed the public confidence. Be- 
fore the present rulers got into power, they and their adherents 
assured, with great confidence, the people, that the public records 

i8o2] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 75 

would afford complete evidence of the peculations of the feder- 
alists. They are now in possession of those records. Reports 
have been received, by the legislature, from the heads of all the 
departments, and not a single fact has been exhibited to ground 
a charge either of folly or wickedness, agt. their predecessors. 
As nothing of this sort has appeared it is concluded nothing will, 
because it is obvious that any pretext of this kind would have 
' been seized on with avidity as well to justify their own malignant 
charges, as to ruin forever, their adversaries. . . . 

I am sincerely & affectly. yours. 

F. Ames to R. King. 

Boston, February 23, 1802. 
My dear Sir : 

. . . That^ the ascendancy of France, we are told, is to be 
displayed on our borders, and that in exchange for \ St. Domingo, 
she is to have Louisiana. Our Southern brethren are expected to 
wince when this happens. I deduce no hopes from the event. 
Factions always hate & dread their domestic rivals more than 
foreign enemies. Virginia has the spirit of domestic restlessness 
and arrogance that abhors restraint, and of state ambition that 
wd. impose it, of laziness that will not earn, of luxury that will 
not retrench, of a debtor that will not pay. Great states are 
strong factions, and a feeble govt, is of course their victim and 
their instrument — at present their trophy. 

To repeal the Judicial Law to save a small sum shocks many 
who could swallow the claim of a constitutional right to repeal it. 
It is understood to be the declaration of the bellum inter- 
necionum agt. the best institutions of the late administrations. 
Gouv. Morris's speeches are justly admired and have had effect 
on thinking men — i. e. on 600 of 6 millions. 

Truth however filters through the stone & reaches the folks 
standing below, drop by drop. The mint is voted out. Govt, 
seems to be clearing the ships for action, by throwing every thing 
of value overboard 

Our General Court has rejected a motion in one house by 
Hichborn in the other by Morton for an address to the Presi- 

76 RUFUS KING. [1802 

dent. The majority was so small it shows an unsound state of 
the public opinion in this state. Still as it clearly proves the 
Jacobins to be a minority, this disclosure of their weakness tends 
to keep them weak. On inquiry I cannot find that they are gain- 
ing ground. Still it is to be supposed that those who address the 
popular passions will in the end prevail against those who pre- 
sume on their sense & virtue. Gov. Strong's re-election is 
probable, though of course the virtuous Gerry will contest it. 
Robbins is the most conspicuous candidate for the Lt. Governor's 
place, vacant by the death of Mr Phillips. We make turnpikes 
and busy ourselves with local objects. Virginia rides the great 
horse. 

No doubt you are a watchful and anxious spectator of our 
affairs. It is beyond human foresight to predict the events that 
await us. We are hastening towards changes, which forebode 
other changes and so on to the end of the Chapter. We are not 
at present under a Theocracy, and if we were, our propensity to 
worship strange Gods would involve us in trouble. 

I am with esteem & affection 
Yrs 

R. King to James Madison. 

Private. 

London, Feb. 27, 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

Hitherto it has been confidently asserted and generally believed 
that the Negotiations at Amiens would end in a definitive Treaty ; 
but within the last ten days some persons have imagined that 
they perceive symptoms of doubt and hesitation upon this sub- 
ject. These however ought not to induce an opinion that the 
peace will fail to be concluded. The prolongation of the nego- 
tiation, besides being disadvantageous to this Country by retard- 
ing its plans of Finance, and creating embarrassments in its com- 
mercial affairs, expose it to all the casualties which may in the 
mean time happen, and which may be of a nature to have an in- 
fluence upon its results. The News Papers which copy from 
each other, and propagate every sort of error, pretend to enlighten 
the Public in respect to the points which occasion this delay. 
Altho' I can do no more than deal in conjectures as to the dis- 

l8o2] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. yj 

cussions at Amiens, I feel pretty confident that I run no risque 
in assuring you that they bear no resemblance to the Reports of 
the News Papers. It is no more true that France has any 
thoughts of ceding Martinique for the advantage of Spain, than 
that England has acquiesced in, opposed, or said a word about 
the cession of Louisiana and the Floridas. My persuasion still is 
that the Treaty of Amiens will be concluded, tho' I am by no 
means confident that it can be of long duration. 

It is time to have heard from Vienna concerning the late trans- 
actions at Lyons ; but probably they will wait till they have 
sounded the sentiments of Petersburgh before they disclose their 
own. A little Time must remove the Veil, which it has been 
attempted to throw over the proceedings at Lyons and, if what is 
confidently asserted to have passed there, be true, the whole is 
worthy only of the highest reprobation. For what other senti- 
ments can we feel should it turn out, so far from Buonaparte 
having been chosen President of the Italian Republic, that he 
placed himself in that ofifice as he had before done in another, by 
the use of his Bayonets. The Fact is believed to have been that 
the Italian Deputies proceeded to the election, and actually chose 
for their President their countryman Melzi and not Buonaparte, 
who so far from being the object of their preference had not as 
many votes by 30 as Berthier : the moment the scrutiny was fin- 
ished, and the result pronounced within the Consulta, a body of 
Buonaparte's Guards, prepared for the occasion, marched into the 
Hall and remained there until this choice was annulled and 
Buonaparte appointed in the place of Melzi, who was then named 
and called upon to accept the office of Vice President ! 

With great esteem &c., 

RuFus King. 

R. KixG TO Secretary of State. 

No. 55. 

London, March 5, 1802. 
Sir : 

. . . Lord Peiham a few days ago shewed me a letter from 
Mr. MacDonough, the British agent at Tripoli, exculpating him- 
self from the charge of having excited the Bashaw of that Regency 
to make war upon the United States, He explicitly denies the 

78 RUFUS KING. [i8o: 

charge and encloses a certificate to the same effect, signed by the 
Bashaw himself. Mr. MacDonough having thought it necessary 
to solicit this certificate from the Bashaw, will serve to shew him 
that his hostility to the United States may not be agreeable to 
Great Britain. 

The Bill authorizing the Crown to suspend the Tonnage and 
Countervailing Duties upon American Ships & Cargoes is still 
before Parliament, but will without doubt pass in a few days. 
The Debate to which it has given rise, so far as regards General 
Gascoigne, one of the members from Liverpool, appears to have 
been for mere electioneering purposes ; and with respect to Dr. 
Laurence and Mr. Wyndham the occasion however unconnected 
was made use of as an opportunity to talk about the negotiation 
at Amiens and the dangerous Dominion of France. 

I have seen a letter dated Paris, Feb. 26, which says it is defini- 
tively settled to send a colony to Louisiana and Florida. General 
Bernadotte is to have the direction and command of it ; prepara- 
tions are making for the first expedition, whose departure will 
perhaps depend upon the accounts expected from St. Domingo. 
It is asserted that the Indian Nations adjoining to Florida have 
agents now here for the purpose of making Treaties with this 
Country to unite themselves with the troops and settlers that may 
be sent from hence. The Establishment of this Colony is a 
darling object and will be pursued with ardour and upon a great 
scale, unless the affairs of St. Domingo shall for the moment de- 
range the plan. Louisiana, Guiana and the Desert Island of 
Tristan d'Acunha are each spoken of as places to which the 
rebellious and intractable Negroes and people of Color may be 
sent from St. Domingo and the other French Colonies. 

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c. 

RuFus King. 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. 56. 

London, Mar. 8. 1802. 

Sir : 

It is ascertained that Austria is highly dissatisfied, as justly 
she may be, with the issue of the meeting at Lyons, where Buona- 
parte is said to have employed the same means to carry his pur- 

l8o2] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 79 

pose, as has before proved efficacious at St. Cloud. Here too 
the ardour in favour of Peace has a great deal abated, and its 
security become the subject of increased solicitude and Doubt. 
The obstacles which have delayed the conclusion of the defini- 
tive Treaty, and which have been accompanied by an unexampled 
stagnation of the Trade of this Country, have much contributed 
to this temper of the public mind. Every one ascribes these in- 
conveniences to France, whose Chief is asserted daily to disclose 
views inconsistent with the repose and independence of every 
part of Europe. 

In this state of dissatisfaction and uncertainty, instructions 
have been sent to all the Naval Arsenals to prepare the Ships of 
war for actual service ; the Channel Fleet will immediately sail, 
and in order to bring the Negotiation to an immediate issue, 
these demonstrations are accompanied by an explicit Demand on 
the part of England that the definitive Treaty on the Basis of the 
Preliminaries be signed without any further Delay ; if this be not 
done in a week, it is believed that Lord Cornwallis will leave 
Amiens & the war recommence. 

I have all along believed, as even in the present critical pos- 
ture of affairs I am still disposed to do, that Peace will be con- 
cluded ; because I have not supposed that England would depart 
from the Preliminaries ; and France, whatever may be her future 
views, has the most powerful inducement to conclude a Treaty 
that will require her to restore nothing ; but will oblige England 
to evacuate Egypt and Malta, to make restrictions in Spain and 
Holland, and to give back to France all her colonies vrith 20.000 
Seamen now in her possession. 

The advantages seem indeed to be all on one side, and so con- 
siderable as to leave no doubt concerning the decision of France, 
unless the Tone and Circumstance of the Demand on the part of 
England shall be such as to put all consideration of interest out 
of the question. 

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c., 

RuFus King. 

80 RUFUS KING. [i8o2 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. 57. 

London, Mar. 9, 1802. 
Sir: 

As your Letters * to me concerning Mr. Erving's appointments 
do not explicitly state the President's intention in respect to his 
beingemployedasan Assessor to the Commission under the Seventh 
Article of the Treaty with this Country, I desired him to send to 
the Board an Extract of his Instructions, which define his Duties ; 
and which would be sufficient to shew the President's expecta- 
tions on this point. I at the same time wrote a letter to the 
Board copies of which and their answer you will find annexed. 

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c 

RuFUS King. 

These copies are omitted ; but the Commission declining 
with all proper respect to receive Mr. Erving as an assessor 
in their board, *' the nature of that appointment and its 
Duties as prescribed and required by the Board " being 
incompatible, in their judgment, with " the office of agent 
for claims and that of their mercantile assessor," in answer 
to their notification of this decision, Mr. Erving replies: 
" I feel it proper, expressing an acquiescence in your deter- 

* J. Madison to Rufus King. 

Department of State, 

Washington, 27th July, 1801. 
Sir: 

G. W. Erving, Esquire, who will have the honour to hand you this Letter, is 
the Gentleman who, as I informed you sometime ago, has been appointed our 
Consul for London. The President has also assigned him to be the successor 
of Mr. Williams in the agency relative to claims and appeals, and to act in the 
character formerly filled by Mr. Cabot in connexion with the Board of Com- 
missioners under the 7th Article of the British Treaty. For his services in 
those two agencies, with the eventual addition of that held by Mr. Lenox, in 
case it should become vacant, he will be allowed at the rate of two Thousand 
Dollars per annum after the resumption of business by the Board of Commis- 
sioners, and until that event happens, only half the sum. He will communi- 
cate his instructions to you, and I must request you to afford him such informa- 
tion and advice to facilitate the execution of his various Trusts, as may be in 

your power. 

With highest consideration &c 

James Madison. 

l8o2] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 8 1 

mination, to withdraw from your further consideration my 
Pretensions to the office in question." 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. 58. 

London, Mar. 13, 1802. 
Sir : 

We have no farther intelligence concerning the Negotiations at 
Amiens since the date of my last. The same degree of uncer- 
tainty with the same apparent indifference, in respect to the issue 
of the discussion continues to exist. Mr. Addington in a pretty 
free conversation told 7ne that * during the last fortnight his mind 
had balanced whether to wish the conclusiofi or rupture of the 
negotiation J that he was every day receiving Letters expressive of 
the same indecision from all parts of the kingdom j that they should 
continue to act with good faith and were ready to sign a definitive 
Treaty, on the Basis of the Preliminaries, provided it be done 
without any further Delay. 

The Fleets are prepared and preparing for sea, and if the nego- 
tiation fail, the war will on both sides be resumed with increased 
activity & zeal. I am not sure that my former reasoning in re- 
spect to the decision of France may not be in some degree erro- 
neous. In ordinary times and in a more settled condition of 
things it would be correct, but it is quite possible, notwithstanding 
the advantageous terms of Peace upon the basis of the Prelimi- 
naries, that the First Consul may believe^ that war will afford more 
efficacious means of promoting and securing his personal views 
and authority than can be derived from Peace. This Country too 
may believe that war is preferable to the o?ily Peace now to be ob- 
tained. In either case there will be no Peace. 

From the very great body of Forces both by Sea and Land in 

the West Indies, we may apprehend the most serious interruption 

of our Trade in those Seas, should the war be renewed. I have 

made this subject the topic of conversation with the Ministry, 

and should the negotiations fail, will do all in my power to procure 

to our Navigation a just and friendly treatment from this country. 

With perfect Esteem & Respect &c 

RuFus King. 
* Italics in cipher. 

VOL IV — 6 

CHAPTER VI. 

Presents to Bey of Tunis sent — King to Livingston — Louisiana — To prevent 
the sailing of the French Fleet — Iron or Gold — Former impossible — Gold 
might buy Louisiana by fair Purchase with Cash — Would the People con- 
sent ? — Suggests other Means — Nothing will be done at Amiens — General 
Suggestions — Monroe Doctrine — King to Livingston — Explains the Con- 
vention between United States and England — Spaniards have fifteen Mil- 
lions of Dollars in West Indies to buy Provisions for the combined Fleets 
— Hawkesbury to King — Announces the Signature of the Definitive 
Treaty — Lord Lansdowne on Louisiana — In the Discussions relative to it 
before the Treaty of Peace of 17S3, he wished England to retain it — 
Cabot to King — Congratulates him for the Convention — Murray to King 
— Return Home and Reception — No Chief among the Federalists — Recom- 
mends him to stay Abroad — King to Troup — Does not feel any Fear of 
Reception of Convention by intelligent and reasonable Men — Contrasts 
France and England in Ability to raise Money — King to Secretary of 
State — Definitive Treaty conforms in the Main to the Preliminaries — If no 
secret Articles, Indemnity to the Prince of Orange not given — Effect of 
Treaty in England — King to Secretary of State — Has suggested the Ap- 
pointment of Mr. Merry as Successor to Mr. Liston. 

Allusion has been made ^ to a treaty with the Bey of 
Tunis which required certain presents to be given to him. 
These, at the request of Mr. Eaton, the United States Agent 
at Tunis, were procured in London by Mr. King, the Govern- 
ment having sanctioned his doing so. In a letter to Mr. 
Eaton of March 12, 1802, notifying him that the presents 
have been sent to him, Mr. King says they are 

" of superior skill and richness . . . which Mortimer who is at 
the head of the trade assures me are beyond any thing of the sort 
ever before made ; and so indeed they ought to be considering 
the sum of money which they cost us. You will doubtless be in- 

* Vol. iii., pp. 246-52, 256, 329, 337, 355. 

82 

l8o2] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 83 

clined to allow us all the consideration and favour which the 
lustre and value of the presents give us a claim to expect ; at 
any rate these properties ought to have the effect to wipe away 
any suspicion, or unpleasant conjectures which the time required 
to prepare them may have excited." 

It is of these articles that Mr. King writes in the follow- 
ing letter: 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. 59. 

London, Mar. 20, 1S02. 
Sir: 

Mess. Bird, Savage & Bird will send to the Department of the 
Treasury the several accounts of the Persons who have prepared 
the Present for Tunis, and in order that you may be fully ap- 
prized of the manner which I have adopted to forward the articles 
to Tunis I take the liberty of annexing copies of my letters upon 
the subject. We have no accounts from Mr. Hargraves since he 
left Algiers, where he arrived safe in the English Frigate which 
carried him from this Country. Early in February Mr. Eaton 
was at Leghorn, whither he had gone on account of his health, 
but he expected soon to return to Tunis. 

Nothing decisive has occurred since the date of my last respect- 
ing the negotiations at Amiens ; it is however understood that the 
discussions are drawing to a close ; and the public opinion (espe- 
cially since the arrival of the accounts of Toussaint's opposition 
in St. Domingo) seems to be that the definitive Treaty will be 
speedily concluded. 

The Bill respecting the Countervailing Duties has passed the 
House of Commons in the shape in which it was introduced ; it 
is going through its stages in the other House, and will be com- 
pleted in a few days. 

With perfect Respect & Esteem, &c., 

RuFus King. 

The rumors relative to the cession of Louisiana by Spain 
to France had been reported by Mr King, as has been seen, 
as early as March 29, 1801, to his Government in a letter in 

84 RUFUS KING, [1802 

which he expressed his regret that the countr}'^ had not in 
France " a minister of talents and entitled to confidence " to 
make "a plain and judicious representation on this subject 
to the French Government." From time to time more 
positive information was sent by him, and finally, on No- 
vember 20, 1801, he transmitted to the Secretary of State 
the text of a secret treaty between France and Spain, made 
in March, 1801, and confirmatory of another secret one made 
on October i, 1800, ceding Louisiana to France, and also 
the fact that the British Government objected for many 
reasons to such a transfer. 

The appointment of Mr. R. R. Livingston as Minister to 
France, and the instructions given to him on September 28, 
1801, before sailing for his post, indicated the anxiety of the 
Government to prevent, if possible, the consummation of 
this transfer, of which it was not yet certain ; but saying, if 
the cession had been made, that 

" sound policy will require, in that state of things, that nothing 
be said or done which will unnecessarily irritate our future neigh- 
bours, or check the liberality which they may be disposed to 
exercise in relation to the trade and navigation through the mouth 
of the Mississippi ; every thing being equally avoided, which may 
compromit the rights of the United States beyond those stipulated 
in the treaty between them and Spain." 

Mr. Livingston, in writing to the Secretary of State, Jan- 
uary 13, 1802, speaks of 

" the secrecy and duplicity practised relative to this object (the 
French minister denied that the cession had been made) as an 
evidence to him that they apprehend some opposition, on the 
part of America, to their plans. I have, however, upon all occa- 
sions, declared that as long as France conforms to the existing 
treaty between us and Spain, the government of the United 
States does not consider herself as having any interest in oppos- 
ing the exchange." * 

* Amials of Congress, 1 802-3, P- 1020, This whole correspondence rela- 
tive to the Louisiana Treaty will be found in an Appendix to the Annals of 

l8o2] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 85 

With such views, with the continued refusal on the part 
of France to declare herself upon the matter, and the silence 
of his own Government,"^ Mr. Livingston could not be ex- 
pected to act with much vigor; and on March 24, i8o2,f 
he writes to the Secretary of State that : 

*' I have but one hope left as to defeating this cession ; it con- 
sists in alarming Spain and England. The Spanish Minister is 
now absent ; but I have not failed to show, in the strongest light, 

Congress, 1802-3, on p. 1003, and subsequent ones. It contains the President's 
message to the Senate, communicating the Convention with France and the ac- 
companying correspondence. 

* It mav be interesting: in this connection to see what were the views of the 
Government at Washington, July 24, 1801, as shown in the instructions of 
that date in the following letter to Mr. King, copied from the Instructions to 

Ministers. 

Department of State 

Washington, 24th July, 1801. 
RuFUS King, Esq. 

&c. 

Sir : 

The cession of Louisiana from Spain to France, as intimated in your letter 
of March 29 had been previously mentioned from several quarters, and has 
since been repeated from others as an arrangement believed to have taken 
place. Although no official or regulation confirmation of the fact has been 
received, it is more than a probability and has been the subject of instructions 
to Mr. Pinckney the Minister of the United States at Madrid, as it will also be 
to Mr Li\-ingston the Minister going to Paris. They will both make use of the 
proper \sic\ to prevent a change of our Southern and Southwestern neighbours, 
that is to say the means of peace and persuasion. Should Great Britain inter- 
pose her projects also in that quarter, the scene will become more interesting, 
and require still greater circumspection on the part of the United States. You 
wall doubtless be always awake to circumstances which may indicate \_sic\ her 
views, and will lose no time in making them known to the President. Consid- 
ering the facility with which her extensive Navy can present itself on our front, 
that she already flanks us on the North, and that if possessed of Spanish coun- 
tries contiguous to us, she might soon have a range of settlements in our rear, 
as well as flank us on the South also, it is certainly not without reason that she 
is the last of Neighbours that would be agreeable to the United States. 

With sentiments etc. 

James Madison. 
f Annals of Congress ^ 1802-3, P* 1024. 

86 RUFUS KING, [1802 

to the Minister of Britain the danger that will result to them from 
the extension of the French possessions into Mexico, and the 
probable loss of Canada, if they are suffered to possess it. I 
have requested Mr. King to press this subject, also, as opportunity- 
offers." 

Mr. King had been fully possessed of the views of the 
British Ministry, which had never favored the cession, but 
yet had been unwilling to permit it to enter into the dis- 
cussions at Amiens. Uninstructed as he had been by his 
own Government he had, however, formed positive opinions 
as to the complications which must arise under the changed 
condition of affairs, and in the following letter to Mr. Liv- 
ingston, March 23d, expresses them clearly and with the 
firm conviction that in some way the threatened complica- 
tion of our relations with France must be averted. 

R. King to R. R. Livingston, Paris. 

London, March 23, 1802. 
Sir : 

We cannot doubt that the acquisition of Louisiana has for a 
long time been an object with France, nor that the cession had 
been made, and the projected expedition resolved on before you 
left America. Supposing this to have been the case, without 
being quite sure that it was so, after again and again considering 
its injurious effects upon our political and social happiness, and 
how we ought to meet it, I long since satisfied my own mind of 
the course which I have ventured to suggest to you, believing 
that it would be alike suitable to either condition of the Business ; 
since, if undecided, it would be the most likely means to procure 
its announcement, and if resolved upon, the best calculation to 
lessen and defeat its mischiefs. It would be to little purpose 
that I should recapitulate the views in which I have seen the 
subject, and which have led me to the conclusion that I have 
embraced, especially as your mind seems to me to have taken the 
same range with my own. I prepared a letter to you upon this 
subject, which has lain by me some time for a convenient oppor- 
tunity to Paris, but which on revision I do not now think worth 
the trouble of your perusal. 

l8o2] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 8/ 

The sole questions which remain are, can the expedition be 
prevented and if not, how should we treat it ? Perhaps the only 
unconnected and ex parte means of Protection in our Power, are 
Iron and Gold. Notwithstanding the sanction to be derived from 
the example of almost every nation, as well as from justice and 
reason, which so far from refusing to States the faculty of inquir- 
ing concerning the dismemberment and increase of the Terri- 
tories of their neighbours, make it their duty to do so, I suspect 
that the first of these means, if deemed even expedient, would be 
thought defensible only upon Principles too metaphysical and un- 
ascertained, and therefore, that it may be laid out of the question. 

Although we may have no contemptible opinion of the efficacy 
of the latter means, there are considerable, and, perhaps, insupera- 
ble difficulties in the way of its employment. I should not ap- 
prove, nor tolerate for a moment any underhand measure, or such 
as could not be openly avowed, and explained to our own people 
as well as to the rest of the world ; but we may, if we deem it our 
interest, without impropriety attempt to acquire the legitimate 
Title to Louisiana and the Floridas. If these belonged to us, we 
should, I hope, be as ready to defend them with arms in our 
hands, if necessary, as we should be to defend Charleston, New 
York, or Newport. But shall we be willing to pay down a sum of 
money large enough to acquire them ? For if the Title can be 
obtained in no other way than that of a direct purchase, a large 
sum of money will alone procure it. No set off of claims ; no 
balancing of accounts ; no prospect of future advantage will have 
any beneficial influence in our favour ; it must be actual money 
and a great deal of it which can serve our purpose. Great as the 
benefit would be to us of uniting to our Territories New Orleans 
with the entire left bank of the Mississippi and extending our 
Southern frontier to the ocean, I confess that I see little in the 
principles, to which we propose to devote ourselves, and by which 
our affairs are to be regulated, which authorises us to expect that 
a measure of such magnitude, and which would impose imme- 
diate and considerable Burthens upon our People, would be likely 
to be received with favour. It cannot be denied that economy is 
wisdom in States as well as individuals ; but by the former as well 
as the latter, it requires to be rightly understood, not to become 
a vice instead of a virtue. 

88 RUFUS KING. [1802 

If we can succeed by neither of these means, our Government 
may perhaps think it worth consideration, whether the new State 
of things in the West Indies may not lead to the accomplishment 
of its wishes. The settlement of Guadaloupe and St. Domingo 
seems likely to call for more men and money than were at first 
thought necessary, and may occasion the suspension of the expe- 
dition to Louisiana. France can more easily supply men than 
Money or Provisions ; the last must be purchased from the United 
States ; but how are they to be paid for ? I can imagine but two 
ways, either by the dollars accumulated in the Spanish Colonies, 
or by Bills upon France. Spain with great reluctance will open 
her coffers to her allies and will invent a thousand devices to 
avoid it ; tho' if no other resource exist she will be obliged to do 
so. Our merchants will not sell their Provisions for Bills on 
the French Treasury without a satisfactory Guarantee ; and our 
Government will not become the guaranty unless it promote our 
interest in doing so. Is it too visionary a speculation for us to 
think of obtaining the cession of New Orleans and the Floridas 
from France by assisting her to obtain the supplies she wants for 
her Fleet in the West Indies ? or is there any thing in the nature 
of the war that should restrain us from doing so ? 

A Project of this sort would deserve to be received with favour 
at Madrid as it offers the only means of sparing the Spanish 
Treasure in America, and preventing what must there as else- 
where be the subject of apprehension. I mean the occupation of 
Louisiana by France. To the French too, it holds forth the 
means of immediate and important relief in circumstances of 
difficulty and without any other inconvenience than that of giving 
a new and different direction to their colonizing enterprizes. 

I am obliged to you for your reflections upon the subject of 
Louisiana ; they ought to be received with all the consideration to 
which their justness and importance entitle them. But what I 
have before informed you upon this subject, and which I con- 
firmed in a short letter of yesterday, I have no reason to believe 
has been in the least degree ill-founded. The consequences of 
the cession were fully explained before the signature of the Pre- 
liminaries ; and have been more than once restated and pressed 
since the meeting at Amiens, but the answer has been uniformly 
the same, and such as gives us not the slightest occasion to hope 

l8o2] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 89 

even that anything has been or will be done concerning it at 
Amiens. We must, therefore, depend upon ourselves and upon 
our own exertions, and in case they do not prevent the measure, 
the next enquiry, is how we should treat it. 

On this subject, I have heretofore * expressed to you my opinion, 
which I do not perceive sufficient reason to induce me to change. 
France is one of the Great Powers which influence and in some 
sort control the affairs of the whole earth ; and on this account 
it seems to be the Duty of those, who have any part to act in the 
concerns of other States to study the Genius and endeavour to 
understand the character of this restless & powerful nation, 
which can only be opposed with success, when openly opposed. 
I do not mean an opposition of force, but that moral resistance 
which consists in the frank explanation of the injuries we foresee 
and apprehend, and the declaration beforehand of what we con- 
ceive to be our own Rights and Duties, should it become neces- 
sary to assert and perform them. No policy in my opinion has 
so often proved to be pernicious as that of shutting our eyes upon 
w^hat we cannot avoid seeing, and of putting off exertions to pre- 
vent injury, and thereby leaving the public welfare either to the 
government of chance, or in the hands of the adversary ; a 
mode of administration which always amounts to a confession of 
\veakness, and which places the public safety not in the safeguard 
of the public virtue and courage but in the moderation of 
ambition and power. 

With this way of thinking, I would lose no time in telling 
France our apprehensions, at the same time that I assured her of 
our earnest desire to live in harmony and friendship ; I would 
inform our own People that I had done so ; and I would more- 
over endeavour by all suitable means to familiarize them with 
those measures to which the defence of the public welfare miay 
compel us to resort. The Truth should not be disguised from 
ourselves or others ; that we are the first Power in our own hemi- 
sphere, and that we are disinclined to perform the part of the 
second. Sentiments of this sort openly and unostentatiously ad- 
vanced and propagated would, if I mistake not, have the double 
effect to check measures to divide us, from whatever quarter they 

* January 16, 1802, vol. iv., p. 59. 

90 

RUFUS KING. [1802 

may proceed, and to enable us to defeat them, should they be 
attempted. 

I have to crave your indulgence for this unreserved and confi- 
dential communication of opinions which are, I apprehend, 
somewhat at variance with those that are entitled to our respect 
and obedience. I should however add that I have been too 
often disappointed in things I have most firmly believed, to be 
over confident in my own opinions ; and I should rejoice should 
the course marked out to you, and from which I should not 
deviate, were I in your place, prove more advantageous than I 
can at present believe it will do. 

With Perfect Respect & Esteem, &c. 

RuFUS King. 

It will be seen that Mr. King in his free communication 
with Mr. Livingston had entered into a discussion of the 
methods by which the interests of the United States, result- 
ing from this cession, could be secured either *' by Iron or 
Gold," as the new arrangement must be broken up. But 
more important and noteworthy is the alternative he sug- 
gests as a method by which the French Government may be 
influenced to listen to our claims. Not a disposition to 
avoid offending them, but a positive declaration of a de- 
termination to prevent the dangers, not apprehended from 
Spain's possession of Louisiana, but probable from its trans- 
fer to a more active, enterprising, and restless country. In 
other words, a declaration of the principle upon which rests 
what is now called the Monroe doctrine. Upon a careful 
reading of the portion of the letter, beginning with the 
words, ** On this subject I have heretofore expressed to you 
my opinion," etc., it will be found clearly and positively 
suggested that the French Government shall be told that 
the United States being 

"the first power in our own hemisphere, we are disinclined to 
perform the part of the second. Sentiments of this sort openly 
and unostentatiously advanced and propagated would, if I mis- 
take not, have the double effect to check measures to divide us, 

:8o2] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 9I 

from whatever quarter they may proceed, and to enable us to 
defeat them, should they be attempted." 

It does not appear that this view was taken either by the 
Minister or his Government, but it shows what Mr. King 
would have done had he been in the position to act, and 
the estimate he placed upon the bold assertion of the in- 
trinsic power of the nation to make itself felt in the decision 
of questions relating to its own interests, — a power which 
he felt was stronger and better recognized than when he 
entered on his mission. Nor was he mistaken, though it 
took many years before Mr. Monroe distinctly avowed the 
principle on which the whole country now, in 1896, unani- 
mously insists. 

It is not a little curious, that Mr. Monroe was the negoti- 
ator with Mr. Livingston to make the Conventions with 
France for the purchase of Louisiana, and that the chief 
overt act to interfere with the principle was made in France's 
attempt to conquer Mexico, while the United States was 
engaged in the civil war of the Rebellion — an attempt 
nearly successful at the time, but checked and positively 
settled by the Mexicans themselves. 

R. King to R. R. Livingston. 

London, Mar. 24, 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

I have omitted to return you my thanks for your congratula- 
tions on the subject of the .Convention concerning the Debts. 
Your construction of the II article is unquestionably the true one. 
As I am not aware that any opinion has prevailed that either the 
execution of the 6th article of the Treaty of 1794, according to 
its Provisions, or a commutation of our Engagements under it, 
(into a definite sum of money) would have exempted the Debtors 
from the suits of their Creditors, I cannot suppose that any dis- 
appointment can arise from the limited recognition of the IV 
article of the Treaty of Paris. The United States engaged to 
pay the Debts which could have been recovered at the close of 
the war had there been no lawful impediments, and which, by 

92 

RUFUS KING. [1802 

reason of such impediments, were not recoverable at the conclu- 
sion of the Treaty of 1794. In respect to all Debts recoverable 
at the conclusion of this Treaty, the Creditors were at liberty to 
pursue their judicial remedy, and had no Claim before the Com- 
missioners, their cases being expressly excepted. In respect to 
these Creditors, therefore, it was no more than justice to declare 
that the Provisions of the Treaty of Peace in their favour, so far 
as regards their future operation, shall remain in force. The 
Terms of the recognition of the IV article of the Treaty of Peace, 
limits its operation so as to exclude all claims which once might, 
but now cannot according to the course of the Judiciary, be le- 
gally established ; for these claims, we make compensation, and 
for the others, leave the Creditors to their judicial Remedies. 

This Government has communicated the Convention to the 
Creditors, who have met and, as I am informed by their Chair- 
man, determined to petition Parliament for the difference between 
the p{^6oo,ooo and the 5 millions which they assert to be the 
amount of their Claims ; and in order to pave the way for their 
Petition, they use no reserve in saying the settlement has been a 
political one on the part of Government and at their expense, 
and that they have a just demand to be indemnified out of the 
public Exchequer. I observe that meetings are held among our 
merchants to petition Congress for compensation for Losses by 
French Captures, and I conjecture that these Petitions will meet 
with much the same reception as those of the British Creditors to 
their Parliament. 

I have lately learned, and from good authority, that the 
Spaniards have 15 Millions of Dollars embarked at the Havanna 
and Vera Cruz which I am inclined to conjecture will be ordered 
to St. Domingo, under the pretext of being sent to Europe with a 
detachment of the combined Fleet. When they reach St. Do- 
mingo such will be the necessities of the army and navy that the 
Dollars will be taken to buy Provisions and in lieu of their 
Draughts given upon the National Treasury. . . . 

We are in expectation that the definitive Treaty will be com- 
pleted in a very few days ; nobody seems now to apprehend its 
failure. 

With perfect Respect & Esteem &:c &c 

R. K. 

l8o2] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 93 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. 60. 

London, Mar. 29, 1802. 
Sir: 

I have the satisfaction to send you the annexed copy of Lord 

Hawkesbury's note announcing the Signature of the Definitive 

Treaty, and have the honour to be, 

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c 

R. K. 

Copy. 

Lord Hawkesbury presents his compliments to Mr. King, and 
has the honour to inform him that Mr. Moore is arrived with the 
Definitive Treaty of Peace, which was signed at Amiens at 4 
o'clock on the 27th instant by his Majesty's Plenipotentiary and 
the French, Spanish and Batavian Plenipotentiaries. 

Downing Street, March 29, 1S02. 

Louisiana.* 

March 26, 1802. 

Lord Lansdowne, to whom I some days ago spoke concerning 
the cession of Louisiana & the Floridas, told me that it was his 
desire to have retained the Floridas and New Orleans : that with 
this view, in the preliminary articles first prepared in 1783, he 
agreed to give up Gibraltar and to receive in lieu of it Minorca, 
Martinique or Gaudaloupe and the Floridas ; that the stipula- 
tion in favour of Great Britain for the free navigation of the 
Mississippi was made in reference to the project of retaining the 
Floridas, but that a cry arose agt. the cession of Gibraltar, the 
King refused his sanction to it and it was therefore retained and 
the Floridas, Martinique and Minorca given up. 

The stipulation about the Mississippi, being included in a dif- 
ferent article, was retained when that to wh. it related was struck 
out. 

Jay & Franklin wished Eng. to seize the Floridas after the sig- 
nature of the Provisional Articles and before the PreUminaries ; 

* Memorandum Book. 

94 

RUFUS KING. [1802 

but objected to troops being sent from N. York on this service as 
Fr. & Spain would deem it collusive. 

Franklin threatened Oswald to retain and sell the German 
prisoners unless the negroes were restored or paid for, saying 
they had carried off & sold the negroes we had bought and that 
it would be as just to sell the Germans they had bought. 

Geo. Cabot to R. King. 

March 27, 1802. 

My dear Sir : 

I have seldom received so much pleasure from news concerning 
you as that which is just now arrived. Your silence had been un- 
usually long & from various circumstances I was led to believe 
that you were in some sort of perplexity which prevented you 
from giving me the pleasure to which I was accustomed. As I am 
totally uninformed of the terms of your Convention & as I shou'd 
always desire to be informed of the instructions under which you 
acted I can make no observations of any worth on the subject ; 
yet I see much evidence that you have done what very few, if any 
other man^ cou'd have done for us ; that you have done better 
than the Country had a right to expect after its ungenerous & 
capricious conduct ; that you have done so well as to gratify all 
your friends & confound all our Enemies. But will your Conven- 
tion be ratified ? this is a question my jealousy asks of me. I 
answer that probably it will, ?iotunthstandt?ig it tends to a final ex- 
tinction of all the animosities between the two Nations ; because 
at this moment our Master dreads & detests the Master of the 
French who despises him in turn & therefore no busmess of fra- 
ternity can proceed. Such at least is my opinion. It would be a 
useless labor for me to attempt giving you a minute account of 
our affairs — or indeed any account, for you probably know more 
of them than I do. We make a constant progress in the way we 
are destined to go, yet I must say that the Leaders outrun their 
Followers. The very able discussions of the Judiciary Question 
& great superiority of the Federalists in all the debates & public 
writings have manifestly checked the career of the Revolutionists. 
Six months ago I trembled for the coming Elections in N E — but 

l8o2] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 95 

it appears that N. H. has recovered a little of its old good poli- 
ticks & chosen Oilman by a great majority, & we think in Massa- 
chusetts the public opinion is much meliorated. These checks if 
only temporary are of great value. . . . 

I was in hopes that the blacks in St. Domingo wou'd long occupy 
& finally defeat the french arms, but appearances indicate that 
they will be beaten. The armaments like all others from France 
must be supported by other Nations. Force & Fraud will draw 
from Spaniards & Americans f th of the supplies. 

Your faithful & affte friend 

G. C. 

William Vans Murray to R. King. 

Cambridge, E. S. Maryland, 5th April, 1802. 
My dear Sir : 

. . . We arrived after a passage of eleven weeks at Wash- 
ington, where I was civilly & coldly received. My outfit paid me 
& no questions asked me ! So the flutter which my intended 
Tableau de la negotiation had put me into was kindly spared. 
M^ & G. behaved to me in all the business I had with them in a 
fair & candid way. 

The principle of proscription goes on searching its game even 
in the smallest X road post offices. The principle of depletion 
& disorganizing in all things connected with the most ancient 
opinions, the constitution & its out works & the well settled 
system of the past administrations goes on with a destructive 
zeal. Internal Taxes — Judicial Sanctity — all are to be handled 
& overset, but as I write to you I ought to restrain myself from 
invective^ — whatever may be our opinions mutually. 

There is an abundance of imitation, but it is in the small way 
& cannot afford a cure. There is a hope & it seems to me the 
only one well founded, that they will divide & quarrel. Already 
it is believed that B. gives umbrage to the Philosopher by his as- 
piring temper. So we ought to expect a division in your State of 
which the Feds., if not themselves miserably divided, may avail 
themselves & the nation. It may be hoped that the Feds, will 
gain wisdom by suffering. To be in a minority is a new situa- 
tion to them. Hitherto they have been a majority & have had a 
Chief & that Chief in Power ; now in the minority. I do not 

96 RUFUS KING. [180: 

know that they, as a united party, acknowledge any Chief ; & yet 
have more need than ever of the energy which a Chief gives. It 
is true there are some strong men in Congress, but a chief should 
not be there — & there is none there. I saw but few of the public 
men at W. It is such a Town-in-country that there is not prop- 
erly Society & contact ; but I assure you that I have not heard of 
any one man since my return as Chief. It will always happen as 
it did after the death of Alexander among his Captains. In fact 
we are in a strange situation. 

It will give you pleasure to know that by allowing me my outfit 
to Paris (which I claimed) my situation is greatly bettered, as my 
estate is in land & bad rents & it would have been a terrible 
thing for me to sell near the whole to pay my debts, which 
the outfit nearly did. I live with my brother in the Country & 
mean to build this autumn on a farm. My friends of this county, 
which is Federal, wish me to go into public life. This I decline : 
for I feel as if I had precisely escaped ruin ; and all my embar- 
raisments were a suite of 13 year's public life, of one sort or other, 
in which my affairs became turned upside down. 

What can you expect from a man placed in so very active a 
place as I am, bilt useless repinings at the present degraded state 
of public affairs ? and yet my dear Sir I wish to hold some little 
converse with you, & to show you by a letter that I am grateful 
for your remembrance of so sterile a correspondent. 

We all rejoice that Govt, has, united with the claim your 
country has upon you, kept you at your post. If I expect it, it is 
because they have great credit among all the enlightened men for 
this forbearance from the evil we believe they would do by your 
removal. So I beg you — as I once before did, to stay where 
you are, at least for some few years. 

Affectionately yrs. 
W. V. Murray. 

R. King to R. Troup. 

London, April 6, 1S02. 
Dear Sir : 

. . . There is a rumour, may it prove to be well founded ! , 

that a motion to repeal the internal taxes has been negatived in the 

H. of R. Should they be continued and an independent judiciary 

l8o2] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 97 

preserved, I shall not despair of the pubHc welfare. In four or 
five weeks we shall hear of the arrival of the Convention concern- 
ing the Br. debts, as well as whether the same be approved by 
Congress. In respect to the opinion of intelligent and reasonable 
men, I have no concern, but we cannot be sure that their opinion 
will be the general one, and I am therefore solicitous to hear how 
the settlement is thought of by those whose province it is to judge 
of its merits. 

Peace is definitively made and will be ratified in a few weeks. 
The new ministers continue to stand well with Parliament and the 
country ; and such are the Resources, and confidence of monied 
men, that the new loan of 25 millions has been made on as low 
terms as the loans of the first year of the war, when enthusiasm was 
high, and the first Debt and Taxes not a moiety of their present 
amount. Singular indeed in this respect is the contrast between 
France and England : in one any considerable loan cannot be 
raised on any Terms, in the other the minister has but to ask and 
receive. In the former, mistress as she is of the greater part of 
Europe, the 5 pr. cents are at 55, while here after a long expensive 
and unsuccessful war the 3 per cents are at 75 and will probably 

soon reach 80. 

Yrs. &c., 

R. King. 

P. S. Mrs. Ludlow's Baggage not having reached town I have not 
seen the opinions of Kent and her brother. I shall read them 
with attention before I say anything upon the subject, except 
that I have contended and with effect and advantage that the 
sentence of a foreign Tribunal in matters of Prize, is not in all 
cases conclusive. 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. 61. 

London April 7, 1802. 
Sir : 

The Moniteur of the 26th past contains the definitive Treaty 
dated the preceding day. Lord Hawkesbury's Letter to the 
Foreign Ministers says that it was signed on the evening of the 
27th. By reason of the urgent manner in which the Negotia- 

VOL. IV. — 7 

98 RUFUS KING. [1802 

tion was pressed to a conclusion by England, or some such cause, 
the several articles were settled on the 25th, and the respective 
Plenipotentiaries signed on that day an agreement that they 
would sign the Treaty, the articles whereof had been so agreed 
upon, as soon as copies could be prepared. The French Govern- 
ment has chosen to consider this first signature as the conclusion 
of the Treaty, and dated the copy inserted in the Moniteur 
accordingly. 

In the main the definitive Treaty seems to adhere pretty closely 
to the Preliminaries ; in such articles as have undergone modifi- 
cations, it is not obvious that the alteration is favourable to the 
views of this country. Malta, notwithstanding the string of propo- 
sitions relative to its constitution, will be liable to the influence of 
France and open to her enterprize. The clause which authorizes 
France to prefer a claim for the support of Italian, German and 
Russian Prisoners enables her to balance the claim of England 
for the maintainance of French Prisoners : this is however an 
article of form rather than of substance, as I do not find that 
there is any instance of money being paid or received on similar 
occasions. 

If there be no separate article, which is not believed to be the 
case, designating the manner in which the Prince of Orange is to 
be indemnified, the article of the Definitive Treaty relating to 
that subject, differing as it does from the Treaty of Basis, seems 
more likely to prove prejudicial than advantageous to this country ; 
and the more so, as it is understood that in the very room where 
the Definitive Treaty was signed, and immediately afterwards, the 
French and the Dutch Minister signed a separate Convention by 
which the Batavian Republic is declared to be exempted from 
contributing anything towards the indemnities to be paid to the 
House of Orange. 

But the principal objection which Lord Grenville, and those 
who think with him, will be likely to urge against the Definitive 
Treaty is the omission so contrary to former usage to recognize 
and confirm in a manner accommodated to the present state of 
Europe those antient Treaties which are asserted to be the 
Foundation of its public Law. 

* 786 and others are likewise much dissatisfied with the cession 

* Not deciphered. 

l8o2] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 99 

of Louisiana to France ; speaking with me concerning it a day or 
two ago he said Ceylon, Trinidad and the Cape were as nothing 
in comparison to Louisiana and the Floridas ; and on my ex- 
pressing my surprise that 128. 55. 28 should have known of the 
cession and yet advised the Peace, he said that 128. 55. 28 viewed 
the cession in the same light that he did, but that he knew 
nothing of it until after the conclusion of the Preliminaries, 

The Minister lost no time, after the signature of the Definitive 
Treaty, in making his Loan and opening the Budget. 25 millions 
have been borrowed at the moderate interest of ;^3.i8.2 per 
centum. The Income Tax, which with certain exceptions re- 
quired the tenth of each man's income, is to be repealed, and the 
56 millions for the redemption of which it stands pledged will be 
funded. The new Taxes, taken at Four Millions, are to be levied 
thus — an addition to the Duty on Malt, Hops and Beer of two 
millions : an addition to the assessed Taxes, one million ; and a 
Duty on the Imports and Exports of Great Britain of one million. 
Coupled with these measures are two others worthy of particular 
attention ; one a proposition to give a new shape and direction 
to the Sinking Fund of 1786, as well as to abandon the principle 
adopted during the late war, of providing a fund equal to the 
hundredth part of every new Debt, to be invariably applied in 
redeeming it ; the other, a motion by the Minister to continue 
the Law authorising the suspension of Cash payments by the 
Bank. The funds have risen considerably, and there seems to 
be very little opposition to the new Taxes. I shall not be inat- 
tentive to those which may affect our Trade ; tho' so far as re- 
gards the Tax on Exports our Treaty is entirely silent. 

The Law respecting the Countervailing Duties received the 
King's assent on the 24th of last month ; as it finally passed in 
the form of the Bill of which I sent you a copy, it is not necessary 
that I should send you a copy of the Law. From the uncertainty 
whether Congress will be inclined to repeal the discriminating 
Duties paid in our Ports, I shall not press for the order of Coun- 
cil, taking off by way of anticipation and immediately the counter- 
vailing Duty on Tobacco, in the Ports of this country. 
With perfect Respect & Esteem 

RuFus King. 

ICX) 

RUFUS KING. [1802 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. 62. 

London, April 10, 1802. 
Sir : 

Some months ago I informed you that Mr. Jackson* would 
probably be sent to the United States as Mr. Liston's successor j 
Mr. Merry had been previously thought of and indeed named 
for this mission. As I have had the opportunity of knowing both 
these Gentlemen during my residence here., it was not without some 
regret that I heard of the intention to appoint Mr. Jackson in 
lieu of Mr. Merry. From this information I have been led to 
make farther Enquiry respecting their reputation and the result 
has served rather to encrease than lessen my solicitude. Mr. 
Jackson is said to be positive, vain and intolerant ; he is more- 
over filled with English prejudices in respect to other countries, 
and as far as his opinions concerning the United States, seems 
more likely to disserve than benefit a liberal intercourse between 
them and his own country. 

On the other hand, Mr. Merry appears to be a plain, unas- 
suming and sensible man, having lived for many years in Spain., 
is in almost every point of character the reverse of Mr. Jackson^ 
who were he to go to America would go for the sake of present 
employment, and with the hope of leaving it as soon as he could 
receive a similar appointment in Europe while Mr. Merry wishes 
for the Mission with the view of obtaining what he believes will 
prove to be an agreeable and permanent residence. 

With these sentiments I have believed it to be proper to en- 
deavour in every unexceptionable way in my power to discourage 
and throw impediments in the way of the mission of Mr. Jackson^ 
and in a late conversation with Lord Hawkesbury^ he offered me 
what I thought a fair occasion of expressing my sentiments upon 
this subject. His Lordship received my observations in good part 
and promised to consider what I had said to him before any defi- 
nite step should be taken in the Business. I have followed up 
the opposition in other quarters which I thought likely to have 
an influence with decision, and am not without Expectation that 
Mr. Jackson will be relinquished. 

* Italics in cipher. 

l8o2] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. lOI 

As the explicit designation of a particular character, who would 
be agreeable, is matter of greater delicacy than to object to an 
Individual who might have been spoken of, I have rather confined 
myself to the latter course, in doing which, however, I was enabled 
indirectly and by way of contrast to Mr. Jacksoris disqualifica- 
tions to describe qualifications which seem to be almost peculiar 
to Mr. Merry. 

Annexed I send you copies of my letter to Lord Hawkesbury, 
and of his answer declining to recognize Mr. Lewis as Consul of 
the United States at Calcutta. A like answer has in a similar 
case been lately given to the Envoy of Portugal. Conversing 
with one of the Directors of the East India Company concerning 
Mr. Lewis' appointment, he told me that before the late war 
France had been solicitous to place a Consul at Calcutta ; that 
from a persuasion that a Consul would be employed as a political 
instead of a commercial agent, they had declined his admission ; 
that the request would, however, probably be renewed, and in 
case an American Consul should be admitted, a French one could 
not be refused. 

With perfect Respect & Esteem, &c 

RuFUs King. 

CHAPTER VII. 

Troup to King — Congressional Acts — G. Morris on Judiciary Bill — Burr has 
lost Ground — Toast at a Dinner — Jefferson the Idol — Business dull — Cabot 
to King — Distrusts French Fleet — Does not fear French Settlement in 
Louisiana — Ames to King — France's Project of getting Louisiana can only 
do Good — Joy at Adjustment with Great Britain of the Negotiation about 
the Debts — J. Hale to King — Glad he will remain in London — Federal- 
ists more confident — Louisiana Project will operate well — King to Lord 
Hawkesbury — Cession of Louisiana, Effect on the Navigation of the Mis- 
sissippi— How far is England concerned in the Cession — McHenry to 
King — Effect of Peace on the United States — Measures of the Administra- 
tion criticised — King to Vansittart — United States should pay no higher 
Duties to export British Manufactures than other Nations — King to Secre- 
tary of State — Definitive Treaty ratified — Sweden joins Russia and 
England in annulling the System of armed Neutrality — King to Secretary 
of State, United States Funds — Means taken to secure their Safety and 
proper Disbursement, especially in Prize Cases — The Government having 
now made other Arrangements, he shall no longer regard the pecuniary 
Affairs under his Control — J. Marshall to King — Congratulates him on his 
Settlement of the Debt Claims. 

R. Troup to R. King. 

New York, gth April, 1802. 
My dear Sir : 

. . , The federal party is still completely down ; though some 
think it in the attitude of rising. Every corner of the govern- 
ment has been ransacked to find out an officer to be removed in 
order that his place might be filled with one of Jefferson's sect ; 
and as things now stand that sect is in full possession of the 
government. 

The repeal of the judicial bill, for the purpose of getting rid of 
our friend Judge Benson and others, has excited a very powerful 
sensation in the minds of the leading federalists throughout the 
union. . . Some of our friends in Congress have much distin- 

102 

l8o2] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. IO3 

guished themselves on this subject. Mr. Gouverneur Morris is 
much celebrated for his eloquence. The democratical paper at 
AVashington pronounced his speech to be the grandest display of 
eloquence ever exhibited in a deliberative assembly ! Mr. Bayard of 
Delaware, Mr. Hemphill of Penna., Mr. Dana of Connecticut and 
several other federalists in the House of Representatives have 
also been much eulogized. Giles and Randolph of Virginia are 
the leaders of the House of Representatives, and their speeches 
develop the views and motives of Jefferson's sect more than any 
others. , . Congress are now engaged in repealing almost all the 
internal taxes, and the whiskey drinkers particularly will be in 
spirits. Virginia literally dominates. Jefferson is the supreme 
director of measures — he has no levee days — observes no cere- 
mony— often sees company in an undress, sometimes with his 
slippers on — always accessible to, and very familiar with, the 
sovereign people. Madison is in a deep decline, and it is thought 
he will soon quit his office. 

Burr has lost ground very much with Jefferson's sect during 
the present session of Congress. He played a cunning and ridicu- 
lous game whilst the repealing of the judicial bill was before the 
Senate. A few weeks ago whilst the federalists were at a public 
entertainment, celebrating General Washington's birthday, he 
made his appearance among them — asked whether he was an 
intruder — he was answered in the negative, and treated with 
becoming civility. Soon afterwards he asked for permission to 
give a toast — it was granted — and he gave " The union of all 
honest men.'' This was generally received by the federalists as an 
offer on his part to coalesce. It has been attempted to be kept 
secret ; but it has got into circulation, and it has created heart 
burnings with some of Burr's party. Hamilton says there is a 
cabal going on at Washington between Burr and some of the 
federalists. Latterly it is represented that Burr has run to the 
other side again and is manifesting great violence. He has been 
not a little abused in the course of the winter in the democratic 
prints. It is said there is no cordiality or concert between him 
and Jefferson, and that they are not in the habit of approximating 
each other. 

Jefferson is the idol to whom all devotion is paid ; and Burr 
will doubtless be dropped at another election, if they can do it 

104 RUFUS KING. [i8o2 

without endangering Jefferson. In this state all power and all 
the offices are also engrossed by the democrats. No opposition 
is likely to be made for some time to come. Our system is just 
where it is by nature destined to be — in the hands of demagogues, 
and I think it will not be an easy work to rescue it from them. 
Hamilton is in utter despair of the system ! and he looks forward 
to a serious commotion, and that at no very remote period ! 
There is a deadly enmity between Burr and the Clintonians, If 
Burr should be taken up by the federalists, and brought forward 
for any conspicuous office, Hamilton and many of us will secede 
from the federal party and remain passive spectators. We think 
there can be no coalition with him without a desecration of all 
that is virtuous and all that is honorable in character. . . . 

There is great complaint here of the dulness of all kinds of 
business, owing to the peace. We have had very considerable 
failures in Baltim., Philadelphia, and some not inconsiderable 
ones here. More are likely to follow. It is a consolation amidst 
the calamities that are befalling the merchants, the lawyers in the 
circle of your friends are doing well, altho' of late they have 
suffered, with other classes, a diminution of business. Hamilton 
is closely pursuing the law, and I have at length succeeded in 
making him somewhat mercenary. I have known him latterly to 
dun his clients for money, and in settling an account with me the 
other day, he reminded me that I had received a fee for him in 
settling a question referred to him and me jointly. These indi- 
cations of regard to property give me hopes that we shall not be 
obliged to raise a subscription to pay for his funeral expenses. . . 

^ R. T. 

G. Cabot to R. King. 

April 13, 1802. 
My Dear Sir : 

Our people distrust the French, & the Armament at St. Domingo 

will not be easily supplied by fair means ; still however they 

must be supplied as all french Armaments are by the people of 

the Countries to which they come & such of their Neighbours as 

dare not resist them ; they will get something by finesse & ma- 

neuvring, something by gross fraud & the remainder of their 

wants they will supply by force. Our intelligence has been gen- 

l8o2] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. IO5 

erally that the Army of Le Clerc made progress, & was confident 
of success, but knowing as we do the policy of the French to put 
the best face on such affairs until they are obliged to abandon 
them, it is not impossible or improbable that the Blacks will main- 
tain their liberty. 

The meditated expedition to Louisiana causes some anxiety to 
the great men of the South who guide our national affairs, but 
after some thought I am of opinion that more good than evil will 
ultimately come of it. Moral good & I may say political so often 
springs from physical evil & political troubles that these may be 
often ascribed without superstition to the kindness of a Guardian 
Providence We must suffer all the miseries internal discord, dis- 
union & anarchy inflict if we are not irresistibly combined by the 
superior iufiuence of a common interest in repelling an external 
Enemy. It may therefore be a blessing to the United States to 
have a french Establishment in Louisiana as strong as France can 
make it. All the local & relative circumstances consider'd, it is 
demonstrable that we have nothing to fear from mere force. — I 
admit \\it possibility of another sort of influence which might work 
irreparable mischief, but on a calculation of chances I see such a 
preponderance of those which are favorable that I look to the end 
of this project with great confidence that it will (after much suf- 
fering perhaps) promote our permanent good. 

You v>'ill see with pleasure the state of our Election in this 
Quarter. I have no great reliance on a steady correctness of 
public opinion but undoubtedly Jacobinism has declined a little 
for the last six months. The superiority of the Federal char- 
acters in Congress & the Newspapers evidently depresses & some- 
times silences their opponents who have the national government 
absolutely in their hands. How far those now in power will be 
able to carry the people is more doubtful than was thought a few 
months ago. It is perfectly understood that the principle of the 
Admin, is the popular passion ; whatever mischief this will sanction 
may be expected ; but where this can not be had they will stop. 
We are men and acting on french principles, but as we are not 
french men, the French Philosophers make some mistakes con- 
cerning us. . . . 

Yours with aff & fidelity 

G. C. 

I06 RUFUS KING. [1802 

F. Ames to R. King. 

Dedhem, April 13, 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

. . . I do not despair of G. B. and of course I trust some- 
what in the chances of the world's escaping from the fangs of 
french domination. The ambitious project of getting Louisiana 
can do nothing but good. We need as all nations do the com- 
pression on the outside of our circle of a formidable neighbor — 
whose presence shall at all times excite stronger fears than dema- 
gogues can inspire the people with towards their govt. The 
object of popular aversion and dread has been only govt. France 
if she could float here and anchor on our coast has no terrors 
equal to our near prospect of anarchy first and then Jacobin 
despotism. We ought to rejoice in a new position of things in 
which courage toil and suffering might avail to extricate us from 
imminent evils — instead of that smooth and swift descent down 
the precipice that we have been making for a year past. . . . 

Great joy is felt here on occasion of the adjustment made with 
G. Britain of the spoliation and treaty debts. It is well known 
and truly felt and acknowledged that your and Mr Gore's resi- 
dence in London has been infinitely serviceable to the U. S. 
This consideration ought to keep you both quiet a little longer in 
a situation that the newspapers have said you were weary of and 
about to quit. God bless you when you return with the sight of 
a country grateful, free and secure of it's freedom on fixed 

principles. 

With great regard &c 

Yrs 
Fisher Ames. 

J. Hale to R. King. 

Boston, 13 April, 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

. . . In mine advising you of the patriot Erving's appoint- 
ment I believe I indulged gloomy & indignant feelings & 
even urged your return home. My indignation at that & many 
other measures of the philosopher is not & I hope never will be 
abated. Your continuance however in your present important 
station for twelve or eighteen months to come, more mature 
reflection induces me seriously to hope. The London papers 

l8o2] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, IO7 

advise of your determination to resign. The paragraphs upon 
this subject I feel confident have not been authorized by you. 
On the other hand my conjecture has fixed their source in the 
aforesaid /^/r/W E. 

The philosopher's message at the opening of the session I 
transmitted to you. His recommendations have been very implic- 
itly followed. The results hitherto have been grateful to the feel- 
ings of the wise & virtuous. In New Hampshire & Massachusetts, 
particularly the latter, the sect\\d.yt. been utterly confounded by the 
emphatic voice of the people against them. Even the Chronicle 
after stating the votes (as far as ascertained) to be 20,000 for 
Strong & 13,000 for G., piously ejaculates, " the will of the people 
be done " ! The confidence & impudence of the sect prior to 
the ist Monday of this month you would scarcely credit. Their 
present chagrin & mortification you may easily conceive of. We 
are creditably informed that right principles & correspondent 
feelings are not confined to New England & that in Maryland a 
most happy change has taken place in the public mind. The 
Louisiana project must operate much good. If you see the fed- 
eral papers at the northward handling that project as of little 
moment ; if you find them puffing Bonaparte & even the Gen- 
eral Bernadotte, be not alarmed. Should matters come to a 
serious issue, upon yankees principally will the nation depend for 
its support, and you know they will not be wanting in spirit & 
energy. But when called upon for exertions in favor of the 
Nation, they expect to be treated in other respects as part of the 
Nation, whose rights & interest they are ever ready to maintain. 

It is more to be hoped than expected that the delays attending 
the settlement of the definitive treaty will give more stability to 
the peace. The present state of the Continental powers however 
promise no more upon this head, than their suffering & exhausted 
state will necessarily induce. The sect & even the philosopher 
openly inveigh against Bonaparte. They are chagrined beyond 
measure that he shows so little gratitude for their past attachment. 
One source of apprehension is therefore removed, and at present 
there is not much reason to fear that we shall be thrown into the 
arms of France, should the present European armistice end. 

Your friend & obed. Servt. 

Joseph Hale. 

I08 RUFUS KING. [i8o2 

R. King to Rt. Hon. Lord Hawkesbury. 

Confidential. 

London, April 21, 1802. 

My Lord : 

By the Treaty of Alliance concluded at Paris in 1778, between 
the United States of America and France, the latter renounced 
forever the possession of every part of the Continent of America, 
lying to the East of the course of the Mississippi. This renuncia- 
tion confirming that which had been previously made in the 
Treaty of 1763 between Great Britain and France, authorized the 
expectation that France, content with her widely spread domin- 
ions, would abstain from seeking an extension of them in this part 
of the American Continent : an expectation that appeared the 
more reasonable inasmuch as the motives to such extension 
could not be satisfactorily reconciled with a just regard to the 
Rights and security of those Powers between which this portion 
of America is divided, and by which the same is at present 
possessed. 

Contrary nevertheless to expectations which have been enter- 
tained on this subject, if credit be due to uniform and uncontra- 
dicted Reports, the Government of France has prevailed upon his 
Catholic Majesty to cede to France both the Provinces of Lou- 
isiana and the Floridas, and having thus acquired a station at the 
mouth and on both sides of the Mississippi, may be inclined to 
interfere with and interrupt the open Navigation of the River. 

By the Treaty of Peace concluded at Paris in 1783, between the 
United States of America and Great Britain, it is mutually stipu- 
lated that the Navigation of the River Mississippi, from its source 
to the ocean, shall forever remain free and open to the subjects 
of Great Britain and the citizens of the United States of America. 
Without enlarging upon the great and peculiar importance of this 
Navigation to the United States, a large and increasing portion 
of whose people can conveniently communicate with each other 
and with foreign countries by no other route, I take the liberty 
thro' your Lordship to request that the British Government will 
in confidence explain itself upon this subject ; and especially 
that it will explicitly declare whether any communication has 
been received by it from the Government of France or Spain 

l802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, lOQ 

respecting the said cession ; or whether his Britannic Majesty has 
in any manner acquiesced in, or sanctioned the same, so as to 
impair or affect the stipulations above referred to concerning 
the free navigation of the Mississippi ; In a word, I intreat your 
Lordship to open yourself on this occasion with that freedom 
which, in matters of weighty concern, is due from one friendly 
nation to another, and which in the present instance, will have 
the effect to do away all those misconceptions that may otherwise 
prevail in respect to the privity of Great Britain to the cession in 
question. 

With the highest consideration and respect &c., 

RuFus King. 

J. McHenry to R. King. 

Baltimore, April 27, 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

Perhaps, for the present, it may be as well to suspend doing 
anything relative to the engravings of the Indian Medals, that I 
took the liberty to request you to have executed for me. My 
object was, to have used them in a collection of my own public 
papers, that I had contemplated throwing together, in a small 
volume. I have not relinquished this design, but as some of the 
pieces may require notes, and as the publication is intended more 
for private than public gratification, I am in no hurry to carry it 
into effect. Mr. Jefferson, I am told, ordered a new set of 
medals for the Indians, with new devices and emblems. Would 
to God that he had confined his revolutionary genius to things of 
no greater importance, we should have had less, to-day, to appre- 
hend for the fate of the Constitution and our Country. 

The ultimate effects of peace, upon our Merchants and the 
Country at large, are not yet fully developed. There have been 
several failures in most of our trading Cities, and there is a dimi- 
nution of foreign trade everywhere visible. We calculate upon a 
decrease in our importations from the East Indies, proportionate 
to the articles we received from that quarter, and exported during 
the war. We calculate upon the total loss of that part of our 
trade, with the French and Spanish Islands and the Spanish 
main, which arose out of, and had its existence in, the late war. 
In short, we calculate upon the commerce of the U. S. rapidly 

no RUFUS KING. [l8o2 

and with few exceptions reverting to, and flowing only in those 
channels in which it flowed previous to the war ; of course the 
excess of our shipping, beyond what this trade will require, if not 
purchased by Europeans, must rot in our ports, and our com- 
merce in foreign products and manufactures, be confined, princi- 
pally if not wholly, to what we shall want for our own use or 
consumption, and our exports, to such part of our productions 
and industry as shall be wanted by foreign nations. If you can 
open new or other sources of trade to our merchants, you will be 
a greater benefactor to your Country, than were you to teach our 
farmers to raise two blades of grass from a stem which at present 
produces but one. Perhaps more correct reflections upon her 
interests may induce Great Britain to favor your operations, 
should they be directed (as I presume they are) to liberalize (if I 
may so express myself) the trade of this Country with her various 
foreign possessions. According to my humble conceptions, it 
would be wisdom in Great Britain, were she to open the doors of 
her Colonies, to our trade, much wider than her system of 
restraints and monopoly would advise or dictate. But no person 
understands this subject better than yourself, or is better qualified 
to make upon others, the proper impressions. I shall only observe, 
that a good commercial treaty, at this juncture, when our trade is 
either annihilated or stranded, in almost every quarter, in which 
it has so lately flourished, would come most opportunely to the 
American merchant and people. 

I must refer you to your other correspondents for a general 
view of the state of politics, and complexion of public opinion as 
relative to the capacity of the existing administration, to manage 
wisely the affairs of this Country. Here and there, in this State, 
may be observed symptoms of incipient distrust in the adminis- 
tration, and disappointment of some of the acts and proceedings 
of Congress. I do not however augur, from these partial appear- 
ances, any sudden change for the better in the democratic part of 
our representation in Congress, or check to the career of the ad- 
ministration, altho' the probability is, that there will not be want- 
ing matter, to encrease the bulk of these discontents until they 
become instrumental in the production of good. 

Connecticut in this great and trying crisis has behaved nobly, 
both in and out of Congress. Massachusetts is slowly resuming 

l8o2] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. Ill 

her ancient consequence and imposing posture. Rhode Island 
begins to inquire, whether she is in the right path. Tho' little 
favourable to federalism can be predicted relative to New York 
and New Jersey, these states must not be considered as irretriev- 
ably lost. Pennsylvania still clings to democracy ; she is said to 
be not quite content with some of her demagogues, but at the 
same time, not sufficiently dissatisfied with them, to dismiss them 
from her councils or confidence. Of the Southern states, I can 
say little. Accounts from them are various. I believe the safest 
rule is to look to the Eastward. . . . 

Your faithful & humble servant 

James McHenry. 

R. King to Nicholas Vansittart, Esq. 

Great Cumberland Place, Ap. 29, 1802. 
Sir : 

As several points upon which we have touched in our conver- 
sations respecting the Bill before Parliament, imposing certain 
Duties upon Exports and Imports and the Tonnage of Vessels, 
were the subject of discussion when the Convoy Duties were im- 
posed, I take the liberty to send you the copy of the Report 
which I made to my Government of the conference which on 
that occasion I had with Mr. Pitt, thinking this as satisfactory a 
mode, as any that I could adopt, of communicating to you the 
objections then made against certain of the Provisions of the 
Convoy Duty, and which so far as respects the Principle of the 
Export Duties, now proposed to be laid, are equally applicable 
to the present as to the former Bill. 

Without repeating what has been already said, I will beg of you 
to give all the weight which it deserves to the obvious and just in- 
fluence to be deduced from the Spirit and Tenor of our Treaty 
of Amity &c, and according to which, as we think, we are not 
liable to pay a higher Duty for Permission to export your manu- 
factures than is paid by your other customers. Agreeably to the 
proposed Tariff, the consumers of British manufactures, living in 
Europe, will pay only half per cent for permission to export the 
same, while we who live farther off, and who consequently pay 
higher freight and Insurance, are required to pay double that rate, 
or one per cent for the like Permission. 

112 RUFUS KING, [l8o2 

It is true that the difference will not be as considerable as 
under the Convoy Law ; but it is not against the greater or less 
degree, but against discrimination altogether that we contend. 
When the objection was formerly pressed, it was replied, as you 
will perceive by the enclosed Report, that the Duty being taken 
in reference to Convoys, which would cost more in long than in 
short voyages, was for this reason not inequitable. Whatever 
force there might have been in this reply, it must be admitted to 
have no influence whatever in reference to the discrimination 
now proposed, the effect of which in regard to American and 
European Purchasers of British manufactures is, that each having 
purchased goods upon the same terms and of the same amount, 
the former is called upon before he leaves the Warehouse to pay 
for the Government Permission to carry away his Purchase, double 
the sum demanded of the latter for a like permission ; and if the 
Americans be supposed to purchase British manufactures of the 
value of Six Millions annually, and it be likewise admitted that 
the Europeans purchase to the same amount, the former will an- 
nually pay according to the proposed discrimination ^^30,000 
sterling more than the latter ; or in other words, for permission 
to export the same quantity of Goods, the British Government 
will require the European purchaser to pay only ;^3o,ooo, at the 
same time that it obliges the American Purchaser to pay Sixty 
Thousand. 

This discrimination is at the same time too plain to leave any 
doubt of the sentiments which it must unavoidably excite ; and I 
cannot but flatter myself that, upon a reconsideration of the sub- 
ject, it will be thought both just and prudent that every sort of 
discrimination and preference should be abolished. 

With great Consideration & Respect &c. 

RuFus King. 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. 67^. 

London, Ap. 30, 1802. 
Sir : 

The definitive Treaty having been duly ratified, Peace was 
yesterday proclaimed with the accustomed formalities. Measures 
are already taken to reduce the Army and Navy to a peace estab- 

l802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. II3 

lishment ; and as the warrants and orders to impress Seamen have 
been recalled, we may expect the discontinuance of farther appli- 
cations from American Seamen, detained against their consent in 
the British Service. 

Mr Lenox has closed his agency, and according to your in- 
structions delivered over to Mr Erving the Papers of his office. 
As this Agency arose out of the Transactions of the war, it will, 
I presume, cease with the war. The Consuls being authorized to 
afford during Peace the Relief due to our deserted and distressed 
Seamen within their respective Consulate, a special Agency for 
the purpose will be unnecessary. 

Sweden has finally acceded to the Convention concluded in 
June last between Great Britian and Russia. Lord St. Helens, 
the English Ambassador at St. Petersburgh, after communicating 
this intelligence in a letter to Lord Hawkesbury of the 2nd in- 
stant, an extract whereof has been published by this Government, 
adds, " I have moreover the satisfaction of being enabled to 
assure your Lordship that the Swedish Ambassador, Baron de 
Stedingk, has been distinctly informed by the Count de Kots- 
chonbey, the Russian Minister for Foreign Affairs, that as the 
motives which had occasioned the late revival of the System of 
the Armed Neutrality were now happily done away with, that 
System is considered by this Court as completely annulled and 
abandoned, not only as a general code of maritime Law, but 
even in its more limited meaning of a specific engagement between 
Russia and other Confederates." 

Lord Hawkesbury has recently informed me that Mr. Merry, 
and not Mr. Jackson, will be sent to the United States as Mr. 
Liston's Successor. Mr. Merry has taken Mr. Jackson's place as 
Minister Plenipotentiary at Paris for the purpose of exchanging 
the Ratifications of the Definitive Treaty ; and I understand that 
he will probably be sent to Madrid on a particular service before 
he embarks. 

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c. 

RuFus King. 

VOL. IV.— 8 

114 RUFUS KING. [1802 

R. King to Secretary of State. 
No. 64. 

London, May 3, 1802. 
Sir: 

In order that the pecuniary affairs of the United States might 
be managed with economy and that I myself might be free from 
unnecessary accountability in respect to the public money dis- 
bursed in this country, I settled an arrangement with Mess. Bird, 
Savage & Bird, who were recommended to me by my Predecessor, 
which I communicated to the Department of State immediately 
after my arrival here. 

By this arrangement these Gentlemen agreed to receive all such 
public money, and to apply the same according to the directions 
which should from time to time be given to them. For the col- 
lection, custody and disbursement thereof, they were to charge no 
commission, but in case they should be occasionally called upon 
for advances, exceeding the money in hand, they were at liberty 
to charge interest at the rate of five per cent from the date of 
such advance till its reimbursement ; and in order that we might 
not be paying interest for advances in one branch of the public 
Expenditures, while another was in Cash, no loans were to be 
made, nor interest paid, except for such sum as the aggregate of 
the whole Expenditures exceeded the total amount of the money 
in hand. These loans were reimbursed as soon as farther re- 
mittances were received ; and by this course on the one hand 
the public service was liable to no disappointment from the fail- 
ure or want of punctuality in Remittances, and on the other this 
security and accommodation were obtained upon terms both 
reasonable and convenient. No part of the public Funds, in any 
instances, remained in my possession, the Bills of exchange, as 
soon as received, having in all cases been sent to Mess. Bird, 
Savage & Bird for collection. According to my Instructions, as 
well as from the nature of the case, a superintendence and con- 
trol over these Funds, were annexed to my office, and hitherto 
the duty has been duly discharged. 

Although I have received no particular Instructions upon the 
subject, I had no sooner looked into the business of the Prize 
cases depending in the Tribunals of this country, and with the 

l802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. II5 

prosecution whereof the public had charged itself, than I per- 
ceived the expediency of adopting immediate measures for the 
purpose of securing the money which might be recovered for the 
several Claimants, and of obtaining a reimbursement of the Ex- 
penses, which the Government had already incurred, and would 
be liable to incur, in the prosecution of the claims. 

With respect to the first ; as the public Agent received a salary 
it appeared to me unfit that he should charge the claimants 
with a Commission ; and as many disagreements existed not only 
in relation to the several proportions of claims belonging to more 
than one person, but disputes of a still more difficult nature in 
cases of Bankruptcy and Insolvency, and in which the money was 
liable to be, and in some instances had been, attached in the 
Agent's hand, to await the decisions of the English Tribunals, I 
instructed the Agent in no case to charge the Claimants a Com- 
mission and took measures that all monies recovered from the 
Captors or the British Government (after deducting the costs 
which had been advanced by the United States) should be paid 
directly into the Bank of England and placed to my credit in 
my official capacity. This precaution put an end to all further 
suits, as by reason of my office I could not be made a party to 
them. I executed a Power of Attorney authorizing the public 
Agent to draw for the money thus standing to my credit in the 
Bank of England in order that the same might be paid over to 
the claimants, and prepared and sent him special Instructions 
concerning the discharges which he should require of them. 

In regard to money standing on account of Costs, which had 
been incurred by the public, I ordered that the same should in all 
cases be paid over to Bird, Savage & Bird, and credited to the 
funds for the prosecution of appeals. 

This arrangement had the advantage of being a convenient 
check upon the important accounts of the public Agent. The 
Bank account will show that no part of the money thus placed 
to my credit has been drawn for except by the Agents, nor by 
them except in favour of the claimants. Messrs. Bird, Savage & 
Bird's accounts joined to that of the Agent will likewise shew the 
sums which have been detained on account of Costs incurred by 
the Public, as well as the manner in which such sums have after- 
wards been disposed of. 

Il6 RUFUS KING. [1802 

I have thought it proper to trouble you with this communica- 
tion instead of referring you to my early correspondence with the 
Department of State upon this subject ; and I am led to do so 
principally in consequence of an embarrassment which has 
lately happened by the refusal of Messrs Bird, Savage & Bird 
to advance to Mr. Lenox the money requisite to enable him to 
reimburse the advances which have been made for the relief and 
protection of our Seamen up to the first day of this month. 
According to his Instructions, Mr. Lenox furnished me with a 
statement of the money wanted for this purpose ; and agreeably 
to my Instructions and the plan which had been settled with 
Messrs Bird, Savage & Bird, I wrote a letter to them requesting 
that they would pay to Mr. Lenox ^,£"800., the amount of his 
Estimate. These Gentlemen paid to Mr. Lenox ;^ 250., being the 
amount of the last year's Remittances for this service, but refused 
to advance the difference in pursuance, as they allege in their 
letter to me, of direct instructions from the Department of the 
Treasury, which require them to limit their disbursements, by 
the sums remitted to them, and forbid them on any occasion to 
make advances on the public credit. 

As these Instructions have had the effect to transfer the 
superintendence and control of the public Expenditures in this 
country from the Minister to the Agents of the Treasury, without 
enquiring whether the reform is likely to prove advantageous 
to the public, there can be no hesitation on my part in 
acquiescing in it, and accordingly I shall not in future, without 
special instructions, regard our pecuniary affairs here, as in any 
sort under my control and direction. 

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c. 

RuFus King. 

J. Marshall to R. King. 

Richmond, May 5, 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

This fortunate accomplishment of the long &: difificult negotia- 
tion with which you were charged, is peculiarly gratifying to those 
who unite a knowledge of the embarrassing circumstances attend- 

l8o2] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. II/ 

ing it, to a real wish that your embassy may be as honorable to 
yourself as it has been useful to your country. 

You have effected what, in America, has been heretofore 
deemed impracticable. You have made a treaty with one of the 
great rival Nations of Europe, which is not only acceptable to all, 
but the merit of which is claimed by both parties. The advocates 
of the present administration ascribe to it great praise, for having, 
with so much dexterity & so little loss, extricated our country 
from a debt of twenty-four million of dollars in which a former 
administration had involved it ; while the friends of the ancient 
state of things, are not slow in adding the present happy accomo- 
dation to the long list of their jSIerits. 

Yet amidst this universal approbation so correctly given to an 
adjustment of differences which unquestionably deserve it, the 
mortifying reflection obtrudes itself, that the reputation of the 
most wise & skilful conduct depends, in this our capricious world, 
so much on accident. Had Mr. Adams been reelected President 
of the United States, or had his successor been a gentleman 
whose political opinions accorded with those held by the preced- 
ing executive, a very different reception, I still believe, would 
have been given to the same measure. The payment of a specific 
sum would then have been pronounced, by those who now take 
merit to themselves for it, a humiliating national degradation, an 
abandonment of national interest, a free will offering of millions 
to Britain for her grace & favor, by those who sought to engage 
in a war with France, rather than repay, in part, by a small loan 
to that republic, the immense debt of gratitude we owe her. 

Such is, & such I fear will ever be human justice ! 

When I recollect the advantage actually gained by Great 
Britain, in having obtained the fifth commissioner, I am truly 
surprized at the sum agreed on. I believe it is as much, & not 
more than, in strict justice, ought to be paid, but, after the im- 
pressions made by the late board of commissioners I really appre- 
hended strict justice to be unattainable ; & I think, not only, that 
great credit is due to the American Negotiator for having reduced 
this enormous claim to a reasonable amount, but that, all circum- 
stances considered, some sentiment of respect should be felt for 
the moderation & equity of the English Minister. 

The national tribunals, I hope will continue to manifest, in the 

Il8 RUFUS KING. [1802 

exposition of the treaty of peace, " that share of prudence," which 
is required by justice, & which can alone preserve the reputation 
of the nation. 

Public opinion in this quarter of the union has sustained no 
essential change. That disposition to coalesce with what is, now, 
the majority in America as well as in this state, which was strongly 
display'd by the minority twelve months past, exists no longer. 
It has expired. But the minority is only recovering its strength 
& firmness. It acquires nothing 

Our political tempests will long, very long, exist, after those 
who are now toss'd about by them shall be at rest. 

Your obedt. Servt. 

J. Marshall. 

CHAPTER VIII. 

King to Secretary of State — Bill imposing Duties on Exports and Imports 
passed — King to Secretary of State — Has asked Lord Hawkesbury for a 
confidential Statement of Views of the British Government about Louisi- 
ana Cession — Lord Hawkesbury to King — Confidential Answer — King to 
Hamilton — Louisiana Cession — Troup to King — American Politics — Cabot 
to King — Sees Danger in the European Peace — France ambitious, rest- 
less— King to Low — His Opinion of Samuel Williams — King to Secretary 
of State — Debate on the Peace — Convention between Great Britain and 
Russia — King to Secretary of State — Embarrassment with Trade through 
French Laws — Affairs of Bird & Co. embarrassed — King to Dr. Drury — 
Wishes his Sons advanced as much as possible — Drury to King — Does not 
advise pushing them — Course at Harrow — Hamilton to King — He should 
return Home — Reasons given — General Opinion of Affairs in the United 
States — Troup to King — Affairs in United States, especially relative to 
Burr. 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. 65. 

London, May 5, 1802. 
Sir: 

The Bill imposing Duties on Exports and Imports and the 
Tonnage Duties has passed the House of Commons, and will 
doubtless go through the House of Lords, and receive the Royal 
assent, without alteration : if it be yet printed, I will enclose a 
copy thereof with this Letter. 

In respect to the Duties on Imports, the Bill, in effect, revives 
the correspondent Provisions of the Convoy Act, with the addi- 
tion in most cases, of a fifth to the Duties imposed by that act. 
The Tonnage Duties as well as the Duties upon Goods exported 
to any part of Europe are the same as under the Convoy Act : 
the Duties upon Goods exported to America and other places out 
of Europe are reduced to half the rates imposed by the Convoy 
Act ; and with regard to articles excepted from the payment of 
Duties inwards and outwards, as well as to the regulations for 

119 

120 RUFUS KING. [l8o2 

warehousing certain Goods, and allowing Drawbacks in case of 
re-exportation, the like provisions are contained in the present 
Bill, as were inserted in the Convoy Act. 

In consequence of the large quantity of Cotton lately imported 
from the United States and the superior quality of a portion of 
the Georgia Cotton, it was proposed to put a higher Duty upon 
our cotton than upon that of Turkey, which is of an inferior 
quality. But on conferring with the officers charged with the 
settlement of these Duties, the discrimination has been given up, 
and without distinguishing between Sea Island and other cotton 
of the United States, as had at first been proposed, the duty is 
reduced to the lowest rate or to that imposed upon the Cotton of 
Turkey : and as all other Cotton will pay higher Duties than that 
of the United States and Turkey, ours will stand upon a compar- 
atively good footing in this market. 

As the proposed Tonnage Duty upon our Vessels is as low as 
upon the Vessels of any other country, and applies to British 
equally with foreign Vessels, so far as respects discrimination 
there is nothing to complain of. 

With regard to the proposed Export Duty, after several confer- 
ences with Mr. Vansittart of the Treasury, to whom I was referred 
by Lord Hawkesbury to discuss the subject, and in which I 
urged, but without success, the abolition of all discrimination 
between the Purchasers of British Manufactures, I thought it my 
duty to write him a letter * upon the subject, a copy whereof is 
annexed ; if his answer should be received in time, a copy of it 
shall also be subjoined. 

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c 

RuFUS King. 

R. Troup to R. King. 

New York, 6 May, 1802. 
My dear Sir : 

. . . Burr has gone south on an ostensible visit to his 
daughter, who married a man named Alston, and is settled in 
Charleston. The real object of the visit is well understood, and 
it is supposed to occasion at least a sigh to Jeffersen. I think, 

* Letter 29th April, p. iii. 

i802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 121 

however, and such is the general opinion, that Jefferson has not 
a formidable rival in Burr. The Clintonian party, which is 
warmly attached to Jefferson, in this State is much more influen- 
tial than Burr's party ; and the Clintonian party hate Burr as 
much as the Jacobins in France hate Bonaparte. In this city the 
Clintonians and Burrites are at dagger's points. Their feuds at 
our late election were a subject of no small gratification to our 
zealous federalists. The Clintonian and democratic printer in 
this City during the winter has blackguarded Burr without re- 
serve. At Washington it is understood he has played a little 
cunning and trimming game. Jefferson and his friends think 
they know him profoundly. . . . 

In this State federalism begins to rise from its tomb, as evi- 
denced by the recent election. . . . The violence of Clinton 
and his adherents and the violence also of Jefferson in removals 
from office have excited a powerful public sentiment against their 
administration. By the bye, Mrs. Montgomery calls Jefferson's 
administration a philosophical experiment. . . . 

Your convention is ratified. A few days ago Congress was 
occupied with a bill to carry it into effect. It is very grateful to 
all parties. Mrs. Montgomery says the chancellor writes in very 
strong terms of approbation of your conduct. There is not the 
least probability of your recall. The democrats are changing 
their tone with respect to France, and particularly with respect 
to Bonaparte. It is certain that the chancellor has not been 
pleased with his reception. I should not be surprised if violent 
hatred was to succeed the violent love for the Great Nation. 
Bonaparte is universally cursed. Louisiana and the Islands are 
a subject of great heartburning with Jefferson and his adherents ; 
at length their eyes are beginning to open. Our captains of ves- 
sels and merchants have been most infamously treated by Le 
Clerc at St. Domingo. The general opinion here is that the con- 
quest of Toussaint and his followers will be a lengthy, expensive 
and bloody job. If the war in Europe should recommence, Le 
Clerc will be defeated, and probably compelled to quit St. Do- 
mingo, if he can. 

Mr. Jay is in the deepest retirement and his name is scarcely 
ever mentioned. . . . Hamilton is devoted to the law — is 
making money faster than ever. . . . Mr. Rensselaer, the 

122 RUFUS KING, [l8o2 

Patroon, is to be married in the course of two or three weeks 
to Miss Paterson, a daughter of Judge Paterson of New 
Jersey. . . . 

Yours 

R. T. 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. 66. 

London, May 7, 1802. 
Sir: 

Among the few great principles of national policy worthy 
of fixing the attention of our Statesmen, I am willing to hope 
there is not one, concerning which there is greater unanimity of 
opinion than in that which enjoins upon us all to do our utmost 
in every way and upon all occasions, to maintain and perpetuate 
the union of our country. 

With this persuasion, though the subject may not be thought 
to be included among the duties of my mission, I have not been 
able to remain inattentive or indifferent to the cession of Louisi- 
ana and the Floridas to France, because I have viewed it as a 
measure calculated, and possibly intended, to weaken and divide 
us, I have already communicated to you what passed between me 
and the Ministers of this Country in relation to this cession, dur- 
ing the negotiation for Peace ; but as these communications were 
merely verbal, and as it appeared to me to be of some importance 
that they should be distinctly and formally confirmed, as well as 
that they should be ascertained of the sentiments of this Govern- 
ment in respect to this cession, I prepared and sent to Lord 
Hawkesbury a confidential Letter * upon the subject, a copy 
whereof, together with a copy of his answer, is annexed. 1 will 
only add that I have reason to be satisfied that the cession of 
Louisania and the Floridas is considered by all the late Ministry, 
as well as by all other men of influence in this country, as a 
measure of the greatest consequence, and which must have an 
unavoidable influence upon the duration of Peace. 

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c 

RuFus King. 

* April 21, 1802, page 108. 

l8o2] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 1 23 

Lord Hawkesbury to Rufus King, Esq. 

Confidential, 

Downing Street, 7th May, 1802. 
Sir : 

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your confiden- 
tial Letter of 21st ultimo. 

It is impossible that so important an Event, as the cession of 
Louisiana by Spain to France, should be regarded by the King in 
any other light than as highly interesting to his Majesty and to the 
United States ; and should render it more necessary than ever that 
there should subsist between the two Governments that spirit of 
confidence which is become so essential to the security of their 
respective Territories and Possessions. 

With regard to the free Navigation of the Mississippi, I conceive 
that it is perfectly clear, according to the Law of Nations, that in 
the event of the District of Louisiana being ceded to France, that 
Country would come into the possession of it, subject to all the en- 
gagements which appertained to it at the time of cession, and that 
the French Government could consequently allege no colourable 
pretext for excluding his Majesty's subjects, or the citizens of the 
United States from the navigation of the River Mississippi. 

With regard to the second Question in your Letter, I can have 
no difficulty in informing you, that no communication whatever 
has been received by his Majesty from the Government of France 
or Spain, relative to any Convention or Treaty for the cession of 
Louisiana or the Floridas, and I can at the same time most truly 
assure you that his Majesty has not in any manner, directly or in- 
directly acquiesced in or sanctioned this cession. 

In making this communication to you for the information of the 
Government of the United States, I think it right to acquaint you 
that his Majesty will be anxious to learn their sentiments on 
every part of this subject, and the line of policy which they will 
be induced to adopt in the event of this arrangement being car- 
ried into effect. 

I have the honor to be with great consideration 

Hawkesbury. 

124 RUFUS KING, [1802 

R. King to General Hamilton. 

Secret and confidential. 

London, May 7, 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

As I know of no measure from abroad which is capable of such 
extensive and injurious effects as the cession of Louisiana and the 
Floridas to France it has been a subject of my unremitting solici- 
tude and attention from the moment of our first suspicions con- 
cerning it. Its importance was fully and frequently developed to 
the ministers of this country before the conclusion of the Pre- 
liminaries and during the negotiation at Amiens ; but no expla- 
nation was demanded of France, lest it should embarrass the 
conclusion of Peace. 

Mr. Pinckney absurdly enough is offeriftgto purchase the Floridas 
of Spain, which has already disposed of them. Mr. Livingston 
can obtain no answer whatever to his repeated notes on this sub- 
ject at Paris, while we learn for a certainty that an Expedition to 
be commanded by Bernadotte is already prepared in the Ports of 
France, and will go directly to the Mississippi unless the bad 
state of the affairs of St. Domingo should alter its destination. 

In these circumstances I have thought it prudent to ask this 
Government to explain itself upon this important measure, and I 
send you in entire confidence Copies of my Letter and of the 
answer which I have received and transmitted to the Department 
of State. 

In Thornton's last Dispatches which I have seen, he repeats a 

conversation between him and the President, in which the latter 

is represented to have said that this cession would inevitably 

change the political System of the United States in respect to 

their foreign Relations ; inasmuch as it would lead to jealousies, 

irritation and hostility ; and, alluding to the northwest boundary 

of the United States, suggested the expediency of an immediate 

settlement of it by an agreement to close the boundary by taking 

for that purpose the shortest line between Lake Superior and any 

part of the Mississippi. 

With sincere regards &c. 

RuFus King. 

l8o2] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 12$ 

G. Cabot to R. King. 

May II, 1802. 
My dear Friend : 

I congratulate you on the success of your Convention which is 
approved by men of all parties. We are this moment told that 
the Definitive Treaty is signed at Amiens but many of us see as 
much danger in the peace as we apprehended in the war ; for 
myself I decided early that there cou'd be no security in paper 
promises against a nation of conquerors — with the power which 
France possesses she ca?inot possibly he at rest s all experience of 
human nature forbids the expectation that she will cease from her 
exertions until she is compelled by force or shall conquer the 
remains of civilized States. It might be very troublesome to us 
but wou'd probably be happy for other nations if France shou'd 
assail us so rudely as to unite us internally in a determined re- 
sistance— we cou'd not injure her by any force of our own but we 
cou'd defend ourselves with certainty if united & cou'd do so 
much toward sustaining those who are able to injure her that she 
cou'd have no hope of success. 

" The Sect " which now governs has lost much reputation since 
the meeting of Congress ; the want of principle has not been 
more manifest than the want of talents & weight of character. 
So much time & labor has been employed in search of faults 
without finding any in the Members of the old administrations 
that men are irresistibly led to the conclusion that the charges 
against them were false which were circulated while they were in 
power. — From Maryland to New Hampshire inclusively the 
career of Jacobinism is arrested & in most places the tide of 
opinion sets the other way. You know we were all deteriorating 
last year, the progress is everywhere checked, in most places 
stopped, & in many the course changed. There has never been 
a period when the Federal Cause was maintained with more good 
sense and dignity than since its leaders & advocates have been 
in the minority. I am fully persuaded that the Federalists have 
a more salutary influence than they cou'd have had if the Presi- 
dential Election had issued according to their wishes — they can- 
not effect a positive act but they prevent abiiost every bad one 
that is meditated & those which pass in spite of opposition still 
have one good effect that of strengthening the federal cause — all 

126 RUFUS KING. [1802 

this needs no further explanation, so I pray God to preserve you 
many years ! 

G. C. 

R. King to N. Low. 

London, May 15, 1802. 

Dear Sir : 

. . . I am glad you happened to ask my opinion respecting 
Mr. Samuel Williams, who has been removed from the offices of 
Consul and Agent for the prosecution of claims and appeals. 
Indeed I almost reproach myself for not having mentioned him 
to you after I heard of his removal. I am inclined to hope that 
the public as well as individuals, whose concerns were entrusted 
to Mr. Williams, may be faithfully served by his successor ; but 
sure I am they are not likely to be better served : for I am con- 
vinced the public has not had in its employ a more attentive, 
intelligent and faithful Officer than Mr. Williams. I have known 
him well for more than twenty years (or, as our friend Genl. 
Knox would say, upwards of a quarter of a century). He was 
my contemporary at College, has been known to me ever since, 
and was removed from Hamburgh to London at my request, on 
account of his peculiar fitness for the employ, and I would con- 
fide my business and property to him, as I am persuaded you and 
others may do, with the most unreserved confidence in his In- 
tegrity and Talents. 

He is a man of property, has been regularly bred to business 
and is established in London. I may add that he has the unani- 
mous testimony of the Board of Commissioners, which his late 
colleague, Mr. Cabot, also possessed, of having neglected nothing 
in performing his duties in connection with them. I think it no 
more than mere justice to Mr. Williams to say thus much, and to 
add my consent that you should communicate the same to any 
person who may desire to be acquainted with his reputation. 

With perfect Regard &: Esteem 

RuFUS King. 

l802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 12/ 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. 67. 

London, May 17, 1802. 
Sir : 

As Lord Grenville's speech against the Definitive Treaty of 
Peace, and Lord Hawkesbury's in vindication of it, will both be 
printed under their respective correction, and as these will con- 
tain more exactly than I could give them the arguments made use 
of in the two Houses of Parliament when the Treaty was under 
consideration, it is unnecessary that I should do more than state 
the division which was strong in both Houses in support of the 
Treaty ; the opposition had only 16 in the Lords, and 20 in the 
Commons. As soon as these discourses are published I will take 
care to send you copies of them. 

Herewith you will receive a copy of the Convention and ad- 
ditional articles between Great Britain and Russia, together with 
the acts of accession of Denmark and Sweden. The explanatory 
article, concerning the Colony Trade, taken in connection with 
Lord Grenville's speech, which I formerly sent you, on the Rus- 
sian Convention, is worthy of attention ; as the article consenting 
to as free a Trade between the Colonies and the North of Europe 
as may be carried on between them and the United States, is a 
departure from a contrary system which it has been the view of 
the past administration to establish and may become the founda- 
tion of doing away the discrimination in favour of direct trade 
between the United States and Great Britain, sanctioned by the 
last Treaty between Great Britain and Russia. 

I likewise enclose a copy of the Law just passed, imposing Duties 
upon Imports and Exports, and upon the Tonnage of Vessels. 

Mr. Eaton, who returned to Tunis on the istof March, informs 
me that the Tagan, cloths and Jewels had all arrived in safety, 
and proved highly acceptable to the Bey ; and Mr. Gavino in a 
letter dated on the 5th ultimo, acknowledges the receipt of the 
arms prepared by Mortimer and Company, which arrived at 
Gibraltar on the second of the same month, and were to be put 
on board the first American Frigate touching there and bound up 
the Mediterranean. 

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c. 

RuFus King. 

128 KUFUS KING. [l8o2 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. dZ. 

London, May 26, 1802. 
Sir: 

Considerable solicitude has prevailed among the British manu- 
facturers and merchants concerning their Trade with France, and 
her late Allies, founded upon the Belief that France would ex- 
clude either wholly, or in a very great degree, the Manufactures 
of this country. The prohibitory laws of France, passed during 
the war, have been declared to be in force, and were it not for a 
recent and extraordinary Law, which puts into the hands of the 
Chief Consul, provisionally, the whole Regulation of Commerce, 
as well in respect to the Imports, as to the admission and exclu- 
sion of foreign Manufacturers, no English Fabrics could be, as at 
present very few are, imported into France ; the want of some- 
thing ascertained and uniform upon this subject has operated to 
discourage all regular and advantageous Commerce between the 
two Countries. 

This inconvenience has without doubt been already felt on both 
sides, and in consequence thereof we are told that France has 
made an overture, not to enter into a commercial Treaty, but to 
digest and agree in certain understood and reciprocal Regulations 
to be established by Law, and according to which the Trade be- 
tween the two countries should be carried on for a limited time. 
A Proposition of this sort is under consideration here, and seems 
likely to become the foundation of a new experiment to regulate 
the mutual Dealings of these Rival Countries. Unless, however, 
a Law be immediately passed vesting in the Executive here, as 
has been done in France, the power of regulating the commercial 
intercourse between France and Great Britain, the subject must 
be referred to a new Parliament, as it is believed that the present 
Parliament will be dissolved in the course of three weeks, in order 
that the General Election may take place without interfering with 
the Harvests. 

Circumstances have lately occurred in addition to the refusal 
of Bird, Savage and Bird to advance to Mr. Lenox the money to 
enable him to clear off his public accounts, which have created in 
my mind a suspicion that their affairs may not be altogether free 

i8o2] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. I2g 

of embarrassment, altho' their fortune may turn out to be solid 
and ample, and the disappointments, incurred at the close of the 
war, may not ultimately and materially affect them, I think it my 
duty to apprize you in confidence of my apprehensions that pos- 
sibly this may not be the case. 

With perfect Respect and Esteem, 

RuFus King. 

R. King to Dr. Drury. 

London, June 3, 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

My confidence in the discipline and course of education ob- 
served at Harrow leaves me nothing to desire in this respect, and 
I ought perhaps to beg your excuses in expressing to you a wish 
that may possibly appear to interfere with the regularity of this 
course ; but as my sons are advancing towards an age in which it 
would suit my views in respect to the completion of their educa-^ 
tion, that they should advance in the school as fast as their ac- 
quirements will permit (to hurry them faster, I know would be 
disadvantageous), I have thought I might without impropriety 
take the liberty of intimating this reflection to you, in doing which 
I persuade myself that I shall not be understood, either as sup- 
posing my sons to have more pretensions than their companions 
in general, or as being behind where they might have been ex- 
pected to be. My wish is that they should receive all the advan- 
tages to be received from going through Harrow previously to 
their leaving England, which it is my intention that they shall 
do when they separate from your instruction. 

Whether they will then be sent to a University upon the Con- 
tinent,* or only pass a year or two abroad and afterwards return 
to America to complete their education, will depend upon circum- 

* The following from a note book, with extracts from Gibbon's Memoirs^ 
shows Mr. King's views about the English Universities of that day : 

" Mr. Gibbon has written much to prove the danger, as well as the inutility 
of sending young men to the English Universities. His sentiments, joined to 
the opinion of Knox, which agree with my own reflections, have decided me 
against sending any of my children there. I must make diligent enquiry con- 
cerning the Universities upon the continent." See also vol. iii., p. 550. 

VOL. IV. — 9 

130 ' RUFUS KING. [1802 

stances of which I am not at present master. As they are Amer- 
icans, their education must not be entirely abroad, and were I not 
desirous of giving them an opportunity to obtain the modern 
languages at an age most convenient and safe for this acquisition, 
I should send them home immediately from Harrow. 

With most perfect respect 

Your obliged & obedt. Servt. 

RuFus King. 

Dr. Drury to R. King. 

Harrow, 4th June, 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

It will always afford me the sincerest pleasure to fulfil the 
wishes of those parents, who honour me with their confidence, to 
the utmost of my power and to take care that their children have 
that degree of attention to their morals and improvement, which 
duty prescribes ; and a sufftcient stimulus to industry and com- 
petition to call forth the powers of their minds. But we must be 
cautious how we push them beyond their strength. Your sons 
possess most amiable and docile minds, their understandings are 
sound and good, but neither of them have shown as yet that supe- 
riority of genius wh. would allow me to place them higher in the 
school with any probable advantage to themselves. The younger 
is more forward for his age than many who are below him, and it 
is fortunate that his apprehension is so far quicker than his broth- 
er's as to enable him to proceed with him in the same class, 
[there was only little more than one year between them] and of 
course of the same employments. At Xmas next they will be in 
the same remove in which most of those authors are read, which are 
used in the sixth or head Form. If I could carry my own ideas 
always into execution, no boy should attain this situation before 
the age of fourteen [they were 14 & 13]. But this I have found 
impossible, the different ages at which the young people are sent 
to Harrow and the very different state of their proficiency, when 
they come, as well as the variety of their capacities have proved 
obstacles to my design ; but the experience of more than thirty 
years has convinced me that this rule, as a general one, would 
prove more safe than an earlier elevation to the higher Forms of 

l802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. I3I 

the school. . . . With regard to your sons, I could wish 
when they leave Harrow, if they choose to pursue classical stud- 
ies, they may want no aid beyond their own industry to perfect 
this branch of study, and this they will accomplish if your con- 
venience and engagement will allow them to conclude their school 
education at Harrow. 

Most respectfully and faithfully yours 

Joseph Drury. 

On April 8, 1802, Mr. King wrote to his friend General 
Hamilton a letter, of which the following is the concluding 
portion, showing at that time his desire to return home."^ 
This letter is here given in connection with the answer. 

R King to A. Hamilton. 

London, April 8, 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

. . . I do not enter upon the situation of Europe since the 
peace. It would be too long a labor to do so. While the war 
lasted, constant and endless occasions presented themselves to 
employ myself here in the benefit of our countrymen, and I flat- 
ter myself for the public advantage. 

The revision of our commercial treaty has been a service to 
which I have all along looked as the conclusion of my mission, f 
As, however, I have no reason to suppose it likely soon to take 
place, I am not much inclined to remain here a mere figurant, 
and am therefore seriously thinking of my return. Without de- 
ciding anything on this point, I confidentially ask your opinion 

* Works of A, Hamilton, vol. vi., p. 538. 

f In a private letter to Mr. Madison, Secretary of State, Oct. 8, 1801 (vol. 
iii., p. 522), Mr. King had expressed his desire " to assist in the revision of our 
treaty with this country" and said, as it might require conference, with refer- 
ence to treaties with France also, " should the President confide the negotia- 
tion here to me, might there not be considerable advantage in my receiving 
permission to pass a fortnight with you at the Seat of Government or with Mr. 
Li\angston here or at Paris ? " 

To this suggestion, no answer had been sent to him, indicating clearly that it 
was not the President's intention to confide the negotiation to him. 

132 RUFUS KING. [1802 

respecting it. This I have not done except in the present 
instance. 

Very faithfully 

RuFus King. 

Before returning, I am desirous to pass a few months upon the 
continent. 

A. Hamilton to R. King. 

New York, June 3, 1802. 
My Dear Sir : 

I have been long very delinquent towards you, as a correspond- 
ent, and am to thank you that you have not cast me off altogether 
as an irretrievable reprobate. But you know how to appreciate 
the causes, and you have made a construction equally just and 
indulgent. 

In your last you ask my opinion about a matter delicate and 
important both in a public and in a personal view. I shall give it 
with the frankness to which you have a right, and I may add that 
the impressions of your other friends, so far as they have fallen 
under my observation, do not differ from my own. While you 
were in the midst of a negotiation interesting to your country, it 
was your duty to keep your post. You have now accomplished 
the object and with the good fortune not very common of having 
the universal plaudit. This done, it seems to me most advisable 
that you return home. There is little probability that your con- 
tinuance in your present station will be productive of much positive 
good. Nor are circumstances such as to give reason to appre- 
hend that the substitute for you, whoever he may be, can do 
much harm. Your stay or return therefore, as it regards our trans- 
atlantic concerns, is probably not material : while your presence 
at home may be useful in ways which it is not necessary to par- 
ticularise. Besides it is questionable whether you can continue 
longer in the service of the present administration with what is 
due as well to your own character as to the common cause. I am 
far from thinking that a man is bound to quit a public office 
merely because the administration of the Government may have 
changed hands. But when those who have come into power are 

l8o2] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 133 

undisguised persecutors of the party to which he has been at- 
tached and study with ostentation to heap upon it every indig- 
nity and injury — he ought not in my opinion to permit himself to 
make an exception or to lend his talents to the support of such 
characters. If in addition to this, it be true that the principles 
and plans of the men at the head of affairs tend to the degrada- 
tion of the Government and to their own disgrace, it will hardly 
be possible to be in any way connected with them without sharing 
in the disrepute which they may be destined to experience. 

I wish I had time to give you a comprehensive & particular map 
of our political situation. But more than a rude outline is be- 
yond my leisure, devoted as I am more than ever to my profes- 
sional pursuits. 

You have seen the course of the Administration hitherto, espe- 
cially during the last session of Congress, and I am persuaded 
you will agree in opinion with me that it could hardly have been 
more diligent — in mischief. What you will ask has been and is 
likely to be the effect on the public mind ? 

Our friends are sanguine that a great change for the better has 
been wrought and is progressive. I suppose good has been done 
— that the Federalists have been reunited and cemented — 
have been awakened and alarmed. Perhaps too there may be 
some sensible and moderate men of the adverse party who are 
beginning to doubt. But I as yet discover no satisfactory symp- 
toms of a revolution of opinion in the mass. 

Nor do I look with much expectation to any serious alteration 
until inconveniences are extensively felt or until time has pro- 
duced a disposition to coquet with new lovers — Vibrations of 
power, you are aware, are the genius of our Government. 

There is however a circumstance which may accelerate the fall 
of the party. There is certainly a most serious seism between the 
Chief and his heir apparent ; a seism absolutely incurable, be- 
cause founded in the breasts of both in the rivalship of an insa- 
tiable and unprincipled ambition. The effects are already 
apparent and are ripening into a more bitter animosity between 
the partizans of the two men than ever existed between the 
Federalists and Antifederalists. 

Unluckily we are not as neutral to the quarrel as we ought to 
be — You saw how far our friends in Congress went in polluting 

134 RUFUS KING, [1802 

themselves with the support of the second personage for the 
presidency. The Cabal did not terminate there. Several men, 
of no inconsiderable importance among us, like the enterprising 
and adventurous character of this man, and hope to soar with 
him to power. Many more through hatred to the Chief and 
through an impatience to recover the reins are linking themselves 
with the Vice-Chief, almost without perceiving it and professing 
to have no other object than to make use of him ; while he 
knows that he is making use of them. What this may end in, 
it is difficult to foresee. 

Of one thing only I am sure, that in no event will I be directly 
or indirectly implicated in a responsibility for the elevation or 
support of either of two men, who in different senses, are in my 
eyes equally unworthy of the confidence of intelligent or honest 
men. 

Truly, my dear Sir, the prospects of our Country are not bril. 
liant. The mass is far from sound. At headquarters a most 
visionary theory presides. Depend upon it this is the fact to a 
great extreme. No army, no navy, no active commerce — natural 
defence, not by arms but by embargoes, prohibitions of trade, &c. 
— as little government as possible within — these are the pernicious 
dreams which as far and as fast as possible will be attempted to 
be realized. Mr. Jefferson is distressed at the codfish having 
latterly emigrated to the southern Coast lest the people there 
should be tempted to catch them ! and commerce of which we 
have already too much, receive an accession. Be assured this is 
no pleasantry, but a very sober anecdote. 

Among Federalists old errors are not cured. They also con- 
tinue to dream though not so preposterously as their opponent. 
All will be very well (say they) when the power once more gets 
back into Federal hands. The people convinced by experience 
of their error will repose a permanent confidence in good men. 
Risiim teneatis ? Adieu. 

Yrs. ever — 

A. H. 

P. S. The bearer our acquaintance — Wm. Bayard continues 
worthy of high esteem «& regard. 

A. H. 

l8o2] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 35 

R. Troup to R. King. 

New York, June 6, 1S02. 
Dear Sir : 

. . . The fatigue occasioned by the constant sitting of our 
courts exhausted us all very much. I find that Hamilton's health, 
notwithstanding the quickness and enormous strength of his mind, 
is impairing, as well as mine. This man's mind, by the by, seems 
to be progressing to greater and greater maturity ; such is the 
common opinion of our bar ; and I may say with truth that his 
powers are now enormous ! and the only chance we have of suc- 
cess is now and then when he happens to be on the weaker side : 
and yet he is always complaining that he does not get his share of 
judgments and decrees ! Our new Chancellor (Lansing) is at- 
tentive and honest, but his mind is narrow and piddling ; and he 
is utterly destitute of those liberal and comprehensive views, 
which are suited to the Court over which he presides. It is a 
great source of consolation, however, to such as do not admire 
(and 1 confess myself of this number) the republican system, that 
our Supreme Court and Court of Chancery respect the rights of 
property. 

We are now in profound tranquillity. The peace has drawn 
after it a diminution of business of all sorts. . . The fall of 
our produce and our late open water have not affected the prices 
of lands, but they have materially injured payments. . . . 

We poor fallen federalists are indulging our expectation that 
the sun of federalism is beginning to rise again. In Massachu- 
setts and Connecticut larger majorities for the federalists appeared 
at the State elections than in those of last year. In this State we 
have also gained — but in my opinion not more has appeared than 
demonstrates the existence of life ; what two or three years will 
produce is beyond conjecture. . . . 

The Clintonians and Jeffersonians are at open hostility with 
the Burrites. This will be evident from the pamphlet accompany- 
ing this letter. Burr is now at Savannah doing what he can to 
render ^ efferson more popular and promote his re-election. That 
you may understand the pamphlet better, I have also sent you 
herewith the history of Adams' administration. The rancour be- 
tween these parties is indescribable. The cant of the Clintonians 
and Jeffersonians is that we have coalesced with Burr — which is 

136 RUFUS KING. [1802 

an infamous falsehood — as far as our friends in this State are con- 
cerned ; though we have reason to think that Burr has been 
caballing with some of our friends to the southward. The high 
probability is that Burr is a gone man, and that all his cunning, 
enterprise and industry will not save him. The pamphlet ex- 
hibits a just picture of Burr's character. The history of Adams' 
administration is a paltry and rascally thing ; the author is a 
British renegade. . . . 

Coleman is very zealous and devoted to the federal cause ; but 
his paper is that of the scholar and the gentleman. . . . 

Yours 

Rob. Troup. 

CHAPTER IX. 

King to Secretary of State — Received President's and Senate's Approbation of 
the Convention — SedgAvick to King — Glad he will return Home — 
Federalism improving — District of Maine — King to Low — Confidence in 
Government Funds — King to Madison — Thanks for Permission to visit 
France, etc. — Will leave Mr. Gore Charge without Expense to the Public — 
King to Secretary of State — Commission under 7th Article proceeding 
satisfactorily — Has postponed Discussion of the Repeal of countervailing 
Duty on Tobacco — King to Erving — Claims of Seamen for Relief — King 
to Lord Hawkesbury — Has received the Convention ratified, etc. — King 
to Secretary of State — Loan by Holland paid in Part to France to release 
Claims of the Prince of Orange — King to Lord Hawkesbury — Demanding 
Release of impressed Seamen — King to Livingston — Floridas possibly not 
ceded — Free Navigation of the Mississippi essential to United States — 
Floridas must belong to us — Interesting Suggestion relative to them — 
Should not enter into a Guaranty as to their Possession by Spain — King to 
Secretary of State — Ratifications of Convention exchanged — King to Secre- 
tary of State — Morocco declared war against the United States — Agricul- 
tural Prospects in England bad — King to Troup — Going to the Continent 
— King to Secretary of State — Informing him of his Expenditure relating 
to the Publication of Robinson's Admiralty Reports and why incurred. 

R. King to Secretary of State. 
No. 69. 

London, June 10, 1802. 
Sir: 

I have duly received your Letter of Ap. 7th, communicating the 
President's approbation of the Convention respecting the 6th and 
7th Articles of the Treaty of 1794 ; and by private accounts of a 
later date, we have the farther satisfaction to hear that the Senate 
has likewise added its sanction. 

In respect to the Countervailing Duties, I have nothing to add 

137 

138 RUFUS KING. [1802 

to my former communication ; their continuance or repeal is a 
question submitted to the decision of Congress. The press of 
Business towards the close of the Session of Parliament employs 
the whole time of the Ministers ; at present therefore I do not 
think it expedient to resume the subject of our West India Trade. 
As soon as a convenient opening offers I will recall it to Lord 
Hawkesbury's attention. 

By this opportunity I send you a copy of the Report of the 
Committee of the House of Commons, respecting the vaccine in- 
oculation, a discovery of the highest interest to humanity ; also a 
statement of the national Debt together with the calculations con- 
cerning the late modification of the Sinking Fund. By the first 
ship bound to the Chesapeake, I will send you a copy of the late 
Enumeration of this Country, so far as it has been completed ; 
the Supplement shall be forwarded as soon as it is printed. As 
our Census is a subject of much enquiry, I shall be obliged to you 
to send me a dozen copies of the former as well as of the late 
Census, some of which I wish to deposit in the public Museums 
and Libraries. 

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c. 

RuFUS King. 

T. Sedgwick to R. King. 

WiscASSET, IN Maine, 15 June, 1802. 
My dear Sir : 

I have just now had the pleasure to receive your letter of the 
6th of April for which I am much obliged to you. No part of it 
has given me more pleasure than the intimation it gave of your 
intended return. As the convention you made is ratified, I am 
of opinion your presence will be more useful here than in Eng- 
land. Strange as it might appear to a superficial observer, it is 
nevertheless true that an adjustment of all differences with G. B. 
was ardently desired by J n and his friends, even before the ces- 
sion of Louisiana afforded additional motives to it. I never had 
a doubt, therefore, that any reasonable terms would be accepted. 

In my last letter, as well as I can recollect, I predicted that the 
policy of the President would weaken his adherents in New Eng- 
land. This prediction is verified by the elections, at least in this 

l802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 39 

State ; our legislature being more federal than it has been since 
the adoption of the constitution, and as far as I am informed 
composed of better materials. In New Hampshire, it is true that 
Governor Oilman was elected by a smaller majority than this the 
preceeding year, but I am assured that the defection was owing 
more to local than national causes. 

Till now I have never been in this district, and have been 
astonished at the progress of improvement which is everywhere 
apparent. The increase of population has everywhere been con- 
siderable, but the accumulation of wealth incomparably greater. 
Portland, Bath, this place, & several others, have become flourish- 
ing trading places, but none more so than the village of Kenne- 
bunk. I have indeed been astonished at the appearance which 
every part of the country that I have seen exhibits. But among 
all that I have seen here none has been more pleasing than two 
of your nieces ; of the name of Southgate, whom I saw at Port- 
land, and one of whom is now here. 

I would never have abandoned the govt, personally but from 
the most complete conviction that the people would make an 
experiment of democracy. Under this conviction I could per- 
ceive no reason for sacrificing my comfort to objects of the 
attainment of which I despaired. On my retiring I was certain 
that inaction would render me unhappy, and therefore began 
anew the practice in my profession. This soon became disgust- 
ing to me, and I was inclined to accept the office of Judge 
merely to avoid the evils of idleness. Whether I shall continue 
in it is as yet uncertain. Should I quit it I shall never again 
return to the bar but try what I can do in the cultivation of land. 

Farewell, 

Theodore Sedgwick. 

R. King to N. Low. 

London, June 15, 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

... I observe your doubts in respect to the funds : but my 
confidence is not yet lost and I therefore desire you to continue 
your investments on my account. The funds may be less secure 
than they ought to be, and the prices such as to yield but little 

140 RUFUS KING. [1802 

more than 6 per cent. Nevertheless Property invested in the funds 
requires so little trouble and the annuity is paid with so much 
regularity, and the capital is at all times so easily converted into 
money, and in portions suiting one's convenience, that to people 
disliking business and the care of managing property, the funds 
will with us, as everywhere else, in general be preferred to other 
property. . . . 

R. King. 

R. King to James Madison, Esq. 

Private. 

London, June 16, 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

I am much obliged to you for your Letter of Ap. 7. and beg of 
you to present my respectful acknowledgments to the President 
for the permission he has given me to visit France and some of 
the neighbouring Countries. 

As yet I have not formed any plan upon this subject, and shall 
wait for the return of the Convention before I do so ; perhaps I 
may pass a few weeks at Paris, in July or August, but do not 
think it probable that I shall go farther from my post. 

It is some months since the return home of my Secretary Mr. 
John Pickering ; I have expected as his successor my nephew 
Mr. H. Southgate, who will probably arrive in the course of the 
summer. Since Mr. Pickering left me, Mr. John Munro of Scot- 
land, who has been employed in my office for several years, has 
done the duties of my Secretary ; and as I have been fully satis- 
fied with his fidelity and attention, I have allowed him the pay. 
If I avail myself of the President's permission to extend my 
voyage beyond Paris, or for more than three or four weeks, I 
shall leave my friend Mr. Gore, (one of the Commissioners under 
the 7th Article of the Treaty of 1794) Charge des affaires during 
my absence ; in this case you will understand that his agency 
will be attended with no expence to the public. 

With very great Respect & Esteem &c. 

RuFus King. 

i802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 14I 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. 70. 

London, June 20, 1802. 
Sir: 

I have duly received the duplicate of your Letter of May the 
first ; the original has not yet reached me, owing probably to the 
Packet's detention at Halifax on her way to Falmouth. As soon 
as she arrives, I will take immediate measures to complete the 
Convention by exchanging the Ratifications. 

The Commission under the 7th Article of the Treaty of 1794, 
is proceeding in a satisfactory manner ; upwards of fifty cases 
which were prepared for hearing soon after the suspension of the 
Commission, have been so far decided since the recommencement 
of its business that they wait only for the date of the Exchange 
of the Ratifications of the Convention in order that their respec- 
tive Sums maybe computed and fixed. The question of Interest, 
about which nothing has been said since the reassembling of the 
Board, will occur when these computations are to be made. As 
the claims preferred by British Subjects for captures alleged to 
have been illegal amount altogether to a considerable sum, and as 
it is conjectured that many of these claims are destitute of any 
just foundation, it is desirable that they should receive an early 
consideration and decision : this will also happen as soon as the 
Ratifications are exchanged. 

Mr. Cabot's assistance will, I am persuaded, prove a material 
advantage to the American Claimants, and, at the same time, no 
small relief to the Commissioners ; as his knowledge of the course 
of our Trade, and of the peculiar manner in which certain 
portions of it are carried on, enable him to give explanations that 
are familiar to mercantile men, but without which there would be 
some difficulties in deciding many of the cases before the com- 
mission. 

Although I understand that the Board has been apprized of the 
annual allowance to be received by Mr. Cabot, during his service 
in connexion with the Commission, I purpose to write a letter to 
the Commissioners communicating to them agreeably to your 
letter to me, that to induce Mr. Cabot to return and resume his 
functions in this country, the President has been pleased to allow 
him an annual salary of 1500 Dollars. 

142 RUFUS KING. [1802 

In respect to the Countervailing Duties upon our ships and 
Cargoes entering the Ports of Great Britain, I can only repeat 
what I have already remarked to you that their discontinuance 
partially or wholly having been entirely, and as I thought liber- 
ally submitted to the decision of Congress, I do not perceive that 
I can with propriety resume the subject until Congress shall have 
come to some decision concerning it. The intention of suspend- 
ing immediately the countervailing Duty on Tobacco was upon 
the idea that the discriminating Duties had been or certainly 
would be repealed in America : but as soon as I perceived that 
such repeal had become doubtful on account of the unexpected 
opposition the proposal met with, I thought it due to a candid 
course of Proceeding, to intimate my doubts upon this point to 
the British Minister ; and in consequence thereof it was deter- 
mined by the Treasury to postpone the suspension until more 
precise information of the views of Congress should be received. 

With Perfect Respect and Esteem, 

RuFus King. 

R. King to George W. Erving, Esq. 

Great Cumberland Place, June 21, 1802. 
Sir: 

As the answer invariably given to former applications respect- 
ing Seamen, representing themselves to be American Citizens, but 
who have no document to prove their citizenship, would without 
doubt be repeated in answer to any further and formal demands 
in their favour, I doubt of the expediency of making the applica- 
tion suggested by you in favour of the seamen, whose discharge as 
Americans has been refused, but who have been released in con- 
sequence of the late reduction of the naval forces of this country. 

Mr. Lenox informed me that he delivered to you a List of 
detained Seamen of this description ; by comparing the names of 
those who have applied to you for succour with the List, you will 
be enabled to ascertain how many of the applicants are of this 
class. I request you to make the comparison, and inform me of 
the result : as in case the number is very considerable, I would 
take an opportunity of informally speaking to Lord St. Vincent 
upon the subject. I am, Sir, 

Your obedient Servant, 

RuFus King. 

l802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 143 

R. King to G. W. Erving, Esq. 

Randells, Surry, July i, 1802. 
Sir: 

To guard against unfounded claims for relief, as well as to 
check the Repetition of those which are correct, it has heretofore 
been deemed indispensable to keep an alphabetical and descrip- 
tive list of all seamen representing themselves to be Americans 
and claiming succour from the U. S. The Description should at 
least express the town and State, and if foreign born, the place of 
their nativity, together with the proof of Citizenship, and the 
name of the man of war from which they have been discharged. 
Such a list, if collated with that left with you by Mr. Lenox, 
would without trouble and immediately supply the information I 
wished for, to enable me to determine upon the expediency of the 
application you have advised to be made to the Admiralty ; and 
I request that you will in future keep such a list. Without greater 
precision in respect to the number and national character of the 
persons, representing themselves to be American Seamen, lately 
discharged from the naval service of this Country, I am not 
inclined to apply to the admiralty for the purpose of engaging it 
to defray the expence of their passage to America ; but if you 
should continue to be satisfied of the citizenship of these persons, 
and the means designated for their return home be insufficient, I 
recommend to you to call upon Mr. Nepean and confer with him 
upon the subject ; this being in my opinion a better course, 
whether we regard the success or failure of the attempt, than to 
make the application in writing. It will however be advantageous 
that you should ascertain, as far as practicable, the number of 
American Seamen who have been lately discharged and who 
desire to return home ; and if you could make out, even with a 
little trouble, a List of their names, I am persuaded it might 
promote the accomplishment of your object. 

With due respect &c., 

RuFUS King. 

R. King to Lord Hawkesbury. 

Leatherhead, Surry, July 5, 1802. 
My Lord : 

I have the Satisfaction to inform your Lordship, that 1 have 

just received the Convention, which we signed in January last, 

144 RUFUS KING, [1802 

duly ratified on the part of the President of the United States, 
together with Instructions to exchange the same for the like Rati- 
fication on the part of his Majesty. 

It affords me additional pleasure to be authorized to add, that 
although the Subject might have been deferred to a future Session 
of Congress, the President conceiving that its immediate Con- 
sideration would be a satisfactory Evidence of the disposition of 
our public Councils, lost no time in laying the Convention before 
Congress, which has made the requisite appropriations to carry 
the same into effect. Whenever it shall be convenient to your 
Lordship, I will wait upon you to complete this Business by ex- 
changing the Ratifications. 

With perfect Consideration, &c., 

RuFUS King. 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. 71. 

London, July 5, 1802. 
Sir: 

The loan lately obtained by the Dutch Government, and for 
which a rate of profit is secured to the Lenders hitherto unknown 
in that frugal and industrious Country, and which it is thought may 
have a disadvantageous effect upon its money operations in future,, 
has for some time past excited a good deal. of curiosity, the public 
being at a loss to conjecture the purpose to which so considerable 
a sum could be destined. It is now believed that Fifteen Mil- 
lions of Guilders, part of this loan, have been paid to procure 
from France a release of the claims of the Prince of Orange, 
which he himself would have given up for half the sum : this pay- 
ment explains the separate engagement signed at Amiens by the 
French and Dutch ambassadors relative to these Claims. 

The plan of indemnities about which the Princes of Germany 
have been so long amused, is supposed to be settled, between 
France, Russia and Prussia, and without the assistance of Austria. 
We are told that the Prince of Orange is to receive his indemnity 
in Germany, and that Austria will consult her prudence and 
acquiesce in a statement made under the influence of France, 
and sanctioned by her most powerful neighbours. 

:8o2] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. I45 

The commercial Negotiation between this country and France 
has hitherto made very little, if any, progress, and at present it 
seems altogether uncertain whether any arrangement upon this 
subject will be completed. In the meantime France is active in 
extending and strengthening her influence in every quarter, as 
well as in concerting projects, and executing plans both at home 
and abroad, which do not seem capable of being explained in a 
manner consistent with the sincerity of her professions concerning 
the Peace of Europe. 

Mr. Otto is still here, waiting for his successor, who is not 
expected to arrive before the middle of September : this delay will 
probably operate to postpone Mr. Otto's journey to America till 
the ensuing Spring. 

With perfect Respect & Esteem, &c., 

RuFUs King. 

R. King to Lord Hawkesbury. 

Great Cumberland Place, July 12, 1802. 
My Lord : 

I have received the orders of the President of the United States 
to lay before your Lordship the enclosed Evidence of the mis- 
conduct of O'Brien, Esq., Commander of His Majesty's 

Frigate Emerald, in the impressment on board the American 
Schooner Sea-flower, of Philadelphia, and upon the high seas, of 
William Munro and Lindsay Addison, Citizens and Seamen of the 
United States. Referring to the reflexions upon the Subject, 
which I have heretofore submitted to your Lordship's considera- 
tion, and which derive new force from the reestablishment of a 
general peace, I take the liberty to request your Lordship's im- 
mediate interference in order that the said Munro and Addison 

may be forthwith discharged, and orders given to the said 

O'Brien, Esq., as well as to all others, his Majesty's Naval Officers, 
carefully to abstain from the like irregularities in future. 

Acknowledging, as I am instructed to do, the equitable and 
friendly sentiments of his Majesty's Government towards that of 
the United States, and which are fully and sincerely reciprocated 
by the latter, I flatter myself that your Lordship's influence will 

VOL. IV. — 10 

146 RUFUS KING. [1802 

not be wanting in favour of a regulation which, without injury to 
Great Britain, is due to the rights of the United States as well as 
essential to the Security of their Commerce. 

With great Consideration & Respect, &c., 

RuFUS King. 

R. King to Robert R. Livingston, Esq. 

London, July 12, 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

I have had the honour to receive your letter of June 30th. 
Whether either or both the Floridas have been ceded seems alto- 
gether matter of inference and conjecture, as no document we 
have seen offers any direct evidence upon the subject. The 
same reasons which have led me to suppose it probable that the 
Floridas would not be reserved by Spain after Louisania passed 
into the hands of France, induce me to think that West Florida 
would not be kept if East Florida be ceded with Louisiana. The 
chief object, and almost the only one, which has made the Floridas 
of any value to Spain, must cease with the cession of Louisiana, 
and as the Floridas in themselves are rather a burthen than a 
benefit to Spain, I cannot but think, whether they have or have 
not been ceded, that France, being mistress of Louisiana, will 
acquire, whenever she chooses to do so, a Title to the Floridas 
also. If so France, and not Spain, is the Power with which every 
efficient discussion should be made concerning these Provinces. 
As the free Navigation and use of the Mississippi is a Right above 
all computation to the United States, New Orleans and the 
Floridas would on this account, as well as others, prove a most 
valuable acquisition ; and according to my creed they must and 
will ultimately belong to us. If so, every step we take should 
have a reference to this negotiation, and notwithstanding we 
cannot at all times advance towards the attainment of our object. 
Prudence should restrain us from whatever may serve to obstruct 
or defeat the accomplishment of our purpose. Upon these princi- 
ples we ought to give no explicit sanction to the transfer of these 
Provinces from Spain to any other Power, nor enter into any 
engagements jointly with others concerning them ; for altho' we 
may at present be content that they should remain in the posses- 

l8o2] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 47 

sion of Spain, it is by no means plain that it would be consistent 
with sound policy for us to give money in order that they may be 
left in this situation. If doubts may however exist upon this 
point, there surely can be none that it would be repugnant to 
every principle of policy which might, or is likely to, influence 
our Government to form a Guaranty jointly with France or any 
other Power, to secure the possession of these Provinces to Spain 
or any other Nation, inasmuch as such Guaranty might not only 
prove an impediment to our acquiring them ourselves, but proba- 
bly would involve us in a disadvantageous war on that account. 
If these Provinces remain in the possession of Spain, as we wish 
they may, it cannot be long before all the continental Colonies of 
that nation will imitate the example we have given them. Having 
had the means of a good deal of information upon this subject, 
concerning which so little is known, and so much concealed, I feel 
confident that this crisis cannot be at a great distance. Aware 
that such is the situation of the Colonies, Spain has been solici- 
tous and pressed the point with zeal, tho' unsuccessfully, upon 
Mr. Pinckney in the year 1795 to procure from us a Guaranty 
of her American Possessions. Should another war break out 
between England and France, as we cannot doubt will be the 
case in the course of a few years, Spain as heretofore will become 
a party of it, and it is quite probable that England may succeed 
in the attempt to take possession of New Orleans and the 
Floridas ; either of these events would constitute the casus 
foederis, and we should consequently be called upon to fulfil our 
Guaranty. 

On account of the peculiar situation of these Provinces, and 
independent of our views as to the acquisition of them, we should 
therefore abstain from entering into any Guaranty concerning 
them ; a species of stipulation it can never be our interest to 
enter into with any of the great commercial Powers of Europe, 
since it is one rarely, if ever, to be formed except by a Power in 
a condition not only to construe, but to enforce the observance 
of her construction of the engagement. 

From the tenor of these observations, which, tho* hastily writ- 
ten, are so far as regards their principal object the fruit of much 
consideration, you will infer my dislike of a purchase, except for 
ourselves, as well as my repugnance to a Guaranty under any 

148 RUFUS KING. [1802 

circumstances. As I write to you without any reserve and upon 
a subject whose limits are not yet fully explored, and concerning 
which opinions may therefore be supposed to vary, you will I am 
sure excuse the little ceremony which I have observed in the ex- 
pression of my sentiments, the justness whereof, I shall on all 
occasions be inclined to distrust, if they happen to be in opposi- 
tion to your more weighty opinion. 

With great and sincere Respect, &c. 

RuFus King. 

R. King to Secretary of State. 
No. 72. 

London, July 16, 1802. 
Sir : 

As soon as I received from Mr. Fenvvick the President's Ratifi- 
cation of the Convention, I gave notice thereof to Lord Hawkes- 
bury, and we yesterday exchanged the Ratifications, and mutually 
executed the usual Certificates thereof. Two original Copies of 
the British Ratification have been delivered to me together with 
duplicate Certificates of the exchange. I shall commit them to 
the charge of Mr. Christie, late a Representative in Congress from 
Maryland, who will deliver them to you in Washington. The 
duplicate Ratification and Certificate of Exchange shall be for- 
warded by the next good opportunity. I have taken the liberty 
to ensure Mr. Christie that whatever expence he may incur in the 
performance of this service will be readily reimbursed by you. 
With perfect respect and esteem, &c, 

RuFus King. 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. 73. 

London, July 19, 1802. 
Sir : 

I yesterday received a letter from Commodore Morris, dated 

United States frigate Chesapeake, Gibraltar Bay, June 25, 

announcing the unexpected declaration of war against the United 

i8o2] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. I49 

States by the Emperor of Morocco. I have given notice of the 
event to our Consuls in this country, to the end that all American 
Vessels in the Ports thereof may make use of such precautions in 
favour of their security, as those having the charge of them may 
deem expedient. Whether this unjust Proceeding has arisen out 
of the civil commotions which for some time past are understood 
to have prevailed in Morocco, or from some other cause, I am 
altogether ignorant, having no exact information either concern- 
ing the internal condition of Morocco, or of the State of our Rela- 
tions with this Power. The declaration, however, will serve as 
another proof, if another be wanting, that our security against the 
Barbary Powers must depend upon Force and not upon Treaties, 
upon Ships of war instead of presents and subsidies. 

The early part of the Summer having been uncommonly dry, 
the crop of Hay will be very short ; and the weather during the 
last four weeks (the Hay season for the South of England) having 
been cloudy and wet, the Crop which has been cut is not only short 
in quantity but ill cured. Old Hay has in consequence thereof 
risen in the London market from five to eight Guineas the load of 
eighteen hundred ; and altho' the Wheat and other Grain have 
promised a plentiful Harvest, the continuance of rainy weather 
begins to excite serious concern lest the Corn should suffer from 
mildew and other injuries to which it is exposed. 
With perfect Respect and Esteem, (S:c. 

RuFus King. 

R. King to R. Troup. 

London, July 19, 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

. . . Mrs. King and I think of going for a few weeks to 

France. . . Though I have not fixed upon any precise time, I 

am much inclined to return home. My children too are growing 

too old to remain abroad. After visiting Paris, I must come to a 

decision on this subject. 

Adieu, yours &c.., 

RuFUS King. 

150 RUFUS KING, [1802 

R. King to James Madison, Esq. 

Private. 

London, July 21, 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

As an item in my contingent account relates to the Publication 
of Robinson's Admiralty Reports, it may be thought proper that 
I should say a word or two in explanation of this expense. 

It has not, as you may well know, been the practice of this 
country to publish Reports of the decisions of its prize Tribunals ; 
and while a pretty general opinion has prevailed that England 
administers the Law of Nations in matters of prize with great 
rigour, Englishmen have uniformly asserted that these Tribunals 
have manifested greater moderation in that respect than those of 
any other Nation. So long as the decisions of the English prize 
Courts remained unpublished, this Disagreement would continue 
to exist, and so long likewise foreign States would remain without 
precise notion of the maxims of Public Law by which these 
Tribunals profess to regulate their Decisions. 

Upon Sir William Scott's appointment as Judge of the High 
Court of Admiralty, being alike distinguished for Learning and 
Integrity, and desirous of extending his reputation beyond the 
limits of his own country, it occurred to me that the opportunity 
was a favourable one to endeavour to promote the publication of 
the Reports of his Court, the natural effect whereof upon such a 
mind as Sir William Scott's seemed likely to be in favour of a 
mild interpretation of the Laws of War and Peace, and what 
appeared to me of much importance, such a publication would have 
a Tendency to procure for this important branch of public Law 
a fixed character in place of the uncertain and contentious Repu- 
tation it has hitherto possessed : by going into the hands of mer- 
chants and men of business, these Reports would moreover enable 
them to avoid such adventures as might be liable to interruption. 

I accordingly conversed with Sir William Scott upon the sub- 
ject ; at first the proposal encountered difficulty chiefly on account 
of the contrary usage ; this objection was finally yielded, and Sir 
William Scott acquiesced, provided Government would consent 
and a suitable Reporter could be found to undertake the work. I 
then applied to the Minister and suggested such arguments as 
seemed to me likely to engage his attention, and, after a time, the 

l8o2] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 151 

Government gave its consent and nothing remained but to find a 
Reporter. 

As these Reports were not expected to be called for by profes- 
sional men, who are the principal purchasers of the Common Law- 
Reports, it was apprehended that the demand might not be suf- 
ficient to reimburse the expenses of publication, and to obviate this 
objection, recourse was had as usual in cases of this character to 
last subscriptions. Considering the utility of the publication and the 
part I had taken to promote it, I thought it expedient to subscribe 
for Fifty Copies. These have been sent from time to time, and 
in the order of their publication, to the Department of State, 
except the five copies which I have distributed among the Ameri- 
can Ministers in Europe and some other public Characters. 

Upon this explanation which ought to have been, and I believe 
was, given to your Predecessor at the time of the subscription, I 
flatter myself the President will not disapprove of this small Ex- 
pense. As but few cases remain undecided in the High Court of 
Admiralty, which expects, as I hear, to get through the whole of 
its Business in the course of a few weeks even, I presume that 
these Reports will not be extended far beyond their present size. 
I have suggested the advantage of adding to them an appendix, 
containing the Form of all Instruments used in the process of 
the Prize Courts ; and as Sir William Scott has given Direction to 
the Registrar to supply Doctor Robinson with all such copies as 
he may require for this purpose, I am in hopes this useful addi- 
tion will be made. 

These Reports are supposed to undergo the revision and cor- 
rection of the Judge before they are put to press. 

With Sentiments of Sincere Respect & Esteem &c. 

RuFUS King. 

CHAPTER X. 

King to Livingston — Has sent in his Resignation — King to Marshall — Plan of 
Settlement by the Convention completed before he received the Views of 
the new Administration, though approved by it — Has resigned his Office — 
King to R. Southgate — Has resigned his Office — King to Secretary of 
State — Resigns his Office and asks to return Home in the Spring in a Frig- 
ate— King to Madison — Desires to return in a public Vessel, etc. — King to 
Secretary of State — Conference with Lord Hawkesbury on Maryland 
Bank-Stock and West India Trade — Hoped to settle these before he left — 
Louisiana, etc. — Gore to Lord Hawkesbury — Boundaries between Terri- 
tories of United States and Great Britain — Troup to King — Burr ruined in 
Politics and Fortune — Sedgwick to King — Politics — Burr. 

K. King to R. R. Livingston. 

Private and personal. 

London, Aug. 4, 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

Although I had nothing of interest to say, I should have writ- 
ten to you by Mr. V. R. Livingston had he not left us a day or 
two sooner than he expected. Having ever since the conclusion 
of the war thought seriously of returning home, 1 have lately de- 
cided to do so, and in my official letter of this date, have resigned 
my office, and requested to be relieved in season to embark early 
next Spring. As I think it possible that you may be inclined to 
pass some time in this country before you return to America, and 
in that case might consent to be transferred from your present 
Residence to this country, I take the earliest moment to inform 
you of my determination to return home, in order that you may 
be apprized of the vacancy, which my resignation will create. 
Mrs. King and I availing ourselves of the leave of temporary 
absence which I have received, propose in the course of next 
week to embark for Holland, from whence we may pass entirely 

152 

i8o2] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 53 

thro' the Low Countries on our way to Paris, where we think of 
spending five or six weeks in September and October. 
With Sentiments of great Regard & Esteem &c. 

RuFus King. 

R. King to John Marshall, Esq. 

Private. 

London, Aug. 5, 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

I have duly received and beg you to accept my acknowledge- 
ments for your obliging Letter of May 4. Notwithstanding I do 
think the settlement of the British Claims, circumstanced as they 
were, honourable and advantageous to us, as well as the evidence 
of a conciliatory disposition on the part of the English adminis- 
tration, I am with you entirely persuaded that it would have 
met with a different reception at home, had the administration 
remained in the hands of those from whom it has been lately 
removed. 

In a private letter to you, connected and influential as you have 
been in the promotion of this adjustment, I may without impro- 
priety say that if there be any merit in this settlement, it is in 
every respect due to those who projected and approved the plan 
which led to it. For not only every material point of the negotia- 
tion was completed, but the precise form finally accepted had 
been offered as an ultimatum before I had any knowledge of the 
opinion of the present Administration. I would not insinuate 
that any sentiments, unfavourable to the settlement which has been 
made, were entertained by the present Administration ; on the 
contrary, it approved of what had been done here, and I think 
sincerely desired to see the Business closed upon the terms 
which had been offered. I earnestly wish that on other and still 
more important concerns, its sentiments had been equally correct, 
as they have been in respect to this Business ; but I must disre- 
gard opinions formed with solicitude, and after careful reflexion, 
not to hesitate in believing this to have been the case ; and it is 
for this reason, among others, that upon mature consideration of 
my duty to the public, as well as of what I owe to myself, I have 
thought it incumbent upon me to resign my Mission and ask leave 
to return home. 

154 RUFUS KING. [1802 

Although I am quite sensible that this is a measure of no sort 
of importance in a public view, the interest which you have so 
kindly taken in what personally concerns me, induces me to make 
you this communication and not without the hope that it will 
receive your approbation. 

With Sentiments of the highest Respect & Esteem &c. 

RuFUS King. 

R. King to Robert Southgate, Esq. 

London, August 5, 1802. 
My dear Sir : 

. . . I had continued to expect the arrival of my nephew 
Horatio. I rather inferred from what he (Mr. Boyd) told us, 
that both he and you had relinquished the plan of his coming to 
England. 

I engaged only a temporary secretary, and now shall not think 
of looking for another, as I have in my official letter of this date 
resigned my mission and requested to be relieved in season to 
return home early next Spring. 

It was my wish to have returned some time ago, but being en- 
gaged in a negotiation of considerable difficulty and importance, 
I have not been able until now to do so with propriety. The 
negotiation which detained me being completed, and nothing of 
importance remaining in the discussion whereof I can hope to be 
useful, I think myself free to resign my office ; a measure that 
will I hope receive the approbation of my friends. . . . 

I remain with Sincere Esteem &c. 

Rufus King. 

R. King to Secretary of State. 
No. 74. 

London, Aug. 5, 1802. 
Sir : 

It is now six years that I have resided in this country. When 
I left America it was not my expectation to be absent more than 
four years. So long as the war continued I did not think of re- 
turning home, believing that my residence here might be of some 

l802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 55 

public advantage. When the preliminaries of peace were signed, 
I found myself engaged in a negotiation of considerable Difficulty 
and importance which restrained me from asking the President's 
leave to resign my mission. The negotiation being since com- 
pleted, and nothing very material remaining to be discussed in 
which I can flatter myself with being able to render any important 
service, I have to request that the President would be pleased to 
accept the resignation of my office and permit me to return home. 
The season is already too far advanced to leave time to receive 
the President's permission before the commencement of the long 
nights and stormy season of the present year. I am not there- 
fore solicitous to be relieved before the month of April next as 
my family is large and I am moreover desirous to carry home 
with me my library, furniture, carriages and other bulky articles, 
it would be a great accommodation to me if the President would 
allow me a passage in a frigate or other national vessel, which at 
the same time would relieve my family from any concern in re- 
spect to the cruizers of Morocco, or any other piratical state, and 
save me from the heavy charges which I must otherwise incur in 
returning home after seven years' residence in the most expensive 
Country of Europe. 

With perfect Respect & Esteem, 

RuFus King. 

R. King to James Madison, Esq. 

Private. 

London, August 5, 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

In my official letter of this date, I have taken the liberty to 
ask the accommodation of a passage home for myself and family 
in one of the public ships. Should the President consent, the 
same Vessel might bring out my successor, and carry me back. 
At first I thought, that a frigate returning home from the Mediter- 
ranean might without inconvenience receive orders to touch here 
and take me on board ; but upon inquiry I find, that, coming 
from that quarter, she might be liable to perform quarantine, 
which would occasion a long detention, as well as great expence. 
The chief purpose of this letter is to request the favour of you, 

156 RUFUS KING. [1802 

to inform me, as early as you can with convenience, of the Presi- 
dent's determination in order that I may be able seasonably to 
make my arrangements concerning my baggage, which I must 
endeavour to diminish in case I shall be obliged to hire a vessel 
to carry me home. I have likewise to ask the additional favour 
of you, to apprize my Agent, Mr. Nicholas Low of New York, of 
the President's decision, so that in case I cannot be accommo- 
dated by a Passage in a public ship, he may execute a provisional 
order I have given him to prepare and send from New York a 
Vessel to carry me and my family home. 

With Sentiments of great Respect and Esteem, 

RuFus King. 
P. S. In case I go home in a public ship, I should like to be 
allowed to carry in her a few sheep of the Breeds most esteemed 
here, and perhaps my carriage and horses ; the latter are free 
and I have reason to believe that I should find no difficulty in 
obtaining permission to export a small number of the former 
whose properties are certainly superior to those of our country. 

R. King to Secretary of State, 
No. 75. 

London, Aug. 10, 1802. 
Sir : 

As I am about to avail myself of the President's permission to 
pass a few weeks upon the Continent, I have thought it expedient 
to endeavour previously to ascertain the sentiments of this Gov- 
ernment concerning the Trade and Navigation between the 
United States and the British Colonies in the West Indies, as well 
as to press for a final decision respecting the Maryland Bank 
Stock. For these purposes I asked a conference of Lord Hawkes- 
bury in a note, the copy whereof is annexed. His Lordship 
received me at the time I had proposed, but I regret that I am 
not able to send you a more satisfactory Report of what passed 
on this occasion. 

In respect to the Bank Stock Lord Hawkesbury said he had 
lately received a communication from the Chancellor concerning 
it, and that measures should be taken to effect a transfer of the 

i8o2] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 57 

Stock to the Crown, when it would be in a situation that would 
enable him to receive the King's pleasure respecting it. He 
intimated that he had understood there were other claims beside 
that of the State of Maryland, but so far as he expressed any 
opinion, it seemed to be that there would be no difficulty of 
importance in the way of a satisfactory settlement ; after the 
Stock had been transferred to the Crown. I repeated to his 
Lordship arguments which had been urged upon his Predecessor, 
and tried, tho' without success, to obtain from him an explicit 
engagement, that the Stock should be transferred to me after its 
transfer to the Crown. 

Respecting the West India Trade, his Lordship said after a 
short conversation explanatory of our expectations, that he could 
give me no explicit information whether, or how far, they should 
be able to accede to our claims ; the fact being, as he observed, 
that not only on account of the constant succession of more 
pressing concerns, which his Majesty's Ministers had been called 
upon to decide, but from the unsettled as well as uncertain Con- 
dition of the West India Colonies, they had not been able to go 
into the consideration of the Regulations which it might be 
deemed expedient to adopt ; that they were yet also to learn the 
real Situation of Saint Domingo, as well as of some other impor- 
tant Colonies ; and that as any change in their former system 
would in some sort depend upon the probable condition not only 
of their own but of other Colonies, they must wait a little longer 
before they could form a safe opinion upon this important 
subject. 

I remarked to Lord Hawkesbury, that on account of our just 
claim to an equal participation in a Trade as necessary to them as 
to us, as well as from the tenor of the article agreed to by England, 
but refused by America in the Treaty of 1794, we had not ex- 
pected that a recurrence would be had at the end of the war to 
the exclusive system which had prevailed before ; that any con- 
siderable delay in the decision of this point would operate in the 
same way as a decision in favour of the old system, which, as his 
Lordship must know, we considered as unequal and injurious ; 
that my apprehension, therefore, was in case of such delay, we 
should think ourselves obliged to meet the disadvantages to which 
our Navigation is liable under the former System by Regulations 

158 RUFUS KING. [1802 

which would impose the like Disadvantages upon the British 
Navigation : these Countervailing Regulations would prove mutu- 
ally, tho' I could not admit that they would be equally, incon- 
venient, and might moreover have the effect to disturb the 
harmonious and beneficial intercourse it was the common interest 
of the two Countries to promote. 

His Lordship made no distinct answer to these Remarks, con- 
tenting himself to repeat in substance what he had before observed, 
concerning the pressure of affairs of greater Interest, and the 
uncertain Situation of the West India Colonies. 

As I found that I had not obtained any precise assurance upon 
the subject, which probably has not yet been discussed in the 
Cabinet, I observed that notwithstanding the question might not 
appear to be of equal importance with others which continue to 
engage the attention of the English Ministry, it nevertheless had 
excited, and might again excite, a lively interest in the United 
States ; that the subject had employed much of my attention ; 
and I had sometimes flattered myself with the hope that I should 
during my residence here, be enabled to assist in the equitable 
and satisfactory settlement of it ; that I expected to terminate 
my mission and return to America early in the next Spring and 
that it would afford me some satisfaction to be authorized to 
inform you that both this Business and the other regarding the 
Maryland Bank Stock should be decided before my departure. 

Lord Hawkesbury replied that he could not officially assure me 
that this should be done ; but that according to his personal view 
of the subjects, he foresaw no reason likely to delay the Decision 
of them beyond the time I had mentioned. This vague reply, 
and which binds to nothing, ended our Conference upon these 
Topics. 

Lord Hawkesbury then enquired of me if I had received any 
late intelligence concerning the Expedition to Louisiana ; on my 
answering in the Negative, he said, according to their advices the 
French Expedition was in preparation and that it would certainly 
proceed. I, in turn, asked his Lordship, how far he gave credit 
to the rumour which had of late been circulated that France was 
preparing a formidable Expedition against Algiers ; he answered, 
that the project existed, and that the army would be marched into 
Spain, and embarked in the Spanish Ports, and that Spain, tho' it 

i8o2] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 159 

was understood that she has recently concluded Peace with 
Algiers, would nevertheless be expected to aid the French with 
Provisions, Ships and perhaps money. I did not ask whether 
England was likely also to be embroiled with Algiers in conse- 
quence of the late capture of one or two English Vessels by the 
Cruizers of this Regency ; having understood that it is here 
admitted that the Papers of these Vessels were irregular, and 
that the demand of England would be confined to the liberation 
of the Crew, leaving the Vessels as forfeited to the Captors. 

Before leaving Lord Hawkesbury, I took occasion to observe 
that although my absence would be only for a short time, to 
guard against any inconvenience which it might possibly occasion, 
I would take the liberty before my departure of introducing to 
him, Mr, Gore, one of the Commissioners under the 7th Article 
of the Treaty, who wd. act as our Charge des affaires during my 
absence. His Lordship replied that he should be happy to receive 
Mr. Gore, and I shall accordingly present him in that character 
to Lord Hawkesbury before I leave town. My plan is to embark 
at Harwich about the 15th instant for Holland, from thence to go 
to Brussels, and then either directly to Paris, or turning to my 
left and travelling a few days on the Borders of the Rhine, to 
proceed to Paris thro' some of the more Eastern Provinces of 
France. As it is the invaluable Specimens of the fine arts more 
than the men and manners of Paris, which I am desirous to see, a 
few weeks residence there will satisfy my curiosity. I do not 
therefore think of prolonging my absence beyond the middle of 
November, when the New Parliament will meet, and my return 
hither may be a fortnight sooner. 

With perfect Respect & Esteem, 

RuFus King. 

C. Gore to Lord Hawkesbury. 

Great Cumberland Place, Aug. 24, 1802. 
Sir : 

Mr. Gore presents his compliments to Lord Hawkesbury, and 
has the honour to inform him, that since the departure of Mr. 
King, he has received for this Gentleman Instructions and a full 
power from the President of the United States to adjust by ami- 

l6o RUFUS KING. [1802 

cable Negotiation with the Government of his Britannic Majesty 
whatever remains unsettled as to the Boundaries between the 
Territories of the two Nations. 

Mr. Gore takes the liberty of proposing to his Lordship to com- 
municate to him, whenever he shall be at leisure to attend thereto, 
the views of the President of the United States, in order that his 
Lordship may give to the subject such consideration as he may 
think its importance requires, and that having a distinct knowl- 
edge thereof, his Lordship may, on the return of Mr. King, be 
enabled to concur in such measures for defining and settling the 
Boundary lines between the two countries, as shall appear most 
conducive to their mutual interests and future harmony. 

Mr. Gore flatters himself that Lord Hawkesbury will see, 
in this Proposal of the President, a new Proof of the sincere and 
earnest desire of the Government of the United States to live in 
friendship with that of his Majesty, inasmuch as it invites to an 
adjustment by amicable negotiation of not only whatever may now 
be the occasion of inquietude between the Parties, but also of 
everything, as far as can be foreseen, which may interrupt in 
future that good understanding so essential to the interests and 
happiness of both Nations. 

R. Troup to R. King. 

New York, Aug. 24, 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

. . . Burr in my opinion is acting a little and skulking part. 
Although Jefferson hates him as much as one demagogue can 
possibly hate another who is aiming to rival him, yet Burr does 
not come forward in an open and manly way agt. him. On the 
contrary Burr still attempts to cause it to be believed that he is a 
sincere supporter of Jefferson and administration ; and this we 
are told is to be the complexion of Burr's intended paper. The 
duel between Clinton and Swartout has been a precious morsel to 
us poor fallen — and hungry federalists.* 

We calculate generally that Burr is ruined in politics as well as 
in fortune. Saving a few particulars not interesting, the view of 

* See Hildreth's Hist, of United States, 2d ser., vol. ii., p. 468. 

i8o2] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. l6l 

his political conduct is a just one. His manoeuvering for the 
Presidency is past a doubt with us all ; and was so before the 
view made its appearance. Hamilton has often said he could 
prove it to the satisfaction of any court and jury. No mortal can 
yet calculate the present state of public opinion. Federalism is 
looking up. At the last 4th of July the toasts everywhere given 
prove that Hamilton is regaining that general esteem and confi- 
dence, which he seems to have lost, and his standing is very much 
our political thermometer. Was an election now to be held either 
for Governor or President, it is my opinion we should lose. What 
may be the progress of opinion towards a new order of things, it 
is impossible to calculate with even tolerable precision. . . . 

Yours, 

RoBT. Troup. 

T. Sedgwick to R. King. 

Stockbridge, 24 Aug., 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

. . . The last letter which I addressed to you was from 
Wiscasset. Maine has improved, is improving, and will, I think, 
continue to improve, beyond what you can easily imagine. The 
gentlemen of that country may be compared, without disgracing 
them, to those of any other part of New England. In politics 
they have good principles and a good spirit. In Massachusetts, 
generally, the political tide, is setting, strongly, in a right direc- 
tion, and I have no doubt will, for some time, continue and in- 
crease. • • • 

As well as I can conjecture from the best information I have 
been able to obtain, the measures of the administration have not 
increased, but, on the whole, impaired the popularity of the Presi- 
dent and his friends. With the better part— those whom we 
esteem — from facts, which you understand, there exists a most 
profound contempt of his understanding and a perfect abhorrence 
and detestation of his morals. The opinion which, among this 
class of people universally prevails, that he is hostile to the chris- 
tian religion has produced a firm union among the clergy, who 
possess an influence in New England that will be felt. In this 
part of the U. S. it is not to be feared that either democracy or 

VOL. IV. — II 

1 62 RUFUS KING. [1802 

Jacobinism will prevail. In New York, I am inclined to believe, 
that, at least, the progress of Clintonianism, for as far as that fac- 
tion prevails it is neither democracy nor jacobinism, is brought to 
a stand. But the great line of division by which parties are 
separated in other states is more obscurely marked there than any- 
where else — the people are more under the dominion of personal 
influence. And it is impossible at present to predict in what the 
rupture between Burr and the Clintons will ultimately terminate. 
Burr's intentions, the means he possesses, and the instruments 
which he will employ are at present unknown. But it is known 
that many active and ardent spirits are enlisted in his service, and 
servilely devoted to him ; and that his party comprises in it 
nearly all the needy and desperate adventurers in the community. 
Such a party, so united, and with such a leader, is not to be de- 
spised, however inconsiderable the number at present. The 
breach between Burr, the Clintonians & the Livingstons, is, in all 
probability, irreparable. What direction Burr will take will depend, 
wholly, on the opinion he shall form of the means of promoting 
his present aggrandizement . . . You will receive a warm wel- 
come from your friends, and from no one more than myself. I 
am sensible that your residence where you are may be of much 
benefit to our country. I know, too, that your presence here 
would be of immense importance. Where you will render the 
best service, you are the most competent judge. Of this, I think, 
you may be certain that your return will depend on your own 
pleasure. You will not be recalled. . . . 

Your sincere friend, 

Theodore Sedgwick. 

CHAPTER XL 

Journey of King to the Continent of Europe — Few Details of it — Gore to King 
— Correspondence, and about the Latter's Sons — King to Cazenove — Com- 
plaint of Livingston against Talleyrand — King to Erving — He had received 
no Faculty to grant Passports to American Citizens — Mr. Gore has — How- 
Slaves captured after an Insurrection in Virginia in 1800 might be disposed 
of — President Jefferson to King — Suggesting sending them to Sierra Leone, 
Africa — Also expressing his Satisfaction with Mr. King's Course in 
England — And his Desire for peaceful and friendly Relations with Great 
Britain — Gore to the President — Answers the Letter to King, giving the 
Refusal of the Company to receive the Blacks — J. Q. Adams to King — 
Condition of Affairs in the U. S. — Strength of the Administration 
increasing. 

Availing himself of the permission granted to him by the 
President, Mr. King prepared to visit the Continent of Eu- 
rope and pass through its western portions until he reached 
Paris. At no other period during his residence abroad as 
Minister to Great Britain could he have left his post in Lon- 
don, for the state of war between that country and France, 
and the hostile aspect of the latter towards the United 
States, would have prevented his visiting those States 
which were more or less involved in the active operations of 
the war. Peace had now, however, been declared between 
the rival nations and intercourse was again free. His press- 
ing work in England had been accomplished to the satisfac- 
tion of his government ; and although there was much to be 
done to arrange the still unsettled questions between the 
United States and Great Britain and to strengthen the good 
feeling between the two countries, it was not probable that 
for some months anything could be effected, for the public 

163 

164 RUFUS KING. [1802 

men of England were accustomed at that time of the year 
to take a period of rest and relaxation from business. Be- 
sides these considerations, the relations between France 
and the United States were on a better footing, although 
France had recently consummated what seemed an un- 
friendly act, and one by which the future welfare of the 
United States might be endangered, in accepting the cession 
of Louisiana from Spain. 

Under these circumstances Mr. King felt that he could 
properly and satisfactorily carry out his wish to see the 
western countries of Europe before his return home, and en- 
joy the pleasure he was so fitted to receive of spending a 
few months in lands celebrated for their beautiful scenery, 
in studying the habits of the people with whose history he 
was so familiar, and in examining the works of art and monu- 
ments in their cities, terminating his journey by a short 
sojourn in Paris, where so much was to be seen, so many 
distinguished men were assembled, and where the First Con- 
sul had firmly established himself. 

He first provided for the conduct of the business of the 
United States in London by appointing his friend Christo- 
pher Gore, one of the Commissioners under the 7th Article 
of the Treaty of 1794, as Charge d'Affaires during his ab- 
sence, having notified the Secretary of State that this " would 
be without expense to the public." Having thus arranged 
his affairs, he started from London and embarked at Harwich 
on August 15th, in a vessel for Helviotsluys, which place 
he reached the next day after a short and comfortable pas- 
sage. His party consisted of '' Mrs. King, Smith and Inger- 
soll,* with two servants and travelling carriage," as he says 

* Mr. Charles J. Ingersoll of Philadelphia, then a young man, had for some 
time been on intimate terms with Mr. King and his family in London. A 
warm attachment sprang up among them, due largely to Mr. Ingersoll's bright- 
ness of manner, intelligence, and at that time congeniality of views with those 
of Mr. King, who had a sincere regard for him. These kind feelings continued 
during Mr. King's life, of which there are many evidences in his Correspon- 
dence. In his Recollections^ p. i6, in the prefatory chapter, Mr. Ingersoll says : 
"After Rufus King, American Minister in England, performed his initiatory 

l8o2] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 165 

in a Diary which, though meagre in details, was kept only 
until he left Brussels. Though it records little that would 
be particularly interesting to reproduce here, the pages show 
the interest he took in the new scenes, in habits so different 
from those of his own country and of the English people 
whom he had so recently left, and in the buildings and 
works of art in Holland, with the latter of which he was not 
much impressed. We have nothing of the Rhine along 
which he travelled, nor of Switzerland with its alpine scenery 
and its sturdy liberty-loving people, nor of Eastern France 
through which he journeyed to Paris, where he arrived about 
the 15th of October and which he left in the middle of 
November, reaching London on the 17th. He and his party 
seem to have enjoyed their tour, to have met with no inter- 
ruptions or mishaps, and to have returned to England in 
health. 

During the whole period of his absence a constant corres- 
pondence was maintained between Mr. Gore and himself, 
but unfortunately few of Mr. Gore's letters are preserved 
and none of Mr. King's. The former kept him informed 
about the business of the Legation, consisting of communi- 
cations with the British Ministry, especially relative to the 
boundaries of the United States, for the adjustment of which 
a commission was sent to Mr. King during his absence, and 
for the early settlement of which Mr. Gore made an earnest 
plea, as likely to promote mutual benefit and the future peace 
of the two countries. 

But the most interesting portions of his letters to Mr. and 
Mrs. King were those relating to the boys, whom they had 
left in England at school and under the loving care of Mr. 
and Mrs. Gore. They had not been blessed with children, 
but they always seemed to look upon the children of their 
old friends as if they were their own and took them to their 

and important accessorial part in the attainment of Louisiana, I went in his 
diplomatic family from London to Paris in 1802, . . . returned with Mr. 
King from England to America, with the first intelligence of its (Louisiana's) 
acquisition." 

1 66 RUFUS KING, [1802 

hearts as they had taken their parents before them. Nothing 
that interested the boys escaped their care and attention and 
every little incident of their lives at school or during the 
holidays, which were passed with Mr. Gore, was treasured 
up to be reported to their absent friends as accounts they 
would be anxious to receive and which would cheer them 
during the separation. 

Writing of the Harrow boys, who were with him, he says : 

" They recite sixty or seventy lines of Virgil every morning — 
billiards, shooting and riding occupy the residue of the day. 
Their health is perfectly right, & both a la physique & a la morale 
they are in every respect, as we or you would desire them to 
be. . . . Frederick (the baby) whom I have just been tossing 
in the air and spanking, for he is literally a sans-culotte, daily 
improves in strength, good humour and smiles." 

In a note to one of Mr. Gore's letters the Harrow boys say : 

" We have been out to day shooting Moor Hens ; we killed 
three and by the first of September, if we had dogs, we should be 
able to shoot even partridges." 

Having procured a dog, Mr. Gore writes that on their first 
going out for game, September 2d : 

" John shot a partridge & a pigeon & Charles a partridge & 
pigeon ; there seems some question whether the latter's partridge 
had not been dropped before, but on the whole, after fair discus- 
sion & mature deliberation it is concluded that Charles is justly 
entitled to the merit of having killed a partridge & pigeon." 

The following quotations will show the way in which Mr. 
Gore continued to write about the children and to comfort 
their parents : 

" The children are all well. Mrs. Gore who came to town last 
night (Oct. 15th) saw Edward, en passant, and takes him to Ran- 
dalls (their country place) to-day. Frederick's teeth in front, 
that is to say two, are very distinct & apparent. His health is firm 
& he will soon walk. He is quite an aspiring youth, for he is ever 
on tiptoe to attain a commanding view — to humble himself to the 

i802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 6/ 

level of his feet is all that is necessary for him to move like other 
boys. If you do not return soon it is not absolutely certain that 
we shall not have him in jacket and breeches. John & Charles 
say they study hard and expect to be in the Shell at Christmas 
when they shall have a fag. I doubt whether enough has been said 
to convince you how very properly the boys conducted during 
the vacation. They are entitled to every mark of remembrance 
which their mother promised & she will not, I am sure, forget to 
bring all and more than they expected, as tokens of her regard 
and satisfaction in their good behaviour." 

The object in giving these extracts is to show that the 
home life of Mr. and Mrs. King was one which manifested an 
affectionate and cheerful intercourse, that showed itself in 
the manner in which their children were taught obedience 
to them, confidence in their parents, and respect to those 
about them. It could, therefore, and must have been a 
source of satisfaction to know that their absence produced 
no change, and that the same docile and winning manners 
won the warm commendation of their friends as they had 
among their teachers. 

It has been said that there are no letters of Mr. King's 
during his tour on the Continent giving an account of his 
journey. There are, however, two which, though a little out 
of date here, and written while in Paris, relate to public 
matters, and are here given. 

R. King to Mr. Cazenove, Paris. 

Paris, Oct. 23, 1802. 
Sir : 

It was my purpose to have gone last evening with Mrs. King to 
pay our Compliments to Mr. and Mrs. Talleyrand, and at the 
same time to have said a word or two to you concerning the affair 
you communicated to me on the part of Mr. T. Unfortunately 
we were detained till too late an hour by some friends who called 
upon us in the early part of the evening. 

I have just been at Mr. Talleyrand's office, but he has not 
arrived in town, and I must therefore send you this note to say in 

1 68 RUFUS KING. [1802 

regard to the communication you made to me on Thursday, that 
as I do not perceive that my interference would be likely to prove 
beneficial, I must ask the favor of you to regard what has passed 
between us as though it had never happened. 

With unvaried Sentiments of Esteem &c. yours 

R. K. 

At the head of this letter Mr. King writes as follows, to 
explain the matter to which the letter refers : 

" Mr. Livingston being twice postponed, and others who came 
later to the audience chamber of Talleyrand received before him, 
wrote a note complaining of this indignity and notifying his 
determination to confine himself to written communications with 
the Department of for. affairs. Talleyrand draughted an answer 
in wh. he complains of the captious compt, of Livingston, wh. he 
ascribes to his want of Experience and having begun late in life 
the diplomic. career, and expresses a hope that the Pr., whose 
knowledge of diplomacy he foresees, wd. see no reason to justify 
his minr. This letter Talleyrand gave to Cazenove to show to 
me, with a request that I wd. interfere to persuade Livingston to 
recall his complt. &c. I communicated this overture to Mr. L., 
and it was our joint opinion that I should decline any inter- 
ference." 

R. King to G. W. Erving, Esq., Consul of the United States 

AT London. 

Paris, Oct. 17, 1802. 
Sir : 

I have just received your Letter of the 19th instant and lose no 
time in sending you my reply, to say that you appeared to have 
misconceived the nature and object of your Correspondence with 
the Alien office, which neither required, nor gave to you any, 
much less the exclusive, faculty of granting Passports to Ameri- 
can Citizens upon their entry, and residence within, or their de- 
parture from the limits of your Consulship. Indeed the late 
modification of the Alien Law, the purport whereof was commu- 
nicated to the several American Consuls, especially changed the 
measures of Police respecting Aliens which had before existed, 

i8o2] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 169 

and in a great measure, if not altogether, dispensed with your 
farther interference. It will doubtless be sufficient to prevent the 
steps you have supposed yourself authorized to adopt in respect 
to the Passports which may have been granted by Mr. Gore, that 
you should know that Mr. Gore is charged with the affairs of the 
United States in England during my absence, and that he finds 
of course among the ordinary authorities of this character that of 
granting Passports to American Citizens. 

I am, Sir, with due respect &c. 

R. K. 

The admirable letters of Mr. Gore to Mr. King and his 
communications with Lord Hawkesbury and Mr. Madison 
might well find a place here, but as they are long, and gen- 
erally relate to matters which, though then brought into 
notice, were not settled at that time, they must be passed 
over. There was, however, one subject of deep interest 
with reference to which, during Mr. King's absence, he had 
to take an active part. Mr. Jefferson, in a letter to Dr. 
Rush, September 23, 1800,* had written, "you will hear of 
an attempt at insurrection in this State (Virginia). I am 
looking with anxiety to see what will be its effect in our 
State. We are truly to be pitied." The insurrection was 
put down, and the leaders were captured and imprisoned. 
A question arose as to what should be done to them, and 
the Legislature had brought before them some resolutions 
relative to the matter, but postponed them until a future 
time. They were, however, referred to Gov. Monroe, who, 
on June 15, 1801, communicated them to the President, Mr. 
Jefferson, and again, on November 17, called his attention to 
them. In the answer to this letter, Mr. Jefferson, Novem- 
ber 24, 1 801, wrote: f 

"That the publication of these resolutions might have an ill 
effect in more than one quarter. In confidence of attention to 
this I shall indulge greater freedom in writing. Common male- 

* y^ff^^son's Works, vol. iv, , p. 336. 
f Ibid., vol. iv., p. 419. 

I/O RUFUS KING. [1802 

factors, I presume, make no part of the object of that resolution. 
Neither their numbers, nor the nature of their offences, seem to 
require any provisions beyond those practised heretofore, and 
found adequate to the suppression of ordinary crime. Con- 
spiracy, insurgency, treason, rebellion, (among the description of 
persons who brought on thus the alarm, and on themselves the 
tragedy of 1800) were doubtless in the view of everyone ; but 
many perhaps contemplated, and one expression of the resolution 
might comprehend, a much larger scope. Respect to both 
opinions makes it my duty to understand the resolution in all the 
extent of which it is possible." 

Without following him in the details of the letter, it may- 
be stated that he suggests that in some way these persons 
might be placed in colonies in lands at home, or even 
abroad, and discusses various plans by which they might be 
removed, with the objections that might be urged against 
them. Among places proposed, he writes : "^ 

" On our western and southern frontiers Spain holds an im- 
mense country, the occupancy of which, however, is in the Indian 
natives, except, a few insulated spots, possessed by Spanish 
subjects. It is very questionable, indeed, whether the Indians 
would sell ? Whether Spain would be willing to receive these 
people ? and nearly certain that she would not alienate the sov- 
ereignty, &c." t 

He speaks also of the West Indies, and finally says that 
''Africa would offer a last and undoubted resort, if all others 
more desirable should fail us." 

With this statement of the serious question which was 
troubling the people of Virginia, and incidentally the other 
States where slaves abounded, we are prepared for the fol- 
lowing letter, which the President wrote to Mr. King on 

* jfeffer son's Works, vol. iv., p. 420. 

\ Mr. Jefferson, at this time, evidently ignored or thought little of the infor- 
mation of the reported cession of Louisiana and, as it was supposed, of the 
Floridas to France, sent to him by Mr. King on June i and August 24 of 1801. 
— Editor. 

l8o2] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. I7I 

July 13, 1802, asking his co-operation in obtaining from the 
Sierra Leone Company permission to transport "■ the slaves 
guilty of insurgency " to their colony, and giving his views 
upon this interesting matter ; at the same time, affording 
him an opportunity '' to assure you (Mr. King) of his perfect 
satisfaction with the manner in which you have conducted 
the several matters confided to you by us." "* 

T. Jefferson to R. King. 

Washington, July 13, 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

The course of things in the neighboring islands of the West 
Indies appear to have given a considerable impulse to the minds 
of slaves in different parts of the United States. A great dispo- 
sition to insurgency has manifested itself among them, which, in 
one instance, in the State of Virginia, broke out into actual insur- 
rection. This was easily suppressed ; but many of those con- 
cerned (between twenty and thirty, I believe) fell victims to the 
law. So extensive an execution could not but excite sensibility 
in the public mind and begat a regret that the laws had not 
provided, for such cases, some alternative combining more mild- 
ness with equal efficacy. The Legislature of the State at a sub- 
sequent meeting took the subject into consideration, and have 
communicated to me through the Governor of the State, their 
wish that some place could be provided, out of the limits of the 
United States, to which slaves guilty of insurgency might be 
transported ; and they have particularly looked to Africa as offer- 
ing the most desirable receptacle. We might, for instance, enter 
into negotiations with the natives, on some part of the coast, to 
obtain a settlement ; and, by establishing an African Company, 
combine with it commercial operations, which might not only 
reimburse expenses, but procure profit also. But there being 
already such an establishment on that coast by the English Sierra 
Leone company, made for the express purpose of colonizing 
civilized blacks to that country, it would seem better, by incor- 
porating our emigrants with theirs, to make one strong, rather 
than two weak colonies. This would be more desirable because 

* yefferson' s Works ^ vol. iv., pp. 442-44. 

1/2 RUFUS KING. [1802 

the blacks settled at Sierra Leone having chiefly gone from the 
States, would often receive among those we should send, their 
acquaintances and relatives. 

The object of this letter therefore is to ask the favor of you to 
enter into conference with such persons private and public as 
would be necessary to give us permission to send thither the per- 
sons under contemplation. It is material to observe that they are 
not felons, or common malefactors, but persons guilty of what 
the Safety of Society, under actual circumstances, obliges us to 
treat as a crime, but which their feelings may represent in a far 
different shape. They are such as will be a valuable acquisition 
to the settlement already existing there, and well calculated to 
co-operate in the plan of civilization. 

As the expense of so distant a transportation would be very 
heavy, and might weigh unfavorably in deciding between the 
modes of punishment, it is very desirable that it should be les- 
sened as much as practicable. If the regulations of the place 
would permit these emigrants to dispose of themselves, as the 
Germans and others do who come to this country poor, by giving 
their labor for a certain time to some one who will pay their pas- 
sage ; and if the master of the vessel could be permitted to carry 
articles of commerce from this country and take back others from 
that, which might yield a mercantile profit sufficient to cover the 
expenses of the voyage, a serious difficulty would be removed. I 
will ask your attention therefore to arrangements necessary for 
this purpose. 

The consequences of permitting emancipations to become ex- 
tensive, unless the condition of emigration be annexed to them, 
furnish also matter of solicitation to the Legislature of Virginia, 
as you will perceive by their resolution enclosed to you. Al- 
though provision for the settlement of emancipated negroes might 
perhaps be obtainable nearer home than Africa, yet it is desirable 
that we should be free to expatriate this description of people 
to the Colony of Sierra Leone, if considerations respecting either 
themselves or us should render it more expedient. I will pray 
you therefore to get the same permission extended to the recep- 
tion of these as well as the first mentioned. Nor will there be a 
selection of bad subjects ; the emancipations, for the most part, 
being either of the whole slaves of the master, or of such indi- 

i8o2] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 73 

viduals as have particularly deserved well ; the latter is most 
frequent. 

The request of the Legislature of Virginia having produced to 
me the occasion of addressing you, I avail myself of it to assure 
you of my perfect satisfaction with the manner in which you have 
conducted the several matters confided to you by us ; and to ex- 
press my hope that through your agency we may be able to re- 
move everything inauspicious to a cordial friendship between this 
country and the one in which you are stationed ; a friendship 
dictated by too many considerations not to be felt by the wise 
and the dispassionate of both nations. It is therefore with the 
sincerest pleasure I have observed on the part of the British gov- 
ernment various manifestations of just and friendly disposition 
towards us. We wish to cultivate peace and friendship with all 
nations, believing that course most conducive to the welfare of our 
own. It is natural that these friendships should bear some pro- 
portion to the common interests of the parties. The interesting 
relations between Great Britain and the United States are certainly 
of the first order ; and as such are estimated and will be faith- 
fully cultivated by us. These sentiments have been communi- 
cated to you from time to time in the official correspondence of 
the Secretary of State ; but I have thought it might not be unac- 
ceptable to be assured that they perfectly concur with my own 
personal convictions both in relation to yourself and the country 
in which you are. I pray you to accept assurances of my high 
consideration and respect. 

This letter of the President was received by Mr. Gore, 
who upon ascertaining its contents, under his authority as 
Charge d'Affaires during Mr. King's absence, immediately 
took steps to obtain the information asked for in it, and in 
a letter to the President explains the result of his inves- 
tigations. 

C. Gore to His ExCELLE^XY Thomas Jefferson. 

London, 10 Oct. 1802. 
Sir : 

In consequence of being left by Mr. King in charge with the 
affairs of the United States, and of his desire that I should inspect 

1/4 RUFUS KING. [1802 

all letters directed to him, I opened that from yourself under date 
of the 13 of July, and which was received on the 13th ultimo. 

This, sir, I must pray you to accept as an apology for having 
broken its seal, and if my subsequent conduct shall appear an 
intrusion, you will do me the justice, to impute it to the most 
respectful motives, combined with an earnest desire to promote 
the object of the Letter, if in no other way, at least in obtaining 
and forwarding all such information as could be procured here, 
and might help to advance the wise and humane plan, you have 
so benevolently contemplated of opening a path for the emanci- 
pation of the Blacks, on such terms as may prove beneficial to 
themselves and not injurious to others. I was the more induced 
to act in this business from the belief that Mr. King would not be 
here to attain any information in season to reach the United 
States until late in the winter. 

Lord Hawkesbury, to whom I thought proper first to mention 
the subject, professed a warm desire to do everything in his 
power to promote your views, but at the same time the affair 
must rest entirely with the Directors of the Sierra Leone Com- 
pany and that he was really fearful their late experience had been 
such as to deter them from the admission of characters like those 
alluded to. 

I then took an opportunity of conferring with Mr. Thornton, 
Chairman of the Court of Directors, and stated to him the Reso- 
lution of the Legislature of Virginia, and your idea of the best 
mode of carrying the same into effect with such arguments, so 
far as I could think of any, in addition to those contained in 
your letter, to show that the admission of the Blacks from the 
United States might under such regulations as wisdom and 
prudence should prescribe, prove an addition and strength and 
benefit to their colony. But the establishment has suffered much 
from the maroons, who have been permitted to go there from 
Jamaica, and the Directors consider that the rise of their colony 
has been rather impeded than advanced by the Blacks from Nova 
Scotia. They have been lately obliged to apply to Parliament 
for pecuniary aid, and to ask assistance of troops, to keep in 
check the restless and disturbed spirits already there. The mili- 
tary force is not so great as they wish for, and they entertain seri- 
ous apprehensions if it be sufficient to protect the well disposed, 

l8o2] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 1 75 

and repress the constant disposition manifested in many of the 
Colonists to revolt and overturn the existing Government. 

These reasons appear to have great weight in Mr. Thornton's 
mind against the policy of admitting such settlers, as would be 
most likely to come from the United States. He has however 
come to no determination against the measure, but promises to 
advise with his friends and see if any expedient can be devised 
by which the danger to be feared from acceding to the proposal 
may be guarded against. 

It is possible that on Mr. King's return he may be able to sug- 
gest such reasons as shall induce the Directors to lend a favour- 
able ear to the plan. He is intimate with some of the most influ- 
ential of them, and if aught can be added to the strong motives 
they profess, and I have no doubt sincerely, to do every thing 
acceptable to the exalted character, at whose instance the propo- 
sition has been made, it may be expected from the personal 
influences of this gentleman. Although from the considerations 
mentioned, which with others are to be seen in the State of the 
Colony, as described in the memorial to Parliament, and the 
report of the Committee, I do not think there is much reason to 
hope, that an incorporation of the Blacks of the United States 
with those of Sierra Leone, can be reconciled in the minds of the 
Directors to the Safety and prosperity of the Establishment. 

I am indebted to Mr. Thornton for the Papers referred to, and 
which you will find gave an accurate statement of that colony, the 
evils most to be guarded against, with the means thought neces- 
sary for its security, and the expenses of the Establishment. As 
these Papers are scarce and contain information which may be 
valuable on this subject, I have taken the liberty to enclose them 
with this letter. 

Should an occasion occur which may promise advantage to the 
proposal from any endeavours of mine, you may rely on their 
being cheerfully and faithfully exerted to that end, and if farther 
information can be procured which in my judgment may be use- 
ful in this interesting business before the arrival of Mr. King, I 
pray you, sir, to be assured that I shall derive great pleasure in 
forwarding it. 

I have the honour to be with perfect Respect, 

C. Gore. 

176 RUFUS KING. [1802 

J. Q. Adams to R. King. 

Boston, 8 October, 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

We have enjoyed during the summer an extraordinary degree 
of tranquility, and since the session of Congress terminated in 
May, no public event of material importance has happened. The 
newspapers have been chiefly filled with personal attacks upon 
the President and Vice-President, coming from different and per- 
haps opposite quarters ; all arising originally from divisions in 
their own party. These divisions have occasioned animosities of 
no small inveteracy between individuals. You have doubtless 
been better informed of the transactions at New York than it 
would be in my power to inform you. The warfare there has 
been between the friends of Mr. Burr, and those of the Clinton 
family. In Virginia the principal batteries have been pointed 
at Mr. Jefferson, by a Scotsman, named Callender, of whom you 
have probably heard heretofore.* He writes under the influence 
of personal resentment and revenge, but the effect of his publica- 
tions upon the reputation of the President has been considerable. 

What the consequence of these internal feuds in the ruling 
party will be is not yet apparent. But independent of them and 
considered as a single party in opposition to the federalists, the 
strength of the present administration is continually increasing. 
It has obtained and preserves an irresistible preponderance 
in thirteen of the sixteen State legislatures, and the resistence 
in the three others scarcely maintains its ground. In both 
houses of Congress the majority is already decisive, but at 
the ensuing Congress, will be much larger. The division in the 
Senate is now nearly equal. But for the next two years, there 
will be nearly two thirds of the partizans of the present govern- 
ment. In the State of Pennsylvania their ascendancy is so great 
that the federalists have scarcely dared to name a candidate in 
opposition to Governor McKean's re-election ; federalism is 
indeed in that state so completely palsied, that scarcely a trace of 
it is to be discovered except in here and there a newspaper edited 
by New England men. 

This party triumph is not enjoyed with moderation. The basis 

* For an account of Callender and his work see Hildreth's Hist, of the United 
States, 2d ser., vol. ii., p. 453 et seq. 

l8o2] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 1 77 

of it all is democratic popularity, and the leaders are all sensible 
how sandy a foundation it is. Strong as the fabric appears they 
are constantly trembling lest its corner stones should fail : and as 
their principal alarm is lest the old administration should recover 
favour in the eyes of the people, the great engine of party, with 
which they endeavour to fortify themselves, is slander upon their 
predecessors. This they continue under every shape and on all 
occasions. Nor are these exertions unsuccessful. They carried 
the system to such a pitch that even a Committee of the National 
house of Representatives, called a committee of Investigation, at 
the close of the session made a report, the manner and form of 
which were both highly exceptionable to every maxim of common 
justice and honour. This report was hurried through the house 
with as little regard to decorum as it was made. It has since 
been analysed and refuted by several publications in various parts 
of the Union, but most effectually by a pamphlet of Mr. Wolcott, 
which will doubtless be sent you by some of your friends ; and 
which will shew you a fair specimen both of our Administration 
and its Opposition. 

The concern of the Republicans^ as they stile themselves, is the 
result of consciousness, rather than of real dangers. The power 
of the Administration rests upon a support of a much stronger 
majority of the people throughout the Union than the former 
administrations ever possessed since the first establishment of the 
Constitution. Whatever the merits or the demerits of the former 
administrations may have been, there never was a system of 
measures more completely and irrevocably abandoned and 
rejected by the popular voice. It never can and never will be 
revived. The experiment, such as it was, has failed, and to 
attempt its restoration would be as absurd, as to undertake the 
resurrection of a carcass seven years in its grave. The alarm of 
the pilots at the helm is therefore without cause. What they take 
for breakers are mere clouds of unsubstantial vapour. The only 
risque to which they are exposed is the shallowness of their 
waters. Their system is so short sighted, and so contracted, that 
it will never stand a popular test even of twelve years, and the 
people whom almost unbounded prosperity could not attach to 
their predecessors, will not learn from adversity to be better 
pleased with them. 

VOL IV — 12 

178 RUFUS KING. [1802 

The yellow fever made its appearance at an earlier period than 
usual, in many of our cities. It has not hitherto spread so exten- 
sively, as upon former occasions ; but it has been as malignant in 
the cases which have happened as it was ever known. A Dysen- 
tery of extreme violence has likewise prevailed in the western 
part of this Commonwealth and the neighbouring part of Con- 
necticut. The approach of the Winter season gives us hopes of 
relief from these scourges. But the summer has been so long 
protracted that at the moment I write this, Fahrenheit's thermo- 
meter stands at 82 and has been higher in the course of the day. 
The harvests throughout the Country have been plentiful. 

Your very obedt. Servt. 

John Quincy Adams. 

CHAPTER XII. 

George III. to King — On his not being presented to Bonaparte in Paris — Also 
Precautions taken when riding on cold Days — Cabot to King — Affairs in 
Massachusetts — Murray to King — Talk of King as Candidate for the Presi- 
dency— Democrats blame him in Maryland as neglecting the Bank Stock. — 
T. Paine — Hotels refused to receive him — W. Hindman to King — Pro- 
posed Presidential Nomination — Maryland Bank Stock — King to Living- 
ston— Insecurity of the Peace — King to Secretary of State — War might be 
renewed — No Concert with Austria and Russia — Cabinet sees no material 
Change in Continental Powers to warrant War — Difficulties relative to 
Malta and unsettled commercial Intercourse with France, etc — King to 
Eaton — Hargrave's Charges for Commission in purchasing Jewels, etc., for 
Bey, not Right — Wilberforce to King — Distrusts the Ministry — King to 
Addington — Urges Settlement of Maryland Bank-Stock Question — King 
to Secretary of State — France the Arbiter of Peace. 

In Dr. Lieber's Letters there is an anecdote about Mr. 
King, which indicates his prudence during his stay in Paris. 
His journey to the Continent, and Paris particularly, was not, 
as he tells us, to see men and manners but to enjoy the invalu- 
able specimens of the fine arts collected in that city. It is 
evident, however, that the high position he held as the rep- 
resentative of his country in England, opened to him an 
entrance to the society of the most distingushed men in 
France, of which his correspondence gives us no hint, farther 
than that he and his wife were guests at Talleyrand's house 
and that he met Lafayette while in Paris. There is nothing 
to show the conferences which he must have had with Mr. 
Livingston, especially relative to the cession of Louisiana — 
which was a matter of deep interest and anxious considera- 
tion, and which must have been discussed between them. 
He did not seek to come in contact with the First Consul, 

179 

l80 RUFUS KING. [1802 

and indeed, as the anecdote here given shows, declined to be 
presented to him. 
Dr. Lieber says:* 

" I give you an anecdote which will be interesting to the Chair- 
man of Foreign Affairs. President King tells me that when his 
father Rufus King was American Minister in London, he paid a 
visit to Paris after the peace of Amiens, where Fox likewise went. 
Fox went to see Consul Bonaparte. The latter desired that King 
would have himself presented, or the Chief Officers of the Consul 
told King that they would gladly present him. King, who was 
then engaged in making a treaty with England, declined because 
he knew that Bonaparte was very disagreeable to George III. and 
he thought he had no right to do anything that could interfere 
with his relation to the British court or ministry. When he 
returned to England and went to court, George III. went up to 
him and said, ' Mr. King I am very much obliged to you ; you 
have treated me like a gentleman, which is more than I can say 
of all my subjects.' 

" I give the words exactly as President King gave them to me 
and he says he gave the words to me exactly as he could remem- 
ber them, the anecdote being in lively remembrance in the family. 
He thinks he can now repeat the very words in which his father 
told the affair immediately after his return from court and that 
they are the ipsissima Verba of George III." 

It will not be out of place to reproduce here another 
anecdote of George III. which was often spoken of in Mr. 
King's family. It was more particularly mentioned by his 
son, Gov. John A. King when on a very cold day on 
November 25th he had come from Albany to New York to 
review the troops there. He had been out all the morning 
in his uniform without an overcoat, and when one of his 
aides expressed his astonishment at this, he said to him, ** I 
remembered King George's advice to my father and have 
put on an extra shirt," as he was accustomed to do when he 
went out on horseback on cold days. 

* Extract from a letter from Dr. Lieber to Charles Sumner upon a diplomatic 
question in 1863, — Dr. Lieber's Letters. 

l8o2] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. l8l 

G. Cabot to R. King. 

Nov. 6, 1802. 
My dear Sir : 

The failure of the Federalists in the Election of J. Q. Adams 
may be attributed to negligence or rather weariness. They were 
sufficiently numerous in the District to have given 500 majority : 
but the failure of Mr. Pickering proves the decline of good influ- 
ence in that district. On the whole I think it certain that Democ- 
racy gains strength in number & loses or rather has lost much 
among the sensible. 

. . . Some of our Jacobin writers have abused you & 
charged you with avowing monarchical sentiments in letters to 
me : they are systematic in all these labors to render odious every 
man who they foresee may rise to important stations & is not of 
their sect. . . . 

I am glad you concluded to pass over to France & see for 
yourself what remains to be seen. I want you to see the disgust 
which must prevail there at everything Democratic after having 
made the world mad with the love of it. I want to see if weary 
of Bonaparte's power they are ripe for new changes : tell me what 
you see & think on these subjects when you return to England. 

Ever faithfully yours, 

G. C. 

Wm. V. Murray to R. King. 

Baltimore, 12 Nov., 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

We know of your intention of returning — of the policy of that 
1 say nothing. Your last negociation on the debts gave a satis- 
faction which had nothing surprising in it but that it should please 
both parties. The leading Demos, even spoke, I learn, in high 
terms of it. For some time the Feds, have talked of running you 
& Genl. Pinckney as P. & V. P. fairly & side by side. It is be- 
lieved that this has alarmed the Demos. : for lately at Annapolis, 
where our Legislature is now in Session, some of the subalterns, 
€choes of the chiefs, have undertaken to blame you on account 
of the Bank Stock which they say you neglect. We know better. 
Their object is to prejudice you I presume in this state, where I 
may be allow'd to assure you that you are in great esteem. As 

1 82 RUFUS KING. [l8o2 

this letter may reach you before your taking of Leave I thought 
it right to tell you this, that no formality of proof on your part 
which wd. enable the Feds, to give an answer to such a report, 
shd. it be stirred next election, might be omitted and out of 
reach. 

Our papers will show you to what an excess abuse runs — The 
Louisiana affair staggers many of the more thinking Demos. & 
materials seem to accumulate in favour of the Fed. Side. 

Smith lately informed me that you were on your way to Paris 
— I rejoice that before you return you will have seen that singu- 
lar people at home — I am too unwell & weak to write to G. by 
this ship which sails I learn early in the morning. 

Tom Paine arrived here 12 days since — few of the respectable 
Demos, visited him — He was arrested for 50 Louis lent him by a 
very respectable Irish gentleman (O'Mealy) of this place while 
Tom was confined by Robespierre — He went on a week since to 
the Fed. city where the boarders of the Tavern where he alighted 
refused to remain in the house if Tom were admitted to the 
public table. The Tavern where I am, Evans, the best in Town 
I hear, refused to admit him because the frequenters of it mani- 
fested the same spirit — He will do no harm — & perhaps some 
good. 

He was I learn civilly received by the P. whom I suspect he 

will much embarass.* 

Yours respectfully, 

Wm. V. Murray. 

Wm. Hindman to R. King. 

Baltimore, Nov. 21, 1802. 
My Dear Sir : 

Inclosed is the Speech of our Governor to the Legislature in 
which You will discover Yourself implicated — From the Informa- 
tion I have collected, it appears to Me that the present ruling 

* One of the first acts of the President is the permission given to Paine in a 
letter to him, March 18, 1801. He writes : " You expressed a wish to get a 
passage to this country in a public vessel, Mr. Dawson is charged with orders 
to the captain of the Afayyland{yi\\\z\i had carried Mr. Dawson to Havre with 
the newly signed Convention with France) to receive and accommodate you with 
a passage back." — Jefferson's Works, vol. iv., p. 371. 

l8o2] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 83 

Party in the United States, dreading your Return before the 
ensuing presidential Election (altho some Time ago lavish in 
your Praises, & highly approbating your ministerial Conduct) are 
determined as far as in their Power to destroy You in the good 
Opinion of your Countrymen, and particularly in the State of 
Maryland, (which may hold the Balance at the next Election for 
President,) where You heretofore stood very high, & in which I 
hope there will be no Change ; for the Purpose of accomplishing 
their diabolical Purpose, They are now industriously circulating 
a Report, " That You have not exerted Yourself to procure the 
Bank Stock for the State of Maryland, that You have neglected 
its Interest, & if You had used Your Endeavors the Stock would 
have been secured long ago." — This I am persuaded is not true — 
It would be extremely desirable to your Friends, who are anxious 
that you should be the next President, & at the same Time 
greatly promote the Federal Interest, if this Party could be put 
down by a Communication to the Secretary of State proving this 
Report to be altogether without Foundation either by obtaining 
the Stock or making it appear that every Exertion had been 
made by You for that Purpose. 

I hope You will excuse the Liberty I have taken in this Busi- 
ness, I have been actuated by a Love to my Country & Yourself. 

I wish You and your Family a happy Return to your native 

Country. 

Yr. very Hble. Servt. 

Wm. Hindman. 

R. King to His Excellency Mr. Livingston. 

London, Nov. 24, 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

I cannot write to you with confidence respecting the critical state 
of public affairs ; in a few days I may be able to do so. The 
speech and addresses of the two Houses pledge the country to 
nothing precise, tho' they are sufficient evidence of the insecurity 
of Peace ; if to these be added the orders which have been sent 
in every direction to retain such of the Conquests made during 
the late war, as have not been surrendered, and the military and 
naval preparations making throughout the country, the proba- 
bilities seem to be greater in favour of War than Peace. 

1 84 RUFUS KING. [1802 

In relation to our affairs, so far as we may suppose the war 
would affect them, the chance in favour of its happening is such 
as should lead us to suspend all measures, the conclusion of which 
might be advisable upon the supposition of the continuance of 
Peace. I shall repeat the observation with which I began, that I 
have not yet had sufificient opportunities to form as correct an 
opinion upon this most interesting and important subject as I 
hope to be able to do very shortly. Knowing your solicitude, I 
have, however, thought it prudent to send you these observations 
together with the renewal of the assurances of 

Esteem and Respect with which, &c. 

RuFus King. 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. 76. 

London, Nov. 26, 1802. 
Sir : 

Mr. Gore has acknowledged the receipt of such letters from the 
Department of State as have been received during my absence, 
and his correspondence will have given you exact informa- 
tion of all that has hitherto been done towards the accom- 
plishment of the several objects of the President's instructions. 
I shall immediately resume the business that has been so well 
commenced, and as well from the nature of the subject as from 
the temper and disposition that are understood to prevail in re- 
spect to America, I am inclined to hope that we shall experience 
no material difficulty in effecting a final and satisfactory adjust- 
ment of our Boundaries. 

At the date of Mr. Gore's last letter there seems to have been 
much solicitude on the subject of Peace ; the sympathy of the 
nation was at that time strongly excited by the conduct of France 
toward Switzerland, and a verbal insinuation was made by the 
English Minister at Paris, that the King would not see with indif- 
ference the interference of France in the internal affairs of that 
country. This step was accompanied by orders to stop the 
farther reduction of the land and naval forces, and, as is believed, 
to retain provisionally instead of giving up, according to the Treaty 

i8o2] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 185 

of Amiens, the conquests which England had made during the 
war. These measures, which little pains were taken to conceal 
or explain, were supposed both at Paris and London to have been 
adopted in consequence of a concert formed with the two Imperial 
Courts, and therefore occasioned serious apprehensions lest Europe 
should again and immediately be involved in a new and disastrous 
war. 

Things remained in this situation till the meeting of Parlia- 
ment, and the King's Speech, which it was expected would re- 
move or confirm these apprehensions, was waited for with much 
impatience. On the one hand it offers no assurance of the con- 
tinuance of Peace, while on the other it is too vague to authorize 
a conclusion that England desires or may expect an early renewal 
of the war. Neither the speech nor the addresses give any satis- 
factory explanation of the measures which had been adopted ; 
but the Debates of Parliament, which I attended, though 
cautiously managed by the Ministers, cast some light on the 
subject ; and from them combined with other circumstances, it 
appears that no concert has been established either with Austria 
or Russia ; that although the State of the Swiss is matter of deep 
regret, it will not influence England, unsupported as she is by a 
single ally, to engage in a war that could not rescue the Swiss 
from the power of France ; and that moreover no such material 
change has, in the opinion of the Cabinet, taken place in the 
relative condition and strength of the Powers of the Continent 
since the Treaty of Amiens as would justify England in renewing 
the war. 

Upon the supposition that such are the opinions of the Cabinet, 
it is to the Treaty of Amiens, and not to certain political events 
that have since occurred, that we must seek for an explanation of 
the conduct of England in the increase of her Forces and in the 
orders which she is said to have dispatched to retain such of her 
Conquests as have not been surrendered. 

There are several points connected with the Treaty of Amiens, 
some or all of which may have had an influence in producing the 
measures alluded to ; these are the Government of Malta, the 
commercial intercourse which it was expected the peace would 
restore between Great Britain and France, and the indemnity 
promised to the Prince of Orange. 

1 86 RUFUS KING. [1802 

As the difficulties which have arisen independent both of 
France and England in carrying into effect the Article respecting 
Malta, are such as to render farther time or stipulations neces- 
sary to secure the purpose aimed at by the parties, it is natural 
that things should remain as they are until these difficulties can 
be adjusted ; there is therefore nothing extraordinary in England 
continuing to occupy Malta ; still, however, France may press 
for a literal performance of the engagement of England, and this 
joined to other motives may induce England to increase rather 
than diminish her Forces. 

Though the Definitive Treaty did no more than restore peace, 
it was generally expected, as incident to a state of peace, that a 
commercial intercourse would be opened between the two coun- 
tries subject to duties as well as partial exclusions. So far as 
regards the Trade from France to Great Britain, peace has replaced 
the same upon the footing it stood before the last commercial 
Treaty, while in France the Laws passed during the War, prohib- 
iting the importation of every sort of Goods of the Growth or 
Fabric of the British dominions, and making them liable to con- 
fiscation if found within the French Territories, are not only 
maintained, but enforced with so much Rigour that a number of 
British Vessels, driven into the Ports of France in distress and to 
escape the perils of the Ocean (such is the English account) have 
been confiscated together with their Cargoes ; and the only answer 
given to the complaints of the English Minister at Paris has been 
that in these, as in other cases of Judicial cognizance, the Laws 
must have their course. This evidence of the views of France, 
whose interference has produced a similar, tho' not equally ex- 
tensive, prohibition of English Manufactures in Spain, has excited 
much discontent ; and in a Nation so highly commercial as Eng- 
land, cannot fail of having an effect upon its public councils : yet 
neither these tokens of inhospitality, nor the business of Malta 
would justify the provisional Detention of the Conquests which 
England had agreed to surrender. 

The preliminaries were severely censured by the Grenville 
opposition, as in no respect more deficient than in the entire 
omission of a Proviso for the Prince of Orange. The Definitive 
Treaty contains an express stipulation in his favour ; and the hon- 
our of England is perhaps bound to enforce its due observance. 

l8o2] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 8/ 

It will be remembered that France entered into an engagement, 
(as it is believed for a sum of money received from Holland) on 
the very day of the conclusion of the Definitive Treaty to release 
the Dutch from contributing towards the indemnities of the Prince 
of Orange. England, without doubt, remonstrated against the 
bad faith of this Transaction and probably was assured that ample 
Indemnities would be found in Germany ; instead whereof the 
Compensation that has been offered by the Diet, under the recom- 
mendation of the initiating Powers, falls far beneath the just 
claims of the Prince of Orange, and, in the opinion of most per- 
sons, does not exceed a tenth even of their amount. It is there- 
fore natural enough to conjecture that seeing the inexecution of 
the Treaty in a point of much importance to an ancient and fallen 
Friend, as well as material to her own honour, England may have 
given notice of her having resolved to suspend the farther execu- 
tion of the Treaty on her part, until she sees a just and faithful 
performance of it on the part of France and her allies ; a Suppo- 
sition the more probable by the orders being made to exclude the 
Dutch colonies, which alone were likely to be affected — Martinique 
and St. Lucie being already surrendered. 

You will perceive that this Speculation goes upon the idea that 

orders have really been given to arrest the farther execution on 

the side of England — a fact tho' generally believed, not yet 

acknowledged. If the manifest ill-humour that exists, arises 

alone or principally from this cause, well grounded hopes ought 

to be entertained that Justice will be rendered to the Prince of 

Orange, and the Treaty of Peace suffered to go into complete 

operation. 

With perfect Respect and Esteem &c. 

RuFUS King. 

R. King to His Excellency Mr. Livingston. 

London, Nov. 29, 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

I have duly received your Letter of the 17th ; a Note I wrote 
to you from Calais will have acknowledged the receipt of your 
Letter dated the day after we left Paris. 

My sentiments in regard to the continuance of Peace are some- 
what changed since my Letter of the 24th, which went by a 

1 88 RUFUS KING. [1802 

Messenger ; and notwithstanding I still find it difficult to recon- 
cile the Discourses of Ministers with the Fact mentioned in that 
Letter I am more inclined than I was to believe that the views 
here are pacific. . . . 

I have seen and conversed with the Bearer of your Letter of 
the 17th ; the situation of St. Domingo may give us farther time ; 
nothing else seems likely to delay the measure we have so much 
at heart to promote. 

Faithfully & with great Esteem &c., 

RuFUS King. 

R. King to Mr. William Eaton, Tunis. 

London, November 29, 1802. 
Sir: 

My absence from England for the last three months has delayed 
my answer of your letter of July 6, respecting Mr. Hargraves' 
claim of a commission upon the cost of the articles prepared in 
this country, and sent as a Present to the Bey of Tunis. So far 
as relates to the personal care and assistance of Mr. Hargraves in 
the transportation of the Jewellery from Algiers to Tunis, he has 
undoubtedly a claim to be compensated ; for the transportation 
of the cloths and arms, the residue, and by far the greatest portion 
of the present he can have no such claim. In regard to the order- 
ing the articles here, and the superintending their execution, I am 
not a little surprized at Mr. Hargraves' pretension, which most 
certainly he never could have thought of making to me, who had 
put the whole business in Train, under the most exact Instruc- 
tions, before his arrival in England. It is true, on the refusal of 
the Bey to accept the cloths first sent by Mawhood & Co., and 
our determination to send cloths of the first instead of inferior 
quality (which was likewise resolved upon before Mr. Hargraves' 
arrival) I desired Mr. Hargraves to call at the Store of Mawhood 
& Co, and give his advice in the choice of the cloths ; as these 
were to be superfine, this advice could be of no service, except in 
the selection of colours, a matter of some though not of great 
importance. He did, I believe, occasionally visit Mortimer and 
Rundell and Bridge, who prepared the arms and Jewels, but I 

t8o2] life and correspondence, 189 

think you may with safety refer to Mr. Hargraves for the fact, 
that his advice and instructions were in no sense of any im- 
portance. Mr. Hargraves certainly manifested a disposition to 
be useful to us in any way that his knowledge and aid should be 
wanted ; but I really never had a notion that he thought himself 
entrusted by you or me with the superintendence or charge of 
this business ; and my finally entrusting him with the Jewels, 
was on his repeated solicitations and an alteration of my first 
intentions. 

On the whole if Mr. Hargraves receives one hundred Guineas, 
I should think him liberally paid ; had he intimated to me his 
expectation of being paid for his advice and assistance, I should 
have entirely excluded him from any concern in the Business ; 
the Jewels might have been sent by a different route, and with 
very little, if any, addition to the premium of Insurance. 

With much Respect &c. 

RuFus King. 

W. WiLBERFORCE TO R. KiNG. 

Bromfd., Tuesday, Dec. 6, 1802. 

My dear Sir : 

I believe you are an early man (which my Health does not 
suffer me to be) & perhaps you would breakfast with me some 
morning on your way to town. I never breakfast before \ after 
10, and seldom go from home before 12. So that if you should 
do me the favor of calling on Wednesday morning, you would 
find me here. ... I but too much concur with you concern- 
ing ye probability of the renewal of ye war, & for that very reason 
am anxious that preparations should be made for it. It is here (to 
speak openly) that I distrust our Minrs. I fear they are not 
acting up to the gt. exigencies of our situatn. It may be strong 
language ; but if they were I should have no great fears as to the 
Issue — as it is, my Expectations are very gloomy. 

Believe me always, my dear Sir, with cordial esteem & regard, 

Yours very sincerely, 

W. WiLBERFORCE. 

IQO RUFUS KING. [l8 

02 

Right Honourable H. Addington. 

Private. 
Randalls near Leatherhead, Surry, Dec. 7, 1802. 

Dear Sir : 

Upon the Experience I have had of the Efficacy of your 
interference of bringing to a decision Questions which had been 
long depending, I may I hope be allowed to ask your assistance 
to hasten the conclusion of an unsettled affair, that justice, and, 
if I may be permitted to say so, good policy require should be 
finished without farther delay. 

I refer to our claim of the Maryland Bank Stock, a subject 
with which you are not wholly unacquainted, and which has been 
depending, sometimes as a judicial and at others as a diplomatic 
question ever since the year 1783. The title to the stock may be 
stated in a few words : it was purchased by the Colony of Mary- 
land with money levied by a tax upon its inhabitants, and placed 
in the names of agents in London, who before the American war 
received and applied the Dividends according to the instructions 
of the Colony : the war interrupted the correspondence between 
Maryland and its Agents ; in the Treaty of Peace, by which the 
Independence of Maryland and the other colonies, the King 
" relinquished all claims to the Government, Property and terri- 
torial Rights of the same (i.e. the Colonies) and every part 
thereof." Before the Treaty the stock was the Property of Mary- 
land, and by the Treaty, which consents to the dissolution of the 
Colony Corporation, or in other words to the Independence of 
Maryland, the King in express words relinquished all claims to 
whatever was the Property of Maryland, and consequently to the 
stock in question. How it has ever been supposed that this 
stock accrued to the King upon the Dissolution of the Corpora- 
tion of Maryland, when he not only consented to this Dissolution, 
but in the act of consent transferred to Maryland any claim he 
had to the stock, is to me utterly incomprehensible. 

I have thought, sir, that you would excuse me for troubling you 
in this business, especially when I assure you that it has been the 
occasion of Dissatisfaction in an important part of my country, as 
well as the subject of such reiterated application on my part, as I 
never could have reconciled with my respect for others or myself, 

:8o2] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. I9I 

to have made, but from a strong conviction of its peculiar im- 
portance. I expect soon to return to America, and it is no 
affectation on my part, when I tell you that I shall feel some 
embarrassment with the sentiments and opinions which I have 
sent before me, if this stock should not be transferred before 
my Departure. 

With sincere Respect and Esteem &c. 

RuFus King. 

R. King to Secretary of State, 

No. 77. 

London, Dec. 18, 1802. 

From whatever cause the Language and measures of the Eng- 
lish Ministers in the month of October proceed, it is now evident 
that they produced no beneficial effect upon the Government of 
France, and that the Temper then manifested, had it been per- 
sisted in, would have involved the Nation in a new War. But 
the tone was soon lowered ; the orders supposed to have been 
given to retain certain possessions that were to be surrendered 
have been recalled, and with the exception of Malta, concerning 
which farther negotiations are said to be requisite to give effect 
to former Stipulations, every thing will be delivered up according 
to the Provisions of the Treaty of Peace. The Discourses of the 
Ministers, together with all that has transpired in the Debates in 
Parliament manifest the pacific wishes of the Nation, and France, 
in regard to this country, continues to be as exclusively the Arbiter 
of Peace, as she was of the continuance of War. The augmenta- 
tion of the land and naval forces of Great Britain will not regain 
her influence upon the Continent, and the measure has probably 
been adopted to secure the Dominion of Ireland, which recent 
information proves to be as extensively disaffected as at any 
period of the war, rather than to promote the object referred to in 
my last Dispatch. 

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c. 

RuFus King. 

CHAPTER XIII. 

Troup to King — State of Parties— King to be run for President or Vice-Presi- 
dent— King to Parker in Paris — Inquiry about Schools for his elder Sons — 
King to Secretary of State — In new Bill to be introduced in Parliament 
Duties will remain the same except on foreign Oils — Change in Corn Laws 
— King to Erving respecting Charges — King to President of United States 
— Resumes the Subject of Transportation of Slaves to Sierra Leone — Little 
Hope of Success in obtaining Permission to send them there — Thanks 
him for his Appreciation of his Services, etc. — King to Erving — No 
Danger that Mr. Williams will embarrass him or injure the Public — 
King to Madison — Acknowledging Refusal of a public Vessel for his 
Return and asking for Letters of Recall before April loth — Madison to 
King — Cause of Refusal — Reasons given by the President for this Refusal 
— The Decision really a wise one. 

R. Troup to R. King. 

New York, 12 Dec. 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

. . . The papers contain proofs thus far exhibited of Burr's 
manoeuvres for the Presidency. A new pamphlet containing 
farther proofs against him is on the tapis and will be out as soon 
as Burr turns his back on this city on his way to Washington. 
. . . The democratical party is gaining strength through the 
Union generally. The late election for members of Congress in 
Massachusetts shows an evident growth of democracy. ... In 
Pennsylvania federalism seems to be annihilated. In Jersey the 
parties in the Legislature are upon a tie. ... In this State, 
it appears to me, that democracy since the last election has not 
decreased. The quarrel between Clinton and Burr will not mate- 
rially divide the party. Burr is a gone man ; he is expelled from 
the Jeffersonian party, and I believe he never will possess any 
material weight in the political scale. Jefferson is really in the 

192 

i8o2] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 93 

dust in point of character, but notwithstanding this, he is looked 
up to and venerated as the Gog and Magog of his party. Things 
are according to the natural destiny of the government and I see 
no reason to suppose they will alter. . . . 

The project on foot here seems to be to run you at the next 
election for Vice-President or President — which of the two is not 
determined. You will therefore have to prepare yourself for fur- 
ther political contests. . . . 

I delivered your message to Benson, but he declines visiting 
Paris till Bonaparte is made either King or Emperor. He does 
not like the democratical title of First Consul. 

God bless you. 

R. King to Dan'l Parker, Paris. 

London, Dec, 13, 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

As you will naturally suppose that I am solicitous concerning 
the education of my children, you will, I am persuaded, excuse 
the trouble I am about to give in requesting that you will have 
the goodness to pursue the enquiries we proposed to make respect- 
ing the plan of education lately submitted to the public by M. 
Thurot and associates. . . . My object is to endeavour to 
unite as far as practicable the peculiar advantages of English and 
French education, each good as well as deficient, but united 
probably nearer than anything else is a perfect system ; and the 
enquiries I am now making are for the purpose of enabling me to 
decide whether such an establishment exists at Paris as would be 
likely to fulfill my expectations in regard to French instruction, 
and as would moreover consent to receive my two elder sons upon 
the terms on which alone I should be willing to send them there. 

In a few months they will respectively have completed their 
15th and 14th years. Their standing at Harrow, a public school 
near London, corresponds with their ages, and in about two and 
a half or three years, they will probably be at or near the end of 
the school, or in other words will have laid the foundation of a 
classical education. My belief is that they would be able to at- 
tain this station by being at Harrow only one half of each of these 

VOL. IV. — 13 

194 RUFUS KING. [1802 

years ; that is to say, during the two terms which include the six 
months commencing the middle of January ; the remaining six 
months from the middle of July to the middle of January, of 
which fourteen weeks are included in two vacations at midsummer 
and Christmas, I could send them to Paris. Although they have 
some knowledge of French and can read it without much difficulty, 
they would require the first half year to become sufficiently familiar 
with the language to proceed with ease and advantage in some 
branches of instruction ; in the meantime, however, they would be 
taught music, drawing, and, what is more important, mathematics ; 
they could likewise continue their Greek and Latin exercises and 
might begin with Spanish, which I wish them to know early and 
thoroughly. 

Not only the instruction but the discipline is an object of much 
importance, both as regards the cultivation of morals and the 
protection of the pupils from the vices and habits to which their 
age exposes them. With this explanation of my views, will you 
confer with Mr. Barlow and ask him to unite with you in making 
such enquiries of M. Thurot or any better establishment, as will 
enable you to give me your opinion and advice. I would send 
my sons in July next. 

With sincere regards, (Sec, I am yours, 

RuFUS King. 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. 78. 

London, Dec. 19, 1802. 
Sir: 

In the Bill that after the holidays will be brought into Parlia- 
ment for the consideration of the Customs, the Duties upon 
articles imported from the United States will stand nearly as they 
-do at present, except that it has been proposed to raise the Duty 
upon Oil coming from any foreign Country from ;!^28.3.i to 
^£"31.10. I have had one or two Conferences upon the subject 
with the Department of the Treasury, and am now preparing a 
Representation upon which their Lordships will decide before 

8o2] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. I95 

the Draught of the Bill is completed. The British St. Malo 
fishery produces more oil than is consumed in the country, and 
the proposed augmentation of duty is vindicated by alleging that 
Spermaceti oil having of late years considerably receded in price, 
it has become requisite to raise the Duty upon it in order that it 
may be, according to its first intention, prohibitory. 

Until recently there has been no discrimination of Duties upon 
foreign fish oils ; notwithstanding the Spermaceti Oil is so much 
better and dearer than the brown oil, the duty has operated to 
exclude the latter, while the former, by reason of its superior 
quality and price has found here a precarious market. Foreign 
Oils are not only meant to be excluded from the British Market, 
but the Bounties given to the British whale Fisheries must like- 
wise secure them a preference in the foreign Markets. The con- 
ferences with the Treasury have therefore embraced these several 
Regulations ; and tho' I have not much expectation of any 
such reduction of the Duties as will allow our Oils, except in ex- 
traordinary circumstances, to be consumed in Great Britain, I 
have the satisfaction to inform you that foreign Oils of every sort 
will hereafter be allowed to be deposited here under similar Reg- 
ulations to those which regard our Rice and Tobacco. This 
system will likewise be made to comprehend our Flour, wheat 
and other species of corn, as well as some other articles, such as 
Furs, Lumber &c. of inferior importance. The deposit of the 
chief articles of our Exports upon safe and convenient Terms in 
the Ports of this country, a system altogether different from that 
of Importation and Exportation under Duties and Drawbacks, 
will afford a considerable advantage to our Merchants, who may, 
thro' their correspondents here, distribute as before their Cargoes 
throughout the different markets of the continent ; and if the 
state of the English market admit it, they may on payment of the 
Duties, likewise dispose of them for the consumption of this 
country. 

The new regulation of the Corn Trade, which is connected 
with this system, will likewise merit our attention. When wheat 
is under 5 ^ the quarter, the duty on Importation will be 24/3. 
When 5 ^ and under 54, the duty will be 2/6 ; and when 54 and 
upwards, the duty will be /6^. If the Foreigner does not choose 
to import and pay the duty, he may deposit his wheat in the pub- 

196 RUFUS KING. [iSoz 

lie Warehouses for exportation or home consumption ; in the 
latter case it will be liable to pay the second rate of duties, altho' 
the price may be 54/, or above, unless the King, by Proclamation 
permits the same to be taken out of the Warehouses and sold on 
payment of the lowest Duty. 

As yet the notice specifying the countervailing Duties upon 
goods imported in American vessels, has not been formed, and is, 
I understand, delayed to learn whether it is likely that our dis- 
criminating Duties will be repealed. There has been no intima- 
tion of an intention to extend the countervailing Duties to the 
System of Deposits. I have not yet examined, tho' you may think 
it worthy of consideration, how far the extension of this plan of 
depositing instead of importing our Productions may have an 
influence upon the question of the Expediency of the repeal of 
the discriminating Duties on our side and the countervailing 
Duties on the side of this country. 

With great Respect & Esteem &c. 

RuFus King. 

R. King to Geo. W. Erving, Esq. 

Randall's, Surry, Dec. 20, 1802. 
Sir : 

As I shall stay in town on Tuesday night, I request that you 
will call upon me between 9 and 10 o'clock on Wednesday 
morning, in order that I may understand with precision what 
proportion of the money received by Mr. Williams in the 
Mart'que Cases you think yourself authorized according to former 
usage to claim for the United States. My Letter to you on this 
subject was founded upon the representation you had made to 
me that the deductions, according to former usage, ought to ex- 
ceed I per centum ; but as Mr. Williams states explicitly that it was 
not the usage to deduct more than one per centum in addition 
to the taxed costs and average sum allowed by the Board of 
Commissioners, I desire you will furnish me with Evidence that 
a larger proportion was retained by your Predecessor. 

I am, sir, your ob. St. 

R. K. 

:8o2] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 97 

R. King to His Excellency, the President of the U. S. 

London, Dec. 20, 1802. 
Sir : 

Mr. Gore having during my absence acknowledged the receipt 
of your letter to me, and at the same time transmitted to you 
copies of his Correspondence with the President of the Sierra 
Leone Company, I have only to resume the subject where he 
left it. 

The idle and disorderly character of the slaves, who deserted 
their Masters and joined the British army in America, and who 
constitute the greater part of the Inhabitants of Sierra Leone, has 
produced an unfavorable opinion of our slaves in general, which 
it is not easy to correct, and which unfortunately operates against 
the adoption of the Plan we have offered to the African Company. 

Hitherto the colony has done but little towards defraying the 
Expenses of its Protection, which are so considerable that the 
Company feels the burthen and is unwilling to consent to any 
measure that may chance to increase it. I have taken some pains, 
but hitherto without success, to do away what has appeared to me 
an unfounded apprehension on this subject and to engage the 
company to adopt our Proposition. I have not yet pressed for a 
decision, having reason to believe that it might be in the negative. 
At present I am recommending a modification of the plan to be 
tried in the first instance as an experiment and upon a small scale, 
and ultimately adopted upon a larger one, if found to be free 
from the inconveniences that are apprehended. Though I cannot 
encourage the expectation that the Company will agree to the 
Proposal upon any terms, I am not without hope that it may consent 
to receive a limited number of our negroes by way of experiment. 

There is no prospect whatever of our being able to combine 
the Transportation of these slaves with any beneficial plan of 
Trade. It would be an important point gained could we obtain 
permission to send them to Sierra Leone, and the Expense of 
their passage would be small in comparision with the advantage 
of their banishment. 

I cannot close this Letter without begging you to be assured 
that I am truly sensible of your obliging appreciation of the 
manner in which I have performed the Duties of my office in 

198 RUFUS KING. [1802 

this Country. The like zeal and industry will continue to be 
employed during the residue of my mission, and I shall, more- 
over, be ready after my return home to give to the Department of 
State any such information as it may be supposed my residence 
here has enabled me to acquire. 

With distinguished consideration &c. 

RuFus King. 

R. King to Geo. W. Erving, Esq. 

Great Cumberland Place, Dec. 22, 1802. 
Sir : 

It having been the practice of your Predecessor to retain only 
one percentum of the sums recovered in the Martinique cases, 
there seems to be no good reason for claiming more, and I there- 
fore recommend to you to receive from Mr. Williams at this rate 
in the Martinique Cases referred to in your Letters of the 13 and 
20. instant. 

In regard to the ascertainment of the former usage in reim- 
bursing the Public advances in these and other Cases, concerning 
which you repeat your apprehension that Mr. Williams may, as 
the private agent of the claimants, pursue a course embarrassing 
to you, and injurious to the public, it does not appear to me that 
the public interest is in any degree likely to be disregarded by the 
American Commissioners with whose assistance the measures to 
procure this reimbursement were concerted and who will have it 
in their power to enforce their observance. I think it moreover 
due to Mr. Williams to add, what a knowledge of the capacity and 
zeal with which he served the public as your Predecessor author- 
izes me to do, my full persuasion that so far from embarrassing 
your agency, he will continue to afford you such information and 
aid as his Experience and knowledge of the business enable him 
to do, and as will materially contribute to the discharge of your 
agency with satisfaction to yourself, and advantage to the public. 

With much respect &c. 

RuFUS King. 

l802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 99 

R. King to James Madison, Esq. 

Private, 

London, Dec. 31, 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

I have duly reed, your letter of Oct. 9. and am obliged to you 
for the early reply you have sent me, as well as for the like com- 
munication you were good enough to make to my agent in New 
York. As I expect the Vessel coming to me from America, will 
be here and ready for me and my family to embark by the loth. 
of April, I am making the requisite preparations, and hope I may 
not be disappointed in receiving my Letters of Recall in season, 
to enable me to leave England immediately after that date. 
With sentiments of Respect & Esteem &c. 

R. K. 

On January 3, 1803, to anticipate a little, Mr. Low writes 
that he has made an arrangement for a ship of which the 
captain is to provide such provisions and stores as may be 
required, with the permission, if Mr. King desires it, for other 
passengers than his family. The contract was that the vessel 
shall be ready on the loth of April, '' to receive his family 
and servants with his furniture, carriages, horses, sheep, cow 
and other articles." 

On August 5, 1802, Mr. King wrote to Mr. Madison a 
private letter saying that in his ofilicial letter to the Secre- 
tary of State of the same date, resigning his office and re- 
questing permission from the President to return home, he 
had asked for the accommodation of a passage home for 
himself and family in one of the public ships, which might 
be returning home or which might bring out his successor 
and carry him back. It is to the answer to that letter, by 
Mr. Madison, privately, on October 9, 1802, which contains 
the refusal to grant this request of a public conveyance that 
Mr. King refers above. Mr. Livingston * had been sent out 
recently in the Boston Frigate to Havre, and it was natural 
for Mr. King to think that a similar privilege might be ex- 

* See letter of R. Troup, vol. iii., p. 526, for the reasons. 

200 RUFUS KING. [1802 

tended to him, who had so long and satisfactorily served his 
country and who supposed that his successor would be ap- 
pointed before the next April, the time he named for the 
termination of his embassy. What reasons were assigned 
in this letter for the refusal of the request cannot be here 
given, for the letter cannot be found. But in the official 
files of the Department of State there is a letter from the 
Secretary of State, which follows, and gives the reasons. 

Washington, Department of State, Dec. 16, 1802. 

RuFus King, Esq.: 

Having in a private letter under cover of one to Mr. N. Low of 
New York * communicated the result of yours on the subject of 
your return to the United States in a national ship and having 
had nothing to add to my last several letters on other subjects, I 
have thus long delayed an official answer to your letters numbered 
from 64 to 75 inclusive, I now acknowledge the receipt of them 
and inclose the permission which you ask to return to the United 
States. Your successor is not yet named. 

The satisfaction which the President has derived from the 
manner in which you have pursued the several objects committed 
to you, and which I am authorized to repeat to you on this occa- 
sion, makes him the more regret that the particular accommoda- 
tion you wished for the repassage of your family could not be 
afforded. Considering the actual situation and calls for the pub- 
lic vessels not laid up, the only chance of such an arrangement 
lay in the returns from the Mediterranean and that chance is 
frustrated by the Quarantine regulations in Great Britain to 
which vessels from that quarter are subject. . . . 

With Great Respect &c. 

James Madison. 

* " Mr. N. Low, Mr. King's Agent in New York, writes to him on Oct. 23, 
1802, that, having been absent from New York, he finds on his return a letter 
from Mr, Madison of 9th inst. with one inclosed for you (which you have 
herewith) from which I learn that a Government ship \vill not be sent for you ; 
and as you depend in this event upon one being sent for you from hence, you 
may be assured that it shall be done upon the best terms that may be, . . . 
to be ready to receive you and your baggage at London on the loth of April 
next." 

l8o2] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 201 

The appointment of a successor to Mr. King^ was not 
made, as stated above, or even suggested during this year, 
and thus the contingency of one being sent out in a pubHc 
ship, on which Mr. King might return, did not occur. But 
the President's own views of such an employment of a 
pubHc ship may be learned from a letter f addressed by him 
to Gov. Monroe, January 13, 1803, informing him of his 

* Mr. C. J. Ingersoll, in his Recollections , p. 353, writing of the appoint- 
ments of foreign Ministers under Mr. Jefferson, says : 

" But no step was taken for the appointment of another Minister to England, 
superseding Rufus King, although differing entirely from the President's poli- 
tics, and having been six years resident in London as American Minister. I 
believe Mr. Jefferson has left, now published, his opinion that four years is 
about the proper duration of an American Mission in Europe ; with Mr. 
King's, when his had lasted six years and he considered seven a reasonable 
period. President Jefferson never interfered to put an end to it, but left the 
time to Mr. King, whose valuable services, particularly in the Louisiana acqui- 
sition, were officially avowed by Mr. Livingston in his correspondence with 
their government." 

f " I am particularly concerned that, in the present case, you have more than 
one sacrifice to make. To reform the prodigalities of our predecessors is under- 
stood to be peculiarly our duty, and to bring the government to a simple and 
economical course. They, in order to increase expense, debt, taxation and 
patronage, tried always how much they could give. The outfit given to min 
isters resident to enable them to furnish their house, but given by no nation to 
a temporary minister, who is never expected to take a house or to entertain, 
but considered on the footing of a voyageur, they gave to their extraordinary 
ministers by wholesale. In the beginning of our administration, among 
other articles of reformation in expense, it was determined not to give an outfit 
to ministers extraordinary, and not to incur the expense with any minister of 
sending a frigate to carry or bring him. The Boston happened to be going to 
the Mediterranean, and was permitted, therefore, to take up Mr, Livingston 
and touch in a port of France. A frigate was denied to Charles Pinckney, and 
has been refused to Mr. King for his return. Mr. Madison's friendship and 
mine to you being so well known, the public will have eagle eyes to watch, if 
we grant you any indulgences out of the general rule : and on the other hand, 
the example set in your case will be more cogent on future ones, and produce 
greater approbation to our conduct." — Jefferson's Works, vol. iv., p. 455. 

That the decision of the President was a correct one, though not for the 
reasons given in this letter, can hardly be questioned : the Government was 
relieved from the necessity and embarrassment of deciding such a question in 
the future, and left it to those appointed to make such arrangements as each 
might desire. 

202 RUFUS KING. [i8o2 

nomination and confirmation of it by the Senate, as Envoy 
Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary to France and 
Spain to assist Messrs. Livingston and Pinckney in their 
negotiations about Louisiana. He earnestly pressed his 
acceptance of the mission, and deprecated his refusal, telling 
him at the same time that he could not send him in a public 
ship. 

CHAPTER XIV. 

Troup to King — Spanish Officers at New Orleans violating the Treaty — Jef- 
ferson's Message an Opiate — King to Vansittart — Duty on Oil proposed 
would materially injure U. S. in withdrawing skilled Seamen — King to 
Wilberforce — Urges granting Permission to send emancipated Slaves to 
Sierra Leone — Wilberforce to King — Importance of cultivating Friendship 
between their two Countries — Maryland Bank Stock — King to Lord 
Hawkesbury and Sir Stephen Cottrell relative to contagious Fever on 
Board of Vessel to carry American Seamen to the U. S. — King to Erving, 
on the same Matter — King to Gallatin — Exchange with Holland and 
England — How best to make Remittances — King to Lord Hawkesbury — 
Claims equal Participation in the West India Trade — King to Governor 
of Maryland, relative to Communications about the Bank Stock — J. Jay to 
King — Domestic Afflictions have prevented writing — Sedgwick to Hamil- 
ton— Federalists should hold the State Governments — King for Governor 
of New York — King to Secretary of State — No further Progress in Settle- 
ment of pending Questions — French Troops possibly going to Louisiana — 
King to Lord Hawkesbury — His Government wishes Settlement of Ques- 
tions with England — King to Secretary of State — Failure of Bird, Savage, 
and Bird — King to Gallatin — Same Subject — Propositions to Sir Francis 
Baring. 

R. Troup to R. King. 

New York Jan. 8, 1803. 
Dear Sir : 

. . . Congress have not yet engaged, so far as the papers 
inform us, in any important measures. It is said that a few days 
ago they were deliberating with close doors, and it is conjectured 
that the violation of our Spanish Treaty by the Spanish officers 
at New Orleans was the subject.* Jefferson's milk and water 
communication on this subject is not generally liked. From ap- 
pearances the nation would not be opposed, and particularly the 

* See Hildreth's Hist, of U, S., 2d Ser., v. ii., p. 471. 

203 

204 RUFUS KING, [1803 

Kentuckians and Tennesseans, to prompt and strong measures. 
What the government will do is a problem. 

Jefferson's message to Congress at the opening of the session 
is an opiate to the nation. There is as yet no promising appear- 
ance of his declension in popularity ; and as he and all his 
satellites continue in their demagoguish career I have little doubt 
that they will retain their places ; and there seems to be little 
reason to conclude that it will be wise at the next election to 
attempt to disturb them. By the by, they begin openly to avow 
that it will probably be our interest to draw still closer our 
ties of amity with Great Britain. 

Our merchants are rising up pretty generally against our meet- 
ing Great Britain on the ground of abolishing the countervailing 
duties ; and it is said that remonstrances will go to Congress 
against the measure. . . . 

God bless you and grant you and your family a short and pleas- 
ant passage home, where your friends will be very happy to meet 
you again, and amongst them none will be happier than. Dear 
Sir, 

Your very humble servt. 

RoBT. Troup. 

R. King to Nicholas Vansittart Esq. 

Randalls, Surrey, Jan. 8, 1803. 
Sir: 

After the conversation we lately had upon the subject, I will 
not trouble you at much length respecting the proposed augmen- 
tation of Duty upon foreign Spermaceti Oil. Under the Old 
System of Duties our whale fishery has not increased, while yours 
has extended itself so as to be able to supply more than your own 
consumption, which our united fisheries a few years back were 
unable to do. Under these Circumstances it is proposed to raise 
the duty on foreign Spermaceti Oil from £,22.2,.!. to ;£3i.io the 
Ton. The obvious effect of this measure will be to depress our 
whale fishery by the entire exclusion of our Spermaceti Oil from 
your market, where it sometimes finds in small quantities a pre- 
carious sale : the proceeds of these sales are laid out in the pur- 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 20$ 

chase of British manufactures. Live and let live is a maxim in 
Trade, and in the present case may mean a little more than it 
usually does, for I cannot persuade myself, with the connexion 
that naturally exists between us, and seeing as we must the efforts 
that France is making to acquire a control over the maritime 
strength of the North of Europe, as she already has done over the 
South, that the Decrease of American Seamen can be indifferent 
to Great Britain ; and if it be not, I should hope for the sake of 
a common interest that you would not from light motives be 
willing to sanction any measure that would produce this effect. 

I will not recall to your recollection by way of complaint, the 
various modes of encouraging your whale fishery, which, with 
whatever views adopted, have had the effect to withdraw from 
our service numbers of our most intelligent and useful ad- 
venturers. 

As we have no laws prohibiting the transfer of their skill and 
persons to a foreign State, they were free to accept your invita- 
tion and we could only regret their preference. 

But it would be matter of greater concern, should these meas- 
ures be followed up by a Regulation which would still farther de- 
press our whale fishery, that cannot be beneficial to your Revenue, 
and which is not wanted as a Protection to a Branch of Industry, 
that has already not only established itself, but continues to thrive 
under an encouragement that has brought it to maturity. 

With sentiments of Respect & Esteem &c. 

RuFUS King. 

R. King to William Wilberforce, Esq. 

Randalls, Jan. 8, 1803. 
Dear Sir : 

Will you give me leave to recall to your recollection my request 
that you would converse with your neighbor, Mr. Thornton, con- 
cerning the permission we have applied for to send certain of our 
negroes to Sierra Leone. Although I really cannot suppose the 
plan in its full extent liable to the objections that I understand 
have been made to it, and which are founded upon the presumption 
that our negroes are all of the same idle and disorderly charactei 
as those who joined the English army in America, and who were 

206 RUFUS KING. [1803 

afterwards abandoned to, and infested by, the vices of a succes- 
sion of garrison towns, yet I am not disposed to urge a project 
upon merely speculative reasons. Instead therefore of the first 
proposal, suppose the Company should consent to our sending to 
its colony a limited number of negroes by way of experiment. 
If benefit instead of injury should be the result of the Experi- 
ment, the Permission would be continued ; if otherwise, it would 
be refused. The Negroes we may send are only such as may 
hereafter be manumitted by their Masters, and those who shall be 
detected in attempting to excite Insurrections among their fellow 
slaves. The former will include our most meritorious slaves, and 
the latter will not be the idle and the vicious, and these would not 
possess sufficient influence over their associates to become Leaders 
in Schemes of Insurrection. 

I don't think it requisite, since I know your way of thinking in 
this respect, to enlarge upon the advantages to our respective 
Countries that may be derived from those occasional good offices 
and tokens of regard which, in small as- well as important con- 
cerns, have so much influence in extending the intercourse and 
strengthening the friendship of Nations ; these are reflexions 
with which your mind is familiar and which I am persuaded you 
will apply as far as may be reasonable to the object of this letter. 

With great truth and regard &c. 

RuFus King. 

W. WiLBERFORCE TO R. KiNG. 

Private. 

Broomfield, Tuesday, nth Jan., 1803. 
My Dear Sir : 

Your letter having been written on Saturday^ did not reach 
London until yesterday, and owing to a mistake, I have only this 
day received my letters of yesterday. I lose no time in assuring 
you that I will not fail to impress in the strongest manner I am 
able on Mr. A. the extreme Importance of cultivating that friend- 
ship betwn. the two countries so desirable, on all accounts, for 
both. I will endeavour to enforce the same consideration on 
Lord H.y, but I am not on the same confideiitial terms with him 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 20/ 

as with Mr. A, and cannot so easily create an opportunity for 
full and unreserved Discussion. I have a natural and fair plea to 
urge in vindication of my Solicitude on this Subject besides the 
Interest I take in it on general grounds as an English M. of 
Parlt. anxious abt. the welfare of his country. The commercial 
connection betn. the American and Yorke. merchts. has long 
called my particular attention to the state of America and to what- 
ever may tend to cement our union with her. 

Before I heard from you I had been thinkg. of requestg. you 
to refresh my Memory on the affair you mentioned to me in wh. 
the State of Maryland was principally concerned. In the multi- 
tude of topics we discussed during your kind Visit, I did not 
recollect what you stated on that Head with sufficient distinct- 
ness to enable me to reason from it satisfactorily — at ye same 
time being a matter in its nature public, it furnishes on that ac- 
count a peculiarly fit instance of the course of proceeding which 
ought to be pursued by our Govt, with a view to the effect before 
stated as so desirable. May I beg you to let me have a Statement 
of the Maryland case either in writing or verbally. . . . 

I cannot conclude without assuring you that I am gratified by 
every mark of your confidence and that you may be assured of 
my bearing in mind the Secresy and ye Discretion which that 
confidence may justly claim & of my endeavouring to turn it to 
good account by promoting that end which in common we have 
in view. . . . 

With cordial Esteem and Regard, yours very sincerely, 

W. WiLBERFORCE. 

R. King to the Duke of Portland. 

Great Cumberland Place, Jan. 12, 1803. 
My Lord : 

I lose no time in making my acknowledgments to your Grace 

for the Communication that I have just received thro' Sir Stephen 

Cottrell concerning the vessel employed to carry a number of 

American Seamen to the United States, and which has been for 

some time detained at Falmouth on account of a contagious fever 

ihat broke out among the Passengers. Sir Stephen has engaged 

208 RUFUS KING. [1803 

to send me Copies of the Report of the Physician, together with 
such other Papers as will explain the malignant character of the 
Disease : these being forwarded to the U. S. will enable the Gov- 
ernment to adopt timely precautions against the Contagion, 
should the fever again break out during the Passage. 

With Sentiments of the highest Respect &c. 

RuFus King. 

R. King to Sir Stephen Cottrell. 

Great Cumberland Place, January 13, 1803. 
Sir: 

I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your Letter of 
yesterday, respecting the Ship Mary employed to carry American 
Seamen to the United States, and at present under quarantine at 
Falmouth. In addition to the Reports of the quarantine Physi- 
cian, I have endeavoured to inform myself of the actual condi- 
tion of this Vessel, as well in respect to her ability to perform the 
voyage, as to the quantity of Provisions remaining for the sub- 
sistence of the Passengers and Crew ; and am sorry to learn from 
Mr. Erving, the American Consul in London, and who engaged 
the Vessel to perform this Service, that although he has doubts 
of the sea-worthiness of the Ship, as well as of the sufficiency of 
the Provisions, he is unable, by reason of the present situation of 
the Vessel, to obtain such information on these points as both 
humanity and justice seem to require. In these circumstances I 
take the liberty to request thro' you the interference of his 
Majesty's Council for the purpose of obtaining exact information 
upon these two points, so necessary to be ascertained previously 
to the Mary's being permitted to proceed on her Voyage. The 
same motives which recommended the communication on this 
subject that his Grace the Lord President so obligingly directed 
to be made to me, will I am persuaded approve the measure it is 
the aim of this application to accomplish. 

With perfect Respect &c. 

RuFus King. 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 209 

R. King to Geo. W. Erving, Esq., Agent for Seamen. 

Great Cumberland Place, January 13, 1803, 
Sir : 

Pursuant of our conversation of last Evening, I have sent a 
letter to Sir Stephen Cottrell, for the purpose of obtaining an 
order of Council to prevent the Ship sailing until her sea-worthi- 
ness and the sufficiency of her Provisions can be ascertained ; 
this will without doubt be done. 

But I infer from a conversation I have had with Sir Stephen 
Cottrell that the Council will be likely to do no more than to give 
orders to the Quarantine Officers at Falmouth to allow the Ship 
to be visited by such persons as shall be employed to make the 
proposed Survey ; and that it will be expedient that Mr. Fox 
should engage a suitable person to perform this service. I apprise 
you of this circumstance, in order that you may write to Mr. Fox 
to have the Survey made. 

I am, Sir, your obedt. servt. 

R. K. 

R. King to Albert Gallatin, Esq., Secretary of the 

Treasury, U. S. 

London, Jan. 13, 1803. 
Sir: 

I have duly received your Letter of Nov. 16, together with one 
from the Treasurer of the 18. of the same month, enclosing Mr. 
Glassford's Bill of Exchange upon the Lords Commissioners of 
the Treasury of this Country for Seventy thousand Pounds Ster- 
ling. The Bill was presented on the loth instant, has been duly 
accepted, and shall be disposed of according to your direction. 

The Exchange between London and Amsterdam has for some 
time been growing more favourable to the former, and bills on 
the latter, as you will perceive by the annexed note of the rate of 
Exchange, are at this time above par. 

In addition to the ordinary Remittances from Holland to Eng- 
land, in payment of the manufactures of the latter, considerable 
sums are, and will continue to be, remitted to the English Pro- 
prietors of Estates in the Dutch Colonies ; the produce whereof 
is now obliged to go to Holland, and this circumstance among 

VOL. IV. — 14 

210 RUFUS KING. [1803 

Others has had its effect in turning the Exchange in favour of 
England. 

I shall have sufficient time before the Bill upon the Treasury- 
falls due to make such enquiries as may be requisite to enable me 
to engage a House of Reputation to transact our money concerns 
in this country. In doing this it will be my aim to reduce the 
compensation to the lowest rate at which we can expect our busi- 
ness to be done, by a House whose solidity and credit are above 
all doubt. 

You are doubtless apprised of the embarrassments of the Bank 
of Amsterdam during the late war, whose stock in consequence 
thereof suffered great depreciation : that all foreign Bills of Ex- 
change were acquitted in current Guilders instead of Bank money 
as had been the usage. Towards the close of last September the 
city of Amsterdam published a Paper founded upon a Report of 
the commissaires of the Bank, announcing that the deficit had 
been entirely supplied by a Tax for this purpose paid by the city 
of Amsterdam ; that the Guaranty of the city being thus satisfied 
and the Bank completely re-established, it had become expedient 
to re-establish the ancient Law respecting the acquittance of Bills 
of Exchange and therefore that it had been resolved : 

" Art. I. That the value of every Bill of Exchange which shall 
be drawn or negotiated in this city of the 30th of the month of 
October approaching, upon places situated out of the Republic, 
and the amount of which shall be 300 florins and upwards shall 
be acquitted in the Bank of this city. 

"' II. That all Bills of Exchange upon, or payable in this City 
of the value of 300 florins and upwards, drawn from places situ- 
ated in the French Republic, Great Britain, Spain, Portugal and 
Italy, shall be paid in Bank after the 31st Jany, 1803. 

*' III. That every Bill of Exchange which conformably to the 
Articles I. and II., is to be acquitted in Bank, and shall be proved 
to have been done so in any other manner, shall be held to be ac- 
cepted, and each of the two contravening Persons shall pay a fine 
of 3 per cent, upon the total sum of these payments made out of 
the Bank. 

" IV. That payments of Bills of Exchange will not be consid- 
ered good but conformably to the ist and 2d Articles, the usage 
introduced for some time of writing in Bank to oneself for 

1 803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 211 

another, as well as that of regulating the payment of it in current 
money, shall cease at the periods mentioned in the said Articles : 
the Resolution of the Council of Commerce of the 6th of October 
1796 being in that respect revoked by the present." 

The Bank florins in which Bills from this Country are now 
payable have risen and are now 5 per cent, above the current 

money. 

With great Respect,&c., 

RuFus King. 

R. King to Lord Hawkesbury. 

Great Cumberland Place, Jany. 18, 1803. 
My Lord : 

Referring to the observations transmitted to your Lordship in 
my Letter of the 3d of Feby past, explanatory of the principle 
upon which we claim an equal participation of the Trade between 
the United States and the British West Indies, I take the liberty 
to recall the subject to your Lordship's recollection as one that 
has been long under consideration, and upon which I have 
received orders to require the Decision of his Majesty's Govern- 
ment. 

If contrary to the maxims by which the Trade of the Colonies 
was formerly regulated, new circumstances have rendered it ex- 
pedient to open an intercourse between them and foreign States, 
it is this measure and not the admission of such foreign States to 
a share in the Trade, which breaks in upon a system that could 
no longer be maintained with advantage. 

Such intercourse being opened, each party is alike competent 
to make Laws for its Regulation, and as neither can claim or ex- 
pect to do so exclusively of the other, such Regulation becomes 
fit matter for mutual Explanation and agreement. 

In conformity with this principle, an Article respecting this 
Trade was prepared and inserted in the Treaty of 1794, although 
afterwards excluded at the instance of the United States by 
reason of its inequality. 

Should the United States in imitation of the example set them 
by Great Britain pass a Law applying the same rule to British 
Vessels, which the law of Great Britain applies to those of the 
United States, the effect would be that neither British nor Amer- 

212 RUFUS KING. [1803 

ican vessels could carry on the Trade : but on Flour, Corn, Timber, 
Staves and other articles, of first necessity to the Colonies, which 
must be received from the United States, the American vessels 
would carry them to some Port or Island in the West Indies, 
belonging to a third Power, whither the British vessels would go 
to receive the same ; carrying thither to purchase them such 
articles of Colonial produce as are allowed to be exported to the 
United States. In this way an Entrepot would be established in 
the West Indies for the mutual sale and purchase of these com- 
modities, and as the Question principally regards the Navigation 
of the two Countries, it is evident that the effect of these exclusive 
Regulations would be more beneficial to the United States than 
to Great Britain, inasmuch as the voyage from the United States 
to the Place of Deposit in the West Indies would be longer and 
consequently would afford more employment than between the 
said place of Deposit and the British West Indies. 

Notwithstanding the Equity of such a Law on the part of the 
United States and the probable advantage it would secure to their 
navigation we have no hesitation in preferring an amicable and 
equal participation of the Trade, to the certainty of even acquir- 
ing an unequal share of it, by a measure of retaliation, which 
being resorted to in one branch of Trade, may by one or both 
sides be extended to others, and in the end might have the effect 
to disturb the harmony, as well as the extensive and mutually 
beneficial intercourse between the two countries. 

Whether it may be deemed more convenient to alter the exist- 
ing Law on the part of Great Britain, so as to allow the Trade 
in question to be carried on equally by American and British 
Vessels, or to enter into a compact for this purpose, as was in- 
tended by the Treaty of 1794, is not a point of material difficulty ; 
tho' in the nature of the subject, a preference seems due to an 
adjustment by mutual stipulation : in either mode as a security 
against the Extension of this Trade beyond the Limits, which it 
may be desired to give it, it might be provided that the return Car- 
goes of American vessels should be carried directly to the United 
States, and that they should moreover be purchased as well as 
limited by the proceeds of Cargoes imported in American Vessels. 

With distinguished Consideration &c. 

RuFUS King. 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 213 

R. King to His Excellency, the Governor of Maryland. 

London, Jan. 18, 1803. 

Sir: 

Having lately seen your Excellency's Message of November 
last to the General Assembly of Maryland, I was a little surprised 
at that part of it which refers to a verbal message stated to have 
been delivered by Mr. Christie from me to the Executive of 
Maryland ; and I think it alike due to your Excellency and 
myself to take the earliest opportunity to correct a representation 
that has arisen without doubt from a misapprehension of the 
object and perhaps the tenour of the communication that I made 
to Mr. Christie. Not having had the honour of a direct corre- 
spondence with the Executive of Maryland concerning the State 
interest in the Bank of England, I might have doubted the pro- 
priety of my commencing it, especially as the subject had been 
repeatedly given me in charge by the President, and my commu- 
nications respecting it had been regularly made to the Department 
of State, and, I presume, thro' it to the Executive of Maryland. 
Knowing however the solicitude which existed in Maryland 
respecting this property, so long, and I may add, so unreasonably 
detained, I thought it probable that Mr. Christie's friends, upon 
his return from England, would make enquiries of him concern- 
ing it, and therefore took an opportunity before he left London 
to explain to him its precise situation ; but without any expecta- 
tion that the explanation would or could assume the shape of an 
official communication to the Executive of Maryland. Being 
unacquainted with the purport of Mr. Christie's communication, 
I can say nothing of its accuracy, and the sole object of this 
Letter is to beg you to be assured that I should have made a 
direct and written communication to the Executive of Maryland, 
had it been my intention to have made any direct and written 
communication whatever. With great Respect &c. 

RuFUS King. 

John Jay to R. King. 

Bedford, 20 Jany, 1803. 
Dear Sir : 

I ought to have written to you long ago, but a series of occur- 
rences have for two years past left me little Leisure for epistolary 
correspondence. I allude to Mrs. Jay's long and painful Illness, 

214 RUFUS KING. [1805 

and (when she appeared to be fast recovering) her unexpected 
Death. The Vicissitudes in my own Health, the Removal of my 
Family to this place, and the many things to be done for their 
Accommodation, the gradually increasing Indisposition of my 
Son, who is now on the Ocean going to Italy to avoid the Winter 
here, &c., these are afflicting Circumstances ; but considering 
where and what we are. Troubles of one kind or other are to be 
expected and to be borne with Patience and Resignation. 

My Expectations from Retirement have not been disappointed ; 
and had Mrs. Jay continued with me, I should deem this the most 
agreeable part of my life. 

The post once a week brings me our Newspapers, which, with 
those you are so kind as to send me, furnish a History of the 
Times. By this History, as well as those of former times, we are 
taught the Vanity of expecting that, from the Perfectibility of 
human nature and the Lights of Philosophy, the Multitude will 
become virtuous & wise, or their Demagogues candid and honest. 
As G. Morris says " what is, is " and we must make the best of 
it. For the present they probably reason so in France. It would 
not however surprize me if future Irruptions from that Volcano 
should again desolate some of the neighbouring Countries. View- 
ing the French Revolution as a Tragedy I am inclined to think, 
that we have only seen the first act concluded. You may live to 
see the next ; but I shall doubtless by that time be removed to a 
Theatre of a different kind. 

Not having had leisure to visit New York since my Removal 
from Albany to this place, I cannot give you any particular Infor- 
mation relative to our mutual Friends there. Judge Benson is 
again at the Bar, and I regret it. If these are not upside down 
Times, they certainly are up and down Times — but Athens the 
City of Philosophers, and Rome the City of everything, saw and 
felt much worse. With great Esteem and Regard I am 

Dear Sir 

Your most obt. Servt. 

John Jay. 

Mr. Sedgwick, January 27, 1803,* writes to General 
Hamilton among other things: 

"* Hamilton's Works ^ vol. vi., p. 553. 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 21$ 

It is very important that the federalists should retain and 
acquire the possession of the State governments wherever in their 
power. For this reason, and indeed for many others, I am glad 
Mr. King is about to return home. With wisdom and prudence, 
I think it is probable that he may be placed at the head of the 
government of New York. He may there do infinitely more 
good than in the inefficient office of Vice-President. General 
Pinckney must in all events be considered as our candidate for 
the first office. I have been inexpressibly disgusted with some of 
our friends who have suggested that we ought to consider him 
only as designed for the second. There is, however, another 
consideration on the subject which ought to be considered as 
conclusive. We shall most certainly not succeed at the next 
election, nor is it, in my mind, desirable that we should. Should 
Mr. King be holden up for this office, it would lessen at least the 
probability of his success for the government of New York. 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. 79. 

London, Janv. 28, 1803. 
Sir : 

No farther progress has yet been made in the discussion of the 
Boundaries : from one or two conversations that I have had with 
Col. Barclay, who has returned to town, I perceive that his opinion, 
whatever influence it may have, will be favourable to such a 
settlement of the Eastern Boundary as would be satisfactory to 
us : the chief difficulty in the Settlement that I foresee at present, 
respects the Island of Campo Bello which to avoid questions of 
interfering jurisdiction arising from its being Westward of the 
suitable Boundary-Line, should belong to Massachusetts. If it 
should be ceded, I shall have no hesitation to agree to a confir- 
mation of the Titles of the Settlers, derived from Nova Scotia. But 
the Minister may hesitate about a cession. Lord Hawkesbury 
some weeks ago sent an Instruction to the Attorney General to 
take measures to effect the Transfer of the Maryland Bank Stock 
to the King, in order that his majesty might be enabled to dispose 

2l6 RUFUS KING. [1803 

of it in such a way as he should think fit ; and as Hilary Term 
has commenced, I presume the transfer will shortly be made to 
the Crown. On this subject I have lately seen in the News Papers 
the Message of the Governor of Maryland to the General Assem- 
bly of that State, and take the liberty to annex to this Letter the 
copy of one that I thought myself called upon, in consequence of 
this Message, to write to Governor Mercer. 

In my last conversation with Lord Hawkesbury respecting the 
intercourse between the United States and the British Colonies 
in the West Indies, he desired me to write him a Letter upon that 
subject, in order that he might submit it to the consideration of 
the Cabinet, and I accordingly sent him the Letter, a copy of 
which is adjoined.* 

Although I have received no answer to the Letter to Mr. Van- 
sittart, a copy whereof is likewise annexed,* respecting the pro- 
posed augmentation of Duty upon Spermaceti Oil, he told me a 
i^'N days ago that unless they found stronger opposition from the 
Board of Trade than was expected, the Treasury would be dis- 
posed to abandon the proposed increase of Duty. . . . 

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c. 

R. K. 

P. S. At Paris, they say Victor will proceed with his troops 
directly to Louisiana ; here it is believed that the General with 
the Etat Major and a few troops may go to Louisiana, but that 
the greater part of the forces will be landed in St. Domingo. 

R. King to Lord Hawkesbury. 

Private. 

London, Feby. i, 1803. 
My Lord : 

There are three subjects upon which I have received orders to 
press for the final determination of his Majesty's Government 
before I leave England. These are the Maryland Bank Stock, 
the Boundaries and the Intercourse between the U. S. and the 
British Colonies in the West Indies. As I expect to embark in 

* The length of these letters prevents their insertion here. — Ed. 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 21/ 

the Month of April, your Lordship must be sensible that no 
further time is to be lost in taking measures to bring these points 
to a decision, if it be intended that they shall be adjusted before 
my departure. 

With perfect Respect &c. 

R. K. 

R. King to Messrs. Bird, Savage, and Bird. 

London, Feby. 7, 1803. 
Gentlemen : 

I received at a late hour last Evening a Letter from your Mr. 
H. M. Bird, communicating the information that your House 
will be obliged to stop payment this morning and that the U. S. 
are your Creditors for a considerable sum. 

Having casually heard from the late American Consul, Mr. 
Williams, that he had lately accepted Bills for several Thousand 
Pounds payable to your House on account of the U. S., I cannot 
doubt that you will be of opinion with me that these Bills, being 
held in Trust, should be delivered to me in order that they may 
be collected and applied to the Service of the U. S. and I there- 
fore request you to deliver the same to the Bearer, John Munro. 

With due Respect &c. 

RuFUS King. 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. 80. 

London, Feby. 7, 1803. 
Sir: 

Last Evening (Tuesday) I received a note from Mr. Bird, in- 
forming me that his House would be obliged to stop payment 
this morning, and that the United States are Creditors for a con- 
siderable sum. The former Consul, Mr. Williams, having casu- 
ally informed me that he had lately accepted Bills for several 
Thousand Pounds, payable to Bird, Savage & Bird, for the service 
of the United States, I have written them a Letter requiring that 

2l8 RUFUS KING. [1803 

they would deliver up to me all Bills of Exchange that have been 
remitted to them and which they hold in trust for the United 
States. I have not yet received their answer but as they have 
without doubt been pressed in their affairs, I fear there is little 
probability of recovering these Draughts, which may have been 
already discounted. 

In consequence of this failure, I shall be under the necessity of 
making the best arrangement in my Power with some other House 
for the payment of the appointments of the several agents of the 
United States in this country. 

Mr. Livingston in a Letter dated at Paris the 3rd instant, 
informs me that he had just received accounts from Mr. Graham 
at Madrid that the Spanish Government has passed a most extra- 
ordinary decree by which all American Vessels coming from the 
United States are denied entry into any of the Ports of Spain 
until they shall have duly performed Quarantine in some foreign 

Port. 

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c. 

RuFus King. 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. 81. 

London, Feb. 9, 1803. 
Sir: 

As I apprehended might be the case, Bird, Savage & Bird have 
answered my demand for the surrender of the Bills of Exchange 
lately remitted to them, by saying they were unable to deliver 
them up, as they had been discounted before their failure. I 
have requested them to prepare and send me their accounts, 
including all receipts and payments up to the day on which they 
stopped, and I hope to receive them in season to forward by the 
mail of this month which will not be dispatched before the 12th. 

Having understood the assigned reason for the failure to be 
the delay that has attended the Remittances on account of large 
debts due in America, I shall direct Mr. Erving, the Consul to 
attend the first meeting of the Creditors, when a State of the 
affairs of the House is to be exhibited. By this means we may 
ascertain the names and debts of the American Debtors, and by 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 219 

the priority due to the United States, I presume the Treasury 
will be able to secure the speedy and full recovery of the Debt 
due from this House. 

With great Respect & Esteem &c. 

RuFUS King. 

R. King to A. Gallatin, Esq. 

London, Feb. 9, 1803. 
Sir: 

My Letters to the Secretary of State will apprise you of the 
failure of the House of Bird, Savage & Bird, and their accounts 
which I expect to forward by the mail of this month, will enable 
you to take immediate measures for the recovery in America of 
the considerable balance that I understand to be due to the 
United States. 

It is fortunate that the large Bill upon the English Treasury 
was sent to me instead of this House. The Bankers in Holland 
recommend to me to invest its amount when received in a Bill at 
3 months. I am making inquiries here upon this subject and 
shall adopt what may appear to me the most advantageous mode 
of remittance. 

I have had several conversations with Sir Francis Baring with 
the view of settling the Terms upon which his House (which is 
perhaps the most solid House in England) would undertake our 
money agency in this Country. He will receive and collect Bills 
of Exchange and remit the proceeds to Holland for one half per 
centum ; this is as low as the Business could be done by inferior 
Houses. I have pressed him to receive and sell our funded stock 
and to remit its proceeds upon the same Terms. This he declines 
doing, but would transact this part of the Business for one per 
centum. The proposition I last made him, and which he has 
under consideration, is to allow one per centum on the sale of 
stocks and the remitting of the proceeds, including the Brokerage 
upon the sale of the Stocks, which I understand to be as much as 
a quarter per centum. 

With great Respect &c. 

RuFus King. 

CHAPTER XV. 

King engages a Country House near New York — King to Vansittart — Demands 
Restoration of Wines and Spirits — Remains of Stores on Merchant Vessels 
seized by the Custom's Officers — King to Bird, Savage & Bird— How- 
Balances to be Settled— King to Sir F. Baring — Terms of Money Arrange- 
ment— Baring to King — Answer — King to Livingston — Monroe appointed 
Envoy, etc., to France — King to Gallatin — Arrangement with Sir F. 
Baring as Financial Agent of the U. S. — King to Secretary of State — 
Northeast Boundary Line — King to Livingston — Relative to the Closure 
of the Port of New Orleans — King to Livingston — The King's Message to 
Parliament looks to War — Measures taken — Effect on the U. S. — 
Especially with reference to Louisiana — King to Lord Hawkesbury — 
Vessels of U. S. from New Orleans denied Entry because a Spanish Port 
— Asks him to remove this Impediment — King to Secretary of State — Ex- 
pedition to Louisiana will not proceed — King to Secretary of State — War 
more probable — France's Demands — England's Preparations — King to 
Secretary of State — England's Answer — Malta — Cabot to King — Affairs in 
U. S. — Regrets King's Return — King to Secretary of State — France's 
Answer to England — War inevitable. 

Mr. King, in anticipation of his return home had written 
to Mr. N. Low to procure for him a ready furnished house 
in the country to which he might go on his arrival at New 
York. He had received an answer, that one ready furnished 
was out of the question. ''You seem to have forgotten the 
state of things in this country, when you direct a ready 
furnished house to be engaged." Search, however, was 
made and on Feb. 2, 1803, Mr. Low wrote to him. 

" I have succeeded beyond all calculation in obtaining for you 
a ready furnished country house . . . with the privilege of 
making it your first winter residence, which it is mine and the 
opinion of your friends here that you will do." 

220 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 221 

The house was situated in Greenwich about two miles 
and a half from the City Hall, belonging to a Mr. Andrew 
Smith, who was about to make a voyage, with his family, to 
India. 

R. King to Nicholas Vansittart, Esq. 

Great Cumberland Place, Feb. 16, 1803. 
Sir : 

I take the liberty to sd. you enclosed a letter that I have re- 
ceived from the Master of the American Ship Tris^ a regular 
Trader between New York and London, complaining of the seiz- 
ure of several small quantities of wine and spirits, being the 
remains of Sea-stores provided for the use of the passengers and 
crew. I likewise enclose the copy of a letter which I wrote to 
Mr. Rose in the year 1799 upon this subject ; on this occasion 
Mr. Rose assured me that he would either by a clause to be in- 
serted in an Act of Parliament, or in some other way take 
measures to prevent a repetition of their Proceedings. The ships 
employed as regular Traders between the United States and Great 
Britain, derive no small portion of their earnings from the passen- 
gers who pass and repass in the prosecution of their commercial 
concerns ; and it seems as reasonable that the requisite stores for 
their accommodation should be provided in America where they 
are cheaper than in England, as that the Provisions for the crew 
should be there laid in. 

If the captains be held to report all such stores, the quantity of 
which may be limited and to deposit them on his arrival at the 
Custom House, they might be delivered back previous to his sail- 
ing and the Revenue thereby secured against fraud. 

I ask the favour of you to give an order for the restoration of 
the Stores of the Iris^ and moreover to procure the establishment 
of some safe and convenient Regulations upon this subject, appli- 
cable to further cases, not only in the Port of London, but in that 
of Liverpool and others with which we have frequent intercourse. 

With great respect, &c. 

R. K. 

P.S. — Since writing the above I have received a second letter 
from the Captain of the /m, asking my interference to relieve 

222 RUFUS KING. [1803 

him from the embarrassment to which he may be liable in conse- 
quence of the discovery of some Chocolate and other articles in 
the possession of the Ship's Steward. On this subject I can say 
no more than that I have reason from the good character of the 
Master to believe him ignorant and innocent of this transaction, 
and therefore flatter myself that he may not be made liable to ex- 
pense or embarrassment. 

R. King to Messrs. Bird, Savage, and Bird. 

Great Cumberland Place, Feby. 13, 1803. 
Gentlemen : 

It is quite indifferent to me whether you balance my private 
account by a transfer from the Diplomatic Fund on account of 
the current quarter's salary, or allow me to pay you the Balance 
in Cash, which I am ready to do. Perhaps it will be most cor- 
rect, because it will correspond with the fact, that you should 
balance my account as well as those of the other agents of the 
United States by suitable transfers for this purpose from the pub- 
lic accounts to which they respectively belong. 

In regard to Mawhood & Co's claims, as you took no discharge 
from them (which if you were in Cash, I think you ought to have 
done) it remains to be paid : but the transaction should appear 
by proper entries in the Debtor and Creditor sides of the account. 

I agree with you in opinion that it will be proper to bring the 
balances of the several accounts into a general account which may 
show the real Balance due to the United States. 

Be good enough to send me my Book with these accounts duly 
entered, in order that I may be able to examine them before they 
are finally made up. 

I remain, Gentlemen, your obed. servt. 

RuFUs King. 

R. King to R. R. Livingston. 

London, 23 Feb. 1803. 
Dear Sir : 

Having just seen a Letter from Mr. Thornton, the British 

charge des affaires at Washington dated January 11, which states 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 223 

that the President had just nominated Mr . Monroe, Envoy Extra, and 

Minister Plenipotentiary to France and Spain to treat with either 

or both concerning the Mississippi. No mention is made of my 

Successor. 

Yours faithfully 

RuFUS King. 

R. King to Albert Gallatin, Esq. 

London, Feb. 25, 1803, 
Sir : 

The annexed copy of my correspondence with Sir Francis 
Baring & Co., will sufficiently explain the Terms upon which 
I have in your behalf agreed with this House to transact such 
Business as may be committed to it by the Department of the 
Treasury or any other Branch of the Government of the United 
States. 

My Letter of the 9th instant is erroneous in stating that this 
House would consent both to sell the funded Debt and remit the 
Proceeds for a commission of one per cent. This error arose 
from a misconception, on my part, of the tenour of a conversa- 
tion on this subject that I had with Sir Francis Baring, and which 
was corrected by subsequent conferences ; the offer having been 
confined to the mere Sale of the funded Debt, exclusive of Bro- 
kerage and the Commission for remitting the Proceeds to the 
Continent. 

I have taken pains to inform myself of the Terms upon which 
similar Business is done between our Merchants and those of this 
Country ; and the result is a persuasion that this arrangement is 
not only safe and reputable, as it regards the solidity and charac- 
ter of the agents (points of considerable importance) but more- 
over that the Terms are as low as the like Business has been done 
between individuals ; the more general custom appearing to have 
been a charge of half per cent on remittances from America and 
half per cent more on remitting the Proceeds to any part of the 
Continent ; and in respect to the Sale of Stocks, I have not found 
that it has in any instance been done for less Commission than 
one per cent, exclusive of Brokerage, and in most cases the Com- 
mission has been from two to two and a half per cent. One half 

224 RUFUS KING. [1S03 

per cent is understood to be the regular and common charge for 
making remittances from this Country to the Continent. 

The failure of Mess. Bird, Savage and Bird made it requisite 
to have recourse to some other House to receive and pay the ap- 
pointments of the public agents of the United States in this 
Country. I received offers from several respectable Commer- 
cial and Banking Houses to transact the Business on the same 
Terms as had been done by Bird, Savage and Bird ; but as Sir 
Francis Baring & Co were willing to do it upon the like Terms, 
and were moreover to be employed as the Bankers of the United 
States in a more important concern, I had no hesitation in giving 
them a preference. . . . 

With great respect &c. 

RuFus King. 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. 82. 

London, Feb. 28, 1803. 
Sir : 

I have duly received your Letters of the i6 and 23 December. 
By Lord Hawkesbury's desire I have conferred with Col. Barclay 
respecting the continuation of the Boundary thro* the Bay of 
Passamaquoddy, who has made no objection to the line we have 
proposed, tho' he appears to think that it would be improper to 
cede to us the Island of Campo Bello unless the cession should 
be desired by the Inhabitants. No objection has been made to 
our Title to Moose Island and at present I foresee nothing to 
impede a settlement of this Boundary, except the difficulty of 
engaging the Ministers to bestow upon the Subject sufficient time 
to understand it. With regard to the line between the Source of 
the St. Croix and the North West corner of Nova Scotia, I have 
no reason to suppose there will be any objection to its being 
ascertained in the way we have proposed. 

Not having been able to fix the attention of Lord Hawkesbury 
upon the Subject, I am not able to give you any information con- 
cerning the line between the North West corner of Nova Scotia 
and the head of the Connecticut River, or between the Lake of 
the Woods and the Mississippi. 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 22$ 

As soon as I have informed myself of the practical interpreta- 
tion of the Law, which it is supposed impedes the importation of 
the cotton and other produce of the Western Country, I will make 
such application to the Government as may be proper to remove 
the impediments. . . . General Victor is still detained in 
Holland, and it is said the Expedition will proceed to Louisi- 
ana in a few weeks. 

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c. 

RuFus King. 

R. King to R. R. Livingston. 

London, Mar. 4, 1803. 
Dr. Sir : 

I have seen a letter from one of the Senators, dated Washing- 
ton Jan'y 10, that says a message had been sent to the H. of 
Reps., but not to the Senate, which was received with closed 
doors, and was understood to communicate the answer of the 
Gov'r of New Orleans to Gov. Claiborne's Letter. 

The answer insinuates that the shutting of the Port by the in- 
tendant was not in compliance with an express order of the King 
of Spain, but a measure resulting from general Instructions for 
the Government of the Colonies on the return of Peace ; that be- 
ing shut, it would not be proper, nor in his power, to open the 
Port without the express orders of the Crown ; and as the 
deposit would be inconvenient to the Colony^ that it would be unjust 
to construe the Treaty so vigorously as to claim it as a Right. 
The writer observes that he has not seen the letter which is 
kept secret, but that he has rec'd good information as to its 
purport. 

I do not learn that any communication has been made to Con- 
gress of the Representations or Exertions you have made upon 
this Subject, an omission that seems to me, in several respects, to 
be of much importance. 

We have newspapers from New York to the 28 Jan'y. The en- 
closed scraps were sent me in a letter ; when I receive my Papers, 
I will forward them to you. A Gentleman of New York in a 
letter to his correspondent here, says the Vice President will visit 

VOL. IV. — 15 

226 RUFUS KING. [1803 

the western country and the Mississippi Territory next Spring, and 

insinuates that it is not improbable that he may hereafter reside 

there. Yrs. most sincerely, 

R. King. 

R. King to R. R. Livingston, Esq. 

London, March 11, 1803. 
Dear Sir : 

The Newspapers will have given you the message of Tuesday 
from the King to Parliament ; the two Houses have without dis- 
sent offered in reply the usual assurances of support which are 
made at the commencement of a war. I attended the House of 
Commons, but the conversation which passed, for there was no 
debate, cast no light upon the discussion depending with France. 
The Mins'r merely said that a full disclosure shd be made in case 
no satisfactory settlement shd not be attained. The Message has 
been followed by a general Impress of Seamen, the calling out of 
the Militia, and by Proclamation recalling all Br. Seamen in for. 
service, and offering bounties to such as shall voluntarily enter 
into the Navy. 

Without puzzling oneself to discover the exact points in dis- 
cussion, the temper manifested on both sides, and the Eclat which 
each has chosen to give to its measures, will make it difficult to 
accomplish a Reconciliation. It seems to me that the Ministry 
here cannot go back, if so the decision rests with Bonaparte. 
From the reference which the message has made to the arma- 
ments in Holland, it is pretty natural to conclude that a fleet of 
observation will immediately appear in the Channel, and that de- 
tachments, or small squadrons will watch the arsenal Ports of 
both France and Holland ; if so, the Expedition to Louisiana 
must remain in Port, until the questions in discussion are decided. 
How far our affairs will be beneficially effected by this unex- 
pected, tho' very natural course of things, is more than I am able 
to determine, and I shd be thankful for the assistance of your 
Sentiments to enable me to form a satisfactory opinion respecting 
this Point. Should we like to see the English in N. O. not with 
the view of keeping it, but to prevent its going into the hands of 
France ; or perhaps to assist us in acquiring a title to, and the 
possession of it ? If you are authorized to negotiate a purchase, 

J 803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 22/ 

would not the occupation by the English benefit your bargain, it 
Toeing well and previously understood, that if we obtain the Title, 
they would give us the Possession ? All this is mere speculation, 
and more, it is very hasty and occurs as I write. But crude as it 
is, it may be worth consideration. You see I write in confidence 
and without the least reserve ; I need not say that it is merely be- 
tween you and me. Most faithfully, 

R. K. 

R. King to Rt. Honorable Lord Hawkesbury. 

Great Cumberland Place, Mar. 12, 1803. 
My Lord : 

The Cotton, Flour, and other Articles, the produce of the 
Western States of America, and which are brought down the Mis- 
sissippi, are according to a Treaty between the United States and 
his Catholic Majesty, deposited at New Orleans from whence the 
vessels of the United States receive and carry the Same to 
the Ports of America or to those of some foreign State. 
American Vessels laden with Cotton, and other Articles, the pro- 
duce of these Western States, and which were taken on board at 
New Orleans have of late, upon their arrival in this Country, been 
denied an Entry upon the ground that they came from a Spanish 
Port. 

Without objection to the Law, which forbids a foreign Ship to 
import into Great Britain the produce even of her own country 
except the same be brought directly from the Ports of the country 
to which she belongs, it is evident that the Prohibition does not 
in its principle or object apply to the Case of Vessels in the cir- 
cumstances of those just mentioned ; and without detaining your 
Lordship with Reflexions to elucidate this truth, I take the liberty 
of submitting the case to your Lordship's consideration and of re- 
questing your interference in such way as may be proper for the 
purpose of removing the Impediments which prevent the entry of 
American Vessels coming from New Orleans and laden with 
Articles of the growth and manufacture of the United States. 
With great consideration, &c. 

RuFus King. 

228 RUFUS KING. [1803 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. 84. 

London, Mar. 16, 1803. 
Sir: 

Couriers last evening arrived at the French Ambassador's from 
Paris, and at the same time a Messenger from Lord Whitworth ; 
they left Paris after the communication of the King's Message to 
Parliament of the 8th inst. had been received there. General 
Andreossi and the Dutch Ambassador both told me to-day that 
for the purpose of taking away the pretext of war (as they ex- 
pressed themselves) arising out of the Colonial Expeditions, 
prepared in the Dutch and French Ports, the Expedition to 
Louisiana has been countermanded and will not now proceed. 

The answer from Paris, it is understood, possesses a sincere 
desire of Peace, demands the immediate fulfilment of the Stipula- 
tions of the Treaty of Amiens, and precise explanations why the 
Evacuation of Malta has been hitherto delayed. It likewise 
alludes to the King's Message, and insinuates that it is impossible 
to imagine that it can be here believed that the proposed arma- 
ments can have any influence upon the determination of France. 
With perfect Respect & Esteem, &c. 

RuFus King. 

G. Cabot to R. King. 

Boston, March lo, 1803. 
My dear Sir : 

My spirits sink when I look upon the picture you have given 
of Europe in your several letters of 3d & 4th January. I scarcely 
recollect a period in the course of the war when the destructive 
power of France was so much to be feared. It seems to me that 
only two nations remain whose aid would be effectual if it cou'd 
be directed to the support of the British Empire against the 
dangers that assail it. I mean Russia & the U. S. ; the former 
has less powerful motives for giving it than the latter, for Russia 
is not only invincible but almost invulnerable from the want of 
Civilization. 

It ought to be the policy of England to refrain from the Com- 
bat {if she ca?i safely) until some substantial cooperation can be 
secured. I hope you won't think me extravagant if I say that 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 229 

this Country wou'd be a competent ally if we were once fully 
engaged ; but we shall not engage if we can avoid it : we shall 
rather pay tribute for being permitted to remain neutral while 
others are destroyed whose safety is necessary to our own. Such 
at least must be the conclusions which every man will draw from 
the measures of our Govt. & especially the mission of the french 
hearted Monroe. 

All good men regret that you are about to leave the place you 
have filled so well for seven critical years ; few however wonder 
at it & not many can disapprove your determination. From 
something you said I infer that you contemplate a visit to this 
part of the Country after your arrival ; I pray ardently that this 
may be realized as I am persuaded you will receive some pleasure 
& communicate a great deal ; I hope you will come early & 
allow yourself ample time to see your well-ripened friends lei- 
surely. The Louisiana business interests the public very much 
but I have long ago settled my opinion upon it & endeavored to 
propagate it, which is that " France will not push us to a war at 
this time'' I ground this upon the obvious policy of avoiding to 
create for G. B. the only important ally she needs & can hope 
for, & on the other side the certainty that we shall take no part 
against France if we can avoid it, but may be foolish & even base 
enough to favor the views of France against the only power in 
the World able &, from interest, necessarily disposed to assist 
in defending us. If however it shou'd happen that France has 
grown too arrogant to make these calculations & shou'd treat us 
as she does her neighbours, she may provoke us to a resistance 
which wou'd be happy for this Country & perhaps for many 
others. I pray you to receive my best wishes for a favorable 
passage home. I remain always your sincere friend 

George Cabot. 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. 85. 

London, Mar. 17, 1803. 
Sir : 

War seems more and more probable, and it appears to me in- 
evitable. Holland will be immediately involved, and Spain and 
Portugal must obey the commands of France. The day after the 

230 RUFUS KING. [1S05 

King's Message to Parliament was communicated to the French 
Government, Bonaparte delivered to Lord Whitworth a Paper (a 
copy of which I have seen) stating 

ist. That the Expedition preparing in the Dutch Ports was, as 
all the world knew, destined for America, but, in consequence of 
the Message, that it had been recalled and would not proceed. 

2d. That if the armament announced in the Message be not 
satisfactorily explained, or if it take place, that France would 
march 20,000 men into Holland. 

3d. That the forces debarked in the Ports of Holland would 
be reinforced and assembled on the coast of Flandres. 

4th. That the French army will be immediately put on a war 
establishment. 

5th. That camps will be formed on the coasts of France 
between Dunkirk and Boulogne. 

6th. That an army would enter Switzerland. 

7th. That an army would march into Italy and occupy Tarento. 

8th. That England must not expect, under the cover of an 
armament, to avoid the execution of the Treaty of Amiens. 

The greatest activity continues to prevail in the military and 
naval Departments ; it is understood that the Squadrons in the 
West and East Indies & in the Mediterranean will not immediately 
require reinforcement, and that a respectable fleet will soon 
appear in the Channel and on the Coast of Ireland. The regular 
Army on foot in Great Britain (exclusive of the forces in Ireland, 
Egypt, Malta, Gibraltar and the Colonies) consists of 27,000 In- 
fantry and 12,000 Cavalry, and it will be reinforced immediately 
by 37,000 of the militia which have been called out. 

I don't yet hear of Mr. Monroe's arrival, tho' I learn from Mr. 
Livingston that he is daily expected in France. Mr. Merry is 
preparing to embark for the U. S. and is pressed by his Govern- 
ment to be ready to leave England the first week in April. 

With perfect Respect. R. K. 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. Z(>. 

London, Mar. 19, 1803. 

Sir : 

Orders are sometime past given to evacuate Egypt and the 
English forces have at this time probably left that Country. The 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 23 1 

independence of Malta, by the Treaty of Amiens is placed under 
the protection and guarantee of Great Britain, France, Spain^ 
Austria, Russia and Prussia. Austria has acceded, Russia con- 
sents to accede, provided the Maltese language be abolished, to 
which France agrees, and Prussia is ready to assume the guaran- 
tee, when that alone is wanted to give effect to the Stipulation 
respecting Malta. This view is necessary to enable you to form 
a correct opinion of the demand which the French Ambassador 
has just made for the Evacuation of Malta, and of Lord Hawkes- 
bury's answer which was received by the French Ambassador on 
the 15th, and as soon as it could be translated sent to Paris^ 
where it is expected to have arrived last evening or this morning. 

The answer begins by laying down the maxim of the Law of 
Nations that " Conventio omnis intelligitur rebus sic stantibus,"" 
and after declaring that the consideration of things, as settled by 
the public Treaties of Europe, and the restitutions to be made 
pursuant to the Treaty of Amiens, was a principal and essential 
reason with his Britannic Majesty for entering into that Treaty^ 
and without which it would not have been made, it enumerates 
the changes that have since happened without the privity and 
consent of Great Britain, and which have so materially altered the 
relative condition of the Powers that are Parties to the Treaty of 
Amiens : this recapitulation is followed by a reference to the 
publication of Sebastiani's Report of his Mission to the Barbary 
Powers, Egypt & Syria as well as to the Exposition of the affairs 
of France, sent by Bonaparte to the Legislative Body, both of 
which are stated to contain sentiments injurious to the Reputa- 
tion and Honour of the British Nation. The answer concludes 
by insinuating that Great Britain, in these circumstances, might 
justly refuse to proceed in the farther execution of the Treaty of 
Amiens, instead whereof his Majesty desirous of the continuance 
of Peace, and willing to offer to France still farther proofs of his 
moderation, is ready to enter into such mutual discussions and 
explanations with France, as in the present posture of affairs may 
be calculated to secure the just Rights of the two Nations and to 
maintain the Repose of Europe. 

Instead of a mere discussion, respecting the interpretation of the 
Treaty of peace of Amiens, or the execution of any of its articles, 
this answer renders the subject so intricate that even in a different 
Temper from that which now exists, the Parties would find great 

232 RUFUS KING. [1803 

difficulty in adjusting their respective Pretensions. The French 
Ambassador expects to receive the Reply of his Government on 
the 22. The military preparations proceed here without the 
smallest relaxation, and every appearance indicates to my mind 
the Expectation of War. 

I have the honour to be &c. 

R. K. 

CHAPTER XVI. 

King to Livingston — France's Alternative War or Evacuation of Malta — For 
Latter England requires Security — King's Successor not yet named — King 
to Secretary of State — Question before the Commissioners under 7th Article 
relative to awarding Interest during its Suspension — King to P. Sansom — 
Acknowledges Kindness from American Merchants — King to Secretary of 
State — France's Answer to Lord Hawkesbury — Vindicating Conduct of 
France — England will continue to occupy Malta — War will probably ensue 
— King to Livingston — Neither France nor England would care to begin 
the Assault — King to C. Abbot — How to preserve Public Records — King to 
Secretary of State — No Change — War inevitable — England without iVlly — 
In Case of War, England should seek to benefit Neutral Commerce — Mr. 
Addington said England might attempt to occupy New Orleans — King ob- 
jected— Might involve Misunderstanding — Hopes his Successor may arrive 
before his Departure — King to Livingston — England will not Evacuate 
Malta — Affairs so critical, hopes his Successor will arrive before his De- 
parture— King to Secretary of State — French Answer called Evasion — De- 
cision for War remains for France. 

R. King to R. R. Livingston, Esq., Paris. 

London, Mar. 23, 1803. 
Dear Sir : 

I have received your Letters of Feb. 24 and March 8 & 15. 
Except the last I think I have written to you by every Messenger, 
since my Letter of the nth the words of the Communication 
respecting the Expedition for Louisiana were, " the message (of 
the King) speaks of the expedition of Helveotsluys ; all the world 
knows it was destined for America, and about proceeding to its 
Destination, mais d'apres le message de S. M. I'embarquement et 
le depart vont etre contremandes." 

Bonaparte gave Lord Whitworth the alternative of war or the 
Evacuation of Malta on the 13th instant. I refer to the scene at 

233 

234 RUFUS KING. [1803 

the Drawing Room.* Lord Hawkesbury's note of the 15 in 
answer to General Andreossi's demand of the Evacuation of Malta, 
states that Sebastiani's Report and other information disclose the 
views of France upon the Turkish Empire and "that the King 
cannot consent to evacuate Malta unless substantial security be 
provided for those Objects which in present circumstances would 
be endangered by that measure " — in other words the King will 
evacuate on the provision of such security ; if the Turkish Empire 
be those objects which wd. be endangered by the Evacuation of 
Malta and the possession of this Island . . . by G. Britain 
be deemed security against the danger, would not the possession 
of it by some other Power who would be able to defend it, and 
be likely to resist the views of France, afford the substantial 
security that the note requires ? if so, would not the possession 
by Russia fulfil this purpose ? The only material doubt which 
offers, arises from the presumed fact that France would at Amiens 
have agreed to this arrangements had England proposed it. Still 
as the holding of Malta by England is thought a security against 
the views of France upon Turkey, and the note in effect offers to 
evacuate upon the provision of substantial security against the 
dangers with which the Turkish Empire is threatened, it is diffi- 
cult to imagine any other security than that of giving Malta to 
Russia and obtaining her Guarantee of the Integrity of the 
Dominion of the Turk. 

The tenour of the note as here cited may be depended upon ; 
the reflexions which follow are of less importance, and I have 
submitted them to you, as the grounds upon which I am less san- 
guine than I have been that the present discussion would end in 
war. 

With great Truth &c. 

RuFus King. 

I have a letter from the Secy, of State of Jany. 29, which in- 
forms me my successor had not then been named and that the 
time fixed for my leaving England might arrive before any ar- 
rangements for the vacancy can have their effect ! 

* See letter of R. R. Livingston to the President, March 12, 1803. Annals of 
Congress^ 1802-3, App. p. 11 15. 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 235 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. 87. 

London, Mar. 25, 1803. 
Sir: 

It is now nearly a fortnight since Lord Hawkesbury informed 
me that he had lately ascertained that the American Commission- 
ers under the 7th article of the Treaty of Amity and Commerce, 
with the concurrence of the 3d Commissioner, conceived them- 
selves authorized to allow Interest upon the Claims before them 
for the time during which the Proceedings of the Comn. had been 
suspended ; that as the Suspension had taken place in conse- 
quence of that of the Commission in America, it did not appear to 
him that the Board here had authority to allow Interest for this 
portion of time ; that he made me this Communication in hopes 
that we might agree in the just interpretation of the Powers of 
the Commissioners, as it would be disagreeable particularly at the 
juncture of affairs when he was speaking, again to arrest the Pro- 
ceedings of the Commissioners. I replied that the Subject was 
both unexpected and new ; that it should receive my immediate 
consideration, and that I would take the earliest opportunity in 
my power of conversing with him respecting it. 

After maturely reflecting upon the objection which originates 
with and was entertained by Dr. Swabey before the conclusion of 
the Convention, in virtue of which the Board has resumed its 
Proceedings, I informed Lord Hawkesbury that I was ready to 
meet him ; but owing to the discussions going on with France he 
has not yet appointed a day to receive me : in the mean time the 
Commission proceeds in examining and deciding the cases before 
it, leaving open the ascertainment of the amount of the respective 
Claims. As the first instalment of the ;j/^6oo,ooo to be received 
by Great Britain is payable in July, and as from the nature of the 
Negotiation with France I may not be able to meet Lord Hawkes- 
bury soon, it has appeared to me proper to apprise you of this 
objection to the Powers of the Commissioners which may be fol- 
lowed up by a suspension of the Proceedings. 

With perfect Respect &c. 

R. K. 

236 RUFUS KING, [1803 

R. King to Philip Sansom, Esq. 

Great Cumberland Place, Mar. 28, 1803. 
Sir : 

Being much pressed for time between m.y public engagements 
and the objects to which I am obliged to attend before I leave 
this country, I am afraid it may not be in my power immediately 
to wait upon all the members of the Committee of American mer- 
chants ; tho' I shall endeavour to do so before my departure. 

In the mean time I take the liberty of presenting to you and 
them my respectful acknowledgments for the distinguished kind- 
ness and honour the Committee have conferred upon me, and I 
avail myself of the opportunity likewise to thank them for the in- 
formation and assistance that on various occasions I have received 
from them during my residence in this country. 

With sentiments of great personal Esteem and Respect, &c. 

RuFus King. 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. 88. 

London, Mar. 28, 1803. 
Sir : 

My No. 86 communicated the tenour of Lord Hawkesbury's 
note of the 15th to the French Ambassador : the conclusion of 
the note refers to the demand of France for the Evacuation of 
Malta and declares " that the King cannot consent to its Evacua- 
tion unless substantial security be provided for those objects 
which in present circumstances would be endangered by that 

measure." 

Yesterday morning the French Ambassador received a Courier 
with the answer of his Government which was delivered to Lord 
Hawkesbury in the course of the day. It contrasts the blessings 
of Peace with the miseries of war, and professes on the side of 
France a sincere desire to maintain the enjoyment of the former ; 
it denies the existence of any such naval and military preparations 
as are spoken of in the King's Message to Parliament, and in re- 
spect to the changes which are said to have taken place in the 
relative condition of France since the Treaty of Amiens, it affirms 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 237 

that the Forces and influence of France have not been increased. 
With regard to Sebastiani's Report, the answer justifies its publi- 
cation as a necessary vindication of the reputation of the First 
Consul against the false and criminal imputation cast upon it in 
the History of the Campaign of Egypt published in London by 
Sir Robert Wilson, an officer in the service of his Britannic 
Majesty. 

The answer seeks no Explanation of the substantial security 
upon the provision of which Lord Hawkesbury's note offers by 
implication to Evacuate Malta, but concludes with saying the first 
Consul does not take up the Gauntlet thrown down by his Britan- 
nic Majesty, and in respect to Malta, the Treaty of Amiens has 
definitely provided for its Evacuation by England and its Re- 
stitution to the Order of St. John. 

It is natural to infer from this conclusion that the French Am- 
bassador has orders to reiterate his demand upon this point ; the 
English Cabinet will refuse as before ; and as the English Forces 
occupy Malta, the war will probably be declared and commenced 
on the side of France. 

The first Consul has given notice at Berlin, in case of war with 
Great Britain, that he shall take possession of Hanover, occupy 
Hamburgh and close the Elbe. 

With perfect Respect, &c. 

R. K. 

R. King to R. R. Livingston, Esq. 

London, Mar. 29, 1803. 
Dear Sir : 

The essential clause of Lord Hawkesbury's Note of the 15, and 
which is cited in my last Letter, by implication declares that Eng- 
land is ready to evacuate Malta upon certain conditions, which 
are not however explained ; in other words the Note insinuates 
that altho' it has become impossible to execute the Provisions of 
the Treaty of Amiens, England is nevertheless willing to discuss 
with France the Terms upon which the Evacuation shall be 
made. 

Whether the Reflexions contained in my last letter are well 
founded in respect to the Terms must now remain matter of mere 

238 RUFUS KING. [1803 

conjecture, inasmuch as the answer of the French Government 
which has been just delivered, decHnes all inquiry and discussion 
concerning them and refers itself to the Treaty of Amiens, as 
marking out the only course to be pursued on that subject. 

The Parties seem therefore to be at issue ; but as England 
possesses the object of disagreement will France follow up her 
demand that it should be surrendered by a declaration of war 
to enforce it ? If not, will England do more than continue to re- 
tain Malta and go on with preparations to meet the consequences. 
This doubt suggests a curious state of things, but one that could 
not be of long duration : both Parties would expect War while 
each would prefer to receive rather than to give the assault ; in 
this situation the commencement of the war would be an affair of 
accident, as well as Malta of mutual recrimination. 

I am not sure that it may not now be the Intention of France 
to proceed as tho' the armament of England had not been made. 
The first Consul is not obliged to renew or enforce his demand 
respecting Malta. The English armament may proceed without 
danger to France, which may continue to dispatch Expeditions to 
the Colonies, leaving it to England to begin the war, should she 
choose to do so by interrupting them. 

This speculation, for it is no more, agrees with the Rumour of 

yesterday and to-day from Holland, that the Expedition for 

Louisiana is again resumed, notwithstanding it was declared, as I 

have explained to you, that it was countermanded in consequence 

of the King's Message. 

Yours faithfully, 

R. K. 

P. S. I entreat you to observe great caution on this subject, as 
a conjecture that your information comes from me would place 
me in delicate circumstances. 

R. King to Right Honble. Charles Abbot. 

Great Cumberland Place, March 31, 1803. 
Sir: 

Enquiring of Mr. Planta of the British Museum the best mode 

of preserving public Records, he gave me the first information I 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 239 

had received of the Report on this subject drawn up under your 
direction and lately printed by order of the House of Commons. 
As we are beginning already to suffer in America from negligence 
and want of care in preserving our Records and public Reports, 
and as the subject at this Time engages the attention of our Gov- 
ernment, it would be of great advantage to us to possess the in- 
formation contained in this Report : but as it is not published, I 
hope you will pardon my taking the liberty of asking you to per- 
mit me to receive two copies of this Report. 

I have to make you my best acknowledgments for the Pieces re- 
specting the population act, with which you were kind enough to 
supply me. Unfortunately during my absence last summer my 
Secretary sent some of these pieces to America, so that my set 
wants the Enumeration of Scotland, the Parish Registers, and the 
observations on the Result of the Population act. 

I am almost ashamed to trouble you again upon this subject 
and the more so as it is out of my power to make you a return of 
equivalent value. I take the lib'ty, however, to send you a copy 
of the last census. I hope to receive in a more convenient form a 
few copies of this and the former census, one of which, by your 
permission, I will send to you. 

P. S. I have found and added the first census. 

With great Respect & Esteem, &c. 

RuFUS King. 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. 89. 

London, April 2, 1803. 
Sir : 

Nothing farther has occurred since the date of my last ; no 
answer has yet been given to the note of the French Ambassador, 
whic hdeclines all discussion respecting Malta. Lord Hawkes- 
bury's answer will probably be delivered to-day ; it will without 
doubt persist in the Determination communicated in his first note, 
and may disclose new and additional reasons in its support. If, 
as is said to be the case, the First Consul has lately made an over- 
ture to Russia for a partition of the Turkish Empire, the facts 

240 RUFUS KING, [1803 

may be urged on this occasion notwithstanding the refusal of 
Russia to listen to the Proposal. 

I still continue to believe the war unavoidable, in which Eng- 
land can have no expectation of a single ally. The System of 
Russia is pacific with less attachment, however, to France than to 
England. Austria is not yet recovered from the blows by which 
she was driven from the contest ; and Prussia will be inclined to 
adhere to her past Policy. Although Denmark and Sweden have 
been much dissatisfied with England, France contrary to her 
usual policy, has done nothing to secure their confidence ; while 
England has been endeavouring to reestablish her ancient friend- 
ship with these States ; for this purpose, she has given assurances 
that what is called the two Swedish Convoys shall be restored or 
paid for. The first which consisted of 17 Vessels was condemned, 
and the Envoy of Sweden has given in his claim for compensa- 
tion, which amounts to sixty thousand pounds sterling ; the 
claim for the second consisting of 21 Vessels, and which I think 
is not yet presented, will be about ninety thousand pounds sterling. 
By cultivating the friendship of these Powers, England expects with 
the good will of Russia to keep the Baltic open, against the efforts 
that France will again make to close it. Portugal will be com- 
pelled to exclude the English trade, and Spain with all Italy must 
obey the orders that shall be given her. 

I have sought occasion both with ministers and other leading 
men, since the discussion with France, to indicate the disadvan- 
tage which England has heretofore brought upon herself by the 
system of warfare she has been accustomed to pursue, and which 
has been chiefly directed against the Colonies of her enemy, 
which after being acquired at the expense of much blooti and 
treasure in addition to the vexation of the commerce of Neutral 
Nations, have been commonly restored, enriched by English 
capital, at the conclusion of Peace. Instead of a warfare, liable 
to these objections, and which has moreover furnished an oppor- 
tunity to France to appear as the friend and Protector of Neutral 
States, a system might be suggested that would not only avoid 
these disadvantages, but would materially contribute to the future 
prosperity of Great Britain. No Neutral Commerce would be 
interrupted by it, on the contrary it would serve to encrease and 
extend it, and when the object was once obtained, no Treaty of 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 24 1 

Peace could restore things to their former state. This conversa- 
tion has been everywhere understood and well received, and it is 
my firm belief, if the war break out, that Great Britain will im- 
mediately attempt the emancipation and independence of South 
America. 

In a late conversation with Mr. Addtngton* he observed to me, 
if the war happen, it would perhaps be one of their first attempts 
to occupy New Orleans. I interrupted him by saying, I hoped 
the measure would be well weighed before it should be attempted ; 
that true it was we could not see with indifference that Country 
in the hands of France, but it was equally true that it would be 
contrary to our views, and with much concern that we should see 
it in the possession of England. We had no objection to Spain 
continuing to possess it ; they were quiet neighbours, and we 
looked forward without impatience to events which, in the 
ordinary course of things, must, at no distant day, annex this 
Country to the United States. Mr. Addington desired me to be 
assured, that England would not accept the Country, were all 
agreed to give it up to her ; that were she to occupy it, it would 
not be to keep it, but to prevent another power from obtaining it, 
and in his opinion, that this end would be best effected by its 
belonging to the United States. I expressed my acquiescence in 
the last part of his remark, but observed that if the country should 
be occupied by England, it would be suspected to be in concert 
with the United States, and might involve us in misunderstand- 
ings with another Power with which we desired to live in Peace ; 
he said if you can obtain it well, but if not, we ought to prevent 
its going into the hands of France, tho' you may be assured, con- 
tinued Mr. Addington, that nothing shall be done injurious to the 
interest of the United States. Here the conversation ended. 

I have lately received your letter of January 29th, and as soon 
as Lord Hawkesbury shall have named a time to receive me, 
which I have requested him to do, I will explain to him, in con- 
versation, the President's views relative to the Mississippi. 

Considering the critical state of affairs, it is much to be wished 
that my successor may arrive before my departure. I shall delay 
taking ray leave to the last moment ; and should the posture of 

* Italics in cipher. 

VOL. IV. — 16 

242 RUFUS KING. [1803 

affairs in my opinion require it, I will risk the expense of detain- 
ing my vessel beyond the time in which I have engaged to em- 
bark ; in any event, I shall not leave London before the last week 

of the present month. 

With perfect Respect, 

R. K. 

R. King to His Excelly. R. R. Livingston. 

London, Ap. 8, 1803. 
Dear Sir : 

I have duly received your letter of the first instant. Notwith- 
standing the vagueness of Lord H's note of the 15th, a defect 
sometimes received as proof of diplomatic prudence, the result 
will probably shew that the note contained a fixed determination 
not to execute the Treaty of Amiens, so far as respects Malta ; 
for I am more and more persuaded that in the opinion of the 
Cabinet, Malta itself is the only security for those objects that 
would be endangered by the evacuation. In my last letter, I 
alluded to a verbal communication which has been probably suc- 
ceeded by a written one to the same effect, and there is reason to 
think, that in the conversation it was plainly insinuated that the 
keeping of Malta by England was the only security she would 
receive for the objects of her solicitude. If so, and Bonaparte 
adhere, as you suppose he will, to his purpose not to permit any 
discussion respecting Malta, *' puisque la Traite d* Amiens a 
pourvue a tout," the die may be regarded as thrown, and the 
results cannot be delayed many days. The reply of Bonaparte 
may be war, if it be to gain time, it will be war from hence. Lis- 
ton writes that in his opinion, the Expedition for Louisiana will 
not proceed in the present uncertain state of affairs ; and I am 
inclined to believe, should it attempt to proceed, that it might 
meet with opposition ; England would interrupt the expedition to 
Louisiana, if she believe the war inevitable : and if instead of 
Louisiana it should be bound to Martinique, the garrison whereof 
is too weak to defend it, she ought likewise to stop it. 

I have sent frequent and, as far as I have been able, faithful 
and full accounts to our Govrt. of the tenour and probable issue 
of the discussions between this Country and France, and shall con- 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 243 

tinue to do so until my departure, respecting which I am a little 
embarrassed, as I have broken up my establishment, shipped my 
effects, and in a few days shall be under a heavy demurrage if I 
detain my ship. On the whole so critical and important is the 
state of affairs that I shall probably detain my vessel a short time 
in hopes my successor may arrive, or in the interim that Recon- 
ciliation or war may put an end to the present uncertainty.* 

It is much to be regretted that my successor has not been more 
seasonably named and at his post, as it would have been more 
easy to have entered upon the duties while I remained, than after 
my departure. Besides the commencement of a new war is most 
important in respect to our Trade which shd be the object of 
earnest attention by our Minister here in order to prevent the 
mistakes which interest or omission may supply in the orders & 

instructions to the naval officers. 

Faithfully yrs. 

R. K. 

P.S. — I think you may with confidence act upon the opinion 
that England will not evacuate Malta. I am deceived, or their 
point is decided ; all must therefore depend on the First Consul 
who must abandon the Treaty of Amiens so far as respects Malta, 
or take war. Respecting the change of Ministers, which is spoken 
of as ignorantly and inconsistently as the question of War and 
Peace, I don't think anything has been settled ; if it be war, I am 
of opinion that Pitt, perhaps Lord Melville, but neither Grenville 
nor Windham, will be employed. Addington and Hawkesbury 
will remain, and who also may be more of a Problem : that is a 
mere personal speculation, as I really have no clue, if one even 
exist, to lead me to the last. 

I wish to explain to you an interesting conversation I have 
lately had respecting New Orleans, but I am really pushed by so 
many personal concerns, joined to some few of a public nature, 

*Mr. Livingston in a letter to the Secretary of State of April 11, 1803, writ- 
ing of the probability of the renewal of the war and of the possible effect upon 
the negotiation relating to Louisiana of the interference of Great Britain, says : 
" I have written to Mr. King, pressing him to stay until a successor is ap- 
pointed. The moment is so critical that we cannot justify being without a 
Minister in England, and he is a very useful one." Annals of Congress, 
1802-3, Appendix, p. 1127. 

244 RUFUS KING. [1803 

that I scarce find time to write to you the scraps, which always 
in haste I send to you, but with which I should not embarrass you, 
except that from all I know and conjecture, it is of considerable 
importance that you should know all that is passing. 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. 90. 

London, April 9, 1803. 
Sir : 

The Question of Peace or War may at this moment be decided. 
Lord Hawkesbury's note in reply to the refusal of France to ad- 
mit of any discussion respecting Malta, is dated the 3d & was dis- 
patched the 4th instant. 

It expresses the King's regret that the French Government 
had declined giving the satisfaction and explanation he had de- 
manded, and that it had accompanied this Evasion by a renewed 
demand of the Evacuation of Malta. In these circumstances, the 
note states that the King had deemed it expedient to order his 
Ambassador at Paris to ascertain whether the French Govern- 
ment persists in its refusal, or whether it will without delay give 
the satisfaction and explanation that may be calculated to main- 
tain Peace between the two Nations. 

Lord Whitworth's note to Mr. Talleyrand is probably now before 
the First Consul, who must recede from the ground he has taken 
with so much eclat, or receive a declaration of war. 

With perfect respect, etc., 

R.K. 

CHAPTER XVII. 

King to Lord Hawkesbury — Convention for Boundaries — King to Livingston — 
Notes between England and France — Hopes he has definite Principles 
respecting Louisiana in Case of War — Gallatin to King — Arrangements 
with Barings satisfactory — King to Secretary of State — Maryland Bank Stock 
— Ownership settled — King — Memorandum Book — Taking Leave of the 
King — Conversation with Lord Hawkesbury respecting Contraband — 
Notes and Negotiations between England and France — Ambassadors of 
each receive their Passports — Early Information communicated by King 
to English Government — Dinner at the Duke of Portland's — Not England 
but Bonaparte has shown bad Faith in the non-Execution of the 
Treaty — Conference with Addington — England would be satisfied with 
the Cession of Louisiana to the U. S. — Russian Offer of Mediation refused 
— Conferences with Lord St. Vincent relative to Impressment — No satis- 
factory Result obtained — Last Conferences between England and France — 
Ambassadors of each receive their Passports — King to Earl St. Vincent — 
Regrets the Failure of Negotiations to put an End to Impressment — Gore to 
King — Confirms this Failure — King to Secretary of State — Condition of 
Negotiations relative to Impressment — Neutral Flag — Colony Trade — 
South America — King to Lord Hawkesbury — Communicates Purchase of 
Louisiana — Lord Hawkesbury to King — Response to Above — The King's 
Pleasure at the Intelligence — Complimentary Remarks on the whole Course 
of King's public Mission. 

R. King to Rt. Hon. Lord Hawkesbury. 

Great Cumberland Place, April lo, 1803. 
My Lord : 

I have the honour to send you enclosed the Draught of a Con- 
vention concerning the Boundaries of the United States, drawn up 
according to the Tenour of our Conferences on this subject, and am 

With great consideration &c. 

R. King. 

The Draught covers nine pages of foolscap paper. 

245 

246 RUFUS KING. [1803 

R. King to R. R. Livingston. 

London, April 12, 1803. 
Dear Sir : 

I have before communicated to you the two last notes exchanged 
between France and this country ; the French note dated Mar. 
29. concludes en resume, " que le premier Consul ne veut pas 
retirer le defit de la guerre fait par I'Angleterre (referring to the 
armament) et qu'il ne peut y avoir discussion sur Malte, puis que 
la traite d'Amiens a pourvu a tout." The English Reply dated 
the 3d instant declares " that his Majesty perceives with great 
regret that the French Govt, continues to withhold all satisfac- 
tion and explanation on the points respecting which he had com- 
plained, and at the same time it evades all discussion concerning 
the same, that it repeats the requisition that Malta be forthwith 
evacuated by his forces. In duty to himself and to the interest 
of his People, his M. has in these circumstances deemed it expe- 
dient to give Instructions to his Ambassador at Paris to ascertain 
distinctly whether the fr. Gov. is determined to withhold all satis- 
faction and explanation on the subject of his Complaints, or 
whether it is disposed without delay to give the satisfaction and 
explanation that in the present state of affairs shall be calculated 
to lead to an arrangement in respect to the disagreements sub- 
sisting between the two countries." Possessing these extracts, 
you will judge as well as I am able to do of the probable issue. 
General Andreossi last evening received a courier with Dispatches 
acknowledging the receipt of L. H's. note of the 3d, and saying 
only that they were dans un pourparler with Lord Whitworth for 
the purpose of hearing what he had to say. 

Should the war take place, as I still think it must if the first 
Consul persist in respect to Malta, it is to be hoped you will have 
authority to assume a principle in regard to Louisiana which at 
all times, but more easily in time of war between England and 
France, we can and ought to assert and maintain. To the coun- 
try West of the Mississippi we have no claim ; from the country 
East of it, in virtue of the irrevocable renunciation of France and 
the duty we owe to ourselves and posterity, we have the Right to 
exclude her forever ; and it is only by adhering to this principle, 
that we shall be able to preserve the Union and protect the 
Independence of our Country. Yours &c. 

R. King. 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 247 

Albert Gallatin to Rufus King. 

Treasury Department, Washington, April 28, 1803. 
Sir: 

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your favors 
dated 9th & 25th Feby. & 4th March 1803. 

The terms upon which the House of Sir Francis Baring & Co. 
have consented to transact the business of this Department in 
London, as stated in your correspondence with them, annexed to 
your letter of February 25, are satisfactory ; and I fully approve 
of the agreement made by you in my behalf, and communicated 
to them in your letter of 23. February. 

Permit me to express my acknowledgments for the trouble you 
have taken in effecting this negotiation, and for the favorable issue 
which has resulted from your attention to the remittance of the 
;£^7o,ooo to Holland. . . . 

With great respect your obed. Servt. 

Albert Gallatin. 

On May i, 1803, Mr. King addressed a letter to the Sec- 
retary of State' giving an account of the state of the Nego- 
tiation relative to Bank of England stock, belonging to the 
State of Maryland, and which he said at that time, with 
accrued interest, amounted to ;£"i87,507.i2. Rewrites: 

"I have now the satisfaction to send you the copy of a letter 
that I have received from Lord Hawkesbury, in which the King 
engages, in the event of its being decided that the title to this 
stock has accrued and belongs to the Crown, that the same shall 
be transferred to the State of Maryland, together with the accumu- 
lations proceeding from the re-investment of the dividends." 

He states, however, that as late as the 27th April, though 
all the other claims had been settled, objections still were 
maintained by Mr. " Harford, devisee of Lord Baltimore, 
claiming as Lord Proprietor of the Province of Maryland, 
and, as such, entitled to all forfeitures." Mr. King says that 

^ Annals of Congress, 1802-3, App. p. 999. 

248 RUFUS KING, [1803 

a settlement might then have been made had he been willing 
to have ''engaged to transfer to Mr. Harford ten thousand 
pounds bank stock." This, for reasons he gives, he declined 
to do, and therefore suggests that Mr. Chase, the agent of 
Maryland, be instructed how to proceed to settle all the 
claims, 

though it may require some time to complete the business ; but 
it is a satisfaction that we hitherto have not enjoyed, that no 
future change in the Court of Chancery, or in the Ministry can 
alter the decision of the one or precise engagement of the other. 

It would have given me great pleasure to have seen the close 
of a business that is of great importance to the State of Mary- 
land, and which has so constantly as well as zealously engaged my 
attention ; but the entanglements of an intricate suit in chancery, 
early and unfortunately thrown into an embarrassing situation, are 
reached with difficulty by diplomatic means ; there have, more- 
over, been some difficulties in our way which neither patience nor 
industry has hitherto been able to surmount. We may now, I think, 
put our opponents at defiance, as we at length stand on secure 
ground, and with a little more patience may reckon with confi- 
dence upon the attainment of the object. I shall leave with the 
papers of the Legation such a view of the subject as I hope may 
enable my successor with little trouble to hasten the conclusion 
of this long protracted business. 

There is here an interruption of the correspondence of Mr. 
King, but a memorandum book supplies much interesting 
matter during the closing days of his mission, which is here 
given as it was written from day to day. 

London, May 4, 1803. 
Taking Leave. 

Having sent a copy of my letter of recall to Lord Hawkesbury 
and requested him to apprize the King of my intention to take 
my leave ; and Sr. Stephen Cottrell having by direction of Lord 
Hawkesbury waited upon me to settle the mode of my going to 
St. James, I had my audience of leave after the levee of to-day — 
The Spanish Envoy had his audience to deliver his credentials 
before my audience. 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 249 

The Ceremony on entering the King's closet was the same as 
at my first audience. My harangue was in these words : 

"Sir, Having received the permission of my Govt, to return 
home, as will be confirmed to your Majesty by my letter of recall, 
I am instructed to avail myself of this occasion to renew to your 
Majesty the assurance of the continued and sincere disposition of 
the U. S. to cherish and perpetuate the good understanding and 
harmony happily subsisting between your Majesty and them. 

" It is the purpose of my Govt, to continue the residence of a 
Min. Plenipotentiary near your Majesty, whose arrival may soon 
be expected, and who will confirm to your Majesty the assurance 
that I have just now repeated. 

"Accustomed as I had been to view with respect the British 
nation, its laws and its monarchy, my residence here has served 
to enlarge and strengthen this sentiment, and I shall return to 
my country with increased veneration for a Government which, 
under your Majesty's guidance, fulfills the obligations of good 
faith and justice towards other nations, while it secures in the 
highest degree to your Majesty's people those civil and moral 
advantages, the enjoyment of which constitutes the chief end of 
human society. 

" I have a word more to add, which so far as regards myself 
requires your Majesty's indulgence, I have to offer your Majesty 
my respectful acknowledgments for the manner in which on all 
occasions you have received and considered me : and I should be 
unwilling to omit the opportunity of expressing to your Majesty 
my obligations to the noble personage (Lord Hawkesbury) who is 
present as well as to his noble and honourable colleagues for the 
candour, good faith and liberality with which they have dis- 
cussed and decided whatever has concerned the interest of my 
country." 

The King heard me with attention and replied : 

" I must say, Mr. King, that I am sorry for your departure. I 
know nothing of the character, indeed I do not know the name, 
of your successor ; but be he who he may, I fear I shall have 
reason to regret your absence ; for your conduct here has 
been so entirely proper, both as it regarded the interest of your 
own Country and of this, as to have given me perfect satisfaction. 
In regard to the assurance you make me in behalf of the States, I 

250 RUFUS KING. [1803 

receive it in good part ; and declare to you in return that on my 
side I wish for friendship and a constant good understanding with 
America. I have never had but one opinion on this subject since 
the event which separated us and I assure you now, that I will 
never change it. It is to our mutual advantage to be friends, and 
I foresee nothing that is likely to make us otherwise." 

The conversation which followed was relative to the present 
critical posture of affairs with France. The King showed great 
firmness as well as confidence ; said that his first duty was to 
ascertain the justice of his cause ; and being satisfied on this 
point, he should have no uneasiness for the event. 

It may have been during this conversation or some other 
about this time, that the king, in speaking with Mr. King 
relative to his return home, asked him what he intended to 
do with his boys, who were at Harrow ? The answer must 
have been one stating the course he adopted of leaving them 
to finish their studies at Harrow, and then send them to 
Paris to learn French, mathematics, etc., for the king an- 
swered him, ''AH wrong, Mr. King; boys should be edu- 
cated in the country in which they are to live." 

Mr. King reports the following conversation as having 
occurred on May 4, 1803 : 

Conversing with Lord Hawkesbury respecting the Swedish 
Convoy and the Treaty between Sweden and Great Britain, Lord 
Hawkesbury said it was certainly expedient to revise the article 
concerning contraband, which as it now stands makes naval 
Stores and Provisions contraband. 

In respect to naval Stores he certainly did think them contra- 
band, while he was clearly convinced that Provisions were not so, 
except in case of blockade or siege, when they became with all 
other goods contraband. But though he considered naval Stores 
contraband, still in a case like that of Sweden, whose staple 
articles were naval Stores it was a rigorous interpretation to con- 
fiscate naval Stores and he sh^ therefore think it a reasonable 
practise to make use of the milder doctrine of pre-emption. I 
expressed my approbation of his opinions and remarked that 
what created the greatest embarrassment, in Treaties relative to 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 25 1 

contraband, was their want of precision : the description should 
be minute and every article should be named, as the rule is one 
of practise among unlearned men, who should be under no diffi- 
culty in distinguishing the lawful from the unlawful or contraband 
goods. Lord H. assented. 

Memorandum, May 6, 1803. 

The ultimatum delivered by Lord Whitworth required him to 
leave Paris on Tuesday evening May 2d, unless France should 
have signed a minute by which she agreed : 

1. To the military possession of Malta for 10 years by Eng- 
land ; 

2. To the cession to England of the Island of Lampedosa ; 

3. To the complete evacuation of Holland by the French 
forces. 

On Tuesday forenoon Talleyrand answered Lord Whitworth's 
demand by a note declaring : 

1. That the Island of Lampedosa not belonging to France, 
the First Consul could neither object nor consent to the cession 
of it to England. 

2. That the occupation of Malta for 10 years being contrary to 
the Treaty of Amiens was inadmissible. Were it not so, the con- 
sent of Holland and Spain, parties to the Treaty of Amiens, would 
be requisite ; and even after they should have consented that the 
guarantying Powers should be consulted. 

3. Holland would be evacuated as soon as England shall have 
executed the Treaty of Amiens, &c. 

Before this answer of Talleyrand was delivered, a messenger 
was dispatched to Andreossi the French Ambassador in London 
for the purpose of apprizing him of its purport, and moreover to 
state, if Lord Whitworth should not be satisfied, as it was sup- 
posed he would not be, with the answer, that at the last hour and 
when according to his Ldp's. previous demands his passports 
would be delivered to him, Talleyrand would send him a note 
requesting a meeting on the next (Wednesday) morning, when 
Talleyrand would offer the First Consul's consent that the mili- 
tary possession of Malta (notwithstanding the departure from the 

252 RUFUS KING. [1803 

Treaty of Amiens) should be given either to Russia, Austria or 
Prussia at the choice of England. The same messenger brought 
orders to Andreossi to demand his Passports grounding the 
demand upon Lord Whitworth's having done so at Paris ; but to 
say he should not use them unless Lord Whitworth quitted Paris, as 
he had intimated his intention of doing on the evening of the 2d ; 
in that case Andreossi was instructed to leave London and be at 
Dover by the time Lord Whitworth should reach Calais. 

After Andreossi had received the Messenger which was on 
Friday morning he sent a note demanding his Passports and ex- 
plaining the occasion as well as the manner in which he should 
obey them. The note stated also that Portalis, the Secy, of 
Legation, would remain to assist the French in returning to their 
country and in taking the charge of the Ambassador's effects. 

At 4 o'clock I called in Downing Street, where a Cabinet coun- 
cil was sitting in consequence of Andreossi's note. Hammond, 
whom I saw, told me they had received no messenger from Lord 
Whitworth and were ignorant whether any answer has been given 
to their ultimatum, having no dispatch from him later than Mon- 
day. I then communicated to them the purport of the answer as 
well as the intention of detaining Lord Whitworth with a new 
proposition. He assured me they were entirely ignorant of these 
transactions and views, and then asked me to allow him to 
communicate in confidence to Lord Hawkesbury what I had 
communicated to him to which I consented. This he did and 
afterwards brought me Lord H's thanks, saying I had done him 
the greatest kindness that it was possible for him to have received. 
The opinion manifestly as regarded the new proposition was, that 
Lord W. would follow his orders and disregard it. Both 
Andreossi and Schimmelpenninck thought so and regarded the 
proposition as an indescretion useless and destructive of the 
principle upon which until now the Treaty of Amiens had been 
maintained. 

Mr. Addington's communication to Parliament on Friday 
evening of Andreossi's having demanded his Passports and of his 
expectation that he should make them a communication respect- 
ing the negotiation on the following Monday (May 9.) was 
accompanied with a manner which proved his expectation that 
the war had been decided upon. 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 253 

Mr. Addington moved an adjournment on Friday, May 6th, 
over Saturday to Monday, May 9, when he expected to make his 
communication. This was opposed by the old opposition, as well 
as the new, and the House divided 185 for and 95 against the ad- 
journment. 

On Saturday, May 7, a messenger arrived at 4 o'clock a.m., 
with Lord Whitworth's dispatch, communicating Talleyrand's 
last proposition, which Lord W. had thought sufficient to divert 
him from the execution of his orders to leave Paris on Tuesday 
evening. A Cabinet council was held immediately, and another 
messenger dispatched with the result — which was an adherance to 
the former demand, except that instead of requiring the explicit 
consent of France that England should keep Malta 10 years, the 
stipulation should be that she should keep it till measures should 
be concerted for its complete independence, with a limitation in 
a secret article that this possession should not exceed 10 years. 

Lord Whitworth was ordered to leave Paris in 36 hours after 
receiving this dispatch, unless the terms were complied with. 

Duke of Portland's Dinner. 

May 8, 1803. 

The Duke, Mr. Addington, Lord Pelham, Lord Hawkesbury, 
Lord Eldon, Lord Rosselyn, Sir Wm. Scott, Mr. King, Mr. Ham- 
mond, Young Mr. IngersoU & myself and Mr. Merry. 

Mr. Addington & Lord Hawkesbury both told me that in the 
event of war, instead of exposing the King to the charge of bad 
faith, they should be able to show that Bonaparte had resolved 
to break his engagements made at Amiens, and that their de- 
mands were justified as the necessary means of compelling him to 
observe his stipulations. 

They should be able to prove, on their side, a sincere and solici- 
tous disposition, as well as corresponding endeavours, to execute 
the stipulations respecting Malta, and on the side of Bonaparte 
not only a disinclination, but a series of efforts by dispersing the 
langues,* sequestering their property in France and promoting its 

* One of the conditions of Russia under which she would consent to a joint 
occupation of Malta was "provided the Maltese language be abolished, to 
which France agrees. — Life and Correspondence of Rufus King in his letter to 
the Secretary of State, March 19, 1803, vol. iv., p. 231. 

254 RUFUS KING. [1803 

sequestration elsewhere effectually to defeat and render of no 
importance the execution of this article of the Treaty. Not only 
these facts would be fixed upon him, but their aim and object 
would be demonstrated, for Bonaparte himself, in a conference 
he had demanded and held with Lord Whitworth, had observed 
to him that he judged it proper himself, in order that he might 
not hear the same thing from any other, to state to him that 
France must have Egypt ; that he had no wish nor hope to go to 
war to obtain it, preferring a peaceable acquisition of it ; but that 
Egypt must be acquired by France was not to be disguised. He 
should hope that England would not renew the war, but in case 
she did, that nothing short of invasion would be resorted to ; 
that undoubtedly the chances were against success — they might 
fail 99 times in a hundred, but the last would be fatal. 

This avowal coupled with the opposition given to the execution 
of the Treaty of Malta (Amiens, relative to Malta ?) by endeav- 
ouring to defeat the end of the stipulations, coupled with the 
practices which could be fastened on Bonaparte in respect to 
the Ionian Islands, and coupled with Sebastiani's Report, demon- 
strated a settled intention and plan of bad faith, already begun 
to be put in execution, not less dangerous to the repose of Europe 
and the essential interest of England than it is calculated to de- 
preciate and degrade the character and station of England in the 
face of the rest of Europe. 

Both H. & A. intimated an opinion that Lord Whitworth ought 
to have left Paris on the preceding Tuesday. Hawkesbury was 
more reserved than Addington on this point : the latter said the 
true course for Lord Whitworth would have been to have 
answered Mr. Talleyrand's proposition by saying, your courier, 
sir, will travel faster than I shall be able to do, I therefore pro- 
pose to you to forward your new proposal to your Ambassador at 
London ; it not being a compliance with our demands I must 
obey my orders and leave Paris. 

Russian Mediation. 

May 10, 1803, Tuesday. 
A Russian messenger arrived today — also an English messen- 
ger from Petersburgh. 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 255 

May II, 1803, Wednesday. 
The Russian Ambassador had to-day a long conference with 
Lord Hawkesbury. The object was to offer the mediation of his 
court between England and France. Ld. Hawkesbury replied 
that England having taken precise ground in the negotiations, 
which upon a well considered view had appeared essential to the 
national honour and interest to be maintained, in this state of 
affairs there seemed little prospect of any advantage to be ex- 
pected from the interference of any other Power, though it would 
be satisfactory if such interference would have the effect to en- 
gage France to yield to those terms without which there would 
be no security for the continuance of peace. 

Conference with Addington. 

May 12, Thursday. 

Met Mr. Addington by appointment : who after disclosing the 
state of the negotiation (a messenger having arrived, who left 
Paris on Tuesday, the day after Ld. W. had received his last in- 
structions) and expressing his surprise that Ld. W. had not left 
Paris in the first instance on the 2d of May, said he would posi- 
tively leave it in 36 hours after the delivery of his note unless 
their terms were yielded. 

I then spoke to him respecting the probable cession of Louisi- 
ana by France to the U. S. He declared his hope that it had 
been done. I alluded to the provisional expedition to occupy N. 
Orleans. He said that would be wholly out of view if we ac- 
quired it, and on this point was very explicit that England would 
be satisfied if the U. S. obtained Louisiana. 

I mentioned the embarrassment of our navigation arising out 
of the want of sufficient clearness and precision in the orders 
given to the Br. men of war and privateers, as well as from the 
incapacity of the W. India Courts of Prize. He replied that 
both these subjects should be carefully attended to in case of 
war. I discussed fully the subject of the impressment of seamen 
on the high seas. He seemed to agree with me and said he 
would confer again with Lord St. Vincent who hesitated in agree- 
ing to my proposal that no such impressment should be made by 
either side. 

256 RUFUS KING, [1803 

Conference with Lord Hawkesbury. 

I2th May, 1803. 
Most of the points discussed with Mr. Addington were touched 
upon with Lord Hawkesbury, who expressed similar opinions con- 
cerning them which were entertained by Mr. Addington. Signed 
with L. H. the Convention relating to the Boundaries of the U. 
S. L. H. seemed pleased with the prospect I held out to him that 
Louisiana would be ceded to the U. S. 

May 13th, Friday. 

Conference with Lord St. Vincent respecting the impressment 
of seamen on the high seas ; went over the various topics calcu- 
lated to shew to him first the little importance of the principle as 
not more men than would man a single ship are procured in this 
way during a war, and the practice is one which creates irritation 
and bad humour in the U. S. and tends to indispose them tow- 
ards England, &c. &c. 

He stated various qualifications and among others that the 
search and impressment should be made only when a vessel 
last sailed from a Br. Port. 

I replied that they might make such laws as they liked and in- 
stitute the means of enforcing these laws, to prevent their seamen 
being carried out of their country by for. vessels, and if so it 
would not be requisite to search for them on the ocean ; they 
might forbid any seaman to be shipped in the Br. Dominions by 
a foreign vessel except with the privity and consent of some 
proper officer, who might be charged to prevent the shipping of 
Br. subjects. The officers of a for? merchant might be liable to 
penalty and the ship herself infected by taking away Br. seamen. 
In a word so far as respects their being carried away they might 
become prohibited like certain goods, &c. 

Lord St. Vincent promised to think further on the subject and 
to confer with Lord Hawkesbury again. He assured me no new 
prize commissions should be issued to the W. Ind. judges and that 
measures should be taken without delay to organize the two new 
courts. He also promised to watch over the new orders for the 
purpose of rendering them as clear and precise as possible. He 
expressed his satisfaction at the probability that Louisiana has 
been or will be ceded to the U. S. 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 257 

WAR. 

May 14, 1803, Saturday. 

At xii o'ck to-day a messenger arrived in 40 hours from Paris 
with dispatches from Lord Whitworth, who had on the evening 
of the i2th received his Passports and was to leave Paris imme- 
diately after the messenger. 

The French Ambassador likewise received a courier and will 
probably leave London to-morrow. 

Sunday, May 15, 1803. 

The messenger dispatched by Lord Whitworth on the day he 
left Paris was charged with the communication of the Russian 
mediation which had been before announced here. 

In the course of the day Andreossi received two or three 
couriers. One of them was charged with a dispatch instructing 
Andreossi, in case no act of hostility had taken place to insinuate 
thro' the Batavian Ambassador, who might make the suggestion 
as merely a speculation of his own, that the First Consul might 
perhaps leave Malta in the hands of the English for 10 years pro- 
vided France should be permitted to occupy Tarento, Otranto, 
and such positions in the Kingdom of Naples as she possessed 
at the signature of the Treaty of Amiens. 

If Hawkesbury listened to the overture, Andreossi was to then 
appear, and, not as instructed to do so, but presuming on the 
desire of the First Consul to avoid the war, to take on himself to 
sign a convention the draught whereof was sent him and which 
corresponded with the insinuation to be made by the Dutch 
Minister — but in case Ld. Hawkesbury rejected the overture, 
no trace was to remain of the overture. 

Schimmelpenninck (the Batav. Ambass.) accordingly opened 
the subject under the strictest engagements of privacy to Ld. 
Hawkesbury, who said it was nothing new, having before been 
insinuated to Ld. Whitworth by Jos, Bonaparte, and that it was 
quite inadmissible : that he would, however, communicate with 
Addington, and in case he differed from him, it should be laid 
before the Cabinet ; in which event Schimmelpenninck was to be 
informed of it. As he received no such information, it is pre- 
sumed that Addington and Hawkesbury agreed and no reference 
was made to the Cabinet. The last French courier that arrived 

VOL. IV.— 17 

258 RUFUS KING. [1803 

to-day brought a letter from Ld. Whitworth who was on his 
journey and intended to reach Calais to-night — where he will 
probably await for Andreossi's arrival at Dover, in order that 
they might both cross the channel at the same time. 

Monday, May 16, 1803. 
Andreossi left London this morning at 5 o'clock. At midnight 
last night a messenger arrived from Lord Whitworth with a note 
sent after his departure from Paris and received on his route offer- 
ing Malta on the same terms which the Dutch Ambassador had 
insinuated as his own suggestions. A Cabinet council was 
assembled to-day, which refused the offer on the same ground 
which France had done in respect to Lampedosa, and a messen- 
ger was dispatched to meet L. W. either at Calais or this side 
with the answer. 

R. King to Earl St. Vincent. 

Private. 

Great Cumberland Place, May 15, 1803. 
My Lord : 

It seems that the die is cast ; and as the war is now unavoid- 
able, I should return to my country with additional satisfac- 
tion could I carry with me the proposed Agreement of England 
relative to the impressment of Seamen on the High Seas. Did I 
not know that the object in itself is of small, very small impor- 
tance to this Country, I should hesitate in urging it, notwithstand- 
ing the great embarrassment it has produced, and will continue 
to create in America. 

It would be indiscreet in me to press these Reflexions in favour 
of a liberal policy between two countries, whose best Interests, 
like their Language and Laws, are the same : but as I must leave 
London on Tuesday, I take the liberty to ask your Lordship in a 
private Note, to inform me whether it be probable that the 
arrangement I have so much at heart can be made ? 

With sentiments of the most sincere respect & Esteem 

I have the honour to be &c. 

RuFUS King. 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 259 

C. Gore to R. King. 

London, Great Cumberland Place, 

20 May, 1803. 

Dear Friend : 

We have nothing new in London. Hammond says he is in 
hourly expectation of hearing of some captures, and that nothing 
can be done at present relative to the Convention about Seamen. 
This he told me yesterday afternoon. He thinks the Govern- 
ment here has not made so strong a case as he expected, but 
when questioned as to the defects of the case he could not specify 
them : he will doubtless be more precise after he has seen his 
noble neighbour. He does all that belongs to his political char- 
acter in not siding with the Administn. On Monday night we 
(R. Pinkney & myself) go to the House, where it is presumed 
the debate will occupy two nights. But before then I hope and 
trust you will be on your way rejoicing with a fair wind & safe 
ship. . . . Yours ever, 

C. Gore. 

The following letter, though written in New York at a 
later date than those among which it is placed, relates to 
events which occurred before Mr. King sailed, and therefore 
properly belongs here. 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

New York, July, 1803. 
Sir : 

I take the liberty to add a few miscellaneous articles by way 

of supplement to my last dispatch. 

As soon as war appeared to me inevitable, I thought it advis- 
able to renew the attempt to form an arrangement with the British 
Government for the protection of our seamen ; with this view I 
had several conferences both with Lord Hawkesbury and Mr. 
Addington, who avowed a sincere disposition to do whatever might 
be in their power to prevent the dissatisfaction on this subject 
that had so frequently manifested itself during the late war. With 
very candid professions, I, however, found several objections in 
discussing the subject with the first Lord of the Admiralty. Lord 
Hawkesbury having promised to sign any agreement upon the 

26o RUFUS KING. [1803 

subject that I should conclude with Lord St. Vincent, I en- 
deavored to qualify and remove the objections he offered to 
our project : and finally the day before I left London, Lord St. 
Vincent consented to the following regulations : 

1. No seaman nor seafaring person shall, upon the high seas 
and without the jurisdiction of either party, be demanded or 
taken out of any vessel belonging to the citizens or subjects of 
one of the parties, by the public or private armed vessels or men 
of war belonging to, or in the navy of the other party ; and 
strict orders shall be given for the due observance of this engage- 
ment. 

2. Each party will prohibit its citizens or subjects from clan- 
destinely concealing or carrying away from the territories or 
colonial possessions of the other, any seamen belonging to such 
other ports. 

3. These regulations shall be in force for five years and no 
longer. 

On parting with his Lordship I engaged to draw up, in the 
form of a convention, and send him these articles in the course 
of the evening, who promised to forward them, with his approba- 
tion, to Lord Hawkesbury. I accordingly prepared and sent the 
draught to his Lordship, who sent me a letter in the course of 
the night, stating that on further reflection he was of opinion that 
the narrow seas ought to be excepted, they having been as his 
Lordship remarked, immemorially considered to be within the 
dominions of Great Britain ; that with this correction, he had 
sent the proposed convention to Lord Hawkesbury, who, his 
Lordship presumed, would not sign it before he should have 
consulted the Judge of the High Court of Admiralty, Sir William 
Scott. 

As I had supposed from the tenor of my conferences with Lord 
St. Vincent, that the doctrine of inare clausu?n would not be re- 
vived against us on this occasion, but that England would be 
content with the limited jurisdiction or dominion over the seas 
adjacent to her territories, which is assigned by the law of nations 
to other States, I was not a little disappointed on receiving this 
communication : and, after weighing well the nature of the prin- 
ciple and the disadvantage of its admission, I concluded to 
abandon the negotiation, rather than to acquiesce in the doctrine 
it proposed to establish. 

1803J LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 26 1 

I regret not to have been able to put this business on a satis- 
factory footing, knowing as I do its very great importance to both 
parties ; but I flatter myself that I have not misjudged the inter- 
ests of our own country, in refusing to sanction a principle that 
might be productive of more extensive evils than those it was our 
aim to prevent. 

Neutral Flag. 

As it is possible that another attempt will be made during the 
present war to establish the rule that free bottoms make free 
goods, I ought not to omit the communication of the following 
anecdote : 

Soon after the British armament in March past, Bonaparte sent 
his aid-de-camp-du-roi to Berlin, to announce his determination 
to occupy Hanover, and close the Elbe against England, in the 
event of war. The Prussian Cabinet, a thing very rarely done, 
immediately dispatched a courier with orders to Baron Jacobi, 
the Prussian Ambassador at London, to apprize the English 
Government of the views of France, to impress the dissatisfaction 
with which Prussia had learned them, and to offer to protect 
Hanover and the North of Germany, provided England would 
give her consent to the principle that free ships should make free 
goods. The English Cabinet immediately replied, that the Ger- 
man Empire is bound to protect the rights of its several members ; 
that Hanover must therefore look to Germany, and not to Eng- 
land, for support ; and, in respect to the proposed rule that free 
ships should make free goods, that no advantage nor service 
could be named which would be sufficient to engage England to 
give it her sanction. In any circumstances this would be the 
opinion of England ; in the present instance, if I mistake not, the 
proposition was believed to have come, indirectly, from Paris. 

Colony Trade. 

In a very late conversation with Mr. Addington respecting the 
colony trade, he insinuated the probability that events might 
happen in the course of the present war, alluding, as I under- 
stood, to South America, that would enable England to form with 
us such commercial arrangements as would be satisfactory. As 

262 RUFUS KING. [1803 

Mr. Addington meant to be obscure, I could only conjecture his 
meaning ; and my inference was, in case of the independence of 
South America, that the colony system must everywhere be aban- 
doned— an opinion not peculiar to Mr. Addington, but one that 
is entertained by the principal members of the late English 
Ministry. 

South America. 

When the preliminaries of the late peace were signed, an expe- 
dition, fully prepared, was in readiness to set sail for the purpose 
of assisting the inhabitants of the province of Caraccas in throw- 
ing off obedience to Spain. Trinidad was retained by England, 
chiefly with the view of furthering this revolt ; and if Spain be 
drawn into the war, which she will be unable to avoid, the expe- 
dition to the Caraccas will be revived. No probable change of 
the Ministry of England will change this intention, for it is known 
to be the opinion of the first men of the nation that the secondary 
object of the present war, and one that must give England cour- 
age as well as resources to go on with the struggle, is the entire 
independence of South America. 

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c. 

RuFus King. 

R. King to Lord Hawkesbury. 

London, May 15, 1803. 
My Lord : 

In the present critical posture of affairs, I lose no time in com- 
municating to your Lordship, for his Majesty's information, that 
a treaty was signed at Paris on the 30th of April past, by the 
Plenipotentiaries of America and France, by which the complete 
sovereignty of the town and territory of New Orleans, as well as 
of all Louisiana, as the same was heretofore possessed by Spain, 
has been acquired by the United States of America. 

In drawing up this treaty, care has been taken so to frame the 
same as not to infringe any right of Great Britain in the naviga- 
tion of the river Mississippi. 

I flatter myself that this communication will be received with 
satisfaction, and regarded as a new proof of the disposition of the 

i8o3l LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 263 

United States to observe towards His Majesty a spirit of amity 
and confidence, important at all times, and more especially so in 
present circumstances, to the harmony and mutual prosperity of 
the two countries.* 

Lord Hawkesbury to Mr. King. 

Downing Street, May 19, 1803. 
Sir : 

Having laid before the King your letter of the 15th of this 
month, in which you inform me that a treaty was signed at Paris 
on the loth of last month by the plenipotentiaries of America and 
France, by which the complete Sovereignty of the Town & 
Territory of New Orleans, as well as of all Louisiana has been 
acquired by the U. S., I have received his Majesty's commands 
to express to you the pleasure with which his Majesty has re- 
ceived this intelligence, and to add that his Majesty regards the 
care which has been taken so to frame this Treaty as not to in- 
fringe any right of Gr. Britain in the Navigation of the Mississippi 
as the most satisfactory evidence of the disposition on the part of 
the Government of the U. S., correspondent to that which his 
Majesty entertains to promote and improve the harmony and 
good understanding which so happily subsists between the two 
countries and which are so conducive to their mutual benefit. 

I have it also in command to assure you, Sir, that the senti- 
ments which you have expressed in making this communication 
are considered by his Majesty' Government as the additional 
proof of the cordiality and confidence which you have uniformly 
manifested in the whole course of your public mission, and which 
have so justly entitled you to the Esteem and Regard of his 
Majesty's Government. I desire you to accept of the assurances 
of distinguished consideration with which I have the honour to 
be. Sir, yr. mo. ob. Servt. 

(Signed) 

Hawkesbury. 

^ Annals of Congress, 1802-3, App., p. 1150. 

CHAPTER XVIII. 

King sails from England — Reasons for asking Permission to return Home — 
Suggested to Madison the Revision of the Commercial Treaty with Great 
Britain — No Notice taken of it — No New Work entrusted to him — King 
to Hamilton, asking his Opinion as to his return — Hamilton to King — 
Thinks it advisable — Presence Home useful — Party in Power hostile to the 
Interests of the Country — He may suffer in their Disrepute, holding Office 
under them — King to J. Marshall and to Dr. Southgate, announcing his 
Resignation — King continues to press pending Questions for Settlement — 
N. E. and N. W. Boundaries of the U. S. — Impressment — The State of 
Maryland's Bank Stock — King left without appointing a Charge d' Affaires, 
not having been instructed to do so — Gore to Madison — Will look after 
the Affairs of the U. S. until King's Successor arrives — Gore to King — Ex- 
plains his Reasons for this Conduct — Gore to King — Defends himself from 
a Charge of delaying Proceedings of the Convention — Refuses to grant 
Passports — Monroe has received his Commission — Boys well — King to 
John Adams — State of Affairs when he left London. 

The following brief memorandum records the close of 
Mr. King's mission to England, though he did not sail until 
the 2 1st of May. 

" May i8th. Left London for Cowes this morning. Lord 
Whitworth arrived at Dover and Andreossi crossed from there to 
Calais." 

It was a momentous date in the history of Europe, mark- 
ing as it did the absolute rupture of the peace of Amiens by 
the return of the Ambassadors of England and France to 
their respective countries, an event in which the United 
States were deeply interested in many ways. France had 
just sold Louisiana to them, and England was to renew her 
commercial Treaties with a power which was not only her 
rival but had shown, even under adverse circumstances, a 

264 

l8oi] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 26$ 

determination to demand for herself a fair share of the com- 
merce of the world, and especially of the islands of the 
West Indies, which lay so near to her. How earnestly and 
in many respects successfully Mr. King had exerted himself 
to establish the rights and claims of his country the corre- 
spondence which has been given will clearly show. But it 
may not be amiss here to review somewhat the work he had 
done and to advert to the reasons which led him to ask for 
permission to return home at a time when his country 
seemed most to want the services of an able and experienced 
Minister. 

Having served in several capacities in the early history of 
his country after the establishment of its Independence, in 
the Continental Congress, the Convention for the formation 
of the Federal Constitution, and the Senate after the forma- 
tion of the Government, by which services he became thor- 
oughly informed as to the history of his country, and was 
largely instrumental in establishing the Government on a 
firm basis, Mr. King felt a desire to employ his talents on 
another field in which he believed that he might benefit his 
country. The Treaty made by Mr. Jay with Great Britain, 
excellent as under the circumstances it was, had defects 
which it was felt and decided must be met and removed, 
and other questions which must necessarily arise between 
two commercial nations, one of which had long enjoyed 
almost absolute control and the other seeking for its own 
people to share some of the profits of commerce, had to be 
discussed and placed upon an amicable footing. 

Under the circumstances, Mr. King intimated to his friend 
General Hamilton that he thought he could be of use to his 
country in a Mission to Great Britain if the President should 
see fit to appoint him Minister. President Washington, 
though at first objecting, not on account of any doubt as to 
his qualifications for the position, but because he was un- 
willing to name one who had been accused of holding what 
were called monarchical opinions, finally made the appoint- 
ment of Mr. King as Envoy Extraordinary and Minister 

266 RUFUS KING. [i8oi- 

Plenipotentiary to Great Britain. It is only necessary, as 
has been said here, to recall the zeal, ability, and firmness with 
which he performed the duties of his ofifice to the entire satis- 
faction of Presidents Washington, Adams,and Jefferson, to the 
great advantage of his country, and with the confidence and 
respect of the Government of Great Britain for the courtesy 
and great ability with which he discussed the serious ques- 
tions that constantly presented themselves. Conscious that 
he would be able to meet intelligently the new aspects of 
international relations, and perhaps to settle for many years 
the policy of the two countries in their commercial inter- 
course, he had, at an early date, reminded the adminstration 
of Mr. Jefferson of the approaching time for a revision of 
the Commercial Treaty between the two countries. 

On October 8, iSoi, he wrote a private letter to Mr. 
Madison, then Secretary of State,^ saying among other 
things : 

"It was my earnest hope, when I came hither, that I should 
have had, before this period, an opportunity to assist in the revi- 
sion of our treaty with this country. We have sufificiently seen, 
and become acquainted with its operation during war ; and the 
time is come when it is to be tried as a rule of mutual conduct in 
peace. If I be not mistaken, it will be found our interest on 
every account to aim at its revision as soon as possible. The 
Treaty with France may also require to be revised : ought we not 
to lay down a common basis for these Treaties and endeavour to 
form them so as to act upon common and not interfering Princi- 
ples ? To do so will require concert in the projects, as well as in 
the negotiations. Should the President confide the negotiation 
here to me, might there not be a considerable advantage in my 
receiving his permission to pass a fortnight with you at the seat 
of Government, or with Mr Livingston here or at Paris ? If the 
subject have not been fully discussed with Mr. L. before his em- 
barkation, the conferences in America would be most useful. 
Upon the supposition that our affairs still depending here be 
satisfactorily closed, I might embark in March directly for the 

* Rufus King's Life, etc., vol. iii., p. 522. 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 267 

Chesapeake, pass a fortnight in Washington, and returning by New 
York be here again in July.'* 

It does not appear that any answer was ever sent to this 
suggestion, and therefore Mr. King must have been satisfied 
that, with the exception of pending questions, his services 
would not be called for. As an evidence of this he wrote 
to his friend, General Hamilton, on April 8, 1802"^: 

" The Revision of our commercial treaty has been a service to 
which I have along looked as the conclusion of my mission. As 
however I have no reason to suppose it likely soon to take place, 
I am not much inclined to remain here a mere figurant and am 
therefore thinking seriously of my return. Without deciding any- 
thing on this point, I confidently ask your opinion respecting it. 
This I have not done except in the present instance." 

This opinion General Hamilton gives on June 3, i802,f 
as follows : 

" In your last, you ask my opinion about a matter delicate and 
important, both in a public and in a personal view. I shall give 
it with a frankness to which you have a right ; and I may add, 
that the impressions of your other friends, so far as they have 
fallen under my observation, do not differ from my own. While 
you were in the midst of a negotiation, interesting to your coun- 
try, it was your duty to keep your post. You have now accom- 
plished the object and with the good fortune, not very common, 
of having the universal plaudit. This done, it seems to me, most 
advisable that you return home. There is little probability that 
your continuance in your present station will be productive of 
much positive good. Nor are circumstances such as to give 
reason to apprehend that the substitute for you, whoever he may 
be, can do much harm. Your stay or return, therefore, as it re- 
gards our transatlantic concerns, is probably not material ; while 
your presence at home may be useful in many ways which it is 
not necessary to particularize. Besides it is questionable whether 
you can long continue in the service of the present administration, 
consistent with what is due as well to your own character, as to 

"^ R. King's Life, etc., iv., p. 135. \Ibid., iv., p. 136. 

268 RUFUS KING. [1801- 

the common cause. I am far from thinking that a man is bound 
to quit a public office merely because the administration of the 
Government may have changed hands. But, when those who 
have come into power are undisguised persecutors of the party to 
which he has been attached and study with ostentation to heap 
upon it every indignity and injury, he ought not, in my opinion, 
to permit himself to be made an exception or to lend his talents 
to the support of such characters. If, in addition to this, it be 
true that principles and plans of the men at the head of affairs 
tend to the degradation of the Government and to their own dis- 
grace, it will hardly be possible to be in any way connected with 
them, without sharing in the disrepute which they may be destined 
to experience." 

He was thus confirmed in the decision, which he had an- 
nounced to Mr. Sedgwick on April 6, 1802, but he does not 
appear to have taken any steps to make it known until in 
his official letter to the Secretary of State on August 5th. 
In this he says * : 

"It is now six years that I have resided in this country. When 
I left America it was not my expectation to be absent more than 
four years. So long as the war continued I did not think of re- 
turning home, believing that my residence here might be of some 
public advantage. When the preliminaries of peace were signed, 
I found myself engaged in a negotiation of considerable difficulty 
and importance, which restrained me from asking the President's 
leave to resign my mission. The negotiation being since completed 
and nothing very material remaining to be discussed in which I 
can flatter myself with being able to render any important service, 
I have to request the President to accept the resignation of my 
office and permit me to return home." 

On the same date, August 5, 1802, f Mr. King wrote to 
John Marshall that though the present administration ap- 
proved and desired the business settled by the convention 
closed upon the terms which had been offered, and of which 
every material point was completed before he knew the 
opinion of the present administration, 

* R. Kind's Life, etc., iv., p. 155. \ Ibid., iv., p. 153. 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 269 

<( 

I earnestly wish that on other and still more important con- 
cerns, its sentiments had been equally correct, as they have been 
in respect to this business ; but I must disregard opinions formed 
with solicitude, and after careful reflection, not to hesitate in be- 
lieving this to be the case ; and it is for this reason, among others, 
that upon mature consideration of my duty to the public, as well 
as of what I owe to myself, I have thought it incumbent on me to 
resign my Mission and ask leave to return home," 

an action which he hopes will receive Mr. M.'s approbation. 
To Dr. Southgate, his brother-in-law, " August 5, 1802, he 
also communicates his decision: 

" It was my wish to have returned some time ago, but being 
engaged in a negotiation of considerable difficulty and importance, 
I have not been able until now to do so with propriety. The 
negotiation which detained me being completed, and nothing of 
importance remaining in the discussion whereof I can hope to be 
useful, I think myself free to resign my office." 

In all of the letters the same reason is given by Mr. King, 
showing that though not now recalled, as the President's 
advisers f had urged that he should be, he understood that 

*i?. King's Life, etc., iv., p, 144. 

f Mr. J. C. Hamilton in his Life of Alexander Hamilton, vol. vii., p. 584, 
makes the following note : 

" Monroe to Jefferson, Richmond, April 30, 1801. ' On my return I found 
Col. Taylor and some other respectable characters attending the Courts, and 
from him and one or two others, who spoke of it, I understood it was in their 
opinion generally expected and wished, that our present Envoy at London should 
be withdrawn. They think nothing is done unless that is done ; that as every 
calamity foreign and domestic we have experienced from Great Britain, a per- 
son known to be friendly to her interests, acquainted with our interior, able to 
guide her councils and plan her measures against us ought not to be left there 
under the present Administration.' This letter, in Monroe's autograph, is 
stated not to have been sent. Giles also wrote to Jefferson from the same place, 
June I, iBor. ' The ejected party is now almost universally considered as 
having been employed in conjunction with Great Britain, in a scheme for the 
total destruction of the liberties of the people. . . . The continuation of 
Mr. King in London, it is apprehended, may be attended with unpleasant 
effects.' He then urged an absolute repeal of the whole judiciary system, ter- 
minating the present officers, and creating an entire new system." 

270 RUFUS KING. [1801- 

the administration of Mr. Jefferson did not intend to confide 
to him the discussion or settlement of any other questions 
between the two countries than those already pending, and 
that, therefore, he not only could be of no further service 
abroad, but felt that he was not in harmony with the Presi- 
dent and his advisers, and, therefore, he resigned his 
position. 

It may be said, however, that as he had promised in his 
letter to the President, expressing his sensibility of the Pres- 
ident's "obliging appreciation of the manner in which I have 
performed the duties of myofifice in this country," "that the 
like zeal and industry will continue to be employed during 
the residue of my mission," Mr. King continued to be 
actively engaged in bringing to a conclusion the matters en- 
trusted to him. Among others was the business of endeav- 
oring to determine with the British Government the 
Boundaries of the Northeastern and Northwestern parts 
of the United States. After many conferences with Lord 
Hawkesbury, he sent him a draught of a convention on the 
subject, which was signed by him and Lord Hawkesbury on 
May 12, 1803, and communicated by the President to the 
Senate on Oct. 24th, with the papers relating to it, for their 
advice and consent as to its ratification. This was not given 
until February 9, 1804, excepting, however, the 5th Article.* 
They refused to remove the injunction of secresy, as to its 
publication. 

The most serious question remaining open was that of the 
Impressment of American seamen by authority of the Brit- 

* The 5th Article related to the Northwest point of separation between the 
two countries. By the Treaty of Peace this was agreed to be the northwest cor- 
ner of the Lake of the Woods. In the official despatch, No. 98, May 15th, 
1803, communicating to the Secretary of State the fact of the Signature of the 
Boundaries' Convention, Mr. King says relative to the 5th Article : 

" The Source of the River Mississippi nearest to the Lake of the Woods, 
according to Mackenzies' Report, will be found twenty nine Miles to the 
Westward of any part of that Lake, which is represented to be nearly circular. 
Hence a direct line between the North Westernmost part of the Lake and the 
nearest source of the Mississippi, which is preferred by this Government, has 
appeared to me equally advantageous with the Lines we had proposed." 

1803] LIFE AN'D CORRESPONDENCE, 2/1 

ish Government in the ports of Great Britain and from 
vessels on the high seas. From the first day of his entering 
upon his mission, Mr. King, under his instructions, had 
urged the removal of this serious grievance and had at vari- 
ous times earnestly, but unavailingly, pressed the British 
Ministry to put a stop to these proceedings, which threat- 
ened to destroy the harmony and good-will between the two 
nations. Upon the establishment of peace between England 
and France, by the Treaty of Amiens, the demand for sea- 
men to man the British navy being less pressing, there had 
been less complaint made of this unwarrantable action. But 
Mr. King, ever alive to the interests of his country and fear- 
ing that a renewal of the war between England and France 
might be attended with a repetition of those outrageous 
proceedings, determined to endeavor, before he sailed for 
home, to make a convention with Great Britain by which 
she might renounce the claim she made to search for and 
take her native citizens and those she claimed to be such, 
wherever she might find them, whether in the commercial 
or naval service of the United States. 

He accordingly, as has been seen, called the attention of 
Lord St. Vincent to a careful consideration of the subject 
and seemed to have brought it to a satisfactory conclusion, 
for a period of five years at least, believing firmly that his 
mission would be crowned with this most gratifying result. 
But at the last moment before he sailed, his lordship inter- 
posed an objection to even that settlement by claiming that 
there should still be a right of search ** in the narrow seas " 
about Great Britain. With this restriction, Mr. King pre- 
ferred to abandon further proceedings as his own judgment 
was opposed to such a partial settlement."^ Indeed, though 

* Mr. Jefferson in a letter to the Secretary of State says : "With respect 
to the impressment of our seamen I think we had better propose to Great Britain 
to act on the stipulations which had been agreed to between that Government 
and Mr. King, as if they had been signed ; I think they were, that they would 
forbid impressments at sea, and that we should acquiesce in the search of their 
harbors necessary to prevent concealments of their citizens. Mr. Thornton's 
attempt to justify his nation in using our ports as cruizing stations on our 

2/2 RUFUS KING. [l8oi- 

several years after, the exercise of this claim was the main 
ostensible cause of the War of 1812 with Great Britain, peace 
was made without obtaining the abandonment of the alleged 
right by that Government although the practice was discon- 
tinued and finally abandoned. 

Mr. King had made frequent and persistent demands upon 
the British Government for the surrender to the State of 
Maryland certain shares of the Bank of England, which had 
belonged to that Colony before the War of the Revolution, 
which had been held by trustees in England, but which were 
finally claimed to belong to the crown, escheated when the 
charter of the Colony was dissolved by the war. He ob- 
tained from Lord Hawkesbury the promise that they should 
be paid over to the State of Maryland as soon as certain 
claims of Lord Baltimore's trustees were settled by law. 
Mr. King sailed before the decision, declaring them to be 
invalid, was rendered, after which the Government paid the 
money to the State of Maryland. 

Not having been instructed by his Government, and in 

daily expectation of the arrival of his successor as minister, 

Mr. King made no appointment of a Charg^ d'Affaires, so 

that until the arrival of Mr. Monroe, there was really no 

official representative of the Government in London except 

the Consul who had received no authority to perform other 

than the ordinary duties of his office. Mr. Gore explains 

this action in a letter to Mr. Madison, the Secretary of 

State. 

London, June 4, 1803. 
Sir: 

Your letter of the 6th April last came to hand on the 26th 

instant, a few days after the departure of Mr. King, who, you will 

have learnt, not conceiving it to be the intention of the President, 

did not name any charge d'affaires on leaving the court. 

friends and ourselves, renders the matter so serious as to call, I think, for an 
answer. That we ought in courtesy and friendship to extend to them all the rights 
of hospitality is certain, that they should not use our hospitality to injure our 
friends or ourselves, is equally enjoined by morality and honor." — Jefferson's 
Works, iv. , p. 50T, August 25, 1803. 

1803] J-IPE A^^ CORRESPONDENCE. 273 

Perceiving however from the estimate of expenses that it was 
possible several months might elapse before the arrival of a 
Minister, I thought it suitable to mention to Lord Hawkesbury, 
that it was to be inferred from your communication to me, that 
the President had contemplated Mr. King's naming some person 
to take charge of our affairs here, and that I feared a longer time 
might pass before the United States would be represented than 
was expected by their government. This I did with a view of 
preventing any misconception that otherwise might, by possibility, 
arise from the absence of the usual Representative of our Gov- 
ernment in this country, and also to inform him that under these 
circumstances, I should, until the arrival of a person authorised 
to act in a character of a Minister, take the liberty of making to 
him such Representations in behalf of our Government, or citi- 
zens, as the affairs might require, in cases where delay would be 
materially inconvenient. 

To which he replied in terms of great civility and professed a 
perfect readiness to receive every communication I should make 
on these subjects and to give the same all the attention that their, 
nature and importance might require. . . . 

The salary of Mr. Munro and the contingent charges incident 
to the business, will be all the Expense to which the U. States will 
be liable ; these I flatter myself will be approved by the Presi- 
dent, whom. Sir, I pray you to assure that my Endeavours will be 
faithfully exerted to diminish as much as possible the incon- 
venience to the Government and Citizens of the United States, 
arising from this vacancy in the legation, which it would seem, by 
your letter, was not contemplated by the Government. 

With perfect respect &c. 

C. Gore. 

C. Gore to R. King. 

London, June 5, 1803. 
My Dear Friend : 

A few days after your departure, I received a letter of the 6th 
April from Mr. Madison, directed to myself, relative to measures 
adopted by himself and Mr. Gallatin to supply the deficiency in 
the diplomatic fund occasioned by the failure of Bird's house ; 

VOL. IV. — 18 

274 RUFUS KING. [1801- 

and enclosing an estimate of the expenses &c, under the follow- 
ing head, " Remittances to be made to London computed for 9 
months " (here followed the details). In part of the letter he 
says " to enable the person left in charge of our affairs on the de- 
parture of Mr. King to apply to the British Government for reim- 
bursement of what we paid towards the expenses of the late Board 
at Philadelphia beyond our proportion I enclose," etc. . . . 

Several letters also on the subject of these remittances came from 
Mr. Gallatin and one from Mr. Madison on the 19th of April, 
directed to you, and in case of your absence to me. This latter 
one from M. also contained the estimate before referred to. I 
enclose you a copy of my letter to Mr. M., which will explain to 
you the course I concluded, after some reflection, to pursue. My 
brother Pinkney from whom as you know I had something to ap- 
prehend, had it been thought advisable to accede to your pro- 
posal, was consulted and he approves of the conduct thought 
proper to adopt. He imputes this fa^oriy as the french would 
say, of acting in the Government to a promise either express, or 
so strongly implied as to amount to the same thing, from the 
President, or Mr. M,, or both, to name Erving charge here, on 
your taking leave ; which, on more mature consideration, they 
had thought proper to abandon, and thus have involved them- 
selves in a dilemma, that possibly they had hoped might have 
been avoided by your naming me ; though this event they cer- 
tainly had no reason to expect. I learn from another quarter 
that E., in contemplation of your naming me and my undertaking 
to act, had prepared a regular protest, which he had intended to 
publish against such unwarrantable assumption of a character by 
you and me contrary to the will and disposition of the Government 
of the U. S. 

The course I have adopted appears to me under all the exist- 
ing circumstances it was my duty to pursue, and which I do not 
think the Government or my friends can censure. If they do, I 
feel justified myself, and that is a consolation to be secured at all 
events. It was stated to me that if I chose to assume the char- 
acter, there would be no objection here. But I absolutely de- 
clined, and prayed it to be so distinctly understood. This forms 
no part of my communication to Mr. M., and you will of course 
suffer it to rest with you, who know all my feelings and inclina- 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 2/5 

tions on this and every other subject. Lord Hawkesbury invited 
me to his dinner yesterday and I attended that after having first 
paid my respects at court. In the line of etiquette and ceremony, 
this is all I shall probably ever feel it necessary to do. To some 
people it might be matter of great importance to know that the 
King and Queen made very particular enquiries after them and 
professions of good will ; you may estimate them at what rate you 
please, but this was the fact. 

Pinkney and myself heard the debate on the proposed address 
in answer to the King's message informing the house of the 
departure of L^ W. from Paris. Mr. Pitt was brilliant and exceed- 
ingly delighted the house. Hammond thought if you could have 
entertained an idea how great it was, you certainly would have 
remained to hear it. Fox did not speak till the second night, 
and it was by far the best speech I ever heard him deliver, and in 
my opinion the most pernicious that he or any other man could 
have uttered. No doubt remains that the Doctor intends to carry 
on the Government without Mr. Pitt, who, as far as I can judge, 
does not seem to me to have injured the present administration, 
or to have benefitted his own party by the debate on Friday 
night. Lord H. evidently advanced himself in the public opinion 
by his reply. ... 

The following extracts from a letter from Mr. Gore to his 
friend Mr. King will show something of the condition of 
affairs in London after his departure and before the arrival 
of a successor. 

C. Gore to R. King. 

London, July 2, 1803. 

. . . We have nearly finished our awards ; I mean all that 
will be ready for us before the 15th of July ; which will comprise 
the whole of the cases, except about 20., and I do not yet despair 
of completing these and returning this autumn. Eustis has given 
me to understand that my character has been culumniated at 
Washington for the disposition I have manifested to protract the 
commission : that it would have been earlier closed had it not 

276 RUFUS KING. [1801- 

been for me, and that Pinkney was determined to get through the 
Southern cases & return home. In some philippic, which he 
made at the Board, I did say that I felt it my duty to remain & 
close the commission, at the same time saying that it was unnec- 
essary for me to remark that no diligence or exertion of mine 
would be wanting to bring the business to as speedy a termination 
as possible. I do not believe that such a base and unfounded 
slander as this could have intentionally originated in him. You 
know better than any man, but no one can tell all the contest I 
have had in my own mind for the last five years, between a sense 
of duty which, according to my judgment, constrained me to 
remain and endeavour to perfect what I had undertaken, and a 
desire to return, a desire prompted by the strongest interests, 
which called me home, and rendered extremely ardent by con-^ 
stantly experiencing the mortification and disgust of so inglorious 
a station. I do not know on reflection, a single thing I could 
have attempted, which has not been to expedite the business, & 
least of all did I expect such an imputation ; however it gives 
me no pain, so perfectly satisfied am I not only of its falsehood, 
but also that no man of common honesty will ever give it currency 
& that none of common sense can give it credit. . 

Lord H. sent me notice some time since that passports would 
be granted at the alien office to such of our citizens as desired to 
go to France, on receiving one from me. On this I requested 
Hammond that the alien office might be directed to grant them 
on Erving's, & informed him, H, explicitly that I could not and 
should not grant any. When Lord H. sent me notice of the 
blockade of the Elbe, he included a desire that I would notify the 
same to our consuls, which I accordingly did. Erving replied to 
me that he should receive no official communication whatever from 
me, & that he had written to Lord H. requesting his Lordship to 
signify to him if this was a communication from his Majesty's 
Govt. I understand from P. that such was his determination, 
had I been left charge d'affaires by you. 

Young Mercer informs me he has a letter from Govr. Monroe, 
informing him that the Governor has received his commission as 
Minister &c. to this court, and that he will be here in a few days ; 
and that Livingston is also about to pay a visit to this coun- 
try. . . . 

l8o3] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 2yj 

The boys from whom I received letters yesterday, are perfectly 
well. We shall go to their Speechday, which is next Thursday. 
James, from whom we heard about ten days since, was then in 
good health & spirits. London is become quite empty ; to us it 
has been so ever since your departure. My wife writes to Mrs. 
King, and I pray you to offer to her and Edward my affectionate 
regards & to believe me 

Ever your assured friend 

C. Gore. 

R. King to John Adams. 

At Sea, 22 June, 1803. 
Sir— 

On the 1 6th of last month the King of Great Britain sent 
a message to Parliament announcing the termination of the dis- 
cussions with France, and calling on them to support him in his 
determination to employ the power & resources of the nation in 
opposing the spirit of ambition and encroachments of the Govern- 
ment of France. Letters of marque had been issued against 
France, and I conjecture that orders have likewise been given to 
detain the Ships of Spain & Holland, until it be ascertained 
whether these powers would be able to maintain their neutrality. 
The King's Message was ordered to be taken into consideration 
on the 23d. We sailed from Cowes on the 21st so that I can give 
no account of the sense of Parliament. I take the liberty to 
send you the English declaration and a copy of the correspon- 
dence which was laid before Parliament. 

With great respect I remain &c 

RuFus King. 

P. S. The English Ambassador had returned to London from 
Paris, & the French Ambassador had left England before we did 

CHAPTER XIX. 

Arrival in New York and Reception by Citizens — Cabot to King — Welcome 
Home — Confidence in England — Louisiana's Cession a good Thing for 
France — Madison to King — Not Necessary as a Tribute of Respect — 
Written Communications sufficient — Gallatin to King — Baggage free from 
Duty — Thanks for his Manner of transacting the Business of his Depart- 
ment— Jay to King — Congratulations on his Return — Hale to King — Con- 
gratulations, etc. — J. Q. Adams to King — Thanks for Favors rendered in 
London — Cabot to King — Pleased with Firmness of British Government — 
J. Adams to King — Thanks for sending Papers — His Conduct in England 
satisfactory to him and honorable and beneficial to his Country — King to 
Gore — Cession of great Importance giving Control of the Mississippi — 
Offer to go to Washington — Sedgwick to King — Wishes to see him Gov- 
ernor of N. Y. — Gov. Mercer to King — Thanks him for Zeal, Ability, and 
Perseverance in Maryland's Behalf — Gore to King — State of Commission's 
Work — Monroe expected — Public Dinner to King — King to Gore — Does 
not yet know his Successor — Gore to King — Rebellion in Ireland — English 
Confidence rises — Monroe arrives in London — King to Gore — Livingston 
or Monroe to succeed him — The Papers say Doubts arise as to the Utility 
and Prudence and Constitutionality of the Louisiana Purchase — King to 
Gore — Hears Nothing more of his Successor — Washington not a safe 
Residence in Summer — Yellow Fever in N. Y. — Objections to certain 
Articles in the Louisiana Convention. 

Mr. King reached New York after a long voyage on the 
last day of June, as we are informed by the announcement 
in the Eventing Post oi Friday, July i, 1803. 

" The honourable Rufus King, our late Minister to the Court of 
Great Britain, arrived yesterday with his family in the John 
Morgan from London. He came on shore in the afternoon and 
was met, on landing, by a large number of our most respectable 
citizens, who had assembled to welcome his safe return to his 
native country. No expressions of respect towards this gentleman 
can do justice to his eminent talents and the unremitted attention 

278 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 279 

with which he has so assiduously guarded the rights and watched 
over the interests of our nation. May he long enjoy in the grati- 
tude of his fellow citizens the reward of his great and useful 
services." 

Among the gratifying evidences of welcome to America, 
none could have given Mr. King more pleasure than the 
following from his old friend and constant correspondent : 

George Cabot to Rufus King. 

Boston, July i, 1803. 
My dear Friend : 

We hear from New York that Mr. King is arrived and confirms 
our accounts of war ; the first gives me unmingled pleasure — the 
last excites a mixed sentiment of joy and anxiety. I have con- 
stantly believed that the struggle between France and England 
must continue until the power of the former is effectually 
abridged, or the latter falls. 

You can judge best of the issue, but after every allowance for 
the immense advantages of force on the side of France, with all 
continental Europe at her disposal, and the wishes of all the fools 
and knaves throughout the universe on her side, I entertain great 
hopes and confidence in the final success of England. She has 
means and motives sufficient which I trust will not be unavailing 
for want of talents to employ them. . . . The cession of 
Louisiana is an excellent thing for France. It is like selling us a 
Ship after she is surrounded by a British Fleet : it puts into safe- 
keeping what she could not keep herself, for England could take 
Louisiana in the first moment of war without the loss of a man. 
France could neither settle it nor protect it ; she is therefore rid 
of an encumbrance that wounded her pride, receives money and 
regains the friendship of our populace. 

I pray you to make my best regards acceptable to Mrs. King. 
I think you too wise to seek public honors, & I hope you are too 
patriotic to shun them if they seek you. 

Your faithful and affectionate friend 

George Cabot. 

28o RUFUS KING. [1803 

P. S. An expression which I well remember in a letter from 
you after your visit to Paris, leads me to expect the pleasure of 
seeing you here — I know nothing of the objection which may 
exist to your executing such an intention, and I can assure you it 
would give infinite pleasure to a great many people here & 
especially to me. 

Mr. King, as a letter to Mr. Gore informs us, wrote on 
July 2d to Mr. Madison, the Secretary of State, informing 
him of his arrival and offering to go to Washington if re- 
quired to report to the Government. He received a reply 
which is here given and in consequence of it did not make a 
visit to the capital. It is quite probable that he did not par- 
ticularly desire, under all the circumstances, to go to Wash- 
ington, and he certainly felt relieved when he found that he 
was not required to make the visit there. 

Jas. Madison to R. King. 

Private. 

Washington, July 5, 1803. 

Dear Sir : 

I reed, by the mail of last evening yours of the 2d instant. I 
do not know that any rule has been established which requires 
public ministers on their return to the U. States, to repair to the 
seat of Government. Where no public considerations make such 
a visit important, and it would be inconvenient to the individual, 
it could not reasonably be exacted as a mere tribute of respect. 
In your case it is readily conceived that your time must be claimed 
by private arrangements ; and altho' personal explanation might 
not be without a value, it does not occur that they would turn on 
any points, on which your written communications are not, or 
will not be sufficient. The ideas of the President on the subject 
accord with those here expressed, and I have the pleasure to add 
that he appears to be too well satisfied of your respectful dis- 
positions, by manifestations already given, to need any farther 
testimony which might be afforded by a trip to the seat of 
Government. 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 28 1 

I have seen the Secretary of the Treasury as you wished. He 
will take into consideration the subject referred to him, with 
every favorable disposition, which his construction of the law will 
permit. 

Very Sincerely & respectfully I remain Dr. Sir 

yr. most obedt. hble. servt. 

James Madison. 

Your letter of June 22, with the several other letters & papers 
forwarded at the time have been duly reed. A letter from Havre 
of May 15, promises, by a vessel which was to sail for N. York a 
few days after, despatches from our Minister at Paris, by a confi- 
dential Bearer. The 19th of April is the date of the last which 
have yet come to hand. 

It is evident from this that Mr. King prepared, while on 
board ship, a report of the final days of his mission, which 
he forwarded to Washington at once upon his landing in 

New York, and to which on the July he added the 

supplement which appears on the 259-262 pages of this 
volume. 

Albert Gallatin to R. King. 

Treasury Department, July 6th, 1803. 
Sir : 

I had the honor to receive your letter of the 2nd instant, and 
have directed the Collector to permit the entry of your baggage 
&c., as free from duty. Although some doubt was at first enter- 
tained on that subject, I feel a conviction that this decision is con- 
sistent with the spirit, & not forbidden by the letter, of the law. 

Permit me to embrace this opportunity of returning my sincere 
thanks for the manner in which you transacted the business of 
this Department, with which, foreign as it was to the duties of 
your mission, I was obliged to trouble you. 

I have the honor to be with great respect 

Sir, your obedt. Servt. 
Albert Gallatin. 
The Honble. Rufus King 
New York. 

282 RUFUS KING, [1803 

John Jay to R. King. 

Bedford, July 6, 1803. 
Dear Sir : 

By the last post we were informed that you and your family had 
arrived at New York in good Health. I congratulate you very 
sincerely on this agreeable Termination of a long absence from 
your country. From the Recommencement of Hostilities in 
Europe, I fear you have left London too soon ; but that consider- 
ation loses a part of its weight from the Reflection that if proper 
counsels prevail, your Presence here will not be unproductive of 
advantages. 

A series of circumstances, not very important and yet not unin- 
teresting, have ever since my Removal to this place, made it in- 
convenient for me to leave it. Many inducements urge me to 
visit New York & the pleasure of seeing you is now added to the 
number. I hope and expect the circumstances alluded to will not 
be of much longer duration. 

Be pleased to present my best Compts. to Mrs. King. 

With great Esteem & Regard I am, &c. 

John Jay. 

Joseph Hale to R. King, N. Y. 

Boston, July 7, 1803. 
Dear Sir : 

Permit me to congratulate you on your safe return to New 
York ; although the existing state of Europe requires on our part 
a different representation at the Court of St. James than I appre- 
hend we shall possess, presuming upon the probable character of 
your successor there. In wealth & in various improvements you 
will find the U. S. to have made great advances since you left us. 
I wish it could be added that they had equally advanced in politi- 
cal wisdom. Our retrograde movements in that respect are the 
more to be regretted when we contemplate the actual state of 
Europe. 

By this Post you will receive from me our Anniversary Oration 
by a Son of Judge Sullivan. We think well of the performance, 
although it recommends uniting with England against France ; it 

l8o3l LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 283 

is even in that view more correct than the memorial imputed to 
our Minister at St. Cloud. If the Oration reaches you, the post- 
age will not be expensive, as one side of the package is left open. 
Its sentiments in general you will not disapprove. 

Be pleased to present my best respects to Mrs. K., and believe 

me, Dear Sir, 

With the highest respect and attachment &c. 

Joseph Hale. 

Mr. Payne is married & gone with his Lady to Balls-town 
Springs. 

J. Q. Adams to R. King. 

Dear Sir : Boston, 8 July, 1803. 

I have just received your favour of the 5th inst., inclosing two 
letters from Lord & Lady Carysfort, for your care of which and 
the parcels which accompanied them, please to accept my best 
thanks. The parcels may wait for a convenient and safe oppor- 
tunity ; and one of them being a brittle article, will require care 
in the conveyance. 

I enclosed some weeks since, a letter from you enclosing a list 
of the debtors to Bird, Savage & Bird, in this country ; and in- 
formation of the great obligation for which I was indebted to you, 
with Mr. Gore and Mr. Williams, in taking up for my honour the 
bills I had drawn upon that house. About two months ago, I 
made a remittance to Mr. Williams, adequate to discharge the 
whole of his advances for me on that occasion. Whether it will 
ever be in my power to repay his and your act of friendship, in 
taking the heavy charge of the bills, and saving me from the ad- 
ditional burthen of protest damages I know not ; but that I shall 
ever retain a grateful sense of your kindness I do know, and hope 
you will never have reason to doubt. « 

I am happy to have this occasion of congratulating you upon 
your return to our native country, where I hope you will find a 
residence still more agreeable and satisfactory than that of the 
period you have past in Europe. With my best regards to Mrs. 
King, I remain, 

Dear Sir, faithfully yours 

John Quincy Adams. 

284 RUFUS KING, [1803 

G. Cabot to R. King. 

Boston, July 9, 1803. 
My dear Sir : 

I received from you at the beginning of this week, the Decla- 
ration of the British Government & their correspondence with 
France, and I take great pleasure in observing that so much dig- 
nity & firmness as well as moderation, has been displayed by the 
British Ministry. Had I known the secrets however I shou'd have 
trembled lest matters shou'd have been given up, which would 
have been of more consequence than all the conquests of Great 
Britain and 20 sail of the line besides. Malta is the spot intended 
by Providence^ for G. B. to enable her to cover Egypt, the Levant 
and Adriatic — to watch Toulon and observe the whole Mediter- 
ranean. Nothing should tempt G. B. to yield it to France, while 
France remains so formidable. . . . 

Our jacobins have already indulged their French feelings — they 
allow that the success of England — at least in defending herself — 
is necessary to keep France from troubling us ; yet such is their 
profligacy and their hatred that they would rather risk the liberty 
of our country, than see the English beat the French. 

I hear very seldom lately from our friend Hamilton, whom you 

know I love excessively ; when you see him, I pray you tender 

him my affectionate regards, & believe me ever with sincere 

attachment 

Your faithful, 

George Cabot. 

John Adams to R. King, 

QuiNCY, July 10, 1803. 
Dear Sir : 

I duly received his Britannic Majesty's Declaration and a List 

of Papers presented to Parliament, with the kind Letter you did 

me the Honor to write me on the twenty-second of same. With 

great sincerity, I thank you, Sir, for this instance of your polite 

attention to me, and for a great number of others of a like kind 

during your Embassy in England. I was so situated that I could 

not acknowledge the Receipt of many Pamphlets of an interesting 

nature, which you were so good as to send me. 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 285 

Your conduct during your whole residence in England, so far 
as it ever came to my Knowledge, was so entirely satisfactory to 
me and so highly honorable and beneficial to your Country, that 
I cannot but regret the necessity you found yourself under to re- 
turn. This however does not prevent Mrs. Adams from joining 
with me in most cordial Congratulations with you and Mrs. King 
on your fortunate voyage and perfect health. 

I ought not to conclude this Letter without expressing to you 

my most hearty Thanks for your Friendship to my son. With 

great Esteem, 

I am, Dear Sir, your obliged Friend &c. 

John Adams. 

R. King to C. Gore, London. 

New York, July lo, 1803. 
My dear Friend : 

We are not yet removed to our own house owing to the diffi- 
culty and delay in receiving our baggage, &c. from the ship ; but 
as Mr. Gallatin has given an order that all our effects shall be 
delivered free of duty, and we expect the ship will be discharged 
of her cargo tomorrow, we shall in a few days, as we expect, be 
in our own house. I regret to have sold my house in town, as I 
cannot buy a smaller and less convenient one for the money I re- 
ceived and as I want it to put my furniture in ; we have put 
every thing in a fire proof store, where it must remain till I settle 
myself. I adhere to the project of a country establishment and a 
small house in town ; but I will not be in a hurry about either. 

The glass is above 80, and we are very sensible to the heat, 
more so than formerly. ... As yet the city is healthy and 
we hear nothing of yellow fever here or elsewhere. 

Govt, has not yet received any despatches from Paris relative 
to Louisiana — the last dates from thence are April 19. My im- 
perfect Report is all they know of the Business in this Country. 

As far as I learn the opin. of our friends here, they regard the 
Cession as an event of gt. importance, especially as it gives us 
the control of the Mississippi. I don't perceive that any impor- 
tance is annexed to the acquisition west of the River ; the subject 
is little understood and the pour and the contre not yet discussed 

286 RUFUS KING, [1803 

— on the whole it seems agreed on all sides that the measure 
will operate in favour of the present administration ; whose au- 
thority and popularity extend themselves in every quarter. In 
this State, I understand that the federalists failed everywhere in 
the late Election ; and even in Connecticut & Massachusetts they 
are gradually losing credit — at least such is here the opinion 
among even our friends. ... 

I offered to go on to Washington if required, and I received a 
civil answer wh. leaves me at liberty to stay at home. So far as 
regards myself personally they are desirous to receive and treat 
me with kindness and even distinction. 

Once more yrs. 

RuFus King. 

T. Sedgwick to R. King. 

Boston, July 12, 1803. 
My dear Sir : 

Among the congratulations which you will receive, on your ar- 
rival, none are more sincere than those I have the pleasure to give 
you. Many public as well as private considerations conduce to 
render this a pleasing event ; and among them the expectation, 
and I am confident it is well founded, that I shall enjoy the satis- 
faction, within twelve months, of saluting you as Governor of 
New York. However improbable this event may appear to you, I 
have no doubt that it is in the power of your friends, or in other 
words the friends of sound principles, to secure it ; and to men 
of that description, there is nothing which they ought to deem 
more desirable. Perhaps the station may not be an object of 
your wishes, tho' I think there is none in our country which can 
afford to a disposition such as yours so many sources of gratifica- 
tion. Whatever may be your own feelings, I hope you will think 
that you are so much of public property that your friends have a 
right to dispose of you at their pleasure. 

When I began this letter, I had intended only to have given 
you, what indeed you cannot want, assurances of the continuance 
of my esteem & friendship, and I insensibly expressed my senti- 
ments on a subject, on which I have long & anxiously reflected. 
I am now on my way from the eastward where I saw two of your 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 287 

brothers, and was much pleased with both. Assure Mrs. King 
that I cordially sympathize with her in the pleasure she enjoys in 
returning to her native city & in seeing the improvements which 
have taken place in her absence. 

I am sincerely & affectly. yours 

Theodore Sedgwick. 

Gov. John T. Mercer to R. King. 

In Council Chamber, Annapolis, 
July 12, 1803. 

Sir : 

The Letter you did me the honor to address to me of the loth 
of May last, enclosing a Copy of your Communications to the 
Secretary of State, under the ist of May, has been duly received 
and communicated to the Council ; and permit me to offer to you 
my sincere thanks for the zeal, ability and perseverance which 
you have manifested in prosecuting the just claims of the State. 

Your communication will be submitted to the Legislature at the 
commencement of their next Session — from the expression of 
their sentiments, those acknowledgments can only be derived, 
which coming from the immediate Representatives of the People, 
must prove most satisfactory to yourself. 

I have the honor to be with much respect 

Your obedient Servant 

John T. Mercer. 

C. Gore to R. King. 

London, July 13, 1803. 
My dear Friend : 

. . . We were at Harrow on the 7th, Speech day, and found 
the boys in perfect health & spirits. They come to London a 
fortnight hence. I have not heard from James for a long time. 
Barlow, whose cause is now decided and favourably for him, will 
go for Paris shortly, that is to say, when he receives his award, 
which may be within ten days, & by him we shall write. 

Our awards are made to the number of 291, and to-morrow we 
shall execute those that are ready, which are 13 more. These 

288 RUFUS KING. [1803 

will bring the amount of cases awarded on beyond 300. The 
number of awards will be about 500 ; and the remaining cases 
will be about thirty : of these all are decided by the Board and 
referred to the merchants excepting eight. Some of them, though 
only provisionally, not being yet reported on by the Registrar and 
merchants. The aforementioned eight will be referred within a 
few days. The British cases are to be acted on next week. We 
want about seven or eight reports from the Courts, and there are 
five or six cases only pending. The money will be ready & paid 
at the treasury either on the 15th, or within a day or two after. I 
sometimes have strong hopes of being able to quit this autumn, 
and have bespoke the refusal of the Galen's cabin ; but the objec- 
tion to closing are in reality considerable, and there is not every- 
where a strong disposition to remove them. 

Monroe is expected here daily as your successor. Pinkney has 
received instructions and authority to act as agent of the Mary- 
land Bank Stock Concern, from the State of Maryland, and 
credentials from the Prest. of the U. States to act also in his 
name on this behalf. P. tells me as his belief, that M. is to come 
here, be received, appoint a charge d'affaires & then go to Spain. 
The papers tell you all, at least as much as I could about the 
Russian mediation &c. The Spirit of the country is evidently 
and generally rising ; and it is already much beyond the temper 
of the administration — Mrs. Gore enjoys her health tolerably 
considering that we are confined to London. We miss you and 
Mrs. King more and more every day. We are in many respects 
alone — I can truly say that in many things & on many topics I 
have none to communicate with, for though with these that are 
here I agree in part, yet not in all, & for a free communication on 
many subjects this is necessary. I am heartily tired, and never 
felt more anxiety to be away than at this moment. My wife de- 
sires her affectionate regards, and I pray you present mine and 

hers to yours & Edward. 

Yrs. truly 

C. G. 
Miss Burnley is dead. 

The expression of welcome made to Mr. King on his 
arrival at New York was renewed some days afterwards by 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 289 

a public dinner in his honor, of which the following account 
was given at the time : 

New York, July 13, 1803.* 

A select company of the most respectable citizens, without re- 
gard to political distinctions, principally merchants, amounting to 
about 200, gave a public dinner to our late Ambassador at the 
Court of Great Britain as a mark of respect. 

Mr. King gave as a Toast " The City of New York — Prosperity 
and harmony to its citizens." — After his retiring, Mr. Varick 
offered the following toast, which was drunk with six cheers. 

Rufus King — May foreign nations ever recognize in the 
American Envoy the firm Patriot, the able and dignified 
Statesman. 

R. King, New York, to C. Gore, London. 

July 22, 1803. 
Dr. Sir : 

To day & yesterday the heat, which has been excessive since 
the beginning of the month, has moderated and we cease to be in 
the fluid state in wh. we have been during the last fortnight. Al- 
though we have been a week at housekeeping, we are not yet 
settled, and another week will be requisite before we shall begin 
to feel at home. As the coloured woman we brought with us, and 
who was to cook for us, very soon rebelled, and has been dis- 
missed, we have taken a French cook, who is to go to market and 
cook our dinners. His soups are good and should no grave ob- 
jections on the score of finance arise, we may do very well with 
him, we give him $20. a month &c. — Every one tells us that the 
real difficulty proceeds from the ill manner in which you are 
served by your servants, and from what I have already seen it is 
plain that servants are not only worse here than with you, but 
much worse than 10 years ago here. 

Edward & Frederick are well ; the latter has suffered a little 
from the heat, but is now recovered. Mrs. K. also is well and 
already growing fat. I have been very sensible to the heat, but 
by keeping at home and quiet as much as possible, I have been 
well. 

* The Evening Post, July 13, 1803 

VOL. IV. — 19 

290 RUFUS KING. [1803 

I find a little embarrassment for the want of my books, &c. and 
as my term where I am is short, I think it not prudent to open 
my trunks, and the more so, as I have no room or place to put my 
books up, and looking round for houses and enquiring their prices 
and rents, I feel sorry that I sold my house ; tho' I did not like it, 
yet it would have been very convenient for me on my first return 
and until I could have actually set myself down more to my mind. 

I can send you no news, except that it is known that the 
Louisiana purchase is to cost us 15. mill. Dol. — 3,750,000 
whereof is to be paid to our own people. Our friends say the 
money is no object. But I am sure that the Govt, may feel not a 
little embarrassed with this part of the Business — the view we 
entertained of the acquisition in England seems to be that wh. 
our friends here have adopted ; that we do not want Territory 
over the River & that the Floridas and New Orleans ought to 
satisfy us. . . . 

Gen. Smith of Baltimore was here a it"^ days ago, and assured 
me that he had no knowledge who is to be my successor at Lon- 
don : This is the case with all those I meet with. But a common 
persuasion seems to destine Mr. Livingston or Mr. Monroe for 
the Mission to London. I hear nothing further of our friend 
Pinkney's appointment. ... I wrote a private letter to 
Madison saying I did not know the usage, whether our Minstrs. 
were expected to visit the seat of Gov. on their return, intimated 
that I desired not to be deficient in respect, and that I wd. cheer- 
fully proceed to Washington, if he was of opinion that my omit- 
ting to do so wd. be thought in the slightest degree disrespectful 
— I reed, a very satisfactory answer, which dispensed with my 

journey. 

Yrs. 

R. K. 

C. Gore to R. King. 

London, July 29, 1803. 
My dear Friend : 

It is with real sorrow that I have to inform you of the rebellion 

breaking out in Ireland, and at a time the most unexpected. All 

persons had flatter'd themselves, that the country was radically 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 29 1 

mended ; even the old opposition, that was fond of exaggerating 
rather than diminishing the evils England had to contend with, 
was constrained from the evidence of their friends, who visited 
that island, to believe that Irishmen were gratified with the 
change, and were sincerely & heartily disposed to resist the com- 
mon enemy. The newspapers give you the particulars of the 
tragical scene of Dublin, and rumour leaves no room to doubt, 
that the first accounts will be found short of the real horrors, that 
disgrace these wretched people. 

The true English spirit continues to rise, and I have a confi- 
dence that this and their resources will prove equal to the tre- 
mendous conflict they are entering upon. The northern powers 
are remonstrating with acrimony, as I learn, against the shutting 
of the Elbe, and Monroe told me yesterday that the Weser was 
also blockaded, but I see no account of it in the papers, neither 
do I learn that it is true from others. 

This gentleman arrived here about a week since. Before his 
arrival I received a letter from Parker, saying M. had a strong 
wish to live in the house you occupied, that he might be near us, 
and of his great respect and warm desire to live on the most cor- 
dial terms &c., &c., &c. All this I trust was duly estimated. The 
day after I learnt that he was in town, I paid him my respects, 
stated to him what I knew of the business of the Legation &c., 
and the next day sent him the letters, which had been received 
since your absence, and apprized him that all the papers belong- 
ing to the embassy, and left by you, were here. The day before 
yesterday he returned the visit, & on the same day we dined to- 
gether at Mr. Hope's. Sir T. B. was there. He said that Bing- 
ham, who was at Tunbridge Wells, had written to desire that they 
would be particularly attentive to M. An answer was returned 
that they always were to Americans of distinguished character, 
whatever was their party. B. came to town yesterday to pay his 
respects. He did not, till he met M. in Paris, know he was so 
able & so moderate a man. I cannot waste a sheet of paper on 
this son of Wealth, but suffice it to say, he admires France & 
Frenchmen, thinks England weak and foolish in the extreme in 
going to war, and that nothing but the earnest desire of the 
present administration to unsheath the sword, occasioned the 
contest. 

292 . RUFUS KING. [1805 

The boys are here in perfect health & good spirits. They are 
not yet absolutely settled at the Abbe's,* but will be next week ; 
they have already slept there and will take their beds with him 
to-night. We wrote to James today — Mrs. Gore sends to Mrs. 
King his last letter. 

I ought to have told you what you will know without, though, 
that if Mr. M. asks for any information which I can afford, it will 
be cheerfully given — if not, I shall by no means intrude myself, 
or my opinions upon him. I most seriously feel your absence. 
There is not in England a man with whom I can talk confiden- 
tially, and even on subjects that perhaps do not admit of any 
great difference of opinion, one is obliged to be on their guard, 
lest misconstructions should be made. Our board must adjourn 
to the first Monday of December. There are a few cases yet be- 
fore the courts ; and our brethren will not consent to act on them 
until that process is ended. We have sent a list of the awards to 
the Govt., and every individual in whose favor they are made, and 
submitted to them the propriety of printing it. The number of 
awards is 467 — of cases 300. The amount of these is ;£^ 1.083.990. 
3.8. ; forty two cases remain to be acted upon, all of which, except 
about half a dozen have been referred to C. & P. for report : such 
as are perfect in relation to the judicial remedy, absolutely ; and 
such as are not, provisionally. 

I may possibly go to France. After the motive of gratifying 
my wife, I have very few to go there, but then none exist to de- 
tain me here, and many make me desire to be absent. The Brit- 
ish treasury paid on the day, viz. 15. July, and the few we have 
to make I entertain no doubt will be paid, the first instalment on 
presentation »&: the others when due. 

My affectionate regards to Mrs. King & the children, ever 

Sincerely yours 

C. G. 

R. King to C. Gore, London. 

Dear Sir : New York, Aug. 12, 1803. 

. . . I have satisfactorily ascertained that Mr. Livingston or 
Mr. Monroe, as may be settled between themselves is to succeed 
* They were here during the vacation to study French. 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 293 

me at London. . . . Monroe is authorized to buy the Flori- 
das of Spain or whoever is the owner, provided he can make the 
purchase in a certain sum in 6 pr cents. It is expected as I hear 
that the Impost will be sufficient to pay the Interest of this adn. 
to the public Debt without new Taxes. — A loan will be made to 
raise the money to pay the Debt owed by France to our own peo- 
ple and which we have assumed. It is matter of speculation why 
this Debt was not payable in 6 pr cent stock instead of money. 
It was without doubt the expectation of Govt, here that such 
would have been the arrangement, and the creditors would have 
had no ground of complaint. 

I am so little in the way of hearing what pub. opinion is that I 
can tell you nothing precise respecting the Purchase of Louisiana, 
In the papers that I see, I observe some doubts are beginning to 
arise both as to the utility and prudence of the measure, and it 
would not surprise me if a considerable difference of opinion 
should exist in the Senate & H. of Reps. 

The measure must be the subject of very extensive future ex- 
amination, provided, as I understand to be the case, an amend- 
ment of the Constitution will be requisite to enable Congress to 

receive the ceded territory into the Union. . . . 

R. K. 

RuFus King to C. Gore, London. 

New York, Aug. 20, 1803. 
My dear Sir : 

. . . I do not think you could, without impropriety, cer- 
tainly not without public inconvenience, have declined to act as 
far as you have consented to do — if your own feelings had not 
forbidden it, I should have seen nothing remiss in your assuming 
the character which the Gov. supposed you to fill. I hear noth- 
ing more of my successor * — tho' as I have before informed you, 
I do conclude that Livingston or Monroe will go to London. 
Since the indiscreet publication of the unsound as well as unwise 
and impolitic memorial of the former (I allude to the memorial 
respecting Louisiana presented to Bonaparte in September 

* This seems very extraordinary, as Mr. Monroe was actually in London, 
acting as Minister, on the i8th of July. See Mr. Gore's letter, August 24, 1803. 

294 RUFUS KING. [1803 

last) his situation there will be less agreeable than otherwise it 
might have been ; and in regard to Monroe, P. Porcupine will 
make him uneasy & in some degree put him out of good com- 
pany, by republishing with comments an article from his unwise 
and stupid performances. If Mr. Jefferson would do as he 
ought, he would appoint you as my successsor. . . . 

Washington is at this season deserted — from the fixed opinion 
that no one from the North or from the high country of the 
South, can pass the months of August and September there with- 
out intermittent or bilious fever. Mr. Gallatin informs me that 
no considerable progress is made in building the City, and were 
the Govt, in New York or Phil, it would not think of moving to 
Washington. To leave it, however, is another matter. Our City 
continues to be scourged with the yellow fever : it is probable 
that upwards of 20.000 of the Inhabitants have retired to the 
country & the quarters of the city, where the influence is sup- 
posed to have most prevailed, are evacuated, and in consequence 
of their Removal, fewer cases happen than otherwise wd. take 
place — hitherto not more than 18 new cases, nor more than 9 
deaths have taken place any one day ; but from the severity of 
the attack in a plurality of cases, the Effects of the Disease are 
more and more alarming than formerly. Men in perfect health to 
all appearance, and who are engaged in their business as usual, are 
seized and die in the course of 40 hours. The same disagree- 
ment & hesitation, as to the mode of treatment which have here- 
tofore existed among our physicians, continue to prevail, & the 
patients unhappily have less confidence of recovery in conse- 
quence of this bad state of things. I have no hope of the fever 
ceasing before the frost ; but as the City will daily become less 
populous, I am in hopes that the total mortality may not be very 
great, tho' we have many weeks of suffering to endure before the 
setting in of the frost. Our other cities are healthy and free from 

fever. . . . 

R. King. 

P. S. So far as I hear little is said abt. Louisiana. The article 
wh. secures to French & Spanish produce & manufactures arriving 
in French or Span. Bottoms the Privilege of paying no higher 
Duties than the like Articles wd. pay, if imported in Amer. Bot- 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 2gS 

toms, confirms the Privilege to the Ports within the ceded coun- 
try, and limits its duration to twelve years ; it moreover restrains 
the U. S. from giving the same advantages during the twelve 
years to any other Country. Perhaps the article is as impolitic, 
as I believe it to have been an unnecessary, one, but I cannot 
think an unjustifiable one, since the Treaty with Eng. must be 
supposed to refer to the Territories of the U. S. at its date, and 
since, moreover, the Privilege must be regarded as a part of the 
Price to obtain the cession ; it wd. have been more wise to have 
communicated the article to G. B. in the first instance, but I am 
persuaded she will see it in its true light. . . . 

CHAFER XX. 

Gore to King — Congratulates him on his Arrival in N. Y. — Boys Well — Affairs 
in Europe — Monroe knows little that passes in London — Gore to King — 
Miranda desires to quit England for Trinidad — Affairs in Europe — Trouble 
with Ewing — King to Gore — Astonished by England enrolling the Militia 
— No reliable Opinions of Congress relative to Louisiana — Search for a 
Farm — Gore to King — His Boys in England — Livingston's Memorial — 
South America — St. Domingo — Gore to King — Boys' Behaviour excellent — 
Anticipates a gloomy Winter — England duped by Spain — Moi /oe has re- 
ceived no Dispatches since his Arrival in London — Gore to King — Wishes 
he might settle near Boston — Miranda — Gore to King — Merry sails unin- 
structed relative to St. Domingo— Monroe thinks it a good Place for eman- 
cipated Negroes — Threatened Invasion of England — Livingston to King — 
Has as yet no Advices from U. S. of Reception of the Convention by the 
Government — Regrets that it has not yet been considered — State of Europe 
— Has not yet received his Congi, 

C. Gore to R. King. 

London, August 24, 1803. 
My dear Friend : 

We rejoice sincerely that you arrived safely and in so short a 
passage. From the winds here, apprehensions were entertained 
that your patience would have been put to a greater trial. Our 
weather has been extremely hot, and since the middle of June, we 
have had scarcely any rain. The Boys are quite well ; they are 
at the Abbe Ruffini's. They with Williams & Cabot dine here to- 
day, and Cabot sails in the morning. They do perfectly well, and 
really merit the esteem & regard of all who know them. They 
dined here in company with Monroe & his family a few days 
since, and afterwards accompanied us to Vauxhall. 

M., you will see, is determined to quit this country. I think 
there can be no doubt that Spain & France completely dupe this 
wise administration. Bernadotte is assembling troops on the 

296 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 297 

frontiers of Spain, & this latter power announces that unless 
France arrests these measures, she will raise 80,000 men, and 
formal notice of this threat is given here. The Spanish money 
arrives, and Mr. Addington really fears that some portion of it 
finds its way into France. A Fleet is said to be fitting out at 
Ferrol, supposed to be destined to Ireland. Yet England is de- 
sirous to keep Spain neutral, who lulls this Government by saying, 
if she is compelled by Bonaparte to furnish the succours con- 
tracted for by treaty, she will do that & nothing more ; and 
that she will not commute this obligation for money, which has 
been requested ; so I presume she will have the ships, men and 
money. We hear that Spain has sold Porto Rico to Denmark ; 
doubtless with the consent, if not at the instance, of France. 
Hopes are indulged that Russia may be induced to take a part 
against France, but whether on good grounds I do not know. 
France is preparing to seize the Grecian isles and Turkey is her 
object. Austria has hitherto refused to lend herself to the views & 
desires of the Consul, in respect to her ports in the Adriatic ; but 
whether she will be able to persist in her refusal is quite uncer- 
tain. If she do, it may serve as a pretence for the withdrawal of 
the French army from the channel and the coasts on the North 
Seas ; and it is not impossible that this mighty chief may need 
some apology for such a measure, considering the force and front 
that G. Britain is determined to display. The insurrection in Ire- 
land was undoubtedly of French manufacture, and there are great 
causes for alarm in that quarter. There are some accounts to-day 
of a new plotting discovered in Paris, — you have the story in the 
papers. 

Our Board has decided all the British Complaints except one, 
which is continued for evidence. What we have awarded against 
the U. S. will amount to about 100,000 dollars. There are about 
8 or 9 cases, waiting for exports from the Admiralty, & three de- 
pending in the courts. These will be awarded on, or dismissed in 
December, and in February or March, the Commission will be 
finally closed, and we shall return home in the Spring and my 
most earnest wishes would be gratified if we were to live within a 
dozen miles, if not in the same town with you & Mrs. King. You 
can have no conception how much we miss your society, and how 
completely insulated I am becoming, if nothing worse. The 

298 RUFUS KING, [1803 

Monroes receive our civilities & he appears, when in his company, 
disposed to be attentive and kind. We dined yesterday at Pink- 
ney's, but the Minister's connections will be entirely different 
from ours. He has seen Hawkesbury twice, once on his arrival 
and on his introduction to the King. He has also seen Ham- 
mond once. His arrival here was 18th July, I suspect he knows 
nothing that passes here, and appears to have a sort of creed that 
it is improper to know what is passing in relation to the European 
powers, unless the U. S. are directly interested. He will there- 
fore have a quiet time in England, for you know they do not press 
their knowledge, no more than their civility on any man. Bidwell 
saw James well a few days since. The obstacles to quitting 
France & coming to England are so many, that I think we 
shall remain in London until we embark for Boston. Mrs. Gore 
unites with me in affectionate regards to Mrs. King & the boys. 

Ever yours 
C. Gore. 

C. Gore to R. King. 

London, Aug. 30, 1803. 

My dear Friend : 

Hammond, whom I saw yesterday, tells me it is not true that 
Porto Rico has been ceded to Denmark, that a negotiation was 
on foot between Spain and another northern power for such a 
cession, but it is now at^n end. He thinks that Bonaparte is bad 
with most of his Generals, and that his opponents increase upon 
him. But as you know, incredulity on some subjects is not the 
greatest defect of certain men, you may judge what weight to 
give to such accounts, they doubtless have their emissaries in all 
parts of France, and some who are very obnoxious to Bonaparte, 
even in Paris ; and they believe that his efforts to prepare for the 
invasion are much slackened. Spain convinces England, that 
she intends to remain neuter & endeavours, perhaps not without 
effect, to produce a belief that she is capable of maintaining this 
character against France. Miranda saw Vansittart and H. Ad- 
dington yesterday, and it was agreed then that the former should 
write a letter, merely professing his desire to quit England on 
their paying him five years pension, which, for that consideration, 

1803] I^IJ'E AND CORRESPONDENCE, 299 

is to be renounced forever. Some Captain of a frigate is to offer 
him a passage for himself, & two friends to be landed at Trini- 
dad, where he is to take his people and go wherever he pleases. 
He hopes to find two vessels from the U. S. with musquets &c. 
&c. I told him that to procure the men he talks of will not be 
easy, to obtain the articles is very sensible, provided he has some 
mercantile friends there to make the speculation. He writes you 
again having already written by our friend Cabot. When he was 
yesterday with Vansittart & Healy, they had received the extract 
from Mr. Livingston's memorial, which speaks of the tyranny of 
G. B., and the union of France and America to form a maritime 
code, which should depress this evil spirit of England. They were 
outrageous, according to his account, against the U. S. for giving 
vent to so odious a sentiment. But he had in his pocket the 
Philadelphia Gazette, containing the memorial and some strictures 
on this offensive paragraph, & availed himself of the occasion, 
which it proffered, of showing that the same opinion was enter- 
tained in America, as in England, of what they complained — and 
this, as he thinks, much abated their wrath. So he believes that 
his having borrowed from me this paper and making such use of 
it, has really done great good to the U. S. H. on Saturday, men- 
tioned it to me, and we read the paper together. His expressions 
of the writer were such as you would suppose, but he very wisely 
refrained from attributing any importance to it, & I assured him 
it would be as unpopular with us as here. I must tell you one 
anecdote, though you will be careful not to mention it, — Ful- 
ton wrote to Boulton & Watts for one or tv/o steam engines to be 
shipped to Brockholst Livingston in New York, who would pay 
for them, the engines to be made according to directions of yoel 
Barlow. The Government here took it into their heads to believe, 
these were intended for Fulton's diving machines, that are to blow 
up the British Navy, the dockyard &c. &c. at Portsmouth of which 
they have some, certainly not strong, apprehensions ; and Boulton 
& Watts do not ship the machines, lest the destination of N. 
York should be only a trick, and so soon as the vessel carrying 
them should be in the channel, they might be transhipped for 
France and affixed to these terrible instruments of destruction. 
I told him that L. & Fulton were jointly concerned in the con- 
struction and patent for constructing and using a boat, that was 

300 RUFUS KING. [1803 

designed to work against the stream, and I entertained no doubt 
that this was the real purpose of the engines desired. He said, 
however, B. & W. had orders not to ship them. Their suspicions 
will be increased on reading the memorial. Barlow sailed for 
France about a week since & carried some letters for James. 

A gentleman told me to-day he had seen a letter from Gentz, the 
author, now at Vienna, which says that if E. had had a skilful man 
at Berlin, when the French troops marched for Hanover, they might 
have been stopt by Prussia ; that in the Cabinet it was absolutely 
decided one evening to resist the French by an army of 50,000 
men, that the King went in the night to some chateau to sleep and 
altered his disposition before morning ; that a clever Englishman 
at that court might have prevailed on this power to have inter- 
fered in the preservation of Hanover. Gentz s^^ys that he has 
travelled over all the northern parts of Europe ; that England is 
every where unpopular ; and an universal stupor prevails among 
all the powers of the continent, which is created by the vigour 
and quickness of the Consul's motions. The spirit which is 
awakened in the people at large will do much agt. the imbecility 
of the ministry. Dumourier and Pichegru are here ; & there is 
some reason to believe an attempt will be made to invade France. 
Dumourier, I learn, is disgusted with the want of spirit in the ad- 
ministration, and I think whatever may have been their original 
intention, it would be so unpopular that they will not dare to em- 
ploy him. Miranda declines to see Dumourier. 

I enclose you herewith a statement which in a great measure 
explains itself. My principal reason for troubling you with it is 
that it is not improbable that Erving may, among his friends at 
least, circulate some stories about this business. You will readily 
conceive that my wish is only to correct any false impressions he 
may attempt to impose, & will of course never make any other 
use, than to such ends, of this statement.* . . . 

Truly, & ever yours 

C. Gore. 

* The statement written by William Pinkney, the associate of Mr. Gore in 
the Commission of claims under the 7th Article of the Treaty with Great Brit- 
ain, is a long one, and although in some points other than those immediately 
referring to Mr. Gore it also concerns Mr. King's relations with Mr, Erving, 
it is not possible to print it here, nor even that furnished in the letter of Mr. 
Gore himself, which covers many pages. They were sent to Mr, King by his 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 3OI 

C. Gore to R. King. 

London, August 31, 1803. 
My dear Friend : 

Since writing the letter that accompanies this I have thought 

you would expect a more detailed account of the affair, to which 

the inclosure alludes, than is contained therein. Notwithstanding 

the reflection that this is due from me to you, and that I am sure 

you take a deep interest in whatever concerns my character & 

conduct, it is not without some pain I again bring this loathsome 

subject to my mind, as it presents to me the Maryland worthies 

and Captain Lewis, who it seems are the advisers of this man 

& by whose advice, contrary to that of Monroe & Pinkney, he 

thought himself bound to act. . . . 

friend not to vindicate the Hne of conduct he had adopted, but to give him a 
true statement of the facts and of what he had done, of the correctness and 
propriety of which Mr. Gore had no doubt, nor did he suppose his friend would 
have, as he was well aware of the animus of Mr. Erving towards him and 
others. Mr. Erving, disappointed in not receiving the consideration and influ- 
ence which upon his arrival in England he had expected, had shown himself 
antagonistic to Messrs. King, Williams, and Gore, whom he had not been able 
to make to yield to his pretensions — possibly warranted on his part by the 
belief that the administration would look favourably on his pretensions and 
acts. 

With Mr. Gore in particular he had reason to feel himself somewhat ag- 
grieved, who, with the other members of the Commission, had refused to allow 
him to interfere, in a way which his instructions from home would seem to war- 
rant ; and because that gentleman had been appointed charge des affaires during 
Mr. King's absence on the continent, when he asserted his right to act for the 
U. S., he being Consul in London ; and now that Mr. King had left England 
without appointing a charge des affaires, as it afterwards appeared that the 
Government at home expected him to do, he was ready to take umbrage at any 
act of Mr. Gore's indicating a desire to look after the interests of the country 
in England and to give to or receive information from the ministry which 
might under the circumstances seem proper. Mr. Erving having received some 
communications from friends in the U. S., stating that Mr. Gore had calumni- 
ated him in letters written to his correspondents in America, was greatly 
incensed, demanded an explanation, and finally sent a challenge to Mr. Gore 
through the parties named in Mr. G.'s letter, contrary to the advice of Messrs. 
Pinkney & Monroe, which he promptly declined under the obligation of the 
position he held, as well as for other reasons. This is an outline of the matter 
which is given here chiefly as due to Mr. Gore's high character and as calling 
forth from Mr. King, as will be seen in his letter, high encomiums as to his 
integrity, ability and manliness. 

302 RUFUS KING. [1803 

R. King to C. Gore, London. 

New York, Sept. 6, 1803. 
My dear Sir : 

. . . We have papers to the 22d July, which announce Mr. 
Monroe's arrival in London : I make you my compliments on 
being relieved from the employment which might have detained 
you in London more constantly and longer than you would have 
desired. 

. . . I am staggered with the general arming which appears 
to be making in England. I don't see clearly that this mob of an 
army will be able to resist the enemy agt. whom it is to be put in 
motion ; a regular army of 200,000 or 150,000 wd. in my poor 
opinion be more to be relied upon than the nation en masse : in 
point of economy the army would likewise be preferable, for if all 
the men of the nation are to be drilled and trained, as the news- 
papers state it to be the project that they shall be, I should appre- 
hend the manufacturers would suffer and the agriculture be 
neglected. In so complicated a machine, its ordinary movements 
should be changed with infinite caution, since what may seem the 
remedy of one inconvenience, may become the cause of a still 
greater and more alarming one. There may be a militia, includ- 
ing the whole people in America and I believe such to have been 
once the situation of Switzerland ; but these would be no author- 
ities to justify a universal militia in England : and my greatest 
fear is, if the nation be armed, that the unavoidable consequence 
will be the change of the monarchy for a Republic — two armies 
of 60,000 each, with an army of Reserve of 30,000 would defeat 
and destroy any body of French that can be landed in England ; 
and were I responsible, I shd. feel more safe with this force than 
with the whole nation in arms. We here wish the attempt to 
invade may be made, because we believe it will certainly fail, and 
that the failure will increase the confidence, reputation and 
security of England. 

Owing to the continuance of the fever which continues to pre- 
vail in our unfortunate city, we are cut off from the usual inter- 
course with our neighbours, so that I see but few persons & 
those my neighbours. Hence I cannot send you any opinion wh. 
can be relied upon respecting the probable sentiments of Congress 
concerning the Louisiana cession. An intelligent Connecticut 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 303 

man told me some time since that the cession would be disliked 
by New England, and I shall not be surprised if the Eastern Dele- 
gates or Senators oppose the Ratification. I understand that the 
President has no thoughts of opening the western side of the 
River for settlement, tho' past experience has taught us, that 
nothing but a cordon of troops will restrain our people from 
going over the River and settling themselves down upon the west- 
ern bank. This has, as I hear, been already done, there being as 
many as 4,000 Inhabitants settled upon the Missouri 40 or 50 
miles west of the Mississippi. These will increase and after a 
while set up a new State. The Plan is to persuade the Indians 
which remain within the U. S. to exchange their present territo- 
ries for Lands to be assigned to them over the Mississippi, and 
perhaps a suitable spot may be marked out as the Sierra Leone 
for the negroes. Notwithstanding the satisfaction of the negotia- 
tors with their performance, I believe the Govt, is and will be 
embarrassed with the cession, which may become the immediate 
cause of very important political events among the states. 

I don't make much progress in the purchase of a farm. The 
fever has turned the attention of many persons toward the neigh- 
bouring country and the farmers who are in easy circumstances 
raise the price of their lands — a farm of 270 acres, of which 200 
are ploughed land and meadow, & the residue woodland, with 
such buildings as wd. be sufficient for a farmer, but upon which I 
should be obliged to build for my family residence &c., is valued 
at 30,000 dol. ; three years ago it might have been purchased for 
25000, or 22500 dols. The situation is good,* being on the Sound 
19 miles from New York on the Postroad, which is but a short 
mile from the Farm house. I have not been to see it, and con- 
sidering the price do not know that I shall. . . . 

I am not only unsuccessful in finding a farm or wintry retreat, 
but have equal difficulty to obtain a house to suit us, tho' to say 
the truth this is a moment quite unfavourable to search for 
one. . . . 

Yours very truly, 

R. K. 

* Hunter's Island on Long Island Sound. 

304 RUFUS KING. [1^03 

Mr. King wrote a letter to Mr. Vansittart in London, 
Sept. 8, 1803, which gives his opinions on several topics 
among which in his memorandum Book are the following. 

U. S. will be neutral and impartial — no doubts of this policy — 
Eng. an interesting spectacle — an invasion desirable, as its defeat 
will give confidence and reputation at home and abroad. 

C. Gore to R. King. ^ 

London, Sept. 6, 1803. 
My dear Friend : 

We yesterday received yours of the 22d July, whereby we learnt 
you were at housekeeping, and meeting the usual troubles of all 
countries, but probably much greater with us than in any other, 
where there is equal wealth and luxury — I mean that of servants. 
It is clear that I shall regret having sold my house, for not only 
it will be difficult to purchase to my mind, but by what they 
write me from Boston, building is nearly double what it was in 
1800, when I was there. My intention is to take nothing home, 
but what is absolutely necessary, and which will form part of my 
baggage. . . . 

The boys are perfectly well & happy & behave well. The 
Abb6 goes with them to plays, to the circus, &c. & amuses him- 
self as well as them. They were with us on Saturday, and we 
took them to the little theatre in the Haymarket that evening. 
The rule is that they dine here on Saturday, stay that night & 
Sunday to dinner, & return to Holborn in the evening, on 
Wednesdays, also dining with us, and whenever else we have any 
company, as I wish to mix them in good society, as much as is 
convenient with their studies ; though I consider the great object 
of their being at the Abbe's in the holidays is that they may be 
amused, if not profitably, at least without injury. The project 
will attain this end and probably give them some taste for French 
& Spanish, and drawing. Williams is affectionate towards them, 
and treats them with attention, and I have a firm persuasion that 
their morals will remain pure & their minds be improved. I 
am sorry to be confirmed in my opinions of the education of our 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 305 

youth. The only chance for a happy result to the political conflicts 
our country is destined to undergo, before she settles down into a 
permanent government & established character, is in the moral 
habits, sober & just views of the rising generation — and unless 
the basis of these be laid in early youth, they are scarcely ever 
attained. 

Livingston's memorial occasions much disgust here : but possi- 
bly this may be received with pleasure by, at least, one man, and I 
am told he will be given up by the adminis'n, but it is difficult 
for me to see whom they intend to set up as V. P. unless it be 
him. Sumpter acts as Secretary to the minister — of course any 
cause of difference between these wise negotiators is not likely to 

be allayed. I learn through that Livingston made another 

memorial, wherein he proposed a scheme by which the U. S. 
should provide a certain number of ships of the Line, to be under 
the control of France and fight for the freedom of the seas. This 
may be the mere creature of S's imagination, or it may have been 
an indiscretion of L. It is, however pretty evident that a portion 
of the followers of the present Government intend to ruin L. 
The gentleman here assumes no merit to himself, but ascribes all 
to the superior wisdom and discernment of the President, whose 
plans they very humbly executed. I have thought that this 
admin, will endeavour to bargain away the lands west of the Mis- 
sissippi for those which Spain holds east of that river, and obtain 
some money also. This would certainly free them from the evils 
of this purchase both as respects the lands owned & the cash to 
be paid, and give to the U. States all they want. I thought the 
other day to sound M. as to S. A. and observed to him that it 
could not be long before that country would throw off the yoke 
of Spain. He considers this not improbable, but seems impressed 
with the idea, that they have not sense enough to form a free 
government, and thinks Spain will be quite willing to grant us ex- 
clusive privileges in trade to her settlements, and prepare herself 
by degrees for the dropping of S. A. from her dominions. Perhaps 
one may conjecture from these hints the views of the Govn. in 
this respect, and how easily some men may be duped. 

I could not refrain from conversing with him on the new state 
of things, which the possession of St. Domingo by the Blacks 
would produce in the U. States, and suggested to him whether it 

VOL. IV. — 20 

306 RUFUS KING. [1803 

would not be wise that there should be a concurrent effort on this 
subject, so important to both. He received my remarks, or ap- 
peared to receive them with some interest, but from what I per- 
ceive and hear of him, and what we know of the English character, 
there is no great probability of their conferring much together. 
You understand, for I think I before told you, that our negotia- 
tors consider Louisiana as running E. of the River M. to the 
Rio Perdido, and so taking all the coast from that E. boundary to 
the river M., and of this they notified Spain. From what I learn 
the Government is more in fear for Ireland than of an invasion 
here. All the French, Italian, and Swiss are to be sent off accord- 
ing to the proclamation of the King. You will see a curious 
paragraph by the printers of the London Courier, in which it is 
stated that some person offered to become a fellow labourer, pro- 
vided Bonaparte's character could be supported. 

My affectionate regards to Mrs. King and the boys. I am pur- 
chasing books & preparing to return home — and this is all my 
occupation. I have done walking & in this great city am almost 
literally without society & certainly without friends. 

Yours, 

C. G. 

C. Gore to R. King. 

London, Sept. 18, 1803. 
My dear Friend : 

The boys went to Harrow on Thursday morning in good health 
and spirits, having passed their holidays very much to their own 
& our satisfaction. Their behaviour has been altogether such 
as we could have wished. I shall consider it due to the friendship 
that subsists between us, to give you information, if I observe any- 
thing amiss or of a wrong tendency in them ; so that you may 
rest perfectly satisfied with the truth of my report. They have 
promised that should any misfortune occur, of any sort or kind, 
the same shall be communicated to me directly, and I have the 
pleasure of believing that they will in any event, have an entire 
confidence in me. We are (now the boys have gone to Harrow) 
literally alone. Sometimes we see the Pinkneys. Mrs. Gore has 
been unwell and confined to the house for ten days past with a 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 307 

cold, that has affected her like the influenza. The M.s are in 
Wigmere street, and them we never see except by an accidental 
meeting. The Trumbulls are at Brighton or Worthing. If Mrs. 
Gore can muster strength and spirits enough, we shall probably 
make an excursion, for some days, into the country, before the 
winter sets in. This will, I am sure, be the most unpleasant & 
gloomy season that we have ever passed in Europe, and I every 
day regret more & more that we could not return this autumn. 
On ten thousand occasions we shall miss you & Mrs. King, and 
we shall be continually reminded of the happiness we enjoyed, by 
feeling the want of your society and the utter impossibility of in- 
demnifying ourselves by any new connections. My great occupa- 
tion now is in increasing my library, and rendering it as complete 
as my means will allow. 

It is generally believed, and by the Government, that an at- 
tempt will be made to invade this country and at no very distant 
day. Any diversion in favour of England, on the part of any of 
the Continental powers, is not expected. Great apprehensions are 
entertained for the safety of Portugal, and the ministry here 
probably begin to feel that that they have been duped by Spain. 
. . . The Spanish messenger, that went from hence with some 
new project, was not permitted to pass through France. He 
landed at Calais but was ordered to reimbark & was relanded in 
England. So that if the declaration of war is to depend on the 
return of this messenger, a considerable time must yet elapse, be- 
fore that event takes place. But it is hardly possible that B. 
should refrain from compelling S., even if she be indisposed, to 
take some step directly & openly hostile, before the delivery of 
any project from this Government. 

. . . Mr. Monroe has received no dispatches from Washing- 
ton since his arrival here ;* and I learn through P. that he has 
seen Lord H. only at his first visit, when presented to the King, 
and at the Levee, and when he wanted to introduce him (Pinkney) 
to his Lordship, as agent for the Maryland Bank Stock. Ques- 
tions relative to the impress of our seamen constantly arise, and, 
it is said, some violences have been committed on our citizens in 
the Thames. How they intend to regulate the commerce between 
the two Countries after October does not appear. One would 

* He arrived in London July 18th. 

308 RUFUS KING. [1805 

think there should be a harmony as to the measures to be pursued 
by G. B. in relation to St. Domingo, but no doubt our Govern- 
ment will be indisposed to take any step in concert with G. B.^ 
lest it should give umbrage to France — although their own safety 
is directly concerned in the manner in which E. shall arrange 
with the Blacks on the Island. Mr. M. will probably be in- 
structed to ask some explanation of our admin, on the offensive 
paragraphs of L's memorial. 

Our affectionate regards to Mrs. K. 

C. Gore to R. King. 

London, Sept. 22, 1803. 
My dear Friend : 

I yesterday received your favour to 2nd August, and though I 
do not see the probability of our living so near together, as I trust 
would conduce to the mutual happiness of ourselves & family, I 
do assure you that your wishes to that end afford me the highest 
gratification, and there is no object to attain which I would sacri- 
fice so much. The little I saw when at home — my knowledge of 
the pursuits and occupations, the attainments and objects of am- 
bition of those with whom I must be associated on my return, 
afford me some idea of the reflections, which cannot fail to crowd 
on my mind. While I have not the means, I assure you, I have 
as little desire to vie with my neighbours in their modes of enno- 
bling themselves, or pursuing enjoyment. The great eating par- 
ties with all the accompaniments of conversation & amusement, 
that attend them in any great town, never had, at least since I 
was thirty years of age, any charm for me ; and now they would 
be a task, at which I am very unwilling to labour. On the other 
hand, the society of a few friends, who have had considerable 
converse, both with the world and with books, is the most en- 
viable pleasure of life. Had other men filled the chair of gov- 
ernment, I should have been gratified to have represented it at 
this court for a few years, at the end of which term, I could have 
retired to my farm at Waltham, with what would to me have been 
an independence, though very far from what our monied aristoc- 
racy deem a competence. As the case is, I shall take my place at 
the Bar for a few years in the expectation of maintaining myself, 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 309 

while I am building my house at Waltham, and procuring one at 
Boston, which shall be small. This does not suit all my feelings, 
but on the whole I believe it the best course for me to pursue. 
My Library will be rather more than double what it was when 
you left us, and with such additions as I shall make during my prac- 
tice for four or five years, I hope to have a comfortable resource for 
age. Now we have land in plenty, and rather reasonable in the 
neighbourhood of Boston & in my neighbourhood, and did not 
political considerations, and what I know is more, considerations 
in regard to your children, fix you immovably in N. York, I 
should hope to prevail on you to remove to us, before you pur- 
chase. You should have any of my lands and we could be within 
a quarter of an hour's walk of each other, and the education of 
your younger children would be better in Massachusetts, I trust, 
than in N. York. The Commission being closed, and as I never 
shall undertake another business with such a variety of embar- 
rassments, & where the certainty of being responsible only for 
evils & disappointments, and of deriving no credit from success 
was so clear, I shall in future be without solemn looks or depressed 
feelings. . . . 

Portugal bends to France, as does every part of the Continent, 
and you may be assured the Govt, here expects to have the contest 
singly to bear against the accumulating power of Bonaparte & 
that they also believe an attempt at invasion will soon be made. 
M.pranda], who writes you by this oppor'y has renewed assurances 
from Govt., that he shall go out in a frigate within a month, and 
have advanced to him cash to prepare himself ; before that time 
they expect to be at war with S. 

Mrs. Gore who is yet quite indisposed unites with me in affec- 
tionate regards to Mrs. K. & the children. You say nothing of 
Hamilton, Jay or Benson. Are they yet in your vicinity ? 

Yours truly &c. &c. C. Gore. 

C. Gore to R. King. 

London, Sept. 30th, 1803. 
My dear Friend : 

Mr. Merry sailed from Portsmouth on the 28th instant, and 

my letters by him you will probably receive before this. I some- 

3IO RUFUS KING. [1803 

time since suggested to him the propriety of his knowing the 
views and intentions of the administration in regard to St. 
Domingo, and whether the measures they might adopt for the 
purpose of restraining or limiting the evils that threaten'd their 
colonies from the existence of a settlement of free blacks near 
them, would not be most likely to produce the effect desired by 
the concurrence of our Government, so far as it could concur. 
He opened the subject to Lord H. who told him that he thought 
it important now it was suggested, but really it never before en- 
tered his mind. Monroe, as I believe I mentioned to you, told 
me in a conversation I made with him, that he thought it would 
be a good place for the Southern States to send their free negroes, 
and those whom they thought fit not to punish capitally. This 
latter gentleman has received no letters from the Government 
since his arrival here ; and of course has no instructions relative 
to the renewal of the treaty or proposing any substitute. Merry 
goes out without any instructions on the subject, but is directed 
to ask of our Government some explanation of Livingston's 
memorial, so far as it relates to checking their tyranny on the 
seas. For two days past a squadron of small ships have been 
bombarding Calais and attempting to destroy some boats which 
are there, or are endeavouring to pass to Boulogne , but with 
what success we do not learn. It is certain, in the mind of all 
persons, that Bonaparte will make an attempt to throw a body of 
troops on this Island, but the nation is so well prepared, that per- 
haps it might be advantageous not only for G. B., but for the 
world, that he should succeed in debarking 30 or 40,000 men, 
especially if a like number were destroyed in the channel. The 
nations of the Continent seem to view the struggle without in- 
terest, certainly without any on the part of this Kingdom, The 
changes that have been made in Portugal, have all been in favour 
of France ; and little doubt is now affected by any that all the 
resources of Spain & Portugal in Europe will soon be at the com- 
mand of Bonaparte. An expedition is believed to be fitting at 
Ferrol for Ireland, & it is supposed that Augereau will have the 
command. It is said that there is a general expectation on the 
Continent that England will be conquer'd — and yet they expect to 
preserve their independence ! It is certainly a time when bravery 
and wisdom seem to have deserted all cabinets but the French. 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 3II 

You observe I am speaking of Europe — what you say is reported 
of Bonaparte's making grants prior to the cession, is certainly 
very much in character. 

Yours affectionately, C. Gore. 

RoBT. R. Livingston to R. King, New York. 

Paris, 14th Oct., 1803. 
Dear Sir : 

I did not receive your last letter from England till about one 
month ago ; the receipt of it gave me the more pleasure as I was 
somewhat hurt that you should quit your harbour without giving 
me a farewell shot. You know that Mr. Monroe has taken your 
station ; the intercourse being interrupted I hear very little from 
him & I am sorry to add that I hear as little from the United 
States. The high opinion that is here entertained of our treaty, 
& the compts. I receive would make me vain enough to believe 
that silence at home gave consent, were I not happily roused from 
my golden dream, by the kind offices of the Boston floppers (for 
their's are the only papers I have lately reed.) who tell me that I 
am a fool, a lunatic, a minion & a great many other things equally 
well calculated to cure me of vanity, & to raise the reputation of 
the country which has for upward of thirty years successively 
employed me in high and confidential offices. I am sorry the 
sense of the country in their legislature has not been taken upon 
this important question of the treaty at a much earlier day ; for 
such are the fluctuations of European politicks, that if the treaty 
secures advantages, which I trust it does, the sooner we put 
ourselves in possession of them the better. Things remain here 
much as you left them ; the most active preparations still go on 
for the attack on England and Ireland & there is every reason to 
believe that they are sincerely intended, with whatever hazard 
they may be attended. Perhaps prudence would direct this 
government to content themselves with appearances, since the 
expenses to which England puts herself in preparation are im- 
mense & must be ruinous in the long run ; but on the other hand 
France has to fear changes in the state of Europe — for no nation 
can be indifferent to the fate of England in which that of many 

312 RUFUS KING. [1803 

Others must be involved. Russia has renewed her proffered 
mediation ; the Court of St. James say they are ready to accept 
it, but that no mediation founded on the basis of the treaty at 
Amiens can be admitted. France is more moderate in her reply 
and appears disposed to accept any reasonable modifications of it. 

From Mr. Gelston, to whom I have written, you will learn that 
we are at war with the Emperor of Morocco, &. that Capt. Bain- 
bridge has taken one of his corsairs of 22 guns. The Turkish 
Empire seems crumbling into dust, the mamlukes have driven the 
crescent out of all Egypt except Alexandria, & they are in their 
turn likely to be driven out by Abd-el-hahal, who is at the head 
of 400,000 men overrunning Asia and alike destroying Jews and 
Mahometans & Christians in the name of the one living God, 
whom alone he professes to worship, independent of all forms or 
creeds heretofore received. As he makes converts wherever he 
goes, either by the word or by the sword, there is no calculating 
the extent of his powers. 

This, my dear Sir, is an eventful age, and I think we are very 
ungrateful if we do not thank God for having placed us out of 
the reach of fires that are scorching and consuming the rest of the 
world. But man is not perhaps made to be perfectly happy here, 
& for this reason where he has no real evils, he has the address to 
form imaginary ones, in which, I think, our countrymen are not 
behindhand with the rest of the world. ... I have not yet 
obtained my conge, but as an office forms a contrast to hell, at 
least in one point, I presume I shall find no difficulty in getting 
out of it. 

With much esteem & regard &c, 

Rob. R. Livingston. 

CHAPTER XXI. 

Gore to King — Miranda to be dispatched to Trinidad — Breach between Monroe 
and Livingston — Monroe in England — English Fears of Fulton's Boat — 
Colony Trade — King to Gore — Approves of Gore's Conduct in Connection 
with his Commission — Light in which Louisiana Treaty is viewed in the 
U. S. — Livingston's Memorial indiscreet — Monroe should have explained 
the Sentiments of his Government — Gore to King — Schools in France for 
his Boys — Volunteers in England training — Russia may interfere for Spain — 
Louisiana — Monroe — Madison does not notice his Communications — Mary- 
land Bank Stock — Miranda not permitted to sail — No new Treaty with 
G. B. at Present — King to Gore — Louisiana Treaty ratified — Conduct 
of Spain causes much Speculation — He knows little of public Affairs — 
King to Pickering — Slavery in Louisiana, should not Effort be made to 
prevent it — Would alter the Constitution to confine Representation and 
Taxation to free Inhabitants — King to Gore — Proceedings in Congress — 
Jerome Bonaparte in America— Account of their Friends — King to Gore — 
Government will take Possession of Louisiana — Gore to King — Claims an 
Outfit — Alarm of Invasion subsiding — Monroe presents a Memorial on 
Impressment of Seamen. 

C. Gore to R. King. 

London, 21st Octr., 1803. 
My dear Friend : 

. . . Our acounts from N. York, which are to the 8th Septem- 
ber, painfully convince us of the ravages of the yellow fever, and 
that no abatement can be expected during the coming season. 
I have heard that some hopes were entertained of a return of Con- 
gress to N. York or Philadelphia. Should such an event have 
been calculated on, the sickness of your city at the present will 
be a powerful argument against the choice of that. The acquisi- 
tion of Louisiana takes from Washington its character of central, 
and probably the Southern gentlemen may carry us deeper into 
the ancient dominion ; though I confess it is not very important 

313 

314 RUFUS KING, [1803 

to my mind, for at the rate we are proceeding it is not certain we 
shall remain united much longer. 

It is said an Embargo is imposed on all vessels bound to 
Portugal or Spain, and I presume the ministry is at length driven 
to the necessity of accepting the war against the latter of these 
powers. i^[iranda] has absolute assurances from the Govern- 
ment that he shall be dispatched shortly to Trinidad. I saw a 
note from Vansittart to M ; saying that they only waited for 
Nepean to recover a little strength (he is quite sick)/d7z/r vaquer 
vos affaires. The administration has applied to Sir Francis 
Baring to be the medium, thro' whom every thing is to be arranged, 
prepared & shipt for the expedition. Fullarton is here. M. was 
to see him again last evening ; he has already had one conversa- 
tion with him, F. visiting him before he saw the ministers. When 
every thing is settled, M. will write you, and this will be in a few 
days. 

The breach, I think, widens between Monroe & Livingston. 
The former supposes the latter detains his letters in Paris and 
assumes all the merit of the Louisiana Convention, while he 
humbly refrains from appropriating any to himself, but every thing 
to the superior wisdom, determined yet prudent conduct of the 
President. He however is said to deny that any other causes 
than these had the least influence on Bonaparte and that peace or 
war in Europe, the result would have been the same ! ! Ham- 
mond, whom I see frequently, and who always receives me kindly 
and confidentially, told me a few days since that neither he nor 
Ld. H. had seen Monroe, but twice since his arrival in England, ex- 
cept at the Levee, and that all his time was passed in sucking in 
wisdom from Consul E., and a few other democrats. He has no 
secretary now. Alston, the young painter, visited him for a pass- 
port : he replied that being without a secretary & so extremely 
pressed for time, he could not conveniently attend to making out 
one, and desired him to go to the Consul. But as the young man 
is going on the continent, he is informed that one from the Minis- 
ter is at least more useful, if not absolutely necessary to his 
safety. Indeed I believe they take & detain the Consular certifi- 
cate at the Alien office on embarking. So far as I learn any thing 
of M., I am satisfied he has neither the inclination, nor capacity to 
do the smallest good here ; neither do I believe it consistent with 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 315 

his idea of propriety that he should even know what is passing in 
E. or on the Continent. I do not express these opinions to any 
one else, for besides it being otherwise improper, they would be 
imputed to very different motives than the real ones. 

I think Hammond has some very odd fears relative to Fulton's 
boat & its power of blowing up the British Navy. H. says he has 
learned from several quarters that L. and his family received 
very large grants of land prior to the sale, but I do not believe it. 
Bingham (who, by the way, thinks his conversations with Talley- 
rand effected the Convention) does not suppose that conveyances 
of land were made to any individuals prior to the cession, but you 
know he gives himself credit for full as much knowledge as the 
world thinks him entitled to. Alexr. Baring, who is now with you, 
will be more likely to know than any one here. The Commission 
at Paris is at a stand, the Commissioners not being able to con- 
strue the convention, and waiting for instructions from the 
Government. The cause why our citizens are to be paid in specie 
rather than in stock, may be found in the character & connections 
of the creditors — at least a censorious world will say so. 

I am now filing my opinion on the colony trade, and having 
come across an old paper of yours with some remarks on this 
subject, I shall take the liberty to offer them as my own, they 
concurring with my sentiments & better expressed than I could 
expect to do myself. I sent you the Times by a ship lately bound 
for N. York, and when opport. offers, will send you a further file. 
The Editors of this paper have become outrageously ministerial. 
The pieces on the late negotiations shall likewise be forwarded. 
With affectionate attachment to Mrs. King & the children, I 

Remain faithfully yours. 

C. Gore. 

R. King to C. Gore, London. 

New York, Oct. 24, 1803. 
My dear Friend : 

. . . I congratulate you that your Business is so nearly fin- 
ished that you are able to look forward with confidence to your 
return early in the Spring. ... In regard to the insinuation 
that it seems has been made at Washington, that you were inclined 

3l6 RUFUS KING. [1803 

to prolong your residence unnecessarily in England, and wh. 
could have proceeded only from the malignity and envy of some 
falsehearted Jacobin, I wonder that you suffered it to engage a 
second thought. The truth is, my Dr. Sir, that you are too honest 
& too virtuous, that you have too much regar^! for your own repu- 
tation and your duty to the Public, not to be the object of Jacobin 
hatred and persecution ; and I am only surprized that you do not 
consider the proofs of this hatred, as the highest evidence of your 
own integrity rather than as that sort of attack agt. which a good 
man feels impelled to defend himself. Be persuaded that we live 
in times, when it behooves a man to make his election between the 
upright performance of his duty to God & his Country, with the 
persecution of triumphant Jacobinism, and the corrupt and de- 
grading violation of these sacred duties, with the Hosannas of this 
abominable sect. No man who knows you or whose good opinion 
is an object of desire, wd. believe this insinuation. 

Here as far as I am able to judge, those who know anything of 
the Proceedings of your Board, consider them as highly honour- 
able to yr. character and, except that your prudence has naturally 
contributed to remove Jacobin complaints agt. England, even the 
privileged cast do not revile you in my hearing. . . . 

I don't enclose the President's message, as it will have reached 
Engd. before my letter. The prominent point respects Louisiana ; 
the cession whereof is ascribed to ''the just Discernment of the 
Enlightened Government of France " instead of that posture of 
things which wd. have prevented its occupation by France until 
she shd. have first acquired the consent of England. As f of the 
Senate are of the faithful sect, there can be no question abt. the 
Ratification, unless some scruple shd. arise abt. the constitutional 
powers of Congress to admit a new State (which the Treaty re- 
requires) including territory not within the limits of the U. S. 
But this scruple, if it exists, will be so managed that France may 
have no occasion to be dissatisfied. As the Treaty has not been 
published, the Public know little of its Provisions, and hence the 
newspapers have (as I am informed for I see but one or two) been 
on all sides pretty silent. Little and indeed less has been said in 
its favor than agt. it. I believe that I have before insinuated a 
doubt whether the Govt, has seen this treaty in the advantageous 
light in which it has been regarded by the Envoys ; tho' this 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 31/ 

hesitation will not prevent its acceptance, any more than the claim 
of merit that will be bottomed upon its being concluded. There 
is no doubt that parts of the Govt., if not the whole, think a 
better bargain might and ought under existing Circumstances to, 
have been made, and it is quite possible that the chief agt. on our 
part may not receive those testimonies of satisfaction that he may 
think his almost exclusive due. Whether this may be so or not, 
it is understood that he has asked leave to come home next spring 
and from the manner in which the family here is treated by their 
chiefs, it wd. not be surprizing shd. he return dissatisfied and that 
he and his name might shew a disposition to return to their former 
Party. Should this be the case, if I mistake not, the ruling party 
wd. give them up willingly, feeling themselves strong enow to 
shake them off ; and rid themselves of their numerous claims for 
office. 

I don't know what important object, if any, is to engage the 
attention of Congress during the present Session. It seems that 
the proposition to amend the Constitution so as that the votes for 
President & Vice President may be distinguished, is to be sub- 
mitted to the several State Legislatures without delay, and I am 
told that such is the composition of these Legislatures that it is 
likely that this alteration will be approved by the constitutional 
proportion of them. . . . 

The memorial to which you refer in a late letter, was to say the 
least, a most indiscreet effusion — and considering the avowed 
opinion of our own Govt, relative to the principles of the Northern 
confederation as well as the decision wh. G. Britain has shown in 
opposition to these pretended Rules or Principles, prudence must 
condemn the utterance of sentiments so false and obnoxious as 
some of those contained in Mr. Ls. memorial. 

If Monroe has done his duty, he has anticipated all complaint 
by such observations, authorized by the tenour of the instructions 
of the Present Govt, to the Legation at London, as would without 
a formal disavowal, satisfy the Eng. Cabinet that these exception- 
able expressions and sentiments were not dictated by his Govt. 
If he has not done this, it wd. not surprise me if our Gt. were 
called upon for an explanation upon that head. I hope this may 
not happen, as it wd. involve the Govt, in a dilemma from which 
it wd. be extremely difficult to extricate itself, and shd. the sub- 

3l8 RUFUS KING, [1803 

ject be pushed too briskly, it is possible that the Govt, might 
think itself forced to avoid what it wd. never attempt to enforce, 
if left to itself. 

I have some thoughts of going on to Washington this autumn, 
but shall know so few people there, and have so little pleasure in 
hearing the croakings of those I do know, that I think it proba- 
ble that my natural indolence will prevail. Were you snug at 
Waltham, I do really believe that the earnest desire we have to 
see you and Mrs. Gore would overcome all my indolence and that 
we should post off without a week's delay to embrace you. Our 
family is well and we all write in affectionate regards to you and 
yours. 

Faithfully and always yr. 

R. K. 

C. Gore to R. King. 

London, Nov. i, 1803. 
My dear Friend : 

Our last letters from you are of the 6th Sept., and then the 
yellow fever was continuing its ravages. Since then we learn of 
it at Philadelphia and Alexandria. You will see by the papers 
that the vaccine inoculation is supposed by some to prevent 
any one taking the plague. For this year I hope the country by 
the present day is free. Here the weather is extremely cold & 
without rain. We have scarcely known twenty-four hours rain 
since July came in, & some accounts say the wheat is light, 
which certainly was to be expected from the dryness of the 
season. . . . 

The Volunteers are training and those of London have been 
reviewed, as P. Porcupine says by the King & Mr. Sheridan. 
They amounted to upwards of 30,000, and I have no doubt that 
these and the other volunteers about the country, should Bona- 
parte be enabled to execute his threats of invasion, would fight 
well and bravely for their King & their own independence : 
but should he not soon come, the spirit will flag & they be- 
come sick of their new trade. Ulterior consequences, and cer- 
tainly of a very serious nature are to be apprehended, as you justly 
remark from such an immense body, though the system, you will 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 319 

see, is materially changed from what it was on Mr. Addington's 
introduction. There are now probably somewhere about 400,000 
volunteers in this Kingdom, and of this number it is not impossi- 
ble many may have, on some future day, very different views 
from the Monarch, the Nobles & the rich commoners. This is 
an evil, however, entirely overlooked at the present day in the ex- 
treme hour of a French invasion. Yet, I think the temper of the 
nation is now sanguine & confident of success. The merchants 
here are really, I believe, desirous of the attempt being made, but 
it is very much, I fear, in the mercantile idea — horoe momento 
cita mors venit aut victoria laeta. They are uneasy at the embar- 
rassments thrown in the way of their commerce, and think that, 
should Bonaparte be defeated in his projected invasion, their 
manufactures & the produce of their colonies would find a sure 
market, & the returns flow regularly back. When we calculate 
the chances against him, it is scarcely possible to believe he will 
attempt crossing the channel, yet every thing indicates this to be 
his intention. From Brest & Ferrol it is expected he will make 
the attempt to throw a large force into Ireland. 

Vessels were prohibited sailing to Portugal & Spain for some 
days. It was then said, this was merely to prevent their sailing 
without convoy, & the restriction has been taken off. Probably 
on reflection it was found nothing Spanish or Portuguese could be 
detained here, while the measure would be ground of a retaliation, 
that would be extremely injurious to the British subjects, who 
have considerable property there. I rather suspect there was 
some gaucherie in the business. Accounts are daily expected 
from Spain & Portugal which will no longer leave to England an 
option in her relative state to these two powers. The papers this 
evening, just come in & which you will have, seem to render it 
possible that Russia may interfere in behalf of Spain. If so, I 
pity M. [iranda], for in such case my belief is this Govt, could do 
nought. . . . 

Our friends are now busy on the great subject of Louisiana ; 
a subject which I am sure will soon change, and in a very material 
view, the relations of the different States. I have already under- 
stood, that the Eastern States are now contemplated as of no 
weight in the scale, and of course not entitled to any influence. 
Every thing that the present administration wishes to effect may 

320 RUFUS KING. [1803 

be done through the Western States, now fast bound by the ties 
of gratitude. The wealth of the Southern & Western States will 
soon leave us far in the rear on that score, as we already are on 
that of population. 

A deep misfortune undoubtedly will be felt from the rude & 
uncultivated minds of those, who will soon have such a prepon- 
derating influence in our federal politics. Wise men should turn 
their thoughts to what is to be the next chapter in our ever vary- 
ing systems : for I really believe that the present is nearly read 
through, a few, but very few verses remain ; and those, probably 
like some of the old testament ones, full of hard names. Mr. 
Monroe, I hear for I never see him, is without a Secretary. 
Your former Sec. has much leisure now and could assist the 
Minister & himself too, but nothing I presume would induce him 
to take the man you or I employed. I frequently am told of the 
complaints he makes at being obliged to fill a few passports — it is 
only a few, for most of those who require them, unless going on 
the continent, are taught to confide in the Consuls. 

Notwithstanding I wrote Mr. Madison several letters, giving ta 
the Government an exact state of what was passing here & on the 
continent, so far as I knew, which accounts have all proved true, 
also in answer to several things committed by them to my charge, 
yet I have received not a line from any member of the adminis- 
tration. This was in some measure the more necessary, as Erving 
here wrote me an impertinent letter on my communicating to 
him, by desire of Lord Hawkesbury, the blockade of the Elbe, 
and also one to L*? H. to know whether he might rely on the in- 
formation which Mr. Gore had pleased to communicate. A copy 
of this letter, as well as those impudent notes he wrote you & me, 
last autumn, on the subject of passports, I am told, he sent to the 
Government. Civility, I think, would have dictated to the Secry. 
the fitness of some reply to my letters, all these circumstances 
considered ; I am further told that he was prepared, had you left 
any person charge d' affaires, to have made a formal & public pro- 
test against the act, and against the pretension of such charge. 
These are trifles, but among friends, they are interesting. They 
show the impudence of some men & the strange opinions of others, 
for P. told me he thought the minister on quitting had no authority 
to name a charg6 d' affaires ; so it is presumable this intention was 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 321 

duly reflected on, advised and determined. The Govt, of the 
United S. & of Maryland have united in empowering P. to nego- 
tiate & settle the Bank Stock business, leaving him no discretion 
to offer more for the settlement of the claim of the man who re- 
fuses to acquiesce, than the amount of Russel's demand, which 
sum the State is willing should be appropriated to this object, as 
it is relieved from that. No answer has yet been obtained from 
the discontented man — I forget his name — and they have not 
been able to see the Atty. Genl. P. in his new character has been 
formally introduced to Lord Hawkesbury by Monroe. His 
powers were received before M's arrival. I trust he will see 
reason, why greater progress has not been made in the business 
in time past. . . . 

Yours ever & faithfully, 

C. Gore. 

Trumbull has returned to Bath, where he purposes remaining 
until Dec. He has written me, making very affectionate enquiries 
after your health, &c. He is a good fellow & worthy of a better 
fate, but when a man arrives at years of discretion, & chooses for 
himself, he can blame no one. 

2ist Nov. Mr. Addington declines, for the present, giving his 
permission to the expedition of M., but promises that so soon as 
Spain makes the war, it shall proceed. Nepean shews him letters 
by which it appears, that several ships of the Line are fitting out 
at Carthagena, for the purpose of joining the French at Toulon ; 
and others, from whence it amounts to an high probability, that 
an armament is preparing at Ferrol to make the attempt from 
thence for the invasion of Ireland. But he, A., mistrusts all in- 
formation from the admiralty relative to Spain, because the Navy 
is anxious for a Spanish war. Things therefore are at a stand 
in regard to S. A. . . . Davidson prepares all that is necessary 
for the expedition & Nepean says in a very few weeks after 
Mr. A. shall give his sanction, the business shall proceed, and 
news is anxiously looked for from Spain, which shall even con- 
vince the incredulous Doctor. It is understood that a large 
sum was raised in Lisbon, and chiefly from British Merchants 
there, by which Lannes was induced to pledge his master's word 
that Portugal should not be invaded for six months. Miranda 

VOL. IV. — 21 

322 RUFUS KING. [1803 

desires me to say to you that he has agrf'ted to the suspension 
of his project ; and remains here, because he supposes such a de- 
rangement has taken place in N. York, owing to the yellow fever, 
that no dependance can be made on anything from thence ; and 
that he hopes to hear from you. On the whole I think he can 
depend on no effort in his behalf here until Spain makes the war, 
or some opposition shall drive the minister from his pacific pur- 
poses. Spain has sent 1600 men to reinforce her troops either at 
Carthagena or La Vera Cruz. 

You will see Cobbett in his last paper goes upon the idea that 
there was some foundation for the communication in some of the 
papers relative to the discussion on the subject of a new treaty 
between the U. S. & G. B. . . . I saw H. on Saturday ; he says 
they never see or hear of M., & so far as regards their office, he 
might as well be in Virginia. He thinks that if our Govt, have any 
wishes relative to the commercial relations of the two countries, 
it becomes them to make the proposal. Every one must know 
that E. is now too much occupied with what is much more inter- 
esting, to advance any propositions. He supposes some Jacobin 
made those insertions in the newspapers to answer some purpose. 
Cobbett, you see, presumes that this Govt, did for the purpose of 
preparing the country for great sacrifices or a rupture. I under- 
stand from another quarter, that it is supposed to be exceeding 
wise policy, to let France see that we suffer our treaty with 
G. B. to die, & that we have no wish of making another, so we 
may attain favour in the eyes of Bonaparte. H. has information 
that Hayley is about sailing from N. York with a vessel, fitted for 
a privateer, with guns in her hold, and, after she is out, to place 
her guns on deck & cruize against the English. As he is going to 
France, Tom Paine is to be his passenger. They are in great 
hopes of taking him in which all good men will wish them success. 
English goods now find a market on the Continent, & large quan- 
tities are shipt thither. Many Frenchmen come to London & 
purchase largely with cash. Mrs. Mallet yesterday informed Mrs. 
Gore that the minister was certainly going home this ensuing 
Spring. He will not come here previous to his embarking, I pre- 
sume. Some person reports from Paris, that he denies all merit 
in the gentleman here in obtaining the late convention, and this 
very publickly, & assumes the whole to himself, imputing it 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 323 

entirely in his superior address and wisdom. Merry, as I told 
you, had orders to remonstrate against his famous memoire. 
Lord H. directed him to communicate the reply to you. . . . 
My affectionate regards to Mrs. King. 

Yrs. truly & ever, 

C. Gore. 

R. King to C. Gore, London. 

New York, Nov. i, 1803. 
My dr. Sir : 

There being a large and willing majority of both Houses of 
Congress of the true sect, the measures of the Ex. will receive no 
impediment. Great is the Prophet, and in the whole earth there 
is none to be likened unto him, is the language of the faithful ! 

The Louisiana Treaty has been ratified and the H, of R. is 
engaged in preparing such laws respecting it as are called for by 
the President, and this in contempt of the Remonstrance of the 
Spanish Minister, who declares that the Conditions on wh. Spain 
promised to cede not having been performed, the Country is still 
her property. 

The Conduct of Spain is the occasion of various and unsatisfac- 
tory speculations. Some believe that France having the offer of a 
better price from Spain is at the bottom of the Opposition ; others 
allege that Spain is encouraged by G. Br., while the majority, not 
regarding Spain as an independent power and looking on the 
French Govt, as enlightened, honest & powerful, rely upon it that 
the opposition will not be persisted in. 

As I know nothing about it, the subject engages no part of my 
attention ; and, to say the truth, I consider the state and tendency 
of the Country such that an upright and prudent man, to be 
happy, shd. know little of our public affairs. You and I cannot 
alter certain opinions which we entertain and wh. are confirmed 
by experience, as well as by those authorities which our educa- 
tion and habits enable us to consult. With those opinions we are 
proscribed by those whose best interests and happiness wd. be 
promoted by their observance ; hence the course which a wise 
man shd. in these circumstances pursue is too clearly marked out 
to be neglected. 

324 RUFUS KING. [1803 

It is our Duty to seek those models with which past time 
abounds, and to imitate their Conduct in retirement, rather than 
to engage in the desperate strife of factions. . . . 

Our fever is nearly or quite over. The Bankers, public officers, 
&c., are returning to town, and in the course of the week the town 
will be full again. We remain where we are some weeks longer, 
and until we can open and put up our furniture. 

Yr. assured Friend, 

RuFus King. 

R. King probably to Col. Pickering. 

New York, Nov. 4, 1803. 
Dear Sir : 

Congress may admit new States, but can the Executive by treaty 
admit them, or, what is equivalent, enter into engagements binding 
Congress to do so ? As by the Louisiana Treaty, the ceded terri- 
tory must be formed into States, & admitted into the Union, is it 
understood that Congress can annex any condition to their ad- 
mission ? if not, as Slavery is authorized & exists in Louisiana, 
and the treaty engages to protect the Property of the inhabitants, 
will not the present inequality, arising from the Representation of 
Slaves, be increased ? 

As the provision of the Constitution on this subject may be re- 
garded as one of its greatest blemishes, it would be with reluctance 
that one could consent to its being extended to the Louisiana 
States ; and provided any act of Congress or of the several states 
should be deemed requisite to give validity to the stipulation of 
the treaty on this subject, ought not an effort to be made to limit 
the Representation to the free inhabitants only ? Had it been 
foreseen that we could raise revenue to the extent we have done, 
from indirect taxes, the Representation of Slaves wd. never have 
been admitted ; but going upon the maxim that taxation and 
Representation are inseparable, and that the Genl. Govt, must re- 
sort to direct taxes, the States in which Slavery does not exist, 
were injudiciously led to concede to this unreasonable provision 
of the Constitution. On account of the effect upon the public 
opinion, produced by alterations of the fundamental Laws of a 
Country, we should hesitate in proposing what may appear to be 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 325 

beneficial ; but I know no one alteration of the Constitution of 
the U. S. which I would so readily propose, as to confine repre- 
sentation and taxation to the free inhabitants. . . . 

Yr. obt. & faithful Servt. 

RuFUS King. 

R. King to C. Gore, London. 

New York, Nov. 20, 1803. 
My dear Friend : 

. , . A day or two since I saw one of the members of the 
H. of R. who is here on leave of absence ; he is of the ruling sect, 
and says all is going on well, that the Spanish Ambassador's re- 
monstrance will retard nothing in the measures for occupying 
Louisiana, and that the Ambassador himself says no opposition 
will be made by the Govt. ; if so this business will produce no im- 
mediate Embarrassment. 

We yesterday had a Rumour that Mr. Dawson is named Govr. 
of the new acquisition ; but whether this be so, I know not. 
Already as I hear in Connecticut as well as the upper part of this 
State, they are beginning to talk of moving to Louisiana, the 
country which will produce sugar & cotton & corn, &c. &c. ! ! ! 
and there can be no doubt that the project of reserving the Lands 
west of the Mississippi for posterity will be defeated by the Emi- 
grants of the Eastern and Western States. 

The proposed amendment to the Constitution respecting the 
Election of President & Vice President has passed the House, 
and is before the Senate where its fate is sd. to be doubtful. Mr. 
Adams is supposed to approve the alteration, with an alteration 
the purport whereof is not mentioned. Mr. Dayton proposes to 
abolish the office of V. President, & what other schemes may be 
proposed is more than I know. 

In the order of important communications I shd. inform you 
that citizen Jerome Bonaparte arrived here last Evening : he has 
passed some months at Baltimore, a fortnight at Philadelphia, and 
how long he is to honour us with his residence is not foretold. 
At Baltimore he was on the point of being married to a daughter 
of Mr. W. Patterson, but fortunately the young lady was persuaded 
to make a visit to Virginia. The young Prince is said to spend a 

326 RUFUS KING. ,^ [1805 

great deal of money which the Span, ambassador is good enough 
to supply. 

To pass from trifles to what is really interesting, I have a word 
to say respecting some of our friends, Mr. Jay lives retired upon 
his farm at Bedford, W. Chester, 50 miles from Town, which he 
has not visited these last two years. We expect to see him here 
this winter. Excepting the solitude of his situation I hear he lives 
much at his ease and enjoys tolerable health. . . . 

Benson is the same man I left him, except a little older, he 
has been at Boston during the fever, says all our friends are well 
there except Ames, of whom he gives but an indifferent acct. 
Having himself formerly reed, advantage by a voyage to Amster- 
dam, he recommends to Ames to go to the E. Indies for his 
health ! 

Hamilton is at the head of his profession, and in the annual 
rect. of a handsome income. He lives wholly at his house 9. 
miles from town so that on an average he must spend three hours 
a day on the road going and returning between his house and 
town, which he performs four or five days each week, I don't 
perceive that he meddles or feels much concerning Politics. He 
has formed very decided opinions of our System as well as of our 
administration, and as the one and the other has the voice of the 
country, he has nothing to do but to prophecy ! 

G, Morris, who has laid out over 50 or 60 M Dollars in build- 
ings and alterations at Morrisania lives much to his own taste en 
gar(on, receives his friends on Sundays, keeps a good look and 
can talk as decidedly and agreeably, provided you have no theory 
to defend or suggest, as anyone. . . . 

Owing to the fever, which has wholly disappeared, we have 
seen very little of the manners and society of our city since 
our return ; but I think I have such a glimpse already as by 
a sort of anticipation enables one to form a pretty correct opinion 
of them. Jay is a recluse, a rigorous one, and tho' not precisely 
from the same motives, I am not sure that I shd. not prefer the 
like Retreat in preference to the enjoyment of our City Society. 

With affectionate regards &c 

R. K. 

• • • 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 327 

R. King to C. Gore, London. 

New York, Dec. 7, 1803. 
My dr. Sir : 

Our last letters from you were by Mr. Merry, who after a rough 
passage over the ocean and a tedious one up the Chesapeake, 
reached Washington last week. I wish he may find himself tol- 
erably comfortable there, as otherwise his reports will be shaded 
with the discontents he may himself feel. 

The Spanish minister delivered a memorial respecting the sur- 
render of Louisiana, expressing the disinclination of his court 
to comply. The Govt, has notwithstanding determined to take 
possession and a force sufft. to do so, even in case of opposition, 
is ordered to march. I, however, understand that it is not probable 
that any opposition will be made. Except the occasion and con- 
versation that one hears respecting this cession, we have no domes- 
tic object which engages the pub. attention. Whether you are 
invaded in Engd., or will be invaded during the Winter, is a fruitful 
source of dispute. I am a believer that you have not been invaded, 
and that it is not the purpose of Bonaparte to invade England, but 
that his real object is Ireland. 

Our commerce and navigation are checked rather than in- 
creased by the war. The shutting up of Hamburgh and the Reg- 
ulations of France abt. Eng. Man""**^ & Produce, are embarrass- 
ments to our trade. Freights are very low. . . . 

Your faithful friend 
R. K. 

C. Gore to R. King. 

London, December 7, 1803. 
My dear Friend : 

. . . I have a friendly letter from Col. Pickering, in answer 

to one written him on the subject of our outfit * and it has relieved 

my mind from the only anxiety it has suffered, on that subject ; 

* In a previous letter Mr. Gore had written that at the instigation of Mr. 
Pinkney an application would be made to the Government by the Commissioners 
under the 7th Article of the Treaty of Peace for the payment to them of an 
outfit. He had joined in this particularly because of the wants of Mr. P. who 
"had been encouraged to believe the Government would acknowledge its 
propriety and accede to the request." Mr. G. would of course benefit by it if 
granted. 

328 RUFUS KING. ^ [1803 

for all my fears were, that our own friends might disapprove of 
the application. As to the final issue of the claim, or the manner 
in which the Government & its friends shall please to regard and 
treat it, I have not the smallest concern. Pinkney would never 
have forgiven me, had I not joined in the request, and thinking 
as he did upon the subject, he might have had just cause to blame 
my declining to submit the justice of the claim to the Govern- 
ment. I enquired of Mr. Hammond to-day, if there were any 
reason to believe that Russia"was about to change her politics ? 
His reply was that they had not the least intelligence from which 
they could draw any inference. The alarm of invasion seems fast 
subsiding, though no doubt is entertained of the intention to in- 
vade Ireland from Brest, should Admiral Cornwallis be blown off. 
The manner in which this Admiral has kept his station does not 
afford Bonaparte a very good] prospect, and perhaps he is now 
raising a pretext by the levy "^of contributions in the Northern 
States and petty powers,'^for the diversion of his forces from the 
sea. . . . 

Mr. Monroe has lately presented a very temperate memorial on 
the subject of seamen impressed. Not a word has ever passed 
relative to a renewal of the oldjtreaty,!or the making of anew one. 
This I understand not from M., whom I have seen only once, 
though we are on very good terms these three months. M was here 
this morning, and desired Mrs. G. to tell me that his affairs were 
in good train, but I know nothing further — undoubtedly every- 
thing depends on the~i^determination that may be made, whether 
peace shall continue to subsist between the two countries. . . . 

Ever yours 

C. Gore. 

CHAPTER XXII. 

Boundaries Convention with England — Madison to King — King to Madison — 
Answer removing Objections — Madison to King. Mr. Merry's etiquette 
Claims — Gore to King — Personal — Louisiana — Bonaparte's Invasion of 
England. Livingston's Position — Ingersoll to King — House in New York 
— King to Ingersoll — House rented and occupied — Gore to King — Corn- 
wallis watching Brest — King's Views relative to Louisiana — King to Gore 
— Invasion of England — Louisiana Convention — Col. Burr and the Feder- 
alists— Miranda — Merry — Gore to King — Merry and sombre Dispatches — 
Lord Hawkesbury's Opinion — Government seem to consider this a studied 
Affront — Erving told Memorials were not received from Consuls — Gore to 
King — The King's Sickness — Maryland Bank Stock adjusted — Gore about 
returning Home. 

The Convention for the eastern and northwestern boun- 
daries which had been negotiated by Mr. King with the 
British Government, was laid before the Senate for advice 
and consent as to its ratification. Some doubt was felt in 
that body as to whether it conflicted with the Louisiana 
treaty, the signature of which was of an earlier date than 
that of the Boundary Convention. Mr. Henry Adams gives 
an account of the facts concerning this hesitation which the 
following letters will show to be incorrect so far as Mr. King 
is concerned. Speaking of Mr. Merry, he says: 

"At the moment when he was, as he thought, socially mal- 
treated, and when he was told by Madison that America meant 
to insist on her neutral rights, he learned that the Government 
did not intend to ratify Rufus King's boundary convention. The 
Senate held that the stipulations of its fifth article respecting the 
Mississippi might embarrass the new territory west of the river. 
King knew of the Louisiana cession when he signed the treaty ; 

329 

330 RUFUS KING. [1803- 

but the Senate had its own views on the subject, and under the 
lead of General Smith preferred to follow them, as it had done in 
regard to the second article of the treaty with France, Sept. 30, 
1800, and as it was about to do in regard to Pinckney's claims 
convention, Aug. 11, 1802, with Spain. Merry was surprised to 
find Madison, instead of explaining the grounds of the Senate's 
hesitation, or entering into a discussion of the precise geographi- 
cal difficulty, contented himself with a bald statement of the fact. 
The British Minister thought this was not the most courteous way 
of dealing with a treaty negotiated after a full acquaintance with 
all the circumstances, and he wrote to his government to be on its 
guard, &c., &c." 

Mr. Madison could not give the reasons why the Senate 
refused to ratify the Convention, because that body refused 
to withdraw the injunction of secrecy, and therefore they 
were unknown to him. As regards Mr. King's knowledge 
of the cession of Louisiana at the time when he signed the 
Convention, his answer to the Committee of the Senate, of 
which John Quincy Adams was Chairman, inquiring about 
the fact, explicitly denied it and thus removed that objec- 
tion to its ratification. 

James Madison to R. King. 

Washington, Dec. 4, 1803. 
Dear Sir : 

I cannot better fulfill the object of the Committee of which Mr. 
Adams is chairman, than by enclosing you his letter to me accom- 
panying it. Writing from my house, where a copy cannot be con- 
veniently taken, I am induced to avoid delay by sending you the 
original which I ask the favor of you to return with your answer. 

With great esteem I remain 

Your most obedt. servt. 

James Madison. 
[Endorsed by R. King.] 

Copy of letter referred to : 

Sir: 

Some difficulty having arisen in the Senate, in considering the 
expediency of advising and consenting to the ratification of 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 331 

the Treaty of limits, between the U. S. & G. B., signed on the 
1 2th of May, 1803, a comtee. of that body has been appointed to 
enquire and report upon the subject. 

The difficulty arises from the circumstance that the Treaty 
with the French republic,lcontaining the cession of Louisiana, 
was signed on the 30th of April twelve days earlier than that 
with G. Br. and some apprehension is entertained that the Boun- 
dary line contemplated in the 3rd art. of ye. latter, may by a 
possible future construction be pretended to operate as a limita- 
tion to the claims of territory acquired by the U. S. in the former 
of these Instruments. 

But as the Ratification, if it can be effected, without unneces- 
sary delay is a desirable object, it has occurred to the committee 
that Mr. King, may possibly have it in his power to give informa- 
tion which might remove the obstacle ; I have therefore in behalf 
of the comtee. to ask whether from any information in possession 
of your Department, or wh. may be obtained, in such manner as 
you may deem expedient, it can be ascertained whether the 3rd 
art. of the Treaty with G. Br. was concluded with any reference 
whatsoever to that with the Fr. Rep., or with any Right or claim 
wh. the U. S. have acquired by it. 

I am, etc., 
[Signed.] J. Q. Adams. 

Copy of a letter from Mr. King : 

New York, Dec. 9, 1803. 
Sir : 

The draft of the convention with Great Britain respecting 
boundaries, having been settled in previous conferences, was 
drawn up and sent by me to Lord Hawkesbury on the nth of 
April ; on the 12th of May the convention was signed without the 
alteration of a word of the original draft ; and on the 15 of May 
the letter of Messrs. Livingston & Monroe (a copy of which was 
annexed to my No. 100) announcing the treaty of cession with 
France, was received and communicated by me to Lord Hawkes- 
bury. At the date of the signature of the convention with Great 
Britain, I had no knowledge of the Treaty with France and have 
reason to be satisfied, that Lord Hawkesbury was equally unin- 

332 RUFUS KING. [1803- 

formed of it. It results that the Convention was concluded with- 
out any reference whatsoever to the Treaty of Cession with 
France. With much respect &c. 

[Signed.] Rufus King, 

Secretary of State. 

James Madison to R. King. 

Private. 

Washington, Dec. 18, 1S03. 
Dear Sir : 

I have reed, and communicated to the Committee of the Senate 
the information contained in your favor of the 9th which clearly 
shows that the Convention of May 12, with G. Br. is not to be 
construed by any reference to that of April 30, with France. 

I am mortified at troubling you on a subject which more than 
any other is in itself unworthy the attention of either of us, but 
which is obtruded on mine by sensibilities in others which neither 
public prudence nor social considerations will allow to be dis- 
regarded. Since the arrival of Mr. Merry & his lady,* several 
points of ceremony have started up, with respect to which it will 
be convenient to learn the usage abroad, particularly in England, 
where your station must have involved some acquaintance with 
it. Will you allow me then to ask the following questions : 

I. On the arrival of a foreign minister, is the first visit paid by 
him or the ministers of the country? 2. To which is the prece- 
dence given in scenes of a more public ceremony and of ordinary 
hospitalities ? 3. Is the order of attention precisely the same in 
the case of ladies, as of their husbands ? 

* " The President's contempt of courtly niceties caused some trouble in dip- 
lomatic circles. Merry, the new British Minister, took deep offense at the 
President's republican humors. Proceeding in full dress at an appointed hour 
to make his first official call, in company \Aath the Secretary of State, he found 
the hall of audience empty, and instead, came upon the President in a narrow 
entry, from which he had to back out in order to get introduced ; Jefferson, 
appearing, to his amazement, in a slovenly undress, with slippers down at the 
heel and Connemara stockings. When he and his wife dined afterwards at the 
White House Jefferson took to the table, not Mrs. Merry, but the lady nearest 
him, the wife of the Secretary of State. This he conceived to be a new insult 
and, notwithstanding Monroe's wife was similarly treated at London, he de- 
clined further social hospitalities from the President, and when the latter made 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 333 

Our wish would be to unfetter social intercourse as well as 
public business as much as possible from ceremonious clogs, by 
substituting the pell mell ; but this may be rendered difficult by 
the pretentions & expectations opposed to it. And as it is proper 
that we should not be behind other nations either in civility or 
self-respect, it is well to know the manner in which other nations 
respect both us and themselves. This information will be per- 
tinent, whether a reciprocity in the object, or the right possessed 
in every country be exercised of establishing a practice for itself. 

To enable you to give the apter shape to your answer to the 
third enquiry, it may be proper to remark, that it refers among 
other particulars to that long used at the President's as well as 
elsewhere, of selecting the lady first handed to the table. In 
general this mark of civility has been shown to the ladies of for- 
eign Ministers ; but was it seems disapproved of and at one time 
varied by the last President. The practice of the present has 
been different, without however adverting to precedents, or rather 
supposing it to be conformable to them, and without an intimation 
of discontent anywhere, till the late occasion, which has produced 
it from several quarters. 

T will thank you not to delay your answer longer than you con- 
veniently may require. I would have preferred waiting till I have 
the promised pleasure of seeing you here, but that you make the 
weather a condition of your visit, and that some occasion may 
in the mean time arise, on which the information asked may be 
apropos. With great respect & esteem I am, Dear Sir, 

yr. mo. obedt. Servt. 

James Madison. 

overtures to arrange the difficulty administered an airy rebuke. D'Yrujo, who 
had acquiesced nearly three years in the President's practice, made common 
cause with Merry on this point. An explanation to the British Ministry fol- 
lowed. Merry's wife was thought to be the chief agent in producing what was 
a mere misunderstanding." — Note in Schouler, Hist, of U. States^ vol. ii., p. 81. 

Mr. Henry Adams, Hist, of U. S., vol. ii., pp. 360 et seq., gives a full 
account of these matters and of the effect of his treatment on Mr. Merry, who 
deeply resented the slight which he considered had been put upon him, and it 
will be seen that his dispatches to his government reflected his feelings and 
gave an idea that the administration of Mr. Jefferson was determined to make 
more decided demands upon England for the settlement of pending questions. 

See also Mr. Madison's letters to Mr. Monroe, Letters, arc., of James 
Madison, vol. ii., pp. 188, 195. 

4 

334 RUFUS KING. [1803- 

Mr. Henry Adams, Hist, of U. States, vol. il., p. 365, after 
quoting Mr. Jefferson's " Canons of Etiquette to be observed 
by the Executive," says: '' Such according to Rufus King, 
whose aid was invoked on this occasion, was the usage in 
London." It is hardly probable that this is correct, and the 
Editor is at a loss to know from what source Mr. A. derived 
his information. A careful search for an answer by Mr. 
King to the letter of Mr. Madison, has been made but none 
can be found in the public correspondence or in that in the 
Editor's possession. As Mr. Madison's letter is marked 
private, the answer was probably also private. 

C. Gore to R. King. 

London, December 20, 1803. 
My dear Friend : 

. . . The Minerva arrived from Boston about a week since, 
and it is almost settled that we embark in her. She will probably 
quit this the beginning of March. . . . We exceedingly re- 
joice at your promise of visiting us next summer, and be assured 
we shall not rest satisfied without a performance. There are no 
persons whom it would afford us such sincere pleasure again to 
meet, and my own affairs & professional pursuits will not permit 
me for a year or two to move far from town. It is unnecessary 
for me to say that nothing would tempt me to engage in public 
life, under those who now rule our country, for nothing is more 
certain than that they would not employ me. Yet I may be 
permitted to remark, that so different are all their notions & con- 
duct from what I conceive wise & honest, that were their dispo- 
sitions towards me exactly the reverse of what I know them to 
be, mine could not change, and of course I could not move in 
their train. . . . 

It is to me inconceivable how men, entertaining a proper sense 
of duty, could proceed with such intemperate haste in ratifying 
the Louisiana treaty. That with Spain was, without any question, 
executory, so far as related to the cession of the country to 
France, and surely, they, who were about to oblige the U. S. to 
the payment of a large sum & the performance of other stipula- 

'804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 335 

tions, ought to see that France had the right to convey. One 
would expect that such rash & imprudent measures could not 
fail to discover to the people, whose affairs they thus mismanage, 
their utter incapacity to preside over the concerns of a great 
nation. 

The expectation of Bonaparte's attempt to invade England 
daily lessens. The papers, which I send by this ship will (besides 
showing you, in the Courier, the opinion entertained of the Presi- 
dent's message) communicate the intelligence of a misunderstand- 
ing between Bavaria & Austria. Nothing more is yet known than 
the simple fact, as related in the papers. Whether it proceeds 
from the hasty & imprudent temper of the Elector, or from the 
intrigues of France to occasion a quarrel between those powers, 
and avail herself of this occasion to find plunder for her troops 
on the continent, and an apology for quitting the coast, is all 
matter of conjecture. It is said by some who pretend to know, 
that the character of England is rising and that of France falling 
in the eyes of Europe ; that these nations begin to see the justice 
of the British cause, and that the war is entirely owing to the 
ambition of the Consul. If such an alteration of sentiment has 
really been produced, in my opinion it is owing to a conviction 
on the part of those, who have changed their judgment, that 
Bonaparte can not execute his threats on England, & is therefore 
determined to turn his arms on them. . . . 

A letter came here a few days ago from Swan to young Mr. 
Higginson whom you know, saying that the Virginia faction 
thwarted all Mr. L's views ; that never was anything more abomi- 
nable than the attempt of M. to assume any share of the merit in 
gaining Louisiana ; that the Government only supported the 
claim of the latter to avoid the charge of misspending the public 
money in sending him out ; and, finally, that the Federalists 
ought to support him L. as Vice President at the next election, 
and begging him H. to write out so to his friends in America. From 
what is said in another quarter here, I have little doubt but the 
present administn. intend to discard him & his connections. It 
will rely entirely on Southern & Western influences for continuing 
in power and leave the Northern & Eastern States to perish for 
their ingratitude in poverty & disgrace. . . . 

Truly yours C. Gore. 

336 RUFUS KING. [1803- 

A letter from Mr. Charles J. Ingersoll, who had been on 
very intimate social relations with Mr. King and his family in 
London during the former's residence in Europe, shows that 
he had not forgotten those from whom he had received much 
kindness. It is dated Dec. 6, 1803. 

" I am told you have bo't a house and are settling down in the 
Broadway. As you may suppose I often look towards you with 
pleasure and gratitude ; and for some weeks past I have been 
about enquiring of you and yours. 

" J'espere que madame se trouve a son aise dans la nouvelle 
maison, et qu'elle I'a meuble et garni a son gout. I tender the 
homage of my most respectful consideration to Edward who I 
hope has found a Vauxhall in New York. Little Master Gore by 
this time, I guess, can ask for his bread and butter. 

" I am jogging along my professional path ; my father nudges 
me along, and the Governor has given me a publick room adjoin- 
ing the Court, where I have established my desk and armchair ; 
so that they say I do tolerably well. The U. S. Government looks 
to me like a salt monster, 180 miles too big ; * if it don't vanish I 
flatter myself it must dissolve. 

" Our State rulers threaten to toss away that excrescence on 
civilization, the bar ; and Counsellor Ingersoll declares he '11 go 
to New York — all the eminent lawyers have their eyes on one city 
or another to remove to in case of extremes." . . . 

R. King to Chas. J. Ingersoll. 

New York, December 21, 1803. 
Dear Sir : 

When we have but little to do, we are prone to lose our habits 
of regularity, and I can offer you no better excuse for my delay 
in replying to the obliging letter that I lately received from you. 
I am glad to hear that you have seriously taken an office and en- 
gaged in business, as I am firmly persuaded you will succeed to 

*A thought probably prompted by the publication by the President about 
this time of the existence of a mountain of pure rock-salt in Louisiana " 180 
miles long & 45 wide and 400 feet high," as one of the precious benefits derived 
by the purchase of that Province. 

1804] J-'IFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 337 

your satisfaction and acquire distinction, if you have patience and 
will persevere. 

During our fever, we resided at Greenwich : about three weeks 
ago I gave up my house there and removed to town, having taken,, 
not purchased as you had heard, Mr. Peter Livingston's house in 
Broadway. My lease will expire on May day, before which I 
must seek another habitation. Mrs. K. enjoys her health as she 
was accustomed to do before we went abroad, and better than at 
any period during our absence. Little Fritz bore the summer 
well and will, we hope, carry his rosy cheeks thro' the winter. 
Edward, who has for want of something better been a day 
scholar in a French school near my house in the country, is just 
preparing to go to Mr. Harris, a clergyman of good education 
and accustomed to the instruction of boys, who will receive him 
into his family. He lives a few miles out of town, so that I should 
have no apprehension in his remaining with him in the event cf 
another fever. 

We often hear from our sons in England, who are, I flatter my- 
self, doing as well as I have any right to expect. From James 
(in Paris) we do not receive frequent accounts ; our last letter 
was written in September when he was well and happy. I had 
thought of bringing him home next spring, but I am so little satis- 
fied with our academies here, that I have determined to leave him 
abroad some time longer. 

As no one is more out of politics than I am, you must expect 
nothing from me on this interesting topic : I have talked about 
going to Washington in the course of the winter, but as I am snug 
by my fire side, with my books about me, I suspect my voyage 
will begin and end in talk. 

With sincere regard &c &c 

RuFus King, 

C. Gore to R. King. 

London, December 23, 1803;. 
My dear Friend : 

. . . Col. Livingston left there (Paris) but not having given^^ 
his address, it is very probable I may not see him. Notwithstand- 
ing what the papers chose to say on the subject, there is fla 
probability that Talleyrand has confided anything to him. On. 

VOL, IV. 22. 

338 RUFUS KING. [1803- 

Wednesday, Hammond did not believe that he was in England ; 
the papers said he arrived on Monday. The Courier will an- 
nounce the arrangement of the misunderstanding between Austria 
& Bavaria. Some of the gales have been tremendous, but, with 
the persevering spirit of a true Eng. Bull-dog, Cornwallis keeps 
his station off Brest. An idea is entertained that should the fleet 
come out, the British will waste their time and powder on the 
armed ships & that in the mean while the transports will be able 
to proceed with their troops. It is, however, said, that the in- 
tention is to pay the principal, if not their whole, attention to 
destruction of the transports. Occurrences daily happen, which 
go far to support an idea of the utter impracticability of crossing 
the channel hostilely in these flat bottom boats. 

Affectionately yours 

C. Gore. 

Dec. 29. . . . It is understood that some of Cornwallis' 
squadron have been obliged to come into port. The storm on 
Christmas day was extremely violent. I do not know the grounds, 
but by the appearances abroad, it would seem that the Admin, 
really expect the attempt at invasion will be shortly hazarded. 

yours as ever 

C. G. 

With this letter of Mr. Gore's, the correspondence for the 
year 1803 closes. Mr. King, as he says, was out of politics 
and was quietly enjoying the pleasure of social intercourse 
among the friends about him and the company of his books. 
But he seems to have been interested in the discussion of 
the different points suggested by the acquisition of 
Louisiana. Several papers are found among his manuscripts, 
which are given in an appendix. They appear to have been 
written for publication, but if they were published, they 
cannot be traced. As however they present his views rela- 
tive to the extent of the Territory purchased, based upon a 
critical examination of its history, and to the question of 
the wisdom of the purchase, they will be given as they are 
found. 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 339 

R. King to C. Gore. 

London, Jany. 4, 1804. 
My dear Friend : 

. . . I am a little sceptical concerning the invasion of Eng- 
land although Bonaparte would play a deep game by doing nothing 
except to garnish the coast with his Battalions, & to build flat 
bottom Boats. I do not think this Fabian mode of war is in his 
-character, and therefore conclude that a grand Project will some- 
where be attempted. Perhaps when the Eng. fleets are driven off 
the Enemy coasts, the Dutch & French & Ferrol fleets will 
attempt a combined operation by the invasion of Ireland. Per- 
haps the show is in the West, and the real efforts are making in 
the East to pass an army into the Morea by crossing the Adriatic 
. . . These are however mere Speculations and of the worst 
sort as they are not founded upon any kind of information. 
. . . I can only hope as I earnestly do, that no sinister Event 
may endanger the security of the nation where you are, which 
may be regarded as the principal and almost the sole Barrier 
agt. an Evil that menaces every Country. 

Things here go on in the order which those who direct them 
wish, and are pleased with. The Louisiana Business will be 
carried into effect according to the provisions of the Treaty. 
Already we have accounts of the delivery of the Colony to the 
French Prefect, who has notified the inhabitants that he expects 
the American Commissioners at N. Orleans and shall surrender 
the Country to the U. S. This will be done and we shall enter 
peaceably into the Possession & Government. 

You will see in the news papers the debates respecting the 
Constitutionality of certain of the Articles of the Treaty. 
• Whether the Govt, will admit the force of the objections, and 
submit an amendment to the States, by which Congress may be 
authorized to carry the Treaty into effect or recommend to 
Congress to do so as the Constitution stands, is more than I am 
able to decide, and is a question if I mistake not with which those 
who have to determine it are not a little embarrassed. 

In our quarter, the western acquisition, by which I mean the 
Territory over the River, is not liked and I think it seems to be 
pretty generally wished that the Govt, would exchange it for the 
Floridas. This in my view would be the best mode of avoiding 

340 RUFUS KING. [1803- 

the otherwise great Difficulties of various kinds which will be sure 
to arise. From the tenor of the President's message at the open- 
ing of Congress, this will not be done, as he tali^ of the uses of 
this Region to which our Posterity are to apply it. If our Govt, be 
even willing, the consent of France must be had, before we can 
make this Exchange, or in any way dispose of this Country ; 
a Right inconvenient to us and of no honest value to France, and 
reserved therefore for mischievous ends. 

As to the next Election, there can be no doubt that the Pr. 
will be re-elected — a Vice President of the same Politics is also 
sure to be chosen, if the amendment of the Constitution takes 
Place of wh. there can scarcely be doubt. Whether it will be 
Col. Burr or some other Person is not mentioned. The former 
Genan. is in a deep minority with his Party here, and is making con- 
siderable efforts to better his situation, as the London servants 
say ; but if the Federalists are steady he must fail ; on this point 
however after what happened at the election at Washington 
one can never feel at ease. I sent you the Examination : the 
object of v.'hich is to repel the charge that Col. Burr intrigued 
with the Federalists to become President — or in other words to 
reconcile himself to the Democrats who have suspected him. It 
is curious that at the moment of this publication, and ever since, 
the friends of Col. Burr are making overtures to the Federalists 
to elect him Governor of this state in opposition to Gov. Clinton. 
Such are the inconsistencies that some men can practice and such 
the intellect of the Community which they must despise. . . 

We hear that there is some Buzz at Washington concerning 
Merry's Reception. The day and hour were appointed for his 
first audience, and he was attended by the Sec'y of State. Mr. 
Jefferson rec'd him in his slippers, and altogether in an undress ! 
— at least such is our report. . . . 

I write to the boys, who are now at the Abbe's, and shall again 
propose to them to talk with you concerning their future profes- 
sions. I should like, were it practicable, to decide immediately 
which of the three boys I shall put into the House of Sir F. 
Baring, as in this case I should wish you to converse with Sir 
Francis respecting the subject before your embarkation. Genl. 
M (iranda) has I conclude left England before this date. If the 
question is at length settled v/ith Spain, as it shd. have been 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 34 1 

months ago, he may yet see his wishes accomplished. He «S: you 
know my sentiments on this subject, which nothing can alter. I 
do not write to the Genl., because I am expecting to hear of him 
in another quarter. Should he make a beginning, the news wd. 
electrify this country, which contains an immense number of indi- 
viduals who would be ready to take up their Bed and walk. 

Yrs. affectionately, 
R. K. 

C. Gore to R. King. 

London, February 8, 1804. 
My dear Friend : 

Since I last wrote we have received your favours of Nov. 20 & 
Dec. 7 and January. 4. The boys left us about a fortnight ago for 
Harrow. They were perfectly well, and so conducted themselves 
during the vacation. John at present seems inclined to the pro- 
fession of law, & Charles, so far as he has any predilections, to 
that of a merchant. . , . 

What you feared has certainly come to pass. M's dispatches 
are truly of a very sombre hue. The reception of the Prest., the 
details of leading into dinner, &c. &c. were as particularly re- 
counted, as the wounded pride of the Lady, or the injured dig- 
nity of the Minister could possibly require. The want of 
accommodation there, high prices, bad or rather no markets, lead 
them to view the seat of our philosophic empire, if not the 
philosophers themselves, with great disgust. The Convention 
you subscribed here, the President declined for a time to ratify, 
making a reservation of Louisiana. Now it is said, he will ratify, 
making a reservation of any rights that may have accrued to us, 
by the cession of this country. H. says he hopes to God the 
admin, here will not take the ratification so made. It is fur- 
ther believed, that Monroe has orders to propose an arrangement 
of the business of seamen, by a convention, in which G. B. 
shall agree, that the American Flag shall protect all persons who 
sail under it. The Under-Sec. is outrageous, but his superiors, 
operated upon much as are some other great men in the West, may 
act according to existing circumstances, though my persuasion is 
that they will not yield that point. 

Feb'y 9. Yesterday Pinkney & myself dined at Ld. Hawkes- 

342 RUFUS KING. [1803- 

bury's. His Lordship there took me aside & mentioned the 
unpleasant accounts they had received from Washington. I de- 
clared my regrets that anything should arise to afford occasion 
therefor, that it would be a pity if circumstances, in themselves 
really trifling & of no public consequence, should be suffered to 
produce a coolness between the Govt, of the U. S. and the Rep. 
of his Majesty ; that without pretending to judge as to the real 
weight or importance, that should be ascribed to what he alluded^ 
I was sure he would concur with me in the opinion, that wisdom 
dictated a total disregard of personal considerations & trivial cir- 
cumstances in weighing the just and important relations of two 
countries situated as were the U. S. & G. B., especially at this 
highly interesting & convulsed state of Europe. While he agreed 
with me in these reflections, he said Mr. M. (erry) had taken 
particular pains to enquire of Mr. Liston & Mr. Hammond, what 
was the etiquette observed when they were in the U. S., that he 
might neither claim nor expect more respect or attention than 
was the custom. I only replied that surely Mr. M. did appear to 
me to go out with a disposition favourable to the harmony & inter- 
ests of the two nations, and that I hoped that if Mr. M. saw that 
whatever course had been adopted was alike to all the foreign 
ministers, both himself & his Majesty's Govt, would not feel in it 
any particular cause of dissatisfaction, & at least not to suffer it 
to have more influence than its intrinsic importance demanded. 
I was sorry to find however that it has & will have considerable 
weight in the minds of this Govt. Without particularising, it is 
certain he principally referred to the leading into dinner & seating 
at table. In this silly business, they probably see here a disposi- 
tion to affront England, and it will with others, increase a grow- 
ing discontent with us. He then remarked to me about your 
convention, and said explicitly that the Government, if it came 
back as they had reason to fear, would not consent to a ratifica- 
tion. Dinner was announced and we parted, he saying that he 
would ask another opportunity of conferring further on these sub- 
jects before my departure. If he should I will surely do every- 
thing in my power to soften & diminish the growing prejudice 
against our Government, the effects whereof we shall feel when- 
ever G. B. is more at her ease in her European relations. After 
dinner, at which were several of the foreign Ministers, and two or 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 343 

three of the nobility, he called on me to take some wine & said 
he would give one toast, by my consent, which was Mr. King. 
This was drunk & such remarks made afterwards on the subject 
of it, as were gratifying to all (how relished by P. I cannot say) 
but they were such as would insure your condemnation by all 
the Democrats of our country. 

Some few weeks ago, Erving, as Consul, sent a memorial to 
Lord Hawksbury relative to a vessel that was here in distress, 
with a request that the cargo, which was oil & in a leaky state, 
might be unladen &c, &c, and saying that the parties had applied 
to Mr. Monroe for his interference, who after examining the sub- 
ject & finding it purely commercial, referred them to the Consul. 
A note was returned saying that it was the invariable usage of the 
office to receive no memorials from Consuls, that if Mr. Monroe 
would make any application relative to the interests of his Gov- 
ernment, or its citizens, it would be attended to with all the 
promptness that its nature required, and especially in the case al- 
luded to. Monroe made no application, and the man's oil, I 
presume, goes on wasting. They conceive here that it is Jeffer- 
son's intention to disgust all foreign ministers at Washington, and 
by degrees insinuate Consuls into the business at foreign courts, 
and when these Genln. shall retire from our Government, leave all 
affairs to be transacted by Commercial Agents. This may be his 
scheme, especially as it would be cheaper & by multiplying certifs., 
he might impose all the expense on the merchants trading to the 
different countries. 

Genl. M. is still here, waiting the decision of the Government 
in relation to Spain. Possibly an original error in not consider- 
ing it as a party in the war, is the cause of the present delay & of 
all the subsequent errors. 

. . We shall probably sail in the beginning of March. We 
are to execute our last awards on Saturday next. Two cases yet 
hang in the Courts, one in the admir'ty, & the other before the 
Lords : these Svvaby has consented to decide that I may not lose 
my passage. . . , 

Ever &: affectionately yours 

C. Gore. 

344 RUFUS KING. [1803- 

Thomas Jefferson to R. ^ing. 

Washington, Feby 17, 1804. 
Sir : 

I now return you the M.S. History of Bacon's rebellion with 
many thanks for the communication. It is really a valuable mor- 
sel in the history of Virginia. That transaction is the more 
marked as it was the only rebellion or insurrection which had ever 
taken place in the colony before the American revolution. Neither 
its cause nor course have been well understood, the public records 
containing little on the subject. It is very long since I read the 
several histories of Virginia, but the impression remaining in my 
mind was not at all that which this writer gives ; and it is impos- 
sible to refuse assent to the candor & simplicity of his story. I 
have taken the liberty of copying it, which has been the reason 
for the detention of it. I had an opportunity of communicating 
it to a person who was just putting into the press a history of Vir- 
ginia, but still in a situation to be corrected. I think it possible 
that among the antient MSS. I possess at Monticello, I may be able 
to trace the author. I shall endeavour to do it the first visit I 
make to that place ; and if with success, I will do myself the 
pleasure of communicating it to you ; from the public records 
there is no hope, as they were destroyed by the British, I believe, 
very completely, during their invasion of Virginia. Accept my 
salutations and assurances of high consideration and respect. 

Th. Jefferson. 

C. Gore to R. King. 

London, February 19, 1804. 
My dear Sir : 

By the newspapers which I have put on board the Oneida Chief 
you will see that the King is seriously indisposed. I learn that 
the stories about his having the dropsy are altogether untrue, but 
he is violently mad. It has been coming on for some time, and 
said to have been occasioned at first by drinking cold water, when 
very warm. The night before last he slept seven hours, awoke 
perfectly collected, took his medicines & eat his food as he should 
do. From this some hopes are entertained that he may recover, 
but I doubt if they be very strong. . . . 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 345 

The Maryland Bank Stock is through the Chancery & the costs 
adjusted. So it only remains to pass from the crown, which will 
be impeded by the King's malady. We execute our last awards 
to-day & close next week. . . 

Yours ever & affectionately 

C. Gore. 

C. Gore to R. King. 

London, February 29, 1804. 
My dear Friend : 

I have only time to say that we expect to leave town on Satur- 
day for Gravesend, where we embark. Our commission closed 
with perfect harmony on the 23d inst. I can only say that per- 
sonally I have been treated by Ld. H. & Hammond with great 
kindness & attention. The King is better ; this, I understand 
from those who wish it, and those who think the public good may 
be promoted by a different dispensation of Providence. . . . 

C. Gore. 

CHAPTER XXIII. 

Grievances and Suggestions of certain Federalists for a Separation of the New- 
England States — Proposal to nominate King for Governor of the State of 
New York — Hamilton to King — Urging him to allow himself to be nomi- 
nated— King to Hamilton — He declines — Plan of Separation of the North- 
ern States — Pickering — Cabot — Wolcott — Conversation with King about 
a Separation — J. Q. Adams — Conversation with King on the Same — Ham- 
ilton's Views adverse to the Plan — Pickering to King — Louisiana — Judge 
Pickering's Trial — Pickering to King — Plan of Separation — King to Pick- 
ering— Protection of Seamen — Cabot to King — Experiment of Separation 
of the States. 

At the close of a letter from Mr. King to Mr. Gore, Sep- 
tember 6, 1803, p. 303 in this volume, he remarks: '' Not- 
withstanding the satisfaction of the negotiators with their 
performance, I believe that Govt, is and will be embar- 
rassed with the cession [of Louisiana], which may become 
the immediate cause of very important political events 
among the States." It was not long before the correctness 
of this opinion was manifested by the debates in the Senate 
and House on the provisions for carrying out the Conven- 
tions and by subsequent events. 

The constant troubles with the Spanish authorities at New 
Orleans, interfering with the navigation of the Mississippi 
and the commerce of the western portions of the United 
States, induced Mr. Jefferson to endeavor by purchase to 
become possessed of New Orleans and the adjacent districts, 
and thus secure the free navigation of the river. Mr. Liv- 
ingston, who was sent to France as Minister, when he found 
that Louisiana had been transferred to that country, en- 
deavored to accomplish the purchase ; but to his astonish- 
ment he was in the end offered the whole of Louisiana, with 

346 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 347 

New Orleans, at a price which seemed not too large. The 
First Consul's necessities suggested the offer, the treaty of 
purchase was made and, when received in the United States, 
was accepted by the President and ratified by the Senate. 
So far all seemed well, although the objections made to the 
ratification by the Federalists showed that the action was 
hasty and that the provisions of the Conventions were such 
as involved serious constitutional questions. The President 
himself had believed that an amendment to the Constitution 
would be required to make this addition, with its peculiar 
provisions, to the territory of the United States ; but his 
friends in the Senate had set aside the scruples and ratified 
the agreement. 

When, however, it became necessary to make the appro- 
priations for the payment and to provide a government for 
the new territory, the objections to the Conventions were 
again brought forward, and a stern opposition was made by 
the Federalists on the broad constitutional question, and 
especially upon the clause in the Convention that " the in- 
habitants of the ceded territory should be incorporated in 
the Union of the United States " with all the rights and 
privileges of the citizens of the United States. They con- 
tended that there was no power which ** was competent to 
such an act of incorporation " ; that therefore " this could 
not be effected without an amendment of the Constitution," 
an amendment which would require " the assent of each in- 
dividual State and all of them to admit " a foreign country 
as an associate in the Union." Besides they contended 
that the New England States by the admission of this 
territory, with the government of it in the control of the 
administration and its friends, chiefly in Virginia, would be 
cut off from their proper influence in the affairs of the nation. 
Their opposition was of no avail ; the money was appropri- 
ated, the territorial government established, no constitutional 
amendment was adopted, and Virginia and the republican 
party carried their measures. 

But the end was not here. Another amendment to the 

34^ RUFUS KING. [180/ 

Constitution had been passed through the same Congress, 
providing for a change in the manner of electing the Presi- 
dent and Vice-President. Two candidates for the ofifice of 
President had hitherto been voted for: the one receiving the 
highest vote was to be President and the other Vice-Presi- 
dent. The election of Mr. Jefferson had been placed in 
jeopardy by this provision, and his friends, who had de- 
cided upon his re-election and a possible succession of 
■other Virginians, determined, if possible, to prevent any in- 
terference with their plans, and brought forward the amend- 
ment by which the candidates for each office should be 
designated and the choice of President could only be made 
from among those voted for as such. 

To this strong and earnest objections were made by the 
Federalists, who contended that by this provision it would be 
impossible ever to elect a Federal president,^ as by a com- 
bination of the larger States, they could control the election 
and thus the smaller States would have their privileges cur- 
tailed, privileges which under the existing balances of the 
Constitution they might enjoy. This and other reasons 
were ably presented as objections to the proposed change, 
but it was passed by the same dominant party through 
Congress, and was ratified by a sufficient number of the 
States to make it valid. Its wisdom has not yet been proved 
though it still continues to be the law. 

As if to rouse the Federalists still more and to make them 
afraid that every balance of the Constitution might be de- 
stroyed, the attempt to tamper with the judiciary and to re- 
duce it also to a political machine was the next step adopted 
by the friends of the administration. In the debates which 
took place in the impeachment of two of the judges of the 
U. States Courts, it was openly suggested that even the 

* Indeed, Mr. Cooke of Tennessee avowed that this was one of their objects. 
He said *' that the majority of the Republicans might obtain the man of their 
choice, and, with certainty, prevent the election of either a President or Vice 
President from the Federalists." Mr. Taylor of Virginia suggested that the 
proposed amendment would finally destroy the minority. 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 349 

Supreme Court, the only department the administration 
could not control, the buttress of the Constitution, should 
be subjected to the power of Congress, by changing 
the tenure of office which made the judges independent of 
the other departments. Happily the threatened change 
was averted and that court still maintains its high and inde- 
pendent character. 

A considerable number of the leading Federalists, Messrs. 
Pickering,* Tracy, Griswold, and others, who had already 
been outraged by the removal of their friends from office, 
saw danger in these various movements and endeavored to 
arouse their friends to resist further encroachments upon the 
Constitution by the party which now dominated the country. 
They truly loved their country, and were among those who 
had laid its foundations so as to secure, as they believed, its 
prosperity, but they thought it best that the New England 
States, to which they belonged, should, for self-protection, 
separate themselves from those who were threatening, by 
other measures also, to destroy their proper share in the 
benefits of the Union. They, therefore, took measures, by 
correspondence and concert of action, to endeavor to bring 
about a separation, but felt that without the assistance of 
New York, they could not hope to succeed. They, therefore, 
sought the assistance of Aaron Burr, who had been re- 
jected by his party f and offered himself to them, to accom- 
plish their object. He had been nominated as a candidate 
for the office of Governor of New York and it was hoped by 
many Federalists, that with their help he might be elected 
and thus be ready to forward their schemes, which he seemed 

* See T. Pickering's letter, March 4, 1804, R. King's Life, p. 363. 

f Schouler, Hist, of U. S., vol. ii., p. 59, says: " At a dinner in honor of 
the event [the peaceful acquisition of Louisiana] on January 27, 1804, at 
Stelle's Hotel, Capitol Hill, which the Republican Members of Congress and 
high officials generally attended, ' the general applause indicated that Jefferson 
would be put forward for a second term, while Burr, who was one of the guests, 
would be dropped. Not long after, at a caucus of the Republican Senators and 
Representatives (February 28th), Jefferson was nominated for President unani- 
mously, with George Clinton as his associate for Vice-President." 

350 RUFUS KING. [1804 

. % 

inclined to do. Happily he was defeated and the hope of 
assistance through him by the plotters was destroyed. 

But this was not the only drawback to the success of their 
plans. They found positive objections and a refusal to 
entertain their propositions by those Federalists, Messrs. 
Hamilton, King, Cabot, and others, whom they looked upon 
as the head of that party, and whose assistance it was neces- 
sary to obtain, and as a consequence the whole scheme fell 
through. 

Before proceeding with the correspondence relative to the 
details of the proposed separation of certain States from the 
Union, it may be well to bring forward the narrative of cer- 
tain events, which, to a certain extent, have been hinted at. 
In a letter of January 27, 1803,^ addressed by Mr. Sedgwick 
to General Hamilton, in anticipation of Mr. King's return 
home, he spoke strongly of the advisability of holding the 
Federal control of the State governments and recommended 
the nomination of Mr. King to the office of Governor of the 
State of New York, to which he thought it possible he 
might be elected, and in which he might '* do infinitely more 
good than in the inefficient office of Vice-President. Gen- 
eral Pinckney must in all events be considered the candidate 
for the first office. . . . Should Mr. King be holden up 
for this office (the Vice-Presidency), it would lessen, at least, 
the probability of success for the government of New York." 

The friends of Mr. King continued, however, to desire his 
election to the office of Vice-President, for at a public 
dinner of the Federalists in Washington on February 22, 
1804, at which Mr. Pickering presided, Messrs. Pinckney 
and King were by consent nominated as their candidates 
for the Presidency and Vice-Presidency, but without desig- 
nation as to which should have the precedence ; though at a 
subsequent and much later meeting Mr. Pinckney was 
named for the first office. 

In the meantime, Mr. Clinton having been chosen as the 
Republican candidate for the Vice-Presidency, Mr. Burr was 

* R. King's Life^ vol. iv., p. 215, 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 35 1 

left out in the cold. The New York Governorship was still 
unsettled, and he hoped, as had been said, by the help of the 
dissatisfied Federalists, to succeed in reaching it. The Fed- 
eralists who remained loyal to their party views desired, as 
had been suggested by Mr. Sedgwick a year before, a candi- 
date upon whom they could unite and bring back those who 
were wandering away to the support of Mr. Burr. It would 
appear from the two following letters, that Mr. King, un- 
consulted, was proposed as their candidate. 

The letter of General Hamilton was written from Albany, 
where he was engaged in defending the liberty of the press 
against the construction of the judge that he alone could 
decide whether an article was libellous or not, and the jury 
could only determine the question of pubHcation. He con- 
tended that the dictum " the greater the truth, the greater 
the libel," was contrary to the " genius of our civil institu- 
tions and manifestly a palpable outrage on human rights, 
common justice, and even common sense, . . . that the 
liberty of the Press consists in publishing with impunity the 
Truth with good motives and for justified ends, whether it 
related to men or measures. ... If the intent be a 
subject of enquiry, the giving of the Truth in evidence is 
requisite as a means to determine the intent." 

While this important trial of an editor was going on, the 
canvass for candidates for Governor occupied the minds of 
those assembled in Albany and it was carried on with great 
warmth : the letter given shows how earnestly Hamilton 
sought to avert the calamity which was threatening in the 
nomination of Burr by the aid of the Federalists. 

A. Hamilton to R. King.* 

Albany, February 24, 1804. 
My dear Sir : 

You will have heard before this reaches you of the fluctuations 
and changes which have taken place in the measures of the reign- 
ing party, as to a candidate for Governor ; and you will probably 
also have been informed that pursuant to the opinions expressed 

* See also Hamilton's Works ^ vi., 559. 

352 RUFUS KING. , [1804 

by our friends before I left New York, I had taken an open part 
in favour of Mr. Lansing. 

It is a fact to be regretted, though anticipated, that the federal- 
ists, very extensively, had embarked with zeal in the support of 
Mr. Burr ; yet an impression to the contrary and in favour of Mr. 
Lansing had been made & there was good ground to hope that a 
proper direction, in the main, might have been given to the cur- 
rent of federalism. The substitution of Mr. Lewis has essentially 
varied the prospect ; and the best informed among us here agree 
that the Federalists as a body could not be diverted from Mr. 
Burr to Mr. Lewis by any efforts of leading characters, if they 
should ever deem the support of the latter expedient. 

Though I have no reason to think that my original calculation 
was wrong, while the competition was between Clinton & Burr^ 
yet from the moment the former declined, I began to consider the 
latter as having a chance of success. It v.-as still however my re- 
liance that Lansing would outrun him ; but now that Chief Justice 
Lewis is the competitor, the probability of success in my judg- 
ment inclines to Mr. Burr. 

Thus situated two questions have arisen ; ist, whether a federal 
candidate ought not to be run as a means of defeating Mr. Burr, 
and of keeping the federalists from becoming a personal faction 
allied to him ; 2nd, whether in the conflict of parties as they now 
stand, the strongest of them disconcerted and disjointed, there 
would not be a considerable hope of success for a Federal candi- 
date. 

These questions have received no solution in scarcely any one's 
mind ; but it is agreed that if an attempt is to be made, you must 
be the candidate. There is no other man among us, under whose 
standard either fragment of the democratic party could as easily 
rally. It is enough to say, you have been absent during the time 
in which party animosities have become matured and fixed, and 
therefore are much less than any other distinguished federalist an 
object of them. 

To detach the Federalists from Burr, they must believe two 
things — one, that we are in earnest as to our candidate, and that 
it is not a mere diversion ; the other, that there is some chance of 
success. All believe, & some leading democrats admit, that if 
either of the two democratic rival parties should come to expect 
a defeat, they would arrange themselves under your banners. 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 353 

Reflect well on all these things and make up your mind, in case 
you should be invited to consent. I have not time to enlarge. 

Yrs very truly 

A. Hamilton. 

Mr. King's letter was written on the same day as the above 
in New York, and explains itself.* 

R. King to Genl. Hamilton, Albany. 

Feby. 24, 1804. 
Dr. Sir : 

Mr. D. B. Ogden called upon me a few minutes past, and as I 
understood from him that he purposes writing to you by the mail 
of this Evening, I think it proper, in order to avoid any miscon- 
ceptions of the tenour of our conversation, to repeat to you the 
purport of what I said to him, viz — " Whether it will be expedient 
to offer a federal candidate for the Govr. is a point upon which, 
from the want of information concerning the relative strength 
and disposition of parties, and the consequent probability of suc- 
cess, I professed myself (to Mr. D.) quite unable to judge. 

"With respect to my being the fedl. candidate, altho' I would 
not say that my mind was absolutely decided, as I had never con- 
sidered the subject, the objections to my consenting appeared to 
me to be unsurmountable." 

faithfully &c. 

RuFUS King. 

In resuming the consideration of the plan proposed by 
some of the leading Federalists in Congress to bring about 
the making of a northern Confederacy, the intention is to 
state only the facts which connect the name of Mr. King 
with it and to show that he would have nothing to do with 
the movement for a separation of the States. 

* Mr. J. C. Hamilton in Hamilton's Life, vii., 778, with his usual unwilling- 
ness to give Mr. King credit where he can avoid it, says — " the nomination of 
a federal candidate, in the person of King, was thought of, but the idea was 
not pursued." He does not say that he declined allowing his name to be used 
notwithstanding the strong appeal made to him. 

VOL. IV. — 23 

354 RUFUS KING. [1804 

It would seem that the first knowledge of it was from a 
letter of Timothy Pickering, March 4, 1804,^ in which after 
showing that the acquisition of Louisiana and the legislation 
consequent upon it, would throw the power of the Govern- 
ment forever in the control of the Southern and slave-hold- 
ing States and thus shut out New England from its proper 
influence in the Union, he therefore urged that steps 
be taken without delay to counteract this danger and form, 
with the addition of New York and New Jersey, a separate 
government. 

Without expressing any opinion as to the wisdom or feasi- 
bility of the measure, Mr. King on March 9th, f acknowl- 
edged the receipt of his letters with the remark that " the 
views they disclose ought to fix the attention of the real 
friends of liberty in this quarter of the Union, and the 
more so as things seem to be fast advancing to a crisis." 

In a letter from Mr. Cabot, Boston, March 17, 1804, :|: to 
Mr. King, he says : 

" An experiment has been suggested by some of your friends to 
which I object that it is impracticable, and, if practicable, would 
be ineffectual. The thing proposed is obvious and natural, but 
it would now be thought too bold and would be fatal to the advo- 
cates as public men : yet the time may soon come, when it will be 
demanded by the people of the N. & East, and then it will un- 

* R. King's Life, iv., p. 363 ; given also in Lodge's Cabot, p. 447. 

See also letter of Pickering to King, March 3d, p. 359. 

f R. King's Life, iv,, p. 366. 

Henry Adams, History of the United States, ii., p. 178, says: "Of all 
Federalist leaders, naoderate and extreme, Rufus King, who had recently 
returned from London, stood highest in the confidence of his party. He was 
to be the Federalist candidate for Vice-President ; he had mixed in none of 
the feuds which made Hamilton obnoxious to his former friends, and while 
King's manners were conciliatory, his opinions were more moderate than those 
of other party leaders. . . ." Rufus King was as cautious as Pickering. 
He acknowledged this letter in vague terms of compliment, saying that Picker- 
ing's views "ought to fix the attention of the real friends of liberty in this 
quarter of the Union, and the more so as things seem to be fast advancing to 
a crisis." 

X R. King's Life, iv., p. 369. 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 355 

avoidably take place. I am not satisfied that the thing itself is 
to be desired. My habitual opinions have been always strongly 
against it and I don't see in the present mismanagement motives 
for changing my opinion." 

There does not appear that any answer was given or pre- 
served to this letter, but on March 19, 1804, the following 
papers are found in the handwriting of Mr. King, endorsed 
^' O. Wolcott, Conversation Spring 1804." 

" March 19, 1804. 

** The opposition or at least the dissimilitude of Interests be- 
tween the Northern & Southern States is such, and the present and 
increasing preponderance of the power of those of the South is 
such that the balance between North and South, which secured 
to the former an equal share of influence & honours, an equal 
encouragement of industry, and the like Protection of Property, 
with the latter, is altered and permanently settled in favour of the 
Southern States. As in all similar cases power will be increased 
for the benefit of the Possessors, and the Northern States are des- 
tined to be ruled, and not only so but ruled unjustly and for the 
advantage of the Southern States. 

*' Hence the necessity of a division of the confederacy. Patience 
wd. lead to delay — the mercenary character of the Nor1;hern Peo- 
ple, fearful for their commerce, timid for their money in the funds, 
recommend Procrastination. In the mean time Jacobinism ex- 
tends itself and the means of successful opposition to Virginia is 
lessened. Commerce w^d. be equally successful & the pub. Cred- 
itors wd. be equally secure. In July 1803 the pubHc Debt due 
east of Pennsylvania amounted to §32,160,000 & to this a proper 
proportion of the Dutch Dt. shd. be added, & assumed. The 
Louisiana Dbt. shd. be left to those for wh. benefit it was made. 

'' Means have been taken to rouse the three N. En. States M., 
N. H. & Conn, to begin — but they are slow, cautious &c. ; the 
Demos, in Cong, from the North are dissatisfied but obedient to 
Virginia, and so they will be until they are from home told to do 
otherwise. They are also destitute of Talents, and incapable of 
influence. Eustis & Bradbury may be attached to Burr ; but 
both of them more attached to their own projects. Eustis has lost 
reputation with all sides : his object is to be collector of Boston. 

35^ RUFUS KING. [1804 

Bradley profligate &c. — Burr's views unknown — believed to be 
supported in N. Yk. by Persons hostile to Virginia : if so, and he 
becomes Govr., N. Yk. may be united with the Northern States 
in the Project of Separation : his sentiments on this point un- 
known (met him accidentally in the Nat. Library, an interview 
proposed by him at N. Yk.) altho' a bad man perhaps the Feder- 
alists shd. support him, as the evil daily extends itself & his 
Election seems the only chance of rescuing N. Yk. from Virginia — 
but if Burr gains N. Yk. merely to gain the Presidency— the 
support and success wd. be subject of Regret for the southern 
power being as stated, the occasional possession of the Presidency 
wd. do no good, might do harm. 

" The only remedy is separation — will Burr agree and pledge 
himself to this object. 

"Aprils 

" According to the proposal of the Library Mr. Griswo Id Yisittd 
Burr April 4 : the purport of the Conversation was that he must 
go on democratically to obtain the Govt. — that if he succeeded, 
he shd. administer the Govt, in a manner that wd. be satisfac- 
tory to the Federalists — no particular explanation was made on 
this head — in respect to the affairs of the Nation, Burr said that 
the Northern States must be governed by Virginia, or govern Vir- 
ginia, and that there was no middle mode — that the Democratical 
members of Congress from the East were in this sentiment, some 
of those from N. York (Phelps, Thomas, Paterson & Root) and 
some of the Leaders in Jersey and likewise in Pennsylvania. 

" Griswold said the Federalists to the Eastward would be solici- 
tous to understand the policy of N. Yk, they might be active or 
passive according to the opinion they should form on this point — 
it was to this enquiry, that Burr replied, that he shd. administer the 
govt, in a manner satisfactory to the Federalists ! I could not 
learn that Griswold engaged anything on his side, limiting himself 
as I was given to understand, to mere enquiry : but according to 
what has been told me, I conclude that Griswold wishes Burr 
success agt. Lewis, believing by his means to rescue N. Yk. from 
the Jeffefsonian Politicks ! ! ! " 

" April. 5. 1804 

" Informant. O. W. Before Congress adjourned Phelps and one 
or two other of the democratical members of Congress from 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 357 

N. Yk went to the President to know of him whether he regarded 
Burr as a Republican ; &: referring to the pending Election of 
N. Yk for Govr., whether the Presidt. wd. disapprove of Col. 
Burr's being supported by the Republicans ; or in other words 
whether those who shd. support Col. Burr for Govr. wd. be re- 
garded favourably ; or entitled to the favour of the President t 
Jefferson replied that he considered Burr to be a Republican, that 
it was a division among republicans and that therefore Republicans 
might with Equal Propriety support or vote for either Candidate. 

" Yesterday, Ap. 4, an interview took Place between Phelps and 
DeWitt Clinton ; Phelps recited the opinion of Jefferson respect- 
ing the candidates for Govr. Clinton stated that Gen. Jno. Smith 
having heard of the interview between Phelps and Jefferson, had 
gone to require a farther Explanation — that Jefferson in this in- 
terview admitted that in substance he had stated what Phelps had 
reported ; but added that this Opinion was given upon the idea 
of a mere division among the Republicans — that if the federalists 
took a part, it wd. materially alter the case and that the candidate 
opposed by the Feds shd. be supported by the Republicans ! ! ! 

" The interview between Phelps & DeW. C. broke up with 
mutual recriminations and dissatisfaction." 

Informt. O. W. 

"Ap. 5. 

" Genl. Varnum, one of the Demo, members of Cong, from Vir- 
ginia has been surrounded by the Burrites on his way thro' N. Yk 
to Mass. Concerning the caucus held at Washington to agree on a 
Vice President, the Genl. stated that during the session a corre- 
spondence was opened between Dawson and another member 
from Virginia and DeWitt Clinton — that one or two of the New 
York members were privy to this correspondence — the object 
whereof was to engage Gov. Clinton to become the Vice Presi- 
dent— his consent was in this way obtained, without any previous 
communication with the Eastern demo, members ; when a meet- 
ing of all the demo, members was called to agree in the Choice of 
a V. Pr. — when met this consent of Gov. Clinton was announced, 
— the Eastern members complained that the business had gone 
thus far without their having been consulted, and moved to ad- 
journ the meeting. The Virginians opposed it, and the assembly 
took a Ballot ; the result whereof has been published. 

358 RUFUS KING, [1804 

" Some days after the Eastern Demo, members (those East of 
N. Yk) met and deputed Varnum to the Virginians to express 
their disapprobation of the Proceedings which had taken place 
without their privity, and to declare that as the Engagement had 
been made without their consent, they left the contract to be ful- 
filled by the Virginians who had formed it." 

In the reply of Mr. J. Quincy Adams to thirteen citizens 
of Massachusetts, in 1829, the following remarks are found : "^ 

" The information concerning the project communicated to me 
at Washington, in the spring of 1804, corresponded in the main 
with that detailed by Mr. Plumer. . . . The session closed 
on the 4th of March, 1804, and I shortly afterwards returned ta 
spend the summer at Quincy. On my way thither, I was detained 
several days at New York, during which I frequently visited Mr. 
Rufus King, who had recently returned from his first mission to 
England. On the 8th day of April, I called and passed great part 
of the evening with him in his Library. I found there, sitting 
with him, Mr. Timothy Pickering, who shortly after I went in, 
took leave and withdrew. As he left the house, Mr. King said ta 
me, ' Colonel Pickering has been talking to me about a project 
they have for a separation of the States and a Northern Confeder> 
acy : and he has also been this day talking of it with General 
Hamilton. Have you heard anything of it at Washington ? ' I 
said I had, much, but not from Colonel Pickering. 'Well,' said 
Mr. King, ' I disapprove entirely of the project ; and so, I am 
happy to tell you, does General Hamilton.' I told Mr. King that 
I rejoiced to hear that this was his opinion, and was equally grati- 
fied to learn it was that of General Hamilton, — that I was utterly 
averse to the project myself and much concerned at the counte- 
nance I had heard it was receiving at Connecticut and at Boston. 
It was the acquisition of Louisiana which had been the immediate 
incentive to the plan. I had much conversation with Mr. King 
on that subject ; and I found his opinions concerning it concur- 
ring with my own ; and, I understood from him, not differing 
from those of General Hamilton. We agreed, and lamented that 
one inevitable consequence of the annexation of Louisiana to the 

* A^ew Efigland Federalism y by H. Adams, p. 147. 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 359 

Union would be to diminish the relative weight and influence of 
the Northern section ; that it would aggravate the evil of the slave 
representation, and endanger the Union itself, by the expansion 
of its bulk and the enfeebling extension of its line of defence 
against foreign invasion. But the alternative was — Louisiana and 
the mouths of the Mississippi in the possession of France, under 
Napoleon Bonaparte. The loss of sectional influence, we hoped 
and believed, would be more than compensated by the extension 
of national power and security. A fearful cause of war with 
France was removed. From a formidable and ambitious neighbor, 
she would be turned, by her altered and steadily operating inter- 
ests, into a natural ally. Should ever these anticipations fail, we 
considered a severance of the Union as a remedy more desperate 
than any possible disease." * 

Such was the position of affairs, when the New York 
election took place on April 25th and Burr was defeated. 
Henry Adams says : f 

" Pickering & Griswold saw their hopes shattered by the New 
York election. They gained at the utmost only an agreement to 
hold a private meeting of leading Federalists at Boston in the 
following autumn I ; and as Hamilton was to be present, he prob- 
ably intended to take part only in order to stop once for all the 
intrigues of these two men. Such an assemblage under the com- 
bined authority of Cabot, King, and Hamilton could not have 
failed to restore discipline." 

The history of this unwise project, so far as General Ham- 
ilton is concerned, is summed up in a conversation, five days 

* Mr. John Quincy Adams (p. 227, New Engiatui Federalism) further says : 
" So secret was it (the project) that, although during that session of Congress 
I was sitting at the side of Mr. Plumer in the Senate of the United States and 
contracted with him an intimate friendship which continues to this day, yet I 
never knew that he had been made acquainted with the project at the time, far 
less that he had favored it, until after the note of preparation sounded last 
autumn in the Boston newspapers, preliminary to the summons of the Confed- 
erates addressed to me." 

\ Hist. U. S., ii., p. 186. 

X Life of Plumer, p. 290. 

360 RUFUS KING, [1804 

before his duel, with Colonel Trumbull, who had been dining 
with him. Mr. J. C. Hamilton"^ says : , 

" After dinner, when they were alone, Hamilton turned to Trum- 
bull, and, looking at him with deep meaning, said: ' You are going 
to Boston. You will see the principal men there. Tell them from 
ME as MY request, for God's sake, to cease these conversations and 
threatenings about a separation of the Union. It must hang 
together as long as it can be made to.' " 

In his celebrated letter to Sedgwick, written on the eve of 
his duel, Hamilton says : 

" I will here express but one sentiment, which is that Dismem- 
berment OF OUR Empire will be a clear sacrifice of great positive 
advantages, without any counterbalancing good ; administering 
no relief to our real disease which is Democracy ; the poison of 
which, by a subdivision, will only be more concentrated in each 
part, and consequently the more virulent. 

" King is on his way to Boston, where you may chance to see 
him, and hear from himself his sentiments." 

The death of General Hamilton seems to have arrested 
further attempts to enlist the sympathy of leading Federal- 
ists. There is no report of what took place during Mr. 
King's visit to Boston, nor whether any general conference 
was held there as had been proposed. 

T. Pickering to R. King. 

Washington, March 3, 1804. 
Dear Sir : 

As long ago as the 4th of November last, you were so obliging 
as to notice my Letter concerning Louisiana. The ruling party 
do not noiv pretend that the Louisianians are Citizens of the U. 
States. They do not venture to say — they have never said — that 
the Government had a Constitutional power to incorporate that 
new & immense Country into the Union ; yet they will not give 

* Life of Hamilton, vii., 822. 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 36 1 

themselves the trouble to alter the Constitution for that purpose. 
It appears very evident that in a few years, when their power shall 
be more confirmed, and the implicit obedience of the people has 
been habitual, they will erect States in that Territory and incor- 
porate them into the Union. Mr. Adams had not arrived when 
the Treaty was ratified, but he approved of it and of the conse- 
quent appropriation for the purchase-money ; fondly believing 
that an amendment to the Constitution, to embrace that new ob- 
ject, would have been a mighty easy thing. He presented a Reso- 
lution really for that purpose ; but after lying some time, it was 
called up and even contemptuously rejected ; his own, Mr. Hill- 
house's and mine being the only votes in its favour. It is further 
evident, that the Constitution will henceforward be only a con- 
venient instrument, to be shaped, by construction, into any form 
that will best promote the views of the operators. In the name of 
the Constitution they will commit every arbitrary act which their 
projects may require ; or they will alter it to suit their purposes. 
I begin to think it would be better if we had none. The leaders 
of the populace wanting the sanction of a constitutional power 
might then be more cautious in their measures. 

We have commenced the consideration of the Impeachment of 
Judge Pickering of Portsmouth (I presume you know that he is 
not a relative of mine) for high crimes and misdemeanors. Proc- 
ess was served upon him in January and he was summoned to 
appear at the bar of the Senate yesterday. Mr. Harper delivered 
to the President (Mr. Burr) a letter from himself, and a petition 
(admirably drawn) from Jacob L. Pickering the Judge's son. In 
his letter Mr. Harper suggested Judge Pickering's insanity, and 
that he appeared not as his attorney, and could not enter an ap- 
pearance for him, but at his son's request, to support the facts 
stated in his petition ; which described Judge Pickering to have 
been insane at the times when he held the district courts men- 
tioned in the articles of impeachment ; and as still insane and so 
infirm in body as to be utterly incapable of being brought at this 
time, in person, to the Bar of the Senate, and tendered affidavits 
to substantiate these facts : praying also that the trial of the im- 
peachment might be postponed. Mr. Harper asked if he might 
be permitted to speak in support of the petition. 

The managers on the part of the House of Representatives ob- 

362 RUFUS KING. [1804 

jected. They wished the non-appearance of the Judge might be 
recorded as a default. The Senate retired (conformably to a pre- 
vious arrangement) to an adjoining room to consider this point. 
After near an hour spent in loose debate, they came to this con- 
clusion only, that they would return to their Chamber, and that 
the President should inform the managers, that the Senate had not 
come to a determination ; and that when they had they would 
give due notice thereof to the House of Representatives. 

To-day we met again, and zvith closed doors^ discussed the ques- 
tion. All the Jeffersonians who spoke were for denying the prayer 
of the petition and the hearing of counsel in support of it, declar- 
ing that Judge Pickering ought to plead, or that his friends should 
put in a plea for him, if not guilty ; and that under this plea, all the 
evidence they proposed to offer, to prove his insanity, might be 
given. Some of them supposed, or pretended to think, that if he 
was proved to be insane, he might be found guilty. Mr. Tracy re- 
plied, with a poignancy which would have excited a proper feeling 
in men unhackneyed in the measures of a party malignant and 
cruel as death. He remarked that intelligence was essential to the 
commission of a crime, and that no court would pronounce an in- 
sane person guilty of high crimes and misdemeanors, who were 
not themselves insane. Still, however, they all persisted to argue 
against the hearing of counsel on the petition until near four 
o'clock when the court adjourned. 

In this debate (I am sorry it was not public) there were mani- 
fested a virulence and rancour which shocked every man, who had 
any feelings of justice or humanity. Let this party progress in 
the course they have travelled for two years past, and before Mr. 
Jefferson's second Presidency expires, I shall not be surprised, if 
I live so long, to see bloody victims of their ambition, inexorable 
malice and revenge. One or two Marats or Robespierres, with 
half a dozen congenial spirits, would carry along enough of the 
half moderates to make a majority in the Senate to concur in any 
measures ; and by similar means they would be forced through 
the House of Representatives. Could Senators vote by ballot, 
Judge Pickering would not, being proved insane, be convicted of 
any crime ; but voting viva voce, many have not honest fortitude 
enough to say tiay to any measure which is supposed to involve 
popularity, and I do not know what will be the result. The late 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 363 

amendment to the Constitution would hardly have been adopted 
by a majority ; much less by two thirds oi the Senate, if their votes 
had been given by ballots. 

The British Convention for settling Boundaries, which you 
took some pains to negotiate, and which was signed the 12th of 
May, you would naturally suppose must have been readily ap- 
proved by the Senate ; seeing it conformed to your instruction ; 
and was, in fact, made by our own Government ; and especially 
after the President, in his message at the opening of the Session, 
had informed Congress and the world, that the terms of the Con- 
vention were entirely satisfactory to both parties. But the Presi- 
dent altered his mind ; the Senate followed of course ; and the 
advice to ratify was, with the exception of the fifth article, which, 
you will recollect, respected the Northwestern boundary. And 
yet in a paper which he sent me, (occasioned with an accidental 
written correspondence between us) speaking of the Treaty of 
Cession of Louisiana, to the U. States, he said expressly " But 
this Treaty was not known to the negotiators of either party at 
London nor could the rights acquired by it be affected by arrange- 
ments instituted and compleated there merely for the purpose of 
explaining and supplying provisions in the Treaty of 1783." 
Why then suspend the 5th Article ? why not ratify absolutely ? 
Mr. Jefferson is not contented with the immense extent of Louis- 
iana as held by the French. Its northern boundary not having 
been explicitly defined (tho' undoubtedly it reached to the utmost 
range of the Mississippi and Missouri) he wants to carry it to the 
parallel of the 49° of North Latitude. To effect this end, he 
certainly supposes the suppression of the 5th Article will contri- 
bute. For this object your entirely satisfactory convention is put 
in jeopardy. He thinks, however, or pretends to think, that G. 
Britain will readily agree to the other articles ; and he doubtless 
supposes they will negotiate to his wishes relative to the northern 
boundary of Louisiana. Some of his mag?tanimous partisans in the 
Senate have openly avowed the propriety of pushing G. Britain 
now on any points we desire to gain ; because her present critical 
situation will dispose her to yield (as they imagine) what in a time 
of peace she might refuse ! This avowal was made this week, 
when we were discussing Sam. Smith's wise bill for the protection 
of the seamen of the U. States ; and which the Senate (doubtless 

364 RUFUS KING. [1804 

on the hint from the oracle) had the grace to reject, by postpon- 
ing it to next December. A like bill before the House of Repres. 
must meet the like fate. It is understood the President is negoti- 
ating on this Subject. 

In this debate S. Smith told us that you were once on the point 
of signing a convention relative to American seamen — or rather 
seamen on board of American vessels ; when it was suddenly de- 
clined by the British Ministry. In a former debate, he said that 
the British Ministry had consented to renounce all impressments 
from our vessels, except within the narrow seas. Apropos. What 
do the British mean by the words " narrow seas " ? 

I shall be much obliged by your giving me any information 
which it may not be improper to communicate on the subject of 
impressing our seamen ; or, if any part be confidential, you will 
so mark it. The Act of Congress, presenting the certificates to 
be given to seamen, is defective. I have had some thoughts of 
offering a bill for amending it ; and to introduce some guards to 
prevent the disreputable modes of obtaining proofs of citizenship, 
whereby all certificates, even of our native seamen, are rendered 
suspicious. Any hints on this head will be gratefully received. 

Faithfully yours 

T. Pickering. 

T. Pickering to R. King. 
Dear Sir * Washington, March 4, 1804. 

I must request you to consider this as a continuation of my 
letter yesterday. 

I am disgusted with the men who now rule us and with their 
measures. At some manifestations of their malignancy I am 
shocked. The coward wretch at the head, while, like a Parisian 
revolutionary monster, prating about humanity, could feel an in- 
fernal pleasure in the utter destruction of his opponents. We 
have too long witnessed his general turpitude — his cruel removals 
of faithful officers, and the substitution of corruption and base- 
ness for integrity and worth. We have now before the Senate a 
nomination of Meriweather Jones of Richmond, Editor of the 
Examiner, a paper devoted to Jefferson and Jacobinism ; and he 
is now to be rewarded. Mr. Hopkins, Commissioner of Loans, a 
man of property and integrity, is to give room to this Jones. The 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 36$. 

Commissioner may have at once in his hands thirty thousand dol- 
lars, to pay the public creditors in Virginia. He is required by 
law to give bond only in a sum of from five to ten thousand dollars ; 
and Jones' character is so notoriously bad, that, we have satisfac- 
tory evidence, he could not now get credit at any store in Rich- 
mond for a suit of clothes ! Yet, I am far from thinking if this 
evidence were laid before the Senate, that his nomination will be 
rejected ! I am therefore ready to say " come out from among 
them and be ye separate." Corruption is the object and instru- 
ment of the Chief, and the tendency of his administration, for the 
purpose of maintaining himself in power & for the accomplish- 
ment of his infidel and visionary schemes. The corrupt portion 
of the people are the agents of his misrule ; corruption is the 
recommendation to office ; and many of some pretentions to 
character, but too feeble to resist temptation, become apostates. 
Virtue and worth are his enemies, and therefore he would over- 
whelm them. 

The collision of democrats in your State promises some amend- 
ment. The administration of your Government cannot possibly 
be worse. The federalists here in general, anxiously desire the 
election of Mr. Burr to the chair of New York ; for they despair 
of a present ascendency of the federal party. Mr. Burr alone, 
we think, can break your democratic phalanx, and we anticipate 
much good from his success. Were New York detached (as un- 
der his administration it would be) from the Virginia influence, 
the whole Union should be benefited. Jefferson would then be 
forced to observe some caution and forbearance in his measures. 
And if a separation should be deemed proper, the five New Eng- 
land States, New York and New Jersey would naturally be united. 
Among those seven States there is a sufficient congeniality 
of character to authorize the expectation of practicable harmony 
and a permanent union ; New York the centre. Without a sepa- 
ration, can those States ever rid themselves of negro Presidents 
and negro Congresses, and regain their just weight in the political 
balance ? At this moment the Slaves of the middle and southern 
States have fifteen Representatives in Congress ; and they will 
appoint 15. Electors of the next President & Vice President ; and 
the number of slaves is continually increasing. You know this 
evil. But will the Slave States ever renounce this advantage ? 

366 RUFUS KING. [1804 

As population is in fact no rule of taxation, the negro representa- 
tion ought to be given up. If refused, it would be a strong 
ground of separation ; tho' perhaps an earlier occasion may oc- 
cur to declare it. How many Indian wars, excited by the avidity 
of the western and southern States for Indian Lands, shall we 
have to encounter ? and who will pay the millions to support 
them ? The Atlantic States. Yet the first moment we ourselves 
need assistance and call on the western States for Taxes, they 
will declare off, or at any rate refuse to obey the call. Kentucky 
effectually resisted the collection of the excise ; and of the $37,- 
000 direct tax assessed upon her so many years ago, she has paid 
only $4,000, & probably will never pay the residue. In the mean 
time we are maintaining their representatives in Congress for gov- 
erning us, who surely can much better govern ourselves. When- 
ever the Western States detach themselves they will take Louis- 
iana with them. In thirty years, the white population in the 
Western States will equal that of the 13 States, when they declared 
themselves independent of G. Britain. On the Census of 1790, 
Kentucky was entitled to two Representatives ; under that of 1800 
she sends six. 

The facility with which we have seen an essential change in the 
Constitution, proposed and generally adopted, will perhaps re- 
move your scruples about proposing what you intimate respect- 
ing Negro representation. But I begin to doubt whether that or 
any other change we could propose, with a chance of adoption, 
would be worth the breath, paper and ink, which would be ex- 
pended in the acquisition. Some think Congress will rise in 15 
or 20 days * * * 

Ever your faithful and obedient 

T. Pickering. 

I do not know one reflecting Nov. Anglian, who is not anxious 
for the GREAT EVENT at which I have glanced. They fear, they 
dread the effects of the corruption so rapidly extending ; and 
that if a decision be long delayed, it will be in vain to attempt it. 
If there be no improper delay, we have not any doubt but that 
the great measure may be taken without the smallest hazard to 
private property or the public funds ; the revenues of the North- 
ern States being equal to their portion of the public debt. Leav- 
ing that for Louisiana on those who incurred it. 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 367 

R. King to T. Pickering. 

New York, Mar. 9, 1804. 

Dear Sir : 

I have duly received, & beg you to accept my acknowledg- 
ments for your letters of the 3d & 4th instant — the views which 
they disclose ought to fix the attention of the real friends of 
Liberty in this quarter of the Union, & the more so as things 
seem to be fast advancing to a crisis — to save the post I can do 
little more than acknowledge the receipt of your letters — by the 
mail of tomorrow or Monday I will send you a copy of my De- 
spatch to the Sec'y of State respecting the effort I made to con- 
clude a convention concerning seamen. 

Perhaps you will recollect a long letter from Lord Grenville to 
me, pointing out the defects of our Law for granting Protection 
to seamen : it was sent to the Dept. of State while you were in it, 
and according to my Recollection, was so very particular as to 
shew the only ex parte regulations that the Br. Govt, would be 
likely to respect. 

As to our native seaman, there would I suspect, be little diffi- 
culty in framing such rules as might effectually protect them — 
and if nations alone were in question, the Northern States would 
find little embarrassment, as they do not depend upon for- 
eign seamen to carry on their trade. 

But the Southern States could not carry on their trade without 
the aid of foreign seamen ; and Great Britain will not consent 
that our naturalization of her seamen shall exempt them from 
being recalled & obliged to serve & defend their native country. 

Were I in your place, I should leave it to the friends of the 
present Govt, to do what they can to obtain what we were unable 
to accomplish — it is perhaps all that the federalists can do, to op- 
pose improper acts ; leaving the origination of all Laws, especially 
those which affect the Executive Power & Responsibility to the 
Legislative Agents of the President — The packet brings us no 
news from Engd. Monroe, towards the close of Novr. presented 
a temperate memorial on the subject of seamen : no answer has 
been given : except this Comn. the Department for For. af- 
fairs knew nothing of Monroe — no negotiation is on foot respect- 
ing the old treaty, and I conjecture that this memorial about the 

368 RUFUS KING. [1804 

impressment of seamen is the only act of our minister at London 
since his arrival. 

faithfully yr. obt. ser* 

RuFus King. 

P. S. I am unable to give you any correct opinion respecting 
the election of Govr. The Federalists with the exception of cer- 
tain individuals, will pretty generally vote for Burr — this will not 
be enough — and what portion of Demos will join him, I know not 
— pray how did it happen that he had not a single vote at Wash- 
ington for Vice President. 

R. King to T. Pickering. 

New York, Mar, 10, 1804. 
Dear Sir : 

Enclosed I send you the extract promised in my last, and I 
likewise add copies of my letters to the Secy of State in answer 
to an enquiry that your colleague Mr. Adams in behalf of a Com". 
of the senate requested Mr. Madison to make of me. The pro- 
ject of a Convention respecting seamen had it taken effect, 
would have been beneficial but less extensively so than we may 
be apt to suppose ; inasmuch as a large, by far the larger pro- 
portion of seamen taken out of our employ, are impressed within 
the territorial Limits of G. Br, — which instead of being restrained 
by the convention wd. have rec'd an implied sanction. 

That allegiance is unalienable, and seamen liable to impress- 
ment are two points about which English Lawyers & Statesmen 
entertain no doubt — and I shall be disappointed if the Eng. 
Govt, even consent to limit its authority, or tie up its hands in 
these respects, within its own proper jurisdiction. 

The late Bill will I fear have a mischievous instead of a benefi- 
cial effect : and joined to other circumstances may produce to 
our trade greater embarrassment than of late it has suffered. 
Very much depends upon the existence of good humour between 
G. Br. & the U. S. Many hundred naval officers are intrusted 
with the power of the nation ; these all look for favor & promo- 
tion, and are careful to find out the sentiments & temper of their 

l804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 369 

government towards Foreign Nations — & the opinions they form 
in this respect have a material influence in the exercise of their 
several powers. Circumstances therefore of apparently small im- 
portance, but which are of a nature to produce irritation or dis- 
turb a satisfactory state of things, may lead to mischievous conse- 
quences— and tho' England has too powerful an interest to involve 
herself seriously with the U. S. yet the difference between a favour- 
able & temperate exercise of her Rights as a Belligerent, and a 
vigorous and harsh one, would be most terribly felt throughout 
our Commercial Cities. Nothing will be obtained by menacing 
because nothing ought so to be obtained from a great Nation. I 
have somewhere seen a very precise definition of what the English 
mean by the narrow seas, at this moment I do not recollect the 
exact limits — they include however the sea according to my 
memory, between the Continent and Great Britain, and the claim 
is, I think, extended north almost, or quite to the northern point 
of Norway — St. George's channel which is carried far southward 
is likewise within the narrow seas, so that a vessel arriving from 
America with the purpose of entering the Baltic by the route of 
the Br. Channel, would be within the narrow seas, according to the 
Eng. construction of their limits, from the time of her making 
soundings till she reached the Categat. When Ld St Vincent 
proposed to me the addition by which the narrow seas should be 
excepted so as that within these limits our vessels might be visited 
& searched for British seamen, I remarked to him that all parts 
of the high seas within the territorial jurisdiction of G. Br. had 
been excepted in the proposed article, and that the narrow seas 
were or were not within their jurisdiction ; if they were not, the 
exception ought not to be made. His reply was that the express 
exception of them would remove doubts which might otherwise 
be raised. 

As this exception would have subjected our vessels trading 
with the North of Europe as well as those trading with Holland 
& some parts of France to the most embarrassing visits in search 
of British seamen, I preferred leaving the subject on its present 
footing to a Convention which wd have afforded no little protec- 
tion to our seamen. 

Very faithfully yr obtd sert. 

RuFUs King. 

VOL. IV. — 24 

370 RUFUS KING. [1804 

G. Cabot to R. King, New York. 

Boston, March 17, 1804. 
My dear Sir : 

In reply to your inquiry respecting the opinion of our Legisla- 
ture on the subject of Louisiana, I cou'd only speculate. The 
session is ended & no one attempted to discover what was thought 
or what might be done. AVe add thousands to our possessions, 
but have long since discarded the idea of security. The many do 
not think at all, and the few think only to despond. Indeed 
most men are compelled to admit that our evils must be borne until 
their intolerability o^enerates their cure. Most of those which we fear 
must therefore happen before a remedy can be prescribed. An 
experiment has been suggested by some of our friends to which I 
object that it is impracticable, and, if practicable, wou'd be inef- 
fectual. The thing proposed is obvious and natural, but it would 
now be thought too bold and would be fatal to the advocates as 
public men ; yet the time may soon come when it will be de- 
manded by the people of N. & East, and then it will unavoid- 
ably take place. I am not satisfied that the thing itself is to be 
desired. My habitual opinions have been always strongly against 
it, and I do not see in the present mismanagement motives for 
changing my opinion. 

It is doubtless true that we are not so perfectly mad in N. E. 
as the people in some other States, especially those of the South ; 
but here we are altogether democratic in our principles ; and those 
principles of necessity place power in the worst hands. If the 
favourable aspect of our State Politics seems to contradict my 
opinion, I confess that those principles have not jj'^/ produced all 
the mischief to which they tend ; but at the same time I insist 
that our appearance is deceptive, being better than the reality 
and the reality better than can be well maintained. You see 
good men in high office here contrary to the natural operation of 
democratic elections ; but those men hold their powers upon the 
sole condition that they will not use them, and the moment they 
shall dare to exercise them with vigor, they will cease to be popu- 
lar, and of course cease to fill the high offices they now hold. 

There is an unusual apathy among the Federalists here. They 
have lost more of their vivacity than of their numbers ; I fear 
they lose some of these. Our national admintn. may destroy 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 37 1 

Judiciaries and Constitutions and make new ones without exciting 
much sensibility ; but if they had involved us by their folly and 
baseness in a war with G. B. I believe N. E. might be roused to 
do anything which her leading men shou'd recommend. Some 
distinct general cause of evil like this and fairly imputable to the 
wickedness or ignorance of those who govern wou'd be fatal to 
their power or to the Union of the States. We are loyal to the 
National Govt., and can bear every species of public dishonor, 
but the moment our loyalty appears to be made the instrument of 
our impoverishment, we shall be disposed to act with effect in de- 
fence of all that is dear to us. . . . 

We are now going on according to the course of nature and 
shall follow those who have gone before us from bad to worse 'till 
suffering or the fear of SMfitring, generally and deeply felt, siivciM- 
late us to do better. Indeed I expect no essential improvement 
in our systems, but from suffering, from fear, or from force. I 
think no material change can be made, except by those whom 
we call Jacobins. Good men wou'd not, if they had opportunity, 
establish any system of sufficient force to protect itself : the vio- 
lent and unprincipled are more likely to make a govt, independent 
of popular consent than their betters. 

I beg you however not to infer that because I think we cannot 
do things impossible, that I would not attempt every possible 
good, or that I do not think any great good can be accomplished. 
So far would that be from the truth, that I firmly believe we owe 
much of what we enjoy and of what we hope for, to the influ- 
ence of the federal party. We are a minority and unable to con- 
quer the vast body which keeps the field, but we are so powerful, 
that he is compelled to confine his movements to a narrow com- 
pass, lest he should give us an advantage over him. We have 
therefore the most commanding motive to preserve to our party 
all the weight we can by adhering to the principles on which it is 
formed and keep it well combined and well informed ; prepare 
to think and act alike on every important occasion. In this way 
we prevent some mischief entirely and mitigate what we cannot 
wholly avert, and shall be able to soften every catastrophe in the 
political Drama, which must happen, and turn them to the best 
account. . . . 

Your faithful & affec. friend. 

G. C. 

CHAPTER XXIV. 

Settlement of the Accounts of King during his Mission — Letters from the Sec- 
retary of Treasury, A. Gallatin — Secretary of State, J. Madison — Auditor 
of Treasury, R. Harrison — R. King. 

On March ii, 1804, Mr. King wrote the following letter 
to the Secretary of State, which explains itself. 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

New York. 
Sir: 

As my mission abroad had no other connection with the money 
department of our Government than what arose from the pay- 
ment and receipt of my annual appointments, I made it a point, 
carefully, not to have the custody or to become accountable for 
any money belonging to the public. Hence I have concluded 
that I have no accounts to settle with the Treasury. As, how- 
ever, this Department keeps its accounts in such manner as it 
may deem expedient, I am not sure that it may not have accounts 
with my name. On this subject I took the liberty to speak to the 
Secretary of the Treasury, when he was in this quarter during the 
last summer, and he was so obliging as to say that he would look 
into the question on his return to Washington. From the variety 
of his engagements I apprehend the subject has escaped his recol- 
lection, and I am therefore under the necessity of begging you to 
inform yourself and me whether there is any unclosed account 
with me, either in your Department or that of the Treasury. 

With sentiments &c. 

RuFus King. 

The Secretar}^ on March 29, 1804, writes that this letter 
was received and sent to Mr. Gallatin, who promised to at- 

372 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 373 

tend to the matter, and communicated the result of his 
examination as follows : 

A. Gallatin to R. King. 

Treasury Department, April 20, 1804. 
Dear Sir : 

I did not forget that I had promised to attend to the situation 
of your public account, if, upon enquiry I found that any charges 
existed on the Treasury books against you. But the pressure of 
business during the session of Congress and a wish to obtain Mr. 
Baring's accounts which were necessary to give a full view of the 
subject have prevented an investigation until this time. 

It appears that there are two accounts opened against you ; 
one, called the general account, includes all the payments made 
to you or on your account either at the Treasury or by Messrs. 
Bird, Savage and Bird, and by Sir Francis Baring and Co. ; the 
other relates to the payments to or on account of Major General 
Lafayette.* . . . You have, as yet, received no credit on either 
of those two heads, it being the usage that the party should state 
an account and transmit it to the Auditor with such vouchers and 
explanations as he may possess and think necessary. The items 
of salary need only be stated and the Secretary of State will in- 
form whether the dates and allowances claimed are the proper 
ones. In respect to the items of postages, stationery or other 
contingencies each should strictly be accompanied with receipts 
or other vouchers, but Mr. Harrison informs me that they are not 
very strict on that subject with foreign Ministers, from the 
impracticability in most cases to obtain on their return home 
those receipts, &c, which are demanded in the settlement of 
domestic accounts. Such as you may have you will of course 
transmit ; but I apprehend no difficulty whatever in the imme- 
diate settlement of that first branch of the account as soon as you 
shall have stated and transmitted it. 

In respect to the second division of that general account, and 

* Mr. Gallatin here gives the items of these two accounts, upon which he 
comments in the letter. The first amounted to $78,978.32, and the second to 
$2698.18. Two of these items — the payments to Wilson and Chisholme — he 
does not see " to what appropriation to charge them." They amount to 
j[i02.j sterling. 

374 RUFUS KING. [1804 

which consists of payments made by your order, it appears to me 
that from the face of the accounts it results that the money did 
not go through your hands, unless it be for the first item, . . . 
and even in these it is probable that it did not. If so, no receipts 
are necessary nor any other voucher, but to show the authority 
under which, or the reason why you directed the payment. All 
the items composing that branch of the account are charged 
provisionally, as requiring explanation. . . . 

The other account of disbursements for Lafayette is settled 
and you stand charged wath $4,895.09, being the amount paid, by 
your orders, beyond the sum granted by Congress. You may on 
that subject give any explanation you may think proper : but I do 
not perceive the possibility of giving you credit for the sum with- 
out the special interference of Congress. Whether or how an 
application should be made for that purpose will be a matter of 
future consideration. . . . 

With sincere Respect & Esteem &c. 

Albert Gallatin. 

In the course of the letter, Mr. Gallatin says : 

" I only mean to point out the manner in which you should 
state your account and claim credit ; the receipts and vouchers 
should be transmitted to the Auditor, with such explanations as 
may be wanted, but in the course of the settlement I will with 
great cheerfulness assist in removing difficulties and in explaining 
to you what objections are made, and what may be required from 
you to remove them." 

In accordance with the suggestions of this letter Mr. King 
transmitted, May i, 1804, to the Auditor of the Treasury 
an account specifying the items due to him and claimed by 
him — amounting in all to $94,136 (being ;^i8,98i.i5.4,) in 
dollars at 4.44 cents to the pound sterling ** according to 
which he received and paid out." By this account he 
claimed as due to him $856.30. 

On the original paper, retained by Mr. King (a copy he 
says was sent to the Auditor) is the following Remark, sent 
most probably as an explanation : 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 375 

** Remark — By turning to the accounts of Messrs. Bird, Savage 
and Bird and of Sir Francis Baring and Co, it will be perceived 
that the credit side of this accouut (with the exception of nine 
thousand dollars received from Mr. Pickering*) is wholly taken 
from a transcript of these accounts ; the same is likewise the fact 
in respect to the whole contingent account on the Debtor side : 
the fact being that the only account which Mr. King has, either 
of the contingent account or of the payments made to him by the 
Bankers, is his Bankers' book." 

There is a letter to the Auditor of the Treasury (in the 
copy of which the date is not given), in which Mr. King ex- 
plains his mode of providing for the care of the public 
money during his mission in England : 

Sir : 

The Secretary of the Treasury has been good enough at my re- 
quest to furnish me with copies of several accounts in my name 
from the Books of your Department. Before I submit to your 
consideration any observations upon the items of these accounts 
it may be proper that I should state to you how far I consider 
myself personally accountable in respect to the public money ex- 
pended in England during my mission to that country. As the 
custody of public money formed no part of my official duty, and 
as for this reason, as well as others, I was unwilling to be its 
keeper, my earliest attention after my arrival in England was 
directed to the choice of a Banker, who would receive, keep and 
disburse whatever money should be remitted for the public ser- 
vice in that country. 

Messrs. Bird, Savage and Bird having been employed as Bank- 
ers of the United States during the time of my Predecessor, Mr. 
Pinckney, upon his recommendation I settled with them the terms 
upon which their agency should be continued. This agreement 
was reported by me to the Secretary of State in my dispatch No. 
4, Sei)t. 7, 1796, and sanctioned by letters to me dated Sept. 30 
and Oct. 26, 1796. 

According to this arrangement all remittances on account of 
the public service in England were immediately upon the receipt 
of the Bills put into the hands of the Bankers for collection, who 

* His outfit. 

376 RUFUS KING, [1804 

kept and paid out the money so collected to the persons author- 
ized to receive the same. On the failure of Bird, Savage and 
Bird, the house of Sir Francis Baring and Company, with the ap- 
probation of the Secretary of the Treasury, was substituted in 
their place ; and by strictly adhering to this system, I myself 
never had the custody of a shilling of public money during my 
residence abroad. In common with the Commissioners under the 
seventh article of the British Treaty, and other persons in the pub- 
lic employ, I applied for, and received from the Bankers, my 
quarterly appointments, and for these receipts and these only can 
I with any justice admit myself to be personally responsible. 

By my direction money was advanced by the Bankers for the 
prosecution of appeals in the Prize Courts, for the purchase of 
presents to the Barbary Powers, in payment for military stores. 
Military Books, and Indian Medals, for copper supplied to the 
mint, for the support of General Lafayette and for other public 
purposes. In some cases these disbursements were made pur- 
suant to express instructions, in others by virtue of the discretion 
which was supposed to appertain to my office. 

At the same time that with all deference to the opinion of 
others I think myself bound to decline all accountability for 
money that I never received. I am ready to afford every expla- 
nation in my power concerning any payment made by the 
Bankers upon my recommendation. ... 

In carrying this out, Mr. King then enters upon a con- 
sideration of certain specific charges made by him and of 
which he claims the payment."^ 

* Payments to General Lafayette. 

It will probably be recollected that General Lafayette, after being imprisoned 
by the Prussians at Magdeburgh, was turned over to the imperialists and 
confined in an Austrian dungeon. As soon as this information reached 
America the President General Washington wrote a letter to the Emperor of 
Germany (which was sent to the American Minister in London, and delivered 
to the Imperial Ambassador there, who forwarded it to the Emperor) soliciting 
that Lafayette should be released and allowed to come to the U. S. Toward 
the autumn of 1797 the Imperial Minister at Hamburg by order of his Court, 
gave notice to Mr. Williams, the American Consul there, that Lafayette would 
be released, that he would be escorted to Hamburg and delivered over to the 
American Consul, on condition of his embarking for America in eight days. 
Coming out of prison and being wholly destitute of means to provide for hira- 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. I'] 'J 

After examining the account, the Auditor of the Treasury 
sent a communication to the Secretary of State, Mr. Madi- 
son, specifying certain charges made by Mr. King, and 
asking whether or not they were to be allowed. The Secre- 
tary, on June 20th, answered the inquiry, saying that certain 
of these were to be admitted as proper, but that others 
could not be admitted to his credit. Among them was the 
payment of money to Genl. Lafayette beyond the appro- 
priation by Congress, one to Philip Wilson to enable him to 
return home, and certain payments for contingencies, post- 
ages, &c., and a change of a few days relating to the term 
on which his mission expired. The letter says : 

self and family a passage to America, the General ordered his aide-de-camp 
Cardignan to apprize me of his situation, and to ask for money to enable him 
to convey himself and family to the United States. 

Considering the General's connexion with the U.S., the application of the 
President to the Emperor for his release, and his discharge and delivery to 
the American Consul on condition of his proceeding to America, I did not 
hesitate in consenting to give orders to the Bankers of the U.S., to advance 
the sum requisite for this purpose. When General Lafayette arrived at Ham- 
burg, the season was so far advanced that he concluded to remain with his 
family during the winter in Holstein, and Cardignan in his behalf applied to 
me that the proposed advance to enable Lafayette to proceed to America 
should be made and applied for his subsistence in Holstein during the winter. 
This was agreed to with an intimation that the whole sum to be advanced would 
not exceed a thousand or twelve hundred pounds sterling. 

Lest I might act under an erroneous impression in respect to the proper limits 
of discretion on this occasion, my dispatch no. 47 dated Sep. 5, 1797, nearly 
four months before the first advance was made to Lafayette, I acquainted the 
Secretary of State with my intention and after it was decided that the General 
and family would pass the winter in Holstein, I wrote a private letter to the 
Secretary of State, of which the following is an extract : 

" There remains only about ;^200, of the fund destined for the use of La- 
fayette : this is already called for, and the necessities of this unfortunate char- 
acter will require advances (to what extent I cannot ascertain) for the subsistence 
of himself and family during the winter. I have before mentioned to you that 
I should, if required, make such advances as may be requisite for this purpose, 
as well as to enable him to remove to America ; and I think I am not mistaken 
in my belief that the President will approve this exercise of discretion." 

Receiving no instructions upon the subject between Christmas 1797 and the 
middle of May 1798, several advances were made by the bankers to General 
Lafayette, amounting to about ;^I200. sterling. The paper marked D. is a 
Voucher for these advances — General Lafayette's receipt. — See R. King's Life, 
ii., 223 et seq. 

3/8 RUFUS KING. [1804 

" From the above it follows that some of the charges under the 
head of contingencies are inadmissible and it will therefore be 
necessary to specify the latter so as to exclude the inadmissible 
charges. Mr. King may also be requested to specify them with 
as much more minuteness as he finds it in his power to do." . » 

R. Harrison to R. King. 

Treasury Department, Auditor's Office, 
June 22, 1804. 
Sir: 

In order that you may be fully informed of the present situa- 
tion of your accounts which were returned to me yesterday, I 
have now the honor to enclose three papers marked A, B, & C. 
The first contains a statement of the points it was judged proper 
to refer to the Secretary of State. The second his decision on 
these points, and by the last you will perceive that, before a 
settlement can be effected, it has become necessary that you 
furnish another account of your contingent expenses with all the 
minuteness your materials will permit, and, more especially, so as 
to exhibit distinctly the amount of each payment for Stationery, 
Presentation fees and Christmas presents ; or so as to exclude, in 
a word, everything except Postage, Newspapers, Pamphlets and 
the printing of necessary papers ; these being the only charges 
which can be allowed consistently with the regulations long since 
established. 

With respect to the overpayment to General La fayette, it is 
totally unconnected with the accounts now under consideration ; 
and I presume it must stand as it does until relief shall be af- 
forded by an Act of Congress. 

Expecting to hear from you as soon as your convenience will 
permit, I have the honor to remain with sentiments of high con- 
sideration &c. &c. R. Harrison. 

H. King to Secretary of State. 

New York, June 27, 1804. 
Sir : 

The auditor of the Treasury has sent me a copy of your opinion 

concerning several questions, which it seems have arisen in the 

examination of my account with the United States, and I take 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 379 

the liberty of enclosing to you my answer to the auditor with a 
request that you will be so obliging as to send it to him after you 
have read it. I must and do feel real concern in dissenting from 
your sentiments on this occasion, especially as my own may be 
thought liable to the influence of personal interest. But as we 
form as well as act upon our opinions respecting our own affairs, 
equally as concerning those of others, and as it is within the 
President's competence to allow the charge, I flatter myself that 
I may rely upon his and your impartiality to give to the following 
observations respecting the presents made to the under Officers 
and Servants of the Court the weight to which they may be en- 
titled. 

It is the custom at the Court of London, on the first presenta- 
tion of a foreign Minister, as well as at every Christmas during 
his residence, to make presents in money to the amount of about 
;£"3o sterling on each occasion to the under Officers and Servants 
of the Court. This contribution no foreign Minister declines 
giving ; and it is not a personal, but official tribute, on the pay- 
ment whereof there is no option as in the case of ordinary ex- 
penses ; I may safely add my conviction that there is not a single 
foreign Minister to whom this extra charge is not allowed by his 
Government. I enclose a list * of these Pensioners of the Corps 
diplomatique in London and submit it to the President's equity 
to determine, whether I shall be required to reimburse to the 
Public the payments which I made to them. 

Whether these charges were made by my Predecessor is more 

* List of persons to whom the present against their respective names is given 
by all foreign Ministers on their first presentation at St. James. 

The King's Valets de'chambre, in the Levee rooms, 4 Guineas. The King's 
footman, 2 do. — The Sergeant porter of the Court, i. do. — The 7 Gentlemen 
porters-i. do — The six Marshalmen, i do — The underporters at St. James, i. 
do — The yeomen of the Guards 2. do. — The Queens porter and underporter. 
i^do. — The Queen's footman 2. do. — The Prince of Wales porter and footman 
7\ do. — The Grooms of the King's bedchamber, who give notice of Court 
mournings, i. do — The chamberkeepers at the Secretary's office 2. do — The 
porter at do. i do — The servants of the Master of Ceremonies i. do — The ser- 
vants of the assistant Master i. do — in all, £1^.^. 

The same persons receive Christmas presents in one or two instances less 
than those named on the presentation, but Christmas presents are given to the 
servants of the Prime Minister, and of the Secretary of State, so that the 
Christmas present exceeds by 2 or 3 Guineas the present on presentation. 

380 RUFUS KING, [1804 

than I know, but admitting they were not, his omission should not 
prejudice his Successors. It may be recollected Mr. Pinckney 
was absent on a mission to Spain, during which his expenses were 
paid and his regular appointments as Minister at London con- 
tinued. Besides the expenses of the Mission during my time 
were increased at least by a quarter beyond what they were in the 
time of my Predecessor. These reflexions are made not solely 
for my own sake, but for the sake of any gentlemen, who with the 
present salary may be my Successor, and their object is to estab- 
lish the just distinction that exists between official and personal 
expenses, and to prevail upon the President to free me and my 
Successors from the former. 

With perfect Consideration & Respect &c, &c, 

RuFus King. 

R. King to R. Harrison, Auditor. 

New York, June 27, 1804. 
Sir : 

I have had the honour to receive your letter of the 22nd in- 
stant, together with the opinion of the Secretary of State concern- 
ing the several points which were referred to his consideration. 
As I am to infer from the tenour of your letters that your Depart- 
ment possesses no discretionary power in respect to these points, 
I ought not to waste your time by any observations concerning 
them. I may however be permitted to observe that the diplomatic 
account, which always included my contingent account, was every 
year, according to my instructions, transmitted by the Bankers to 
the Secretary of State, and for the purpose, as I always supposed, 
of being annually examined and settled. No observation was 
ever made to me concerning the items of, or manner of stating 
this account, and I therefore concluded, especially as every item 
is within the President's competence to allow, that from year to 
year it had received the approbation of those whose province it 
was to judge of it. 

Had the slightest intimation been given to me that the particu- 
lars now asked for would be expected, I should have endeavoured, 
however inconvenient, to obtain and preserve as far as practicable 
the means of enabling myself to comply with the demand. As I 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 38 1 

have before stated to you this account was faithfully made out and 
examined by me once in every year, but as no care was taken to 
preserve the memoranda from which the same was drawn up, it is 
not now in my power to specify the amount of each particular 
article, or to furnish a separate statement of my yearly expense 
for copy-books, paper, pens, wax, wafers &c included under the 
name of stationery. 

The charges for presentation and Christmas presents to the un- 
der officers and servants of the Court, which are official expenses, 
that no foreign minister can with credit decline, are already sepa- 
rately stated in the account transmitted to you. If it be deemed 
fit that I should put my hand into my own pocket to reimburse to 
the public money that without advantage to me has gone into the 
pockets of others, there will be no difficulty in ascertaining the 
amount. As the money advanced for poor Wilson's passage has 
no relation to my private account, I will only add that since the 
allowance of Wilson's expenses from Lisbon to Norfolk, for he 
was obliged to put into Lisbon on his passage, it may seem that 
this change should be disallowed. 

Very faithfully and with great Respect &c 

RuFus King. 

To finish this subject the following letters, though some- 
what out of sequence as to date, will show that a settlement 
of Mr. King's accounts was reached without any material 
change. 

J. Madison to R. King. 

Department of State, July 13, 1804. 
Sir: 

I have had the honor to receive your letter of the 29th ult., 
enclosing one to the Auditor which was handed to him. The 
President having directed that your charges for presentation and 
Christmas presents and for stationery be admitted to your credit 
in the books of the Treasury, the letter of which a copy is en- 
closed was transmitted to the Auditor as his guide. The enclosed 
extract from the accounts of Messrs. Bulkleys, late Bankers at 
Lisbon, will evince that no charge for the relief afforded to Philip 

382 RUFUS KING. [1804 

Wilson and his family was admitted to their credit, for the same 
reason which operates against that claimed by you.* 

I have the honor to be &c &c 

James Madison. 

As stated in the letter, the auditor was directed to allow 
these claims. The Secretary's letter was answered by Mr. 
King as below. 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

Waltham near Boston, July 24, 1804. 
Sir: 

Owing to my absence from New York, I had not the honour 
of receiving your letter of the 13th before yesterday. Although 
the suspended items in my account are in my judgment equitable 
charges, yet as they seem not to be included within the contingent 
expenses heretofore allowed, I feel myself duly sensible of the 
President's liberality in the direction which he has authorized to 
be sent to the Treasury Department on this subject, and beg the 
favour of you, Sir, to present to him my respectful acknowledge- 
ments. In regard to the allowance that I supposed to have been 
made at the Treasury on account of Ph. Wilson's expenses, I have 
probably misapplied the information given to me by the late Sec- 
retary of the Treasury, Mr. W. who, on my speaking to him re- 
specting the advance made for Wilson in Lo don, told me that 
there was a precedent for its payment, as he well remembered that 
on Wilson's arrival at Norfolk, certain expenses attending his pas- 
sage were allowed and paid. Whether this payment was to the 
Master of the ship, or to enable Wilson to get on from Norfolk to 
Philadelphia, or on some other account, I am ignorant. Knowing 
of the Lisbon expenses, I concluded it was to them Mr. Wolcott 
referred. 

But I have already given you too much trouble on this unim- 

* " That there is no existing provision in America by which our advances 
can be reimbursed." This claim for ;^52. was based upon a subscription to a 
fund to enable Philip Wilson & family, who had been impoverished in unsuc- 
cessfully prosecuting a claim in London, to return home. The minister, as 
such, subscribed the above amount for that purpose. His vessel was driven 
into Lisbon. 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 383 

portant point. I will only add that should this small disbursement, 
as well as the more considerable one to General Lafayette appear 
to the President to have been made from motives that merit his 
approbation, I should hope that he will not think it inexpedient to 
recommend to Congress to cover the same by a suitable appro- 
priation. 

In cases of private persons, it behoves them to petition Con- 
gress for relief ; but officers of the United States and accountable 
to and removable by the President naturally look to him for pro- 
tection in all cases of expense, when without authority they may, 
nevertheless, have exercised a sound discretion. 

Yours &c 

RuFus King. 

Thos. T. Tucker, Treasurer United States, to R. King. 

Treasury of the United States, Washington, October 6, 1804. 

Sir : 

Enclosed you will find my Draft No. 7138, on Jonathan Burrall 
Esq for 339.x%V l^ollars, being the amount of Warrant No. 32, 
Issued by the Secretary of the Treasury, on receipt of which be 
pleased to favor me with an acknowledgment. 

I am with great respect Sir, your Obedt. Servt. 

Th. T. Tucker, Treasurer Un. States. 
RuFUS King J^jsq. 

Boston, Oct. 17, 1804. 
Sir : 

I have duly received your Letter of Octr. 6 enclosing your 

Draft No. 7138 on Jonathan Burrall Esq for zZ^'i'}'^ Dollars 

payable to my order, stated to be the amount of Warrant No. 32, 

issued by the Secretary of the Treasury, and being I presume a 

Balance due to me upon the settlement of my accounts in the 

Department of the Treasury. 

I have the honour to be with great Respt. 

Sir, your ob. Servt. 

RuFus King. 

Th. T. Tucker, Treasurer U. S. 

384 RUFUS KING. [1804 

On the original account sent to the Auditor of the Treas- 
ury, there is the following in R. King's handwriting : 

Nov. 7, 1804 — Allowed balance . $339.51 

Suppd. deduction P. Wilson . . 233.32 
Salary from 23d inst of 20th May to 

1 8th ins of 20th say 5 days a 24.65 123.25 696.08 

Unknown disallowances . . . 160.72 

The amount sent to him by draft is thus accounted for. 
It is therefore probable that the disbursement to Lafayette 
was allowed by the President. 

The three letters which follow, though somewhat out of their 
order as to dates, are in several ways interesting and are here 
inserted : 

F. Baring to R. King. 

London, i March, 1804. 
My dear Sir : 

I cannot suffer our friend Mr. Gore to leave the country with- 
out conversing with you by the only means in my power ; indeed 
I have long felt a propensity to begin a correspondence which 
was in a great measure superfluous whilst Mr. Gore remained. I 
am just returned from Bath & from paying my last respects & 
duty to our friend Bingham ; a melancholy task & still more 
melancholy reflexion that such a man should be cut off in the 
prime of life. I never saw a more firm manly mind, nor (if I may 
use the word) more stern integrity ; solely occupied with the con- 
sideration of what was correctly right, without suffering the 
slightest bias or partiality to operate upon his mind. And though 
my sons do not enjoy some advantages which the Customs both 
of America & of England sanction, yet I can say most sincerely 
that they as well as myself are perfectly satisfied and that we shall 
ever hold his memory in the highest respect & reverence. He 
was surrounded by the families of his two daughters & Lord 
Lansdowne, whose attentions to him were incessant ; indeed noth- 
ing was omitted that could have been supplied. 

804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 385 

I am returned to a most busy, anxious, I may say a most 
gloomy scene both at home & abroad — both indeed are so bad 
that it is with reluctance I touch upon either. You know per- 
fectly well the carte du pays of things as they are, or rather were. 
Some, who were tired of the system of divide et impera, formed a 
coalition upon general principles of opposition to the Minister, 
but of equal reserve as to the consequences. Windham & Gren- 
ville, who are for war, unite with Fox & Grey, who are for peace. 
Windham, whatever we may think of his head, has character. But 
we now find the stern, austere Grenville will bend to anything for 
the sake of peace. Every man must lament that Fox with the 
best talents should yield so easily to a connexion which can neither 
be satisfactory nor reputable to himself. Grey embarks from 
friendship for Fox, for every great pugilist must have his bottle- 
holder. Sheridan is at sea & I fear his necessities, more than 
anything else, have governed his conduct. The Prince has given 
him a place which is about a single drop of water, in the ocean. 
I have no confidence in this union ; it will neither do for the 
Court or people, and cannot stand alone. 

In what manner this junto will try their strength remains to 
be ascertained, as existing circumstances will shut many mouths, 
most probably will prevent any distinct plan from being formed. 
Pitt keeps aloof of connection, but is always on the ground and is 
much beyond the other competitors in sagacity. Since the King's 
illness the prince has only consulted with Thurlow, whose rough 
outside may easily be mistaken for what it is not : he will make 
no such mistakes as Roslyn did on a former occasion, which is so 
far safe. L. Moira commands in Scotland where he has distin- 
guished himself by talents both civil and military ; he will no 
doubt act a conspicuous part under a new head. L. Lansdowne 
is on his road from Bath, but will not arrive till the end of the 
week ; of course he has not made up his mind. In 2 or 3 days 
the whole must develop itself, but I must write en avance or I 
shall lose the opportunity. 

With regard to Invasion, I cannot think it will pass away & un- 
der such tremendous preparation guided by such a Man ; it is 
folly to be presumptuous. It is true the french will have great, 
very great obstacles to encounter ; but it is too much to say these 
obstacles will not be forced ; it is equally so to say they may not be 

VOL. IV.- 

386 RUFUS KING. [1804 

evaded under a combination of favorable winds & circumstances. 
If you think I am nervous, I will freely confess to you that I wish 
the attempt should be made ; for if it shall not be made, the military 
force assembled is so enormous that the whole of the North of 
Europe is in danger, & I think it essential for the safety of the 
Worlds that Europe should enjoy more repose & have longer 
time to recruit before the flame burst out on the Continent, & 
which it must do ere long. When I urged the safety of the world 
to Bingham, he never would admit that America under any cir- 
cumstances could possibly be in danger ; my opinion is, as it al- 
ways has been, that Britain was the bulwark to America, & that 
the downfall of one would be followed by the destruction of the 
other. Indeed I cannot discover in what manner Universal Em- 
pire is to be prevented, if the power of France, say the unity of 
that power, remains intact, for its impulse is irresistible. 

You will perceive what interesting events are on the point of 
developing themselves at the moment I write. — The internal 
government of this Country — Invasion or no Invasion — & on the 
latter circumstance depends continental war. In every event I 
hope we shall remain at peace with America. I shudder as much 
at a war with Scotland or Ireland, as with America. I only fear 
too much influence on the part of the people, whose passions con- 
stantly absorb & make them forget their interest, or even common 
sense. I am thoroughly confident in the pacific disposition of the 
rulers on your side, but in America, as well as in England, our 
Sovereign Lords & Masters, the Mob, must be obeyed. I could 
travel over much more ground with you, but I think to have 
stated the multum in parvo in times so pregnant with events, & 
yet at the moment so completely uncertain in every description 
or point of view whatever, I therefore shall conclude with the 
assurance of my being with great regard 

My dear Sir, your most truly faithful humble Servant, 

F. Baring. 

C. Gore to R. King. 

Boston, April 17, 1804. 
My dear Friend : 

L'd. H., I mentioned to you before had invited me to a con- 
ference previous to my departure, proposed by a note to me to 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 387 

call at his office one day. As he said nothing further of Merry's 
rank &c., I was of course silent. It is their determination to keep 
things on the same footing with us, as the Treaty placed them, 
unless any commercial regulations of ours should render a different 
account necessary on their part, which I think they apprehend 
more than they have reason for. As to the war, he seemed to 
think it was impossible for Bonaparte to avoid making an attempt 
to invade England after the immense means he had collected, 
and the enormous expence he had incurr'd, although he believed 
that his only hopes of success were in Ireland, and to that end 
probably were intended his preparations ag't. England. It is 
thought (said by him to be known) that no powers on the conti- 
nent would engage in the contest, unless France should make an 
attempt on the Morea, or on Egypt, in which case Russia had 
declared she would resist with all her force — and in this declara- 
tion & a conduct conformable thereto G. B. confided. I passed 
an hour & a half with him, and at the latter part of the time, the 
L'd. Chancellor entered, who assisted at the conversation. By 
them I was treated with great kindness and apparent confidence. 
The latter gentleman visited me before I quitted. They both 
desired their Regards & Respects to you. A coalition has been 
formed between Mr. Fox, L'd. Grenville, Windham, &c., which, 
however, does not embrace Mr. Pitt. The only object of this coali- 
tion, as I was told by Mr. Coke, was to oppose the present 
administration & to endeavour to attain their dismissal from 
office. 

J. Madison to R. King. 

Department of State, Washington, 24 May, 1804. 
Sir: 

An occasion has occurred, in relation to a demand set up by 
the proctors, who have conducted the American suits, in London, 
on account of captures, to request the favour of your stating how 
far they are supported in it by any promise made by you. It seems 
that suitors in the Prize court have a right to cause their proctor's 
bill to be taxed, which produces a deduction, supposed to average 
about fifteen per cent ; but they allege that by way of encourage- 

388 RUFUS KING. [1804 

ment to their attentions, you promised them that they should be 
paid the full amount of their bills in the American causes, in 
which the Government of the U. States are responsible to pay 
them, without resorting to taxation. Mr. Ewing being about to 
make a final settlement with them has referred the determination 
of this part of their claims to instructions from the Department 
of State. Requesting an answer as soon as your convenience 
will admit. I have the honor to remain Sir your most obed't 
Serv't, 

James Madison. 

R. King to J. Madison. 

New York, May 29, 1804. 
Sir : 

In answer to your letter of the 24inst, I have the honour to 
state that no engagement was ever made by me that the long bills 
of the Proctors' should be paid. In consequence of an instruc- 
tion that I gave to the agent Mr. Bayard to require that the Proc- 
tors' bills should be regularly taxed, several of them came to me 
to represent what they called the usage on this subject, and to urge 
me to authorize or promise them payment on their long or un- 
taxed bills. My answer was explicit that I could make no en- 
gagement to this effect, but that the demand must be referred to 
the Govt, of the U. States, whose decision would perhaps be 
influenced by the satisfactory or unsatisfactory adjustment of 
the American Claims. 

With great Respect &c. 

RuFus King. 

P. S. The payments from time to tim.e made to the Proctors 
were on account, leaving the question concerning their long bills 
open for the President's decision. I do not recollect whether the 
taxed or long bills were admitted by the Commissioners. My 
impression is that the taxed bills only were received. Mr Gore or 
Mr. Cabot can ascertain this point. 

CHAPTER XXV. 

Burr disappointed — Sought Revenge by Death of Hamilton — King's Connect- 
tion with the Duel between them — Charges against him of Coldness of 
Heart and of not endeavoring to prevent the Duel examined and disproved 
— King to C. King, denying a Statement by Dr. Mason — C. King to R. 
King — Interview with Dr. Mason — Report Incorrect — W. Wallace to King 
— Result of the Duel — Pendleton to King — Hamilton mortally wounded — 
Correspondence with Gen. Clarkson relative to the Duel — Pitcaim to King 
— Deplores the Death of Hamilton. 

Aaron Burr, who had been the recipient of his party's 
favors, and had nearly reached the office of President, found 
himself deserted, as has been seen, by his former friends, and 
moved by his ruling passion, ambition, sought to obtain 
through the agency of a large portion of the federalists, who 
believed themselves outraged by the acts of the President and 
his friends, a return to that power from which he hoped 
much in the future. It was very evident to him, when 
again defeated, that the leading opponent he had was Alex- 
ander Hamilton. There can be no doubt that he felt that 
he could not overcome or destroy his influence and that he 
stood in the way of any political advancement. There was 
but one way in which he could get rid of this obstacle to his 
success and that was to remove it by a duel, which would put 
an end to one or the other, and as history records he took 
means to insure the death of his adversary by careful 
practice. 

Mr. Jabez Hammond in his History of Political Parties in 
New York{i., 210), presents very clearly the effect upon Mr. 
Burr of the result in the election of Governor in that State.* 

* " The result of the New York election [that of Mr. Lewis by a very large 
majority] had entirely prostrated the political prospects of Col. Burr. He was 

389 

390 RUFUS KING. [1804 

It is not proposed to present a full and particular account 
of the circumstances and correspondence relative to the 
duel which removed the leading statesman of the day from 
the sphere of usefulness in which his energy and consum- 
mate ability had so long benefited his country, and which 
brought upon his adversary the universal scorn of all parties 
and a bitter retribution which he little looked for. As the 
name of Rufus King, the warm and trusted friend of 
Hamilton, has been connected with history of this event, 
and at times with a criticism which he did not deserve, it 
is due to him that a true statement of his position should 
be given. 

irrevocably cast off from the republican party in the nation ; and the event of 
the contest in this Stale had proved that his friends were not sufficiently numer- 
ous when connected with the federalists, or so many of them as would join his 
standard, to sustain him here. Should the federalists as a party ever gain the 
ascendency, the prospect of which was extremely unpromising, he knew by 
what had recently occurred, that y^r would have no hopes of promotion from that 
party. His political fortunes therefore seemed totally wrecked and irretrievably 
ruined. In reflecting upon the cause of that ruin, he undoubtedly regarded 
Gen. Hamilton as the principal agent. If at any time he had expected the 
aid of the federal members of congress to elect him president in preference to 
Mr. Jefferson, he had there met the opposition of Mr. Hamilton ; for on that 
occasion Mr. Bayard of Delaware and Mr. Morris of Vermont, two of Mr. 
H's friends, had given the election to Mr, Jefferson. In the late contest 
when his political life was at stake, the same opponent had there stood in his 
way ; and to his denunciation and great and commanding influence, Mr. Burr 
charged the defection and desertion of so large a portion of federalists from 
their party. These considerations must have produced in the gloomy and 
despairing mind of Mr. Burr a settled determination that he would have 
revenge — a revenge that nothing short of the life of Hamilton would satiate. 
It is impossible for me to account for the duel which took place after this 
election, between Burr and Hamilton, upon any other principle. It is true, 
that had the answer of Gen. Hamilton to the first communication of Burr been 
more guarded and more conciliatory in its tone and manner, it might have put 
Burr more clearly in the wrong, and furnished positive and decisive evidence 
that from the commencement he premeditated and determined on a mortal 
contest. But he knew that Gen. Hamilton from youth had been a military 
man, and that he was sensitively alive to his honor as a soldier ; and a careful 
review of the correspondence as it was actually conducted will convince all 
candid men that Burr, when he wrote the first note, was resolved that the issue 
should be nothing less than the death of one of the parties," 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 39 1 

In the Life of Josiah Quincy by his son Edmund Quincy, 
published in 1868, p. 84, there is given an extract from a 
Journal of Mr. J. Quincy while in New York in November, 
1805, o^ h^s way to Washington to take his seat in Congress. 
He mentions the hospitable entertainment he received 
there and speaks of a number of eminent men he met. 
Among them was Mr. Pendleton, who was General Hamil- 
ton's second in the duel, and whom he questioned about it; 

" I asked Mr. Pendleton * whether in the opinion of Mr. 
Hamilton's friends Mr. King had conducted with propriety in 
leaving New York, previous to the duel, after having been par- 
ticularly consulted by Hamilton on the subject. Mr. Pendleton 
answered that the facts were that Hamilton did consult King 
and that early. He was that 'judicious friend,' of whom Ham- 
ilton speaks in one of his letters. After having thus been con- 
sulted some time previously to the time fixed for the duel, King 
commenced a journey. I know that this conduct of King 
has been considered as indicating ^r^^;/ coldness of heart in King. 
It certainly does nothing else. A man who had felt deeply the 
public and private stake which was put at risk, could not, it has 
been said, have left the vicinity until the final decision, particu- 
larly after the marks of confidence he had received from Ham- 
ilton. On the contrary, Mr. King says he could have done 
nothing by staying — that the duel was inevitable. From politi- 
cal considerations, he might wish to be at a distance from the 
scene." 

In this statement, published sixty-three years after it was 
recorded, it would seem as if the family of General Hamil- 
ton censured Mr. King for taking his journey, arranged for 
some time before the duel, and that Mr. Pendleton remarked 
that it " has been considered as indicating great coldness 
of heart. It certainly does nothing else," because he left 
the vicinity while the affair was still pending. It does 

* " I was led to this inquiry because a brother-in-law of mine, Washington 
Morton, a young man of strong passions, who had married Miss Schuyler 
(sister of Mrs. Hamilton) had spoken very indignantly of the conduct of King, 
giving the impression that such was the feeling of his wife's family." 

392 RUFUS KING, [1804 

not appear that the feelings of the family upon the matter 
were indicated by anything but the opinion of his brother- 
in-law, who had married Mrs. Hamilton's sister, '' a young 
man of strong passions, who had spoken very indignantly 
of the conduct of King." It may have been true, and yet 
what constitutes '' coldness of heart " is a matter of opinion ; 
and the fact might have been that Mr. King, finding his 
remonstrances could have no effect, preferred not being 
present — but not, as Mr. Pendleton suggested, that he might 
*' from political considerations, wish to be at a distance 
from the scene " Mr. King never showed an unwillingness 
to meet any responsibility, and no personal or political con- 
siderations as to the future would have been entertained 
for a moment. 

The facts are that Mr. King, who had not visited his 
friends and family in Massachusetts since his return from 
Europe, had decided to do so in the summer of that year, 
and to follow out a suggestion made to him on April 22d 
by Mr. Gore. 

" We sincerely regret your suffering under the ague and fever, 
and most truly hope it has now left you. We shall anxiously 
await your coming hither, which we pray you not to delay longer 
than the season renders necessary. June and July are pleasant 
months here. In August you can visit your family and friends 
at the Eastward and return to us in September and to New York 
in November." 

There can be no doubt that his arrangements, when 
travelling was not so expeditious or comfortable as in these 
days, had been somewhat in accordance with this plan, 
which he carried out. In the meantime the trouble arose 
in which he was consulted by General Hamilton. The deci- 
sion to accept a challenge was made by the latter, and 
when it was given on the 27th June and accepted on the 
28th the time for the duel was not fixed. In the Re- 
marks, which were offered by Mr. Pendleton to Mr. Van 
Ness as from General Hamilton, but not accepted by him, 
the closing paragraph is in the following words : 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 393 

" If the alternative alluded to in the close of the letter (of the 
27th) is definitely tendered, it must be accepted ; the time, place 
and manner, to be afterwards regulated : I should not think it 
right in the midst of a Circuit Court to withdraw my services from 
those who may have confided important interests to me, and ex- 
pose them to the embarrassment of seeking other counsel, who 
may not have time to be sufficiently instructed in their cases. I 
shall also want a little time to make some arrangements respecting 
my own affairs." * 

There was, therefore, as this condition was explained by 
Mr. Pendleton and accepted, no certainty when the duel 
would take place. In fact it did not occur until the nth of 
July. With this uncertainty before him, having it is pre- 
sumed arranged his journey, and with the feeling that noth- 
ing more could be done to avert what he deprecated, it is 
not necessary to believe that there was no anxiety on the 
part of Mr. King, or unconcern as to the result that would 
warrant the accusation of " great coldness of heart." It 
cannot be supposed that there was not entire sympathy and 
understanding between the two men, for Hamilton in his 
last letter to Sedgwick speaks of King as on his way to Boston. 

But whatever some may think about his absence from 
New York at the time of the duel, there is another charge 
against Mr. King, " that he was blamed for not endeavoring 
to prevent this fatal duel," made in the Autobiography of 
Charles Biddle, published in i883.f It may be said that 
Mr. Biddle held Aaron Burr in high regard, as this record 
shows, while on the other hand he had few kind words to 
say of his political opponent, Alexander Hamilton, except 
as to his great abilities. He says, p. 309 : 

" If General Hamilton had not opposed Colonel Burr, I have 
very little doubt he would have been elected Governor of New 
York, and if he had it would have been a fortunate circumstance 
for the country, as well as for themselves and their families. 

* Life of Hamilton, vii., 815. 

f An examination of this charge and refutation of it were made and published 
by the Editor of the present Life, in the Magazine of American History^ vol. 
xi., p. 212. This account will be freely used here. — Ed. 

394 RUFUS KING. [1804 

" In this unfortunate affair, Mr. Rufus King was blamed, I 
think deservedly, for not endeavoring to prevent this fatal duel. 
He is the moderate judicious friend General Hamilton alludes to 
in the paper enclosed in his will." 

This was not written at the time of the duel, " but some 
years after, when time had softened bitter feelings," mani- 
festing that there were even then some who still entertained 
the opinion that Mr. King might have prevented the duel, 
that he did not exert his influence with General Hamilton, 
and that he suffered in the minds of honorable men in 
consequence. 

As this was the first publication, in a work of acknowl- 
edged character, of the charge, it is due to Mr. King that it 
should be corrected and refuted. He certainly was the 
warm and faithful friend of General Hamilton, a friendship 
dating from before the days when they sat together in the 
Convention for the formation of the Constitution of the 
United States, and, apart from personal esteem and friend- 
ship, he too well knew and prized the valuable services and 
the ability of that distinguished man to leave unused any 
influence he might have to avert the calamity, which he 
must have anticipated as the result of a hostile meeting ; 
and it is known that he had been consulted. General 
Hamilton has stated this fact in the paper left by him. 

Happily Mr. King has, in a paper which will be found 
below, made a statement, in his own handwriting and signed 
by him, which gives an account of his agency in the matter 
and shows how shocked he was, at the time it was written in 
1819, that the charge above referred to was made — a charge 
he appears never before to have heard. 

R. King to Charles King.* 

Jamaica, L. I., Ap. 2, 1819. 
Dear Sir: 

To my surprise and regret, I have been informed that Dr. 
Mason in a late conversation at a dinner table stated in reference 

* His son. 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 395 

to the duel between Genl. Hamilton and Colonel Burr, in which 
the former was mortally wounded, that it was in my power to have 
prevented the duel, and that evidence of this fact could be pro- 
duced ; a statement which had the effect of creating the belief 
that I approved of and promoted the duel. 

I request that you will take an early opportunity of calling on 
Doctor Mason and in my behalf assuring him that the reverse of 
the alleged fact is the truth, and that so far from approving and 
promoting the duel, I disapproved of it and endeavoured to pre- 
vail on Genl. Hamilton not to meet Col. Burr. 

Ask Doctor Mason to furnish you with the evidence to which 
he referred and upon which he thought himself justified in mak- 
ing the foregoing statement. Say to him, moreover, on my part, 
that I willingly believe, after receiving this communication, that 
he will take greater pleasure in correcting than he could have ex- 
perienced in stating a charge that is wholly unfounded. 
With affectionate Regards, I am faithfully yrs. 

RuFUS King. 

On the margin of a copy of the letter given above is writ- 
ten by Mr. King : 

" Remark. Mr. Bogert gave me this information, which he 
received from a gentleman present at this dinner, who was im- 
pressed by Dr. M.'s statement that I encouraged the duel. Mr. 
Bogert more than once conferred with this person, in order accu- 
rately to understand the tenor of Dr. M.'s charge, and the im- 
pression of it upon the person in question. Mr. Bogert has seen 
and approves of this letter as correct in its recital of what was 
communicated to him. R. K." 

On the reverse of the original letter appears the fol- 
lowing : 

C. King to R. King. 

Wednesday Ev'g, April 7, 1819. 

I received this letter on the 5th of April and in the course of 
that day called at Dr. Mason's house and was informed by Mrs. 

396 RUFUS KING. [1804 

Mason that the Dr. was in the country, arranging his library. 
Being engaged on the 6th, I deferred repeating the call 'till this 
afternoon (the 7th) when I saw Dr. Mason, and informing him 
that I called on the part of my father, who had heard a report 
which was very unpleasant to him, presented him with this letter, 
as the best mode of explaining the object of my visit. He 
read it attentively and returned it to me with the observation, 
"that there was no truth at all in the report to which it referred." 
He then went on to explain " that at the dinner table of Mr. 
Richards, Mr. H. W. Warner alluding to the duel of Genl. Ham- 
ilton and Col. Burr mentioned Mr. Pendleton as the calm and 
judicious friend^ to whom Genl, Hamilton referred, as having 
taken his advice previous to the duel. Dr. Mason remarked here- 
upon that he understood that friend to be Mr. King — but that 
this remark was unaccompanied with any other, or any comment 
— that Mr. Warner had within a day or two called upon him in 
much agitation, that they had talked over the subject, and Mr. 
Warner had left him prepared to give Mr. Bogert such an expla- 
nation of what really passed at the dinner already alluded to, as 
would do away the unjust inferences that appeared to have been 
drawn from it. I expressed the pleasure I felt at this statement 
and entered into a detail of what really took place between my 
father and Genl. Hamilton at their interview on the subject of this 
unfortunate duel, specifying particularly that the ofily pointy upon 
which Genl. Hamilton asked my father's opinion was whether he, 
Genl. Hamilton, was bound to give a definite answer to Burr's 
enquiry, as to whether he, Hamilton, had at any time or in any 
place expressed opinions unfavourable or derogatory to Col. 
Burr ; to which my father answered decidedly, No ; that if Mr. 
Burr would specify any particular fact, then and then only, it 
would be proper for Genl. Hamilton to deny or affirm it — that 
such should be the tenor of Genl. Hamilton's reply to Burr. 
That preparatory to and during the discussion of this question, 
the main one, of whether Genl. Hamilton should under any cir- 
cumstances accept a challenge from Mr. Burr arose, and that my 
father decidedly advised that he should ?iot j but that Genl. Hamilton 
having stated that his mind was made up on this subject, as also 
to throw away his fire, if they should meet, my father then en- 
deavoured to prove to him, that if he, Mr. H., would persist in 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 397 

fighting, he owed to his family and the rights of self-defence to 
fire at his antagonist. 

Dr. Mason replied that these circumstances were new to him, 
but that the letter I had shewn to him, communicated what he 
did not know, but what he was rejoiced to find, that my father 
dissuaded Genl. Hamilton from fighting — as his letter stated he 
did. I hereupon rose, to take my leave, expressing the pleasure 
I felt that a report which could not but be disagreeable to my 
father and unjust to Dr. Mason, had been so satisfactorily ex- 
plained— to which Dr. Mason rejoined that he was also v/ell 
pleased at it ; and that no man in the country would rejoice 
more than himself to see my father occupying that station in the 
country which was justly due to him. 

I immediately returned home (about half past six o'clk P.M.) 
and committed the result of this interview to writing. 

Chas. King. 

On the back of the rough copy of a letter to General Clark- 
son, p. 399, is the following, either sent or proposed to be sent, 
to some intimate friend and in R. King's handwriting : 

" You cannot my Dr. Sir, hold in greater abhorrence than I do 
the Practice of Duelling. Our lamented friend was not unac- 
quainted with my opinion on the subject, but with a mind the 
most capacious and discriminating that I ever knew, he had laid 
down for the gov. of himself certain rules upon the subj. of 
Duels, the fallacy of which wd. not fail to be seen by any man 
of ordinary understanding ; with these Guides, it is my delib- 
erate opinion, that he could not have avoided a meeting with Col. 
Burr, had he even decHned the first Challenge." 

On the same page also in R. King's handwriting is the 
following : 

I regard it as a violation of our civil, our moral and our relig- 
ious Duty. I go farther and do not consider it as even proof of 
Courage. 

It cannot be necessary to search for other proof of the 
falseness of the charge, to which allusion has above been 
made, of indifference to the welfare of his friend, and that 

398 RUFUS KING. [1804 

at the solemn moment of deciding what course should be 
pursued, Mr. King, when friendship could speak with such 
commanding voice, was wanting in the counsel he should 
give. 

There are several other letters, bearing upon the subject 
of the duel, which will present some interesting features 
and are given below. 

Wm. Wallace, New York, to R. King, Hartford, Conn. 

July II, 5 p. M., 1804. 
My dear Sir : 

This morng, we were all alarmed at a report of Col. Hamilton's 
being killed in a duel with Col. Burr. Knowing that such a re- 
port would interest you, I seize the present opportunity to say 
" a meeting took place between those gentlemen this morng,, the 
cause said to be political, the consequence a wound (supposed 
mortal) on Col. Hamilton. He received the shot of his antago- 
nist, it is said with the determination of not returning the first 
fire. He was brought to Mr. Bayard's at Greenwich, where Mr. 
Low and I were at 12 o'clock. He was still alive but I conceive 
there is nothing further than a possibility of his recovery. We 
have not heard from him since that time. A general sense of 
regret prevails. We have nothing else since your departure. 

Yours &c &c, 

Wm. Wallace. 

Nath. Pendleton to R. King, Boston. 

N. Y., Thursday, July — 1804. 

My dear Sir : 

Before you receive this our dear and excellent friend Hamilton 
will be no more. He & Col. B. met yesterday morning at seven 
o'clock on the Jersey shore. Genl. H. persisted in the resolution 
he had taken before you left us to receive & not return the first 
shot. Unhappily Mr. B's first shot was fatal. It passed between 
the two lower ribs of the right side, and lodged near the spine, 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 399 

and in its passage, the surgeons say, it must have passed through 
the lungs or the liver. He was brought over to Mr. Bayard's 
where he continues. I have just left him, and the Doctors say 
he cannot outlive the day. 

I have not time now to communicate any of the reflections 
that crowd upon my mind on this most extensive public and pri- 
vate calamity. It has occasioned a strong public sensation which 
will be much increased when he is dead. 

I am my dear Sir with esteem 

your obedient servant, 

Nath. Pendleton. 

Gen. M. Clarkson to R. King. 

New York, August 20, 1804. 
My dear Sir : 

Since the late melancholy event which has deprived us of our 
friend Hamilton, a report has reached me, that yourself in con- 
junction with Mr. Pendleton and myself had given it as an opin- 
ion that a duel was unavoidable ; a report of this nature (as I 
abhor the practice) has occasioned me great uneasiness, and as I 
was only a hearer of what you related to me and had no other 
agency in the business, you will much oblige me by a line to this 
effect. I promise you that no other use shall be made of the let- 
ter but only to show it to two persons from whom I received the 
information — who I am very solicitous should be rightly informed 
on the subject. Previous to the fatal event the silence you im- 
posed on me was most scrupulously attended to ; but which agi- 
tated my mind exceedingly ; immediately upon my hearing of its 
having taken place, I directly went to our friend, who I found 
had already requested that I should be sent for. The scene 
which I witnessed has almost been too much for me, and the idea 
now suggested has not contributed to my repose. Let me re- 
quest, my dear Sir, to hear from you as soon as possible. 

Your sincere friend & obedt. Servt., 

M. Clarkson. 

P. S. We are endeavoring to obtain by subscription some 
property for the children of our friend ; is anything of a similar 
nature likely to be done in Boston ? 

400 RUFUS KING. [1804 

R. King to Gen. Clarkson. 

Waltham near Boston, Aug. 24, 1804. 
My dear Sir : 

I lose no time in replying to yr. letter of the 20th which I 
received last Evening — considering the reserve that I have ob- 
served on this subject of national affliction, I was truly surprized 
that any such Rumour as that you mention should have got into 
circulation upon my authority. No persons can be justified by 
any observation that you ever made to me, or that I ever made 
to another, in reporting that you had given an opinion that a 
Duel between our lamented friend and Col. Burr was unavoidable. 

It was not until the challenge had been given and accepted, 
that I mentioned the affair to you and that under an injunction 
of secrecy. Knowing our friend's determination to be passive, 
my mind was agitated with strong forebodings of what has hap- 
pened, and tho' the Correspondence was closed by an agreement 
of the Parties to meet each other, I nevertheless mentioned the 
subject to you, and asked if you could perceive any mode of 
interference. Your answer, expressive of much sorrow, was in 
the negative. I did not however, infer from this answer that in 
yr. opinion our friend might not have declined a meeting with 
Col. Burr, but merely by the acceptance of his adversary's chal- 
lenge, that the interference of third persons was precluded. 

With sentiments of Resp. & Esteem &c. 

(Signed) R. King. 

P. S. You are at liberty to make any use of the above that you 
may deem proper. 

2nd P. S. There exists in this quarter a difficulty that may disap- 
point our hopes of pecuniary succour for the family of our lamented 
friend. I allude to the misunderstanding that existed between him 
and Mr. Adams. Should we fail in procuring money, I understood 
that certain persons who purchased a tract of land in Pennsyl- 
vania of Col. Pickering and for which they paid him $25,000, 
will be disposed to convey the lands to the family of the de- 
ceased. This would be a valuable property at a distant day, but 
cash only will pay debts. 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 4OI 

This letter, of which only a copy is preserved, was prob- 
ably written to Genl. Clarkson, as it refers to Mr. King's 
letter to him of Aug. 24. 

Dear Sir : 

Mrs. Hamilton having written to Mr. Cabot to endeavour to 
procure for Alexander a situation in a respectable commercial 
house, Mr. Higginson has readily consented to take him ; and 
until a suitable family can be found to take Alexander as a 
boarder, Mr. Higginson will receive him into his own family. 
This will give to the young man an opportunity of becoming ac- 
quainted with the respectable persons of the town, and with such 
young men as are of the best reputation. 

In my answer to your letter of the 20th, I omitted to say any- 
thing concerning either Mr. Pendleton or myself in respect to the 
report to which your letter alludes. I have no recollection that 
Mr. Pendleton ever expressed to me any opinion whether General 
H. could, or ought to, decline a meeting with Col. Burr. I very 
well remember that he entirely agreed with me of the inconsistency 
of the General's determination to receive the fire of his adversary 
and to throw away his own. 

No person can view with deeper abhorrence than I do the prac- 
tice of duelling, and our lamented friend was not unacquainted 
with my opinion upon this subject. 

With sincere Regards yr. ob. & faithful Servt. 

(Signed) RuFus King. 

J. PiTCAiRX * TO R. King. 

Hamburg, Sept. 25, 1804. 
We hear from America, that Genl. Armstrong succeeds Mr. 
Livingston, so that in pleasing the Virginians, the family may be 
preserved to the party. All men acquainted with America 
learned with sorrow & indignation the death of General Hamil- 
ton— few in any age had richer gifts from nature, and none ever 
made a more diligent & effectual use of them for the benefit 
of his Country. Times were favourable ; they showed his manly 
integrity, his disinterested character, and various Genius, in fair 

* Mr. Pitcairn had been for many years U. S. Consul at Hamburg. 

VOL. IV-26. 

402 RUFUS KING. [1804 

views, and considering him as an important labourer in rearing 
the new Constitution and in founding public credit, he takes high 
rank among the ornaments and benefactors of mankind. His 
murderer must be wretched ; no civilized land is to him an 
asylum ; should the laws hunt him from America, he would find 
abhorrence & Contempt meet him on every European shore. 

• • • 

Your very obedient Servant 

Jos. PiTCAIRN. 

CHAPTER XXVI. 

Embarrassment of General Hamilton's pecuniary Affairs — G. Morris's State- 
ment— King to Friends in Boston — They proposed giving Lands bought of 
T. Pickering to the Heirs of General Hamilton — Deed for them to be 
given by the Purchasers — King to Cabot — Statement of the Debts and 
Subscription in New York — Gore to King — Deeds made out — J. A. Ham- 
ilton's Account — Letter to Major Popham — King to Gore — Plan to pur- 
chase Hamilton's Estate — Gift of Land by Gen. Schuyler to his Daughter 
— Share of her Father's Estate — Charge against King in the Alexandria 
Expositor — King's Letter to Editor — Copy of the Article — J. Crowe, 
England, to King — Denies the truth of the Article — Dinsmore, Editor, to 
King — Will publish a Refutation — King to Dinsmore — Wishes no Apology, 
but the Truth published. 

The last years of the life of General Hamilton had been 
devoted to the more diligent pursuit of his profession, in 
order that he might be able to make provision for his family. 
And vet when an examination into his affairs was made after 
his death, it was found that his estate was seriously embar- 
rassed. In the Diary and Letters of Gouverneur Morris^ 
vol. ii., pp. 458-9, he writes, July 14, 1804: 

" Mr. Hammond, who dined with us, desired me to think of 
some means to provide for poor Hamilton's family. Mr. Gracie 
and Mr. Wolcott called for the same purpose. I had already 
mentioned the matter to Mr. Low, who seems to think a subscrip- 
tion will not go down well, because the children have a rich 
grandfather. . . ." 

Together with others of General Hamilton's friends, Mor- 
ris spent much time endeavoring to arrange his affairs, which 
were in sad disorder : 

" Our friend Hamilton [he wrote to Robert Morris] has been 
suddenly cut off in the midst of embarrassments which would 

403 

404 RUFUS KING. [1804 

have required years of professional industry to set straight : a 
debt of between fifty thousand and sixty thousand dollars hang- 
ing over him, a property which in time may sell for seventy thou- 
sand or eighty thousand, but which, if brought to the hammer, 
would not, in all probability, fetch forty ; a family of seven 
young children. We have opened a subscription to provide for 
these orphans, and his warm-hearted friends, judging of others 
by themselves, expect more from it than I do." 

M. Clarkson to R. King. 

" New York, Aug. 20, 1804. 
". . . P. S. We are endeavoring to obtain by subscription 
some property for the children of our friend. Is any thing of a 
similar nature likely to be done at Boston ? " 

Whether or not this intimation was the first that Mr. 
King received of the purpose of General Hamilton's friends, 
he writes as follows to some friend in New York asking him 
to act for him : 

R. King to . 

(Copy of a Letter.) 

" Waltham near Boston, July 23, 1804. 
" My dear Sir : 

"Being detained on the road, we did not reach this place till 
yesterday. The same cause that retarded our journey prevents 
my proceeding at present on a visit to Boston ; having been 
severely attacked by an intermittent, I am compelled to give an 
exact attention to the restoration of my health. I hope however 
in three or four days that I shall be able to venture into town. 
In the mean time I have delivered your letter to me to my friend 
Mr. Gore, who has gone this morning to town with Judge Ben- 
son. They will confer with Cabot, Higginson and Otis upon the 
subject. At present I can give no opinion concerning the be- 
nevolent object that is aimed at. It is, however, on every account 
fit that I should authorize you, as I now do, to do in my behalf 
at New York as you may think suitable and to this I give you 
carte blanche. " 

It is altogether probable that when he was able to go to 
Boston and during the month or more he remained there. 

r8o4] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 405 

Mr. King took occasion to speak of, and urge a co-operation 
of the Boston friends of General Hamilton in, raising money 
for the benefit of the children of one whom they all loved. 
There is in the postscript of the letter to General Clarkson, 
of the 24th August, an evidence of this, and of the generous 
gift of lands by Mr. Cabot and other citizens of Boston, 
should it be impossible to raise money. 

" . . . 2d P. S. There exists in this quarter a difficulty that 
may disappoint our hopes of pecuniary succours for the family of 
our lamented friend. I allude to the misunderstanding that 
existed between him and Mr. Adams. Should we fail in procur- 
ing money, I understand that certain persons who purchased a 
tract of land in Pennsylvania of Col. Pickering, and for which 
they paid him $25,000, will be disposed to convey the lands to 
the family of the deceased. This would be a valuable property 
at a distant day, but cash only will pay debts." 

Not long after this Mr. King left Boston for a visit to his 
family in Maine, and during the time he passed with them 
the suggestion of the gift of lands was acted upon. The 
history of this gift is connected with a previous act of esteem 
for a political as well as personal friend. Mr. Timothy Pick- 
ering had become interested in certain lands in Pennsylvania, 
and not very long before, in 1801, had determined to go and 
live upon them, having little or no other means of support. 
Gratitude for the work he had done in connection with the 
early years of the Government of the United States, the 
desire to enable him to continue his services, instead of 
burying himself in the wild lands, and personal regard and 
esteem led a number of his friends in Boston to buy his 
lands for a fair price and thus enable him to live where he 
could still exert his influence. The consequence was that a 
subscription was opened and funds in shares of $100 each 
were taken by some thirty or more persons to the amount 
of $25,000, for which the lands were to be conveyed to them. 
The deeds for these lands had not been made out ; and all 
those who had contributed the money 

406 RUFUS KING, [1804 

'* engaged to pay into the hands of the Honorable George Cabot, 
Thomas Davis and Theodore Lyman, Esqrs., the sums of money 
set against our respective names to be by them applied to the 
benefit of the children or family of General Hamilton in any 
manner they shall judge proper . . . and authorize the said 
Timothy Pickering Esq. to convey by a quit-claim deed to such 
person or persons as shall be named to him for that purpose, by 
the aforementioned gentlemen." 

This was stated to be done " in remembrance of the exalted 
worth and pre-eminent services of the late General Hamilton — 
his extraordinary and truly patriotic exertions, which contributed 
so much to save our country from the greatest impending calam- 
ities ; his able, disinterested and successful efforts to inculcate 
the wisdom, justice and advantage of all those maxims of juris- 
prudence, which render sacred the rights of property and which 
are inseparable from true liberty, and especially recollecting that 
the devotion of his time and talents to these public interests has 
operated to deprive his family of a common share of those pe- 
cuniary advantages, which his labors, if applied to them, would 
have easily made abundant ; we, therefore, whose names are sub- 
scribed, do testify in some degree our sense of departed excel- 
lence and our gratitude for benefits conferred on our country." 

Mr. King evidently received particular information in 
reference to the action of gentlemen in New York, for on 
his return to Waltham he wrote to Mr. Cabot : 

R. King to George Cabot. 

" Oct. loth, 1804. 
"According to the schedule of General Hamilton's estate,, 
drawn up by himself a few days before his death, it appears that 
his property consists altogether of new lands, situate in the west- 
ern part of New York, and of a house, nine miles from the city. 
The new lands cost fifty-five thousand dollars and the country 
house and grounds about twenty-five thousand. The General's 
debts amount to fifty-five thousand dollars ; and as the estate is 
unproductive, and the debts bear interest, it is the opinion of 
judicious persons that, with the most prudent management, the 
estate will be barely sufficient to pay the debts, Mrs. Hamilton 
is a daughter of General Schuyler, who has a family of eight or 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 407 

nine children. The General is supposed to have a good real 
estate, but not much personal property : so that little expectation 
can be entertained of any considerable succor from this quarter, 
either for the maintenance of General Hamilton's family or for 
the education and advancement of his children. To the sorrow 
that every virtuous mind has felt for this distinguished patriot, it 
is painful to add the reflection that his young and helpless family 
must depend for their support, not upon the earnings of their 
father — for he served the public — but upon the contributions of 
a few individuals who admired his unequalled worth. The sub- 
scription for this purpose at New York amounted to upwards of 
sixteen thousand dollars when I last heard from thence (which 
was before my journey to the eastward) and it was expected that 
a considerable addition would be made to this fund."* 

* Mr. James A. Hamilton in his Reminiscences, published in 1869, makes 
the following statement on p. 78 : 

" At a dinner party in New York, shortly after the close of the Revolution- 
ary War, at which were present Messrs. G. Morris, John Jay, R, Harrison, 
John Delafield, Robert Lenox, Nicholas Low, L O. Hoffman, and Alexander 
Hamilton, the question was discussed whether the purchase of wild lands or of 
lots in the suburbs of the city would be the more profitable investment. John Jay 
was in favor of New York, and made purchases there, and as his means enabled 
him to hold his lots, his speculation made him rich. Hoffman also bought land 
in the vicinity of the city. Some of the others, including my father, took the 
opposite view, and invested in the lands in the northern counties of the State. 
The wild lands were purchased at a few cents the acre, but they were not settled 
very rapidly. After the death of Hamilton, it was found, as I have already 
said, his means were not equal to the pajTiient of his debts, and several of his 
friends advanced money for that purpose, taking those lands in payment. 

" Having learned that Major William Popham, one of the gentlemen who 
had shown that kindness to my father, was at an advanced period of life in poor 
circumstances, I addressed him the following letter : " 

New York, October 14, 1824. 
My Dear Sir, 

I was this day for the first time informed by a person, who became acquainted 
with the circumstance at the time it occurred, that you advanced one hundred 
dollars to pay my father's debts. The gratitude that is due to you from every 
member of his family for this generous act can never be effaced. You must, 
therefore, believe that I do not send you the enclosed cheque for the same sum 
in the hope of cancelling what is due to you, but in obedience to the sacred in- 
junction of my father, and because under present circumstances it may promote 
your convenience. 

I requested Mr, Pendleton, one of my father's executors, to inform me of the 

408 RUFUS KING. [1804 

On the loth of November a letter was addressed to 
Colonel Pickering, by the trustees appointed above, stating 
that 

" the design which was formed to transfer to the heirs of General 
Hamilton the lands purchased of you in 1801 is now accom- 
plished, so far as depended on the acts of those purchasers," 

and that it only remained to make out the conveyances to 
the executors of General Hamilton's will or to other persons, 
as might be agreed on. 

C. Gore to R. King, New York. 

" Boston, November 25th, 1804. 
" The papers that respect the transfer of property to poor 
Hamilton's heirs went on yesterday. After this land was con- 
veyed, Lyman and Davis thought proper to propose to some 
others to subscribe Cash ; I mean those who were not interested 
in the land. Our friend Cabot objected because he thought it 
would be unavailing : but the former gentlemen, thinking it right 

arrangements made to pay my father's debts, for at that time I was young [he 
was 16 years old]. He informed me with reluctance that my father's lands in 
Scriba's Patent had been taken by certain gentlemen in this city, whose names 
he would not mention, at prices which, he said, were perhaps more than they 
were worth at the time. These gentlemen hoped with the amount thus raised 
and the sums due my father, to pay his debts and leave the Grange clear 
to his family. 

I mention this to show you that I have not been indifferent to this very delicate 
matter, and that if in my course through life, I should come in collision with 
any of these persons (with you, I am happy to say, I am sure I have not) to 
whom I am indebted for these or similar acts of generous devotion to my 
father's memory, it has been in ignorance, and must always be to me a subject 
of deep and mortifying regret. 

With great regard, your friend and obedient servant, 

James A. Hamilton. 

It cannot be that this is an account of the same transaction which has been 
recorded ; there is not even a suggestion in it of any security or equivalent for 
the money subscribed to pay the debts : it was a free gift so far as can be ascer- 
tained. That there may also have been a transfer to others of the Scriba 
patent lands, which cost General Hamilton "fifty-five thousand dollars," is 
possible, but no account of it appears — unless in the public records, where the 
names of the parties to whom the lands were transferred, could have been found. 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 409 

that these should be applied to made their address to and 

, both of whom refused to give a farthing. Lloyd who 

offered the subscription paper says he is sure that he made such 
remarks to M., as will render his journey to rather un- 
pleasant ; agreed to the merits of the deceased Statesman 

and his claims on the public, but observed his children needed 
his money as much." 

The Trustees on November 26, 1804, addressed a letter to 
the executors of the last will and testament of General 
Hamilton in which they state the circumstances under 
which the conveyance of lands at their disposal was to 
be made, and say, 

" As we are entrusted with the nomination of the persons to 
whom the property shall be conveyed, we cannot hesitate to 
name the Executors of General Hamilton's will, leaving it with 
them to name others, if they thing it expedient, and also to ar- 
range with Col. Pickering the time and circumstances of making 
the conveyance." 

The communication closed with an expression of their 
** poignant sorrow " for the death of General Hamilton, and 
their '* strong sympathy for those who were by nature 
attached to him." 

The Executors answered in a letter dated November 29, 
1804, accepting the trust committed to them, with expres- 
sions of their high appreciation of '* their act of muni- 
ficence." * 

As a result, the lands were secured to the children of 
General Hamilton, and as Mr. Charles W. Upham in his 
Life of Timothy Pickering says in closing the account of 
this transaction, '' the act itself and all the parties to it, 
deserve to be kept in perpetual remembrance." 

The following portion of a letter, though a little out of 
date, speaks of the purchase of the Estate of General Hamil- 
ton in the City of New York. 

♦Vol. iv., pp. 36 to 41. — Life and Letters of George Cabot, by Henry Cabot 
Lodge, pp. 304-310. 

4IO RUFUS JCING. [1804 

R. King to C. Gore. 

New York, Jany 10, 1808. 

. . . I believe that I some time since mentioned to you the 
plan we had set on foot to purchase at its cost Genl. Hamilton's 
estate. As we have been solicitous to confine the purchase to 
this City, the time that has elapsed without completing it, has 
been longer than we expected. It is, however, nearly completed 
and so far as to be beyond the chance of failure. By this meas- 
ure his family will secure abt. 20.000 Dol., that would have been 
lost without it. The Estate from Genl. Schuyler is less than the 
public expected. From what I hear Mrs. H's share will not in 
its present state yield her an annuity of more than 750 Dols ; 
whether it can be converted into a more productive fund is mat- 
ter for enquiry. After Hamilton's death. Gen. Schuyler (having 
before made his will) executed a Deed of gift, which purports to 
have been signed, sealed and delivered before the subscribing wit- 
nesses of about 7 acres of his homestead to Mrs. Hamilton. The 
Deed was not given to Mrs. Hamilton, but remained in the 
Genl.'s possession, and was found among his papers. The 
Exec'rs have examined the witnesses, who say they were re- 
quested to be witnesses of the execution of the Deed in question, 
that they were so, but that they were not informed of the purport 
of the Deed, and did not see it delivered. — Upon this evidence 
one or two lawyers at Albany have given an opinion that the in- 
strument is a nullity. The property is worth 18 or 20 thousand 
Dollars. The Eldest son has informed Mrs. H. that he will 
release any claim on his part to the 7 acres, Mr. Rensselaer will 
do the same in behalf of his son. What the other heirs will do is 
unknown. 

That the delivery of a Deed is essential to its validity, will not 
be contradicted, but what amounts to a delivery is the question. 
Without much confidence in my own opinion, I am inclined to 
think that a deed executed as this has been, is well executed and 
that it will pass the Estate ; its remaining in the possession of the 
Grantor is immaterial, provided it was duly executed by him. 
Farewell & always affectionately, Rufus King. 

An article appeared in the Alexandria Expositor on 19th 
March, 1804, making a statement from an English corre- 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 4I I 

spondent of certain opinions expressed by Mr. King shortly 
before his return home from England. The letters which 
follow will show how utterly unfounded it was. 

R. King to Editor of "Alexandria Expositor." 

Waltham near Boston, Aug. 22, 1804. 
Sir : 

By turning to your paper of the 19th of March past, you will 
find the publication to my disadvantage, which was the occasion 
of a letter which I wrote to Mr. Crowe, and to which I have 
lately received the enclosed answer. Being absent from home, 
it is not in my power to send you a copy of my letter, which 
however merely covered the Editorial Article of your paper of 
Mar. 19, and claimed of Mr. Crowe's justice an explicit denial 
of the Comn. I am represented to have made to him. It cannot 
be my desire to draw Mr. Crowe's or any other Gentleman's name 
before the public, nor to give to this affair an air of importance 
that does not on any acct, belong to it, but as men of exact 
notions may have thought unfavorably of me, in consequence of 
this publication, I am persuaded that you will not hesitate, as far 
as may be in your power, to correct the misrepresentation. 

With sentiments of respect, I am, Sir, yr. obedt. Servt. 

RuFus King. 

P.S. Mr. King leaves it altogether to the choice of the Editor 
of the Expositor, to make the correction by an Editorial Article^ 
or the publication of this and Mr. Crowe's letter. 

The letter from Mr. King was dated March 29th, 1804. 

R. King to James Crowe — near Norwich, England. 

Sir: 

I take the liberty to send you inclosed the Extract of a letter 
said to have been received in this country from a person in the 
neighbourhood of Norwich, and which has been recently pub- 
lished in the Expositor, a newspaper printed at Alexandria, 
Virginia. 

The object of this publication, so far as regards me will not be 

412 RUFUS KING. [1804 

misunderstood by men of correct sentiments, and I owe it equally 
to them and to myself, to remove the impression to my disadvan- 
tage it is calculated to produce. 

As the observation, said to have been made to you, was never 
made by me to you, or to any other person, I am confident that 
you will take pleasure in doing me the justice to declare that I 
never made to you the observation ascribed to me in this publi- 
cation, nor any other of like import. To guard against accident 
I send you this letter in duplicate ; and request the favour of 
you, for the same reason, to return me duplicates of your answer, 
addressed to Mr. Samuel Williams, 13 Finsbury Square, London, 
who will without delay forward the same to me. 

With sentiments of Esteem and Respect, &c. 

RuFus King. 

Copy of the editorial article of the newspaper called the 
^^ AlexandriaExpositor (for the Country) March 19, 1804." 

" While the United States, under the fostering influence of a dem- 
ocratic Administration, are hastily progressing to a state of Pros- 
perity and happiness the world never before witnessed, G. Britain 
is feeling the greatest distress. It would seem almost impossible 
for a native citizen of this country to form a correct idea of the 
wretchedness of her state, or the manifold evils arising from the 
profligate frame of her Government. It is the nature of evil to 
increase itself until the mass overcomes human forbearance ; the 
violent passions are let loose, and all the ties of civil society are 
for a period dissolved. Happy will it be for Great Britain, if she 
profits by the examples afforded by the last thirty years, now 
that so large a proportion of her subjects are in arms. She cer- 
tainly may be free the moment she wills it ; and it is not impos- 
sible but the ebullitions of a moment may annihilate her kings 
and her Nobles, her unfrocked and her ermined oppressors, and 
elevate her people into men, who having rights, " know, and 
knowing, dare maintain them," Anxiously we wish for so great, 
so glorious an event. This wish seldom absent, is now more 
deeply impressed, in consequence of letters we received by the 
Princess Augusta Packet ; they are dated the latter end of No- 
vember, some extracts from which we shall lay before our read- 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 413 

ers ; they will pretty plainly exhibit the state of the public mind 
in England. It will also be seen that Mr. King was a little san- 
guine in his expectations when there. We imagine he is not 
quite so much so now. Mr. Crowe, the gentleman to whom he 
expressed them, is a man of large fortune, who resides within two 
miles of the City of Norwich, and of a family intimately connected 
with that of the Editor of the Expositor s. 

First Extract. 

(After mentioning the price of corn, the situation of the volun- 
teers, and other particulars relating to England, the extract 
finishes in these words.) 

" In such calamitous times, I have thought it best to have all 
my children around me, that they may want no protection I can 
give them. The scarcity of money is another evil. In taking a 
hundred pounds a man does not receive a single guinea, and to 
crown the whole, the wheat crops were much injured by the 
mildew. I hope Mr. Jefferson continues to possess the con- 
fidence he so justly merits in your nation, though I was a little 
alarmed at hearing that Mr. King, your late Ambassador here, 
told Mr. James Crowe that he was going back to America in 
hopes of being elected President. I understood he spoke as if 
he was sure of his election. I hope, however, he will be 
disappointed." 

Part of 2. Extract to designate the ivriter. 

" No place is more inconvenient than Norwich by the present 
state of things. The volunteers seem to feel themselves the 
tools of their officers, who expect by their excessive zeal to earn 
some of the good things which Government has to bestow : nor 
do they like to be paraded about for the amusement of the 
Ladies, or to gratify the vanity of their new made Colonels, who 
never shot anything but Partridges ; and at London I assure you 
they do not like to be marched about at 6 o'clock in a morning 
and late at night. Some time since they refused the services of 
many they would now accept. I had that honor when at Nor- 
wich, for declining which I heartily thanked them many times 
since, and I assure them that I never will be so foolish again as 
to offer my services." 

414 RUFUS KING. [1804 

Jas. Crowe to R. King. 

Lakenham near Norwich gth May 1804. 
Sir: 

I have the honor of your letter of 29th March last enclosing 
an Extract of a letter published at Alexandria in the newspaper 
called the Expositor of 19th same month. I have had them some 
days by me, wishing before I should send you an answer, to 
ascertain, if possible, the means by which the Editor made so 
strange a mistake, and as the printed letter pointed at the person 
from whom it appeared to be derived, I went to him yesterday 
and he readly acknowledged sending occasionally to the Editor, 
intelligence from which sometimes articles had been inserted in 
his paper ; but that he thinks he could not have insinuated any- 
thing which could have conveyed the Idea " that I had heard you 
say, you were going to America in hopes of being elected 
President " nor did he understand from me I ever had any con- 
versation with you on the subject. 

About the time, Sir, you were leaving England, it was reported, 
that on your return from your Embassy, you would probably be 
appointed to a high situation in your own Country, and I re- 
member observing to the person above alluded to — that I was 
glad to hear it, for I thought you worthy even of being elected 
President of the United States, or words to that effect. Nothing 
•else passed and certainly I never said to him, nor to any other 
person, that you told me you had any hopes of being President ; 
and I do solemnly and in the most unequivocal manner declare, 
that so far from your having told me you had any expectations 
of being chosen President, I don't recollect ever having heard 
you say one word respecting American affairs ; either as they 
concerned yourself, or any other individual, or any party in that 
State, or anything relative to the Government or political views 
of that Country. 

I beg, Sir, you will make any use you think proper of this 
letter and believe me to be with the highest respect and regard 

Your most obedient humble Servt. 

Jas. Crowe. 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 415 

R. DiNMORE TO R. King. 

Alexandria, 31 Aug. 1S04. 

Sir: 

Your communication enclosing Mr. Crowe's letter of 9th May 
last, I had the honor of receiving this morning. The justice you 
require shall be immediately rendered and the Correspondence 
published in an early Expositor, of which I will send you a 
Copy. 

I sincerely wish, Sir, you had either written me previous to 
your letter to Mr. Crowe, or sent that Gentleman the entire 
Expositor of the 19th ]March last. It would have prevented an 
application I see Mr. Crowe made to my father, under the im- 
pression that I received the information from him ; for Mr. C. 
says " as the printed letter pointed at the Person from whom it 
appeared to be derived, I went to him yesterday'' The letter. Sir, 
from which the extract was given, was not from my father but 
from a relation who lives 21 miles from Mr. Crowe. Consequently 
no information relative to the report could be procured by Mr. C.'s 
€nquiry. 

Had you, Sir, first honored me with a line on the subject, I 
would at once have given up my authority which would have 
directed Mr, Crowe's enquiry, had you then thought it necessary 
to write to him ; and as the report was published here during the 
Session of Congress, I would have laid the letter itself before 
any of your friends then in this Neighbourhood. This I shall 
always be willing to do, as I have the letter now by me from 
which the Extract was made. 

Had Mr. C. received the whole article, he would have seen that 
it contained Extracts from letters from three different Correspon- 
dents, & I think from the internal evidence, would have known 
the quarter from whence it was derived ; as he only received the 
Editorial Article, his application was misapplied. 

I am satisfied, Sir, you will expect no apology from me, for the 
insertion into the Expositor, of the Extract alluded to. I con- 
ceived my information correct, tho' I have now no doubt of its 
originating in mistake ; I therefore published it, nor believing, as 
I do, that the welfare and happiness of the Citizens of the U.S. 
are essentially dependent on the re-election of Mr. Jefferson, 

4l6 RUFUS KING, [1804 

should I have felt justified in concealing Intelligence I deemed 
so important. 

I remain, Sir, with sentiments of respect &c., &c. 

R. DiNMORE. 

P. S. As it is my intention to publish the above with your & 
Mr. Crowe's letters, I have not identified my authority, which I 
shall now do. The letter was written by my Brother, at whose 
house Mr. C. generally resides, when he visits his Taham Estate. 
As it might injure my Brother in England, was I to publish 
him as my Authority, I prefer doing it in a part of my address 
to you, which I shall not insert in the Expositor ; but I conceive 
you will admit that I had some grounds for supposing my infor- 
mation Correct. 

Should not the above letter prove satisfactory, I will readily give 
you any other which you may think more so. 

R. King to R. Dinmore, Alexandria. 

Portland, District of Maine, Sep. 16, 1804. 
Sir: 

I have duly received your letter of the 31st past. My sole aim 
has been to effect the refutation of the publication to my preju- 
dice contained in your paper of the 19th March, and as this will 
be done by the publication of Mr. Crowe's letter to me, I can 
have no motive to expect an apology from you or the publication 
of anything that might prove injurious to any other person. 

It is however proper that I should correct the error into which 
you have fallen in supposing that only the Editorial remarks of 
your paper of March 19th were sent to Mr. Crowe ; the fact 
being that the entire article, including the whole of the extracts 
of your correspondent's letter, was transmitted ; and the para- 
graph of Mr. Crowe's letter that you have cited shows that these 
extracts were before him. 

As the observation, ascribed to me, is stated by your corre- 
spondent to have been made to Mr. Crowe, it seemed to me that 
it was to him, and to him only, that I could with fitness apply 
for the disavowal that he has so fully supplied. 

I am, Sir, with Respect, &c. 

RuFUS King. 

CHAPTER XXVII. 

King's Journey to Boston and District of Maine — Dinners at Salem and New- 
buryport and Portland — Return to Boston — Public Dinner there — Elections 
of Presidential Electors and for a Senator of the United States from New 
York — King defeated in Both — W. L. Smith to King — Friendly Wishes — 
Livingston to King relative to French Negotiations — Lafayette to King — 
Introducing General Moreau — Miranda's Project. 

Allusion has been made to a journey by Mr. King to New 
England in the summer of 1 804. After many years of absence 
in England, he desired to renew his former relations with 
his friends, especially in Boston, and to visit his family, all 
of whom lived in the District of Maine. He had given an 
intimation of his intention to Mr. Gore, who had recently 
returned from England, and whom he looked upon, justly, as 
his warmest and most confidential friend, as the correspond- 
ence with that gentleman so clearly shows. Mr. Gore had 
suggested to him at what season such a visit could be made 
most agreeably : 

" June & July are pleasant months here (in Boston) ; in August 
you can visit your family and friends at the Eastward, and return 
to us in September, and to New York in November." 

Following these suggestions, he appears to have made his 
arrangements to start on his journey, with his friend Judge 
Egbert Benson, early in July. He passed some days in 
Hartford, Connecticut, where the members of the Alsop 
family, his wife's relations, lived, and he also had many 
political and personal friends. No record of his visit there 
is found ; nor of his arrival in Massachusetts, until we learn 

VOL. IV. — 27 417 

41 8 RUFUS KING, [1804 

through a letter, July 23d, from Waltham, Mr. Gore's home, 
to a friend in New York, that, 

" being detained on the road, we did not reach this place till yes- 
terday. The same cause that retarded our journey prevents ray 
proceeding at present on a visit to Boston ; having been severely 
attacked by an intermittent, I am compelled to give an exact at- 
tention to the restoration of my health." 

He is announced in the Columbian Centinel as having 
arrived in Boston on July 25th, with Judge Benson ; and by 
a correspondent of the Gazette of the United States, from 
Boston, on July 27th, as having been, with Judge Benson, 
present at the demonstration of respect to Alexander Ham- 
ilton, when Harrison Gray Otis delivered a memorial ad- 
dress. Again, on August i8th, the Centinel sdcys: 

" The School Committee visited the Public Schools of Boston, 
accompanied by Hon. Mr. King, Mr. Gore and a number of offi- 
cial characters ; all of whom were gratified with the exercises. 
Afterwards they were refreshed at an elegant dinner at Fanueil 
Hall." 

These are the only facts connected with this first visit to 
Boston which are recorded, though there were many sub- 
jects to be talked about of the deepest interest. An account 
to interested friends of his life and mission abroad, the very 
serious questions which had been started by former asso- 
ciates relative to the outrageous acts of Jefferson's adminis- 
tration, with the threat that these could be counteracted in 
their influence only by a separation of the Northern and 
Southern States for self-preservation ; the steps to be taken 
to relieve the children of their acknowledged leader, General 
Hamilton, from the pecuniary embarrassment consequent 
upon his death in the midst of his active professional 
career, — these and other topics would occupy many days of 
earnest conversation, and enable those with whom he was 
brought in contact to feel the influence of his calm judgment 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 419 

and clear foresight. It was well known that General Ham- 
ilton and he were both earnestly opposed to even the 
thought of a disruption of the Union as a remedy for the 
evil effects of a rampant democracy, but with many warm 
and able federalists deprecated a resort to such an extreme 
measure ; and when it is remembered that a large portion of 
the federalists were for other reasons alienated from the 
extreme men by personal hostility, the task of counteracting 
a decided though ill-considered plan was at the same time 
one which required firmness and prudence, which Mr. King 
would exercise the more positively, as he had been put for- 
ward as the head of the party by his nomination as their 
candidate for the Vice-Presidency, — an office for which at 
that time leading men were named. 

Besides, he was passing his time at Waltham, the home 
of those to whom he was sincerely attached, Mr. and Mrs. 
C. Gore ; an attachment to the former dating from the 
beginning of his professional career, and which had been 
strengthened as they grew older by constant and confiden- 
tial intercourse, recognizing, as both did, in each other, the 
purity of character, the correct lives, the perfect harmony in 
their political views, the love of the country they both rep- 
resented at home and abroad, an instinctive unity of high 
motives in the conduct of their public and private affairs, 
and the love of a domestic and quiet and family life, where 
affection ruled, and where example influenced. Both, too, 
had loving assistants in their wives to brighten their homes, 
to welcome their friends, and, in Mr. King's case, to help 
him to bring up their children in obedient and willing recog- 
nition of a parent's love and guardianship. To Mr. and 
Mrs. Gore there had not been granted the blessing of chil- 
dren ; but their warm hearts adopted those of their lifelong 
friends, and whenever the opportunity occurred, to the end 
of their lives, they never failed to show to these children, 
even when grown to manhood, the same tender care, earnest 
sympathy, and warm attachment, that they began to exer- 
cise in their childhood. 

420 RUFUS KING. [1804 

Much, therefore, these friends had in common to enable 
them to enjoy the recalling of the persons they had met, and 
of the events which occurred during their residence in Lon- 
don, both in important official positions, often embarrassed 
by circumstances which they could not control, but with the 
consciousness that they had both contributed to sustain the 
dignity of their country and raise it to a higher plane by a 
conscientious and faithful and able performance of the duties 
laid upon them. They had with them also a friend in Judge 
Benson, into whose willing ears and appreciative mind they 
could pour out the reminiscences and suggestions of bright 
and accurate observers. 

Leaving the hospitable home of Mr. Gore, Mr. King ap- 
pears to have made a visit to Salem, for on September 3d, 

" the Hon. Mr. King, late Minister to the Court of St. James 
. . . dined at General Derby's in company with a number of 
respectable public and private characters." * 

On August 29th, the following letter had been addressed 
to Mr. King: 

Newbury PORT, Aug. 29, 1804. 
Dear Sir 

The citizens of Newburyport learn with great satisfaction that 
you are now on a visit to this your native State, while they have 
a lively conviction of your eminent public services, they cherish 
the most affectionate remembrance of you as their Fellow Towns- 
man. Having learned that you are about passing to the East- 
ward, they solicit the honour of your company at a publick 
Dinner and ask you to name a day for that purpose which shall 
be most accommodated to your convenience. In their behalf, 
Dear Sir, your faithful & affectionate servants, 

MosES Brown, 
Dudley A. Tyng, 
Edward Rand, 

EbENEZER SxOCKERy 

William Faris. 

* Columbian Centinel, September 4, 1S04. 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 421 

It cannot be doubted that Mr. King, touched by the tone 
of tender remembrance, gladly accepted this invitation to 
meet the old friends, among whom his professional studies 
were made under Theophilus Parsons, his first causes were 
tried, and by whom he had been sent, his first political em- 
ployment, to the General Court of Massachusetts. It was 
the city which, when undecided as to his removal from the 
State to New York, he said he loved better than any spot 
on the earth. 

The dinner took place on Tuesday, September 5th, 1804, 
and is thus noticed in the Newburyport Herald of Septem- 
ber 7th. 

" On Tuesday last arrived in town, the Hon. Rufus King, Esq., 
on a journey to the eastward, and on Wednesday the gentlemen 
of the town provided for him an elegant entertainment at Wash- 
ington Hall, where sociality and good humor attended, and 
where a number of patriotic toasts and enlivening songs crowned 
the repast with the most refined and unlimited enjoyment. Far 
is it from us to delineate the virtues of the man, to honor whom 
this entertainment was given ; it would be weakness to attempt 
it, but the love and respect which his presence inspired was so 
great, that every tongue was ready to exclaim, as Franklin observed 
of Washington, — If my country bestowed a sceptre he is worthy 
of it." 

Though evidently on his way to Maine, there cannot be 
found any facts to show how Mr. King passed his time 
among his friends there, until he returned to Boston, a period 
of more than a month, except the following account of a 
reception at Portland : * 

*' The Hon. Mr. King in company with the Hon. Egbert Ben- 
son, has been received at Portland, in his native district, with the 
most expressive marks of affection and esteem. The inhabitants 
on Saturday last gave an entertainment in honor of these eminent 
Statesmen." 

* The Centinel, October 6, 1804. 

422 RUFUS KING, [1804 

On his arrival at Boston, his friends welcomed him with 
what the papers announce as a " Tribute of Respect," a 
public dinner. 

TRIBUTE OF RESPECT.* 

We are happy to learn, that the gentlemen of this town intend 
giving a Public Dinner to the Hon. RUFUS KING, Esq., late 
American Minister at the Court of London, in testimony of their 
esteem for his exalted talents, and public and private worth. It 
has been inquired why this step was not taken previous to his 
visit to the District of Maine ? We can answer, there was no 
place, either suitable or convenient for such a purpose — The 
capacious Rooms at Concert Hall, where Entertainments of the 
kind, can alone be given, were in a state of repair at that time, 
and are now but just compleated. 

The Dinner^ we understand, will be given tomorrow. 

A detailed account of this dinner is given in The Repertory y 
from which the following is copied. The toasts, f which are 

* New England Palladium^ Tuesday, October 16, 1804. 
f I. Our Publick Ministers. In future as formerly, may our first interests be 
confided to our first characters. 

2. The Administration of WASHINGTON and ADAMS. The Morning 
and Evening Stars of our national glory. 

{After his Excellency had retired.^ 

3. Governour STRONG. May the excellence of his character silence the 
malice which it cannot appease. 

4. The State of New York. Too respectable to be the Dupe of Virginia^ 
may she again associate with those who are faithful to the publick liberty. 

5. The CLERGY. Devoted to the best interests of humanity — may they 
ever feel the calumnies of the impious to be their proudest eulogy. 

6. Our Navy. May its strength protect our Commerce and its glory con- 
found its enemies at Washington and Tripoli. 

7. Our little Army. May it never have to bear reproach from the brave, nor 
always to take it from the base. 

8. HAMILTON. May our Country find indemnity for his loss, in the value 
of his Counsels. 

9. Union atnong honest Men. If it cannot displace Knaves, may it disarm 
them. 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 423 

here presented in the note, clearly show the tone of opinion 
upon the current events, among a large proportion of the 
old Federalists. 

TRIBUTE OF RESPECT. 

On Wednesday last a sumptuous and elegant publick dinner 
was given at Concert Hall to the honourable Rufus King, our late 
minister to the Court of Great Britain — This welcome to a distin- 
guished citizen was manifested in a style of unusual cordiality 
and splendour. 

The company consisted of about two hundred. Among the 
guests were his Excellency the Governor (who arrived in town 

10. The Country of our Fathers. May its Spirit keep it safe and its justice 
keep it free. 

11. The Press. May it always correct publick opinion, never corrupt it. 

12. Publick Opinio^t. May it be sufficient shield for Honest men and a 
scourge for knaves. 

13. May those Yankees who cannot endure Federal sunshine, go to Louisi- 
ana for MOONSHINE. 

14. May Slaves cease to be represented by freeman and may the Representa- 
tives of freemen never act the part of Slaves. 

15. The liberty that men seek when they are tvise, and respect when they are 
honest, 

16. Gun Boat No. i. If our gun boats are of no use upon the water, may 
they at least be the best upon earth. 

17. May we cultivate and defend the soil we already possess, without paying 
or fighting for what we can neither cultivate nor defend. 

VOLUNTEERS. 

By the Hon. Mr. KING. The town of Boston, first to assert, may it be the 
last to surrender the rights of freemen. 

By Judge BENSON. The approbation of the worthy, the testimonial of 
worth. 

(After Mr. KING had retired.) 

The Hon. RUFUS KING — whose eminent services have contributed to pre- 
serve peace and amity between Countries naturally allied by sentiment and 
interest. 

(After Judge BENSON had retired.) 

The Hon. Judge BENSON — once the ornament of the bench and always the 
delight of his friends. 

The Louisiana Jubilee. May it not prove to be the celebration of all fooPs 
day. 

424 RUFUS KING, [1804 

that morning,) his Honour the Lieut. Governour and other publick 
characters. Judge Benson and other strangers of distinction and 
the reverend Clergy — The hon. Stephenson Higginson Esq. was 
president, and the hon. J. C. Jones, Samuel Parkman and J. 
Lyman Vice Presidents — The Hall which has been enlarged and 
repaired was furnished with the most brilliant decorations, and 
the whole entertainment was conducted with a sympathy of sen- 
timent and " flow of soul" worthy " of men " who are conscious 
that the object of their politicks and principles has ever been 

* ' When leagu'd together, to maintain the cause 
Of true religion, liberty and laws." 

The bitterness of party feeling was shown in the opposi- 
tion papers in Boston, and especially in the Independent 
Chronicle, which on October 22d contained the following: 

"As the Junto cry out 'Washington and Adams,' how comes it 
about that neither Mr. Adams nor his son dined at Mr. King's 
entertainments ? The fact is the old gentleman begins to find 
out how far he has been duped by the Junto." * 

The Yankee section of the Union. May those who began the battle guard 
against being cheated out of the fruits of the Victory. 

British Influence. May those who seek that secret find it, where it alone 
exists — In the Ancient Domijiion. 

Mountains of Salt — to pickle Mammoths, and catch gulls in our new Em- 
pire. 

The remedy of impeachment, for obstinate Judges who will neither " die nor 
resign." May the Inventors be obliged to swallow their own Medicine. 

JAMES A. BAYARD. When men in power declare that such worth and 
talents shalt not have place, may the people indignantly respond THEY 
SHALL ! ! 

Our Farmers, on the Sea Coast, may their Cornfields be defended against 
Gun boat No. 3. 

May the grass, on WASHINGTON'S grave never again be blighted with 
hypocritick tears. 

Our brave tars suffering in Tripoli — Alas ! we fear that in the honey moon of 
our connection with Louisiana, our Captive brethren are forgotten. 

BONAPARTE. May he learn justice from the British Government, and 
meekness from ours.' 

* Schouler, in his History of the United States, vol. ii., p. 60, says, " King 
on his return from Europe was honored in Boston by a banquet decidedly Anti- 
administration in character, from which the Adamses took care to absent 
themselves." 

' The Repertory, Boston, Friday, October 19, 1804. 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 425 

Mr. Adams felt himself called upon to deny that his ab- 
sence was intentional, and the answer he had given to the 
Committee who had invited him to be present was pub- 
lished in the Columbian Centinel. 

<< 

J. Adams presents his compliments to the Committee of ar- 
rangements— Friendship for Mr. King and respect for the Com- 
pany would have been more than sufficient to have induced him 
to have accepted with pleasure the obliging invitation to the din- 
ner in honor of a gentleman whose wisdom, independence and 
integrity have done so much honor and real service to his Coun- 
try ; but the present ill state of his health constrains him to deny 
himself and to entreat the gentlemen to accept of his apology." 

With respect to John Quincy Adams he set out for Wash- 
ington on the evening previous to the dinner, for the meet- 
ing of Congress early in November. 

A Kingly FESTIVAL. 

It is a singular apology, that in the whole town of Boston there was no room 
elegant enough to entertain Mr. KING, and that the federalists had to wait 3 
or 4 months after his arrival before they could give him a dinner. The truth 
is, when Mr. King visited the place of his nativity ; a few federalists thought 
fit to honor him with a social fesfival, and this little domesiic circle was noticed 
in the papers, as a reprimand ^ to the "Junto" for suffering him to remain so 
long in Boston without public notice. The Junto felt the "rap over the 
knuckles," and on his return had no other way to get off, than depreciating the 
town of Boston, by declaring to the world, there was no hall elegant enough to 
entertain him. Now be it known, that in the town of Boston, there is a large 
and commodious Hall, well known by the name of " FANEUIL HALL " — A 
hall sacred to liberty ! The hall in which the constituted authorities of the 
town give their annual entertainment — The hall in which the Governor, Coun- 
cil, and House of Representatives formerly dined on an election day — The hall 
in which WASHINGTON was entertained when he visited Boston. But it 
seems, the Essex-Junto, (who stile themselves Washington federalists^ thought 
that Faneuil Hall was not elegant enough to introduce a man whose appellation 
had any analogy to the title of KING ; a Hall whose walls had often resounded 
in detestation of monarchy, was degrading to the character they were entertain- 
ing. Or rather the Junto were sensible, that their toasts were so dififerent from 
the sentiments inculcated by John Hancock and Samuel Adams, they were 
afraid the very stones and bricks of the building would rise up in judgment 
against them. They were conscious of their apostacy, from first principles, 
and dreaded lest the portrait of FANEUIL should resume a bodily vigor, and 
with a patriotic ire drive from the sanctuary of liberty, the revilers of those sen- 

426 RUFUS KING, [1804 

timents which added to the REVERENCE of the EDIFICE' It is with 

regret we observe, that Mr. King and Mr. Gore have been, through the subtlety 
of the Junto, the vehicles to abuse the present administration. These gentle- 
men it might be supposed, would have seen through the design of this insidious 
party, * 

A public dinner was given at Faneuil Hall in honor of 
Mr. John Adams on October 31st, his seventieth birthday, 
and Mr. King was one of the invited guests. Among the 
volunteer toasts offered was the following : 

*' The Hon. Rufus King, whose talents and prudence have pre- 
served the best interests of his country. May he receive ample 
reward in the confidence of its best citizens." 

Such are the only accessible memoranda of the visit to 
the eastward, from which he soon after returned to New 
York. The Legislature of that State met early in November, 
for the purpose of choosing electors for the Presidential 
election, and a Senator of the United States to fill a vacancy 
caused by the appointment of General Armstrong as Minister 
to France. The electors chosen were persons representing 
the friends of Messrs. Jefferson and Clinton ; and the votes 
for Senator were given to Mr. Samuel L. Mitchell, the Fed- 
eralists supporting Mr. King as the opposing but unsuccess- 
ful candidate. Thus in the same year he was suggested as 
the best and most available candidate of the Federal party 
for Governor of the State of New York, for the Senate of 
the United States, and for the Vice-Presidency. The addi- 
tional fact that his long absence from the country had kept 
him aloof from personal engagement in the factional strifes 
of the time, and his known moderate and conservative 
views, rendered him more likely to be a successful candidate 
for those high offices than any other Federalist who could 
be named ; but they had lost their power, and other men 
and other measures prevailed. 

* The Independent Chronicle, Boston, October 22, 1804. 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 427 

Wm. Loughton Smith to R. King. 

Philad., Oct. 18, 1804. 
Dear Sir 

. . . (Referring to his brother, J. A. Smith, then abroad in 
Europe) He will be much disappointed in learning the real state 
of our politics, and the little prospect of an early change ; still, 
little congenial as I am on this head, I am not without hopes of 
one day witnessing the event he so fondly anticipated, & the 
realizing of which will not only afford the greatest joy to my 
brother & myself, but to every true and unprejudiced American. 

In the mean time, we must continue to cherish and inculcate 
good principles, &, while we endeavour to tolerate the present 
things, say meliora spero. The loss of Washington, Hamilton, 
and, I must add, my respected friend, Mr. Izard, endears to me 
still more the few real worthies, who remain. You cannot be 
ignorant that all the respectable men throughout the Continent 
look to you & Genl. Pinckney as their political saviours, and that 
all their measures are predicated on a wish of, and directed to, 
the attainment of your future elevation to the Chief Magistr. 
Great public considerations are thus superadded to those of per- 
sonal regard which have bound me to you ever since I had an 
opportunity of knowing you, and impel me to request you to take 
good care of yourself and keep out of all those scrapes which 
may endanger a life so precious to us. I am glad to find that 
our friend Pinckney is at the head of the Anti-Ludling Memorial- 
ists, and I trust that your sentigits are equally pacific. It was my 
intention to have progressed further north this summer, at least 
as far as New York, but Hamilton's death & your absence, with 
other causes, contributed to change my design. 

With my best respects to Mrs. King and renewal of my warmest 
wishes for your happiness, . . . 

Your affectionate frd. 

Wm. Loughton Smith. 

R. R. Livingston to R. King, N. Y. 

Paris. 22 Oct. 1804 
Dear Sir 

. . . When I come out, which will not be till the next 

Spring as I propose to spend the winter in Italy and shall leave 

428 RUFUS KING. [1804 

this as soon as I can resign our business to Genl. Armstrong, who 
has arrived at Nantz but is not come up to Paris, ... I hope 
to close my mission with an important concession on the part of 
this government, which has always hitherto been refused, that of 
having consuls in their Islands. Mr. Talleyrand & two other of 
the ministers have promised me to use their influence that it be 
granted by the Emperor, and I doubt not that it will be done. 
This will be a great check upon their West India pirates. 

Mr. Monroe was in Holland, & I expect him here today on his 
way to Spain, where I believe our affairs do not stand so well as 
might be wished, but as they will not quarrel with us I think that 
by a little firmness & address they may be re-established. There 
will probably be a change in the Batavian Republick : my friend 
Shimelpenninck will be placed at the head of it. The prepara- 
tions for the coronation are immense ; it will, perhaps be the 
most superb festival that Europe has ever seen. The Pope sets 
out on the 3d. Nov. to perform the ceremony. . . . 

Your most obd. hum. servt. 

R. R. Livingston. 

Gen. Lafayette to R. King. 

La Grange 26 November 1804 
My dear Sir 

While on your European Embassy you were admiring the 
prodigies of General Moreau, or feeling for His Virtues, you 
could neither fear for France the Misfortune, nor expect for the 
United States the Honor of his present Situation. My Senti- 
ments on the Occasion with Respect to Both Countries and to 
Him, I leave you to judge, and I know you will consider these 
few lines By Him as a welcome Expression of the grateful Affec- 
tionate Regard of 

Your Sincere Friend 

Lafayette. 

The probable breaking-out of war between England and 
Spain suggested to Miranda, who was ever hopeful of ac- 
complishing the freedom of the American Colonies from the 
Spanish yoke, that an opportunity was now presented for 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 429 

him to engage the assistance of Great Britain in his work. 
That country was always ready to use any method of crip- 
pling an enemy, but, as the letter from Miranda shows, was 
not inclined to take many risks in doing so. Mr. King had 
evidently been to a certain extent cognizant of Miranda's 
plans, as the following letter will show : 

R. King to C. Gore. 

Jany 4, 1804 

" Genl. M (iranda) has I conclude left England before this 
date. If the question is at length settled with Spain, as it sh"^ 
have been months ago, he may yet see his wishes accomplished. 
He & you know my sentiments on this subject, which nothing 
can alter. I do not write to the General, because I am expecting 
to hear of him in another quarter. Should he make a beginning, 
the news w^ electrify this country, which contains an immense 
number of individuals, who would be ready to take up their bed 
and walk." 

Mr. Gore writes to Mr. King from London, February 10, 
1804 : 

" Gen'. M. is still here waiting the decision of this government 
in relation to Spain — Possibly an original error in not considering 
it as a party to the war is the cause of the present delay and of all 
the subsequent errors." 

Miranda to R. King.* 

Tres reserve. 

LoNDRES JO (sic) Feb'. 1804 
MON DIGNE ET CHER AMI 

C'est avec un plaisir infini que je regois votre Paragraphe dans 
la Lettre de M'. Gore date a New York le 4 Janv'. dernier. Ma 
Lettre du 21. Sept. passe est la derniere que je vous ai ecrit ; et 
comme ni la rupture avec I'Espagne a eu lieu encore, ni j'avois 

Very Confidential. 

* My worthy and dear Friend 

It has given me infinite pleasure to receive your paragraph in the letter from 
Mr. Gore, dated the 4th of January last. My letter of 21st of Sept. past, is the 
last that I have written to you ; and as neither the rupture with Spain has yet 

430 RUFUS KING. [1804 

regu aucune nouvelle de votre part, Je n'ai pas cr{i apropos de 
faire mon mouvement encore. Je n'ai pas besoin de vous dire les 
sotises que M'. A. — a fait depuis cette epoque, vous en aurez 
juge mieux que personne. — Venons a ce qui nous regarde plus de 
pres. 

Voici I'arrangement que nous avons conclfi ce matin avec M'. 
Vansittart. Vargas (qui est ici) doit partir sous 15 jours pour la 
Trinidad afin de preparer les choses &c et je dois le suivre un mois 
apres, dans un Batiment arme, portant en meme tems les muni- 
tions, armes et habillemens qui seront necessaires pour com- 
mencer par nous-memes ; ce pays-ci se reservant de venir a notre 
secours apres. C'est tout ce qu'on pent faire avec des pareilles 
gens, et a moins que nous ne soyons pas bouleverses dans I'inter- 
mede, par I'invasion dont nous sommes menaces. 

Je compte en tout cas avec vos secours ; et dans cette supposi- 
tion J'ai dressi la note jointe^ afin que M'. Gore a Boston, et vous a 
New York puissent nos envoyer ce qui est le plus essentiel dans le 
commencement, et selon les stipulations qui nous paraitront plus 
raisonables. La Maison de Brown et Cie a Trinidad, m'a 6crit 
se chargeant de tout volontier, enfin selon les choses progressent 
vous aurez de mes nouvelles. L'ami G — vous remettra deux 
Livres de ma part, qui ont paru, depuis votre depart ; I'un par 
Volney concernant les E. U d' Amerique 2. v. 8 vo., I'autre avec 
de tres belles vues de Paris, qui amuseront peutetre Mad. King, 
2 V. 4to par Holcroft. 

Vale, 

M . 

taken place, nor have I received any news from you, I have not deemed it fit- 
ting to make as yet my movement. I need not speak to you of the sottises 

that Mr. A has made since that period ; you can understand them better 

than any one else. Let us consider what concerns us more immediately. 

The following arrangement was concluded this morning with Mr. Vansittart. 
Vargas, who is here, is to leave in 15 days for Trinidad in order to prepare 
things &c, and I am to follow him a month afterwards in an armed vessel, car- 
rying at the same time the munitions, arms and equipments which will be 
necessary to commence by ourselves ; this country reserving to itself to come to 
our assistance afterwards. This is all we can do with such people, and pro- 
vided we should not be overwhelmed by the invasion with which we are now 
threatened. 

I count in all events upon your help, and in this expectation I have written 
the joint note, in order that Mr. Gore at Boston and you in New York may send 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 43 1 

Mr. Gore wrote on April 17, 1804: 

" Boston. 

" As to Miranda's affair, I shall not mention a word of it until 
I learn that his friend is gone out, for I think it would be prema- 
ture, and I will thank you not to say anything unless, or before, 
you hear from me again. He ought to have sent another letter 
to me in the Downs, and from his not doing it, I fear some new 
difficulty occurred with the Brit. Gov*. From what I wrote you 
last autumn * you will see how he was deceived ; but as I never 
told him, it could not be reasoned upon." 

Again on April 20th Mr. Gore encloses in a letter to Mr. 
King one from M. Vargas, in which, after wishing Mr. 
Gore a pleasant voyage home, he requests him to send a 
letter which he encloses to a M. Bonaventure Sire, a mer- 

us whatever may be most essential in the beginning, and according to such 
stipulations as may appear to us most reasonable. The house of Brown and Co. 
at Trinidad has written to me as willing to take charge of every thing. Finally 
as matters progress you shall hear from me. L'ami G. will deliver to you two 
books from me, which have appeared since you left ; one by Volney concerning 
the U. S. of America 2. v. 8vo ; the other with very beautiful views of Paris, 
which will perhaps amuse Mrs. King, par Holcroft. 

Vale, M 

The articles wanted are the following — 20,000 good Muskets with Bayonets ; 
gun powder and ammunition for ditto in superabundance — Cast iron Artillery 
& ammunition for ditto, Bar Iron and Sheet Lead and a proportion of steel side 
arms. For which articles payment will be given when landed on the Coast at 
the rate of one hundred or one hundred and fifty per cent over and above prime 
cost, of those articles in the United States of America. 

Advantages offered to the Trade — Every Vessel bringing in the proportion 
of one thousand muskets, (or other of the above articles in lieu thereof) for every 
hundred Tons burthen, shall be entitled to the benefit of paying only one half 
the customary duties on the cargoes they may bring for sale into the country — 
with the advantage also of a deduction of one half the usual exportation duties, 
upon all the articles, the produce of the country, which they may choose to 
carry away. 

All descriptions of Goods to be equally admissible into the country. 

M A. 

London 12 March 1804. 

N. B. The Vessels to be directed to call upon the House of Mess Wm. 
Brown dr- Ci?., at Puerto d'Espagne, on the Island of Trinidad for instruction. 

* R. King's Life, iv., pp. 298, 299, 305, 314, 319, 321. 

432 RUFUS KING. [1804 

chant in New York, who was also to receive certain letters, 
books, and linen articles, and deliver them to Mr. Gore, 
who is requested by M. Vargas to send them a I'lsle de la 
Trinity, addressed to Mr. Vargas, to the care of Colonel 
Rutherford, Surveyor-General of that island. 

Mr. Vargas also says that he had passed in New York, 
where he had been, under the name of Fermin Sarmiento, 
by which name he is to be spoken of there, especially in 
case that it may be necessary to ascertain the address of M. 
Sire through the Spanish Consul, who is under no circum- 
stances to be informed of the place of residence of M. 
Vargas, but to be led to believe he is still in London. 

In his letter Mr. Gore says : 

" Vargas said they (the papers) were very interesting docu- 
ments relating to S. America. Should any be procured, pray 
forward them as desired." 

C. Gore to R. King. 

Boston May 3, 1804 
My dear Sir 

The particular object of this Letter is to enquire, if you have 
chosen to say, or propose to any person, to do anything relative 
to the Business on which M. wrote you. My reason for enquir- 
ing is that I have a prospect of doing somewhat here and possibly 
advantageous to myself. And the Manner or Extent, at least, 
will depend on knowing whether any thing, or what may be 
undertaken from another Quarter. Pray have the goodness to 
answer me by return of Post, and believe me truly & ever yours 

C. Gore. 

C. Gore to R. King. 

Boston May 15, 1804 
My dear Sir 

The most that has passed here, relative to the subject of my 

last letter, has been like what you state to have taken place in 

New York. Mr. S. H. is disposed to enter upon the Business, so 

soon as anything shall have been done to render it certain that 

they, who have so long fed our Friend with Hopes, intend to 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 433 

promote his Wishes by a Conduct suitable to their own Interest, 
& promising an Attainment of the Object. The sailing of V. 
with the promised Supplies would, in my mind be strong, if not 
conclusive Evidence of this Intention ; but I do not know, that 
this would be satisfactory to S. H. ; yet my opinion would prob- 
ably have weight with him. I have an intention, in some degree, 
to be interested in the adventure, though without incurring much 
Risque. I will, however, come to no conclusion, on any part of 
the subject, without consulting with you. 

Williams has sent me Duplicate of some Letters, originals 
whereof he has forwarded, under cover to you, by the Juliana. 
When received, you will please to open them & retain for your- 
self all that relate to this Concern. ... 

With affectionate Regards &c. 

C. Gore. 

There is an intermission of correspondence on this matter 
until the autumn of 1804, when Mr. Gore writes: 

C. Gore to R. King. 

Boston, Nov. 25, 1804. 
My dear Friend : 

. . . I was rejoiced to read the account of the Spanish war, 
and immediately renewed my conversation with those Friends I 
had before spoken to on the business, and as formerly, they were 
disposed to undertake it with Spirit, and were willing to pay to 
me 25 or 20 per cent of the net Profits, if any should be made on 
the adventure : and I had contemplated making a journey to 
N. Y., if you thought it adviseable, with the view of attempting a 
similar arrangement there. If I could assure myself, free from 
all hazard, enough to build me two Houses, say 50,000 Dollars I 
would go there with the Cargoes, should that be deemed neces- 
sary ; but this I would not attempt, except on the condition that 
such a sum was secured to me before my Departure. However 
all this for the present, at least, is passed by. A Letter which 
was in our paper yesterday and dated in London, says that a 
Merchant told — the Letter writer — that Lord Hawkesbury recom- 
mended to him a Caution in trading to Spain, as the future rela- 
tions between G. B. & S. were very uncertain. The writer of this 

letter was S. Williams. . . . 

Ever, • C. G. 

VOL. IV. — 28 

434 RUFUS KING. [1804 

In a letter of January 10, 1805, Mr. King writes this post- 
script in answer to Mr. Gore's letter of November 25, 1804, 
not having written during the interval, as he says : 

P. S. As I must take a second sheet for a cover, I may as well 
say a word or two on a subject touched upon in a former letter 
from you. I refer to the Spanish war and the measures that may 
grow out of it. You have seen the Eng. accounts of the capture 
of the Span. Frigates : since the date of that ace*, we have no news 
from Eng^ Unless Spain be advised by Bonaparte to subscribe 
to her own disgrace, which would not surprize me, the war at this 
moment exists. 

I will suppose it so ; and that the Expedition has actually 
sailed for Trinidad, of which we must receive the earliest accounts. 
Yet I do not foresee an immediate state of things that promises a 
golden shower to those who become adventurers. If war has 
been declared, it will have been first known in London, where 
there are individuals ready to accompany and who will be en- 
gaged to accompany the Expedition with a supply of every thing, 
except perhaps provisions, that will be wanted. If so supplies of 
the same sort from this country will be late, and in competition 
with those from England. Besides it seems to me that something 
must be begun before any steps that are not those of hazard, that 
are not parts of the enterprize, can be undertaken. As to arms, 
ammunition and military stores, if the Expedition be set forward 
in time of war, as seems to be the probable case, there will be no 
motive on the part of England to stint supplies of this sort, any 
more than of goods of an innocent character. Any supplies, 
therefore, that in the present want of exact information, may be 
sent from this country, will be sent at a considerable risque of 
loss, instead of gain. From this little sketch you will discern 
the state of my opinions respecting this subject ; but admitting, 
as I am ready to do, that I see the business not in its true light, 
and that great advantages will be gained by the first supplies sent 
from hence, I feel too clearly convinced of the justness of my 
decision in another part of your letter, to express an equal defer- 
ence for even your dissent from me. I allude to your going per- 
sonally, with the supplies that may be sent. 

On no consideration that could be promised, should you con- 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 435 

sent to go. But I am satisfied that you have, even before now, 
discarded the thought, if it has occurred since it first presented 
itself to you. If, however, you should seriously think of it again, 
before you decide give me an opportunity of being more full in 
support of my opinion. 

Adieu. 

Such, up to the above date, are some of the facts concern- 
ing Miranda's efforts, which indicate Mr. King's interest in 
this plan to revolutionize the Spanish colonies in South and 
Central America, and how little dependence could be placed 
on the promises of Great Britain ; the Ministers holding out 
hopes and arranging plans, but putting off their execution. 

CHAPTER XXVIII. 

Gore to King — About Pinkney of Md. — King to Gore — Personal — I. A. Smith 
to King — Mission to Russia — On public Affairs in U. S. — C. King to 
King — Hard Winter — Personal — Pickering to King — Trial of Judge Chase 
— King to Pickering — Judge Chase — Senate Business — Pickering to King — 
Arguments of Chase's Counsel — Randolph's Speech on Georgia Claims — 
St. Domingo Bill — Pickering to King — Acquittal of Judge Chase — Picker- 
ing to King — Nomination of Attorney General — Burr's retiring Speech — 
King to W. Hope — Desires to place his Second Son in his House — King 
to Samuel Chase — Congratulations on the Result of his Trial — Chase to 
King — Thanking him and stating Points in the case and the Attack on the 
Judiciary — Gore to King — Federalism will soon disappear — Livingston to 
King — With Letter from Talleyrand relative to a Collection of Works of 
Art to be placed in the Museum at N. Y. — King to Gore— Current Events 
— Lord Suffolk to King — British Affairs — Gore to King — Commercial 
Ventures. 

C. Gore to R. King. 

Boston, January i, 1805, 
My dear Friend : 

It is long time since I heard from you by letter, though we learn 
through Mr. Wallace that you & yours enjoy good health. Mrs. 
Gore is as well as I have known her for many years ; & for myself, 
I am more like to die of a plethora than any other disorder. For 
this is quite the season of feasting, and a man, who has his living 
to obtain, cannot refuse the intended kindnesses of his friends, 
although he may perish in the acceptance. As for exercise, that 
is for the present out of the question. The streets and roads are 
covered with ice, and a man walks at the hazard of his limbs and 
perhaps of never walking again. 

. . . Pinkney* sent me the newspapers, which contain the 

* William Pinkney had been his associate on the Commission for the settlement 
of American Claims under Jay's Treaty, and afterwards appointed by the State 
of Maryland to look after its claims for the Maryland Bank Stock, which, after 
many efforts for a settlement made by Mr. King, still remained undecided 
when he left England. 

436 

1805] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 437 

Compliments of Language & Substance, wherewith his Country- 
men regaled his ears & purse. It is impossible to avoid observ- 
ing the studied silence as to him, who really obtained the Boon 
for Maryland and as to everything relative to our Commission. 
The latter, if brought into view, might have reflected honour on 
the last Administration, and to have given the due acknowledge- 
ment, to the Former, might have rendered justice to a Character, 
whom they wished to keep out of sight. . . . 

Affectionately yours, 

C. Gore. 

R. King to C. Gore. 

New York, Jany. 10, 1805. 
My dear Friend : 

Having nothing either personal or public to say, I have for 

several weeks omitted to write to you ; we are happy to know 

from your letter that Wallace brought us that Mrs. Gore enjoys 

such excellent health, and that yours also is better than while you 

were in the course of violent exercise. With the exception of 

Frederick (his youngest son) and myself who have heavy colds, 

we are all well. Mrs. King was never better, notwithstanding the 

inclemency of the season prevents her accustomed exercise. The 

Frost has prevented me from riding, and I begin, or fancy I do, 

to feel the want of exercise. ... * 

I. Allen Smith to R. King. 

Constantinople, January 21^, 1805. 
My dear Sir : 

I have just been favoured with your letters and duplicates of 
the loth and 22^* of August & regret that I was so unfortunate as 
to lose that of April to which you allude. The President's resolu- 
tion respecting a mission to Russia is what I always expected ; 
but I should have reproached myself had I neglected in writing 

* The concluding portions of this letter, except some information as to his 
views relative to the education of his younger sons, will be found on p. 410 rel- 
ative to the Hamilton affairs and p. 434 relative to Miranda. 

438 RUFUS KING. [1805 

to you to touch on a subject, which appeared to me of importance 
to my country or to have satisfied, within myself, a sentiment of 
gratitude which I had so much reason to feel. Although per- 
suaded that the Court of Russia would receive with pleasure a 
minister from the U. States, and that no period could be more 
favourable for such a mission than that of the administration of the 
Chancellor Vorontion, I studiously avoided ever expressing my- 
self on this subject to any one, until my arrival at Astracan, 
resolving to return through Russia, I took the liberty of mention- 
ing it in a letter to you, & afterwards to my Brother, on my arrival 
at Constantinople. I have therefore the satisfaction of having 
done nothing more than what appeared to me to be my duty & of 
having been ready to sacrifice my own pursuits and pleasures to 
the service of my Country. . . . 

I read with infinite regret the report you give me of the condition 
of our public affairs. I consoled myself, after having been so long 
a witness of the Evils which reign in Europe, with the idea that I 
should find reason and moderation in America ; and I see with 
great disappointment & sorrow, that a people whom I thought the 
most capable of forming accurate notions on the important sub- 
ject of liberty, have not yet been convinced, even after the ex- 
perience of the French Revolution, that the shortest and beaten 
road of Tyranny, is that which leads through Democracy. I per- 
fectly agree with you, that, however gloomy the prospect, we 
ought not to despair ; but that men of honesty and energy of 
character should redouble their exertions to stem the current of 
revolutionary principles in a country, which above all others has 
enjoyed most the blessings of Justice & of equal laws. We re- 
ceived them by inheritance from England, the only country in 
Europe that possessed them, we had the courage to maintain 
them and it would be folly, wickedness, and absurdity to infringe 
them. 

I cannot too earnestly intreat you, my dear Sir, to continue to 
me the advantage & pleasure of hearing from you, for I have lost 
nothing of that interest which I ought to feel for the welfare of 
our Common Country, or of that profound respect &: sincere at- 
tachment with which I have the honour to be 

Your most obliged Humb' Serv* 

I. Allen Smith. 

1805] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 439 

T. Pickering to R. King. 

Washington, Feby. 15, 1805. 
Dear Sir : 

I think I lately inclosed to you Judge Chase's answer to the 
articles of impeachment. In that he referred, as you will have 
seen, to several documents. These were this morning laid on our 
tables. In this and one other packet, I enclose a copy. 

The virulence of the party prosecuting and the aggravated evi- 
dence of angry irritated opponents, had thrown some light clouds 
over the Judge's character ; but in the course of the trial, I am 
inclined to think that these will be dissipated. I am now dis- 
posed to believe after hearing the testimony of the witnesses for 
the prosecution, and some of those produced by the Judge, that 
they will not find 23 senators hardy enough to condemn him. 

I think John Randolph's opening Speech, as given in the Wash- 
ington Federalist, is substantially correct. But the words con- 
cerning the four district Judges (Peters, Bedford, Winchester 
and Griffin) were more opprobrious than they appear in that paper. 
Those Judges, he said, were " men of weak and feeble temper, 
and of intellects" (making a considerable pause) "perhaps as 
feeble." And that by pardoning John Fries, Mr. Adams " had 
atoned for many failings ; for mercy, like charity, covered a mul- 
titude of sins." 

With great respect & esteem I am yours 

T. Pickering. 

RuFUS King, Esq. 

Cyrus King to R. King. 

Pepperellville, Feby. 17, 1805. 
My dear Brother : 

* . . . The distresses which you mention of the Poor from 
the severity of the winter must be great and afflicting, especially 
in a part of the country where hard winters are not frequent. In 
this inhospitable region (as to Climate), where we are accustomed 

* The blank refers to the receipt of a sum of money, sent by Mr. King to his 
brother Richard. C. King had been educated by his brother Rufus, and was 
his first secretary during the latter's mission to England. 

440 RUFUS KING, [1805 

to a much greater severity of weather, but few ever experienced so 
hard a winter as the present ; storms of snow have been unusually- 
frequent and the frost intense. 

I am happy to learn from you the health and welfare of your 
amiable family which will always be dear to me. Our friends in 
this part of the country are in general well. . . . 

In gratitude and affection, I am dear Brother 

Cyrus King. 

RuFus King to T. Pickering. 

N. York, Feby. 18, 1805. 
Dear Sir : 

I give you many thanks for the copy of Judge Chase's reply, 
which you were good enough to send to me. I have read it with 
great interest and attention ; and I may add with equal satisfac- 
tion. I am gratified that the Judge has prepared his answer in 
the manner he has done, as whatever may be the result of his 
trial, impartial men both now and hereafter will possess the authen- 
tic means of deciding for themselves. We have heard of a rude 
and disorderly debate in the H. of R. concerning the Georgia 
Claim ; & some persons have conjectured that a serious division 
would arise among the Democrats — nay, that it already exists, and 
that Judge Chase's best hope of acquittal proceeds from it. Who 
is to be the Attorney General & what delays his appointment ? 
does this indirectly wait for the conclusion of Chase's trial ? 
What has been the fate of the convention concerning boundaries 
made with England ? has she consented to our proposed omission, 
or does the business rest in the same state, as when the Senate 
dismissed it ? What is likely to become of your St. Domingo 
Bill ; concerning which trade I am sorry to see that Mr. Merry 
has intimated even opinions, that the laws & usages of nations do 
not in my belief authorize. England seems to be doing for you 
your business with Spain ; as in case of a war between those two 
nations, we shall have little trouble to adjust our demands with 
the latter. 

With truth & attachment 

I remain, dear Sir, yr. obed'. Serv^ 

RuFus King. 

1805] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 44 1 

T. Pickering to R. King. 

Washington, Feby. 24, 1805. 
Dear Sir : 

I have received your letter of the i8th. The trial of Judge 

Chase has progressed so far, that his counsel will finish his defence 

tomorrow ; Mr. Harper closes. Luther Martin, in behalf of his 

" honourable friend " the Judge, occupied the whole of yesterday, 

5 J hours ; and then told the court he was too much exhausted to 
conclude his argument ; assuring them, if the indulgence were 
granted, he would take up but little of their time on Monday. 
The Court {^Senate I ought to call it ; Mr. Giles having, in our 
preliminary proceedings, banished the word Court) the Senate 
granted Mr. Martin's request. I regretted very much the appar- 
ent necessity of this indulgence ; fearing he would occupy so 
much of our time on Monday as to mar the defence of Mr. Har- 
per, addressed to a court and audience (I mention the Audience, 
because a numerous body of respectable people may have an 
influence on judges, some of whom, tho' they have not the fear of 
God, yet have the fear of man before their eyes) half-exhausted. 
But I understand that Mr. Martin is enjoined, and has engaged, 
positively to conclude by noon. Mr. Harper, I am told, will 
speak not more than three hours ; but I much doubt the possi- 
bility of his compressing within that space all he will deem im- 
portant on so copious a theme. The two last Articles of the 
impeachment are reserved for him (the proceedings at Newcastle 

6 Baltimore) and he will notice any points which in the dis- 
courses of the other counsel on the six first articles were either 
omitted or too lightly touched. 

There was on the part of John Randolph uncommon rudeness 
in the H. of R., in the debate on the Georgia claims ; but that 
will not have the smallest influence on the impeachment. The 
indecent replication of the H. of R. to Judge Chase's answer was 
subsequent to the abusive, impudent speech of Randolph on the 
Georgia claim ; and in that replication the whole pack united as 
usual. However, I am persuaded they sincerely wish they had 
not meddled with Judge Chase. The testimony of the multitude 
of witnesses has placed the Judge's judicial acts in a fair and legal 
point of view. The managers, with a better cause, would contend 
but feebly with such able counsel as appear for Judge Chase, and 

442 RUFUS KING. [1805 

with so paltry an one, you may rely upon it, they make a very 
shabby figure. For the points of law, Rodney is their Goliath. 
The managers, I learn, expect to make all their speeches in one 
day — say Tuesday ; or at farthest to finish on Wednesday morn- 
ing. I expect the decision of the Senate will immediately follow 
without any discussion. 

We know not who is to be the attorney General, nor why the 
appointment is delayed ; unless it be the difficulty of finding one 
of the orthodox sect of competent abilities. John Thompson 
Mason of Georgetown (brother of Stephens Thompson Mason) 
might have received the appointment, I have heard ; but an 
uncle, without a child, lately deceased, has left him a very large 
estate ; and not enjoying very good health, he declines the office. 

The British Convention is where the Senate were last year told 
it would be, if they persisted in their idle amendment. Even its 
name has not been lisped during the whole session, either by 
President or Senator. 

The St. Domingo Bill — that is the bill for clearing armed mer- 
chant vessels, passed the Senate last Friday. The first section 
is all that resembles the original bill, which came up from the H. 
of R., and that is ameliorated. The master and owner are to give 
bonds with sureties, in double the value of the vessel and her 
tackle, that her arms shall not be used in any unlawful act, but 
merely in self defence in case of involuntary hostility. The pe- 
nal section, for punishing offences committed abroad^ as if com- 
mitted at home, is struck out ; and its continuance is limited to 
the end of the next session of Congress. Samuel Smith intro- 
duced a section requiring bonds of the master and owner, that a 
vessel armed & cleared for any other port than the West Indies, 
should not proceed thither unless from stress of weather. We 
endeavoured to get this expunged, but failed. The Bill passed 
by a great majority — 20 to 8 — , I remarked to S. Smith that the 
bill did not reach the complaint of the French Minister, which 
went to a total discontinuance of the trade to St. Domingo. The 
French (he answered) do not now desire it ; the French Minister 
has told me so ; it was only a point of honour ! — 

Your two Senators voted for the bill. I also was very sorry to 
see Mr. Merry's letter on this subject ; and not a little surprized 
at its apparent imbecillity. 

1805] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 443 

Your Senator Smith has presented a bill to grant to Aaron Burr 
the privilege of franking letters for the rest of his life.* 

With very great regard, &c. 

Timothy Pickering. 

T. Pickering to R. King. 

Washington, March i, 1805. 
Dear Sir : 

I have much pleasure in announcing to you the acquittal of 
Judge Chase, this day. The Senators were called, alphabetically, 
by the President, on which each rose, when the President pro- 
pounded the question, on each article in the forms following. 
** How say you ? Is Samuel Chase guilty or not guilty of a high 
crime or misdemeanour as charged in the article of impeachment 
now (or last read) ? " The Senator answered guilty or not guilty.f 
Your two Senators uniformly said not guilty. 

In great haste adieu 

T. Pickering. 

T. Pickering to R. King, N. York. 

Washington, March 2, 1805. 
Dear Sir : 

In your late letter, I think you asked me why the nomination 
of an Attorney General was delayed ? I could not then tell ; 
now it seems apparent. Yesterday, you will find by my letter of 
that date, Judge Chase was acquitted, and at the moment I began 
this letter, Robert Smith was nominated to be attorney general. 
Had Judge Chase been convicted on the articles of impeachment, 
doubtless Smith was to have been placed on the Bench. Crownin- 
shield of Salem was at the same time nominated to be Secretary 
of the Navy. 

The House of Representatives made short work with the Burr- 
postage- Bill— X\\^y yesterday postponed it to the first day of De- 
cember next. 

The Vice-President just now took leave of the Senate, in a 
concise & apparently extempore speech, marked by that good 

* This was granted by Congress, after some hesitation in the H. of Reps. 
\ The detail of the votes, given in this letter, will be found in the Annals of 
Congress, 1804-5, pp. 665-669. 

444 RUFUS KING, [1805 

sense which you know he possesses. The Senate have unani- 
mously passed a vote of thanks, in perfectly appropriate terms, 
testifying the impartiality, dignity and ability with which he has 
presided over their deliberations. I presume the Committee who 
are to present the vote of thanks, will ask for his address, and 
that both will be published. 

Very truly yours, 

T. Pickering. 

R. King to Sam. Chase. 
Copy. 

N. York, March 6, 1805. 
Sir : 

We have this morning been made acquainted with the issue of 
the prosecution agt. you by the H. of R., and I cannot suffer a 
mail to be despatched witht. offerg. you my sincere and cordl. 
Congrats, upon the decision wh. has been pronounced. Whatever 
may be due to the zeal and abilities of yr. Counsel, who without 
doubt have acquitted themselves in a manner worthy of the gt. 
charge they were bound to protect, I shall always believe that 
much very much of that influence and authority wh. have over- 
awed and confounded the settled purpose of yr. Enemies, must 
be ascribed to the courageous, able, and convincing ansr. you 
yourself gave to the charges preferred agt. you ; an answer wh. 
not only possesses the highest merit, as a learned and satisfactory 
vindication of the just and necessary power of the judiciary, but 
which must remain an everlasting Record of the unworthy mo- 
tives of yr. Persecutors. 

Accept with my Congrats., the assurance of the distingd. con- 
sidn. & Respect with which I have the honour to be, Sir, your 
most ob. & faith, ser R. K. 

Sam, Chase, Balt., to R. King. 

13th March, 1805. 
My dear Sir : 

I am honored and gratified by your Congratulations on my ac- 
quittal by the Senate of the Impeachment by the House of Repre- 
sentatives. It has ever been my wish to obtain and preserve the 

1805] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 445 

Esteem & Confidence of the virtuous and sensible part of my 
Fellow-Citizens. The approbation of characters like you, Sir, 
affords me peculiar Pleasure and is a great Consolation to Me, 
under the cruel persecution I have suffered. My answer was 
principally intended as a justification of my official Conduct to 
judicial and professional Gentlemen. I can assure you that the 
Evidence produced on the trial fully supported my answer in all 
its parts ; and disclosed many facts that had escaped my Memory, 
and will, I expect, convince every impartial man of the Rectitude 
and propriety of my conduct, in the very instances charged to be 
criminal. It was not alleged in any article of Impeachment, that 
I had attempted to pack a Jury on the trial of Callender ; but the 
Managers calling a witness for this Purpose, I consented to the 
Inquiry, although I have no doubt the Senate would not have 
admitted such evidence without my Consent. You will find on 
perusing the trial, that this base attempt was entirely repelled. 

In support of the 8th Article the Managers examined a Witness 
to prove that in my Charge to the Grand-Jury at Baltimore, I 
made a direct attack upon the present Executive, for Imbecility 
in office ; for, promoting his own Interest in preference to that of 
the public ; and for obtaining his Election by undue means — no 
such fact was stated ; nor had I any notice of it ; but I made no 
objection ; if I had, it would have been said that I was afraid of 
it. I proved that the evidence was not true by a Dozen of Wit- 
nesses of the very first Reputation. The name of the Managers* 
Witness is John Montgomery, a democrat, a leading member of 
the House of Delegates of this State. To my counsel I am 
greatly obliged for the very able legal and constitutional Defence 
they made for me ; for the whole labor rested on them, as I was 
unable from indisposition to take any Part ; and to the Justice of 
my Case and their abilities I impute my acquittal. I am in a 
peculiar Manner indebted to my Friend Mr. Harper for his pro- 
fessional assistance in preparing my answer, and for his Conduct 
of my defence. It affords me great Pleasure to add, that a more 
fair and impartial trial, conducted with greater Dignity, never 
took place in any country. The trial is now in the press in this 
City, & I expect will be the most accurate. I am sure you will 
receive great Pleasure from the perusal of it. 

The conduct of my accusers, in refusing to pay the Expenses 

446 RUFUS KING. [1805 

of the Witnesses summoned by my Direction, you will observe in 
the votes of the House of Representatives 60 agt. and only 18 for 
payment of them. 

You will see by the amendment proposed by Mr. Randolph, to 
the Constitution, that an attempt will be made to make the Judi- 
ciary altogether dependent on a Majority of *the two Branches of 
the Legislature ; and by the amendment proposed by Mr. Nichol- 
son, that the Senate are to become a mere diplomatic Corps, de- 
pendant on the several State Legislatures. I can conceive no two 
measures more radically destructive of our Constitution. I can 
only oppose them by my Wishes ; my age, infirmities & the 
wicked Prosecution I have suffered, have determined me never 
to take any Part in any public Measure whatsoever. 

I pray you, Sir, to accept my best Wishes for your Health and 
prosperity & believe, that I am* with every sentiment of Respect 
& Esteem 

Your affectionate & most obedient Servant, 

Samuel Chase. 

It was a matter of much anxiety to Mr. King to make 
such an arrangement for the future education of his two sons, 
who had now passed eight years at Harrow, and were then 
in Paris, at the school of M. Thurot, engaged in studying 
mathematics, French, and Spanish. The younger son, 
Charles, had decided that he would prefer the life of a mer- 
chant ; the older one, John, selecting that of a lawyer. The 
first suggestion was to place Charles in the house and under 
the care of his friend Sir Francis Baring ; but, as will be 
seen, though this gentleman had willingly consented to re- 
ceive him, Mr. King had thought it better for such reasons 
as he deemed wise, to send him to Amsterdam, under the 
care of Messrs. Hope, and for this purpose he wrote di- 
rectly to Mr. Labouchere in London, asking him to take an 
interest in the arrangement and in the care of his son, and 
to Mr. W. Hope— 

1805] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 447 

R. King to W. Hope. 

New York, March g, 1805. 
Dear Sir : 

Before as well as since I left England, T have had communica- 
tion with our friend, Sir Francis Baring, concerning my second 
son, who has now nearly completed his i6th year, and whom I 
propose to educate a merchant. At first I thought of placing 
him in London, and Sir Francis consented to receive him into 
his house. But such are the amusements and vices of that great 
metropolis, that I have hesitated in leaving him there, remote as 
he would be from my Superintendence, and by the advice of Sir 
Francis I am led to prefer placing him at Amsterdam, where there 
are fewer amusements, more industry and firmer habits of Busi- 
ness, provided I can there meet with a suitable situation for him. 
In a late letter from Sir Francis, he informs me thro' Mrs. Labou- 
chere, he would consult you and her husband upon this subject : 
but as the intercourse between Holland and England is inter- 
rupted, and considerable time may elapse before I can learn your 
opinion thro' that channel, I have presumed upon our former ac- 
quaintance to address myself directly to you. 

The chief objects of my solicitude are the promotion of the 
health and morals of my son and his education as a merchant. 
Should you consent to receive him into your house, he would be 
where I wish him to be educated, and could I indulge the hope 
that he might be so associated with your sons, as to be admitted 
also into your family, I should think I had attained for him the 
advantage and security which a good father must be sedulously 
anxious to provide. 

In case it should be inconvenient for you to gratify my wishes 
on either or both these points, I am persuaded of your disposition 
to assist me with your friendly opinion and advice concerning the 
best means of attaining my object. My case differs essentially 
from what it would be were I an inhabitant of your City ; for 
altho' the education of my son would then depend on his connec- 
tion with some commercial House, he would live in my family 
and be under my observation and control ; and it is an arrange- 
ment that shall supply this constant care and superintendence 
about which I am most embarrassed. Perhaps Messrs. Willinks, 
or Van Stopworts, whom I know, or some other respectable 

448 RUFUS KING. [1805 

House would consent to receive my son ; but even then I should 
be at a loss where to find that care and protection without which 
a youth is liable to fall into error and misfortune. 

Hitherto I have made no application to any other people on 
this subject, preferring first to receive your answer, which I beg 
the favor of you to send me as early as shall be convenient. Be 
pleased to present my respectful compliments to Mrs. Hope, in 
which Mrs. King desires to unite hers, and be assured that I am 
with sentiments of great Respect and Esteem &c 

RuFus King. 

C. Gore to R. King. 

Boston, March 10, 1S05. 
My Dear Friend : 

. . . Our election has begun, or rather the preparations for 
it, and an unusual degree of Heat seems to be excited, more 
especially as the moral & official character of one of the Candi- 
dates is most vehemently attacked, which occasioned a cudgelling 
between the son of the Judge & the Printer ; and this Rencounter 
seems to have demanded from the latter a reiteration and justifi- 
cation of what had been before asserted. We have hopes that 
Strong may be again elected ; but this is by no means certain. 
Our House will be probably democratic, and I do not believe the 
Senate will be any better ; and They, who are Federalists, are not 
very skilful or able in supporting their cause. Probably a great 
mistake was made last autumn in changing our Rep. to Congress, 
for although it would not have been proper for the Federalists to 
have supported the existing Member, yet their success has sent 
one, who cannot render any service to the cause, & brought one 
here, who can afford much support to his own Party, and taken 
Him from a scene, where He could not fail of becoming an Op- 
ponent to the Administration, although not a convert to those 
who formerly held their Places. We appear to me to be changing 
very fast, & the little Federalism that is left, will soon be no more. 
We may rise to something else, but not to that. I had a letter 
the other day from Pinkney, who says that He is almost deter- 
mined to settle in Annapolis, that He may be elected into their 
State Legislature, and endeavour to stop the Torrent. From this 

1805] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 449 

and other Parts of his Letter, it is probable he does not side with 
the present Administration. We hear nothing of Trumbull ; 
Does He proceed successfully ? . . . 

We have been somewhat alarmed here the last week at the Pos- 
sibility of a Peace. Our Merchants are very anxious that Great 
Britain should not impair her Dignity, or hazard her security, by 
any pacific negotiations for the Present 

As ever yours 

C. Gore. 

R. R. Livingston to R. King. 

Paris, 7th April, 1805. 
Dear Sir : 

I have the pleasure to enclose to you an extract of a letter from 
the Minister of foreign affairs written to me by order of the Em- 
peror & King just as he was about leaving Paris for Milan. This 
was accompanied by the work he mentions, and which I shall 
bring with me and deposit in the gallery of the Society for fine 
arts. You will find this a very princely present, which will be from 
its nature I hope not only useful to our young painters and sculp- 
tors, but to such other of our fellow citizens as are occupied in 
works of taste. The architect, the silversmith, the cabinet maker 
&c. will find models in their respective professions that cannot 
fail to impress their taste. It consists in twenty four volumes in 
fol. of prints & a number of portfols. containing paintings in oil 
& water colours, most of them copies from antiques & from Ra- 
phael ; several views of Constantinople, Cairo, &c. I shall have 
them carefully packed & hope they may arrive safe. If this ex- 
tract, which is inclosed, should find its way into the paper, which 
it probably will, I pray you not to suffer it to be perverted & 
mutilated, as everything relative to me from here has been by 
false translations, but to have the goodness to anticipate these by 
publishing the original with such a translation as you shall find 
accurate. Though this present together with a portrait of the 
Emperor very richly set with diamonds was made me on my re- 
turn from Italy, and six months after I had taken leave formally, 
and of course held no office, I have thought myself bound to send 
a copy of the letter (which contains no reference to my former 
public character) to Mr. Madison & to submit the disposition of 

VOL. IV, — 29 

450 RUFUS KING, [1805 

these gifts to the Government, if they should suppose they come 
within the spirit, tho' they are certainly not within the letter of 
the constitution. It is under this restriction that you must re- 
ceive that part of it which is d esignedorthe society. 

I hope to sail about the loth of May & to bring James with 
me. We all beg to be presented to Mrs. King. I am Dear Sir 
with much esteem & regard &c. 

Rob. R. Livingston. 

Extract accompanying this letter : 

" Extract of a letter from his excellency Monsieur de Talley- 
rand 11^. Germinal, au 13. 

* J'ai cru qu'il vous serait particulierement agreable de pouvoir 
favoriser dans votre pays le gout des arts, et dans cette vue, J'ai 
rhonneur de vous envoyer une collection de I'ancienne et de la 
nouvelle calcographie des Peres et Freres Piranesi. Les desseins 
graves et colores seront convenablement places au Museum de 
New York et attesteront I'interet que vous nous avez inspire pour 
tout ce qui pent contribuer a I'instruction et i I'agrement de vos 
jeunes compatriotes. 

Je vous prie Monsieur de recevoir I'assurance de ma haute 

consideration. Signe, 

C. M. Talleyrand. 
Son Excellence Monsieur Livingston. 

The Evening Post, June 22d, 1805, gives the following ac- 
count of this collection : 

" This rare and valuable collection, which Mr. Livingston brings 
with him consists of 24 vols, with folios of prints, together with 
several Portfolios containing copies in oil and water colours 
from Raphael and from antiques, Views from Constantinople, 
Cairo, &c. &c. The work will not only be useful to painters and 
sculptors, to many others. 

* I have thought that it would be particularly agreeable to you to be able to 
promote the taste for arts in your countrj', and with that view I have the hon- 
our to send you a collection of the ancient and the new calcographie of the 
Peres et Freres Piranesi. The engraved and coloured designs will be most 
properly placed in the Museum of New York, and will shew the interest you 
have manifested to us for everything that might contribute to the instruction and 
gratification of your young compatriots. 

1805] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 45 1 

R, King to C. Gore. 

New York, May 2, 1805. 
My dear Friend : 

. . . I cannot help regretting that Robbins and Cobb are 
likely to fail in yr. election, in part on their accounts personally, 
but chiefly as their failure may be reed, as certain evidence that 
Strong will follow them into retirement. To you who think and 
feel as I do, it wd. be superfluous to express my sentiments on 
this most interesting subject. I will only say that it wd. be an 
honest consolation to hope even that an amendment is likely 
to happen ; but to do so would be folly. 

I do not very well understand the state of Parties in England, 
still less the views of the Northern Powers ; as to Peace, it can- 
not take place at present, without humiliation to France or Eng- 
land ; and neither is in a disposition to submit to it. I can well 
enough comprehend the views of Bonaparte in making the over- 
ture ; and the answer of England was both discreet and, as I sup- 
pose, decisive. But the affair continues to be talked of, and the 
politics of Russia are to me mysterious ; still I do not believe 
there can be peace in the present relative condition of the Parties. 

Where the secret Expedn. is bound I can't divine ; perhaps to 
So. Amer. ; but from the tenour of the debates in Parliament, I 
hesitate in believing so, tho' where else unless to the Cape of 
Good Hope I cannot conjecture. 

Pray are you about to engage in any venture abroad ? tell me 
your projects, perhaps I may solicit a concern. I must endeav- 
our to do something wh. shall help my Revenue, so fast do the 
disbursements increase. We are here very expensive and the 
passion grows stronger, as well as becomes more diffused. In 
Boston too I suspect you find a difference between the present 
and past times. 

We have no letters from the boys since they arrived at Rotter- 
dam (on their way to Paris), but hope soon to hear that they are 
safe and settled with Thurot. Livingston intended to embark in 
Apl., but as he was at Rome late in Jan'y, I think he will not leave 
France before May, so that we shall not see James earlier than 
June. I am greatly at a loss what to do with Edward, there being 
no good school near here, and I don't much like to send all my 
children so far from us as we may be forced to do. . . . 

Always yours R. K. 

452 RUFUS KING. [1805 

C. Gore to R. King. 

Boston, May 8, 1805. 
My dear Friend : 

I had still some intention of hazarding some adventure abroad. 
My expenses here are considerably greater than the same comforts 
would have cost me a few years since. . . . With this view 
(to increase his means) I have contemplated making some ship- 
ments ... to Holland or England. The last year most 
of the articles shipt from hence, either of West India or E 
India produce, netted a profit of 25 per cent ; and it is not im- 
probable that I may embark in some project of this sort in the 
course of the present or next month. Should this or any other 
scheme have the appearance of being successful, I will communi- 
cate it and shall be happy in your taking any share or part. . . . 

Yours truly 

C. Gore. 

Lord Suffolk to R. King. 

London, May 20, 1805. 
Dear Sir : 

Indisposition for a considerable time, and a wish to have ad- 
dressed my answer to you in that Rank and Station, which I hope 
you will one day fill, have hitherto prevented my answering your 
obliging letter, for the contents of which I was prepaid from an 
answer given by Gen'l Washington on the same subject some 
years since ; for though the Validity of a part of the claim was 
acknowledged by him, he was of opinion that Restitution 
could never be obtained. I was willing to make one more effort 
for the sake of two natural children, whom my brother left be- 
hind him, to whom a considerable share was left by will, if any 
part of the property could have been recovered, but which I shall 
now consider as entirely out of the question. 

In this country we have had a very warm political session with 
most of the great Talents on the side of opposition ; which you will 
be convinced of when I mention the names of Mr. Fox, Mr. Grey, 
Sheridan, Whithead, and a young man who has greatly distin- 
guished him-self Ld. Henry Petty, and of Irish members Mr. 
Grattan and Mr. Ponsonby. These are oppos'd by the single 

1805] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 453 

Talent of Mr. Pitt, for as to his coadjutors (such as Ld. Castle- 
reagh and Mr. Canning) they as frequently hurt as benefit his 
cause. In the House of Lords there is equal deficiency, now 
that Ld. Melville is, I believe, on the Eve of Impeachment, he 
has no one that can be compar'd to Ld. Grenville. But political 
Talent seems to me out of the question. I believe it to be the 
wish of Mr. Pitt only to make use of minor characters whom he 
can easily rule and direct. This may go on for some time, but it 
is in my opinion not a system to be permanent. Much will de- 
pend on the health of the King, who certainly looks extremely 
well, but is now so lethargick, that at a review of near 2000 
artillery a few days since, notwithstanding all the noise of cannon, 
&c., he was frequently asleep, and cou'd with some difficulty be 
rous'd. 

Such our internal situation ; as to the external, you are much 
better acquainted with and can much better appreciate it than I 
can pretend to form a Judgment of what will be the Result of this 
eventful war in which we are engag'd. Shall not therefore hazard 
any sentiment how soon, or in what manner it is likely to termi- 
nate ; but with many thanks for the trouble I have given you and 
many wishes for your welfare & happiness 

I remain, Dear Sir, your oblig'd & faithful servant, 

Suffolk. 

All my family join in kind remembrance to you & Mrs. King. 

CHAPTER XXIX. 

King to Gore — Miranda about to sail — Monroe's Failure in Spain — Yellow Fever 
in N. York — King at Rockaway — His Son James — Pitcaim to King — Seizure 
of American Vessels — Gore to King — British Interference with Trade of U.S. 
— Would it have been so, if King had been in England? — W. Vaughan to 
King — War in Disguise — Neutral's Rights — King to Gore — New Coalition 
in Europe — Effect on American Trade — Wilberforce to King — Sends War 
in Disguise — Acting on the System recommended indispensable to England 
— Miss O. Southgate — Opinion of King — King to his Sons in Paris — King 
to Morris — Celebration of 25th November — Pickering to King — Treaty 
with Tripoli — Gore to King — Miranda cannot expect Help — Boston Mer- 
chants fear Depredations on Commerce — Suggest King as Minister to Eng- 
land— Gore to King — President's Message — Breck to King — Bank of U. 
States — Pickering to King — No great Measures before Congress — King to 
Gore — Merchants Alarmed — Proposal to urge his Appointment to England 
— King to Pickering — President's Foreign Policy. 

R. King to C. Gore. 

Rockaway, Sept. 15, 1805. 
My dear Friend : 

Yesterday I received a letter from M dated . . . July 13. 

"Apres des inconsequences et des retards inconcevables et in- 
supportables, nous voila sur le point de partir — je compte de 
m'embarquer dans le courant de ce mois, et de vous envoyer 
quelqu'un, ou de vous voir moimeme, &c., J'envoye ce meme avis 
d notre ami G " 

Probably you have a letter by the same conveyance. Lest this 
should not be the fact, I send you the above extract. I apprehend 
from the earnestness with which succour is urged, that the means 
with wh. he is furnished are most inconsiderable, — perhaps he is 
merely sent out in a ship going to the Island of Tr., and that his 
chief hopes of assistance are derived from the posture of our affairs 
with Spain. It will soon be better understood, by the further 
communication that is promised, till when, though the affair may 
be matter of reflexion, nothing can be done. We know nothing 

454 

1805] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 455 

except what the News Papers tell us concerning our relations with 
Spain. Monroe has returned to England, his mission having 
totally failed. The objects of negotiation were the enlargement 
of C. Pinckney's Spanish Convention, so that it might include the 
cases of French captures, the sale and condemnation of which 
were had in Spanish ports and the settlement of the limits of 
Louisiana. 

To the first Spain is understood to have answered that she could 
not interfere with proceedings had under the authority of France, 
and to the latter that we had possession of Louisiana already, its 
limits westerly being the ancient French Possessions and easterly 
the Mississippi and eastern shore of New Orleans — backing this 
reply with extracts of dispatches from Talleyrand to Cevallos, 
which show that France agrees with Spain on both points. 

It is likely that Monroe held a lofty language in his communi- 
cations with the Span. Court, but supported as they are by France, 
he has been treated with contempt. What will be the conduct of 
our magnanimous administration remains to be seen. My own 
belief is, notwithstanding the superior value of West Florida, and 
the time that has been made use of, that our present cabinet will 
do nothing. If so, and M. be without adequate succour from 
England, he will do nothing. 

Our afflicted city is nearly depopulated, and we are aprehensive 
that we shall not be able to visit our homes until the loth of 
Novr. Until yesterday Mclntyre and our other servant have been 
in town ; He is now with us together with our other servants ex- 
cept the Cook, who is a frenchman, not much apprehensive of the 
fever, and who, moreover, has some connexion in the City that he 
does not like to have known. We are all well, and what Mrs. G. 
will think wonderful, Mrs. K. has become a bather ; she has 
bathed three mornings and intends going on. I think it will be 
of service to her general health, especially after the alarm that has 
attended her first attempts has entirely subsided — in a great meas- 
ure it has already left her. 

We received yesterday a well expressed and satisfactory letter 
from James, dated at Dr. Gardiner's.* He seems well pleased, 
and assures me that he is duly sensible of diligence and attention. 
I need not express to you, my dear friends, how anxious we natur- 

* In Boston. 

456 RUFUS KING. [1805 

ally are concerning the success of our children ; you, who more 
than any others, know our way of thinking, our hopes, and our 
solicitudes, will enter into our views and feelings, and do whatever 
may best conduce to the education of the child we have placed 
near you. He is at present without vice and, with a fine temper, 
is not deficient in understanding. Treat him in every respect as 
your friendship for us may recommend. He will be sensible to 
your kindness ; as well as obedient and respectful to your control. 
We feel none of the anxiety arising from absence, since we are 
convinced that James is in every respect as safe and as advan- 
tageously placed under your observation and instruction as he 
would be under our own. With affectionate regards in which 
Mrs. K. joins me to Mrs. G., I am most faithfully yours, 

R. K. 

Jos. PiTCAIRN TO R. KiNG. 

Hamburg, 25th Sept., 1805. 
Dear Sir : 

The French Minister, de Bourienne, formerly Secretary of 
State and still friend of Bonaparte, has since June ruled here 
with unlimited sway ; he lately caused a ship belonging to Mr. 
Keith of Virginia to be seized and obtained an order from 
Bernadotte to sell her, alleging that she belonged to Reuben 
Smith, another American, whom he accused of enlisting men for 
the British foreign troops. He rejects all proof that the vessel 
belongs to Keith, and has brought her under French colours from 
Cuxhaven to Hamburg, at the time the French evacuated that 
place. Mr. Forbes our consul here has endeavoured to get pos- 
session of her by the ordinary course of Law, and by demand as 
American Agent. To this moment he has not succeeded ; but 
no one will buy her, and they will on the final leaving of Hanover 
be obliged to let her go, or destroy her. As 't is probable this 
matter will come before our Government I thought you would be 
glad to know the particulars. . . . 

With perfect esteem and gratitude, dear sir 
Your obed. Servant 

Jos. PiTCAIRN. 

1805] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 457 

C. Gore to R. King. 

Boston, October 7, 1805. 

My dear Friend : 

. . . The Galen has arrived here from England, and con- 
firms the accounts heretofore received of the Disposition of the 
Brit. Ministry to limit our Trade within very narrow Bounds. 
Indeed the Spirit that was evidenced in the capture of the Essex, 
Orne, with the natural consequences of her condemnation, ought 
to lead our merchants to expect the sending in for Examination 
all their vessels having on board the Colonial Produce of the 
Enemies of England. I do not see that any evidence on board 
the ship can show what the British Courts demand to be proved, 
viz, that it was not the intention of the Importer from the Colony 
to ship the article to Europe. 

Before a Decision had taken place on the Essex's cargo, it is 
possible the thing might have been placed in such lights by an 
intelligent Minister, as to have prevented the Decree. Mr. 
Monroe was not in England then. 

Our Merchants are anxious for their Property, and irritated at 
a Conduct in the British, which they think not only unjust, but 
perfidious. They believe if you had been in London, a different 
State of things would have existed : and they are now sagaciously 
asking if Mr. J. would ask you to go there, and if he did, whether 
you would consent. Perhaps there is a like probability of either. 

Yours truly 

C. G. 

William Vaughan to R. King. 

London, Oct. 9, 1805. 
Dear Sir : 

. . . . I beg your acceptance of a pamphlet that has just 
made its appearance here, that will from its subject and the part 
you took on the question while minister from the United States, 
prove more interesting to you. It is entitled War in Disguise or 
the frauds of the neutral flags. It is attributed to a Mr. Stevens, 
a lawyer of some repute and ability, who has been in the West 

458 RUFUS KING. [1805 

Indies and who has considerable practice in Appeal Causes. It 
may perhaps be rather considered as the brief of an advocate 
than as the decision of a Judge. I do not conceive that Sir 
Wm. Scott will adopt it indiscriminately as his model either as to 
its Temper or its conclusions, though it is probable that the 
Question about the Rights of Navigation of Neutrals in war to do 
what they cannot do in peace will be more narrowed in its prin- 
ciples in this war than in the last. 

Though you are removed from the theatre of war and of infor- 
mation, you will not remain an uninterested spectator as to what 
is going forward on the Continent respecting the new war & 
new coalition. The proclamation of the different powers will 
show their creed or intentions, and may be considered as the 
articles of an immense partnership with the heads at an immense 
distance from each other, and where their capital and enterprize 
must depend on minor agents. All parties are rushing to one 
point rather more equipped for a march than for an engagement 
as yet until every man is at his post. Success will be various, but 
the result is yet to be known. Great hopes are entertained about 
Russia. . 

With great respect your mo, ob. humb. servt. 

Wm. Vaughan. 

R. King to C. Gore. 

Jamaica, L. I., Oct. 28, 1805. 

My dear Friend : 

We came hither about a week since, and as the weather has 
been favourable and the health Comtee. have invited us all back, 
have sent a servant or two to town to prepare our house. . . . 

Our latest News from Europe makes it probable that a new 
Coalition has been formed ; it is to be hoped the allies have been 
secret as well as active, for unless Austria be herself well prepared, 
and moreover seasonably as well as vigorously supported by 
Russia & England, she will be sure to suffer severely by the irrup- 
tion of the French Armies. Recollecting the separate views of 
the former Coalition, the want of common object, honourable to 
the Allies, and not humiliating to France, we may expect a mani- 

1805] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 459 

festo from the new Coalition, correcting the former Error and 
such as shall deserve the approbation & good wishes of all other 
nations. If the Coalition are successful this autumn or make any 
serious impressions on the Power of Bonaparte, England will be- 
come haughty and elated, and in this temper I shall fear most 
serious depredations on our Trade. In respect to the late deci- 
sion of the Court of Appeals I have not yet seen so correct a 
Report of it as enables me to form a precise opinion of its Extent ; 
if it go no further than to restrain the Exportation of Colonial 
Produce in the vessel in which the same was imported, unless an 
intermediate voyage shall have been performed by her, the abridge- 
ment wd. not be very important ; but if the negative proof, which 
you mention be demanded, there can be no security in sending 
Colonial Produce from the U. S. to Europe ; this wd. be so ex- 
travagant and so unjust that I cannot suppose the Principle is, 
has been, or will be insisted upon. Another reason why I discredit 
the operation of this Doctrine is derived from the disjointed and 
feeble condition of the Br. Cabinet at the date of the Decision : 
a new Principle of this comprehensive nature w? not be adopted 
by feeble, ill-assorted and recently connected men — and my 
present persuasion is that the mere touching, and passing a 
Colonial Cargo thro' our Custom House, and then proceeding 
with the same ship & Cargo to Europe, has been considered as too 
slight a security ag^ Fraud, and that the decision has been such as 
to put an end to this particular mode of trade. . . 

Always & faithfully yrs. 

R. K. 

Mr. Wilberforce to R. King. 

Umdon House, New Birmingham, Nov. 7, 1805. 

My dear Sir : 

Before I enter upon the Subject, which gives occasion for my 
now addressing you, let me assure you, with perfect sincerity, 
that I retain a lively sense of the pleasure & advantage I have 
often derived from your Society, during your too short residence 
in this country, and that I shall ever continue to feel a warm 
interest in your happiness & welfare. I heartily wish this letter 

460 RUFUS KING. [1805 

may find you in fl. enjoyment of domestic comfort, the best of 
this world's blessings, and of good health ; and while I am on 
this head, let me beg my best respects to Mrs. King and any of 
your younger ones who may remember me. 

The object of my now writing to you, is to recommend to your 
serious perusal a pamphlet lately published in this country en- 
titled War in disguise, or ye frauds of ye Neutral Flags. To 
you, who from personal experience as well as general knowledge, 
are so thoroughly versed in all that concerns this subject, I 
scarcely need go on to state the general tenor of the Pamphlet, 
its very title will make that sufficiently clear. Neither will I 
anticipate any of its contents. I will however state what I know 
will convey to your mind an impression of its being a work of 
ability, and allowing for the bias, to which we are all liable from 
self interest, of its sound principles also, that it has received the 
warm approbation of Sir Wm. Scott. I will frankly confess to 
you that I was strongly prejudiced against the conclusions which 
I understood it was the author's object to establish, from a fear 
lest their practical adoption might at least weaken that cordiality 
between our country & yours, which to you, who know my moral 
as well as my political principles & feelings, I need scarcely say, 
it has been ever, & still is, my earnest wish to cultivate and im- 
prove. But serious Reflection has forced on me the persuasion, 
that our acting (I will not affirm too hastily to what precise extent) 
on the system recommended by the work in question, is, according 
to all human appearances, indispensable & necessary not only to 
our interest, but to our very existence. I happen to know that 
the Pamphlet was written rapidly, tho' by a man long & familiarly 
acquainted with his subject, & the part in which it appears to me 
the most defective, is that wherein it states the consequences of 
ye continuance of ye present system, to our maritime greatness. 
Much more might have been said on that head ; which however 
your acquaintance with History will readily supply. I shall be 
very anxious to hear what reception the Doctrine meets with on 
your side of the Atlantic. The self-interested will of course en- 
deavour to raise a cry ; but if men of sound principles and deeper 
views, men of Judgment, Equity & Impartiality admit that Jus- 
tice warrants and Self Defence enforces our Govt's adopting the 
measures (in ye. main) prescribed by ye writer in question, their 

1805] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 46 1 

opinion will more, I trust, than counterbalance the sentiments & 
efforts of men of a different description. But how does this very- 
state of things bring to my recollection & enforce on my feelings 
the important truth, on which you & I have often expressed our 
concurrence that Govts, which wish to cultivate a friendly con- 
nection between the countries to which they respectively belong, 
would do well to be assiduous in embracing every fair opportunity 
of testifying this Disposition. They would meet with more ready 
& implicit credit when they affirm that they are actuated by simi- 
lar Inclinations, on occasions which are less clear, and where they 
may be supposed to be more likely to be under the influence of 
Self Interest. 

But, my dear Sir, you know us Englishmen, such as we are, 
our good qualities and our bad ones, & I would venture to affirm 
that your Residence m this Country may have produced impres- 
sions concerning the personal character of my countrymen which 
Books alone never would supply & thereby enable you to account 
for instances of conduct otherwise inexplicable. It will give me 
pleasure to hear of your welfare, & if any of your friends should 
visit this country, I should feel a gratification in rendering them 
any good offices in my power & doing any thing I might be 
able to make their stay among us agreeable. Once more I remain, 
my dear sir, with great esteem and Regard, &c. 

W. WiLBERFORCE. 

p. S. You will, I am persuaded, be glad to hear that I have the 
happiness (I thank God) to enjoy great domestic comfort. I have 
now 5 children, but Mrs. W.'s health is but very indifft. since her 
last confinement. Our friend Montague & his nums. flock are all 
well. Lord Harrowby has taken his eldest son with him to Ber- 
lin as an introduction to business. He does great credit to his 
domestic education in every way. , . . 

C. Gore to R. King. 

Boston, 9 Nov., 1S05. 
My dear Friend : 

I received from you Extracts of two letters of Genl. M., who, I 
fear, would not find any so well disposed to promote his views 
now, as last year. Losses & Disappointments render our mer- 

462 RUFUS KING. [1805 

chants more cautious & timid & their Sanguine Expectations, in 
the year past, have probably much diminished their means. 

Our last accounts from Europe would incline us to hope that 
Great Britain had foreseen & in some measure prepared for the 
state of things that now exists on the Continent. How far Austria 
may have provided to meet or divert the Forces of France is left 
altogether to Conjecture. Should the Coalition be successful, our 
Trade would undoubtedly feel the depredating Spirit of the 
British Cruizers, and the Fears of our merchants will be dread- 
fully realized. Judge Croke, at Halifax, seems disposed to catch 
at the smallest Pretence, for passing Decrees of Condemnation : 
and many of the Decisions in England go but too far in counte- 
nancing the Rules he seems to have adopted. The Case of the 
Essex was a vessel loaded with the Produce of old Spain, bound 
from the U. States to Havannah. It seemed that she went from 
Salem to Barcelona & bound thence to the E. Indies, meeting 
some accident, or not being able to procure Dollars, she re- 
turned to Salem, landed her Cargo, which was on Shore for 
several months, but not finding a market, the owners shipt it in 
the same ship for the Havannah. Vessel & Cargo condemned 
on the ground, that it was all one voyage, the foregoing circum- 
stances notwithstanding, To say the least, they manifestly require 
different Evidence of the Intentions of the Owner, relating to 
Colonial Produce, shipt from the U. S. in its original Importation 
than formerely — and in case of the Importer into the U. S., 
transhipping it to Europe, they demand Evidence of his Inten- 
tion which, it would seem to me, cannot be on board the Vessel ; 
and I should fear that every Ship having on board Colonial Pro- 
duce, might be lawfully seized by British Cruizers — and indeed 
we have a case stated, if correctly, that confirms this Idea. A 
vessel, bound from Norfolk with Sugars, whh. her owners pur- 
chased there, was seized in the Channel & ordered for London ; 
after she was in Possession of her Captors, she ran against Dover 
Pier & bilged, so that the sugars were all lost. The Vessel was 
tried and acquitted, but no Damages given ; There might have 
been other circumstances in the Case, not related, which may 
have justified the Denial of Damages, but as reported it goes the 
Length I have mentioned. 

Our Government, with the various Claimants on their Spirit 

1805] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 463 

and their negotiating Talents, will have a plentiful Source of Em- 
barrassment. If they could only use some of the Complaints to 
excite and keep up an irritable State of the public mind against 
G. B., it would (be) an excellent medicine for their political Pur- 
poses. But I think the Administration will be fearful of en- 
couraging this Temper, lest it should go beyond their Views, and 
carry them into Scenes, to which their Talents and pecuniary 
Resources, as they have lowered and cramped the latter, should 
prove incompetent. . . . 

Ever truly yours, 

C. Gore. 

The following letter, though out of place as to date, from 
Octavia Southgate, niece of Mr. King, gives her impressions 
of him on July ist, 1804.'^ 

" The family I am now in, however have reconciled me very 
much to this place. I am about 4 miles from New York, at Mr. 
Murray's. You heard me mention this family as uncommonly 
amiable. To me they supply in a great measure the loss of my 
own. I am delighted at having an opportunity of spending a 
week with them in this way. Aunt (King) has been drinking tea 
with us this evening. She tells me they commence their journey 
this week. They are very solicitous for me to go with them ; but 
Elisa will so soon follow them, that I don't think it will be so 
pleasant. . . . Aunt King will suit you exactly. She is a 
charming, easy soul and I am sure she will be your favorite 
among your Aunts. Uncle pleases me more every day. He has 
laid by his accustomed majesty — to tell you the truth, for a long 
time I looked up to him as a superior being ; his presence awed 
and charmed me. I gloried in him and felt a sensible pride 

* The editor is indebted for this letter to Mrs. Emily E. Ford, of Brooklyn, 
N. Y., who thus writes : " In a letter from Octavia Southgate to her brother 
Horatio, who married for his second wife Mary Webster, my aunt and fourth 
daughter of Noah Webster, I found this passage, relating to her uncle." The 
journey, to which reference is made above, is that which was taken by Mr. 
King to New England and to visit his relatives there. This is another evidence 
of the fact that it was planned before the duel of Hamilton was decided upon. 
See R. Kings Life, vol. iv., p. 390. 

464 RUFUS KING, [1805 

whenever I looked at him, but the idea of loving him never 
entered my head ; He always was attentive to me and appeared 
to be pleased to see me ; but he always called me Miss South- 
gate ; but since I went to Long Island with them he is totally 
changed. He speaks to me in the most affectionate terms, calls 
me his daughter and introduces me to all strangers as his niece. 
I now confess him to be when he pleases, a man of the most in- 
sinuating manner I ever knew." 

Mr. King, who had long desired to make his permanent 
residence in the country, near New York, bought, on the 
20th November, 1805, from Mr. Christopher Smith's estate, 
a farm of about sixty acres of arable land with about 30 
additional acres of woodland near by, at Jamaica, Long 
Island, fronting on the main road between Brooklyn and 
Jamaica, to which he removed with his family on May 20, 
1806. It is probable that his attention was drawn to this 
place by the fact that Mr. Alsop's estate held a mortgage 
upon the property, and also because of the proximity to a 
village where the Episcopal church, good schools, and a 
post office were of easy access and in a healthy part of the 
country. He speaks of these things in his letter to his sons, 
alluding also to the advantages afforded on Long Island for 
those who loved, as he did, hunting and game. It has al- 
ways been believed that his wife's instance decided him in 
making the purchase and residing there permanently. 

It may here be said, though a little before the time, that 
he immediately began to make improvements in the house, 
and in the autumn of the following year to plant trees, fruit 
and ornamental, and shrubs. The pine and fir trees were 
sent to him through his friend Mr. Sheaffe, of Portsmouth, 
from New Hampshire, and are said to be among the first 
planted in that part of Long Island.* 

* Mr. King, as his eldest son wrote of him, was a careful, and therefore a 
successful planter of trees and shrubs, in both of which he took great delight. 
He was also a good botanist, and loved the song of birds, which soon began to 
frequent his thrifty plantation, where they ever found shelter and protection. 
Some large oaks now stand near the house, the acorns of which he planted. 

1805] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 465 

R. King to his Sons, Paris. 

New York, Nov. 24, 1805. 
My dear Sons : 

Within a few days past we have reed, your letters of the begin- 
ning of Sept. : John's letter is dated before the distribution of 
Prizes, Charles' the day after. Today Mr. LeRoy, father of the 
young gentleman of this name, who is with you, sent me the fol- 
lowing extract of a letter from Mr. Cazenove, who resided with 
M. Talleyrand when we were in Paris — viz. 

6. Septembre, 1805. 

" J'ai assiste hier a la distribution des prix a la pension de Mons. 
Thurot : la compagnie etait tres nombreuse, presidee par un 
Senateur qui a remis les couronnes aux vainquers, et composee 
des Parens et des amis de cette belle jeunesse, qui etait assise en 
Amphitheatre au fond de la salle. Ceux qui avaint gagne des 
prix sortaient des rangs, et au son de la musique s'avangaient 
vers I'Estrade ou les Maitres et les Professeurs pla^aient les 
couronnes. Cette Ceremonie tres solenelle et attendrissante 
eveille a un haut degre I'emulation des Etudians. Dites a Mons. 
King (en me rappelent a son souvener) que j'ai eu grand plaisir 
de voir ses fils s'avancer a plusieurs reprises pour recevoir des 
palmes qu'ils avaient merite ; leur noble & agreable figure et 
maintien etaient remarques de toute I'assemblee : ils joignaient 
au regard assure et la tete elevee d'un etre qui se sent, la modestie 
et la douceur que caracterisent tant leur pere. Sans exageration 
le genie et la probite leur sortaient de tous les Pores." 

I am really unable to describe to you the Emotions of Pride & 
satisfaction, which I have received from your letters and the Re- 
port of Mr. Cazenove. We have read them over and over again ; 
and mother wears them in her Bosom ! Go on my deserving and 
beloved Sons, continue to excel, and you will thereby not only 
give to your Parents the richest and best reward of their tender 
and affectionate Cares, but be sure to obtain the success and 
applause among your Countrymen, which good and great men so 
ardently desire. 1 have communicated to Mr. &: Mrs. Gore, and 
to some other of our intimate friends the distinction you have 
acquired, and as Mr. Le Roy will show Mr. Cazenove's letter to 

VOL. IV. — 30 

466 RUFUS KING. [1805 

his friends, I anticipate the Congratulations of my friends and 
acquaintance on the reputation you have gained. 

Within a few days past I have purchased a place in the Coun- 
try. It is about 12 miles from town, at Jamaica on Long Island. 
The house is not fashionable, but convenient, the outhouse good 
and the Grounds consisting of about 50 Acres, sufficient to give 
me Pasture for my Cows and hay for my Horses. In addition 
there is at half a miles distance between thirty and forty acres of 
Woodland. In the village of Jamaica is a Church & Post Office, 
and family supplies are plentiful, good and various. A Stage 
goes & returns every day between Jamaica & Brookline, the town 
on Long Island opposite to New York, between which there is a 
Ferry. Long Island is the finest sporting country perhaps in 
America ; besides which the roads are good & the Rides pleasant, 
& numerous. 

How happy shall we be when the Time arrives of the reunion 
of our family ; how greatly will the pleasure be enhanced, should 
our Sons return with pure morals, cultivated minds and polished 
manners ! 

I shall write to Mr. Parker in a day or two ; in the mean time 
present to him my Regards — if I can find any one going to Paris, 
I will send you such of the vols (I believe 3) of Washington's 
Life as are published. 

Adieu my dear sons, 

(signature burnt). 

P. S. The fever disappeared early in this month — not more 
than 254 died this year of this malady. We returned to town 
about the loth. having passed almost 4 months on Long Island. 
My new house is well forward and will be finished so that we 
may occupy it next autumn, during the winter we suspend the 
work. Mr. Chs. Williams called on us as he passed thro' town. 
It was a satisfaction to see him, as he had so lately seen you. 

RuFUS King to Gouverneur Morris. 

Sunday, i o'clk, Nov. 24, 1805. 

Dear Sir : 

I have received and will immediately forward your notes to 
the Mayor & Genl. Morton. The military will be disappointed 
that we have not given their invitation a preference ; they say 
they shd. not have made a dinner but on the appearance that the 

1805] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 467 

Corporation wd. this year decline giving one, and it being proba- 
ble that others have decided as we have, I have intimated to 
Genl. Stevens, who has just left me, that we may, perhaps, have 
it in our power to make him a visit after leaving the Hall* ; 
Moreau is expected this evening, will stay with Genl. Stevens, 
who desires that you & I will dine with him on Tuesday. 

faithfully yrs 

RuFus King. 

P. S. Gore is not returned, I have no room unoccupied, but 
we shall find one for you. Another year we will order things 
better. 

E. Gore to R. King. 

Boston, 25 Nov., 1805. 
My dear Friend : 

. . . I am afraid that Miranda will meet with Disappoint- 
ment, if He expect much Assistance from this Quarter. Had he 
been associated, as he hoped, considerable aid might have been 
counted upon here. In addition to the natural want of Confi- 
dence, that arises from his Exertions being single & unsupported, 
there is a general Gloom among mercantile men & indisposition 
to adventurous Speculation, from the severe Losses they are daily 
experiencing by the British Captures. The last accounts from 
England bring accounts of the Condemnation of Property where 
the only Grounds could have been that it had been imported & 
exported by the same Persons ; for the Vessel was changed. The 
goods had been ashore several months, and advertised for sale in 
this Market, and there was not the smallest Pretence that the 
Property was other than neutral. In the Gazette of this Day, 
you will see a statement of the Principles said to have been 
adopted in the Admiralty Court, under an account of the Capture 
& Release of the Ship Three Thomas. This was written by 
Samuel Cabot's son, & is noted in the Letter as a Quotation ; we 
suppose it to have been so stated by S. Williams. 

'^ Diary and Letters of Gouverneur Morris, ii., 470, November 25, 1805. 

" After dinner, Mr. King and I visit a party to which we were invited — a 
large dinner given to General Moreau. 

" Miranda has been down, and, as we expected, met with no encouragement. 
He is now engaged in a project which would be wise if backed by this country, 
but appears wild in its present form." — Diary and Letters of Gouverneur 
Morris, ii., 470, November 25, 1805. 

468 RUFUS KING, [1805 

Some of our coolest men, such as William Gray of Salem, 
David Sears & the like of this Town, are extremely violent. The 
times are becoming as portentous in our Relations with Great 
Britain, as when Mr. Jay went to England. However, They, one 
& all, say if you were to go there, you could arrange every thing 
satisfactorily. I mention this, for I should not be surprized if 
the Voice were so loud & so general as to impose on Mr. J. the 
necessity of naming you, and on yourself an irresistible Duty of 
complying. It has been suggested here to send on a Deputation 
of Merchants to Washington, for the Purpose of inducing the 
Government to adopt some rational measures of securing our 
Rights, and preventing National Disgrace by the measures, which 
some will be disposed to resort to with the real or pretended view 
of attaining our Ends. If such a Deputation should be deter- 
mined on, the Merchants have requested me to make one to 
represent their case, &c. &c. I have declined and shall continue 
to decline such an Errand, for reasons which must be obvious to 
you ; and I am not aware that any personal considerations can 
be suggested to my mind, or any Prospect of rendering public 
Service, that will or ought to induce me to alter my opinion. I 
offer them, & sincerely, to afford all the Aid in my Power to en- 
lighten their minds, or direct their Views, should the measure of 
sending the Deputation be persisted in. Something must be at- 
tempted here, otherwise the Violence of some of our best men 
will lead them into courses, productive of incalculable Evils to 
the country, and especially to themselves. They will afford a 
Handle to others to do that, which will disgrace our national 
character, offer an apology to G. B. to possess herself of our un- 
protected Property, & Seamen, and finally involve us in War, or 
base and unworthy Concessions. . . . 

faithfully & ever yours 

C. Gore. 

T. Pickering to R. King. 

Washington, Dec. 5, 1805. 
Dear Sir : 

. . . I am told that the President talks boldly ; yet it seems 
to me the expression " which party can do the other the most 
harm " does not look extremely warlike. 

1805] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 46^ 

We have not yet had any treaties laid before us. That with 
TripoH must of course be ratified ; yet considering the high prob- 
ability that the operations of Eaton & the Ex-Bashaw would, if 
pursued, have placed the U. States on elevated ground, I am in- 
clined to think that the administration now wish that Mr. Lear, 
by an untimely negotiation, had not stopped their progress. But 
Lear's conduct appears to me perfectly of a piece with the spirit 
of the administration, who tho* not desirous of benefiting by 
Hamet Bashaw's interest and efforts among his countrymen, were 
evidently ready to abandon him to his fate, if the support of 
his claims to the throne of Tripoli, should be found incon- 
venient. . . . 

With respect & esteem &c 

T. Pickering. 

C. Gore to R. King. 

Boston, Deer. 10, 1805. 
My dear Friend : 

. . . We rejoice that you have a Place in the Country, which, 
to the citizens of N. York, seems now a necessary accommoda- 
tion. Had it been consistent with the Interest of your Family 
to have been this way, it would more have gratified us. . . . 

Your letter of the 29th came a Day or two after the arrival of the 
Genl's (Miranda) Friend. I introduced him to those most likely 
to enter into his views, and most capable of promoting them. He 
had several meetings with them, but they declined doing any 
thing, and were probably more averse from reflecting on some of 
the Genl.'s Associates, than even the Hazard of the Enterprise. 

We, this Day, have the President's Message, and while some o^ 
our Friends conclude, He pledges Himself to the attempt of ob- 
taining, by all means, a disavowal of the Principles, on which G. 
B. interrupts our Trade, others suppose, that He merely intends 
to insist on G. B.'s allowing us to do that which she herself does, 
and that as G. B. will accede to this. He will appear with a great 
Parade of compulsory measures to have forced a compliance with 
his own Propositions from England. They suppose that he limits 
the Grievance to our not being permitted to carry, to the Spanish 
Possessions, that which she suffers to be transported from New 
Providence, Jamaica or Trinidad. 

470 RUFUS KING, [1805 

I cannot but think He has committed Himself further, and 
brings forward what is alluded to, merely as instances of the In- 
consistency & absurdity of the new Principles, as he calls them, 
'"''founded neither in justice, nor the Usage or acknowledgment of 
Nations'' The avowal & Practice whereof impose on us the obliga- 
tion of providing an effectual d^* determined Oppositio7i, by a peace- 
able Remedy^ which may lead to Force. 

As to the Spanish affair, it would seem to me, that being well 
assured from the situation of his Cab. & his allies, that some terms 
will be offered, whh. He can accept. He was desirous of having 
it appear that his own Conduct, and not his other Relations pro- 
duced the result He foresees. 

Our merchants are evidently anxious & alarmed ; for they have 
immense Property afloat, and the late Decisions in England afford 
them no grounds of Tranquillity ; although the Gentlemen there 
report from Mr. Monroe, as is said, that Great Britain will not go 
beyond what she did the last War. The Condemnations, how- 
ever, speak a very different Language, & the Insurance offices in 
this Town, suffer heavy losses in consequence of these Decisions. 
I think the sufferers are not so vociferous or wild in their Projects 
of compelling a compliance from G. B. as they were. I am more 
afraid of what the Southern Merchants may wish done, than of 
our People, yet we are not entirely free of those Errors which 
would involve us in Loss, Disgrace, War or mean Submission, or 
both. . . . 

Yours ever & faithfully, 

C. Gore. 

There is no copy of the letter below alluded to. It is to 
be regretted for it v^ould have shovv^n what was the current 
opinion relative to the subject of the Management of the 
Bank. 

Sam. Breck to R. King. 

Philadelphia, Dec. 16, 1805. 
Dear Sir : 

The letter that you was so obliging as to write to me on the 
1 2th inst. I duly received, and to which I now, with pleasure, re- 
turn an answer. The opinion you offer respecting the Parent 
Bank here, and the Branch at New York, is similar to those which 
have been expressed by other gents, of your City and therefore 

1805] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 47 1 

leave no doubt of the necessity of a change ; indeed, as it regards 
the former, it has been a rule of the Stockholders in order to 
strengthen the Bank here, to leave out annually the greater part 
of the Directors required by our charter, that live at a distance, 
& to fill vacancies with others not Inhabitants of this City ; of 
course, at the ensuing election nearly all the Gentn. Directors 
of the Parent Bank, who reside in New York, will be changed for 
others of the City ; a measure that has been found necessary to 
pursue in order to secure a competent number of Directors here 
at all times, but particularly during the summer months, when our 
citizens are so unhappy as to be afflicted with sickness and to 
avoid which many of them retire to their country houses ; thus 
you see from the small number of Stockholders within the United 
States, it will often happen that men out of business, and but 
little acquainted with Bank concerns, are chosen Directors and, 
however unpleasant this circumstance may be, we are positively 
without a remedy ! 

But as it respects Branch Directors, the same necessity does 
not exist ; yet, even there, we have to encounter another difficulty 
not easily surmounted ; for who will inform the Directors of the 
Parent Bank of the individual that ought to be displaced at the 
Branch ? indeed that is a point of such delicacy as to deter any 
Gentn. from involving himself in a dispute with another ; but, 
under the rotation system, I have been told, the Directors were 
named by those of the Parent Bank residing in New York, and 
by our Board generally adopted. How far under present circum- 
stances, they may choose to recommend a change the Gentn. 
soon to be elected will decide. Yet I cannot but be anxious lest 
a serious misunderstanding should take place that may excite an 
opposition to the renewal of our charter, soon to be required 
of the Government, the chief of which, I believe, has not the 
most cordial regard for the Institution, and, therefore, may be in- 
fluenced by its enemies. It is fortunate however, that except at 
New York the greatest harmony prevails & the affairs of all the 
offices of Discount & Deposit are perfectly well managed. 

As our mutual friend Mr. Wolcott has expressed sentiments on 
this subject similar to yours I wish, if you think proper, that the 
contents of this letter may be communicated to him. 

With Sincere regards, 

Sam. Breck. 

4/2 RUFUS KING. [i8o5 

T. Pickering to R. King. 

Washington, Dec. i8, 1805. 
Dear Sir : 

. . . No great measure has yet been proposed in Congress, 
or even intimated ; & I am pretty well satisfied that none is 
intended ; the supposed strong language of the President, & the 
vapouring of his Gazette notwithstanding. If Bonaparte's suc- 
cess continue, nothing certainly will be attempted against 
Spain ; and if the latter yield any of her pretensions, it will be 
by command of the former, for an adequate consideratiofi to be 

paid by the U. S. 

Very truly yours 

T. Pickering. 
RuFus King Esq. 

RuFus King to C. Gore. 

Secret. 

New York, Dec. 25, 1805. 
My dear Friend : 

The same commercial solicitude and alarm that sometime since 
manifested themselves with you, have lately taken Possession of 
the body of Merchants here. A memorial is preparing to be 
signed by Merchants of all Persuasions, and which is to be pre- 
sented by a Deputation to the President and the two houses of 
Congress. 

The object, as I understand, is negotation — some of our 
friends have expressed their wishes to me that I would not de- 
cline, if asked, to go to England. I have suggested to them the 
Difficulty that now would probably attend my negotiation, and 
the little Hopes that a satisfactory Result could be obtained — 
that independent of these considerations it was not likely that the 
Extive would adopt any measure which wd. imply a deficiency 
in its own Party : or that should admit that any Person could 
anywhere do more or better than the Gentleman now in England. 

Tho' I have not either assented or dissented, I should feel very 
great hesitation were the measure proposed to me in a manner in 
other respects free from difficulty ( a thing that seems to me very 
improbable ) in consenting to accept the mission. The question 
involves interests difficult to be reconciled, if not in direct oppo- 

1805] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 473 

sition. However possible it might have been at a period of Peace 
when these Interests were less visible, and the Passions less likely 
to be influenced by them, to have marked out and settled a Rule 
that might have been satisfactory ; the situation is totally changed, 
and we must encounter every disadvantage that is incident to the 
subject, in now attempting to effect an arrangement that would 
satisfy us. I have thought I ought to apprize you of what is here 
doing, as well as of the impression of my own mind. The last 
accounts from Washington confirm my first Belief that as nothing 
was intended to be done, so nothing will be done concerning the 
subjects about wh. the message was supposed to say, & mean, so 
much. The Confidential Communication related wholly to Mr. 
Monroe's fruitless negotiations in Spain. Not a word has been 
said, and no communication made, respecting England. 

Very faithfully & always yours, 

R. K. 

G. (ouveneur) M. (orris) is here, having just returned from W. — 
" be ye fed, and be ye clothed," for you are Hungry & Naked — 
was the language used to him, but good wishes and their realiza- 
tion are not the same thing. 

R. King to T. Pickering. 

New York, Dec. 26, 1805. 
Dear Sir : 

I duly received your kind letters of the 5th & i8th together 
with the pieces which accompanied them. Your opinion agrees 
with my first impressions on reading the message, which seems to 
say much without binding to anything. 

The change that occurred after Mr. Monroe quitted Madrid, 
has without doubt influenced Spain to give way in some impor- 
tant point, preserving her adherence to the chief ones. If the 
Policy succeeds, she will lose nothing, but gain time, which is all 
in present circumstances that she desires. How much of Policy 
and national Reputation there may be in acquiescing in this 
course is a Question that you, who have the whole subject before 
you, are best able to determine. 

474 RUFUS KING. [1805 

I am somewhat surprized that you have had no communication 
concerning England ; since it is not to be supposed that our 
minister there has been silent, when Doctrines have been pro- 
mulgated and acted on, which unavoidably lead to the Prostration 
of our foreign commerce and the revenue we derive from it. 

Should any communication be made to you on this subject, I 
should be particularly obliged to you to know it, provided the 
same can be done without impropriety. Our merchants are be- 
coming very uneasy in respect to these Pretensions of England ; 
which are of a nature to render insecure our valuable trade in 
colonial Productions. A pamphlet * lately reed, here from Eng- 
land (a copy of which I have heard was forwarded to Mr. Madi- 
son) the object of which, I cannot doubt, has tended very much 
to increase our commercial solicitude. 

Yours most faithfully 

RuFUS King. 

* Entitled " War in disguise." 

CHAPTER XXX. 

Gore to King — Negotiations with England — King as Minister — Pickering to 
King — Logan's Motion relative to St. Domingo Trade — Parker to King 
about his Sons — Napoleon's change of Rulers in Europe — King to Gore — 
England's Pretensions about Colonial Trade — Affairs in Washington — 
Troup to King — Clinton carries the Council — Tracy to King. Report on 
Spoliation — King to Pickering — Desires to know the Plan of Government 
— Public Anxious — Pickering to King — Might as well search for Plan in 
Chaos — Detail of Opinions in Washington, relative to Florida Purchase — 
Pickering's own Views — Objected on Ground of the Immorality and Impolicy 
of the Measure — Pickering to King — Arguments against the Purchase of 
Florida as proposed in the secret Appropriation Bill — Jefferson incapable 
of managing Affairs in Trouble — Negotiations with Great Britian — King to 
Pickering — Disclaims the Authorship of the Answer to War in Disguise — 
Troup to King — Coalition of Clinton and the Burrites. 

C. Gore to R. King. 

Boston, January, 13, 1806. 
My dear Friend : 

. . . We have had the New York Memorial, which is var- 
iously thought of by our Friends : some of whom are not 
very discreet, even if their opinions are correct — to which I am 
not inclined to subscribe. All desire that a negotiation should be 
attempted, and many believe it would succed, if confided to, and 
undertaken by the only man in whom all Parties would be 
satisfied. Though I think it not probable such a measure will 
even be proposed under circumstances that will render it accept- 
able, I have a feeling that it would be successful. It is almost 
certain that in a Coalition formed of such various materials, 
joined to the common accidents of War, many months cannot 
pass in which a wise, discreet and vigilant minister would not find 
an opportunity of pressing American Claims with Effect. . . 
Our friend Ames, you have seen, was appointed President of 
Harvard College, but notwithstanding the Corporation agreed 
that the Professor of Divinity should offer all the prayers, he 
declines the duties and the honour. 

Faithfully & always yours, C. Gore. 

475 

4/6 RUFUS KING. [1806 

T. Pickering to R. King. 

City of Washington, Jan. 13, 1806. 
Dear Sir : 

You will have noticed in the papers Dr. Logan's motion for 
interdicting the trade to St. Domingo. This occasioned a call 
(made, if I do not forget, by him) for documents on the Subject. 
This morning the inclosed communication from the President was 
laid on our tables, printed by order of the Senate : whether the 
presentation and short debate on Logan's original motion excited 
Genl. Turreau's attention, or that a hint was given him by Logan, 
I know not ; but the General's second letter is of a date subse- 
quent to the call for papers. The style of his letter as well as 
Talleyrand's, is sufficiently Bo?iapartea?i ; and I apprehend there 
is here sufficient pliability to yield whatever the '^ master " of our 
sister Republic shall demand. 

As the President must have received Talleyrand's letters long 
ago, & Turreau's by the middle of October, why did he not bring 
the subject before Congress ? Why was no answer sent to 
Turreau during a period of two months &: a half? Did he wait 
for such a man as Logan to bring forward a measure that might be 
unpopular with the general mercantile interest ? Or had he 
instructed Armstrong to represent to the French Government that 
the interest of Frajice required a continuance of our commercial 
intercourse "with St. Domingo ? concluding to wait the result, be- 
fore he made any communication to Congress, should the latter 
be found necessarv ? 

Congress have yet absolutely done notlmig; the House of Repre- 
sentative are again sitting with closed doors. I find \\\2X federal 
members have every day listened to John Randolph with unmixed 
pleasure, in opposition to the mean dastardly democrats of N. 
England ! This will furnish our interpretation of a declaration 
in the Aurora, which arrived here last evening : That a man 
high in office was in conflict with Randolph, and that one or the 
other must fall — or words to this effect. Jefferson certainly 
must wish for a supple leader in the House. Randolph has too 
much pride to follow implicitly his dictates. But no one yet 
appears with abilities to take his place. 

Very truly yours, 

T. Pickering. 

l8o6] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 477 

D. Parker to R. King 

Paris, Jan. 25, 1806. 
Dear Sir : 

In my letter of the 15 Oct I informed you of the disaffection 
of both John and Charles to the Pension of M. Thurot, and I 
found from the information of M. Thurot that it had become 
absolutely necessary to remove them. Their great dissatisfaction 
arose from the regulations of the school, finding themselves 
obliged to conform to rules which they thought suitable to chil- 
dren and not to young men, who in England had great latitude both 
in time and expences. They became not only dissatisfied, but 
disgusted, and notwithstanding my intreaties and their profession 
to comply with them, I found it was not in their power, and that 
no progress whatever was to be expected from them in any branch. 
Under these circumstances I was extremely perplexed and em- 
barrassed. Your letter of Aug. 10., which I received through 
Mess. Hope & Co on the loth Deer greatly relieved me. . . . 
Charles arrived in Amsterdam in the beginning of January. . . 
I found John averse to enter any Pension whatever, and he com- 
municated to me your letters to him, in which you informed him, 
that he must enter and pass thro' a College in America previous 
to his entering on the study of the Law. This information 
decided me to recommend his returning immediately to New 
York. I hope you will approve of this determination. . . . 
I hope that under your own eye, both John and James will be- 
come all you can wish. They have talents to fit them for the 
first employments. Charles has a fine genuis, great spirit and 
activity, and will make a fine man. Thus you have everything to 
hope for from your sons, to whom you have been the best of 

fathers. 

The great Political events that have been crowded within the 
compass of four months, have filled Europe with amazement. 
By the Moniteurs which I send by your son for your use and 
that of Mr. Livingston, you will find an historical account of 
these events. Mr. Haugwitz, the Prussian Minister, is expected 
in Paris this day ; the Emperor and Mr. Talleyrand in the course 
of 4 or 5 days ; it is expected that negotiations of great mo- 
ment will be immediately opened in Paris & many well informed 
persons expect a general Peace ; I have not these expecta- 

4/8 RUFUS KING, [1806 

tions ; I cannot see any probability of a peace between England 
and France at present ; if England can secure the continuance 
of her connections with Russia, she will, perhaps wish to con- 
tinue the War, and seek an indemnity by capturing the Spanish 
Colonies. She must lose her influence on the continent of Europe, 
except with Russia & Sweden. This Government will,, in all 
probability control the remainder. The Electors of Bavaria & 
Wirtemberg are made kings, & their Territories much increased. 
Eugene Beauharnois is declared Successor to the Crown of Italy, 
& has married the eldest daughter of the King of Bavaria. It 
is reported that Joseph Bonaparte will be made King of Naples, 
that Lucien Bonaparte has divorced from his wife, & will 
marry the Queen of Etruria, that his brother Louis will be chief 
magistrate of Holland, that Madame Bonaparte, the mother of 
the Emperor, is made a Souverain Princess, & is to receive the 
Duchies of Parma, Placentia & Guastella in Italy, with remain- 
der to the Prince & Princess Borghese. Thus Europe is par- 
celled out, as a private man would divide his own inheritance. 
Such is the astonishing power & greatness of one man. . . . 
With assurance of constant attachment and Respect, 

Dan Parker. 

R. King to C. Gore. 

New York, January 26, 1806. 
My dear Sir : 

The dissatisfaction here & South of us in respect to G. Br, 
increases rather than abates : the losses already sustained are 
considerable, but without a new shape of the Rule, few new 
losses will hereafter occur, as the Business is fitted to the Rule. 
But unless the political Situation of England restrain her Gov. 
the Rule will be new modified and extended so as in effect to 
put an end to a Trade in Colonial Articles between the U. S. and 
Europe. On this subject I had no Opinion to form, having several 
years ago convinced myself that the Pretension of England is 
not justifiable. If it be put on the Ground of self Defence, or 
strict necessity (which consistently with the conduct of G. Britain 
in trading herself with her Enemies cannot be done) even this 
Law is no justification, since it does not authorize the confisca- 
tion of a Friend's Goods — on the contrary, whenever it allows the 

i8o6] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 479 

Seizure, it enjoins the taker to make restitution or indemnifica- 
tion. But you understand the Question as well as my Sentiments 
concerning it, so that I omit any further observations, except to 
say that I have of late revised my former Reflexions, which has 
in manner changed them ; and being impartial, I the more won- 
der that some of our friends with you, whose Judgments are worthy 
of all respect, should so materially differ from us. 

The Pamphlet printed at Washington, said to be Mr. Madison's, 
shews the unsoundness of the Eng. Doctrine. A reply is here 
nearly finished to " War in Disguise " which has the same object 
in view. The late messages of the Pr. to Congress, disclosing 
the Instructions &c to Mr. Monroe, seems to be a throwing up 
of his hand, and a reference of the Business to Congress. This is 
the more likely to be the real Purpose, as it will shift the Responsi- 
bility from the Ex. to Congress. The House has been in con- 
clave a fortnight and sent the Result to the Senate as a Secret. 
Tho' we do not know what this measure is, we know what it is 
not, and that it does not concern G. Britain. The mandate from 
France to interdict the St. Domingo Trade will be obeyed ; tho' 
the Law will be nugatory unless more efficient than the Bill. 
Spanh. affairs remain as at the beginning of the Session ; and the 
Success of Bonaparte will render the settlement more difficult. 

A Petition is going round the town to the Pr., calling on him to 
disavow the Principal, laid down by Genl. Armstrong in the case 
of Nicklin & Griffith. I hear that all parties sign it. The Bill 
respecting Amer. seamen introduced into the Senate by Mr. 
Wright is too contemptible to pass into a Law, be the Resent- 
ment what it may. . . . 

Always yrs. R. K. 

R. Troup to R. King. 

Albany, 3 Feb., 1806. 
Dear Sir : 

. . . Our State concerns continue to be an object of con- 
tent with the demagogues of the day. Demagogues Clinton & 
Co. by the superiority of their manoeuvres, have carried a council 
of appointment against the wishes & efforts of Demagogues Lewis 
& Co. This council, the partizans of Clinton say, will be a club 
of Hercules in his hands and will enable him to break in pieces 
the Livingston faction. At present, appearances indicate a ma- 

480 RUFUS KING, [1806 

jority in the Senate for Lewis. No doubt is entertained that 
Nicholas has set himself in decided opposition to Clinton ; and 
I have it from private but authentic source that Nicholas has 
given Clinton a severe reprimand for his cabals. Can we be 
otherwise than in the most prosperous and happy condition when 
the patriotism of a Virginia demagogue induces him to attempt 
cooling the ardor of a Northern demagogue whose incessant 
labors are exclusively directed to the public good ? 

With the most sincere regard &c 

RoBT. Troup. 

Uriah Tracy to R. King. 

Washington, 6th Feby, 1806. 
Sir: 

Inclosed is a paper,* which you will peruse with interest, be- 
cause of its intrinsic importance & because it has had the sanc- 
tion of a Com. tee of the Senate. 

I make no comments upon any part of the paper, excepting the 
last t containing the non-importation part. This I voted against 
in Com.tee and am most decidedly opposed to its principles. I 
wish to treat with G. Britain, & not to throw any nonsensical im- 
pediments or irritation in the way of treating. If we do anything 
in the meantime, while attempting to treat, I would strengthen 
our defensive strength at least, if not offensive. 

I am. Sir, respectfully your friend obed servt. 

Uriah Tracy. 

R. King to T. Pickering. 

N. York, Feb. 7, 1806. 
Dear Sir : 

We are, as we ought to be, inquisitive & anxious concerning 
the Plan, or system of measures, that the nation may pursue in 

* Genl. Smith of Md., Report of Com. on that part of the Resn. & Message 
Jan, 15th relating to Spoliations &c. 

■j- " That it is expedient to prohibit by law, the importation into the United 
States of any of the following goods, wares, or merchandize, being the growth, 
produce, or manufacture of the United Kingdoms of Great Britain and Ireland, 
or their dependencies : . . . The said prohibition to commence from the 
day of unless previously thereto equitable arrangements shall be made 

between the two governments, on the differences subsisting between them ; 
and to continue until such arrangements shall be agreed upon and settled." 

l8o6] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 48 1 

the present posture of our affairs ; for it is scarcely credible that 
the public honor and safety, instead of being well guarded by 
well concerted and prudent arrangements, should be suffered to 
become the sport of the casual, intemperate and inefficient meas- 
ures of inexperienced individuals : and yet the several messages 
of the Pr. look as if every subject were to be submitted to Con- 
gress, without the disclosure of the views of the Executive ; 
which by the letter and spirit of our Govt,, is charged with our 
foreign affairs. Your Bill respecting 100,000 Militia, together 
with the Bill presented by Mr. Wright, and the Resolution offered 
by Mr. Gregg, are so far as I am informed justly appreciated in 
this quarter. Some persons here have supposed that Congress 
will be able to agree in no precise measures — that the Executive 
will be undecided and filled with solicitude and that Col. Burr, 
who is always prompt as well as decisive, will avail himself of 
this miserable state of things, to decide for the President, as well 
as to provide for himself. 

If the President and his friends are reduced thus low, they are 
weaker and baser than I could possibly have imagined. 

Always faithfully &c 

R. K. 

P. S. We are upwards of 70 days without authentic European 
news. The posture of affairs at Christmas past will afford Data 
on which to reason, and we must expect news to that date soon. 

Col. Pickering to R. King. 

City of Washington, Feby 8, 1806. 
Dear Sir : 

It was natural to suppose that thinking men would feel, not 
curiosity, but anxiety concerning the measures contemplated by 
the Government, in the present momentous situation of our 
affairs ; and before receiving this evening your letter of the 7th, 
I had determined to communicate to you as full a detail as was 
practicable of what was going on. 

As to a " plan or system of measures," you might as well 
search for it in chaos itself as at the seat of government. About 
three or four weeks ago, I dined at the President's. Adverting 
to subjects before Congress, tho' I believe more especially to our 

VOL. IV. — 31 

482 RUFUS KING. [1806 

disputes with G. Britain, he said there was such a diversity of 
opinions among members, and they had so many plans, he 
doubted whether a majority would agree in any one. I am in- 
clined to think this opinion correct. I feel very confident that 
neither a general non-intercourse, nor a general or specific non- 
importation will be agreed to. The Southern planters will not 
suffer their tobacco, rice & cotton to lie on their hands, when 
Britain presents the fairest & best market. And they are not so 
silly as to suppose (as do some of our honourable legislators) that 
Great Britain will continue to receive into her ports, all the pro- 
ductions of the U. States, while we shut ours against the manu- 
factures & productions of her dominions. This brings into view 
the resolutions reported to the Senate on the 5th, a copy of 
which I enclose. (Genl. Smith's Resn.) Mr. Gregg's you will 
have seen in the newspapers. Those brought into the Senate 
were laid on our tables on the 6th. . . . but really I have 
not had time to attend to the subject till this evening ; as I meant 
to accompany the communication with a long letter of informa- 
tion on the subjects which have excited your anxiety. 

All America has heard of the closed doors of the House of 
Representatives ; and the fruit of their discussion being a Bill, it 
was sent to the Senate, with a confidential message to declare its 
object — none being expressed in the Bill itself ; except that its 
title stated it to be, to provide for expenses for foreign inter- 
course ; and that the body of the bill ap];ropriates two million of 
dollars to enable the President (at whose disposal the money is 
placed) to commence with more effect (as the confidential mes- 
sage of the House informed us) a negociation for the purchase of 
all the Territory belonging to Spain on the Atlantic & the Gulph 
of Mexico, and eastward of the Mississippi, that is to say the two 
Floridas. I disclose no secret ; for Saml. Smith told us last Friday 
(when the bill was passed) that though the doors of Congress had 
been closed, the subject of their deliberations was well known : 
and here^ we all know that the Spanish minister Yrujo is perfectly 
informed concerning it ; and no doubt his letters are now far on 
the ocean for the information of his government. It is full two 
weeks since I was told that he said *' We should not get the Flor- 
idas for two, nor for five, nor for seven million of dollars " ; and 
the matter being thus known to Spain, there can be no use in the 

l8o6] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 483 

attempt to keep it a secret at home — unless it be to conceal from 
the sovereign people the impolitic and unjustifiable projects of 
their beloved chief Servant. 

This bill (or rather the resolution on which it was founded) 
was the subject of John Randolph's determined opposition — sar- 
castic reproaches on its advocates, and of strains of eloquence — 
never before heard from him in that House : such is the report of 
members. Barna Bidwell was the midwife to deliver the Presi- 
dent of this brat & present it to the House. In the course of its 
nursing, it was said that the President had a desire towards it & 
wished it might be fostered & grow to maturity. The like inti- 
mations were given in the Senate by some of the Ministerial 
members. 

Mr. Tracy, Mr. Hillhouse & Mr. Bayard were the principal 
opposers of the bill. They dwelt chiefly on the violation of the 
Constitution by such a pretended appropriation. For, they 
observed, that nothing in the bill being designated, except the 
the expenses of foreign intercourse, the President could not 
apply a dollar of the money to buy land. The words themselves, 
as well as uniform practice, had given a definite meaning to 
^* foreign intercourse." It was true, they observed, that a similar 
appropriation had been made three years ago, (act of 26th Feby. 
1803) but the President himself had told us, that not a dollar of 
it had been expended. Tracy & Bayard offered several amend- 
ments, in order to express the object explicitly, or by plain con- 
struction, and render lawful the application of the money 
appropriated. But clear statements and cogent reasons availed 
nothing. For the leaders, met, as it would seem, by an unex- 
pected opposition, held a caucus and fixed a majority to vote 
for the bill, without the alteration of a word ; for they were 
apprehensive, if it went back to the House, that it would now be 
wholly rejected. It was carried there by a majority of about 14 ; 
but many, it was said, had repented. In the Senate 17 voted for 
it ; 3 fled the final question ; and one, who it was understood 
would in the end have voted against it, was gone from the city ; 
eleven gave their nays. So it may be considered as having parsed 
by a majority of only two or three. The opposition in the Senate 
delayed its passage for about a week ; altho' one member more 
than once told us that the President wished it to be speedily 

484 RUFUS KING. [1806 

passed and another added that he wanted it to "send off." One 
member said he should advise the P. to let the bill be dropped ; 
for he could go to 77iarket better without than with it. The Pres- 
ident thought otherwise ; he had kept himself out of sight (tho* 
the suggestions of his friends showed he was behind the curtain), 
that if the project failed or proved disastrous, he might be screened 
from responsibility. 

Genl. Sum.ter (whom you will recollect) spoke on Friday (the 
day it passed) against the bill. He spoke like a sensible, military 
man, as one well acquainted v/ith the nature of the country pro- 
posed to be purchased ; with the difficulty of defending it, and 
said that at present *' we were better without it." I should wrong 
him, were I not to add, that his sentiments were delivered with 
perfect propriety & modesty, and with a sincerity that could not 
fail to have affected every hearer. But the bill had been decreed, 

Mr. Tracy (I should have mentioned) as well as Mr. Bayard, 
and especially the former, took a view of the actual State of the 
Treasury — the measures for defence to be provided for, — the 
insufficiency of funds, and the probable defalcation of revenue in 
the current year. But back-door influence is generally capable 
of surmounting all obstacles in the Senate. This body, by its 
constitution was (I presume) expected to act with superior inde- 
pendence ; but doubtless it is much more obsequious than the 
House. Its connection with the President is closer, and the 
paucity of members composing it renders it liable to be assailed 
with vastly greater ease and effect. 

As I have not yet committed my own observations, in opposing 
the bill, to paper, I wall do it now, while they are within my recol- 
lection ; and I will thank you to preserve this letter ; as I may 
possibly have occasion to recur to its details, and I cannot go 
through the labor of taking a copy. 

I should first mention what leaked out from the President's 
adherents in the Senate, in ordinary conversations. That advice 
had been received from Paris stating, that if our Government 
wished to acquire the Floridas, the Government of France would 
procure the cession to be made. By information from the agents 
of Nicklin and Griffith at Paris, it appeared that a negotiation 
was already commenced : with an intimation that in this way 
only they and others would obtain the arrears due from the 

l8o6] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 485 

French Government. Saml. Smith, speaking of Armstrong's 
letter to Marbois, on the claim of N. & G., said, in my hearing, 
that James Swan had presented a claim for half a million of 
dollars, and Capt. Barney one for upwards of a hundred thou- 
sand dollars : that neither of these two claims were within the 
provisions of the convention ; and yet were admitted. That 
it was known that the Livingston family had early purchased 
a number of good claims and one to a large amount from Barney. 
Reprobating Armstrong's conduct in the case of Nicklin & 
Griffith, Smith said, that as soon as it v/as known to the Presi- 
■dent, he caused the Secretary of State to write to Armstrong 
to correct, or pointedly disapproving, the procedure. 

Mr. Hillhouse, in the course of his observations on the Secret 
Bill, mentioned the information that a negociation for the pur- 
chase of the Floridas had already been instituted at Paris, and 
that in this way, merchants hoped to get their arrears ; and said 
that from the manner in which this business was proceeding, it 
was evident the two millions proposed to be appropriated, were 
to be applied in douceurs. 

Genl. Adair from Kentucky (a new member and apparently 
thoughtful and stable) objected against the bill on the strong 
ground of its unconstitutionality ; because from information he 
had received & relied on, tho' he could not divulge it, he had no 
doubt that the purchase of Louisiana had cost us five millions 
extraordinary in consequence of the previous appropriation of two 
millions, and the like effect would follow that proposed in the 
bill before us ; because he thought it highly improper to pay 
any money before the treaty, if one should be formed, was ap- 
proved of by the Senate. Suppose, said he, that this bill should 
pass by a small majority, less than two thirds — that the two 
millions should be expended ; and the treaty be finally rejected 
by the Senate ; the two millions would be lost. 

Mr. Tracy, (taking up the suggestion of Adair) expatiated a 
little farther. He said the idea of the French Government pay- 
ing the monies due to American merchants was fallacious ; that 
we had better have undertaken to pay them ourselves ; that 
France undertaking to pay them caused the addition of the five 
millions, and that her stipulating to pay only 3J millions, occa- 
sioned a loss of one and a quarter million to the U. States ; and 

486 RUFUS KING. [1806 

that the like preposterous course of proceeding, repeated under 
the present bill, would occasion a similar loss. 

I had myself viewed the purchase of the Floridas under the 
same aspect in which they had been presented by General Sumter 
and he had anticipated some of my observations. 

But I must go back a little, one member asked how the money 
could be employed in bribery ? the President would take care 
to whom he entrusted it, and he was to account for it ! another 
member asked, where was the room to admit the charge of 
bribery ? The President would take care to preserve it ; and as 
to the purchase, France would acquire a good title and convey the 
same to us. 

I objected on two principal grounds— the wwwrality and the 
ifnpolicy of the measure. It was admitted on all hands that the 
purchase was to be effected through the French Government. 
But France was not the proprietor ; why then negotiate with 
Mr. Talleyrand ? — perhaps the ablest, certainly the most corrupt 
minister in Europe ; who possest a princely fortune, acquired in 
a similar way, and by rendering half the princes of Europe his 
tributaries. Gentlemen asked how there could be any bribery 
in this case ? I desired them to recollect the proceedings under 
the convention for paying the debts due by France to our mer- 
chants. The loth article was ostejisibly cautious to prevent the 
admission of improper claims — claims not within the description 
of the convention : and yet, at the close, opened a wide door to 
corruption. That this instrument was doubtless drawn up by 
Talleyrand himself, or at least, this article ; for therein it was 
provided that if any claim examined by the American board,, 
was not approved by them or by our agent, yet if the F?'ench 
Bureaux should think it ought to be liquidated, it was, indeed 
to undergo the revision of the American board, be by them 
reported to the American Minister — and by him to the Minister 
of the French Treasury, who was finally to decide. That this par- 
ticular provision was doubtless inserted by Talleyrand, on pur- 
pose to admit unfounded claims on his own terms. I reminded 
them of General Armstrong's extraordinary and disgraceful letter, 
holding out principles which could not be ascribed to error of 
understanding. That if a fair bargain was in this case intended, 
we would go to Madrid to negociate for the purchase — not to 

i8o6] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 487 

Paris, that hot-bed of corruption. That it was known, however, 
by the uniform conduct of Spain from the first purchase of Lou- 
isiana, that she was extremely averse to let any part of it, or of 
the Floridas come into the hands of the U. States. That she 
had protested against the treaty of 1803 ; and in her opposition 
gave the copy of a note from St. Cyr, the French ambassador 
at Madrid in 1792, in which he, in the name of the first Consul, 
solemnly declared that France would never transfer Louisiana 
to any other power than Spain herself. That altho' she at 
length ceased her opposition, she had not relinquished her claim. 
That we knew from the communication before us, that in case 
of a rupture with Spain, France would take part in the war : and 
hereafter, whenever a convenient opportunity offered to renew 
her claim to the Floridas, Spain would do it, and on the ground 
of duress^ under the actual state of things ; which a future monarch 
of France might be well disposed to listen to ; and on our com- 
plaint, might justly retort — you knew it was a corrupt and a 
forced transfer — We knew perfectly well, that if we applied to 
Spain herself, no consideration which we could offer would 
induce her to cede to us those provinces ; and therefore it was 
that recourse was to be had to the authority of France to enforce 
the sale. 

That the value of the Floridas was by no means commensurate 
with the monies they would cost. The President had informed us 
(in a pamphlet accompanying the Louisiana treaty in Oct. 1803) 
that except about thirty miles square in West Florida, next the 
Mississippi, and wholly or chiefly above the isle of New Orleans, 
and some narrow strips on the margins of rivers, the residue of 
both the Floridas was mere sand — with indeed plenty of pine 
trees and some pasturage for cattle. On this I remarked : That 
West Florida, if settled and improved at all, would be almost 
wholly occupied by emigrants from the U. States, and that the 
products of their lands would go to the market at New Orleans, 
and consequently be as beneficial to us as if their territory were a 
part of the U. States. That if at any time the Spanish Govern- 
ment forbade this commerce and sent up vessels to W. Florida, 
on the Mississippi, we might levy a duty upon them equal to 
what they should demand of our vessels going up the Mobille : 
for I had been able to discover nothing in any treaties, which 

488 RUFUS KING. [1806 

would give Spain a right to navigate the Mississippi from the sea 
up to West Florida, seeing we were now the proprietors of both 
banks of the river. In answer to one Gentleman, who had sug- 
gested that the Floridas were necessary for our commerce between 
the Atlantic States & Louisiana, on account of the harbours, I re- 
marked, that the harbours were few, and one only, as far as I had 
been informed, afforded deep water — that was Pensacola. That 
as well by the common duties of national hospitality, as our treaty 
of 1795 with Spain, our vessels, in case of necessity, would always 
find shelter in those ports both in peace and in war — unless that 
war should be with Spain herself ; in which case we should go 
and take possession of those harbours and of the Floridas them- 
selves : and that this would cost fewer lives and less treasure than 
would be necessary to maintain the garrison in time of peace. 
Besides that, if we owned the Floridas, the forts would only 
accomodate small garrisons — for we should not incur the expense 
of large works & numerous garrisons ; and consequently, in the 
first moments of a rupture with Spain or any other naval power 
we should easily be dispossessed. 

I have more to add but the time fails me, and you will not re- 
gret the interruption of a long, & I fear tedious detail, I will re- 
new it without much delay. In the mean time, I hardly need 
intimate to you that this communication is confidential. I have 
made it as a matter of public duty towards one who has sustained 
so great a share in the Councils and diplomacy of our country, in 
the present interesting, perhaps I may say perilous, posture of our 
affairs ; when the men at the helm have neither spirit nor practi- 
cal talents to form & direct those plans and operations, which the 
situation of the country demand for securing its just rights and 
safety. I shall be solicitous to know that this letter gets safely to 

your hands. 

Respectfully yours, 

T. P. 

T. Pickering to R. King. 

Senate Chamber, Feby. 11 1806. 
Dear Sir : 

In my letter of the 8th I mentioned an inclosure of certain 
Resolutions reported by Genl. Smith to the Senate, which, in my 
haste to seal my letter for the mail of the 9th, I omitted. They 

i8o6] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 489 

are now inclosed, together with the motions of Mr. Clay, repre- 
sentative from Philadelphia, of Mr. Nicholson of Maryland and 
Mr. Crowninshield from Salem. With these Mr. Gregg's should 
be connected. The whole manifest the confusion of ideas prev- 
alent in the National Councils ; and confirm a sentiment in my 
last, that you might as well expect to find a system in chaos itself, 
as in our enlightened Government. If the President had any 
plan, which he would assume the responsibility to propose, I 
have no doubt of his securing a majority to adopt it. 

I have not yet found time to resume my narrative of Congres- 
sional proceedings begun in my last. 

With great Respect & Esteem &c 

T. Pickering. 

R. PLixG TO T. Pickering. 

N. York, Feby. 14, 1806. 
Dear Sir : 

Though I fear I am too late for the mail, I send you a line to 
say, I have duly reed, and that I am greatly obliged to you for 
your letters of Feby. 8 & 11. Except one friend Wolcott, I con- 
verse freely with no one on these subjects. 

Yrs. always 

R. King. 

T. Pickering to R. King. 

Confidential. 

City of Washington, Feby. 13, 1806. 
Dear Sir : 

I have not until this evening, found an opportunity to resume 
my narrative of occurrences on the passage of the Secret Bill : 
and so many days have elapsed, I do not precisely recollect at 
what point I closed my former letter. I must therefore pray you 
to pardon any repetitions, as well as defects of order in the 
details of both letters. 

General Sumter had anticipated the observations I had intended 
to offer to show that it was not necessary, nor expedient, at pres- 
ent, that we should become the proprietors of the Floridas by 
_purchase ; but I had not extended my views so far as Genl. Sum- 

490 RUFUS KING. [1806 

ter, who said "we were better without them than with them.'* 
But it was evident, & so I expressed my opinion, that their poses- 
sion was not necessary for the present security of our trade to 
New Orleans : that every harbour on the coast of these provinces 
was open to our vessels seeking shelter from storms, or from an 
enemy ; that in time of peace, we should certainly not incur the 
expense of extensive and strong fortifications at the several ports ; 
and consequently these would fall instantly before any naval power 
with which we should be engaged in war ; that it would cost 
fewer lives & less money to attack and take them in a future war, 
if necessary for the security of our commerce ; and if worth taking, 
we should then make adequate provision for holding them : that 
the country in general was nearly a barren sand, excepting the 
margins of some rivers, and a tract of about 30 miles square 
lying on the Mississippi above the Isle of New Orleans : that the 
products of the latter could naturally descend to the town of New 
Orleans, and enter into the commerce of our merchants ; that any 
restraints on the navigation of the Mobille, which the Spaniards 
impose, might be counteracted by equal restraint on their naviga- 
tion of the Mississippi, seeing we owned both banks of the river \ 
that in the hands of the Spaniards, the Floridas served, as Genl. 
Sumter had remarked, as a frontier to Georgia and the Mississippi 
Territory. It had been also observed by others in the debate 
that we were rendered feeble by the dispersion of our population, 
and should rather circumscribe than extend our territory, 

I noticed the information we derived from the documents re- 
ceived from the President, showing the designs of the French 
Ministry, to keep open the means of dissension between the U. S. 
and Spain, that their interference might again become necessary. 
In consequence of the pressing applications of Monroe and Pinck- 
ney at Madrid, the Spanish Minister at Paris had presented a 
" querulous " note to Talleyrand, desiring the French Govern- 
ment to declare its interpretation as well of the Treaty of St. 
Ildephonso, as of that by which France ceded Louisiana to the 
U. S. in respect to boundaries ; but that Genl. A. said no answer 
had been given and he believed none would be given : excepting 
in regard to West Florida, to which Talleyrand said explicitly we 
had no pretence of title : that in fact by the treaty of St. Ilde- 
phonso, Spain had only retroceded Louisiana : and France had 

i8o6] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 49 1 

in 1762 ceded to Spain only the island of New Orleans on the East 
side of the Mississippi ; that his si/efice in respect to the western 
boundary of Louisiana (whence the President inferred that our 
claim was not denied) was calculated merely for another job. 
While we claimed to the Rio Bravo, Spain insisted that we had 
no right westward of a line which beginning in the Gulf of Mexico, 
between the rivers Carecut or Carouse and the Armenta or Mar- 
meatoo, ascends towards the north between the Adulo and Nachi- 
toches, until it cuts the Red River ; and thence the boundary 
remained to be ascertained by commissioners ; leaving us (as Mr. 
Jefferson expressed it in his message) only " a string of land on 
the West side of the Mississippi : " altho' the President two years 
ago informed me that "he had traced the rightful bounds of Lou- 
isiana, by authentic docume?its so far as Spain was concerned." 
And we knew that these " rightful bounds " extended westward as 
far as the Rio Bravo ; for our ^Ministers at Madrid had insisted 
on that extention and pronounced the counter-claim of Cevallos 
" absurd " ; while the latter said that he had supported the rights of 
Spain, as far as the line afore described, " by irrefragable argu- 
ments." (By the way tho' the President told us that he had com- 
municated every document necessary to enable us to form a 
correct judgment on this subject, he had not communicated to us 
his instructions to Monroe and Pinckney — nor the facts or evi- 
dences on which they advanced our claim — nor their arguments in 
its support — nor the counter facts, evidence & arguments of 
Cevallos : to obtain them I offered a resolution to request the 
President to furnish us with them ; but it was negatived). 

In the course of my observations, I said that we had been told 
that the great object in purchasing Louisiana, by extinguishing 
all causes or occasions of collision, was to ensure to us perpetual 
peace ; and yet two years had not elapsed before this very pur- 
chase had brought us, apparently, to the verge of hostilities ; and 
I was persuaded that the forced Purchase of the Floridas by the 
authorities of France, which was the object of the Bill, would lay 
the foundation of a future dispute and war with Spain, unless we 
would again buy it off. We know from the close alliance of 
France and Spain, as well as by the explicit declaration of Talley- 
rand, that in case of a rupture France would take part with Spain ; 
and when quite at leisure might even stimulate a rupture for the 

492 RUFUS KING. [1806 

very purpose of aiding Spain in order to resume the possession 
of Louisiana and the Floridas by conquest. St. Cyr, when, in 
1802, at Madrid he assured the Spanish Government in the name 
of the First Consul, that France would never " alienate Louisi- 
ana," gave as a reason — and the sole reason — why France desired 
the retro-cession of Louisiana, that she respected a possession 
which had constituted a part of the French Territory." 

I have now given you the substance of what occurred in the 
Senate upon the Secret Appropriation Bill. As I said in my letter 
of the 8th, I communicate this information \.o you^ as a public duty^ 
thinking that under such an administration as we now have 
measures evil and unwarrantable in themselves, and which debase 
the character of the Country and thereby put even its safety in 
jeopardy, ought not to be locked up in the President's Cabinet, 
and in the breasts of a set of men, the greater part of whom have 
neither discernment to see wherein lie the real interest, the honor 
and safety of the country, nor independence and spirit to support 
them. Possessed of the facts I have stated, you will be better able 
to form correct opinions of events. Should these be inauspicious 
— should they threaten great public mischief it is possible you 
may suggest some expedient to divert it. Whoever knows Mr. 
Jefferson, knows that he is utterly incapable of keeping the helm 
in a storm, or even in a merely clouded horizon. Even democrats 
in themselves but just above contempt despise him. His weak- 
ness, timidity and inordinate desire of preserving his popularity 
have, as I expected, induced him to avoid responsibility by asking 
counsel of Congress : or, if dictating any measure, by doing it 
behind the curtain. " Thus low are reduced the President and 
his friends ; " " and therefore weaker and baser than you could 
possibly have imagined." 

I think he will not trust Armstrong with the disposition of the 
two millions. As probably he may place very high confidence in 
Monroe, the latter may be directed to go from London to Paris ; 
and thus give a pleasanter opening to an extraordinary mission to 
negotiate a treaty with the British Government. This hitherto he 
has avoided, (a treaty) : I have supposed lest he should hazard 
popular odium — remembering the baleful effects of Mr. Jay's 
treaty — doubtless excited by him and his partizans to aid in 
pulling down the federal administration. But I little suspected 

l8o6] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 493 

that this motive would have been avowed by any of his friends. 
Sam Smith however this day made the precious confession ! 

The Senate were discussing the second resolution reported to the 
Senate by Smith, to ^''request the President to enter into arrangements 
with the British Government^ for the purpose of adjusting all our 
differences with that power.'' The word treaty had been squeam- 
ishly avoided by the Comtee. though that was what they meant by 
arrangements, and Smith repeatedly used treaty in the course of 
his observations in favour of the adoption of the resolution. 
Among other reasons, he remarked, that calling to mind the 
dissatisfaction occasioned by a former treaty, the President might 
feel a reluctance to enter into another with Great Britain ; but 
that the sense of the Senate, deliberately expressed, by adopting 
the resolution, might remove the embarrassment. This was the 
sentiment tho' not given in his words, which I do not recollect : 
but he was perfectly understood and excited a smile among the 
few federal members. I had intended to mention the same reason 
and express my willingness to take that share of responsibility, 
which would fall on a Senator from a great commercial State ; es- 
pecially as its chief merchants, in their memorial, had prayed for 
such a mission to London. I had considered how I should do 
this in the most delicate manner ; but was very happy to be antici- 
pated by General Smith. 

This second Resolution, on different pretences, is much op- 
posed ; and, after being discussed an hour or more, on two 
different days, still remains undecided ; and yet, I believe that 
its opposers desire a negotiation with G. Britain for the objects 
expressed in the resolution. 

My Colleague (who with Tracy, Baldwin, Logan, Mitchell, S. 
Smith and Anderson was the Committee as I believe I mentioned in 
my former letter) is an advocate for the third resolution — the 
non-importation of enumerated articles ! But there are so many 
projects on this subject, I trust none of them will be adopted. 
That many country members (as is the fact) should be advocates of 
the measure, and even shortsighted merchants — may elicit no 
surprise : but really I did not expect that a man of the enlight- 
ened mind of Mr. A. would have entertained such an idea. 
John Randolph, observing my townsmen Crowninshield quite 
fierce for Gregg's motion, said to one of my friends in the House, 

494 RUFUS KING. [1806 

** That he (Crowninshield) was like a hog swimming over a river 
who would cut his own throat." It seems to be a known fact that 
a hog, when swimming, strikes his neck with his hoofs ; and, if 
obliged to swim far, will actually cut through the skin at the 
throat and eventually kill himself. 

Last evening I received, under your cover, an answer to "War 
in Disguise." I hastily ran through it this morning and shall read 
it again deliberately. I presume you did not mean that the 
author should be concealed from me. Some things appeared to 
be placed in a strong point of view, others to demand further, or 
a more expanded elucidation to be well understood by the bulk of 
readers. Authors who have a clear and comprehensive view of 
their subject are apt to presume too much on the discernment of 
their readers. This, in a popular work, must always be unfortu- 
nate. You will not judge it improper if I venture to make a few 
observations upon the pamphlet, — if on second perusal any perti- 
nent ones should occur. 

Very truly yours 

T. Pickering. 

R. King to T. Pickering. 

N. York, P'eby. 17, 1806. 
Dear Sir : 

This acknowledges the receipt of your letter of the 13th, those 
of the 8 and 1 1 have been acknowledged. I make haste, as the 
French say, to correct an impression, if it exist, that I am the 
author of the answer to War in Disguise. I know the author pre- 
sumed the stile would make him known to you : as I sent a copy 
of this pamphlet to Mr. Tracy, and another to Mr. Madison, I 
pray you to take an opportunity of saying, in my behalf to each 
of these gentlemen what I have just said on the subject to you, 
lest from the mere transmission, it sh'd be supposed that I am the 
author, a merit that belongs to another. 

Yrs RuFUS King. 

R. Troup to R. King. 

Albany, Feb. 11, 1806. 
Dear Sir : 

. . . We have nothing new here, but a report that the Clin- 

tonians and Burrites have formed a coalition : this report is 

l8o6] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 495 

generally believed. De Witt Clinton has undoubtedly broken 
peace with the Livingstons and he is preparing for a Bonapartean 
campaign at the next election. The issue of the contest from 
present appearances will be fatal to the Livingstons, as I fear 
Bonaparte's late campaign has been to the House of Lorraine. 
Lewis is as light as the drum in his speech, and he does not 
appear to possess a single talent for managing the corrupt party 
he is connected with. This by the by does him no dishonor. It 
verifies however the remark often made, that no man who aims 
at independence of conduct will long bask in the sunshine of the 
people's majesty. Judge Benson will tell you the precious 
confessions which Lewis is constantly making when alone with the 
federalists. I have listened to them until my contempt for the 
government has been lost in pity for the man ! 

With the most sincere regard 

RoBT. Troup. 

CHAPTER XXXI. 

Pickering to King — Answer of ' ' War in Disguise " by Morris — Anecdote relative 
to and Criticism of Answer — Tracy to King — Speculations about Answer 
— Fatal Effects of Democracy — King to Pickering — Miranda — Denuncia- 
tions by the President's Friends — Tracy to King — Armstrong Elected — 
Pickering to King — Sends Capt. Lewis' Narrative — Remarks thereon — 
Smith's Bill to encourage Shipping and Navigation — Asks King's Views — 
King to Pickering — European News — Estimate of England — Pickering to 
King — Caramelli — Miranda — King to Pickering — Sundry Subjects — Pick- 
ering to King — Death of Pitt — Relaxation of British Commercial Regula- 
tions— Might make satisfactory Arrangements with G. B, — Speculations 
upon Monroe and Madison, as to the next Presidency — King to Pickering — 
Disapproves of Bills on Non-importation of British Products — Gore to King 
— Animadversions against the Government — Gore to King — Reasons for 
Re-entering Public Life — Pickering to King — Armstrong's Application of 
the Louisiana Fund — N. Webster to King — Should Legislatures express 
Opinions on the Conduct of the Government ? 

T. Pickering to R. King. 

City of Washington, February 20, 1806. 
Dear Sir : 

This morning I had folded a letter to you, written for the sole 
purpose of apologizing for the distant surmise that you wrote the 
Answer to War in Disguise. Afterwards while at breakfast I 
received your favour of the 17th, telling me that you were not 
the author. Mr. Tracy, sitting next to me, I put your letter into 
his hands. 

In fact I had reluctantly yielded to the conjecture that you 
were the author, in consequence of the confident assertion (as I 
had heard) of Dr. Mitchell, and the opinions, or, literally, fears 
of others. The style was so different from yours, I admitted it 
only as merely possible. Very soon, however, we were generally 
satisfied that it was the child of G. M. His features are im- 
pressed on every sheet. With a brilliant and cultivated mind, he 
has a coarseness of sentiment which is incompatible with dignity. 

496 

l8o6] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 497 

The chasteness of your taste and your diplomatic habits were 
utterly irreconcilable with the production in question. 

We have for a month been at work upon the St, Domingo Bill ; 
during which time it has passed the Senate by ayes 21, noes 8. I 
have heretofore intimated to you the perfect obsequiousness of 
the Senate. Its advocates affected to be influenced merely by 
motives of policy, as well with respect to our own black popula- 
tion, as to France — and good faith : while in fact the terrors of 
Bonaparte's arm, (openly avowed by Wright) undoubtedly influ- 
enced the measure. Should he fall, or be Burgoyned, the Bill 
may die in the House of Representatives. . . . 

Adieu. 

T. Pickering. 

T. Pickering to R. King. 

City of Washington, February 20, 1806. Thursday Evening. 
Dear Sir : 

The call for the mail obliged me to close abruptly my letter o- 
this date. 

Of the character of the humour in the answer to War in Dis- 
guise, perhaps the following anecdote may furnish a pretty correct 
idea. 

I have the pleasure of lodging under the same roof with all the 
Senators and Representatives from Connecticut, as well as a part 
of the Representation from Massachusetts and New Hampshire. 
We had just read, in Coleman's paper of the 8th, his Literary 
Notice of the answer to "War in Disguise." "The strain of 
ridicule (said he) in pages 63.4. is equal to anything we ever met 
with, and which we defy the greatest of the British advocates to 
read without downright laughter, at the absurdity of the arguments 
here exposed." 

Just then I opened your packets containing the Answer. Im- 
mediately I turned to those pages & read ; expecting a burst 
of laughter, the pleasure, in such cases, being always the more 
poignant when numbers participate. I read ; but no one was 
moved ; each gazed at the other with disappointed expectation. 
I supposed I had not understood the passage & so failed in the 
reading. At that moment Tracy came in. I read it again : and 

VOL. IV. — 32 

498 RUFUS KING. [1806 

Still they remained unmoved. " Why don't you laugh ? " said I 
to Tracy : "You did not tell me when to laugh," was his answer ! 

Upon a second reading of the Answer to War in Disguise, 
more exceptionable passages appear than on the first perusal. 
The words and passages, liable to criticism are numerous ; and 
tho' the same expressions might be admitted in conversation, they 
are great blemishes in a work of this kind. It was evidently 
written in haste ; and with a little pains might have been cor- 
rected ; but is not the disposition of the author adverse to a 
patient examination ? I presume he did not submit the pamphlet 
to the correction of any of his friends. And if he did, to point 
out errors and faults is an ungracious task, which perhaps not 
one in a hundred would venture to perform, unless towards a very 
intimate friend ; and a friend, too, sufficiently ingenuous and 
modest to receive correction without taking offence. 

Does not the author quibble, where he says (p. 12) that the 
'"''Masterly acquaintance of the Judge (meaning I presume, Ld. 
Mansfield) with the law of Nations, was known and revered by 
every State in Europe," is one thing ; and " that his decisions were 
celebrated for their equity and wisdom, is another and a very dif- 
ferent thing ? " Is it possible to conceive how his masterly 
knowledge could be (not admired but) revered, unless it was dis- 
played in wise and equitable decisions ? 

p. 19. "Slily," applied to Sir Wm. Scott. It would be impos- 
sible for me, (like the author of the answer) to feel " a high 
respect " for any man, however great his talents, if he were sly or 
meanly artful. If the author meant only that Sir William had 
artfully confounded, he is chargeable with a vulgarism in using 
the word slily. 

pages 22. 23. 24. These pages being simply filled with asser- 
tions and questions do not carry conviction to the mind — at least 
not to mine. I cannot discern any force in the author's reasoning 
from the contraband trade of smugglers, and it is not possible that 
his own fancy was dazzled with the lively (or to preserve the 
metaphor), the sparkling antithesis which, in p. 24, concludes his 
questions. 

" With every superiority at sea his heart could wish'' These 
last words are too much in the conversation style to be intro- 
duced into a disquisition on the law of nations. 

i8o6] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 499 

p. 27, "Yankees," too, being a nickname should not have found 
admission into grave discourse. 

The ludicrous criticism on " possessing a monopoly which had 
been destroyed," might have been spared. When an author's 
meaning cannot be misunderstood, the inaccurate use of a word 
seems not to be a fit subject of ridicule. The British might cor- 
rectly/^^i^^^ a monopoly of which they had deprived their enemy. 

These are specime)is of the faults which have struck me. It is 
much to be regretted that so fine a composition as " War in Dis- 
guise " had not received an answer written with equal elegance, 
dignity & precision. 

Very truly yours 

Timothy Pickering. 

Uriah Tracy to R. King. 

Washington, March 12, 1S06. 

Sir: 

My health when I passed thro' New York, & ever since, has 
been so frail that I have written scarcely to any person, but to 
my family. I have to thank you for the answer to War in Dis- 
guise, for which I am indebted to your goodness. 

This answer was at first attributed to you, tho' I was not of that 
opinion. I always supposed that Gov. Morris wrote it. There is 
merit in it and I regret that more time was not taken to increase 
its merits. Madison's Book, I suppose you have seen, that was 
written in a hurry, this answer was written in a hurry, and, 
unfortunately for us everything done among us has been done in a 
hurry, which respects Neutral Rights. I had indulged a hope 
that you, or some man equally acquainted with the subject, & who 
was not in 2. hurry, would have favored us, either with an answer 
to War in Disguise, or with a dissertation upon our Neutral 
Rights ; with a Statemt., such as the subject is capable of, and 
not composed in a hurry, as to style or argument. 

As the subject is now before the public, it is all adapted to a 
mob ; Neutral Rights are invaded is the cry ^ you must rally round 
^ur rights. 

500 RUFUS KING. [1806 

I most sincerely wish that the time may come, and that I may 
live to see it, when we shall understand our rights of every 
description, & possess the proper spirit to defend them. Now 
neither the one, nor the other, has any existence. 

Our administration is far behind the people at large, both in 
understanding &in spirit. I mean that distinct understanding of 
the subject, which might be expected from men in an elevated 
station, and that spirit which ought to be the portion of all, or 
our nation is truly in a bad way. 

Sneaking behind, to avoid all hazard to darling popularity ; 
shrinking from all official & reasonable responsibility ; a language 
unintelligible, capable of constructions to meet any event, are a few 
of the leading traits of character of our President, administratn. 
and also of the majority of both the Legislative branches. 

Now, Sir, a Nation, under such circumstances, if the manly, 
independent spirit of former days was predominant, would extri- 
cate itself from such a set of impediments, would indignantly 
spurn from them such leaders & rally round men who were both 
able & willing to behave with propriety. But here is the dis- 
tressing fact : our Country has, by the debauching force of party^ 
by the fatal effects of demoralizing Democracy, by the babyish 
nonsense of peace^ peace, the watchword of Democrarcy ; by the 
fatal encouragemt which vice has received by the ruling party 
for five years past, & the discouragement which virtue has, during 
the same time, reed, from the brow-breatings of vicious scoun- 
drels, thus supported & encouraged, by all these and more, our 
country is unhinged, is let down to such a degree, that no manly 
exertion can be expected. 

I know that this is croaking ; but when truth will justify in 
this, & in no other conclusion, ought we to shut our eyes to the 
truth however humiliating ? 

I am a sick man, & allowance must be made for the view I take 
of any subject, as I look thro' a medium, jaundiced not only to 
my bodily vision, but to my mind's eye. If you can set me rights 
you who are in health & see things without the conflicts, in which 
I am daily engaged, I shall most cordially thank you. 

I am now in the Senate Chamber & the Senate are debating 
upon the nomination of John Armstrong, as a Commissr., with 
James Bowdoin, to treat with Spain for territory, boundaries, 

l8o6] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 50I 

spoliations, &c. &c., ; whether we shall midwife him or not, is not 
certain, but as he is proved to be a very great rascal, I think he 
must be appointed ; from the same principle, which induced the 
nomination by that immaculate Executive, who has sent us this 
nomination after knowing every fact, damning fact, which instead 
of a new nomination, ought to have instantly produced a recall. 
*'' It is a hard winter^ my piasters^ when bear eats bear.'' This 
moment \ past 3 p.m., the question of John Armstrong's appoint- 
ment is postponed until to-morrow. 

Yrs. Sincerely 

Uriah Tracy. 

R. King to T. Pickering. 

New York, March 13, 1806. 
Dear Sir : 

Mr. Wolcott some days ago told me that he would write to Mr. 
Tracy on the subject of the Leander & Miranda's expedition, and 
as I presume you would see this letter, and preferred for particu- 
lar reasons, not to write myself, I have said nothing to you of this 
Project. 

The late news from Bordeaux, and which you will have seen in 
the N. Papers, and according to which Bonaparte remains master 
of the Continent, has dissipated the Rumours concerning Miran- 
da's views, which have for some weeks engaged the public atten- 
tion. There are Persons here who hesitated in giving credit to 
this French news : but the armistice, if not a most gross fabrica- 
tion, is conclusive ; it cannot be many days before we shall have 
arrivals from Eng. that will give us intelligence down to February, 
including the speech and debates at the opening of parliament. 

Within a day or two we have heard much of your decisions, 
and particularly of the denunciation of the Executive by its former 
friend Mr. Randolph. As to Measures, so far as I can observe 
the public, none are expected, or at least none that will be either 
advantageous or honorable to the Country. Every man you meet 
seems ashamed of the feeble, hypocritcal and mean Proceedings 
of the Executive. With sentiments of sincere esteem & respect 
I remain, dear Sir, your obed. & faithful servant 

RuFus King. 

502 RUFUS KING. [1806 

U. Tracy to R. King. 

Washington, March 17th, 1806. 
Sir: 

Ecce iterum Crispinus — This day the Senate have expended in 
a debate upon John Armstrong's Nomination : as I stated to you 
last week, perhaps no man's character & conduct ever met with a 
more thorough investigation, & nothing is more clear, than that 
the Senate, a very considerable majority of them, are sick, quite 
sick of the man, & really wish the nomination at the devil, and 
many go further, and send the nominator after the nomination ; & 
these good Democrats too. The vote now taken 3 o'clock p.m., 
and stands thus, for Armstrong fifteen votes, against him fifteen 
votes — so the Vice president had to decide it & he decided it in 
favor of John Armstrong. So John Armstrong is appointed. 

Yours sincerely, 

Uriah Tracy. 

Both New York Senators &: the Vice Pres. were in favor of 
Armstrong : so the three votes of New York carried him ! 

T. Pickering to R. King. 

City of Washington, March 19th, 1806. 
Dear Sir : 

Yesterday I sent you, in 5 packets (I think that was the num- 
ber) a pamphlet the subject of which has probably engaged as 
great a share of the President's attention, as all the concerns of 
the " good old States " (as Randolph called them) whether con- 
sidered in respect to their internal or external relations. You 
will see noticed the various Indian languages radically different. 
When I last dined with him (5 or 6 weeks ago) he said he had 
already ascertained about a hundred. When some of my fellow 
lodgers dined with him soon after, that number was materially 
reduced. I believe there are 15 or 16 noticed in Capt. Lewis* 
Narrative. Mr. Jefferson's object (I should say one of his objects) 
in his Louisiana inquiries, I take to be, that, if so many original 
languages exist in America, and if we calculate how many ages 
must elapse before one original language could be radically 
changed ; it will follow that the Mosaic account of the creation 

l8o6] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 503 

and the chronology founded thereon must be extremely erro- 
neous ! . . . 

I will inclose you a bill brought into the Senate by Saml. Smith 
" For the encouragement of the Shipping & Navigation of the U. 
States." The third reading is to be on the last day of this month ; 
it being postponed for the purpose of gaining information. In- 
dependently of the general knowledge you possess on this subject, 
I remember you had occasion officially to turn your attention to 
our commercial intercourse with England, while you were in 
London, 

I pray you therefore to favour me with your sentiments on the 
provisions of this bill ; and at as early a day as may be. At 
present it can be of little or no consequence, for scarcely a 
foreign ship enters our ports ; and it seems premature to make 
regulations now, to operate on commerce after peace shall take 
place, when in our commercial relations such very material 
changes may take place. Have we not as much carrying trade as 
we can manage ? or if not, would it be expedient to increase it 
largely (if it were possible for this bill to produce that effect) see- 
ing the event of peace might pretty suddenly deprive us of an 
essential portion of it. Besides I take it, what we should most 
desire of England, France and Spain, would be the permanent 
admission of the products and manufactures of our own country 
in our own vessels, into the ports, especially the colonial ports, of 
those nations. 

In explaining the grounds of his bill, Mr. Smith said, that all 
the European nations, excepting England and France, did per- 
mit us to carry to them the products and manufactures of other 
countries, as well as our own. At the present moment all the 
products and manufactures of G. Britain & her dominions are pro- 
hibited an entrance into France & Spain, & I do not know but 
some other dependent countries of France. Have the goodness 
to communicate to me as early as may be, your views of the sub- 
ject. What will be the effects of this measure, if adopted ? what 
its advantages ? what its disadvantages ? 

With sincere respect and esteem &c. 

T. Pickering. 

504 RUFUS KING. [1806 

R. King to T. Pickering. 

New York, March 20, 1806. 
Dear Sir : 

In a few lines I wrote yesterday to Mr. Tracy, I communicated 
the purport of the only important news from England. Yester- 
day by a short arrival from Bordeaux we have later news both 
English and French than had been received from England. I 
inclose to you the morning Paper which announces all I know 
concerning a state of Europe, that, in my view, is the most extra- 
ordinary & menacing to the freedom and Independence of man- 
kind that has existed in modern times. 

As no nation is more reasonable more docile, more loyal than 
England, when wisely governed, so none has greater firmness, 
longer patience, nor higher courage than our ancestors ; and not- 
withstanding it has pleased the Almighty to take from them, 
almost at the same moment, their first Statesman, their most for- 
tunate Admirals, and their ablest General, I feel a strong presenti- 
ment and hope that the high spirit and ancient glory of the Nation 
will enable them to contend against, & finally to triumph over 
their gigantic adversary.* 

* These sentiments repeat the estimate he formed of the English people dur- 
ing his residence in England, as evinced by the following in his handwriting — 

It is equally difficult here as in America to form satisfactory opinions respect- 
ing the events which are passing in Europe ; and the reason is this, that no ex- 
act views, no assured object, no settled system of Politicks, exist in this, or any 
other of the Great Powers of Europe. The whole is a miserable shifting from 
expedient to expedient — a course varying with every new incident, — a struggle 
for an ill understood and inexplicable End. The nearer I see these great na- 
tions, the less respectfully do I consider them. At a distance where informa- 
tion was less accurate, and the space for conjectural interpretation much wider, 
we entertained ourselves in searching for the solution of events which instead 
of being foreseen or influenced by premeditated causes, have been the mere re- 
sult of those blind and ill managed efforts which continue to astonish and de- 
stroy mankind. I am not deceived in my estimate of England. They are a 
nation of immense resources, of ancient pride, of powerful habits in favor of 
their Government, of infinite credulity, of unbounded confidence, and destitute 
of a single mind capable of making a proper use of these National Faculties at 
a period more important and interesting to human happiness than has before 
existed. 

It is certain that the objects, for which the war has been prosecuted have 
varied so often, that those at the helm here can assign no national motive at 
any one period, that will justify the prosecution of the war at another. I had 

l8o6] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 505 

The new Ministry unites the Strength and Talents, as it does 
the Parties and Confidence of the Nation. 

With sincere regards, I remain, Dr. Sir Yr. faithful Servant 

RuFus King. 

T. Pickering to R. King. 

Washington, March 21, 1806. 
Dear Sir : 

I inclose a Report of the Senate concerning Hamet Caramelli. 
It is drawn, substantially, by Bradley, and agreed to by all the 
comtee. (as Tracy tells me) except Baldwin.* A variety of facts 
and circumstances, but which I cannot attempt to enumerate, in- 
duce my belief that Lear's conduct originated in the basest mo- 
tives. His reported treachery to Washington, in communicating 
(withdrawing from their sacred deposit) papers to Jefferson, has 
laid the latter under obligations. Mr. J. in his message on 
Hamet's case, attempted, with much labour, to vindicate Lear ; 
but in vain : he stands condemned by every man who can think 
and act independently. 

Dr. Thornton (whom Wolcott knows) who is charged with that 
breach of duty in the department of State, which relates to the 
issuing of Patents, last December told Genl. Eaton a variety of 
things relating to Miranda's project, and asked Eaton if he would 

believed that England went into the war in order to preserve her own Govt, but 
if there ever existed the danger that we have imagined on that head, which I 
am inclined now to doubt, it has ceased to be worthy of attention. 

The English people are in no danger of imitating the French from choice — 
when I speak of the people, I mean to exclude the eflScient body of the nation 
— I equally exclude the philosophers and the indigent. Laying them aside as 
this nation can do, there remain the vigor, the strength and the great Body of 
the nation — inclined to preserve order, interested in upholding their Govt, and 
animated with a generous devotion & courage to defend their country agt. do- 
mestic as well as for. Foes. It is true that the suffrage is far from being equal 
here, and the Election is not in this view an infallible rule to ascertain the pub- 
lic opinion — yet with proper allowances the return of the Members of Parlia- 
ment gives a pretty sure guide whereby we may infer the national sentiments — 
making every possible allowance, the late Election, which we are confidently 
told diminished the opposition, diminutive in members as before it was, the in- 
ference is altogether favorable to the attachment of the nation to the existing 
order of things and demonstrates their disposition amid reverses and misfor- 
tunes to uphold the Authorities of the Constitution. 

* See Annals of Congress 1805-6 for the history of this claim, pp. 48. 185. 

506 RUFUS KING. [l8o6 

engage with Miranda in an expedition to Spanish America? 
"Yes (said Eaton) if the Government will give us a commission. '* 
Thornton said that several millions of dollars were raised by the 
Spanish Colonists and that a large sum had been lodged in New 
York to meet the expenses of the expedition. That the Colonists 
were prepared and waited only for Miranda to hoist the flag of 
Independence to rise and throw off the Government of the 
mother country. 

Dr. Thornton is not a little of a visionary — and allowances are 
to be made ; but I am persuaded that his testimony would throw 
light on the subject, and be useful to Col. Smith & Ogden od 
their trials — which we hear are to take place next month. 

Respectfully yrs. 

T. Pickering. 

R. King to T. Pickering. 

New York, Mar. 22, 1806. 
Dear Sir : 

I am particularly obliged to you for the President's Message^ 
communicating the Discoveries in Louisiana. . . . 

" The Sty," to use Randolph's phrase, is as I hear very noisy 
on the subject of Armstrong's appointment, which is regarded as 
an avowal and justification of his Conduct. There are several 
subjects on which I should be glad for information. The dis- 
closures that your debate may have made respecting Armstrong 
is one of them. Was it at all explained how Armstrong was au- 
thorized, or what motive induced him, to assume the extraordin- 
ary power he has employed in the distribution of the 4 MiL 
Dollars ? 

We have seen Eaton's letter to the Secy of the Treasy., which 
states that the Treaty with Tripoli contains an article by which 
the Bashaw engaged to deliver up the wife and children of his 
Brother, and that in order to obtain this stipulation, which was 
to satisfy the ex-Bashaw, Lear gave a Defeasance, by which the 
article became void. 

It is also rumoured that the Treaty was submitted to the Sen- 
ate for Ratification, without a communication of the Defeasance. 
On these and other interesting Points concerning our foreign 
affairs, I should be obliged by exact information, as I have it in 

i8o6] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 507 

contemplation after the close of your Session to make a Review 
of our foreign Relations. 

On examination of the English News, I am not without consid- 
erable Hope that the new ministry will inspire new vigour as well 
as confidence into the Nation. If the ministers can agree in the 
Cabinet, the administration will be more powerful and more pop- 
ular than has existed since the Ministry of Lord Chatham : in 
such event, indeed in any event, the Folly and Rashness of your 
Resolutions and projects at Washington, will be more fully ex- 
posed. 

The men who promote these measures are equally ignorant of 
the character of Englishmen, and the interest of America. With- 
out these miserable provocations Mr. Monroe, if he has abilities, 
may avail himself of the present juncture ; with them, neither he 
nor any other person can succeed. 

Very faithfully yrs 

RuFus King. 

T. Pickering to R. King. 

Washington, March 24, 1806. 
Dear Sir : 

I have been favoured with your letter of the 20th. We had 
heard of the death of Mr. Pitt. It did not alarm me. For tho' 
I consider the independence of the U. States as absolutely de- 
pendent on the ability of England to maintain hers^ against all the 
efforts of Napoleon, yet I have at no time entertained an exalted 
opinion of Mr. Pitt as a Statesman to plan and direct great military 
enterprises ; and to select and in defiance of all opposition to call forth 
the requisite talents to execute them. With an eloquence powerful 
perhaps as his father's, did he not want much of that vigour which 
enabled the latter successfully to execute the bold project he 
conceived ? With great talents, I expect more efficiency in Lord 
Grenville. Perfectly relying on your judgment of the preeminent 
talents, strength and popularity (founded on a personal know- 
ledge of the men) I rejoice that such a ministry has been formed. 
It furnished just ground for the confident hope you express (in 
which I cordially join) '* that the high Spirit and ancient glory of 
the Nation will enable them to contend against and finally tri- 
umph over their [and the World's] gigantic adversary." 

508 RUFUS KING, [1806 

But what will be the effect on our commerce ? It is said (by 
the way of Bordeaux) that the British are releasing all American 
vessels. Will this relaxation continue ? I trust not. It com- 
menced prior to Mr. Pitt's decease : probably influenced by the 
Catastrophe of the Continental War. The Captures and con- 
demnations may not instantly be renewed. Lord Grenville* and 
his associates will deeply consider the subject as essentially con- 
nected with a continuance of the War. Doubtless their meas- 
ures may be influenced very much by those of Bonaparte. If the 
latter commands the Ports of the Continent, from the Baltic to 
the Adriatic, to be shut against the commerce of Britain (and he 
has only to command to be obeyed) doubtless the British will 
interdict the commerce of neutrals, at least with all the belliger- 
ent nations. Necessity will be declared to be the ground of the 
interdiction. And will it not be an adequate plea? It will be 
done openly, frankly, boldly ; and such time being given that 
neutrals shall not complain of being taken by surprise. In a 
word the principles of War in Disguise will be adopted : " and if 
we feel no wish to succour our parent State, when fighting for her 
liberty and her existence," shall we not " at least desist from 
wrongs [or measures] which augment her dangers and frustrate 
her defensive efforts " ? I, for one, shall bid her God speed. 
When she is spending, liberally spending, her blood and treasure, 
i7i fact iox our safety and independence, shall we be restive, be- 
cause she denies us an accumulation of profit beyond that which 
arises from our regular, permanent course of Trade ? If we had 
an administration that regarded anything in comparison with its' 
own immediate personal interest and popularity and the indul- 
gence of its hateful passions, satisfactory arrangements, I am 
fully persuaded, might be made with Great Britain. But I do 
not believe these will be attempted thro' any other agent than the 
miserable minister now at that Court. Would you believe it ? 
A very few days only had elapsed, after Mr. Pitt's death, and 
when the new Ministers had scarcely taken their seats in their 
offices, before Mr. Monroe applied for his answer to his letter (or 
remonstrance) to Lord Mulgrave ! this is the out-door informa- 
tion.! Yet this is the man who is to be the next President of the 

* You will recollect his Lordship's decided sentiments on neutral commerce 
in his celebrated Speech on the Treaty with Russia in 1801. 

f P. M. This out-of-door report is incorrect. The President sent Monroe's 

l8o6] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 509 

U. S. ; the man whom Mr. Nicholson lately pronounced (in the 
House of R.) second to no one in the United States, and who 
appears (from all I hear) to be the favourite of Mr. Randolph. 
Hence the contempt with which you will have observed he has 
treated Mr. Madison — the competitor of Monroe for the Presi- 
dency. This I take to be a great, if not a principal cause of the 
schism among the democrats. Bidwell, Varnum and the major- 
ity of the democrats from the great States of Massachusetts, New 
York and Pennsylvania are the friends of Madison. Randolph 
and his special adherents are the friends of Monroe : and while 
these two divisions of democrats are thus early canvassing for the 
next President, the actual President is exploring the wilds of 
Louisiana — its salt plains — its rock or mineral salt — its immense 
prairies — in which he has discovered the earthly paradise — its 
numerous tribes and remnants of tribes of Indians & how many 
languages they speak — the hot springs & the warm mud-puddles 
in their vicinity — and the wonderful phenomena in one of a small 
or " very minute shell fish " in shape resembling a muscle, but 
having four legs ; and in another " a vermes about half an inch 
long, moving with a serpentine or vermicular motion " ! 

Should Monroe be our next P., Randolph, I presume, must be 
his prime-minister, and Nicholson Secretary of the Navy. Gal- 
latin (whom R. lately eulogized) must remain Secy of the Treas- 
ury ; for they have no Southern man of ability and industry to 
fill his place. They would not be much embarrassed to find a 
successor to Mr. Dearborn — Confidential — at present. On Satur- 
day while the doors were closed, Mr. Randolph said, that about 
the middle of December, he called on Mr. Madison, who told 
him that the French Gm'ermnefit had forbidden our negotiating 
directly with Spain : that we must negotiate thro' the medium of the 
French Govt.^ which wanted money ^ and that we must give it. Ran- 
dolph added "I had not much confidence in him (Madison) be- 
fore, and from that time I have had none " : at that moment, 
with an indignant motion, throwing his hat across the hall ! 

Adieu T. Pickering. 

You will connect this anecdote with the affair of the secret ap- 
propriation of 2 millions. 

original letter dated Jany. 23 to the two Houses — in which he mentions that he 
shall soon apply for an answer. The letter was returned to the President ; the 
doors were closed ; but nothing important was announced. 

5IO RUFUS KING, [1806 

R. King To Pickering. 

« 

New York, Mar. 25,1806. 
Dear Sir, 

I yesterday received Mr. Gallatin's Report and Genl. Smith's 
proposed navigation Law, which you obligingly sent to me, and 
today I have reed, the Report of the Commn. concerning the 
Tripolitan affairs, and the last part of Mr. Randolph's speech. 

If I may conjecture the conduct of Congress from what in my 
own opinion I think it should be at the present moment, they 
will at once suspend the Resolutions, Bills & Debates, until they 
receive accounts from England of the Temper and views of the 
new ministry towards the U. S. I can suppose a system, which, 
if adopted by the new ministry, would require the best under- 
standing and Harmony with America, and which would therefore 
offer a most favorable opportunity for the satisfactory adjust- 
ment of our intercourse with that country. In this state of things, 
it would be impolitic and extraordinary, if Congress, instead of 
giving the Executive an opportunity to effect such arrangement, 
should adopt any measures that might defeat an advantageous 
settlement of our concerns. 

In respect to the Bill offered by Genl. Smith, were the time a 
proper one for its discussion, I am by no means satisfied that it 
would be advantageous. If, as I conjecture to be the fact, England 
at no time imports into the U. States any Goods not the growth 
or manufacture of her own Dominions, it would be of no effect as 
respects her, and in reference to other countries, whose ships 
sometimes resort to our Ports, if they have no such Regulation, 
our adoption of it might suggest to them the expediency of their 
doing it also ; and should this be done, we, being carriers of 
articles not produced nor manufactured at home in a larger pro- 
portion than they are, should be sufferers in a like proportion. 

Suppose the law generally adopted, the question between us 
and England will be immediately settled ; for we shall not be 
able to import Sugar, Coffee, Teas, India Goods, &c, which now 
make so considerable a share of our exports. I must close, as I 
fear I may miss the Post. 

Yours &c 

RuFus King. 

l8o6] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 5II 

C. Gore To R. King. 

Boston, March 26, 1806. 
My Dear Friend : 

I was really gratified by the Receipt of your last Letter, for 
although I had no apprehensions that you had acted incautiously, 
and knew that you had communicated to the Government Intelli- 
gence of Miranda's Plan, )''et it was unknown to me that you 
possessed their acknowledgment of having received this infor- 
mation. Their Baseness and meanness seem only to be ex- 
ceeded by their extreme weakness. That any of our Coun- 
trymen can still submit to remain the Dupes of such Imbecillity 
affords new evidence of the Degradation to which Democracy will 
sink its adherents. Another Testimony of the Contempt of our 
Chief for Public Opinion we have in the Appointment of Mr. 
Armstrong. James Lovel, some time since, wrote Mr. Jefferson a 
■congratulatory Letter on the appointment of Austin to the Loan 
Office ; saying it was the highest Evidence that could be offered 
of the Supremacy of the Executive of the U. States ; for a man 
more universally and more deeply despised than Austin, did not 
exist in this part of the Country, and that a Government, which 
could name & keep in Office, a Character, known to be so base, 
must be stronger than any Despotism within his knowledge. 

We are now in the Fever Heat of our annual Election, and 
such are the Charges against Sullivan, & so well supported, that 
no man who has the least Regard to Property or Reputation, one 
would think could vote for him ; and yet he will probably have 
more than 30,000 Votes. 

I shall endeavour to keep out of the Legislature, but I am afraid 
it will not be in my Power. The last year we obliged many to go 
into the House of Representatives, and had we not chosen 26, 
we should have had a Democratic House, of course a Democratic 
Senate and a Democratic council. I do not know that our chance 
is better this year, and that any Reason exists why the same 
means should not be resorted to. 

The Supreme Court is now in Session, and Sedgwick, as usual, 
swearing he will resign : possibly He has declared this so fre- 
quently and so publickly that he will be compelled to do it, con- 
trary to his more mature judgment. 

The dreadful Fate of the Coalition leaves nothing to be hoped 

512 RUFUS KING. [1806 

for from the Continent of Europe, against the Despotism of Bona- 
parte. The Views & Intentions of England, under the new ad- 
ministrations, for any intelligence we obtain, are the mere Subject 
of Conjecture. Our merchants are afraid of a Peace and well 
they may be, for notwithstanding many Losses & Embarrassments, 
their Voyages were generally prosperous. Their Shipments of 
W. India Produce netted them a profit of a sum from 25 to 50 
per cent. . . . 

Ever and faithfully yrs. 

C. Gore. 

C. Gore To R. King. 

Boston, 15 April, 1806. 
My Dear Friend : 

. . . While we endeavour to derive Consolation from reflect- 
ing on some Errors on the part of the Federalists, and attempt to 
impute to those the present gloomy Prospect, it is impossible not 
to perceive, in the existing State of things, under all the circum- 
stances of the Times and the great Difference in the Pretensions 
of the Candidates to the Confidence of Mankind, the most 
damning Proofs of the Triumph of Vice over Virtue, and the 
same Presages of a total Prostration of the Rights of Freedom & 
of Property to the insatiable Lust of a base & cowardly Despotism, 
owing its Origin & Support to the meanest and most degraded 
Passions of the human Heart. 

You may wonder that, with a full view of the present & future 
State of our affairs, I would enter into public Life again. In the 
first Place, I conceived it would be impossible to avoid a Seat in 
the House, if I insisted in declining the Duty of a Senator. If it 
were possible for the Federalists to retain the name and Forces 
of the Government, in the Crisis which cannot be very distant, it 
might be of incalculable Benefit to the Cause of Order : and 
it appeared to me of great importance that Men of Consider- 
ation should not resign the Government into the Hands of a 
different Class, unless they were confident that great Good would 
result from suffering our Institutions to be destroyed by the 
Weakness of our Party, or the Violence of the Democrats. In 
fine, and what was perhaps of more weight in my own mind, it 
appeared to me that we ought not by deserting our Friends & 

l8o6] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 513 

our Country in the Hour of peril, to surrender a claim to their 
confidence when our Advice & Experience may be of use to them 
& ourselves, and by such Desertion reserve for a future Day the 
bitter Reflection that had we not shrunk from Exertion, we might 
have prevented or softened the existing calamities. 

We see by the Papers that the Govt, is base & mad enough to 
persist in persecuting the Persons concerned in Miranda's Enter- 
prise. I cannot but think this is one of the Rocks on which our 
Chief and his aids are likely to wreck their Pretensions to Confi- 
dence, and I look with much Interest to the Denouement of the 
Business. Congress affords, as the Stories are told to us, a most 
disgraceful Picture of Imbecillity, Outrage & Meanness ; and what 
is truly unfortunate to our Reputation at least no man appears 
to state to the Public, or on the Floor of the House, the Principles 
on which our Conduct ought to be regulated, and to expose in a 
just & proper manner the flagitious and degrading Behaviour 
of our Government. 

Farewell, ever & truly yours 

C. Gore. 

T. Pickering to P^.. King. 

Washington, April 19th, 1806. 
Dear Sir : 

Some time ago I promised to give the information you re- 
quested respecting the application of the Louisiana fund by 
General Armstrong. 

It was stated by Genl. Smith (while Armstrong's nomination 
was before the Senate\ that our Government knowing, or ex- 
pecting, that the fund would not be equal to all the claims upon 
it, proposed to the French Government that all the claims should 
be examined, and the sums due ascertained, before any payments 
were made ; and that if the whole amount surpassed the fund of 
^3,750,000, the loss should be averaged. To this, he said, the 
French Government would not agree ; insisting that the bills 
should be drawn as fast as the liquidations were made, conform- 
ably to the Convention. This must refer to the 9th Article ; in 
which you will see the English translation is not of the same im- 
port as the French original; this being "a mesure que," &c.— 

VOL. IV. — 33 

514 RUFUS KING, [1806 

which is translated '* In proportion." In a variety of places you 
will observe it to be a very careless and faulty translation. You 
will also notice the unpardonable negligence of Livingston & 
Monroe in the prea7nble of this Convention, the object of which 
is declared to be, to comply with the second & fifth articles of 
the Treaty of Sept. 30, 1800, altho' the second was expunged be- 
fore that Treaty was ratified. By the 4th article of the same 
Treaty, it was stipulated that " property captured and not yet 
definitely condemned," should be mutually restored ; but in the 
fifth article of the Louisiana Convention, this stipulation was 
either carelessly neglected, or purposely set aside by this clause, 
"The said 5th Article (of the Treaty of 1800) does not compre- 
hend prizes, whose condemnation has been or shall be confirmed." 

But notwithstanding the refusal of the French Govt, to admit 
the deficiency of funds to be averaged upon all the claims, and 
its determination that the bills should be drawn as fast as the 
liquidations were made, yet our enquiries produced the informa- 
tion, that Mr. Livingston did not draw a single bill ; and that 
tho* Mr. Armstrong arrived in Paris in the autumn of 1804, yet 
he drew no bills until May 1805. 

Since Armstrong's nomination to Spain has been approved, we 
have had laid on our tables a document exhibiting the draughts 
he has made and the times of drawing. The supplementary 
documents showing the sums allowed for the embargoed vessels, 
you will see was occasioned by the disagreement between Mar- 
bois and Armstrong as to the persons in whose favour the bills 
ought to be drawn ; in which matter Armstrong was doubtless in 
the right ; the original powers being given to Fenwick by the 
masters of the vessels, at the period when the embargoes took 
place ; and who or whose representations, ought not, at this late 
day, to receive the property of the Merchant owners. An Act has 
recently been passed to authorize the Sec'y of the Treasury to 
pay these claims. . . . 

It is said Wm. Pinkney (late one of our Commissioners in 
London) is to be appointed Minister Plenipotentiary to Great 
Britain — Monroe to return in the Fall. 

4 P.M. Mr. Pinkney has been nominated in conjunction with 
Monroe to negotiate on our differences with the British Govern- 
ment. I have just got the message and will give you the words : 

i8o6] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 51$ 

Monroe & Pinkney are nominated ** to be Commissioners Pleni- 
potentiary & Extraordinary for settling all matters of difference 
between the United States and the United Kingdoms of Great 
Britain and Ireland, relative to wrongs committed between the 
parties on the high seas or other waters, & for establishing the 
principles of navigation & commerce between them." 

5 P.M. The Senate have struck out (on the second reading) 
the two sections of the bill for repealing the duty on salt, and 
allowing a bounty to our fisheries and salted provisions. As the 
bill passed the House so triumphantly (about 84 to 11) I pre- 
sumed it would, on the same popular ground, be passed by the 
Senate. The votes 16 to 9. 

Very truly yours, 

T. Pickering. 

Noah Webster to R. King. 

New Haven, May 5th, 1806. 
Sir: 

The circumstances of the United States are critical and seem 
to require some union of sentiment & concert of measures among 
the real friends of public safety & National character. I have 
seen the spirited & appropriate resolution of the federal gentle- 
men, on the occasion of the outrage lately committed by the 
British ship in N. York Harbor, but have not yet heard of the 
issue of the election in the city — an issue which I deem important. 

I take the liberty however to request your opinion on the ex- 
pediency of attempting to procure some expression of the public 
sentiments of this State. Our Legislature will meet next Thurs- 
day, & there can be no doubt of their readiness to take any 
step in the present crisis, which on deliberate consultation shall 
be deemed prudent. The federal strength in Massachusetts, if 
not totally overwhelmed, is extremely impaired, & Connecticut 
alone stands firm with a commanding majority. The great ques- 
tion seems to be whether the time has arrived, when the current 
of public opinion in favor of the present administration can be 
arrested & turned. Can the folly, the imbecility, & the corrup- 
tion which have reduced us to a most deplorable condition, be 
made to appear with such evidence as to silence and confound 
the adherents of the present administration ? Is there any thing 

5l6 RUFUS KING. [1806 

now existing which can change or commence a change of the 
confidence of that class of people in their leader ? 

As a general rule it is clear that the Legislatures of the States 
should not interfere with the measures of the national Govern- 
ment. But are there not emergencies when such interference is 
not only right but indispensable ? And to what point of public 
danger & national humiliation must we be reduced before an 
expression of the public will, by the constituent members of the 
confederation becomes expedient or justifiable ? 

I have not time to suggest the views I have of the subject. 
The opinions of gentlemen here are various on this question, & 
it deserves to be considered in all its aspects before any other 
step is taken. I have thought it so important as to ask your 
opinion, &, if you please, the opinions of other influential gentle- 
men in New York, whether at the approaching session of our 
Legislature, it is best to express the opinions of that body on the 
extraordinary measures of the general government, which appear 
to me to have actually yielded up our Independence — in violation 
of the highest duty imposed on the administrators of that Govt, 
by public confidence and the constitution.* Your answer ad- 
dressed to me at Hartford will oblige 

Sir your most obed. Servt., 

Noah Webster. 

* Endorsed by R. K. " Ansd. that nothing should be done without ap- 
proval by Ellsworth, The Govr., &c." 

CHAPTER XXXII. 

Miranda to King — Expects to embark for Trinidad — Asks for Help — King says 
unauthorized — Further Communications. — King to Madison — Communi- 
cates confidentially Miranda's Plans — Miranda sails for N. York — Vansit- 
tartto King — England's Dealings with Miranda — Present Views of public 
Men in England — King to Secretar)' of State, Sends him Vansittart's Letter 
for the President to read — Miranda to Gore — Account of his Preparations 
to sail for Trinidad — Urging him to assist him — King to Gore — Miranda's 
Arrival in N. York and his Plans — Madison to King, acknowledging 
Receipt of his Letters — Miranda to King, urging him to ask his Friends 
to contribute Money for him — Declined by King — Miranda to King — He 
sails — Estimate of Mr. King's Action in the Matter — Help in Congress in- 
voked by Miranda's Friends against Prosecution — King to Gore — How 
his Name mixed with the Enquiry — King to Vansittart. 

Miranda wrote to Mr. King, August 23, 1803, from 
London : 

" La conduite ou la betise, men chere ami, va son train ici — 
de maniere que je suis decide a partir par le premier convoi, avec 
ou sans secours (for Trinidad). Leur conduite me parait a cette 
heure suspect, et Dieu sgait si elle n'est pas perfide ! Ainsi je 
vous conjure au nom de votre patrie et de la mienne de nous faire 
parvenir des secours au plutot — Le point ou il faut les diriger 
est I'isle de Trinidad." 

What he asked for were ships loaded with flour and, most 
urgently, four thousand muskets with bayonets, ammunition 
for them, priming powder, pikes — and a hundred or two hun- 
dred brave Americans. On the same sheet under date of 
August 30, he says that he has finally made a definite arrange- 
ment with the Government to transport him in a frigate to 
Trinidad, has received from it a small sum of money, and that 
he has had promised money and men at the Island. He 
therefore earnestly entreats Mr. King to have forwarded to 

him 

517 

5l8 RUFUS KING. ['805 

" sans faute deux batimens Americains pour le moins, avec 
quelques armes, et quelques dizaines (sinon des Centaines) de 
braves enfans de Colombia." 

He encloses a statement of the cost of 5000 men with 
necessary arms &c., for one year, about 4J millions of 
dollars, &c. 

On the back of this letter, " Rec. Oct. 8th 1803," is endorsed. 
N. B. The writer has no authority to make to me these proposi- 
tions ; nor have I inclination to comply with them. Indeed, I 
could not were I inclined, such supplies being contrary to Law. 

(Signed) Rufus King Oct. 9, 1803. 

Several letters relative to Miranda's affairs both from Mr. 
King and Mr. Gore will be found on pages 429 to 435 of this 
volume. But as nothing new occurred to change the rela- 
tions of Great Britain with Spain, Miranda made no new 
communications to Mr. King until on July 13, 1805, he writes,, 
that after *' inconceivable and unsupportable delays he was 
about to sail for New York," and asking him to inform those 
who had promised to assist him ** that the time for action 
had arrived." In a postscript dated August 8th, he says, 
" the time for our departure is fixed for the 15th of this 
month." 

Mr. King communicated this letter " in secret " to the 
Secretary of State. 

Copy. 

R. King to J. Madison, Secy, of State. 

Secret. 

Jamaica, L. I., Oct. 15, 1805. 
Sir: 

You will probably recollect that soon after my return to Eng^ 
land, I communicated to you the extract of a letter that I had re- 
ceived and which related to an object respecting which we cannot 
be indifferent. For some time past I have heard nothing farther 
on the subject. A few days since, however, I received a letter 
from the same person dated London August 8, the following 
extract of which I have thought it expedient confidentially to com- 
municate to you. 

1805] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 519 

*' Apres des inconsequences et des retards inconcevables et in- 
supportables, nous voila surle point de partir. . . . Je compte 
m'embarquer dans le courant de ce mois." " P. S. C'est pour le 
15 de ce mois (Aout) que notre depart est fixe." 

Whether any adequate succour has been furnished by England 
or favorable expectations are derived from a supposed state of 
things between the U. S. & Spain is what at present I have no 
satisfactory means of deciding. I may, however, shortly receive 
more exact information. 

With sentiments of Respect & Esteem &c. 

RuFUS King. 

Miranda, tired, as has been seen, of waiting for the assis- 
tance he had hoped to receive from England, sailed for 
America, to ascertain there what arrangements he could 
make to forward his plans. He arrived in New York on 
Nov. 9, 1805, bringing with him a long letter dated Aug. 14, 
from Mr. N. Vansittart to Mr. King, giving him a general 
view of the past relations with Miranda and of the state of 
ministerial and public opinion in England relative to the 
liberation of the Spanish Provinces. 

N. Vansittart to R. King. 

London, Aug. 14, 1805. 
My dear Sir : 

I have often blamed myself for my long omission in writing to 

you as well as to some other valuable friends who are abroad, but 

have found myself embarrassed, not only by the frequent pressure 

of business and other avocations, but perhaps in a still greater 

degree by the uncertainty of my own situation. It would have 

appeared reserved and perhaps unkind to have said nothing of 

my own position and views, and yet for the last eighteen months 

I could scarcely have given any account of myself which would 

not have misled my correspondent at the time the letter could 

reach him. I should have been happy in writing to a friend 

whose good opinion I so much value to have entered into such 

an explanation as to show that this uncertainty has not arisen from 

any unsteadiness in my principles, or inconsistency in my conduct, 

520 RUFUS KING, [1805 

but has been the unavoidable result of the circumstances in which 
I have been placed, had not the occasion of my writing been of a 
very peculiar kind and connected with circumstances of much 
greater importance than the fortunes & estimation of any individual. 

This will be delivered to you by our common friend, Genl. 
Miranda, who has at last embarked with scarcely any other means 
than the resources of his own mind in the execution of the great 
plan which for so many years he has meditated for the liberation 
of his country. 

You are, I believe, as well acquainted with the prospects of 
support held out to him long ago in this kingdom as well as on 
some occasions by certain continental powers, as well as with the 
preparations made for that purpose by the English Government 
for a short time preceding the signature of the last peace. But I 
presume you have not heard that soon after the renewal of the 
war, I obtained leave to make a private provision of Arms, Cloth- 
ing & Stores for 5000 men as a preparation in case a rupture 
with Spain should take place. The Government however enter- 
taining a hope (on grounds which never appeared satisfactory to 
me and which I shall not now discuss) that the neutrality of 
Spain might be preserved, directed the articles which had been 
collected to be applied to other currrent services previous to the 
change of administration which took place last year. You will 
learn from Genl. Miranda what has since passed between him and 
the members of the present ministry. He had for some time after 
the commencement of hostilities with Spain reason to hope for 
active & cordial assistance, but the attention of the Government 
has been so much engaged with different, & I fear, unattainable 
objects that he has at last determined in utter despair of their 
taking any decisive steps, to try what can be effected by such 
resources as America can furnish and may be willing to afford 
him either as an enterprize sanctioned by public authority or 
undertaken by individual adventures. 

You will be the best judge what support he will be likely to 
meet with in America, and your influence will be of the utmost 
importance to him. You are also by your long residence in 
England, and your intimacy with men of different sentiments and 
parties, no inadequate judge how far such a plan, supposing the 
execution of it to be successfully commenced would derive en- 

1805] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. $21 

-couragement and aid from this country. But on that subject I 
will shortly state the best opinion I have been able to form. Our 
mercantile body are naturally anxious for an extension of trade 
and look with great anxiety to a removal of the restraints which 
in a great degree exclude them from the rich market of S. Amer- 
ica ; and a great body of our most reasonable and judicious men 
consider a well combined system of independence as the best and 
only effectual security to preserve those immense territories from 
falling, like the mother country, under the dominion of France 
and furnishing resources sufficient to enable that ambitious and 
domineering power to complete the subjugation of Europe. They 
therefore consider this country as bound to support such an 
attempt not only as a justifiable measure of hostility but on the 
.strictest principles of self defence. 

On the other hand there are not wanting men of great weight 
and authority, who have such a dread and abhorrence of any 
thing which bears the name or approaches to the semblance of 
revolution that they think all such ideas ought in the most pointed 
manner to be discountenanced^ if not directly resisted. It is vain to 
argue with them, that the natural and inevitable course of events 
leads to separation of populous and rapidly increasing Colonies 
from a feeble, decrepit and degraded government ; that we might 
as well attempt to stop the tide, as to stop the progress or long 
secure the subjection of countries so circumstanced, but that it is 
in some degree in our power to select the time and influence the 
direction of their great change, and by rendering it more easy and 
more beneficial to secure the gratitude and attachment of the new 
Power, whose formation we could not prevent, for they will 
answer that the effects of the change are so uncertain, and the 
evils attending may and probably will be so terrible that we ought 
on no account incur the guilt and risque the consequences of co- 
operating to produce it. 

Of the great parties which divide our State, I have good reason 
to believe that the leaders of the present ministry incline to the 
first opinion ; as it appears from circumstances within my own 
knowledge, that they had not long since a serious intention of fur- 
nishing Genl. Miranda with the succours he required, and only 
relinquished the plan from an unwillingness to divert the force 
which they judged to be necessary from other objects which they 

322 RUFUS KING. [1805 

considered more immediately important. The sentiments of the 
late Administration sufficiently appear from the conduct they 
pursued at the close of the last war, but I must do them the jus- 
tice to add that on the conclusion of Peace every idea inconsistent 
with the strictest discharge of the duties of amity towards Spain 
was entirely relinquished. 

With the sentiments of the opposition parties I am less inti-^ 
mately acquainted ; but I have always understood Mr. Fox and 
his friends to be favorable to emancipation of S. America, and 
it seems conformable to the general tenor of their principles that 
they should be so. Lord Grenville not long since took an oppor- 
tunity in the House of Lords to declare vehemently against it, to 
the surprize of many persons who had understood him to express 
different sentiments in private on former occasions. 

But whatever may be the sentiments of particular men previous 
to the attempt, I have no doubt that obvious views of great na- 
tional advantage will occasion nearly a general concurrence in its 
favor in case of a prosperous commencement, and that unless 
Peace should be concluded and a question of public faith occur^ 
the general disposition of the country will in a manner compel 
almost any government to give a vigorous support to the enter- 
prize. 

In one important respect it will derive unavoidable assistance 
from our forces, viz. that both our blockading squadrons in Europe 
and our fleets in the West Indies will be nearly as vigilant and 
useful in intercepting any succours which the Spaniards or French 
may attempt to send to the Colonies as if they were stationed for 
that express purpose. 

You will perceive, my dear Sir, that I have addressed you 
throughout not only with the freedom of a friend, but the senti- 
ments of an Englishman, from a firm conviction, that in this in- 
stance (and I believe if rightly understood in every other) the 
views and interests of this Country and the United States must 
be indissolubly united. Believe me, my dear Sir, 

With great Esteem, very Sincerely yours, 

N. Vansittart. 

Mr. King has endorsed on this letter 

" Reed, by Miranda Nov. loth, sent inclosed to Mr. Madison for 
the Pres. Perusal Nov. 25, received from Mr. Madison Deer. 5th. '" 

1805] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 523 

Copy. 

R. King to J. Madison, Secretary of State. 

Private. 

New York, Nov. 25, 1805. 
Sir : 

I had the honour to write to you on the 15th of last month, since 
when I have received by General Miranda, who has arrived here, 
a letter from Mr. N. Vansittart, a member of the British Parlia- 
ment, and who was likewise a member of the late Administration 
of Mr. Addington. Mr. Vansittart being a man of distinguished 
probity and in a situation to understand fully the subject on 
which he writes, I send you his letter for the President's perusal^ 
requesting that it may afterwards be returned to me. 

With great respect, &c. 

R. King. 

It will thus be seen that whatever agency Mr. King may- 
have had in assisting Miranda, there is no evidence of his 
willingness to engage in an enterprize undertaken against a 
friendly nation without the knowledge of his own govern- 
ment. He was certainly warmly interested in the proposed 
liberation of the Spanish South American Colonies, and had 
been for years ; but it does not appear that he contemplated 
a successful issue without the leadership of Great Britain to 
cripple the resources of her great enemy and, as Mr. King 
thought, of his own country, which France would obtain 
through her power over the Spanish Colonies — Spain being 
then a mere puppet in the hands of France. 

Miranda wrote to Mr. Gore from New York 27 Nov., 
1805, the first direct communication after his arrival there. 

Vous avez appris sans doute, mon cher ami, que je suis arrive 
ici depuis le 9 du courant. Nous avons arrange deja nos affaires 
de maniere que je puisse partir d'ici vers le fin du mois prochain 
sans faute. Deux batimens armes et tres bien equipes sont prets 
pour cet objet ; tout ce qui nous manque (et que j'espere obtenir 
par vos amis de Boston) est le compliment des armes, et un peu 
d'argent pour partir sans delai. Ce dernier article ne sera pas 

524 RUFUS KING. [1805 

meme necessaire si on nous offre le moindre assentiment a Wash- 
ington ; puisque dans ce cas on nous promet dans cette ville ici 
tout les secours pecunieres qui sont necessaires. Enfin pour que 
vous soyez parfaitement instruit de ce que nous avons ici, et de 
ce qui nous manque pour faire notre debut avec succes, nous 
sommes convenus (notre ami d'ici et moi) que le Major Arm- 
strong, porteur de celle-ci et un des cooperateurs, personne mure 
et discrete, passe chez voas pour donner toux les renseignmens et 
toute I'information necessaire sur cet objet afin que I'ensemble 
marche avec un accord parfait. 

Comme le risque est plus considerable et le service bien plus 
important dans cette premiere occasion que par la suite, il faut 
aussi que les profits soient en proportion — et je croirai qu'un 
cent pour cent et meme d'advantage, ne serait pas un trop haut 
prix. Vour ferez en tout cas comme vous jugerez apropos. 

Voici une lettre pour mon ami le Genl. Knox, qui pourroit 
peut-etre seconder nos efforts dans le moment actuel ; mais si 
vous croyez cette demarche inutile ou peu necessaire, vous 
pourrez la supprimer. C'est avec I'avis de notre ami commun ici 
que je I'ai ecrite et que je fais tout, desirant que la chose se fasse 
avec sagesse et bonne direction pour que la necessite soit notre 
recompense. Je part demain pour Washington, et vous aurez de 
mes nouvelles sans faute. 

Agissez en tout cas, je vous prie, avec promptitude et energie 
puisque le moment est precieux et les avantages incalculables ! 

Voici le moyen que notre Commodore propose pour envoyer 
les armes de Boston ici ^' — et pour prevenir I'effet de la loi qui 
exige une caution, &c. 

Yours most sincerely, 

M A. 

*A vessel to be cleared out from Boston for N. Orleans ; pass thro' the Sound, 

come to anchor in the passage before arriving at Hell Gate ; a person dispatched 

from her to N. Y. to inform of her arrival, &c, and then wait further orders. 

No difficulty can possibly arise. She will pass through the Sound when the 

ship leaves the port of N. Y. , and join at the Hook. No law exists to prevent 

vessels carrying the articles in question from Boston to N. O. No law exists to 

prevent her passing through the Sound for any reason which may be given or 

asked. 

J. S. 

1805] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 525 

RuFus King to C. Gore. 

New York, Nov. 29, 1805. 
Dear Sir : 

Some short time since I reed, a letter from Mr. Vansittart, ex- 
plaining pretty fully the sentiments of the leading men of different 
parties in England concerning S. America. Mr. Addington's 
friends were decided in the event of a Spanish war to afford G. 
M. succour to attempt the long meditated Revolution. Mr. Pitt 
also promised that assistance should be given as soon as a war 
with Spain took place, and the assurances were continued till 
the new coalition was founded, when G. M. was told that such 
were the engagements of England that she was not at liberty to 
divide her attentions or her resources. G. M. immediately de- 
termined to embark for the U. S. Mr. Vansittart believes that the 
Revolution of S. Amer. would be highly popular in England, 
especially among the manufacturing and commercial part of the 
nation, and that if a beginning were made, the Government, 
whatever might be its sentiments, would be obliged to counte- 
nance, and even to support the measure. Mr. Vansittart's reason- 
ing which leads to this conclusion appears to me judicious. 

In this condition of England G. M. has arrived here, altogether 
without means, except his personal knowledge and talents, in order 
to embark in the enterprize he has so long and so maturely con- 
sidered. There are three courses before him one of which he 
seems resolved to pursue. 

1. To make the attempt with the countenance and support of 
the U. S. 

2. To make it with the cooperation of individuals. 

3. To make it without foreign succour wholly depending on 
the disposition and aid of the inhabitants. 

The General left town this morning to sound the administration. 
I have no means of forming a satisfactory opinion in what 
temper he will be likely to find our Chiefs. He yesterday showed 
me the copy of a letter he had written to you, and I have thought 
it due to the occasion as well as to our friendship to lose no time 
in sending you this communication. 

With unfeigned attachment &c. 

RuFus King. 

526 RUFUS KING. [1805 

J. Madison to R. King. 

Private. 

Washington, Deer. 4, 1805. 

Sir: 

I have received your favor of the 25th ulto. inclosing one to 

you from Mr. Vansittart, which I now return as you requested, after 

having submitted it to the perusal of the President. As it is of 

importance to understand the way of thinking in Great Britain 

with respect to Spanish America and what the Government there 

does not at this particular time mean to undertake as well as 

what under other circumstances it may probably undertake towards 

the object pursued by Genl. Miranda, the communication of Mr. 

Yansittart's information relative thereto claims acknowledgments 

which I pray you to accept with assurances of the high respect 

with which I have the honor to be 

Your most obt. Servt. 

James Madison. 

Miranda to R. King. 

Private. 

New York, ce 30 Deer,, 1805. 

I'ai vu mes Cooporateurs hier en vous quittant, et je les ai 
trouve tous decides a suivre sans relache cette patriotique entre- 
prise, avec un zele vraiment heroique. 

Mais comme la promptitude, ainsi que 1' e'tendue des apprets, 
tient en quelque sort dans ce moment aux supports que je puisse 
leur procurer de mon cote, je vous supplie de ne pas negliger 
aujourd'hui la demarche dont nous sommes convenus hier au 
soir, afin qu 'ils puissent definitivement fixer dans la journee le 
nombre de batimens et la quantite des armes qui doivent etre pretes 
dans 10 jours. 

Je ne vous fais point d'apologie sur mon importunite, puisque 
vous connoissez 1' importance de 1' objet et la presse du tems. 

A vous invariablement 

Miranda. 

P. S. Ci-joint est le maximum de leur demande.* 

Cash 5000, 60 D. 5000., 90 D. 5000, 120 D 5000. 

"*I saw my eooperators yesterday after leaving you, and found them all de- 
cided to carry on without delay this patriotic Enterprize with a zeal truly heroic. 
But as promptness, as well as the extent of the preparations, depends in some 

l8o6] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 52/ 

On the back of this letter Mr. King has written 

"Miranda 30 December 1805. Respecting succours; ansd. 
verbally, that as our Govt, having an opening to do so, had not 
intimated to any of my friends in confidence even that the supplies 
might be made in discretion, and privately, there was a difficulty 
in making the same which would prevent it being done." 

The last letter from Miranda relative to his expedition 
announces his departure. 

Miranda to R. King. 

Off the Hook, 2 of Febr., 9 o'clk, a.m. 
Dear Sir : 

Nous voila hors du port et en compagnie de 180 enfans de Colom- 

l)ia — une meilleure suite a tous egards que celle qui accompagnoit 

le Vainqueur de Pompe quand Ciceron lui donna a diner dans la 

Ville de Formiae. Que la Providence nous seconde et nous ferons 

mieux peut-etre.* 

Ever yours 

Miranda. 

In an appendix, will be found a paper written by Mr. 
King on March 5, 1806, detailing his intercourse with 
Miranda from the time of his arrival in New York until his 
departure, and also Mr. King's examination before the Judge 
of the District Court of New York by the District-Attorney 
relative to matters connected with sailing of the Leander and 
his connection with General Miranda before the departure 
of the vessel. 

<iegree at this moment upon the assistance I can provide on my side, I beseech 
you not to neglect today the steps we agreed upon last evening, in order that 
they may be able to fix definitively during the day the number of vessels and 
the quantity of arms that should be ready in 10 days. 

I make no apoligies for my importunity, as you know the importance of the 
object and the pressure of time. 

P. S. Annexed is the maximum of their requirement." 

* " Here we are outside the harbour, with 180 children of Columbia in com- 
pany : a better following in all respects than that which accompanied the Con- 
queror of Pompey when Cicero entertained him at dinner in the City of Formiae, 
May Providence help us and we shall do better perhaps." 

528 RUFUS KING, [1806 

It may be here stated that relying upon the assertion of 
Miranda, that though the Government would not assist, they 
would wink at what was done provided that discretion were 
used in making preparations for the Expedition, friends in 
New York advanced him money ; two small armed vessels 
went out to St. Domingo to enlist men there, and were fol- 
lowed by the ship Leander, in which Miranda and his men 
with arms and munitions of war embarked. Messrs. Ogden 
and Smith, who had been his agents in furnishing the vessel 
and providing the men and arms, etc., were after the sailing 
of the vessel subjected to a judicial inquiry on the ground 
of an infringement of the laws of the United States ; but 
were acquitted by the jury, as it was not proved satisfactorily 
that the laws of the United States had been broken. While 
the matter was pending in court, the judge refusing to admit 
proof of the connivance of, or the tacitly favoring the expedi- 
tion by the Executive, an attempt was made to obtain the 
interference of Congress to arrest the proceedings, by the 
presentation, in the House of Representatives, of a memorial, 
on the last day of the Session, from Messrs. Ogden and 
Smith, asking for relief from a prosecution in the Circuit 
Court of the United States for the district of New York, " for 
an alleged infraction of the laws of the United States in 
which, if guilty, they have been led into error by the con- 
duct of officers of the Executive Government," etc., thus 
distinctly charging certain officers of the Government with a 
knowledge of the Leander s sailing, time enough to have 
prevented it, meaning more definitely the President. A 
short but sharp debate ensued, the basis of which was a 
denial of the charge, unsupported by evidence and calculated 
not only to incense the country against the administration 
but against the tribunals of justice in which the case was 
pending. Let the case be decided there and not be prejudged. 
If unjustly decided, "then it would be time enough to in- 
terfere." The resolutions below were passed by an over- 
whelming vote. 

" Resolved, That the charges contained in the memorials of 

l8o6] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. _ 529 

Samuel G. Ogden and of William S. Smith are, in the opinion of 
this House, unsupported by any evidence, which, in the least de- 
gree, criminates the Executive Government of this country." 
75 to 8. 

" Resolved, that the said memorials appear to have been pre- 
sented at a time, and under circumstances insidiously calculated 
to excite unjust suspicions in the minds of the good people 
of this nation, against the existing Administration of the General 
Government." 70 to 13. — Annals of Congress, ist Session, 1805, 
i8c6, p. 1092. 

To close this incident in the life of Mr. King, the details 
of which will be found in the Appendix, the following letters 
are given. 

R. King to C. Gore. 

N. Yk., Mar. 9, 1806. 
My dear Sir : 

Observing the reports contained in the Newspapers respecting 
Miranda's Expedition, and that the equipment of the Leander 
has become matter of judicial enquiry, you may perhaps think it 
irregular that I say nothing to you on the subject, especially as my 
own name has been mentioned in relation to the business. 

It is not new to you that Miranda left England in utter dispair 
of obtaining succor there to enable him to carry into effect his long 
meditated views ; his hopes were that adequate assistance might be 
had here, either directly from Government, or thro' private indi- 
viduals. As soon as I understood directly his object, I at once 
told him that no prudent individuals would engage with him, at 
least that I could not recommend to any of my friends to do so, 
without the countenance and protection of Government, and there- 
fore advised him to proceed to Washington, and to lay his whole 
views before the Govt. This he concluded to do ; and in order 
that the Government might be fully acquainted with the temper of 
England and her Government on the subject of Miranda's plan,, 
as well as with Miranda's views in coming to the Secretary, I trans- 
mitted to Mr. Madison a letter that I had received from England 
fully disclosing the same, with a request that after being laid be- 
fore the President, it might be returned to me. This was done 

VOL. IV.— 34 

530 RUFUS KING. [i8o6 

with acknowledgments, &c, before Miranda arrived at Washing- 
ton. On his arrival there he took an early opportunity of opening 
his whole plan to the Government and concluded by asking their 
assistance, &c. Time being taken to consider the subject, he was 
answered that Govt, could or would not grant the succour he 
demanded, but that private persons might. What is here stated 
of what passed between the Govt, and Miranda rests solely upon 
his report to me, which however I fully credit : my understanding 
being that Govt, would not act, but that it would wink at the 
things being done by individuals. This report being transmitted 
by Miranda to Ogden, Smith and Lewis, the Leander was equipped 
and Miranda sailed about the 2nd of February. While the busi- 
ness was going on, he, M., urged me to engage my friends to assist 
by a loan of money, which I decidedly declined, because I be- 
lieved that Govt, would betray those, who should act in the per- 
suasion that they did not disapprove the measure. He wished 
me to converse with his associates, which I also refused. About 
a week before Miranda sailed, he wrote two letters, one to the 
Prest. the other to Mr. Madison, which assure them that he had 
in all things acted according to the intention of Govt, which he 
hoped he had duly or correctly understood (Sec. Of these letters he 
left copies with me. Three or four weeks after the date of these 
letters, and when Miranda v.-as fairly off, an enquiry has been in- 
stituted and Smith and Ogden have been arrested, as agents in 
this transaction. In the course of the examination. Smith having 
stated to the Judge that Miranda told him that he had communi- 
cated to me his project, as well as what had passed at Washington 
I was called as a witness. My examination was short and pointed 
to Miranda's communication of the expedition. I with others was 
recognized to attend the next court as a witness. The affair has 
created much attention. I understand the general impression is 
unfavourable to the honour of Govt. I felicitate myself that 
the sentiments I entertain of our Chief have kept me within the 
limits of extreme caution. I cannot with honour be a volunteer 
on this occasion agt. Govt., but if I am called as a witness on the 
prosecution they institute, all reserve will be at an end ; the whole 
must be told, and being told cannot leave any doubt of the un- 
worthy conduct of Govt, in this affair. This is entirely confi- 
dential. 

l8o6] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 53 1 

R. King to T. Pickering. 

New York, March 13, 1806. 
Dear Sir : 

Mr. Wolcott some days ago told me that he would write to Mr. 
Tracy on the subject of the Leander & Miranda's expedition, and 
as I presume you would see this letter, and preferred for particu- 
lar reasons, not to write myself, I have said nothing to you of this 
project. . . . 

C. Gore to R. King. 

Boston, March 26, 1806. 
Dear Sir : 

I was really gratified by the receipt of your last letter, for al- 
though I had no apprehension that you had acted incautiously, 
and saw that you had communicated to the Government intelli- 
gence of Miranda's plan, yet it was unknown to me, that you pos- 
sessed their acknowledgment of having received this information. 
Their baseness and meanness seem only to be exceeded by their 
extreme weakness. . . . 

C. Gore to R. King. 

Boston, April 15, 1806. 

. . . We see by the papers that the Government is base and 
mad enough to persist in persecuting the persons concerned in 
Miranda's Enterprise. I cannot but think this is one of the rocks 
on which our chief and his aids are likely to wreck their preten- 
sions to confidence ; and I look with much interest to the de- 
nouement of the business. . . . 

R. King to N. Vansittart. 

Sept. 30., 1806. 
Dear Sir : 

It is a long time since I have had the pleasure of hearing from 
you, tho' I often see your name in the Proceedings of Parliament. 
I wrote to you after Miranda left this Country, acknowledging the 
receipt of your Letter by him, and informing you that I had taken 
the Liberty of communicating it confidentially to the President. 

532 RUFUS KING, [i8o6 

In consequence, it is believed, of complaints to our Govt, respect- 
ing Miranda's Expedition, a prosecution was ordered to be insti- 
tuted against two persons, charged with having assisted him in 
preparing the same. After a long trial, both were acquitted ; the 
accused are understood to have justified or excused themselves 
by offering to prove that Govt, was privy to their conduct. But 
the Court declared the Statute to be the only Rule for its decision 
and (without enquiring into the allegation of privity) were the 
approbation even of Govt, proved, declared it would neither jus- 
tify nor excuse. Whether the Jury dissented from this interpre- 
tation of the law, or were moved by good-will in favour of 
Miranda's Enterprize, or deemed the proofs insufficient is matter 
of conjecture. The Business has excited a good deal of attention, 
and Govt, has not wholly escaped censure. 

As to the Expedition, after various disappointments, and sev- 
eral unsuccessful attempts, it still continues to be the fruitful 
source of contradictory Rumours. After getting possession of 
Coro, Miranda evacuated it and reimbarked early in August. 
Yesterday we had a Report that he had relanded and was joined 
by a large body of the Inhabitants. The inconsiderable force 
under Miranda's Command, is not sufficient to inspire confidence, 
and however well disposed toward him, the Inhabitants may be, 
they seem afraid to risk the consequences of joining him. If 
your negotiations for Peace fail, I cannot but believe that your 
administration will turn its attention seriously and efficaciously to 
this great object. Were I an English Minister I would not rest 
till the Resources of S. America were wrested from the hands of 
France, for they can no longer be regarded as those of Spain. 
With sincere regard your faithful servt. 

RuFus King. 

CHAPTER XXXIII. 

Tudor to King — Carrying Ice to the W. Indies — Dr. Romeyn to King — Elec- 
tion as Manager of the American Bible Society — King to Romeyn — De- 
clines the Office, though approving the Object of the Society — Action of 
the Episcopal Church to circulate the Bible with the Common Prayer 
Book — Gore to King — Pinckney to London to assist Monroe — King Re- 
ceives Degree of LL.D. from Dartmouth, Williams, and Harvard Colleges 
— Trustee of Columbia College — S. Smith to King — Death of his Son — 
Tudor to King — Failure of Application relative to Ice Monopoly — Specu- 
lations on European Affairs — Williams to King — British and American 
Commissioners said to have made a Treaty — King on an Outrage against 
Personal Liberty, in the Case of Alexander, a Lawyer in N. Orleans 
arrested by Gen'l Wilkinson. 

Wm. Tudor, Jr., to R. King. 

Boston, June 12, 1806. 
Dear Sir : 

Expecting to embark in the course of ten days for England, I 
am very desirous to obtain some letters from you,* of what kind 
and for what purpose I cannot better describe than by asking 
your indulgence while I retail as briefly as possible the motives 
of my voyage. 

About a year since my Brother & myself agreed to attempt to 
transport Ice to the West Indies. Various circumstances had for 
some time previous given rise to this scheme, and we gradually 
convinced ourselves that with proper precautions we might suc- 
ceed. ... It will be readily supposed that no small difficulty 
was encountered in persuading the Governments of the various 
colonies to listen to a plan considered at first as the wildest ex- 
travagance. Indeed I found but three persons in all the Islands 
I visited, who at the first moment embraced the idea and con- 
ceived it practicable. These were Genl. Ennouf, the Gov. of 

* Endorsed, " Ans'd, enclosing letter to W. Windham," 

233 

534 RUFUS KING. [ 1 806 

Guadaloupe, Lord Lavington at Antigua and a planter, a man of 
science, at Jamaica. 

We have obtained from the Govt, of Martinique, Guadaloupe 
& St. Domingo the exclusive privilege of importing & selling Ice 
and fresh provisions packed in the same for the term of ten years. 
In the English colonies we have made only three applications at 
Barbadoes, Antigua & Jamaica. At Antigua ... I had the 
honor of conversing with Lord Lavington fully on the subject ; 
he gave me & the project a flattering reception & told me did not 
doubt I should obtain an act in my favour, but as it must be 
passed with a "suspending clause," coming under the head of a 
" new and extraordinary nature," he would follow it home, to the 
Board of Privy Council, with a particular letter in its favour. 

At Jamaica I conversed with the most influential members of 
the Govt, of the Island. My friends had procured for me, a let- 
ter from Mr. Merry to Sir Eyrecoote, who received me with much 
politeness, though he thought it a '^ strange thing." As I had 
just received advices, it was in my power to inform him of the 
safe arrival of a cargo of Ice and provisions at Martinique, and 
of course that the experiment was decided. He told me it would 
be a matter of consultation and that he saw no objections. He 
made many enquiries about America and asked me particularly 
after you, telling me he had had the pleasure of dining with you 
frequently in London. 

I saw the most influential members of the Jamaica Assembly 
and they all thought I might confide in the good will of the 
Island towards our enterprise. They doubted, at least one of 
them did, whether I should obtain the act I wanted because it 
could not be passed without the suspending clause^ and as the 
Gov't of the Island deny to the mother country the right of con- 
troul, which is given by this clause, they were extremely cautious 
about passing any act that would agitate the question. They told 
me I should without doubt obtain a resolution of the Assembly 
in favour of the enterprise, and a second instructing the agent of 
the Island to back any application I should make at home. . . . 
By the exclusive privilege^ I mean exclusion of all individuals & 
vessels except those of the nation by whom it is granted ; so that 
while we open a new branch of commerce to their own subjects, 
we make no interference with their rights, but only ask exclusive 

i8o6] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 535 

favour as regards all others. We undertook this novel enterprise 
at the hazard of considerable pecuniary loss, and eternal ridicule 
if we did not succeed, and we ask of each Govt, as our reward, a 
privilege for a certain term over foreigners alone. . . . 

From what has been said (I beg leave to add confidentially), 
you know better than myself what would serve me in my applica- 
tion to government. I know I could carry no letters which would 
be of so much service to me. . . . 

With great respect, yr. humb. Servt., 

William Tudor, Jr. 

Dr. Romeyn to Honble. Rufus King. 

New York, July 17, 1806. 
Dr. Sir : 

In compliance with the direction of the Board of Managers of 
the American Bible Society, I have the honour to inform you 
that the Convention which formed that Society elected you one 
of the Managers. 

The Board fondly cherish the hope that this National Institu- 
tion meets with your approbatton, & that you will unite with them 
in their labour of love and work of faith. I need not add that 
your acceptance of the office will be highly gratifying to the 
Board & afford a powerful stimulus to their zeal and activity in 
forwarding the great and good cause of furnishing the destitute 
with the Word of Life. 

I am Dr. Sir your obedt. Servt., 

M. P. Romeyn, Secy &c. 

R. King to Rev. Doctr. Romeyn, Sec. 

Sir: 

I have received your letter of the 17th instant, which informs 
me that I have been elected a manager of the American Bible 
Society ; and calls on me to make known whether I accept the 
appointment. The object of the Society's labours well deserves 
and receives my approbation ; but as I am connected with the 
Body of Episcopalians, and the Bp. to whose opinions in matter 
of order and discipline I am inclined to defer, has signified to us, 
that the object whose attainment is the common desire of all 

536 RUFUS KING, [1806 

may be more fitly promoted in the mode he has been pleased to 
indicate, I think it expedient to observe his counsel and to de- 
cline the charge of a manager of the American Bible Society.* 
With great respect & Regards I am, Sir, yr. obed. Servt. 

RuFus King. 

Dr. Romeyn to Hon. Rufus King. 

New York, July 31, 1806. 

Sir : 

The Managers of the American Bible Society most sincerely 
regret that any considerations should have existed to deprive 
them of the aid of your co-operation, & the honour and influence 
of your name, as a member of their Board. Their disappoint- 
ment has its relief, however, in the assurance that " the object of 
the Society's labours well deserves and receives your entire 
approbation." I have the honour to be, Sir your obed. Servt. 

M. P. Romeyn, Sec D. C. 

* In explanation of the above correspondence and of the position taken by 
Mr. King, it may be stated that Bishop Moore was then contemplating and 
urging the establishment of a Society in Connection with the Episcopal Church 
whose purpose should be to print and circulate the Bible and with it the Prayer 
Book. This society was actually formed in 1809, and the First Report of its 
proceedings was made in 181 1. In it occurs the following paragraph : 

" We would beg leave, however, to express the opinion that Episcopalians, 
in their charitable efforts to diffuse the blessings of Christianity, should unite 
the Book of Common Prayer with the Bible. It is certainly the best summary 
of the doctrines and precepts of the Bible that ever was produced : and in the 
spirit of true piety, equally untinctured by enthusiasm on the one hand, and 
lukewarmness on the other, it is superior to all the productions of the human 
mind." p. ii. 

In the list of subscribers to this Society, given in this Report is found the 
name of Rufus King, as an annual subscriber of $50. 

Asst. Bishop Hobart in an address before the Auxiliary New York Bible and 
Common Prayer Book Society in March 8th, 1816, says. 

"We, who unite the distribution of the Book of Common Prayer with the 
Bible, advance a step further in this work of Christian Benevolence. We desire 
to make known to all men, not only the Word of God, but the Church of God, 
which we think the Book of Common Prayer sets forth in evangelical and 
primitive purity both in respect to doctrines, ministry and worship. In this 
union of the two objects, so far from being influenced by narrow prejudice and 
illiberal views, we think we follow the method which the Scriptures point out, 
and to which common sense and the natural course of things lead." 

i8o6] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 537 

C. Gore to R. King. 

Waltham, August 24, 1806. 

My Dear Friend : 

. . . When Pinckney was named for London, I presumed it 
was merely to assist Mr. Monroe in his Negotiation, but I shortly 
after was told, that He made an agreement with the President, to 
be the resident Minister. Knowing the Number of Dependants 
on him for Subsistence, and having heard, that his Business was 
extremely profitable (some say to the amount of 15,000 dollars 
per annum) I concluded that the motives, which could lead him 
to forego such Claims, in so fair a way of being gratified, for the 
narrow Support of his present Office, must be very strong : and 
probably stronger would not be required to induce an Abandon- 
ment of those Principles & that Conduct which. He must be con- 
vinced, afford the only rational Ground for the Freedom, Honour 
& Interest of the Country. 

I can form no conjecture what the British Ministry will be dis- 
posed to do, under the Circumstances that our weak & pitiful 
Administration have been pleased to place the two Nations. 
Should Mr. Fox adopt the Course, which would seem most natural, 
there can be little Doubt, but our government would as meanly 
retract, as they have unadvisedly hazarded their present system. 
Our Merchants are now trembling at the Expectation of a general 
Peace, which would greatly derange their Plans and Enterprizes, 
as these are founded on the Basis of a continued War in Europe 
for several years. 

The Conduct of the Democrats in the Legislature, on the 
Governor's Election, was such as to do them some Disservice in 
the public opinion. Sullivan & Austin are endeavouring to avail 
themselves of the Death of the Son of the latter to blacken the 
Federalists and promote their political Views, but- 1 cannot per- 
mit myself to doubt that when a public Trial shall disclose every 
Fact of the Transaction, which led to that event, every man will 
be satisfied, that it was the individual meanness, and base lying 
spirit of old Austin, with respect to Selfridge's professional con- 
duct, wherein Politics or Party were no way interested, that 
produced the Quarrel between these two ; and to the same false 
& dastardly Temper of old Austin, joined to a malignant Desire 

538 KUFUS KING. [1806 

of Revenge at any Expence, but his own personal Safety, will be 
imputed the Destruction of his Son.* . . . 

Your faithful Friend 
C. Gore. 

The Govr. of H. College, on Commencement Day, confer'd the 
Degree of L.L.D. on Judges Marshall, Patterson, & yourself. 

The announcement made by Mr. Gore, that Mr. King had 
had the Degree of L.L.D. conferred on him by Harvard 
College, gives an opportunity here to say that a similar 
honor had been bestowed upon him by the Corporation of 
Dartmouth College in 1802, and by Williams College in 1803, 
as the following correspondence shows : 

Eben'r. Fitch to Rufus King, Esq., L. L. D. 

Williams College, Williamston, Sept. 2S, 1803. 
Sir : 

I have the pleasure officially to inform you that the Corporation 

of Williams College, at their late Commencement, conferred on 

you the Degree of Doctor of Laws. Our regulations require that 

a Gentleman on whom a Doctorate in any of the learned profes- 

* C. Gore to R. King. 

Boston, Aug. 5, 1806. 
My Dear Friend : 

. Yesterday a Mr. Selfridge, a Lawyer of this Town, having had 
some Difference with Benjn. Austin, in which He had acted with his Charac- 
teristic Baseness and Falsehood, published in the Paper, that this Benj. Austin 
was a Scoundrel, Liar, &c. Austin's Son, a stout young man, armed Himself 
with a Club and went to attack Selfridge ; the latter shot the former through 
the Body, and He died almost instantly. There are various Stories, as you 
will suppose, relative to the Transaction, and unfortunately those only which 
made against Selfridge were detailed to the Jury of Inquest, which were that 
Selfridge fired at Austin before He struck or offered to strike ; while others 
say that Selfridge received two or three blows, and actually retreated to the 
wall, warning his Antagonist, that he would shoot Him, if He persisted, before 
He discharged his Pistol. Endeavour will not be wanting to make this a Party 
Affair, but I think after the first Passions have subsided, it will not be attended 
with the effect expected ; for Ben. Austin's Conduct was base and mean in the 
extreme, and the Son was undoubtedly set on by the Father to beat this man, 
who was feeble and in no degree a Match for the Son at cudgelling. 

Yours truly 

C. Gore. 

i8o6] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 539 

sions is conferred, should have been nominated at a previous meet- 
ing of the Board. You were duly nominated at our Commence- 
ment in Sept. 1802. Soon after it came to our knowledge that 
the Corporation of Dartmouth College had anticipated us in our 
intentions. But the Corporation of this College, duly appreciat- 
ing the eminent services rendered to your Country in your late 
important Embassy to the Court of London, and your acquired 
reputation for general jural and political science, were unwilling 
not to give you this small, but unequivocal testimony of their high 
esteem, repect and friendship. 

With great respect and consideration, I am, Sir, your most 
obedient & very humble servt, 

Eben'r Fitch. 

To this Mr. King responded : 

R. King to Eben'r. Fitch. 

Williams College, New York, Oct. 12, 1803. 
Sir: 

I have had the honour to receive your letter of the 28th, of Sept., 
and I entreat the favour of you to present to the Corporation of 
Williams College my most respectful acknowledgment and thanks 
for the honour it has been pleased to confer upon me : an honour 
which I must altogether ascribe to the indulgent partiality of the 
Corporation, rather than to any acquirements that give to me a 
title to this distinction. 

Be pleased, Sir, to accept my thanks for the polite and friendly 
terms in which you have communicated this act of the Corpora- 
tion, and to be assured of the respect and esteem with which I 
have the honour to be 

Sir, your obedt. & faithful Servt., 

RuFus King. 

The Rev. Dr. Beach wrote to Mr. King, that on August 
4, 1806, he was elected a Trustee of Columbia College. He 
continued to act as such until the year 1824, when he resigned. 

S. Smith to R. King. 

Baltimore, 24 Nov., 1806. 
Dear Sir : 

The shock arising from the loss of my beloved son has been 
severely felt ; indeed, my Dr. friend, I find it difficult to find com- 

540 RUFUS KING. [1806 

fort in my own mind. Your letter has been a balm to my afflic- 
tion. It has afforded that consolation which cannot fail to gratify. 
It gives to my son that character, from a stranger, which his Parents, 
had too fondly cherished as their consolation in their advanced 
age and as the protection to six daughters. They have now only 
one brother, young, lively, amiable, but as all youths of twenty 
are, less steady than when more advanced ; so is he less than his 
brother. 

By the advice of those who have suffered similar losses (for this 
is my first) I am endeavoring to chase away Grief by an attention 
to Business — the mind whenever unoccupied reverts to its loss. 
But I will be comforted, I will find it in the friendship of men 
such as you are, my friend, and in the good qualities of my re- 
maining family. I pray you to present me respectfully to your 
amiable Lady and to believe me 

your friend, 

S. Smith. 

W. Tudor, Jr., to Hon. R. King. 

London, December 3, 1806. 
Dear Sir : 

The letter of introduction you did me the honour to give me 
to Mr. Windham, I left with a card soon after my arrival. The 
apprehension you mentioned in the letter to me, that I should 
find some difficulty in engaging their attention to my application, 
occupied as they were by the events of the war, I have realized 
in some degree. I had one interview with Ld. H. Petty, which 
was attended with a great deal of politeness on his part, but ter- 
minated with the interview. Mr. Windham, I have never heard 
from. I found it necessary to make my application to the Board 
of Trade, and had two or three conversations with Lord Auckland 
and Sir Joseph Banks on the subject and obtained my wish from 
that Board to carry on the enterprise in the form of an order of 
Council. In addition to the events of the war, they have had strong 
contested elections to carry on, so that it would have been un- 
reasonable indeed to have expected their attention to a subject 
of a private nature. 

t8o6] life and correspondence. 54 1 

W. Tudor to R. King. 

London, December 5, 1806. 
Dear Sir : 

. . . I could not find a person who believed at the begin- 
ning of the war that Prussia would be successful, but that she 
should be overthrown in one battle, that her whole army should 
be captured, her towns taken, her kingdom ravaged and her 
power annihilated in the space of one month, is a calamity that 
no one contemplated. Indeed even for the account of these dis- 
asters, they are indebted to the enemy. Lord Morpeth whom 
they sent to the Prussian headquarters found the army retreating 
after the first battle and he never stopped running not even to 
look behind him, till he got fairly onto the Island. In conse- 
quence they have only had the French Bulletins for information, 
and they have never certainly known to this day, where the King 
of Prussia is, or what are his intentions. As to the King person- 
ally, perhaps no man in Europe pities him, and he furnishes a use- 
ful lesson of what is the result of such conduct as he has pursued 
and such counsels as those of Count Haugwitz and Mr. Lombard. 
The total want of information from the Continent leaves the pub- 
lic nothing but conjecture about the future movements of the 
King of Prussia, of • Austria and Russia. In the meantime the 
" Gingerbread Baker," as the caricaturists have called him, is pre- 
paring a new batch of Kings & Knights. 

The dissolution of Parliament has produced a larger majority 
for the Ministry. Mr. Percival and Lord Castlereagh are the 
leaders of the opposition. It is not generally believed that the 
present " broad-bottomed " administration can hold together very 
long. Since the death of Mr. Fox the Grenvilles have had the 
decided superiority. Fortunately this nation are at present war- 
like in their humour. The capture of Buenos Ayres elated them 
excessively. The recent seizure of property at Hamburg has 
made them shrink a little. So long as they continue to keep Na- 
poleon at bay, there are hopes for the future. But in a free 
nation, the materials of faction always exist, and a free and rich 
nation have an unequal contest with the power, the ambition, the 
talents and the despotism of their enemy. They are too easily 
depressed, tho' they are unwilling to allow it themselves, and it 

542 RUFUS KING. [1806 

makes one fearful of the event when so great an effect was pro- 
duced by the late business at Hamburg. If B. dictates a peace to 
them, we must take our turn, and there must be different charac- 
ters at the helm, from what now hold it, to save us from destruc- 
tion. 

With the greatest respect yr. mt. hble. Servt., 

W. Tudor, Jr. 

S. Williams to R. King. 

London, 10 Dec, 1806. 
Dear Sir : 

I have your letters of 26 & 30 Sep. The Exportation of Grain 
is prohibited, and it is with difficulty that leave is obtained to 
ship seed oats to Ireland ; but I shall endeavour to ship yours in 
2 or 3 of the New York Ships, as Ship's stores or as Clover Seed. 
The Hives &c are not to go at present. I sent Mr. Lyman simi- 
lar Hives a few years ago, which I bought of Wildman in Holborn. 
Mr. L. had them in his Garden at Waltham, one or two years, but 
he found that the Bees ate or stung his fruit so much that he was 
induced to give away the Hives. 

The Newspapers will shew you the rapid Flight of Bonaparte 
to Universal Empire. He may march to China, if he desires it 
and would soon visit you, if John's Ships were not on the route 
or if John would lend him a few, as he intimated to Ld. Lauder- 
dale. Ld. L. was told at Paris that Bonae. wd. furnish soldiers if 
England wd. Ships to conquer the U. S. 

I send you a Pamphlet "The State of the Negotiation," which 
at first was supposed to have been published under the Sanction 
of the Ministers. They say it was not. 

It was reported yesterday that the B. and A. Commissioners 
had agreed upon the terms of a Treaty. They had not on Sunday 
when I saw Mr. Monroe. The B., as you may suppose, do not 
readily consent to a relaxation of the rule of 1756. It is said they 
may relax so far that the landing of colonial produce, securing 
the Duty, & re-shipping it in other bottoms, shall be considered 
as a termination of the voyage, and allow the Importer, or any 
other, to export it to Europe. They may insist upon a Duty 
being laid on the Exports. Entre nous, Mr. M. & Mr. P. asked 

i8o6] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 543 

me last week whether the Amern. Merchants would be willing to 
pay 2 or 2\ pr. cent, on the Export of Colonial Produce in case 
they could not otherwise agree with the B. Commrs. 

Understanding from them that the Deduction of the Draw- 
back, which amounts to about i pr. cent, would not be made if 
Congress chose to discontinue it, I told them that I thought it 
would not be a material objection, as it would be a charge of 
only I or I J pr. ct. more than the produce now pays on Exporta- 
tion. 

Should they agree to the Duty, Congress will I suspect continue 
the Deduction in order to get as much as they can from the 
Merchants. 

The India Trade may remain as fixed by Mr. Jay. 

The impressment of Seamen & compensation (costs and Dam- 
ages) for the detention of our Ships may rest in statu quo, or be 
reserved for future discussion — a dutch ad referendum. 

The Blockade of the British Isles by Nap's Decrees will have 
no other effect than giving 4 or 5 pr. ct. to the British Under- 
writers. 

If the British can venture to spare so many Troops, they will 
endeavour to take Spanish So. America. You may have to settle 
the Bound, of Louisiana with them. . . 

I am. Dr. Sir. your faithful Servt., 

S. Williams. 

Aaron Burr's plot to establish an independent government 
west of the AUeghanies, to include a part or all of Mexico, 
was brought to a close by the action of General Wilkinson 
in New Orleans. He had been looked upon as one of the 
leaders and was cognizant of all the plans, but at the last 
moment, whether through fear or loyalty, he caused the 
arrest of Bollman and other agents of Burr. A writ of 
habeas corpus was sued out in the Superior Court, but Gen- 
eral Wilkinson stated that he '' had arrested them as a step 
towards the defense of the city, on a charge of misprision of 
treason," refused to give them up and sent them as prisoners 
to Washington. One of the lawyers, James Alexander, who 
had been instrumental in obtaining a writ of habeas corpus, 

544 RUFUS KING. [1806 

by which one of the accused had been liberated, was arrested 
for the act and held as a prisoner.* Under what circum. 
stances, Mr. King was led to express an opinion on these high- 
handed measures, other than as a general disclaimer against 
them, does not appear. But among his papers, is found the 
article which follows, and which clearly shows his view of the 
outrages against personal liberty. 

The baneful effects of Faction are in few cases more manifest 
than in the ease and safety with which the most important prin- 
ciples of a free government may be violated by the Idols of popu- 
lar worship. That unprincipled and ambitious Demagogues 
should endeavour to stir up and alarm the prejudices of the Peo- 
ple, for the purpose of destroying the reputation of their political 
competitors and advancing themselves to Stations of trust and 
honor, is what no man acquainted with the history of past times 
will be surprized at. But that these same men, after attaining 
the object of their immoral ambition, should openly dare to com- 
mit the very offences, which they had falsely imputed to their 
opponents, would seem to be incredible, did we not from day to 
day behold the proofs of the profligate inconsistency. 

All may not, but many will, remember the criticisms and ob- 
jections, the doubts, the anxiety and the fears expressed by the 
Antifederalists, who noiv call themselves Republicatis, on the publi- 
cation of the Constitution of the U. S. In this State, especially, 
the deepest solicitude was manifested lest by the creation of a 
federal city, a federal judiciary, a federal army and other federal 
powers, the civil Rights of the Citizens should be abridged. 
Great and unwearied exertions were made by the Federalists to 
answer these objections and remove these impediments to the 
adoption of the federal constitution, and as the spirit of Faction 
had not at that period acquired the ascendency over men's minds, 
which it now unhappily possesses, these exertions of the Federal- 
ists prevailed and the sober understanding of the American Peo- 
ple approved and adopted the Constitution, which went into 
immediate operation under the auspices of its Framers and 
Friends. To soothe the mortified pride of the Antifederal Lead- 

* Hildreth's Hist, of U. S. 2d Series, vol. ii., p. 612-13. Genl. Wilkinson's 
Affidavits Annals of Congress^ 1806-7, p. 1013. 

l8o6] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 545 

ers, to promote harmony amongst the States, sundry amendments 
of the Constitution in the nature of a Bill of Rights were pro- 
posed and afterwards adopted. 

The ^th Article of these amendments declares " that no person 
shall be deprived of his liberty, without due process of Law." 

The 4th Article declares that the persons of the Citizens shall 
be secure from unreasonable seizure ; and that a warrant of arrest 
shall not issue, but on probable cause and supported by an oath." 

The 6th Article declares that in all criminal prosecutions, the 
accused shall enjoy the right of a speedy and public trial by an 
impartial jury of the State and district in which the crime shall 

excited jealousies and fears among the People, who in the end 
transferred the administration from the real friends of Liberty 
and their Country to the men who now so unworthily possess the 
Government. 

It is earnestly desired that the eyes of the motley and stupid 
worshippers of Mr. Jefferson, if for a moment they can be turned 
from the Idol of their false adoration, may be fixed upon the late 
Executive Proceedings, in the arrest, imprisonment, transportation 
and severe secret military confinement of Alexander, Swarthout 
and Bolman ; proceedings of the Executive, unprecedented in the 
annals of a free country, that breaks down the tallest and strongest 
barriers of our Liberties, at the same time that it shews an ineff- 
able contempt for the Constitution, the rights and the under- 
standing of the Citizen, inasmuch as the same has passed at the 
very seat of Government and under the noses of the Representa- 
tives, and Judges of the nation. 

VOL. IV.— 35 

544 RUFUS KING. [1806 

by which one of the accused had been liberated, was arrested 
for the act and held as a prisoner.* Under what circum_ 
stances, Mr. King was led to express an opinion on these high- 
handed measures, other than as a general disclaimer against 
them, does not appear. But among his papers, is found the 
article which follows, and which clearly shows his view of the 
outrages against personal liberty. 

The baneful effects of Faction are in few cases more manifest 
than in the ease and safety with which the most important prin- 
ciples of a free government may be violated by the Idols of popu- 

For Swarthout read here and elsewhere Swartwout. 

Antifederalists, luho ncnv call themselves Republicatis, on the publi- 
cation of the Constitution of the U. S. In this State, especially, 
the deepest solicitude was manifested lest by the creation of a 
federal city, a federal judiciary, a federal army and other federal 
powers, the civil Rights of the Citizens should be abridged. 
Great and unwearied exertions were made by the Federalists to 
answer these objections and remove these impediments to the 
adoption of the federal constitution, and as the spirit of Faction 
had not at that period acquired the ascendency over men's minds, 
which it now unhappily possesses, these exertions of the Federal- 
ists prevailed and the sober understanding of the American Peo- 
ple approved and adopted the Constitution, which went into 
immediate operation under the auspices of its Framers and 
Friends. To soothe the mortified pride of the Antifederal Lead- 

* Hildreth's Hist, of U. S. 2d Series, vol. ii., p. 612-13. Genl. Wilkinson's 
Affidavits Annals of Congress, 1806-7, P- 1013. 

l8o6] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 545 

ers, to promote harmony amongst the States, sundry amendments 
of the Constitution in the nature of a Bill of Rights were pro- 
posed and afterwards adopted. 

The ^th Article of these amendments declares " that no person 
shall be deprived of his liberty, without due process of Law." 

The 4th Article declares that the persons of the Citizens shall 
be secure from unreasonable seizure ; and that a warrant of arrest 
shall not issue, but on probable cause and supported by an oath." 

The 6th Article declares that in all criminal prosecutions, the 
accused shall enjoy the right of a speedy and public trial by an 
impartial jury of the State and district in which the crime shall 
have been committed, and shall have the assistance of counsel 
for his defence." 

These provisions which were already established and recognized 
as law throughout the U. S., if not expressed in the new Constitu- 
tion, were in no respect impaired by it ; and so long as the Gov- 
ernment continued in the hands of the Federalists, these were 
like every other provision of the Constitution preserved inviolate. 

The present chiefs and favorites of the People, by the aid of 
foreigners, imputed many errors to the federal administration, 
and amongst other false charges, ascribed to them a deliberate 
purpose to abridge, by the sedition Laws, the personal liberty of 
the Citizen. These charges united with others equally unjust 
excited jealousies and fears among the People, who in the end 
transferred the administration from the real friends of Liberty 
and their Country to the men who now so unworthily possess the 
Government. 

It is earnestly desired that the eyes of the motley and stupid 
worshippers of Mr. Jefferson, if for a moment they can be turned 
from the Idol of their false adoration, may be fixed upon the late 
Executive Proceedings, in the arrest, imprisonment, transportation 
and severe secret military confinement of Alexander, Swarthout 
and Bolman ; proceedings of the Executive, unprecedented in the 
annals of a free country, that breaks down the tallest and strongest 
barriers of our Liberties, at the same time that it shews an ineff- 
able contempt for the Constitution, the rights and the under- 
standing of the Citizen, inasmuch as the same has passed at the 
very seat of Government and under the noses of the Representa^ 
tives, and Judges of the nation. 

VOL. IV.— 35 

546 RUFUS KING. [1806 

Of right and according to the provisions of the Constitution, 
Alexander, Swarthout and Bolman, admitting even that they had 
committed Treason, could be arrested, tried and punished only 
in the district where the treason was committed. The Federal 
Town is a territory over which Congress have exclusive Jurisdic- 
tion ; its inhabitants are without political rights, being governed 
by laws, in the making of which they have no representation or 
influence. Alexander, Swarthout & Bolman committed no treason 
at Washington and are not liable to be carried from New Orleans 
to Washington for trial, for a crime committed at N. O. As well 
might the inhabitants of New York be taken up by the federal 
officer at Ft. Jay, put on board a Gun Boat and sent by sea to 
Baltimore and from thence to Washington, and be there tried for a 
breach of the Revenue Law, or any other offence against the 
U. S. The one is not a greater nor grosser violation of the per- 
sonal Rights and Liberty of the Citizen than the other ; and any 
argument that would justify the one will justify the other ; none 
however can be offered to excuse, much less justify, either. 

Instead of the persons (charged with treason in a vain, ridicu- 
lous nugatory military declaration) being arrested and pro- 
ceeded against at N. Orleans, where the judiciary is completely 
competent and free from all suspicion of disloyalty, and w-here 
alone they can be lawfully tried, what has been the course, and 
what have been the sentiments and language of the Centinels of 
freedom on this occasion ? As nearly the same proceedings were 
adopted in all three cases, a statement of the case of Mr. Alex- 
ander, which is the last of the three, will be sufficient to furnish 
an adequate knowledge of them all. It is possible that in some 
immaterial circumstance there may be some inaccuracy, the 
business having been transacted with much secrecy and great 
pains taken to hide it from the public eye. 

Mr. Alexander is a young man of very considerable talents, 
who, if not born, received his education in this City, and is known 
to many of its respectable inhabitants. Being here admitted to 
the Bar, he commenced his practice with reputation and w^ould 
without doubt have arrived at eminence in his profession, had he 
continued to reside in this City ; from which he removed to N. O. 
soon after its cession to the U. S. There his talents and learn- 
ing gave him distinction and he is ranked among the first lawyers 
-vvho practice in the Courts of that District. 

t8o6] life and correspondence, 547 

Genl. Wilkinson, without the slightest evidence of guilt, but 
with the view, as it would seem of removing this gentleman, who 
was known to be an able lawyer and whose principles would 
oblige him to offer his assistance to protect the civil rights of his 
fellow Citizens against the tyranny and oppression of the military, 
caused Mr. Alexander to be arrested, not by civil process, but by 
the military force acting under a vain, ridiculous, unprecedented 
and illegal military order, and thus having him in his custody 
transported him by sea, and in a course that carried him out of 
the limits of the country, to Baltimore, where by a military force, 
he was precluded from vindicating his rights by an appeal t^ the 
Laws, and from Baltimore secretly sent in military custody thro* 
the State of Maryland to Washington, and there, by authority 
derived from the President, confined in the Marine Barracks, 
guarded by a military force, and denied all intercourse and com- 
munication with the faithful friends of Liberty and law. While 
this outrageous scene was passing, an effort was made, and it is 
religiously believed at the instigation of the President, to pass an 
act to suspend the Habeas Corpus, not within the District of 
Orleans, not in the Western Country alone, but throughout the 
U. S. — a measure, had it passed, that would have put every man 
in the U. S., who is not ready to fall down and worship the Idol 
of Democracy, in the power of the Executive, which might by an 
order from the Secretary of War, or other automaton Minister, 
have seized any Citizen in any of the States, however virtuous, 
however innocent, transport him to Washington and there con- 
fine him in Barracks or Bastiles, without bail or mainprize — 
without communication with his friends, without any other of the 
supports of life, than those which were scantily afforded to the 
persecuted or to the Mysterious Man in the Iron 

Mask. 

How the Senate of the U. S. could have passed an Act which 
would have permitted such deeds of tyranny, is strange and 
incomprehensible. That body with all its weakness, meanness, 
and subserviency, contains men devoted to the freedom of their 
country and worthy of its highest confidence. The Bill failed 
in the H. of Reps., who in checking this act of tyranny, have 
atoned for much imbecility and folly that had before been exhib- 
ited. 

548 RUFUS KING. [1806 

By some means Mr. Chas. Lee, the late Attorney General had 
become acquainted with Mr. Alexander's situation, and went to 
confer with him in his dungeon ; but the myrmidons charged 
with his custody refused to admit the Minister of the Law to 
visit or speak with the prisoner, and insolently supported the 
denial at the point of the bayonet. These facts were reported 
to the Supreme Court, and being about to become matter of 
investigation, a letter was despatched from the Sec'y of War, by 
whose direction may be guessed, directed to the Officer charged 
with the military custody of Mr. Alexander, and instructing him 
to carry Mr. Alexander before Mr. Justice Ducket, one of the 
Judges of the local court of the federal City. This mandate 
was obeyed, and as the letter contained no charge against Mr. 
Alexander, instead of discharging Mr. Alexander, as it was his 
duty to have done, the complaisant Judge endorsed upon the 
letter that the officer had obeyed his orders ; whereupon the offi- 
cer, well understanding his part, informed Mr. Alexander that 
since the Judge declined renewing or giving any orders concern- 
ing him, he would no longer be troubled with his custody at the 
Marine Barracks, and accordingly left Mr. Alexander once more 
a freeman. 

The confinement of a citizen without due process of Law is 
false imprisonment. Due process of Law in cases of imprison- 
ment is a warrant in writing, under the hand and seal of a com- 
petent civil magistrate, expressing the cause of commitment, in 
order that the same may be examined into, if required, by a writ 
of Habeas Corpus. In England by the 31 Chap. 2, C. 2, to send 
a prisoner to Scotland, Ireland, or beyond the Sea, is illegal ; 
and whosoever commits a person contrary to that Statute, is dis- 
abled from bearing any office, incurs the penalties of a premunire, 
and is incapable of receiving the King's pardon : and the person 
injured has his suit agt. the offender and all his aiders and abet- 
tors ; and shall recover treble costs, besides damages, which na 
jury shall assess at less than ;^5oo. sterling. 

If Mr. Alexander does not pursue his gaolers and all their 
aiders, advisers, and abettors, he merits the scorn of his country 
in addition to all he has suffered. He owes it to himself as a 
freeman, and what is more, he owes to liberty and his country 
the vindictive pursuit of his detested oppressors. For, says the 

l8o6] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 549 

learned Blackstone, if once it were left in the power of any, the 
highest magistrate, to imprison arbitrarily whomever he or his 
officers thought proper, there would soon be an end of all other 
rights and immunities. Some have thought that unjust attacks 
even upon life, or property, at the arbitrary will of the magis- 
trate, are less dangerous to the Commonwealth, than such as are 
made upon the personal liberty of the subject. To bereave a 
man of life, or by violence to confiscate his estate, without accu- 
sation or trial, would be so gross and notorious an act of despot- 
ism, as at once to convey the alarm of tyranny throughout the 
whole kingdom ; but confinement of the person, by secretly 
hurrying him to gaol, when his sufferings are unknown, or for- 
gotten, is a less public, or a less striking and, therefore, a more 
dangerous engine of Arbitrary Movement. 

It is evident that this paper must have been written dur- 
ing the discussion in the Senate and House of Representa- 
tives of an act to suspend the writ of habeas corpus for three 
months, probably to meet these cases, an act passed by the 
Senate in secret session, but rejected almost unanimously by 
the House. Messrs. Bollman and Swarthout were dis- 
charged by the Supreme Court on a writ of habeas corpus, 
and Mr. Alexander " without any opposition on the part of 
the government," 

This paper, therefore, properly belongs to the history of 
i3o7 — as these discussions arose during the early months of 
that year.* 

* Hildreth Hist, of U. S., vol. ii., 2d Series, pp- 625-6. 

APPENDIX I. 

BRIBERY IN POLITICS. 

Although there are no records in the way of letters or 
diary of the time passed by Mr. King in Paris, there are 
some notes which have been preserved and may be found 
interesting. They are taken from Mr. King's Memorandum 
Book, and are headed " BRIBERY IN POLITICS." He says: 

Sir Jno. Dalrymple asserts that Louis 14, by Barillon, his 
Ambassador in England, bribed Sidney, Russell, Hampden and 
other illustrious Patriots of the Reign of Charles II. Mr. Fox 
went from London to Paris in 1802, for the purpose as he avowed 
of examining the Documents in the Scotch College (Barillon's 
Correspondence) to wh. Sir John Dalrymple refers and on wh. he 
grounds his assertions. 

While at Paris he told me that he had examined the corres- 
pondence and was convinced that the Patriots did receive Baril- 
lon's money, and added that he thought them justifiable in doing 
so. Charles II. wished war with France in hopes that this state 
of the nation wd. better assist him in recovering the Prerogatives 
lost in the civil war. The Patriots seeing his views opposed the 
war and the King of Fr. did not wish it. In this state of things, 
it was fair for Barillon to offer & them to take French money to 
be used not for their private purposes, but applied in acquiring 
an influence agt. a war with France. Mr. Fox declared that he 
did not believe that a penny was applied to the private use of 
the Patriots, but that the whole was employed in opposing the 
views of the Crown, and the opposition, being patriotic, he 
thought the receiving French money justifiable. R. K. 

In connection with this, and in corroboration of the re- 
ceived opinion that there was truth in the statements of 

551 

552 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING. 

Dalrymple, there is an entry in Mr. King's Memorandum 
Book under date of Dec. 28, 1801, which relates to this, 
and also contains a statement of a somewhat similar circum- 
stance in the War of the Revolution of the United States. 
It is headed : 

CORRUPTION — SYDNEY AND BARILLON — Dec. 28, 180I. 

Dined with Wilberforce — Mr. Otto, myself, with Mr. Wilber- 
force the whole party — Conversation Miscellaneous — Among 
topics, the Papers respecting the time of Charles I. & II. which 
are in the Scottish College Paris were mentioned. Dalrymple 
has given an account of some of these and particularly of Barillon's 
letters and of the money he paid to the great patriots of England. 
Mr. Wilberforce said Mr. Fox was employed in composing the 
history of that period and purposed going soon after the Definitive 
Treaty to Paris to examine these papers. I suggested some 
doubt of the truth of Dalrymple's account. Mr. Wilberforce 
said no doubt was entertained in Eng., that his report was a faith- 
ful one, but some persons doubted whether Barillon, the Fr. 
Ambassador, really paid the money to the persons to whom he 
charged it, thinking it more likely that he put it in his own pocket ; 
that for his own part he was disposed to believe that Sydney and 
the others did receive money from France, not for their private 
purposes, but to support their opposition to the Court, as the 
King certainly did procure money from abroad to enable himself 
to oppose them. Otto said he could entertain no doubt that 
such was the fact ; (addressing himself to me in a low voice as 
Mr. W. slipped into an adjoining room) even some of your 
patriots did the same thing. They applied to us (the Fr. Embassy 
in America) in this way — we can go on no farther without suc- 
cour— our party will fail or lose ground unless supported, &c., 
and what, continued Otto, can a minister do in such circum- 
stances ? he has but one course, he must give money, &c. I did 
not push the conversation any farther, intending to take a more 
convenient opportunity to renew it with Otto. 

It does not appear that this conversation was renewed. 
But it was apparently deemed of credibility — for Mr. King, 
as he has several times said, had a high regard for the in- 
tegrity and trustworthiness of Mr. Otto. 

APPENDIX, 553 

APPENDIX 11. 

INTERVIEW BETWEEN GALLATIN AND KING — 1803. 

Mr. Jefferson, writing on Aug. 1S03, from Monticello to 
Mr Gallatin* says among other things : 

I hope you will make every possible occasion of getting infor- 
mation from Mr. King as to the views and dispositions of Eng- 
land, and of satisfying him of the perfect friendship of this 
administration to that country. The impressment of our seamen, 
and the using our harbors as stations to sally out of and cruise 
on our own commerce, as well as on that of our friends, are points 
on which he can perhaps give useful advice. 

Mr. Gallatin on Aug. 18, 1803, the same day, not in answer to 
the above,f writes to Mr. Jefferson, giving an account of an 
interview with Mr. King which shows that he was seeking such 
information as was asked for. 

. . . Mr. King seems to think that he might have renewed 
the commercial treaty on conditions satisfactory to America. 
Great Britain has not made any approach of late on that subject ; 
he thinks the Government has not even thought on the limitation 
by which it will expire, and that Mr. Merry will have no instruc- 
tions on the subject. He is of opinion that in the East Indies 
the want of a treaty will not place us on a worse footing ; that 
there is no danger to be apprehended on the subject of provisions 
being considered as contraband ; and that the improvement in 
the West India courts of admiralty will relieve us from many of 
the embarrassments experienced by our trade during the last war. 
The only ground on which he feels any apprehension is that of 
impressments ; and had he not been on the eve of his departure, 
he might, he thinks, have succeeded in making some arrange- 
ment ; the greatest obstacle to this resulted from the prejudices 
of Earl St. Vincent. Mr. King considers the present administra- 
tion in England as the most favorable that has existed or can 
exist for the interests of the United States, but he does not rely 
much on their permanence ; the members who compose it are re- 
spected men of integrity, but have not the perfect confidence of the 

* Writings of Albert Gallatin, by Henry Adams, vol. i., p. 139. 
f Ibid, vol. i., 140-143. 

554 LI^^ ^^^ CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KINu. 

people, nor particularly of London ; their abilities being consid- 
ered as unequal to the crisis, Mr. King himself, speaking of 
them, whilst conversing of the British manifesto, called them 
"little men." He asked me who was to be his successor; I 
answered I presumed either Mr. Livingston or Mr. Monroe. 
He said that Mr. L. would do very well, his deafness excepted, 
which was a strong objection. His British Majesty asked him 
twice who would be sent, and expressed satisfaction in case Mr. 
L. were the man ; but when he saw Mr. Monroe's name an- 
nounced in the newspapers for the mission, he inquired particu- 
larly of his character and asked Mr. King whether he had not 
been opposed to him in politics. Upon being answered that 
those differences of politics had only been shades of opinion and 
that Mr. Monroe was a man of great probity and integrity, 
" Well, well, if he is an honest man he will do very well," was 
the reply ; and Mr. Hammond assured afterwards Mr. K. that 
Mr. M., if appointed, would be perfectly received. Yet Mr. K. 
seems to apprehend that there is still ^ova^ prevention which may 
render his situation less comfortable and his services less useful 
than those of another person. 

I repeated to him verbatim the commercial article of the treaty^ 
expressed my wish that it had been communicated to him when 
he made his communication to the British government, and asked 
whether he thought that the article could possibly create any 
difficulty. He answered, without the least hesitation, that it 
could not, that it was perfectly defensible, must be considered 
as part of the purchase money, and expressed his full conviction 
that the British government would not cavil at it. He observed 
that Messrs. Livingston & Monroe had in their letter to him used 
the word "claim" to which, in his letters to Lord Hawksbury^ 
he had substituted the word " right." I was almost tempted to 
believe from his conversation that Mr. L. had communicated the 
treaty to him. . . . 

On the subject of Louisiana generally, Mr. King's opinions 
both as relating to New Orleans and the upper Country west of the 
Mississippi, seem to coincide with yours. He hinted, however, 
that more advantageous terms might have been obtained,* and 

*Mr. Cutter in a letter to Dr. Torrey, Washington, Oct. 31, 1803, says 
" The purchase of Louisiana may prove a good thing, and it may be attended 

APPENDIX. 555 

openly said that if our ministers did not think it safe to note 
the object by insisting on a reduction of the price, they had it at 
least in their power to present the mode of payment ; that money 
might have been raised in England on much more advantageous 
terms if the mode had been left open to us ; that Cazenove 
who was Talleyrand's privy counsel and financier must have 
suggested the species of stock which was adopted, &c. He then 
asked me what could have been the reason which induced our 
ministers to agree to make an immediate cash payment for the 
American debts, instead of paying them in stock or more con- 
venient instalments, as the creditors would have been perfectly 
satisfied to be paid that way, and that o\y]tQ.\. at least did not seem 
to be one on which the French government would insist. I told 
him that I really could not tell, for I knew that mode or some 
similar one had been contemplated by the administration, and I 
had not understood that any explanation on that subject had 
been received from our ministers. On my mentioning that the 
French Cabinet seemed to have believed that the question of 
peace or war was in their power, and that our ministers being 
naturally under a similar impression, might have been induced 
to yield to more unfavorable terms than if they had contem- 
plated war as certain, he observed that on the arrival of every 
messenger from France the correspondence of Lord Whitworth 
and Mr. Talleyrand had been communicated to him by the 
British Ministry, and that by the return of every messenger he 
had communicated its substance to Mr. Livingston, as well as 
his opinion of the certainty of war. We both concluded our con- 
versation on that subject, by agreeing that Mr. Livingston's pre- 
cipitancy had been prejudicial to the United States. And he 
observed that Florida must necessarily fall into our hands, and 
that he hoped too much impatience would not be evinced on that 
subject. 

Mr. King lent me the rescript of the Emperor of Russia offer- 
ing his mediation. It is too long to be transcribed. Although 
he says in one place, " qu'il avait deja charge une fois son min- 
istre de communiquer ses sentiments au Gouvernement Fran- 

with very serious evils. I consider the price much too high, and find that it is 
Mr. King's opinion (our late minister at London) that it might have been 
obtained for a much less price." — Ed. 

556 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING. 

^ais sur la necessite qu'il y aurait de faire diverses causes 
d' inquietude, qui agitaint les Cabinets de 1' Europe," I should 
think from the whole tone of that document, that he will not 
approve the grounds on which England has placed the renewal 
of the war. 

APPENDIX III. 

This letter would have had a better place among those 
of its date, but it contains a number of interesting details, 
given by Mrs. King, which to her family, at least, will be a 
valuable contribution showing the happy relations of the 
home life. 

Mary King to Charles King, Harrow, England. 

Broadway, New York, December 6, 1803. 
My Dear Charles : 

We yesterday had the pleasure of receiving John's letter of 
17th Sept. written, as I suppose, to come by !Mr. Merry, but 
which was probably too late for him and was forwarded by the 
October Packet. I observe that you are again at Harrow and 
continue as well pleased as ever with Dr. & Mr. H. Drury's 
treatment. I hope nothing will occur to interrupt this harmony. 
Pray tell me candidly how you were pleased with the Abbe, and 
whether you think you gained anything while there ; by the con- 
clusion of the approaching holidays, I expect you will be able 
to speak, if not write, French. We often wish that it was among 
the list of possibilities for you to pass the Christmas holidays 
with us, and return again to Harrow. We shall feel your ab- 
sence on this occasion very sensibly, as I may add we do on 
every other. Often indeed in my rambles do I miss the beau, 
who used so patiently and willingly accompany me in my long 
walks to Kensington Garden &c. It is not much the fashion for 
ladies to walk here, and I cause great astonishment in walking 
so much and alone. Pug sometimes goes with me, but thro' the 
summer, it interfered so much with his school hours, and I was 
compelled to walk alone or stay at home. I don't find that your 
Papa's desire of moving has increased much. On an average 
twelve out of the sixteen hours he is up, are generally passed upon 

APPENDIX. 557 

his chair ; as his knee has given him no trouble, I have advised 
his using it a little more, and occasionally he has walked for an 
hour or two, but not often. He has try'd it more while we were 
moving than for a long time before. I believe I mentioned to 
you that we had taken Mr. Livingston's house in Broadway, 
where we removed last Monday week, and are just beginning to 
feel ourselves a little at home. 

Our City again enjoys good health ; the frost, as usual, put an 
end to yellow fever ; and I wish we could flatter ourselves with 
the hope that it would never return. The weather for the last 
two months has been uncommonly fine, and the sun and un- 
clouded sky in the month of November, were rather a novelty 
to me, who from so long an absence had almost forgotten its 
appearance : the Fall in our country is undoubtedly the finest 
season, and more delightful weather could not be experienced in 
any climate than we have enjoyed and are still enjoying at this 
moment ; it is more like May than December ; very little frost 
and not a flake of snow has yet fallen. Edward has been long 
anticipating the pleasure of a ride in a Sleigh ; for as yet he has 
no idea of what it is. We have had the supreme felicity of a 
visit from Jerome Bonaparte — that is our City — for myself I have 
not had the satisfaction of a single peep at him ; and he was 
pleased to express great delight at the attention he received 
here ; so much so that he intended to make it his residence for 
the winter ; but yesterday I understood he had embarked in one 
of our Merchantmen bound to France. 

AVhenever you hear from James pray communicate it to us, for 
I see no other chance of ever receiving any intelligence from 
him ; what the cause is I cannot imagine. Mr. & Mrs. Payne 
are gone to pass the winter at Washington, they did us the favor 
of staying two nights with us in the country on their way thither. 
She is well looking and agreeable and he seems perfectly happy. 
The lady was a widow & had a daughter by her first marriage ; 
she is about five or six years old and a more interesting child I 
never met with. Mrs. Gore's natural fondness is such for chil- 
dren, that I am sure she will attach herself strongly to this little 
girl. 

I have written to Mrs. Gore repeatedly but have not received 
one line from her since July. I intended writing again by this 

558 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING. 

Packet, but I find I shall not have time ; you must therefore 
offer her our most sincere remembrances and best wishes for the 
re-establishment of her health, which with some concern we 
learned had been interrupted by a violent attack of Influenza. 
You cannot confer a greater obligation on me than to evince by 
a scrupulous attention to all Mrs. Gore's requests, a strong sense 
of her maternal kindness ; for in my absence it must be con- 
sidered as such. 

We had thoughts of sending you some apples and cranberries ; 
but on reflection your Papa thinks the latter may be bought in 
Oxford Street for less money than the duty and Custom House 
fees would amount to ; and the great uncertainty of the former 
reaching you good for anything, in addition to the expense 
alluded to above, has prevented our fulfilling that intention. 
You must therefore endeavor to console yourselves with the 
golden pippin instead of those from Newtown. 

Frederick, or little Fitty as he calls himself, has become a great 
chatterbox ; every word he hears, he repeats and he really speaks 
much plainer now than Edward did at three years old. I am 
sure you would give one week's allowance to have a kiss of the 
blessed one ; regularly night and morning he blesses his Uncle 
and Aunt Gore with his dear brothers. Edward talks of finish- 
ing this letter ; but least he should not, begs to join us in the 
most affectionate remembrances to you & John. 

Always unfeignedly your M. K. 

APPENDIX IV. 

By an oversight the following letter has been left out of 
its proper position on page 352. It is important as showing 
that Mr. King positively declined to be a candidate for the 
office of Governor of New York. 

R. King to A. Hamilton. 

New York, March i, 1804. 
Dear Sir : 

Since my letter of the 24th (February) I have received yours 

of the same date ; and after maturely reflecting upon the subject, 

APPENDIX, 559 

and consulting one or two of our friends here, I am confirmed in 
the sentiment that I ought not to consent to be a candidate for 
the Governorship, should the federalists think of offering me. 

This being my determination, it is right that I should apprize 
you of it, in order that our friends may not make an offer which 
I should be obliged to decline. 

If you consider to what the office of Governor has been cur- 
tailed, and what in the actual state of parties must be his con- 
dition, if a man of virtue and independence, I cannot but 
persuade myself that you will see insuperable objections to my 
consenting to be thus disposed of. 

With sentiments of Regard, &c., 

RuFus King. 

APPENDIX V. 

LOUISIANA. 

RIGHTS UNDER THE CONVENTION OF PURCHASE. 

In the year i68- Monsr. La Salle coming from Canada em- 
barked at the confluence of the Illinois & the Mississippi, and 
descended the latter River to its mouth. In virtue of this voy- 
age a large tract of Country on each side of the Mississippi was 
claimed and afterwards possessed by France under the name of 
Louisiana. The villages of St. Louis & St. Genevieve on the 
west bank, and Kaskaskia & Kahoka on the east bank of the 
Mississippi were planted in the close of the 17th Century. In 
lower Louisiana, upon the sea coast & its vicinity, French posts 
& settlements were early established as far east as the Apalachi- 
cola, and as far west as Natchitoches. The boundary between 
Florida & Louisiana was for a series of years matter of contro- 
versy between France & Spain, but is understood to have been 
settled between them about the year 1748, by agreeing upon the 
River Perdido & a line from its source to the Alleghany 
Mountains. 

Such was the State of Possessions & claims respecting Louis- 
iana at the commencement of the 7 years war ; In the prelimina- 
ries at the conclusion of which, by the Treaty of 1763, France & 

560 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING. 

Spain ceded & guaranteed to England all the Territories belong- 
ing and claimed by them respectively upon the continent of 
Amer. & East of the Mississippi ; so that in addition to Canada 
& its Dependencies — a subject distinct from that of the present 
investigation — France ceded to Eng. all that part of Louisiana 
wh. was on the East side of the Mississippi (the City and Island 
of New Orleans excepted) and Spain in like manner ceded to 
Eng. Florida. Whatever therefore were the Rights of France 
and Spain in relation to these Territories, and whatever may 
have been their boundaries, England thenceforth became the 
owner & possessor of the whole country (the City and Island 
of N. O., East of the Mississippi excepted). But on the day of 
the date of the Preliminaries, Nov. 3, 1762, by which France 
ceded East Louisiana to Eng., she also by another Act ceded the 
whole country of Louisiana, together with N. O. & the Island in 
wh. the City is placed to Spain. By turning to the Preliminary 
Treaty of 1762 between F., S., & G., it will be seen that these 
cessions to England are correctly stated, and by reading the 
King of Fr.'s, letter dated April 21, 1764, to Mr. D'Abadie, his 
Director Genl. & Commandant in Louisiana, it will also be found 
that the cession to Spain is also correctly stated. This letter will 
be found in the Annual Register Vol. 8., p. 271. 

Suffice it to observe in this place, that the Territories ceded to 
England and to Spain belonged to France on the 3 of Nov. 1762, 
the day of both cessions. All Louisiana was owned & possessed 
by France ; by two acts of the same date, and to each of which 
Spain was a party, France divided Louisiana, ceding and guar- 
antying the Eastern Part thereof clearly & distinctly to England, 
and the Western Part thereof, including the city & Isl. of N. O. 
to Spain. As Fr. owned the whole of Louisiana, if she conveyed 
& with the privity of Spain too, a part thereof by metes and 
bounds to Engd., however vague and comprehensive the Terms 
may have been by which she at the same time conveyed 
Louisiana to Spam, France could not convey nor could Spain 
acquire more than the Residue of Louisiana, after deducting 
what was contemporaneously conveyed to England. As this con- 
clusion seems too plain to require the production of authorities 
or further illustration, I pass on. The ceded Territories upon 
the East side of the Miss, were afterwards taken possession of by 

APPENDIX. 561 

England. The " Special Act " by wh. West Louisiana was ceded 
to France has never been published. According to the letter 
from the K. of Fr. to Mr. D'Abadie, a copy of this Instrument 
was sent to N. O. with orders that it sho. be there enregistered. 
Whether this was done, and whether the Record still remains, are 
matters concerning wh. we have no information ; tho' doubtless 
our Govt, must have ascertained these facts. 

By referring to Hutchins' Historical Narrative and topographi- 
cal Description of Louisiana & West Florida, pub. at Phila. in 
1783, as well as to an extraordinary Publication, entitled Memoire 
Historique & politique sur La Louisiane, (printed at Paris in the 
year 1802, when France had prepared an Expedn. to take Posses- 
sion of Louisiana) it will appear that there was something unusual, 
not to say mysterious, in the delays as well as in the manner in 
which Spain took possession of Louisiana, and one might from 
these circumstances, as well as from the want of publicity 
of the Act of Cession, be lead to entertain Doubts, as it appears 
from Mr. H's. Memoire, that the Inhabitants of Louisiana did, 
concerning the Date as well as the authenticity of this Act of 
Cession. 

Soon after the Treaty of Peace in 1763, and while France still 
remained in possession of New Orleans, and West Louisiana, 
England took possession of all the French Posts upon the East 
side of the Mississippi, as also of the Span. Posts in Florida. It 
was in the Summer of 1763, that East Louisiana & Florida were 
delivered up by France and Spain to England, but it was not 
until Genl. O'Reilley's arrival with 4m. Spanish Troops at N. O. 
July 23 1769, that N. O. and Louisiana were taken possession of 
by Spain ; so that N. O. and W. Louisiana remained 6 years in 
the possession of France after East Louisiana & Florida had 
been delivered up to & possessed by England. These facts are 
established by Hutchins' Narrative, as well as by other authentic 
publications. 

By the Proc. of Oct. 7, 1762, England established two Provinces- 
by the name of E. & W, Florida, Georgia being the northern 
Limits of E. Florida & the 31st degree of lat. the Northern Lim- 
its of W. Florida, and the Apalachicola River the division line 
between them. It may aid the purpose of this Disquisition to 
observe that the Territory of West Florida consisted of that part 

VOL. IV— 36 

562 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING. 

of Louisiana, lying south of the 32° of Lat. and between the 
Mississippi and the waters east of the Island of N. Orleans the 
V/est, and the River Perdido and a line from its head to the 
Allegany on the east, together with that part of Spanish Florida 
lying between the last mentioned line and the River Apalachicola. 
It may further assist in this Elucidation to remark that the Proc. 
of Oct. 7, 1763, above referred to, restrained the Colonies from 
granting any part of the lands lying upon the East bank of 
the Mississippi and to the North of W. Florida — the same being 
reserved with other lands for the future disposition of the Crown. 

During the American War, Eng. being in possession of the 
Floridas, Gen. Guloeg the Span. Govr. of Louisiana conquered 
the Province of W. Florida, and at the conclusion of that War, 
the Floridas were ceded by Engl, to Spain, & the Mississippi on 
the West & the Floridas on the S. were made the boundaries of 
the U. S. 

It should be here remarked that the Territory on the East bank 
of the Mississippi, once included in Louisiana, ceased, after its 
cession to Eng., to be known or described by that name. From 
that Period New Orleans & the Territory west of the Missis- 
sippi have been called and known as Louisiana ; and no Diplo- 
matic or other public act has from that date given the name of 
Louisiana to any portion of the Territory ceded by Fr. & Sp. to 
Eng. by the Treaty of 1763 ; but on the contrary that since the 
year 1763, an unbroken series of diplomatic and other public 
Acts, comprehending every public Act of the U. S., which has 
had relation to the subject, have uniformly ascribed to Louisiana 
the eastern Boundary assigned to it by the Treaty of 1763, and 
with equal uniformity have recognized & described the adjacent 
Territory east of that Boundary by other names. By the 2nd 
Article of the Treaty between Sp. & the U. S. it is provided 
^' that the Southern Boundy. of the U. S., which divides yr. Ter- 
ritory from the Span. Colonies of E. 6^ W. Florida shall be a line 
beginning at the River Mississippi at the 31st degree of No. Lat. 
&c. The 5th Art. again speaks of the boundaries of the two 
JFloridas. Furthermore, It is understood (tho' we cannot state 
our information as completely authentic) that the Govt, of the 
Floridas has been confided to the Govr. of Cuba and not to the 
Gov. of Louisiana ; so that not only in name but local Govt., 

APPENDIX. 563 

the Floridas have been maintained as a Territory distinct from 
that of Louisiana. 

How far the Laws of the U. S. may have at any time taken 
notice of or mentioned the Floridas, we have not examined ; but 
there is reason to believe that the Instructions & Acts of the Old 
Congress, as well as the Instructions and other Acts of the Presi- 
dent of the U. S., for a series of years past, have described the 
Territory south of the southern Boundary of the U. S. as E. & 
W. Florida. In a Memoir respecting Louisiana drawn up by 
Chaii Livingston, printed in the French language, and presented 
to the French Govt., while he was our Minister at Paris, he ob- 
serves p. 16, " la possession de la Louisiane est neanmoins tres- 
importante pour la France, si elle en tire le seul parti que la saine 
politique semble lui dieter. Je parle de la Louisiane propre, 
dans laquelle je ne comprends point les Florides, parceque je 
pense qu' elles ne font pas partie de la Cession." * 

By the Treaty of 1763 between E. F. & Sp., the navigation of 
the River Mississippi from its source to the ocean was declared 
common to England and France — by the Treaty of Peace between 
England & the U. S. the navigation of the River Miss, was also 
declared common to Eng. & the U. S. ; but as by the Treaty of 
1783, between England & Spain, the former ceded to the latter 
East & West Florida, France having before ceded Louisiana to 
Spain, She became mistress of both banks of the Mississippi, and 
asserted a Right of closing its mouth against the American navi- 
gation. It is needless to do more than merely to recall this sub- 
ject, to the public Recollections, and to add that the Treaty of 
1783 between the U. S. and Spain removed this obstruction & 
secured to the U. S. the free navigation of the Mississippi, to- 
gether with a Right of Deposit at New Orleans for 3 years, and 
afterwards either there or elsewhere on the Banks of the Missis- 
sippi. 

At the Expiration of the Term of Deposit at N. O., new diffi- 
culties arose on that subject & negotiations respecting it were 
confided to Mr. C. P., the Amer. Minister at Madrid. While the 

* " The possession of Louisiana is nevertheless very important to France, 
if she pursues respecting it the only course which a wise policy appears to sug- 
gest to her. I speak of Louisiana proper, in which I do not comprehend the 
Floridas, because I think they make no part of the Cession." 

564 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING, 

Point remained undetermined, Sp. ceded back to Fr. Louisiana, 
including the City & Island of N. O ; and Fr. in the beginning 
of 1802 prepared an Expedition to take possession of the Country. 
Negotiations were now transferred from Madrid to Paris, and Mr. 
Monroe was joined to Chancellor Livingston for the purpose of 
purchasing the City & Island of N. O. This venture was termi- 
nated by the cession of Louisiana to the U. S. ; and the decision 
of the question whether any part of the Territory ceded by France 
& Si)ain to Eng. by the Treaty of 1763, was ceded by Fr. to the 
U. S. by the Convention of 1802, must determine the validity of 
our claim to West Florida, and the justice of the present pro- 
ceedings to occupy that Country as the Property of the U. S. 

To determine this Question, we must refer to the Act of cession 
from Fr. to the U. S. ; whicli again refers us, not to the Act of 
Cession of Spain to France, which is not communicated to us, 
but to a paragraph of that Act stated to be dated Oct. i, 1800, by 
which Spain retrocedes, or cedes back again to Fr. Louisiana 
" with the same extent that it then had in the hands of Spain, and 
that it had when France possessed it, and such as it should be 
after (pursuant) the Treaties subsequently entered into between 
Spain and other States." 

The description of Limits is a triple one, and in order to give 
to it a just and definite interpretation, the several parts must be 
reconciled ; for it is wholly maditiissible that the members of the 
Description of Limits are irreconcilable, or in other words, that 
the extent of one is greater than that of another. This would be 
to assert that Louisiana had two limits, the one greater than the 
other, which would be absurd ; as it would be to assert that a 
Territory may be greater or less than it actually is. Three points 
are then to be ascertained and reconciled. 

1. What were the Limits of Louisiana in the hands of Spain in 
Oct. 1800 ? 

2. What were its Limits when in the hands of France ? 

3. What ought to be its limits pursuant to Treaties between 
Spain and other States after it became her Property ? 

It has been already stated that before the year 1763 Louisiana 
comprehended a large Territory on the east Bank of the Missis- 
sippi, extending from its mouth to the Illinois Country inclusive 
& belonged to Fr — by that Treaty, this part of Louisiana, includ- 

APPENDIX. 565 

ing the Territory of W. Florida, was separated from it & ceded 
by Fr. to Eng. ; contemporaneously with this Cession, Fr. ceded 
Louisiana including the City & Island of N. O. to Spain : taking 
these two Acts of Cession together — wh. we are bound by the 
maxims of Construction to do, both having relation to one sub- 
ject, being of like date and the same parties — it is manifest that 
the Eastern Boundary of Louisiana is established to be the River of 
the Mississippi from its source to the Ocean. Louisiana thus 
defined upon its Eastern Boundary, altho' the Act of its Cession to 
Spain bears the date of Nov. 3, 1762, remained in the possession 
and under the Govr. of France almost 7 years afterwards. Count 
O'Reilley not having arrived until July 1769. At this epoch 
Louisiana thus bounded upon the Mississippi was taken posses- 
sion of and passed under the Govt, of Spain — the adjacent Terri- 
tory to the East thereof being at that time in the possession & 
under the Govt, of Eng., and the southern part thereof having 
been included within the British province of W. Fl. This State 
of possession & of Names continued until the American War, in 
the course whereof Spain conquered W. Florida, and by the 
Treaty of Peace in 1783, England ceded East & W. Florida to 
Spain, the Territory to the Northward thereof and adjacent to the 
Mississippi, having been ceded by Eng. to the U. S. 

Spain took possession of East & W. Florida in the year , 

and instead of incorporating them or any part of either of them 
with Louisiana, placed them both under the Havannah. For this 
Fact we refer to a Document in the possn. of our Govt. — a letter 
from the Spanish Minr. Cevallos to Messrs. Monroe & Pinckney. 
This Fact is moreover acquired from other sources of informa- 
tion, as well as from the general Notoriety of the Measure. If 
W. Florida has at no time since its cession by England to Spain 
been reunited to Louisiana — as must be the fact, inasmuch as it 
has been placed under a difft. Govt, and preserved its new name 
— it follows that at the date of its retrocession to Fr. Spain pos- 
sessed it with the same Limits which it had when she first acquired 
it — that is to say, with the Limits assigned to it by the Treaty of 
1763 — and consequently with the exclusion of W. Florida. 

The second clause furthermore provides that the Limits of 
Louisiana shall also be the same as it had when possessed by 
France. Now it has been shown that Louisiana while in the pos- 

566 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUE US KING. 

session of France had different Limits before the Treaty of 1763 
— Louisiana covered both Banks of the Mississippi, after that 
Treaty it contained nothing except the City Island of N. O. 
upon its eastern Bank. France, as has also been shown, pos- 
sessed & governed Louisiana after as well as before the cession 
of the East Bank to England. 

As no particular period in the possession of France is named, 
according to the Rules of Interpretation in such cases, that time 
of possession must be adopted, by which the two clauses may be 
reconciled. Now as we have shown that the Mississippi formed 
the Eastern Limits of Louisiana at the time of its retrocession by 
France after the Treaty of 1763, it accords with the Rules of 
sound Construction to take this period of the French Possession 
as that referred to in the Act of Cession. By doing so we recon- 
cile the two clauses ; whereas by adopting a Period antecedent to 
the Treaty of 1763, when both Banks of the Mississippi were 
included in Louisiana, we not only render the two clauses incon- 
sistent, but moreover establish a construction by wh. Spain cedes 
to Fr. what does not belong to her, but to the U. S. ; for the 
Kaskaskias & Kahokia, with the Eastern Bank of the Miss, from 
the highest of these Villages to the southern Boundary of the 
U. S. were indisputably within the Limits of Louisiana before the 
Treaty of 1763 — and as indisputably ceded by Fr. to England & 
by England to the U. S. Such a construction would be odious ; 
since we are not at liberty to suppose that one Nation can grant 
what belongs to another. Furthermore the Treaty cedes with 
the same Limits as Louisiana actually had in the hands of Spain, 
and also with the same Limits it had when possessed by France ; 
now, if the Limits are to be in both cases the same, one cannot 
be greater than the other ; this would be to contend that equal 
quantities could be unequal, which is absurd. 

Having given what we have seen to be the just Construction of 
the I & 2 clauses of this article, we proceed to examine the 
Import of the 3d clause. The Limits are to be as they ought to 
be according to the subseqt. Treaties between Spain & other 
Powers, France possessed Louisiana till 1769 — the subsequent 
Treaties are the Treaties of 1783 between Sp. and England and 
of 1795 between Spain & the U. S. By the Treaty of 1785 Spain 
acquired W F. : to be as they ought to be according to that 

APPENDIX, 567 

Treaty W F. cannot be included. By the Treaty of 1795 the 
W. Limits of the U S. are fixed, and the Northern Boundary of 
W. Florida : to be as they ought to be according to this Treaty 
W. Florida is in like manner excluded, both Treaties naming and 
deciding upon W. Florida as a Territory distinct from Louisiana. 
Then as the Treaty of 1801 did not affect the Rights of the U. S. 
acquired under the Treaty of 1795, i^ li^^ manner it would not 
affect the Rights of Spain acquired under the Treaty of 1803. 

APPENDIX VL 

LOUISIANA. 

VALUE OF THE ACQUISITION & EFFECT ON THE 

POLITICAL UNION. 

Nations are not always sensible of those changes which in some 
sort control and fix their destiny : indeed these consequences are 
rarely foreseen or understood, for so limited and imperfect is the 
understanding of even the most enlightened men that it is not 
always easy for them to distinguish events of ordinary import 
from those which overrule and decide the character and fortunes 
of States. Notwithstanding we live in perilous times, and are 
almost indifft. witnesses of the most extraordinary & important 
changes in human affairs, we cannot be wholly inattentive to 
what immediately regards our own immediate interest. Situation 
as well as the Policy adopted by our Govt, clothe with indiffer- 
ence the Politics of Europe, but we all possess a lively regard and 
vigilant attention to what concerns our own country. 

We have recently been informed from the seat of Govt, that a 
Treaty has been concluded with France, by which not only New- 
Orleans but all Louisiana, as ceded by Spain to France, has been 
ceded to us. This information is of greater significance than 
seems to be commonly imagined. The entire and exclusive 
control over the navigation of the Missi. is indispensable to our 
political union ; a treaty which secures this great object is there- 
fore justly regarded with favour. It is proposed to examine the 
merits of the opposite opinions, which have been entertained 

568 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING. 

concerning the best mode of attaining this End. Neither is it of 
importance, in respect to the object of this paper, to inquire 
whether the treaty \vh. has been concluded, has been brought 
about pursuant to the preconceived views and instruction given to 
the negotiators, nor whether it may not have been owing almost 
exclusively to a state of things which could not have been fore- 
seen, and which is altogether foreign and independent of the 
views of our own Cabinet. 

Laying these inquiries wholly aside, it is of importance to look 
at the acquisition we have made and to consider at the outset its 
extent, its use, and its probable effect upon our politi. union. 

I St. The newly acquired Territory, with the exception of the 
Island of N. O., is wholly on the west side of the Miss. & is 
bounded southerly by the Gulph of Mexico, easterly by the Miss, 
in its whole length, and northerly and westwardly by unascer- 
tained lines, separating Louisiana from Canada in the north and 
the Spanish Territories to the west. 

The two Floridas bounded northwardly by the southern line of 
the U. S. and eastwardly and southwardly by the Ocean, and 
westwardly by»the Miss. & the Lakes Maurepas & Ponchar- 
train, were never included in Louisiana, were not ceded with it 
to France and still remain Provinces of Spain. As we have now 
added Louisiana to our Territories, the Floridas are now sur- 
rounded by us & the ocean on every side. The Region west of 
the Miss., which has been claimed as within Louisiana is prob- 
ably as considerable as the whole of the U. S. and is reported to 
be superior in soil & climate to the country East of the Miss. 

2nd. The object we desired and were bound to acquire in order 
to maintain the Union of our Country, was the control over the 
mouth of the Miss. ; in other words, we wanted the Dominion of 
N. Orleans. Without this the people living on our Western 
waters must have been under the control of the Masters of New 
Orleans, and to avoid greater difficulties might have been obliged 
to withdraw from our Union & become subjects to another 
Power. If New Orleans and the Floridas had been acquired 
and nothing more, this object would have been attained : in- 
deed the acquisition of N. Orleans wd. have been sufficient, for 
the Floridas would have soon followed, and, without trouble or 
expense, fallen into our hands. It was not Territory for the 

APPENDIX, 569 

sake of Territory, wh. we wanted ; New Orleans in this respect 
is of small consequence, but as the Nation, wh. must possess the 
Domin. over the trade and Navigation of the Miss., its ac- 
quisition by us was indispensable. At a future day the Floridas, 
and especially W. Florida which commands the mouths of sev- 
eral Rivers ascending far within the limits of the U. S., wd. have 
become necessary additions to our Territory. At present the 
acquisition was not wanted, and before it wd. be, Events will 
inevitably occur wh. must change entirely the state of the Amer- 
ican Continental Colonies, and wh. would naturally unite the 
Floridas to our Territories. The inference from this remark is 
that New Orleans alone, or at the most New Orleans and the 
Floridas were all we required to give us the control over the 
Trade and Navign. of the Miss. But we have all Louisiana in 
addn. What is the value or advantage of this acquisition, to 
what use shall we apply it, may it not prove pernicious instead of 
beneficial ? 

The Region is extensive and possesses properties wh. may ren- 
der it more inviting to settlers than the country within our former 
limits. Will you open land offices & sell it or any part of it, will 
you lay it out in new States, will you sell only to yr. own Citi- 
zens, or only to Foreigners, or indifferently to both, will you 
divide the Country into Departments, and appt. indt. Superin- 
tendents and trading houses, will you place Garrisons there to 
protect the settlements wh. have been made since the time of 
Louis, the XIV, will you carry on Indian wars with tribes whose 
names and numbers you are yet unacquainted, will you in this 
respect do what neither the Conquerors of Mexico, nor their Pos- 
terity have yet been able to do, reduce to submission the Sav- 
ages within Louisiana, who for more than two Centuries have 
maintained a war with the Spaniards ? Or will you by law pro- 
hibit the migration to and settlement of the People beyond the 
Miss. : are you willing to do so, and if so, will you (be) able to 
adhere to this System ? Will you post a cordon of Troops upon 
the Bks. of the River with orders to stop emigration and to 
remove the settlers who shall pass ? 

It is true that the Proprietors of new Lands in every part of 
the Union may be in favour of this Prohibition, as the opening 
of new and better Lands West of the Miss., and in the vicinity 

570 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING. 

of the Spanish mines, may depreciate the Lands which wd. other- 
wise be sold and settled within the U. S. 

But you encourage emigration, and invite the unhappy of other 
countries to fly hither for repose. Will they be content with 
these prohibitory laws, operating in favor of the few ; will not 
these be joined by others whose voices may be as loud as those 
of the landholders, & will not the spirit of speculation, to which 
neither lands nor seas afford limits, be awakened to fix itself 
upon this Western region ? In short so long as this Region be- 
longs to us, shall we not be engaged in a perpetual conflict con- 
cerning its defense or its settlement ? 

The Territory is of value for settlement or solitude, or we 
ought not to possess it. Of what value can it be as a solitude ? 
As long as it is our Territory we can prevent its settlement, if 
deemed advisable : if it be of no worth to settle, it is an affair 
of importance that we can prevent its settlement by others. If 
the country be such as it is represented, either France or Eng- 
land might plant colonies there deriving the greater part of the 
settlers out of the U. S. Our population would not only be 
drawn away but it wd. contribute to raise up a dangerous Rival 
on our Borders. Two remarks may be made by way of reply : 
first no European Nation will long maintain a Colony on the 
Continent of America ; were it necessary to adduce the grounds 
of this assertion, they could be readily exhibited. 

2nd. Were it otherwise, no colony can be planted upon the 
Waters of the Miss. wh. wd. not be controlled by the Power 
commanding the mouth of the River. The same embarrassment 
wh. we lately experienced wd. be felt by any such colony wh. 
would bear the same relation to the Power, which should be 
Master of N. Orleans, that our Western states wd. have borne 
towards France had she prosecuted her Louisiana colony. 

The result is that little or no danger could have been appre- 
hended from the colonization of Louisiana by any for. Power, 
the U. S. being Masters of New Orleans, and consequently that 
the Dominion of the Country, for the purpose of preventing its 
settlement, is of no value. 

But why should we not settle the country ? A single or simple 
Govn. can exist only over a confined Territory ; but our federal 
system may suit extensive and remote Regions. The experi- 

APPENDIX. 571 

ment has already combined distant Territories and may unite 
regions still more distant ; who can mark the limits of the fed- 
eral system ? Or say it may not be carried far beyond any 
notions that we have entertained in reference to political associ- 
ations of a character materially different ? 

This Enquiry opens too wide a range for present discussion. 
Suffice it to remark that Experience alone is the safe guide in 
human affairs and wanting that, if want we do, prudence should 
restrain us from rash experiments. A little common sense and 
common experience will be our best monitors. These admonish 
us that we have already a sufficiently extensive Empire ; our 
new settlements have been created out of the Resources of the 
old, as well as protected and defended by their power. Perhaps 
we have seen the worst of Indian wars and those Burthens un- 
avoidably incident to these remote and detached settlements — 
nurtured by the old States, the new ones begin to taste the bless- 
ings of order and Govt., and are growing willing, as well as able, 
to contribute to their support : property is acquiring a fixed and 
reasonable value, founded upon the neutrality of supply and 
demand. But if in this promising state of things you throw 
open the acquired Territory of Louisiana, and thereby invite to 
its settlement, the scene is changed ; new lands throughout the 
U. S. will become of little value ; those which have been sold to 
settlers will be given up & never paid for, and the Purchasers 
will, from a spirit that has shewn itself from the earliest settle- 
ment of the Country, march westward in pursuit of Regions 
better than those they leave behind or pass over. Is this no 
injury to the present landholders, will this work no change in 
our social condition ? 

APPENDIX VII. 

CESSION OF LOUISIANA. 

THE PRICE, MERITS OF NEGOTIATING MINISTERS, AND 

POLICY OF PURCHASE. 

Certain reflexions are suggested by the temper with wh. the 
Country has received the information of the Cession of Louisiana 
to the U. S., a measure that in no point of view in which it may 
be considered, can be regarded as indifferent. The Public 

572 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING. 

seems to have stopped short of the most import, considn. in 
relation to the cession and to have employed itself with inquiries 
respecting the Price of the Cession, the respective merits of the 
Ministers employed to effect it and the Policy of the Govt, in 
resorting to negotiation in preference to another course that was 
recommended. These points tho' of secondary consequence 
deserve examination, each of them with a reference to the 
avowed Principles of our Executive. Beginning with the last, 

It is the natural result of a plan, having regard to the existing 
state and probable course of affairs, which ought to decide its 
merits. The interposition of a cause, wholly unforseen, which 
operates favorably, adds no merit to the plan, any more than 
the like cause operating unfavorably wd. detract from it. The 
Peace of Europe had been recently concluded when Mr. Mon- 
roe's mission was projected, and it may with confidence be 
asserted that no expectation was entertained either here or 
abroad, that it wd. be so soon interrupted. On the contrary it 
is known that the whole scope of the Instructions was founded 
upon the presumed continuance of Peace in Europe and the 
opinion that France thus at peace, our Envoys wd. be able to 
affect the Relinquishment of the Project of colonizing Louisiana, 
and the cession of New Orleans and the Floridas to us. 

The question of the merits of the Project being therefore on 
this point, wd. or wd. not the Envoys have obtained the Relin- 
quishment of the Expedition and the cession of New Orleans & 
the Floridas, had the peace between Fr. & Eng. continued ; in 
other words, would the Expedition which was about sailing from 
Holland to Louisiana have remained in Port, had not the fear of 
the Eng. fleet kept it there. 

As some criterion to form a right Judgment on this point we 
may be assured that the mission of Mr. Monroe was known in 
France several months before his arrival there ; the Despatches 
of Mr. Pynchon have seasonably and fully apprised his Govt, of 
its object as well as of the means by which it was expected to be 
attained ; that reiterated and vigourous remonstrances agt. the 
Expedition were made by our Ambassador, Mr. Livingston, be- 
fore Mr. M.'s arrival ; that the memorials and memorialists were 
alike disregarded, and equally so in any former missions to 
France, that the idea of selling Louisiana to the U. S. was treated 

APPENDIX. 573 

with ridicule and contempt and likened to what was termed the 
base conduct of Charles the 2nd who sold Dunkirk to France ; 
that the Expedition was hurried on, Mr. Livingston was plainly- 
told that it wd. proceed and that in regard to our claims of a 
Deposit at N. O., Bernadotte wd. be immediately despatched as 
Envoy to Washington ; and that, as soon as the Prefect of Louis- 
iana and the Envoy had reached their posts, made the requisite 
Enquiries on the spot respecting our claims, and sent their Re- 
port to Paris, an answer would be given to us ; and until the war 
with Engd. became inevitable no single circumstance occurred 
to afford the slightest ground of hope that France would listen 
for a moment to the Proposal of our Envoy. 

Upon these facts all impartial men must perceive that had 
peace continued, the mission would have totally failed, and that 
the relinquishment of the French Expedition to Louisiana and 
its cession to us, is solely to be ascribed to the war with England. 

In regard to the respective merits of the Envoys, in negotiating 
and signing the Treaty, the statement already made seems suffi- 
ciently to point out the influence that prevailed with France to 
give her Consent ; and when it is added that the overture to cede 
Louisiana came from France and not from our Envoys, it can- 
not be difficult to settle the partition of Praise between them. 
Yet it is due to the character of Mr. L., whose zeal upon this 
subject had prompted him to use unwearied and various exer- 
tions to convince France of the impolicy of the Expedition to 
Louisiana, to declare that their business was so far settled before 
Mr. M.'s arrival at Paris, that nothing remained for him to do 
when he appeared there, but to give his consent and signature 
to the contract. 

As to the price, tho* perhaps this also is open to fair objections 
— and to very strong ones on the avowed principles of the Ex- 
ecutive respecting the increase of the public Debt — it must be 
admitted in regard to the Public welfare that these objections 
are inferior to all others that arise in the examination of this 
important transaction. 

If France was compelled by the war with Eng. to suspend or 
relinquish the projected Expedition, this circumstance secured 
to us almost every advantage we could desire in pressing France 
and Spain to consent to such an arrangement respecting New 

574 ^^^^ ^^^ CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING, 

Orleans and the iree navigation of the Miss., as we had a right 
to demand. 

The Debates of the Br. Parliament upon the Treaty of Amiens 
had shown the strong aversion of Eng. to the occupation of 
Louisiana by France, and must have satisfied both France and 
America that, unless vanquished, Eng. wd. not consent to 
Louisiana being colonized by her Rival. 

So far as Title was the object, we already had it by the Treaties 
with G. B. & Spain ; for the Right of Deposit at N. O., obtained 
by the Span. Treaty, reserved a power to Spain within a limited 
time to discontinue this Right at N. O., assigning an equivalent 
Deposit at another place, yet the time, within which this change 
might have been made, elapsed without its being done, and in 
consequence thereof the Right of Deposit became absolute and 
unchangeable ; so that France who reed, the cession from Spain 
posterior to the Treaty with us, took it subject to our Rights 
under an elder treaty. 

So far then as respects the Right of Deposit at New Orleans, 
and the navigation of the Miss., the case stood thus : we had as 
complete a title to the enjoyment of these Rights, as to the De- 
posit at New York and to the Navigation of the Hudson ; but 
being menaced with an interruption of the Right of Deposit, we 
sent a mission to effect a removal of unjust Impediments, and 
the question of how much or how little money ought to be given 
upon a mere mercenary calculation — (laying aside wholly the 
principle of honour, the only one worthy of being consulted in 
regard to the invasion of an important natural Right) is perhaps 
on the view of the subject we have taken not very difficult to be 
determined, as it is believed that very few wd. be found who 
under the known & favourable circumstances of the negotiation 
wd. have consented to a larger sum than Congress deemed suffi- 
cient when those Circumstances were unforseen. 

Whether it wd. not have been more natural as well as econom- 
ical to have given money to France and six per cent, to our own 
citizens whom we are to pay what France owed them instead of 
the inversion of this course, can admit of no sort of doubt : that 
the mode which has been preferred is both bad economy and in 
other respects injudicious might be easily demonstrated. 

The observations made in a former Paper were calculated to 

APPENDIX, 575 

shew that the Cession of Louisiana (regarded as a confirmation 
of our Right to navigate the Mississippi, and as a conveyance of 
New Orleans in Sovereignty instead, as a confirmation of our 
Right to use it as a free Port) ought not to be considered as 
what men of Business call a good Bargain on our side ; that the 
overture to sell came from France, when by reason of the war 
which had become inevitable, she was obliged to relinquish her 
plan of colonization, and consequently that the respective friends 
of the Envoys have no room to contend for an unequal division 
of credit between them ; and that the cession which has been 
made so far from conforming the Policy of the Mission to France, 
may, if considered in reference to the condn. of France at the 
date of the Negotiation, be regarded as proof of the Superior 
wisdom of those who recommended a different course. 

Before we proceed in the examination of the Policy of our ac- 
cepting the Cession of Louisiana it may be proper to enquire 
whether the President's views and Ins. to the Envoys were direct- 
ed to the acquisition of the country beyond the Miss., or whether 
the proposal to annex this immense Region to the U. S. did not 
for obvious or concealed reasons originate with France. Altho' 
we have not seen the Instructions to the Envoys, nevertheless 
sufficient has elapsed to disclose in various ways whatever may 
have been the President's private sentiments (of which we profess 
to be ignorant) that the Envoys had neither Instructions nor 
Power to ask for or receive an acre of Land.* 

APPENDIX VIII. {to Page 407.) 

HAMILTON'S ESTATE. 

O. WoLCOTT TO R. King, Hartford. 

New York, July 12, 1804. 
My Dear Sir : 

I addressed a line to you yesterday, but I suppose it to be my 
duty to inform you that our friend Hamilton expired to-day about 
2 o'clock. The feelings of the whole community are agonized 
beyond description ;' for the first time Envy is silent ; all remem- 
ber with gratitude the talents and services of the deceased Hero, 

* This ends abruptly — The Sequel is not among the papers. — Ed. 

5/6 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUE US KING, 

and mourn the untimely end of the pride and ornament of our 
Country. 

Our friend fell by the. first fire. The ball passed through one 
side and lodged in or near the spine. He was brought to his 
friend Mr. Wm. Bayard's house and the few hours of life and 
reason which remained were chiefly spent in religious Exercises. 

Present my condolence to Judge Benson and rest assured of 
the hieh esteem and attachment of Dr. Sir 

Your faithful 

O. W. WOLCOTT. 

O. WoLCOTT TO R. King, Boston. 

New York, Aug. 14, 1804. 
Dear Sir : 

I inclose a memorandum of the subscription here : no person 
has been solicited and many persons who will doubtless subscribe 
are out of town. I have heard it said by those who know the 
opinion of the city that about $30,000 may be expected. 

A diversity of opinion exists in Phila. respecting the course 
proper to be pursued. Mr. Lewis, Mr. Rawle, Mr. Tilghman, Mr. 
Wain, and Mr. Girard are a committee of a select number of gen- 
tlemen to consider and recommend what they ought to do. I 
know nothing of the nature of their difficulties. From Baltimore 
nothing of consequence is to be expected. 

This is certain that it will require considerable management to 
render Genl. Hamilton's Estate Solvent. Genl. Schuyler can 
doubtless borrow money, but of what advantage would it be to 
increase a mass of unproductive property and diminish the sources 
of immediate income ? But it is unnecessary to reason on a 
question of this nature. Those who are to consider it are good 
judges of what is proper. 

I shall leave this place in a few days for Connecticut to attend 
upon Mrs. W. whose health is feeble. If you have occasion to 
write on this subject, a letter to Mr. Gracie or Genl. Clarkson will 
be immediately attended to. 

With high esteem &c., 

O. W. WOLCOTT. 

In a postscript, Mr. Wolcott sends a list of the subscribers all 
well known New Yorkers, with the amount each contributed — 

APPENDIX. 577 

There are eight for §1000, each, among whom is Mr. King, one 
for $750, eleven for $500 each, a number for smaller sums, 
amounting in all to $16,100. — These names are all of leading citi- 
zens and friends of Genl. Hamilton. 

O. WoLCOTT TO R. King. 

New York, Aug. 14, 1804. 
Dear Sir : 

I wrote you yesterday, but having since had an interview with 
Genl. Clarkson and Mr. Gracie, I am able to state further par- 
ticulars. Genl. Schuyler's property has probably been overrated. 
It is certain he owes money and has no funds at command. Every 
vestige of our friend's earnings will vanish unless the proposed 
contribution is successful. The country seat is secured for the 
indemnity of the endorsers of discounted paper, which amounts 
to $20,000. Mrs. Hamilton's attachment to this country seat you 
well know. The necessity of selling it would excessively distress 
her. I am now assured that the suggestions which some persons 
have made that the family would be offended are utterly without 
foundation : that on the contrary they will consider pecuniary 
assistance under their present circumstances as in justice they 
ought, merely as a manifestation of the gratitude and respect of 
the contributors to the character of the Deed. 

Alexander, son of the Genl. was graduated the first of this 
month. He was destined by his father for a merchant. On many 
accounts it will be best that he receive his education for this pro- 
fession out of the city. I pray you to inquire whether a respecta- 
ble place can be obtained for him in Boston. He is now about 
18 years of age. I make this request on the suggestion of the 

family. 

With highest esteem &c., 

O. W. WOLCOTT. 

APPENDIX IX. TO P. 485. 

MIRANDA AND THE SAILING OF THE LEANDER. 

There is among Mr. King's papers an account of his relations 
with Miranda, in reference to his plans and conduct in arranging 
for and carrying out his Expedition, which as is well known 

VOL, rv. — 37 

578 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUE US KING. 

sailed from New York, and for many reasons, (one of the chief 
of which was Miranda's unfitness to command such a venture) 
failed and was disastrously broken up. There was published in 
Boston, (a second edition in 1810), an account of the Expedition 
in a series of letters, written by a member of the expedition, de- 
tailing the daily events, the causes of failure and the capture of 
most of those engaged in it. Mr. King's account is as follows : 

General Miranda arrived at New York from England Nov. 9th 
1805, and the next day called on Mr. King, whom he had known 
in London, and delivered to him a letter from a respectable Eng- 
lish gentleman dated Aug. 14, 1805, of which the following are 
extracts.* 

The General's communications to Mr. King corresponded with 
the tenour of the foregoing extracts ; and he further stated that 
the Province of Caraccas, his native country, was suffering be- 
neath the most oppressive tyranny, that the Inhabitants, were 
generally disaffected, that they were ready to throw off the Span- 
ish Government and invited him to return and co-operate with 
them in asserting their liberty and independence, and that he had 
come to the U. S. to obtain the requisite succours to enable him 
to effect the Revolution. 

Mr. King told Gen. Miranda that private persons, whatever 
might be their sentiments concerning the enterprize in which he 
was engaged, could not with safety afford him the assistance he 
wanted, as the U. S. was at peace with Spain, and the laws pro- 
hibited the setting on foot of an Expedition of this nature, and 
recommended to him without delay to proceed to Washington 
and lay open his views to the Government. 

At a future interview General Miranda informed Mr. King that 
he had disclosed his object to Commodore Lewis and Col. Smith 
who had made him acquainted with Mr. S. G. Ogden ; that Og- 
den and Lewis owned two or three stout armed ships, that they 
entertained sentiments favourable to his purpose, that if he had 
friends he could soon procure the men and arms he wanted, and 
with this succour that he should command a force superior to 
that which Dion possessed when with Plato's approbation he re- 
turned to Syracuse, his native City, and overthrew the Tyrants. 
Mr. King repeated to Gen. Miranda that he ought to consult the 

* These are omitted as they are from Mr. Vansittart's letter. 

APPENDIX. 579 

Government before he attempted anything ; that however true 
it was, that all Greece applauded the enterprize of Dion, and its 
wisest citizens assisted or accompanied him, neither men, nor 
States, nor the discipline and devotedness of Freedom were the 
same now as then ; that we possessed as little of the purity of 
ancient Patriotism as of its invincible courage aud tho' there was 
a time when it might have been both safe and honourable to 
have erred with Plato, those days were gone, and a mere regard 
to personal safety with the coldest and lowest calculations of 
prudence had become virtues of higher rank than those which 
once animated the Sages of antiquity. 

General Miranda afterwards informed Mr. King that he had 
concluded to go to Washington and to lay open his intentions to 
Government, and asked Mr. King to give him a letter of intro- 
duction to the Secretary of State, which was declined. 

General Miranda having determined to ask the countenance 
and succour of Government, with the view of apprizing the Pres- 
ident of the General's actual situation, as well as of the purpose 
for which he came to the U. S., Mr. King transmitted to the Sec- 
retary of State for the President's perusal, the original letter that 
he had from England disclosing Miranda's views. Mr. King's 
letter was dated Nov. 26, 1805, the Secretary of State's letter 
returning the enclosure after the same had been perused by the 
President was dated Dec. 4, 1805. 

General Miranda left N. Y. for Washington Nov. 28, arrived 
there Dec. 6, left it Dec. 20, and returned to N. Y. Dec. 23, 1805. 
He informed Mr. King that, immediately after his arrival at 
Washington, he visited the President ; after which he visited the 
Secy, of State, and left his address with a letter of introduction 
from Dr. Rush of Philadelphia ; that at the interview which fol- 
lowed he informed the Secy, of State that he had desired to 
make an important and confidential communication to the Gov- 
ernment as soon as the President should permit it to be received ; 
that at a future interview the Secy, of State informed him that 
having consulted the President he had been authorized to receive 
his communications ; that General Miranda then opened to the 
Secretary of State his object incoming to the U. S., exposed the 
condition of the Province of Caraccas^ the general discontent of 
its Inhabitants and the ease with which it might become indepen- 

580 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING. 

dent, and concluded by asking the countenance and succour of 
the Government. The manner and tenour of the observations 
made by the Secretary of State on this occasion were considered 
by M. as encouraging and satisfactory. 

That at a subsequent interview the Secretary of State, who 
seemed more reserved than before, informed Gen. Miranda that 
he had communicated to the President what had passed in their 
preceding conference, that the President's sentiments could not 
be doubted, but that Government could afford neither sanction 
nor succour to the enterprize in which he was engaged. 

General Miranda remarked that without the countenance of 
Government individuals might be unwilling to assist him ; the 
Secretary replied that the U. S. was a free country, where every 
one may do what the laws do not forbid. Genl. Miranda ob- 
served that the Bill then depending, prohibiting the exportation 
of arms and ammunition, might impede his measures. The 
Secretary answered that the Bill might not become a Law. 

General Miranda said he had conferred with certain persons in 
New York respecting his views and if Government would pri- 
vately make him a small advance, he might with their assistance 
find the supplies he wanted. The Secretary replied that the 
merchants would advance money whenever they became satisfied 
that they had an interest in doing so, and enquired what supplies 
he might want, and who were the Persons with whom he had 
conferred. General Miranda answered that he wanted a few 
officers, a small number of privates, together with a quantity of 
arms and ammunition, and that he had conferred with Commo- 
dore Lewis, Col. Smith and Mr. S. G. Ogden. The Secretary 
expressed himself favourably concerning the fitness of these per- 
sons for the Expedition, adding in reference to Lewis and Ogden, 
that it would be better than the St. Domingo trade, and that Col. 
Smith was more qualified for military service than for the Cus- 
tom House, f General Miranda said that Col. Smith would go 
with him, if he could have leave of absence, which he regarded 
should be granted under the pretext of having business at New 
Orleans. The Secretary replied that such permissions were un- 
usual— and the conference ended with an intimation on the part 
of the Secretary of State that whatever might be done should be 
\ He was an officer in that at New York. 

APPENDIX, 581 

discreetly done and with the understanding on the part of Mir- 
anda, that altho' the Government would not sanction, it would 
wink at the Expedition. 

Miranda remained at Washington 14 days, dined twice with 
the President ; the second time being after the Secretary of State 
had laid before the President the communication received from 
Gen. Miranda. He also dined with the Secretary of State the 
day before he left Washington — having waited there two days to 
attend the dinner. 

As soon as General Miranda returned to N. York, he settled 
his plan with Commodore Lewis, Mr. Ogden and Col. Smith. 
Commodore Lewis sailed soon after for St. Domingo, with two 
armed ships, the Emperor and the Indostan, with instructions 
from Miranda to engage the mulatto Chief Petion together with 
a corps of persons of colour to co-operate in effecting the Revo- 
lution of the Province of Caraccas. General Miranda, his asso- 
ciates American Officers and Privates, together with a supply of 
arms and ammunition followed in the ship Leander commanded 
by Captain Lewis, brother of the Commodore. 

After Miranda's return from Washington, he stated to Mr. 
King his apprehensions that he should be embarrassed from the 
want of funds, and requested that Mr. King, thro' his friends, 
would endeavour to effect a loan for him, which in addition to 
other means might be sufficient to carry his preparations to a 
pitch that would render his success infallible. 

Mr. King explained to Miranda, in declining his request, the 
reasons why it would be unfit and inexpedient in him to take any 
part in, or in any way promote the enterprize in which he was 
engaged. Mr. King did not however hide from General Miranda 
the cordial interest that he had long cherished in favour of the 
Emancipation of South America, nor did he conceal the hope he 
entertained and which arose out of the posture of public affairs, 
and his opinion respecting the true political and commercial sys- 
tem of this Country, as Spain had given to the U. S, just, cause 
of war, that the power and resources of the nation would be em- 
ployed in breaking asunder the weak and degrading chains which 
for more than three centuries had bound the new world to the old. 

Of funds without which he could not proceed, Miranda re- 
marked, that his chief and best property consisted of the exten- 

582 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING. 

sive and valuable Library with which Mr. King was acquainted, 
and that he would try to raise money upon it. If he succeeded 
in the Enterprize to which he had devoted himself, he should be 
able to redeem this Library ; if he failed he should not want it ; 
he added that on this principle, he would draw Bills for ;^.2ooo. 
Sterg. on persons in London, whom he named, and in whose 
care he left his Library and other effects, and requested Mr. 
King to express his opinion of the value of the Library to any 
person who might call upon him to ask it. Soon after Mr. 
Daniel Ludlow called on Mr. King and enquired of him respecting 
Miranda's property in England, Mr. King answered that he knew 
of no property belonging to him, except a valuable Library that 
he possessed when Mr. King left England. Mr. Ludlow asked 
Mr. King if this Library was worth ^^2000. Sterling ; Mr. King 
answered that in his opinion it was worth that sum and more. 
Mr Ludlow asked Mr. King if he knew the persons whose names 
he mentioned on whom Miranda had drawn for ^2000. Ster. Mr. 
King answered in the affirmative, and that they were friends of 
Miranda. Mr. Ludlow then asked Mr. King if he would purchase 
Miranda's Bills were he in want of Bills on London ? Mr. King 
replied that were he in want of Bills he should not trust his own 
judgment but consult with Mr. I^udlow or some other merchant 
respecting such as might be offered to him. 

Mr. King afterwards understood from General Miranda that 
Mr. Ludlow had purchased the Bills, and that the General had 
pledged the Library to the Drawers as a security for the repay- 
ment of the money. 

About this time, or earlier, Miranda told Mr. King that he was 
sending an agent to Boston for the purpose of raising money and 
asked him to furnish the agent with a letter of introduction to 
one of his friends in Boston ; this was declined, and Mr. King 
afterwards understood from Miranda that the mission proved 
ineffectual. 

General Miranda informed Mr. King that in addition to the 
;£2ooo. drawn on the security of his Library, he had drawn on a 
Banker in London for what he had not expended of a letter of 
credit for ;£8oo. Sterling which he brought from England, and 
also for two or three thousand pounds sterling upon a person in 
Trinidad, whose name was mentioned but not recollected. 

APPENDIX. 583 

On the 23d of January General Miranda called on Mr. King 
and showed him two letters which he had written and which he 
said he should send by the mail to the President and Secretary 
of State, both dated January 22, 1806, and added that he would 
as he afterwards did give to Mr. King copies of these letters. 
The Leander left the Hook Feb. 2, 1806. 

The following are copies of the letters from General Miranda 
to the President and Secretary of State.* 

Translation — Copy — Private — 
Fran, de Miranda to the Hon. James Madison, Esq. &c. &c. 

New York, January 22, 1806. 
Sir: 

On the point of leaving the U. S., allow me to address a few 
words to you, to thank you for the attentions that you were pleased 
to show me during my stay at Washington. 

The important concerns, which I then had the honour to com- 
municate to you, I doubt not will remain a profound secret until 
the final result of that delicate affair. 

I have acted upon this supposition here, by conforming in 
everything to the intentions of the Government, which I hope to 
have apprehended and observed with exactness and discretion. 
The enclosed letter contains a book which I have promised to 
the President of the U. S., and which I pray you to transmit to 
him. 

Have the goodness to present my respectful compliments to 
Mrs. Madison and to believe me with high consideration and 
esteem. Sir, Yr. very humb. & ob. Servt. 

Fran. de. Miranda. 

Translation — Copy. 
Miranda to T. Jefferson Esq., President of the U. S. 

New York, January 22, 1806. 
Mr. President : 

I have the honour to send you with this " La Storia naturale e 

civile del Chile," of which we conversed at Washington. You 

* These letters are in French, which with the translations into English, are 
in this manuscript. But as the translations express faithfully the originals, they 
only are here given, for want of space — Ed. 

584 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING. 

will perhaps find more interesting facts and greater knowledge in 
this little volume than in those which have been before published 
on the same subject concerning this beautiful Country. 

If the happy prediction which you pronounced on the future 
destiny of our dear Colombia is to be accomplished in our day, 
may Providence grant that it may be under your auspices and 
by the generous efforts of her own children. We shall then, in 
some sort behold the revival of that age, the return of which the 
Roman Bard invoked in favour of the Human Race : 

' ' The last great age foretold by sacred rhymes 

Renews its finished course ; Saturnian times 

Roll round again, and mighty years, begun 

From this first orb, in radiant circles run." 

Dryden.* 

With the highest consideration and profound respect, 

I am, Mr. President, yr. very humb. & very ob. servt., 

(signed) Fran. de. Miranda. 

On the 3rd of March, 1806, Mr. King received the following 
note from the District Judge — viz. : The District Court, which 
is at present sitting at No. 14 Dey Street would wish to see Mr. 
King as a Witness in some important business as soon as pos- 
sible— Monday 3rd March. 

Mr. King immediately attended, and being informed by the 
District Attorney that the enquiry related to the Destination of 
the Ship Leander and the views of General Miranda, was asked 
if he knew the General ? Mr. King asked if any prosecution 
existed against General Miranda ; the Judge replied none at 
present, but that facts might be disclosed that would originate 
one. Mr. King observed that he should think himself bound to 
answer such questions as the Court might think proper to pro- 
pound, but that he knew nothing concerning the Leander, or 
General Miranda's views, except what the General had confi- 
dentially communicated to him, and which he could not there- 
fore disclose, unless in obedience to the injunction of the Court. 
The Judge replied that the Court would expect answers to the 
questions it might ask. 

* Quoted in Latin from Virg. Eclog. 1 1 . 

APPENDIX. 585 

The Attorney General then repeated the question, whether 
Mr. King knew General Miranda? Mr. King, being first sworn, 
answered that he had known the General many years, and for 
several during his residence in England. Is Miranda a native 
of Caraccas ? Mr. King answered that he had understood so 
from him. When did Miranda arrive at New York ? In Novem- 
ber last. Did he disclose to Mr. King the object of his coming 
to the U. S. ? He did. What was his object ? He represented 
to Mr. King, that his native Country was oppressed by the Span- 
ish Government and was in a condition and ready to throw off 
the yoke ; that he had been invited by his countrymen to return 
and join them in effecting the Revolution ; and, to comply with 
the invitation, he wanted a few Officers, a small number of pri- 
vates and a quantity of arms and ammunition. Mr. King told 
General Miranda that individuals could not with safety furnish 
these supplies, and recommended him to go to Washington and 
make a full disclosure of his business to the Government. 

Did Miranda go to Washington ? He informed Mr. King that 
he did. When did he leave New York for Washington ? Towards 
the end of November. Did he disclose his business to Govern- 
ment ? He told Mr. King he had. What answer did he receive 
from Government ? That Government did not sanction the En- 
terprize, but that it would assist at Miranda's procuring the supplies 
from individuals, provided the same was done discreetly. Did 
Miranda declare who were his associates ? He did. Who were 
they ? Commodore Lewis and his brother, Mr. L. G. Ogden 
and Col. Smith ; he added that he had mentioned those names 
to Government, which thought them suitable persons for the 
business. What quantity of arms and how many men are on 
board the Leander ? Mr. King answered that he did not know. 
Did Miranda mention the destination of the Leander ? He did. 
What was her destination ? A port in St. Domingo and from 
thence to the Coast of Caraccas. Did he mention the purpose 
of his going to Caraccas ? He did. What was it ? To co-oper- 
ate with his countrymen in accomplishing a Revolution. Did 
you understand that force would be used against the existing 
Government ? Most certainly, if necessary to overturn it. 

The interrogatories being finished, Mr. King requested that 
they might be read over together with his answers that the latter 

586 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.. 

might be corrected if misconceived or erroneously expressed. 
This being done, instead of the answer given by Mr. King to the 
Question, '' What answer did he receive from the Government ? " 
the judge omitted the latter clause and varied the form so as to 
read " the Government repelled the overture." Mr. King pointed 
out the variance and desired the answer might be set down as he 
delivered it. The Attorney General observed that as Mr. King's 
testimony was material only in respect to the destination of the 
Leander, he doubted whether it would be necessary to take his 
deposition, as he would be recognized to give his testimony in 
Court. The Judge assenting, Mr. King was recognized and the 
paper containing his examination was thrown into the fire. 
March 5, 1806. 

APPENDIX X. 

REVIEW OF THE FOREIGN RELATIONS OF THE UNITED 

STATES. 

Among the papers of Mr. King, the following interesting 
review of the foreign relations of the United States will give 
his opinions on many of the questions which were engaging 
the attention of the Government, and in the proper solution 
of which he differed from the Administration. Though the 
paper begins abruptly with a discussion of certain articles 
of a proposed treaty, it gives a well-considered view of 
their effect upon maritime law, and consequently upon 
our commercial relations, and therefore it is here pub- 
lished as evincing the interest he took in public affairs, al- 
though he was not in public life. When it was written, and 
probably published by him is uncertain, but it may have 
been subsequent to the date of his letter to Mr. Pickering 
on p. 506 of this volume, in which he says : " I have it in 
contemplation, after the close of your Session to make a 
review of our foreign relations." 

The 14th article provides that free bottoms make free goods. 
Every man who remembers the humiliated situation of our 
Country in the years 1794 and 1795, vvill recollect the fervour 

APPENDIX. 587 

with which that regulation was asserted and contended for, as 
one of the most important provisions of what was called the 
Modern Law of Nations. England was decried because she 
would not admit, France applauded for supporting, it. But how 
far she has conformed her conduct to this Rule, appears in the 
long list of captures before us. We omit the Catalogue and cite 
only the case of the Ship Two Friends, McNiel, Master : a regu- 
lar trader between London and South Carolina, taken with a 
most valuable cargo, by the French Privateers, which blockade 
the harbour of Charleston. The assertion that she had not a 
certificate from the American Consul in London to prove the 
cargo neutral property is a frivolous pretext, circulated by the 
corrupt instruments of our Administration, and from the same 
motives, which led to the base but unsuccessful attempt in the 
to persuade the public that the Two Friends is a British 
and not an American ship. No such certificate was necessary : 
the ship was provided with a passport in due form proving her 
to be American property ; wherefore according to the Conven- 
tion with France, the bottom being free the cargo was free also. 
It might have been enemy's property or even contraband of war, 
still as the Ship was American and bound to an American, not an 
enemy's port, the capture was repugnant to the Article before us. 
The members of our present Administration constantly mani- 
fested the desire to establish a new maritime code. They have 
in this respect shown as much fondness for French fashions as 
their Wives, and snapped at every hook baited with the phrase, free 
ships, free goods. But it is prudent even for Powers of the first 
order (much more for others) to avoid innovating on the estab- 
lished Law of Nations. Public opinion is of such importance 
that Sovereigns frequently endeavour to conciliate it by labored 
manifestoes. Few are so hardy as to bid it defiance, and fewer 
still can do so with impunity. When a treaty between two na- 
tions is founded on and conformable to the acknowledged public 
Law (which like our common Law has been matured by the wis- 
dom and experience of ages), the violation of it is generally 
acknowledged, and other nations are interested in punishing the 
perfidy. But when new fangled notions are foisted into national 
compacts by the art of a duping Power operating upon the folly 
of its dupe, no sooner is the bargain broken than surrounding 

588 LIFE AN-D CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING. 

nations applaud the breach, because it restores old principles. 
They justly deride the awkward lamentations of those who had 
set themselves up for teachers and models to their superiors. 
AVe shall not examine the solidity of the favorite position, that a 
free ship makes free goods, because some of our friends have 
wished to establish it, without reflecting that if ever we should be 
at war, it would destroy our best means of aggression. But we 
must notice a difficulty which cursory observers may not per- 
ceive, tho' it ought to be weighed by those who assume the 
character of Statesmen. It is evident that a new principle of 
maritime Law cannot be established against the will of the first 
maritime Powers. It is equally evident that they will not assent 
to a principle which takes from them the advantage of their 
naval superiority : and it is not less evident that such superiority 
can be of little use if an enemy's commerce can be carried on in 
perfect safety under cover of a neutral flag. It is, moreover, a 
wilful blindness not to see that the attempt to make goods of an 
enemy free from capture when on board of a neutral ship, were 
levelled at the naval power of Great Britain, and by necessary 
consequence at her existence. Whether it be our interest that 
she should perish, is a question which shall not at this time be 
considered. But will any man of sound mind pretend that if the 
naval empire of France were established on the ruin of Britain, 
this new principle would be respected by France ? Are we not 
on the contrary warranted by experience to say that she would 
break the cobweb ties of a treaty as freely as any one of her ad- 
mirers can break the Lilliputian ties of an oath. 

We are neither the advocates nor accusers, much less the 
panegyrists or calumniators of any Prince, Power or Potentate. 
Born and educated in America we are bound to this our native 
Country by interest, duty and affection. Our partialities, our 
predilections, our attachments are to her. If we could pretend 
equal love to another, we should hold ourselves as unworthy of 
confidence as any of those who born abroad come canting to our 
shores their dear, dear love for America, and who better to gull 
and dupe this credulous people have the infamy to pretend a 
hatred for the land which gave them birth. But that strict im- 
partiality, which we feel and avow, will not permit us to shut our 
eyes against the light of truth. 

APPENDIX. 589 

We will not indeed look at these reproaches which the nations 
of Europe cast on each other, but we must look at the facts 
which regard ourselves ; and if we respect their evidence, we 
must acknowledge that England has been more faithful to her 
Treaties with us than some other Powers. She has indeed been 
less profuse of promise, but she has been more fruitful in per- 
formance. Treaties made with her do not hold out such prolific 
hopes as those which delight our visionary Rulers but they give 
security. England, who is unquestionably the dominant Power 
at sea, does not restrict us in the exercise of our right as neutrals 
to navigate as freely, as in time of peace, from the ports of one 
enemy to those of another. She will not hold to the novel doctrine 
that a neutral flag shall protect the property of an enemy, and 
which, adopted as a principle, would in practice be exclusively 
advantageous to the inhabitants of the North of Europe ; because 
from the low price of labor and materials, they can carry mer- 
chandize cheaper than we can, and because (their navigation 
laws differing widely from ours) they naturalize a foreign Ship 
with as much facility as we do a foreign vagabond. But tho' 
England makes Prize of her enemies' goods, she does not con- 
demn the neutral ship, which has taken them on board, nor even 
withhold the stipulated freight. With other Powers we have 
made Treaties according to which not only our neutral ship is 
sacred, but even a portion of her sanctitude is extended to the 
iniquitous cargo sufficient for its salvation, and what is the con- 
sequence ? These darling Treaties of high promise are violated 
with as little remorse as that of a schoolboy in drowning a blind 
puppy ; and with as much contempt for our representations as 
his for the howling of its dam, because like the miserable bitch 
we bark, but dare not bite. 

After all, if certain Powers would stop at the mere breach of 
Treaty, those who to get money, or to save it, will submit to dis- 
grace might patiently bear the loss of our national honor. But 
alas the arrogance of one party is generally proportioned to the 
meanness of the other. We have seen decrees to confiscate 
American Ships should a single rope yarn of British Manufacture 
be found on board ; and although the violations are not quite so 
outrageous, they deprive us of advantages to which we are en- 
titled by the Law of Nations, as well as those conceded to us by 

590 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING. 

Treaty, and being submitted to invite, and will excuse if not 
justify such further violations as interest or caprice may dictate. 
And here let it be asked, of what use to make Treaties with 
Powers void of faith ? Is it not better to adhere to the estab- 
lished Law, and exert our force against those by whom it shall 
be violated ? Is it not — but we forbear ; since to mention what 
ought to be done, and what our honorable Nation would do, 
might look like a libel on our wise and virtuous and above all our 
magnani?7ious administration. 

The i8th Article regulates the manner of visit and search. 
This important stipulation is also shamefully disregarded. Not 
only the masters of American ships are forced to leave their 
vessels and go on board French cruizers with their papers, but 
armed detachments are sent on board of American vessels to 
plunder their cargoes and insult and maltreat their crews. When 
Capt. Pigott of the English Frigate Hermione offered personal 
violence to Jessup, the democratic papers resounded with clamor- 
ous outcry. The federal Administration made a strong remon- 
strance to the British Govt.; enquiry was ordered ; redress was 
promised and would probably have been given, had not the 
murder of Capt. Pigott by his own crew placed him beyond the 
power of human tribunals. But now that we are constantly ex- 
posed to, and daily experience French and Spanish atrocities, 
what have these Gentlemen done with their sympathy in the 
sufferings of their countrymen ? Is it asleep, or peradventure 
gone on a journey, to wait a nod of favour from the imperial 
Court ? Their newspapers, once so loud in complaint, are silent : 
we hear of no appeals to the national sentiment, no remonstrance 
by our Government to those of France and Spain. Are stripes 
then less degrading from the hands of a Frenchman or Spaniard 
than from those of a Briton ? 

By the 19th Article, every American vessel under convoy of a 
national ship is exempt from visit and search by French cruizers, 
why then is our commerce unprotected ? Why have we no Frigates 
cruizing along our own coasts ? Why is the property of our 
merchants exposed to plunder and our national character to dis- 
grace? Is there a nation, was there ever a nation with such 
ample means of self defence reduced to a state of such utter 
contempt ? 

APPENDIX, 591 

It would seem as if a plan had been laid to expose us to every 
possible insult, and to torture every nerve and fibre of national 
sensibility. When a Frigate and store ship were destined to the 
Picaroon war of Tripoli they were sent separate, and as if fearful 
that the plunder of merchants might wound only that description 
of citizens, the national property is exposed, so that the whole 
nation might suffer, and every citizen drink of the cup of shame. 
If such was the plan, it has succeeded beyond all reasonable ex- 
pectation. The store ship was taken, and has been retaken ; we 
are to receive her back therefore as a boon of British bounty, on 
paying the price of salvage acknowledging the efficacy of that force 
which we dare not employ. 

We proceed to the Louisiana Treaty, by which French debts due 
to American citizens to the amount of nearly twenty millions of 
Livres are assumed by the United States. It will be remembered 
that the federal Administration with a view to establish public 
credit, and to adjust the State accounts, assumed the debts of the 
several States. This measure was nevertheless loudly censured 
by the exclusive patriots, who are now silent, or ready to approve 
the assumption of French debts. It is true that American citi- 
zens were expected to be benefited by both assumptions. It 
seems, however, a little difficult to explain upon any honourable 
principle the approbation of a measure when it assists the credit 
and finances of a foreign nation, and the condemnation of it 
when beneficial to our own. It will not be alleged that the U. S. 
received an equivalent in one case, and not in the other ; in the 
instance of the State debts, the amount assumed was charged to 
the several States, and liquidated in settling their accounts ; so in 
the other example the sum assumed is discounted in the purchase 
of Louisiana. There are indeed some men so malicious as to say, 
that the assumption of French debts gave no relief to France, 
because regardless of her engagements she did not conceal the 
determination to delay payment so long as might suit her con- 
venience ; and the system of delay once adopted might easily 
have been easily extended so as to be in effect a denial. They 
say too that the real relief was felt by our Administration, who 
were thereby liberated from the irksome task of presenting fruit- 
less claims to citizen Talleyrand, who received and put them in 
his pocket with every circumstance of neglect and indifference. 

592 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING. 

Nay these malicious men go further and pretend that the 20 mil- 
lions of Livres were superadded to the price, in the lumping 
bargain for Louisiana, so that in fact we received no considera- 
tion for paying French debts to our citizens. 

We are, however, far from believing the insinuations of such 
men ; still less will we listen to certain ugly criminating allega- 
tions, which would resolve the public conduct of great officers 
into a mean pursuit of private interest. By the Louisiana 
Treaties two things are incumbent on France, ist, to assist us 
in settling the boundaries, so that we may possess Louisiana as 
France would have done ; 2nd, to facilitate the liquidation of 
debts she owes to our citizens, so that they may obtain payment 
from their own Treasury. 

Mr. Livingston, who (as we have already observed) had settled 
the terms of the LouisianaTreaty before the arrival of his colleague, 
Mr. Monroe, took care to insert a clause, which if duly observed 
at Washington, would have rendered all negotiation about the 
limits unnecessary. This clause wisely required that France should 
give us actual possession of all Louisiana before she could call 
for payment ; according to the terms of the Treaty, and in con- 
sistence with its true spirit and intent, we justly claimed the 
country between the Mississippi and the Perdido as part of Louis- 
iana (a country of greater value to the U. S. than the whole terri- 
tory lying west of the Mississippi). This as well as New Orleans 
and the western bank of the Mississippi was in possession of Spain 
and occupied by Spanish troops. New Orleans and the western 
bank of the River were, in conformity with the Treaty of St. 
Ildefonso, surrendered to France by the Spanish Commissary and 
then delivered over to us by the French Commissary. But our 
troops were not even permitted to set their feet upon, or pass 
through any part of the country between the Mississippi and the 
Perdido on their way to take possession of Louisiana. The 
Spanish garrison continued to possess it, displaying their flag 
within view of our troops as they passed them. By thus leaving 
this part of Louisiana in the hands of Spain, when we took pos- 
session of New Orleans and the western bank of the Mississippi, 
our Administration indirectly acknowledged the right of Spain to 
the country, and thereby cast such fresh doubt upon our own title 
as could not but operate to our disadvantage. Still, however, the 

APPENDIX, 593 

Staff was in our own hands as the money was in our treasury. 
The possession of New Orleans and of the western bank of the 
River being delivered to us, our Adminstration should have de- 
manded the surrender of the country between the Mississippi and 
the Perdido, as a preliminary condition to the payment of the 
purchase money, according to the terms of the Treaty, which 
expressly declared that Possession of Louisiana should be de- 
livered before the money was paid. This was the plain, simple 
course and had it been pursued we should now have been in full 
& quiet possession of all Louisiana. Why this course was not 
adopted, we are at a loss to conceive. But in fact it was not 
adopted. We obtained possession of only a part of the Territory 
we had purchased and though we were not obliged to pay a 
dollar before the delivery of the whole, our administration paid 
every cent, and thereby put it in the power of both France and 
Spain to say, what they do say, that we have received possession 
of all that was intended to be ceded ; nay that our payment of the 
purchase money, which was not demandable till the ceded country 
had been delivered, was a full acknowledgment that we had 
already got all that we considered ourselves entitled to claim. Our 
economical Administration having thus precipitately poured out 
our treasure and abdicated our rights, dispatched in their pro- 
found wisdom their fac-totum Monroe to correct the procedure. 
This facetious, polite and sagacious personage was it seems to 
persuade some of the ablest Ministers in Europe to forego the ad- 
vantages which we had so weakly given them and obtain the sur- 
render of a valuable Territory, which our Government had left 
in their possession by a neglect which, if they were federalists, 
we should call criminal. 

Proceeding from London to Madrid Mr. Monroe took Paris in 
his route, and though it was notorious that his character and con- 
nexions in that metropolis rendered his presence disagreeable to 
the Government, an article found its way into one of the French 
papers, stating that he had been most graciously received by the 
Emperor.* Unexperienced men formed expectations from this 

* In the Moniteur, the official paper of France, after mentioning sundry 
presentations by the foreign Ministers and Ambassadors at the Emperor's 
Levee, it is said, " Mr. Armstrong the American Minister was permitted to 
present Mr. Monroe," etc. A phraseology so extraordinary seems to have been 

VOL. IV. — 38 

594 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING. 

article (which every American in Paris knew to be false) favour- 
able to the object of Mr. Monroe's mission ; reflecting ones how- 
ever looked a little further, and seeking for Bonaparte's views in 
the calculation of his interest, endeavored to discover how this 
would be affected by the good will of Spain, or that of America — 
if the latter were too profitably employed, too prudent, or too 
remote to be drawn within his vortex, this was not the case with 
the former. The favour of Spain therefore became an object of 
his careful attention, and would of course be more assiduously 
cultivated than that of America. 

Mr. Monroe, however, presented through the American Min- 
ister at Paris a memorandum to the French Government, setting 
forth the limits of Louisiana and claiming the good offices and 
interference of the Emperor Napoleon with the Spanish Court 
in fixing the same. But the memorial was treated with con- 
temptuous silence, so that after patiently waiting for and humbly 
soliciting an answer, the Knight of the Sorrowful Countenance 
was obliged to jog on to Madrid without one. There the claim 
was renewed and answered by a flat denial ; in which, as was 
stated, France fully concurred. We presume that this will be 
decisive and that our magnanimous Administration will in all 
humbleness submit. At a convenient season France and Spain 
may send half a dozen French regiments to Mobile, and our wise 
statesmen, who already have paved the way for it by removing 
their custom house from Mobile to Fort Stoddard, be at once con- 
vinced and easily convince their followers that their Title is 
defective, and that prudence, republicanism, the principles of 
humanity and true economy require that we should advance as 
many additional millions as may be demanded for a second sale ! 
Thus one of the most antient and important parts of Louisiana, 
for which we have paid 15 millions of dollars, is lost, or rather has 
been most weakly and negligently thrown away. But the loss of 
the country and loss of money tho' great, are of little conse- 
quence compared with the loss of reputation ; for when before 
has it happened that a nation has gratuitously given a certainty 
for an uncertainty, accepted the imperfect in lieu of the perfect 

inserted with the double view of counteracting the above publication and of 
apologizing to the courts of Europe for suffering such a man to appear at the 
Tuilleries. 

APPENDIX, 595 

performance of a condition ; or referred to negotiation and the 
consent of those, whose interest was opposed to its own, a point, 
the decision of which was completely within its own power. 

In respect to the assumed debt, notwithstanding the diligence 
of the Board of Commissioners and the appointment of successive 
Ambassadors, the business is still embarrassed by a series of 
frivolous pretexts, and tho' some partial payments have been made, 
the far greater part remains in suspense. 

The creditors become daily more impatient, one day hoping, the 
next in despair, and will probably be kept in that condition, till they 
shall consent to sell their claims for a fourth of their amount. Then, 
and not before, the American Minister will be permitted to draw 
the bills. It is true that in this way our merchants will be robbed 
without shame or remorse, but the sooner they submit the better, 
for they may easily convince themselves by the neglect they ex- 
perience on other occasions, that nothing effectual will be done 
for their relief. 

We come now to our political relations with Spain, and if the 
importance of discussions with a foreign Power are to be inferred 
from the number and dignity of the Envoys employed, those 
with Spain must be of no ordinary magnitude ; our Administra- 
tion estimating more the pride than the ability of Spain have sent 
her the Titles if not the Talents of our Country. At first, the 
chaste and generous Charles Pinckney, cidevant Governor of 
South Carolina, who soon brought the business, as he supposed, 
to a most satisfactory conclusion. His Spanish convention has 
been published, and reflects equal credit on the negotiator, on 
those who approve and on him who ratified it. This notable 
Convention excluding many of our claims from redress, refers the 
greater part to future negotiations ; an expedient for giving them 
up forever, which to every man of common information the refine- 
ment of Courts makes use of in such cases. 

The remonstrance of our merchants against this Convention 
was of no avail ; but our wise Administration having ratified it, 
and thereby sanctioned the surrenders it makes, thought proper, 
as in the case of Louisiana, to negotiate anew for what they had 
so improvidently abandoned : for this purpose another Ex-Gover- 
nor of no little State, but of great dominion, and who had already 
given an earnest of his diplomatic skill was dispatched ; and 

Sg6 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING. 

scarcely had this pair of Excellencies commenced the business 
of their mission, when a third Envoy, not himself indeed a Gover- 
nor, but the son of a Governor, was appointed, whether to unite 
with, or to succeed the other two, or as an umpire, we have not 
been able to learn. Mr. Monroe having passed thro' Paris, as 
we have mentioned, opened in concert with Mr. Pinckney his 
negotiation at Madrid for the purpose of revising the Convention, 
and enlarging its provisions, as well as for settling the limits of 
Louisiana. 

It is stated that 240 American vessels, amounting now to 
upwards of seven millions of dollars, have either been seized 
under Spanish authority, or sent by French Cruizers into Spanish 
ports and then condemned by French Consuls. About one third 
of their plunder was made by Spain, the other two thirds by France. 
Mr. Monroe has negotiated with his usual success. Spain, it is 
said, refuses now even to adhere to the Convention made with 
Mr. Pinckney ; but at any rate, as to the enlargement of it, so as to 
include the vessels captured by the French and condemned and 
sold in her ports, she denies that she is at all responsible and 
fortifies her refusal by the extract of a dispatch from Talleyrand to 
Cevallos, which declares that France would see with displeasure 
any interference on the part of Spain, affecting the validities of 
the capture or condemnation of prizes, made under authority of 
France, and that she would not fail to signify to the American 
Government her dissatisfaction at any claim it may set up against 
Spain for matters which had already been adjusted between France 
and the United States. It is presumed that the Imperial repri- 
mand has been, or soon will be, signified at Washington, and if so, 
we shall probably hear no more of this negotiation ; unless indeed 
they can fall on some contrivance to throw the blame of their 
miserable blunders upon the Federalists. 

As to Louisiana, we claim an indefinite western and northern ex- 
tension, and comprise within its eastern limits a great part of west 
Florida. Spain, as we have already observed, denies our claim ; and 
assigns the River that falls into St. Barnard's Bay, about 80 leagues 
west of the marshes at the mouth of the Mississippi, as the boundary 
in that quarter, and runs the line up northwardly along the 
western limits of the old French Settlements : she also assigns the 
Mississippi, and eastern shore of the Island of New Orleans as 

APPENDIX. 597 

the eastern boundary of Louisiana, insinuating at the same time 
that for a suitable compensation Spain might be prevailed on to 
cede the whole of W. Florida to the U. States. This decision of 
Spain, as seen by every man of common sense in the country, 
appears to have surprized and confounded our Envoys, who in 
May last were preparing to leave Madrid, and according to the 
latest account Mr. Monroe has actually left on his return to 
England. 

The boundaries of Louisiana remain undecided ; and Spain, it 
may be presumed, will continue to seize our ships, and to per- 
mit the French to condemn and sell them, in her European and 
West India Ports. Nay should Spain stop here, our magnani- 
mous Rulers may applaud her moderation.* But whenever one 
of the officers, a Governor, an Intendant, or anything else, may 
think proper to interrupt the navigation of the Mississippi, he will 
do so ; for his right and bis means are as good as before. Thus 
while Capt. Lewis and Company are so profitably employed in 
catching Magpies, and picking up rams* horns on the banks of 
the Mississippi, our illustrious President finds all his hopes & 
projects blasted by the single stroke of a Spanish pen. Farewell 
lead mines, farewell prairies, and you too, ye mountains of salt, a 
long farewell ! 

* "We have already said that we do not pretend to penetrate the arcana of State 
secrets, and therefore we shall not take upon us to assign the reason why the 
Spanish negotiations have failed. It seems indeed unnecessary, for since no 
man of common sense and information had any hope of success ; none such 
can be surprized at the failure. We however deem it an act of justice to com- 
municate the reason which has been assigned by the confidential friend of our 
Administration in this City. He, it seems, lays all the blame on the Marquis 
Yrujo, Minr. of his Cathc. Maj. to the U. S., and is very wroth at the 
aforesaid Marquis who it appears has given to his Court a circumstantial detail 
of the men and things that govern America. It has been insinuated that he 
presumed to qualify our wise and magnanimous President as a whimsical cox- 
comb, and miserable coward without sense to understand, or spirit to defend 
the interests entrusted to his care ; as one who in the ,vain pursuit of a little 
pleasing popularity, sacrifices the honour of the nation, to a six penny economy. 
It has also been insinuated that the said Marquis has audaciously declared that 
the ruling Faction, conscious of not having the talents or enough of the con- 
fidence even of their own supporters to manage a war, will give up anything to 
avoid it ; that our nation generally is so immersed in the pursuit of money, and 
so devoid of public spirit, that a Senator of one of the most powerful States de- 

598 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING, 

The next of our foreign relations that present themselves, are 
with Holland, our commerce with which country is subjected to 
unequal and peculiar burthens. By our Treaty no other or higher 
duties are payable upon articles imported into Holland from the 
U. States, than upon like articles imported from all other coun- 
tries. Instead of observing this just and equal stipulation, Coffee, 
Sugar and Cotton, carried from the U. States to any of the Dutch 
European ports, pay between two and three per cent higher duties 
than the same articles imported from any other nation ! ! This 
discrimination is attempted to be vindicated by an ancient law 
that gave to the Dutch West India Company a duty of between 
two and three per cent on certain goods imported from any 
country lying west of a meridian passing thro' one of the Western 
Islands. This law was unquestionably annulled so far as re- 
gards the U. S. by the subsequent stipulation of our Treaty just 
cited, and which stands in contradiction to it ; and there is reason 
to believe that the discrimination would long since have been 
abolished on a proper representation to the Dutch Government. 
Our Administration is informed of this abuse ; but we hear of no 
remonstrance against it, and the injury is permitted to subsist. 
Let any man acquainted with the immense quantities of Coffee, 
Sugar and Cotton, annually imported from the U. S. to Holland 

clared, in a public debate, that the American people will not submit to the pay- 
ment of taxes for carrying on a war. Nay it has been insinuated that this same 
Marquis attributes the power and influence of the ruling faction in America, to 
a compliance M'ith this base disposition, and to the continued sacrifice of honour- 
able principles, to the love of ease and love of money, which are said to form 
prominent features of American character. In short, the Marquis is reported 
to have told his Court, that whatever sounding language the Triad of American 
missionaries might use, if Spain remain firm to her purpose, she might rely on 
it, the American Administration would recede. 

" Spain it appears has followed his advice, and continued firm. The demo- 
cratic Gentleman, above alluded to, thinks this conduct of the Spanish Minister 
abominable ; and indeed, if he has been guilty of falsehood, we think so too. 
But, if he has told the truth, he has done what every able Minister and every 
honest man, in his place would have done. We think therefore the Adminis- 
tration, before they censure the Marquis, should first ascertain what he really 
has written, and if it be what has been suggested, prove by a wise and manly 
conduct that he has told scandalous and malicious Lies ; for they cannot in this 
case, as in that of poor Croswell, take advantage of the maxim that a libel is 
the more a libel in being true." 

APPENDIX. 599 

take the trouble to compute the amount of an ad valorem duty of 
two and a half per cent on the same, which we have paid and still 
pay to the Dutch Govt., which we are not, and never were liable 
to pay, and the aggregate amount of which is therefore a total 
loss to the American Merchants, the sum will astonish the public, 
tho' it may have no influence on our wise and economical Admin- 
istration. 

But it is needless to dwell on this, which has become a trifle, 
now that in imitation, or rather in obedience to France, our 
Treaty with Holland has been wholly set aside, or at least violated 
in so barefaced a manner, as to justify, and perhaps to require the 
rejection of it on our part. On the whole we believe it will be 
impossible to find in diplomatic history, during a similar period, 
such a series of blunders, with a complication of folly and mean- 
ness, as America has presented within the last four years. We 
are already far advanced towards a state in which it may be 
difficult with the best talents of our country to extricate the 
nation from surrounding dangers. Should we point them out, we 
might be treated as alarmists, visionaries and false prophets ; we 
forbear therefore to attempt it but desire when evil betides 
America, it may be remembered that we have shown some of the 
steps, which have led to her ruin. 

>N' 

^mm


===== Rufus King - The Life and Correspondence of Rufus King (ed. C. R. King, 6 vols, PD) (vol. 5) =====
Source: https://archive.org/download/lifecorresponden05king/lifecorresponden05king_djvu.txt

AW

Hi

THE LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

OF

RUFUS KING

VOLUME V.

1807-1816

Of this Letter-press Edition
750 Copies ha ve been Printed for Sale

No.

July, 1898

UCiAfxA* f^Wy*

Riifus King

From a painting by Charles Wilson Peale, 1S19, in
Independence Hall, Philadelphia

THE LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

OF

RUFUS KING

COMPRISING HIS LETTERS, PRIVATE AND OFFICIAL

HIS PUBLIC DOCUMENTS AND

HIS SPEECHES

EDITED BY HIS GRANDSON

CHARLES R. KING, M.D., LL.D. (Trim.)

FELLOW OF THE COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS, PHILADELPHIA, AND

MEMBER OF THE NEW YORK AND PENNSYLVANIA

HISTORICAL SOCIETIES

VOLUME V.
1807-1816

NEW YORK
G. P. PUTNAM'S SONS

&ljr |jnicherbocher |)ttss
THE NEW YORK

PUBLIC LIBRARY

A8TOR, LENOX AND
TILDEN FOUNDATIONS.

R 1911 L

COPYRIGHT, 1898
BY

CHARLES R. KING

Xlbe "fentcftcrbocfcer preea, Hew l?orh

PREFACE.

Though many of the letters of Mr. King's correspondents
are long, it has been thought best to give them as they were
written, without leaving out any portions which might be
necessary clearly to express the opinions of the writers ; the
object has been to prevent any suggestion of omissions with
a view of modifying these opinions. The Editor, therefore,
desires to say that in all cases where the marks indicate that
something has been left out, the matter excluded is either
repetition of thoughts elsewhere expressed, or entirely irrel-
evant, and perhaps of personal interest only.

In the first portion of the present volume Mr. King,
though enjoying the pleasures of a quiet life in the coun-
try, is shown to be warmly alive to, and interested in, the
questions which deeply agitated the whole country ; later
on, during the war, when sent by his State to the United
States Senate, he sought to bring about an early peace, but
deemed it his duty to support the Government in all meas-
ures which might strengthen it financially and place its
army and navy in such condition as to make the terms of
peace honorable to the country ; and when the war was over,
to provide for the future welfare of the land, which had been
so sadly marred by the wounds given to its commerce and
by the general mismanagement of public affairs. These
evils he could not and did not fail to see, but, opposed as
he was to the ruling powers, he was most earnest in his
endeavors to so modify proposed measures of relief as to
bring from them the greatest benefits.

The name of Dr. Samuel L. Mitchill, who was appointed
Senator from New York to the United States Senate in
1804, serving until 1809, *s incorrectly given in this volume
as Mitchell. This was overlooked until too late to make
the correction.

in

)

CONTENTS OF VOL. V.

CHAPTER I.

PAGE

Condition of the Country and its Relations with other Countries — New
York Politics — Troup to King — What Course the Federalists should
pursue in Election of Governor— Rely on King's Judgment — Troup
to King — Lewis had a Majority — Assembly opposed to Clinton —
King to Gore — His Son James — Treaty with England not yet made
— Federalists to help Lewis's Party without Pledge — Troup to King
— Tompkins and Lewis nominated for Governor — Federalists divided
— Pickering to King — President says Treaty nearly ready — Arm-
strong's Correspondence — Troup to King — Federalists to support
Lewis — N. Webster to King — His English Dictionary — King to G.
Morris — Possibly Jefferson obliged for national Honor to send the
Treaty back — Troup to King — Democrat Wings bitterly hostile —
Election in New York — King Candidate for Assembly — Emmet to
King — Bitter Attack on Account of his preventing the Irish political
Prisoners emigrating to the U. S. — Cheetham's Slanders — King's
Answer ............ I

CHAPTER II.

Troup to King — Federalists stimulated by Attack on King and by Lan-
sing's Declaration — Political Aspect — Troup to King — Lansing's
Declaration causes Disaffection among the Democrats — Gore to King
— Of the Abuse of King — Troup to King — Attack on Van Rensselaer
— N. Webster to King — Pronunciation of u, or t preceding u, as ch
— King to Webster — That customary among higher Classes — Cannot
encourage him in his Work — Ingersoll to King — Loss of his Election
— Troup to King — Trinity Church should rather make Provision for
the Support of Clergy — Webster to King — Regrets his Despondence
on the political State — Hopes it is not remediless — King to G.
Morris — Wishes to discuss with him respecting Impressment — King
to Gore — Impressment and Affair of the Chesapeake — W. King to
King — When will Question with England be settled ? — Gore to King
— Will not support Sullivan — King to Gore — Embargo causes Alarm. 29

Vlll CONTENTS.

PAGE

B. — Duane's Appointment — King to Pickering — Negotiations against
Impressment of his own Motion — Felt confident he could have
made a good Treaty — Administration did not second him — Gore to
King — Affairs in Massachusetts — Pickering to King — Embargo to
be removed 4th of March — Armstrong's Correspondence with Madi-
son— King — Berlin and Milan Decrees and English Orders incorrect
— Retaliation a Law of Peace . . . . . . . .122

CHAPTER VIII.

Trumbull to King — French Victories in Spain — Rumors of Overtures
from U. S. — King to Gore — Measures of Non-Intercourse with Eng-
land and France — Will they change the Decision of England ? — Gore
to King — Remonstrance of Massachusetts against Acts of the Govern-
ment— Troup to King — Charge of Toryism likely to affect the Elec-
tion— Should not exclude from Candidacy — Trumbull to King —
Spain and Portugal — Farmers prosperous in England — King to Gore
— Spain — Independence of Spanish Colonies — England may make
Overtures to U. S. — New Congress will probably do Nothing to settle
Questions — King to Gore — Losses by State Treasurers should be pre-
vented— How this may be done — Election in New York yet unsettled
— Probably influenced by Arrangements with England — Erskine's
Letters — Trumbull to King — Repeal of Orders in Council — Baring
to King — Hopeful of Peace — State of Politics in England — N. Pink-
ney to King — Maryland Bank Stock — Gore to King — Massachusetts'
Affairs — Trumbull to King — Erskine's Recall — Austria's Successes —
Effect on Bonaparte's Career ........ 143

CHAPTER IX.

Mason to King — Columbia College — Trumbull to King — Expedition to
Spain, from England — His Eyes give him Trouble — Hobart to King
— Trinity Church's Gratuities — Wilberforce to King — African Insti-
tution— Slave Trade must be abolished — Proposition to effect this —
Asks King's Assistance — Gore to King — People will object to British
Instructions — Will act prudently — King to Gore — Family Matters —
Jackson's Mission — Erskine's last Instruction inadmissible — King to
Gore — Possible Treaty with France — Sir W. Scott to King — Depress-
ing Views of Affairs in England, single-handed as she is — Trumbull
to King — Battle of Talavera — Trumbull to King— Change of Ad-
ministration— Ingersoll to King — Believes Madison's Policy will be
more manly — Pennsylvania's Affairs — Snyder and Leib — Baring to
King — Struggle for individual Existence — Change of Ministry — Gore
to King — Dissatisfaction with Acts of Government serious — Trum-
bull to King — No Treaty with France — Austria & France have made
a Treaty — Pickering to King — Jackson's Mission — King's Objections
to him — King to Pickering — Reasons for objecting to him — W. India
Trade — Gore to King — Critical Condition of Affairs . . . 162

CONTENTS. IX

CHAPTER X.

PAGE

King to Gore — Rulers seek to gain Time — France will not change —
Question with England will remain open — France may force us to
War with her — Trumbull to King — Reports of E. India Co. Difficul-
ties— American Affairs — Troup to King — Clinton and the New York
Mayoralty — Misconduct in it — Gore to King — People fear War, es-
pecially in Maine — Troup to Pendleton — Erskine's Arrangement and
Jackson's Negotiation, in both Government wrong — Deprecates pos-
sible War with England — King to Pickering — Fears Government
wishes to keep open Misunderstanding with England — To establish
Continental Maritime Law under Influence of France — Pickering
to King — Mischievous Regulations to coerce Great Britain — Agrees
with King's Views relative to the Government — Foreign Missions —
Pickering to King — Will Great Britain retaliate against us if Measures
proposed pass ? — Van Ness to King — Varick for Mayor of New York
— King — Presidency of Columbia College — Mason to King — Presi-
dency of Columbia College . . . . . . • .180

CHAPTER XI.

King to Gore — Hopes the best if England moderate — King to Wilber-
force — Thinks no incompatible Claims or Pursuits exist between
the Countries — Hopes final Rupture will be avoided — Murray to
King — Slave Trade — Troup to King— New York Mayoralty— King
to Pickering — Jackson says temperate Conduct likely to prevail —
King to Gore — Jackson likely to be withdrawn — England's Desire to
live in Peace with the United States — Bonaparte's Views prevent
Continental Peace — Pickering to King — England will show her Will-
ingness to discuss Propositions from this Country — King to G. Morris
— Presidency of Columbia College — Conditions on which the College
holds its Property — Ingersoll to King — Fete by Daschkoff in Phila-
delphia— Mob caused by Crown in a Transparency — Trumbull to
King — Mail opened in London — Denounces the Administration —
Trumbull to King — European News — Siege of Cadiz — Sale of Ameri-
can Property in France — Berlin and Milan Decrees revoked — Prob-
ably English Orders in Council will be modified — Mason to King —
Proposition to lease Lots in Rear of Columbia College — Duties of the
President . 209

CHAPTER XII.

Gore to King — Despondent — People must submit to the System of the
Rulers — Trumbull to King — Folly and Punishment in following Gui-
dance of Jefferson — King to Gore — Jackson's Dismissal — Relations
with England embarrassing — King — President's Proclamation — King
— President's Charge against England of Breach of Faith — King —
French Decrees and English Orders— King— Message of the Presi-
dent— King — Analysis of Randolph's Speech on Erskine Resolutions. 225

CONTENTS.

CHAPTER XIII.

PAGE

Pickering to King — Main's Thorn Hedges — Trumbull to King — Foster,
Minister from England — King to Pickering — Thorn Hedges — Danger
to Judiciary in New York — Pickering to King — Hedges — Demo-
cratic Senators see no Subserviency to France in President's Proc-
lamation— Trumbull to King — French Retreat in the Peninsula —
Bonaparte wants Money and Men — Foster's Mission — Pinkney and
the Prince Regent — Gore to King — Complaint that King does not
take more active Part in New York — Trumbull to King — French
steadily retreating — War between France and Russia — Madison
Scored — Temple to King — Hopes for conciliatory Measures — Hobart
to King — His Statement about Jones — King to Hobart — Case of
Jones — Competency of the Bishop's Court — T. L. Ogden to King —
Jones's Case — Sperry to King — Glebe Lands in Vermont — King to
Porter — On present State of public Affairs — Does not consider the
French Decrees revoked — Impressment — Is our Honor more assailed
by England than by France — Would oppose War with England . 239

CHAPTER XIV.

Gore to King — Massachusetts Politics — King — Henry Plot — Nothing
hostile to the United States — Morris to King — French in Spain —
Affairs at Home depend on Madison's Re-election — King — Statement
— Affairs in New York — Clinton's Aspirations — Conferences with
his Friends and himself — King finally satisfied that Support of him
by Federalists would be unwise — Not willing to be a Candidate for
Vice-Presidency — King to Gore — War one of Party, not of Country
— Cannot be carried on by Militia — If England wise, Peace will soon
come — D'lvernois to King — Heard he was on a pacific Mission —
Trumbull to King — America at War with England — Northern Europe
with France — King to Gore — Attended Meeting in New York re-
specting the Presidential Election — Opposed to its Resolutions —
Opposed to Clinton — Would prefer a federal Candidate to Madison
— King to Gore — Elections uncertain — War has dissatisfied many
Democrats in New York — Gore to King — Leading Federalists want
Change — Opposition to Madison — Most prefer Clinton . . . 256

CHAPTER XV.

W. King to R. King — Contradicts Miller's Statement of Latter's favoring
Clinton — S. Van Rensselaer to King — Approves his Views on the
Presidential Election — Engagement at Queenstown — King to W.
King — Miller's Statement untrue — King to Morris — Congress should
declare War with France — C. King to King — Election to Congress
from Maine — People want a Change — King to Huntington — Paper
in Suffolk County — Van Rensselaer to King— Candidate for Gover-

CONTENTS. xi

PAGE

nor — King — Election as U. S. Senator — King to Gore — Election to
Senate — Henderson to King — Opposition to Van Rensselaer un-
founded— King's Election — Morris's Paper favorable to Peace — King
to Gore — Urging his Appointment as Senator — Strong to King —
Favorable to Gore's Appointment — King to Gore — Hopes he may get
it — King to Troup — Trinity Church and Chapels .... 285

CHAPTER XVI.

Defences of the Harbor of New York — The Corporation of the City
could not act — Memorial to the Legislature to interfere — It failed
to do so — Patriotic Citizens made the Defences — King to Lord Sid-
mouth — Introducing his Son — King to Vansittart — Relative to his Son
and deploring the War — Adjournment of 12th Congress — Inefficient
Conduct of the War — Assembling of the 13th Congress — President's
Message — Russian Mediation — Nomination of Gallatin, Adams, and
Bayard as Envoys under the Russian Offer — Rejection of Gallatin
— King's Notes of Speech on his Nomination — Dashkoff on the
Russian Mission — Estimates of King ...... 301

CHAPTER XVII.

Attacks of the National Intelligencer on the Senate — Rejection of the
Nominations of Gallatin and Russell — King's Defence of the Senate
— Justification of Refusal to advise sending an Embassy to Sweden —
President's Refusal to meet a Committee of Conference from the
Senate — His Course reviewed — Gallatin's Rejection reviewed . . 323

CHAPTER XVIII.

King to Gore — The Russian Offer of Mediation examined — Gore to
King — Talk in Boston of aiding Commerce by a Peace or Armistice
— King to Gore — Continuance of War will endanger the Union —
Doubts relative to the Russian Mediation — Sir Wr. Scott to King —
Regard for him — Though Condition of Europe more favorable, still
Anxiety in England — It is united upon Questions between her and
United States — And has grown in Wealth — Sidmouth to King — Time
for his Son's Visit unfavorable for Settlement — King to Gore — Noth-
ing heard of Mediation — I lis Son finds England's Opinion very hostile
towards United States — King to Gore — Adams and Bayard to treat
directly with England — Continental Affairs — Moreau's Death —
Hamilton's Opinion of DeWitt Clinton — Lee to King — Baltimore
Riot — English in West Indies do not applaud the War — Danger
to the United States, should War cease on the Continent — Hopes
for, and urges King to strive for Peace ...... 342

Xll CONTENTS.

CHAPTER XIX.

PAGE

King to Morris — Matters that may be considered by Congress — Asks his
Opinion relative to Retaliation for Condemnation and Execution of
British Subjects taken in Arms against England — Morris to King —
President's Remedies will not prevent illegal Importations — England
and the People of the U. S. will get what they want — Increase of
Manufactures will interfere with Recruiting — Cannot shorten the
War by making the Enemy feel its Pressure — Retaliation wrong —
No Nation has a Right to interfere with the interior Police of
another — Conscription will fail in Results — King to Morris — The
President prepared to receive the Law from England — If Peace
made, Effect of its Terms on the divided Democracy — Morris to
King — The President's Views relative to the State of France er-
roneous— Russia not so powerful as he thinks — Would not sanction
Expatriation — President's Acceptance of English Proposition — Divi-
sion in the Cabinet — Government's Defense — C. King to King —
England favorable to Peace, but not by giving up her Maritime Rights
— Morris to King — Gives Reason why a Minority should not move
Resolutions asking for Information — Morris to King — Opinion on
England's probable Conduct — Agrees as to Character of our Rulers . 356

CHAPTER XX.

King — Memorandum relative to Armstrong — Armstong on Terms of
Peace — Jefferson's Views as to the Power of Virginia — King, Ex-
amination of Plan of Finance relative to the twenty-five million Loan
— Debate in the Senate — King's Objection — Absence of a special
funding Provision to pay Interest and Principal . . . .370

CHAPTER XXI.

Morris to King — Where in God's Name is this to end ? — King — Con-
versation with the Secy, of War — About Conquest of Canada — With
Col. Monroe — Relative to the Bank-Bill — Is an Armistice probable
— Has the Admiral Power to make it ? — King to Morris — Wishes he
could console him in the present State of Affairs — National Bank —
Is Armistice probable ? — King to Gore — No Peace in Europe till
Bonaparte receives Coup de Grace — The Impressment said not to
be of pressing Importance now — Peace on any Terms — Jay to King
— Morris's Address on Overthrow of Napoleon, King to — Believes
Peace will be made, England and the maritime Powers want it —
Drain of Specie — Proposed Coalition of N. Y. and Southern Banks —
Remarks on it — King to Gore — Advises no Association with South-
ern Banks — Further Remarks on the financial Condition — Gore to
King — Boston Bank — Specie going to Canada — Do not consider the
new Loan satisfactory Security for Loans — King — Memorandum of
State of Negotiations ......... 389

CONTENTS. xill

CHAPTER XXII.

PAGE

King, Home Life — Battle of Lundy's Lane — King to Gore — Destruction
of Washington — Advises the Governor of New York to call out the
Militia and the Corporation to pledge Assistance to defend the City
— Where will Congress meet ? — Armstrong to King — Condition at
Washington — King to Gore — Preparations against Attack in New
York — Condition and Acts of the Banks — Specie Payments stopped
— King to J. Mason — Cannot tell where Congress will meet — Public
Credit has failed — Banks agree to be careful — Will go to Washing-
ton as soon as Congress meets — Effect of Changes in Europe upon
Negotiations with Great Britain — King to Morris — Negotiation prob-
ably failed — Lord Hill's Expedition — King to Morris — Treasury
Empty — Army could not defend the Cities — England's Conditions for
Peace — Rulers cannot make War nor conclude Peace — King — In-
structions to Commissioners at Ghent examined — English Demands
ought not to be acceded to — King to Morris — Question of Removal
from Washington — King — Course agreed to be pursued by the Fed-
eralists in Congress, 1814, 1S15 . . . . . . . 407

CHAPTER XXIII.

C. King to R. King — Proposed Changes in military Arrangement in
New York — J. Taylor to R. King — In Favor of National Banks —
Morris to King — Recommends a Refusal of Supplies of all Sorts —
Does not believe the Enemy will attack New York — Believes the
Chesapeake will be Centre of Operations — King to Morris — Commis-
sioners authorized to make Peace upon Status ante Bellum — Govr.
Tompkins to relieve Gen. Lewis — King to Morris — Monroe proposes
to fill the Army by Conscription — Van Rensselaer to King — Charac-
ter of the War changed — Distrusts the proposed Hartford Convention
— C. King to King — Proposes entering a new Regiment of U. S.
Army — Morris to King — Probable Basis of Negotiation — Plan of
Finance — Jay advises Support to the Government when right — King
— Speech on 3-million Loan — Administration's Treatment of Eastern
Men — C. Wilkes to King — Objections to a National Bank — Wilkes
to King — Resumes the Subject ....... 425

CHAPTER XXIV.

C. King to King — New York Banks will send Memorial against the
National Bank — New York Troops — Wilkes to King — Sends Memo-
rial— Some Banks object to it — Has read the Bill — Gives his Objec-
tions— Prefers Treasury Notes to Bank Notes — King to J. Adams —
Announces Gerry's Death — Mason on Gerry's Death — Choice of
President pro tern. — Adams to King — On Death of Gerry — C. King
to King — Regrets he must go to Europe on Business — The Governor
gave him a Lieut. -Colonel's Commission — Mason on Speech of King

xiv CONTENTS.

— King to Sir William Scott — Former cordial Relations — Regrets
the War with England — Hopes for speedy Peace — King on the Hart-
ford Convention — Advises Prudence in its Acts — King's Speech on
the Land-Tax Bill 438

CHAPTER XXV.

Action of Maryland's House of Delegates, thanking King, by Name, and
other Members of Congress, for their Agency in stopping the Militia
Bill — King's Answer — Morris to King — National Bank — Failure of
Conscription Law — Fears Hartford Convention will not take strong
Ground — King's Remarks on Bill to lay a direct Tax — Approves —
Morris to King — Strictures on the Support of the Government — King
to C. King — On current Actions of Congress — King to C. King —
Battle of New Orleans — King to Morris — Answers his Strictures —
Union in Defence of the Country only Way to Peace — King to
Morris — Treaty of Peace arrived — Morris to King — Conjectures rela-
tive to the Treaty — Democrats will probably go for Abolition of the
direct Tax ........... 454

CHAPTER XXVI.

Emott to King — Rejoices at the Peace — Troubles in New York Legisla-
ture— King to Gore — Inability to do Good suggests Wisdom of retir-
ing from public Life — Gore to King — Wishes to leave the Senate —
Conversation with Cabot on the Hartford Convention — Peace in
Boston — Gore to King — No Plan by Parties in Massachusetts — King
to Trumbull — Affairs at Home and Abroad — King to Gore — Hanson's
Paper and Affairs — Accommodations for Winter at Washington —
Opinion relative to Dartmoor — What the Fate of Bonaparte — Hari-
son to King — Compares Case of Mettus Tuffetius with that of Na-
poleon— C. King to King — Account of the Dartmoor Investigation
— Gore to King — Dartmoor Report — Gratified by the manly Charac-
ter and Decision of the Statement — Changes of Men at Washington
— Lafayette to King — Introducing St. Jean d'Angely . . . 472

CHAPTER XXVII.

King to Gore — Commercial Treaty with England — C. King to King — Con-
dition of France — England said to be about taking Florida — W.
King to King — Treaty unfavorable to the W. India Trade — King
to J. Mason — Condition and Course of Banks — Excessive Issue of
Notes destructive to them — King to Gore — Count Survilliers' pro-
posed Residence in America — King to his Son Edward — To practise
Law in Ohio — Advice as to his Life and Studies — King to E. King
— Commercial Treaty with England — King to E. King — New Year's
Letter with Advice — King to E. King — Branch of National Bank
better at Chillicothe — Henderson to King — Harbor on Lake Ontario

CONTENTS. xv

PAGE

— Dallas's Plan of a Bank not approved — C. King to King — Com-
mercial Treaty liked in England — Van Ness to King — Affairs in
Albany — Irregularity in Election Returns gives Majority to Demo-
crats in the Assembly — Dwight to King — Federalists must secure
New York — Coleman's Sketch of King ...... 488

CHAPTER XXVIII.

H. Bleecker and Others to King — Announcement of his Nomination as
Governor of New York — J. R. Van Rensselaer to King — Urging his
Acceptance of the Nomination — Kent to King — Acceptance abso-
lutely necessary — J. Morris to King — Choice without consulting him
— Duer to King — Dwight to King — Oakley to King — All urging his
Acceptance — Ogden to King — Van Ness not being Candidate wishes
King to be — S. Van Rensselaer to King — W. Henderson to King —
Duer lo Henderson — Z. R. Shepherd to King — Van Ness to King
— All pressing him to accept the Nomination — J. A. King to King —
State of Opinion — Tompkins democratic Nominee — S. Van Rensse-
laer to King — Division among the Democrats — Hopes for King's Suc-
cess— King to Bleecker Committee — Accepts the Nomination — Mrs.
King to E. King — His Father's Nomination — Affectionate Messages. 506

CHAPTER XXIX.

King to E. King — Nomination — King to Morris — Accepted the Nomina-
tion— Morris to King — Pleased with Candidacy — Oakley to King —
Tompkins nominated — State Politics — J. A. King to King — Abuse
in Papers of C. King for Dartmoor Business — Letter to H. Clay —
Satisfactory Answer — King's Vindication of his Course towards
Irish State Prisoners — Irish Emigrant Association to King — Asking
his Support in certain Measures for the Relief of Irish Emigrants to
the U. S. — King to Gore — Defeat of Federalists in New York —
King to Gore — Personally satisfied with the Result of the Elections
Gore to King — Satisfied he was a Candidate — Life at Warm Springs,
Va. — King to E. King — Return Home — E. King's Engagement —
King to E. King — Federalists must Adhere to their Integrity — Gore
to King — Sent to the Legislature his Resignation of Senatorship

Appendix I. — Essay on State of the Foreign Relations, 1S10 .

Appendix II. — The President's Message, Nov. 4, 1812 .

Appendix III. — On Impressment as a Cause of War

Appendix IV. — R. King's Course in Sustaining the Vigorous Prosecu
tion of the War .........

Appendix V. — Status of the Indians after the War of 1S12-15
Appendix VI. — National Bank of the United States of America
Appendix VII. — Commercial Convention with England .
539
544
549
56i

THE LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF

RUFUS KING.

CHAPTER I.

Condition of the Country and its Relations with other Countries — New York
Politics — Troup to King — What Course the Federalists should pursue
in Election of Governor — Rely on King's Judgment — Troup to King —
Lewis had a Majority — Assembly opposed to Clinton — King to Gore —
His Son James — Treaty with England not yet made — Federalists to help
Lewis' Party without Pledge — Troup to King — Tompkins and Lewis
nominated for Governor — Federalists divided — Pickering to King — Presi-
dent says Treaty nearly ready — Armstrong's Correspondence — Troup to
King — Federalists to support Lewis — N. Webster to King — His English
Dictionary — King to G. Morris — Possibly Jefferson obliged for national
Honor to send the Treaty back — Troup to King — Democrat Wings bitterly
hostile — Election in New York — King Candidate for Assembly — Emmet
to King — Bitter Attack on Account of his preventing the Irish political
Prisoners emigrating to the U. S. — Cheetham's Slanders — King's Answer.

The close of the year 1806 and the beginning of 1807 were
periods full of events that engaged the serious attention of
the country. The Emperor of France, flushed with his vic-
torious career in Prussia, had issued his famous Berlin De-
cree against neutral trade with Great Britain ; that country
continued to make outrageous depredations upon the com-
merce of the United States, and Spain, under the influence
of France, refused to satisfy the demands of the Govern-
ment at Washington, for the seizure and confiscation of
American ships engaged in legitimate commerce. As a
consequence of these various insults, the President and his

VOL. V — I T

RUFUS KING. [1807

followers had suggested and carried out a non-importation
act against Great Britain, which country he cordially hated
and sought to compel to yield to our demands for redress,
by crippling her commerce, her most vulnerable as well as
most important interest. The remonstrances of the mer-
chants in the large cities of the United States were unavail-
ing to put an end to such measures, which were soon to be
made more disastrous by an Embargo, which tied up all
the vessels in their harbors and brought all commerce to a
stand-still, while it really threw the country into the position
of an ally to France.

This policy was earnestly opposed by what was left of
the Federal party, which had always protested against the
insults and outrageous conduct of France, who sought to
make us break with Great Britain and thus join her in her
efforts to destroy the latter's power. The leaders of the
Federal party looked upon Great Britain as the bulwark of
freedom against the pretensions of France to draw all na-
tions under her rule, and therefore, though they could not
but deplore, and seek to put an end to, the unwarranted
and injurious acts permitted by the British Government,
they had no hesitation in opposing French alliance, and in
seeking by fair and honorable negotiations to remove all
irritating questions between the United States and her
natural and most valuable commercial ally.

These questions had been most thoroughly studied by
Mr. King, as the correspondence already presented will
show. He had, during his residence abroad, not only be-
come familiar with the genius of the English people, but,
in his intercourse with the leaders of public opinion, and
with those who had at different times administered the
government, had become convinced that a prudent firmness
and open appeal to the justice of that country were certain
to win not only confidence and respect, but to gain points
which at times appeared insurmountable. So impressed
had he been with these views, that he had urged upon his
own Government to renew during the last year of his mis-

[807] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE.

sion in England, the treaty of amity and commerce, which
would soon by its limitation expire ; because he believed
that a new treaty more favorable could be made. His over-
ture was not even answered by Mr. Jefferson and the oppor-
tunity was lost.

It may seem strange, and indeed it can hardly be ac-
counted for, that there is so little in his correspondence at
this time to show what views he took upon the various
questions as they presented themselves to public attention.
Allusions are made in some of the letters to him, to opinions
he had expressed or was known to hold. It is certain that,
through the newspapers, he attempted to enlighten and
direct public opinion ; for many scraps among his papers
contain what were evidently suggestions for articles in the
papers ; but they are not so connected as to authorize publi-
cation here. They show, however, that being in private
life, he took the only means in his power to influence public
opinion ; and they confirm the views put forth in such let-
ters as are found ; which were an entire disapproval of the
course of the administration in the conduct of the foreign
relations of the country, as wrong in principle and disastrous
in probable results.

While the country in general was agitated with the con-
sideration of the measures of the General Government,
the State of New York became the scene of a contention
which threatened to divide the Republican party in such a
way, that there seemed to be a possibility that, through
these dissensions, the federalists might be able to recover
the State and erect a federal administration. The letters
of Col. Troup give a graphic account of the political aspect,
as viewed by an intelligent and shrewd observer.

R. Troup to R. King.

Albany, 6 Jany., 1807.
Dear Sir :

In a few days I shall set off on a journey to Chenango Point,
to attend a meeting of Turnpike Directors. I shall be gone at
least a fortnight and perhaps three weeks. Upon my return

RUFUS KING. [1807

there may not be time to make the communication which is the
subject of this letter : and I now regret that my late absence from
home and the preparations for my next journey, have so increased
the pressure of my business as to prevent my going into details,,
and to oblige me to state what is merely the result of them.

I take it for granted that when our professional brethren come
up to attend the ensuing February term, they will bring with them
the definitive opinions of our New York friends as to the course
proper for the Federalists to pursue at the approaching election
for Governor. As these opinions will be likely to have a ma-
terial, if not a decisive influence on the conduct of the Federal-
ists in every other part of the State, it is very desirable that they
should be formed on a clear view.

1 of the situation of the Federal party in the State.

2 of Governor Lewis's situation.

As to the situation of the Federalists, although it is better than
it was, yet it is by no means such as to enable us to elect a Gov-
ernor from our own party. For the present we must be content
to rest our hopes of a future Federal State administration on the
fall of the Democratic party by the weight of its own vices and
divisions. To let the former take their natural course and to give
root and vigor to the latter seem to be the melancholy course
which genuine patriotism presents.

As to the situation of Governor Lewis, it is beset with diffi-
culties on every side. The Clintonians have excommunicated
him from the democratic church ; and he must be very short-
sighted not to see that the support he may receive from the
Federalists will not proceed from any personal respect for him,
but from a hope that he may be made instrumental to re-estab-
lish the reign of Federalism. In a situation so embarrassing, I
think that he ought not to be hardly pressed, and that we should
be reasonable and moderate in our expectations of offices from
him.

I have good grounds for believing that the difficulties which
lie in the path of Governor Lewis will force him, at least for a
time, to be as sparing as possible of appointments from the
Federal party, in case he should have a Council friendly to his
wishes. There is some probability that he may be prevailed upon
to appoint a Federalist to supply Judge Livingston's place on the

1807] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 5

Bench. Such an appointment would be a great point gained to
Federalism ; as it cannot be questioned that our Judiciary is the
life-boat of our Constitution. With this appointment we must
rest satisfied until after the election. I am convinced that the
Governor's Cabinet is at this moment fixed in its purpose to make
no other important appointment from the Federal party before
the election takes place, from an apprehension that Federal
appointments would stamp the Governor's administration with so
strong a character of Federalism, as to shake the confidence, and
endanger the support of his democratic friends. It is said that
the union in the 5th ward at the last election in New York, and the
subsequent voting of the alderman and assistant of that ward
with the Federalists, have much injured the Governor's cause in
the country.

You will readily perceive that if Governor Lewis should adhere
to the policy above suggested, the Federalists will be excluded
from participating in the Charter and other offices in the City of
New York. They will so ; but how can our friends render their
condition more eligible ? Will not its vigor in some degree be
mitigated by removing the Clintonians, & filling their places with
Lewisites ?

How will our friends in New York like this policy ? If it were
abruptly made known to them, would they not with one voice
determine to abandon Governor Lewis to his fate ? I suppose
they would ; and yet I confess that, notwithstanding the apparent
narrowness of Governor Lewis's policy in my opinion, we should
support his re-election for the following reasons.

1. It is highly interesting that the Clintonian faction should be
arrested and to attain this end, the re-election of Governor Lewis
is a necessary mean.

2. Although the Clintonian faction may not be crushed by the
re-election of Governor Lewis, yet it would serve to plant the
seeds of lasting and probably irreconcilable animosity between
the leader of that faction and the Lewisites.

By either of these events the public good would certainly be
promoted.

When I left New York I felt, as our friends in general did, with
respect to the City offices, and my feelings led me to agree with
them as to the necessity of putting some of the most important

RUFUS KING. [1807

offices into the hands of Federalists. But since my return home
I have endeavoured to separate the subject from my feelings and
to bestow upon it a more dispassionate & mature consideration,
and the result is that I have changed my opinion.

Well knowing the ardor & zeal of our few New York friends
for the revival of Federalism, I dare not broach to any of them,
except yourself, Governor Lewis's, very probable, not to call it
settled, policy. Their disappointment, inflamed by honorable
pride and more especially by the galling oppression they have
long experienced, would probably excite them to measures which
might be attended with the most unfortunate effects. As I know
you have firmness enough to divest yourself of passion and to take
a calm and accurate view of our political state, I have ventured
to write you this letter in order to afford you an opportunity to
consider the subject of it and prepare our warm friends in New
York to meet their disappointment, if it should take place, with
temper, with forbearance & with fortitude ; provided you agree
with me in opinion, that whether Governor Lewis should or should
not appoint, before the next election, Federalists to charter or
other offices in New York, it will nevertheless be our true policy
to support his re-election.

The task I thus commit to you, if undertaken, will not be
among the most easy you have ever performed ; and therefore I
suggest to you the expediency of beginning the execution of it
without delay. The Legislature will meet on the 4th Tuesday of
this month, and the following Monday our professional brethren
must attend the Supreme Court. The honor of the Federalists
& the ultimate success of their cause may be compromitted unless
they are guided by the same motives, and act with concert at the
next election.

It is our intention here to advise our friends in the Assembly,
at all events, to vote for a Council favorable to Governor Lewis's
views.

This letter is designed solely for your own eye. It is agreeable

to the sentiments of two of our influential friends to whom I have

shewn it. With most perfect regard

Robt. Troup.

P. S. Mr. Van Vechten has lately written a letter to Mr. Riggs in
answer to one Riggs wrote him on politics which I wish you could

1807] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 7

read. It will be important when our friends come up the latter
end of this month, that we should know your opinion. Can you
not desire our friend Judge Benson to deliver it ? * I suspect it
will be different from his — as the persecution of his family by the
Clintonians gives a keen edge to his feelings.

R. T.

R. Troup to R. King.

Albany, 26 Jany., 1807.
6 o'clock p. M.
Dear Sir :

. . . Tomorrow is the day appointed for the meeting of the
Legislature. The members are said to be here with a very few
exceptions. Both parties are hard at work for the majority in the
House of Assembly. No doubt is entertained that Lewis will
have it, and that there will be a Speaker & a Council decidedly
hostile to Clinton. The Federalists will vote on both of these
questions with the Lewisites ; some pains have been taken to in-
duce the Federalists to make a bargain in relation to Federal ap-
pointments but without success. The general opinion of our
friends here is, that we should act virtuously and independently
— without any stipulation whatever.

Munro is here, squinting at the Mayoralty in New York, and
it is reported that he presses a bargain with the Lewisites, but he
has not influence enough to carry his point ; this entre nous.

In haste yours,

Rob. Troup.

R. Troup to R. King.

Albany, 27 Jan., 1807.
Dear Sir :

As was expected, the Legislature made a quorum of both

houses today. The Lewisites with the aid of the Federalists are

completely triumphant ; they have carried their Speaker & Clerk

in the House of Assembly by a majority of thirteen. It was a part

* Whatever Mr. King's views were, he probably communicated them through
his friend Judge Benson, in whose discretion he could implicitly rely.

8 RUFUS KING. [1807

of the plan to have chosen the Council of appointment to-day like-
wise ; but by some misarrangement, they have adjourned without
doing it, and appointed Friday next for the choice. This false
step has excited some uneasiness ; but I have no doubt that the
soldiers will be kept in their ranks and that the second action will
be as successful as the first.

Clinton and his party are supposed to be dished. The public
sensibility here has been excessive, and the joy at the victory
over Jacobinism not less moderate.

The Federalists were true to their test. I have not understood
that one of the 16 failed in being at his post & doing his duty.
No bargain was made. The conduct of the Federalists proceeded
alone from a manly desire to break in pieces the fetters by which
they and their friends have been so long bound. Congratulate
our friends on their dawn of freedom.

McCord is Speaker, and Treasurer Lansing's son, the Clerk.
The old Clerk, Southwick, a most wicked democrat is of course
ejected ; he has been Clerk for several years.

In haste yours,

Rob. Troup.

R. King to C. Gore.

New York, Saturday, February 7, 1807.
My Dear Friend :

James will leave us to-morrow or Monday* — I feel some solic-
itude on account of the severity of the weather and the destruction
of bridges in Connecticut — we must guard him against the frost as
well as we can by warm clothing, and as I expect to find some
discreet person going on, as far as Hartford, I am in hopes he
will encounter no serious embarrassment in the Ferries.

We find James a good deal grown, and a very reasonable and
docile boy. Mrs. Gore supposes he has lost a little of his levity,
and that he is less cheerful than formerly — perhaps in ordinary
this may be the fact, but as our family has for the first time for
several years been reunited, and as at this season, New York is a
sort of Carnival, at least so far as parties, dances, and dinners

* To take his place with Dr. Gardiner for instruction.

1807] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE.

make a part of it, we have observed the same merry temper in
James as formerly distinguished him. I recommend James to
your & Mrs. Gore's protection. . . Our family are well at pres-
ent, tho' most of them have suffered with heavy colds, and par-
ticularly Mrs. K. and Frederick.

We have no foreign news later than you have reed, nor do we
know more of what is going on upon the Mississippi, or at Wash-
ington than the newspapers tell us. It appears that our Nego-
tiators in England have not yet finished their Treaty, owing, as
is said, to a difficulty respecting the seamen. I know not what
they are ordered to claim or insist upon ; but I cannot be mis-
taken in believing that a most beneficial treaty might be made,
and that the safety of this Country requires that small difficulties
should not delay its conclusion.

In the seism that has taken place in this State between the
Democrats, Lewis, whose party is only less bad than Clinton's,
seems with the aid of the Federalists to have the power in his
hands. I understand that the decided opinion of the Federalists
is, to give their assistance in the Legislature to Mr. Lewis' Party,
without expectation, contract, or pledge ; this course leaves our
friends free to act hereafter as in their judgment the public wel-
fare may require. You may have seen, but I am sure would
have given no credit to, several articles concerning me, and
certain offices that it has been intimated were to be given to me.

R. K.

R. Troup to R. King.

Albany, Feb. 17, 1807.

. . . I do not wonder that our friends in New York are
disgusted to the very soul with the reports they hear from this
quarter. The scene constantly exhibited here is the most sicken-
ing that can be imagined ! Lewis and his friends are divided in
opinion, and starting from the sight of Federalists as from the
sight of monsters opening their mouths to devour them. The
consequence is that the State is to be disgraced by the proceed-
ings of the Council. Yesterday Tillotson was restored to the
the office of Secretary & Maturin Livingston to the office of

I O R UFUS KING. [1807

Recorder. Today the Council met but did no business. Judge
Thompson, it is believed, has resigned the office of Mayor, and
this creates a fresh embarrassment. In short the Federalists here
are so deeply disgusted with Lewis & his party, that present
appearances strongly indicate a total separation of the Federalists
from Lewis's election. I should not be surprised if the Feder-
alists were to take up a candidate of their own & support him at
the ensuing election ; some entertain sanguine hopes of success.
Others think it a necessary measure to keep our party together &
to prevent their contamination by so foul a touch as it would be
to touch either of the Democratic parties !

Last night the Clintonians at a full meeting of their party
nominated Judge Tompkins for Governor, Broome for Lieut.
Governor ; and the Lewisites at a full meeting also nominated
their Chief for Governor, and Thomas Storm for Lt. Governor.

What has added much to the disgust of most of us is, that
some Federalists have been begging — intriguing — and working
with all sorts of tools — for offices ! This vile business has been
done by men who ought to be ashamed of themselves for thus
wading thro' mire and filth to the seats of the Members of
Council.

What course the Council will take hereafter, what the Federal-
ists will conclude upon, or what will be the final issue of things,
is as much a problem as the limits which will bound Bonaparte's
ambition. In the Legislature everything affecting objects of a
public nature is an affair of infamous traffic for votes at the next
election. Tomorrow evening the Federalists are to meet to talk
over the state of things and compare notes on the proper course
for us to take. I will inform you of the result. — In haste

Very truly yours

Rob. Troup.

T. Pickering to R. King.

City of Washington, Feby. 19, 1807.
Dear Sir :

Probably you may have letters from London ; however, lest it
should be otherwise, I communicate the pleasing intelligence
that all our differences with Great Britain have been adjusted.

1807] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. II

This the President announced in a message to Congress this day,
communicating a copy of a letter from Messrs. Monroe & Pink-
ney, dated Dec. 27. These Gentlemen say, that they believe the
terms will be acceptable to their country — that nothing remains
but to reduce them to the form of a Treaty, the work of a few
days, which they should send by a special messenger.

The President also communicated the correspondence between
Genl. Armstrong and the French Minister of Marine, on the sub-
ject of the Decree, declaring the British Isles in a state of Block-
ade. The Marine Minister (his note is dated Dec. 24 in answer
to Armstrong's of the 10th) says, the Decree, in his opinion was
not intended to comprehend the U. States, whose commerce
must be regulated by existing Treaties ; but, however, that the
matter does not lie in his department ; and that for a definitive
construction, Genl. A. must apply to the minister of Exterior
Relations.

A letter from Cowles Mead (also laid before us by the President)
dated January 19th, says Col. Burr had surrendered himself to
the Civil authority of the Mississippi Territory. He had with
him 9 boats and about 100 men, chiefly young and apparently
ignorant of his designs. I am, dear Sir, very truly yours

Timothy Pickering.

Noah Webster to R. King.

New Haven, Feby. 28, 1807.
Sir :

I take the liberty to enclose to you a few circular letters *
intended to make a new experiment in this country. The object
contemplated has been in view more than 20 years, but has been
retarded by my want of property to accomplish the design.
When I left New York in 1798, I supposed my resources equal
to the present undertaking ; but the loss of my papers has disap-
pointed my expectations. I cannot but hope however that the
liberality of gentlemen of property will afford such addition to
my own means as to enable me to prosecute the undertaking.
The design, I believe, to be far more interesting to the public
than to myself ; but I have expended several thousand dollars

* Circular for his English Dictionary.
RUFUS KING. [1807

already ; I should be unwilling to abandon the undertaking in the
midst of my labors.

Your friendship I know, but I know not whether it
will avail in the present instance.

With high respect yr. ob. Servt.

Noah Webster.

R. Troup to R. King.

Albany, March 12, 1807.
Dear Sir :

I drop you this by Mr. Hoffman. The conduct of Lewis
and his Council has given general disgust here. Opinions as to
the course to be pursued by the Federalists at the next election
have been fluctuating. At length, however, we have settled
down in one which we shall adhere to, unless it should prove to
be contrary to the sentiments & wishes of our friends — and that
is, to support Lewis individually and in our several spheres as
the least of two evils. This will be a bitter pill to most, if not
all, the Federal party, and yet it must be taken or worse mischiefs
to our country will be likely to ensue. The general, I might
almost say the universal, belief amongst our friends in this quarter
is— that we cannot succeed with candidates of our own. Mr.
Hoffman will give you a particular detail of the State of things
here.

The turnpike bill for your Jamaica road, I understand, is in
the same situation in which Mr. Ditmas left it. The two Houses
disagree as to the General Turnpike bill & this disagreement has
not yet been terminated by a conference ; and until this event, it
is supposed all new Turnpike bills will rest where they are.

I have got a bill for the relief of Sir James Pulteney &
Lady Bath through the Senate. It is now before the house of
Assembly and lies under the denunciation of Col. Rutgers.
This denunciation endangers its finally passing : I mean, how-
ever, to press it and I do not despair of success.

You would wish to hide yourself in a corner, if you were here
and could look for one hour on the scandalous scene which
Democracy constantly exhibits !

I am, dear sir, very truly yours

Rob. Troup.

:8o7] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 3

R. King, to G. Morris.

Monday, 30 March, 1807.

Dear Sir :

Some days ago Mr. Fairlie put the enclosed memorandum into
my hands with a request that I would speak to you on the subject.
Whether the Bill has yet passed I do not know. The Commis-
sioners named are yourself with the two Surveyors Genl. of this
State & Pennsylvania ; the object of the Bill is very important,
and it is desirable that you shd. not decline giving to it your
assistance. I shall see you soon in the mean time.

Am yr. faithful Sir.

R. K.

P. S. I reed, your Paper concerning the Impressment of our
seamen but have delayed its publication in expectation of becom-
ing acquainted with the Contents of the Treaty. Hitherto I have
not acquired such precise information as I am still in hopes of
getting. I am not sure that Jefferson was not absolutely obliged,
if he regards the national honour, to send the Treaty back.

R. Troup to R. King.

Albany, 7 April, 1807.
Dear Sir :

The Legislature adjourned today about 2 o'clock. . . .

Tell Bishop Moore, Mr. Harison, &c. that the charter of
Columbia College was met by objections of the Council of
Revision agt. the bill for its destruction, and by a subsequent
union of the Federalists, and Lewisites to vote agt. the bill. The
New York Representation was much heated with the objections
of the Council ; and alderman Gilbert in particular was trans-
ported with the most violent rage.

The two Democratic parties have gone home with bosoms
rankling with bitter hostility agt. each other. One object of the
Federalists is completely attained — an irreconcilable animosity
between the Chiefs. As the Legislature was rising a most virulent
attack upon Lewis by Clinton was spread in handbills amongst
the members. The attack is a reply to Lewis' late answer
to Clinton's charge relative to Webbers, who last winter, or rather
the winter before last, applied to be appointed Sheriff of West
Chester. I have sent one of the handbills to Mr. Harison.

14 RUFUS KING. [1807

The election will be a hard fought battle. We calculate how-
ever that the chances are with Lewis, provided the Federalists
act with zeal & unanimity; all pains have been taken, and still
are taking, to bring the Federalists forward in the Eastern and
Western Districts ; and our last accounts, from the westward in
particular, authorize very favorable expectations. Let Lewis'
election, however, terminate as it may, I am sanguine in the belief
that we shall have a respectable share of Federal influence in the
House of Assembly.

The Council of appointment have adjourned without appointing
a Judge of the Supreme Court. It is said the Council will meet
again soon after the election, and then the appointment will be
made. Very truly yours,

Rob. Troup.

The election for Governor in the State of New York,
involving as it did the endeavor to recover that portion of
the Democratic party which was led by De Witt Clinton and
his brother-in-law Judge Spencer, and the overthrow of the
Lewisites, was entered upon with bitter feelings on both
sides, and resulted in the choice by a large majority in favor
of Daniel D. Tompkins^, the Clintonian candidate.*

* "A young Lawyer of New York distinguished for his affable manners and
pleasing address, chosen a member of the ninth Congress, but who, before
taking his seat, had been appointed a Judge of the Supreme Court of the
State. . . . The Federalists, indeed, attempted a rally in the city of New
York, where they nominated an Assembly ticket headed by Rufus King. They
were beaten, however, an event which they ascribed, with much bitterness, to
the predominating influence of those ' imported patriots,' Cheetham, Genet
(who now again appeared on the political stage,) and Thomas Addis Emmet, a
recent exile from Ireland, where he has escaped a prosecution for treason only
by consenting to make certain disclosures, as to the conspiracies in which he had
been concerned. Emmet had attacked King with great bitterness and no
inconsiderable degree of gasconade for having, while Minister in England, en-
deavoured to interpose some obstacles to his migration to America on the ground
that so troublesome a British subject would not be likely to be a very useful
American citizen. It is exceedingly difficult for us at this day to comprehend
the degree of influence exercised at that time by a few immigrant foreigners.
The talents and eloquence of Emmet secured him a decided and growing in-
fluence in New York ; and in the impulse which he gave to the spirit of war,
he did not fail to fulfill the prognostications of King." — Hildreth Hist, of New
York, 2d Series, ii., 668-9.

;8o7] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 5

The Federalists were divided in their vote, but many,
with some hope of being able to keep the control of the
Legislature from the Clintonians, nominated what was
supposed to be a strong ticket in the city of New York,
with the name of Rufus King at the head of it. This ticket
failed of election, among other reasons, perhaps, because of
a malignant attack on Mr. King by Mr. Emmet, on account,
as was stated, of his successful interference, when Minister
to England in 1798, to prevent the British Government from
sending the Irish state prisoners after the rebellion to the
United States, as a place of banishment. The following
letter addressed to Rufus King and published in The
American Citizen of April 9, 1807, signed by Thos. Addis
Emmet — a second, he says, — will show the bitter hostility
and recklessness of statement, which marked the opposition
to him ; and the answer from Mr. King which is now published
for the first time, being found among his papers, will
show both the motives which influenced him in making his
protest against the proposed action of the British Govern-
ment, and his forbearance in not then repelling the attack
made upon him.

Thos. Addis Emmet to Rufus King.
Sir :

From your silence on the subject of my letter of the 4th inst.,
I presume that I am not to be honoured with a reply. Perhaps this
may be owing to my temerity in addressing him, whom Mr. Cole-
man calls " the first man in the country." Of the height to which
your friends exalt or wish to exalt you, I confess I was not
aware when I rashly ventured to question the propriety of some
part of your past conduct. I thought that in this country, you
had many equals ; and I protest I imagined that Mr. Jefferson,
for instance, was your superior. You will, sir, I hope excuse my
ignorance in this respect and attribute it to the circumstance of
my being an alien, and of course not yet sufficiently acquainted
with the local politics of this country.

Though you, sir, have not honoured me with your notice, I
have been abundantly honoured by your friends ; and yet, ex-

1 6 RUFUS KING. [1807

traordinary as it may appear, I mean to pay little attention to
their assiduities, but to envelop myself in dignity like your own.
I think it of infinitely more importance to the com-
munity in the existing crisis, to make known what you are than
what I am. You are a candidate for public favor and your conduct
is the proper subject of public enquiry. Mr. Coleman has brought
forward some extracts from the reports of the secret committee
in Ireland — I think it more than probable that he was not him-
self in the possession of these documents — from whom then did
he receive them ? There is no person in this country more likely
to have them, than the gentleman who was at the time, the resi-
dent minister at London.

When you handed them to him, perchance your memory might
have served you to state, that as soon as these reports appeared
in the prints of the day, Dr. M. Nevin, Mr. O'Connor and my-
self, at that time State Prisoner, by an advertisement to which
we subscribed our names, protested against the falsehood and
inaccuracy of these reports ; for which act we were remitted to
close custody in our rooms for upwards of three months, and a
proposal was made in the Irish House of Commons by Mr. Mc-
Naughton, an Orangeman, to take us out and hang us without
trial. You might also have recollected (for it has been pub-
lished) that while we were in that situation, other state calumnies
reached the ears of one of our fellow-sufferers in another prison,
who wrote a letter to the editor of the Courier in London, for
the purpose of contradicting them, and inclosed a copy to Lord
Castlereagh. For this Mr. Secretary Cooke was sent to inform
him, that if he published the contradiction he should be hanged ;
that he replied that he was ready to meet the event ; upon which
Mr. Cooke told him that since he was indifferent about his own
life, he must know that if he persevered, the whole system of
Courts Martial, massacre and horror should be renewed through-
out the country. By that menace he was effectually restrained.
Had you thought of mentioning these things you might have
jocularly added, that tho ' these statements might serve some
present party purposes, it was rather more unfair to judge of
us by the calumnies of the Irish Government than it would be
to judge of Mr. Jefferson and his friends by the editorial articles
of the Evening Post.

1807] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. \J

The weapons you are using have been tried in Ireland among
my friends and my enemies, where everything was minutely
known, and they failed of effect. If I had ever done anything
mean or dishonourable, if I had abandoned or compromised my
character, my country, or my cause, I should not be esteemed
or believed in Ireland as I am proud to know I am ; I should
not enjoy the affection and respect of my republican country-
men in America, as you, Sir, and your friends confess I do. It
would not be in the power of one who had departed from the line
of his duty in theirs & his common country, by simply express-
ing to them his sentiments of you, to do you such an essential
injury as I am accused of having committed.

Another charge made against me, is that I am an alien, inter-
fering in the politics of this country. Be it so for a moment, and
let me ask why is it that I am an alien in this my adopted country
this day ? Because in consequence of your interference, I was
prevented from coming to it in 1798, and from being naturalized
three years ago. Supposing then that I should refrain from
intermeddling with politics in every other case ; where you are
concerned I feel myself authorized to exerise the rights of a citi-
zen as far as by law I may; for you know that it is an established
rule of equity and good sense that no man shall be benefitted
by his own wrong. But how do I come forward ? Not as a citi-
zen, but as a witness. Allow me to ask you if I possessed a
knowledge of facts which could prove Mr. Jefferson guilty of
a robbery, or a cheat and unfit to be trusted with power, would
you think me culpable if, notwithstanding my alienage, I made
them known to the public to prevent their being deceived and
misled ? And shall I not be permitted because in consequence
of your own misconduct I am not a citizen, to testify to facts
which will prove you unfit to be entrusted in this country with
any kind of delegated power. ... As a witness then, sir,
I come forward to testify not to my countrymen, but to the
electors of this city, to the whole of the United States, if you
should ever aspire to govern them, and I now present you with
my evidence.

In the summer of 1798, after the attempt of the people of
Ireland for their emancipation had been completely defeated ;
after every armed body had been dispersed, or had surrendered,
except a few men that had taken refuge in the mountains of

1 8 RUFUS KING. [1807

Wicklow ; while military tribunals, house burnings, shootings,
torture and every kind of devastation were desolating and over-
whelming the defenceless inhabitants, some of the State prison-
ers then in confinement, entered into a negociation with the Irish
ministers for effecting a general amnesty ; and as an induce-
ment offered, among other things, not necessary to the examin-
ation of your conduct, to emigrate to such country as might be
agreed upon between them and the government. When I con-
sented to this offer, for one (and it was the case with the great
majority) I solemnly declare that I was perfectly apprized that
there were no legal grounds discovered to proceed against me.
I further knew that the Crown Solicitor had in answer to the
enquiries of my friends informed them there was no intention of
preferring a bill of indictment against me. So much for the
personal considerations by which 1 might have been actuated,
and now, sir, to return.

The offer was accepted ; the bloody system was stopped for a
time, and was not renewed until after your interference, and after
the English ministry had resolved openly to break its faith with
us. On our part, we performed our stipulations with the most
punctilious fidelity, but in such a manner as to preserve to us the
warmest approbation of our friends, and to excite the greatest
dissatisfaction in our enemies. Government soon perceived that
on the score of interest it had calculated badly and had gained
nothing by the contract. It was afraid of letting us go at large
to develop and detect the misrepresentation and calumnies that
were studiously set afloat and had therefore, I am convinced, de-
termined to violate its engagements by keeping us prisoners as
long as possible. How was this to be done ? In the commence-
ment of our negociation, Lord Castlereagh declared as a reason
for our acceding to government's possessing a negative on our
choice, that it had no worse place in view for our emigration than
the United States of America. We had made our election to go
there, and had to have our agreement carried into execution.
In that difficulty you, sir, afforded effectual assistance to the faith-
lessness of the British cabinet. On the 16th of September, Mr.
Marsden, then under secretary, came to inform us that Mr. King
had remonstrated against our being permitted to emigrate to
America. This astonished us all, and Dr. M' Nevin very plainly

1807] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 9

said that he considered this excuse as a mere trick between Mr.
King and the British government. This Mr. Marsden denied,
and on being pressed to know the reasons Mr. King could have for
preventing us, who were avowed republicans, from emigrating to
America, he significantly answered " perhaps Mr. King does not
desire to have republicans in America." Your interference was
then, sir, made the pretext of detaining us four years in custody,
by which very extensive and useful plans of settlements within
these States were broken up. The misfortunes which you
brought upon the objects of your persecution were incalculable.
Almost all of us wasted four of the best years of our lives in
prison. As to me, I should have brought along with me my
father and his family, including a brother whose name perhaps
even you will not read without emotion of sympathy and respect.
Others, nearly connected with me, would have come partners in
my emigration ; but all of them have been torn from me. I have
been prevented from saving a brother, from receiving the dying
blessings of a father, mother and sister, and from soothing their
last agonies by my cares ; and this, sir, by your unwarrantable
and unfeeling interference.

Your friends when they accuse me of want of moderation in
my conduct towards you, are wonderfully mistaken. They do
not reflect or know, that I have never spoken of you, without
suppressing (as I do now) personal feelings that rise up within
me, and swell my heart with indignation and resentment. But I
mean to confine myself to an examination of your conduct as far
as it is of public importance.

The step you took was unauthorized by your own government.
Our agreement with that of Ireland was entered into on the 19th
of July — your prohibition was notified to us on the 16th of Sep-
tember ; deduct 7 days for the two communications between
Dublin and London, and you had precisely 41 days, in the calms
of summer, for transmitting your intelligence to America and re-
ceiving an answer. As you had no order then, what was the mo-
tive of your unauthorized act ? I cannot positively say, but I will
tell you my conviction. The British ministry had resolved to de-
tain us prisoners contrary to their plighted honour ; and you, sir,
I fear lent your ministerial character to enable them to commit an
act of perfidy, which they would not otherwise have dared to per-

20 RUFUS KING. [1807

petrate. The constitution and laws of the country gave you no
power to require of the British government that it should violate
its faith and withdraw from us its consent to the plan we had
fixed upon for our voluntary emigration. Neither the President
nor you were warranted to prevent our touching the shores ;
though the former might, under the Alien act, have afterwards
sent us away, if he had reason to think we were plotting against
the United States. I have heard something about the law of
nations, but you, I presume, are too well acquainted with that law
not to know that it has no bearing on this subject. Our emigra-
tion was voluntary, and the English government had in point of
justice no more to do with it than to signify that there was no
objection to the place of residence we had chosen.

Another circumstance which compels me to believe a collusive
league between you, in your capacity of resident Minister from
America, and the Cabinet of St. James' is the very extravagant
and unwarrantable nature of your remonstrance, which had the
ministry been sincere towards us, they could not have overlooked.
If they had intended to observe their compact, you, sir, would
have been very quickly made to feel the futility of your ill-timed
application. You would have been taught that it was a matter of
mere private arrangement between government and us, with which
you had no more to do than the minister to Denmark, Sweden,
Portugal, or any other neutral power. What inference ought
fairly to be made from the facts I have stated, every man must
decide for himself. On me, they have forced a conviction,
which, if you can shake it, I shall much more gladly forego than
I state it here, that in the instance alluded to, you degraded the
dignity and independence of the country you represented, you
abandoned the principles of its government and its policy, and
you became the tool of a foreign state, to give it a colourable
pretext for the commission of a crime. If so, is it fit that you
should hereafter be entrusted with any kind of delegated
authority ? What motives you may have had for that conduct, if,
in truth it was yours, I cannot undertake to say. Mr. Marsden
seemed to doubt whether you wished for republicans in America —
and I shrewdly suspect he spoke what the British ministry thought
of your politics.

Perhaps it may be said that you were yourself deceived by

1807] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 21

those very calumnies of which I have complained, I sincerely wish I
could believe that such were the fact — but observe this argument.
We contradicted the mistatements of the committee of the Lords
and Commons of Ireland, by advertisement, written in prison,
signed our names, and published on the 3d. of September, it must
have reached London on the seventh or eighth — your remonstrance
must have been made before the 12th, for it was communicated to
us on the 16th. The effect produced by our advertisement was
electrical, and the debate which it caused on the very evening of
its appearance, in the Irish House of Commons, was most remark-
able. As you doubtless read the newspapers of the day, these
facts could not be unknown to you. Why then should you be
deceived by misrepresentations which we have recently contra-
dicted under circumstances so extraordinary ? Mr. King, did
you enter so deeply into the revolution of your own country as to
implicate your life in the issue of its fortunes ? From the strong
attachment of your political friends, I presume you were a dis-
tinguished leader in those eventful times ; if not, you had cer-
tainly read their history. Did you remember the calumnies which
had been thrown out by British agents against the most upright
and venerable patriots of America ? Did you call to mind the
treatment which had been given in South Carolina to General
Gadsden, to Gen. Rutherford, Col. Isaacs, and a number of others
who had surrendered to that very Lord Cornwallis, with whom,
through his ministers we negociated ; and that these distinguished
characters were, in violation of their capitulation and of the rights
of parole, sent to St. Augustine, as we were afterwards sent to
Fort George ? How then is it possible that you could have been
a Dupe to the misrepresentations of the British Government ?

These remarks I address with all becoming respect to " the first
man in the country " — yet in fact, sir, I do not clearly see in
what consists your superiority over myself. It is true you have
been a resident minister at the Court of St. James, and if what I
have read in the public prints be true, and if you be apprised of
my near relationship and family connection with the late Sir John
Temple,* you must acknowledge that your interference as a resi-

* Mr. King, when a lad, was a servant to and wore the livery of Sir John
Temple, the near relative of Mr. Emmet. I assert this on the authority of a re-
spectable gentleman in this city. Editor. James Ciieetham.

22 KUFUS KING. [1807

dent minister at the Court of St. James's, against my being per-
mitted to emigrate to America, is a very curious instance of the
caprice of fortune. But let that pass. To what extent I ought
to yield to you for talents and information, it is not for me to de-
cide. In no other respect, however, do I feel your excessive
superiority. My private character and conduct are, I hope, as
fair as yours — and even in those matters which I consider as
trivial, but upon which aristocratic pride is accustomed to stamp
a value, I should not be inclined to shrink from competition.
My birth certainly will not humble me by comparison ; my pater-
nal fortune was probably much greater than yours ; the consider-
ation in which the name I bear was held in my native country,
was as great as yours is ever likely to be, before I had any oppor-
tunity of contributing to its celebrity. As to the amount of what
private fortune I have been able to save from the wreck of calam-
ity, it is unknown to you or to your friends ; but two things I will
tell you, I never was indebted, either in the country from which I
came, nor in any other in which I have lived, to any man, further
than the necessary credit for the current expenses of a family ; and
am not so circumstanced that I should tremble for my subsistence,
at the threatened displeasure of your friends.* So much for the

* It is said that on Monday evening last certain federal gentlemen held a pri-
vate meeting at which they agreed to withdraw, or cause to be withdrawn from
Mr. Emmet federal professional business put into his hands, and, as in the
glorious times of '98, to combine to do him all the pecuniary injury in their
power ! Editor. James Cheetham.

In J. Cheetham's Citizen of April 1, 1807, we find the following estimate
of Mr. King.

" Side view of Mr. King. — Mr. King has crawled into public life we know
not how. It is not however disreputable to him that from being the Page of
Sir John Temple, at Boston, he is become the leader of the federal party in the
State of New York.

We know how he was first elected to member of Congress. He resided in a
democratic district in Massachusetts. What was to be done to gratify ambition ?
He became, as a federalist might term it, a brawling democrat, and professing
democracy, and ingratiating himself into public favour, by his professions, he
got himself elected a member of congress.

All this was right. It is a trite remark that libertines pay adoration to virtue
by assuming her garb.

But upon merely professing man who can place reliance ?

He who from ambition changes from federalism to democracy, will, for am-
bition, turn back from democracy to federalism. A/organ Lewis knows this.

Mr. King continued to be a republican, when republicanism flourished. I

1807] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 23

past and the present — now for the future. Circumstances which
cannot be controuled have decided that my name must be em-
bodied in history. From the manner in which even my political
adversaries and some of my contemporary historians, unequivo-
cally hostile to my principles, already speak of me, I have the
consolation of reflecting, that when the falsehoods of the day are
withered and rotten, I shall be respected and esteemed, you, sir,
will probably be forgotten, when I shall be remembered with
honour, or if, peradventure, your name shall descend to posterity,
perhaps you will be known only as the recorded instrument of
part of my persecutions, sufferings and misfortunes.

I am, sir, &c.

Thomas Addis Emmet.

The history of Mr. King's agency relative to the preven-
tion of the emigration of the Irish State Prisoners has been
so clearly given in the body of this work,* that it would seem
unnecessary to introduce any further proof of the falsity of
the charges brought against him. We have, however, two
distinct refutations of these charges f in Mr. King's hand-
writing. One of them, a letter to his friend Mr. Gore, Apr.
IO, 1807, says :

do not exactly know at what period of our party contests he changed his coat,
but we may safely conclude it was when federalism promised something better.

And he has in a great measure realized all that federalism promised. He
has been a member of the United States Senate, where, with the assistance of
Gen. Hamilton, he made a few good speeches, and, whence, through the instru-
mentality of that great man, he was sent minister to the court of Great Britain.

Of this court, as we shall hereafter show, Mr. King became the political
dupe, as he was at the same time, an instrument of some pernicious schemes of
Mr. Adams, — schemes not sanctioned either by the constitution or laws of his
country.

It was not possible that a man so yielding to British policy, especially in re-
lation to Ireland, and immigration generally, should not be acceptable to the
British government.

He is said to have stood well with Pitt, and this good standing, since his
return, has given him political consequence with the numerous friends of that
premier among us.

But those friends should be informed, if they do not already know, that Mr.
King is now thought very despicably of by the British government."

*Vol. [I., Appendix IV., pp. 035-648.

t One in 1807 the, other in 1816 ; vol., v. p.

24 RUFUS KING. [1807

" We, without any important expectation, and with the embar-
rassment of a qualified support in respect to Governor, are here
engaged in the approaching election. I have been prevailed upon
to be nominated as a candidate for our assembly, and several of
our most respectable citizens are united with me on the Ticket.
This has awakened old animosities and brought up others of a
more recent and malignant nature against me. Of course my
reputation is daily assailed with the lowest and coarsest ribaldry.
We have here several of the Irish State Prisoners, agt. whose
banishment to America I protested in 1798 ; these men, who are
not yet citizens, have arrayed a body of their countrymen, ha-
rangued them on the subject of Irish oppression, denounced me
for having interfered with their being permitted to come to this
country, and urged them to enter into a confederacy to resist my
election. Emmet, their leader, an alien, a lawyer who has been
admitted to our Bar, has addressed a letter to me, ascribing to
my interference the death of his brother, and the oppression that
he for years suffered in Prison. His performance is full of inso-
lence, vanity and malignity, amongst other things, in a compari-
son of himself with me, he asserts that I was a menial servant in
my youth to Sir John Temple, his relative (Rob. Temple's daugh-
ter, Hetty, married Emmet's brother) and my reputable opponents
believe the assertion. I have resolved to enter into no expla-
nations, leaving the Public to decide between me and these
foreigners."

Though Mr. King published no answer to the charges
made, there is in his handwriting an address :

" Endorsed by R. K. Dft. of an address to the Pub. (never
made) respecting my interference to prevent the Exile of the
Ir. Stat. Prisrs. to the U. S."

It has it seems been deemed expedient for the purpose of
affecting the federal nomination of Assemblymen, to make an
attempt to awaken and enlist the national prejudices of a body of
foreigners, who within a few years past have arrived and been
naturalized in this city.

How far a step of this nature will be likely to impair the
harmony and mutual assistance that in the mixed state of our

1807] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 2$

population, it should be the aim of good men to promote, the
public will determine : most certainly no consideration which as
yet should influence virtuous citizens, shall urge to measures of
retaliation ; a momentary success, a partial triumph, the mere
gaining of a single election would be but a poor consolation for
having created a durable and dangerous feud between the foreign
and native inhabitants of this prosperous city.

In the unworthy attempt to excite discord and hatred between
the new and old citizens, various means and devises have been
employed ; all of them unwarrantable and unworthy of being
made use of by men who either respect themselves or love the
country.

So far as these measures are calculated to injure the character
of the federal ticket, by assailing the reputation of Mr. K., it has
been done by repeating a charge, long since preferred, that in the
year 1798 and during his mission in England, he interfered with
the British Govt, to prevent the Irish State Prisoners being ban-
ished to America.*

I am not aware that any part of my conduct during my resi-
dence abroad is without the sanction of Government ; and con-
sidering the nature of the office I held, I might rest satisfied with
this reflexion, and decline entering into a vindication of such
particular measures, as however imperfectly understood, may
become matter of newspaper animadversion especially as whatso-
ever is done by a forn. Minr. with the sanction of his Govt,
becomes the act of that Govt., which he, more than another, is
not bound to explain or to justify. I do not however perceive
that I am required by any official duty to follow this course on
the present occasion.

The Persons whose names have been brought into view in the
publications referred to, I am willing to believe are in no sort
privy to them, and I may, therefore, owe to them some apology
for the necessity that compels me to allude to them and their con-
duct in a quarter where they were under no obligation to consult,
or respect the opinion of strangers.

* As to an agency on his part in preventing their being sent to any of the
other countries, to wh. they were at liberty to retire, or in any other manner
interfering with them, their enterprize, or their confinement, every insinuation
to this effect is totally groundless.

26 RUFUS KING. [1807

It cannot have been forgotten that after resisting the unremitted
efforts of France for a series of years to acquire an influence and
control over our public Councils, the struggle reached its crisis in
the Summer of 1798. Then the question was to be decided,
whether the affairs and Govt, of the Nation shd. continue to be
placed in the hands of Citizens devoted to the liberties and in-
dependence of their country, or delivered over, as has been done
in Italy, in Spain, in Holland, in Switzerland and in Germany, to
men claiming confidence from their avowed attachment to France.
The condition of the United States at this momentous period
cannot be explained more distinctly, or with greater authority
than was done at the time by the Father of his Country, in his
letter to the President, accepting the office of Commander-in-Chief.
General Washington's letter is dated July 13, 1798, and contains
the following paragraphs :

" It was not possible for me to remain ignorant of or indiffer-
ent to recent transactions. The conduct of the Directory of
France towards our Country ; their insidious hostility to its Gov-
ernment ; their various practices to withdraw the affections of the
People from it ; the evident tendency of these acts, and of those
of their agents, to countenance and invigorate opposition ; their
disregard of solemn treaties and the Laws of Nations ; their
war upon our defenceless commerce ; their treatment of our
Ministers of Peace ; and their demands amounting to tribute
could not fail to excite in me correspondent sentiments with those
my countrymen have so generally expressed in their affectionate
addresses to you. Believe me, Sir, no one can more cordially ap-
prove of the wise and prudent measures of your administration.
They ought to inspire universal confidence, and will no doubt,
combined with the state of things, call from Congress, such Laws
and means as will enable you to meet the full force and extent of
the crisis. Satisfied, therefore, that you have sincerely wished
and endeavoured to avert war, and exhausted to the last drop the
cup of Reconciliation, we can with pure hearts appeal to Heaven
for the Justice of our Cause, and may confidently trust the final
result to that kind Providence, which has heretofore and so often
signally favoured the People of these United States."

Congress appear to have taken a like view of the state of the
nation, and after solemn deliberation proceeded to dissolve the

1807] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 27

Treaties with France, to suspend all commerical intercourse with
that Power, to declare a maritime law agt. her, and to pass such
other Laws to protect and call forth the resources of the Country,
as the greatness of the danger demanded.

It was at this crisis that the Irish State Prisoners, who had been
apprehended in the preceding Spring, made a proposal to their
Govt, to disclose the internal transactions of their associates, to
furnish a detailed act. of their connexion with for. States, and to
emigrate to such country, as should be agreed on between them
and their Govt, engaging not to return without permission, & not
to pass into an enemy's country.

The Report of the I. Parliament that was now made, and which
professed to be supported by the confessions of the State Prison-
ers, which was annexed to the Report, not only disclosed their
ultimate views and object, but bro't to light the secret agreement
that subsisted between them and the French Directory.

The number of these prisoners is not remembered ; it is, how-
ever, known to have been large, and in the Month of September
it became matter of public conversation in London that they
were about to be exiled to America.

We were then at war with France, not only a powerful but
most subtle enemy, knowing alike the arts of intrigue and the arts
of war — The Councils of our Nation were not unanimous, and the
body of our People were unhappily divided.

In this condition of the Country, does anyone believe, will
impartial men contend, that these chiefs, many of them men of
talents and held in high estimation in France as well as in
Ireland, — that these directors of a mighty effort to divide an
ancient nation, leaving their friends and country by compulsion,
not choice, that these men foiled but not conquered, were likely
in the existing situation of the U. S. and France to become
contented citizens of America ?

I frankly avow that I did not think they would ; and I must
have been profoundly ignorant of the passions of the human
heart to have thought they could. Thus judging, I could neither
mistake, nor omit the performance of my duty. Accordingly,
supported by the principles of public law, which forbid one
nation to banish or transport its subjects to the Territories of
another, without the consent of such other, I did in the month

28 RUFUS KING. [1807

of September 1798, interfere with the Br. Govt, for the sole pur-
pose of preventing the I. S. P. being banished to the U. S.
Whether my opinions and conduct on this occasion merit the
censure or approbation of my country, is submitted to the
judgment of all impartial men.

CHAPTER II.

Troup to King — Federalists stimulated by Attack on King and by Lansing's
Declaration — Political Aspect — Troup to King — Lansing's Declaration
causes Disaffection among the Democrats — Gore to King — Of the Abuse of
King — Troup to King — Attack on Van Rensselaer — N. Webster to King —
Pronunciation of r, or t preceding u, as ch — King to Webster — That
customary among higher Classes — Cannot encourage him in his Work —
Ingersoll to King — Loss of his Election — Troup to King — Trinity Church
should rather make Provision for the Support of Clergy — Webster to King
— Regrets his Despondence on the political State — Hopes it is not re-
mediless— King to G. Morris — Wishes to discuss with him respecting Im-
pressment— King to Gore — Impressment and Affair of the Chesapeake — W.
King to King — When will Question with England be settled ? — Gore to
King — Will not support Sullivan — King to Gore — Embargo causes Alarm.

R. Troup to R. King.

Albany, ii April, 1807.
Dear Sir :

The proceedings of the Hibernian Society and Emmet's attack
upon you, have had a powerful effect upon the Federal Spirit in
this quarter : we are all activity & all exertion, and by the next
western mail we shall endeavour to infuse our spirit into the
hearts of our friends in the Western District. The contest now
seems to be for everything sacred in society, and the man who
sleeps upon his post is fit for the oppression meditated against
us.

Chancellor Lansing's declaration * will have likewise the hap-
piest effect. The Clintonians will of course begin to abuse him
& his friends. This will heat their resentment into a blaze.
They are a numerous family and the Chancellor & Treasurer

* The declaration was that he had declined the nomination for Governor in
1804, after having first accepted it, because in an interview with Gov. Clinton,
" an attempt had been made by them to induce me to pledge myself for a
particular course of conduct in the administration of the government of the
State." This he refused to give.
30 RUFUS KING. [*8o7

have considerable influence. It Avill also have the effect of draw-
ing a line of separation between the Lansingites and Clintonians ;
and this is an object of no little moment.

Next week, and early in the week, the Chancellor's declaration,
the proceedings of the Hibernian Society and Counsellor Em-
met's confession, with General Nugent's proclamation here, will
be in a course of rapid and extensive spread.

My accounts from the westward are of a very flattering nature.
Mr. Gold of Whitestown in Oneida County, under date of the 6th
inst. writes me thus. " Our nominations have gone abroad with
appropriate addresses. Between 3 and 4000 handbills are put in
circulation thro' every County in the District. If the Federalists
do not succeed the sin of omission will not be found at their
door." The ticket in Oneida County for the assembly is wholly
Federal, and a Federalist is also on the Senatorial ticket. Mr.
Gold goes on to say — " As to the probable result, I subjoin
the following for this District ; Although in the situation of
parties there is much uncertainty yet I have very little doubt that
this District will give Lewis a majority " — (of 800) —

From what I know myself of the Western District, I have no
doubt that it will yield Lewis a majority at least equal to Mr.
Gold's calculations, unless the exertions of our Federal friends
should be less than they promise to be.

In this District (the Eastern) we calculate also upon a majority
for Lewis. It will not however be large, not probably exceeding
500.

Mr. VanNess from Hudson writes us that things are going on
well in the Middle District.

Citizen Genet's committee of vigilance and his addresses in
Rensselaer County have produced nearly the same effect as those
which have been produced in New York by the Hibernian So-
ciety & Counsellor Emmet.

In this District it was thought inexpedient to run a Senator.
The whole Senatorial ticket consequently consists of Lewisites ;
but the Federal vote will, notwithstanding be unanimous. We
shall swallow in one draft the Governor, Lt. Governor and three
Senators. In doing this our friends in New York must allow
that we have at least good electioneering throats ! Even Mr.
Henry, the most inflexible Federalist amongst us, has determined

1807] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 3 1

on this course. So far indeed has zeal warmed us up that we are
raising a fund to help the Lewisites to pay the expences of their
Governor's election. If this had been asserted not long since it
would have been disbelieved.

I observe that your ticket in New York is called the American
ticket. Would not this be a favorable occasion for our party to
assume a popular and significant name, free from the hobgoblins
attached by many to Federalism. This is a subject worthy of
serious consideration ?

If Counsellor Emmet is not a little more cautious hereafter, he
will stand a chance of being thrown over the bar. Judge Kent
and Judge Thompson are very much dissatisfied with his con-
duct, and I believe from circumstances that Judge Thompson
bitterly repents that he consented to Emmet's admission.
Emmet is still an alien.

I wish the information I give to be mentioned only to our con-
fidential friends. It would be impolitic for me to give the Clin-
tonian Democrats a handle to injure the agency I have confided
to me (the Pulteney Estate). Thus far they have been very
friendly to it, barring Col. Rutgers, who carried little or no influ-
ence with him. When my bill was under debate in the House of
Assembly, he made so violent an attack upon Lady Bath, that if
I had not rescued her, by the aid of my friends, from his arms,
her Ladyship, like poor Mrs. Williams in the hands of Webbenars,
the Deputy Sheriff of West Chester, would have been at least in
imminent danger of being ravished of her chastity.

In haste, yours

Rob. Troup.

R. Troup to R. King.

Albany, 15 April, 1807.
Dear Sir :

Inclosed I send you the resolutious of the Albany Federal
meeting of which I gave you an account in my last. I think our
Federal friends in New York will not be ashamed of the senti-
ments we have avowed. I wish our example may be followed in
every county of the State.

The answer of Spencer & Co to the Chancellor's declaration is

32 RUFUS KING. [1807

thought here by several of us to make the Chancellor's conduct
appear to be puerile, and we apprehend the whole business will
in the end do very little credit to his understanding.

The truth is that Clinton originally debauched Lansing, and
drew him when he was a warm partisan from the party he was
attached to and put him in the opposite ranks. Ever since
which Clinton has patronised him and given him a currency to
office & importance, which his slender abilities never entitled him
to. I have no doubt that what passed between Lansing and his
old benefactor & patron was wholly confidential. It is a little
extraordinary that after the attempt to impose terms, Lansing
should have consented to serve.

The effect, however, of the thing will be to sever the bond of
union and to put the parties at a distance from each other. . . .
I am, Dear Sir, very truly yours

Rob. Troup.

C. Gore to R. King

Boston, 17 April, 1807.
My dear Friend :

. . I have observed the abuse, which an acquiescence

with the Desires of your Friends has brought upon you. If any

Doubt could exist as to the Prudence of your remonstrating

against the Intentions of the British Govt, in relation to the Irish

Rebels, the impudent Interference of Emmet in our Elections

must remove them.

Sullivan is unquestionably elected Governour, and our Senate

will be democratic & so will be the House of Representatives. . . .

Yours Sincerely

C. Gore.

R. Troup to R. King.

Albany, 24 April, 1807.
My dear Sir :

About half an hour ago, I received your favor of the 20th inst,
for which I am much obliged. I made a pretty lengthy com-
munication to-day to our friend Judge Radcliff on the state of
things in this quarter. The letter was delivered to Dr. Dexter

1807] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 33

of this place, who sailed this afternoon for New York in the
Albany Sloop Cornelia, Capt. Staats. The Doctor expects to
lodge on board the Sloop whilst he is in New York. I beg you
to mention the circumstance to Judge Radcliff that he may send
for my letter, which will be found interesting. I refer you to it
for details I have not time now to write you. The mail will
close in a few minutes. I just parted with the Governor at
Judge Kent's door. The Governor had come from Mr. Van
Vechten's, who has spent great part of the day at Mr. Van Rens-
selaer's. The account brought by Mr. Van Vechten is that Mr.
Van Rensselaer's situation is dangerous and that the chances are
agt. his recovery. The surgeons have made oath of his danger
& I have no doubt the Governor was going when I parted from
him to confer with Judge Kent on the propriety of issuing im-
mediate process to apprehend Bloodgood, and probably Taylor
and Cooper.

It is universally believed here that the attack made by these three
men on Van Rensselaer was a concerted thing between them.
They all had a hand in beating Van Rensselaer, though the sup-
posed mortal blow was given by Bloodgood, with a bludgeon &
with both his hands. It is said that Bloodgood has been armed ever
since the affray ; and as he has made himself scarce I rather
suspect he will not be found by the officers. The death of Van
Rensselaer will be attended with the most unpleasant conse-
quences ! *

Our accounts from all quarters give us reason to expect that
the election will terminate favorably to our wishes in the Eastern,
Western and Middle Districts. May our expectations be realized !
The naturalization mill in New York, I fear, will defeat our
assembly ticket. In great haste yours Rob. Troup.

* The affray which resulted as above was caused during the heated political
intrigues at Albany. Genl. Solomon Van Rensselaer, indignant at certain reso-
lutions passed by the Clintonians at a meeting, stating their disbelief in a
deposition made by the General and his brother, attacked on the street Mr.
Jenkins, whom he believed to be their author, and after notice beat him with a
cane. The parties named above defended Mr. Jenkins and caused the serious
injury to the General. He recovered.

This statement is founded on an account published by Mrs. Catharine Bon-
ney (daughter of Genl. Solomon Van Rensselaer), in a book entitled, A Legacy
of Historical Gleanings, 2d ed., vol. i., 169. Mr. Wm. Kelby, Librarian of N.
Y. Historical Society, furnished the above information.

VOL. v.— 3

34 RUFUS KING. [1807

Noah Webster to R. King.

New Haven, Apl. 27, 1807.
Sir :

My desire to obtain a correct knowledge of the history, as well
as the present state of the English Language, has led me to make
some inquiries respecting the origin of a late most important
article in pronunciation. The change of u \n\.o yu or rather of /
preceding u into ch, as in nachure, virchue. Dr. Johnson who was
in England at the time, it took its rise, about the year 1770, in-
forms me that when he first arrived in England in 1766, it was
wholly unknown, but that it began on the Stage, when Sheridan,
Powell & Holland were principal actors, near the time when Gar-
rick retired, & spread first among young barristers & members of
Parliament. I have long supposed & have now ascertained that
it came from Ireland.

As you have had the best opportunities to ascertain the real
state and extent of this corruption, I will thank you to inform
me whether it is general or universal among the Londoners, of all
descriptions, or whether it is confined to the higher ranks. Also
whether it is general among the gentlemen of the country & in
the universities. This, or any other, information you can give
me relative to this subject will greatly oblige one who has the
honor to be with great respect

Your obedt. humble. Servt.

Noah Webster.

P. S. The influence used in your N. York elections, if it
should not produce riots & bloodshed, exhibits a melancholy
state of moral and political depravity. Connecticut is falling into
the stream of corruption ; but from the best information I can
obtain, the opposers of the present administration of the State
Government, have made little or no impression during the last
year.

Endorsed by R. K. : " Copy of letter from R. King to
Noah Webster 1807," — probably June 30.

Dear Sir :

I stand in need of gt excuse for not having sooner replied to
your letters of Feb. & Apl. Concerning the subject of the latter,

1807] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 35

so far as my observation has enabled me to determine, I am dis-
posed to believe that the usage of giving to t, before u, the power of
ch, has become general among the learned & higher classes of So-
ciety in England. It prevails at the Bar, in the Pulpit & in Parlia-
ment— at the Universities, public Schools & Theatres, as well as
among persons of fashion of both sexes. The tone of London in
this, as in other cases, is that of the Country, among those whose
minds and manners are influenced by fashion. In respect to the
numerous body of Farmers, Manufacturers & Tradesmen, the
innovation not having reached them, their pronunciation is that
of the District in which they were born, or passed their early
years. When this innovation commenced is a question concerning
which I am without information, though I am inclined with you
to ascribe its introduction to the Irish.

In respect to the more interesting subject of your first letter, I
am sorry to remark that I am able to discern but little probability
of your receiving adequate encouragement to continue to devote
your time and talents to the important and laborious investiga-
tion, in wh. for so many years you have been engaged.

Neither learning, morals, nor wisdom seem any longer to be
regarded as objects of public esteem & favour ; and we behold
few or no indications of such change in the opinions & pursuits
of the Nation, as wd. afford a reasonable hope that a wiser,
sounder course of thinking and acting is likely soon to prevail.

Wealth & power, or, in other words, money and office, have
become the ruling passion of our People ; and as these may be
acquired without the possession of learning, we can be at no loss
to understand, why there has of late years grown up among us a
neglect of, and prejudice agt. Learning ; why our colleges have
become objects of jealousy ; and why, instead of protection, at-
tempts are made and encouraged to destroy their necessary dis-
cipline & government.

It cannot have escaped your penetration, that in nothing has
this Country suffered a greater or more injurious change of
opinion, than on the subject of education, which is known to
have exerted the earliest and most anxious solicitude, of our
forefathers, in the midst of their difficulties. They founded Col-
leges, their posterity in more favourable Circumstances neglect
them. They looked upon Colleges as Schools of wisdom and

36 RUFUS KING. [1807

virtue, we behold them as nurseries of inequality and enemies of
Liberty — and here as elsewhere, the unnatural genius of equality,
the arch disturber of the moral world, is permitted to seek her
visionary level, not by elevating what ignorance and vice have
degraded, but by degrading what knowledge & virtue have
elevated.

I have, notwithstanding my own persuasions, consulted some of
the few persons with whom I am in the habit of freely conferring ;
but there seem to be so much torpor and want of exertion, such
despair of sound principles and honest views, that even the best
men are with difficulty roused from their lethargy, and even then
appear to be restless and unhappy, until they have sunk again
into their hopeless indolence.

In this condition of the many, and with this temper of the few
who are not yet swept away by the torrent that bears us forward
to the gloomy scene before us, I find myself unable to offer you
the encouragement, that, on every consideration, it wd. afford
me so much satisfaction to impart. My poor and limited succour
shall not be withheld, but it is too insignificant to be mentioned
or attended to & I can therefore only entreat you to be assured,
that I remain with sincere Respect & Esteem, dr. Sir, yr. ob. &
faithful Servt. R. K.

C. I. Ingersoll to R. King.

Philadelphia, 14th May, 1807.
My Dear Sir :

. . . Should I congratulate or condole with you on the loss
of your election ? I imagine if it was not the wish of others, it
could not be your own to be put up & pelted at by Irishmen &
Frenchmen. The citizens of New York deserve to be stung for
fostering that viper Emmet ; and he deserves to be damned for
that vain & absurd letter he wrote you. I mean damned politi-
cally, because it was egotistical, ignorant, and, I still hope, ill-
judged. The baseness of the thing is nothing ; that 's to be ex-
pected. It was the folly of it I thought must turn the cowardly
thrust. . .

Sincerely & respectfully yrs.

C. I. Ingersoll.

1807] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 37

R. Troup to R. King.

Albany, i June, 1807.
Dear Sir :

. . . The more I see of the progress of Jacobinism in the
State, the more I am convinced that the idea you suggested to me
when I last had the pleasure of seeing you, and which I find
dictated the terms of the donation offered to the church at
Geneva, is a sowid one. I have no doubt whatever, between us,
that instead of building churches to be taken possession hereafter
by the Jacobins, the true policy of the Corporation of Trinity
Church for spreading the Episcopal mode of worship, so friendly
to Government, so hostile to Jacobinism, is to make permanent pro-
vision for the support of Episcopal Clergymen. I verily believe
that under the present order of things a contrary policy will have
no other effect than to waste the funds of the Corporation and to
give Episcopacy but a temporary support. . . . With perfect
Esteem &c. Rob. Troup.

Noah Webster to R. King.

New Haven, July 6, 1807.
Sir:

I thank you for your favor of the — ult. & the information in
answer to my inquiries. It gives me pain, however, to observe
the spirit of despondence manifested by your remarks on the
political state of our country. That state is really what you
describe it ; but were it certain that such a condition of things
must continue, it would furnish to me, & I think it ought to fur-
nish to others, substantial reasons for seeking amusement in lit-
erary pursuits, which by habit may afford the highest satisfaction,
without the vexations, disappointments and endless perturba-
tions which attend the pursuits of ambition.

But I hope our condition is not remediless ; and perhaps the
crisis is hastening which will lead, through many evils, to a
remedy. A State of war or of extreme danger must necessarily
tend to unite men who have been divided ; and men of talents,
whom demagogues have influenced the people to proscribe, will
be solicited to lend their aid to defend their country.

There is one particular in which, I think, the leading gentle-
men of the Washington School have uniformly erred. They

38 RUFUS KING. [1807

have attempted to resist the force of current popular opinion,
instead of falling into the current with a view to direct it. In
this they have manifested more integrity than address. They
are men of independent minds, & unsuspected honor & honesty,
and appear to consider it wrong to yield their own opinions, in
the minutest particular, in favor of such as are more popular.
But in this, I think, they err, either from scrupulous regard to
principle, or from mistaking the means by which all popular gov-
ernments are to be managed. Between the unbending firmness
of an H — n, the obsequiousness of a J — n, there is a way to pre-
serve the confidence of the populace, without a sacrifice of integ-
rity. In morality, an honest man must make no concessions that
violate the laws of right. But political measures are rarely con-
nected with moral right & wrong ; at least the greatest proportion
are mere matters of expedience & in these, I think, honest, inde-
pendent men of talents should yield so far to popular opinion, as
to retain the confidence of the people ; for without that confidence,
they are lost in the scale of political measures ; but with it they
may gradually wean the people from their most foolish schemes
and correct their opinions. And it is vastly important that such
men should not lose their weight of character ; for if they do not
lead the people, fools &: knaves will. I wish to see our dis-
tinguished statesmen regain the public confidence, and I believe
they may do it without mean or criminal compliances. Absolute
perfection in Government is not attainable ; & measures not
the best may be rendered harmless, and even salutary by union
of counsels. Union is of far more consequence than any degree
of theoretical perfection in public measures.

I do not believe all that is published about the attack upon the
Chesapeake. The real facts perhaps do not appear ; but with all
possible palliations, it is an outrage, that deserves public indig-
nation.* I hope it may not prove the beginning of very serious
evils — evils which the return of the treaty and the change of
ministry lead me to apprehend.

Very respectfully yr. obed. Servt.

N. Webster.

* The affair of the Chesapeake, to which reference is here made, was one
which at the time deeply agitated the country. It may be here stated that the
frigate Chesapeake-, about to sail to the Mediterranean, had among her seamen

1807] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 39

R. King to G. Morris.

Jamaica, L. I., Monday July, 13, 1807.
Dear Sir :

If the weather should be good, I think of making you a visit

on Thursday with my Brother who is passing a few days with me

here. I am the more desirous of finding you at home, that we

may compare opinions on the subject which at present engages

the public attention.

Always & faithfully,

Rufus King.

R. King to G. Morris.

Jamaica, 31 July, 1807.

I last Evg. reed, yr's of the 26th. I have not been able to visit
you which every day's occurrences have made me desire.

I shall attend the Meeting of the Trustees of Columbia

College advertised for Monday next, and invite you to meet me

in town where we can examine a correspondence I had with

Lord Grenville respecting the visit and search of national

Ships.

Yrs. always,

Rufus King.

three men, who were claimed as British subjects. She was proceeding down
the Chesapeake, in a condition of disorder on board, both as to armament and
drill of her men, when, outside of the Cape, she was hailed by the British ship
Leander, and while waiting for a communication was boarded by an officer
from that ship, demanding, under instructions from Admiral Berkeley, com-
manding the British squadron on the American coasts, the surrender of the three
seamen as deserters. Upon the refusal of Commodore Barron to give the men
up, the Leander fired a shot and afterwards several broadsides into the Chesa-
peake, killing several men and wounding many. Unable from the unprepared
condition of his vessel to return the shots, Com. Barron ordered his flag struck,
and surrendered his vessel. His crew was mustered by British officers who
came on board, carried off the three deserters and one other, and left — offering
regrets for the loss of life, and assistance. This was indignantly rejected and the
ship returned to Norfolk. As a consequence there was great public indigna-
tion and the President issued a proclamation ordering British ships of war from
the waters of the United States and forbidding all intercourse with them.
See Hildreth's U. S., vol. v., pp. 674-83.

40 RUFUS KING. [1807

R. King to C. Gore.

New York, Sep. 11, 1807.
Dear Sir :

. . . Concerning our disputes with England, I have never
believed they could end in war, unless Congress engage in the
management of our foreign affairs. In the Treaty signed by
Monroe & Pinkney, no provision was made for the property
captured and condemned upon the new Doctrine asserted by
England — their arrangement by which we are permitted to carry
on trade with the Colonies of the Enemy of England would
satisfy our Government ; and our Merchants wd. not object,
provided they could not engage in the trade on better terms.

The question about Seamen employed in our Commerce has
nothing new in it ; so that admitting that the Parties shall not be
able finally to form a commercial Treaty, it does not follow that
they must quarrel. The want of a Provision agt. Impressment,
and some nonsensical matter concerning Bonaparte's Blockading
Decree, were, I have reason to suppose, the motives for sending the
Treaty back for further negotiation ; that they will come to any
satisfactory agreement about the Seamen, is at least doubtful ;
without it I presume the Treaty will not be concluded — but still
things remain as they were, and there will exist no new motive
for war.

But the affair of the Chesapeake : here I think the officers of
both countries have done wrong; our Commodore was guilty of
a gross military indecorum in engaging Seamen, knowing them
to be deserters from the English Ships of war. On this point
there will be but one sentiment in Europe. This misconduct
was however no justification of the attack on the Chesapeak.

Notwithstanding certain Dissertations which I have seen in
the Repertory, it is never to be admitted that national Ships,
which are national Fortresses over which there can be but one
sovereign, are to be visited, searched and controlled by two.

The English will allow this right to no nation ; they cannot,
and I think they will not, claim it of any. A case occurred while
we were in England (the taking of 55 seamen out of the Amer.
Sloop of war Baltimore by the Carnatic, Commodore Loring off
the Havannah) in which I delivered a remonstrance to the Eng.
Govt, denying this right and demanding satisfaction for the

1807] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 4 1

injury. The answer as a preliminary one to an investigation on
their Part, was entirely satisfactory, and fully authorizes the con-
clusion that England would claim no right to enter and search
our Ships of war for Seamen or Enemy's Goods. I am obliged
to break off here, assuring you of my sincere regards &c.

R. K.

William King to R. King.

Bath, November 28th, 1807.
Dear Brother :

I am extremely anxious to learn what the probable result of
the present misunderstanding with the English will be, and shall
be much obligd. if you will give me your opinion frequently on
this subject. I have nearly all my Vessels now in different ports
of the United States, and have given directions for them to be
laid up for the present although a moderate charter would be
more than a hundred & fifty dollars a day for them.

Thus circumstanced you will readily suppose me quite desirous
to be informed as correctly and as early as possible as to the
time when our mercantile business can again be resumed with
safety. Mrs. King requests to be named very affectionately to
Mrs. R. King, whose attentions she is quite sensible of, in which I
most certainly join her & remain affectionately your Brother,

William King.

There is no answer to this letter, though it is probable
that one was given.

C. Gore to R. King.

Boston, Dec, 25, 1807.
My Dear Friend :

. I literally pass all my Hours in Courts of Law or pre-
paring for them. The Politics of our degraded Country are,
not less by Inclination, than Business, precluded from my Re-
flection. When the General Court convenes, I shall be obliged
to devote part of my time to the local affairs of the State, which
will be as bad as Vice & Folly can make them. Sullivan, always
whiffling about, made some feeble and transient Efforts to ap-
point a few weak men, who were not decidedly Democratic to

42 RUFUS KING. [1807

office, & some of our sagacious Politicians thought that, by a
proper management on the part of the Federalists, he might be
restrained from doing evil. My own Determination was never to
oppose his measures, except bad, but individually never to make
the smallest advance towards conciliating such a Wretch ; and
of course I never see him but on Business. He has & will bend
to his Council in everything, and that is composed of the most
violent & revengeful class of Democrats. Tell Benson that
I trust, so far as concerns myself, his Prophecy relative
to the future support of Sullivan will not be realized, yet I will not
undertake to answer for the Body of Federalists here ; for even
Cabot thinks there is a Choice between the evil Spirits, which are
destined to rule us, & that the locum tenens is not so malignant,
as the Successor, which the times are preparing for us. . . .

Yours faithfully,

G. Gore.

R. King to C. Gore.

Dec. 31, 1807.
My dear Sir :

The embargo* has excited the most profound alarm, and will
here occasion real and extensive distress. I have never seen so
much anxiety and indecision in men of all descriptions. Persons
of reflexion are filled with suspicions concerning the views of
Government, whose concealments seem to have shaken the con-
fidence of their most steadfast friends. The thousand rumours
in circulation, joined to the darkness that covers the proceed-
ings of the administration, have produced the strongest appre-
hension that it is meditated to bring about a war with England
upon points of inferior moment, in order to avoid a decision on
the insolent and humiliating demands of France. The embargo
and non-importation together will amount to the shutting of
our Ports agt. England — a measure which it is believed has been
required by the Tyrant.

*The President in a secret message to Congress on the 16th Dec, recom-
mended an Embargo Act, as a method of putting an end to the various out-
rageous acts of Great Britain, which was passed by both Houses of Congress
and signed by the President on the 22d.

1807] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 43

Facts of immense importance, and of the most suspicious
nature, but of which the Country are utterly ignorant, are believed
to have taken place — a war with England must be prevented or
the nation is ruined. But how is this to be done ? Boston is
purely American ; New York resembles the image of Nebuchad-
nezzar— you must begin — and with boldness.

Always & faithfully yours

R. K.

CHAPTER III.

Pickering to King — Case of Senator John Smith — Adams's Report — Mr. Rose's
Mission — Embargo — Pickering to King — President withholds Informa-
tion— Effect of Embargo — Mr. Jefferson will not make Treaty with Eng-
land— Rose's Mission may be successful — Difficulties met by Mr. Rose
before landing — President's Conduct — King to Pickering — Ruin and Dis-
tress from Stoppage of Trade — Thinks there is Danger of War if Embargo
continues — Pickering to King — Jefferson says : England because of Bona-
parte's Measures will not long exist — Mr. Adams relative to Embargo — Is
War imminent? — King to Monroe's and Pinkney's Instructions — Arm-
strong's Letters — Not sent to Senate — France's Acts relative to Florida —
Pickering to King — President will negotiate with Rose — Negotiation in
London broken off — What will the President do? — Gardenier to King —
Speculations about foreign Affairs — King to Gardenier — Rose should
make Reparations — Impressment — Carrying Trade — Pickering to King —
Armstrong's Letters withheld — Bonaparte's Requisitions.

T. Pickering to R. King.

City of Washington, Jany. 2, 1808.
Dear Sir :

No document has been before us, during the present session,

more extraordinary than the one I now enclose — the report of

my colleague, in the case of John Smith, Senator from Ohio.*

* Allusion is here made to the action of the Senate of the United States in
the case of John Smith, a Senator from Ohio, who had been charged with
" treason and misdemeanor" in the Circuit Court of Virginia held in the previous
August, in having taken part in the conspiracy of Burr. A committee had
been appointed, on the 27th of November, 1807, of which Mr. Adams was
chairman, to take the matter into consideration, and was finally instructed to
inquire whether it be compatible with the " honor and privileges " of this Senate
that John Smith " should be permitted any longer to have a seat" in it. The
committee made a long report, (Annals of Congress, 1st Sess., 1807-8, p. 56),
with an examination of the facts, ending with a resolution that he had " been
guilty of conduct incompatible with his duty and station as a Senator, and
that he be, therefor, expelled from the Senate."

After a long discussion, extending over several months, the resolution of
1807] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 45

To you any comments, if I had now time to make them, would
be impertinent.

I learn to-day that the Statira Frigate with Mr. Rose on board,*
arrived on Christmas day in Hampton Roads. He is hourly
expected here.

Mr. A. [Adams] was vehemently zealous for the embargo. The
President had recommended the measure to the " consideration "
of Congress. In the Senate time was asked for the purpose of
" consideration." Mr. A. objected. " The President has recom-
mended the measure on his high responsibility ; I would not
consider, I would not deliberate. . . . Doubtless the President
has further information, sufficient to authorize the recommenda-
tion ! " Such was his language. The President most assuredly
did not intend that it should be considered. His confidential
Senators and their followers were evidently prepared to adopt
the measure without consideration and probably without infor-
mation of its real object, at least the majority had not that
information.

Although the Embargo is unquestionably levelled at Britain,
and she might resent it, I trust she will not. By it we withdraw
from the field, where alone we come in collision. She may be,
content quietly to enjoy the monopoly of commerce which we
voluntarily abandon. I hope she will adopt this policy, which,
to me, seems evidently the best for her and for us. I believe at
the same time, it would disappoint our rulers, who would be
more angry with the British Ministry if the repeal of the law
should be required not by them, but by the clamours of our own
suffering citizens refusing any denial. In great haste your
obedt servt.

T. Pickering.

the committee failed to pass on 9th April, 1808, the vote being 19 to 10 — not
two thirds, Mr. Pickering in the negative. Mr. Smith resigned his seat in a
letter to the Governor of Ohio, dated April 25, 1808, giving reasons for retir-
ing from public life. {Ibid., p. 324.)

* He was sent to Washington by the British Government to make a settle-
ment of the question relative to the affair of the Chesapeake.

46 RUFUS KING. [1807

T. Pickering to R. King.

City of Washington, Jany. 2, 1808.
Dear Sir :

This evening I received your impressive letter of the 31st of
December.* The solicitude you describe has been felt at Wash-
ington by all those whom you will believe capable of discerning
& pursuing the true interests of their country. Would to God
I could relieve your apprehensions or satisfy your inquiries ; but
the state of our actual relations to France still remains in the
secret cabinet of the Executive ; for the short letter from Arm-
strong to Champagny, and the answer of the latter, related solely
to the Imperial decree of Novr., 1806, why then (it maybe asked),
were they not published as well as Regnier's letter to the Imperial
Attorney General ? I answer that their contents in substance,
if not the letters in form, ought to have been made public ; for
it appeared to me that Champagny's letter was more comprehen-
sive than Regnier's. But it also contained a sentiment or two
which I suppose Mr. J. would not wish to have appear in the
public prints. And this circumstance justifies the suspicion
(if the known character of Mr. J. renders any justification need-
ful) that Armstrong's letter to Mr. Madison contains the demand
which some members of the House (Masters particularly) boldly
alleged. Of that letter we have not been furnished with a single
sentence ; nay, for aught that appeared, when the documents
from Paris were laid before Congress on the 18th December,
they might have been sent by Armstrong under a blank cover !
I could not suppress my suspicions, and conversed with my friend
Hillhouse on the Embargo, as only another mode of shutting our
ports against British commerce in compliance with the requisition
of Napoleon. We were not without apprehensions that the British
Government might view it in that light, and, as a hostile measure,
deem it a cause of war. Such were our first thoughts. After-
wards the idea occurred to me, which I expressed in my letter to
you of this date, which I sent in the mail with a report of my
colleague concerning Mr. Smith, a Senator from Ohio. I hope
I am not mistaken in what seems so obvious a course of policy to
be adopted by G. Britain. Will she not see at the first glance
that the Embargo, tho' aimed directly against her, will do most

* This letter is not found. See letter to C. Gore of same date.

1807] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 47

injury to ourselves ? Of consequence, that we shall soonest grow
weary of it, murmur, clamour and force its repeal ? In the mean-
time, Britain, smiling at the sufferings inflicted by the folly and
wickedness of our idolized rulers, may well be content with the
commerce of the world ; of which we voluntarily give her the
monopoly. As soon as we come to our senses (and assuredly the
distresses of multitudes and the losses & sufferings of all classes
of people, will open their eyes — at least on this subject) and raise
the Embargo, I expect our commerce will be resumed ; tho' under
such restrictions as the measures of her terrible enemy will com-
pel Great Britain to impose. With all the British dominions we
may enjoy a free trade ; with little hazard from French priva-
teers. And will the pride and wrath of Bonaparte render him
for ever obdurate ? Will he for one year, or even a lifetime, be
deaf to the wishes of his immediate subjects, and to the cries of
Continental Europe, for the admission of the products of the
two Indies ? When the tyrant relents, then our commerce may be
again extended to France and all her Vassal States.

From what I have seen during the present session and from the
whole train of Executive proceeding, since he sent back the
British Treaty, I have come to this deliberate conclusion That
Mr. J ' efferson has determined not to enter into any treaty of amity
and commerce with Great Britain. Probably he dreads the re-
sentment of Bonaparte. You will remember that the French
Directory affected to consider Mr. Jay's treaty as equivalent to
an alliance with Britain, and an act of hostility towards France.
Mr. Jefferson knows that he cannot obtain a treaty in any meas-
ure so advantageous as Mr. Jay's ; and after the revilings and
execrations cast so liberally, by himself and partisans, on that
treaty, would it not be too much to expect from him (tho'
debased as his mind must be) a sincere attempt to negociate a
treaty which, on comparison, cannot fail to expose him to some
disgrace ? I do not believe that his attempts have been sincere.
And therefore he has made and insisted on concessions which he
was morally certain Great Britain would not yield : Such as the
absolute protection of all seamen sailing under the flag of the
United States, in all our merchant vessels ; and the free carrying
trade on the coasts, and between the mother-countries and col-
onies of her enemies. Could he have obtained these points,

48 RVFUS KING. [1807

Bonaparte might have been satisfied, and have approved of a
treaty which secured them.

I do expect that Mr. Rose will tender reasonable satisfaction
for the attack on the Chesapeake and that it will be accepted.
For after all the stout declaration of the Executive, as uttered by
the voices of his partizans, he must accept it — or go to war.
This affair being adjusted, Mr. Rose will return home : unless
he is commissioned for the permanent minister : and as he is
reported to be an able, well-informed man, I sincerely wish he
may remain. Such a minister, sagacious, vigilant and firm,
would have it in his power to do much towards preserving
peace, & promoting the interests of the two nations.

Admitting that fear or treachery prevent an amicable treaty
with England, and at the close of the negociation, the Embargo
remains unrepealed ; and especially, if our administration have
the hardihood to prolong it, in defiance of the distresses of the
country (a hardihood I can scarcely imagine), what would be
the true policy of Britain ? Are my ideas on this point correct ?
Have the goodness to favour me with yours. Sometimes I fer-
vently wish the Lights of our Country were here ; but then again,
I see that they would serve only to make darkness more visible.
While the efficient influence of one Man remains ; while the
popular mass are the dupes of his imaginary virtues ; while great
majorities in both Houses repose a blind confidence in his sup-
posed wisdom : and in default of all or any of these, while the
views of the dominant party bind them together, to secure their
exclusive interests ; those of our country will be sacrificed. I
know not but that they might be hurried into a war, as they were
into the Embargo.

I have been confounded in my attempts to account for the
conduct of our rulers. There were threats and speeches de-
nouncing war, but no adequate preparations to meet it ; negocia-
tions and pacific professions — with daily insults and irritations.
At length I considered (and it removed my embarrassment) that
when Wickedness and Folly combined to direct the affairs of a
nation, a wiser head than mine would be puzzled in the investi-
gation.

January 3.

More negligence, or purposed difficulties : notwithstanding
the current reports that Mr. Rose was just at hand, we do not

1808] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 49

know that he has even landed from the Statira ! It was but
yesterday, that in answer to my enquiry about Mr. Rose, Saml.
Smith told me, that on her arrival near Norfolk, her commander
applied to Capt. Decatur for information as to the reception
she might expect : that Decatur wrote a polite answer tendering
his services ; but referring him to the Collector of the Port :
that the Collector conformably to his instructions, permitted the
frigate to take a suitable station. And Smith took the occasion
to pay a general compliment to our naval commanders for their
handsome style of writing.

But Mr. Rose is not yet arrived. I have just asked Genl.
Smith what difficulties have occurred. He answered, That
when the application was made at the Collector's office, the
Collector was absent, and his clerk referred the applicant to the
President's Proclamation ! I since learn (and this doubtless is
more correct) that Mr. Rose enquired — Whether the Statira
would be hospitably received and supplied with all the provisions
& refreshments requisite for her, after such a voyage ; and that
he should not think it proper to land until he was satisfied on
this point ; and that at Norfolk such satisfaction could not be
obtained. On the part of our Government could deliberate
enmity manifest more perverseness ?

Later — The embarrassment was stated to Mr. Erskine * ; he
applied to our Government this day & sent off an answer by
express.

I did long believe that our administration had not seriously
thought of war with Britain. The alarm of war, industriously
circulated thro' the U. States, was evidently artificial. Having
waited until his leaven had fermented thro' the whole mass, and
produced a violent effervescence, he then sent the Revenge, with
his impracticable instructions to Monroe ; possibly, however, in
the hope, that under the actual pressure of the times, he might
extort from Britain a concession of points which she had hitherto
immoveably maintained. He was disappointed. What has since
been his conduct ? With pacific professions on his lips, an un-
deviating course of hostile acts or most provoking irritations, un-
der the insidious garb of patriotism and a spirited maintenance
of the rights and honour of the nation ; thus enlisting the pas-

* The British Minister at Washington.

50 RUFUS KING. [1808

sions of the people to justify his pernicious measures. What then
is he seeking? Anything but an amicable treaty with Britain.
What can be the principle of his policy ? Your Mumford lately
said, Britain would ere long lose its independence ; that she
could not hold out more than nine months, certainly not beyond
a year. Will you doubt whether he received this idea from the
President ? I am inclined to believe that the President has ex-
pressed it. I have received information (and not I only but
others of my fellow-lodgers) that when the President was sending
back Monroe's treaty, with fresh instructions, it was suggested
that these would render a treaty impracticable. He answered —
// is of little moment whether we have or have not a treaty j the
British will soon cease to be a nation. This sentiment was commu-
nicated to Mr. Tracy on his death-bed. Well then may appre-
hensions be excited, "that the dearest interests of our country is
confided to treacherous hands." " Consider of it, take advice
and speak your minds." Faithfully yours

Timothy Pickering.

R. King to T. Pickering.

January 7, 1808.

Dear Sir :

I have duly received your letter of the 2nd, and cannot fail to
express my serious regret that the Report in the case of John
Smith was drawn up by your colleague. The times are not such
as allow men of learning to express slight opinions concerning
the forms and independence of the Judiciary ; under any circum-
stance a want of consideration in this respect would be indiscreet ;
at a period when so much war & prejudice prevail concerning the
importance of this Department of Govt, it is eminently the duty
of enlightened men to avoid everything that may seem to justify
& encourage the innovations which ignorant & wicked men
meditate.

I have not time to give you a view of the ruin & distress that
the stoppage of all trade has produced in this city. Bankruptcies
follow each other daily, and the distrust that exists among men of
business will oblige many more to stop payment. The Custom
House Bonds will not be paid, and every motive of policy calls
upon Congress to prolong the payments.

1808] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 5 1

There is not a particle of doubt that full Reparation will be
made for the affair of the Chesapeake ; nor will any honest man
be persuaded that the business of impressment is now more than
heretofore cause of War. If England in more prosperous times
refused to relinquish the service of her seamen, will she be likely
to make the sacrifice, when her enemies have increased, and her
own means are lessened ? Does it import with the character of a
statesman to urge a contested demand just when the pride of his
opponent is enlisted against him, or when despair, careless of
consequences, may dictate the answer ?

I think there is danger of war with England : if we persist in the
Embargo, which must very soon be equivalent to the entire arres-
tation of foreign commerce, it is my belief that England will inter-
pret the measure to be a compliance with a French Demand to
shut our ports against England, in which case she will not hesitate
to strike. I have no more time before the post.

Most faithfully yrs.

Rufus King.

T. Pickering to R. King.

City of Washington, Jany. 9, 1808.
Dear Sir :

I have renewed my enquiry concerning the declaration of Mr.
Jefferson last Spring, when he was sending back the British treaty.
A gentleman present, intimate at the palace & with Mr. Madison,
remarked, // might give offence to the British ministry 6° embarrass
or prevent further negociation. To which Mr. J. answered to this
effect. " It is of little consequence whether we have or have not
a treaty with Great Britain. By the measures pursued & pursuing
by Bonaparte, her government will not much longer exist." I do
not know but I mentioned this anecdote to you in a long letter I

wrote you a few days since in answer to yours of . It was

given by the gentleman himself, who addressed the remark to Mr.
Jefferson, to Mr. Tracy then remaining sick in this city, and by
Mr. Tracy repeated to the gentleman from whom I have received
it.

Will not this explain his mysterious conduct, involving contra-
dictions of character ? His popularity has risen on his constant

52 RUFUS KING. [1808

pacific profession yet he has for months past, by seizing every
opportunity to irritate, been provoking war. But tho' war is for-
ever on his tongue & the tongues of his partizans they make no
effectual, or even plausible, preparations for that event. If Brit-
ain be subjugated, we shall want neither fleets nor armies ; our
duty & interest will be to submit. Is that the result he antici-
pates ? "I 'm weary of conjectures." Adieu

T. Pickering.

T. Pickering to R. King.

City of Washington, Jany. 11, 1808.
Dear Sir :

I have reed, your letter of the 9th. In one of mine to you, I
think I stated Mr. Adams's extraordinary zeal to pass the embargo
bill " without consideration," without " deliberation." This was
Friday Dec. 18th, on which day the bill was brought in, read a
first, a second and a third time and passed. Now read a resolu-
tion which he this day laid on the table.

" Resolved, That a committee be appointed with leave to report
by bill or otherwise, and instructed to inquire at what period the
present embargo can, consistently with the public interest, be re-
moved, and whether, in what manner and to what extent, upon
its removal, the merchant vessels of the United States, shall be per-
mitted, in defence of their lawful commerce, to be armed against,
and to resist foreign aggression."

I suppose this originated with the mover : for the democrats in
Senate do not like it. It is but a few days since some of them
were chuckling at the acquisition of so able a partisan. Those
of us, who were acquainted with the character, knew that their
rejoicing would be short-lived. We knew that he would not al-
ways follow, and that they would not be led by him.

Mr. Giles arrived a few days ago. In conversation today about
Mr. Rose, he said it was a pity, when there were so many serious
matters to adjust, that we should quarrel about trifles ; referring
to the obstacles, arising out of the President's proclamation, to
his landing. But soon after added, that it might be as well for
Mr. Rose to go back without landing. This suggesting a conse-
quent war ; Mr. Giles said " I believe we shall have war." But

1808] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 53

he only expressed his own opinion ; for he had not seen the
President since his arrival. It was observed that notwithstand-
ing the right claimed by Britain to take her own seamen from our
merchant ships, and to restrain the commerce not allowed in
peace, which we carried on for her enemies, we had prospered
beyond all example in private wealth and public revenue : should
we then go to war to obtain a renunciation of these claims ? Why
he thought not ; but he would not acknowledge the right.

On the Friday before the adjournment of Congress, in March
last, Mr. Hillhouse dined with Mr. Erskine. Mr. Giles was also
a guest. The British treaty was daily expected. Mr. Giles said,
" If it does not contain a specific provision that the flag of the
U. States should protect those sailing under it, it will be sent
back." Then, said Mr. Hillhouse, you may depend on it, that it
will be sent back.

Last evening, Marsters of your State was at our lodgings. He
is a native of Connecticut and called to see his acquaintance from
that State. He said that one of his colleagues informed him, that
the administration had inquired what portion of the New York
delegation would agree to a declaration of war if the measure were
proposed ? You may tell them, (said Marsters) that not one will vote
for it.

To day Capt. George Izard was in the Senate Chamber. In
conversing, he said, he was with his brother going to South Caro-
lina, but said he " we are fighting men " ; and intimated a wish
to know what we were doing. He then told me that he had been
officially asked what federalist (or federalists) in South Carolina
retained health & vigour, and would be willing to accept a mili-
tary command (or military commands). " Would General William
Washington accept one."

Now whether this inquiry had reference to war — or to the com-
mand of the existing army — I cannot pretend to say. The testi-
mony of Mr. Clarke, of New Orleans (a man distinguished for
intelligence & fortitude) this day given in the House of Repre-
sentatives, has completed Wilkinson's damnation. It implicates
many other patriots ; and I am told that some other evidence
from Pennsylvania proves the Executive to have been long pos-
sessed of the material facts. The opposition to inquiry, made by
the President's friends, carries suspicions to the palace. You

54 KUFUS KING. [1808

will recollect the insurgent spirit of Kentucky in 1793-4, when
General Washington deputed Coll. Innes (brother to the present
district judge of Kentucky) to confer with and pacify the people
of that State. You will also recollect the various engines set to
work by Th. J. to disquiet and undermine the federal adminis-
tration. Was " the hand of Joab " in the Kentucky clam-
our?" . . .

Faithfully yours,

T. Pickering.

From R. King {in his handwriting not signed') to .

New York, January 14, 1808.
My dear Sir :

From all we know, and indeed from what we are not permitted
to know, concerning the views of our Govt, there seems to me to
be very serious cause of alarm. In respect to England, every
communication with its Government, together with Proclama-
tions, orders of Council and Indian Speeches prepared by Gov.
Hull have been laid before Congress. Reparation for the attack
upon the Chesapeake, the protection of all Seamen employed in
the Merchant Service, and a free trade between the Ports of the
Enemies of England, including the colonial trade, as well between
the mother Country and the Colonies, as between the latter and
the U. S., formed the three principal points of Monroe & Pink-
ney's Instruction ; all of which were made Ultimata — None of
which except the first were countenanced by the Eng. Cabinet.

Nothing is communicated respecting France. The Letter of
Regnier to the Atty. Genl. had appeared in the News Papers be-
fore it was laid before Congress. Champagny's & Armstrong's
Letters, which the President desired shd. be returned to him as
unfit for publication, merely respected the Decree of Berlin ;
Armstrong having asked of the Minister explanations, and he
having in Reply answered in correspondence with the Letter of
Regnier to the Atty. Genl.

There was nothing else in these Letters. They might have
been published, indeed ought to have been, as they constituted
the official notice of the Interpretation of this Decree in viola-
tion of the Convention between us & France.

l8o8] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 55

When Armstrong asked a like Explanation of the Minr. of the
Home Department, and he gave him a vague and unofficial
answer, these were sent to Congress & published and the Presi-
dent told us that our Commerce was to be excepted from the
operation of the Decree — now he has the official denial that such
wd. be the Interpretation, he conceals it.

There was another motive, which was, to lead the public to
believe that these letters from Armstrong and Champagny dis-
closed our situation as regards France, and tho' the President
would not permit their publication, that he did not conceal the
information from Congress.

Not one letter from Armstrong or Tureau has been laid before
Congress, a majority of whom vote down all enquiries, and give
their sanction to all measures recommended by the executive.
The Virginia Legislature has come forward to sanction these pro-
ceedings, equally ignorant as others respecting our real condition.
Their Intemperance towards Eng., and silence concerning France
shew the hand that influences them.

The negotiation for the Purchase of the Floridas has failed,
equally with the attempt to settle the Boundaries of Louisiana.
Bonaparte avows that he has obtained the Floridas, and is now
preparing a Body of Forces to take Possession of them ; such at
least is my Information and Belief, and this I am confident is
known to our Govt. He has beyond Doubt, in what form I know
not but in substance, required that we shut our ports against
England, and abstain from all Commerce with her Dominions.
I add another fact, within fifteen months France has remitted to
their Man of Confidence in this Country one million Eight hun-
dred and Fifty thousand Dollars, of which Sum, the Revenge,
that lately arrived from France was the Bearer of an order for
half a Million. This money comes out of the Mexican Dollars
which have of late been pouring into the Country. If the appli-
cation of this immense treasure is designed, as I cannot but fear
it is designed, to prepare the U. S. for the fate wh. has awaited
other and stronger Countries, what ought to be the course of
those, who alone can save the freedom and Independence of the
Country. — Let us not suppose that we are more virtuous than
other states — the error wd. I fear be a fatal one. — rather let us
bring our attention to facts that singly considered are only sur-

56 RUFUS KING. [1808

prizing, but when brought together, shd. induce us to apprehend
that America may have her Melzis, Schimmelpennincks, Haug-
witz, Cobenzels and Princes of Peace. Have we not produced a
Randolph, a Sebastian, an Innes, a Wilkinson & a Burr. — a Vice
Pr., a Secy, of State, a judge, a Senator and a Commander in
chief.

Ends thus and no signature.

T. Pickering to R. King.

City of Washington, Jany. 15, 1S08.
Dear Sir :

Judge Pendleton proposed to leave this place to-day, in the
stage for New York ; having satisfactorily accomplished his busi-
ness with the Secretary of Navy. As soon as this terminated
yesterday, finding Mr. Smith very pleasant and apparently in a
communicative mood, he entered into conversation with him on
the state of public affairs ; assigning as a motive, the general
anxiety & yours in particular to learn what was to be expected.

Mr. Smith told him, that the President had determined to re-
ceive Mr. Rose, and negociate with him, even if his powers were
limited to the single affair of the Chesapeake ! And added, that
it was a case by itself and unconnected with any other point of
difference between the two nations ! He conversed also about
the impressing of Seamen, and the offers our Government had
made of substituting other measures, which would supersede it ;
but which were rejected. Something also was said about our
carrying on the Colonial trade of the enemies of England with
the mother country : but not one word about France.

Such is the information Judge Pendleton gave me. I have not
time to state particulars ; besides you will soon receive it more
exactly and minutely from him. I anticipate this, in order to
make a few observations.

The Negociation in London was broken off because the Presi-
dent had tied up Mr. Monroe's hands, by forbidding him to treat
on the affair of the Chesapeake but in connection with the other
points in dispute.

About six weeks ago, when Judge Van Ness was here, I under-

[808] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 57

stood that the President said to him, that if Mr. Rose's powers
were confined to that single object, he might as well not come at
all. And within a few days, in conversation with Mr. Giles (who
however professed not to know the views of administration, not
having then seen the President — Mr. G. came to Washington last
week) that gentleman said, that Mr. Rose might as well go back
again without landing. The immediate occasion of the conversa-
tion was, the little embarrassments which had arisen at Norfolk,
for want of special instructions respecting the frigate in which it
was known he was coming. The National Intelligencer makes a
nourish, this day, of the facilities rendered by the Executive for
his prompt reception.

Whence this change of profession & conduct ? Does the Presi-
dent perceive that the extensive mischief of the embargo will
hazard his popularity ? Does he seek a pretence for removing it ?
Will the general joy on its repeal prevent an enquiry into the
reasons for imposing it, and so save him from reproach, should it
be removed on an adjustment of the affair of the Chesapeake ?
Or has he determined to receive & treat with Mr. Rose, even on
that single point — to demand reparation, which G. Britain cannot
grant without humiliation — and then, on failure of the negocia-
tion, endeavour to fix the blame on Britain ? Does not the aston-
ishing blindness of the people, their wilful or stupid confidence
in the President authorize him to practise any gross deception on
their credulity ?

After you shall have conversed with Judge Pendleton, I shall
be greatly obliged by a communication of your ideas on this sub-
ject, as well as on the general state of affairs ; I will make only
such use of them as you shall prescribe. At the same time I
know that the communication would be very grateful to a few
select friends, if they may be imparted to them.

Judge Pendleton went away satisfied that we should not have
war, grounding his opinion chiefly, if not wholly, on the conver-
sation of R. S. For myself, I desire that my conjectures may be
received with caution ; for where no fixed principles direct an
administration, the well-formed opinions of today, may be over-
thrown by the instability of tomorrow.

I am with great truth, Dear Sir, ever yours,

T. Pickering.

58 RUFUS KING. [1808

Barent Gardenier to R. King.

Washington, January 16, i8o3.
Sir :

. . . In the present critical posture of our affairs in relation
either to one party or to the Nation, it is peculiarly important that
the Federalists in Congress should possess all the Lights which it
is in the Power of those who are out of that Body to afford them.
Mr. Rose is at length arrived. I have not been able to learn the
manner of his Reception. But I am induced to think our Ad-
ministration begin to perceive that the public sentiment will not
bear them out in the Course of Conduct they had intended to
pursue towards England, and of which the Embargo was without
question the commencement.

Why Mr. Jefferson refused to communicate to Congress the
Letters written by Armstrong to this Government at the time he
communicated the Determination of the Emperor to put in force
the Decree of November 21, 1806, remains still as inexplicable as
ever ; if it be untrue, as was strongly urged in the Debate on the
Embargo, that Buonaparte had demanded that We should make
common Cause with him against G. Britain. Indeed the Letter
of Champagny, of which you must so often have seen mention
made, goes a great way in support of that Conjecture. I have
been unable to find any other Key to this Mystery — indeed for
everything here is Mystery, at least to federalists — and we must
grope our way in the dark as well as we can.

Nothing decisive has yet transpired in regard to the ensu-
ing presidential Election. One thing however appears pretty
certain ; Clinton cannot compete successfully with Madison.
The latter it begins now to be thought will find a much more
powerful Antagonist in Monroe, who is said to have a majority of
the Virginia Legislature in his favor. The Federalists here feel
a strong partiality for him. But after his treatment to Hamilton
& his Book, I can never set my heart upon him. Madison &
Monroe are to me "par ignobile fralrum " — procul, 0 procul este
profani. I have had enough of quidism, that political Herma-
phrodite.— I hope our N. Y. politicians are no less sick of it. I
am not without strong hopes that an Act will be passed this Session
to remove the Government to Phila.

I am with much respect yr. obedt. Servt.

Barent Gardenier.

l8o8] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 59

Draft of a letter from R. King to B. Gardenier.

24th J any.

Sir :

I have duly reed, and beg you to accept my thanks for your
obliging letter of the 16th. We have seen with no small satisfac-
tion the distinguished part you have taken in the late debates of
Congress, and although you do not always succeed in the attain-
ment of your purpose, the effect will not be lost, since I cannot
but persuade myself that exertions such as yours, made at the
present juncture, have no small influence in opening the eyes of
men whose blunt confidence has hitherto prevented them from
seeing the danger of the country.

With regard to our affairs with England, if Mr. R. [Rose] be a
man of talents and temper, he will prevent a rupture between the
two Countries in spite of the desire, if it exist, to the contrary.
He may and ought to repudiate the affair of the Chesapeake from
every other matter. This he has power to do, and I have no
doubt will do. His Government having publickly renounced the
claim to search national ships, Mr. R. should have no scruples in
making the most ample reparations for the injury we have
received.

In respect to the question of British seamen in our employ, I
have no belief that Mr. R. is authorized to relinquish the right
of searching our merchant vessels for them ; though he may have
power to treat concerning certain Regulations to be observed on
this subject ; and were it not for the difficulties arising out of our
naturalizations, there might, I think, be a project devised that
would be mutually satisfactory. England will not release her
claims to the seamen we have already naturalized, and our Ad-
ministration, who have invited foreigners of all tongues and lan-
guages to come among us, will not dare to give them up : so that
my expectation is that no arrangement will be made on this
subject.

As to the carrying trade England will, if I mistake not, adhere
to the regulations with some unimportant qualifications, which
were in force towards the close of the last war. Our Government
will demand a greater latitude, and nothing will be settled on this
head. But the affair of the Chesapeake being satisfactorily put
at rest, there is no other point on which, now more than at any

6o

RUFUS KING.

[1808

other time within the past 15 years, we should go to war with
England.

I do not include in this remark the late Orders of the Council
blockading the ports and forbidding to merchants a trade, except
in the mode pointed out in these Orders, in the produce and
manufactures of France. These I have not maturely considered,
nor do I yet fully understand the extent of their influence upon
our trade and navigation ; of one thing however I have no doubt,
that these Orders would never have been made, had our Govern-
ment done their duty in manifesting a proper spirit of resistance
to the Decree of Berlin. Their subserviency to France and their
reserve towards England have produced in the latter strong sus-
picions of collusion with the former ; and the manner in which
our late negotiation in London is considered to have been con-
ducted, has served to confirm these suspicions and to recommend
these Orders of Council.

Of our relations with France I, in common with others, am
wholly in the dark. Had Russia been drawn into a war with
England, Bonaparte would instantly have required of us to shut
our ports against England. This he may already have demanded,
and if he has not already, I have little doubt he will do it ere
long. Our Negotiation for Florida has failed. Bonaparte has
obtained it for himself and is preparing a body of troops to take
possession of this Country. This he may effect, as he has lately
done, as in the instance of Martinique ; nay these very troops may
be a part of those to be sent to the Floridas.

The draft of the letter closes here.

T. Pickering to R. King.

City of Washington, Jany. 17, 180S.
Dear Sir :

Dining abroad yesterday, I met, unexpectedly, Mr. Rose.
From a short conversation, I have formed a good opinion as well
of his abilities as of his disposition. The latter accords with the
spirit manifested in Mr. Canning's correspondence with Mr.
Monroe — perfectly conciliating — even to solicitude. He is as-
tonished at the ignorance in which the public is kept in respect

1808] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 6 1

to that correspondence ; so far at least as it exhibits the prompt-
ness of England to disavow the attack on the Chesapeake & to
make reparation. For months past, I have considered it as prob-
able, if our disputes with England should remain unsettled, and
irritations continued & increased, that the first knowledge the
American people would obtain of the questions in contest, of the
demands on one side and disposition to concede what was reason-
able on the other, would be thro* the London newspapers. It is
true that in his opening message, the President disclosed, that as
soon as the British Answer to the demand of reparation should
be received — " or as soon after as public interests shall be found
to admit," the unratified treaty & proceedings relative to it, should
be made known to Congress. But this reserve will enable him
to retain the secret indefinitely — until the die shall be cast and
their publicity be useless. Besides I have no confidence that
the most important parts would then be communicated : In
furnishing extracts only anything might be omitted, which the
President's views might require.

Did I ever tell you that by direction of the Senate, the short
paragraph in the President's message of the i8thulto. which de-
sired the return of Armstrong's & Champagny's Letters, was left
out, in the copies printed by their order ? and for the express
purpose of preventing the public knowing that such letters had
been communicated ? Such is the fact. What then may not the
President & his Secretary of State not omit or garble, to suit
their views, to conceal their projects, until the consequent toils
might be remediless ?

Would you not like to see the correspondence between Can-
ning and Monroe on the affair of the Chesapeake ? I can obtain
it — as I believe. Another fact, some one (I suppose the Secy,
of State) or more, of our ministers has or have said — " We must "
(or " I suppose we must ") " have war with England or France."
Does this not nearly demonstrate, that the requisitions of Bona-
parte by the Revenge, were peremptory ; that he would have no
neutrals ; and that we should shut our ports against England, or
have war with him ? Can we suppose (taking a view of the con-
duct of our government) that the decision is not yet formed ?
that they are yet "balancing to decide on their party" ? I con-
sider the former more probable than the latter supposition.
RUFUS KING.

[1807

Yesterday, Samuel Smith said (in conversation) that there
would be no difficulty in defending our commerce against French
Cruizers : but if we armed our vessels for that purpose, we should
have war with France. I have reason to think that he would pre-

Why?

Faithfully yours

Timothy Pickering.

fer a war with England.

CHAPTER IV.

Pickering to King — Register — A new Paper — Its Comments on Affairs — Effects
of Embargo — Pickering to King — Chesapeake Affair — Order of Council —
King to Pickering — Embargo, if continued, prevents Merchants benefit-
ing from high Markets of the Continent — Effect of Orders of Council —
Retaliation — Gardenier to King — Influence of Embargo — Only Hope rests
on the Fears of the Administration — Mr. Adams's Apostasy — Pickering to
King — Must rescind the Proclamation before Settlement of Chesapeake
Affair — King to Pickering — England's Fall the Grave of our Liberties —
Urges Call for Armstrong's Letters — King to Gore — Rose's Position about
the Chesapeake — President's Proclamation must be withdrawn — Pickering
to King — Friends advise waiting before asking for Armstrong's Letters —
Pinkney's Position — Jefferson's Policy wavering — King's, The Key : A
Peep behind the Curtain — King to Pickering — Proposed Law of Treason
unconstitutional — Pickering to King — Rose's Negotiation broken off —
Pinkney nominated as Minister — Pickering to King — Law of Treason
unconstitutional ; postponed — Pinkney's Nomination opposed — Ministers
signed the Treaty without Authority — Pickering to King — Dispatches
from Pinkney's and Armstrong's Letters — Not a Line of Letter to his own
Government — President asks to raise Troops.

T. Pickering to R. King.

City of Washington, Jany. 19, 1808.
Dear Sir :

The inclosed new periodical paper, judging from the spirit of
this first number, is probably set up under the patronage of Mr.
J. to support the measures of his administration. Of this num-
ber I understand the democrats sent off parcels that they may
pervade the nation, and justify Mr. Jefferson on the two points
which now nearly engross public attention — the embargo and the
charges against Genl. Wilkinson.

In the embargo piece you will see a great deal of trash ; while
you trace up the leading sentiments to Mr. J., even some expres-
64 RUFUS KING. [1808

sions seem to be his own. It is a new discovery that the embargo
will benefit the English. The discovery for the first time has been
manifested in this piece. The federalists have for some time
mentioned it as a proof of the folly of the measure. Some demo-
cratic member of Congress, to whom within a day or two it was
mentioned, stared with surprize. In this piece you will see
avowed the expectation that the British Govt, would retaliate
Bonaparte's decree ; and that the embargo was calculated by our
" sagacious Executive to meet that event." I believe I have in
some former letter to you (if not, to several of my friends I have)
suggested this same idea. I was led into it by Mr. Jefferson's
saying (3 or 4 weeks ago) that he ivondered we did not get the
British proclamation of retaliation ; he manifested a solicitude ;
as if he wanted it to justify the embargo, and evince his profound
sagacity.

You know the hostility of Jefferson and Virginians and other
Southern men, to our carrying trade. In this Register you see
no class of citizens conspicuously noticed except " God's chosen
people." If Mr. J. can prevent the clamours of the farmers and
soothe the manufacturers by giving them monopolies, will he be
persuaded to continue the embargo to the destruction of the navi-
gation of the Northern States ? and will the latter sit still with
folded arms and submit to ruin ? A union of sentiment in the
six eastern states would controul the folly and insidious Views of
the east and prescribe a salutary policy for the Union.

Faithfully yours

T. Pickering.

R. King to T. Pickering.

January 19, 1808.
My Dear Sir :

Yours of the 15th has been duly received. While Dearborn &
Gallatin were here in the course of the summer, they were asked
separately, and at different times, whether the President in his
Instructions sent to England had coupled the affair of the Chesa-
peake with other matters in discussion with that Nation ; they both
answered in the negative, and assured those who interrogated
them that the affair of the Chesapeake would be kept apart from
every other question.

l8o8] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 65

The result has shewn these assurances to be false and, at the
time, these Ministers could not have been ignorant that they were
so ; for in so very important a measure it is natural to suppose
that the President consulted the cabinet.

Whether Mr. Pendleton's informant is pursuing the same course
as his Colleagues, I cannot determine, but I do not place much
confidence in communications coming from any of them. This,
however, is certain, that whatever may be the views of the
Adminn, Mr. Rose has it in his power to separate the Case of the
Chesapeake from all other matters, and without doubt will do so.

I send you the long expected Proclamation, or rather Order of
Council, which measures back upon France and her Vassals the
Decree of Berlin.

Had the President done his duty in taking proper measures to
procure an explicit exemption from the operation of this Decree,
and in failure thereof, authorized our Merchants to arm their
ships, and followed the other steps of the Congress of 1798, this
order of council would never have appeared.

R. King.

R. King to T. Pickering.

New York, January 24, 1808.
Dear Sir :

Your letter of the 19th reached me in due course. Mr. Pen-
dleton returned, but your letter had previously communicated the
most material information he had obtained. Mr. Pendleton
supposes that the adi?iinistration will relinquish their Claim
to all naturalized seamen provided G. Br. will discontinue the
Practice of impressing on the Ocean. If they acquiesce in this
particular, I am not sure they will stop there, and perhaps we
should be vigilant that they do not consent to Measures, which
will finally destroy the navigation of the Northern States.

In spite of all that can be said, the Embargo which touches the
farmer as well as the Merchant, cannot be popular ; and if con-
tinued will shake many men's confidence in the present adminis-
tration. So evident is this consequence, that I cannot think the
ruling party will ever risk the Spring elections, with the Embargo
in operation : so manifestly impolitic a measure will be under-
stood by the Envoy, If he be a man of ordinary shrewdness, and

66 RUFUS KING. [1808

may operate to impair the just claims of the Country. The Mer-
chants are mortified that the Embargo arrested the shipments
they were making, and would have made, between the date of the
Embargo, and the notice of the English Orders : and which, as
they believe, would have participated in the high markets of the
Continent.

Coffee and particularly Cotton, immediately after the publica-
tion of the Eng. orders in Holland, doubled in value : Cotton
indeed, according to the latest advices from Nantes, was four
prices above what it is understood now to be offered for it here,
or nearly threefold its former price. In respect to the late Eng.
Orders of Council, after endeavoring to comprehend their appli-
cation to the detail of our Commerce, which is not readily done, I
cannot but disapprove those parts of them which too plainly
evince a purpose on the part of England to give by these Regu-
lations an advantage to their Merchants at the expense of ours.

If by the acquiescence, or non-resistance, of Neutral States (or
indeed of the U. S. who are the only neutral comml. States) in the
Decree of Berlin, England has been justified by the Law of Re-
taliation to measure back upon her Enemy the mischief aimed to
be done to her, it should have been done in the true spirit of Re-
taliation, and no other ; and above all no interested or sinister
motive should have been admitted to influence her Regulations.
Every exception should have been so formed as to occasion the
least possible delay, expense & risk to the neutral, whose vessels,
if required to touch in an Eng. Port, should have received Pass-
ports gratis, and permitted to proceed to their Ports of destination ;
instead whereof all neutral ships, excepting such as sailed before
notice of the Eng. orders, are obliged to enter inward and then
outward, and to conform to existing Custom House Rules, and
such new ones as may be prescribed, a course which, independent
of the unknown Regulations respecting War, Brandy, Coffee,
Sugar, Snuff and Tobacco, will be attended with great delay &
expense if I be not much mistaken, and expense of more than 5
p. ct. upon the value of these various Cargoes. If, however,
France should cause the Decree of Berlin to be enforced agt. all
vessels coming from England, the exception from the Blockade
by England of all vessels trading between her ports & those of
the enemy will become a nullity, as no such trade will be allowed.

1808] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 6j

What means the proposed republican revision of the Naturali-
zation Law ? Is it intended to widen or narrow the door, thro*
which the crimes and criminals of Europe with the friends of
oppressed humanity are to find an asylum in this free and happy

land?

Always yours

Rufus King.

B. Gardenier to R. King.

Washington, January 26, 1808.
Dear Sir :

I acknowledge with much pleasure the receipt of your letter
of the 2 1 st. To obtain the approbation of those whose good
opinion we most value, is in all situations pleasing. The assur-
ance I have received of meriting yours, permit me to say sincerely,
is an ample recompense for the ill-nature & obloquy, which an
open hostility to the ruling Party must inevitably excite.

Our prospects are more gloomy than ever. I can no longer
permit myself to hope for a specific result from Mr. Rose's Mis-
sion. All that will be done by our Administration will be to con-
duct with the appearance of so much moderation as to secure
their popularity, when that war, which they are resolved upon,
actually breaks out. The determination of Buonaparte to put in
force the Decree of Nov. 21, 1806, can mean only one thing &
that is, that we shall be no longer Neutral, we must close our
Ports against England. It seems to have been hitherto the price
of peace paid by all the Nations he has overcome, and has in no
instance been omitted. What is there in the American Govern-
ment which could deter him from demanding from us to give a
finishing stroke to that policy, by which he hopes to overcome
the only power that seems able to stand between him and the
liberties of the world ? Why was the Embargo recommended
upon the receipt of Despatches from France, and those Despatches
too kept back ? Why as a measure, for so it was avowed in con-
clave, intended to bear upon England, when nothing new in rela-
tion to that country had transpired since Mr. Monroe's Despatch ?
Why as a measure against England when an Envoy was expected
from that Country ? Why meet him, who came as a Messenger
of Peace with an Act of Hostility ? I will not fatigue you with

68 RUFUS KING. [1808

my reflections on this subject. If the Administration think they
can stand their ground, we shall have war. Our only hope rests
upon their fears.

Nothing transpires respecting Rose's negotiation. Mr. Erskine,
who, I think, feels as friendly to this Country as can be expected
of a foreign Minister, seems to apprehend the worst result.

Our Legislature will soon be in Session in the State of New York.
As I am myself persuaded that the Embargo, so far from being in-
tended as a measure of prudential precaution, was only intended to
feel the Public pulse ; persuaded as I am that the Nation will be
dragged into an unnecessary & destructive War, if the Embargo
is generally approved of, I have thought it my duty to lay before
the Legislature of our State a faithful detail of the whole pro-
ceedings together with my reflections upon them. It is a step,
however, which I would not like to take without the assent of
wiser heads than my own. I shall beg your opinion * therefore as
to its propriety ; and I must assure you at the same time, I shall
not feel my pride at all wounded at being told it is improper, if
you should think it so. It has seemed to me, however, that this
was the most imposing form in which the subject could be pre-
sented to the People : that whether its reading should be ordered
or denied, it would equally excite public attention, & I think it
no small matter in this Government of ours to be able to catch
the public ear. If I could so frame it (and I think I could) that
Russell and Harris as well as Van Rensselaer would put their
names to it, it would be all the better.

Accounts from Virginia "look squally." Monroe's party is
supposed to have a majority there. A caucus of all the members
of the Legislature is to be held on Thursday next. I shall write
you the result as soon as I hear it. By a statement which I sent
Mr. Coleman, you will see how much they are divided here.

John Quincy Adams ! His apostasy is no longer a matter
of doubt, with any body. Would you suppose it possible the
scoundrel could summon impudence enough to go to their cau-
cus ? f I thought we had been sifted so much that what re-

* If given it cannot be found.
\ On pages 497, and 510, vol i. Mem. of J. Q. Adams will be found the
statement of reasons why he decided at that time, the close of 1807, to support
the Administration ; and on pp. 505-07 those for joining in the caucus of the

1808] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 69

mained was never to be changed. I wish to God the noble house
of Braintree had been put in "A hole" and a deep one too
twenty years ago.

I am, with sincere Respt. yr. obedt. servt.

B. Gardenier.

T. Pickering to R. King.

Confidential.

City of Washington, Jany 28, 1808.
Dear Sir :

You know that the direct object of Mr. Rose's Mission was to
make reparation for the attack on the Chesapeake : but he will
not treat on it, until the President's proclamation is rescinded, which
laid the interdict on all British Ships of War. This is the fact.
The pride of our Government and their willingness to avoid any
adjust?nent of our disputes with Great Britain, unless on terms which
they would themselves prescribe, will therefore frustrate his embassy.

If the people of the Northern States will continue to repose
with implicit confidence on One Man, their ruin is sure. The
President says " Great Britain must fall." He is of course indif-
ferent about the adjustment of differences. There is no cause of
war ; yet that will be the result, unless the Northern States arrest
him in his career. If Mr. Rose's instructions were discretionary as
to the Chesapeake business, I am persuaded that his mission would
be equally nugatory ; it would cost our Executive the trouble
of inventing some other excuse for not concluding a treaty.

Faithfully yours

T. Pickering.

R. King to T. Pickering.

Feby. 5, 1S08.

Dear Sir :

I am obliged to you for your letter of the 28th inst. Every
additional article of news from Europe confirms the value and
importance of a good understanding between the U. S. and Eng-
land ; the Coalition, the League of Kings against whom, embraces
all the Powers of the Continent.

Republican Members of Congress to nominate candidates for the offices of
President & Vice President. Messrs. Madison and Clinton being the nominees.

70 RUFUS KING. [1808

If England sink, her fall will prove the Grave of our Liberties ;
believing this, as I most firmly do believe it, ought not the coun-
try to be alarmed at the conduct of the Executive, whose errors,
or the indulgence of whose prejudices, may, & I fear will, prove
the ruin of his Country.

The man, who, being without prejudice, possesses but a com-
mon understanding, must perceive that the Coalition agt. Eng-
land will not suffer the U. S. to remain neuter ; or in other
words, they will not suffer us to have any intercourse with them,
provided we maintain an intercourse with England : And yet we
are told, and the Govt. & State Legislatures repeat the declara-
tion, that France has no influence upon our public Councils.
Let the despatches from Armstrong be produced and then we
shall see our real condition. Why do you not call upon the Ex-
ecutive to lay before the Senate information concerning our rela-
tions with France ? Let them refuse your demand, the time is
near at hand, when a disclosure must take place. It really ap-
pears to me to be the duty of those who have not delivered them-
selves up to the spirit of faction & the implicit Orders of our
Rulers, to make an exertion to obtain a disclosure of our actual
situation.

faithfully & always yours

Rufus King.

R. King to C. Gore.

New York, Feb., 1808.
Dear Sir :

James & his Brothers will embark for Providence in the course
of the Day & promise themselves great pleasure in their visit. I
have desired them to go to see Mr. Ames & Mr. Cabot as my
Friends.

They will take the papers with them, tho' they contain nothing
except the report of a Captain from Ramsgate (who was in Lon-
don Dec. 5 & sailed from Ramsgate Dec. 18), "that Russia had
declared war agt. England." He brought no News papers : those
who have conversed with the Captain seem to give Credit to his
News, which is the more probable in my mind, as I am persuaded
that Russia (if she already has not,) will take the side of France.

l8o8] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. Jl

This event ascertained, we shall be obliged to decide for or agt.
the Confederacy. Within a few weeks Mr. Jefferson has several
times declared that England must sink in the struggle, and be-
lieving so, he will be disinclined to go down with her.

Mr. Rose's Mission had special reference to the affair of the
Chesapeake and perhaps this is his sole business. You will recol-
lect that we have seen several articles, saying that England dis-
avowed the attack ; but as the President by his Proclamation had
taken into his own hands a portion of the reparation, that which
remained for England to make must be necessarily less than it
otherwise would have been. On this principle it is understood
that Mr. Rose declares himself authorized to make the fullest
reparation for the attack on the Chesapeake ; but that he is re-
strained by his orders from taking any one step, until the Presi-
dent's Proclamation interdicting the entry of Br. men of war be
rescinded. If the President be persuaded that Engd. is about to
perish, he will be restrained from doing what his pride would be
mortified with ; and so the Mission of Peace may fail. The Engh.
Proclamation or instruction, which with publicity disavows Berk-
ley's attack, might well be set agt. the ill advised Proclamation,
which might be withdrawn and the business amicably settled.

R. K.
P. S. Don't mention my Name on this subject.

T. Pickering to R. King.

City of Washington, Feby. 9, iSoS.
Dear Sir :

This morning I received your letter of the 5th. The number
of federalists in the Senate is so small (only 5), and some of
these of tender nerves, it is more than ever difficult to take a strong
step. Upon Mr. Bayard's first arrival, I mentioned the expedi-
ency of demanding Armstrong's communications. Hillhouse,
Goodrich & I had previously conversed on the measure. Mr. B.
" thought it not the proper time. Every thing depended on the
timing any measure, to warrant success." We were induced to
acquiesce, until the Embargo should be felt. I have just shown
Mr. Bayard your letter. His answer was similar to that before
given. I remarked that if the President persisted in his attach-

72 RUFUS KING. [1808

ment to France and was willing to hazard a breach with England,
the die might be cast, and a call for papers be useless. " That is
true," said he, " but I think we should wait longer, to ascertain
effects of the. Embargo." He added, that from some of the Presi-
dent's friends, he understood the President to be coming off
from his French attachments, and to be apprehensive of the
danger to the U. S., should Britain fall. Confidential. Mr. Pink-
ney was appointed joint-commissioner with Monroe, to settle all
differences with the United Kingdom of G. B. and Ireland, and to
agree on the prinicples of their navigation and Commerce. Conse-
quently with the termination of that negociation, Pinkney's
powers ceased. Nevertheless the British Govt, agreed to receive
Mr. Pinkney as the resident Minister of the U. S., but in full re-
liance that, as early as might be, he should be furnished with new
letters of credence as such. Now no nomination has been made to
the Senate during the session. It is possible that before we assem-
bled, the President might send him a commission, which will
serve till the session closes. But the fact may be doubted. You
will recollect the News-paper paragraphs, that the President to
send a new Minister to England, would incur Bonaparte's dis-
pleasure. For some time past, in ruminating on the President's
conduct, to discover some clue to guide me to its principle, this
idea occurred, (tho' I never broached it till this morning to my
friend Hillhouse) that it was possible his object & hope was,
by a course of indecisive proceedings^ to keep Bonaparte in sus-
pense. Dreading his power, perhaps to delay or prevent the exe-
cution of a threat, he may not only have avoided entering into
any treaty with England ; but purposely seized every occasion to
exhibit proofs of antipathy, & a hostile spirit towards her, and en-
couraged by his example, the abusive language of that country
in our newspapers & on the floor of Congress, to induce the
belief, in the mind of Bonaparte that he was preparing the people
for open hostility with England. These demonstrations on the
American theatre, joined with warm assurances (to be given at
Paris) of attachment to France, he may have practised, to amuse
and appease the Emperor, and thus at least postpone the evil day
of entering into an open war with him. Considering the charac-
ter of Mr. Jefferson, would he not be likely to fall into such a line
of timid wavering policy ? If he has, it cannot much longer be

1808] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 73

continued. Of all men living Bonaparte would be soonest likely
to lose his patience in utter contempt for the man and his
politics, to strike a sudden blow. And as the Merchant vessels of
the U. S. are by the British Orders now excluded from his ports,
what motive has he to remain at peace ? By declaring war, he
lays his hand on all the American property within his dominions
from the Mediterranean to the Baltic without needing other cover
for his injustice. " My constant desire and prayer to God is " that
his patience may have been exhausted and war declared against the
U. S. A War would be the surest way (under Providence) to
maintain an independence. It would give even more energy to
the arm of England. It would rouse the sleeping spirit of our
own country ; and prepare us for defence and enterprize. Then
would be the time, in conjunction with England, to detach
Spanish America from the Mother Country, and thus open an im-
mense field of commerce to us both. If the Spanish dynasty is
to be changed, the emancipation would be easily effected. What
do you think of these conjectures ?

Faithfully yours

Timothy Pickering.

R. King to T. Pickering.

Feby 16, 1808.
Dear Sir :

I yesterday received yours of the 9th. I have been so engaged
since the receipt of your letter, that I have not had leisure to do
more than read over the Bill you sent me. My general impression
is not favourable to the proposed law.

The limitation which the Constitution establishes on the sub-
ject of Treason, proceeded from a principle, which will readily be
approved by every man who is acquainted with the vindictive
spirit that, at different times in the History of England, has ani-
mated the ascendant faction against their political adversaries.
If the proposed law on the subject of Treason neither enlarges
nor lessens its constitutional definition, the law is unnecessary ;
if it does the one or the other, it is unconstitutional. In the un-
fortunate periods, during which a country is torn by contending
factions, the Treason Laws should not be altered. Neither ought
they to be changed just at the time when the Govt, is angry or

74 RUFUS KING. [1808

disappointed in the failure to convict such as are believed to have
committed Treason. It is better in such case to follow the exam-
ple of Socrates, who said to the slave who had misbehaved
" Ccederem te, nisi irascerer."

My opinion has been that Jefferson would, if he could avoid it,
go to war with neither France nor England : but if France im-
posed upon him the alternative of fighting her or England, that
he would make a choice of the latter for his enemy.

faithfully yr. obv. Sert.

Rufus King.

P. S. If the Embargo be raised, the People will care nothing
about Armstrong's Despatches : while in operation, they will
take an interest in enquiry ; it is now therefore, and not when
the Embargo ceases, that the demand for information should be
made.

T. Pickering to R. King.

Washington, Feby. 19, 1808.
Dear Sir :

Yesterday we were confidently told that the Negociation with
Mr. Rose was broken off. To-day the President nominated
William Pinkney to be minister of the United States to the Court
of London ! as the messengers for London & Paris are to leave
Washington to-day, it may be well to get Pinkney's nomination
inserted in some of your newspapers, to go in the same vessel
with them.

We just have a report that Bonaparte has declared war against
the U. States. God grant it may prove true. We also hear that
George III. is dead ; this is to be regretted ; tho' less now, per-
haps, than if Fox were living.

Faithfully yours

T. Pickering.
N. B. The nomination of Pinkney not having yet been ap-
proved by the Senate, you will not mention the source of your
information. Pinkney was appointed joint-commissioner with
Monroe to treat : his powers ceased with that negociation. But
the British Govt, agreed to receive him as the resident minister,
until he could receive new letters of credence.

l8o8] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 75

T. Pickering to R. King.

Washington, Feb. 24, 1808.
Dear Sir :

I have received your letter of the 16th. There is much oppo-
sition to Giles' treason bill. The motion at present before the
Senate is, to postpone it to December next. But as it is a Presidential
measure, it may pass, tho' the appearances at this time are against
it. All the distinguished Philadelphia Lawyers, who have been
here, reprobated it in strong terms. I sent a copy of the bill to
Judge Peters, who writes me that he received it when on the
Bench, & threw it down to Lewis, who was at the bar. Lewis
read it & returned it with this note.

" § 1. The Constitution having defined treason, Congress have no
power to vary the same, or to enact anything respecting its
definition.

" § 2. the same.

" § 7. This by altering the Name of the offence, cannot alter the
nature & is therefore void."

The President talks freely of having Congress pass an act to
enable him to remove the Embargo, when the French & British
Governments annul their blockading decrees ; in which he affects
to consider G. Britain as the first aggressor ! But I do not believe
with all their obsequiousness, that Congress will give him this
power. The fact is, many avow their fear to go home in the
present State of things, without being able to tell their constituents
why they are so.

In my last I mentioned the nomination of Wm. Pinkney (Mon-
roe's associate) to be Minister Plenipo. at London. This was
on Friday the 19th. The Senate adjourned over to Monday, when
I expected the nomination would have been approved. But it was
not called up : I suspected intentionally. On Tuesday that with
other nominations was taken up. A number preceded it in order
in the President's list. As the names were read, several were de-
sired by different members, to be laid over. At length Pink-
ney's name was read. Mr. Giles desired it might lay over. Bradley
said the same, & that he had a resolution to offer in the case ;
and now (this moment that I am writing) Bradley has offered the
resolution : to ask the President to lay before the Senate the
unratified treaty & papers connected with it, which may enable

j6 RUFUS KING. [1808

the Senate to judge correctly on the nomination of Wm. Pinkney
as Minister Plenipotentiary to the Court of London. Bradley
prefaced the resolution with a short history of the London Mission
as it united Pinkney with Monroe. The President had informed
Congress, at the commencement of the session, that those minis-
ters had themselves stated that they signed a treaty against their
instructions. Bradley wished to know whether circumstances jus-
tified them in doing so. Thus you see (as I had suspected since
Monday) that this negociation is to be conjured up to prejudice
Monroe's pretensions to the Presidency, and probably as the
means of withdrawing our minister from London. Whether another
will be sent must be a subject of conjecture. Jefferson has nom-
inated to give the appearance of a pacific disposition towards G. B.,
and to avoid Pinkney's resentment against himself. For I re-
member, when Pinkney was nominated joint-commissioner with
Monroe, being told that he consented to go on condition of re-
maining in London as the permanent Minister. The Senate is to
take on itself the responsibility of a negative ; and at the same
time furnish Jefferson with a pretence for suspending a Mission to
London — to please Bonaparte : At least to gain time & take the
advantage of contingencies. Or, if he really means to send a Min-
ister immediately to London, he may be willing to sacrifice Pink-
ney in order to ruin Monroe. He may not advert to the reproach
which must attach to himself for ordering the same faulty Ministers
to renew a negociation, after they had violated their instructions.
But it will appear that they complied subtantially with their in-
structions respecting impressment of seamen (the only point in
question, as I believe) and the President in saying, in his first
Message that at the time of signing the treaty, the Commissioners
told those of Great Britain, that they were acting against their in-
structions, did not truly state the case. At a certain period
of the Negociation, in 1805, our Comrs. did tell those of G. B.
that they could sign no treaty, in which provision was not made
respecting seamen in our merchant vessels ; and this interrupted
the negociation. But afterwards the British Comrs. suggested the
idea of an informal arrangement respecting seamen, which in
practice would prevent the vexation complained of. This was
two months before the treaty was signed. This informal arrange-
ment was sent over to our government (no doubt by the first ves-

1808] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 77

sel after our Comrs. reed, it from Lords Holland & Auckland)
and must have been in the President's possession long before he
reed. Monroe's & Pinkney's letter of Dec. 27, 1806, which he laid
before Congress, announcing their agreement on articles of a
treaty, which they believed would be satisfactory to our govern-
ment, as it embraced all the objects committed to them in the negotia-
tion. Undoubtedly it was the informal (but practical) arrange-
ment, which satisfied our Ministers, and induced them to sign the
treaty. And it would have satisfied the President & the country
(I believe) had the President been incli?ied to conclude any treaty of
amity 6^ commerce with G. Britain.

I have no further information respecting the Chesapeake nego-
ciation. I believe Mr. Canning did not waive the question of the
interdicting Proclamation, in London : but that the coupling the
impressment of Seamen with the attack on the Chesapeake
stopped the negociation at the threshhold. Canning did ask (in
one of his notes to Monroe) with earnestness, whether he had in-
formation that the Proclamation, as it appeared in the news-pa-
pers, was the President's act j and I think he did not immediately
answer that question. I mention this matter in reference to a
discussion on Coleman's paper,* on the affair of the Chesapeake,
which tho' in the form of an editorial speculation, I have taken the
liberty to ascribe to you, very respectfully & faithfully yours

T. Pickering.

* It is probable that the Article referred to is the following in the Evening
Post, Feby. 5, 1808.

The Key — Or a peep behind the curtain. The nation cried aloud for satisfac-
tion for the attack on the Chesapeake ! What did Mr. Jefferson do ? Did he
give effect to the national wish ? He did not. He instructed Mr. Monroe not
to demand specific satisfaction for that specific outrage, but to connect it with
subjects already under discussion. In plainer words, not to receive satisfaction
for that, unless arrangements, on all other topics, should be made too. Not to
receive separate reparation, for this detached and separate injury. The British
ministry offered that reparation. Mr. Monroe was instructed to refuse it, and
therefore it was not, and is not yet received. But Great Britain sends a min-
ister here, as if eager to press reparation upon us. While he is on his passage,
our administration receive dispatches — from England ? No — they had long
before received all that is yet known from that country. The administration
receives dispatches from France. What do they contain ? It requires a ghost
to rise from the dead to tell us that. It is beyond the ken of every member ;
except that Bonaparte's Decree of piracy is put in force. What follows ? A

78 RUFUS KING. [1808

J. Pickering to R. King.

Washington, Feby. 26, 1808.

Dear Sir :

With great pleasure I announced to you in my letter of the 19th
the nomination of Mr. Pinkney to be Minister Plenipotentiary to
the Court of London — because it was an indication of the Con-

General Embargo. Upon whom is it to operate? On France? O, nc
On England: So say all the administration prints, and so we are told avowed
the administration Members on the floor of Congress while in conclave. For
what ? Because England had refused reparation for the attack on the Chesa-
peake ? No. Because they had committed some new outrage ? Not at all.
Why then in the name of wonder ! Because France had violated the laws of
nations, and the obligation of treaties. Therefore was Great Britain to be in-
jured, and we ourselves ruined ! There are no symptoms of French influence
in this — or if there are, we must have confidences ? Aye — that powerful opiate
will do the business completely. Reason may struggle, but it will struggle in
vain against it. Confidence — And Utter Ignorance. The Pope himself
could not arrogate more infallibility. But the Key. Let us suppose, from the
little we are permitted to know, and what nobody can hinder us, as we Yankees
say, from guessing, let us suppose that all this secresy, fuss, and mystery, was
intended to lead the nation blindfold into a British war ; but that the man of
the people felt a little skittish of the disposition of the nation to go to war, with-
out any necessity ; — a little squeamish of hazarding his popularity, past redemp-
tion, even when requested by his fellow republican, the Emperor and King.
Suppose he wished to do something which should bring upon the nation all the
evils of war, the substance without the name, but which, if the people should
grumble, might be more easily receded from than a state of war could ; what
would be his course ? An Embargo is the very thing. If the people submit, it
will be no difficult matter, in due time, to quarrel with Mr. Rose, and with the
national animosity against Britain, it will be as easy to persuade us that the Brit-
ish are in fault. Then for the Gun-Boats on the water and Wilkinson on the
land — dash away Americans — ruin yourselves, and thus fight the battles of the
Grand Pacificator. And, in a little time, you may be in a condition to import
a King into the only Republic Bonaparte has permitted to exist on earth. The
fact is, if the nation tamely bear this embargo, we shall have a tvar with Brit-
ain. It was intended only to feel the national pulse. If they rise up against
this political juggling — this presidential hocus pocus, all may be set right
again.* We are on the brink of a dreadful precipice. The intelligence, the
independence, and the firmness of the people must save them Now, or they
may awake to see their error when they find themselves in the iron grasp of the
Universal Despot.

* For there is no doubt Mr. Rose is instructed to make ample reparation for
the attack on the Chesapeake.

f8o8] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 79

tinuance of Peace— after it had been reported that the negocia-
tion with Mr Rose had been broken off. In a subsequent letter
(about the 24th) I stated the obstacle to an approval of the nomin-
ation and my conjectures of the motives. This morning the
President sent a message to the two Houses with one copy for
both Houses, of dispatches from Pinkney & Armstrong* — to be
read as much as was needful & to be talked on freely — but not to
be published, and to be returned to the President! Pinkney's first
letter was very long ; several sheets of large paper, in folio, finely
written. It was dated Nov. 23, giving a minute detail of a long
conversation with Mr. Canning on the subject of the British Or-
ders of Nov. n. He says that Mr. Canning sought the interview
— not to discuss the principle of those orders (it was too late for
that) but to explain, if necessary, & obviate objections. Pinkney
was prepared — as he had contemplated sending to Mr. Canning a
note stating objections ; which, however, after so full a discussion
at the interview, he should dispense with. He represented the
orders as contrary to our neutrality, unjust and impolitic. In
maintaining these positions, he necessarily brought into view the
Berlin decree of Nov. 21st 1806 : and seemed to have convinced
himself (as he certainly has many members of Congress) that the
imperial decree did not warrant the British retaliatory orders, nor
violate the law of nations — nor Buonaparte's treaty with the U.
States ! He quoted Armstrong's letter of Dec, 1806, to the
Minister of Marine Decrees, and the answer of the letter of the
24th of that month, as proofs. The imperial decree (at least as
practised on) contained only municipal regulations. He particu-
larly reprobated the article in the British orders making Certificates
of Origin found on board our vessels as grounds of condemnation.
He represented Mr. Canning as having misconceived their nature,
in supposing the want of them in neutral vessels to be the cause
of capture and condemnation by the French ; for he said they
could operate only on vessels arriving in French ports in order to
prove their cargoes not of British product or manufactures.

I do not wonder that the President directed this letter not to

be published ; tho' its inflammatory language would have exactly

suited the President's views to increase the public irritation. But

such affrontive epithets were used as must, if published, have

♦Annals of Congress, 1807- 81st. Sess., p. 150.

80 RUFUS KING. 1808

obliged the British Government to have ordered Mr. Pinkney
away, or at least to have required his recall. Indeed he was there
a minister merely by courtesy ; as I believe I have stated in a
former letter. The conversation, no doubt, was suitably decor-
ous. Doubtless it was because this letter was calculated
admirably to meet the popular prejudices & inflame them that the
President gave us permission to talk about it.

I presume you will see published the President's Message on
this occasion ; and I believe (but I will ascertain this to-morrow)
it purports to have communicated Armstrong's letters us well as
Pinkney's ; but the fact is, that we again did not receive one line
of Armstrong's letters to his own government ; but only his letter to
Champagny (I think dated Nov. 12) controverting the arguments
of the Tribunal of Prizes for condemning the Ship Horizon's cargo
so far as it consisted of goods from England or her Colonies.
The decree in this case of the prize court was very long & has
been published months ago in all our news-papers. The ship had
been wrecked near Morlaix. This document from Paris was a
tub to the whale. I am pretty sure that Pinkney said he had
known of no instance in which the Berlin decree had been exe-
cuted against our vessels. Yet, if I mistake not, the case in which
the letter of Regnier was written, occurred in September.

The other letters from Pinkney to Madison bore dates of Dec.
14 & 29th, and Jany. 2., the latter inclosing (but without one re-
mark) the Milan decree of Dec. 17. The other two letters were
short — I do not remember their contents.

If there was any serious design to negative Mr. Pinkney's
nomination, the arrival of his letters was fortunate for him. For
as soon as they had been read, Bradley's and Giles' doubts were*
completely dissipated. The former with Giles' consent withdrew
his resolution (which lay on the Vice-President's table) to call for
the returned treaty and the documents pertaining to it. His able,
but inflammatory letter atoned for all former delinquency : his
nomination was called up — the yeas and nays voted — and the
nomination unanimously approved. For my own part, I was will-
ing, at almost any rate, to secure a minister in London. And of
his ability no one doubted.

In his long letter, it appeared that Mr. Pinkney had a regular
communication with the American Merchants, who had meetings

1808] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 8 1

with Mr. Percival, relative to British Orders ; but that neither
their interference, nor a subsequent one from the merchants of
the remoter towns, had any effect to abate the rigour of the orders.

With these communications the President made another * for
the purpose of raising 6000 regular troops, and 24,000 volunteers
to be enlisted for 5 years, with condition to serve twelve months
in 24 &c, pursuant to plans of the Sec'y of War at the same time
presented. These I suppose will be published. But we were not
told for what purpose these troops were to be raised. A com-
mittee was appointed to consider & report ; and as the members
are all zealous patriots, no doubt we shall have a bill on Monday.
Giles, Adams, Saml. Smith, Bradley & Sumter. I should except
Genl. Sumter from the zealous. He is a real patriot — a steady
judicious man — and temperate ; certainly the most estimable of
the whole party in the Senate. He opposed the embargo and
evidently is much dissatisfied with the management of our affairs.
This bill may possibly pass the Senate ; but stick in the House.
They have hitherto resisted the bill for the small addition long
since agreed on by the Senate to our peace establishment, which
we deemed expedient for our extended frontier and particularly
for the security of New Orleans. The whole of this last presi-
dential project may be like what Saml. Smith spoke of before Mr.
Rose's arrival. He said he'expected in a few days that a resolu-
tion would be laid on our tables to raise 30,000 men : " Who
knows, said he, but ' that when the Envoy arrives and sees the
clangour of our preparations for war, he may hold a very different
language from what he would if he saw us reposing in the hopes
of peace."

* I wish you were nearer — within the reach of conversation. I
give you the best information in my power ; and should be ex-
tremely happy to learn your opinions on all important occurrences.

Yours truly, T. Pickering.

I have reason to believe that last week the negociation was
broken off — and renewed at the instance of our Government, who
with all their irritations to provoke, appear as yet to dread a war
with England. We must have a union of Northern Interests, to
controul the predilection & counteract the fears of Jefferson, &
overthrow Virginian domination.

* Annals of Congress 1867-8, 1st Sess., p. 151.

VOL. V — 6.

CHAPTER V.

King to Pickering — Peace cannot be maintained with France and England —
Pickering to King — Madison's Answer to Rose — Demands from France —
Pickering to Rose — King's Opinion — Rose to Pickering — Thanks him for
King's Letter — Troup to King — Evil Effects of Embargo — Pickering to
King — President thinks no Occasion for War with England — King to
Gardenier — Life no longer in Danger — Duel — Gore to King — Postpone-
ment of Meeting in Boston to remonstrate against Embargo — Question
asked whether Eastern States might not combine to prevent a War with
G. Britain — Pickering to King — Champagny's Letter — King to Pickering —
Regrets that Chesapeake Affair is unsettled — Approves his Letter to Sulli-
van— Gore to King — Political State in Massts. — King to Pickering —
Pinkney's Construction of the Decree of Berlin, indefensible — Smith to
King — Medal to Com. Preble — Discussion about the Inscription — King,
Paper on Words.

R. King to T. Pickering.

New York, March 4, 1808.
Dear Sir :

I have reed, several letters from you that remain unacknowl-
edged— the last is dated Feb. 26. The character of our Minister
in London is too well known to me to be surprized or disap-
pointed with the Report of the tenor of his late communications.
The mob of Congress may be deceived, because their leaders
have an interest in deceiving them ; but it will be hard to per-
suade the Country that the Decree of Berlin and the subsequent
measures of France are no violation of our Rights. I greatly
misjudge, or the last three months have produced considerable
change, and that against French influence, among the people.

With regard to the Proceedings and Views of our Govt., I can
understand and interpret them but in one sense, and that sense is,
that Peace can no longer be maintained with both France and
1808] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 83

England, and in the choice of an enemy England will be pre-
ferred.

The negotiation hangs, or has hung as I am informed, upon
the amount of the Reparation that shall be made for the disa-
vowed attack upon the Chesapeake. Deductions from this
amount are claimed, on account of the Proclamation, of the char-
acter of the seamen who deserted from the Eng. service & entered
into that of the U. S., and of the demand and refusal of their
surrender. Upon what suggestion the Discussion has been re-
sumed, I have not heard, but it would not surprize me, if the ob-
ject be to gain time for further information and further intrigue.

The general stop of Navigation & Commerce is beginning to
affect a class of Men who have by their credit hitherto been
enabled to perform their engagements, but who seeing no pros-
pect of the removal of the Embargo, and finding no market for
the great amount of property on hand, are becoming discouraged
and will shortly sink under the embarrassment of their affairs.
Very faithfully yr. ob. Servt.,

Rufus King.

T. Pickering to R. King.

Washington, March 4, 1808.
Dear Sir :

When I saw in Coleman's paper the direct, positive statement
of Mr. Rose's question to Mr. Madison, and the answer of the
latter relative to the President's interdicting proclamation, I
supposed it must have been communicated by Mr. Duer, Mr.
Rose's cousin, who I knew was here and to whom I delivered
(for you) the President's volume of evidence &c, in the trial of
Burr, yet I doubted whether he received the information from
Mr. Rose ; I had a special reason for thinking so ; and in this
day's National Intelligencer it is declared, " from respectable
authority " to be unfounded. This authority is that of Mr. Rose
himself ; for his secretary (Mr. Mansfield) told me yesterday that
he called on the editor for that purpose. Where then originated
the report ? I cannot tell —

The answer imputed to Madison is substantially what I should
have expected, if such a question had been proposed. For I

84 RUFUS KING. [1808

have long entertained apprehensions (and perhaps I have already
more than once expressed them to you) that Mr. Jefferson had
determined to evade a settlement of the Chesapeake affair ; and
with the proclamation & embargo, effectually shut our ports
against all British vessels & British commerce ; as effectually as
the ports of France & her dependent States are shut, by Bona-
parte's order, or in open obedience to his will. The negociation
remained, four days ago, precisely in the State in which it was
five or six weeks since. Yet surely it is not the intention of Mr.
J. to commence a war with G. B. Mr. Pinkney's appointment
seems to be an assurance of this. Were it not for Mr. Jefferson's
hatred of England and predilection for France, I could imagine
all the demonstrations of hostility towards the former to be the
result of policy, to appease the wrath of Bonaparte (whom I am
assured he has professed to dread) and lead him to think that a
more decided part, at present, would hazard resistance from the
spirit of the people, not yet sufficiently debased tamely to acquiesce
in his demands. No one (the President's dupes excepted) doubts
the receipt of such demands, and I think the recital of Cham-
pagny's letter, from Milan, to Armstrong, in a letter from a
gentleman in Paris to another in Leghorn (dated Dec. 3d )
countenances that opinion. Champagny complains that our Gov't,
had not taken some steps to prevent the English visiting our
vessels, impressing our seamen, &c ; but said, if we came into
the views of France — like the Continental powers — the redress
asked for would be afforded. This letter is in Coleman's Even-
ning Post of Feb. 26th.

On the supposition that the Chesapeake affair will not be
adjusted, and that our Gov't, will continue its irritations, we
should, in ordinary cases, expect G. B. to strike suddenly and
indignantly. But I have hoped she would still forbear. I have
taken the freedom to express earnestly to Mr. Rose my opinion,
that good policy required on her part much patience and even
long suffering ; while we were seriously punishing ourselves by
the embargo. I remarked that if a new war took place between
us, old prejudices would be strengthened — enmities aggravated,
and a future cordial amity & intercourse perhaps forever barred.
He seemed to have entertained these considerations and to have
been deeply impressed with their importance ; while he could

l8o8] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 85

not undertake to say what would be the sentiment of his Govern-
ment. He confirmed what Monroe said, that there were many
classes of people in England eager for a war with the U. S., and
that it was only the cool part of the ministry which prevented a
war. He has received my suggestions with great good will, and
manifests extreme anxiety for an amicable adjustment of our dif-
ferences. I do not know that you would deem it proper to express
your opinion on the subject (the policy of England towards the
U. S.) in the present state of things. Yet you so well under-
stand the best interests of both countries, I cannot but believe
that your ideas (if you permit me to communicate them to Mr.
Rose) could not only be highly acceptable, but have a salutary
difference where alone (if any where) the opinion of the most dis-
cerning American can now have effect.

Mr. Rose may be here 10 days or two weeks longer ; I shall be
greatly obliged by your early answer.*

In the National Intelligencer of the 2d inst (which I inclose)
you will see two letters to the Editor of the morning Chronicle,
signed Veritas. This " Briton " I presume is Mr. Pinkney.
Veritas has taken the same ground of defence for the U. States
that was taken by Pinkney in his very long and " hasty " (as he
affectedly called an elaborate) statement of his consultation and
argument with Mr. Canning ; and appears, likewise, to be ac-
quainted with some minutice of our affairs with which only an
American would be familiar. I think too that the style is not
that of the English writers. . . .

very truly yours
T. Pickering.

* An answer was sent by Mr. King, as would appear by the following extracts
from the Pickering manuscript, quoted in the " New England Federalism " by
Mr. Adams, p. 366-7.

T. Pickering to G. H. Rose.

" Washington, March 13, 1808.
" In a late letter to Mr King, I recollect the enforcing my opinion by senti-
ments of this sort. That a new war between the U. S. and G. B. would revive
the memory of former strifes, with all their topics of hatred and ill-will ; would
increase existing prejudices and excite such bitter resentments, as hardly any

86 RUFUS KING. [1808

Robt. Troup to R. King.

Albany, March 7, 1808.
My Dear Sir :

. . . I am very sorry to see that the cloud over our foreign
relations, finstead of dispersing, grows thicker and thicker. We
will not be long before the effects of the embargo will be most
severely felt ; and if they should produce no change in our next
election, it will be a proof that the public mind is in a state of
incurable infatuation. The prevalent opinion amongst the fed-
eralists here is, that it is our duty to attempt returning as many
federalists as we can in our next legislature. The awful crisis of
our country seems imperiously to demand the utmost exertions
of patriotism to rescue us from the evils we suffer, and to ward
off others of a still more calamitous nature !

In the Genesee country some farmers have been compelled to
part with their wheat 1/6 per bushel to raise money to pay their
taxes ; all the streams that flowed into the treasury of the Pulteney
land office in that country are nearly dried up. . . .
I remain, My dear Sir, very sincerely yours

Rob. Troup.

length of time would remove. To that letter I received the enclosed answer,
which I communicate with the greater satisfaction, because Mr. King is well
known to your Government for his distinguished talents, correct views in
political affairs, and great respectability of character. At this moment recurs
to me the remark made to me by the late excellent Mr. Hamilton in 1796,
when he expressed to me his desire that Mr. King might be sent to London.
" He is the fittest man in the U.S. to represent us at that court."

Mr. Rose to Col. Pickering.

" March 18, 1808.
"You will, I am sure, recollect the feelings I expressed to you the instant
you touched in our late conversation on the subject of your letter. You will
therefore readily conceive the satisfaction I derive from the sanction of your
confirmed and still further reflected opinion, supported as it is by such a man
as Mr. King. I have not confined myself to speculative feeling, but have acted
in consequence of the conviction, which I deeply entertain. I avail myself
thankfully of your permission to keep that gentleman's letter, which I am sure
will carry high authority where I can use it confidently."

1808] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 87

R. King to Mr. Gardenier.

New York, March 10, 1808.
Dear Sir :

Having heretofore expressed to you, as on every occasion I
have done to our political friends, the satisfaction with which I
have read your speeches in Congress, you will naturally imagine
the unfeigned solicitude that I have lately experienced respecting
your situation and safety.* So far as my observations have en-
abled me to determine, the sentiments of the worthy and respect-
able men in this quarter are such concerning you, as a virtuous
and honorable man could desire they should be ; your talents as a
public man especially in these hard and portentous times have
appeared to me of great value. I therefore not only cordially
rejoice that your life is no longer in danger, but that by the man-
ner in which you have behaved in a situation which was forced
upon you, those talents will hereafter become still more useful
to your Country,

With sincere esteem, yr. obt. & faithful Servt,

Rufus King.

C. Gore to R. King.

Boston, March 10, 1S0S.
My Dear Friend :

. . . Our public affairs, so far as known and felt here are

in a most lamentable state, and I see no prospect that they will

* Mr. Gardenier's speech this day last week on this bill (3rd Embargo Bill)
part of which I heard, has given occasion to some disagreeable occurrences.
On Monday, three members of the House, Johnson of Kentucky, Campbell of
Tennessee and Montgomery of Maryland, replied to what he said by such direct
and personal invective, that a challenge of Mr. Campbell, if not also of Mr.
Johnson, ensued. Mr. White and Mr. Epps, the two seconds, have been mak-
ing formal arrangements and selecting the ground just beyond the line of the
District, with much publicity. This morning they all went out with such
general notice that a crowd of one or two hundred persons are said to have
followed them to the selected spot, where they were finally separated by the
magistrates of the District and of the neighboring County of Maryland.

J. Q. Adams, Mem. 1, p. 517. For Mr. Gardenier's Remarks, see An. of
Congress, Feby. 1808, p. 1653, et seq. March 2nd. Mr. Geo. Campbell and
Mr. Gardenier this morning fought their duel, in which the latter was badly,
if not mortally wounded, f

\ He survived and continued in Congress until 1811.

88 RUFUS KING. [1808

change for the better. On the receipt of your letter, relative to
the embargo, I had several conversations with our Merchants on
the propriety of calling together the inhabitants. They thought
a few weeks later its effect would be felt and a desire to request
its repeal more general. Since that time events have been con-
stantly announced to us, which show the embarrassed State of
Commerce, and by many have been cited, as proving the wisdom
of those, who proposed and imposed the embargo. Some of our
men, who have generally voted & acted with the federalists, being
extremely rich & fearful of losing any portion of their property,
are weak enough to believe the Measures of the Executive will
prevent a war, & therefore speak favourably of the Embargo,
and that the chances of war are diminished by our having no
vessels on the Ocean to be captured.

We are doing everything in our Legislature that the vilest
democrat can suggest — regardless of those principles, which
elevated and secured the Rights of our forefathers. Mr. Picker-
ing's letter, of which John has a copy, was received by the Gov-
ernor last Tuesday evening or Wednesday morning ; on Monday
a motion was made in the Senate to send for the same. This did
not prevail ; it is said he sent it back again. J. Q. Adams wrote
him last Saturday that, according to Mr. Pinkney's Dispatches,
G. Britain had given unequivocal proofs of her Intention to make
war on the U. States. This was a private letter and therefore
only communicated to his particular friends. We have some
Hope that P's. Communication, of which we shall distribute 5000
copies, may arouse our People from their sleep, which really ap-
pears like the sleep of death ; but even of this I dare not predict.
A Question is frequently asked here, whether the States to the
East of the Delaware might not combine for the Purpose of pre-
venting a war with Great Britain, and whether a portion of your
democrats would not unite in this Object, and if this be probable,
whether a convention of Merchants might not be advantageously
assembled to deliberate on their affairs, and the Embarrassments
they suffer in consequence of their being deprived of their
accustomed Business. . . .

Yours affectionately

C. Gore.

1808] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 89

T. Pickering to R. King.

Washington, March 28, 1808
Dear Sir :

. . . We have our war-days and our peace-days at the seat
of Government. On Saturday evening some democratic members,
who had dined with the President, reported that he told them he
had received dispatches from Mr. Pinkney of a more conciliatory
nature : and that there was now no more occasion for war with
G. B., than at any period of his administration ; and that there
would be no necessity for an army ! very truly yours

T. Pickering.

T. Pickering to R. King.

Washington, March 30, 1S08.
Dear Sir : ^v

. . . To-day we had confidential communications from Mr.
Pinkney to the 26th January & from Mr. Armstrong to the 2 2d
of that month. On French affairs the communications are mani-
festly partial ; not one word from Mr. Madison to Armstrong —
and but two from the latter to Madison — one dated Dec. 27, the
other Jany. 22. In great haste Faithfully yours

T. Pickering.

T. Pickering to R. King.

Washington, Apr. 2, 180S.
Dear Sir :

I think I have already announced to you a secret message, with
dispatches from Armstrong. For 3 days the opposition members
have been engaged to draw forth Champagny's letter. To-day
the President, as of his own mere action, sent a message with per-
mission to have it printed, as a means of promoting Union &c !
I enclose a copy of the letter. * yrs truly

T. Pickering.

* Translation of the letter from M. Champagny to Genl. Armstrong.

Paris, Jany. 15, 1S08.
Sir :

The different notes which you have done me the honour to address to me,
have been laid before his Majesty.

The proceedings of England towards all Governments are so contrary to the
law of Nations, and to all the rules constantly observed even among enemies

90 RUFUS KING. [1808

R. King to T. Pickering.

N. York, April 2, 1808.
Dear Sir :

On my return from Long Island where I have been attending
to my garden, I reed, your kind letter of the 25th. ulto. with a
copy of the correspondence with England respecting the Chesa-
peake. I am now engaged in reading it : the result is such as I
have anticipated. The communications from the French Gov-
ernment are to be such as concern " the General Relations "
between the two Countries — a restriction that will keep back all

that no recourse against this power is any longer to be found in the ordinary
means of repression. In order to annoy her it is become necessary to turn
against her the arms which she makes use of herself ; and if transient incon-
veniences result therefrom, it is to her alone that they are to be imputed. Since
England respects no laws, how could they be respected with regard to her?
The Maritime laws which she violates — ought they to still be a protection to her ?
And if some powers tolerate the infractions committed on their independence,
could they have the right to require that France alone should restrain herself
within the limits, which her enemy has everywhere overleaped?

The U. States more than any other power have to complain of the aggression
of England. It has not been enough for her to offend against the inde-
pendence of their Flag, nay against that of their territory, and of their inhabi-
tants, by attacking them even in their ports, by forcibly carrying away their
crews ; her decrees of the nth November have made a fresh attack on their
commerce and on their Navigation, as they have done on all the Powers.

In the situation in which England has placed the Continent, especially since
her decrees of the nth of November, his Majesty has no doubt of a declaration
of war against her by the U. States. Whatever transient sacrifices war may oc-
casion, they will not believe it consistent either with their interest or dignity,
to acknowledge the monstrous principle and the anarchy which that Govt.
wishes to establish on the seas. If it be useful and honourable for all Nations
to cause the true Maritime law of nations to be re-established, and to avenge
the insults committed by England, against every flag, it is indispensable for the
U. States, who from the extent of their commerce have oftener to complain of
those violations. War exists in fact between England & the U. States, and his
Majesty considers it as declared from the day on which England published her
decrees.

In that persuasion his Majesty, ready to consider the U. States as associated
with the cause of all the powers, who have to defend themselves against Eng-
land, has not taken any definite measure towards the American Vessels which
may have been brought into our ports ; he has ordered that they should remain
sequestered, until a decision may be had thereon according to the dispositions
which shall have been expressed by the Govt, of the U. States.

Annals of Congress 1S07-8. 1st Sessn. p. 1S3.

1808] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 9 1

that regards the particular Relations, which are precisely those
concerning which we are, as we have been, kept in the dark. I
certainly consider it as a matter of deep regret that the difficulty
respecting the Chesapeake has not been totally removed : enough
has been done to prevent a rupture between the two nations on
that subject ; but in the crisis of our affairs it would have been
a great and good step towards security had the ordinary inter-
course and good understanding been re-established between us
and England.

If we may understand Mr. Madison as having consented to
waive all the subjects or points, alluded to in the Proclamation,
except the affair of the Chesapeake, and to have offered to recall
the Proclamation, provided the reparation for the attack on the
Chesapeake shd. be satisfactory, I cannot help believing that it
would have been the best policy, and in nothing exceptionable
(had Mr. Rose's powers permitted) that the offer of a liberal
reparation should have been made ; and I am the more disposed
to this Opinion by every reflection, which suggests that a satisfac-
tory adjustment of this misunderstanding would inevitably have
been followed by a decisive State of things with France.

I do not recollect that I have had the pleasure of writing to
you since we received Copies of your letter to Gov. Sullivan.* I
need not say to you all I think on the Subject of your Letter, but
you will allow me to offer you my sincere thanks for writing it.

always & faithfully yrs.

Rufus King.

C. Gore to R. King.

Boston, 8th April, 180S.
My dear Friend ;

Our election has ended full as well as ever could have been ex-
pected. We have reason to believe that Cumberland County will

* A Letter from the Hon. Timothy, a Senator * * from the State of Mass.,
exhibiting to his constituents a View of the Imminent Danger of an unnecessary
and Ruinous War, Addressed to his Excellency James Sullivan, Governor of
the said State.

Mr. Adams answered this letter in one controverting the opinions of Mr.
Pickering, addressed to H. G. Otis and sent to W. S. Shaw " to get it printed
immediately" — J. Q. Adams Mem. I, p. 522-3.

92 RUFUS KING. [1808

send two federal Senators to the Legislature, in which case, there
will be a majority of Federalists in the Senate. There is also
some ground to hope Cobb will be returned as Lt. Govr. This
will probably be more mortifying to the Democrats than the Loss
of Sullivan, as the latter is undoubtedly not their favorite,
although Lincoln is.

In this town we are becoming divided on Questions, where we
should suppose no division of sentiment could exist. It is impu-
table to a multitude of little passions which operate on the minds
of men who by nature are placed in Stations under what they
aspire to, and which they are unable to attain without relinquish-
ing their Character as honest men & procuring a Degree of Bold-
ness, in which they are deficient, for the Democratic Party, or
without more understanding or better Information to make them
Leaders of the Federalists. J. Q. A. has conspired to produce
much of the evil we now experience in this State of our Affairs :
and a letter of his is to be published in this Town on Monday

next, in answer to Col. Pickering's. yours truly

C. Gore.

R. Smith (Secy, of the Navy) to R. King.

Navy Department, April 9, 1808.
Sir :

I have the honor of herewith transmitting to you for your ac-
ceptance an impression of the Medal presented to the late Com-
modore Edward Preble in pursuance of the Resolution of Congress
of the 3d. March, 1805.

I am very respectfully, Sir, yr. most obed st.

R. Smith.

R. King to T. Pickering.

New York, April 12, 1808.

Dear Sir :

I yesterday received from you two Packets containing the cor-
respondence relative to the British Treaty to page 69, and by this
mail send you Mr. Baring's Pamphlet, lately republished here,
respecting the commercial Relations between us & G. Britain.

1808] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 93

Tho' this performance contains little that will be new to an
American conversant with the subject, it nevertheless communi-
cates a great deal of information to Englishmen.

The construction of the Peace of Berlin, the same that Mr.
Pinkney has adopted, is indefensable and will do harm. Should
the English Ministry be unable to maintain their standing, their
successors will annul the Orders of Council, which so far as re-
spects the taxation of our Merchandise, are a most impolitic
measure.

It may be apprehended that the issue of the Massachusetts
Election will encourage our Rulers to persevere in measures,
that must prove ruinous to the Trade & Navigation of the
Northern States. Such, however, is the infatuation of the Coun-
try, that the authors of these measures lose little of their former
popularity. Time & the continued inconvenience, which all will
feel, must & will work a change.

Very faithfully yr. ob. st.

Rufus King.

The Federalists of this State will offer Candidates, but I sus-
pect with less zeal than formerly.

R. Smith to R. King.

Washington, April 22, 1808.
Sir :

I have just received your favour of the 13th of this month in
answer to my official communication to you of the 9th.

The critical remarks of a gentleman of classical taste and of
liberal mind cannot but be at all times highly acceptable to every
person who has any pretensions to polite literature. I am justly
sensible of the full force of your criticism on the words " Vindici
Commercii Americani" — namely that "it may hereafter upon
the mere evidence of this medal be uncertain whether Edward
Preble was an American or a Foreign Admiral." But, pray, are
not the words " Commercii patriae Vindici " proposed by you to
be substituted, liable to precisely the same objection ? In both
cases the words would convey, only by implication, the idea that
he was an American. The essential difference between the

94 RUFUS KING. [1808

words adopted and the words proposed is that the latter might
hereafter have the misfortune to be applied not only to a foreign
officer, but also to the commerce of the very country of such for-
eigner.

As to the word " Tripoli " I know not on what authority you
have considered it a regular & classical noun of the third declen-
sion. Writing as I now am, in my publick office, and of course
not having within my reach a Latin book of any kind, I have to
rely altogether upon my recollection ; and this strongly inclines
me to the opinion that your position has not the sanction of any
Latin writer. In the Legend you have doubtless perceived that
the word Tripoli has been used as an indeclinable noun.

Be pleased to accept an assurance of the real esteem with
which I have the honor to be

Sir, yr. ob. Sevt.

R. Smith.

R. Smith to R. King.

Washington, May 1, 1808.
Sir :

Your favour of the 25th I have had the honour of receiving and
I am truly sorry to find that you cannot reconcile yourself to the
Medal of our deceased friend. Its intention being to preserve
the image of an illustrious countryman and the memory of one of
his gallant achievements, " et tui et mei interest " that its real
value be not in any degree diminished by a supposed oversight
in its inscription. Had the words " Commercii patriae vindici "
happened to have occurred to me, they possibly — nay probably —
would, euphonise gratia, have been preferred.

In my last letter it was my intention not to have expressed any
serious opinion of my own upon your proposed substitute, but
merely to have suggested what the meddling hypercriticks of this
busy world might perchance have been disposed to insinuate.
And let me now add that the same captious gentry might even
ask, how a man who had no knowledge of the history of Rome or
of the biography of Cicero could discover in Cicero's title, " Pater
Patriae " that the " Pater " was a Roman, or the " Patriae " Rome.
Such unlimited criticism however is not to be regarded. Every

l8o8] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 95

person, who has at all attended to this branch of knowledge, will
know that Medals are not considered as isolated monuments, but
that they and history are ever viewed in connexion and in illus-
tration of each other. A Medal is, indeed, not unfrequently of
use in ascertaining the chronology of, and in elucidating an im-
portant event, and, in truth, to be duly sensible of the intrinsick
merits of ancient Medals a man must be not only a connoisseur
in drawing and engraving, but must, moreover, be well versed in
the history, the antiquities and the ceremonies of ancient
Nations.

I must entreat your indulgence in remarking that your cita-
tions from Livy only show what no person can controvert, that
Tripoli is a regular noun of the third declension. This name
from its etymology could not have been given by the Romans but
to a City formed of three Cities contiguous to each other ; and
although the Greek Polis was compounded by the Romans as the
French Ville is by us, yet there is no instance of its having been
done by the Romans, nor I trust by us, in utter disregard of the
true meaning of the terms. The Romans never could have called
a Kingdom or a Province Tripolis : nor we a State or a Country
Fayetteville &c. In Africa they have given the name of Tripoli,
not only to their principal city, but to their Kingdom. And it is
not material in the present inquiry whether this name was or was
not originally a corruption of Tripolis. It is sufficient to know
that this African city was never a Roman City and was never by
them called Tripolis, but has ever been and yet is known and dis-
tinguished in every Atlas by the name of Tripoli. If then the
words " ante Tripolim " had been used in the Legend, we would
have been exposed to the imputation of altering the distinguish-
ing name of the City as every scholar must necessarily have trans-
lated such words into "before Tripolim."

When the modern name of a City has even the termination of
the nominative case of a Latin noun of either declension, we may
at pleasure, use it either in the vernacular forms, or as a declin-
able Latin Noun. The former I prefer. In the latter there is to
my taste a quaintness. But de gustibus &c &c.

With unfeigned Esteem, Sir, truly yours

R. Smith.

P. S. — It is somewhat curious that you & I should thus find our-

96 RUFUS KING. [1808

selves involved in a kind of controversial correspondence — and
about words* As the Medal is immutable, can any good result
from its further continuance — " Aestimo te magni." R. S.

* There is among Mr. King's papers one on -words, which tho' it does not
properly relate to these letters, shows how certain words may derive a meaning
from circumstances connected with their application.

WORDS.

Words without meaning or with wrong meaning have especially of late years
done great harm. Liberty, Love of Country, Federalism, Republicanism,
Democracy, Jacobin, Glory, Philosophy and Honor are words in the mouth of
everyone and without any precision used by any one ; the abuse of words is as
pernicious as the abuse of things. Apostacy is another word of Party.

The majority are careless or ignorant. Such a man is an apostate, says some
impudent Quack, because he separates from the party with which he commenced
his career ; the Calumny is believed and Character is lost. What is Glory, what
is Patriotism, what is apostacy? are they names or things?

When the French Revolution began, the hope which almost all men enter-
tained was that a great and highly cultivated People would be able to change their
dependence on a purely Monarchical Government and acquire a portion of per-
sonal freedom, which should elevate them in the scale of society and increase
the mass of private happiness ; hence their good feelings and good wishes
toward France.

But when in the course of the Revolution Despotism instead of Freedom,
became more firmly established, altho' the change was effected in the name of
Liberty, and still called Freedom, who were in reality the Apostates? Those
who adhered to France, or those who withdrew their good wishes and feelings
from her ? Plain as the answer is, it has nevertheless been the latter who have
been branded as the Apostates. Bonaparte on his first usurpation was hailed
as the Friend of Liberty. When he afterwards made himself Emperor, these
men found this change consistent with their notions of Liberty and seemed to
have been particularly charmed with his new stock Nobility, f

f" The Cloth of Honour should be strongly woven," said the great Captain
Gonsalvo de Cordova. One great object gained by the Revolution will be that
" the people of the ante-chamber and the kitchen should take possession of the
Drawing Room," said Sieyes.

N. B. — It was an instruction of Bonaparte to his first agents in for. countries
— so he instructed Goldsmith — to address themselves to the men who were al-
ways speaking on Reform, Love of Country, Natural Independence, the zeal-
ous Advocates of Liberty, wherever to be found.

CHAPTER VI.

W. King to King — Large Numbers in Maine against the present Measure of
the Administration — Gore to King — May choose Electors by the Legisla-
ture— Suggested as Senator of U. S. — Baring to King — His Son's Pam-
phlet— Gore to King — Committee appointed to correspond with Federalists
about the next Election of President — Gore to King — Proposed a meeting
of Federalists in New York — Federalists prefer federal Candidate — Alter-
native Clinton — Dr. Mason to King — Condoles with him on account of an
Accident to his Son — King to Mason — Responds — King to Gore — Aston-
ished at Parsons views about the Presidential Election — Clinton not sup-
ported in N. Y. against Madison — Ewing's Career — King to Gore — Trees
for Jamaica — Better Temper in England respecting America — Pickering to
King — Embargo to be continued — N. England Opposition makes Presi-
dent's Friends uneasy — Anecdote relative to Franklin in the Peace
Negotiations — King to Pickering — Madison and Neutral Rights as affected
by the Berlin Decree — Gore to King — Disappointment in Boston the Em-
bargo is not repealed — Sufferings unbearable — Articles in Ev'g Post, on
France's Infringement of Treaty attributed to King.

Wm. King to R. King.

Boston, May 24, 1808.
Dear Sir :

I duly received yours of the 6th & 12th inst. Considering the
present situation of the country, there are many persons in this
State and in the District of Maine in particular, who have been
supporting the present administration, who would have had no
objections to the termination of your State election in the way
you first apprehended (Federal)

How the parties will stand here is at present uncertain as it
respects the organization of the Government, but this you can
calculate on to a certainty that there will be a large majority that
will not approve the present measures of the administration.
The interest which I mentioned to you is now formidable ; I
think it will extend to one half of the democratick members of

VOL. v.— 7 gy

98 RUFUS KING. [1808

the District of Maine. It is a mercantile interest which they
believe has been neglected. When the Resolution approving the
measures of the Government came up from the House to the
Senate the last winter, they were postponed from day to day for
more than 10 days at my request and that of some of my com-
mercial friends, who were then of the opinion that there was not
information enough before the Public to authorize an approbation
of the Embargo in particular. However we found it necessary
then to give way, or break with the persons with whom we acted.
The difficulties on the part of some of the Republican's were
exaggerated and sent abroad with a view to injure in the estima-
tion of the People men who they observed had a deep commercial
interest which they were disposed to accommodate in preference
to that of the general interest of the country. This information
had an effect the reverse of what they had contemplated.

There will be no difficulty here in obtaining such Electors,
whether they are chosen by the Legislature or the People at large,
as your friends would think favourably of. Since Congress ad-
journed, the people almost despair of any thing being done for
them as promptly as they had reason to expect, and I am of the
opinion that had the adjournment taken place before the Inter-
national Election, Mr. Gore would have been elected with a large
majority ; such was the immediate effect it had & continues still
to have. Should things remain in the present situation until the
fall, there must be I think a change of men. Should the Election
of members of Congress come on now with the present feelings
of the people, not more certainly than three Democratick mem-
bers would be returned from this State. If other States are
similarly influenced there can be but little do'bt what the result
of the fall Elections will be ; with the Elections of the Spring I
have taken no part and feel inclined to look on for a time, at
least until I am better satisfied. . . .

Your affectionate Brother Wm. King

C. Gore to R. King.

My Dear Friend : BosTON- Ma^ 28- l8°8-

. . . Our Friends have been uncommonly anxious for my
return, which, however, I am confident, could have been attended

l8o8] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE.
with no good. It would have been impossible for me to have
avoided being Speaker. . . . We have a majority of about 30
(in the House ) & yesterday morning we elected Senators to fill
up the vacancies there. It now consists of 23 Federal members
& 17 Democrats.

We shall probably pass some Vote or Resolve for choosing
Electors by the Legislature. Sullivan might plague us in approv-
ing of any Resolve, and in looking into our State and the Federal
Constitution, we are generally convinced that the two Branches
alone have the right of directing the manner, and that the Resolve
need not go to him for his approbation. Some of our people
hesitate on the Expediency of this proceeding because it will not
be according to the usage of the country, but I trust they will ac-
cede to our wishes.

We shall choose a Senator this Session ; but who it will be I
cannot say. To take one that cannot be objected to by the friends
of Mr. Adams seems the great Difficulty. The Federalists have
been very importunate with me on this subject, believing that
such a choice would be made as to prevent all chance of a Divi-
sion. Whether this be true, I cannot judge, but the Sacrifice of
personal feeling, or of interest, by absence, would be greater than
I think I am required to make. Mr. Lloyd is thought of & would
certainly be an acquisition from his commercial knowledge &c,
&c. . . . yours truly

C. Gore.

P. S. Sullivan gives a Certificate to whomever applies for per-
mission to import Flour ; his son George taking only one dollar
for the Certific. . . .

F. Baring to R. King.

London, 3d June, 1808.
My Dear Sir :

. . . I trust that my son's performance has reached you.

The first edition was sent forth in too much haste & under the

pressure of severe illness. ... It was undoubtedly intended

as an answer to " War in disguise," but as nothing has appeared

from its author in reply & that the opinion is generally favorable

even by Government to the facts and principles which it contains,

much good may be said to have been done. Ministers and their

.

100 RUFUS KING. [1808

friends say, it is too much American, for something they must
say, but they cannot point out any part that will admit of such an
interpretation & their language in public has been much more
conciliatory since its appearance. Unfortunately there is a de-
gree of false shame which induces many to persist in error, rather
than to acknowledge it, and if the late administration with " all
the Talents " did not succeed, it must be admitted that their suc-
cessors do not posses that superior intellect which enables great
men to overcome prejudices. It may almost be said that there is
but one man and one system in the world, and that defence, or
rather the contest for self preservation, consists in a strict literal
opposition according to the circumstances of the moment, with-
out contemplating any large or deep plan which shall aid the
courage and firmness manifested everywhere, and on which minds
rely too much. . . .

Your most truly faithful hum. servant

F. Baring.

C. Gore to R. King.

Boston, Thursday, June 8, 1808.

To avoid all question about the Governor's approbation of a
Resolve appointing the manner of choosing Electors, we at first
voted to postpone the consideration of the subject until the next
Session. We then voted to ask an adjournment, until the 2d
Thursday in November ; then to meet for the purpose of choos-
ing Electors &c. The Democrats have had an Intention to em-
barrass this Measure, through the Governor, and may probably
attempt it, when we come to request the Adjournment, but I have
no great apprehensions on the subject.

Mr. Adams last night sent a letter to the Legislature, resigning
his office of Senator. We have elected Lloyd. Our answer to
the Governor's are in unison with the Resolutions.

We have appointed a Committee to correspond with the Feder-
alists in the other States on the business of the next Election of
President & V. President. I think the Federalists were never
more united or more encouraged than at present. The Embargo
is producing real & extensive distress and the officers are acting
very indiscreetly, if not wantonly, in taking Flour from Stores on
the Schoodiac and carrying it to the Custom House where it lies

1808] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 101

as is said, uncovered and exposed to the weather ; and many ac-
tions we are told, are commenced against the officers. . . .

C. Gore.

C. Gore to R. King.
My Dear Sir : Boston, June 16, 1808.

Our Committee of Correspondence, which was appointed by a
Committee of twenty, which 20 were chosen by the Federalists
consisting of nearly three hundred, is composed of George Cabot,
Otis. Lloyd, Bigelow & myself. We met on Saturday last, & im-
mediately sent Livermore to N. Hampshire, and we are flatter'd
with the Belief that the Electors of that State will be federal.

After some Conversation it was deemed advisable to propose a
meeting of Federalists, from as many States, as could be season-
ably notified, at New York the last of this, or the Beginning of the
next month : and Bigelow sets off on Monday for Vermont to
consult and arrange with the Feds of that State, on their sending
some person or persons to the meeting in N. York ; and to attain
the best Data for forming an opinion as to the Result of their
Election. Otis is now at R. Island. This measure of the pro-
posed meeting was adopted for the purpose of concerting our ar-
rangements, & ascertaining, as far as could be done, the Weight
of the Federalists in the next Election, and how to dispose the
power they might be possessed of. It was hastened by a letter
from Mr. Hare of Philadelphia, who stated the necessity of the
Federalists knowing in Philadelphia, what was conceived to be
the best course to be pursued, whether to attempt bringing in a
Federal Prest. &c. or to unite with the Clintonians, that they might
begin to canvass accordingly for Electors. Hare's opinion, so far
as could be gather'd from his Letter, appeared to be in favour of
running the Federal Candidates, although the probability was
against our Success ; and Judge Sedgwick (who is in Philadelphia,
probably with a view of gaining some heat for his Autumnal Cam-
paign, which is to be matrimonial, with Miss Penelope Russell of
about 40 years of age, who does not appear likely to be gratified
with the Coldness or Imbecility of age) communicates similar opin-
ions with Hare. Our Gentlemen are anxious to support a federal
Candidate, and that from New York, instead of the one from S.
Carolina ; provided there is the least probability of Success. But

102 RUFUS KING. [1808

if this should not be the case, I think they have a leaning to Clin-
ton, under the Idea, that he would support and cherish Commerce,
and further that they could make a Bargain, with which he would
comply, as to the principal measures & offices of Government.
It was not known to whom it was best to write to in New York &
therefore writing there is postponed.

Bigelow will go to Burlington. George Blake, who is just re-
turned, says that Clinton will have no support, not even in New
York. His opinions are never entitled to much Consideration.
The Democratic Leaders have remained in Town this week, but
with what Design I do not conjecture. They will endeavor to
push Sullivan, to some desperate Act in Relation to the Electors,
but he is so vacillating and feeble, that I have no great appre-
hensions on this score, unless circumstances at the Day should
be very different from what they now are.

We are looking with Anxiety to France, & with hopes, that the
Dismissal of Armstrong may be confirmed ; still not without great
Fears, that some soothing speeches, if not promises, may be made
by the Emperor. However vague they might be, they would do
us infinite mischief at this time. I shall keep this Letter to send
by a private conveyance, for I entertain no Doubt that Mr. Jeffer-
son's postmasters open all letters which are directed to men of
consideration. . . .

Old Mr. Adams says the present President is void of all capacity
to preside over the affairs of a Nation, & the country is now ruled
by an abominable Faction, which is second to none in the World,
in Wickedness and Folly, except the Essex Junto ; that is fairly
entitled to Pre-eminence in these qualities. The young man
wrote his Letter of Resignation, and so far as I have heard of
him, is silent. He walks into State Street at the usual Hour of
Exchange, but seems totally unknown. . .

Yours truly, C. Gore.

Dr. I. M. Mason to R. King.

New York, 27 July, 180S.
Dear Sir :

Will it be convenient to send the letters you were so good as to
promise me for the Eastward ? A parcel directed to me I should

1808] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. IO3

suppose would come safe by the Jamaica stage. After to-morrow
I know not that I shall wait for anything but your letters. I
should have called to see you had my occupations permitted.
The interest you take in your friends is the principle by which I
hope you will estimate the pain with which I heard of the alarm-
ing accident to Frederick,* and my joy in the expectation that
your fears may be happily disappointed. It is a beneficent dis-
pensation by which God draws back his protecting hand for a
moment, and stretches it out again the next — a strong and gra-
cious appeal to the heart confirming all the dictates of the under-
standing, and the doctrines of his word, concerning our entire
dependence upon him & the watchfulness of his fostering care.
The peril and the preservation of your boy are worth a thousand
abstract syllogisms to establish not only the truth, but the consola-
tions of a particular providence. Who, that is not insane, would
sacrifice, for all the substitutes of a freezing philosophy, the sweet
repose of the heart upon this assurance that " as a father pitieth his
children, so Jehovah pities them that fear him ? " I have griev-
ously erred, my dear Sir, if observations like these shall appear
to you impertinent. My apology must be, that I know not how
more forcibly to express my personal attachment than by my
wishes and prayers that the bosom of my most valued friend may
be the abode of the faith, the purity and the peace of the gospel.
I shall be much gratified to hear that Mrs. King has suffered
no serious inconvenience from the shock she must necessarily
have felt from the injury to her son — Make my best regards ac-
ceptable to her & to the rest of your family ; and believe me to
be, my dear Sir, with esteem & affection

Yours & truly I. M. Mason.

R. King to Revd. Doct. Mason.

Jamaica, L. I., July 28, 1808.
Dear Sir :

I have received your friendly letter of yesterday and both Mrs.

King & myself are heartily thankful to you for the kind wishes

* In jumping from a hay mow in the barn, he was struck in the forehead by
one of the tines of a pitchfork which was standing upright. No serious result
followed, as the bone was not pierced.

104 RUFUS KING. [1808

and consoling Reflexions that it contains. Tho' the poor child's
wound was extremely hazardous, and the danger is not yet passed,
he has, thanks to God, suffered very little pain ; and as no unfa-
vourable symptom has hitherto occurred, we are encouraged to
hope that it may be the merciful will of the Almighty that his
dear life shall be spared to us.

The enclosed letters are all I have been able to prepare, being
called off by Company. If you think it probable that you shall
go to Portsmouth, I will send you some other letters for that
place, as also one or two for Salem.

With sincere regards I remain, Dear Sir,

yrs faithful & obed. Rufus King.

R. King to C. Gore.

Jamaica, L. I., Sept. 27, 1808.
My Dear Sir :

. . . I congratulate you on the issue of the Election in R.
I., N. H., and Vermont, for although we have no official Report
respecting the last, the probability is in favour of a favourable
result. I have been a little disappointed to hear from Hartford,
Conn., that Chief Justice Parsons has been lately there, and as
was there, supposed, for the purpose of changing their purpose in
relation to the presidential Election — his wishes, which seem to
be the same as those of Mr. Otis, met with no encouragement ;
and the fact undoubtedly is that with the exception of the New
Haven Senator, no man of distinction in that State can be per-
suaded to adopt these heretical opinions. As to this State, every
article of information confirms the opinion that there is not a
single individual (out of Govr. Clinton's family) who is a person
of influence in the democratical party, that supports Gov. Clinton's
pretensions in opposition to Madison. Perhaps the Democrats in
no State are more generally and efficiently united in favour of
Madison than in this State.

Our accounts from New Jersey & Pennsylvania are highly en-
couraging ; and according to opinions of the present date the
federal Cause is there likely to prevail in the approaching
Elections.

Why does not Park expose and dwell upon the character of

1808] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 105

Mr. Evving, our locum tenens Ambassador at Madrid ? Let his
reputation and connexion be exposed — let it be told that for the
inferior intrigues in which he was employed to promote Jefferson's
Election, he was rewarded by an immediate appointment as
Consul, Agent to protect seaman and agent to prosecute Claims
before the Board of Comrs. at London — afterwards appointed
Secretary to the Legation to Madrid, where he found no difficulty
in going, tho' his Principal was unable to reach the place of
his Destination. At Madrid he has become the instrument of
Bonaparte, and abused his office by covering as American Dis-
patches, the Dispatches of Murat to his agents in So. America.
Young, the Consul, was perhaps ignorantly employed in carrying
the Dispatches, which have been seized by the Patriots, and are
likely to have a most unfavourable influence on our connexion &
interests with Spain. Ewing, Duane & Haley are men fit for the
same employ, and whose appointments evince the influence of
France upon our Govt. faithfully yr. ob. St. Not signed.

R. King to C. Gore.

Jamaica, L. I., Oct. 10, 1808.
Dear Sir :

As the season is at hand for fall planting, I must remind you
of the young Elms, and request that you would employ some
person to inform you when there happens an opportunity from
your Port to New York, in order that the trees may be put on
board.

If Mr. Honeywell has any larches or other ornamental trees
that he would spare, I should be obliged to him to send me some
in exchange for any of the Fruit Trees or Shrubs to be obtained
in this Quarter.

As to politicks, I discern nothing that must not be equally
evident to you and others who read the news-papers. There
is, as I hear, a prevailing opinion in town among persons engaged
in trade that the Embargo will soon be raised. For my own part,
I am not able to perceive the Evidence that authorizes this
opinion. If the alternative be war or Embargo, as Mr. Jefferson
alleges to be the case, I conclude that the Embargo will be con-
tinued. Besides if no material Change has occurred in respect to

106 RUFUS KING. [1808

the Motives for imposing this measure, how can its authors con-
sistently remove it.

Should the Elections demonstrate still further loss of popular
confidence, this circumstance may, & probably will, have its in-
fluence, and I am deceived in the views of our Rulers, or nothing
short of this inducement will engage them to retract their measures.

The latest accounts from England are, as it seems to me, of
considerable importance. I do not refer to their Military Ex-
peditions, but to the temper which prevails there respecting
America, and to the change of disposition that has taken place
concerning this Country. Should the tide of French success stop
or turn, and the Spirit of England rise, our removal of the
Embargo, and recalling the Proclamation, excluding the English
Navy from our ports, may not enable us to prosecute trade with-
out interruption. The course of complaint and remembrance
may change, and instead of making them they may be addressed
to us. The consequence of such a state of things, if our present
Rulers are supported may be of the most serious nature.

Farewell — always & faithfully yr,

Not Signed

Horatio Southgate to R. King.

Portland, Nov. 15, 1808.
Dear Sir :

Yours of the 10th of Oct. last I have received & have with
pleasure attended to your request.

Mars has shipped on board Capt. Blanchard's Packet to Boston,
there to be placed on board a New York packet, three boxes,
containing two hundred and fifty plants viz. Silver fir, double
spruce, hemlock spruce, larch and white pine — fifty each. Mr.
Mars prefers sending on all the plants this fall, observing for
reason that the spring is so much later here than with you, that
our plants could not be taken out of the ground until your season
was too far advanced to admit of their succeeding ; resembling
birds of passage, they must travel north in the spring and south
in the fall of the year.* ... I hope you will receive them in
safety & am with respect, Your very hble. Servt.

Ho. Southgate.

* It was incorrectly stated in vol. iv., p. 464 of this work that these trees
■were sent by Mr. Sheaffe. — Editor.

l8o8] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 107

T. Pickering to R. King.

Washington, Nov. 19, 1808.
Dear Sir :

In a packet accompanying this you will find the President's
Message and the communications referred to relative to the ne-
gotiations with Great Britain and France.

It is manifestly the intention of Mr. Jefferson & party to con-
tinue the embargo, if they think it possible that the people will
bear it.

The order for equipping a hundred thousand militia, to be
ready at a moment's warning, has probably two objects. — one, by
exciting a general alarm to induce the people, dreading war, to
acquiesce in Mr. Madison's election under the idea that a change
at such a crisis would be hazardous to our union & defense : the
other , to deter the people of the northern States from any attempt
to resist a measure which is working their destruction, by the
imposing attitude of the militia of the democratic states, in
readiness to attack them. The injunction in Dearborn's letter to
the Governors — to select Officers who can be depended on — wears
this aspect.

The firm but cool resolve of Connecticut and the proceedings
in general, in New England, in opposition to the embargo, have
excited great uneasiness in the breasts of the administration ;
but the President's infallibility must be maintained, and the
pride of the party knows not how to consent to any essential
change, while the measures of the belligerents (of G. B. especially)
remain unchanged.

While writing my long letter to Govr. Pinckney in January
1787, vindicating our Govt, against Mr. Adet's false and insulting
accusations, I had occasion to look into Mr. Jay's correspondence
while negociating with Mr. Oswald the preliminary Articles of
Peace. I remember the endeavours of Count Vergennes to
persuade him to relinquish to Spain the western territory, I be-
lieve, as far East as the mountains dividing the waters running
into the Atlantic from those running into the Mississippi : but I do
not recollect meeting with what I uniformly heard, that the French
Court attempted to persuade our Ministers to relinquish the
Fisheries on the Bank of Newfoundland, &c. You are, I doubt

108 RUFUS KING.- [1808

not, perfectly possessed of all the information, which the journals
of Congress or Mr. Jay's communications on that business could
furnish. If you can find time, I shall be greatly obliged for
your stating to me the important facts : what right our own
French Party in the Congress of that day were willing to give
up, to please the court of France, and of what that Court, by
open demand & by intrigue, endeavoured to deprive us. I well
remember Master Lovell (a member of the Committee for foreign
affairs) once showed me a letter from Dr. Franklin (I think in the
winter of 1781 when I went from the army to Philadelphia on
business) in which the Doctor complained of Mr. Adams' want
of Complaisance towards Count Vergennes, by which he had
given offence, adding, " for my part I am determined to please the
Court of France." I remember too Mr. Lovell's exclamation on
reading those words of the Doctor, " an old Rascal." This same
complaisant disposition in the Doctor continued until the terms
of our peace with G. B. were fixed ; when with his wonted art, he
came about and agreed with Mr. Jay & Mr. Adams. His devotion
to the French Court was so manifest that (as the impression from
Mr. Jay's letters rests on my mind) Mr. Jay was afraid to trust him
with the knowledge of his negotiations with Oswald.

Mr. Monroe had acquired some credit among Federalists ; but
his correspondence with Mr. Jefferson recently published, has
completely downed him,

I am dear Sir very truly yours, T. Pickering.

R. King to T. Pickering.

Jamaica, L. I., Dec. 1, 1808.
Dear Sir :

I should have returned a more seasonable answer to your letter
of the 19th past, had I not from day to day expected to remove
to town — where only I can make the Examination that may enable
me to answer your enquiry ; we are still detained in the Country ;
but propose to remove to town, if the weather be favourable, in
the early part of next week.

Mr. Madison to avoid the charge of acquiescence, has contended
that the Berlin Decree did not infringe our Neutral Rights in any

l8o8] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE.

IO9

case antecedent to the case of the Horizon. What are we to
understand by Neutral Rights ? Undoubtedly the Rights that a
nation at peace may claim to enjoy when other nations are at
war — Belligerent and neutral are therefore correlatives. By the
Convention with France it is agreed, when France is at war, and
the U. S. at peace, that the American Flag shall cover and protect
enemy goods, that the presence of a national ship of the U. S.
shall free her convoy from visit and search, that Amer. ships may
pass and repass between the Ports of France and those of her
Enemy &c. &c. — not having the Treaty at hand, I cite from
memory. Are not these neutral Rights ? As they exist only in
the case when the U. S. are neutral & France at war, they most
undoubtedly are neutral Rights. Did not the Berlin Decree
violate these Rights immediately upon its publication ? was not
the arrest & sequestration of American vessels arriving in the
Ports of France from the ports of England, because they had thus
come from the ports of England, a. direct violation of the above
cited stipulation and therefore a violation of a neutral Right ?
The answer must be in the affirmative. How dare then our Govt,
with the Document before them to affirm and endeavour to im-
pose upon the Country so gross a misstatement as they have done
in reference to this French Decree ?

The Berlin Decree being an infringement of our Rights should
have been resisted as a similar Decree of the Directory was
resisted by the Federalists in 1798. We should have armed and
passed a non-intercourse with France. Had we so done, there
would have been no orders in Council, no Embargo, and pro-
bably before this we should have been again in Peace with France,
for you will remember that this same Bonaparte concluded the
Convention with the U. S. in 1800.

This however the present adminn. would not do, and for rea-
sons I need not state to you. We are now told that the Embargo
must be continued or the Country disgraced — admitting the alter-
native, how shameful it is, how criminal rather might I say, that
the men who have brought the Country to this condition should
have the effrontery to make this Declaration — The administration
will be disgraced by the Repeal and they deserve to be ; perhaps
they merit more than disgrace.

But will the continuance of the Embargo save the Country

IIO RUFUS KING. [1808

from Disgrace ? as to its effect on France & England we have
sufficient evidence of its inefficiency : the longer it is continued,
the deeper our disgrace when it is raised. It is earnestly hoped
that the Federalists will leave to the adminn. and its Supporters
all projects by way of substitute to the Embargo. Having
plunged the nation into its present embarrassment, let them bear
the whole responsibility of their measures.

The Embargo must be repealed — that simple unqualified meas-
ure must be adopted — It is high time to discard visionary experi-
ments— for God's sake let the Federalists abstain from any share
in them.

Always & faithfully yr.,

R. K.

P. S. Having written in the midst of conversation, I would,
could I do so, without losing a Post, re-write what I have written :
but you will excuse whatever requires to be — slovenly writing
must be admitted among friends.

C. Gore to R. King.

Boston, December 8, 1808.

My Dear Friend :

The Doings of Congress have disappointed many here, who
expected that, under some pretence, the Embargo Acts would be
repealed. This is now considered as permanent in regard to G.
B. & F., but the men of business begin to flatter themselves that
a permission to trade with Spain & Portugal will be granted, and
that Acts authorizing such commerce will soon be passed. I
confess that the Fear of Bonaparte, if no other consideration
should suggest itself, will prevent any such measure from being
adopted. The people of our Country are suffering extremely
and must soon be reduced to absolute wretchedness ; I mean that
portion of them, who have hitherto subsisted by navigation, &
especially by the fisheries. They are obliged to depend on
charity for food & fuel. In Beverley & Marblehead this is mani-
festly the case. In the latter 2000 dollars has been borrowed by
the Town to relieve the necessitous. In the former, private con-
tributions have become very heavy : one Gentleman told me he

l8o8] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. Ill

had already given to men, heads of families, more than 50 cords
of wood in quantities of 2x4 feet — men under 50 years of age,
healthy, honest & industrious, and who have on hand two years
earnings in the fishery. This same person said many others in
that Town had already given away much greater quantities in
proportion to their means. In Cape Ann they have continued to
send their Fish to market. In Portland, they have in several in-
stances, set the Officers of Customs at defiance & sent their ves-
sels to sea. Military companies are now marching Eastward, it
is said, for Salem & Marblehead for the purpose of preventing
violations of the Embargo, or, in the words of the Resolutions, to
put the Country in a state of Defence. Genl. Strong, who has
been here, thinks the people will soon require the influence of
good men to Repress or guide their zeal in opposition to the
National Government.

The remarks, under the signature of an American, in Coleman's
Paper, on the Infringement of our Treaty by France & the base
surrender of our Rights, by the Construction of our Administra-
tions, of those Edicts, have been read with much Interest here,
and are very generally attributed to your pen. The only part
that seems to want further Illustration is the 3d Position, made
under the 12th Art. of the Treaty, & to show that this is conform-
able to the Stipulations of the Treaty, and that under these Stip-
ulations our Vessels have secured the Right to go from an
English Port to France. Mr. Coleman does not state that In-
formation of the case of the Victory was communicated to Mr.
Madison : Such a Fact would have added to the weight of the
Charge. . . .

Near the close of our Last Session two Resolves, a copy of
which is inclosed, were submitted by Mr. Crovvningshield of
Salem and were committed to five Gentlemen of which I was
Chairman to report at the next session. (One denouncing the
British order of Council of Nov., 1807, interdicting all neutral
trade with France, &c, as Violations of neutral rights, &c, to be
removed by fair negotiation, if not to be resisted by all other
means in their power — which resolve Mr. G. objects to — as the
matter belongs to the Natl. Govt.)

As to the second (" Resolved that in case it shall appear to
Congress that all fair attempts to remove said Orders & Decrees,
RUFUS KING. [1808

by Negotiation shall have been exhausted, and they shall find it
necessary to assume any other attitude of Resistance, it will be
the Duty of the whole people of the Commonwealth of Massachu-
setts to rally round the Standard of their own Nation & its
Government, and to afford them their utmost Support, by all con-
stitutional means, in their Power " )— while it might be proper to
express our Disposition to support the U. S. in all just & consti-
tutional measures, we can never pledge ourselves to support them,
in any Attitude of Resistance the present adminis. may assume,
after the Experience we have had of their incapacity & imbecillity
in choosing, as an Attitude of Resistance, that which injures our-
selves infinitely more than it does any other Nation & destroys
our means of manly & honourable resistance, and debases the
Spirit & degrades the Character of our Country. They who are
a little removed from the immediate Scene of Action are fre-
quently better judges, & I pray you to reflect on this subject &
give me your reflections, with such ideas, as suggest themselves
& such authorities, as may show the Propriety or Impropriety of
my own thoughts. Herein I will thank you to state any illustra-
tion of the Idea, contained in the third Proposition, alluded to in
the former part of this letter. . . .

Affectionately your friend,

C. Gore.

C. Gore to R. King.

Boston, Dec. 26, 1808.

My Dear Friend :

. With respect to our political relations, we are still
plunging deeper in distress. Our Citizens are suffering under
great poverty, & will, I am satisfied, break out into open violence
against the existing laws, unless they can violate them with Im-
punity. This will rather take place in the outposts than in Bos-
ton, where the Merchants are too rich to hazard much on
uncertain projects & in Defiance of Law. Our Representatives
will assemble heated with Resentment, and it will be difficult to
restrain them within constitutional Bounds. What under all Cir-
cumstances will be proper to advise I feel extremely dubious.

1808] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. II3

How far the people of our own State will be disposed to confirm
their Doings is questionable. In the Commonwealth we have
probably a Majority not exceeding 4000 ; a small Error may even
lose that. The other N. England States are probably not so
ardent as Masstts. To run counter to them would destroy our
own Majority & occasion a dreadful Revulsion. We should be
thankful for the Judgment of our Friends a little distant from our
Scene, though occupied by their own Distress, a little more im-
partial as to what is proper to be done here.

Yours truly,

C. Gore.

The communication in the Evening Post referred to by-
Mr. Gore is here given, with the Preliminary Remarks by
the Editor of that paper.

To an Injured and Insulted People.

Americans :

I cannot, in duty to you, commit the following communication,
highly interesting and important, lucid, learned and elegant as it
is, without one word to arrest and fix your attention upon it.

In my last paper I expressed a lively regret that the gross viola-
tions of veracity, of which I had in three instances convicted the
Secretary of State, in his official letter to the British minister,
should not have been the most objectionable feature in that letter.
In urging upon the Secretary the charge of falsehood in relation
to the case of the Horizon, I was aware that that charge was open
to a sort of answer, founded on a pretended distinction between
captures on the high seas, and seizures in the ports of France ;
but as the National Intelligencer waived the benefit of such dis-
tinction, I felt myself at liberty to meet him on his own ground.
I reserved, however, for a separate paper, a different view of the
subject, in which Mr. Madison should have been allowed the ad-
vantage here suggested, and thus been permitted to clear his
reputation of a breach of veracity at the expense of incurring
infinitely deeper guilt. That labor, however, has been done for
me in a manner I could not hope to improve, by a learned corre-
spondent who has sent me the communication which I now intro-
duce to the public.

VOL. V. — 7

114 RUFUS KING. [1808

Read it, Americans, read it attentively, and behold how your
public ministers are capable of becoming, not merely the apolo-
gists, but the defenders of a foreign government against your
fellow citizens — read it and behold how they have treacherously,
traitorously leagued in the base and flagitious design of sacrificing
the rights and interests of their own country, to France — read it
and behold an instance of abandoned profligacy, such as will call
down the execration of America, and excite the contempt and
abhorrence of mankind. That this is not the hasty ebullition of
resentment, but the just and deliberate expression of feelings
which the occasion demands, will be apparent to every one who
will peruse what follows.

For the Evening Post.

Mr. Coleman,

If Mr. Madison's friends feel that respect for his reputation
that is pretended, they must suffer no small degree of mortification
in reading the exposure of his official conduct that you have sub-
mitted to the public. A deviation from truth by private persons
is always followed by loss of character, but a falsehood published
by a public officer of high standing in the country, stamps dis-
grace upon the nation — There is but one way in which the asser-
tion that the case of the ship Horizon was the first instance in
which the Decree of Berlin was put in force against the neutral
rights of the United States, can even be attempted to be recon-
ciled with the previous one of the brig Victory. To hide the
shame of our rulers' criminal submission to France, as well as to
excite resentment against England, both they and our foreign
ministers have set up and applied to these cases a distinction be-
tween the provisions of the Berlin Decree, which are territorial,
to be executed in France, and the provisions which are extra
territorial, and to be executed on the ocean. According to the
doctrines of these faithless guardians of our rights, the former
are lawful regulations, such as every nation is free to establish,
and against which none may justly complain. " That his majesty,
(says Gen. Armstrong in his letter to Champagny, dated August
6, 1808) has a right to make such municipal regulations as he may
deem proper, with regard to foreign commerce has not been
denied. For example, he may forbid the entry into the ports of

1808] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 115

France of American ships which have touched in England, or
been destined to England ; and he may either sequester or confis-
cate such vessels of the United States as shall infract these laws
after due promulgation and notice thereof ; but beyond this, the
United States hope and believe that his majesty will not go." And
Mr. Madison, in his celebrated letter of March last to Mr. Erskine,
defends the decree in the following manner :

" The French decree has two distinct aspects ; one clearly im-
porting an intended operation within the territorial limits, as a
local law ; the other apparently importing an intended operation
on the high seas. Under the first aspect, the decree however
otherwise objectionable, cannot be said to have violated the neu-
trality of the United States. If the governing powers on the con-
tinent of Europe choose to exclude from their ports, British
property or British productions, or neutral vessels proceeding
from British ports, it is an act of sovereignty, which the United
States have no right to controvert. It is only, therefore, under
the other aspect of the decree, that it can have violated neutral
rights."

It is unquestionably true, that every independent nation, that
has entered into no compact by which its power is limited, may
establish and execute within its territories such municipal laws
as may be deemed advantageous ; and it is under colour of this
essential principal of sovereignty, applied to certain provisions of
the Berlin Decree, that our administration have abandoned mill-
ions of the property of their fellow-citizens.

The provisions of this Decree and of its supplements, say our
rulers, although they expose to confiscation American ships and
cargoes that arrive in France from an English port, are a mere
municipal law, to be executed within the territories of France, a
law which France in virtue of her sovereignty was competent to
establish, and of which we consequently cannot with justice
complain.

The case of the brig Victory, and of others which had arrived
in France from the ports of England, fell within the provisions of
this municipal law, and notwithstanding the confiscation of these
vessels with their valuable cargoes be matter of regret, it affords
no just grounds of complaint. While on the contrary, the case
of the ship Horizon, in which the Decree was extended to the

Il6 RUFUS KING. [1808

ocean, violated the incontestable rights of the United States. For
this interpretation of the French Decrees, our republican admin-
istration are indebted, if I mistake not, to the opposition writers
in England, and to some of the orators of the English parliament.
Our minister at London availed himself of their discussions, and
as has been said, sent over to his employers a report of a con-
ference he had demanded with the English Secretary for foreign
affairs on the subject of the French Decrees and English Orders,
and in which he represents himself as having silenced and tri-
umphed over his adversary by this sagacious explanation of the
French Decree which with the inofficial explanation of the French
minister of marine was represented as being altogether local,
municipal and innocent ; as a regulation of which the United
States could not complain without impeaching the sovereignty of
France, and which, as it violated none of the rights of nations,
could not afford the slightest justification of the English Orders.*
This dispatch having been laid before Congress, the argument,
notwithstanding the closed doors, found its way into the public
papers, to the no small edification of the friends and admirers of
France.

To destroy the effect of this base apology for a flagrant act of
injustice, to expose the criminal connivance of our rulers in the
views of France, as well as to close up the only avenue by which
the Secretary of State can escape from the disgrace that you have
heaped upon him, I subjoin the following observations.

It has been stated to be of the essence of sovereignty, that a
nation, which has not by any act limited its power, may establish
and cause to be executed within its territories, such laws as are
thought expedient : but a nation cannot, consistently with public
law, do what it had promised to another not to do ; such promise
being a limitation of its sovereignt) — it may not for example, by
law forbid, what, by treaty with another, it had promised to per-
mit. Thus, if in a treaty between England and the United States,
the former engages to permit the importation of American cotton,

* There is some reason to believe that the purport of this dispatch has found
its way back to England, as it appears from the documents lately submitted to
Congress, that Mr. Canning required Mr. Pinkney to state in writing our pro-
posal to repeal the Embargo if England would recall their Orders, in which
course he might speak for himself and not through Mr. Pinkney in reply.

1808] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. WJ

and the latter to permit the importation of English woollens for a
certain number of years, neither, by a subsequent law may,
within such term, forbid the importation of these articles.

So, if in a treaty between France and the United States, the
former engages, that in case of war between France and England,
the citizens of the United States may sail with their vessels and
cargoes to the ports of England, and from thence to the ports of
France ; and the latter engages in case of war between the United
States and England, that the subjects of France may sail with
their vessels and cargoes to the ports of England, and thence to
the ports of the United States, neither would be at liberty to
shut their ports against the vessels of the other, arriving from the
ports of England ; and much less to make them liable, when so
arriving, to confiscation. Neither might do so because each had
by compact limited its sovereignty, so that it was incompetent to
these acts.

By the XII. article of the Convention between France and the
United States, concluded Sept. 30, 1800, it is mutually stipulated.

1st. That " it shall be lawful for the citizens of either country
to sail with their ships and merchandise (contraband goods always
excepted )from any port whatever, to any port of the enemy of the
other, and to sail and trade with their ships and merchandise, with
perfect security and liberty, from the countries, ports, and places
of those who are enemies of both, or of either party, without
any opposition or disturbance whatever ; and to pass, not only di-
rectly, from the places and ports of the enemy aforesaid to neu-
tral ports and places, but also from one place belonging to an
enemy, whether they be or be not under the jurisdiction of the
same power, unless such ports or places shall be actually block-
aded, besieged, or invested."

2d. That " vessels sailing for a port or place belonging to an
enemy, without knowing that the same is either besieged, block-
aded, or invested, may be turned away from such port or place,
but they shall not be detained, nor any part of their cargo, (not
contraband) confiscated, unless, after notice of such blockade or
investment, they shall again attempt to enter ; but they shall be
permitted to go to any other port or place they shall think
proper."

3d. That " free ships shall give a freedom to goods, and that

Il8 RUFUS KING. [1808

every thing shall be deemed to be free and exempt, which shall
be found on board the ships belonging to the citizens of either of
the contracting parties, although the whole lading, or any part
thereof, should appertain to the enemies of either ; contraband
goods being always excepted."

To those who are familiar, as our rulers doubtless must be, with
public treaties, their interpretation must be easy and unambigu-
ous. But, owing to the manner in which these documents are
generally drawn up, the reciprocity of their provisions, casts some
obscurity on their import, especially when they are but curiously
read by persons not accustomed to examine them. To remove
this difficulty on the present occasion, I have thrown into the
form of distinct propositions, the several engagements which
France, by the above cited article, has made to the United States,
in the case which actually exists, of a war between France and
England, the United States being neutral.

By the XII. article, France engaged, and that engagement, so
far as the stipulation of treaty goes, is now in full force.

1. That the citizens of the United States, may now sail with
their ships and merchandize, (contraband goods excepted,) from
any port whatever, to any port of England.

2. That they may, with perfect liberty and security, sail and
trade with their ships and merchandise, from the ports of Eng-
land, not only to any neutral part, but

3. That they may pass with their ships and merchandize, di-
rectly from the ports of England to the ports of France, and also
directly from the ports of France to the ports of England, except
such of them as shall be actually blockaded.

Without entering into an argumentative analysis of the XII.
article to show that these propositions are neither more nor less
than its just import warrants, I will request every impartial and
intelligent man, who feels an interest in the honor of his coun-
try, to make the comparison for himself ; being confident that he
must admit their fidelity.

If such be the tenor of our treaty with France, what becomes
of the distinction relied upon by our administration, to excuse
the enormities of France, between the territorial and extra-terri-
torial provisions of the Berlin decree ? Between one part of a
decree to be executed within the national dominion, contrary to

1808] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. II9

an existing treaty, to good faith, and its guardian public law, and
another part of the same decree to be executed upon the high
seas, contrary to the law of nations ? If the clauses in the de-
cree of Berlin, subjecting to confiscation our ships and cargoes,
going directly from the ports of England into the ports of France,
be repugnant to an antecedent and existing treaty, they are in
law, morality and honor, void, and France cannot enforce them,
without a contemptuous violation of the rights of the United
States.

Finally, if, in this one case, the stipulation of a treaty, and in
the other the law of nations, forbid France to enforce the Decree
of Berlin against America, she is alike restrained in each, and the
rights of the United States have been equally infringed in both.
It necessarily follows, that the proceeding in the case of the brig
Victory, as well as in other cases of earlier date, are as flagrant a
violation of the rights and honor of the United States, as those,
which to the eternal infernal infamy of France, occurred in the
case of the ship Horizon.

An American.*

Mr. Coleman makes the following article by "An Ameri-
can " a part of his (Coleman's) editorial entitled, "The Freyich
Still Defended."

At the beginning of his last paragraph, he writes as fol-
lows :

" Just as I had finished the above I received the following
from my correspondent, whose just and severe strictures
(Nov. 29th) first drew forth the correspondent of the Public
Advertiser. . . ."f

For the Evening Post.

Mr. Coleman :

In order the more easily to come at the true meaning of the
clauses of the Xllth article of the Convention with France, it
seems to be proper to state the casus federis : The article relates

* From the New York Evening Post, Tuesday, November 29, 1808.
f Mr. Wm. Kelby, Librarian of the N. Y. Historical Society, has kindly fur-
nished the Editor with these and several other interesting extracts.

120 RUFUS KING. [1808

to the conditions of the two parties when one is at war, and the
other at peace.

This condition now exists ; France being at war with England,
and the United States being at peace with both.

The Xllth article provides, " that it shall be lawful for the
Citizens of either party, (consequently for the citizens of the
U. S.) to sail with their ships and merchandize (contraband goods
excepted) from any port whatever, (therefore from a port of
France or port of England) to any port of the enemy of the
other," (therefore to a port of England the enemy of France, or
to a port of France the enemy of England.)

Thus then the voyage from France to England is lawful, and the
voyage from England to France is lawful. But again and more par-
ticularly, the article further provides, " that such ships (namely of
American citizens) with their merchandize, may sail with perfect
security, and liberty, from the ports of those who are enemies of
both, or either, (consequently from the ports of England the
enemy of France) without any opposition or disturbance what-
soever ; and may pass not only directly from the ports aforesaid
(to wit the ports of England) to neutral ports or places, (there-
fore to the ports of the United States which are neutral) but also
from one place belonging to an enemy, to another place belonging
to an enemy, whether they be, or be not, under the jurisdiction of
the same power ; " consequently, an American ship having arrived
in England, according to the first clause of this article, may, pur-
suant to the last clause thereof, sail without opposition or dis-
turbance, not only directly from Bristol to London, enemy places
under the jurisdiction of the same power ; but also from London
to Bordeaux, enemy places, not under, the jurisdiction of the same
power ; and thus the voyage directly from England to France is
lawful — so that it stands demonstrated, according to the plain
interpretation of the article, that the ships of the United States,
with their merchandise, may not only sail and trade between the
ports of the United States and those of England, but also directly
between the ports of England and the ports of France.

To cut off all cavil respecting contraband, and blockade, and
to provide against the future operations of a Decree of the French
Directory similar to the Berlin Decree, let it be remembered, that
this convention (made under the auspices of Chief Justice Ells-

1808] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 121

worth, and Messrs. Davie and Murray), contains a definition of
contraband, as agreed upon between the parties, and excludes
blockades by proclamation, by confining them to the case of actual
blockade, which cannot exist without the presence of a competent
force before the port blockaded.

An American.

From the New York Evening Post, December 6, 1808.

CHAPTER VII.

King to Geo. Hammond — Anxiety about public Affairs — Introduces Col. Trum-
bull— King to Pickering — Alarming Rumors — Trumbull to King — French
in Madrid — Prices of Articles in England — Pickering to King — British
Orders were among Causes of the Embargo — Franklin said to be in French
Interest in Peace Negotiations — King to Pickering — Answer that there was
powerful French Influence in Peace Negotiations, both in U. S. and
Europe — Jay by Opposition incurred the Displeasure of Vergennes —
Thanks him for his Speech against Bill to enforce the Embargo — Picker-
ing to King — Impressment in 1803 — Jefferson determined not to make a
Treaty with G. B. — Duane's Appointment — King to Pickering — Negotia-
tions against Impressment of his own Motion — Felt confident he could
have made a good Treaty — Administration did not second him — Gore to
King — Affairs in Massachusetts — Pickering to King — Embargo to be re-
moved 4th of March — Armstrong's Correspondence with Madison — King —
Berlin and Milan Decrees and English Orders incorrect — Retaliation a Law
of Peace.

R. King to George Hammond.

New York, Dec. 12, 1808.
Dear Sir :

Whether I have before acknowledged the receipt of your
friendly letter, I am uncertain ; if not, I now beg of you to ac-
cept my thanks for the same, as well as for the Parliamentary
Papers and debates with which you so obligingly accompanied
it. . . .

Not being of the political faith that is here at present in favour,
I pass my time in the bosom of my family, thinking and saying as
little as I can upon the subject of politicks. I cannot however
withdraw my mind, were I to desire it, from the struggle which
still continues to waste the Nations of Europe ; for England's
safety and welfare, my hopes and my confidence have never de-
serted me. Spain most unexpectedly is now your Rival, and
1809] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 23

merits all the success to which her unequalled wrongs give her so
just a title. But my fears are stronger than my hopes, and I
should feel the most anxious solicitude for the safety of the brave
patriots, who united in the direction and defence of their coun-
try, did I not behold a refuge, not alone such as will shield them
from personal violence, but sufficient to enable them to defy the
power of the tyrant.

Col. Trumbull, whom you will probably recollect, is the bearer
of this letter ; he is going with his wife to England and may there
resume his profession. Having lived in friendship with this gen-
tleman for a great many years, I can with confidence introduce
him to you, as a gentleman of distinguished probity and honour.
Going directly from hence, he is enabled to speak with knowl-
edge concerning the course and condition of our affairs as con-
nected with those of Europe.

I beg that you will do me the favour to present my compliments
to Mr. Canning, Sir Wm. Scott, and Mr. Wilberforce, and to be
assured of the constant Esteem & Regard, with which I am, Dr.
Sir, your obt. & faithful Servt,

Rufus King.

R. King to T. Pickering.

New York, Jany. 5, 1809.
Dear Sir :

. . . We daily receive alarming rumours, from the seat of Govt,
which are intended to increase the public solicitude, and thereby
to prepare us for the events which our Rulers seem resolved to
bring about.

With sincere respect & regards,

Rufus King.

Jno. Trumbull to R. King.

Falmouth, 8th Jany., 1809.
Dear Sir :

We had the pleasure to land yesterday. . . The news from

Spain is contradictory ; it is generally understood here that the

French are again in possession of Madrid after some severe

partial struggles on their march and a vigorous opposition from

124 RUFUS KING. [1809

the people of the city. The British force commanded by Sir
John Moore had not joined the Spanish army, or been in action,
except some skirmishes of Cavalry, in which the British have had
the advantage. It is said to be the intention to augment this
army to 70,000 men : an expedition of 10,000 are expected to
sail to-day from Portsmouth.

I am informed by Mr. Fox here, that the price of Corn has
been falling for some weeks past, and not the least apprehension
of scarcity is now entertained : since threshing commenced, the
crop proves to have been much less damaged than was at one
time apprehended. The quarten loaf (4.1bs & 50Z) now sells at
a shilling.

The price of Hemp is enormous, £170. the ton, but Govern-
ment have large supplies in store ; considerable quantities have
found their way from Russia thro' the means of neutrals ; & the
India Company have contracted to furnish 1000 Tons, the arrival
of part of which is soon expected. Tallow, (a Russian article)
has been very high, but is falling rapidly in consequence of
importations from Brazil. Cotton is also rather falling in value
in consequence of some arrived & large quantities expected from
Brazil & India. Pilchards of which immense quantities are
annually caught on this coast, and usually sent to the Mediter-
ranean, are now shipping for the West Indies. . . . faithfully

your friend & servant,

Jno. Trumbull.

T. Pickering to R. King.

City of Washington, Jany. 8, 1809.
Dear Sir :

To-day I received your letter of the 5th. ... A main object
in my speech was to prove that the British Orders of Nov. nth,
were not among the causes of the embargo. Now to take an
extract of a letter, dated Sept. 23d, from Mr. Canning to Mr.
Pinkney & delivered together with Canning's letter of that date,
which the President communicated to Congress the 8th of Novem-
ber, and is published in the pamphlet of documents which I sent
you : but the single passage I am going to recite, you will see,
must have deterred the President from laying it before Congress.

1809] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 25

" The connecting together in your proposed overture, the sus-
pension of the embargo & the repeal of the orders in Council — as
well those of November, as the preceding one of the 7th of Jan-
uary— might appear to imply that the embargo had been the imme-
diate consequence of these orders ; and I was therefore desirous
to ascertain whether, in fact, the order in Council of November
had been known to the Government of the United States previous
to the message of the President, proposing the embargo, so as to
be a moving consideration to that message. I had the satisfac-
tion to learn from you, Sir, that such was not the fact ; that '
rumours indeed might have reached America of some measure
of further retaliation being in the contemplation of the British
Government, that perhaps (as I understood you) some more
severe and sweeping measure might have been expected ; but
that of the orders of Council of the nth of Nov. as having been
actually issued, there was no certain knowledge in America, or
at least none in possession of the American Government, at the
time of the proposing the embargo."

At present no part of this extract should be published, or con-
versed about but with your confidential friends.

I requested some time ago information about the intrigues of
Count Vergennes, when Mr. Jay was negotiating with Mr. Oswald
on the terms of the Treaty of Peace. I wished particularly to
know all the points which Vergennes endeavoured to persuade
our ministers to relinquish. From my recollection, the burthen
of the negotiation and all the merit of the Treaty rested on Mr.
Jay : Dr. F. was in the French interest — at least disposed to be
perfectly complaisant, and to obey his instructions literally ; and
Mr. Adams was at the Hague, tho' heartily concurring with Mr.
Jay. I wish to receive the information you can give me.

yr. faithful & obed. Serv.

T. Pickering.

R. King to T. Pickering.

New York, January 15, 1809.
Dear Sir :

I expected sooner to have answered your enquiries respecting

the conduct of France at the period of our negotiation for Peace

with England, but I have been disappointed in my search for an

126 RUFUS KING. [1809

abstract of this negotiation which I drew up from the original
documents many years ago. Having occasionally lent papers of
this sort, and particularly to Col. Hamilton, I fear that I have lost
this with others. I however send you (with the request that you
will return it to me) an abstract of Mr. Jay's mission to Spain,
together with a precis of so much of the negotiation at Paris as
occurred before Mr. Adams joined the Commission. I likewise
add the copy of a note of References to ministerial appointments
and instructions by Congress, which may throw some light upon
the subject of your enquiry. It remains upon my mind as matter
of conviction derived from the contemporaneous suspicions and
proceedings in Massachusetts, as well as from the Examinations
that afterwards I had the opportunity of making, that, for several
years before and after the conclusion of the revolutionary war, a
powerful & controlling French influence existed in Congress :
both here and in Europe, France employed various intrigues
and manifested no small solicitude to prevent us from obtaining
those advantages in a Treaty of Peace, which were material to
our Prosperity & our Honour.

By reason of his sagacity and fidelity Mr. Jay incurred the
displeasure of the French Court, which did not fail to show itself
here afterwards through the French Ministers. The persevering
endeavours of the French Minister of for. affairs, the Count de
Vergennes, to engage Mr. Jay to consult and obey the instruc-
tions of Congress (equally known to him as to Mr. Jay) and to take
no step in the negotiations with Mr. Oswald the Eng. Minr.,
unless in confidence and concert with France, were entirely
fruitless ; while the respectful deference of Doct. Franklin for
the wisdom of Congress so much superior to his own, is under-
stood to have opposed no obstacle to the views of the French
Cabinet. Had Mr. Jay been equally pliable as Doct. Franklin,
there is little doubt that a Treaty would have been concluded
with Mr. Oswald, under the auspices of France and before Mr.
Adams' arrival, which would have restored the Tories and their
estates, which would have established the epoch of our Inde-
pendence to be the date of the Treaty, instead of the date of the
Declaration, which would have curtailed our Boundaries, given
up the navigation of the Mississippi, and relinquished the Fish-
eries. The views of France at this period to keep us back, and

1809] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 27

to check our growth, were afterwards openly confessed in the
instructions of the Commee. of public safety to Genet, and other
Documents have confirmed the fact.

Mons. Anquetil, of the French office for for. affairs, in his work
called Motifs de Guerres dedicated to Talleyrand, and published
in 1800, says that France in the period of 135 years, between the
Treaty of Westphalia in 1648 and the Treaty of Paris in 1783,
was at war 70 years and at peace only 65 years. These 70 years
are divided into eleven wars, to wit, 5 wars of family, 4 wars of
ambition, pride, hatred and obstinacy, and 2 wars of commerce ;
and in these two wars only was France as a nation interested. The
seven years war which was commenced in 1755, an^ tne American
war which began in 1778. Of the first, speaking of the English,
he says :

" Enfin ils se sont montres ouvertement quand ils ont attaques
les Francais en 1755 dans le Canada, et quoique le pretexte de
l'aggression ait ete une dispute de limites, il est certain que le
vrai motif etait le dessein d'abbatre et d' aneantir la marine Fran-
caise, qui se relevait. Reciproquement ce n'est pas pour soustraire
les Americains a. la domination Anglaise que Louis XVI. s'est
lie avec eux en 1778, ni pour les faire jouir des avantages de la
liberte ; mais pour oter a la marine Britannique la Ressource
d'un continent entier bien garni de ports, dont les forces avaient
ete tres utiles aux Anglais dans les dernieres guerres contre les
Francais, et pour rentrer en possession des parties de Peche et
de commerce qu'ils avaient envahis ; a. quoi les Francais n'ont
pas reussi."

You will recollect that the Treaty with G. Britain was con-
cluded contrary to the views & opinions of the French Court, who
were desirous of our waiting until the conclusion of a general
Peace ; and, if I recollect correctly, the dissatisfaction of France
and her Partizans in this country was such, that Mr. Madison &
others (Chancellor Livingston being the minister of for. affairs)
meditated a censure upon our ministers for their disobedience to
their instructions who enjoined an intimate & confidential co-
operation with the French Cabinet. Congress were at this time
at Princeton, and Col. Hamilton, a new member, avowed him-

128 RUFUS KING. [1809

self the Defender of the ministers. The eclat of the expected
discussion and the great popularity of the Treaty are understood
to have dissuaded the supporters of the instructions from bring-
ing forward their motion of Censure.

I thank you for the pair of Speeches which you sent me to re-
place those I had given to Col. Trumbull, and, together with every
impartial and honest man in the country, I am obliged to you
and Mr. Hillhouse for the pains you have taken in making them
and other excellent speeches to the Senate. I beg you to thank
Mr. Hillhouse, in my behalf, for his useful and constitutional
Speech in opposition to Mr. Giles' oppressive and tyrannical Bill
to inforce the embargo. These measures may be borne for a
time, but they cannot be of long duration. You will have seen
the proceedings of a numerous meeting in this city ; these will
be followed in other parts of our State. Whether the officers and
dependants of administration here will call together their follow-
ers to approve of what Congress have done and are doing I know
not, nor do I suppose it of much importance whether they do or
do not. Perhaps it would in point of policy be our wish that
they shd. approve. It is not however from our cities, but from
the country that sound opinions are to be looked for.

It is difficult to determine upon a course of measures, or upon
the fitness of promulgating and inforcing opinions, which deeply
affect the public welfare, unless all the circumstances of the times
and the occasion are before us ; we therefore cannot decide how
far our friends at Washington have been influenced in their con-
duct by considerations with which we are not acquainted. I
have myself thought that you might content yourselves with op-
posing such bad and dangerous measures as should be proposed ;
but I am not now certain that the condition of our public affairs,
and the crisis that cannot be remote, have not a claim upon you
to point out the course which ought to be adopted. That course
seems to me the repeal of the Embargo Laws, and the adoption
of the measures that were pursued in 1.798. I will not add to
this long letter the arguments which in my judgment would justify
this course, especially as the entire subject is within your recol-
lection. Very truly, I remain, dear Sir,

Your obdt. & faithful Servt.,

Rufus King.

1809] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 29

T. Pickering to R. King.

Washington, Jany. 21, 1S09.
Dear Sir :

In Mr. Madison's letter to Monroe, dated Jany 5, 1804, at the
20th page, he speaks of your negotiation on the subject of im-
pressment, so as to exclude the practice on the high seas ; but
says that " at the moment when the articles were expected to
be signed, an exception of the ' narrow seas ' was urged and
insisted on by Lord St. Vincent, and being utterly inadmissible
on our part, the negotiation was abandoned." I suppose the ne-
gotiation was instituted under the instructions of Mr. Jefferson,
and I suppose also that this exception was, as it has been since,
sine qua non. If without too much trouble you can give me a
view of your negotiation, I shall be greatly obliged. In the page
above quoted, Mr. Madison says, " Mr. King seems to be of opin-
ion that with more time than was left him for the experiment,
the objection might have been overcome."

I have long entertained the opinion that Mr. Jefferson de-
termined, at the outset, not to form a treaty of unity and com-
merce with G. B., and therefore insisted on some terms which
he believed she would never admit. If the impressment of sea-
men, except in British ports, had been given up, and if the coast-
ing and colonial trade of her enemies were entirely surrendered
to the U. S., so that the whole commerce of France & her de-
pendences should be carried on by neutrals without molestation.
Bonaparte might have been satisfied, and a treaty between the
U. S. and G. B. to secure these benefits to France, consented to
by the Emperor.

I remember that on my way home last May, you informed me
that J. Q. Adams had called on you ; and in speaking of the ac-
quittal of John Smith of Ohio, he ascribed it to Mr. Jefferson
whom he supposed to be in Smith's hands. This undoubtedly was
the fact. If you recollect any fact, stated by J. Q. A. as the
ground of his opinion, I should be glad to know it.

Mr. Jefferson has committed himself to many people, who have
been employed to do dirty work ; hence I presume Duane was
made a Lieut.-Colonel. I suppose he demandedihe appointment ;
and D. now commands at Mud-Island Fort, where he can con-
veniently edit his paper. Freneau was appointed translator of

I30 RUFUS KING. [1809

French for the Dept. of State by M. J. while F. was establishing
the National Gazette, altho' F. did not understand the language.
I remember George Taylor, (chief clerk) once showed me one
folio page of Freneau's translation, corrected in full twenty
places, I think in Jefferson's own handwriting. Taylor could
translate well & and was recommended to Jefferson for that ser-
vice by Mr. Jay. . . .

Very truly & respectfully yrs,

T. Pickering.

R. King to T. Pickering.

January 31, 1S09.

Dear Sir :

The attempt to settle with England an article respecting the
impressment of seamen, was made by me without any instruction
from the President. As the war was about recommencing, I was
anxious on this subject & therefore endeavoured to conclude an
article that would have afforded us some security: had not the
ministers been much engaged, & had not I myself been upon the
wing, I do believe I should have succeeded.

The principal article was in these words, " No seamen or sea-
faring person shall be demanded or taken [beyond the limits of
the narrow seas, or] upon the high seas and without the jurisdic-
tion of the contracting parties out of any ship or vessel belonging
to the Citizens or Subjects of one of the parties, by the private or
public armed Ships or Men of War, belonging to, or in the service
of, the other Party, and strict orders shall be given for the due
observance of this engagement." ; the words within the Brack-
ets were proposed by Lord St. Vincent to be added after the arti-
cle had been settled, and altho' his Lordship would have given
them up, there was an objection to doing so, from another quarter
and in consequence of which the business failed.

With regard to Mr. Jefferson's sincerity in seeking a good un-
derstanding with Eng., I will mention a fact, that has appeared to
me of great significance. You will recollect the objections that
were made in this Country, as well as in France, to Mr. Jay's
Treaty, on account of its having been negotiated and concluded
during a war between England and France.

Altho' we did not admit the validity of these objections in the

1809] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 131

sense in which they were offered, there certainly is considerable
weight in the observation that we never can expect to negotiate
as favourable a Treaty with England when she is engaged in war,
as when she is at Peace. The various interests that are advanced
in England in time of war, by the unlimited exercise of belligerent
rights over Neutrals, will be active to resist and defeat every at-
tempt to restrain those rights. Hence the conclusion of the war,
when the naval power is disorganized and laid up, is the true
time to enter into negotiations concerning Maritime Regulations.
Mr. Jay's Treaty, so far as concerned commercial & maritime
Rules, was limited to a continuance of ten years from the date of
the Preliminaries of Peace. Influenced by the foregoing considera-
tions, I early intimated to the Administration the policy of at-
tempting before the commencement of another war (which all
prudent men foretold to be not remote) to negotiate and conclude
a Treaty with England. I knew the character and disposition of
the English Ministry (Addington's Admn.) to be favourable ; be-
sides the reputation of the U. S. was such as to obtain the popu-
lar favor in support of the Ministry, in case they formed a Treaty
with the U. S., and I may to you add that I myself felt strong in
my confidence, that I could put our Affairs upon a better footing
than it had been in the power of Mr. Jay to place them in the
untoward circumstances in which he found himself. The reply
of our Administration taught me that no such overture was to
proceed from the U. S. ; in other words, if Eng. wished a renewal
of the Treaty, she must say so. I understood and have not been
disappointed in the views of our Executive ; and as I did not
choose to be the witness of what I foresaw would take place, I
resigned my office and came home.

Had we seasonably and sincerely tried to renew the Treaty,
we shd. have succeeded. I have believed that the same views &
motives which prevented a renewal of the Treaty, have influenced
every subsequent measure of our Administration relative to Eng-
land. These Reflexions are however purely confidential.
I remain faithfully & always your obt. Servt.

R. K.

I have no leisure to rewrite and copy in time for the Post, and
you will I hope excuse the erasions and interlineations.

Post Scriptum. The Embargo, as we are now told, is to give

I32 RUFUS KING. [1809

way to war. If the project be to unite with France against Eng-
land, the Union cannot be preserved. Has this been the real
purpose from the beginning, or has the last news from Spain en-
couraged the Administration to be more open in their measures ?
perhaps the opposition in the East begins to excite serious alarm.

Spain may be overrun, and I have believed that such wd. be
her miserable Fate, but the best and bravest of her sons will
escape to S. America, and there, allied with England, defy the
Tyrant.

According to the accounts from Spain, the cause of the Patriots
will suffer severely from the scarcity of bread and other provi-
sions. How base and how unfeeling is our conduct, in refusing
to our people the faculty of supplying them? The Eng. orders
are inapplicable, and nothing but the fear of France can prevent
our carrying to Spain those supplies, the want of wh. may occa-
sion the failure of the Patriot cause ?

I omitted to say that no fact was mentioned in support of the
opinion that Jefferson was in the power of Smith, the Ohio
Senator. R. K.

C. Gore to R. King.

Waltham, Jan. 27, 1S09.

My dear Friend :

We ended the Session of our Legislature in Harmony & good
Humour. Satisfactory Provisions for supporting the S. was

made, by a handsome majority, composed of a due proportion of
both Parties. Two or three Laws relative to the Sessions & the
appointment of County Attornies, passed the first year of Mr.
Sullivan's Admin, for the purpose of securing patronage to the
Governor, were repealed. No officer has yet been displaced, &
none will be, but for incompetency or mal-conduct. In making
the requisite appointments, no question has ever been asked,
what were the politics of the candidates, &, in many instances, I
know the men appointed to be of different sentiments in politics.
No office has been asked for one of the opposite party & refused,
yet the Chronicle, in its malignant & lying spirit, complains that
none but Federalists have been appointed to office, and among
these one of the most rancorous temper, alluding probably to Col.
Pickering, whose commission, as a Justice, was near expiring and

1809] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. I 33

wasrenewed, when he was named asa Justice through the Common-
wealth. Were Honestus & the Adams favoured with some respect
for truth, a little reason and a belief that there might be men en-
titled to some credit besides themselves, we might indulge a hope
of something like peace & quiet. But the insolence of these men
& their intolerant Vanity will never cease to goad the Community,
as they are goaded by their own passions. . . .

with ever affectionate Regard, I remain my dear Friend,

Sincerely yours C. Gore.

T. Pickering to R. King.

Washington, Feby. 2, 1809.
Dear Sir :

You will learn that yesterday the House of R., in Commtee of
the whole, negatived the motion of Nicholas to fill the blank in
his resolution for the time of repealing the embargo with the 1st
of June. Today they did fill it — with the 4th of March, — and
the majority being 75 to about 26, I presume the resolution for
repealing it on that day will finally prevail. Mr. Jefferson, how-
ever, is employing all his influence against an early repeal — or
earlier than the 1st of June, by which time may be expected the
answer of Bonaparte on that and ulterior measures. I cannot
doubt of a secret Stipulation, or understanding (probably not
known to Armstrong) for keeping on the Embargo, until other
measures, as well or better suited to his views may be practicable.
Without such an obligation, the failure of which might throw
Bonaparte into a passion and cause an exposure of Jefferson,
the obstinacy of the latter in maintaining a measure so hostile to
the interests of the nation & which is daily diminishing his popu-
larity, cannot be accounted for. From the mouth of a reputable
gentleman, who was present and heard it, but whose name I am
not at liberty to mention, Mr. Jefferson, last Summer, said he
would rather the U. States should sink than that any alteration
in his system should be made. I hope the prospect of an early
repeal will not render the opposers of the embargo remiss ; any
relaxation in the determined opposition might encourage the
devotees and enable Mr. J. to rally his troops.

In great haste faithfully yr

T. Pickering.

134 RUFUS KING. [1809

R. King to T. Pickering.

New York, Feby. 7, 1809.
Dear Sir :

I thank you for your letter of the 3rd, and am glad to see that
the H. of R., by so large a majority, have agreed to an early day
for the repeal of the Embargo ; altho' some among us still think
that the Rulers are madly determined upon a war with England,
and that this resolve, repealing the Embargo, will contain other
matter, which may in its consequences involve us in war. I am
rather disposed to consider the project of arming our merchant
vessels as a mere something to cover the retreat from the Em-
bargo System, from which the public voice has driven them.

If the Law be repealed, which forbids our merchants to arm
their vessels, every one will be at liberty, as he ought to be, to
arm or not to arm : but if Congress require them to arm, and
authorize, or direct, their resistance of visit and search by the
Belligerents — that, so far as I understand, is war. No merchant
who arms his vessel and whose master is ordered to resist the
belligerent visit and search, could obtain insurance under a war
premium ; so that the trade would be but little relieved by a sys-
tem which shd oblige the merchant to run this risque.

The Embargo must come off — it cannot be kept on. The
plausible reasons heretofore assigned in its favor no longer
operate. No man of sense believes them, and the continuance
of this bad measure every day exposes the Govt, to suspicions,
Avhich no man that loves his country dare seriously to entertain.
The Govt, must take off the Embargo ; and they are unable, and
dare not, if they desire it, to substitute in its place a war with
England. I must stop here to save the post.

R. K.

In several of the preceding letters reference has been
made to the fact that the President had not communicated to
the Senate the correspondence of Mr. Armstrong with the
French Government and with the State Department, and that
some of the leading Federalists, among others Mr. King, had
urged upon Mr. Pickering to ask for it. This he had declined
to do after consulting with his friends in Congress, from the

1809] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 35

certainty, as they believed, that the Senate would not sustain
the demand and that it would be better to wait. With the
exception of a letter from Mr. Champagny, it was not sent
to that body until Nov. 8, 1808, and it is here introduced
for the purpose of showing that the opposition made to the
acts of the administration by the Federalists, though not
based on actual official information as to the influence of
French counsels, was not factional, but the result of a firm
conviction that the policy of the Government was dictated in
what are called by Mr. Jefferson " conversations with the
Emperor," which " it is not usual to bring before the public."
Mr. Jefferson characterizes the seizure of our vessels by his
privateers as "justifiable by no law, as piracy, the wrong we
complain of." He permits the Emperor to insult the United
States, but directs his minister to remonstrate against his
acts in a " friendly manner." His eyes were closed to the
efforts which England made, in a firm yet courteous way, to
settle the questions with the United States, though she was
unwilling to yield to demands involving the surrender of what
she claimed as rights, which ended in bringing about a war
as unnecessary as it was fruitless in moving her from her
claims.

1807, August 15th. — " We had this morning an audience of the
Emperor. . . . He came directly to me, and, after some
questions merely personal, he adverted to the outrage committed
by the Leopard on the Chesapeake. 'This,' said he, 'is abomi-
nable ; they have pretended hitherto to visit merchantmen, and
that they had a right to do so ; but they, even they, have set up
no such pretentions with respect to armed ships. They would
now arrange it by giving up a right or usage, which never existed ;
but they will arrange it ; they are afraid to go to war with your
country.'" — Armstrong to Secy, of State, 2d Sess. 10th Congress
{Annals of Congress, p. 1668).

1807, Nov. 24. — " The unjust pretensions of England will be kept
up as long as those whose rights she violates are silent : and
what Government has had more to complain of against her than
the United States ? All the difficulties which have given rise to

I36 RUFUS KING. [1809

your reclamations, sir, would be removed with ease if the Govern-
ment of the United States, after complaining in vain of the in-
justice and violence of England, took with the whole Continent
the part of guarantying itself therefrom." — Champagny to Arm-
strong. Ut supra, p. 1667.

Jany. 15, 1808. — " In the situation in which England has placed
the Continent, especially since her decrees of the nth November,
His Majesty has no doubt of a declaration of war against her by
the United States, whatever transient sacrifices war may occasion :
they will not believe it consistent either with their interest or
dignity to acknowledge the monstrous principle and the anarchy
which that Government wished to establish on the sea. . . .
War exists, then, in fact, between England and the United States ;
and His Majesty considers it as declared from the day in which
England published her decrees. In that persuasion, His Majesty,
ready to consider the United States as associated with all the
Powers who have to defend themselves against England, has
not taken any definitive measures towards the American vessels,
which may have been brought into our ports ; he has ordered that
they should remain sequestered until a decision may be had there-
on, according to the disposition which shall have been expressed
by the Government of the United States." — Champagny to
Armstrong. Ans. of Cong., 2d. Sess., 1809, p. 1669.

1808, Febry. 22. — " I have come at the knowledge of two facts,
which I think sufficiently show the decided character of the
Emperor's policy with regard to us. 1st. That in a Council of
Administration held a few days past, when it was proposed to
modify the operation of the decrees of November 1806 and Decem-
ber 1807 (though the proposition was supported by the whole
weight of the Council) he became highly indignant, and declared
that these decrees should suffer no change, and that the Americans
should be compelled totake the positive character either of Allies
or of enemies. . . . If I am right in supposing that the Em-
peror has definitively taken his ground, I cannot be wrong in con-
cluding that you will immediately take yours." — Armstrong to
Madison. Ut supra, p. 1673.

1808, May 2d. — Mr. Champagny's letter of 15th of January,
" has, as you will see by the papers herewith sent, produced the
sensations here which the spirit and style of it were calculated to

1809] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 37

excite in minds alive to the interests and honor of the nation. To
present to the United States the alternative of bending to the
views of France her enemy or of incurring a confiscation of all
property of their Citizens carried into the French prize courts, im-
plied that they were susceptible of impressions by which no inde-
pendent and honorable nation can be guided ; and to prejudge
and pronounce for them the effect which the conduct of another
nation ought to have on their councils & course of proceeding had
the air at least of an assumed authority, not less irritating to the
public feeling." — Ut supra, 1677.

Mr. Armstrong was directed to speak of the offensive tone
of the despatch, but to leave way for friendly explanations.

1808, July 26. — " It would have given me the highest pleasure to
have drawn from this Government such explanations on the
general subject of our differences with them as would have met the
friendly and equitable views of the United States ; but I owe it,
as well to you as to myself, to declare that every attempt for that
purpose hitherto made has failed, and under circumstances which
by no means indicate any change in their aspect for the better."
— Armstrong to Madison. Ut supra, p. 1682.

In a subsequent letter, Aug. 30, he advises raising the em-
bargo, unless France do the U. S. justice, and establish an
armed commerce.

" Should she adhere to her wicked and foolish measures, we
ought not to content ourselves with doing this ; there is much,
very much besides that we can do, and we ought not to omit
doing all we can, because it is believed here that we can not do
much, and even that we will not do what we have the power
of doing." — Ut supra, p. 1684.

Mr. Jefferson, in a letter to Robt. L. Livingston, Oct. 15,
1808 {Jeff. Works, V, 370), says:

"The explanation of his principles given by the French Em-
peror, in conversation, is correct as far as it goes. He does not
wish us to go to war with England, knowing we have no ships to
carry on the war. To submit to pay to England the tribute on
our commerce which she demands by her order of Council, would

I38 RUFUS KING. [1809

be to aid her in the war against him and would give him just
grounds to declare war with us. He concludes, therefore, as every
rational man must, that the embargo is the only remaining alterna-
tive. These are acknowledged principles and should circumstances
arise which may offer advantage to our country in making them
public, we shall avail ourselves of them. But as it is not usual
nor agreeable to governments to bring their conversations before
the public, I think it would be well to consider this on your part
as confidential, leaving it to the government to retain or make it
public, as the general good may require. Had the Emperor gone
further, and said that he condemned our vessels going voluntarily
into his ports in breach of his municipal laws we might have ad-
mitted it rigorously legal, though not friendly. But his condem-
nation of vessels taken on the high seas, by his privateers, and
carried involuntarily into his ports, is justifiable by no law, is
piracy, and this is the wrong we complain of against him."

Mr. Jefferson writes to Mr. Short, March 8, 1809, telling
him of the Senate's rejection of him as Minister to Russia
( Works, v., 456).

" Our embargo has worked hard. It has in fact federalized three
of the New England States. Connecticut you know was so before.
We have substituted for it a non-intercourse with France and Eng-
land and their dependencies, and a trade with all other countries.
It is probable the belligerents will take our vessels under their
edicts, in which case we shall probably declare war against them."

The beginning of the following examination by Mr. King
relative to the priority of the Treaties between the United
States and England and France is missing, but is not essen-
tial to the understanding of its conclusions.

According to the limitations of the Treaties between the U.
States and England & France, the former expired in May 1804, &
the latter in August 1809.

As the Treaty with France was posterior in date to the Treaty
with England, the latter possessed certain priorities & preferences
in the American ports over the former. Had the English Treaty
been renewed antecedent to its expiration, these priorities &pref-

1809] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 39

erences would have been preserved ; but they expired with the
Treaty, and were therefore acquired and possessed by France over
England during the unexpired term of the Treaty : that too hav-
ing expired in August, both Nations have since been in these
respects upon a footing of equality.

In the Summer of 1806, the U. States having despatched Mr.
Pinckney to England as a Special Minister, this Gentleman in
conjunction with the Resident Minister, Mr. Monroe, was in the
Autumn of that year, employed in negotiating a new Treaty with
England. Bonaparte having seen with satisfaction the depreda-
tions on t-he American carrying trade practised by the British
Cruizers, had supposed it would lead to a rupture between the
two Countries, and when, instead of this result, he became ac-
quainted with the progress of the negotiation between the U. States
&: England, he proclaimed by the Decree of Berlin the British
Island in a state of Blockade, and interdicted the British Trade
to all nations.

The Decree was issued in Nov. 1806, and being in violation of
the Laws of war, gave to England & the nations, the Right to
have adopted immediate measures of retaliation ; the Government
of this Country, professing a course of moderation, notified the
Neutral States, whose Commerce alone was affected by this De-
cree that England proposed to retaliate, in the expectation that
thro' their representations & influence, this enormous Decree
should be recalled, intimating to them at the same time that, in
failure of such recall, England would find herself obliged to
retaliate upon France.

Immediately before the signature of the Treaty concluded with
England by Mess. Monroe & Pinckney, a notification to this effect
was made to them by the British Ministers.

We must all recollect the Fate of this Treaty, which was sup-
pressed and smothered by the President, and not only not ratified,
but not even submitted to the consideration of the Senate. The
Decree of Berlin was known to the American Government ; the
notification of the provisional determination of the English Gov-
ernment to retaliate on France was also known to them : and what
was their influence on the American Government, what their lan-
guage & conduct ? Did they remonstrate against the Decree, & did
they adopt eventual measures in vindication of our Rights if remon-

140 RUFUS KING. [1809

strance proved fruitless ? or did they acquiesce in the Decree ? Nay-
did they not do more than acquiesce, did they not justify the De-
cree, and was not the disgraceful weakness, or something worse, of
Congress blazoned abroad in the shameful attempt to mislead the
Country by representing the Berlin Decree as an innocent and mere
municipal Law, which France was at liberty to establish and which
of course violated the Rights of no other nation. I was born an
American, I have passed the meridian of the life of man, and
during my whole life have been the attentive and careful witness
of every important transaction of independent America : altho'
some events have occurred during the last 40 years which I could
have earnestly wished might not have happened, never until I
read these debates & heard the language of the administration,
did I feel myself completely humbled, for I had not before seen
reason to doubt the Integrity of my Country.

Who has forgotten the verbal distinctions, the sophistry, the
false logic and the tricks and concealments which were employed
on this occasion to mislead honest & confiding men, to hide truth,
to gloss over dishonesty and ambition and to maintain power upon
terms that integrity revolts at, honour rejects, and that liberty
must pay for.

England saw thro' the whole, and finding that her Expectations
of opposition to France were misplaced, had recourse to the ex-
ercise of that retaliation which the Law of nature confers upon
every independent man & nation.

Retaliation a Law of Peace as well as War.

The display of scholastic learning, which this natural and
just measure on the part of England, occasioned in this Country,
was unworthy, of the age in which we live, and has served only
to show that we have been governed by Pedants, not Statesmen.
The Law of Nations is, in its nature and substance, a compact
between the States, and the accession of each is upon the implied
condition of the accession of all ; every separate nation is engaged
to observe this law towards others, upon the understood condi-
tion that they, in their turn, will observe it towards her. And as
between independent nations there is no Tribunal for the hearing
and decision of their disagreements and wrongs, each must neces-
sarily be the judge of its rights and the avenger of its wrongs.

1809] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 141

If therefore, in Peace or War one nation violates the Law of
Nations to the detriment of another, the nation whose rights are
so violated is, in respect to such nation, in its turn released from
the observance of this law. It is upon these principles that the
Law of retaliation is founded.

If a branch of international Law be violated by one nation to
the injury of another, the injured nation is at liberty to disregard
the same branch of the Law in the case of such nation, and this
without regard to the Quantum of damage received or inflicted.
The notion that the Law of retaliation is limited by the actual
pecuniary damages received is altogether visionary. How is the
honour of a nation to be valued in such estimating, and what is
the pecuniary sum which is to compensate for its loss ? When
the Law of nations is violated by one State towards another, not
only the interest and security of such state are impaired, but its
honour is affected and wounded ; and those men have a most
defective sense of national reputation, who are alive concerning
the property, but dead as respects the honour of their country.
It is honour alone that can justify a war : money or property,
whether it be thousands or millions, is never worth fighting for,
except so far as the same may be identified with national honour.

The exact sum of damages therefore received by England from
the Berlin Decree was no rule whereby to regulate her retaliation.
The non-observance by England of the identical rule of Law,
that had been violated by France, was the only manner of retali-
ating that violation, without at all considering whether such re-
taliation would create greater or less damage to France, than her
violation had occasioned to England ; another and an equally
unfounded objection has been rendered against the retaliation of
England, because it bore upon and proved disadvantageous to
the commerce of the neutral states. I pass over, as utterly un-
worthy of attention, the question whether the neutral states did
or did not acquiesce in the Berlin Decree ; the right of retaliation
can never depend upon the conduct of third parties.

If in the exercise of the right of vengeance against an enemy,
a friend be injured, the avenger is not accountable according to
the Law of nations, as practised for centuries. Neutral States
may during war carry on their accustomed trade with the bellig-
erent states, except in articles contraband of war and to places

I42 RUFUS KING. [1809

actually blockaded. This right is of equal and sometimes of
greater value to belligerent than to neutral States. If one of the
belligerents disregarding the Law should interdict all trade be-
tween neutral states and its enemy, the rights of both would be
injured, the Law of nations as respects both would be violated
and each would be relieved from observing this rule of the Law of
nations as respects the violator ; as the injured neutral and bel-
ligerent are independent of each other each is the guardian of its
own rights ; the acquiescence of injured belligerent would no
more impair the neutral's right of seeking redress, than that of the
neutral would impair such right of the belligerent. The circum-
stance that this right on the part of the belligerent cannot be
executed without affecting the interest of neutral and friendly
states, does not, and ought not to, impair such right. It is but
an inconvenience, a damage, incidental to the exercise of a per-
fect right, and not the violation of a right : all complaint should
therefore be addressed to the doer of the first wrong, which not
only denied to the neutral the enjoyment of a lawful right, in
trading with his enemy, but exposed him to the loss of his trade
with the wrong doer, should the injured belligerent resort to re-
taliation. It is against France, therefore that we should complain
on account of the Decree of Berlin, and not against England
whose orders were a retaliation upon France for that Decree.
Each is free to prohibit all foreign Trade, and consequently to
exclude from her ports the ships of all foreigners.

CHAPTER VIII.

Trumbull to King — French Victories in Spain — Rumors of Overtures from
U. S. — King to Gore — Measures of Non-Intercourse with England and
France — Will they change the Decision of England ? — Gore to King — Re-
monstrance of Massachusetts against Acts of the Government — Troup to
King — Charge of Toryism likely to affect the Election — Should not ex.
elude from Candidacy — Trumbull to King — Spain and Portugal — Farmers
Prosperous in England — King to Gore — Spain — Independence of Spanish
Colonies — England may make Overtures to U. S. — New Congress will prob-
ably do Nothing to settle Questions — King to Gore — Losses by State
Treasurers should be prevented — How this may be done — Election in
New York yet unsettled — Probably influenced by Arrangements with
England — Erskine's Letters — Trumbull to King — Repeal of Orders in
Council — Baring to King — Hopeful of Peace — State of Politics in England
— N. Pinkney to King — Maryland Bank Stock — Gore to King — Massa-
chusetts' Affairs — Trumbull to King — Erskine's recall — Austria's Successes
— Effect on Bonaparte's Career.

Jno. Trumbull to R. King.

London, 12th Febry, 1809.
Dear Sir :

. . . The late events in Spain have been calamitous but
not dishonourable to this Country. By that want of combina-
tion which has so often proved fatal to the efforts of those op-
posed to France, the Spanish Army was defeated & Madrid
occupied before the British troops had joined. Bonaparte ap-
pears then to have directed his entire force against the British.
All was done by Genl. Moore, that skill, discipline, and courage
could effect under such circumstances ; and the retreat to Co-
runna and embarkation there, in the presence of a force far
superior in numbers, have been conducted in a manner which

i43

144 RUFUS KING. [1809

does the highest honor to the Commander & his troops. The
action at Corunna was unexampled, and inspired the French with
such respect, that no interruption was given to the embarkation
afterwards, altho* the last arriving party remained on the ground
63 hours after the action.

The loss of troops in this unfortunate business has been much
less than was dreaded ; it is said not to exceed 5000 in all. Poor
Moore, whose name this retreat places in the rank of that of
Moreau, fell unfortunately by almost the first cannon shot that
was fired, and is most deservedly lamented.

The weather has been singularly boisterous for the last month,
and we have had no correct information from Spain since the
return of the army ; there are vague reports that the people of
the South still hold out with some success, and it is said to be
the intention of this Government to renew their efforts in their
support. There is also a rumour of some conciliatory proposition
from this Government to the U. S. being in contemplation, in
case the Non-intercourse Acts should put France equally with
England under the Ban of the Empire. How well founded this
rumour is, I cannot say; other affairs have almost banished it
from conversation.

You will judge of the danger to which this country is ex-
posed from the want of Corn by the following quotations from
returns of the Corn Exchange :

Nov. 26th, 1808, Wheat, 75/ to 90/. Flour, 75 to 80/.

Feby 6, 1809, " 75 to 90/. " 75 to 85/.

Several cargoes of Cotton have arrived within these few days
from America and some Tobacco, in defiance of the Gunboats.
Hemp, Timber & Flaxseed are very dear. Shipments of British
Manufactures are making at Liverpool for America almost equal
in extent to what is done in common times.

27th Feby. — Numerous Cargoes of Cotton & Tobacco have
lately arrived from the U. S. principally consigned to Baring &
said to be owned by them. These arrivals have essentially af-
fected the price of Cotton, which is now dull.

Accounts have been received from Spain of fresh successes ob-
tained by the patriots before Saragossa and the conquest of that
country seems to be neither complete nor certain.

The public attention here has been occupied for some weeks,

1809] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 145

by charges of a scandalous nature against the Duke of York : in
the course of the examinations, I see nothing to fix upon him the
charge of corrupt conduct : but enough has appeared of scanda-
lous and corrupt applications, made by many, who are called
gentlemen, to a worthless woman to give them a very just title
to the honour of attending their swindling patroness to Botany
Bay.

It is said by those who pretend to be in the confidence of the
Government of the U. S. (among whom Mr. Geo. Joy ranks
high) that proposals will very soon be made on their part to this
Country, which will be accepted here and lead to a friendly fu-
ture intercourse, & probably to a war on our part against
France : and I have been assured by the highest American Au-
thority here, that such is believed to be the real wish of that
Government. How true this is, you can judge better than I. I
must be forgiven if I wish for the future confirmation of such
unexpected intelligence. We understand also that the new Con-
gress are to meet on the fourth Wednesday of May ; by which
day, the vessel expected with the dispatches which are to lead to
these important events, is expected to return to America. I can
only say that I wish these gentlemen may be correctly informed.

The average price of wheat in Mark Lane (the Coon market)
for the week ending Feby 18th, 1809 is 92/ & \ a quarter, which
is 2\/ lower than the preceding week. Flour 84/4 a sack, which
is one farthing on a sack higher than the preceding week. . . .

Sincerely yours,

Jno. Trumbull.

R. King to C. Gore.

New York, Feby 15, 1809.
Dear Sir :

I this afternoon reed, your favour of the 13. I am fully aware
of the scruples to wh. you allude, and myself am inclined to
hesitate, shd. not the danger of war become imminent. On this
subject our latest advices, dated the 12, from Washington state
that the probability is in favour of the adoption of the following
Plan.

The Law wh. authorized the Pr. to interdict our ports to the

vol.. v.— 10.

I46 RUFUS KING. [1809

Br. Navy expires with the present session of Congress ; it will not
be revived. A Law is on its passage raising the Embargo on the
4th of Mar., except with regard to England and France, and
their respective dependencies, with which all commercial inter-
course is to be strictly forbidden : this Law is to contain a sec-
tion repealing the former and partial non-importation Law, and
a section forbidding the entry into our ports, after a certain and
early day, of all English and French vessels, armed or unarmed,
public or private, whenever England or France revoke their
Decrees or Orders.

This Law, it is said, places England and France precisely in
the same situation, and is taking a ground, that is supposed, will
enable the admin, to renew their negotiation with England with
a prospect of success.

The ulterior measures, which on Mr. Giles' suggestion, were
approved by the Caucus, at the same time that this plan was
agreed upon, will be brought forward in due time ; I mean the
raising of 15 m. men, & opening a Loan for 10. Mills, of Dollars :
these, however, are mere paper projects, intended either not to
become Laws, or, if sanctioned by Congress, to be placed under
the discretion of the President. It is likewise rumoured that it
is not yet decided whether we are to have new missions, or em-
ploy the resident Ministers.

Now the important question is, whether this project will have
any influence to change the decision that England has announced
on the subject of her Orders. The only new suggestion to be
made on our side is this. We have by this Law removed the
objection wh. was made use of, that the non-importation Law
and the Pr. Proclamation were partial measures. England is
still excluded from our ports, and instead of a partial, a complete
non-importation is decreed ; the non-exportation is, in its effects,
the same as the Embargo. France receives the same Law.

The Eng. Admin'n have declared that they wd. not revoke
their Orders till France had repealed her Decrees. Now no one
believes that France will do this ; and the consequence seems to
be (if no changes or reverses have occurred in England) that the
Ensr. Admin'n will be likelv to adhere to their determination.
If as is not unlikely Spain and Portugal are conquered, and if
the British Army there be overwhelmed, the project may sue-

1809] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 47

ceed, and this is its only chance ; and if it does, as the boys say,
all Jerusalem cannot save us from a war with France. On the
whole, if England be not depressed, most certainly if her cour-
age be exalted by any fortunate turn of affairs, this overture will
share the fate of those proceeding from the Embargo : it will be
rejected, and we shall be vexed and harassed by the non-inter-
course Law.

Yrs truly,

R. K.

C. Gore to R. King.

Boston, February 22, 1809.
My dear Friend :

After duly weighing the Circumstances of the times & the great
Apprehensions of all the Petitioners that the Government in-
tended a war with England and Alliance with France, it was
decided to introduce Resolutions expressive of a distinct opinion
on this subject. These were reported with the Remonstrance to
Congress, and were intended to take Priority in the Discussion,
but from a trifling Circumstance were postponed, or rather not
offered by the Prest. of the Senate, until the Remonstrance was
read, which passed & was forwarded on Monday Morning. This
contains a strong opinion on this Subject & takes up the substance
of the intended Resolutions. It was intended to bring forward
the Resolutions immediately afterwards ; but on Reflection it is
decided to delay them for a few days, that we may shape them
more directly to suit the existing state of things, after the Non-
intercourse Bill has passed, presuming that whatever the opinions
of this State could effect on the Dispositions of Congress, relative
to the Measures now under their consideration, will be attained
by the Remonstrance which went in the mail of Monday Morn-
ing. We shall probably make an Address to the People of the
Commonwealth & close our Sessions the next week. The wish of
many has been to sit until the nth March, but the Federalists
are constantly returning home, either called by their own affairs,
or from Fear of giving Discontent to their townsmen, by imposing
the additional expence, which is incurred by so large a Repre-
sentation. To avoid therefore the Probability of being only a

148 RUFUS KING. [1809

small majority, or possibly even a minority, we must ask for
Recess sooner than we had intended. The people are becoming
more generally convinced of the Folly & Wickedness of our
Rulers. Yet the Leaders of the Democrats are exerting every
power to obtain the semblance of support to the obnoxious
Measures of Congress.

Yours truly C. G.

R. Troup to R. King.

Albany, 4th April, 1809.
My dear Sir :

. . . As to the ensuing election I now have the pleasure of
assuring you that our prospects are certainly promising and I
think we shall succeed if we act with becoming unanimity, zeal
and energy. In these essential qualities we mean not to be de-
ficient here ; and it would be a source of extreme regret to us, if
our friends in any quarter should be found to want them.

On the subject of unanimity permit me to remark, that we are
alarmed with late reports from New York. We are told that our
friends there are divided into two parties who have become, or
are likely to become, open enemies to each other ; the one con-
tending that persons liable to the charge of toryism, from having
resided within the British lines, or from being descended from
those who did so reside, ought to be excluded from the ticket
about to be formed ; and the other contending that the exclu-
sion of such persons will be illiberal, unjust and impolitic. If
these reports be well founded, it would be highly gratifying to
your friends here, if you would be kind enough to employ your
weight and influence, and endeavour to heal the division and
restore harmony. Animosity in a party is at all times a danger-
ous disease ; but at the present critical moment it might prove a
mortal one to ours. The advocates of exclusion, besides incur-
ring the imputation of illiberality and injustice, stand opposed by
a long and uninterrupted course of practice. Soon after we
regained possession of New York, we permitted the Tories to
enlist under our banners ; and they have since manfully fought
by our side in every important battle we have had with the
democracy ; some of them in the character of officers, and others
in those of common soldiers. And when monies have been

1809] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 49

necessary to support our cause, many amongst them never
scrupled to pay their quota of the general tax. Moreover we
ought not to forget their zealous and useful services in our great
contest for the constitution ; which I presume was intended to
have the effect of putting us all on an equal footing with regard
to the rights and honors of citizenship. Why therefore should
these our good friends be now branded with the odium of
" British sensibility " and drummed out of our ranks ? My soul
revolts at the very idea of a measure so illiberal — so unjust — and
indeed so excessively cruel ! We never discovered to the best
of my remembrance that the cry of toryism had the least influence
in any of our elections in New York, and we often had on our
tickets men denominated tories. In this list, I name our worthy
friends Mr. Harison, Mr. Cornelius I. Bogert and Mr. Josiah O.
Hoffman, and to their names we may add those of Mr. John
Watts, Mr. John De Lancy and Mr. William Cock with several
others. What would the generous heart of our ever to be la-
mented friend Hamilton induce him to say of this excluding
project, if he were capable of participating with us in our present
patriotic and noble struggle ? But the mere mention of his name
calls to my mind ideas and fills my breast with emotions, which
prevent my enlarging & compels me to conclude with assuring
you of the pure and exalted esteem, with which I am,

My dear Sir Your humble Servt. Robt. Troup.

Jno. Trumbull to R. King.

London, 5th April, 1809.
Dear Sir :

. . . In my last letters to you, I stated to you what I had
heard from high authority here, of the proposed system of Amer-
ican politics, and what has been done corresponds so exactly with
his information, that I presume he is to be considered as thor-
oughly acquainted with all the plans of those, whose darling Em-
bargo, he terms " a measure of almost supernatural Wisdom." He
must of course consider our countrymen in New England, as nat-
ural fools.

The affairs in Spain are by no means to be considered desper-
ate. The French have made but little advance since the affair

I50 2WFUS KING. [1809

of Saragossa ; on the contrary the patriots in the North have ob-
tained some successes, small indeed in themselves, but of good
omen. They, the French, have not yet possessed themselves of
Portugal ; on the contrary, the Portuguese are collecting a re-
spectable force, and the British Troops, now in that country,
amount to 18,000 men ; and seven additional Regiments have
just sailed from Cork for Lisbon. Sir Arthur Wellesley goes out
in a few days to take the command and his force is to be made
up to 30,000. If this force is wisely directed and ably com-
manded, it will prove of prodigious importance in the approach-
ing state of things.

A war with Austria is become unavoidable and we expect
every hour to hear of the commencement of hostilities. France
of course will be occupied in a distant point, and the Spaniards
and Portuguese will find a moment very favorable to their exer-
tions.

The attention of this Country has been very much engrossed
by the folly of the Duke of York. He has resigned ; and exam-
inations are now going on in respect to other abuses. The price
of Corn and Flour is gradually falling, Cotton is at /18 d. a
pound ; Tobacco at /o d. ; Flaxseed fallen from ^20. to ^5.,
and the Country generally in prosperity. . . . Farmers on
old leases grow rich, and as leases fall in, the Rents are gener-
ally raised by the offers of the farmers themselves from 50 to 100
p. Ct. Thus the proprietor of the Soil becomes much richer than
he was, and the farmer is of course satisfied.

The Result of our Sziper natural Wisdom will be to satisfy, first
the World and finally ourselves, that the importance of America
in the scale of Nations has been very much overrated — and when
our national vanity is a little lowered, we shall certainly be a
more estimable people — thus things work together for good. . . .

I am faithfully your

Jno. Trumbull.

R. King (probably) to C. Gore.

New York, April 9, 1809.
My dear friend :

After being the object of jacobin abuse and hatred, it is a great
consolation to me to believe that the good cause has succeeded,

1809] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 151

and that your Election is certain. The Effect will be advanta-
geous to your neighbours, and desponding men may once more
be roused to exert themselves to save their Country. Should
your Legislature be sound, I am encouraged to hope that the
influence will be perceived in our Election which takes place
towards the close of the month.

The Campaign in Spain has thus far proceeded as I have con-
stantly believed it would do : except that the English army has
been withdrawn without as great losses as I apprehended it would
sustain. Perhaps a portion of this army may be re-embarked for
Cadiz and Gibraltar : but the Peninsula must be conquered by
Bonaparte ; our best hope is that the Chiefs with a portion of the
People will escape and proceed to South America. Thus the
failure in Europe will hasten the Epoch of the Independence of
the Sp. Colonies. How blind must our Rulers have been to have
remained until this day, unconvinced of, and unprepared for, this
great event. The success of Bonaparte in Spain is matter of re-
gret here, and everywhere else, among men who are anxious for
the Independence of Nations. But what effect will these events
have upon the misunderstandings between us and the two great
European Powers ? France, no one will suppose, is likely to
lower her tone or change her Decree ; nor do I perceive any evi-
dence of a disposition on the part of England, to recede from the
ground she had taken. I do, notwithstanding, think that the re-
peal of the partial non-importation Law, the expiration of the
Law, in virtue of which the Eng. Shps. of War were excluded
from our ports and the late non-intercourse Law, which is alike
applicable to France and England, and which equally excludes
the public and private ship's of both, afford grounds for an over-
ture on the part of England, which would very greatly embarrass
our Govt. This state of things could not have been known in
England at the date of our last news, indeed the Law itself had
not then been passed. Still the news-papers say a Mr. Oakley is
coming over and that the negotiation will be resumed. Whether
this person be a Secretary of Legation, a messenger, or clothed
with some public authority, we do not know : perhaps the Eng.
Cabinet may desire to resume the negotiation, upon the belief, or
supposition, that Mr. Madison will act with more impartiality than
Mr. Jefferson — and perhaps the story of Mr. Oakley's coming has

152 RUFUS KING. [1809

no authority. But supposing the import of our last Law to be
known in England, and that it is actually believed that the' Presi-
dent will exercise the power of suspending the Law, in respect to
either of the nations, which may recall their maritime Decrees or
Orders, would it not be a wise step on the part of England, to
offer to enter with us into a Convention, by which, in order to do
away with existing and mutual embarrassments, and to re-estab-
lish the former friendship and harmonious intercourse between
the two Countries, it should be agreed and stipulated that Eng-
land shd. recall her orders in Council so far as concerns the U. S.,
and that the U. S. shd. repeal the Law closing their Ports against
the public & private Ships of England and imposing a non-inter-
course and Embargo, so far as respects England, and moreover
stipulating that the Lawshd.be continued in force against France,
until she shall repeal the maritime Decrees ? Should this over-
ture be made, it would test the sincerity of our Professions — and
could not fail in creating the most serious difficulties in the Cabi-
net. It would however fail to restore harmony, because its res-
toration wd. inevitably be productive of an immediate war with
France — and notwithstanding the Pr. is by law authorized to re-
place things on their former footing on the repeal of the English
orders, he would not dare to do so, because the dread of the in-
fluence of a French war upon the ruling Party, is stronger and
more controling, than the fear of shame, or the love of reputa-
tion. I at present discern no honourable course by which we are
likely to be extricated from the embarrassments into which the
folly of our own Government has plunged the Country. The new
Congress will enter into the disgraceful controversies of the old ;
and I am apprehensive that nothing can or will be done by them,
to rescue the nation from the ruinous Condition of its Affairs.

[No signature.]

R. King to (probably) C. Gore.

April 27, 1809.
My dear Sir :

Virginia, Pennsylvania, Maryland & New York, according to
my recollection, have suffered considerable losses by the infidelity
of their respective Treasurers. These losses had become so fre-

1809] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 53

quent before the revolution, that, in forming the State Constitu-
tion, most of the States appear to have supposed that the fidelity
of the Treasurers wd. be secured by assigning their appointment
to the Legislatures instead of the Executives. The Result has
shown that this remedy has proved entirely defective.

Should you think of the establishment of a check upon your
Treasury, I shd. think it might be done by the establishment of a
Comptroller : the regulations concerning whose office shd. oper-
ate as checks upon the Treasurer : for example all a/cts. shd. be
settled and registered by the Comptroller before payment ; all
monies received or paid by the Treasurer shd. be subject to the
control of the Comptroller ; in other words, that no receipt of the
Treasurer for money paid into the Treasury shd. be good unless
presented to & registered in the office of the Comptroller — and
that no money shd.be paid by the Treasurer unless the order for
such payment was registered and signed by the Comptroller. The
money shd. be kept in some one of the Banks, where the a/c shd.
be kept with the Treasurer, and no money shd. be drawn except
upon the Treasurers check, countersigned by the Comptroller :
duplicate Bank books might be furnished, one to the Treasurer
the other to the Comptroller. As it seems to me there would be
no difficulty in devising a system, by which not only a particular
account with each of the Debtors & Creditors of the State shd.
be kept in the Comptroller's office, but moreover an exact account
with the Treasurer, which would at all times precisely exhibit the
balance of his account. The Plan of the Treasury Department
of the U. S. would suggest every material idea, and you would
find it expedient, as they have done, to render the Comptroller's
office the principal one and the Treasurer's a subordinate office.

This day terminates our State Election of members of the
Legislature ; what will be its issue is of course uncertain. Our
friends as usual are zealous, and not without some confidence of
greater success than heretofore. The arrangement lately made
with England has probably had some influence ; it certainly has
given confidence and animation to the supporters of the Adminis-
tration. The correspondence was composed so as to produce
this effect, and was sent off from Washington by Expresses in
every direction where Elections were about to take place. I re-
joice that the misunderstanding between us & Eng. is so far re-

154 RUFUS KING. [1809

moved ; it is of all importance that we avoid a rupture with that
Nation ; and it will conduce to our mutual welfare that the
persons who direct our affairs, rather than their opponents, shd.
settle with England. This they probably now will do, for I mis-
take the character and views of Bonaparte if he do not declare
war agt. the U. S.

What is now done might have been done in the beginning, and
all we have suffered in Reputation & Property might have been
saved. In Erskine's second letter, in the concluding Paragraph,
you will perceive that an agreement of some sort has been settled
provisionally respecting the resistance of the French Decrees.
We now engage to resist France, wh. had it been seasonably
done, wd. have been both honourable and profitable, but better
late than never. The Party will lose the claim of British Influ-
ence, British Gold and British Tories : this is much gained, and
this gain we here ascribe to the Minority in Congress, supported
by the Eastern States. yrs. R. K.

Jno. Trumbull to R. King.

London, 30th April, 1809.
Dear Sir :

. . . The conduct of the Senate, in negativing the mission
to Russia and confirming that to Brazil, appears to me to be im-
portant, as indicating a disposition in that Body, to think for them-
selves in future, & no longer blindly to sanction every proposal
of the Executive : if this disposition continues, it will produce
very salutary effects.

The Pacifick returns immediately with the good news that the
offensive Orders in Council have been revoked by the Govern-
ment of this Country, by a new order of the 26th instant ; the
enclosed paper will give you the outline of the new measure as
communicated to the merchants and I hope to send you the Ga-
zette of last night, which I presume contains the Orders at large.
I trust the Non-Intercourse Law must be repealed, so far as
affects this country, altho' the Imperialists will probably find a
new ground of dissatisfaction in the Blockade of Gallatin's inde-
pendent Nations, Holland & Italy : in truth, so far as I can
comprehend the measure, Mr. Canning seems to have given us a

1809] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. I 55

Rowland for our Oliver : Our non-intercourse is little more than
the Embargo under a new name, & the absolute Blockade of
France, Holland & Italy varies the state of things not much from
that under the orders in Council. If, however, the mutual Sensi-
bilities of the two Nations (as Mr. Jefferson would say) require
that a mutual retrocession should be accomplished in masquer-
ade, I am content — so they will but unshackle the Nation.

How the Emperor will act upon this occasion, I cannot con-
jecture. He would doubtless give a new name to his measures
also, if he could to any purpose ; but unluckily for him, these
Blockaded British Islanders are restive and will sometimes burn
his blockading Squadron in his own Harbors : the reciprocity in
this case is entirely against him.

Austria has commenced Hostilities and the Force of France
will be so engaged on that side as to give breathing time to the
Spaniards and Portuguese. The last accounts from that quarter
confirm our hopes that success will ultimately crown their efforts.
We are in hourly expectation of great news from the Archduke
and from Sir. A. Wellesley.

What sort of negotiation is going on, and with what prospect of
success between the Supernatural Wisdom of the U. S. and the
mere worldly knowledge of this Country, I have no means of
knowing : in the only conversation with which I have been
honored by the former, it was admitted to be doubtful whether a
Treaty would now be concluded so advantageous to the U. S. as
that which Mr. Jefferson returned with scorn — and conceded to
be certain that terms so favorable as those obtained by Mr. Jay,
particularly on the subject of the Trade with India, cannot now
be hoped for. . . .

your obliged & faithful Servant J. Trumbull.

Sr. Francis Baring to R. King.

London, 2d May, 1809.
My dear Sir :

The vessel that carries this letter returns most undoubtedly on
a most specific errand : private individuals would wish for some-
what more of real cordiality, but a statesman, I fear, is persuaded
that it never really exists. The assurance contained in your let-

156 RUFUS KING. [1809

ters that the continuation of peace may be relied on, on your side,
was most important information ; I believe you may entertain the
same confidence on our side, with regard to the sober minded
part of the nation, & even those in high ranks in ostensible situa-
tions. But the farceurs & intriguants have always too much to
say, & in truth generally rule ; for, as it must be admitted, that
America, Spain, &c, are not close to St. Stephen's Chapel, therefore
such uninteresting subjects are delegated to Clerks, Secretarys, &c.
This is, as it ever has been, the true state of the case, and as it
ever will be, in Governments capable of asserting & maintaining
their independence, in proportion to the extent of the democratic
principle that mixes in the Governments.

I reply to your other questions, as they may be interesting from
the knowledge you actually possess of men and things here. But
I am sorry to have nothing to offer that is either distinct or cor-
rect. The broad intelligible distinctions which have prevailed
since the Revolution (K. G. William's) are scarcely perceptible.
The distinguishing lead and power is undoubtedly the " great
friends " ; the system of divide et impera, which has been pursued
without intermission through the present reign, has been com-
pleated, for what relates to the " divide," but it is accompanied
with confusion & even imbecillity, destitute of talent or anything
to help it, but the most decided support it receives and the un-
popularity of those who contend against it, & which they cannot
surmount. You will easily understand what I mean by the fol-
lowing classes,

Liverpool Canning Grey Sidmouth The Grenvilles, a corps apart.

Eldon Melville Holland Ellenborough

Percival * Castlereagh Petty St Vincent The Wellesley do

* Chatham * Chatham Tierney Windham \ noun

* Castlereagh Whitbread f substantive

Those marked * may be classed with the " great friends," and
likewise with the relicts of Pitt. The last is become a powerful,
daring speaker, and must be a great feature in the country, but
he is not a practicable man, his manners & temper are coarse, &
his principles are violent : he aims at leading, & if he possessed
temper & practicability, it could not be refused to him ; his char-
acter, however, appears to be so distinctly formed, that I am
persuaded the aristocracy will never submit to him, indeed they

1809] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 57

would want judgment if they did. The union that would please,
is Canning & Petty with a sufficient portion of the first class, or
their principles, but it is difficult, almost impossible to be effected.
There is great dissatisfaction with an avowed contempt for the
leaders on both sides. The orders in Council are no more —
peace to their manes !, as Lord Grenville justly observed. The
Wiseacres however must regulate & — what is worse, being the
true cause of the whole — the Clerks must have their fees ; other-
wise the folly of a blockade, such as proposed, is not much short
of the other, but the sting is drawn & therefore I am content ; for
a short period of peace and tranquillity is better than none.

yr. Most truly faithful &c.
(Letter endorsed by R. K., Sr. Fr. Baring).

NlNIAN PlNKNEY TO R. KlNG.

Annapolis, June 1, 1809.
Dear Sir :

I have taken the liberty to ask that you will have the goodness
to inform me with as little delay as possible, the date of Governor
Mercer's letter to you of the — of July 1803, in answer to the very
able and comprehensive Communication which you made to him
respecting the Maryland Bank Stock, and thanking you for your
zealous and unremitting exertions to promote the interests of the
State on that subject when you were Minister at the Court of St.
James.

The reason that I am under the necessity of requiring this in-
formation, arises from Mr. Mercer's neglect to date the original
draught and which I did not discover until some months after-
wards, when I was recording it. My memory would lead me to
say, that it was dated on the fifth or sixth of July, but as I am
now making out a Record of all the Papers and letters relative to
the subject of the Bank Stock, for the purpose of being used as
Evidence in the Courts of Justice of this State, in a suit which
Mr. Chase has lately instituted against the State for the recovery
of his Commission of four per Cent, on the five p. Cents Navy
Annuities, and the Cash that remained in the Bank uninvested
when my Brother received the Transfer from the Accountant

158 RUFUS KING. [1809

General by order of the King, and which, for certain reasons, he
omitted to assign over to Mr. Chase. These circumstances ren-
der something more than memory necessary. The amount of
Stock that was transferred by my Brother to Mr. C, was four per
Cent Bank Stock, on one hundred thousand pounds, which the
State conceived was as much, if not more than he was legally
and justly entitled to ; as he ought, in its opinion, to have borne
his proportionable share of the sacrifice made to Mr. Harford as
well as of the sum that was paid to the Executors of Mr. Hanbury.
I have the honor to be with the most perfect Resp't & Esteem
your obedient Servant,

NlNIAN PlNKNEY.

Endorsed by R. K. " Ans'd inclosing copy of Gov. Mercer's
Letter."

C. Gore to R. King.

Waltham, June 2, 1809.
My dear Friend :

We ended the Session of our Legislature in Harmony & good
Humour. Two or three Laws relative to the Sessions & the
appointment of County Attornies, passed the first year of Mr. Sul-
livan's admin, for the purpose of securing patronage to the Gov-
ernor, were repealed. No officer has yet been displaced, & none
will be, but for incompetency or mal-conduct. In making the
requisite appointments, no question has ever been asked what
were the politics of the candidate, and in many instances, I know
the men appointed to be of different Sentiments in politics. No
office has been asked for one of the opposite party & been refused,
yet the Chronicle, in its malignant & lying spirit complains
that none but Federalists have been appointed to office, & among
them one of a most rancorous temper, alluding probably to Col.
Pickering, whose Commission as a Justice was near expiring &
was renewed when he was named as a Justice through the Com-
monwealth. Were Honestus & the Adams favoured with some
respect for truth, a little reason and a belief that there might be
men entitled to some credit besides themselves, we might indulge
a hope of something like peace & quiet. But the virulence of

1809] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. I 59

these men & their intolerant Vanity will never cease to goad the
Community, as they are goaded by their own passions. . . .

Yours &c.

C. Gore.

Jno. Trumbull to R. King.

London, 12 June, 1809.
Dear Sir :

. . . If we were most agreeably surprized to find the work
of reconciliation had advanced so rapidly on your side of the
water, you will probably be equally surprized, tho' not so pleas-
antly, to learn that the conduct of Mr. Erskine on this occasion
meets the disapprobation of Ministers here to such a degree, as
to be the occasion of his recall, and of the appointment of Mr.
Jackson to be his Successor. I have not been able to learn any-
thing further upon this subject, than what has appeared in the
newspapers. . . . You will there find Mr. Erskine's instruc-
tions as well as what has been said upon the Subject in the
Parliament & done by meetings of merchants in the City — as well
as a new order in Council drawn in consequence of these circum-
stances.

It is very satisfactory to know that the Session of Congress
must be over before this intelligence can reach your side of the
water ; and thus time will elapse before the December Session,
for the warmth which may arise at first to evaporate. We shall
in that time recollect that in refusing their approbation on this
occasion, the British Government do no more than follow the ex-
ample we set in the rejection of the Treaty negotiated by Messrs
Monroe & Pinkney. In the meantime events have occurred
which by their vast magnitude sink us and our concerns into a
very diminished degree of importance. You will see by these
papers that Buonaparte fulfilled his threat of marching to Vienna
in a month from the commencement of hostilities. Austria had
made gigantic efforts ; in Italy she had gained important advan-
tages ; & in Saxony and Poland she was equally successful ; when
the overthrow she met in Bavaria rendered it necessary to slacken
her efforts and give ground on both these points : in all quarters,
however, the contests have been unusually obstinate and his sue-

l6o RUFUS KING. [1809

cesses cost Buonaparte so dear as to render a considerable repose
necessary in Vienna. On the 20th of May he crossed the Danube
on bridges constructed a little below Vienna; and on the 21st
and 22d he was attacked on the North Shore by the Archduke
Charles, and after one of the most obstinate conflicts that has
ever taken place, was obliged in the night of the 22d to fall back
and seek shelter on the Island Lobau, in the Danube, from whence
it appears by one of his own Bulletins, he afterwards withdrew
his Wounded and his Caissons to the South or Vienna Shore of
the River.

The Conduct of the Arch Duke, as well as his bravery, on this
occasion merits the highest praise : during the action he sent
five boats down the river, by means of which he destroyed the
principal bridge, communicating from the South Bank of the
River to the first Island, (there are two Islands and of course
three bridges) and thus the invincible Emperor was for the day
irretrievably separated from his Reserve & his ammunition. It
is evident from his bulletin, that his loss must have been very
severe.

The severest Loss is however in the disgrace of a repulse : the
talisman, which was inscribed Invincible, is broken — the spell
which bound the minds of mankind in terror is dissolved, and
the Omnipotent Emperor (as his Minion Sebastiani calls him) has
sunk into a mere man subject to reverses even as we are.

This event, tho' of immense importance, is not to be regarded,
however, as concluding the fate of the campaign. Russia is un-
derstood to be advancing with a large force from the side of Po-
land ; yet hopes are entertained that, as no hostilities have yet
taken place, the news of this reverse in the affairs of her new
friend, may induce a change of policy. The Italian army has
also followed the Austrians in their retreat to Carinthia and other
desperate efforts must soon be made before the success of either
party can be complete.

In the mean time the French have been completely driven out
of Portugal, and the British force in that quarter is now at lib-
erty to combine its efforts with the Spaniards ; and one almost
certain consequence of the Battle of the Danube, is the relief of
that unfortunate country at least for some time. All the resources
of France will be required in Germany ; and the force now re-

1809] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. l6l

maining in Spain, diminished as it has been by sickness & repeated
partial misfortunes, damped as their ardour & confidence must
also be, is by no means equal to the task of retaining the hold
which they had gained in that unfortunate country ; in short
there appears more ground to hope that this scourge of mankind
approaches the close of his triumphant career at this moment,
than we have before known.

June 15th. — ... In confirmation of other reports to a
similar effect, I know, that a letter has been received within 24
hours by a noble Marquis here from a banking house in Holland,
in which it is stated — Le Bruit court ici — that on the 28th May,
the Archduke again attacked the French and completely defeated
them j it is a circumstance of some weight, that the Marquis of
H. received from the same house the first acts, of the Battles of
the 21st & 22nd. And it is natural to expect that the Archduke
should make a desperate effort before Buonaparte would be
joined by his Italian army, whose near approach he announces
on the 27th. J. T.

VOL. V.— II

CHAPTER IX.

Mason to King — Columbia College — Trumbull to King — Expedition to Spain,
from England — His Eyes give him Trouble — Hobart to King — Trinity
Church's Gratuities — Wilberforce to King — African Institution — Slave
Trade must be abolished — Proposition to effect this — Asks King's Assist-
ance— Gore to King — People will object to British Instructions — Will act
prudently — King to Gore — Family Matters — Jackson's Mission — Erskine's
last Instruction inadmissible — King to Gore — Possible Treaty with France
— Sir W. Scott to King — Depressing Views of Affairs in England, single-
handed as she is — Trumbull to King — Battle of Talavera — Trumbull to
King— Change of Administration — Ingersoll to King — Believes Madison's
Policy will be more manly — Pennsylvania's Affairs — Snyder and Leib —
Baring to King — Struggle for individual Existence — Change of Ministry —
Gore to King — Dissatisfaction with Acts of Government serious — Trum-
bull to King — No Treaty with France — Austria & France have made a
Treaty — Pickering to King — Jackson's Mission — King's Objections to him
— King to Pickering — Reasons for objecting to him — W. India Trade —
Gore to King — Critical Condition of Affairs.

Doct. Mason to R. King.

New York, June 23, 1809.
My dear Sir :

A meeting of the Trustees (of Columbia College) was held yes-
terday. I knew nothing of the call of the board till after it was
advertised, and then heard of it only by accident. I have sup-
posed you were much in the same situation. This awkward man-
agement took our Committee by surprize ; and as our report was
the principal business to have been considered, the members of
the board were obliged to separate pretty much as they came to-
gether. One of our ecclesiastical courts having opened eight days
before, and continued in Session with great pressure of business,
till one half day before the meeting of the Trustees, it was impos-
sible to assemble the committee. . . . Another meeting of
the board is ordered for Friday, the 14th, and our committee is
1809] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 63

to meet on Wednesday, the 12th, at my house at 12 o'clock. In
the mean time I send for your consideration the bull issued
against the sinners of the committee from the College-Vatican.
I hope that you may at least escape absolute annihilation by
their amazing thunders. I send also a bit of paper which I
scrawled yesterday morning toward a germ of a report. If you
think there is too much pepper in the pot, make any reduction
which shall appear proper. I would thank you to give any hints
of subjects that ought to be touched ; to draw your pen through
any that had better be out ; and most of all to frame a report
yourself. I should be glad to see you the day before meeting the
committee, that is Tuesday, the nth of July. If you can make
it convenient &c &c. . . .

With highest respect

Yr. most ob. & obligd.

J. M. Mason.

Col. Trumbull to R. King.

London, July 6th, 1809.
Dear Sir :

... I enclose the News-papers of this day, by which you will
learn that there has not been any further action between the great
armies on the Danube since the battle of the 21st & 22d of May.
The surrounding country is generally in a state of insurrection
against the French, whose communications and supplies are ren-
dered very unsafe by that means ; a few days must produce other
great events in that quarter, for a protracted war will be fatal to
Buonaparte & he must make an effort to disengage himself.

The Spaniards are busily and successfully profiting by the oc-
cupation of the Emperor at Vienna : in several partial actions
they have been successful and their enemies are everywhere re-
tiring, or in their language concentrating themselves. An Expe-
dition is equipping here with great diligence of 20 Sail of the
Line and 40,000 men — to Sail in a few days — probably for the
North of Germany.

Mr. Jackson took leave of his Majesty at the last levee, previ-
ous to his departure to the United States. . . .

Your faithful Servant

Jno. Trumbull.

164 RUFUS KING. [1809

Rev. J. H. Hobart to R. King.

New York, July 12, 1809.
Dr. Sir :

You will allow me to express the solicitude which I feel in com-
mon I know with some of the rest of the Clergy of Trinity
Church for your presence at the next meeting of the Vestry on
Thursday next, when the subject of our gratuity, wh. has generally
been granted in the month of June is to be taken up, as we have
been informed. The permanent Salary of the Asst. Ministers is
500 £ pr. an. To this an addition was made a few years ago of
200 jQ for 7 years ; and last year our gratuity was raised from
200^ to 300^. Until this year or two past I have spent more
than I have reed, from the Chh. ; and even on an establishment of
1000. £ pr. an., I do not conceive it would be in my power to
lay up any sum worth the mentioning. Some of the Presbyterian
Clergy receive 1000 jQ pr. an. and a house ; and the establishment
of the Rector of Grace Church including the parsonage, will
amount at the least to 1300 jQ pr. an. Upon these establish-
ments it would not be in the power of the Clergy, even at the
termination of the usual period of life, to save more than would
constitute a decent competency for their families. A full as-
surance of the just and liberal views which you entertain on this
subject prompts the solicitude for your attendance at the next
meeting of the Vestry ; and ever indulging me as you have done
in free and frank communication with you, I am sure you will
require no apology for the present address to you.

I am very respectfully & Sincerely, yr. most ob. Srvt.

J. H. Hobart

Wm. Wilberforce to R. King.

East Bourne, Aug. 1, 1809.

Private.
My dear Sir :

I am glad of any decent Pretext for addressing you, as I thereby
am furnished with an opportunity of assuring you of the cordial
Esteem & Regard which I continue, & I trust, shall never cease,
to entertain for you. So lively indeed are these Emotions, that I
am naturally prompted in the first Instance to give you this

1809] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 165

assurance & to express my hopes that you & your family are
well & happy. After this Salutation, I proceed to ye. main Ob-
ject of this Letter, which is to inform you of the formation of a
Society, the very name of which, the African Institution, will
sufficiently indicate its Nature & Objects, the Civilization & Im-
provement of Africa. The Duke of Gloucester, of whom it is no
more than Justice requires to say that his Character & Conduct
are such as become his Elevated Station, is our Patron & he attends
all our Committee, as well as general Meetings, & takes an active
Share in all ye. Business transacted at them. We have sevl.
other respectable members, men whom you know personally as
well as by Character, & are likely, I trust, to do some Good. It is
obvious, however, to any one who is ever so little acquainted with
the Subject, much more to one who knows it is as well as your-
self, that all our Hopes of extending Civilization in Africa, must
be frustrated unless the Natives are incited to Industry by being
no otherwise able to obtain their accustomed Comforts & Grati-
fications ; all therefore depends on stopping the Slave Trade. To
you, I need not State in detail, how, owing to ye. war our fears of
its being carried on along ye. whole coast of North Africa, are
confined to our own Countrymen & yours. Of our own, we are
taking all public care, by prevailing on Govt, to send a Ship of
War occasionally to scour the Coast, & seize all offending Vessels.
But, both from Reflection & actual Experience, we entertain
great dread of ye. Slave Trade operations of Citizens of ye.
United States. Even your abolition Law, if we are rightly in-
formed, is so far defective, unlike in this respect to ours, that it
does not prohibit Vessels under foreign flags, or being ostensibly
foreign Property, fitting out or sailing from your ports. May we
not hope that this defect will be supplied speedily ? But suppos-
ing the Law complete, how is it to be enforced ? I fear there is
but one effective Expedient ; that would be, for the 2 nations to
agree, that the Cruizers of each, should be at liberty, or rather
should be instigated by the prospect of obtaining the value of ye.
forfeiture, or condemnation in the proper Court. Surely if yr.
Legislature be earnestly set on executing the Law which it has
passed for abolishing the Slave Trade, it will consent, as I trust
ours would consent also, to agree to this, which I fear, is the
only method by which it can be carried into Effect. May I hope

1 66 RUFUS KING. [1809

that we may have the Benefit of your Influence towards disposing
your Legislative & Executive to accede to such an arrangement ?
whatever may be the temporary & accidental effects of those
party Incidents which are common to free Constitutions, the Aid
of a man of your natural Weight (for Weight must ever result
from Talents & Character combined) must be an important
Acquisition to any Cause which it is wished to carry into Effect.

I will detain you, My dear Sir, no longer — tho' it is with diffi-
culty that I abstain from touching on those Topics of public
Interest, which must naturally be uppermost in my mind. Your
own, howr. will suggest all that I should state if I were to express
my Sentiments, for when we know another, with his principles &
his feelings, we can anticipate their result. Let me, howr. men-
tion, before I lay down my pen what I trust will not be unin-
teresting to you, that I am living during the Recess from
Parliamt., in Health & Comfort with Mrs. W. & my children
about me.

Permit me to beg you to present my best Respects to Mrs.
King, & to assure you once more that I am with Cordial Esteem
& Regard, My dear Sir,

Your faithful Servant,

W. WlLBERFORCE.

P. S. I will take the Liberty of transmitting a copy of ye. Re-
ports of our African Institution. The perusal of them, if I mis-
take not, will interest you.

R. King to C. Gore.

Jamaica, L. I., Aug. 3, 1809.
My dear Sir :

Owing to the indecision of Mrs. King, concerning her visit to
Ball's Town, I was unable to reply to your letter in season to
have reached you, before you left Boston ; and afterwards I
could not tell where to address you. We have heard that you
have been at the Springs, and conclude that you will have re-
turned home by the time this letter reaches Boston.

After a sufficient portion of hesitation, Mrs. King relinquishes
her projected visit to Ball's Town ; she could have gone if I had
consented to go likewise ; My Habits are such, that in consent-

1809] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 67

ing that she & John should make the Excursion, it seemed to me
that I had agreed to a great deal, and that more should not have
been expected of me. John is going in a few Days, but Mrs.
King has wholly abandoned the journey for this season.

Our family is well ; we have had a cool, and almost an English
Summer. At present, however, the weather is dry & the roads
very dusty. Not having been in New York for several weeks, I
know but little of the public opinions respecting the failure of the
arrangement with England, except what I learn from the news-
papers.

The Instructions being published, it is manifest that the ar-
rangement is not authorized by them. What will be the issue of
Mr. Jackson's Mission, it is not easy to predict. Foreign events
may have no inconsiderable influence on it. If our Administn.
saw Mr. Erskine's Instructions, they must, as I think, be embar-
rassed extremely by the present posture of the negotiation.

The first condition of the Instruction is well enough ; the
second has nothing to do with the principal subject of Negotia-
tion, and the third is, in my mind, absolutely inadmissible, so
long as we remain out of the war. Perhaps our friends, near
you, may differ from me in these opinions : tho' I respect theirs,
I cannot relinquish my own. I would do nothing, nay I wd.
claim nothing, that England may fairly complain of, or justly
deny. On the other hand, her interest and reputation, as well as
ours, forbid that we should concede more.

The War on the Continent is too complicated for me, without
more information to form a correct opinion respecting it. My
hopes in favour of the good cause are not absolutely extinguished,
tho' my apprehensions preponderate. . . .

Always yrs. R. K.

R. King to C. Gore.

Jamaica, L. I., Aug. 6, 1809.
Mv dear Friend :

Hearing of an opportunity of tomorrow by the way of Newport,

I avail myself of it to send you the following Extract of a Letter

from our old friend D. P. dated Paris July 1st 1809.

I have good Reasons to believe that all differences between

<<

1 68 RUFUS KING. [1809

this Country and the U. S. will soon be settled, and that a Treaty
will be made in a short time, that will be acceptable to the U. S.
I have no doubt but that before the existing convention expires,
a Treaty will be signed — " ! ! !

Erskine's arrangement was in the last of Apl. ; it was disavowed
in Parliament towards the latter end of May. This disavowal
could have reached the Danube, and Instructions been remitted
to Paris before the end of June ; it would not disappoint me shd.
we very shortly receive a new Treaty from Paris.

Rufus King.

P. S. — Show this to Cabot : but the person whose initials are
named, must not be mentioned — pray observe this caution.

Sir Wm. Scott to R. King.

Ramsgate, Aug. 1 2th, 1809.
My dear Sir :

I avail myself of the very short interval which Mr. McVicers
occasions will allow me, to remind you of a friend on this side of
the Atlantick, and to send you my best Wishes for the Welfare
of yourself and family.

I wish this part of the globe afforded any news that could be
agreeable to me to relate or to you to hear. But everything is
dark & desperate in the extreme, at least they are so to men of
my opinions here, and I am confident that you have not parted
with your former Sympathies for the Liberty of Europe — and
indeed of Mankind in general, though I fear such Sympathies
are not over fashionable in your Country. Whether we shall
have a peace or not, is uncertain ; if we have it, our danger is
increased ; all Experience has shown it with other European
Countries and even with our own ; at present Ministers seem
determined to have it at all events ; Mr. Fox, who is supposed to
be very near his own dissolution, strains every nerve to obtain it,
and what is more surprising, Lord Grenville is equally ardent for
it. All depends upon the Sovereign Will and Pleasure of Buona-
parte ; it is supposed at present that his gigantick Plans of Am-
bition extend to a Partition of the Ottoman Empire between
Himself and the Emperor of Russia ; and to an annexation of
three Pyrenean Provinces of Spain to France, for which Spain is

1809] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 69

to be indemnified by the Possession of Portugal. The little com-
munication which I have the Honour of holding with the present
Administration gives me no right to take any sort of special
Credit for any information, that I can impart, but I am sincere
in the belief of it myself, and I do not think that a Peace is likely
to obstruct the Execution of the Projects that are announced.

What the final Result will be, the Wisdom of God can alone
foresee, but the Continent of Europe is extinct, and it will be a
severe Contest for these Islands to maintain against those who
have conquered it. If France and Russia unite, it will require
more painful Efforts than we have ever yet known to sustain our-
selves, not merely single-handed but even hampered and ob-
structed in our Exertions by States not professing themselves to
be unfriendly to us.

You may think this the Language of mere depression ; God
grant that the Result may prove it so.

I am here at Ramsgate with my family, enjoying a short Relax-
ation from business. Lady Scott desires me to present her par-
ticular Respects to Mrs. King. Be assured that you live in the
warm Remembrance of Friends here and in none more than that
of yr. faithful & obedient W. Scott.

C. Gore to R. King.

Waltham, Aug. 15, 1809.
My dear Friend :

. . . Our People are not disposed to accede to the last
Article of the British Instructions ; and I feel confident will not
write or say anything in Favour of it. This I gather from several
Conversations with those would be most disposed to support
such pretensions. My own sentiments being perfectly understood
on that Subject, & I, having at their entreaty, omitted something
last Winter, which they thought might have a tendency unneces-
sarily to throw any weight I might be presumed to possess against
them, conceived myself as justified in expressing my sentiments
on this subject, to which They seem cheerfully to accede. This
was done on my return, & in several subsequent Conversations,
I have reason to believe they will conduct themselves prudently
& with Reserve on those points wherein we differ.

I JO RUFUS KING. [1809

Your letter of the 6th confirms accounts received here from
Paris. One Letter, as late as July 3d, says Mr. A. told the writer
that the Project of a Treaty was gone to the Emperor, & would
be returned within a certain number of days, as he had no doubt,
approved. . . .

I remain affectionately your Friend, C. Gore.

Col. Trumbull to R. King.

London, August 26, 1809.
Dear Sir :

. . . I enclose you the official accounts of the Battle of
Talavera & surrender of Flushing. Lord Chatham having left a
Garrison in F., has collected his whole force — probably 35,000
Troops, exclusive of Seamen, at the South extremity of St. Beve-
land near Fort Lille ; from whence he is to move against Ant-
werp. Great preparations are making there to receive his attack,
and we expect every hour to receive accounts of active operations
having commenced.

Sir A. Wellesley remained several days in possession of the
Field of Battle at Talavera, but finding his rear threatened by
the Divisions of Soult & Ney, who have abandoned the Northern
provinces, he has retired with the Spanish Army across the
Tagus. The object of the French appears to be to destroy the
British ; but I trust they will be baffled by the bravery of the
Troops & the skill & activity of their Leaders.

A strong expectation prevails that hostilities will be renewed
between Austria & France — a few days will determine.

We anxiously hope that Mr. Jackson's negotiations may be
successful, and that good sense may once more direct the con-
duct of the two nations towards each other. I believe all dis-
interested men here heartily wish for a good understanding with
the U. S. . . . Truly yours J. T.

Jno. Trumbull to R. King.

London, 30 Sept., 1S09.
Dear Sir :

. . . We do not learn that peace is yet concluded between
France & Austria ; between Russia & Sweden a peace is con-

1809] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 71

eluded ; one Article stipulates the exclusion of British ships from
the ports of Sweden.

A change of Administration is to take place here. Mr. Can-
ning, Lord Castlereagh & the Duke of Portland go out & per-
haps others. Lord Grenville has been sent for & arrived in
Town yesterday ; we shall know in a few days the new arrange-
ment. Mr. Canning & Lord Castlereagh had a duel a few days
ago, in which the former was wounded in the thigh — not danger-
ously.

Our season has been the wettest I ever knew; from the end of
July to this day (and it rains now) we have had very few days
without heavy showers & frequently violent gales : the harvest is
not good — Wheat in the Corn Market at Mark Lane sells from
96/ to 120/ the quarter, bread \ the quartern loaf. An order in
Council passed a few days ago, offering Licences to Vessels to
export British manufactures and colonial produce to France and
her dependencies, and to import Com & Burr-Stones for them.
I am faithfully yours J. T.

T. Baring to R. King.

4th Oct., 1809.
Dear Sir :

I am writing at a considerable distance from London, but I
cannot suffer the packet to depart without thanking you for your
letter of the 31st July which conveys upon the whole a more
favorable prospect, than I am inclined myself to entertain ; altho'
I can, & do, enter into the probability of your speculation, accom-
panied with doubts, which perhaps impress my mind more from
apprehension than from well founded judgment. In our political
speculation we must combine the general state of the World, which
is almost divided into three parts, Europe, England & America,
and which has introduced opinions & systems solely applicable to
the present times. The last will only be considered by the two
first, as she applies to their respective interests, when opposed to
each other ; & the questions of right and justice, & even solemn
treaties, will vanish before those partial interests. The struggle
is now for individual existence & unfortunately for us, those who
govern are more hostile than favorable to Commerce, imitating

172 RUFUS KING. [1809

the conduct of France, & conceiving that peasants & soldiers
alone contribute towards the physical strength of the country.
Whilst those who reason on the subject with you, look at the
minute details of the question, I fear that our Govt, will not
yield to a full return of a free neutral trade, notwithstanding I am
persuaded that it is really a benefit & not an injury to ourselves ;
at the same time I am equally satisfied that conciliation on our
part would produce open hostilities from France, who has coquetted
with America, since the disavowal of Erskine, & keeps the countries
precisely in the situation in which she wishes us to remain. We
are not informed of what is passing in Germany. It was four
weeks after we had heard of the armistice, that our Governt. and the
Imperial Ambassador received the advice, & then, very little in-
formation about their plans or views. The Expedition to the
Scheldt was originally intended for the Elbe or Baltic, in the hope
that something might arise from Prussia, or perhaps from Russia
& we have not yet learnt to arm or disarm, there were too many
commands and good things to give away, Spain waits for the close
of the Scene in Germany, by which time many fine parts will be-
come a desert. The battle of Talavera was bravely contested
against superior numbers, but was not a victory. The papers will
inform you about a change of ministers ; those who remain will
have carried their point by the exclusion of the others, but the
last letter from London announces a premier, who is distinguished
for a narrow mind and tenacious disposition, unsupported by
talent or character. It is however premature to pronounce on
the 3d of Octr. . . . Endeavors are used to alarm the public
about the K's conscience, although without the slightest founda-
tion, but it is easier to make John Bull swallow a lie, than truth,
which is evident in the opinion generally entertained about our
disputes with America by the public at large.

always your most faithful humb. servant.

C. J. Ingersoll to R. King.

Philadelphia, 8th October, 1809.
My dear Sir :

. . . Our foreign relations and domestic politics, tho' abun-
dantly strange, have long ceased to be interesting. Nothing but

1809] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 73

perplexities abroad — nothing but democracy at home — and tho' it
is my misfortune not to coincide in opinion with you as to the root
or remedy of our foreign evils, yet I am sure we concur equally in
deploring them, and in deprecating that languid internal system
which endures and protracts them. I cannot but believe, perhaps
merely because I hope, that Mr. Madison will display a more
manly & magnanimous policy than either Adams or Jefferson, and
that the time is not far distant, when if we are not rescued from
embarrassments, we shall at least rise from the political palsy,
under which we are groaning at present, into something like
national action & dignity. Perhaps the non-ratification of Mr.
Erskine's adjustment, which we have all so much regretted, may
be the means of more benefit, than its perfection would have been :
for if, as it is confidently said, we are to have a treaty or an ac-
commodation with France, owing to the threatenings of a rupture
with England, I should not despair of some sort of settlement
with the latter, notwithstanding the good understanding between
our government and the French.

I am told that the commercial speculations which were ad-
ventured during the short interval that followed the proclamation,
will generally terminate most ruinously, and that before the next
Spring, a scene of great distress will be exhibited among the mer-
chants. If the administration had not been supplied from this
temporary source with revenue, the public coffers must have been
as empty as the private. But I suppose this resort, so unfortunate
to the country, has furnished them with immediate support ; how
long it may last is another question. In New York you are pre-
paring, I suppose, for the next election, with some prospect of
federal success. In Pennsylvania we have at last, I trust, reached
the nadir of factious degeneration. For two years to come, the
great question, about which the passions of the good people of
this state are to be beat up, is whether a fool or a rascal is the
fittest Governor. Gov. Snyder, the actual incumbent, tho' hardly
warm in his place, has already shown such utter incapacity that
his partizans are ashamed of him, and Dr. Leib is making violent
efforts to pull him down, no doubt with a design of succeeding
him. This controversy is of too much importance to permit
such minor considerations as canals, turnpikes and internal im-
provements to disturb its discussions — and they will have little

174 RUFUS KING. [1809

chance of legislative attention till that is settled. Next Tuesday-
will determine which way the popular scales preponderate. I am
inclined to believe the odds heavy against the reigning executive.
Col. Duane with the influence of the Aurora declares, toto caelo,
for his friend Leib ; and he is a host irresistible. In our part of
the State there is no question of Leib's triumph ; to the Eastward
probably Snyder is not yet so unpopular. From the excessive
agitation of parties among us, I am willing to anticipate a refor-
mation at no remote period, for the people, tho' instigated to in-
temperate actions by the unlicensed provocations of incendiary
presses, which are on all sides equally scandalous, are in the main
certainly disposed to quiet and propriety. In New York you are
a different community, more respectable — less influenced by news-
papers— better governed — and in all respects more enviably cir-
cumstanced. Your partizans are entitled to lead from their talents,
whatever may be their principles or conduct. Your laws are ad-
ministered justly — your internal improvements are never neglected
whoever rules. The ablest are the first men of all your parties,
whereas we are so deep in the slough of faction, that the best men
of any party, are never the most prominent. . . .
Your sincere friend & humbl. servt.,

C. J. Ingersoll.

C. Gore to R. King.

Boston, October 19, 1809.
My dear Friend :

. . . The People discover as much Contentment as can be

expected, under the pressure of our Affairs, and the continued

Excitement by our Democrats & their presses against G. Britain,

& all those who are presumed to be in Opposition to a French

Alliance. I cannot however refrain from believing, that, should

the U. S. persist in their Non-intercourse with England & carry

the measure into effect, they will raise an opposition against their

Government in a Quarter where it is least expected ; I mean in

the District of Maine, (from which C. G. had just returned)

whose only Trade is to G. B. and its Dependencies. Yet they,

who suffer most by these measures in that District, really are the

men that excite & encourage the Hostility to England & Devotion

to France.

1809] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 75

Should Mr. Madison come to an understanding with the Brith.
Govt., we shall do well in Massts. Should the former System be
followed, we may be in a Minority ; though such a policy cannot
be long acceptable to our people ; and I am confident unless re-
strained by the actual Power of Bonaparte, the people of this
State would soon rise in great force against the supporters of
that system.

Our Accounts from Augusta assure us that the Insurrection
there is not countenanced by a single Individual of any Con-
sideration. We shall be obliged to keep up a considerable Force
to prevent the Rescue of the men confined there, until the
Prisoners are legally disposed of. . . .

Yours truly

C. Gore.

Jno. Trumbull to R. King.

London, November 3d, 1809.
Dear Sir :

. . . The news which had reached America of the state of
our negotiations in France was incorrect. No Treaty is con-
cluded, or likely to be, on terms which we ought to admit. You
will find an official note from the French Minister to Mr. Arm-
strong, in which is expressly stated the intention of the Emperor
to establish the principle of free ships free goods. If we choose
to lend ourselves for the occasion, to his views (and perhaps the
object of Mr. J. Q. Adams' Mission is to renew in the North this
old principle of the Armed Neutrality) we may have a Treaty
with him, at the expense of a war with this Country.

Peace was signed on the 14th Oct. between Austria & France
— we are ignorant of the conditions — the length of the negotia-
tions & the tone of the official communications of the French
Senate give reason to believe that this peace is less flattering to
the Emperor than he expected. The resistance of the Tyrolese
& the evident want of cordiality in various parts of Germany, will
render it necessary to keep a great force in that country, and the
peace will prove little more than an armed truce.

An Administration is at length complete. Lord Wellesley is
on his way home — perhaps to take a share in their glories. . . .
The Duke of Portland is dead. Since the Battle of Talavera, no

176 RUFUS KING. [1809

great affair has taken place in Spain ; the Spaniards again dis-
tinguished themselves in the defence of Gevona, and the people
seem to gather new animosity and enthusiasm ; but their govern-
ment is contemptible, & I fear an explosion there which may
issue well, but may produce — to their cause.

The crops of this country prove better than was feared. . . .

Your sincere friend
J. T.

T. Pickering to R. King.

Washington, Dec. 8, 1809.
Dear Sir :

Every engine which the views of unprincipled partizans could
employ, has been set to work to excite popular odium against the
British Minister, Mr. Jackson. Among others, I learn that it has
been reported, that while you were in London, it was once pro-
posed to send hither this same Mr. Jackson, but that upon your
objecting against him, Mr. Merry was sent in his stead. I am
also well informed that Joel Barlow has said that was the fact,
that he was at the time in London & knew it.

Will you have the goodness to tell me, whether there be any
truth in the report ?, adding any explanation you see fit. Asser-
tions of Democrats in questions which affect the interests of their
party, require other testimony than their own to obtain credit
with me.

Today Mr. Giles delivered the most laboured and the most
ordinary speech that I have ever heard from his lips in support
of his resolutions concerning Mr. Jackson. They have passed
without opposition to the third reading, which will be on Mon-
day next. Massachusetts and Connecticut alone have federal
Senators present, and probably theirs will be the only negative

votes.

With great Respect & esteem I am yours

T. Pickering.

T. Pickering to R. King.

Washington, Dec. 20, 1809.
Dear Sir :

. . . While you were in London, a trade was carried on in

the West Indies between the British Islands & the dominions of

1809] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 77

Spain, under licenses from the Brit. Govt. At the same time
American vessels were captured & condemned for attempting to
carry on the same trade with the Spaniards. I wish to learn the
principle on which the British Ministry justified this conduct, see-
ing the prohibition to us was not to deprive their enemy of
necessary supplies. Was it not on the ground of their claim of
right to interdict the trade, and therefore if indulged, they might
lawfully monopolize its advantages ? Or on what other ground ?

Faithfully yours,

T. Pickering.

R. King to T. Pickering.

New York, Dec. 25, 1809.
Dear Sir :

I am obliged to you for the Documents which you have
been so good as to send me and am also your debtor for two
unacknowledged letters ; one concerning Mr. Jackson, and the
other respecting the trade carried on by the English in time of
war between the West India Islands and the Spanish Colonies.

In respect to Mr. Jackson, it is true that I opposed his being
sent to this Country as the successor of Mr. Liston ; when this
Gentleman returned home, both Mr. Merry and Mr. Jackson were
spoken of as his successor, and early in 1801, I had reason to
believe that Lord Hawkesbury, the Minr. for foreign affairs, was
inclined to give Mr. Jackson the preference. As I was acquainted
with the Reputation of both these Gentlemen, and had formed, as
I believed, a pretty exact estimate of their characters, I was in-
duced to discourage the mission of Mr. J. in the expectation that
if he should not, that Mr. Merry would, be sent to this Country.
Mr. J. was at that time a young man, without experience, and
distinguished for an ample share of those prejudices which his
countrymen in general take so little pains to conceal, and which
are so disadvantageous to them abroad ; his temper was not mild,
nor were his manners conciliatory, his Integrity and Talents were
unquestioned, but no proof had yet been disclosed of his prudence.
Furthermore it was known to me that Mr. Jackson desired the
American Mission as a stepping stone in his career, and that his
real views were directed to the procuring of a mission to one of
the great Courts in Europe.

vol. v. — :2

178 RUFUS KING. [1809

On the other hand, Mr. Merry, tho' a person of inferior educa-
tion and moderate ability, had lived for the greater part of his life
out of England ; had imbibed few of those sentiments, which
disserve his countrymen in foreign countries, was a man of mature
age, mild manners, acknowledged discretion, and, what I consider
of much importance, was desirous of the American Mission as a
comfortable and permanent residence. From this comparison of
characters and views, I was led to avail myself of the opportunity
of occasional conversations with Lord Hawkesbury and his
Colleagues, to throw impediments in Mr. Jackson's way and to
discourage his being sent to America. I doubtless employed most
of the reasons to which I have alluded, and the result was that
the Mission of Mr. J. was relinquished and Mr. Merry was
appointed to succeed Mr. Liston. I did not omit to communicate
to the Secretary of State, the part I had taken in this business,
and, as it would seem, this Dispatch has been communicated,
since before Mr. Jackson's arrival, Duane & others proclaimed
that on a former occasion I had remonstrated against Jackson's
being sent to this country, and that he must be bad indeed, if one
of my principles would have objected to him.

Concerning the enquiry made in your second letter, the prin-
ciple upon which the Eh. Govt, place the justification of these
Licences in time of war, is this ; that having the right to prohibit
a trade either to their own subjects, or to foreigners, it does not
follow that they are obliged to exercise such right ; and that their
own convenience becomes the rule, by which they determine to
exercise or not, their Right of Prohibition, or to exercise the same
in part, and to forbear, as respects the residue. So far as regards
the reason of the Law, by which neutrals are supposed to be ex-
cluded from certain Branches of Commerce, this forbearance to
exercise a Belligerent Right seems to be inconsistent with it ; and
the Relaxation by the Belligerent for the benefit of his own subjects,
ought in Equity to be accompainedby a correspondent Relaxation
in favor of neutrals.

with great Truth & Esteem I remain your ob. servt.

R. King.

P. S. — As the Etiquette between nations requires when a
Minister is desired to be recalled by the Sovreign to whom
he is accredited, even for admitted delinquency, that the recall-

1809] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 179

ing Sovreign shd. in return demand the recall of the ministers
accredited to him, will not this interruption of Dipl. Intercourse
be a satisfactory offering to the French Emperor? May it not
explain what wd. otherwise be inexplicable ?

C. Gore to R. King.

Boston, Dec. 25, 1809.
My dear Friend :

You will perceive by our Papers, that our People are aware of
the critical Situation to which our Affairs are reduced by the late
Executive disclosures. This State of Things does not seem
likely to be altered, for the better, by the Wisdom of Congress.
Our Merchants, however, by their Disposition to send every
species of property out of the country, discover more fear of
their own Government, than of any foreign nation. If our
Citizens, should be aware of the Hazard of a war with G. B. they
will very generally be disposed to exert themselves and declare
their disapprobation of the measures, which lead to so disastrous
an event. No one here can learn what Course Congress will
adopt ; but our Merchants, Mechanics & Farmers, and especially
the inhabitants of Maine, are extremely averse to war with Eng-
land. The non-intercourse with that Country, whether effected
by direct Laws, or by such as will produce a prohibition to our
Vessels, by that nation, is destructive to the Prosperity of that
District ; many of the Inhabitants are daily emigrating to the
British Provinces to the Eastward. . . .

Your affectionate friend

C. Gore.

CHAPTER X.

King to Gore — Rulers seek to gain Time — France will not change — Question
with England will remain open — France may force us to War with her —
Trumbull to King — Reports of E. India Co. Difficulties — American
Affairs — Troup to King — Clinton and the New York Mayoralty — Miscon-
duct in it — Gore to King — People fear War, especially in Maine — Troup
to Pendleton — Erskine's Arrangement and Jackson's Negotiation, in both
Government wrong — Deprecates possible War with England — King to
Pickering — Fears Government wishes to keep open Misunderstanding with
England — To establish Continental Maritime Law under Influence of
France — Pickering to King — Mischievous Regulations to coerce Great
Britain — Agrees with King's Views relative to the Government — Foreign
Missions — Pickering to King — Will Great Britain retaliate against us if
Measures proposed pass ? — Van Ness to King — Varick for Mayor of New
York — King — Presidency of Columbia College — Mason to King — Presi-
dency of Columbia College.

R. King to C. Gore.

January 2, 1810.

This letter relates to a method to enable Mr. Gore to
settle an account against him standing on the books of the
U. S. Treasury, for moneys paid to him for salary, while he
was acting as Commissioner in London under the 7th Article
of the Treaty of Peace. It would appear that this account
had never been closed. The amounts had not been credited
to him, though all had been receipted for, and were still
charged against him, as no regular and specific account had
been made out. Mr. King writes :

Soon after I returned I made enquiry whether any accounts
were open in my name upon the books of the Treasury, and to
my surprize found a similar charge against me to that which exists
against you. I immediately forwarded my a/c drawn out to the
1810] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. l8l

above rule, and the a/c was settled in a small balance in my favor
remitted to me. Sometime after the settlement of my a/c, I
recollect J. Q. Adams speaking to me concerning a like a/c
wh. stood open against him. yours R. K.

P. Script. As I have filled the sheet, and an Envelope is nec-
essary I may as well say a word or two on Politics : tho' being
in the secrets of no party, I may in my conjectures be wide of
the truth.

Whatever may be the ultimate aim of our Rulers, if any such
they have, their present object seems to be mostly to gain time,
and to do nothing. Bonaparte will do nothing they like, and as
they dare not displease him, since their party is identified with
friendship with France, they will not come to any settlement with
England. The President's speech, with the Documents, are a
Tub to the whale ; and the plan succeeds to admiration ; for as
was expected, Congress and the whole Country, so far as it leaves
its business to attend to politics, are exclusively employed in dis-
cussing the Documents, in justifying or condemning Erskine, in
approving or disapproving the conduct of Jackson ; and nobody
either thinks or speaks of the alarming condition of the Country ;
nobody points out the wretched policy that has brought us into
this condition ; or warns the People of the danger of continuing
to confide in such weak and treacherous hands.

There is not the smallest reason to expect a favorable change
in France. Hopes are said to be entertained that Lord Grenville
and his Party, if they come into power, may do something that
will remove the embarrassments between the two Countries. I
doubt the sincerity of these hopes ; and moreover believe that
upon all the material points of difficulty, and especially as re-
spects the French point, which our Rulers believe all important,
that he is as little likely to make what we think just concessions,
as any man in England.

I therefore have no expectation of an adjustment with Eng-
land, unless France adopt some measure of such marked violence
that the People shall restrain their Govt, from acquiescing under
it. I have no apprehension that the affair with Jackson will in-
duce Eng. to declare war agt. us ; but if Mr. J. Q. Adams is
employed to revive the Northern League, and we are to become
parties to it, war with Eng. we shall have.

1 82 RUFUS KING. [1810

This step however desirable would be a bold one, and the
Country would not justify it ; I therefore doubt if it will be taken.
We may make new Commercial Regulations, and England retali-
ate upon us ; the ports may be opened without restraint to
American ships in hopes that the Eng. Captures of Vessels bound
to France may influence the Country ; but it will all fail ; what
captures, and speeches, laws, and treaties and public Docu-
ments could do has been done : the people cannot be roused.
The late Publication has utterly failed in its object ; the papers
are read with the same indifference that an old almanack is read :
the result in my mind is this ; that our Govt, would adjust all
misunderstandings with France if they could ; but the views of
France have stood and will stand in their way : with England they
wd. not, if they could, settle our disagreements ; both therefore
will remain open as England will not make war on us : we shall
make it of choice on nobody, except upon each other. France is
however likely to adopt some measure that will not leave our Rul-
ers their own masters — in this case we may have war with France
and friendship with Engld. yor &c.

J. Trumbull to R. King.

London, January n, 1810.
Dear Sir :

Your two letters of the 12th & 2 2d Nov., by this packet are in
my hands. We have also seen (republished here) the President's
Speech, & the correspondence between Mr. Smith and Mr. Jack-
son ; these have produced considerable sensation here. I have
no doubt but France has given the U. S. her ultimatum in the
letter from M. Champagny to Mr. Armstrong, of which I sent you
a copy some time since by Mr. Hartshorne : that is, that she ex-
pects America to join with Europe in the system that free Ships
make free goods. I presume we are not prepared to go this
length and take the consequences : but I fear we shall in the End
find ourselves completely involved with both the Belligerents —
the usual result of shuffling policy ; not that I regard the differ-
ences between this Country and the U. S. as irreconcileable, were
they but submitted to the discussion of temperate men, but there
is the difficulty.

l8io] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 183

We are told that negotiation is going on here between Lord
Wellesly & Mr. Pinkney ; but I know nothing of the real state of
their discussions.

We have been hitherto very fortunate in Weather, having had
no snow and very little Frost. The Parliament will meet on the
23rd, when the political campaign will open. I send you a few
papers, from which you will find that the poor Spaniards, untaught
by experience, have again been hazarding pitched battles in the
open Country, and again been cruelly beaten. The Cortez are
to assemble on the 1st of March ; I fear a little too late.

There is an unpleasant report from India, the Company have
thought proper to introduce a greater degree of economy in their
expenditures than formerly prevailed, & in the course of this ref-
ormation, they touched the emoluments of military officers ; this
occasioned discontent, and is said to have ended in the absolute
Mutiny of all the native Troops. Probably this account is much
exaggerated, but a serious evil has certainly taken place.

The Frigate John Adams is arrived in the Downs, and various
reports are current of violent proceedings & resolutions in the
U. S. I have not seen any one from whom I can learn the fact,
but I conjecture that her errand is merely to bring to Mr. P. his
dispatches and instructions to demand the recall of Mr. Jack-
son. . . . Have the Prince Napoleon and the Dutchess of Balti-
more honored New York with their august presence ? I presume
the Dutchess of Lenox and Lady Glorvina have been superlatively
happy in such exalted Society.

Mrs. T. joins in cordial remembrance of Mr. King and all the
Family with Dr. Sir

Your faithful Servant

J. T.

Mr. R. Troup, having been proposed by his friends as a
candidate for Mayor of New York, wrote to Mr. King two
confidential letters from Albany of Jan. 8 and 12, 1810.
Being himself doubtful whether such an appointment would
not interfere with his agency of the Pulteney Estate in Gen-
esee County, he asked advice as to the propriety of his ac-
cepting it, though it was urged upon him for the good of
the party. In the second letter he says:

1 84 KUFUS KING. [1810

Quitting what is private, I turn to what is public, and I think
of much public importance. The late report of the committee of
the humane society in your City (N. Y.) has excited not a little
interest here ; we see in it the scandalous rapacity of Clinton in
licencing grog shops, some of the most powerful corrupters of
the morals of the people. We have long had it in desire here to
see the corrupting influence of the Mayor of New York destroyed
by confining the Mayor to a decent and respectable standing sal-
ary ; and obliging him to account with and pay over to the City
Treasurer all his receipts beyond his salary, for the use of the
City. It is very certain that the emoluments, right or wrong, of
the office during democratic tyranny have been enormous — Clin-
ton's receipts have been stated in the federal papers at $15,000
per annum.

I never thought it possible that this could be the case, till some
time since I came to the knowledge of a fact which completely
put my incredulity to flight. The fact is this. Last Fall twelve-
month, Lawrance and I jointly owning some lots at Coerlaer's
Hook went to look at them. Col. Willett had engaged with us
to see the lots filled up under an order of the Corporation for
that purpose. The lots are in Willett's neighbourhood and they
adjoin lots belonging to him. We went to Willett's. He received
us with great cordiality and told us he had lived long enough to
see & know that federal men were the most honorable men in the
country ; we then drank a glass or two of good wine with him ;
and after this confession & the good wine had got settled, we all
went in glee to look at our lots. When we arrived upon the
ground it appeared that Willett had filled up a great extent of his
own grounds ; upon which I asked him jocosely, " Why Col. Wil-
lett you have been here at vast expense filling up ; and I suspect
you must have found the emoluments of the Mayor's office con-
venient to you." To which he replied jocosely also " that he had
found them convenient." I then asked him if he felt any objection
against telling us the amount of his receipts ; he said no, and then
assured us that he was particular and exact in having an account
of his receipts, while in office, kept by his clerk ; and that the
amount was upwards of $13,000. The moment he mentioned the
sum, I cast my eyes upon Lawrance's phiz, and I need not tell you,
who know him so well, what effect the sum had upon it. Willett

1810] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 85

was but nine months or little better in office, and it has been said
of him, and I believe truly, that he gave up considerable emolu-
ments that by democratic practice he was entitled to take. Is not
the inference a fair one that Clinton has been in the annual re-
ceipt of at least $15,000 ? So strong has been the desire here to
have this corrupting influence of the New York Mayor destroyed,
that Mr. Van Vechten obtained a promise from Mr. Harison last
year, that he would draw a bill relative to the salary and emolu-
ments of the office of Mayor, & either send or bring it here for
the purpose of an attempt this winter to get it passed by federal
aid. Harison is more " au fait" in the New York Charter &
affairs of the Corporation than any of us. When I was last in
New York, I reminded Harison of his promise to Van Vechten,
and added my own personal request in favor of the bill. Amongst
other good effects, such a law would lessen competition for the
office, and tend to put the office into more honorable and pure
hands. Now the pelf of the office is the occasion of a general
scramble for it. I beg of you to reflect upon this subject, and if
you accord with us here, I wish you would take a convenient op-
portunity of conversing with Harison about his bill ; and at the
same time suggesting to him your idea of the salary which it
would be proper to allow the Mayor. Harison about the 2nd or
3rd of next month will be setting off for Albany. The law, if we
can get it passed, will be highly honorable to our party ; and I
am much mistaken if it will not be a public blessing to your City.
If I have the misfortune of being called to the office by the de-
cided opinions & wishes of my friends I shall hate to be a par-
taker of the extortions which have now grown into the shape of
regular perquisites. I shall wish only a salary proper for the Sta-
tion and honorable to the city. My object will be public good
and public honor and not private emolument.

You will excuse the length of this letter, when I declare to you
that I intend it as another proof of the implicit confidence I place
on the sincerity of your friendship.

With the most perfect Regard &c

Rob. Troup.

1 86 KUFUS KING. [1810

C. Gore to R. King.

Boston, January 14, 1810.
My dear Friend :

. . . Our People are somewhat alarmed, but I question if
enough so to prevent the Evils that threaten us. Did the sober Citi-
zens think war with England probable, all their Endeavours to
prevent it would be exerted. The District of Maine, which finds
a Market only in G. B. & her Dependencies for their produce,
would suffer extremely in such an event, and did the Inhabitants
believe that the measures of Govt, tended directly to deprive them
of this Market, Party Spirit would for a time yield to their more
substantial interests.

Our Legislature assembles on the 24th, and I think they will be
disposed to adopt all proper and constitutional measures to pre-
vent the Evils which threaten us, if they should be aware of the
Tendency & Design of the National Administration to ally us with
France, or produce Hostilities with G. B. . . .

yours affectionately,

C. Gore.

To Mr. Pendleton, who was desirous of presenting himself
as a candidate for Mayor of New York, Mr. Troup, whose
friends had urged him to allow them to nominate him, wrote,
assuring him that he did not seek, and that he had no right to
expect, the office, giving him many reasons for his decision :
his agency, with which he was contented, and with which
the position as Mayor might interfere ; his non-residence
in the City, and his unwillingness to expose himself and his
friends to the imputation of caballing so as to exclude
others, citizens, and thus better entitled to the office. No
man, he says,

" can be happier than I am in my family, and with the office I
hold I am perfectly comfortable and easy in my circumstances,
and in this situation, and this alone, do I wish to continue, with-
out interfering with the views of any other man, particularly with
those of my friends, and without doing anything that will look
like avarice, or be thought mean, or unbecoming a candid and
virtuous man."

1810] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 87

R. Troup to N. Pendleton.

Albany, Jany. 23, 1810.
My dear Friend :

. . . Our friends here are unanimous on the subject of Er-
skine's arrangement and Jackson's negociation ; and with regard
to both of them, all think our Government is decidedly wrong.
We regard Erskine's arrangement as little, if any, better than an
act of swindling ; and as to the insult offered by Jackson none of
us will claim to divide with Fisk the reward offered in Baltimore
for discovering the mighty insult. We see in the whole corre-
spondence, which I have read over twice with close attention, a
style & manner on the part of Smith intended to disgust and in-
deed affront Jackson & lead to a rupture of the negociation, and
thereby to please Bonaparte — that illustrious protector of the
liberties of mankind.

We think that you and our other friends who have been to pay
attention & respect to Mr. Jackson have acted rightly, and if we
were in New York we should follow your example. By the by,
what is meant, my good friend, with this character of Americanism,
that some of our friends are advising our party to assume ? I ask
you again what is meant when we are told we must be Americans
& support our government ? What ? are we so blindly devoted
to the measures of a government apparently bent on a system of
policy that is likely to ruin, not only our commerce, our agriculture,
and, I fear, our constitution and our liberties ? Yes all these im-
portant objects are in imminent danger, if our administration per-
sist in their wild career. If we get into a war with Great Britain,
what is to ward off the fraternal and death-inflicting hug of Bona-
parte ? Ought we not therefore to be in favor of an adjustment
of our differences with Great Britain, and thereby avoid all en-
deavours, however feeble, to work her downfal, — when she is in
truth & fact the only obstacle in the way of the subjugation of
the world? Is it not an insult to the majesty of heaven to har-
bour a thought of placing the least dependence on the moderation
and justice of Bonaparte ? Is it not therefore our duty to raise
our voices and cry aloud against the perfidious and detestable
policy of our Rulers ? Shall we discharge our duty to our country
— nay, to God himself, by sitting with folded arms and not attempt-
ing to arrest the progress of our nation to swift destruction ? To

1 88 KUFUS KING. [1S10

me therefore it appears that when we are told we must be Ameri-
cans, it is in other words to say that we must turn round and
approve the conduct of our Administration & support their
measures, when we know and believe that they are dishonorable
— disgraceful — and ruinous to our country. If such be Ameri-
canism, may God in his infinite mercy deliver me from it !

Such are the sentiments, my dear friend, of all your friends
here, without a single dissenting voice on the present state of our
public affairs ; and I beg you to make them known amongst our
friends in New York ; that they may see that we ask to be con-
sidered as worthy of being united with them in that bond of
patriotism — real and genuine patriotism, boldly and perseveringly
pursuing the public good — which Washington and Hamilton
have left as a legacv to their friends and followers.

Your very sincere &: affectionate friend,

Rob. Troup.

R. King to T. Pickering.

New York, January 26, 1810.
Dear Sir :

At this distance, and without exact information, it is quite im-
possible from the speeches, motions and acts of Congress, to di-
vine their actual views, or to conjecture with any measure of
satisfaction, what the condition of the country is likely to be. If
the object be to gain time, to do nothing, but to wait for the im-
pulse of foreign events, the confusion of ideas so manifest in the
proceedings of the H. of R. will appear to be less extraordinary.

I have for some time apprehended, that the Administration,
embarrassed by the domestic difficulties into which they have
plunged the country, have meditated a connection with the conti-
nental powers of Europe for the purpose of renewing the attempt
to impose a new maritime Code upon Eng. If Mr. A's Mission
has this project in charge, the course of our Rulers would natu-
rally be such as it has been ; they would keep open the misunder-
standing with England, and hold the trade & navigation of the
country subject to inconvenient and disadvantageous restriction.
The Bill of Macon could in my belief prove most injurious to the
U. S. and of little or no disadvantage for the present, and for the
future a beneficial Regulation, to England.

l8io] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 189

The project of Mr. Burwell, who avows his disappointment in
the system of ex parte regulations, is quite a different measure from
any that has yet been offered. It is even stronger than those
which Sweden & Denmark attempted to put in practice in 1801 —
and to my mind looks very like a preparatory step for our acces-
sion to the Northern League. We have it in evidence by turn-
ing to the Proceedings in England in 1800 & 1801, that the
English nation will regard every attempt of a neutral state to pro-
tect by force her merchant vessels from search on the ocean, as a
hostile aggression upon their incontestable rights, which they are
bound by the principles of self preservation even, to meet and re-
pel by force. If you authorize merchant vessels to arm and resist
visitation and search, or if you put them under the Convoy of
your Frigates which shall be instructed to resist visitation and
search — the matter will not demand six hours deliberation in
England — it must and will be treated as an aggression to be re-
pelled by arms.

Any project of this nature at this time, wd. be regarded as hav-
ing been dictated only by France. For our former Administra-
tions have openly, clearly, ably and I may add triumphantly
contended against the principles of the Armed Neutrality, & in
favor of the old law. England, as well as every other Nation of
Europe is in possession of our elaborate State Papers upon this
subject. The authority of the U. S. has been cited in support of
the ancient law ; and every innovation upon that Law, after the
declarations we have published concerning it, will be naturally
viewed with jealousy and ascribed not to a change in our opin-
ions, but to the influence of that Power, which aims at uniting
all other nations against its enemy. If a combination of the
Northern Powers, directed by France, is not in itself a thing de-
sired by our Rulers because such an accession to the League
would be an unbecoming desertion of our recorded principles,
and furthermore because it would involve the U. S. in immediate
war with England, nevertheless it may be desired as the only
means of extricating the Administration from the mistakes &
difficulties that have been created. But even this calculation
would prove fallacious ; the cause of the war would be investi-
gated, its miseries would be felt, and its authors very soon brought
into disrepute and disgrace. I know very well that you are suffi-

I90 RUFUS KING. [1810

ciently acquainted with this subject in all its bearings, and there-
fore need not that any of your friends should attempt to cast
light upon it, or to magnify its importance ; Nevertheless it may
not be amiss that you as well as others shd. know what are the
apprehensions of men disengaged from all public duties, and who
are spectators of the events which are so rapidly changing the
condition of the world. I am, dear Sir,

faithfully yrs.,
Rufus King.

T. Pickering to R. King.

Washington, Feby. 2d, 1S10.
Dear Sir :

I duly received your letter of the 26th. The subject is mo-
mentous— the ruinous measures of our unprincipled Administra-
tion— who will rather sacrifice the commerce, agriculture &
manufactures of the U. States, and even hazard their independ-
ence, than impliedly acknowledge their errors, by undoing what
they have done in imposing commercial restrictions & maintain-
ing and aggravating our differences with England. They have
pronounced, and continue to pronounce, the embargo to be "a
wise measure." To this Giles also must refer in his late speech
on the bill for repairing the four frigates lying in the mud at this
place (and which was published in the National Intelligencer, of
January 29) in the last paragraph but one. In the confidence of
an uncontroulable popularity, they married the embargo and its
appendages to their system of politicks. This is one cause why
they so obstinately persevere in associating, with every abatement
of their vigour, some mischievous regulation to keep up the idea
of coercing Great Britain, & thus provide some mask for their
mortified pride. But there is another, and it is the great and de-
cisive motive to the course they pursue. To do ?io act which will
conciliate our differences with Great Britain. Hence the adjust-
ment with Erskine was accompanied with expressions so offensive
towards the King as would ensure its rejection ; and of the other
point, with the exclusion of all the conditions on which they
knew Erskine was instructed to make an arrangement, while they
deluded him with assurances, that those conditions would in their
spirit and effect be provided for or admitted.

i8io] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 191

I have hitherto supposed agreeably to the above remark, what
you have conjectured — that the present object of the administra-
tion was "to gain time" — waiting events in Europe. Hence in
part the confusion of ideas so manifest in the proceedings of the
H. of R. I say in part, for much is the offspring of sheer igno-
rance in respect to our foreign relations & to commerce, and to
the power of the U. States ; for they think we can make a suc-
cessful war against Great Britain ; and upon her fall, resist ef-
fectually any attempt of France to subjugate us ; altho' they
imagine (another clear proof of their ignorance) she is and will
be our friend !

Your apprehensions of a design of our Administration to form
a connexion with the Continental Powers of Europe, for the pur-
pose of renewing the attempt to impose a new maritime Code upon
England, appear to me to be very reasonable. The " desertion
of recorded principles " would be no impediment to our Adminis-
tration. Excepting the admission by Mr. Jefferson to Genet, of
the old law, that enemy's property might be taken in neutral ves-
sels, those " recorded principles " so far as they apply to the
present state of things, were avowed and maintained by Adminis-
trations exclusively federal, which therefore it would rather give
pleasure to our present Rulers to disavow and abandon. Those
" principles " I believe, stand "recorded" chiefly in my contro-
versies with the French & Spanish ministers Adet & Yrujo. That
these were preserved in Europe in collections of State Papers,
and quoted by any distinguished writer on maritime law, I had
no knowledge 'till within a few weeks past, when I saw them so
quoted in Ward's Treatise on the relative rights and duties of
belligerent and neutral nations ; a book, tho' published eight
years ago (so little can I read) I had not ever heard of.

The inclosed copy of Mr. Jefferson's message to the Senate, in
nominating Mr. Short minister to Russia, countenances your ap-
prehensions and knowing as you do, the insidious character and
bias of the man, the message may enable you, amid his disguises
of language, to penetrate his ultimate views in instituting that
mission.*

* Mr. Short was no more than minister resident of the U. S. at Madrid,
which Mr. J. must have well known. He was appointed in 1794 by Genl.
Washington — probably on Jefferson's recommendation — directly or indirectly —

ig2 RUFUS KING. [1810

Short, I have understood, had rendered himself personally ob-
noxious to some leading Virginians ; hence Giles' earnest oppo-
sition which terminated in Short's unanimous rejection. I
explicitly concurred in all Giles' public objections to Short,
grounded in part on my own knowledge of his very moderate
abilities, which would be wholly unequal to the ostensible objects
of the mission. I remarked, too, on that occasion, upon the dis-
graceful idea advanced by the President, of submitting, in effect,
in the future negotiations for peace, the interests of the United
States to the arbitration of a Congress of Ministers from the
powers of Europe.

You will recollect when John Q. Adams was nominated to
Russia, that the mission itself was voted by the Senate to be in-
expedient : at the summer Session, when Mr. Madison nominated
him anew, he laid before the Senate some letters from our Consul
Harris at St. Petersburgh, & extracts of a letter or letters from
Armstrong — all in confidence — when not a particle of the informa-
tion required secresy. My interpretation at the time, of the ma-
noeuvre, was this ; The democrats who had voted against the
mission in March, would need some pretext for a direct contrary
vote in June : the President, therefore, provided a salve for their
first scruples. If questioned on their change of conduct, they
could say, the President had communicated papers which justified
the mission, but being confidential they could not further explain.

A fresh instance of the disposition to court Bonaparte, you will
see in the debates on the appropriation bill, in which an item was
introduced to provide explicitly for the mission of a minister to
Madrid! explicitly, no doubt to sanction the future deed by this
approbation of Congress. The express appropriation was refused.
The pretence of the Executive partisans that it was to provide
for a minister to whichever party should obtain the Government
of Spain, is too flimsy to impose on even the ignorance of the
troops of the palace ; who with their master not only expect, but
apparently wish to see the speedy subjugation of that Kingdom
to Bonaparte.

for Short was one of his favorites. Observe the word proceed to St. Petersburg,
as if it were merely a journey from the Court of Madrid to St. Petersburg,
whereas Short was in the United States when he received the appointment to
St. Petersburg.

1810] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. I93

I am much obliged by your letter, and I pray you not to hesi-
tate to communicate to me your ideas on any subject ; for on all
matters of public interest such information as you will give I
know will be important & useful. Even if previously possessed
of the same, it will afford me solid satisfaction to find my own
views confirmed by yours.

I am dear Sir, very sincerely yours,

Timothy Pickering.

P. S. I have just reed. " a letter on the genius & disposition
of the French Government " said to be written by a young gen-
tleman of Baltimore, of the name of Walsh. In page 247 he
speaks in the highest terms of Wm. Pinkney, and intimates that
he could settle our disputes with G. B. " if he were invested with
suitable powers." In page 248, you will see the climax of his
Eulogium. Whatever may be his talents, a letter you once wrote
me, concerning his apostacy from federalism, gave me no favor-
able impression of his heart.

T. Pickering to R. King.

Washington, Feby 5, 1810.
Dear Sir :

. . . Your conjecture of the object of Mr. Adams mission
to Russia is now supported by an occurrence in the H. of R.
Smiley let the cat out of the bag. On the question of an appropria-
tion for that mission, he said a Northern Confederacy was form-
ing in favor of the liberty of the seas ; and it was necessary for
us to have a minister there. This I have from a member of the
House, and doubtless you will soon see it in the newspapers.

Seeing the British Government perfectly understand the char-
acter of ours — its weakness and its baseness — will it be at all
necessary for the former in vindication of its honour and its rights,
to retaliate the " American Navigation Act," as it has been insid-
iously called by the agents of the Administration ? Why not
consider it in fact, as it is in terms, as reproachful to France as
to G. Britain ? The British Government were willing, in the same
way, to view the non-intercourse law in respect to ships of war,
tho' it was almost nominal as to France.

VOL. V. — 13

194 KUFUS KING. [1810

As the exclusion of British Merchant vessels from our ports,
cannot be for the purpose of giving an advantage to our naviga-
tion because of the comparatively small proportion the former
bears to the latter, and because the Southern men who now bear
rule were always opposed to favoring our own navigation by even
a small additional tonnage duty on foreign ships, I consider it as
amounting nearly to demonstration that the real design of Macon's
bill, and the confident expectation of its authors, is, to provoke
British retaliation and thus to turn it to their own account, as an
additional engine of popular irritation ; for there is no sort of
delusion which they think (and too justly) may not be practised
on the people, and with a fair prospect of success. Suppose then
that Macon's bill becomes a law ; what would the policy of G.
Britain suggest ? I should say — to acquiesce — to smother its re-
sentment (if this should not be absorbed by contempt) and thus
let our government fall into the pit of its own digging. G. Britain
would then almost exclusively enjoy the benefit of our commerce ;
and the peculiar excellence of it would be, that she enjoyed it by
our own act ! I am forcibly struck with this idea. Think of it
— and if you deem it correct communicate and impress it on Mr.
Jackson, with whom you must ere this time be acquainted. I have

seen him.

faithfully yours

T. Pickering.

P. S. In Coleman's paper I think I saw jour ideas of Macon's

bill.

The Article referred to by Mr. Pickering relative to Ma-
con's Bill is here copied from New York Evening Post, Jan.
16, 1810.

Macon s Bill — Are we never to see the end of measures, equally
repugnant to the recorded professions of our rulers, and subver-
sive of the public welfare ? After running through all the changes
of commercial restrictions, which have humbled the spirit, im-
paired the morals, and utterly deranged the commerce of the
country, is there no prospect of our administration being yet
weaned from that folly, that spirit oi faction, which is fast annihi-
lating the sources of our wealth, as it has already emasculated and
disgraced the nation ? Or are we to content ourselves with

1810] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 95

humiliation, poverty and dishonour, provided we receive the ap-
probation and countenance of France ? I had really hoped that
there did exist among us, if not a sufficiency of elevated pride
and sound understanding, at least, such a portion of common
sense, and common discernment, as would restrain our rulers from
further experiments in the downward course, which, at a period
certainly near, must deliver us up to civil convulsions, dissensions
and ruin. These rulers, whatever may be their views or their
wishes, cannot now plunge the nation into war. The last attempt,
by their maneuvre with Mr. Jackson, to inflame the country and
to raise it to the war pulse, has entirely failed. Whatever may
have been the publick sensibility upon the rupture, the bulletin,
the message, and the first appearance of the documents, the de-
bates that have taken place in Congress, joined to the discussions
that have appeared in all the leading federal papers, have, so far
destroyed the public confidence in the integrity of these people,
that they cannot now, if they would, excite a desire for war.
Their only expectations, their only remaining chance for this is
to effect the adoption of measures, which however mischievous
to the country, may produce such retaliatory regulations on the
part of England, as may be made the occasion of agitating and
inflaming the country to such a pitch as will enable them to bring
about their object, indirectly.

Mr. Macon's Bill, whatever may have been designed, is a meas-
ure of this tendency. There can be no doubt of the authority
of Congress to pass a navigation Act. But its principles must be
such as will secure us against those retaliatory regulations, which
must either put an end to all navigation, or must defeat the pro-
fessed object of acquiring the whole or a principal part of it for
ourselves. As the British navigation Act is deemed to be an
authority and a model, let us examine its provisions and compare
them with those of Mr. Macon's Bill.

According to the British navigation act, the trade between
Great-Britain and a foreign country can be carried on only by
British ships, and the ships of such foreign country — and foreign
productions can only be imported into England directly from the
country of their growth or manufacture. The limitations of this
famous act apply only to the articles imported into Great-Britain ;
it being free for any vessel to export and to carry whithersoever

I96 RUFUS KING. [1S10

may be desired, the produce and manufacture of Great Britain
Thus by way of illustration, while British merchandize may be
exported to Russia in Russian or British vessels, or in the vessels
of any other country, which Russia permits to import them, the
productions of Russia can be imported into Great-Britain only in
British or Russian vessels, and such importations must be directly
from Russia, and not from any third place. In time of war, the
King in council has by occasional acts of Parliament, a power to
dispense with this restraint, as to the direct importations, and to
permit foreign merchandize to be imported from intermediate or
third places, so that as far as respects the productions and manu-
factures of Great-Britain, they may be exported in the vessels of
any country ; and as far as concerns the productions and manu-
factures of any foreign country, that are permitted to be imported
into England, such importation is confined to British vessels, and
vessels of such foreign country ; the right of carriage being com-
mon to both.

Mr. Macon's bill proposes a very different regulation : namely,
that the whole of the imports of the United States from certain
foreign countries, as well as the whole of the exports to these
countries, shall be confined to American bottoms. Great-Britain
as well as the United States, are commercial nations, and rivals
in the carrying trade. It is a maxim alike antient and equit-
able, that the law which others apply to us, we may justly apply
to them.* G. Britain therefore, from those motives which in-
fluence all states, will, without doubt, enact a regulation con-
cerning our commercial intercourse with them, of the like
import with the regulations of Mr. Macon's bill concerning
their commercial intercourse with us. The consequence will
be that our vessels, being excluded from their ports, & their
vessels excluded from ours, they will meet in the Western Islands
and other intermediate places, whither we shall carry our exports,
and where they, in virtue of a relaxation of this navigation law
will come to receive them, as almost every other market will by
belligerent Decrees and Orders be closed against us. G. Britain
will be the principal and almost the only market for our produce,
which is more than sufficient for its supply ; so that, to the re-

* " Quam legem exteri nobis posuere eandem Mis ponemus. Stiernbook
de jure Sue ton.

1810] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 97

ductions of price from the want of competitions in the markets,
the proposed regulations by requiring the double freight, will
reduce still lower the price of our productions. And as by the
proposed law, our vessels cannot import into the United States,
the manufactures or produce of Great Britain or her territories,
except directly ; as we shall be shut out from their ports, in the
manner that they are shut out from ours — the consequence must
be, that no article of British growth or manufacture will be law-
fully imported into the U. S. But although ten men may divert
the course of a river, a million can not stop it from running to the
sea, so although our rulers may forbid the importation of articles
which our habits and wants, require, they cannot prevent our
obtaining them. We shall be supplied, and the country will not
only pay the value of these goods, but an additional sum sufficient
to compensate the risk of bringing them. Not only will the goods
be supplied at an enhanced price, but the revenue will be de-
frauded ; since being imported contrary to law, no duty will be
collected. But even these are not the worst effects of the regu-
lation.

No country on earth possessed a body of more honorable
merchants than those of the United States. In none, was there
ever so large a revenue collected with so few frauds. Those
honorable men, victims of the incapacity of our rulers, will be
restrained by the law, but their places will be supplied, as under
the existing and former restrictions their places have been sup-
plied, by an unknown yet numerous body of adventurers, who in
combination with foreigners, disregarding republicanism, scoffing
at patriotism and despising our laws, will fill our markets with
smuggled goods. — Already business has shifted hands, and a new
class of men are appearing amongst us with capital and credit to
do that business which more worthy men feel themselves compelled
to decline.

If all the power of France has been unable to enforce her pro-
hibition, can we persuade ourselves that the United States will be
able to succeed in this impolitic and immoral system ? — a system
tried during the course of the war of the revolution, and then
proved to be utterly defective. What valuable purpose will be
accomplished by the continuation of these restrictive measures ?
Will they coerce foreign nations ? Will they restore the public

I98 RUFUS KING, [1810

prosperity or replenish the public treasury ? They will do neither
— and the only motives which can be imagined for their adoption,
are first, a compliance with the views of France, and secondly,
the hope of thereby prolonging the powers of a faction. To res-
cue the country from these ruinous schemes, to preserve what
remains of national honor, and national resources, there is but one
course that can save us from ruin, and that is, to undo all that
has been done — to restore commerce to its freedom and its
former channels ; to put the country in a condition to meet war ;
and with a spirit of moderation, firmness, impartiality, and good
faith, to attempt an adjustment of our misunderstandings and
disagreement with foreign nations. This has not been done

since the departure of the Adams, but when done, there

are the best grounds for expecting that the result will be honorable
and advantageous.

W. W. Van Ness to R. King.

Albany, 8 Feby., 18 10.
Dear Sir :

. . . In the mean time I wish you to be assured that I am
perfectly satisfied with the general course of policy which you have
suggested. In relation to New York particularly, I can say but
little. I am mortified and disgusted with the conduct of many of
our friends, in that city. They have created difficulties & em-
barrassments which appear to me to be insuperable. At present I
am convinced the appt. of Mr. Varick in the only one that will
answer. I wish you would continue to write me when your
leisure will permit. Your opinions will, as they ought to, be nearly
decisive.

Yours very respectfully & Sincerely,

\V. W. Van Ness.

R. King — Note in his handwriting.

Feby. 6, 18 10.

This evening Dr. Mason renewed with me a conversation

respecting the College ; in the course of which he recalled the

subject of a conversation with me at Jamaica in the summer of

i8c8, which treated of his appointment to the Presidency of the

1810] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 99

College. I expressed to him the opinion before avowed of his
Competence, etc. told him I had mentioned the subject to Mr. G.
Morris, who approved, but that I had not entered fully into the
matter with him.

That he could not be unapprized of difficulties which I had to
overcome — that the division, and rivalry between the Episco-
palians and the Presbyterians were such as that a common opinion
seemed hopeless — that the Episcopalians feared that the College
wd. be turned into a theological Institution directed by Dissen-
ters— and that connected as I was with the Episcopalians, it
would be difficult to take any part that wd. appear like desertion.
If the division were not so considerable ; if the feelings of Gentle-
men on both sides were less lively and strong ; in a word if the
college had not in fact become a bone of contention between the
Episcopalians & the Dissenters, I should have no hesitation as to
the course I ought to take : that in my opinion the College shd.
have nothing to do with the reasons & arguments in support of
Episcopacy, or the Tenets of the Dissenters ; that a collegiate edu-
cation was to fit the candidates for the difft. learned professions —
and not to teach any of the Professions ; so far as the Evidence of
the Chn. Religion was concerned, let it be inculcated, but as re-
spects the difft. professions among chrns. leave the students to
their own choice. Dr. Mason concurred in these sentiments — I
asked whether if he shd. be Pr. he would think himself bound by
his own particular Tenets or wd. be content to explain the ch.
system as understood by all Xns ? His answer was, that his own
choice was made, that he however did not so regard the different
modes of worship and forms of Discipline among christians, as to
want charity for others, and in case he could not communicate in
the Hcly Sacrament with his own denomination, he shd. not de-
cline doing so with Episcopalians and that he shd. willingly ad-
mit Episcopalians to his Communion.

That he shd. not think himself bound to go beyond the general
inculcation of the ch. Religion, omitting the doctrines of this or
the other Sect of Chns. ; that he was solicitous the question re-
specting the Pr. shd. be decided within 4 or 5 mos., as it would
have a material influence upon the course of his future life ; that
he had come to a conclusion, that the details in wh. he had been
so long employed, might with equal advantage be performed by

200 RUFUS KING. [1810

an inferior man ; that he knew his own powers, that they exceeded
what his present station required, & that he had resolved to quit
it, and at 40 years of age to prepare himself for the Bar. This
however was communicated in perfect confidence, and the resolu-
tion wd. depend upon his succeeding in obtaining the Presi-
dency.

J. M. Mason to Rufus King.

{Confidential^)

Feby. 10, 1810.

My dear Sir :

Having attentively considered the subject of our conversation
on Saturday, I submit to the candour which I have at all times
experienced from you, the general views under which it has pre-
sented itself to my mind ; and I trouble you with my remarks in
writing rather (than) in verbal communication, that there may be
no mistake of my meaning and that further explanations, should
they be necessary, may be facilitated.

If I rightly understood you " there has been a conversation
among some of our episcopal friends relative to the college, and
they have suggested an arrangement with regard to the Presidency,
which they suppose may unite us all in a harmonious compromise."
The arrangement as I recollect it, is the following —

" That the President continue to be in all times hereafter, as he
has been in all times past, a member of the Episcopal cburch.
That his office, however, shall be merely titular, and be interpreted
simply as a compliment to that denomination. But that in order
to provide for the due execution of a vigorous system of educa-
tion, an additional officer, with the designation of Vice-President
or any other which may be agreed upon shall be created ; shall
possess all the power and receive all the emoluments, which are
now intended for the president, and be, in fact, the efficient man.
That this new officer shall be chosen out of a non-episcopal de-
nomination, and that this arrangement securing a nominal presi-
dent to the Episcopal church, and the real one to non-episcopal
churches shall be permantly incorporated with the statutes.

"This compromise, being proposed by Episcopal gentlemen is
thought to be sufficiently moderate on their part, and to be recom-

l8lo] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 201

mended both by the reasonableness of the thing, and by analogous
arrangements in Great Britain ; that considering the connection
which has always subsisted between Trinity church and the col-
lege, and the large proportion of the college-revenue which is de-
rived from her own donation of lands in this city, the sacrifice is
as great as social courtesy can require — that what she shall retain
is very little indeed ; but is still something ; that without it she
shall have nothing ; and that it would-be a source of pain to be
excluded from the college altogether."

It is very possible that I may not have drawn correctly the sub-
ordinate lines of this plan ; but I believe I have preserved its
principal features which are enough for us.

I confess, sir, that putting myself in the place of Trinity Church,
and consulting only my feelings as a gentleman, conceding also
that the assumptions in her representation are correct, and that
the arrangements of the college ought to be a matter of courtesy,
I have no hesitation in saying that her offer is both modest and
liberal ; that it goes as far if not further than with her sentiments,
I should incline to go myself, and that, if there did not appear to
be very serious obstacles in the way, I for one would cheerfully
meet her.

But in a matter of such high moment as the education of our
youth I must lay aside individual feelings which are not dictated
by self respect ; and acting as a Trustee of an immense public
interest, must merge the man in the functionary and inquire how
far a measure is likely to accelerate or retard the march of the In-
stitution towards the eminence which we wish to see it occupy,
regard being had to all its social relations.

When I sit down, under these impressions, to analyze the pro-
posed arrangement and to calculate its probable effects, the very
idea of a compromise strikes me unpleasantly. I cannot perceive
where it is to find a natural place. The cause of letters is " one
and indivisible." Here there can be no compromise, because there
is no collision. The same result occurs in their common cause ;
and whatever dissonance there may be in their ecclesiastical forms
or modifications, they are equally concerned in the promotion of
literature. Let us have as much warfare upon our Theological
grounds as we shall think either profitable or amusing ; but, in the
name of all that is generous, let the republic of letters be neutral

202 RUFUS KING. [1810

territory, where we can put off the polemic and the sectary, and
intermingle as gentlemen & friends. Between us there can be no
dispute on this head. But still it may be deemed expedient to
secure the co-operation of all parties by means which shall soothe
the feelings, or, which is the same thing, shall flatter the vanity of
each. I own it and this must be the real compromise. The only
question then is whether the arrangement proposed, will produce
such a compromise, and, at the same time promote the prosperity
of the institution. I think not and my reasons are these, i. The
charter under which we now act, has expressly abolished all prefer-
ence of religious denominations in the affairs of the College. It
received its present modification with the knowledge of Trinity
church and with the concurrence if not by the suggestion, of some
of her most distinguished members. Several of such members
and all the Trustees belonging to other denominations accepted
their seats in the board under the charter thus modified. The
Legislature of the State has made considerable grants of money
on the same ground ; not one dollar of which would have been
granted had the least suspicion existed that the Board of Trustees
would ever attempt to close the avenues to any office in the college
upon all denominations except one. Nor have I the smallest
doubt, should the attempt be made and succeed, but that influ-
ence of various sorts would speedly be enlisted in sufficient
strength to destroy the college altogether. It is not unknown to
you, Sir, that certain intriguing men have been looking, for some
years, with rapacious eyes upon the college-property, and are
feeding themselves with the hope of getting it into their hands.
Such a step as I am now considering would be to their Jacobini-
cal Archimedes the fulcrum of his lever for overturning our little
world.

Nor do I see on what Trinity church rests her claim to the grati-
fication for which she stipulates. Her legal right was long ago
extinguished by the charter. That instrument has been in force
more than five and twenty years under her own eye ; her vestry-
men, her wardens, her priests & her bishops have assisted in its
operations, and she has never objected to this day. If her con-
duct be not acquiescence in the extinction of her original prefer-
ence, I am at a loss how to interpret human actions. To the
donation of lands for the support of the college which she early

l8io] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 203

made, I cannot now attach such an appendage as she wishes,
whether that donation be contemplated in form or in substance.
That she had a right to annex any conditions she chose to a volun-
tary grant, is clear ; but it is no less clear that one of the prevail-
ing reasons moving her to that grant, was a desire and endeavour to
give to her own ecclesiastical character a real as it already had a
legal ascendency over other denominations. This can never be a
reason of concession to her from those very denominations, who
felt themselves aggrieved by her establishment above them. The
substance of the grant will influence them as little as the form.
Because she herself received in a grant from the crown the land
on which Trinity church now stands, which was then much more
than equal to her subsequent grant to the college ; and because a
tax for her support was levied upon the other denominations for
more than 50 years before her own grant, so that she actually got
from them, and in the most mortifying manner a full & ample
quid pro quo. Every shilling of the valuation (^"2000 sterling)
which she set upon her grant to the college, has been repaid into
her treasury out of the pockets of non-Episcopalians. The princi-
ple of our discussions is that, taking men and things as they are, we
must labour to soften prejudice and humour predilections. But
that same principle works both ways and what shall we gain by
such an indulgence to Trinity church at the expense of rousing
the pride and souring the spirits of other people ? They will ask
troublesome questions. They will go back to " tales of other
times." They will associate with this titular dignity the idea of a
latent purpose of future usurpation ; and the very obscurity which
covers it will minister to their suspicions, and conjure up ill-bod-
ing spectres to their imaginations. It is in vain to tell them that
the privilege to be confined to Trinity church is a name, a feather,
a pepper-corn. They will reply, that it is a badge of distinction
recognizing, however delicately, the old superiority — that, with
men of brain, names are often things — that a feather can answer
all the purposes of a crown — and a pepper-corn is as much a
tribute as a million of dollars. Let this mode of reasoning be
irrelevant, let it be wild, let it be fanatical, if you will ; still the
feelings which call it forth exist, and are not to be argued out of
the human heart. I am of opinion, therefore, that the projected
scheme will only prove upon trial an apple of discord. That it

204 RUFUS KING. [1810

will awaken slumbering resentments ; that it will impart to Theo-
logical discussions a political complexion, and, instead of concili-
ating, will only exasperate. In this most portentous state of
human society, when all the sound hearts and sound heads that
can be marshalled against the inroads of profligate misrule are
too few, the hazarding of such an issue is too desperate a game.
Start a controversy on this head, and no man can tell where it
shall terminate. The enormous wealth of Trinity church, indi-
cated by not the wisest of all possible displays, breeds a more ex-
tensive uneasiness than she is perhaps aware. Consultations have
been held on the subject of reducing it, and she has found friends
in ecclesiastical opponents, because they are friends to social sta-
bility and dread the application of the strong arm of power to
chartered rights. It is not impossible that the arrangement pro-
posed might be a spark to a train of powder ; and it would be
hard to calculate the extent of the explosion. 2. Considering
the nature of our charter, the Trustees appear to me to be under
a legal incapacity to adopt any such restriction of elegibility to
the Presidency. There was such a restriction once and on the re-
newal of the charter it was expunged. To revive it, would be to
create by an act of the board, a disqualification for a particular
office in the very teeth of the charter itself. For, if the Trustees
may restrict one office to a particular denomination, they may
with equal authority restrict all, and thus reduce the provisions of
the charter to a mere Nullity. To do it at all, the charter must
be essentially altered, and an essential alteration introduced with
a view of bestowing certain exclusive rights upon one denomina-
tion, is an experiment which I should hardly think prudent with a
New York Legislature. 3. Supposing these difficulties removed,
let us inquire how the new arrangement would work.

Inefficiency has been the bane of our college system ; and that
inefficiency has grown out of the plan of limiting the choice of
the chief officer to a particular denomination. She had not the
proper men at her command. The presidential chair has been
filled with weakness, and the college is almost good for nothing.
The expedient proposed is exactly the same blunder under an-
other form. You will indeed have two officers instead of one, but
you will not double your chances of talent, for by the terms of
the expedient you are to have one real president. Would it not

1810] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 205

be preposterous to see an able Episcopalian mocked with a titular
precedence while the effective power should be in the hands of a
Presbyterian blockhead ? For my own part I have no more affec-
tion for absurdity and feebleness in the shape of a Presbyterian
than in the shape of an Episcopalian. If "the church " has not
her full proportion of those articles, we can spare her what she
wants. It is true, increase of population increases the mass of
talent ; that is, talent as a raw material j our education must be
revolutionized before we shall be able to command much of it
ready for use, and that species of talent which our institution,
when put in a proper train, will require, is extremely scarce in
the most matured nations. Detur meliori is my motto, and I
should very reluctantly assent to any compromise which could
abridge our range of choice, already very small, through our then
intellectual population, by forbidding us to go into the Episcopal
pale, for an efficient man. I would take him where I can get
him, and premising that he be fit in other respects, would bound
myself by nothing but a protestant limit. This obviates the fear
of our Episcopal friends about their entire seclusion from the
college, unless the proposed arrangement be accepted. They
will narrow, not widen their own access to it, by their own plan_
They propose to surrender the efficient power by way of securing
the possession of inefficiency ! This, / should call the most hu-
miliating exclusion. But how are they excluded by the Detur
meliori! They must either despair of ever producing the men ;
or they must suppose the board of Trustees to be a knot of vul-
gar sections. The first they will not, of course, admit ; and all
past experience cries shame upon the second. They have at this
moment the whole faculty, excepting one ; & have them with the
concurrence of non-episcopal votes.

But to proceed ; I do not relish the business of a double-
headed body ; Two co-ordinate executives are a solecism ; and a
government with one executive for action and one for shew, i. e.
one executive and one non-executive is, a pantomime. A man of
sense & spirit who should submit to be this toy, this top-knot,
is in my view a contradiction ; and it would not mend the mat-
ter to push him behind the scene, and let Punch run off with the
Eulogy. The analogies quoted do not seem to be in point. I
spend not a breath upon Phila. because nothing has no attri-

2o6 RUFUS KING. [1810

butes. The English Universities are no parallel. If a Peer of
the realm be chancellor, & the acting authority be vested in a
vice-chancellor, the system may go on well enough and may be
no loser by a nominal head. But we have no Peers of the realm.
The nominal and real head must be men of the same general
standing in Society ; there is no immense distance of rank to
keep them from collision by keeping them apart. There is no
grandeur of ancient family, no influence of preponderating
wealth, no extensive political patronage to shed down a lustre
on the institution. Under such circumstances we cannot, like
the Universities of Great Britain, afford to have a nominal head,
though it be a foolish one. There is no dazzling brilliancy to
hide his emptiness from the public eye. To model ourselves
upon their platform in this particular would evince not that mag-
nanimity which adopts wise plans & emulates great examples, but
that petty affectation which makes itself ridiculous by aping a
magnificence beyond its reach.

Look at it in another attitude. These two heads must reside
near each other & come into frequent contact. If your system,
good in itself, be inexorably maintained, there will always be some
persons dissatisfied with its operation. They will at times be per-
sons of influence. Is there no danger of their impeding the
whole machinery by playing off one head against the other?
Should both be strong men and honest, this small policy never
would succeed. Even without such an embarrassment, let us
suppose the nominal head to be a feeble, and the real head a
powerful man. It is in the nature of littleness to be jealous, and
to be dabbling with things that do not belong to it. Your nomi-
nal head would be forever in the way ; he would be the rallying
point of all the pedagogues in the college and out of it ; and
would contrive with their assistance to render himself a very in-
tolerable nuisance. Reverse the case ; let your nominal head be
strong and your real one feeble. Etiquette would never hinder
such a man from interposing to preserve the great system of edu-
cation, or to repair its injuries. In that case your " balance of
power" would be overset, the very principle of your arrange-
ment frustrated, & your head, who was to do nothing, have the
weight of the concern upon himself under the most deplorable
of all conditions, that of trying to make an absurd fellow do right.

1810] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 20J

Still further, the habits of our country, unacquainted with the
double diplomacy of France, not being used to an ostensible and
a real functionary, will associate the character of the college with
that of the President. He will stand foremost in the public esti-
mation ; you may explain a thousand times and your explanation
will be forgotten. At public commencements and other special
occasions, your president must take the lead, and be the promi-
nent figure, unless you mean to make him the laughing stock for
boys, a subject for caricatures. How, then, on the one hand,
will an able man put up with all the compliments due to the ignor-
ance or incapacity of his Vice ? Being constituted a scape-goat
for iniquities not his own ? Or how on the other hand, will an
able man submit to have the praise of his genuis & truth trans-
ferred to another who did nothing? This proxy-scheme, for such
it will be in the experiment, cannot answer. No man of intelli-
gence & spirit will permit himself to be either applauded for what
he does not deserve, or robbed of what he does. If he is the
luminary in the system he will never allow an opake body, a
smoked glass, to intervene between him & the eye of the spec-
tator. He will not be viewed as if he were under an eclipse.
Besides, whatever little notions may fill the heads of both the great
vulgar and the small, you, my dear Sir, and every one who thinks
largely, perceives that a man who is capable of performing the
service which we should expect in our first officer, cannot shut
himself up in the college alone. He will consider it in the two-
fold light of an end and of a means. But as it furnishes opportun-
ity for the exercise of high talent in acting directly upon Society,
it is only a means. No small doer up of lessons understands this.
No one who understands it, will ever be a doer up of lessons, or a
literary mill-horse. He will take his stand upon the great theatre
of human life, and there is no keeping him from it. Now, no
consideration will induce such a man, and such an one we want,
to place himself behind a master of ceremonies, and play second
fiddle to one whom, if multiplied by iooo or 10,000, he could
crush with his grasp. It is not in human nature. Such a man
will be in your college aut Cozsar aut Nullus. There are very few
among secondary men who would deign to accept the post of your
efficient officer with a harlequin superior, dancing before him ;
and he, to whom it would be an object of ambition, is of course,
much less than harlequin.

208 RUFUS KING. [1810

Upon the whole, the proposed arrangement appears to me to
have originated in that most fatal policy which sacrifices general
principles to partial and temporary expedients ; and which it is
therefore impossible for me either to approve, to support, or not
to resist.

I have disclosed my sentiments with unreserved plainness ;
not only because such a disclosure comports with the frankness
of our conversations on matters of great interest ; and because I
wish to lay before you the extent of my feeling on this particular
subject ; but also, and chiefly, because the very liberal treatment
I have received from your friendship ever since I have had the
happiness of your acquaintance both justifies and requires a cor-
responding candour. You will give to my opinions and reasonings
their just weight ; and should your results be different from my
own, although I should regret the circumstances, it will not dis-
parage in your mind, the freedom of my communications ; nor
assuredly in mine, the respect and esteem with which I have the
honor to be, dear Sir, your obliged & faithful

J. M. Mason.

CHAPTER XI.

King to Gore — Hopes the best if England moderate — King to Wilberforce —
Thinks no incompatible Claims or Pursuits exist between the Countries —
Hopes final Rupture will be avoided — Murray to King — Slave Trade —
Troup to King — New York Mayoralty— King to Pickering — Jackson says
temperate Conduct likely to prevail — King to Gore — Jackson likely to be
withdrawn — England's Desire to live in Peace with the United States —
Bonaparte's Views prevent Continental Peace — Pickering to King — England
will show her Willingness to discuss Propositions from this Country — King
to G. Morris — Presidency of Columbia College — Conditions on which the
College holds its Property — Ingersoll to King — Fete by Daschkoff in Phila-
delphia— Mob caused by Crown in a Transparency — Trumbull to King —
Mail opened in London — Denounces the Administration — Trumbull to
King — European News — Siege of Cadiz — Sale of American Property in
France — Berlin and Milan Decrees revoked — Probably English orders in
Council will be modified — Mason to King — Proposition to lease Lots in
rear of Columbia College — Duties of the President.

R. King to C. Gore.

February 19, 1810.

Dear Sir :

I have just received your letter of I will write a letter to

Gr. whose sentiments on the Georgia business I am ignorant of —
altho' I should be disinclined to discuss the subject with the
view of changing any opinion he may have formed respecting it.
I can have no objection to suggest to him considerations in favour
of his abstaining from taking a share in the debate and confining
himself to the giving of his vote.

From the time of the joint Report, I have been willing to
believe that the public opinion has already, or is likely to undergo
a favourable change in your quarter. The offering of Gerry as
their candidate cannot have been very satisfactory, and does not
manifest great confidence of success, — very much will depend
upon the information received from abroad, before the election.

VOL. V. — 14 209

2IO RUFUS KING. [1810

If England conducts with moderation, I think the good cause
will succeed ; otherwise the worst may happen not only in Massa-
chusetts but elsewhere.

I hear that a vessel is here arrived in a short passage from
Lisbon, where news from England had been received up to the
3rd of January. I have heard but little of the news she is said
to bring. Canning it seems has returned into the ministry, and
holds the place of first Lord of the Admiralty. In a speech, full
of insolence, by Bonaparte to the Legislature, he proclaims his
purpose of persisting in the subjugation of Spain & Portugal
from whence he announces the retreat of the Leopard as soon
as he there shows himself.

It is this speech, or in a letter to the Emperor of Russia, in
which he declares "that the U. S. of America are seriously and
sincerely disposed to accede to their System against England."

As the news of the dismission of their minister must have
reached England before Christmas, and I do not hear that the
reports by the Lisbon vessel make any mention of anything
unusual concerning this country, I am inclined to hope that no
measure of irritation had been adopted, and if time be given for
Reflection, I also hope that none such will be adopted. Logan is
here, has taken his passage in the British Packet, and is understood
to be going to England upon a similar errand to that which some
years ago carried him to France. He has been at Washington
and has Dispatches & Letters of Introduction from the Govt, to
Mr. Pinkney. Bonaparte has repudiated his wife, if the news
from Lisbon be true, to marry whom is not mentioned. Mr.
Jackson, as I have heard, had some thoughts of making a tour
thro' the Eastern States — You may however be assured, if he did
intend it, he has relinquished his intention, and remains where
he is until he receives the orders of his Govt.

farewell and believe me always & faithfully

Yrs.

Political extract from a letter to Mr. Wilberforce from R. King.

Feb. 21, 1810.
Upon the topic of general politicks, I am not sufficiently in-
formed and therefore forbear to express any opinion ; but as
respects the misunderstandings, which are permitted to exist

1810] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 211

between our respective Countries, we have more information and
therefore may speak freely. I, as you know, have long thought,
as I still firmly do think, that there are no such interfering claims,
or incompatible pursuits between the two nations, as should
prevent their living harmoniously and in friendship with each
other. Jealousies which in no small degree are unfounded, are
entertained on both sides. Every step taken by either instead
of being regarded in its fair and obvious light, is suspected as a
measure designed to promote a concealed and unfriendly purpose.
Instead of the salutary presumption of good faith in their mutual
intercourse, the reverse takes place, and every proposition is sus-
pected to be not only unfriendly but insidious. In this temper
we are more likely to increase than to diminish our misunder-
standings— and nothing short of a return to a more frank and
confidential mode of discussing our differences will be likely to
heal them. When this necessary change may arrive I know not —
in the meantime I derive Consolation from the belief, that the U.
S. will not declare war agt. Eng., nor enter into any such engage-
ments, as, according to the maxims of your statesmen, shall
oblige Eng. to declare war agt. the U. S. Notwithstanding the
diplomatic quarrels and commercial regulations, which may hap-
pen or be proclaimed, I am not without hope that a final rupture
will be avoided, and that things being left to the operation of time,
temper and reflexion, the former harmony & mutual intercourse
of the two Countries will be again restored and established.
With sentiments of the highest esteem etc.

R. K.

John Murray, Jr., to R. King.

New York 2mo. 23d. 1810.

John Murray Junior's respects wait on his friend Rufus King,
and informs him, that the subject, contained in the letter from
Willm. Willberforce, relative to the Slave Trade, has obtained
careful attention, and the object of that communication put in
train for further investigation. J. M. has taken the liberty to
copy so much of the Letter as appeared necessary to be retained,
and if agreeable, the Act of Parliament may usefully be kept, as
some guide in giving further attention to the business. J. M. has

212 RUFUS KING. [1810

been very much gratified with the present reports of the Com-
mittee appointed by the Society, instituted for promoting the
civilization and improvement of Africa ; they are herewith re-
turned with J. M.'s acknowledgement for the loan of them ; and
when his friend Rufus King may receive further information on
this interesting subject, he would be very much obliged by the
perusal thereof.

R. Troup to King.

Albany, 27 Feb., 1810.
My dear Sir :

. . . I have lately received a very affecting letter from Varick
on the score of his treatment relative to the office of mayor. I
have by me a lengthy letter in answer ; in which I have detailed
the facts. He will find from it that he has no cause whatever
for being offended with any of his New York friends, and that
his disappointment can only be traced to vile intrigue and cabal,
the true causes, as generally believed here, of Radcliff's appoint-
ment. The arrangement to which all the influential men here
were privy, and which was thought to have settled Varick's
appointment, could only have been defeated by intrigue & cabal.
This business has so disgusted me that I have withdrawn from
all communion respecting appointments, and I therefore cannot
suggest to you what is likely to be the further course with regard
to New York. It is asserted by some who pretend to know,
that Williams will not agree to Morris's appointment to the clerk-
ship ; and that nothing will be done with that office till after the
election. From appearances Gardenier now stands a better chance
for the office than Morris — Benson is here asserting the claims of
his brother to the same office ; but I conjecture without any prob-
ability of success. Benson says he would not have the office him-
self if offered to him. He is contending for pri?iciple and this
demands his brother's restitution. A more objectionable doctrine
than that of principle could not be broached. To urge it, is to
make yourself ridiculous — and accordingly our friend the Judge
is laughed at.

very truly etc.

Robert Troup.

i8io] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 2\%

R. King to Col. Pickering.

New York, March 5, 1S10.
Dear Sir :

The Packet which arrived yesterday brings London news to
Jany. 12. I have not yet had time to look over the communica-
tions from England, but I may state to you that Mr. Jackson says
that he has much reason to be satisfied with what the Packet
brings, and as respects the U. S. & G. B., that the temperate line
of conduct, which he professes to have from the first recom-
mended, is likely to prevail. . . .

yr. obt. Serv.

Rufus King.

R. King to C. Gore.

New York, March 6, 18 10.
Dear Sir :

Notwithstanding the articles which you may observe in our
newspapers, you may be assured that the Packet from England
has brought nothing decisive respecting Mr. Jackson ; from the
best information that I have been able to collect there seems to
be little doubt that he will be shortly withdrawn ; the manner in
which this shall be done, and not the measure itself, is said to
have been undecided when the Packet sailed. The dismission of
Mr. Jackson is regarded as a confirmation of what was before
strongly suspected, that our administration are unwilling to settle
the misunderstandings with England ; preferring for some reason
or other, that they should remain open. Circumstances of no in-
considerable significance have occurred in Europe, which have
strengthened this opinion, and led moreover to the belief that the
dismission of the Eng. minister has not been without concert with
one of the Belligerents.

Under these convictions, with sentiments not hostile towards
the U. S., but which however forcibly enjoin the preservation of
respect for themselves, England may find the means of communi-
cating to our Govt., & perhaps to the world the light in which
she views the tenor & termination of the late Correspondence,
may reiterate the expression of her desire to live in peace with
the U. S., and to that end, by just arrangements, to do away all
misunderstandings between the two Countries ; and altho' the

214 RUFUS KING. [1810

Circumstances in which she withdraws her Minister, may prevent
her from naming a successor, she may avow her readiness to re-
ceive and to discuss any such communications as the U. S. may
think fit to make at London.

Whether this course will be literally pursued is not certain, but
that its Spirit will be adopted seems highly probable.

With the exception of the Marq. of Wellesley's accession, the
Cabinet remains as it was after the resignation of Canning & Cas-
tlereagh, and the death of the Duke of Portland — Austria again
appears with overtures for a genl. Peace, which like her former
ones must utterly fail ; the condition of Europe and the views of
Bonaparte precluding every rational expectation that it can take
place. Lord Wellington has asked for 30,000 Br. Troops, which
have been sent, for the defence of Portugal. Girona surrendered
on the 10th December, and the affairs of Spain seem to be very
unpromising. The unfortunate King of Sweden is to be delivered
up to the inexorable Bonaparte, who never forgives a personal
injury. While we withdraw from the Ocean, a great trade is go-
ing on directly between Eng. & Holland, and between the former
& France under French Licences. What object is to be promoted
by the late interviews at Paris between the Merchants and the
Ministers is not exactly understood. Whether the Danes are to
receive a new modification by which they shall be adjusted to an
expected League on maritime affairs, or be made to accomplish
their end in the form of territorial regulations, remains to be dis-
closed. The mercantile opinion in London was, that the expected
incorporation of Holland, the new association of the Hanse towns,
and other measures affecting the northern Powers, indicate a firm
purpose of excluding Eng. from all commercial intercourse with
the Continent. Farewell, &c. R. K.

T. Pickering to R. King.

Washington, March 9, 1810.
Dear Sir :

Yesterday I was favoured with your letter of the 5th, and just
now with that of the 6th.* The course which you suggest G. B.
may pursue, seems to me to flow naturally from the acts of our
own Government. After an examination of Mr. Jackson's com-

* The contents are nearly the same as in that to Mr. Gore of 6th March.

1810] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 21$

munications (which must embrace the whole of the correspond-
ence, & probably some things which he would first make known
to his own Government) the British Cabinet must see the soph-
istry, the captiousness, the shuffling, the madness and the weak-
ness of ours : whence their momentary resentments will at once
give way to contempt.

G. B. regarding her own great and permanent interests, which
demand a good understanding with this country, will do no hostile
act. From the beginning I supposed that withdrawing her min-
ister she would not name another ; while as you suggest, good
policy will lead her to manifest her willingness to discuss at Lon-
don, any propositions our Executive may direct to be made. This
will suit the Executive ; because it will enable him to draw out
the negotiation to any length he pleases ; and I know not one
man of sense who supposes that Mr. Madison (any more than Mr.
Jefferson) really wishes an adjustment of our differences with
G. B.

It is given out to day by the Clerks in the Secretary of State's
office, that the British Cabinet disapproves his conduct here, and
will send out a person of rank to succeed him : and people out of
doors are amused with the idea, that the people about the palace
are in high spirits in consequence of the news from London.

I trust the facts in the case will be communicated to Massa-
chusetts, and prevent the mischief these Cabinet tales are cal-
culated to produce. Every day exhibits some new folly in the
Administration members of Congress — witness Eppes's convoy
bill and Leib's resolutions &c. very truly yours,

T. Pickering.

R. King to G. Morris.

New York, March 21, 1S10.
Dear Sir :

As in consequence of the absence from town of several mem-
bers, the Board of Trustees met on Monday only to adjourn to
Thursday the 5th of April, I am not sorry to find that my letter in-
forming you of the time and place of meeting was not forwarded
as I supposed it to have been.

You probably are apprized that the Conveyance by Trinity
Church of the ground on which the College stands contains aeon-

2l6 RUFUS KING. [18
dition, that conformably to a provision of the Charter, requires
that the President be an Episcopalian ; when the Charter of the
College came under Revision after the war, the Legislature con-
firmed it, with certain exceptions, among which is the clause that
excluded from the Presidency all non-Episcopalians. The Law
proceeds to grant to the Trustees of Columbia College all the pow-
ers, that had been granted by the charter to the Governors of
King's College, excepting the exceptions ; and also grants to the
Trustees of C. Col., all the lands & property of which the Gov-
ernors of K. Col. were seized or possessed. Formerly the Epis-
copal Church claimed in this State a pre-eminence which the
Revolution has abolished. Our Episcopal Clergymen are never-
theless desirous to continue at the head of the College as a privi-
leged order ; a pretension which you must at once see would meet
with opposition.

An overture from the Episcopalians for a compromise was lately
made through me to the non-Episcopalians ; I send you Dr. Ma-
son's Reply, in order that you may be in possession of every cir-
cumstance relating to the College with which I myself am
acquainted. The project of the compromise is essentially what
Dr. Mason represents it to be, except that the appointment of an
Episcopalian Pr. and non-Episcopalian Vice-Prest. was to be mat-
ters of understanding, and out door agreement among the Trus-
tees, not a provision by statute. Having the pen in my hand, I
add a query for your considn. whether the duties proposed to be
laid upon the Professor of Languages are not above his strength ;
and whether by way of relief to him, as well as of improvement to
the students, it might not be well to charge the President with the
classical instruction of the Senior class ?

Very faithfully yr. obt. Servt.,

Rufus King.

C. J. Ingersoll to Mr. King.

Philadelphia, March 27, 1S10.
My dear Sir :

. . . We had a grand imperial fete last night in our neigh-
bourhood, which had like to have been turned into a republican
auto-da-fe. M. & Made. Daschkoff,* to do honor to the anni-

* Minister from Russia.

l8io] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 2\J

versary of their master's coronation invited one third of Philadel-
phia to a ball — and to give the greater eclat, the front of the house
was illuminated and an emblematic transparency exhibited from
one of the windows, on which among other things, one of the most
prominent was a crown. A crowd of vagabond boys were col-
lected about the door the whole evening ; but the constables who
mounted guard — our gens d'armes, easily kept them in order. Just
however as the company were descending to supper, word was
brought that a mob of more magnitude, with a naval officer at
their head, in full uniform, and armed cap-a-pie, were making
regular advances, and demanded that the crown should be pulled
down — abas la couronne — Mr. Allyne Smith, of Russian memory,
and several others went out and endeavoured to explain to the
gentlemen in the mud, that the transparency was intended to do
them honor ; that one ship was sailing into Petersburg, another
into Archangel and so on. But all in vain — the crown must
come down : and it was not true that the ship was going into
port, for her sails were aback — a mistake it seems, the painter,
very innocently ignorant of setting sails, had made in the drawing.
In the meanwhile the ladies were seated to a very good supper.
The door was kept fast, and we did as well as it was possible in a
besieged place with plenty of provisions. The result of the parley
was, that finding the beleaguerers inexorable, the odious diadem
should be removed. Accordingly M. Daschkoff himself with four
others clambered up into the window and were surrendering as
fast as they could, when the officer, who, to the disgrace of his
country, proves to be a son of Genl. Hand of Lancaster and a
Doctor in the navy, fired two pistols in quick succession, the ball
from one of which passed through the window, where there were
five persons, by great good fortune without doing any personal
harm. The ball was found and handed about the rooms after-
wards— among the rest I had it in my hands. The mob shouted
victory and marched off. This was I think a scene at the same
time the most disgraceful and ridiculous that ever occurred in
this peaceful town. Our police is so extremely bad, that I have
no doubt if the Mayor of the city had been acquainted with the
affair, he would have been the principal rioter.

. . . Yr Most respectful & Sincere friend and Servant,

C. J. Ingersoll.

21 8 RUFUS KING. [1810

J. Trumbull to R. King.

London, April 16, 1810.
Dear Sir :

Our friend S. W. received by the last Packet, a parcel from you,
covering one to F. Baring & one to me. These were sent to their
address by one of the junior clerks. Mine did not reach me &
some days passed before the mistake was discovered : a fruitless
search then took place ; the parcel has not been found, but on the
1 2th instant (nearly a fortnight after the arrival of the packet),
your letter to me dated Feby 16th came to S. W. by the penny
post and was sent to me. I opened it carefully and found that it
had manifestly been opened & resealed. From a passage of
this letter, I suppose that the resolutions of the Massachusett's
Legislature were enclosed with it in the missing packet ; these
have been kept back. I presume that this kind office has been
performed by our mutual friend the M ; U. S., who formerly told
me " that he would do you all the injury in his power," and whose
hatred I have now the honor of sharing with you almost equally.
This has probably been done with the hope of finding something
on which to ground a good democratic accusation, similar to that
which was lately made against S. W. and his uncle P. There ex-
ists a direct channel thro' which this may have been done ; the
man who formerly wrote in your office, & occasionally for me, has
since written for the M ; U. S. & now writes for S. W., where of
course he knows that your letters to me frequently pass — and he
is poor — perhaps I am wrong in this suspicion, but it bore so
strongly upon my mind, that I could not forbear using the only
measure of revenge, which presented itself — I caused the follow-
ing to be inserted in the Morning Chronicle of yesterday.

" Mr. T. presents his Compliments to the gentleman who has
done him the honor of opening a packet addressed to him from
America ; thanks him for having forwarded the letter which was
enclosed (the clumsy resealing of which is, however, but a poor
specimen of his dexterity in this art) and when He shall have
digested them, will thank him to forward by the same safe convey-
ance, the resolutions of the Massachusetts Legislature and other
papers which were under the same cover."

Be so good as to acquaint me what papers were under cover
with your's of Feby. 16th. The Letter itself would do you honor

l8io] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 219

if it were published to the world, and does not contain one ex-
pression to which the Demon of party could affix blame.

The Conduct of our Supernatural wisdom is at least consistent
— it has never by any accident deviated from its inherent & essen-
tial obliquity, into a Straight Line. All the smooth and plausible
appearances which have been maintained here for some time
past, and which were calculated to mislead honest well mean-
ing people, are admirably explained by the cotemporary amicable
cruize of the Etna in the W. Indies in search of the collector of
New Orleans. Mr. Bainbridge has enforced the right of search
with a vengeance. If he has not had a battle with & been taken
by a British cruizer, I trust he will either be broke for miscon-
duct, or some people will break their hearts from vexation. In
truth this has been worse than that of the Chesapeake ; how cruel
if (it) should have no better success ! ! !

The Devil himself (tho' Counseller Giles and his friends deny
the existence of this gentleman) must be in the luck, if such ex-
quisite policy, aided by the wisdom now assembled here, cannot
produce some favorable result. We have the profound Dr.
Logan, the superficial M. S. (who was Mrs. T.'s good or evil spirit
the first summer we were in America) to aid the sublime Talents
which were before upon the Spot. Melancholy however will it
be if the intemperate folly of Massachusetts, the obstinacy of
Connecticut, and the vile tergiversation of New York, aided by
the rashness and precipitation of our most dear & great, & good
friend the Emperor should blight at last the fair harvest which
has been so long and so assiduously cultivated by our enlight-
ened Statesmen.

You will see by the 10th Article of the Treaty between the
Emperor of the West, & the King of Holland, that we have the
glory of prolonging the existence of our Royal Sister Republic by
merely the sacrifice of a little dirty pelf. O Exploit worthy of
this age of Philanthropy & Reason ! O glorious administration,
who with mild and pacific wisdom insisted that Holland was an
independent nation and should be so considered — and so she
proves to be — at our expence.

His Imperial and patriotic Majesty is married to a young wife
and is I presume strenuously occupied in the laborious duty of
providing a successor, whom he may educate to walk in his pious

220 RUFUS KING. [1810

footsteps, for the glory of France and the happiness of Man-
kind. . . .

Truly yours
J.T.

J. Trumbull to R. King.

London, 22 July, 1810.
Dear Sir :

Since your favor of 3d April ... I have not had the
pleasure to hear from you. I find Democracy is completely tri-
umphant with you ; how will the power be employed ? Will the
Idiot ravings be still directed against this Country, and the Idiot
affections still fondle & slaver Imperial France ? I send by Mr.
Fellows a few newspapers. The most interesting fact they con-
tain is the abdication of the Throne of Holland by King Louis,
and the formal annexation of that once powerful Republic to the
Empire of France.

Great Events are passing in Spain and Portugal ; the friends
of human nature still hope & sanguine lovers of Ancient History
stubbornly insist that no people can be conquered ; they even
quote the glorious days of our history. Perhaps the affairs of
Spain are not at this day more desperate than were ours in Dec.
1776 ; & may God grant them union, energy and success.

Your faithfull

Jno. Trumbull.

J. Trumbull to R. King.

Hammersmith, Aug. 14, 1810.
Dear Sir :

. . . A few days ago arrived a packet from N. York, which
was ordered by Mr. Jackson to sail suddenly and not to touch at
Halifax. This uncommon circumstance led us at first to hope,
that a favorable change had taken place in the opinions of the
American Government. But not a word has yet transpired from
which we can fortify these hopes ; and we are left to fear that
delusion is too firmly established there to yield to any means of
Conviction, or rather to apprehend the complete confirmation of
what I have long been disposed to believe, that America has her
Schimmelpenninks, & that, for the punishment of her sins, is des-
tined to suffer with the rest of the World.

i8io] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 221

The siege of Cadiz can scarcely be said to progress at all.
The ephemeral King of Portugal, Massena, has commenced his
operations for the conquest of his Kingdom — but he makes slow
progress and appears to entertain a great respect for the British
& Portuguese Troops opposed to him. The cautious conduct of
Lord Wellington does him great honor and is calculated to inspire
hope. He occupies very strong positions from which he cannot
be dislodged but by great sacrifice ; and he seems to have placed
his enemy in the necessity of practising that sort of war, for which
they of all men are the least calculated — a war of posts and sieges
— a system which would long since have put a stop to French
prosperity, had it been adopted in the North & East of Europe.

Spain is by no means conquered, & if they are wise enough to
persist in the partizan system which they have adopted ; and if
the Cortez which are assembling at Cadiz, should prove to be
well composed & act with wisdom, I shall not despair.

The sale of American property in France has been some time
advertised, and is going on with great success. It proves an ex-
cellent stroke of Finance ; almost equal in principle and in pro-
ductiveness to the mint which Robespierre established in the
Place de la Revolution. I presume the good friends of his Im-
perial Majesty in the U. S. look forward with pleasing anticipa-
tion to the happy day, when by adopting a similar system they
may at once punish that vile minority in and out of Congress,
which has so often thwarted their plans ; and apply an easy &
efficacious remedy to the disordered finances of the State — and
their own. . . .

Your faithful Servant

Jno. Trumbull.

J. Trumbull to R. King.

London, August 25, 1810.
Dear Sir :

. . . I enclose you two newspapers containing a letter from

the French Minister to Mr. Armstrong announcing the affection

of his Imperial Majesty for the Americans & declaring that Milan

& Berlin decrees are revoked, &c. — judging from the effect

which this hypocritical jargon has on the minds of our Country-

222 RUFUS KING. [1810

men here, I presume it will completely answer its obvious purpose
of gulling "the best informed & most enlightened government
upon earth."

Heaven defend us from the consequences of our own supernat-
ural wisdom. It is the general opinion here that the orders in
Council will be also & in similar style revoked ; but that neither
the right nor practise of blockade will be abandoned. Lord
Wellington keeps Massena still at bay — avoiding a battle — &
tenaciously keeping to strong positions in the mountains. The
Dysentery & Putrid Fever have attacked the French Troops, and
cause great mortality. With such aid the British Troops may re-
tain their position, notwithstanding the numbers of their enemy
were so superior at the opening of the Campaign.

Yours faithfully

Jno. Trumbull.

J. M. Mason to R. King.

New York, July 10, 1810.
Dear Sir :

The board of Trustees is to meet on Monday the 30 inst. The
report of the Committee of leases in favor of leasing a tier of lots
back of the college will then be decided on. There appears a fixed
determination in some members of the board, to resist every
measure calculated to promote the true interests of the College ;
and to obtain, by wearisome delay, what they cannot accomplish by
open and manly effort. As this policy is now too palpable to admit
of any doubt, should our delicacy, as gentlemen, consent to yield
further advantages which we know are to be turned against us ?
Ought no steps, proper in themselves, to follow each other in rapid
succession, and leave no time for the growth of machinations, which
owe all their strength to the courtesy or the tardiness of others ?
It will be necessary to settle the time of assembling the committee
for preparing the statutes, and also to agree upon a report which
we were recently directed to make of a suitable form of address
to the public with a view of obtaining subscriptions. On every
account I wish much to have some conversation with you & es-
pecially to see you at the meeting of the board.

with truth & affec. your faithful & obt.

J. M. Mason.

1810] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 22$

J. M. Mason to R. King.

N. York, August 31, 1810.
Dear Sir :

. . . As several members are out of town, there may be
some difficulty in forming a board on Monday. I hope you will
arrange matters so as to be here and to bring Mr. Bogart.

My friends who are engaged in the plan of building a new
church, find the most extreme difficulty in procuring a proper
site, and especially one, where they can commence building this
fall. They have repeatedly, since I was at your house, solicited
me on the subject of the college ground, and I have as repeatedly
avoided giving them any encouragement. They informed me
however on yesterday morning, that they shall try it on Monday.
Some gentlemen, who are wholly opposed to the general leasing
of the lots, will readily agree to this proposal. There is reason
to think that the sensation to be excited among some of our
friends by such a grant, will not be so strong as we apprehended.
Myself and another gentleman have severally conversed with one
who has been against us on every great principle agitated in the
board, and although he very properly declined committing him-
self absolutely without leisure for reflection, declared that he did
not perceive any reasonable objection. Should ^Eolus blow no
blast, I shall count according to the opinion you were good
enough to express, upon your friendship in this matter. I shall
trouble you to mention it to Mr. Bogart, and if you shall feel
yourself at liberty, to gain his concurrence.

Your faithful & obedt.

J. M. Mason.

J. M. Mason to R. King.

New York, Nov. 6, 1810.
My dear Sir :

Yesterday was the stated meeting of the Trustees. I did not
get there till 12. I found the trenches opened. The design of
defeating all the effective parts of the plan for the College was
more apparent than ever. A vigorous effort was made to destroy
the obligation upon the President to conduct the studies (classical)
of the Senior year. A motion to strike out the clause was with-

224 RUFUS KING. [1810

drawn, and an amendment proposed, viz. that the President
should perform that duty "by himself or by a substitute" !! !
The design was too obvious ; no pleadings could render the
amendment plausible and it perished.

I moved to replace among other duties of the President, a
course of lectures on the subject of Divine Revelation. After a
long debate it was resolved by a majority of 3 (eighteen present,

not voting, Varick in the chair & and only six rising in

favour of the amendment), and all your clergy against it, it was
resolved that there shall be no Christianity taught in Columbia
College in any shape.

I deeply regretted your absence and that of Mr. Morris. We
have gone through the duties of the President, which stand exactly
as reported ; and partly through his powers, where was another
conflict. Mr. H. fastens upon everything which throws strong
power into the hands of our executive, coupled with proportionate
responsibility ; and is most unremitting in his exertions to take
away the reality of both under the appearance of maintaining
them. If he succeed all our labour is lost, and every thing re-
verts to its averted lethargy. " By degrees "—is the Maxim ;
and out of door manceuvering the policy. Nothing can be more
evident. Tomorrow the 7th inst., being Wednesday, we resume at
10 o'clock the discussion of the President's powers. Let us be
favoured with your attendance. Now or never is, I believe, the
alternative. I should have been to see you, had I not been un-
expectedly called from home to see my sister Mrs. Brown and
her two children, who have come from Kentucky to spend the

winter with us. . . .

with real regard your obt. faithful

J. M. Mason.

CHAPTER XII.

Gore to King — Despondent — People must submit to the System of the Rulers —
Trumbull to King — Folly and Punishment in following Guidance of Jeffer-
son— King to Gore — Jackson's Dismissal — Relations with England em-
barrassing— King — President's Proclamation — King — President's Charge
against England of Breach of Faith — King — French Decrees and English
Orders — King — Message of the President — King — Analysis of Randolph's
Speech on Erskine Resolutions.

C. Gore to R. King.

Waltham, Nov. ii, 1810.
My dear Friend :

. . . Unfortunately for our Land, there is no prospect that
I can perceive, of a man's promoting either his own welfare, or
that of his fellow-citizens by taking any interest in public meas-
ures. The Degradation of our Nation and the corruption of the
public mind & of the Morals of Individuals are constantly increas-
ing. In this State for a long time, the support of Mr. Jefferson's
weak & wicked systems was confined to the ignorant and needy,
& the profligate. The Defection of the former President has
given an impudence to the Democrats, and the miserable Vanity
of a lucky Merchant affords a gloss to their Baseness & supplies
the means of filling their Ranks and adding to the Infamy of the
Community. When & how this state of things is to be changed
is far beyond my Conception : that it will not be within my time
is certain & I exceedingly doubt if within the days of any who
are now alive. . . .

I have not been in town since Monday of the last week, and
am therefore unable to say what, if any, sensation has been caused
by the President's Proclamation & the Secretary's Circular.
Therefore, presume none at all — Our men of reflection are aware,

VOL. V.— 15 225

226 RUFUS KING. [1810

that the Interest & Honour of the Country are of no Considera-
tion with our Rulers, & that the Welfare of the commercial part
of the Community, if possible, is of still less importance — They
therefore submit themselves to their destiny with the same list-
lessness as did the Victims of Robespierre to the Guillotine. The
democrats will use it as an Engine to increase our love of France
& Hatred of England, & the indifferent men, which are a large
Class, as a nice Trick of Necromancy, by which we can obtain a
free trade to the Continent of Europe, & show our superiority to
both Belligerents, — our Merch'ts do not, as yet, according to what
I have learned, send many Vessels to the Dominions of the Tyrant.

Your affectionate friend,

C. Gore.

J. Trumbull to R. King.

London, Nov. 21, iSio.
Dear Sir :

. . . We hope to receive the most favorable and decisive
intelligence from Lisbon. The King of Sweden per tot discrivii?ia
rerum is at length safe in this country, reserved I hope for great
& useful purposes. The King of England whom I saw two
months ago in such fine health, has been broken down by the
protracted sufferings of his favorite daughter. His health &
mind sank under the affliction ; but now that all is over, he is
slowly recovering.

I lament to see the extent of folly in our countrymen ; not but
I expected them to be again the Dupes of Bonaparte's policy —
and of their own lust of filthy lucre. There is no end to the vile
infatuation which Providence is employing to operate its own
punishment. From the days of Genet to this, we who boast of
being the descendants of men who braved all dangers for the
sake of Freedom & Religion, have been worshipping a native, who
abolished Divine worship, and established Atheism by one De-
cree and Despotism by another. Is it consistent with the nature
of things, with that inseparable connexion which Providence has
established between crimes & punishment, that this should escape ?
No, my friend ; an unhappy country must expiate her guilt by
suffering, and since Pestilence (which followed close upon the first

i8io] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 227

development of national crimes) has not sufficed to recall us to
our duty, delusion has followed, and Evils of deeper importance
will follow. . . .

Your faithful servant,

Jno. Trumbull.

R. King (probably) to C. Gore.

New York, Dec. 6, 1810.
My dear Sir :

Having come to town last evening & intending to return to
Jamaica this morning, I have had no opportunity of learning what
others think of the message ; but for myself, I feel deeply im-
pressed with the weight and consequence of this State Paper.

A charge of broken Faith against England is of a nature to
engage the universal attention & feelings of their People. If their
ministers have dishonoured the nation, the nation shd. redeem
their Honour by the sacrifice of the criminals. If the ministers
can vindicate the national Faith, they are by every motive that
can influence human affairs bound to do so ; and in this case they
ought to seek reparation for the injury of a false accusation. How
our relations with England will be affected, I cannot determine,
but they appear to me to be now placed in a condition far more
embarrassing, and even critical, than at any antecedent period.
The general tone of the message is alarming, upon the subject of
Jackson's behaviour, the import of what the President says is this,
— " You have sent us a minister who wants good manners, and for
his rudeness we have kicked him out of the country ; if however
you will send another who will carry a civil tongue in his head,
we will receive him." Shd. another minister be sent, it must be
an admission of Jackson's delinquencies, and an implied engage-
ment that the new one will behave better.

Yrs., R. K.

President's Proclamation.

The President has committed the same fault in his late Proc-
lamation concerning France, that he did in his former Procla-
mation respecting England. In both he departed from the plain
Text of the Law and issued his Proclamation, not upon the Ex-

228 RUFUS KIXG. [1810

istence of a Fact, on which alone he had authority to do so, but
upon the Engagement, or Promise, in the one case of an unau-
thorized Ambassador, and in the other of a disavowed Minister
of State. For admitting, contrary to our opinion, that the Duke of
Cadore's Letter of August may be construed to be an uncon-
ditional Promise, that the Berlin and Milan Decrees should be
effectually repealed on the 1st of November ; it is now officially
ascertained that they were not so repealed on that day ; of course
the Promise, or which is the same thing, the minister is disavowed,
and the Fact, asserted in the name of the President, turns out to
be not true.

On the faith of the President's first Proclamation, Property of
a very large amount was shipped from this Country to Ports,
from which by the British orders in Council we were excluded ;
and had these Orders been enforced, as in strictness they might
have been, (Erskine's arrangement being unauthorized) our losses
would have been immense. This did not happen ; for England
at the same time that she disavowed Erskine's arrangement, sus-
pended the Orders in Council in favour of all American Vessels,
which before the knowledge of the disavowal should have sailed
for the blockaded Ports. In consequence of this equitable deter-
mination, not only were our merchants saved from loss, but in
some cases they made very advantageous Voyages. Compare
this Conduct of England, of hated, execrated England, with the
recent conduct of beloved and applauded France ; upon the
Faith of the Duke of Cadore's Letter (vouched even by our Presi-
dent) written under the Eye and direction of the Emperor and
published in the French official Gazette, our ships with valuable
Cargoes have entered the Ports of France. To the astonishment
of their owners they find that the Berlin and Milan Decrees are
not repealed ; the officers of the Government seize and detain
them ; and the Plea of having acted upon a confidence in the
Imperial word, instead of procuring for them Protection, exposes
them to derision ; no Order has been passed to save from loss
those who confided in the royal Promise ; on the contrary their
Credulity has been scoffed at, and the Property basely and dis-
honestly plundered.

Tho' the Virtuous and disinterested, the moderate and benevo-
lent Bonaparte may treat thus contemptuously the friendless

1810] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 229

and unprotected, the degraded and dispirited Citizens of a free
Country, have they nothing to hope from the power and affection,
the elevation and generous sentiments of their own Government ?
Or are Republics an inferior and debased species of Government,
whose citizens may with impunity be robbed, imprisoned and
scourged by the slaves of despotism ?

Suppose that one of our Countrymen, who still retains impres-
sions derived from the Examples of better Days, should represent
to Congress, that subsequent to the President's Proclamation
he had engaged in a voyage of great value to France, that
upon his arrival in that Country, instead of finding that the Ber-
lin and Milan Decrees had been repealed and had ceased to
operate, as the President had declared would be the case, he
found them in full Force, and that his ship and cargo had been
seized and confiscated for having violated those Decrees ; that,
as he confided in the official Declaration of the President, and in
consequence thereof had lost his property, he prayed Congress to
compensate him for his losses ; what Congress would decide on
such an application, we cannot beforehand tell ; but looking at
the Principles of Justice for an answer, looking at the Example
of other Governments, and looking even at the conduct of Eng-
land, we know what ought to be their decision.

In considering the President's Message and the Documents
which accompanied it, the matter which they contain in respect
to England, may be divided into two distinct parts ; the first,
comprehending the charge which the President has made, of
a breach of faith on the part of England in not confirming the
arrangement signed by Mr. Erskine ; and the second, the dis-
mission of Mr. Jackson on the charge of disrespect to the
Government of the U. States. Each of these charges are im-
portant ; the first, however, beyond all comparison is the most
weighty and must have been intended, and unless honor be a
jewel lost from the British Crown, will be sure to produce the
most decisive Consequences.

Between belligerent nations we sometimes hear of mutual
charges of a breach of faith — tho' until the perilous and fearful
times in which we live, these recriminations were rare even be-
tween Enemies and, when made, called for the most authentic
expositions of the conduct which occasioned them. Anonymous

23O KUFUS KING. [1810

publications in the newspapers, insolent and unmeasured dis-
courses in popular meetings, and even in legislative bodies, how-
ever unpracticed in other countries and disreputable in our own,
serve rather to exhibit the coarseness of our manners & vulgarity
of our tastes, than to produce the animadversion of foreign
Powers.

But the President of the United States is considered by the
Constitution, and must therefore be regarded by foreign powers,
as the Representative of the Nation — in him are vested the ex-
clusive superintendence, control and direction of our foreign
affairs. When he speaks therefore upon this important subject,
it is not as an individual, but his voice is the voice of a Nation,
heard and considered throughout the world.

We may question the wisdom, the prudence, the value, the
wealth, or the power of a Nation. These are attributes worthy of
esteem and highly to be prized. But a nation may be deficient in
one or all of them, and still be a virtuous, beloved, esteemed by
others and honorable nation. But a nation that can suffer its in-
tegrity, its public faith and honor to be openly and solemnly im-
peached, without making every exertion in its power to vindicate
its reputation, justly & unavoidably loses its consideration in the
estimation of all other nations by her acquiescence, becomes con
victed of dishonor and merits the degradation inseparable from
so foul a reputation.

Whatever may be believed by certain men in this country,
there are myriads of men in Britain, who are neither princes nor
nobles, and who neither fill nor desire public offices, who believe
with pride and confidence that the integrity and public faith of
their nation are as unquestionable and unblemished as the virgin's
fame. With the divisions and parties of Parliament and ministers,
these men have no share ; they belong to their country and not
to its factions ; they love that country, because they are per-
suaded it is a virtuous and honorable one. It is not for Ships,
Colonies, or Commerce that this body of men would beat their
plough-shares into swords. Money never was in their estimation
a legitimate cause of war, whether it be thousands or millions.
They think, and they think justly, that no nation ought ever to
go to war for money, except so far as its acquisition or defence is
connected with honor. It is honor, reputation, a good name

1810] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 23 1

which are alone worth fighting for — and no nation that will not
fight in their defence, can enjoy them.

With the broad shield of England exalted before their eyes,
and the object of their affections, what will be their feelings,
what will be the sentiments of the whole nation, when they look
upon the foul blot that is cast upon it by the President of the
United States ?

French Decrees & English Orders.

It may appear to many wholly useless to add to what has been
written Sz spoken upon this subject. The current of almost
every thing which has been published, since the Duke of Cadore's
Letter, has been of the same tendency, and strengthened by the
Decisions of the President &of Congress, have served to produce
a general opinion that France has revoked her Decrees, while
England, contrary to good faith, refuses to rescind her Orders.
If such be the Fact, there is at least, the appearance of an apology
for the wretched condition of the country ; and our Rulers even
may claim to be in some degree exempt from the charge of
Ignorance or Corruption.

It is not to be doubted, that the calm & impartial examination
of the subject, momentous as it certainly is, and influential as it
undoubtedly will be upon the liberties & character of the country,
is a task of extreme difficulty, is a labour not only hopeless of
reward, but which exposes him who engages in it, to uncandid
& disingenuous imputations.

The prejudices, in favour of one, and against another foreign
power, have warped, if not destroyed, the impartiality of the
public tribunal ; and men whose minds remain free are dis-
couraged from making those efforts in favour of Truth & Justice,
which the dangers upon whose brink we stand would otherwise
impel them to make — quiet men, whose personal prudence is the
ruling motive of their conduct, are from the hope of ease deterred
from expressing their sentiments — office-seekers & those who
desire popular favour, and are unwilling to incur popular dis-
pleasure, hold their peace. Men of sound understanding and
who perceive the delusion of the times and the gulf which opens
to receive us, doubting the impartiality or the capacity of the
People, resign themselves to an unmanly despair & like the
ignorant clown, call upon Jupiter for help and deliverance.

232 KUFUS KING. [1810

The ruinous system of Commercial Restrictions commenced in
Deer. 1807, — its different modifications, antecedent to May 1810,
are for the sake of perspicuity, passed over, in order that we may
state as plainly as we are able the origin of things. The law of
May 1810 relinquished the prosecution of the Embargo, and non-
intercourse schemes, and after closing the Ports of the U. S.
against the armed vessels both of France & England, by its fourth
section provides " that in case either G. Britain or France should
before the 3d day of March 181 1, so revoke or modify her Edicts,
as that they should cease to violate the neutral Commerce of the
U. S., which fact the President should declare by Proclama-
tion, and if the other nation should not in 3 months thereafter so
revoke or modify her Edicts in like manner, then the non-
importation sections of a former Law were to revive & operate
against such other nation, and our ports were thenceforth to be
opened to the armed vessels of the Power, which by the Presi-
dent's Proclamation should be declared to have so modified or
revoked her Decrees."

We forbear to express our opinion of the unconstitutional
encroachments which this Law makes upon Executive power :
the President acquiesced in it (and acting under a Law of the
U. S. or as an agent of Congress and not in virtue of his con-
stitutional power) he, in pursuance of its enactment, communi-
cated the provisions of the Law to both France & England.

It certainly was the Right of the U. S., as of every neutral
nation, to trade with all nations in times of war as well as peace,
with the exception in time of war, of trade with a belligerent in
contraband goods, and to blockaded ports. The French Decrees
and English orders abridged, not to say destroyed, this Right
so far as regards our trade with both of them. Altho' we pro-
fess to have a clear, and as we believe, a correct opinion con-
cerning the retaliatory character of these Decrees and Orders,
we decline expressi?ig it, because it would divert public attention
from the important object of this analysis.

Message of the President.

So far as regards England, Mr. Pinkney's Letters relate to two
points, one the successor of rank and talents to Mr. Jackson, the
other the orders in Council.

1810] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 233

As to the first every man of honorable feelings and national
spirit, must be sick and disgusted with the overtures, intimations,
prayers and menaces which have been employed to engage Eng-
land to send another minister to this country. The apologies
and twistings, the alternate hopes and fears which Mr. P. has
manifested upon this subject are humiliating and offensive.

The case is a plain one ; if the Govt, thinks the omission to
send another minister is disrespectful, their remedy is at every
moment in their own hands ; let them positively instruct Mr.
Pinkney to return home ; in which case he must do so ; without
it no one who reads his letters upon this subject, deficient as
they are in good manners and becoming language, will believe
that he has any intention to leave his post. Endless words and
phrases and petty altercations upon a question, which might at
any moment be safely, and with dignity decided, are anything
but what they should be and evince more than any other course
the utter weakness and indecision of these who prefer this
course.

With regard to the second point, the Orders in Council, with-
out saying one word respecting their justice or expediency, we
are called to give our attention to the provisional promise of Eng.
to repeal them as soon as France repeals her Decrees. Mr. P. in his
third letter on this point, claims the repeal by England on the princi-
ple of good faith, or because she is bound to perform her promise.
To prove that the promise is binding, Mr. P. is bound to prove, and
contends that he has proved, that the French Decrees are repealed ;
in other words that their operation has absolutely ceased. It is
curious enough to remark the similitude of Mr. P.'s efforts on
the present and on a former occasion, in which a question was
raised and discussed with much zeal, whether the Berlin and
Milan Decrees were anything more than mere municipal Regu-
lations, which France was free to make, and which no other
nation might complain of. It will be recollected that this Doc-
trine was asserted and maintained in their Courts, in order to
prove that England, having no ground of complaint, could have
no right to retaliate by her Orders in Council.

Unfortunately France was consulted and Bonaparte answered,
that as the Decrees were general, and not confined to the Territory,
no exceptions could have been intended and therefore that none

234 RUFUS KING. [18
existed. So on the present occasion, while Mr. Pinkney is
labouring to prove that the Berlin and Milan Decrees are uncon-
ditionally repealed and have wholly ceased, the Grand Judge, by
a letter to the Tribunals, informs them that the American vessels
which arrived after the 1st of November are in virtue of those
Decrees sequestered, and that in case the U. S. shall have actu-
ally performed a Condn. connected with the notification of repeal,
they will be discharged from the Principles of these Decrees.
It is therefore quite probable, as these letters are inserted in the
French newspapers, that they will have reached England before
Lord Wellesley answered Mr. P.'s letter. In which case he will
have nothing more to do, than to send him a Copy of these
Letters by way of answer, and conclusive answer, too, of that
Min. Letter.

R. King's Analysis of Randolph's Speech in Favor of

the Erskine Treaty.

" Homo qui erranti coiniter viam monstrat."

Ennius ap. Cic.

Act of the U. S. of May 1st 1810, restores intercourse to the
power which first revoked or modified its decrees, so as that they
shd. cease to violate the Neutral Com., of the U. S., and three
months after established their non-importn. agt. the other which
shd. not have so revoked etc.

Aug. 5th, Cadore announced that the Decrees of B. & M. were
revoked to take effect Nov. 1st., provided the Br. Gov. shd.
revoke its orders, and renounce its new principle of Blockade, or
the U. S. shd. resist the Pretention.

Each had promised a revocation of its Decrees, when the other
revoked theirs, and Eng. promised to proceed " pari passu " with
France in the Revocation.

The Cadore letter does not state that the Decrees wd. absolutely
cease on Nov. 1., nor does it follow the former promise that
they shd. cease, when the orders of Council ceased, or in case
of their continuance, when the U. S. shd. resist the orders in
Council. Had the announced revocation been upon this proviso,,
we are assured by Marq. W. that the orders wd. have been
repealed even upon the evidence defective as it seemed to be.
But the Fr. added another and a new Condition — that Engd. shd..

1810] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 235

renounce her new principle of Blockades, or that the U. S. shd.
resist it. — This new principle is described in the Berlin Decree
and England asserts that instead of a new principle it is old and
sanctioned by Law & usage ; she therefore refused to renounce
it ; and the U. S. enforced the non-importation to compel them
to renounce, or by way of Resistance to, the Practice of Blkades.

In order to understand this portion of the Correspondence, we
must cite the Case wh. the U. S. have selected as including the
new principle of Blk. asserted. This case is the Blkade of May
1806 notified to Monroe. The U. S. allege that this was (and if
still in existence, is) an unlawful Blk., because it was the blk. of
many leagues of French & Dutch Coast, to the maintenance of
wh. an adequate force was not and could not be assigned. Eng-
land admits the Principle on wh. the U. S. contest the validity of
the Blk., but deny the matter of fact, and assert the force to have
been a competent one. They admit that no blockade is valid,
unless an adequate force is assigned to maintain it, or in other
words, they fully allow that a Blockade on paper, and which is
not maintained by a force sufficient to enforce its observance,
is a nullity ; that it has no foundation in public Law, and that
to say it had would be an attempt to establish a new principle
in the Law of Nations — an attempt which they explicitly dis-
claim and in regard to the Blk. of May 1806, which is now
merged and included in the orders of Council, England declares
should the orders of Council be revoked, that the Blockade of
May, if continued, shall be maintained by an adequate force.

In this view of the subject ; how has it happened that the Blk.
of May 1, 1806, wh. did not offend us when established, which
seems to have been adopted as a mere device to enable us to
carry on what was called the Colony Trade, which we never com-
plained of when in operation, but under wh. we were enabled to
prosecute a most advantageous trade, how, we ask, has it hap-
pened that this Blockade, when merged in the Orders in Council,
founded as they profess to be, on a totally dift. principle, is
made the subject of unsupportable Controversy on the part of
the U. S. ? There is but one reason which can be assigned,
which is that the views and policy of France prescribed this
Course, while the honor & welfare of the U. S. forbad its
adoption.

236 RUFUS KING. [1810

When one power ceased to violate our Neutral Com., & the
other continued to violate it, the Law authorized the Pr. to open
the intercourse with one and to close it with the other — two
causes of violation of our neutral Com. were alleged agt. Eng —
the orders in Council and the new Principle of Blk. as exempli-
fied in the Blk. of May 1806.

Concerning the orders of Council, there is the most satisfac-
tory reason to conclude that they wd. have been revoked, had
not the U. S. coupled with their Demand, a Demand of the Re-
nunciation of the Principle of Blockade that is described in the
Berlin Decree & which the Emp. calls new.

The Controversy with Eng. is then narrowed to this single
point. The Chesapeake affair is settled, the subject of seamen is
held out of question for the present ; the orders in Council will
be immediately revoked, admitting the French Decrees to be in-
operative as regards us upon the ocean, when we confine our-
selves to their mere revocation, and the real matter in dispute is
the new principle of Blockade.

Now I do assert, and the documents bear me out in doing so,
that so far as respects the Case selected by the U. S. namely
Mr. Fox's Blk of May 1806, there is no disagreement between
the U. S. & England respecting any Principle whatsoever. We
contend that the Blk. was invalid, because it was not maintained
by an adequate force. England admits our Principle, but denies
our Fact. Upon this plain and actual state of the Case, can any
one suggest that there is any principle, either new or old, in
dispute between the U. S. and Eng. ? Concerning a Fact they
disagree — a fact of past date and not one of present existence —
a fact that never was of any significance to the U. S., and about
wh. when it existed, we made no enquiry nor complaint, — but
which is now brot. forward to promote the views of France, and
to keep asunder two countries wh. their respective, best and
dearest interests require shd. live in harmony with each other.

Mr. R. has great merit for the stand he has made. I certainly
do not envy the feelings of certain men whose unworthy views
he unmasks : I expected better things from them — But Mr. R.'s
manner, forcible as it must be, is not analytical ; this property
of intellect belongs to more disciplined, perhaps inferior minds
to his ; he does not condescend to dissect, separate and ex-

1810] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 237

pose the fallacious parts of his opponents' Discourses : his
speeches are not a continuous application of argument, but his
ideas strike in bounds the minds of his hearers. We supply this
defect by presenting the public with the foregoing analysis.

In a paper enclosed in the above are the following mem-
oranda— in R. K.'s writing:

From the Report of the Conversation with M. G. & Son, it
appears

1. The Amer. Govt, is prepared on the revocation of the orders
in Council, contemporaneously to withdraw on its part the inter-
diction of the harbours, and all non-intercourse & non-importa-
tion Acts as regards G. B., leaving them in force as with respect
to France, and the powers wh. adopt or act under her Decrees.

2. That during the present war Amer. will renounce the colon-
ial trade.

3. That Br. shps. of war may enforce the Amer. Laws.

As the 1, & 2 are suggestions of the Amer. Mer., and as Mr.
P. has recently expressed to me his opinion, that there will be
no indisposition on the part of his Govt., to the enforcement, by
the naval power of G. B. of the regulations of Amer. with resp.
to France & the countries to which these regulations continue to
apply ; but that his Gov. were aware that without such Enforcet.,
those Regns. must be altogether nugatory, I flatter myself there
will be no dify in obtaining a distinct & official Recognition of
these conditions from the Amer. Govt. ; for this purpose you are
at liberty to communicate this Despatch in extenso to the Amer.
Secy, of State.

Not Jefferson, but the Pr. & his Mins. G. & S. made the first
overture to Erskine to recall the orders, the U. S. repealing her
Embargo., Non-importation & Procn. and imposing the same
agt. France, renouncing the carrying trade, and as Pinky, pro-
posed to allow Eng. to enforce our Law,

" Positive assurances of a disposition to come to a complete
and cordial understanding with G. B.

"The system of retaliation his Majesty must unquestionably
continue to maintain, unless the object of it can be otherwise ac-
complished."

238 RUFUS KING. [1810

"After the professions of the Amer. Minrs. of a sincere desire to
contribute to that object (of the Retaliation) in a manner wh. shd.
render the continuance of the orders unnecessary, it is thought
right to afford to the Amer. Govt, an oppy to explain its meaning
and give a proof of its sincerity."

The extension of the Indiction of the Amer. Harb. to the Shps.
of war of Fr. as well as of G. B., an acceptable symptom of Im-
partiality & the first that has been manifested by the Amer. Govt.
The like Extension of the Non-Imp. Act to other Belligs., is
equally proper in this view. These measures preclude those pre-
liminary objections wh. must otherwise have precluded any use-
ful or amicable Discussion.

CHAPTER XIII.

Pickering to King — Main's Thorn Hedges — Trumbull to King — Foster, Minister
from England — King to Pickering — Thorn Hedges — Danger to Judiciary
in New York — Pickering to King — Hedges — Democratic Senators see no
Subserviency to France in President's Proclamation — Trumbull to King —
French Retreat in the Peninsula — Bonaparte wants Money and Men —
Foster's Mission — Pinkney and the Prince Regent —Gore to King — Com-
plaint that King does not take more active Part in New York — Trumbull
to King — French steadily retreating — War between France and Russia —
Madison Scored — Temple to King — Hopes for Conciliatory Measures —
Hobart to King — His Statement about Jones — King to Hobart — Case of
Jones — Competency of the Bishop's Court — T. L. Ogden to King — Jones's
Case — Sperry to King — Glebe Lands in Vermont — King to Porter — On
present State of Public Affairs — Does not consider the French Decrees
revoked — Impressment — Is our Honor more assailed by England than by
France — Would oppose War with England.

T. Pickering to R. King.

Washington, Dec. 27, 1810.
Dear Sir :

I inclose a subscription paper for a treatise on the American

Hedge-Thorn by Thomas Main. I have seen Mr. Main repeatedly

in the course of the last four or five years, at his residence near

Georgetown. He is a sensible Scotchman, a well informed &

practical nurseryman. A small pamphlet he published a few

years since on the same subject, is a clear evidence of his ability

to write correctly and usefully on the subject : after several trials

he has found the Species of Thorn he now cultivates to be

superior to any other foreign or indigenous. It is incomparably

superior to the English white Thorn, at least in this country. I have

seen the growth of both, in hedges on the ground occupied by

Mr. Main, where that superiority is manifest. I have also seen

Mr. Lyman's English white thorn hedge at Waltham, which by
240 RUFUS KING. [1811

the last of August had lost half its leaves, & the residue was
withering ; while mine at Wenham, procured from Mr. Main,
remained in lively verdure, & so continued to the beginning of
November of the present year. Mr. Gore has the English white
thorn ; but having seen Main's American Hedge-Thorn at Mr.
Quincy's & Mr. Lowell's, was so struck with its excellence as to
have ordered twenty thousand seedling plants to be sent to him
the ensuing Spring.

The object of these details is to satisfy you, and thro' you,
gentlemen of your acquaintance and some liberal booksellers in
New York, that Mr. Main should be encouraged and enabled to
publish his large treatise on the subject. . . .

To many parts of New York — particularly Long Island —
hedging is of incalculable importance, hence booksellers in your
city can surely run no risk in subscribing for one or two hundred
copies and such subscriptions, with similar ones in Philadelphia
& Boston, will enable Mr. Main to publish his book without
delay.

Yr. obedt. Servt.

T. Pickering.

J. Trumbull to R. King.

London, Feby. 18, 1811.
Dear Sir :

, . . You will observe that Mr. Foster, who was in America
with Mr. Merry, is appointed Minister Plenipotentiary to the
United States. One stumbling block is thus removed ; but I have
neither hope nor expectation that he will succeed in removing
the others which opposed the good understanding of the two
Nations.

Lord Wellington is by far a more important agent in the nego-
tiation than Mr. Foster can be, or even Lord Aberdeen would
have been to whom this promising situation is said to have been
offered. . . .

Yours faithfully

J.T.

l8ll] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 24I

R. King to T. Pickering.

N. York, February 24, 1811.
Dear Sir :

I have for a long time omitted to reply to your letter enclosing
Mr. Main's subscription paper. Having by personal application
obtained a dozen or fifteen subscribers, I put the proposals into
the hands of a bookseller, with a request that he would subscribe
for a Hundred Copies. This has not yet been done, tho' sufficient
time for Consideration has passed, and I apprehend that 1 shall
be obMged to return the Paper with the few names which I have
obtained.

I would plant a Hedge of this Thorn * in the Spring, of about
40 Rods, provided Mr. Main could supply the plants, and should
be of opinion that I should succeed upon a level piece of Ground
(I mean without Ditch or Ridge) which is now an unbroken
Turf. Had I thought of it last fall, I would have prepared the
Ground so as to have been in a suitable state to receive the plants in
the spring ; whether the chance of success in the present condi-
tion of my ground, will authorise the attempt in the Spring, Mr..
Main is better able to determine than I am. Could I succeed in
a Hedge, I have no doubt that it would have a great influence in
introducing Mr. Main's Hedges into extensive use.

I hardly dare say a word on politicks, the Condition of the
Country appearing to me so much worse than I have before seen.
I am not sorry, as the Bank was destined to dissolution, that
your president has given it its Death blow — it has brought him
out & shewn him such ay we know him to be.

I shall be obliged to you for the late Message of the President,
which I suppose has been printed. If after the Conduct of
France from Nov. 1806 to the latest Dates from Fr. Congress
shall not only acquiesce but subject England to, & exclude
France from, a non-intercourse system, I must say, I know not
what our Rulers are not capable of carrying into operation.
Very faithfully & always your obed. servt.

Rufus King.

* Mr. King planted a hedge of this thorn, which grew well and bore trimming
very well, but having been neglected soon developed into trees — while an
English hawthorn hedge planted at the same time, even with neglect, con-
tinued to preserve its hedge character, though it was objectionable in con-
sequence of the loss of its leaves very early in September.
vol. v. — 16

242 RUFUS KING. [i8ll

P. S. A proposal has been made in our State Legislature to
destroy all qualifications in Elections, founded on property and
to alter the mode of appointment to, & the tenure of, all offices. I
know not what Countenance the project receives, but that it
has been made, shews the Danger with which our Judiciary is
threatened.

T. Pickering to R. King.

Washington, Feby. 27, 1811.
Dear Sir :

I have received your letter of the 24th. I know that Mr. Main
has already engaged vast quantities of his seedling thorns : I
think 50 thousand by Mr. Quincy for his friends near Boston ;
and I heard Main say he had many more engaged in these quar-
ters. I should advise you to plough and cultivate the strip of
ground you wish to plant a hedge on ; and next year set the
thorns. Main sells them at a year's growth ; so thousands can
be packed for transportation in a small compass. You can calcu-
late the number you shall want, for the plants sh'd be set only
5 or 6 inches apart — a single row best. You must allow more to
be set in a nursery, to supply failures the first year. Sort them
as carefully as the soldiers in the same rank are sized ; so as to
save a weak plant from the oppression of a taller neighbour.
Plain hedging (that is without ditch & bank) is to be preferred in
our country, where frosts and alternate thaws cause banks to
moulder rapidly. Main's hedges (now become fences), are all
on a plain surface. If your ground be riot rich, I should advise
you to plant potatoes, manure well and keep them perfectly clean
from weeds.

From some chance conversation this day with two or three of
the best and most independent members of the Senate, of the
democratic party, I found they placed an entire confidence in
the multitude and wisdom of the administration, in the general
management of the affairs of the nation : what ground (have)
these to hope for a useful change ?

Democratic gentlemen are astonishingly scrupulous in respect
to France, to preserve our Nation's faith ; and talk of Cadore's
letter relative to the repeal of the Berlin & Milan decrees, & the
President's proclamation, as a " compact " which must on our

1811] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 243

part be sacredly fulfilled. The public faith is thus made a pre-
tence for their obsequiousness towards France. Yet the really
respectable democratic Senators above referred to, discover in
our administration no subserviency to France ! They declared
it to me with all seriousness this day ! "

I am, dear Sir, very truly yours

T. Pickering.

J. Trumbull to R. King.

London, Apl. 15, 1811.
Dear Sir :

. . . I thank you for the information of what was doing by
the wise men of the nation. Our news has since come down to
the 10th of March, so that we know all the blessed results of their
deliberations. Their exterior policy retains its paltry vacillating
character & will not give more satisfaction to the great Emperor
than it excites contempt & disgust here ; between two stools will
always prove a dangerous Seat.

The Tide of Fate appears at last to be changing &, blessed be
God, the once irresistible armies of France have been most suc-
cessfully resisted. You will have heard of the Retreat of Massena,
the battle of Burosa, & the retreat of that division of the French
army, which had taken Badajoz, before Marshal Beresford ; the
successful & gallant defence of Anholt against the Danes will
perhaps be new. These several successes in various quarters
will have most important consequences. The self-confidence
of the French Troops is deeply shaken and the British Army will
feel its ancient superiority restored and other nations will see
that the despotism of France may be successfully resisted. But
perhaps the most invaluable of recent occurrences, is that pro-
posed in the House of Commons by the Minister, seconded by
the Leader of the Opposition, & passed unanimously, for grant-
ing ^100,000 for the relief of the Portuguese peasantry who have
suffered by the depredations of the French during the invasion.

The Contrast which this National Act offers to the horrible
excesses and wanton ravages committed by the French Army, par-
ticularly during its retreat, is of the most splendid and impressive
nature ; and will have its weight on the minds of Mankind, spite

244 RUFUS KING. [i8ir

of all the falsehoods so eagerly and artfully propagated by the
Imperial Father of Lies.

There is every probability of an important change in the policy
of the North. That Circumstance, together with the difficulty
of finding ways and means, is thought to be the occasion of that
languor & feebleness of supply which has necessitated the dis-
grace of Massena. His retreat is in every sense more valuable
to England than the most splendid Victory ; inasmuch as a bat-
tle may be lost without any loss of reputation — as this event is
accompanied by no loss on the part of England, while a Victory
could not have cost less than 10 or 15 thousand men : and inas-
much as the loss of men in prisoners & deserters, as well as of
artillery, ammunition, baggage & every equipment must put the
French Army for a long time as effectually hors de combat, as the
most decisive defeat could have done.

There is on the part of Bonaparte evident distress for money
& men ; his frantic conduct in respect to commerce has dissolved
all confidence in money transactions on the Continent. There
exist no banks, no Capitalists to supply his wants by loans ; and
the ruin of Commerce renders the collection of Taxes difficult,
slow & diminished ; while his absurd policy in respect to Spain,
has cut off those supplies from her mines, which had been for
years the basis of his operations.

On the other hand the ruinous effects of the conscription be-
gin to be severely felt — that system was adopted in 1793 — 18
years ago ; and the waste of human life during several of the first
years of the Revolution was horribly profuse. The children of
the young men, who then perished, ought to have been now of an
age to serve their country : but they do not exist : and it is mathe-
matically evident, that the chasm in the population of France is
indeed daily confirmed by the continual anticipations of the con-
scription. Mr. Matthews, with a happy love for paradox, tells us
to be sure, that the more men are destroyed in any country, the
more rapidly the population will increase ; not evidently in the
ordinary mode of nature, but I presume by sowing the Teeth of
the Dead. He had forgotten doubtless that the Campagna of
Rome once contained 8 millions of souls — and by the ravages of
war & repeated invasions was in the course of a Century or two
reduced to a desert, notwithstanding this miraculous power of
reproduction, which he ascribes to nature. .

l8ll] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 245

Since the death of the U. S. Bank, how many must join with
us in admiring the name of Clinton ! ! ! by their works ye shall
know them.

I cannot but hope that the recent events in Portugal & Spain
will produce some effect in America — at least on those timid
minds, who have worshipped France from the same motive as the
Indians did the Devil. They must see that if they resist the Devil,
he will still fly from them.

Mr. Foster will have the goodness to forward this to you.

. . . The news which he carries will at least, I trust, procure
him a decent & civil reception, whatever may be the result of his
negotiation. His personal amiability of character and his gen-
eral acquaintance with the people in power are also important cir-
cumstances in his favour. I most heartily wish him success in
bringing about a good understanding between the two Nations.

I must not omit to mention a circumstance which has recently
occurred to our very good friend Mr. Pinkney. At his audience
of leave, he took occasion to display his eloquence in assuring
the Prince Regent " of the earnest & sincere desire which his
Government entertained of accommodating all differences & be-
ing upon the most amicable terms with Great Britain, & concluded
with assurances of his own most cordial good dispositions to-
wards this Country, & deep regret that it had not been his happy
lot to be instrumental in restoring perfect Harmony and good
will between the two nations."

To all which the Prince coolly replied, " Sir, as I do not possess

the power of seeing the Hearts of men, it is necessary that I

should believe their Words." As you may naturally suppose his

Ex- Excellency is outrageous ; the Prince can know nothing of

Etiquette. . .

I am faithfully yours

J- T.

Mr. Gore to R. King.

Waltham, Mays, 1811.
My dear Friend :

. . . That you have become disgusted with the politics of our

Country can excite no surprise. Some of your friends, however,

complain that you do not take a more active part in the affairs of

246 RUFUS KING. [181 1

New York, and think that your exertions might materially affect
the cause of order & freedom.

The fate of the Election last year entirely destroyed the spirits
of the Federalists, and the folly & wickedness of Congress the
last winter appeared to strike them dumb and sink them in a
state of desperate apathy. They awoke in Boston, but too late
to make any excitement through the Commonwealth. They
flatter themselves with the hope of a federal House of Represen-
tatives. Many are weak enough to believe that Madison has
altered his policy, because he has introduced Mr. Monroe into
the administration. . . . your faithful friend

C. Gore.

J. Trumbull to R. King.

London, 14 June, 1811.
Dear Sir :

I had the pleasure a few days ago to receive your favor of the
20th April, in which you are so good as to enter into further
explanation of the Law as applying to aliens. It appears to me
that the difficulty of securing property to them is greater than
I before imagined, and that in truth there is no safe and effectual
remedy for the disqualifications attached to them by the Law,
except naturalization, which was the object of our petition to
the Legislature. The injury done to us by the perfidy of Clinton
was therefore greater than I before imagined, and I see that we
can never have an effectual remedy but in the ruin of that
brute's political influence & in the justice of some future
Legislature.

In my last to you, which was of the 15th of April by Mr.
Foster (& I trust was conveyed to you by Sr. G. Temple), I
expressed a hope, that the tide of human affairs had changed.
The subsequent Victories of Almeida & Albuera, the particulars
of which you will find in the enclosed newspaper, confirm these
hopes. Almeida has been since abandoned by the French Gar-
rison, & Badajoz must fall in a few days. No reinforcements
have been lately sent from France, nor can be soon, to Spain ;
and I consider it as certain, that, in the course of the summer,
the allies will possess all that part of Spain west of the Ebro &
probably Catalonia.

l8n] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 2tf

Hostilities are perhaps commenced between Russia & France.
Marshal Ney who commanded the rear during Massena's retreat
is already in the North. Massena, Loison, & others are on their
way to France, doubtless with the same destination ; and I pre-
sume it is the intention of Bonaparte to endeavour by a grand
effort in that quarter to re-establish the reputation of his troops
which has suffered severely in the three successive affairs of
Barroso, Almeida & Albuera. — to dictate again upon the field
of Victory, a triumphant Peace, which shall secure him against
further interruption in that quarter & leave him at liberty to
bear with all his force upon Spain & Portugal. But the charm
is dissolved which has so long held Europe in chains, the late
events in those countries must convince other Nations that
French troops are not irresistible, and I trust that the Russians
will be ashamed to prove themselves inferior to Spaniards &
Portuguese, who have so long been regarded as the refuse of
Europe. Something may also be fairly hoped from the riper
years of Alexander, & from the experience which he must have
had of the fruits of French friendship — something may also be
hoped from the experience which all the vassal German States
have gained within a few years ; the severity of the French Gov-
ernment in the extension of the system of conscription, & the
restrictions on commerce have caused disgust & abhorrence to
take the place of those fond hopes of Liberty & Happiness by
which men were so long deluded ; and there needs but one
reverse of fortune in the North similar to those which have
lately occurred in Spain & Portugal, to produce a general explo-
sion of smothered vengeance throughout Germany.

Whatever good or evil may arise in our country from the
appointment of Mr. Monroe, one favorable circumstance I do
expect which I should not have hoped for under Mr. Smith —
that is, that the reception of Mr. Foster will at least be civil ;
and something might be hoped from the prudence of the admin-
istration, under the new aspect of European affairs, had we not
so much reason to fear that the magnanimity, of which they have
given such splendid evidence, may induce them to support with
hand as well as heart, the falling fortunes of their great friend,
the Imperial advocate for the Freedom of Commerce & the
Ocean.

248 RUFUS KING. [181 1

What will the cold blooded wretch say now of Spain & Portu-
gal ? is the resistance which they oppose to the Omnipotent
Emperor (as Sebastian called him in one of his Proclamations)
the mere ebullition of Bigotry & Superstition ? Shame, shame,
that such an expression should have been applied to such a
struggle by the first Magistrate of a nation, which had been
brought into political existence by a similar struggle, within the
memory & under the eye of that man — odious & base apostacy,
for which I hope he will live to see himself despised & execrated
as such conduct ever deserves to be.

The Budget of this Country is a fearful document to those
who hope to ruin her by withholding Commerce — the loan of
the year you will observe is 12,000,000, while the amount from
the Sinking Fund, to be applied to the purchase of National
Debt, will exceed 13,000,000 — so that not only are the expenses
of the year provided for within itself — but one million of real
diminution of the debt is effected.

The season is fine, and the promise of all Crops, particularly
wheat, is most abundant — having lately been to place J. T. Ray
at Berkely in Gloucestershire, I judge from my own observation
as well as from report.

Your friend & servant,

Jno. Trumbull.

Grenville Temple to R. King.

4th July (iSii).
Dear Sir :

Enclosed is a letter which I received from Mr. Trumbull, who
requested me, were it possible, to deliver it into your own hands,
& in entrusting to the care of your son, I conceive that I conform
to the spirit, tho' perhaps not to the letter of his wishes ; the fact
is, that he is of opinion, that in the instances of men of situation,
the American post-offices are as little scrupulous, as those of the
" enlightened Nation." . . .

Mr. Foster with whom I came in the Minerva, has charged me
with a packet of newspapers, but which in consequence of our
long passage you will find but little interesting. I left him in the
habit of daily discussion with Mr. Monroe, & sincerely hope, that

1811] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 249

some conciliatory measure may be the result, to which the late
victories in Spain & Portugal & some recent political disclosures
in this country may perhaps contribute.

your most obt. humble sevt.

Grenville Temple.

J. H. Hobart to R. King.

New York, Aug. 3, 181 1.
Dear Sir :

I am unwilling to intrude upon a retirement, the enjoyment of
which I can very readily appreciate, with my concerns. The con-
nection of my concerns with those of the church must be my
apology.

I had expected to forward to you before this time my state-
ment. But circumstances prevented my commencing it until
about 3 weeks since, and my progress in it has been retarded by
some necessary visits. . . . The Printers are striking off my
statement as fast as possible & I hope it will be finished early in
the ensuing week.

The pamphlet sent herewith is supposed to be the joint pro-
duction of the Irvings (some of whom have only recently become
Episcopalians) and Mr. Colden. You will perceive that Jones is
justified in his notes. No charge, it seems, has been brought
against "The Bp." but that of being "a quick tempered man," —
his misapplying money, favoritism, proscription, persecution, in-
tolerance and tyranny passing for nothing. A very principal
design seems to be to excite prejudices against my statement and
the testimony which I may exhibit. I consider it a very unfair
and insidious production.

I am most respectfully & sincerely yrs,

J. H. Hobart.

{Copy.)

R. King to (probably) J. H. Hobart.

August, 1811.
Dear Sir :

I have received and am much obliged to you for the tracts which
you kindly sent me — the first I had seen, and thought it a timely
publication — the second is certainly a sound, and I am persuaded

250 RUFUS KING. [1811

will prove to be, a most useful performance. The statement,
which I read with very great satisfaction, and which reflects so
much credit upon its author, must have had its influence upon the
persons who met at Mechanic Hall ; since they admitted, by their
proceedings, the competency of Bp. Moore as our Diocesan.
This being admitted, and now there never can be any rational
doubt respecting it, the competency of the Bishop's court can-
not be questioned. This Court was the judge of its own juris-
diction ; it alone could decide whether there existed a Controversy
or Disagreement between Mr. Jones and the Vestry, and its de-
cisions are conclusive — that this will be the judgment of the civil
tribunals, cannot I think admit of the least doubt.*

Our defence is in able hands and the concluding paragraph of
the statement leaves no apprehension that aught will be omitted
which the occasion may require.

I am, Dear Sir, with very sincere Regard and Respect

Yr ob. & faithful Rufus King.

T. Ludlow Ogden to R. King.

New York, 19 Sep., 1811.
Dear Sir :

The enclosed paper has been delivered to Bishop Moore in

answer to a letter from him to Mr. Jones, communicating the late

Resolution of the Vestry. The Bishop has sent it to me and

seems to think that it ought to be laid before the Vestry. Mr.

* Rev. Mr. Jones was an assistant minister of Trinity Church, and opposed
the election of Dr. Hobart as an associate. After the latter was chosen, he per-
sistently attacked him in reference to his personal character, charging him with
" unprincipled ambition, calumny, implacable revenge, of designing and unau-
thorized malice." As a result, the efforts of the Vestry being unavailing to
restore harmony, they were obliged to appeal to the Bishop and his presbyters
in order to obtain a dissolution of Mr. Jones's connection. The result was that
Mr. Jones was suspended, and peace was restored. He afterwards denied
the authority of Coadjutor Bishop Moore's action, because Bishop Provoost was
still Bishop. The latter had, however, resigned all his power and therefore
Dr. Moore was competent to act. Many pamphlets were written on the sub-
ject and Dr. Hobart's address was a most conclusive vindication of his own
character. — Ed.

1811] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 25 1

Harison has gone to Albany for a few days and I beg you to
bestow on the subject a little reflection.

Mr. Jones, as you will observe, denies the fact of any exist-
ing difference between himself and the Vestry, and this is made the
basis of his remonstrance against our late proceedings. Whether
the case which has occurred be a proper one to warrant the inter-
ference of the Bishop and his Presbyters, under the 32d Canon
will, I suppose, be a question for them to decide. Nevertheless
it may be advisable that the Vestry should take notice of this
performance, and, grounded on the communication of it by the
author, pass some resolution containing a specification of the
differences referred to. The occasion might not of itself, per-
haps, justify an extraordinary meeting of the Vestry, but such
a meeting will be proper, if not necessary, on another account.
I mean the appointment of Delegates to the Annual Convention
which is to assemble here on the first Tuesday of October. The
Business of the Remonstrance may then be introduced in a way
to obviate the objection suggested, and give effect to our appli-
cation. . . . Be so good as to return the Remonstrance and
to favor me with your advice as to the course to be pursued. If
Dr. Beach is to be applied to, must it not be by yourself as

Warden ?

I am very respectfully & faithfully yours

T. L. Ogden.

Anson J. Sperry to R. King.

Manchester, October 28, 1811.
Dr. Sir :

After I saw you last I had several appointments with Mr.
Harison, on the subject of the Glebe lawsuit. His opinion was
agreeable to yours, and he further suggested that those glebe
lands were in trust in the hands of the heirs of the Governor for
the church and would not escheat ; and to form societies under
our statute & obtain conveyances from the heirs would be the
most regular method of proceeding. To pursue that plan, a con-
tinuance of the cause became necessary, which I did not much
expect to obtain. I however directed them to associate them-
selves in a way agreeable to the statute, which they did, & hired a
clergyman.

252 RUFUS KING. [1811

At the October term of the C. Court we found we could not
get the cause continued ; those we had calculated upon for assist-
ance did not come, and I was necessarily called away. They
were anxious to get a fact conceded to, respecting the identity
of the land, and proposed to make a stated case. We had learnt
that the Court would acknowledge the doctrine of incumbency
and give every latitude we could wish. This was not known by
the opposite party however. We therefore procured an acknowl-
edgement of facts which we could not have produced ; the case
was stated & to be decided by the Court & continued until next
term for argument & decision.

On the part of the Plff. it was agreed that in A. D. 1802 there
was a regular society of the denomination of Christians, called
Episcopalians, in the town, duly organized under the care of Revd.
Bethuel Chittenden, who had leased the lands and received the
rents till A. D. 1809., when Revd. Ab. Brunson received the rents,
for which he contracted to, and did, officiate a part of the term
until Sept. 181 1, when the Society regularly settled Rev. S.
Iudet(?) who received and continued to receive the rents; and
that all persons in possession were in by consent of the society.
On the part of the Uefts. it was agreed that the land described
was a glebe lot & that they were in possession.

There will now be ample time to investigate the subject & from
the enquiries & suggestions of the Court and the decision of the
former judge we have now no doubt but we shall get a decision
in favor of the Church, on such grounds as will enable the incum-
bent to sue for the lands in his own name, & one clergyman be
incumbent for any number of towns : but all things are uncertain
in these days.

I wish to use every exertion, though at my own expence, to
establish the principles favorably in every point of view, & then
let others labour. The consequence & importance of the deci-
sion of their case to the future welfare of the Church in this State,
the interest which you & Mr. Harison have taken in this business,
which the Church in Vermont very gratefully acknowledge, induce
me to communicate this information for your satisfaction & to
invite you to communicate any thing further you shall deem
necessary. With highest respect & esteem &c,

Anson J. Sperry.

l8li] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 253

Endorsed on the back by R. K.

Ans. Dec. 18. That Mr. Harison's opinion & the course of
proceeding recommended by him shd. be pursued ; that if their
law was like yt. of N. Y., concerning Religious incorporations,
their Corporations must like ours be aggregate ones, and all suits
by or agt. ym. must be in their aggregate name ; and not in the
name of the Parson, who in England is a sole Corporation and
therefore may sue or be sued as such.

That they wd. do well to be uniform in yr. acts of incorpora-
tion, including the Parson in the name of them — E.G. "The
Rector, Wardens and Vestry men of the Protestant Epis. Church
in A."

R. King to Porter.*

{Private.}

New York, Deer, io, 1811.
Sir:

In consequence of an Extract from a letter that you lately wrote
to Mr. Coleman, and which he shewed to me, I take the liberty of
saying a few words upon the present state of our pub. Affairs.

Supposing the Report of your Comtee. on Foreign Relations f
to mean what its language imports, one naturally enquires whether
the Facts which it states are true. I am unable to agree with the
Committee in the Fact, that the French decrees are revoked, or so
modified as that they cease to modify our Rights ; I dissent from
this opinion, because it seems to me quite inconsistent with the
professed views & policy of France, that they should be so re-
voked or modified ; and moreover because the evidence thereof
is grossly, as well as technically, defective : just enough has been
done by France, without receding an iota from her system of war
upon the Eng. Resources, to mislead a nation torn asunder by
faction & blinded to her most important interests. I do not
trouble you with anything in the shape of an argument on this
subject, but merely express my personal opinion that the Pro-
ceedings of France are delusive. If the French decrees are not
revoked, the provisional promise of England concerning her Or-

* John Porter of N. Y.

f Chairman's Report on 29 Nov., Hildreth's U. S., vol. vi., p. 263.

254 RUFUS KING. [1811

ders is not broken, and the reasoning which turns upon the fact
must fail. The Subject of Impressment, tho' an old, is never an
indifferent topic. England renounces all pretension to impress
American Seamen, but she claims the services of her own Sub-
jects, notwithstanding we may naturalize them. A late law con-
cerning the naturalization of Frenchmen, carries the doctrine of
perpetual allegiance further than the English ever have done.
So long as the naturalized Citizen remains within the Territory
of his new Country, he is safe ; and the nation is bound to pro-
tect him — whenever he leaves that territory he incurs the risk of
being again subject to his former Allegiance, without any obliga-
tion on the part of his adopted Country to reclaim him ; for
Naturalization when it confers new rights, does not, and cannot
dissolve, old duties, the performance of which within his own or
a common Jurisdiction, the former sovereign may compel.

There are abuses on both sides ; pains have been taken to ad-
just this subject, but hitherto without success — the evil is dimin-
ished, perhaps at no former period have the impressments been
less numerous. If Congress did not consider this subject (un-
doubtedly one of a great deal of importance) when before them
in the times of Washington, Adams & Jefferson, of sufficient
weight to become the occasion of war, how can it be regarded as
such now, when the example of the past is such as it is, and when
the evil was never so small. Besides, what is the dispute ? We
claim the services of naturalized Citizens agt. their native alle-
giance. If we will give up this claim, Eng. will give up impress-
ment out of our vessels — Does our population, does our navigation
require that we shd. insist on this claim ?

But perhaps it may be said, that in the actual condition of our
dispute with England, our Honor requires a Decisn. of War, —
if so, let war be declared ; for in my poor judgment, the Honor
of the Nation is the only legitimate cause of war.

Yet before we declare the war in defence of our Honor assailed
by England, should we not pass in review the language and acts
of France, which some may think affect our Honor. We have
read official Letters from the French Govt., addressed to our
Govt., have heard of expressions publicly made use of by the
Emperor of France, have suffered the confiscation of an immense
property on the plea of reprisal agt. a Law competently enacted

l8ll] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 2$$

by Congress. Are we to submit to these taunts & injuries aimed
directly at our Honor, and at the same time to whine and strut,
& vapour about our Honor's being insulted by the Orders in
Council and the impressment of seamen ?

Were I in Congress, I would resist what appears to me to be
the unjustifiable views of yr. administration. I wd. oppose a war
with England for the reasons set forth by yr. Committee — as re-
gards mere party interest some men may (I think however with
doubtful policy as well as morality) acquiesce in a War with
England ; others may dislike the imputations that will be cast
upon those who oppose it ; and so a division may arise among
those whose virtue & understanding shd. keep them united.
This would I think be a subject of disappointment and regret to
what we believe to be the soundest portions of our Country. It
has seemed to me of the very greatest importance, that this body
of men shd. with the utmost care preserve the purity of their repu-
tation.

I must entreat your excuse for the Liberty I have now taken,
in expressing myself in the unreserved way I have done : had you
not invited a communication of my opinion, I should not have
presumed to trouble you with it. Not having the honor of a per-
sonal acquaintance, I, &c.

CHAPTER XIV.

Gore to King — Massachusetts Politics — King — Henry Plot — Nothing hostile to
the United States — Morris to King — French in Spain — Affairs at Home
depend on Madison's Re-election — King — Statement — Affairs in New
York — Clinton's Aspirations — Conferences with his Friends and himself —
King finally satisfied that Support of him by Federalists would be unwise
— Not willing to be a Candidate for Vice-Presidency — King to Gore —
War one of Party, not of Country — Cannot be carried on by Militia — If
England wise, Peace will soon come — D'lvernois to King — Heard he was
on a pacific Mission — Trumbull to King — America at War with England —
Northern Europe with France — King to Gore — Attended Meeting in New
York respecting the Presidential Election — Opposed to its Resolutions —
Opposed to Clinton — Would prefer a federal Candidate to Madison —
King to Gore — Elections uncertain — War has dissatisfied many Democrats
in New York — Gore to King — Leading Federalists want Change — Oppo-
sition to Madison — Most prefer Clinton.

C. Gore to R. King.

Boston, Feby. 7, 1812.
My dear Friend :

. . . Poor Thacher is to be dismissed from the office of
Judge, for having offended the great men of Maine. He, proba-
bly, has not a thousand dollars in the world. Parsons is, I fear,
never more to act as Judge. He is becoming a very sick man, and,
if Death should spare him, Democracy will not. The Senate will
be so chosen by the new districting the Commonwealth, as to
give an ascendency in that Body to the present Rulers, of one
third — so that while we may have a chief magistrate & a House of
Reps, federal, there is no reason to apprehend any change for the
other Branch, but for the worse, for many years. Some of the
leading Feds, are sanguine, that by associating with Democracy,
they may obtain an immense Bank, and amass princely fortunes.
1812] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 2$?

In times of great commercial prosperity and extensive credit 7
per cent was the dividend, and they still dream of returning to
more fortunate days. The ladder by which these men mean to
ascend to power & consequence, is inveighing against G. Britain,
supporting De Witt Clinton as Prest., and expect as a reward a
foreign Embassy or the Government of the State — and thus we
go. I remain a silent observer knowing little of politicks, noth-
ing of the , and interesting myself in my Books & my
Farm. . . . Your faithful friend C. Gore.

{R. King's Handwriting.)

The President's Message, of the 9th instant (March 9, 181 2)
must be considered as a communication to Congress of Proceed-
ings, as he calls Henry's Mission,* of the British Government

* John Henry was an Irishman who had served in the American Army dur-
ing the Revolutionary War and had become naturalized. After a time he set-
tled in Vermont, and while there engaged in writing to the newspapers articles
against the United States Government, which attracted the attention of Gov. Craig
of Canada. The people of the New England States, and especially of Massa-
chusetts, early in 1809, deeply resenting the acts of the Government, and
particularly the Embargo Act, talked seriously of a separation of the States to
protect their own interests, and Gov. Craig sent for Henry and gave him in-
structions to go secretly to New England and to remain in Boston to ascertain
the state of public feeling, the probability of a separation taking place, and
such other facts as might be interesting under the circumstances, suggesting to
him that his services would without doubt be rewarded by the British Govern-
ment.

He went to Boston, remained there some months, obtaining such information
as the newspapers and frequenting the coffee-houses could give him, and
transmitted the same to Gov. Craig. At no time had he intercourse with any
of the leading people, on his own admission. His correspondence was closed by
what was called the Erskine Treaty, and he returned to Canada, expecting a
valuable appointment. Failing in this he went to England, and though thanked
for what he had done, received only promises of reward. Angry and disap-
pointed, he returned to America in 1812, and in some way procuring a letter
from Gov. Gerry, proceeded to Washington, where he remained in secret some
ten days. During that time he had communication with Mr. Madison, who
paid him $50,000 from the secret-service fund for his promised revelations,
which were the letters to Gov. Craig. Immediately on the receipt of the
money he left Washington and sailed from New York to France in the U. S.
sloop of war, the Wasp, on the very day the President sent his Message to the

Senate. The President charged that while negotiations, three years before, were
vol. v.— 17

258 RUFUS KING. [1812

which in conjunction with others may induce them to declare War
against that nation. So far as any of the citizens of the U.
States have been implicated in this Proceeding, it is to the judi-
ciary Department & not to the Legislative that the same shd. be
referred. It is worth while then to inquire whether this Proceed-
ing is of a hostile or injurious character, and, in case it should
so appear to be, whether it is conformable to former usage and to
justice, in the first instance to impute the same to the Principal
without calling upon him to avow or disavow the act of his Agent.
Upon a careful reading of Govr. Craig's Letter to Henry —
admitting it to be authentic — its purport is neither more nor less
than this. As it is evident that a very great division of the People
exists in the U. States respecting the Embargo, and as in conse-
quence of their division upon this and other subjects, a separation
may take place between the Southern and Northern States, the
whole subject is so very important and so intimately affects the
interest of England, that it is most desirable that exact informa-
tion should be obtained as well in respect to the commercial Re-
striction of the U. States, as touching the State of Parties and the
separation between the Northern and Southern States. I there-
fore desire you (Mr. H.) to repair to Boston, which is the princi-
pal town of the Northern States, for the purpose of procuring
this information. I cannot point out to you any particular mode
in which you can best execute this Commission ; your own dis-
cretion must be your guide. Should there exist a project for a

pending, Great Britain had employed a secret agent in fomenting disaffection
to the constituted authorities of the nation, and in intrigues with the disaffected,
for the purpose of bringing about resistance to the laws, etc. No names were
mentioned, no acts stated ; and the only inference, as Hildreth says, is that
Madison, in paying so much for these papers, if he knew beforehand how little
they really contained (which is doubtful), sought to " aid the administration party
of Massachusetts in the approaching election by exciting suspicions against the
federalists, as well as odium against the British Government." The federalists
indignantly denied any knowledge of any scheme of disunion, and the Presi-
dent could furnish no other facts.*

* President's Message, Annals of Congress, 1811-12, Parti., p. 165. Pam-
phlet with the letters and papers sent in with the Message and Report of the
Committee to which they were referred — which Report was laid on the table,
no action being advised. Also, Hildreth's United States, vi., pp. 284-7. —
Editor.

1812] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 259

division of the States, you must carefully endeavour to find out
whether those, who are engaged in this project, think of a con-
nexion with England, or desire her assistance, but to receive and
transmit to me any application or communication concerning the
same ; and to this end you are furnished with Credentials, which
if indispensable, may be shewn by you to persons, wishing to
open a Communication with me.

Now may it not be asked, what there is in this Proceeding that
is hostile to the U. States ? Is it not true that a great division
existed in 1809-10, respecting the Embargo? — is it not true that
rumours of a separation of the States, to say the least, were at
that time in circulation ? Have not the newspapers, nay did not
the Debates in Congress, allude to such an event — is it extraor-
dinary then, was it not the contrary to have been expected, that
the Govr. Genl. of the English Colonies should be solicitous to
discover the actual state of the public opinion upon these sub-
jects and to receive and transmit the same to his superiors ?

Invert this state of things and suppose the period to have
arrived which certainly will arrive, when the English Colonies in
our own neighbourhood may desire to throw off their connexion
with, and to separate themselves from Great Britain. Suppose
that the operation of some impolitic law should be the occasion
of the manifestation of this disposition, and suppose, moreover,
that such law should be not only injurious to the Colonies, but
disadvantageous to the U. States ; would it be injustice to Eng-
land, would it be contrary to the usage of nations, would it be
extraordinary that the Governor of N. York or Massachusetts
should employ some person to repair to the seat of Government
in Upper or Lower Canada to ascertain the state of such
Colonies, to learn the nature of public opinion there, and
in case such separation should be in view, to endeavour to find
out if assistance from or a Connection with the U. States were
desired, and to receive and transmit any communication on these
subjects ?

It is the interest of neighbouring States to know what is pass-
ing in their neighbourhood, and they fail in what is honestly due
to themselves, when they neglect to acquire such information.
The establishment of resident Ministers is in a great degree
founded upon the principle of its being the reciprocal interest

260 RUFUS KING. [1812

of States to know what is doing by their neighbours. At this mo-
ment, did we not completely neglect the only true and solid sys-
tem of foreign Politicks which this country should look to and
with undeviating steps pursue at this moment, the U. States
ought to have in their service faithful and intelligent Agents in
Mexico, in Caraccas, in Peru & elsewhere upon the Southern
Continent. The work is begun and no earthly power can stop
its projects — the ^Era of Emancipation advances and the day of
complete deliverance is at hand ; the scourge of Europe may
prove to be the deliverer of America. If instead of a miserable
and inglorious struggle for mere personal preferment, in which
the vices, not the virtues, of the People are cultivated, in which
we are arraying brother against brother, father against son, and
vice against virtue, the U. States, the elder sons of Freedom,
would perform their duty ; this mighty event would be accel-
erated and not only so, but those who are without experience
might have wisdom from us, and many and great evils, which
otherwise will happen, might be avoided. Instead of a divided
we should become a united people, acting upon a system of
affirmative and great policy, and not forever quibbling and squab-
bling and wasting our character and resources upon secondary,
inferior and litigious controversies.

From the preceding views, it would seem that the Mission of
H. was not a violation of any of our national rights ; on the con-
trary, that it was a proceeding of precaution and of prudence,
which nations are accustomed in similar circumstances to adopt ;
and we presume that the Cabinet at Washington cannot be with-
out Documents, concerning the late transactions which occurred
in the Floridas ; and it would be strange indeed were not the
American Agents still continued in these provinces.

But admitting even that the Mission of Henry was a violation
of our rights — from which did the injury proceed — from the Gov-
ernor of the Br. Colonies ? — was he authorized to commit this
injury, or like Adl. Berkley, did he act without orders ?

When Sir Guy Carleton, former Governor of these British Prov-
inces made a Speech to the Inds., which was justly exceptionable
and offensive to the U. States, did he act pursuant to the orders
of his Government ? At any rate his Speech was disavowed and
he recalled, and the Minister declared on the occasion in the H.

1812] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 26 1

of Commons that he, Guy, must have been mad or drunk when he
made the Speech.

Men of the President's age, as a public man, will perhaps rec-
ollect the Proceedings instituted in this Country by the Spanish
Minister Gardoqui in connexion with American citizens residing
upon the Western waters ; younger men will probably remember
the proceedings of more than one of the French Ministers in con-
nexion with the same description of citizens. These were un-
doubtedly violations of our national rights, which would have
authorized the Government to call upon the Sovereigns of these
Ministers to disavow and punish them. But until such demand
had been made and refused, would it not have been premature to
have imputed these delinquencies to their Sovereigns?

The case of the violation of an important national right by the
Governor of Louisiana cannot be forgotten. He suspended a
stipulation of a Treaty between the U. States and his Master, and
in effect, put an end to our navigation of the Mississippi. On
looking back to the discussions of that day will it not be found
that it was not deemed correct, without enquiry to consider the
suspension as the act of the King of Spain ? If then in the case
of Genl. Carleton, of the Sp. & Fr. Ministers, of the Governor of
Louisiana, of Adml. Berkley, it was not thought right to demand
an explanation of their Sovereigns before the injury received was
imputed to them, why does the case of Govr. Craig form an ex-
ception ? Why does the President without enquiry impute his
act to his Principal ? Are there two rules of justice upon the
same matter, or is justice one and immutable, and at all times
and in all places the same ?

Upon the whole, Henry's Mission was innocent or criminal ; if
innocent, it certainly should not have been presented to the nation
at all, much less in the light it has been : if criminal, it should in
the first instance have been made the subject of complaint to the
British Government, according to the practice of our own Gov-
ernment on former and much more important occasions.* There
must have been therefore some other purpose than the ostensible
one, which has induced the President to dispose of the public
money for Henry's secret and to send this Message to Congress.
On this subject it is best to speak out and to discard all affecta-

* Genet's appeal.

262 RUFUS KING. [1812

tion. It is notorious, then, that this Country is divided into two
parties ; that one of them is charged with entertaining a prefer-
ence for connexions with France and the other with England.
The Revolution left a mass of prejudices upon the People against
England, and in favour of France. Our Government is popular,
the People are the fountain of power ; by their favour can ambi-
tious men acquire eminence. Upon these data are our Parties
founded — France and England alike regard us in subordination
to each one's interests and views ; and so ought we to regard
them : but instead of seeking what would be for the honour and
advantage of the Nation, in reference to either of these powers,
the sole enquiry seems to be what will most contribute to the inter-
est and predominance of our Party ?

Whether it be a Law to elect Members of the State or General
Government, a Law respecting Banks or other Corporations, a
Law imposing Taxes, or providing for a land or Naval Force ;
whether it be a foreign mission, or a Message from the State or
National Executive, instead of their being formed and adopted
with a just regard to the rights and welfare of all, these measures
are regulated and adjusted to the partial and ruinous view of pre-
serving power in the hands of the ruling Party.

It is contrary to all experience and argues an utter want of knowl-
edge of the character and decisions of the human mind, to believe
that a People of great pride and enterprize, who detest idleness &
whose habits urge them to unceasing activity, can for any length of
time be induced to suspend their employment, to relinquish their
pursuits and contentedly refer to others the time and manner of
their resuming them.

G. Morris to R. King.

Morrisania, 3d May, 1812.
Dear Sir :

I return with thanks the Chronicle. His discolored Facts are
still Facts, and the Paint rubbed off, shew a situation which at
the first Glance is not favourable to Spanish Liberty. That their
nobles would betray them I had never a doubt. That they are
still at Heart indisposed to a Course which will, probably reduce
them to a Level with the Commons I cannot but believe. That

1812] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 263

Actions corresponding to such Sentiments must happen is self-
evident ; and what is the Conclusion to be drawn ? that in the
national Ferment the Scum of their Nobility will by Reason of
those very Actions be purged off.

The Chronicle Editor, and by that Word I mean also the would
be Ministers in Opposition, seems bewildered beyond Measure in
his Reasoning on Ld. Wellington's Position. His Diversions are
indeed diverting. His Lordship seems to have been fairly outwitted
by Marmont ; but no Generalship will enable Boys to beat men.
The Battle of Salamanca proves the Truth of an Opinion I formed
long since on what I believe to have been an impartial View of the
contending Nations. The cool and steady Valor of the English
will bear down all opposition from the French. These indeed
stand in awe of their Enemies, who go into Action, when tolerably
led, with a Confidence which ensures Success. Apropos you
have doubtless heard, as I have, that Admiral Sawyer, when our
Declaration of War was the Subject of Conversation in a large
Company of naval Officers, said to them, " Remember Gentlemen
these are not Frenchmen whom you are now going to fight."

Marmont had manoeuvred so as to turn his Adversary's Right
and nothing remained but to sustain his Position two Days or fall
back one Day, so as to form a Junction with Joseph. As the
Matter now stands, that is to say as it stood when we last heard,
the British are in the center and can destroy the different French
Corps in Detail — Provided always they succeed in Season ag. the
Army of the North. I presume that this Army, viz Marmont's,
with the Troops that were on the Northwest of the Ebro will avoid
an action and will therefore be driven out of old Castile. While
this is doing, the Troops in Grenada and Andalusia will I suppose
be concentrated in Cordova. On the other Hand Genl. Hill
will probably take Post at Talavera de la Reyna and Toledo.
What is to be done by the diverting Troops at Alicant I do not
know. If they can penetrate to Albarete on the Borders of New
Castile they will be of great Importance. The Garrison at Cadiz
and all the Spanish Corps in Andalusia and Grenada will form a
Junction as soon as the French leave Cordova and hang on their
Rear. It will then be a matter of serious Consideration with the
French General whether to attempt marching into New Castile
or forming a Junction with Joseph's Troops and so moving along

264 RUFUS KING. [181 2

the Coast into Catalonia, or remaining in Andalusia so as to
occupy a Part of the allied Army there. In each of these Plans
there are manifold Risques. Lord Wellington after leaving a
sufficient Corps of Observation in the Northwestern Corner of
Old Castile can assemble, especially if joined by the Troops which
were at Alicant in manner already mentd., an effective Army of
80,000 men in the Center of New Castile. If the French in
Andalusia attempt a March into that Kingdom, they must, I should
suppose, be destroyed. If they go along the Mediterranean they
can be anticipated long before they reach the Ebro. And even
after a Junction shall have been formed with the Troops of
Joseph the finding of Subsistence will be no small Difficulty.
Desertion of the Juramentados and indeed of every Sort of Troops
will be a serious Inconvenience. In short, if the Remnant of
Marmont's Troops with such Aid as can be collected is not able
to oppose the Allies, I do not see how the Emperor is to keep any
Hold of the Peninsula.

I have not seen the Russian Correspondence you mention, but
I never questioned the Propriety of the Copenhagen Business.
Britain would have been long since in a much better condition
had she determined at first to attack her several enemies. As to
the Part we shall pursue, it will I think depend on the now pending
Election. If Madison be rechosen, We, if by that you mean the
United States, shall not I believe make Peace with England. If
Clinton be chosen We shall. In the former Category, We may
perhaps not be the United States and in that Case, &c, &c, &c.

Yours truly,

Gouvr. Morris.

Statement in R. King's Handwriting.

War with England declared, June 18, 1812.

Monday, July 27. — Mr. Coleman called on me, for the purpose,
as he stated, of consulting me respecting the State of the Country.
He commenced by observing that the manner of calling out the
Militia was somewhat extraordinary ; the northern Militia were
coming to serve in the City, while that of the City were to be sent
to serve in the North.

1812] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 265

I remarked that as no invasion existed, the Detachment of the
Militia seemed to be illegal — moreover when lawfully detached,
it should be in Corps, entire Companies or Regiments, so that
the men should only serve under their own officers ; that the
Militia was an organized Body, and was liable to serve only ac-
cording to such organization ; that the Militia acting with the
regular troops, would be commanded by the officer of highest
rank — when the rank was the same, the regular officer wd. com-
mand ; that a regular officer without regular troops ought not to
command the Militia.

Mr. Coleman then spoke of the encreasing dissatisfaction with
the war, and desire of Peace — that the City wished for a meeting
of the Citizens to express this Desire — that Mr. J. Radcliff recently
had spoken to him ; — that Mr. R. had quitted Mr. Wolcott and
become a peace man — that he had said that he had some personal
Difference with me, but that this circumstance did not influence
him, and he hoped that I wd. co-operate with the friends of
Peace, and that he wished that I, Mr Morris, Genl. Clarkson,
Mr. Varick, and Mr. Harison wd. consent to be a Committee to
prepare an address and Resolutions to be adopted by the City on
the actual posture of the Country.

Mr. Coleman said that he had come to Jamaica on this business,
& that a Committee composed of a number from each ward had
agreed to recommend a City Meeting on Tuesday, 5th of August.

I observed that I had no personal animosity to Mr. Radcliff,
tho' I had little respect for his judgment ; that I was ready toco-
operate with him or others in any measures likely to promote the
public welfare, and that he was authorized to say so to Mr. R.

That I thought it very desirable that Mr. Jay shd. be invited to
meet a few of his friends for the purpose of consulting together
respecting the public affairs, and especially concerning the pro-
posed City meeting ; that I recommended that Mr. P. A. Jay sh'd
go to his father and express the desire of myself and others that
he would attend such meeting ; that Genl. Clarkson shd. be con-
sulted, and that I would go to town on the next day for this
purpose.

Mr. Coleman observed that Sylvanus Millar and some other
Persons went to Pennsylvania on the preceding Friday, to treat
in behalf of Mr. De Witt Clinton, who yesterday asked of Mr. S.

266 RUFUS KING. [1812

Boyd a letter introducing these Gentlemen to Mr. Hare of Phila-
delphia— that De Witt Clinton wd. engage, if chosen President,
to make immediate Peace with England and that he called him-
self an Aitierican Federalist : that on the return of Quincy, Emott
and others from Congress, they held a conference with him, D.
B. Ogden, Peter Radcliff, Jones & others, concerning the Presi-
dency : that it appeared that the Federalists in Congress despaired
of being able to elect a federal President and that they wd. pre-
fer Clinton to Madison : that the Senate of Mass. was democratic,
but that three of them wd. unite with the Federalists to choose
Clintonian Electors ; that Clinton wd. obtain support in Maryland,
in Ohio, and North Carolina ; that in these circumstances, they
desired to know whether the Feds, in N. Y. wd. support Clinton.
Mr. P. Radcliff declined engaging in anything in favor of Mr.
Clinton, others hesitated ; the Congressmen were, however, author-
ized to say that New York federalists would, if possible, choose
federal Electors, and if they despaired of a federal President,
they would vote for Clinton to keep out Madison.

Mr. Coleman shewed me two letters from Benj. Stoddart of
Maryland (formerly Secretary of the Navy) urging Marshall as
fed. Candidate for President, and King or Clinton as V. P., Mar-
shall alone being able to take Virginia from Madison. Mr. Cole-
man observed that Mr. Joseph O. Hoffman had pledged the City
delegation to Clinton — a proceeding that some persons did not
approve, — and that late accounts from Pennsylvania made it
doubtful whether Clinton wd. prevail over Madison in that State.

Friday, July 31. — Being on a visit to Hell Gate, Dr. Mason hav-
ing been at Jamaica and learned that I should not return home
that Evening, followed me at a late hour to Mr. Grade's. In an
interview with him, after the Family had retired to bed, the Doc-
tor stated that having called on Mr. D. W. Clinton on business
of the College, after finishing his conversation on this subject, a
free conversation took place between himself and Mr. Clinton
concerning public affairs, and, especially, relative to the combina-
tion of the Southern States to govern the Nation, to oppress com-
merce and degrade the Northern States. Mr. Clinton avowed
his determination to oppose these views of the Southern States,
& for this purpose expressed his Readiness to meet and confer
with any respectable men of the federal Party, with the view of

1812] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 267

effecting the Union of the State of N. York. The Doctor enlarged
on these topics and made many observations of a personal char-
acter affecting myself, and concluded by asking whether I wd.
meet & confer with Mr. Clinton.

I explained to the Doctor my Engagement to confer with Mr.
Jay, Mess. Morris, Clarkson, Varick and Harison, and added that
I was unwilling to give an answer to his Enquiry, and shd. prefer
stating what he had communicated to the persons above named,
in order that they might express an opinion respecting the ex-
pediency of the proposed Conference with Mr. Clinton. This
being acquiesced in by Doct. Mason, I engaged to make the
Communication.

Aug. 3. — Went to Morrisania to meet Mr. Jay, Morris & Clark-
son — communicated to them the Proposition from Mr. Clinton
by Doct. Mason. Mr. Jay produced and read the Draft of a
Set of Resolutions to be adopted by the City. I also read a
Sketch wh. I had prepared — a free conference ensued — the Result
was an opinion that it was desirable to unite the State of New
York in favor of Peace, and that a Conference with Mr. Clinton
for this purpose was expedient ; but that this shd. be the sole ob-
ject of the Conference. I objected to the interview & Conference
with Mr. Clinton, but finally acquiesced & consented to be present
with Mr. Jay & Mr. Morris at the Interview : that to affect the
union of N. Y. and if practicable to extend the Peace party, it
would be expedient that Delegates from each County in the State
shd. be appointed with authority to confer with each other and
with the Peace Party in other States.

In the Conference with Mr. Clinton in addition to the object of
the formation of a Peace Party, that nothing should be added —
if any other topic shd. be named, that it shd. be said, that in re-
spect to any general or continental measure (meaning the Elec-
tion of President) the same must be matter of concert with the
Friends of Peace in other States. Mr. Clarkson left us after dinner
and engaged to notify Harison and Varick.

Tuesday, August 4. — Still at Morrisania — Harison & Varick
joined us. Mr. Morris having drawn up a Paper, embodying the
principal Points of yesterday's Discussion, the same was repeat-
edly gone over & corrected. After dinner Harison and Varick
went to town, the latter being charged to call on Doctor Mason

268 RUFUS KING. [1812

to inform him that his Communication to me respecting the views
of DeW. Clinton had been made and considered, and that Mr.
Jay, King and Morris wd. confer with him on the next day, if he
wd. come for that purpose to Morrisania. Dr. Mason having in-
timated that he also wd. accompany Mr. Clinton in the proposed
conference with Mr. King, Mr. Varick was desired to state that
as Clarkson, Harison & Varick would not be present, it had been
thought expedient to confine the meeting to Mr. Jay, King, Mor-
ris & Clinton — Mr. Varick was requested to send a message, if
Mr. Clinton declined attending.

Wednesday, Aug. 5th. — At breakfast received a Letter from
Mr. Varick, reporting that he had executed his Commission by
delivering it to Doct. Mason and thro' him received from Mr. Clin-
ton the answer that it was his Desire and intention to meet us at
Morrisania to-day as soon as he could get out of the Mayor's
Court, which he hoped would not be later than 2 o'clock p.m.
Mr. Jay was a good deal unwell ; we however revised the Draft
of the City Resolutions, waited dinner till 4 o'ck. Mr. Clinton
arrived while we were at table, joined us before the Dessert was
removed. Mr. Jay had ordered his carriage for 5 o'clk. to go &
sleep at his friend Cortlandt's at Yonkers : about this hour we all
left the table and went to Mr. Morris' Library. According to a
previous arrangement (Mr. Jay having declined on account of ill
health and the want of acquaintance, to conduct the Conference
with Mr. Clinton) Mr. Morris opened it, by stating the occasion
of our meeting and that the Communication, thro' Doctor Mason,
having been made to us, we had desired Doctor Mason to inform
him of our meeting, as well as of its object ; and to propose that
he should come to Morrisania to confer with us. Mr. Morris
then read to him the Resolutions which we had prepared for the
City Meeting. Here Mr. Morris paused.

Mr. Clinton immediately observed that in the interview that
had been mentioned between him & Doct. Mason, the Doctor
having asked him whether he would meet and confer with a re-
spectable Federalist, he had answered in the affirmative. Mr.
Clinton then observed, that he supposed that he did not differ
from us in opinions respecting the public affairs and that he en-
tirely approved of the Resolutions that had been read to him.
But as his friends, comprehending a great majority of the Repub-

1812] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 269

lican Party in the State, were divided in their opinions respecting
the war — prejudices against England leading some of them to
approve of the war, — Time was necessary to bring them to one
opinion. Disastrous Events had already happened, and owing
to the incapacity of the national administration still further mis-
fortunes would occur, and would serve to produce an union of
opinion respecting the war ; that for these Reasons the proposed
Peace meeting in the City should be deferred four or five weeks ;
in the interim he would confer with his friends for the purpose
of bringing about a common opinion ; that he did not recommend
Delay with a view of temporising, for that he was decided ; that
he would have received what should have satisfied him, especially
as he was yet a young man, provided he would have consented to
continue with Mr. Madison and his administration, but that his
knowledge of his incapacity would not permit the continuance of
this Connection any longer ; that he was separated from the ad-
ministration forever : that he pledged his honor that the breach
was irreparable : that for political Reasons he found it expedient
to avoid publicity on this subject, on his own account and in re-
spect to his political friends : that Armstrong governed Spencer
" who was his Creature," that Spencer had an influence on Tomp-
kins and Taylor : that Armstrong while carrying on a negotiation
with the administration to be a Brigadier General was engaged in
measures to procure a Peace meeting in Dutchess County, in
which he offered to preside : " that he had been bought off by
the miserable Commission of a Brigadier General."

In respect to the City Meeting Mr. Clinton said he would ap-
prize the movers of his ulterior views on Monday August 10,
when the Canal Commissioners would hold a meeting.

In reference to the actual state of public opinion throughout
the country, Mr. Clinton observed, that in Massachusetts a very
great change had taken place, that instead of Fifty thousand
votes, Gerry would not obtain half that number ; that if Penn-
sylvania would be combined, she would come out right : that
Logan, Read, son of the Governor, and Sergeant, son of the emi-
nent lawyer of that name, with others were his friends and would
co-operate to extend and establish sound opinions ; Gilman had
informed him that New Hampshire would have been well united
had not the indiscreet Violence of Boston prevented it.

270 KUFUS KING. [181 2

Almost six o'clk Mr. Jay got into his carriage to go to Mr.
Cortlandt's, Mr. Clinton remaining. Mr. Morris resumed the
conversation with him, by observing to Mr. Clinton, you may ex-
pect that we shd. say something upon other topics than that of the
desired union of a Peace Party. Mr. Clinton said that he thought
other topics had better not now be spoken of ; Mr. Morris how-
ever stated that in our opinion all general or continental measures
should be referred to the consideration of the Peace Party through-
out the Union.

Mr. Morris this evening wrote a note to Clarkson, Harison &
Varick, confidentially advising them that a meeting with Mr.
Clinton had taken place and desiring to see them at his Sister
Mrs. Ogden's, in the city at 9 o'clock on Monday Aug. 10.

Returned home this evening.

P.S. After communicating to MM. Jay & Morris Mr. Clinton's
overture to confer with any respectable Federalists, I observed to
them that my first inclination was in favor of the expediency of
conferring with Mr. Clinton, but that on farther reflection I was
disinclined to the measure. That I looked upon Mr. Clinton as
upon every other Leader of a Faction ; that so long as he went
on according to their views and bias, so long he wd. lead them,
but as soon as he opposed their views, and more certainly so soon
as he united with the rival Faction for any purpose, he would be
deserted by his own.

With Armstrong, Spencer, Tompkins & Taylor opposed to him,
it was questionable whether any considerable portion of the Re-
pubs, would follow him ; that unless a large body of the Repubs.
come with him, he was not worth accepting. Besides that, it was
of less importance that the Federalists should acquire a temporary
ascendency by the aid of a portion of the Repubs. than that their
reputation and integrity shd. be preserved unblemished ; that any
coalition in which they were to submit to the control of their op-
ponents wd. tarnish their character and justly impair their influ-
ence ; that Clinton and his Partizans wd. give such report of the
nature of the conference as would suit their own views ; that we
might be misrepresented, and after the mischief was done, should
be obliged to vindicate our reputation by explaining what passed
in our Conference. From a solicitude to extend and establish a
peace party, as the best if not only means of promoting the gen-

1812] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 27 1

eral welfare, MM. Jay & Morris were inclined to confer with Mr.
Clinton, and as the overture came from him, I acquiesced. Not
to meet Mr. Clinton wd. be to give him cause of offence and Mr.
Morris, who had been of late much with Mr. Clinton on the busi-
ness of the Canal, intimated that Gerry had accepted of the nomi-
nation of V. P. conditionally and stood ready to resign it to Mr.
Clinton. To refuse his desire of a conference might drive him to
this choice. Monroe's act. had been passed. Hall's also had
been allowed. Gerry was poor and money might be more accepta-
ble to him.

Friday, Aug. 7. — Went to town — called on Mr. Harison and ex-
pressed to him my opinion that the city meeting must not be de-
layed according to Mr. Clinton's wishes ; that it might suit and
promote his personal objects to postpone the meeting, but that
ours which were altogether of a public nature could not be bene-
fitted by delay : that much excitement was understood to exist in
the city, and the motives for delay would not be understood &
could not be explained.

Saw and conversed with Mr. Radcliff, who was desirous of an
early meeting, and averse to any co-operation with Mr. Clinton.
He asked and I mentioned to him, as I also did in confidence to
MM. Gracie, Benson and Bogart, the purport of the interview
with Mr. Clinton, which, as I stated to them (whatever were the
views of Mr. Clinton in proposing the Conference) was confined
to the plan of forming a Peace Party, every other topic being
wholly excluded.

August 18. — Went to Town, and attended the Peace meeting,
tho' without the zeal and animation ascribed to me by the Even-
ing Post.*

Aug. 29, 1812. — Wenttotown . . . Saw Mr. Wolcott, stayed

* Meeting of the Friends of Liberty, Peace, and Commerce.

. . . Never in the annals of this city was such a meeting witnessed for its
respectability and numbers. Gentlemen of the very first standing in society
here, together with many from the vicinity, among whom were Mr. King, Col.
Piatt, and Mr. C. J. Bogart, showed themselves at the Hall and were seen
among the most zealous and animated of the audience.

Col. Fish was Chairman of the Meeting — Messrs. John Wells and D. B. Og-
den submitted resolutions which were passed — Mr. Hoffman addressed the
meeting — Mr. King did not speak. — Evening Post, Tuesday, Aug. 18, 1812.

272 RUFUS KING. [1812

and dined ; conversed abt. the State of pub. affairs. Mr. W. averse
to Clinton's choice as Presidt. I confidentially told him all that
passed at Morrisania. He confirmed in substance Hoffman's in-
formation, that Judge Griffith of N. Jersey & Mr. Wallace being at
Cont. when the Council met abt. the Militia Drafts, a project for a
Caucus to meet in N. Y. on ye 15 Feb'y was agreed upon ; Cont.
to notify the Eastern States & Pennsylvania to notify the South-
ern States. Wolcott said he shd. busy himself in the business,
whether asked to do so or not.

He then with some hesitation asked me if I shd. object to be
nominated V. Pr. with Marshall or Judge Washington as Pr. I
replied vaguely — afterwards said that I shd. not be willing to be
named for either office ; that the Feds, were desirous of coalition
with Clinton & while I shd. not agree to that plan, it was proper
that it shd. be understood that I put myself out of all question by
declining a nomination to any station.

R. King to C. Gore.

Jamaica, L. I., July 17, 1812.
My dear Friend :

. . I have, upon the best consideration I have been able
to give the subject, come to the conclusion that there will be
neither sequestrations nor confiscations on either side. American
effects in M'treal will be more exposed to hazard from our own
people, shd. the Canada Expedition proceed than from any other
obvious cause.

I have understood, and from a pretty direct channel, that the
Expedition agt. Canada is postponed, and that it will not proceed
this year. The non-intercourse, or rather non-importation law
remains in force, but must I conjecture be repealed early in the
next Session of Congress. If we make no objection, Engd. will
oppose no impediments to supplying us with their manufactures.
The only opposition will be from France : indeed the only serious
danger to our Country is from that quarter. I regard the war, as
a war of party, & not of the Country — those who have made the
war will dread the unpopularity of French connexion, and hence
my hope that French influence will be kept out.

Such are our wants, and such the difficulties in the way of the

1812] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 273

supply from any Country but England that I am persuaded that
Eng. manufactures will be admitted. If Miller or some other
agent of yr. Nephew's house remains in Canada, charged with the
care and disposal of these goods, in case the non-importation shd.
be repealed, they may be imported and readily sold — if it shd. be
continued, such will be the demand that Eng. goods will come
into the country by illicit means : while I shd. dissuade from any
connexion in the attempt to introduce the goods in this manner,
I see no reason (if a demand shd. arise for the goods in Montreal)
agt. the sale of them : the only caution shd. be directed to the
security of payment.

If the prohibitory Laws continue, there will be a demand for
goods by persons who will attempt to smuggle them — in this
event they may probably be sold in the fall or winter. If these
laws are repealed, there will be no difficulty in their impor-
tation.

The war cannot be carried on by the Militia. A regular army
will be enlisted with the utmost difficulty ; besides money cannot
be raised by Loans : and if Taxes be collected, the popularity of
the Party according to Mr. Jefferson's former opinion, must be
destroyed. I infer that the war will drag on heavily ; that it will
become very, and extensively, unpopular ; that the dread of
French connexion will greatly increase the mass of discontent ;
that the Congressional Elections will show the perilous unanimity
of the Northern States agt. the war, and if England have a wise
ministry, we must soon return to Peace.

With affectionate regards &c. I remain always yours,

R. K.

D'Ivernois to R. King.

Londres, CE28Juillet, 1812.
Monsieur :

J'eus l'honneur de vous £crire il y a six semaines, une longue
lettre, que le porteur, Mr. Caldwell de Quebec, me rapporta le
matin meme de son depart, et que je jettai au feu en apprenant
de lui que vous ^tiez en mer pour une mission pacifique dans ce
pays-ci. Combien les choses ont change depuis cette epoque, et
que j'ai le coeur gros de tout ce qui se passe en Amerique. T m'en

VOL. V. — 18

274 RUFUS KING. [1812

console cependant en voyant la resistance qu'epreuve Bonaparte
au Midi et au Nord de l'Europe. Je suis si content de voir les
Russes se preparer de lui faire une veritable guerre d'epuisement
que je n'ai pu resister a. l'envie d'aller la voir sur les lieux meme,
et je pars dans trois jours pour Petersburg. . . . Agreez,
Monsieur, l'assurance de tous les sentimens d'estime et d'attache-
ment que je vous ai voues. F. d'Ivernois.

J. Trumbull to R. King.

London, August 19, 1812.
Dear Sir :

The enclosed Newspapers will give you a general view of the
present State of affairs in Europe. The Nations of the North are
combined against the Emperor of France, and have hitherto con-
ducted the campaign with wisdom and success ; while Lord
Wellington has gained a victory in Spain more important in its
consequences than was that of Blenheim.

Thus while America, without Troops, Ships or Revenue, petu-
lantly declares war against England, in the mean hope of coming
in at the death of the Old Lion and sharing a scrap of the spoil,
Russia, Sweden, Turkey & probably Denmark — 70 to 80 Millions
of people, warlike and powerful — throw themselves into the
opposite scale. Oh, the supernatural Wisdom of Embargoes,
non-intercourses, non-importations, and declarations of war — the
cunningly-varied machinery of Jesuitical co-operation ! ! !

But the corn of the North, & the abundant harvest now reaping
here will supply the place of what we withhold ; and the opera-
tions in Spain will not be palsied by our baseness ; that was the
object of the campaign which the great Emperor dictated to his
minions in Washington.

. . . We had taken the resolution of returning to New York
this autumn ; but the madness of the times induces us to hesitate ;
the fate of the civilized world hangs on the passing moment, and
I cannot but hope that the Besom of destruction will itself soon
be destroyed. . . . [unsigned, but endorsed]

Col. Trumbull.

1812] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 275

R. King to C. Gore.

Jamaica, L. I., Sep. 9, 1812.

I reed., my dear friend, your letter of the 2 2d a few days past.
Theimbecillity of Madison is daily more manifest, still his friends
and party in general adhere to him. I think the result of the
Election in No. Carolina still uncertain ; I mean as respects fed-
eral or republican superiority. Virginia is making a federal strug-
gle, but I fear with little probability of success. Maryland will,
as I conjecture, be democratical, but of what sort of democracy,
whether Madisonian or Clintonian, is uncertain ; tho' Madison's
influence will most likely predominate ; Dele, will continue fed-
eral. An effort is making by the Feds, and the malcontents of
the democrats in Pennsylvania in Clinton's favour ; I think they
will fail, as I regard democracy more firmly seated in Pennsyl-
vania than in any of the States near her. New Jersey is uncer-
tain, but may with federal aid become Clintonian. This State I
believe at this moment to be federal ; with exertions, were it
worth while, fedl. Electors might be chosen. But it seems proba-
ble that things will be ordered here favourably for Mr. Clinton's
views. To-day we are told, that contrary to confident expecta-
tion, Vermont will be democratic & Madisonian. Of New Hamp-
shire I have no information. Connt, R. I. and Mass. will act
together. I am not quite determined, but am inclined to attend
the meeting which is to be held here on the 15th. In conse-
quence of the New York Meeting and Resolutions we are hold-
ing County Meetings in all the Southern Counties of the State.
They are numerously attended, and in some cases by men of con-
sequence of the democratical party. In this quarter the War has
dissatisfied a considerable portion of that Body ; but they are
timid, and fear some inconvenience from meeting with their
political opponents. It is in contemplation that the Representa-
tives chosen by the " Peace Meetings," as they are called, shd.
meet at Albany abt. the middle of Octr. I have engaged to at-
tend the meeting shd. it be held. . . .

I am always, faithfully yrs.

R. K.

2j6 RUFUS KING. [1812

R. King to Mr. Gore.

{Copy.)
My dear Sir : Jamaica, L. I., Sept. 19, 1812.

I balanced much whether I would attend the meeting in New
York respecting the approaching Presidential Election.* I had

* J. Radcliff to R. King.
DR Sir : New York, Sept. 12, 1812.

Since I had the pleasure of seeing you the Corresponding Committee of the
Federal Republicans of this city have directed me particularly to request the
favor of your attendance at the meeting to be held here on the 15th instant ;
the objects of which have already been mentioned as far as my information
extends.

It is not only the wish and expectation of our friends in this State, but
Gentlemen from Connecticut & I believe from other States have expressed an
anxious desire that you and Mr. Jay should attend this meeting. Questions of
primary importance will no doubt be made and perhaps be decided, and we
hope you will not fail to afford us your counsel and advice.

On behalf of the Corresponding Committee, I have the honor to be with
great regard, your most obed. Jacob Radcliff.

The meeting referred to is thus spoken of by Hildreth, United States History,
vi., p. 376 : " For the purpose of deciding what course their party should take, a
convention of Federalists from all the States North of the Potomac, with dele-
gates also fom South Carolina, assembled in New York. They met privately,
with closed doors, and three days were consumed in eager debates. The adop-
tion of Clinton as their candidate was very eagerly opposed by King and
others, who denounced him as a mere ambitious demagogue, a second Aaron
Burr. That course was, nevertheless, finally agreed upon, principally through
the urgency and eloquence of Otis, on the ground that the defeat of Madison
would speedily lead to a peace, for which the door stood open in the repeal of
the orders in council. The Clintonians in their turn agreed to adopt as their
candidate for the vice-presidency Jared Ingersoll, a Pennsylvanian of New
England origin."

Henry Adams, in History of the U. S., vi., p. 410, after justly characterizing
the canvass for the Presidency in New York on behalf of De Witt Clinton as
being most discreditable, and giving his reasons for this opinion, says :

" Federalists held a conference at New York in September and in spite of
Rufus King, who was said to have denounced Clinton as a dangerous demagogue
in almost the words used by Hamilton to denounce Aaron Burr ten years before,
after three days' debate, largely through the influence of Harrison Gray Otis,
the bargain was made which transferred to Clinton the electoral votes of the
federal States. No one knew what pledges had been given by Clinton and his
friends ; but no man of common-sense who wished to preserve the government
and the Union could longer refuse to vote for Madison."

1812] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 277

understood as well from the declaration made in the Boston Town
Meeting, as from the Echo of the same opinion from other quar-
ters, that it would be deemed inexpedient to name a federal Can-
didate, and project to co-operate with the views of Mr. Clinton :
as I differed in opinion on both these points, and as (certainly
without desire or gratification on my part) my name had been
mentioned amongst others, I felt the difficulty that I should place
myself in by becoming a member of this meeting.

Some of our friends in the city pressed me to attend, and altho'
from all I had heard, I was fully persuaded that the Gentlemen
who should meet would entertain and adopt opinions and meas-
ures, wholly repugnant to my Judgment, I nevertheless after full
Reflexion, determined not to absent myself, chiefly because I was
unwilling that my absence should by any possibility be construed
to mean, what is not true in respect to my personal views.

I accordingly attended the meeting, which was composed of
more than sixty Gentlemen, assembled from So. Carolina and the
States east of Virginia. After receiving from the members the
best information in their power to afford respecting the Character
of the Electors likely to be chosen within their respective States,
it was resolved " that from the information so received, it was in
the opinion of the meeting impracticable to elect a fedl. Presi-
dent, and that it would be inexpedient to name a fedl. Candidate.
2nd that it should be recommended to the Federalists to co-oper-
ate in the election of a President, who would be likely to pursue
a different course of administration from that of Mr. Madison ;
and that a Committee should be appointed to collect the earliest
information of the character and views of the Electors, and to
communicate the same to the Federalists throughout the States."

I disapproved of the first Resolution, because I would have
nominated a candidate, a respectable federalist from any quarter,
not in the expectation, nay without the desire, of succeeding in
his Election ; but for the purpose of keeping the federal body as
entire in numbers and as unbroken in principle as possible, to the
end that their character and influence may be reserved for the
occasion which, in the present course of affairs, cannot fail to
arrive.

I disliked the second Resolution, because it did not speak out
and name the person, whom every one had in view, and because

278 RUFUS KING. [181 2

there was no evidence exhibited that Mr. Clinton, with the aid of
the federalists, can be elected, and, if elected, that he will pursue
a better system than that of Mr. Madison.

I stated my sentiments to the meeting, a great majority of whom
thought them incorrect. Time, wh. reveals truth, must decide
between us.

I think the question who shall be President, a secondary one
and quite unimportant in comparison with the attempt which we
are bound to make, to preserve the freedom and Independence of
the nation by reforming the Constitution. I know that our polit-
ical adversaries will say that we aim at a Monarchy ; perhaps
some of our friends even may suspect our views. I am and shall
always be ready to purge myself from this suspicion ; I would
lessen, sooner than increase, the presidential power. But it is
idle to go into explanations upon a Subject that is now so little
likely to call for attention. I am convinced that things cannot
remain where they are if the war continues ; a great change must
happen, the signs of its approach are not equivocal. I have
earnestly hoped, and thought that I had grounds for doing so,
that by a prudent course we should be able to direct the change
and to turn it to the advantage of the Country. These hopes
have been the result of an impartial estimate of the tendency of
the measures of Government, and of the most anxious solicitude
to discover the duty of good and disinterested men at the present
Crisis. I deprecate, and, above all other evils, fear the interposi-
tion of the Sword as the umpire of our difference. Should a civil
war break out, we have no occasion in future for caucusses re-
specting Presidential Electors. Things will then be ordered in a
different way. One chance, and only one, in favor of reform
without violence has seemed to me to exist, and above every other
consideration to be worthy of the deliberate attention of the
Federalist — Offer a federal Candidate for the Presidency ; acqui-
esce in Mr. Madison's re-election. He cannot in four years ruin
the Country ; but, if I am not egregiously mistaken, unless Peace
be made, he will in that time so disgust and degrade it, that the
federalists at its expiration will come into the possession of the
Government, and with as great support by the People, as Jefferson
had, when he succeeded Adams. Grant this, and if the Federal-
ists should not then so reform the Constitution as to protect the

1812] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 2jg

Country in future from the Evils it now feels and fears, they and
their posterity will deserve to suffer the ills, which, without such
reform, must crush them to the earth.

Recollect what never must be forgotten in a popular Govern-
ment, that next to the power of the Sword is that of a depressed
party when risen to be a triumphant one.

But Mr. Madison may make a French Alliance. If he dare, I
fear he would : the country will not now bear it, and the course
of his disastrous administration will render the Country still less
inclined to bear it. But come the worst, let the French Alliance
be made, and French troops introduced ; the certain, and I think
the immediate, consequence will be a civil war and the introduc-
tion of English troops. No Event would be more calamitous, none
so perilous to the public Liberties ; but this event will occur, tho'
perhaps not immediately, unless the Constitution be reformed.

A new president from the Democracy would perhaps adopt
measures that for the moment might mitigate present evils ; tho'
I have seen no evidence that he will be either willing or able to
do so. But neither a democratical nor a federal President could
in the actual State of parties do anything to remove our present
evils, or to prevent their recurrence. All palliatives, such as the
mere change of President among Democrats, or between them
and federalists, will have the effect, not only to postpone the
chance of reform, but to weaken the faculty of making it, should
the opportunity occur. They would have this effect by the more
complete conversion of political parties into political factions ; by
the inevitable progress of corruption and by the difficulty which
daily increases of confining the young men of the Country to a
political Creed, which is sure to prevent them from sharing in
public distinctions.

No fact seems to be more fully established than that a nation may,
and that too in a short period, become so debased by corruption
and the agency of faction, that the Sword alone can put an end to
the public misery. The Roman Empire, as we are told, was once
offered to the highest bidder at a public sale — but our Country is
in danger to be so sold at every successive Election.* If the prac-

* Montesquieu observes "that it is impossible for the leading men to be
knaves and the inferior sort to be honest, and for the former to be cheats,
and the latter to rest satisfied with being only dupes."

280 RUFUS KING. [1812

tice of corruption has heretofore been more prevalent among our
adversaries than among ourselves, I fear that this distinction is
henceforth at an end, enough was disclosed in our meeting to
make me apprehend that those who possess the greatest means,
will hereafter become the greatest corrupters. The consequence
is unavoidable — there must be a speedy end of our political systems
or the public Liberties will sink with them.

Against so great an evil, I have thought that we are bound to
struggle ; and I had persuaded myself, tho' I have been unable to
persuade others, that the re-election of Mr. Madison would pro-
duce a more favorable opportunity for a peaceful effort at Reform,
then can hereafter be expected to occur.

I have believed it due to our long and uninterrupted friendship
to write this letter ; especially as we were informed by one of yr.
Delegates, that you * approve of the co-operation of the Feds, to
elect Mr. Clinton ; and I ask the favor of you to shew this letter
to Mr. Cabot, Mr. Parsons & Mr. Strong from whose opinions, as
they were stated in our meeting, I feel the deepest concern in being
obliged to dissent.f with sincere regard &c,

Rufus King.

* Observation, the Representation was wholly incorrect, and that respecting
Cabot, Strong, and Parsons ill-founded.

■f Among Mr. King's papers is the following account of the meeting of Federal
delegates in New York, Sept. 15, 16, and 17, 1812 :

" Harper moved a Resolution, wh. was adopted by a majority, that from the
information received from all parts of the Union, the election of a Fedl. Pr.
now appeared to be impracticable, & that it was inexpedient to nominate
Fedl. Candidates.

" It was on the 2nd day agreed to commit to a member from each State the
propositions respecting the support of Dmo. Candidates for Pr. & V. P. On
the third day their Report was made and accepted by a large majority, viz. :

" That it is recommended to the Federalists to support such Candidates for
Pr. & V. P. at the ensuing election as would be likely to pursue a difft. course
of measures from that of the now Presidt.

" And that a Comtee of 5 persons (Pennsylvanians) be appointed to ascertain
the result of the elections for Electors, and the Candidates whom they wd. be
inclined to support, and to communicate the same as expeditiously as practicable
to the Electors of the several States.

" I opposed every part of these measures, and attempted to prevent the adop-
tion of the first Resolution, and afterwards to amend the second so as that it
should express what it means, namely to support Mr. D. Clinton. This was
objected to as likely to prove injurious to Mr. C.

" In conclusion I observed that I regarded the Resolution as a recommendation

1812] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 28 1

C. Gore to R. King.

Waltham, October 5th, 1812.
My dear Friend :

I duly received your Letter relative to the Presidential Election
and the day after enclosed it to Mr. Cabot with a Request that he

of the election of Mr. Clinton — added that the practicability of such election
shd. appear probable, and moreover if chosen, that we shd. have reason to ex-
pect he would pursue different and better measures ; that no information was
communicated respecting his views ; that he was educated and practised in the
principles of Democracy ; that no man in the country was more unequivocal in
his character. As evidence of the course he wd. be likely to follow, we should
remember that he disapproved the Embargo, then receded from his opinion,
and in a speech made in the Senate, wh. he published, restored himself to the
confidence of the Demos by a tirade of abuse poured out upon the Feds., and
that this was so directed as to bear particularly upon the Genn. of B. who must
have magnanimity more than belongs to our nature, to be afterwards Mr. C.'s
advocate.

" That personally I could feel no dislike to Mr. Clinton on any acct. other
than that wh. arose from his political character & views ; that I had had no in-
dividual intercourse with him, but that I feared, if we succeeded in promoting
his election, that we might place in the chair a Coesar Borgia instead of a James
Madison — intimated however that the treatment by Madn. of the Genn. of
Boston had been such in the charge of the Henry Mission that I could suppose
their resentment implacable ; that were I in the situation I never would forgive
the injury.

" A letter from Genl. Pinckney to the Corresponding Comtee of Philadelphia
declines explicitly being a candidate for the Presidency : recommends Jay or
King.

" A letter from B. Stoddart, Maryland, recommends Marshall (C.J.S.) as the
only man for wh. any probability existed of the vote of Virginia, and Strong V.
P. : that if Virginia shd. succeed in an electoral ticket Marshall or K. shd. be
the Candidate — the former preferable on acct. of his great popularity in
Virginia.

" A letter from John Hopkins recommends Marshall and states that if Virga.
is fedl. she wd. support Jay, King, Strong, Griswold, Pickering or any other
respectable Fedst, and that Clinton cd. obtain no better support than Madn.

" A letter from Judge Washington to the N. Jersey Com. of Correspondence,
who applied to him to become a Candidate, declines in a modest manner, dis-
qualifying his abilities, and preferring his present peaceful office of a judge —
Clinton rather than Madison.

" A letter from Dexter, Boston, about Piso's conspiracy agt. Caesar : the ob-
ject to shew that a Fed. Cand. shd. not be named.

"A letter from Pierson, No. Carolina, Legislature fedl. ; if convened will
district the State."

282 RUFUS KING. [1812

would send it to the Governor and C. Justice. I refrained, for
the week past, from writing in expectation of seeing these Gentle-
men, but as Mr. Parsons is attending Barnstable Court, whence he
will not return for some days, & as I do not frequently see the
Governor, owing to his constant occupation at the Council Cham-
ber & my absence from Boston, I could no longer delay to
acknowledge its Receipt.

Cabot, whom I saw yesterday only for a moment, says, while he
hopes it will not be attributed to Pride of Opinion, he is really
satisfied on Reflection, of the Fitness of the Measure. The Truth
is, he utterly despairs of any men like those, who were denominated
Federalists, ever having any influence or Power in this Country ;
and that the most, if not the only thing, to be hoped for, is an
amelioration of our political Evils from the Election of some one
of the Democrats, who having obtained his Power by Those who
were opponents to the Measures of Madison, could expect to re-
tain it, only by pursuing a different course, and that from the
Interests of the Past of the Country and of his Residence, he
might be inclined to an opposite System.

I early found, in conversing with Mr. Strong, that he was in
favour of the project, and that he was prepossessed with very fav-
ourable ideas of the character & views of Clinton. Indeed, until
this man had been a candidate for the Presidency, I never heard
him spoken well of ; and since last Spring, I have scarcely heard
any one speak of him, but extolled the Excellency of his moral
Character and the Purity of his present political Views, he having
become really disgusted with the imbecile and ruinous measures
of Madison. Parsons & Cabot have never thought thus. They,
as I believe, have been influenced by the Considerations before
stated. Many of the middle-aged and ardent Politicians of our
Section of Country have become tired of waiting for Place and
Distinction. They sigh to represent the U. States at some for-
eign Court, or to enjoy Power and Influence at Home, and believe
by bringing up a new Party, consisting of Democratic Leaders,
in name, they may in Reality guide the Machine of State. To
such motives may be ascribed the Conduct of some of the promi-
nent Members of Congress the last winter. The plan was hatched
in Boston by Q. & the Orator of the Massachusetts Delegation to
your Convention, before Congress met. It was then gravely de-

1812] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 283

termined to join Democracy in the Cry against G. B. and declare
that war with her was preferable to commercial restrictions ; that
many of the Federalists had been wrong ; they had been more Brit-
ish than the British themselves, and it was necessary this oppro-
brium should be got rid of, by encouraging opposition to England
and uniting in the Vulgar Abuse, which was belched out against her
Power & her Enormities. They should then attain the Favour of
Democracy and controul and direct the Councils of the Mild and
amiable men who fill her Ranks, to the Glory of the Nation and
their own Distinction. By possessing themselves of this Vantage
Ground of Popularity, they thought to exclude from Competition
many whom they considered in the Light of Rivals and who, in
the Event of the Federal party coming into Power, might fill the
Stations their Ambition languished for.

That the present disastrous War may be attributed in some
Degree to this cunning scheme cannot be doubted, although these
wise men constantly declared that the Administration dare not
make war with any Nation and never could be forced into that
State with G. B.

It is more than can be warranted by my Conduct, or Conversa-
tion, to say that I was for a co-operation of the Federalists in the
Election of Mr. Clinton. In Midsummer I once attended a meet-
ing of about a half a Dozen Gentlemen, where this subject was
merely mentioned and it was decided to say nothing about it at
that time ; for it was not improbable that after the Pressure of
the War had been felt, it might appear feasible to elect a Federal-
ist ; and should the Federalists, on Reflexion, think it expedient
to aid in Mr Clinton's Election, it would be wise for the present
to delay any Expression on the Subject.

In August I was requested, by Mr. Sullivan, to meet some Gen-
tlemen in Boston on the subject of the Presidential Election. It
rained on that day & I remained at home. The next, being in
Town, I received another Note, saying the Meeting was postponed
until that day, & my attendance requested. I went, no Person
was there, but S. & Cabot who accompanied me. I immediately
proposed that myself, Otis, Sullivan, Jackson & Thorndike should
attend the meeting at N. York. S. said that Otis had made it
a condition of his going that the Gentn. should go expressly and
exclusively to support the Election of Mr. Clinton. Mr. C. said

284 RUFUS KING. [1812

something in favour of his Election. I do not recollect, and am
confident that I expressed no opinion on the Subject ; for it was
impossible for me not to perceive that this Business had been al-
together settled before. I only declared that it would not be
convenient for me to go. A few weeks afterwards, on being
urged by a note from the Gentlemen who went, to accompany
them, and verbally by Cabot (which happened after some of them
had left town, only a day before the last set off), he said to me,
I do not know what your Opinion on this subject is. I replied,
that without giving my own, I would state to him, what I had
written to Col. North, who had requested to know what might be
expected to be the Opinion of N. England in Relation to the elec-
tion. I endeavoured in that letter to represent the Judgment
and Views of those in this Quarter, who would have Influence in
the choice of Electors. He conceded that I had made a correct
Statement, so far as the Opinions & Views of such men were com-
prehended by him. He at first, and I believe previous to asking
my own Opinion, desired to know if I could be prevailed on
to go to N. York. I told him, No. That I thought the Vote of
confining the Members expressly to support the Election of Mr.
Clinton improper. If it were not to be an open Question at this
meeting, who should be named as Candidate, and we were deter-
mined to support only the Pretensions of Mr. C, a mere letter, say-
ing that, would be sufficient. What might have been my Judgment,
had the Subject ever been discussed by me, or in my Presence, I
do not and cannot undertake to say. I found men's minds made
up either separately or jointly. That many whom I highly re-
spect, are in favour of the measure I know, and certainly others,
whom, to say the least, I as highly respect, and whose judgment
has great Weight with me, think it teeming with evil.

with Sincere Regard & Esteem

I remain your faithful Friend

C. Gore.

CHAPTER XV.

W. King to R. King — Contradicts Miller's Statement of Latter's favoring Clinton
— S. Van Rensselaer to King — Approves his Views on the Presidential
Election — Engagement at Queenstown — King to W. King — Miller's
Statement untrue — King to Morris — Congress should declare War with
France — C. King to King — Election to Congress from Maine — People
want a Change — King to Huntington — Paper in Suffolk County — Van
Rensselaer to King — Candidate for Governor — King — Election as U. S.
Senator — King to Gore — Election to Senate — Henderson to King — Op-
position to Van Rensselaer unfounded — King's Election — Morris's Paper
favorable to Peace — King to Gore — Urging his Appointment as Senator —
Strong to King — Favorable to Gore's Appointment — King to Gore — Hopes
he may get it — King to Troup — Trinity Church and Chapels.

Wm, King to R. King.

Boston, October i8, 1812.
Dear Sir :

On Friday evening last I attended a meeting of the Republican
members of the Senate : there were present twenty-seven of the
twenty-nine members. The unanimous determination was to
make one more proposal to the House ; to choose the Electors
by Districts : if that should not be acceded to, to make a further
proposal ; to choose by a concurrent vote, each branch to name
an equal number : Should the last proposition not be concurred
in, the Senate will make no more, and will reject every proposal
made them which has for its object a different result. So that
every thing remains in this State as I stated to you was the case
when I left.

The friends of Mr. Clinton are many of them here from your
place ; they had previous to my arrival in town conversed with
every individual of the Senate, to whom they had made different
statements, such as they considered most likely to ensure success.
To our brother B. Porter, a Mr. Miller stated that he was the bearer
286 RUFUS KING. [1812

of a message from the friends of Mr. Clinton to you, on the sub-
ject of his (Mr. Clinton's) being the Presidential Candidate ; that
your reply was, that you had been opposed in the first instance,
but on more mature consideration you were inclined to think
favourably of the measure ; that you believed Mr. Clinton to be
possessed of intelligence and integrity and that he should have your
cordial and entire support for that office. Believing this statement,
I believe Porter had made up his mind to aid Mr. Clinton, as
well as many other Republican Senators. I have contradicted it,
and will thank you to say to me by return of mail, if agreeable,
that I have reported you correctly. There is not at this time the
least difficulty respecting Mr. Clinton in this State. . . .

Affectionately your Brother,

Wm. King.

S. Van Rensselaer to R. King.

Buffalo, Oct. 22, 1812.
My dear Sir :

I had the pleasure to receive your letter covering a copy of the
sound and valuable speculation upon the subject of the ensuing
Presidential election which you had on the 19. Sep. addressed
to our Friend in Boston.

Had my opinion upon this important subject been different
from the general conclusions drawn from all your premises, I am
by no means sure that I should not have surrendered it to the
reasoning contained in your letter. I cannot therefore but ex-
press the very great gratification I feel on finding the opinion
which I have uniformly entertained on this subject sanctioned by
so conclusive reasoning & from so high authority. But however
willing I may still feel to throw the little weight I can into the
scale with this opinion, and urge it for practical experiment at
the Election, I cannot say that I have much hope of success.
The melancholy truth is, that, after all our boast of patriotism and
knowledge, the political Philosophy of our Country like most of
our other sciences is but superficial ; instead of paying the respect
due to facts established by the history of other Republicks, or
satisfactorily demonstrated to our own observation, we substitute
hypotheses founded on immediate interest, or adopt maxims
which best square with personal views. And hence it is in our

1812] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 287

Republic!?, as in all others which have gone before us, the
precious maxims of sages, discovered by deep research of wisdom
and sanctioned by experience, will be swept away in the torrent
of delusion, and the voice of reason drown in the violence of
passion. These are discouraging considerations, but there is no
halting in the path of duty. Having been several months on this
remote frontier, and denied most of my sources of information,
I have but very imperfect knowledge either of the opinions
entertained relative to the approaching Election, or the prospect
of the Candidates : but wherever I march, I find myself sur-
rounded with evidence of the deplorable state of our distracted
country. I expect soon to return to Albany and shall consider it
my first duty to co-operate with my friends in adopting such
measures as may be deemed best calculated to relieve our beloved
country from its present state of degradation, & restoring it to
the rank and prosperity it once held and enjoyed. Before this
will reach you, you will have learnt that a detachment of troops
from our Army on the 13 inst passed the Niagara River opposite
Queenstown, had a severe engagement, dislodged the British from
their works on the Heights of Queenstown, held them from day
break until afternoon, and then were compelled to surrender
them. But as the circumstances which led to the necessity of
this movement are many, I tender this as my apology for omitting
here to detail them. But I cannot in justice to myself and the
brave men who fought the battle forbear saying that such were
the plan and execution of it that success was complete ; but the
Victory was at last lost by the absolute refusal of the militia to re-
enforce and cross the River. It is out of my power to ascertain
the number killed and wounded ; probably the former may have
been 60, the latter 170 ; and 756, nearly in equal proportions of
Militia and Regulars were made prisoners of war ; the militia
have returned on parole. The enemy have suffered severely ;
the gallant Brock and his Aid Col. McDonnel among the
slain. The misfortune of my brave Aid, Col. V. R. receiving
five wounds in leading the first column to action, added to
other circumstances, has induced me to assign Brig. Genl.
Smyth to the command under my orders.

With great respect, your friend &c.

S. V. Rensselaer.

288 RUFUS KING. [181:

R. King to Wm. King.

Jamaica, L. I., Oct. 23, 1812.

Dear Sir :

I last Evg received your letter of the 18th instant, in which
you inform me that a Mr. Miller of New York, in a communica-
tion to our brother B. Porter, who is a member of your Senate,
stated to him that he had been the bearer of a message to me
from the friends of Mr. Clinton, respecting his appointment as
President, that I told him that I had been opposed to Mr. Clin-
ton's appointment in the first instance, but that on more mature
consideration I was inclined to think favorably of the measure,
and that he should have my cordial and entire support — you add
that in my behalf, you had contradicted the statement.

I am obliged to you for this contradiction ; which from the
knowledge of my opinions upon this subject, you were well war-
ranted in making. I abstain from applying to this representation
of Mr. Miller the character it deserves ; but it requires me to
declare that no message concerning the Presidency from Mr.
Clinton or his friends has ever been delivered to me by anyone ;
that I have never told Mr. Miller, nor any other person, that I
thought favorably of Mr. Clinton's election as President, or that
he should receive my support. It is well known that I do not
approve of Mr. Madison's administration — but between him and
Mr. Clinton for reasons which in my judgment deeply concern
the public liberties, I prefer the election of Mr. Madison.

As I am disinclined to take any share in the electioneering
measures which it is deemed proper to pursue on the present
occasion, I desire that you will consider this letter merely as a
denial of the opinions and views, which it has been thought
expedient to ascribe to me — I however request that you will com-
municate it to B. P.*

Your affectionate Brother,

Rufus King.

* Mr. Silvanus Miller published a letter in the New York Columbian, dated
February 15, 1820, in answer to charges made in the American, that he had
"knowingly and wilfully made a departure from truth" in stating as he had
done that Mr. King had, "dismissing his former apparent caution, expressed
himself without reserve to his friends and acquaintances . . . during the
close of the summer or beginning of autumn ," so that it was generally

t8i2] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 289

R. King to G. Morris.

Oct. 28, 1812.
Dear Sir :

I send you for yr. amusement the morning Chronicle for August.
You will make allowance for the opposition principles of the
Editor. The correspondence between France and Russia exhib-
its the proof of their resolution to force Denmark to take a part
agst. England and at a date antecedent to Nelson's attack at
Copenhagen. Similar Treaties have been recently made between
France and Russia, and France and Austria. How absurd is it

understood and so reported, that he was clearly a friend of the State admin-
istration and that be considered the opposition to Mr. Clinton " unprincipled."

Mr. King pronounced these statements as entirely without foundation, says
The American.

Mr. Miller's most unsatisfactory answer is here referred to, because The Amer-
ican states in the same article that this was the same Mr. Miller spoken of in
the letter of Wm. King in 1812. Mr. Miller answers this as follows, and it will
be seen how the statements correspond and how far he refutes the charge there
made against him.

"One other charge is made by the Editors of the American — it refers to
transactions which took place nearly eight years ago. . . It is said he (mean-
ing the subscriber) had the assurance to say to one of the Senators, a relative of
that Gentleman (meaning Mr. King) in order to determine to support Mr. Clin-
ton's pretentions, that they were approved of, and supported by Mr. King — by
that Mr. King who in the assembled convention at New York, as Mr. Miller
well knew, had openly denounced them dfc. This Senator, I understand, from
Mr. King, to be his brother-in-law Dr. Porter, who was in the Senate of Massa-
chusetts in the year 1812. I remember such a gentleman ; and also what
were his sentiments on the presidential question. I found him an ardent friend
of Mr. Clinton, was introduced to him as such, and such he continued to be
while I knew him. These facts are impressed more strongly on my mind,
from some remarks made by him in relation to the opposition as well of Mr.
Rufus, as of his Brother, Gen. William King, who was then in Boston. The
manner in which this family secret was procured, as well as its publication,
were severely censured by the father of one of the Editors (Mr. King). It
appears that Gen. King had written a letter to his Brother, that, I had repre-
sented to Dr. Porter that he (Mr. King) was now in favor of Mr. Clinton's
election, enquiring whether it was so — and whether he had changed his opinions
since he saw him a few weeks before — the answer from Mr. King to his Brother
was that he had not changed his opinions."

Mr. Miller concludes by saying, " that whole story is void of truth" ; that he

knew Mr. King was opposed to Mr. Clinton's election, and that it would have

been " weakness and folly" to have thus misrepresented him. And yet there are

these letters.
vol. v. — 19

29O RUFUS KING. [18
that we should talk of the Repeal of the French Decrees ! Con-
gress should declare immediate war against France and make
peace with England.

Always yrs.

R. K.

Cyrus King to R. King.

Saco, 17th December, 1812.
My dear Brother :

From your kindness, attention and assistance, to me, in early
life (of which I shall always cherish a grateful recollection) I
willingly persuade myself, that you are not indifferent to occur-
rences, favourable, or unfavourable, which may prove important
to me. Under this persuasion, I esteem it a duty, to communi-
cate to you the result of the late election for Representative to
Congress from this district ; a Certificate of which I this day
received from his Excellency the Governor. I am indeed at a
loss to determine, whether you will, or I ought to, consider this
occurrence, as favourable or unfavourable. When I consented
to be a Candidate it was thought scarcely possible that any nomi-
nation could prevail against the present Representative ; I there-
fore reflected less on the subject than its importance demanded ;
and now that success has attended the efforts of my fellow-citizens,
I feel humbled and shrink from the responsibility of the situation.
That it must prove a sacrifice of interest and domestic happiness,
I ought to expect, and could submit to it, if I deemed it possible,
with others, in any way to promote the interest of our Country.
But the people in this part of the United States almost despair,
by the ordinary means of our election, of a remedy for their dis-
tresses and for the disasters of our Country, if the Anti-commercial,
restrictive Virginia system is to predominate in our National
Councils for four years longer. As this is deemed the greatest
evil that can befall the Country, any change, in the minds of peo-
ple here, would have been preferable : tho' it was with extreme
reluctance that our well-disposed citizens would give up men, as
Candidates for the first offices of the Government, on whom
they could at all times rely ; nor would they, on any other
ground, than that the Union, which has been promoted, might

1813] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 29I

prove a positive accession of numbers and wealth, to correct
principles. . . .

Respectfully & affectionately yr. Brother

Cyrus King.

P. S. I need not remark to you that the result of this election
arose from a partial change of public sentiment from the pressure
of the times — not from anything personal as to the Candidates.

S. Van Rensselaer to R. King.

Albany, Feby 12, 1813.
My dear Sir :

Influenced by the considerations suggested in your letter I
have been induced to acquiesce in the wishes of my political
friends & consent to be their Candidate.* You know me too well
I natter myself not to believe that this is a sacrifice of my indi-
vidual comfort & happiness to the situation of our Country. The
prospect of success, I am told, is promising, altho' I am not san-
guine. A prudent & liberal course of policy on the part of the
Council, I am confident will have a good effect. I have not in-
terfered, nor shall I, in any of the appointments. The reap-
pointment of Mr. Clinton under all circumstances I approve.
You are acquainted with my sentiments on that subject. I ought
perhaps to say that the conduct of that gentleman has been cor-
rect this session as far as my knowledge extends.

Allow me to apologize for not sooner replying to your letter,
but until a nomination was made, I thought it improper to express
my assent lest it might influence the deliberations of the party.
With great respect & Regd. your friend

S. V. Rensselaer.

Mr. King was living quietly at his home in Jamaica, enjoy-
ing his country life and little anticipating any call to serve
his country in an important position. Though the Federal
party had to a certain extent recovered its influence in New
York, it was because the Democratic party was divided and
distracted by bitter contentions in its ranks between those

* For Governor.

292 RUFUS KING. [1813

who favored Mr. Clinton and his opponents, who held the
power by the aid of the Federalists. The correspondence,
which has been given will show the motives by which the
active leaders of all parties sought to obtain an advantage
for their respective friends and the papers and publications
of the day evince the deep interest in the issues before the
people. Mr. King had not permitted himself to be con-
nected with any of the political schemes, but continued
faithfully to urge an opposition to the measures of the ad-
ministration, which had pushed the country into a war with
Great Britain — a war unnecessary, unjust, and carried on
without preparation or vigor. He was about to be called
upon to take an active part in the councils of the nation. —
Mr. Jabez D. Hammond gives the following account.*

" As the term of service of Gen. John Smith, in the Senate of
the United States, would expire on the 4th of March, it became
necessary for the Legislature to appoint a successor.

" It has been stated that there was a federal majority in the
Assembly; but that in the Senate the republican majority was
greater than the federal majority in the Assembly. It was, there-
fore, fair to presume that a republican Senator on a joint ballot
would be chosen : but the event disappointed that reasonable
anticipation. Mr. Rufus King was nominated by the Assembly
by a vote of fifty-five to fourty-four and Mr. James W. Wilkin, a
Senator from Orange County, was chosen by the Senate. Upon
a joint ballot Mr. King had sixty-eight votes and Gen. Wilkin
sixty-one. There were three blank votes. What was the cause
of this result ? By the Tammany party it was charged to Mr.
Clinton. They alleged that this was the consideration for which
the federalists, in November, were induced to give the Clinton ians
the presidential electors. On the other hand the republicans,
who had supported Mr. Clinton, insisted that it was the result of
a bargain made by Gen. Thomas and Mr. Southwick, by which
they agreed, that if the federalists, as a body, would vote for the
incorporation of a bank, they would secure to the federal party
the election of the next Senator ; and there is a fact within my

* History of Political Parties in the State of New York, v., 344-345.

1813] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 293

knowledge which induces me to believe that the latter supposi-
tion is the more probable."

Mr. Hammond further says, that in consequence of a re-
quest on the part of Mr. Clinton, at a later date, who had
been charged as having with his friends combined to defeat
General Wilkin, he had written to General Wilken and ob-
tained an answer in which he declared his utter disbelief
in any foundation for the report. He was convinced that
his election was defeated by the influence and vote of the
friends of the bank.*

A correspondent of the Evening Post writes from Albany,
February 2d :

" I have the pleasure to inform you that Mr. King was this day
elected a Senator of the United States in the room of John Smith,
an event which must afford the highest satisfaction to every true
friend of his country. King 68, Wilkin 61, Blank 3."

On February 5th, Mr. Coleman, the editor of the paper,
says of this election :

" We consider the conduct of the Friends of Peace and Com-
merce, whose united exertions have produced this happy result,
as an auspicious pledge of what may be expected from the real
lovers of their country, whenever they see it in danger. It is real
patriotism alone that in such a crisis can forget petty distinctions
and party names and adopt for their motto, Measures not Men.

" Of Mr. King himself the Editor of this paper is restrained
from saying all he is desirous of saying, for he is aware of the
unworthy motives to which it would by some be ascribed ; but
he will not be deterred from mentioning for the first time in pub-
lic, that in nearly the last conversation he ever held with General
Hamilton, before his death, he pronounced with great decision of
manner, that Washington and Gen. Greene being gone, Mr. King
was beyond any comparison, the ablest statesman this country
possessed.

* " As an act of justice to Mr. King, it is proper to state that no individual of
any party ever suspected that he was a party to, or had knowledge of any nego-
tiation either with the Clintonians or the bank men."
RUFUS KING. [1813

" This anecdote is here related not for the trifling purpose of
gratifying the ear of any man, but for the purpose of inspiring
with a just and unlimited confidence all those who only know Mr.
King from report. It shall only be added that a circle of the
most respectable part of the community in which he resides, and
who know him intimately, have long considered that his splendid
talents, and useful as well as splendid, whenever an opportunity
shall offer to bring them into his country's service, were only
equalled by the utmost possible purity of his views.

>' *

R. King to C. Gore.

Jamaica, L. I., February 14, 18 13.
My dear Sir :

I returned home from town last evening where I have spent
the last fortnight. You will have observed in the Public Paper
the notice of my appointment to the Senate ; this decision has
created some embarrassment in my mind ; I had heard that the
measure was talked of ; and as it would not be effected by federal
votes, which are six or eight less than the democratical votes on a
joint ballot, it was plain that my election would not be effected
without democratical assistance. You well know my opinion con-
cerning the project for the election of President and I have been
solicitous that no conduct on my part should in appearance even
contradict that opinion. From assurances which have been given
me upon the subject of the election I have thought it my duty in
the actual condition of the Country not to decline the appoint-
ment, tho' I foresee, that it will break in upon, and impair the
repose which in the bosom of my family I so much enjoy. Of
one thing you may be assured that this appointment has been
made without solicitation, nay, without the expression, or exist-
ence, of a wish for it on my part.

*Schouler writes respecting the United State Senate of 1813 :
" But a better statesman and far more experienced than either of those emi-
nent lawyers (Gore and Jeremiah Mason) in public life, was Rufus King, just
elected by the New York Legislature through an accidental local disarrange-
ment of parties. King sat in the Senate for many years longer, the last em-
bodiment of well-bred, and withal, moderate Federalism, courtly and polished
in manners, always in full dress, with stockings and small clothes, as became
one of Washington's pattern." Hist, of United States, ii., 379.

1813] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 295

I shall probably pass the next winter at Washington ; the
changes of men, as well as measures are so complete, that there
will not be a single member of the Senate except myself, who be-
longed to that Body during the time of Genl. Washington. It
would be a very great satisfaction to me, and moreover might be
eminently serviceable to the Country if you would become also
a member of the Senate.

It was said Lloyd was about to resign in the Autumn, perhaps
he will determine to do so at the end of the present session. In
this case I should presume, would you be induced to consent, that
you would be elected — pray think of it — I know nothing which
would sweeten the future years which may be allotted to me more
than again renewing that intercourse and friendship which sub-
sisted between us in a foreign Country. Our wives would fully
participate in our happiness — again I pray you to think of this

project. . . .

Affectionate Regards

R. King.

Wm. Henderson to R. King.

Albany, Feb. 21, 1813.
Dear Sir :

I have delayed acknowledging the receipt of your favor of the
10th inst. untill I could give you some information worth commu-
nicating. I found soon after my arrival here an unexpected op-
position to the Patroon, as our candidate for Govr. This
principally arose from gentlemen in the middle district, who
seemed to consider his conduct in urging the Militia to cross at
Queenstown, as an objection to him in the minds of the federalists,
in their counties, not to be overcome. The true reason with
many of them, certainly was, the preference they entertained for
the Speaker Col. Van Rensselaer. I am happy to say that his
conduct on this occasion, has been highly honorable, and justly
entitles him to the confidence & esteem of his party. And I am
persuaded he will do every thing in his power to promote the suc-
cess of the candidate agreed upon. It gives me pleasure to find
that the attempts to implicate you in relation to the appointment
of Mayor of New York have failed. I hazard nothing in saying
that your election to the Senate was a sore disappointment to some

296 RUFUS KING. [1813

of those who had been loudest in your favor ; the reason for which
you may easily imagine. I can assure you, from the best author-
ity, that at the time your election took place, Genl. P. (latt) be-
lieved it would be necessary to take a third man for Mayor, and
Clinton was fully apprized that it would most probably happen.
And it certainly would have ended so but for the obstinacy of
Mr. P. W. R.(adcliff) who declared that on the subject of Mayor
he could agree to no compromise by which his brother was to be
sacrificed. I may add too in confidence that the Quarter Master
Genl. was by no means unfriendly to you ; and he, and a friend
of his, put in blank ballots on the final vote. There has been no
meeting of the Council for some days, Mr. Radcliff having been
on a visit to Rhinebeck. He returned last night. The Govr.
has summoned them to attend on Tuesday ; what course R. means
to take is yet unknown here ; and accounts from New York state
the exertions of R.'s supporters there to create dissention will
finally prove abortive. A paper has been received here from the
pen of Mr. Morris : supposed to be submitted, as a report proper
to be made at this time by a Committee of the Legislature on the
state of the Nation. It contains nineteen folio pages in which
among ether matters are discussed, the rights of the Majority to
govern the Minority in all cases ; commerce and domestic slavery
as opposed to each other ; the evils resulting from the black
representatives in Congress ; the embargo, non intercourse &c. ;
rights of England to her own seamen, employment of the Militia,
and approbation of the conduct of the Governors of Massachu-
setts & Connecticut, danger of a French alliance, the creation of
new states, anticommercial, their votes in the Senate, there is rea-
son to fear, will confirm such alliance. It concludes with propos-
ing the following resolution, "that Delegates be appointed
to meet at the City of New York on day of next with
such Delegates as may be sent by States who have elected a Ma-
jority of Congressional Representatives, favorable to peace &
commerce, for the purpose of considering the condition of public
affairs and devising measures to obtain redress."

You will readily perceive that the writer thinks the separation
of the States an event, that must shortly take place, if our Rulers
persevere in the War. This may happen but I can see no good
that can arise from any attempt that can produce it. Those poli-

1 8 13] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 297

ticians deceive themselves, who suppose there are men of any
consideration in either party in this State who would rashly dis-
solve the Union. Before we part with the Government we have,
there ought to be a moral certainty of our obtaining a better. In
short we had " better bear the ills we have, than fly to others that
we know not of." Before the Session ends some resolutions will
be brought forward respecting the Militia. I wish you would let
me have your ideas on the subject. Stating how far we may go
in support of our eastern friends. The treatment the Militia com-
plain of from the U. S. Govt., is likely to afford us greatt aid in
the next election.

I am with great respect & esteem,
Yours ob. Sv.,

Wm. Henderson.

R. King to C. Gore.

Jamaica, L. I., Mar. 7, 1813.
My dear Sir :

I reed, your letter of the 1st in due course, and after taking a
day to consider of the prudence of doing it, I yesterday wrote a
confidential letter to Gov. Strong concerning your appointment to
the Senate in case Mr. L. shd. decline a further attendance. You
may be sure that I have observed those reserves which were re-
quisite to be attended to, as well on your account as on my own.
After attending to the conditions and prospects of the public af-
fairs and impressing my conviction that you were strongly disin-
clined to appear in any public station, I stated the long friendship
which- had subsisted between us, the intimate knowledge that I
have of your experience, prudence & integrity, and the very great
support of any efforts on my part to promote the public welfare,
that would be derived from your cooperation — In case Mr. L. de-
clined to resume his seat, I cannot but hope that the Govr. will
renew his application to you, and should he do so, that you will
consent to serve. I can imagine but one impediment on the part
of Govr. Strong ; if Mr. Lloyd consented to serve during the last
Session on condition that he shd. be relieved at its close, the Gov.
may have made some overture to some one on the subject, and
the business may have proceeded too far to be recalled : Altho' I

298 RUFUS KING. [181 3

have seen the Bill appointing an extra Session in May, I do not
remember at what period in the month it will take place — How
much shd. we be gratified if you and Mrs. Gore shd. accompany us,
— I can most truly say, that would be a solace exceeding all others
that I can anticipate — indeed as there will be not a single member
of the Senate who was my contemporary, . I shall find myself in the
midst of strangers, and that too, in a place destitute, as I fear, of
those conveniences & comforts, which alone can compensate us
for removing from homes in which we enjoy the indulgences which
our habits have rendered necessary.

It is possible we may do good — we may encourage & soothe the
Govt, to restore peace — and shd. we contribute to this very im-
portant purpose, it shd. not fail to produce very satisfactory re-
flections at a future day. . . .

I am always your faithful friend,

R. King.

P.S. be assured that I have in no degree compromised you or
myself.

C. Strong to R. King.

Northampton, March 12, 1813.
My dear Sir :

I have just reed, your letters of the 5th inst, and wish you to
consider this as confidential.

At the session of our Legislature in Nov. last, Mr. Lloyd in-
formed me that he should resign at the close of that Session, I
therefore wrote to Mr. Gore who was at Waltham, that if he
would consent, I should propose him for the office. He wrote me
in answer that he must decline to accept it. The morning after
the session closed, Mr. Lloyd called on me & offered his resigna-
tion : with much difficulty I persuaded him to take it back &
attend our session now. I should not have been so urgent with
him if Mr. G. had consented to take the office.

When I heard of your election, it occurred to me immediately
that Mr. Gore might be induced to accompany you, and if Mr.
Lloyd resigns before the meeting of the Legislature, which is
highly probable, I have no doubt Mr. Gore, if he consents, will

1 8 13] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 299

be appointed : as your letter is confidential, I am not at liberty to
mention the subject of it to him ; will you be good enough to
write to him and prepare him for the appointment, if a vacancy
occurs. What our next Legislature will be is uncertain, but if
both Houses are federal, as there is much reason to expect, there
is no doubt but that they will elect Mr. Gore, if he is appointed
by the Executive.

I feel myself much obliged to any good man, who engages in
publick life at the present time, and hope you will be so happy as
to be instrumental in checking our ruinous career.

With unabated friendship yours etc.,

Caleb Strong.

R. King to C. Gore.

March 18, 1813.

My dear friend :

I this evening received such an answer as I expected and desired
from — (Gov. Strong). He says that it immediately occurred
to him, upon hearing of my appointment, that it might have
some influence with you to consent to what you had declined :
he adds that as my letter to him was confidential, he does not
feel himself at liberty to mention it to you, but desires that I
would prepare for his repeating his former request, in case of a
vacancy. On this point he states the resignation of Mr. (Lloyd)
and that he had some difficulty in prevailing upon him to serve
another Session. If the Legislature are fedl. which he thinks
probable, he has no doubt that the executive appointment will
be confirmed.

I have apprized my wife of Mr. — (Strong's) answer, and we
both conjure you and Mrs. Gore to cast no impediments in the
way of the accomplishment of our wishes. I hope Mr. — (Lloyd)
will adhere to his purpose of resigning. I should indeed be dis-
appointed should he prove inconstant. An acquaintance of his
who saw him on his return home, told me that he understood from
him that he intended to resign. . . .

Affectionately yours

R. K.

300 RUFUS KING. [1813

R. King to R. Troup, Albany.

Jamaica, L. I., March 29, 1813.
Dear Sir :

I this evening reed, and obeyed your letter of the 25th. Being
out of the city, I am out of the influence of passions, which the
unfortunate disputes in the Church have excited. I am not, how-
ever, indifferent with respect to the disorder which has brought
so much reproach upon the Church. A separation of the Churches,
so that each Shepherd may have his own Flock, can alone put an
end to these Disputes. I hear that some persons, who have
figured in the late controversies, doubt, or affect to doubt, whether
the Legislature can enable the Vestry of Trinity Church to separ-
ate, set off, and endow the chapels ; so that the members of these
separated Churches shall be precluded from voting in the choice
of the Vestry of Trinity Church. It seems to me very strange
that this can be made a question. An exact analysis of the sub-
ject would be too long for this letter ; but I may state to you that
I have carefully and I think impartially considered and examined
the subject, and that the result has been a full conviction that
the law is expedient, and that the Legislature are competent to
pass it.*

I remain, Dr. Sir yr. ob. & faithful servant

Rufus King.

* Trinity Parish originally covered the city of New York, and all com-
municants in the city had a right to vote for its Vestry. As the city increased
in size and population, several chapels were built in different sections which
obtained charters of incorporation, by which they became independent parishes,
exercising full power as such and thus virtually separated from Trinity. Cer-
tain individuals, friends of the Rev. Mr. Jones, but not worshippers or pew
holders at Trinity, claimed, but were denied, a right to vote for Vestrymen in
Trinity. This matter was brought before the Legislature, and by an act passed
on Jany. 25, 1814, it was declared that persons entitled to vote at the annual
elections must have been for one year preceding members of the congre-
gation of Trinity Church, or of any of the chapels belonging to the same, and
"forming part of the same religious corporation," or shall hold or occupy
a seat or pew in it or theirs, or have partaken of the Communion therein within
a year. Col. Troup was a Vestrymen of Trinity and a member of the Legis-
lature at the time.

CHAPTER XVI.

Defences of the Harbor of New York — The Corporation of the City could
not Act — Memorial to the Legislature to Interfere — It failed to do so —
Patriotic Citizens made the Defences — King to Lord Sidmarth — Introduc-
ing his Son — King to Vansittart — Relative to his Son and deploring the
War — Adjournment of 12th Congress — Inefficient Conduct of the War —
Assembling of the 13th Congress — President's Message — Russian Media-
tion— Nomination of Gallatin, Adams, and Bayard as Envoys under the
Russian Offer — Rejection of Gallatin — King's Notes of Speech on his
Nomination — Dashkoff on the Russian Mission — Estimates of King.

The declaration of war with England found the harbor
of New York unprotected against attacks from the British
Navy, and the United States Government, with the same
carelessness of preparation which was manifested in every
quarter, had neglected to protect it against foreign invasion.
It was felt by leading men in the city that something
should be done to prevent the success of an attempt to lay
it under contribution, and an appeal was made to the Corpora-
tion of the City to undertake the work. Whether Mr. King
had been called upon to give an opinion as to the propriety
of such action, or because he deemed it a duty to protest
publicly against it, there are among his papers, two, showing
that the Corporation had no power to act, otherwise than in
making an earnest appeal to the General Government, or a
demand of protection from it. These papers are here given.

THE CORPORATION HAS NO POWERS TO CONSTRUCT THE DEFENCES

OF NEW YORK.

It being manifest as well from the nature and tenour of the
articles of union, as from the general principles of all just Govt.,
302 RUFUS KING. [1813

that protection and allegiance are reciprocal, and therefore that the
Govt, of the U. S. is bound to provide adequate defence for every
part and portion of the nation, the reports of the daily papers render
it expedient to call the public attention to the neccessary conse-
quence of this obligation on the part of the U. S., namely that
the duty of defending the City of New York having been assigned
to the nation, it is the magistrates of the nation, and they only,
who can either lawfully or advantageously perform this service.

When the power and obligation to perform a specified service
is by law assigned to magistrates appointed for the purpose, they
are exclusively assigned. No other persons can without manifest
disturbance and confusion interfere with them in the execution of
their office. Legislative, executive and judicial officers of a State
are respectively charged with the performance of distinct duties,
and the officers of one of these departments may not interfere, or
attempt to perform the duties of another ; nor may the People, or
any section of them exercise the power lawfully conferred upon
the magistrates.

If this reasoning be correct, whence do the City Corporation
derive the Right to interfere with the Genl. Govt, in the fortifica-
tion of the Harbour ? From whom, and by what Law, have they
authority to act in this business ? The Mayor, Aldermen, and
Common Councilmen are appointed not only for limited times
but for special services ; their powers have some limitation and
none can be found except in the charter and certain auxiliary acts
of the Legislature. It must then be evident that unless the
authority to fortify the Harbour be found in these documents,
they have no authority. These have been examined and without
discovering that it has ever been in contemplation to vest the City
Corporation with this prerogative.

Were it decent upon so grave a subject and upon an occasion
so truly important, whether we regard the safety of the country
or its Constitution, to test this pretense of the corporation by the
supposed capacity of its magistrates for the duties to which it so
preposterously aspires, there can be no doubt of the conclusion
in the mind of every man of common understanding. But we
have no inclination to draw into comparison the arduousness
of the service and the competency of the servants. We are will-
ing to admit for the purpose of reasoning, and we are not sure

1813] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 303

we might not for the sake of truth, that the science, experience
and consequent fitness of the committees of the Corporation are
not inferior to those of the Committee of the National Committee,
and this too with a better knowledge of the qualifications of the
latter than of those of the former ; but if we have a Constitution
which is entitled to our fidelity and support, these and all other
proceedings, which relate to its provisions, must be brought to its
standard, and their merit or demerit ascertained by its princi-
ples. If the public defence be assigned to the National Govt,
that Govt, is1 alone responsible to the Country that it be well de-
fended ; and no subordinate or special magistrates can without
disrespect to the national magistracy interfere with, or take upon
themselves, the performance of its exclusive functions.

THE LEGISLATURE AND NOT THE BOARD OF ALDERMEN CAN PRO-
VIDE FOR THE DEFENCE OF THE HARBOUR OF NEW YORK.

What is everybody's business is nobody's : and a principal end
of Government is to provide for that's being done by somebody,
which without such provision would be the business of nobody.
Amongst the things which thus became the exclusive duty of
Government is the defence of the nation in time of war against
foreign enemies. Every Government is bound to protect the
lives and property of the people, all of whom have an equal
right to security, without discriminating such as are exposed to be
first attacked on the frontiers from those who dwell in the centre
or heart of the State.

Reposing thus beneath the broad shield of the nation, every
one is free to attend to and pursue his particular vocation in full
confidence of being at all times protected by the authority and
force of the State.

The organization, arming and leading of this force belong to
and are the duty of Govt. ; the raising of armies, the building
of navies, the erecting of forts and the establishment of arsenals
and magazines are duties, in which neither individuals, towns, nor
cities may have any other concern than such as may be derived
from Government ; and the voluntary and unasked interference
of any of them in these important duties is altogether irregular
and dangerous. If there were no league or confederacy between

304 KUFUS KING. [1813

the several States, the City of New York could rightfully call
upon the State Govt, for that protection which she so eminently
requires agt. for. invasion ; and there can be no room to doubt
that she would ask in vain. Every man must at once perceive
that a single State was less able to afford adequate protection to
its people than the union of all the States would be ; and there-
fore in the Preamble of the Constitution it is truly declared that
" to provide for the common defence " was one of the chief ob-
jects of the union of States. The General Government, by the
nature and tenour of the Union, is bound to afford adequate pro-
tection not only to every member, but to every city and citizen
comprised in the Union. The questions of particular exposure,
of extraordinary difficulty and of great expense are not now open
for consideration ; the compact is formed ; the correlative duties
of obedience, of contribution, of allegiance have been faithfully
and liberally performed, and the right of protection, the claims of
security are consequently complete.

It is an elementary principle in the social compact that the
duties of Government and People are reciprocal ; and the abdica-
tion and non-performance of the obligation of the Govt, is not
only a violation of the compact, but virtually a discharge of the
correlative duties of the People towards the Govt., so as to leave
it a mere question of expediency whether they should not with-
hold the same. Thus the People and State of New York, in
entering into the Union, granted unlimited power to Congress
over their persons and property to enable it to provide for the
common defence, and in consideration of this and other powers,
the Union is bound in good faith to provide for the defence of
the People of New York, whether living on the sea-board or the
northern frontier, whether engaged in commerce or agriculture,
whether living in cities or in the country.

They not only granted this power, but Congress have made free
use of it by levying a very large proportion of the public taxes
within this State, taxes, which had they remained in the hands of
the State, and been collected and paid into the State Treasury,
would have afforded abundant means to have provided those
defences which the exposed position of her ocean frontier de-
mands. True it is, that our claim of protection would have been
equally strong, had the national taxes collected within our limits

1813] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 305

been as scanty as they have been abundant, and their magnitude
is mentioned by way of showing that if great expenses must be
incurred in defending our City, great and correspondent advan-
tages accrue to the Union from our industry, enterprize and
position.

The point to be established is this, that of right and according
to the provisions of the Constitution the City of New York may
demand of the National Government to be protected in their per-
sons, their property and lawful employment, and that the National
Govt, is bound to afford to them that protection, and is solely re-
sponsible for whatever injury may occur by reason of the denial
or delay of our just demand.

But it may be observed that, admitting it to be the duty of the
General Govt, to fortify our harbour, the duty however clear is
neglected ; the foreign affairs of the nation have been critical ;
war may suddenly break out, and the City without adequate de-
fences, is exposed to great and imminent peril. In such circum-
stances, are the citizens to remain inactive, are they to wait till
invaded before they take measures for their security ? Are those
the friends of the city and its inhabitants, who recommend their
passive course, admitting even that the Corporation may be de-
ficient in power ; who with more propriety and advantage in
the actual posture of affairs, can interfere in those arrangements
without which every man of common understanding and prudence
must perceive that he shall become the first victim of a furious
war ?

It is not ambition, not a competition for vacant power that
stimulates this Body, but a strong sense of danger, acting upon
an honest solicitude for the welfare, nay for the existence of their
fellow Citizens. It would be both unfair and unjust to deny that
this strong censure of the Genl. Govt., this plausible apology for
the Corporation, is without truth or the colour of a justification.
But we must recur in cases which most interest our feelings and
our interest, as well as in those which address themselves to our
understandings and our justice, to those immutable principles of
truth and of the social Compact, which alone will invariably lead
us to right conclusions.

It has already been established that by the Union of the States
whatever concerns war offensive or defensive is charged upon the

VOL. V. — 20

306 RUFUS KING. [1813

Genl. Govt. The rights that before appertained to the several
States on this subject have been transferred to the U. S., which
now possess the entire power. Among the rights of the individual
States is the dominion of, and over, all navigable waters within
their limits, which by the maxims of common Law, as well as bj'
the nature of Govt., cannot belong to private persons. In this
dominion of the State all the citizens possess equal rights ; he
who lives remote from, equally with him who resides upon the
margin of navigable waters ; a city in the interior equally with a
city upon the mouth of a great River ; and thus results, not only
from the equality in interest of all the citizens, in that which is
reserved and belongs to the public, but in the present instance all
have a common motive to preserve from injury a great navigable
stream, which serves as their highway not only for the transporta-
tion of themselves and their goods, but as the only passage by
which they can maintain an intercourse with foreign nations and
their sister States.

It follows from this view of the subject, that the Legislature of
the States, which represents the whole, and not the Board of
Aldermen, which represents but a part, can alone authorise meas-
ures, which concern and may materially affect the rights of the
whole. As well may the inhabitants of King's County and of Staten
Island discuss the expediency of fortifying the Narrows, and in the
execution of their ridiculous plan take steps to block up the
channel, as the City Corporation. The charter gives to the City
no property below low water mark even in the River contiguous
to the City, nor does the jurisdiction, which relates to the admn.
of justice, confer a power for other purposes.

The Board of Aldermen having no power to fortify, have none
to borrow money, or to levy taxes, or to enter into contracts for
this purpose. They cannot lawfully pledge the city property for
this unlawful purpose, and in all but the ruinous and unheard of
scheme of destroying the finest seaport of the nation, their acts
will be ipso facto void.

The Corporation of New York, in February, 1813,1 ad-
dressed a memorial to the Legislature asking an appropria-
tion to protect the city with an expose" of its defenceless

1 Evening Post, April 19, 18 13.

1813] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 307

condition, drawn up by a patriotic and able Committee of
defence, of which Col. Fish was Chairman. This was read
with closed doors in the Assembly; a committee was
appointed to purchase munitions of war and provide tem-
porary means of defence, and an appropriation was made of
$400,000 for the purpose. The Senate reduced the appro-
priation to $100,000, to be expended by the Governor in-
stead of by the committee. To these changes the Assembly
refused assent and the bill fell. It would appear that on
the 6th of April 600 men of the First Regiment of U. S.
Volunteer Artillery, under Col. Sitcher, arrived in New
York, and were set to work to break ground on the Battery,
where they began to make breastworks for heavy cannon
under arrangements with the Corporation. Though this
work was begun, nothing more was done by the Govern-
ment, but it was carried on by patriotic citizens with energy
and satisfactory results. Mr. King, after taking his seat in
the U. S. Senate, presented a memorial from the Common
Council of New York, on June 13th, for the adoption of
measures for the greater security and protection of the
City, which was finally, July 2d, referred to the Department
of War to consider and report thereon. But no special
report appears to have been made on the subject.

R. King to Lord Sidmouth.

New York, April 28, 1813.
My Lord :

My son, Mr. Charles King, who is the bearer of this letter, will
embark in a few days for Lisbon, from whence he may find it nec-
essary to proceed to England, as his business exclusively concerns
property of a considerable amount, belonging to a House of Com-
merce, of which he is a member, and to secure the restoration of
which the proprietors may be obliged to pursue their claim in the
English Court of Admiralty. I have taken the liberty, notwith-
standing the unhappy war between our respective Countries, to
give to my son this letter, and of requesting your Lordship to
have the goodness upon this assurance of the nature of his busi-

308 RUFUS KING. [x8i3

ness, to grant him permission to come to England, in order that
he may in due season adopt the requisite means to effect the re-
covery of the property in question.

With a lively recollection of the tokens of confidence & esteem
which I received from your Lordship, during my Residence in
England, I have the honor to remain with distinguished Respect
and Esteem your Lordship's Most obedient servant

Rufus King.

P. S. I do not know whether Mr. Wilberforce continues in
Parliament. In case he has not withdrawn himself, will you do
me the favor, of enabling me thro' my son, to repeat to him the
assurance of my constant and respectful attachment ?

R. K.

R. King to Mr. Vansittart.

New York, April 28, 1813.
Dear Sir :

Upon the presumption that my son, Mr. Charles King, will be
permitted to go from Lisbon to London, I have taken the liberty
to give to him this Letter of Introduction to you, and moreover
to ask the interference of your good offices in his favor during the
short time his business may detain him in England. ... I
am unwilling to ask your attention, although I am persuaded that
the advice of no other person would be more advantageous.

Remembering as I do the liberal opinions which you have al-
ways professed concerning the mutual advantages of a friendly
intercourse between our respective Countries, I cannot doubt that
you must with me deplore the continuance of the present unhappy
war. My earnest hope is that means may be fallen upon, consist-
ent with the just claims of each party to bring the war to a speedy
termination. It is likewise with equal earnestness to be desired
that the mitigated manner of making war, which, for the honor
of humanity, has softened its rigors, in modern days, may be duly
observed, by both parties, and that none will forget that we are
again to be friends.

With the highest Respect & Esteem, I have the honor to remain

Yr. Obe &: very humble Servt.

Rufus King.

1813] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 309

The twelfth Congress expired on the 3d of March 18 13
without providing effectively for carrying on the war, which,
with the exception of some brilliant actions of the navy, had
been so disastrous in the operations on land ; for the admin-
istration had done nothing to put the country in a condition
to meet the attacks which were invited by the defenceless
condition of the sea coast, had Great Britain been disen-
gaged from the continental war in Europe, or had she seri-
ously contemplated carrying on a war with the United
States. Attempts to invade Canada had failed from inade-
quate provision and from the incapacity of the officers to
whom they were intrusted ; and British cruisers on the sea-
board caused much distress by their outrageous attacks
upon undefended points, pillaging and burning the towns.

To meet these troubles the Congress had done little more
than to pass bills to fill the ranks and increase the staff of
the army, to give five millions of treasury notes and to bor-
row sixteen millions of dollars to meet the unusual expenses
of the Government. The necessary measures to make the
use of these means effective and to support the credit of the
Government were left to the new Congress, and in order
that action might be promptly taken, the day of meeting of
the thirteenth Congress was changed to the 24th of May,
and to it was referred the performance of the duties which
had been neglected.

The President during the preceding year had endeavored
to strengthen the small army at his disposal, by calling upon
the Governors of several of the Eastern States to summon
the militia and place them under the command of his gen-
erals, but they had answered him that they were not able to
see any of the conditions under which the militia could be
required to serve, and especially the danger of invasion :
whenever this was imminent they were ready at once to call
them out.

Governor Tompkins of New York had responded faith-
fully to the President's demands, but he found the militia
unwilling to serve as' he desired, and the answer made to his

310 RUFUS KING. [1813

address to the Assembly of New York on the 5th of Novem-
ber 1812, contained this clause, that while they doubt not
that the Governor has

"in facilitating the operations of the General Government
been animated with a due regard to the provisions of that
sound law (the Constitution) we cannot refrain from observ-
ing that neither in its spirit, nor in its letter, are we able to
discover any authority to order the militia of this, or any
other, State upon enterprises of conquest or attacks outside
of the limits of the State."

The President had also suggested the laying of a new Em-
bargo against Great Britain and her dependencies and pass-
ing a law to forbid the trade by citizens of the U. States
under the special licenses which had been granted by Great
Britain to supply provisions for the people of Spain and Por-
tugal, these suffering greatly for the want of them while carry-
ing on their desperate conflict with France. Though the
House passed these measures the Senate treated them with
" indifference if not neglect." *

It has been stated that Mr. King was elected to the Sen-
ate of the thirteenth Congress by the Legislature of New
York, and to his great gratification his friend Mr. Gore had
received the appointment to the same body, by the Governor
of Massachusetts. Leaving their comfortable homes, they
repaired to Washington to take what they could find in that
city, then badly provided with hotels or boarding houses,
and to enter upon the duties of their offices. The records
of the Senate do not report the speeches of the members,
giving only the official notices of the resolutions and pro-
ceedings under them with the votes of the members ; in
looking over these we find the names of both these gentle-
men on important committees, whose actions they evidently
assisted in directing, and their votes recorded on nearly every
call of the yeas & nays. Indeed they were rarely absent from
their seats. Though they disapproved of the war, they felt
it to be their duty to do what they could to bring about its

* Nat. Intellr., June 12, 1S13.

1 813] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 31I

close by strengthening the Government. The President in
his message reported the reception of an offer of mediation
on the part of the Emperor of Russia, which had been com-
municated to him " at an early day after the close of the
last session of Congress," and that it had been immediately
accepted ; that to avoid delays " three of our eminent citi-
zens had been commissioned, with the requisite powers, to
conclude a Treaty of Peace with persons clothed with like
powers on the part of Great Britain ; and also authorizing
them to conclude with Russia a Treaty of Commerce." He
looked forward to a speedy termination of the war, as " no
adequate motives exist to prefer a continuance of the war
with the United States (by Great Britain) to the terms on
which they are willing to close it." These terms, as may be
seen, were a reiteration of the demand for the relinquish-
ment on the part of Great Britain of the right of search and
the impressment of her own citizens, which she had persist-
ently refused to yield to. He also informed them that the
loan of sixteen millions of dollars had been effected, but
that adequate provision should be made for future supplies
of the Treasury.*

On the 3d of May, the President sent a message to the
Senate, nominating Messrs. Albert Gallatin, John Q. Adams,
and James A. Bayard, as Envoys Extraordinary and Minis-
ters Plenipotentiary to negotiate a Treaty of Peace with
Great Britain under the mediation of the Emperor of Rus-
sia, and also a Treaty of Commerce with Great Britain, and
one with Russia. f

On June 2d, Mr. King offered in Executive session three
resolutions, relative to the nominations ; the first, asking for
copies of the communications from the Emperor of Russia,
offering mediation, with copies of the answers and dates of
these ; second, for copies of the Commissions of the Envoys ;
and third, whether Albert Gallatin retains the office of Secre-
tary of the Department of the Treasury, and in case of his so

* Annals of Congress, 1st Sess. 1813-14, p. 14.
f Ibid., p. 84.

312 RUFUS KING. [1813

retaining it, under what authority, and by whom the powers
of the head of that Department were discharged during his
absence from the United States.

The next day, the first two resolutions were negatived
and the third was passed and ordered to be communicated
to the President. To this he answered on the 7th that the
office of the Secretary was not vacated, but that during his
absence William Jones, Secretary of the Navy, would per-
form the duties, authorized therefor by an Act of Congress
passed May 8, 1792. The discussion of this nomination
occupied several days, and the injunction of secrecy having
been removed, we find that it turned chiefly on a resolution
offered on June 14th by Mr. Anderson, Chairman of the
Committee to whom the matter was referred :

" that in the opinion of the Senate the powers and duties of the
Secretary of the Department of the Treasury, and those of an
Envoy Extraordinary to a foreign power, are so incompatible
that they ought not to be, and remain, united in one person."
By a second resolution the Committee, " were instructed to com-
municate the foregoing resolution to the President, and respect-
fully to confer with him upon the matter thereof."

These were adopted on June 16th by a vote of twenty to
fourteen. This conference the President declined, and on
July 19th after a report of the fact by the Committee, the
Senate proceeded to vote on the nomination of Mr. Galla-
tin, and refused by a vote of seventeen yeas and eighteen
nays to advise and consent to his appointment. The ap-
pointment of Messrs. Adams and Bayard was advised and
consented to with but few opposing votes.*

There is no official report of the speeches or speakers in
the debate on Mr. Gallatin's nomination, but among Mr.
King's papers is the following report of his speech, in his
handwriting and headed :

* Annals of Congress, i8i3,pp. 86-89.

1 8 13] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 313

Notes of a Speech ag't Gallatin's Appt as One of the En-
voys to Russia while holding Secy of Treas's Position.

We are not disposed upon the present occasion to hold up to
public observation the striking, and, we might perhaps say, the
unprincipled difference of conduct, exhibited by persons who
were zealous in their efforts to restrain and limit the exclusive
power of the Nation under former administrations, but who, not
very consistently for themselves, & with less respect for the
understanding of the People than they in all cases profess, now
contend for an extension of executive power upon almost every
subject, and on some occasions arrogate prerogatives denied by
the Constitution or repugnant to the express provisions of the
Laws — provisions too manifestly established for the purpose of
restraining the executive power.

It is a case of the latter sort to which we confine ourselves.
Two Laws upon the same subject, one enacted in 1792, the other
in 1795, give power to the President among other cases, in case
of the death, absence from the seat of Government, or sickness of
the Secretary of the Treasury, to appoint a person to perform his
duties, until a successor be appointed, or the disability arising
from absence or sickness be removed. Both Laws, so far as re-
spects the description of the cases in which this power is granted,
are in substance, or nearly so in words, the same ; the first Law
is without any limitation of the time during which the person ap-
pointed to perform the duties of the Secretary of the Treasury
may continue to do so ; the second Law expressly limits the con-
tinuance of the acting Secretary, not to exceed six months.

Mr. Madison, being called upon to inform the Senate, whether
Mr. Gallatin, whom he had sent abroad, retained the office of
Secretary of the Treasury, and if so, by whom & under what
authority the duties of that office were to be performed during
his absence from the U. S. answered, — that Mr. Gallatin retains
the office of Secretary of the Treasury and that under the law of
1792 Mr. Jones performs his duties of Secretary.

Two important points arise out of this answer — the first regards
the constitutional validity of the foregoing Laws of 1792 & 1795 ;
the second respects their just construction. It is doubted whether
those Laws, so far as respects the power of appointment by the

3 14 RUFUS KING. [1813

President of a person authorized to discharge the powers &
duties of the Secretary of the Treasury, who is the head of a great
Department, are constitutional.

By turning to the Constitution it appears that " The President
shall nominate & by and with the advice of the Senate, shall
appoint ambassadors, other public ministers & Consuls, Judges
of the Supreme Court & all other officers of the U. S. whose
appointment is not herein otherwise provided for, and which shall
be established by law. But the Congress may by law vest the
appointment of such inferior officers as they think proper, in the
President, in the Courts of Law and in the heads of Depart-
ments."

Except in the case of inferior officers, Congress cannot by law
authorize the President alone to make appointments. The ques-
tion is a plain one — Can the Secretary of the Treasury be consid-
ered as (one of) the inferior officers ? We think not because the
Constitution demonstrates him a principal officer, in whom may
be vested the power of appointing the inferior officers of his own
Department. Indeed we hardly know where to look for superior
officers, if the heads of the Departments are to be considered as
inferior ones.

Notwithstanding the importance of this particular enquiry,
especially on account of the increasing disposition in Congress to
dispense with the consent of the Senate in the appointments of
officers — a practice which unconstitutionally enlarges the power
of the Executive — we pass on to consider the second point — what
is the just construction of the Laws authorizing the President
alone to appoint a person to discharge the duties of the Secretary
of the Treasury ?

In the instance of Mr. Gallatin, does a case exist in which the
President alone has power to appoint a person to discharge his
duties ? Admitting such case to exist is the appointment of such
person indefinite, or limited to six months ?

The cases described in the Laws, in which the President has
the sole power of appointment, are the death, absence from the
seat of Government, or sickness of the Secretary of the Treasury.
The first and the last case, the death & sickness of Mr. Gallatin,
need not be considered. But is his appointment as an Envoy to
Russia, admitting its validity, and his consequent absence from

1 813] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 3 I 5

the U. S., such an absence from the seat of Government as the
Laws provide for ?

As the two cases of death & sickness, being involuntary, may
require extraordinary provision, so likewise the occasional and
necessary absence of the Secretary of the Treasury from the Seat
of Government, may equally call for the like provision — his family
may be sick, his estate and private affairs at home may demand his
attention, and other urgent duties may oblige him for a short time
to be absent from the seat of Government. As in the case of
death time may be counted to find a suitable character as a suc-
cessor, and in the case of sickness it must be allowed for recovery,
so in absence from the seat of Government time should be granted
to those private and necessary duties, which call for the attention
of every man. It is for such an absence as this, that provision is
made by the Laws — an absence arising out of the situation, cir-
cumstances & duties of the person, who is Secretary of the Treas-
ury— not an absence created by the President himself, nor one
proceeding from the acceptance of another office, the duties
whereof are incompatible with those of the Secretary of the
Treasury.

If such be the construction, and especially if the substitute
appointed by the President is to continue indefinitely, the heads
of Departments may all be converted into ambassadors, & the
business of the nation conducted by undertakers or job men.

Admitting however, that the two Laws are constitutional, and
that the mission of the Secretary of the Treasury to Russia is
merely an absence from the Seat of Government, has the Presi-
dent power to appoint a substitute who may for an indefinite
time discharge the duties of the Secretary of the Treasury, or is
such an appointment restrained so as not to exceed six months ?
The first law is entitled " an act making alterations in the Treas-
ury Department" — the second is entitled "an act to amend the
act making alterations in the Treasury Department." By exam-
ining the two Laws, it will be seen that so far as respects the
grant of power to the President, the second act grants, with an
enlargement, the same power as the first. The repeating of
what was already granted, cannot be deemed an amendment, and
the principal difference between the two acts consists in the
limitation of the President's power, contained in the second act,

316 KUFUS KING. [1813

& by which instead of the Substitute's being enabled to discharge
the duties of his Principal for an indefinite time, he is restrained
from doing so for a longer time than six months. This is the
chief amendment of the first law by the second.

The Title to the second Law declares it to be an Act, not in
addition to, but to amend the first Law. The first and second
Law must therefore be construed together, or taken as one Law,
to the end that the provisions of the first may receive the altera-
tion or amendment contained in the second.

We have said the grant of power to the President is nearly the
same in each Law — according to the law of 1792, on the death,
absence from the Seat of Government, or sickness of the Secre-
tary of the Treasury whereby he cannot perform the duties of his
office, it shall be lawful for the President of the U. S. to authorize
any person to perform the duties of his office, until a. successor
be appointed, or until such absence or inability by sickness cease.
The law of 1795, entitled an Act to amend the former Law,
provides, that in case of Vacancy in the office of Secretary of the
Treasury, whereby ke cannot perform the duties of his office, it
shall be lawful for the President of the U. S. to authorize any
person to perform the duties until a successor be appointed, or
such vacancy filled — Provided that no vacancy shall be supplied
for a longer term than six months. Does the word vacancy, in
the second Law, describe the cases of death, absence and sick-
ness of the first ? Altho' technically speaking no office is vacant
in which there is an incumbent, yet in common discourse we may
say that an office is vacant by the death, or by the absence, or by
the sickness of the officer — meaning thereby that in either case
there is no one to discharge its duties — and as one, if not the
chief, object of the second Law was to limit the term, during
which a locum tenens might perform the duties, the word va-
cancy, made use of in the second Law in reference to the cases
mentioned in the first, sufficiently decribes them.

The second Law refers to some case in the first. If it does
not so relate to all the cases mentioned in the first Law, it must
necessarily be limited to the case of vacancy by removal or
resignation. But what reason can be suggested why the limita-
tion should apply to the case of a vacancy by removal and resig-
nation, and not to that of death, or to those of indefinite absence

1813] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 317

or a lingering sickness ? In case of resignation or removal,
equally as in that of death, a successor would be sought for and
soon found, and there would be no greater occasion for a limita-
tion in one more than another. But a favorite might be indulged
with a term of absence disadvantageous to the public service, or
a sickness might happen, which altho' it should not terminate the
life, might destroy the capacity of the Patient. Do not these
last cases limit as much as the others ? If the officer be dead,
resigns, or is removed, the competition for his place will be such
that, if motives of public duty do not urge the appointment of a
successor, such is the avidity for office that considerations of per-
sonal repose would not fail to produce it. There was no sufficient
motive therefore to induce the Legislature to pass the second Law
to limit the term of the locum tenens in the case of a vacancy by
resignation or removal, that would not apply to vacancy by death.
But experience has shewn that sickness has for year after year
incapacitated public officers from discharging their duties — and
if an absence from the seat of Government, or what is the same
thing, an absence from office be indulged from favoritism or any
other motive, beyond what is reasonable, and to the injury of the
public service — if the great officers of State be allowed to per-
form their duties by Deputy, and in the mean time to accept other
high stations, contrary to the principles of a free and equal Gov-
ernment which distributes its honors with impartiality among the
citizens, avoiding the accumulation of them upon individuals — if
proceedings like these be equally impolitic and offensive — if they
may happen under the Law of 1792, is it not reasonable so to
construe the Law of 1795, as t0 aPPty ^e salutary limitation which
it provides as an amendment of that Law ? Is there any viola-
tion of the meaning & use of words in thus construing the two
Laws ? Does it not comport with the Principles of our limited
Government to establish this construction, and can any incon-
venience or hardship arise from its establishment ?

The Law of 1795, enacted to amend, and pursuing the pro-
visions of the Law of 1792, declares that in case of vacancy in
the office of Secretary of the Treasury, whereby he cannot perform
the duties of his office, it shall be lawful for the President, &c.
A vacancy whereby he cannot perform his duties, seems to refer
to the vacancy created by absence or sickness, rather than to the

3 18 RUFUS KING. [1813

vacancy by death, for the Secretary is referred to as living, but
unable to do his duty. The concluding words of the paragraph
require this construction in order to give them any meaning ;
and the rule is that we must, if possible, give to every word a
meaning. In case of vacancy in the office of Secretary of the
Treasury, whereby he cannot perform the duties of his office,
it shall be lawful for the President to authorize any person to
perform the duties of his office until a successor be appointed,
or such vacancy shall be supplied — provided &c — Now if only a
vacancy by death be here intended, it would have sufficed to
have said, that it should be lawful for the President to authorize
any person to perform the duties of the Secretary's office until
a successor be appointed. But the Law adds, "or such vacancy
be filled " — what vacancy be filled ? not that created by death,
for it is already provided for ; it must therefore refer to the
vacancy created by absence from the seat of Government & by
sickness, which might be filled not by a new appointment but by
a return to the seat of Government, or the recovery from sickness.

In another abstract of argument on this matter R. K.
closes thus :

Thus Gallatin's office became vacant by accepting an incom-
patible office. The President had power to appoint a deputy for
six months — since the expiration of which, the office has been
and is now vacant.

hi R. King's handwriting is an interesting paper on the
Russian Mission.

Gallatin's Mission.

June 25, 6, & 7.

In conversation with Daschkoff, he informs me that in January

he intimated to Mr. Madison * that the Emp. of Russ. wd. find

*The National Intelligencer , Sept. 8, 18 13, says : " A Boston editor asserted he
•was prepared to prove the proffered mediation of Russia to be the unauthorized
act of the Russian Minister." This was denied. " The editor has the hardihood
to make the following assertion : ' We aver that Mr. D. made his first verbal
overture to Mr. Madison on the 29th of January, which Mr. Madison then de-
clined.' " The Intelligencer says : " This is merely a repetition of what was
said in Congress, afterwards repelled by Mr. Eppes in the most positive man-
ner.

1813] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 319

pleasure in mediating between G. B & the U. S. — D. did not say-
that he did so in obedience to instructions ; I rather inferred the
contrary — that the Pr. reed, the intimation with indifference.
On tlie 24th Mar. (Feb. ?) D. reed. Instructions to offer the media-
tion of Russia, wh. he did verbally on the following day to Mr.
Monroe, who reed, it civilly & ad referendum ; that he reed, no
answer until after the 3d of Mar, when the Pt made his inaug-
ural speech referring everything to ye. vigorous prosecution of
ye. war — that he became uneasy lest the mediation shd. not be
accepted — that he wrote a Despatch to his Gov. expressive of
his fears — that he apprehended the difficulty to arise from the ties
wh. bound the U. S. to Fr. After Congress adjourned Monroe
announced verbally the acceptance of the mediation and the
notes of the 8 and n immediately followed — that, after accept-
ing the mediation, no intimation was given to D. concerning the
number or names of ye. envoys, and he became solicitous lest the
Business shd have been referred to Adams, who, as he appre-
hended, wd. embarrass the negotiation — that difficulties respecting
the Loan were known to exist ; if the mediation went forward
and was given in charge to able men, the Loan would be obtained,
but otherwise it was doubtful. Gallatin's name came up. Parish
& Girard wd. come forward to make ye. Loan if he was named
an Envoy — this influence had its effect — besides as Gallatin was
a Min. of ye. Cabinet, it wd. be complimentary to Russia to send
him, &c.

That Daschkoff's application for a Passport for the Envoys
was made on ye. 25 Mar — Adl. Warren affected to be displeased
that he was not applied to to negotiate a Peace, and instead of it yt.
the negotiation was transferred to Russia — indirectly insinuated
that he had full power— D. asked an interview with Ad. Warren
on shore wh. the Ad. declined.

D. does not know whether Warren has power to agree to an
armistice upon condition of the Repeal of ye. non-intercourse.
Swertchkoff, a young man, and his communications, confined to
the special objects of his mission to ye. admiral. The late appli-
cation for a Passport for the Hannibal was made to Adl. Cock-
burn, Warren being absent — the object was a Passport for a
Russian messenger to carry out duplicates of the offer & accept-
ance of the Russian mediation ; as it was possible that the

320 RUFUS KING. [1813

vessels carrying the Envoys & D's Dispatches might fail or
miscarry.

Admiral Cockburn granted the Passport. No mention was
made of any intention to carry out Moreau — the Adl. was told
that the Sp. wd. take a cargo. He replied that in his Passport he
wd. recommend to the King's Sps. to suffer Sp & cargo to pass,
but that she must take her chance agt. Privateers. Serurier,
(Fr. Min.) knew of the offer of ye. Russian Mediation, but at the
moment was pressed & chafed by the Depart, of State concern-
ing the French Decrees.

That there was no fear of Gallatin's being the channel of

French intrigue at St. Petersburgh, as there are as wise men as

he is at that place.

Sunday, June 27.

Armstrong said Daschkoff, Gallatin & Parish intrigued to have
Gallatin appointed to Russia — that Daschkoff had a slice in ye.
Loan — that Bibb had arrived, but that he did not think Anderson
wd. give way and vote for Gallatin ; he saw him yesterday, was
then undecided — Clay had been named as the 3d Envoy but was
displaced for Gallatin — that Monroe did not like Gallatin's ap-
pointment ; perhaps the Com. of the Senate had better see
Monroe, who might say something to induce the negative of
Gallatin — that the Project of putting Monroe at the head of the
army was revived — that formerly Gallatin recommended the
project, as he anticipated two Results from it — 1st that he shd.
obtain the off. of Secy, of State, and second that Monroe wd.
disgrace himself the first campaign. Monroe thought if he put
a sword by his side and got old Burbeck's orderly Book that he
should be equipped for Commander of the Army — that he knew
nothing of war & was without experience — that Russell named
Envoy to Sweden would command Howell's vote, and if he,
Russell, could be passed as Minr. to Sweden, that Howell might
be bro't to vote agt. Gallatin.

This chapter is closed with statements of the estimation
in which Mr. King was held at this time.

From the New York Evening Post, July 19, 1813.

Hon. Rufus King. — It is with no small sensations of pleasure,
that we copy the following article from the " Maryland Ga-

1813] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 32 1

zette," printed at Annapolis. We are happy to perceive that the
worth and talents of this patriot and statesman is beginning to be
understood and duly appreciated in the southern section of the
Union.

From the Maryland Gazette, July 16th.

The Hon. Rufus King. — All who have had an opportunity of
witnessing any important discussion in the Senate, in which Mr.
King has taken a part, have almost universally assigned him the
palm. His talents are spoken of in more exalted terms, even by
his political opponents, than any other member of that body, and
we do not think it would be too much to say, that he is superior
at this time to any other man of which the United States can
boast. Bred up in the service of his country, and guided by the
strictest integrity, he has justly acquired a reputation which enti-
tles him to the confidence of his fellow-citizens. With such a
man at the head of our government, we might soon expect to wit-
ness a change in the gloomy aspect of our affairs, and that scene
of prosperity again restored which formerly spread its blessings
around us. For many years he has lived in the retirement of pri-
vate life, and his talents when greatly required, have been lost to
his country. But since all parties now unite in speaking his
praise, it is sincerely to be wished that his councils may produce
that effect, which they so eminently deserve. If ever there is a
time when honest men come again into fashion, it would be the
pride of our nation to have a statesman like him to direct its
affairs. But as long as the people are controuled by those wild
opinions which seem now to actuate them, they never will be able
to distinguish between their real and pretended friends. The only
hopes that can be entertained at present are, that those sufferings,
which they have already experienced, and those which yet await
them, will learn them to discriminate between those who look at
their best interests, and those who pursue the idle phantoms of a
distempered imagination.

Major John Lovett, who had been with Genl. S. Van Rens-
selaer during his campaign on the frontier, and was elected
a Member of Congress from Albany in 181 3, thus writes to

VOL. V. — 21

322 RUFUS KING. [1813

Col. Solomon Van Rensselaer June 22, 1813,* apparently in
reference to an appointment in command of the army in the
Northern States :

" I could have wished to see Mr. King [Rufus King] on the
subject, for I can assure you he is, here, the very Oracle with de-
mocracy. I think they would be heartily glad to hustle poor
Madison [James Madison, President) and this scant-patterned old
skeleton of a French Barber [Elbridge Gerry, Vice President] off
hand and make Mr. King factotum in all things. . . . The
plain truth is, that Federalists do not like you to go into the army ;
especially as they calculate with moral certainty that the campaign
is to close with defeat and total disgrace."

* Mrs. Bonney's Legacy of Hist, Gleanings, vol. i., p. 301.

CHAPTER XVII.

Attacks of the National Intelligencer on the Senate — Rejection of the Nomina-
tions of Gallatin and Russell — King's Defence of the Senate — Justification
of Refusal to advise sending an Embassy to Sweden — President's Refusal
to meet a Committee of Conference from the Senate — His Course re-
viewed— Gallatin's Rejection reviewed.

In looking over the files of the National Intelligencer in
1812-13 there will be found many editorial articles, defend-
ing the administration and severely criticising the Senate
for their failure to endorse the President in the suggestions
in his Messages both as to domestic and foreign affairs. Mr.
King, a member of the early called session of Congress in
1813, was, as has been seen, conspicuously obnoxious on ac-
count of his course relative to the nominations of Mr. Gal-
latin to Russia, and of Mr. Russell to a Mission to Sweden,
both of whom were rejected by the Senate, the former for
reasons already given, the latter because it was not deemed
wise to send an embassy to Sweden.*

* There is in the Evening Post, Nov. 27, 1812, an editorial article saying
that " the statement of Mr. Russell of a conversation which he alleges had
passed between him and Lord Castlereagh respecting Mr. King's having been
in an error in supposing that the question of impressment was on the point of
being satisfactorily settled, was not correct." This was challenged in the Pub-
lic Advertiser, which consented to rest the question "upon the authority of
Rufus King, zuhose testimony shall be considered conclusive." The editor of the
Post responds by saying, that during the electioneering contest, Mr. King would
hardly be willing " to say anything that might be construed into an interfer-
ence; but that he could not but hope that he would not refuse to state the
facts to show where the truth lies."

It is probable that this was the reason for a long review of Mr. Russell's cor-
respondence in England, which was published in " many successive numbers
of the Evening Post," signed by " an American," the name Mr. King assumed

324 RUFUS KING. [1813

The constant and bitter articles of the Intelligencer ap-
pear to have so roused Mr. King that he wrote the following
article, which is found among his papers, in defence of the
Senate. Though long it is very interesting, and is published
at length. It may be advisable to show first the character
of some of the Intelligencer s articles, from one of which, of
August 10, 1813, these extracts are made. It speaks

"of the arbitrary, unaccountable and as we conceive indefensi-
ble conduct of the Senate. . . . Far be it from us to question
the constitutional powers of the Senate or to cripple their un-
doubted rights but we do hold up our hands against the general
course of that body during the late session, and more particularly
against the attempt to overawe the Executive and to chaffer with
him as to terms on which they would agree to confirm certain
nominations. The President refused to sanction this procedure,
and in resentment, it would almost seem, of his spirited and con-
stitutional conduct, they rejected two important nominations to
foreign embassies."

The Senate had asked for a conference by a committee
with the President about these nominations, but were re-
fused and referred to the Secretary of State. They declined
to confer with him, and the article goes on to say, they re-
solved that

" It is inexpedient to send a minister to Sweden ! Inexpedient,
not because the information they had received proved it so, but, as
we must conclude from a view of the whole proceedings, because
the President refused to hold a colloquy with the committee of
conference."

Defense of the Senate.

Reflecting men must regret that indecent as well as unmerited
attacks are made upon the Senate, in the official Paper of the
Administration. If disagreements take place between different

when writing in that paper. The length of the article prevents its publication
here ; but his letters given in several places in these volumes conclusively show
what he thought upon this subject, and his firm belief that the matter might have
been settled, had he not returned home at the time.

18x3] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 325

Branches of the Government, the matter of such disagreement
being published, the merits or demerits of such disagreement are
considered and decided by the people. If public discussion takes
place, it may assist those who were deficient in information, in
forming their opinions. But that one Branch of the Government
should directly, or by permission, cause another Branch of it to
be assailed in order to depreciate its proceedings and to bring
upon it the public hatred or contempt, admits neither of apology
nor justification. It requires no proof that the National Intelli-
gencer is a Government Paper ; that sort of connexion which ex-
ists between it and the Government places it under the control of
the administration ; it is this connexion alone which occasions the
extensive circulation of this Paper, and authorises the opinion so
generally entertained that whatever is published in it concerning
the views and measures of Government, has either the sanction of
the Administration or is not disapproved by it.

The Letters from Military and Naval Commanders, the diplo-
matic correspondence, the official acts of the Executive and of its
Departments, first appear in this journal, and from it are copied
into the newspapers throughout the Country : these facts can leave
no doubt that this Paper is under the control, if not the direction
of the Administration.

Toward the close of the late session of Congress, several Publi-
cations criminating the Proceedings of the Senate appeared in this
Paper. Dissertations of the same imprudent character have since
been addressed to the Public thro' this journal. It would be fall-
ing into the misbehaviour which we disapprove, were any recrimi-
nation allowed on this occasion ; but misrepresented and censured
as the Senate have been, it will not be thought strange if some-
thing is said in their vindication. The Senate are a great, the
greatest, power in the Constitution, created not for the sake of its
members, but to impart wisdom, stability and safety to the Laws ;
to check favoritism in the appointments to office, to control the
compacts with foreign States and to try and remove from power
public offenders, from the lowest to the highest office in the Na-
tion. So that great dignity, as well as great power are attributes
of the Senate. The members are of advanced age and the safety
of their choice is entrusted to the wisdom and patriotism of the
Legislatures of the respective States. When the Senate become

326 RUFUS KING. [1813

corrupt, when their acts are habitually unjust and impolitic, above
all when they become the instruments of faction and of violence,
they cease to be the safeguard which the Constitution aimed to
establish, and the chief security of the public freedom will be lost.

The causes of complaint against the Senate may be divided into
three distinct branches : first their disagreement to the President's
nomination of Mr. Russell to be Minister Plenipotentiary to Swe-
den ; 2nd their refusal to advise and consent to Mr. Gallatin's ap-
pointment as one of the Envoys to negotiate with and sign a treaty
of Peace with England under Russian mediation, and to negotiate
and sign a treaty of Commerce with Russia ; and 3rd, their rejec-
tion of Mr. Hamilton, nominated by the President to be Loan
Officer in So. Carolina. Each of these causes shall be considered,
beginning with the first.

It has been the established and we may presume the safe policy
of the Nation to limit its foreign ministers to as small a number as
possible. Notwithstanding that the office is created by the Con-
stitution, the first Congress, with the view of restraining the un-
necessary appointment of foreign Ministers, appropriated only
40,000 dollars annually for the support of such persons as the
President should commission to serve the United States in foreign
parts, and for the expense incident to the business in which they
should be employed ; the same law established the outfit and salary
of the foreign Ministers to be employed.

Gen. Washington accordingly commissioned only two Ministers
Plenipotentiary, one to France, the other to England. He also
commissioned a Minister Resident to Portugal, to Holland and
perhaps to Spain — the Minister to which country was afterwards
advanced to the rank of a Minister Plenipotentiary. There are
those who will recollect, that at this early day much jealousy ex-
isted concerning the sending and receiving of foreign Ministers ;
it being feared that constant employment would be as likely to
embroil as to pacify nations. Hence a doubt did, and still does,
exist whether instead of the employment of Resident Ministers, it
be not the policy of the Country to send them on such special
occasions as may arise with us, to return home when such special
business is done. We touch this important subject but incidentally
— and return to the policy heretofore observed of sending minis-
ters only to those nations with whom our intercourse and com-

1813] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. $2 J

mercial relations were the most considerable. With the Powers
of the Baltic, of Germany and of Italy, we have had no such in-
tercourse as required an interchange of ministers ; with most of
them our correspondence has been quite inconsiderable. The
part which Russia has taken in the affairs of Europe places her
among the great powers, and from various considerations it is per-
haps not incorrectly believed to be sound policy to maintain a
diplomatic intercourse with her : altho' this mission when under-
taken looked like a co-operation with France in the establishment
of the continental system.

During the experiment to exclude from the Continent the inter-
course of England, the American trade to the Baltic was harrassed
from the ports of Denmark, and sending a special minister there
by our Government was a measure of discretion ; perhaps it ought
sooner to have been done : the business being finished, the mission
is discontinued. In Sweden, owing to the peculiar circumstances
and policy of the Government no such embarrassment to our trade
happened ; and as the other Ports of the Baltic were closed or ob-
structed, a number of our vessels resorted to Gottenburg, as a
place from whence they might distribute their cargoes, as openings
for the same should offer. Since the breaking out of the war be-
tween Russia and France, most of the American property at Got-
tenburg has been thus distributed.*

With Sweden the United States have ordinarily very little trade.
Sweden is a poor country without manufactures, having nothing to
sell but iron, lumber, tar, pitch, turpentine. We sell to Sweden
little, and of our own productions nothing. Sweden is a second-
ary power, and for more than a century her policy has been con-
troled in turn by France, by Russia and by England. It is a
remarkable fact in her history that the popular liberties of Sweden
have been from time to time promoted by foreign Powers, who
thereby acquired means of influence which a more simple form
of Government might not afford : it is unnecessary to say upon
this topic, what, perhaps might with truth be told — tho' a con-
fined, Sweden has nevertheless been a most active scene of foreign
intrigue and, it also is said, of corruption.

* Sweden having made peace with England and united with Russia against
France, such portion of the American property as remains in Sweden is in no
danger, and therefore requires no minister to protect it.

328 RUFUS KING. [1813

With Sweden, therefore, we have little or no commerce — thro'
Sweden we cannot expect to influence in our favour any other
Power, with whom we may have unsettled questions, for Sweden,
instead of influencing others, is herself influenced by others. The
American property, which a casual state of affairs deposited in
Sweden, is chiefly disposed of and has never been in danger.
What motives, therefore, could there be permanently to maintain
in Sweden a Minister Plenipotentiary, with the same rank and
emoluments as our Ministers to France & England ?

The President in his Message says that the Swedish Govern-
ment having repeatedly manifested a desire to interchange a Pub-
lic Minister with the United States and having lately appointed
one with that view, and other considerations concurring to render
it at this time advisable to make a corresponding appointment, he
nominated Mr. Russell to be Minister Plenipotentiary of the
United States to Sweden. Mr. Russell having been left by Genl.
Armstrong in charge of our affairs at Paris, is the person to whom
the Duke of Bassano, as he asserts in his letter to Mr. Barlow,
communicated, at the time of its date, the French Decree of April
28, 181 1, respecting the Berlin and Milan Decrees. This impor-
tant Decree did not become public until more than a year after its
date ; it was the duty of the Senate to inquire whether Mr. Russell
had been guilty of suppressing this communication of the Duke of
Bassano, as, in case of such suppression, however important the
Mission to Sweden might be, Mr. Russell ought not to be the
Minister. The Secretary of State, upon the enquiry of a Com-
mittee of the Senate, informed them that there was no official
document in his office, admitting or denying on the part of Mr.
Russell such communication from the Duke of Bassano ; but that
in a private letter of Mr. Russell it was understood he denied such
communication.

The President was then requested by the Senate to communi-
cate to them the correspondence that had passed between the
United States and the King of Sweden, relative to the interchange
of Public Ministers. In compliance with this request, the Presi-
dent laid before the Senate a report made to him by the Secretary
of State saying, that no doubt correspondence with the King of
Sweden had taken place, but that in reference to the call of the
Senate, the Secretary submitted to the President, who transmitted

1813] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 329

the same to the Senate, extracts of several letters from Mr. Speyer,
the American Consul in Sweden, and a letter from Mr. Beasley,
Commissary of American prisoners in England. These Docu-
ments are before the public and it is therefore unnecessary to re-
publish them. It may however be remarked, that the repeated
mafiifestation of the desire of the King of Sweden to interchange
Public Ministers with the United States is to be found in the cor-
respondence of Mr. Speyer, the American Consul at Stockholm,
who (altho' it may appear inexplicable in New York, where Mr.
Speyer and his performances are known, how he became a Consul)
pretty plainly shews that he aspired to become the American
Minister in Sweden. Cunning little Isaac, he was doubtless put
up to this work by those, who, he little thought, were themselves
to derive the benefit of it. If such be the corruption of their
youth, said Fauchet, what will it be in their old age ? Mr. Beas-
ley was appointed and left by Mr. Russell as Commissioner of
Prisoners, and doubtless felt some gratitude for the kindness.
The Government knew, altho' the Public do not, who first sent
Mr. Speyer* to London — and what was the motive of being sent.
The trio of Russell, Speyer and Beasley is in some respects ex-
traordinary : there is a similitude of condition among these men,
which seems to have become the occasion of friendship. It is
said, tho' we cannot assert the fact, that they have all been bank-
rupts and have all gone abroad, as the Servants say, to better their
condition ; and it must be confessed their speculation upon our
able administration has not been deficient in discernment ; Speyer
became Consul at Stockholm, Beasley, Commissary of Prisoners
in London, and, in consequence of the correspondence, their
friend and patron Russell was well nigh touching his appoint-
ment to Sweden ! ! !

The Senate having thus ascertained from the Department of
State that there existed no official denial on the part of Mr. Russell,
that the Duke of Bassano communicated to him the Act of the 28
of April 181 1, repealing the Berlin and Milan Decrees ; and hav-

* We are assured that Speyer is a German or Polish Jew ; but whether he be
a connexion of Speyer, the rich Jew, who was at the head of the contractors to
supply Bonaparte's army upon the retreat from Moscow, we have not been able
to learn. We however suspect he is of a different tribe, as in this case he would
in preference to Russell, have been nominated Minister to Sweden.

330 RUFUS KING. [1813

ing moreover ascertained, from the report of the Secretary of State,
the extracts of Speyer's and Beasley's letters, that no direct cor-
respondence had taken place with Sweden respecting an inter-
change of Public Ministers ; and from whatever motive, or how
brought about, that Sweden had appointed Mr. Kantzou to be
only a Minister Resident in the United States — a grade only of
the third rank, the difficulties in the way of confirming Mr. Rus-
sell's appointment as Minister Plenipotentiary, a grade of second
and highest rank, which the United States have ever appointed to,
were rather increased than diminished. The Senate therefore
committed the whole subject to another committee with instruc-
tions to confer with the President respecting it.

Two objects were doubtless in view in the adoption of this
measure.

1. To ascertain whether there were really any reasons of State,
or other public motives, not known to the Senate, in favor of this
Mission.

2. Whether considering the immense increase of expenses of
late years in sending and maintaining abroad foreign Ministers,
and the necessity of strict economy at the present juncture, a
special Minister might not be substituted for a permanent one ; and
in case a permanent one was deemed necessary, whether a grade
corresponding to that of the Minister appointed by Sweden, would
not be more economical, more consonant to the practice of the
United States, and more agreeable to the etiquette and usage of
nations on similar occasions.

It is presumed that the President must have anticipated these
enquiries. Had the President received the Committee, and by
the communication of additional reasons in favor of the Mission,
satisfied the Senate of its expediency, and had he moreover modi-
fied the nomination of Mr. R. it is not improbable that the Mission
would have been sanctioned. This however is mere matter of in-
ference deduced from the character of the Senate and the Demo-
crats upon the subject before the People.

It is plain enough from these documents that the President in-
tended to receive and confer with the committee : but a similar
course had been adopted by the Senate in respect to the nomina-
tion of Mr. Gallatin, and a committee had been appointed to con-
fer with the President upon a specific point, connected with Mr.

1813] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 33 I

Gallatin's nomination — upon a point the difficulty of which could
be removed by the President alone.

In this situation of the business, the President, by a message to
the Senate, declined the conference, and attempted to justify him-
self by a construction of the powers of the Executive and of the
Senate, which is believed to be unsound, contrary to original usage,
and inconvenient to the useful discharge of the duties of the
President and Senate.

Upon the first operation of the Constitution, the Senate ap-
pointed a committee of three of its members to confer with the
President, Genl. Washington, and to digest with him the manner
in which the Senate should give their advice and consent in the
making of treaties and appointments to office. The obvious
course, pursued in analogous cases by the Governor and councils
of the several States naturally suggested itself and was adopted.
A nomination or a Treaty being made, upon a future day the
President was to come to the Senate, or to convene them at his own
house, when such nomination or Treaty, in his presence, was to
be considered and decided. This arrangement was mutually con-
venient, the objections of the Senate would be known and might
be removed by information communicated by the President ; and
the practice under it would have been followed with public advan-
tage, had not an occurrence that happened at one of these meet-
ings occasioned its discontinuance. The Senate have justly
regarded their body so much in the character of constitutional
advisers of the President, that a rule is believed to exist regulat-
ing the course and manner of these proceedings when convened
in that character in the Senate room or elsewhere. Has it be-
come a question whether the Senate or the heads of Department
are the constitutional advisers of the President ? The safety of
the States, as well as the principle of the Constitution would seem
to settle this point. The self-named cabinet, composed of the
heads of Departments is unknown to the Laws and Constitution,
and their employment as such is an ill-judged imitation of the
administration of another country.

The nomination to all offices and the initiation of all Treaties
with foreign powers belong to the President, but neither Treaty
nor appointment can be made without the advice and consent of
the Senate : to give this advice and consent the Senate must ac-

332 RUFUS KING. [1813

quire the requisite information to enable them to give it : from
Avhom can they ask it except from the President ? This informa-
tion which produces the nomination, it may be presumed would
produce its confirmation. The instructions and correspondence
respecting Treaties are in the Department of State. It is to the
President therefore that applications for such information should
be made by the Senate, and it admits of no doubt that the Presi-
dent is bound to impart such information to the Senate when re-
quested. To make a difficulty concerning the manner affording
the same is throwing embarrassment in the way of executing the
powers of the Constitution and to place more importance upon
the form than upon the substance.

The mode which would be least inconvenient and most effectual
deserves a preference : no unnecessary and mere forms should
defeat the easy discharge of a Public Duty : if a request of in-
formation from the President be made, thro' a Committee of the
Senate, it surely is more respectful than a Resolution asking for it
and transmitted by their Secretary. When the two Houses of
Congress are formed at the beginning of a session, the President
is notified thereof by a joint Committee and before the close of
the session a similar Committee notifies the President, that their
business being finished they propose to adjourn, unless he has any
new matter to lay before them. The President has never de-
clined receiving these committees or giving them an answer.

The advice and consent without which the acts of the Ex-
ecutive are nullities, is a power vested in an aggregate body ;
the Executive power is lodged in a single individual. There
would be no inequality, if President Madison, in imitation of his
great predecessor President Washington, should meet and confer
with the Senate ; nay, it would be no degradation of the Person
or office of President Madison, should he, as President Washing-
ton did, receive and confer with a committee of the Senate con-
cerning the exercise of a power in the discharge of which the
consent of both President and Senate is required. Really there
seems to be something not easily comprehended, which restrains
Mr. Madison, when Genl. Washington, rightly estimating the
substance and caring little for forms, found no impediments in
his way, but in such cases freely conferred with the Senate.

Mr. Madison says the President and Senate are coordinate

1 813] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 333

powers ; so far as respects their relative dignity, there would
seem to be no loss of it on the part of the President, should he
consent to confer with the whole Senate — not so, should he con-
sent to confer with a committee of the Senate : this is a distinction
contrary to the nature of the transaction. When an aggregate
body is a numerous one, in many, nay most of the preliminary
enquiries that are made to enable the body to adopt definitive
acts, they are made by committees. When it becomes necessary for
any cause to confer with others bodies, whether aggregate or
single, this is likewise done by Committees — and the principle of
convenience, which suggests this mode in preference to the
business being done by the whole body, has the sanction of com-
mon sense and universal usage. Committees of conference are
appointed in matters of disagreement between the two Houses
of Congress — these two houses are coordinate powers. But as
the Executive is a single power and the Senate an aggregate one,
unless the Executive will confer with a committee of the Senate,
deputed for such purpose for the mutual convenience as well of
the Executive as of the Senate, no conference can without great
inconvenience ever be had. The increase of the Senate has
already carried their number beyond the convenience of meeting
in a small apartment. The suggestion that the Committee of the
Senate may confer with the heads of Departments is wholly
inadmissible and tends to degrade the Senate. The heads of
Departments are no part of the Executive Power, the whole of
which is vested in the President. Besides the heads of Depart-
ments are the mere will and pleasure officers of the Executive :
with what propriety, nay with what consistency or decorum can
it be proposed as a measure of equality, that the Senate should
by a deputation from their body confer with an officer holding
his place at the will of the Executive, and that the Executive
should decline a conference with a portion of the Senatorial
body itself appointed by the Senate for that purpose ?

The scruple is the more extraordinary as the President is said
to allow and receive Committees, not appointed by either House
of Congress, but by such members thereof as profess certain
political opinions ; and these Committees, in their conferences
with the President, are said to recommend important measures for
his adoption, to propose the removal from office of men holding

334 RUFUS KING. [1813

high and important stations, and, what is yet more wonderful,
those recommendations, as we are told, have been implicitly-
observed ! ! !

Does the President of the United States receive and follow the
advice of Committees from turbulent and irregular bodies of men,
aiming to dictate the course of his administration, and is the
dignity and independence of the Executive office unsullied and
unimpaired by such extraordinary and humiliating proceedings ?
and when the Senate, the constitutional advisers of the President,
depute a portion of their own body respectfully to confer with
and ask information upon a subject submitted to the determina-
tion by the President, are they to be refused, and are the Presi-
dent's doors, opened to the public agitators, to be closed against
Senators of the United States respectfully soliciting information
to enable them to perform their public Duty ?

How would the Presidential office have been depreciated, had
the President received the Committee deputed by the Senate to as-
certain whether there were any other reasons in favor of the
Mission to Sweden than the unsatisfactory ones exhibited in the
letters of Speyer and Beasley? How would it have been degraded
by his explaining to the Senate the motives for departing from
the common usage in sending a Minister of the second order to
Sweden, an inferior Power, in return for a Minister of the third
order, sent by Sweden to the United States ? Who except the
President, could afford this information, who, but he, could ex-
plain the unusual circumstance of the United States sending to
Sweden a Minister of a higher rank than that of the Minister sent
to them by Sweden ? Are the United States so inferior and
Sweden so elevated that the diplomatic Tariff should as a matter
of course be violated to our disadvantage and in her favor ?

The power of the President could not be controled by a con-
ference between him and the Senate. He had made the nomina-
tion ; the act was already done and completed. What then must
be the object of the Senate, in asking a conference ? It could not
be to control or direct the power to nominate, because it had been
executed ; for the rest the Senate could advise and consent with-
out a conference. Is it an affront to the President that the Senate
should ask of him information,* or is it required that they approve

* Different modes of seeking this information may be devised. It may be

1813] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 335

as a matter of course ? The object therefore must have been the
acquisition of such information as would enable them to discharge
their own duty intelligently and harmoniously : for attempting to
pursue this course, they are misrepresented, censured and de-
nounced in a Paper patronized and, as we are persuaded, con-
troled by the Administration.

If there be in the country a body of men unpolluted and un-
subdued by the unjust and destructive spirit which is breaking
down the Constitution and destroying the nation, to that body of
men, we appeal.

Between separate bodies, where joint concert is required to the
validity of any act, whether it be in private or public affairs, a
free communication, in which the reasons for and against a pro-
posed act may be examined, in which objections may be com-
municated and information to remove them given ; in a word, in
which the reasons for and against the proposed measure may be
freely communicated and weighed, seems to be essential. The
less of form and ceremony that exists in these conferences, the
more advantageous will they be to the attainment of a correct
result.

If instead of this mode of communicating, examining and de-
ciding the reasons of persons charged with the performance of a
public duty, a formal proposition is made by one and a separate
decision of it is made by another, it is to be feared that many
good measures will fail ; that jealousy, distrust and other mis-
chievous passions may arise and operate between those who are
charged with deciding upon such measures ; and that with the
best views, supposing each to preserve his independence, mistakes
will be made injurious to the public interest. The very debates
in a legislative body partake essentially of this character ; confer-

asked for by a resolution of the Senate, transmitted by their Secretary, or any-
other messenger — it may likewise be asked for by a Committee of the Senate
appointed for this purpose — the latter mode is more respectful to the President,
than the former. The Senate may possess information or entertain doubts
which, if made known to the President, he might be able to correct ; these may
often be of a delicate, important and personal nature, which in every respect
should be treated of verbally, in preference to a more formal and durable
manner and of course by a Committee rather than by written communication.
Everything respecting the character of persons nominated to office is of this
nature.

336 RUFUS KING. [18 13

ences concerning the Resolutions or Acts of the two Branches of
such body, where their joint consent is required, are emphatically
of this nature.

In cases of nomination to office by the Governor of one of the
States made to his Council, the Governor and his Council being
together, confer with each other reciprocally, giving and receiving
information. The nominations to office and the advice and con-
sent of the Senate are similar to, and the plan is derived from,
that of the Governor and Council of the States. So true is this
remark, that upon the putting of the Constitution into operation,
it was settled between the first President, Genl. Washington, and
a committee of the Senate authorized for this purpose, that the
President, after nominating to office should come into the Senate
room or convene them elsewhere, and then taking the seat of the
President of the Senate, the several Nominations should be ex-
amined, objections offered, information received and the question
of advice and consent finally taken in the presence of the Senate.

Those who affect to apprehend an improper influence or con-
trol upon the President, which, in this mode of proceeding, the
Senate may be said to exercise, have not taken the trouble to
consider the business in detail. The nomination is first made by
the President : this act exclusively belongs to, and is definitely
performed by the President without any interference of the Sen-
ate, who can neither annul, send back, nor do any other act con-
cerning such nomination, except to give or refuse their consent
to the appointment of the person so named by the President.
This they may do without any communication with the President.
But the real enquiry is whether they can without such communi-
cation, give or refuse their consent with as much satisfaction to-
themselves, and with as much benefit to the public, with as much
justice to the individuals nominated, as if they had become ac-
quainted with the President's information or knowledge of the
qualifications of the person nominated ?

It must be difficult to conjecture with any degree of confidence,
much more so, to attain a correct knowledge of the motives of
the President in sending to the Senate the very important mes-
sage he has done upon this subject. We may and shall seriously
regret the transmission of the message in case the views which
have influenced the President upon this occasion have arisen from

1813] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 7,37

the special or individual circumstances of a single case, instead
of having been produced by a comprehensive and impartial con-
sideration of the subject. We shall regret it, because it appears
to claim for the President what we cannot but esteem as uncon-
stitutional and useless dignity, because it separates him from the
Senate, whose advice and consent are necessary to the validity of
all appointments to office and to all Treaties between the United
States and foreign nations ; because it exposes him to the influ-
ences of persons in no manner responsible for their advice.

Governors of these States convene, meet and confer with their
several councils. The King of England meets & presides and
transacts business in his council. Every crowned head of Europe,
not excepting the French Emperor, does the same. The United
States, for the purpose of limiting the Executive power, have by
their Constitution created an executive council — the Senate are
that council — but Mr. Madison, their President, from a sense of
executive dignity, or from other considerations which are not
avowed, omits to come into the Senate and refuses to confer with
their committees specially appointed respectfully to seek informa-
tion from him upon a business that he has brought before them
for a decision, and respecting which they ask what the President
alone can impart !

Gallatin.

The second and probably the most unpardonable act of the
Senate on account of which the National Intelligencer has been
permitted to appeal to party feelings and to raise party animosity
against the Senate, is the rejection of Mr. Gallatin as one of our
Envoys in the mission to Russia.

There is so much of mystery, so great obscurity and so little
light in all that concerns the Declaration of the war & the meas-
ures of the Executive subsequent to that unfortunate war, that it
is with extreme difficulty that an impartial and inquisitive citizen,
after making every allowance for human infirmity & the errors of
our nature, is enabled to form an unhesitating opinion on these
all important subjects.

We firmly believe that the assigned causes are not the real ones
for declaring the war. We have strong reason to believe that the

VOL. V. — 22

338 RUFUS KING. [1813

Declaration of war, was against the deliberate judgment of
men who voted for it. It is embarrassing to explain the motives
why the overtures for Peace thro' Adml. Warren made immedi-
ately after the commencement of the war were rejected, and why
the Mission to Russia was adopted, the basis thereof being the
same as that offered to England by our Government in Oct. last.

It is probable that the Russian Minister during the winter and
before he could have received any instructions upon the subject
did suggest to our Government the idea of availing itself of the
mediation of Russia to bring about a peace with England. It is
not to be presumed that the Russian Minister committed himself
by an offer of the Russian mediation — but rather that he insinu-
ated to our Government the project of their asking the medi-
ation of Russia.

It will be recollected that, at the period we refer to, no accounts
had been received of the disasters that the French had met with
in Russia — so far from it, all the accounts received of the retreat
and defeat of the Russian army authorized the general opinion
that Bonaparte would reach Moscow and that he would there
dictate a peace to the Russians as he had before done to the Aus-
trians at Vienna ; that our Government should have therefore de-
clined, and as has been asserted in not very courtly language,* the
overture of the Russian ambassador is not very extraordinary.
But the intelligence received during the latter months of winter,
and in the early part of spring, put a very different face upon
the affairs both of France and Russia from what had been con-
fidently anticipated.

When therefore in the month of February, despatches were
received from Mr. Adams by our Government, and from the Rus-
sian Government, by Mr. Daschkoff, by which not only the total
of ruinous failure of Bonaparte but a proposal on the part of
Russia to become a mediator between the U. S. & England, be-
came known at Washington — the value of this mediation was
seen in quite a new light ; its importance was enhanced by the
disgraceful failure of our Campaign against Canada, by the loss of
the Michigan Territory and still more by the tacit rejection of

* Mr. Daschkoff says that the statements in the ministerial papers relative
to his mediation for peace are an ill-treatment of the Emperor and himself, and
that he would demand his passport. — Evening Post, March 22, 1813.

1813] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 339

the overture made in October to England for peace. The only-
avowed cause for continuing the war was the subject of Impress-
ment— by the overture made thro' Adml. Warren to England, Mr.
Madison offered to exclude from our public and private ships
all British subjects — and without claiming a previous armistice,
offered in case England would accept such exclusion in lieu of
the practice of Impressment, it was proposed to enter into an im-
mediate negotiation in order to devise and settle the Regulations
by which such exclusion should be effectually secured. Four
months elapsed and no reply to this overture was received, and
by the course of events in the North as well as in the South
of Europe, it was naturally concluded that no satisfactory one
would be received. What then was to be done ? the safety of
England, as she alleges, and as many believe, depends upon her
Navy ; the Navy depends upon her seamen & their service can be
effectually secured only by Impressment. These Doctrines are
undisputed in England — the Opposition as well as the friends of
Government equally maintain their justice and importance — the
Ministry of Mr. Fox, even well disposed, as they were to concilia-
tion with America, declared that no administration dare to give
up or to impair these maritime Rights. The expectation of co-
ercion upon England by the conquest of Canada, by the expul-
sion of the English from the Peninsula, the subjugation of Russia,
and the establishment everywhere of the French anti-commercial
system had all failed ; and instead of being a subdued, Russia
now appeared a victorious nation, and as such possessed more
influence than any other Power with England. The object in
these circumstances is to get out of the war as soon and with as
little loss of Reputation or of party influence as possible ; to
negotiate openly and directly with England, unless the relin-
quishment on her part of Impressment could be obtained, might
materially injure the Party.

If it had become evident that England would neither relinquish,
nor accept a substitute for, impressment, the point must be
given up by us, or the war continued without expectation of
being able to coerce her. The latter without hope and with
heavy taxes would be destructive of the Party — the former, if
managed with adroitness, might still preserve the dominion of
Republicanism. The Russian mediation should therefore be ac-

340 RUFUS KING. [1813

cepted, and if England would not give up the practice of Impress-
ment, Russia, the common friend, would urge the necessity of the
U. S. receding from their claim & submitting to the just Rights
of England. It might be said that the Government had acted
for the best, they had relied upon the impartiality of Russia, who
offered, and we accepted, her mediation — Russia having decided
in favor of England, there was no choice left, we were bound to
acquiesce in her decision. Thus Russia is to be made a cloak to
conceal the blunders & disgrace of our Rulers. The men who
succeeded in passing the Henry Plot upon the country, without
the charge of temerity and without change of opinion concerning
the discernment of the People, might confidently expect to justify
their submission to Impressment by alleging the part which
Russia, to whose mediation they had submitted, had taken.

It being determined to accept the Russian mediation, without
waiting whether England would also accept it, without the place
being agreed upon where the negotiations should be held, precau-
tions which common prudence and the uniform example of other
nations upon similar occasions required to have been observed,
our Rulers cast about for the men to be employed on this occa-
sion. It seems to have been expeditiously decided that the mis-
sion, according to former usage, should consist of three Envoys
to be taken one from the Eastern, one from the Middle and one
from the States upon the Western waters, the Southern States
being duly noticed by the honor of Mr. Crawford's appointment
to France. Mr. Adams & Bayard were soon selected, and while
the choice of the Western man was undecided, the President be-
comes apprized that Mr. Gallatin would have no objection to be
one of the Envoys. The failure of the Loan had inspired great
alarm ; if with difficulty and at an enhanced rate of interest, the
sixteen millions could be borrowed, enough had been learnt to
create serious doubts whether another Loan could be effected
upon any terms, unless preceded by serious effort to make peace.
If Mr. Gallatin should be one of the Envoys, it would not only
create the belief that Government were in earnest in seeking for
peace, but moreover, that if Mr. Gallatin, a member of the Cabi-
net consented to serve, " it would be concluded that he, who
knew the whole subject, had confidence in the success of the
mission. These considerations would fill fhe Loan of 16. mil-

1813] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 34 1

lions, and give a little breathing to the Government. In aid of
this intrigue, it is reported that the Russian Minister did not fail
to insinuate that the appointment of Mr. Gallatin, the Minister of
Finance and the most influential member of the Cabinet, would
not fail to be flattering to his master, the Emperor of Russia.
Furthermore Mr. Gallatin* had a personal motive to be absent
from the U. S. at this period. He had opposed the direct and
whiskey Taxes under the former administrations. As Congress
were now about to impose the same taxes again it would be ex-
pedient that he should not figure in the scene, but rather that he
should appear not to have contributed to their imposition. The
taxes being laid, Mr. Gallatin might return to superintend their
collection, and aided by his experience and great talents, would
be able to prescribe such regulations as might serve to reconcile
the People to the taxes. Does any one doubt that views of this
sort were examined in the confidential dialogues between Mr.
G. and his friends upon this occasion ?

* Gallatin is ready to make his patrocinium ; he was opposed to commercial
*reaties and Mr. Jay's mission, but accepts a mission himself and is named to
make two treaties of Commerce ! ! !

CHAPTER XVIII.

King to Gore — The Russian Offer of Mediation examined — Gore to King —
Talk in Boston of aiding Commerce by a Peace or Armistice — King to
Gore — Continuance of War will endanger the Union — Doubts relative to
the Russian Mediation — Sir W. Scott to King — Regard for him — Though
Condition of Europe more favorable, still Anxiety in England — It is
United upon Questions between her and United States — And has grown in
Wealth — Sidmouth to King — Time for his Son's Visit unfavorable for Set-
tlement— King to Gore — Nothing heard of Mediation — His Son finds Eng-
land's Opinion very hostile towards United States — King to Gore — Adams
and Bayard to treat directly with England — Continental Affairs — Moreau's
Death — Hamilton's Opinion of DeWitt Clinton — Lee to King — Baltimore
Riot — English in West Indies do not applaud the War — Danger to the
United States, should War cease on the Continent — Hopes for, and urges
King to strive for Peace.

R. King to C. Gore.

Jamaica, L. I., Sunday, 29 Aug., 1813.
Mv dear Sir :

I am glad to hear that your people are not as extravagant and
short sighted, as our friends were at Washington. If there be a
class of men who more than others should support contracts and
credit, it is the Federalists : exclusive therefore of consistency,
which in a good cause is worth something, the Federalists should
always co-operate in provisions to enable the Govt, to perform its
contracts.

Respecting the Russian Mediation, I have no sort of doubt con-
cerning two things : one is that Daschkoff did offer the good offi-
ces of the Emperor before he reed., and therefore without,
instructions to do so,— and the other that he made a formal offer
of this mediation, pursuant to instructions which he received after
the 24th of Feby. I saw the note making this offer, which is
1 813] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 343

dated March 8, 1813, also the note accepting the mediation thus
offered by the Emperor, which is dated March 11.

Adams reed, his Dispatches announcing the war in Octr. : he
communicated their contents immediately to the Russian Min-
ister, who (the knowledge of the war having been obtained before
Mr. Adams reed, his Dispatches) had before expressed his regrets
that the war had broken out ; and explained the cause of these
regrets to be the diversion of the Eng. Army in the Peninsula to
Canada, and the consequent increase of the French forces bro't
agt. Russia, the new embarrassment which the Russian Commerce
would feel by the interruption of the American Trade, adding
that having just then concluded a Treaty with England, by which
it was hoped that the commerce of Russia would recover from its
past stagnation, it was matter of disappointment that the American
war would in a considerable degree renew the late embarrassment.
At this early conversation, the Russian Minister intimated the
idea of the good offices of the Emperor to restore Peace. After
the official communication of the war (which was accompanied
with these reservations, that it would be confined solely to Eng-
land, that of course our commercial intercourse with Russia would
be continued, and our friendly relations cherished, and that no
overture had or would be made to France to co-operate with the
U. S.) the Russian Minister requested Mr. A.'s consent to send a
copy of this note to the Russian Ambassador in England in order
that it might be communicated to the Eng. Government. Mr. A.
replied that he 'could give no such consent — that Russia would
make such use of the note as she pleased ; but in case of its
transmission to England, that he desired to be understood as
neither having proposed nor consented to it. The Russian Min-
ister soon after informed Mr. Adams that the Emperor was
pleased to learn that the war with England could not lead to any
new connexion between America and France ; and then offered
on the part of the Emperor his mediation and proposed that
Adams should take immediate measures to transmit the offer to
America — a conversation followed concerning the mode of doing
it, and a licence from Lord Cathcart, the Eng. Ambassador, was
suggested as a safe mode of sending a vessel to America. Adams
consenting, the Russian Minister charged himself with an appli-
cation to Lord Cathcart, who consented on condition the vessel

344 RUFUS KING. [1813

would touch in England. This Adams declined, and so the busi-
ness of the vessel fell thro'. This report is made by A. to the Sec-
retary of State, as the Secy, told me — he also told me that Adams'
letters containing this information were received about the 24th
or 26th of Feby., that Daschkoff at the same time rec'd instructions
to make the offer of the mediation, and accordingly did so defini-
tively on the 8 March.

Whether the observations accompanying Adams' communica-
tion of the war to Russia were made to induce her to offer her
mediation, or in order to be sent to England, is matter of conjec-
ture. Public Ministers occasionally interpose their good offices,
and assist in conferences without the mediation of their masters
being accepted or even offered ; this interposition, says DeReal,
is not the function of a mediator, but of a Pacificator and so they
are called when not acknowledged by all the Powers. Daschkoff
may have thus interposed in the winter, and before the fate of the
Russian Campaign was known. Mr. Madison believing that
France would dictate a peace to Russia, would of course receive
these pacific offers of Daschkoff coldly, perhaps uncivilly — but
the affairs of France as well as of Russia wore a different face in
March, when the destruction of the French army was ascertained
— a renewal of the Russian good offices now, was not to be rejected.
I confess myself at a loss to explain the President's conduct in
sending his Envoys before he had ascertained that England would
appoint ministers to meet them, and before the place of meeting,
a point sometimes of importance, was chosen. This Step is the
more unaccountable when we consider that the offer, made by
Monroe thro' Adl. Warren in Oct. last, was to settle the subject of
impressment by the exclusion of Br. subjects from our service ;
which principle being accepted, nothing would remain for nego-
tiation but the regulations for giving effect to the principle. To
this overture it does not appear that Eng. has given any reply.
The inference is, that she will, as she has offered to do, negotiate
regulations for the practice of impressment ; but that she rejects
our substitute. If the same proposition of a substitute were the
only power given to the envoys, and, at the time of their departure, it
had become pretty certain that England would not accept it, why
were they sent ? If the President knew that England rejected
our substitute and still sent the Envoys, may we not infer the in-

1 8 13] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 345

tention of making the decision of Russia in favor of England's
claim, the excuse for our submission to it ? How otherwise can
we account for the mission ? How explain the confidence with
which the Executive has calculated upon & expected a Peace ?
How comprehend the fact that Gallatin consented to be employed ?
If such be the object of the mission, will not means be found out
to apprize England of our views, and when she knows them, will
she not send ministers, notwithstanding her former decision
to the contrary, to accept our submission and give us Peace ?

yrs R. K.

C. Gore to R. King.

Waltham, 13th September, 1S13.
My dear Sir :

Your letter confirmed my opinion on the subject of the Russian
mediation, — Indeed some Letters received from Mr. Adams, by
his Friends leave no doubt, but part of Colo. P.'s information was
erroneous.

I have reason to believe, that a deep plan is laying by some
gentlemen in N. Y., Albany & Boston to effect the election of Mr.
C. to the next Presidency. The orthodox Church is enlisting
Converts, and working with appropriate zeal. It is said, that Doc-
tor Mason states, that Colo. Hamilton declared on his death bed,
that DeW. Clinton was the only man to put down Democracy in
the U. S.

Some men talk here of making a Declaration, next Winter, that
the Union is dissolved and that Massachusetts is willing to be at
peace with G. B., and that her ports shall be open to all Nations. —
Others propose that the State should ask Permission of Congress
to make an Armistice with the Enemy — what may arise from the
Discontent and Distress that are daily augmenting it is impossible
to tell. — Hanson & Grosvenor have been here. The former I hope
is in better Health, than when he left Washington. He is a man
of a fine and more correct mind than most of our zealous Feder-
alists. I asked him if he did not intend to visit you at Long
Island — he said he should be happy to, but as you had not asked
him to come & see you, he doubted the Propriety of his going to
your house. — He left Boston this Morning for Providence, & will
probably be in New York as soon as this letter. — If you choose,

346 RUFUS KING. [1813

you can tell James to invite him to Jamaica. Grosvenor is going
on to Washington immediately.

Your faithful Friend

C. Gore.

R. King to C. Gore.

Jamaica, L. I., Sep. 30, 1813.
Dear Sir :

Every exertion will doubtless be made to carry the project to
which you allude into effect. I find both from Mr. Hanson &
Mr. Grosvenor that the continuance of the war will in their opin-
ion endanger the Union. There can be no question that our
situation will become extremely difficult, and indeed perilous,
should England refuse to enter into a negotiation with the Envoys.
The condition of the eastern States may drive them to measures,
which neither the actual State of public affairs, temporary as it
must be, nor their own permanent welfare will justify.

I perceive no reason which alters my views in respect to the
probability that the Envoys are to make great efforts, and, if un-
avoidable, to yield up the only point of difficulty to obtain Peace.
Upon this subject I have nothing new to add, except that if Col.
Pickering be right in his supposition that Russia has not author-
ized the offer of her mediation, it is very extraordinary that no
intimation has been made in the English Papers, of the delusion
that has been practised upon the People of this Country, in the
attempt to make them believe that such mediation had been
offered. Those Papers, instead of denying that Russia had
offered her mediation, assert that England will not submit the
discussion of her Maritime Rights to any mediation ; thereby
admitting that the overture may have been made. . . .

yrs. R. K.

Sir W. Scott to R. King.

Oct. 8, 1813.
My dear Sir :

It is with great Pleasure that I seize the opportunity which my
introduction of myself to your son gives me, of recalling to your
recollection the name that is subscribed to this letter. It was
long before I knew that your son was arrived in this Country. It
was by accident only that I was informed of it. May I be per-

1 813] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 347

mitted, without giving offense, to complain a little of this ? If my
son should come to your Country, you may depend upon it
that he shall not come without some little private credentials to
a person whom his father never recollects but with strong feelings
of respect & regard, and about whose welfare he will ever con-
tinue a sincere solicitude.

The affairs of Europe had assumed their terrifick form before
you quitted it. We have often talked of them together, and, if I
remember right, with no great difference of opinion. They have
gone on in a progress of publick disorder & misery every year
since in a way that is equally known to both of us. The extreme
alarms of the civilized parts of the World in this Hemisphere (at
least of those Countries which had not entirely sunk under the
shock) have been in some degree relieved by the events of the
last Winter's Campaign in Russia ; but much remains yet to be
both done and suffered, before we can consider the Liberties of
Europe (and consequently of the world) as secured upon a firm
& permanent footing. It is at this moment a matter of critical &
perilous contest what is to be the result ; present appearances are
favorable, but nothing decisive has yet taken place ; and my
powers of language wd. fail me, if I were to attempt to describe
the anxiety & hesitation with which depending events are at this
hour contemplated in this Country.

To the unfortunate state of affairs that has taken place between
our two Countries, it would be improper on my part to advert
with any degree of particularity. But you will, I hope, think it
not unbecoming nor perhaps quite useless to assure you, that upon
the points in contest between us we are an undivided People ; that
all political Parties of any consequence are agreed upon them ; and
that we consider ourselves, without any difference of opinion
(but such as is to be found amongst the enemies of all order &
government) as a People that have not met with fair & generous
treatment from those who have the conduct of your national in-
terests. I will not enter further into this, than merely to say,
that if any measures of America are taken upon the supposition
of a partiality to American Politics existing among us, they will
be taken upon a false & most erroneous view of facts, and can
produce nothing but disappointment and defeat, so far as they are
founded upon any such basis. We are most sincerely disposed to

34§ RUFUS KING. [1813

reconciliation ; have no animosity, though strong resentments and
lament most heartily to see the powers of a new & free State em-
ployed (as they appear to us) in riveting the chains of every Coun-
try in Europe & assisting the design of extinguishing the last
remains of Publick Liberty, wherever found, on this side the
Atlantick. We trust that such an unnatural state of things can't
last long and are ready to meet you more than half way to put an
end to it.

Your Son, I found in the short conversation I had with him,
has been viewing different parts of this Country. I think that
since you left us, it has been regularly increasing in wealth &
prosperity, notwithstanding the pressure of war & the occasional
interruptions they receive from temporary causes. He can tell
you what met his observation in the course of his travels through
it ; but as far as I can judge, the Country has reached a very
high state of improvement in everything that can be considered
as contributing to the strength and grandeur of a State ; and un-
less some unforeseen calamity should occur, is likely to advance in
that condition under the direction of the same heads, to which it
has been for some time entrusted.

After the many years that we have been separated, one feels an
apprehension about making particular enquiries about the state of
Families. But I hope that nothing unpleasant has occurred in
yours, and that your own health has remained firm & unimpaired.
My own I have no reason to complain of. I have ventured upon
a second matrimonial connection, Lady Scott having been re-
moved by death above 4 years ago. My only son is at Oxford
with a fair promise of future character & conduct, and my daugh-
ter is married to a very amiable young gentleman, much to my
own satisfaction. My time passes in the duties of my Office, in
the business of Parliament &: in the enjoyment of literary and do-
mestick pleasures. I hear with great pleasure that your Country
is likely again to receive the benefit of your talents in a more ac-
tive capacity than you have chosen to assume for some time past.
May both countries be benefitted, for they have a common inter-
est in many respects.

I am, dear Sir, with unfeigned Regard

your faithful friend &: Servt

W. Scott.

1 813] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 349

I write this in the Country, and send it up to your Son, who
has promised to convey it. I fear he will have left this Country,
before my return to Town.

Private.

Lord Sidmouth to R. King.

Richmond Park, October 16, 1813.
Dear Sir :

I was much gratified by your letter transmitted to me by Mr.
Charles King, to whom it has been my Wish, and Endeavour, to
show those Attentions, which are due to him, both on your Ac-
count and his own.

The immediate Object of his coming to England could not, un-
fortunately, be accomplished. The Impossibility of its attain-
ment was regretted by all the Members of the Government whose
attention was call'd to it.

I cannot forbear adding that your Son will leave in this Country

the most favourable Impressions of himself. He will tell you that

his Father is never mentioned here but with the Esteem and

Respect which are due to his character. With these Sentiments,

which I have long and invariably entertain 'd, I have the Honor

to be

Dear Sir, your most faithful Servant

Sidmouth.

R. King to C. Gore.

Jamaica, L. I., Oct. 22, 1813.
My dear Sir :

. . . I have nothing new concerning public affairs ; whether

England has taken any measures to sound, or confer with our

Envoys is wholly unknown. Lord Walpole, who is, as I presume,

a young man, is secretary to Lord Cathcart's embassy. Lord

Cathcart is with the Emperor in Germany, or was so at the date

of our last news. Perhaps Lord Walpole, in the absence of Lord

Cathcart may be authorised informally to ascertain the extent of

the powers of the Envoys, and to transmit the same to England.

350 RUFUS KING. [1813

This will gain time and enable the Ministry to determine whether
they will accept & negotiate under Russian Mediation.

Charles was at Liverpool on the 29th Aug., looking for an op-
portunity to return home : owing to the obstruction which the
English are said to meet with, in retiring from this Country, it
seems that the Cartels from England will be either suspended, or
confined to the transportation of prisoners of war — so that Charles
was apprehensive that he should be obliged to go back to Lisbon,
in order to find a passage home.

He seems to be disappointed in the state of the public opinion
in England, which appears to be in a high degree and extensively
hostile towards us. Mr. Jeffrey who lately arrived here (nephew
of P. Jeffrey and a principal writer of the Edinburgh Review)
confirms this opinion of the resentment agt. us, which prevails in
England. He knew nothing of England's acceptance of the
Russian Mediation ; and had heard that Russia had not offered
her Mediation in Eng. ; in this however I am persuaded he is
mistaken.

Perry's victory (to applaud which I was glad to see you took a
part) has enabled Harrison to recover Detroit and invade upper
Canada. The capture of Proctor's forces and the dispersion of
the Indians, must put an end to the war in that quarter, for I pre-
sume that the Indians who depended upon the enemy for food,
will now submit in order to be fed by us. The state of things
upon Ontario and the movement of our Army, which I conjecture
is going against Montreal, are critical — a short time will determine
whether we winter in Canada, or return within the U. S.

R. K.

R. King to C. Gore.

Jamaica, L. I., Nov. 1, 1813.
My dear Sir :

I this evening rec'd yrs. of the 27th ulto. . . .

In a letter that I rec'd from Mr. Sec'y Monroe, dated the r.4.
ulto., he says they had not received any letter from the Envoys,
nor did they know what part England had taken respecting the
Russian Mediation. I have, however, seen a letter from a per-
son, who has lately been in Washington, and who there conferred
with Monroe & Jones, which states that they informed the writer,

1813] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 35 1

that instructions had been sent recalling Gallatin, and directing
Adams & Bayard to treat directly (& without the Russian media-
tion) provided they had any reason to conclude that such nego-
tiation wd. be desirable to England — whether they were instructed
in this case to go to England the writer does not explain. How
this direct negotiation can be authorized, I do not know ; since
the appointment was limited to one under the Russian mediation.
It may however be equally correct with anything that could be
done upon the first commissioning of the Envoys without the
consent of the Senate. The events of the war in Germany are of
the deepest interest. The Allies, at our latest dates, were upon
the whole gainers, and were I not always fearful that my hopes
would be disappointed, I should anticipate according to the best
estimate I can form of the strength of the Parties, and the actual
posture of things at our latest dates, that Bonaparte will be forced
to cross the Rhine and that the North of Germany, including
Holland, & possibly more, will be delivered. But the death of
Moreau,* whose life in any event, connected with, or arising out
of, the downfall of Bonaparte would be more worth than that of
any other man, seems to be a discouragement of hopes that the
relative state of the armies would appear to authorize ; since by
the removal of the ablest man in the council of his enemy, for-
tune prepares new success for Bonaparte.

Being in town to-day I saw Doct. Mason, and asked him if the
Report circulated under his name and authority, of what Coll.
Hamilton told him a little before his death, was true — He replied
No, for he never had any conversation with Col. Hamilton on
that or any other occasion, upon this subject ; but that he sup-
posed the Report arose out of a communication of Mr. Mulligan
(a lawyer of N. York) who told him that a Mr. Schermerhorn
(a worthy sort of householder) told him, that when D. W. C. was
a young man, Col. H. said he would become a great & influen-
tial public character ! . . . Farewell.

yrs., R. K.

* Moreau had been banished from France by Bonaparte, for having engaged
in the conspiracy against him in 1S04, and came to the United States, where he
occupied himself in farming at Morrisville, Pa., until he was invited back by
the Emperor Alexander of Russia to assist in a campaign against Bonaparte.
He was shot in a battle near Dresden on August 27, 1813, and died a few days
afterwards.

352 RUFUS KING. [1813

General H. Lee to R. King.

Barbadoes, Nov. 19, 1813.
My dear Sir :

Many years have passed since we had the pleasure of meeting,
and now, when by your return to public life, that event was sure
to occur, the extraordinary atrocity of the unpunished Baltimore
mob, * has for a time exiled me from home in pursuit of restora-
tion of my broken health. Bitter as are my reflexions on the
past and personally uncomfortable as is the prospect before me
whenever I experience the flood tide of health however little, as
in my present weak state, I forget my own sorrows in those of our
afflicted Country. Your return to the care of the common weal,
I receive as an auspicious omen, and it enlightens the dark politi-
cal horizon which envelopes our miserable country.

What really heightens the horror of the scene is that a major
portion of both Nations, now cutting each other's throats, abhor
the war and sigh for its conclusion. I often see here the land
and sea officers of G. B., and daily meet with English gentlemen,
as well as those of this Island, and I rarely pass a week without
spending hours with the Governor, Sir George Beckwith, and
what is surpassing strange, I have never met with but a single in-
dividual, who applauds the war.

* The Baltimore Whig newspaper edited by Alexander Hanson, after the
declaration of the war, announced that it would continue to speak with the
same freedom as before, relative to the war. Two days after a " mob, headed
by a French apothecary, unopposed by the city magistrates, . . . com-
pletely demolished the office of that paper with its types and presses," causing
the associate editor to fly for his life. The paper was re-established at George-
town, but soon afterwards it was re-issued from a new office in Baltimore,
the editor & his friends being determined " to vindicate the liberty of the press
no matter at what personal risks to themselves." The Mayor re-
fused to protect them ; but under a plan of defense, drawn up by Gen. Henry
Lee, " of which he volunteered to superintend the execution," the mob
again attacked the house, which was bravely defended, until the authorities in-
terfered and the defenders surrendered themselves under a promise of protect^" m
and were taken to prison. The mob pursued them there, the prison was op1 >ne(l

to the mob, and they proceeded to wreak vengeance upon the prisoners. C w,w

to the darkness, though very severely maltreated, all except Genl. Lingan e xi^

death. General Lee, however, was made a cripple for life, and, as Y Per" sayS|
was obliged to seek for health away from home. For a full accounterred 0f this
transaction see Hildreth, U. S., vi., pp. 325-332. /riter

1813] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 353

The same contrast is to be found in many parts of America, as
I am told, tho' not to the same extent. Certainly then it is time
to know what we are about, and when we shall be extricated from
the fatal labyrinth into which we have been winded : what en-
hances the affliction which the true hearted American feels is
that, without discussing the justice or wisdom of the war on our
part, it must be admitted that its end never can be effected, was
the success of our arms as complete, as it has been defective.
We only can assail G. B. on her American territorys and were we
to master them all to-morrow, still would peace be remote, if pro-
curable only by the enemy's ceding the maritime principle for
which we are fighting. This fact cannot be doubted, and of itself
is enough to induce us to sheathe our swords. However we have
heretofore failed in our projected conquest of Canada, I have not
a doubt but that it will be accomplished with the exception of
Quebec, because the defenders of Canada are 3000 miles distant
and committed in the most awful & wide spreading contest for
the safety of Europe, of the independence of most of its nations,
in short for the maintenance of all those rights dear to civilized
man. Should however the battle in Europe cease, G. Britain and
her allys would soon turn the tide of conquest in America, was it
progressing with the rapidity so arrogantly predicted. Spain
would be indubitably introduced in the South, the Floridas &
Louisiana become the theatre of combat, of all points belonging
to the U. S. the one wherein we are most vulnerable.

This view of our condition ought to press peace on our Rulers,
for by continuance of war, it may become vastly extended and
with its extent in the direction suggested would become multifa-
rious & formidable in the extreme.

We have not yet heard here from Europe since those active
operations which opened the campaign after cessation of the ar-
mistice & in the leading member of which the good, the virtuous
the consummate soldier Moreau fell. The advantage was evi-
dently on the part of the Allys & should Bonaparte obstinately
hold his position, he will be cut off from the Rhine, if the Allys
maintain their evident superiority in the field of battle. However
this may be, let us not wait but in the course of the winter let
peace be restored. Even should Wilkinson prove himself to be
the reverse of Dearborn, which I fondly (from my intimate knowl-

VOL. V. — 23

354 RUFUS KING. [1813

edge of the first) hope & believe, still he will have difficulties to
encounter great and obstinate.

And the nation must be everywhere defended, as well as Canada
conquered. Look at our extent, see our thin population in the
West & in the South. Hordes of inveterate warriors hover
around the first, and hostile fleets occasionally accompanied with
bodys of regular troops sound every inlet of the last. God of
heaven, infuse love of peace into our rulers and save our land
from the tragic scenes which must follow, with increased fury and
extent, continuance of the war.

Always admiring and loving Mr. Madison, and full of good
will & regard to Mr. Monroe, I have two or three times written
to the latter gentleman and once to the former since my residence
under this tropic. I again now write to them both and have
frankly expressed my heart to their view on the subject of peace.
Governor Beckwith whom I dare say you remember in America,
is like myself ardently anxious for stop of war, & as we often
converse and sometimes write on the subject, I have enclosed to
Mr. Monroe a copy of his last letter to me in reply to one accom-
panying a project of a treaty.

I wish to God, if, as I presume, you & Mr. Monroe are much
together, that you would confer with him on the form of a treaty
acceptable to our Government. If it is a right thing and you
will send it to me I do believe that Govr. Beckwith will actively
and honorably assist it to consummation. Do as you will, I must
beg you to accept my best respects, to present the same to Mrs.
King, accompanied with my best wishes for the health and happi-
ness of you and every member of your family.

Mr. Storm, Son of Mr. Thomas Storm of New York, politically
adverse to you, as I hear, but personally full of respect to, & con-
fidence in you, tells me that two of your sons are married to two
daughters of Virginia.* I believe the ladys were born in Peters-
burg, Virga. Thus you see how we tye the Union, against whose
sacred ark the door of Janus is impiously open. Shut it, do shut
it.

This Mr. Storm is Commissary of Prisoners here ; we live un-
der the same roof. He is honest, candid, decided & warm ; for-
tunately has become attached as yet to no political opinion &

* See end of this chapter. — Ed.

1 813] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 355

will, therefore I think, be sure to take the right side. . . .
Adieu my dear Sir, yr. faithful friend H. Lee.

. . . The packet arrived yesterday. By her we learn that
Holland is in arms, Bayonne taken by Wellington & Bordeaux
also with 120 of our vessels. Oh ! my friend push peace, it may
now be effected, but the hour is fast passing. I go tomorrow, or
this, to Porto Rico on my approach home in the Spring. I am
much better than when I last wrote. God bless you.

H. Lee.

Letter endorsed by R. K. — " Rec'd Mar. 2, 1814. — Original rec'd three
weeks earlier.

" N. B. Sent the orig. to Mr. Hanson for his perusal."

The "two daughters of Virginia" were the daughters of Archibald Grade, a
Scotchman, who married while in New York Miss Esther Rogers of Connecti-
cut. After his marriage he removed to Petersburg, Va., and was there engaged
in business with a Mr. Walker. His three eldest children were born there,
William, Eliza, who was married in 18 10 to Charles King, and Sarah, who was
married in 1812 to James Gore King, both sons of Rufus King. Mr. Gracie
had removed from Petersburg to New York several years before these marriages
took place.

CHAPTER XIX.

King to Morris — Matters that may be considered by Congress — Asks his Opin-
ion relative to Retaliation for Condemnation and Execution of British Sub-
jects taken in Arms against England — Morris to King — President's Reme-
dies will not prevent illegal Importations — England and the People of the
U. S. will get what they want — Increase of Manufactures will interfere
with Recruiting — Cannot shorten the War by making the Enemy feel its
Pressure — Retaliation wrong — No Nation has a Right to interfere with
the interior Police of another — Conscription will fail in Results — King to
Morris — The President prepared to receive the Law from England — If
Peace made, Effect of its Terms on the divided Democracy — Morris to
King — The President's Views relative to the State of France erroneous —
Russia not so powerful as he thinks — Would not sanction Expatriation —
President's Acceptance of English Proposition — Division in the Cabinet
— Government's Defense — C. King to King — England favorable to Peace,
but not giving up her Maritime Rights — Morris to King — Gives Reason
why a Minority should not move Resolutions asking for Information —
Morris to King — Opinion on England's probable Conduct — Agrees as to
Character of our Rulers.

R. King to G. Morris.

Washington, Dec. 19, 1813.
Dear Sir :

As there is nothing in the President's message at the opening
of Congress, nor in the information that I have received since ray
arrival here, which encourages an expectation that the Mission to
St. Petersburgh will produce peace, we may conclude that our
session will be consumed in giving authority to the Plan of the
next campaign. What this plan will be, we are not informed ; in-
deed as the Secretary at war has not returned, it is probable that
the Plan is not yet fully prepared. Among the parts, I think, I
shall not be mistaken in enumerating Embargo for a year, the
non-importation from any Country of articles, which heretofore
have been commonly or chiefly derived from the Territories of
1 813] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 357

G. Br., a revision of the Militia Laws, and such a modification of
them, as will enable the Pr. to raise by Draft or otherwise fifty or
sixty thousand men. The obstruction of all navigation and com-
merce will facilitate, as we hear, the raising of loans, which may
be obtained, as is said, to any amount.

With sixty thousand men all Canada may be conquered, says
Genl. Armstrong (who would be named Lieutenant Genl., if he
could), in a single campaign, — altho' the expense will be very great,
it will be the best policy, as well as the greatest economy. Canada
and the Floridas are becoming the principal objects of the war —
no peace is to be made, say the people of the western waters, unless
Canada and the Floridas, especially Canada, be added to the Union.

Congress will be urged to support the President in what he
calls a Retaliation, should G. Br. try and execute any of her sub-
jects taken levying war against her in Canada. Whether a further
law upon this subject will be passed, I know not : but if it be de-
sired by the President, such is the subserviency of Congress that I
really apprehend it will refuse nothing.

Waiving all questions about perpetual allegiance, and what is
called the natural right of Emigration, does there exist an instance
in which the trial, condemnation & execution of a person according
to the course of the established Laws of any Country, has been ever
considered to be a cause of Retaliation by another Country ? such
Retaliation instead of being according to the Laws of Nations,
would be subversive of them, and an attack upon the independ-
ence of nations. Be good enough to consider, and to impart to
me your views upon this very important subject. As a stand
must be made, it is desirable that it should be forcibly made and
with such evidences of the error which is opposed as may be likely
to correct it.

With sentiments of Respect &
Sincere Regard I am, dear Sir, yr. faithful servt.

Rufus King.

G Morris to R. King.

Morrisania, Dec 27, 1813.
Dear Sir :

Your favor of the 19th reached me on Friday. As Christmas

and Sunday followed immediately I could not, untill this morning,

358 RUFUS KING. [1813

attempt to reply, and have now to thank you for that also of the
2 1 st.

To begin with this last, I believe the President to be correct in
his notion that an export of our Produce furnishes the Enemy with
such part of it, as he wants, and that the admission of vessels un-
der neutral flags, tends to the introduction of British goods on
British or American acct. I admit also that illegal importations
are made ; and even venture to say they will continue to be made
in spite of all you can do. That I do not believe the President's
remedies will cure the evils he complains of ; neither is it clear
that the case is desirable ; for in the body politic, as in the natural
body, it sometimes happens that removing slight diseases occasions
others which are mortal.

He thinks it hard that British Cruizers should get our victuals
for their money, but he should consider that in this case, we get
their money for our victuals. Suppose they should lay some of
your exposed Towns under contribution and oblige you to give
the food you refuse to sell ; or suppose the British Government
should send a few shiploads of Liverpool Salt to some convenient
place in the Chesapeake, and give ten bushels of it, which would
cost them less than twenty-five cents a bushel, for a barrel of flour,
now selling, I understand, in Virginia for less than a bushel of salt.
Their Fleet would thus be supplied with flour at less than three
farthings, Stg., a pound, while the planters would pay twenty
prices for their salt. Smugglers would, in this traffic, gain nine
barrels of flour on each interchange.

I have said that the Enemy is furnished with such part of our
produce as he wants. But the convincing proof that he don't
want our provision either for his Fleets and Armies or those of his
Allies is the rigorous Blockade of States which produce provision :
for surely the Enemy must know his own wants.

I admit for argument's sake, that you can cut off a commerce
in British goods on American acct. ; but if your people want
those goods, they will buy them, paying always to the British
manufacturer his price ; and to all concerned, as intermediaries,
for their labor, skill & risque an exorbitant premium. Now as
your Fisc will not, I suppose, be concerned in the contraband
trade, it cannot share in the booty. Your citizens, therefore will
be fleeced, while your Treasury is defrauded of the Duties ; your

1 813] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 359

Enemy smiling at your efforts to wash the Blackamoor white, to
fill a sieve with water and other such notable projects.

As to the notion that you can supply your wants by domestic
manufacturers, tho' true in a degree, it is false in the extent. But
in the attempt you set so many at work to bid against you, that
you will be unable to recruit your Armies. Moreover when this
mad frolic is over, you must say farewell revenue from trade, or
you must, by lowering the duties, hear the groans and curses of
those, who now embark in manufacturing projects, so that you
disarm yourselves in the midst of a war, in order that you may
ruin your planters now, and your mechanics by and bye.

If the subject were not serious, and it is most fully so, one could
not help laughing outright at the idea of shortening the duration
of this war by making the enemy feel its pressure. It is as if a
man on the bed of Procrustes should console himself at the sight
of a Louse on the Tyrant's cloak. It is, no doubt, unpleasant to be
teazed by those little crawling creatures, but he who would sub-
mit his members to the rack, for the pleasure of seeing his enemy
bitten by a louse, must, I should suppose, have rather more nerve
than intellect.

Our Rulers seem to suppose not only that Great Britain is ex-
tremely feeble, but that her pity exceeds her imbecility. They
would see, and seeing, they would believe in her strength, if they
were not struck with judicial blindness : afflicted with that " Esprit
de vertige et d'erreur de la chute des rois funeste avant-coureur."
One of your Roman friends told you long ago " quem Deus vult
perdere prius dementat ; " and Moses said nearly the same thing
of Pharaoh before Romulus was born. The British Administra-
tion had not hitherto dared to do the mischief in their power, fear-
ing the opposition would appeal to the good nature of Englishmen.
Is it to relieve them from such apprehensions that we are about to
hang British Officers in Retaliation for Traitors executed under
the British Laws ? It seems to me, my dear Sir, that argument on
this occasion would be a waste of thought, of time and breath. It
is unquestionably a point of universal Law, established from the
earliest ages, that every nation has an indefeasable right over its
own natural born Citizens. If the President's statement of what
he insinuates to be facts on this Subject, were true, it would prove
nothing. Even if England had attempted to defend French Citi-

360 RUFUS KING. [18 1 3

zens in her Services against the French Government, and to that
end had executed {which she did not), Prisoners of war in retalia-
tion for Frenchmen landed at Quiberon in 1795, wno being taken
were immediately executed, tho' it might be considered a case in
point, still it could not justify us in violating public Law. Un-
less perhaps, by the rogue's reason, that there is no harm in steal-
ing from a thief. The thing is ridiculous as well as atrocious.
But you may remember we long since agreed that this horrible
issue would follow, of necessary consequence, from a war to pro-
tect British subjects in neutral merchant ships against the author-
ity of their Sovereign.

It would be almost an insult, should I, even at your own request,
take up the argument on so plain a subject. With respect to one
ground, however, which you hint at, I cannot coincide. Unques-
tionably those who defended the plunderings of Napoleon as be-
ing right because merely the operation of his Municipal Laws
occasionally framed in violation of Treaties for the very purpose
of plundering, cannot consistently pretend that we should take
umbrage at the Prince Regent for the execution of Municipal
Laws established in his Country so many centuries ago. But
these gentlemen do not, I believe, regard consistency. I am not
one of those who think a Nation has no right to interfere with the
interior police of others ; but on the contrary, hold that when a
Nation is wronged, no matter in what way, she may lawfully seek
redress from the wrong-doer. I go further, and pretend that if
my neighbour Nation adopts such internal regulations, the con-
scription for instance, as will, when ripened into effect, endanger
my safety, I may, of full right, make war and take from him a part
of his Territory so as to lessen the mass of his force, unless he
will abandon the measures, which render that mass injurious to
my peace and dangerous to my existence. I always thought the
British Ministry conceded more to their parliamentary opponents
on this delicate point than consisted with sound sense. But let
us leave them to manage their own arguments as they like, and
look at the condition to which our unhappy country is about to be
reduced.

I cannot help believing the projects proposed are more levelled
at New England than at Old England. Such they will, at any
rate, appear to our Eastern friends. Your conscription will fill

1 813] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 36 1

the measure of grievances even to overflowing. The system taken
together appears to me more absurd, if possible, in the whole than
extravagant in its several parts. By the Embargo you take away
the means not only of paying taxes, but of purchasing necessaries.
By the retaliating scheme every American, who shall accept of a
commission, or enlist as a soldier in the regular army, or turn out
as a militia man must put a halter about his neck with which,
when taken prisoner, he may be hanged. By your conscription
project you are to order men with arms in their hands, while you
have only a bit of paper in yours, to quit their families and engage
in the splendid scheme of conquering Canada under such appal-
ling circumstances. Before the first day of March, you will, in
all probability, have no Northern Army left. Your army of the
South will be as God and Great Britain please ; and if you raise
another Army of the West, you must seek for a mountain of silver
instead of salt to pay the expenses. Considering the wretched
state to which we must be reduced by travelling on in our present
path might it not be proper instead of combating the pretexts
which will be advanced in the lack of arguments, seriously to de-
clare the conviction that these northern States will not prosecute
a war of extermination ; and that if, in consequence of a violation
on our part of the usage of civilized nations, Great Britain should
execute the threat of devastation against that part of the Country
whose Representatives uphold sueh barbarous measures, far from at-
tempting to avenge they should applaud a conduct tending to re-
call our Rulers to the practice of humanity.

Believe me, my dear Sir, it is in vain to mince matters. If it be
possible to preserve the Union, which I doubt, it can only be by
checking outrages which are no longer to be borne. True it is
that the Administration have adherents among us who will stick
to them as long as personal considerations will permit ; and among
these are some fighting friends. It is possible, therefore, that Mr.
Madison may blow up civil broil into civil war. But the result
must be ruin to his tools here, and awful vengeance on his sup-
porters elsewhere.

Adieu, I am always truly yours

Gouv. Morris.

362 RUFUS KING. [1814

R. King to Hon. Mr. Morris.

Washington, January 9, 1814.
Dear Sir :

To Admiral Warren's proposal of an armistice in 181 2, Mr.
Monroe replied, that notwithstanding the Repeal of the orders
in Council, the subject of impressment remained unadjusted, and
that no Peace between the U. S. could be durable, without a set-
tlement of the interfering claims of the two Countries upon this
head : with the view therefore to such settlement, the Admiral
was informed by Mr. Monroe that the President was willing to
enter into stipulations, the observance of which should be enforced
by Laws to be passed for that purpose, for the exclusion of all
British Seamen from the Maritime, including the merchant, service-
of the U. S. We have never heard of any answer to this offer :
if any has been received, it has been unsatisfactory, or we should
have heard of it.

By the Mail of yesterday I sent to you the Papers accompany-
ing the late Message of the President, announcing the failure of
the Mission to Russia and his acceptance of the offer to nego-
tiate at Gottenburgh ; if you connect with these Documents the
Regent's late speech, the whole subject as far as Ave understand
is before you. In the Regent's Speech, which was delivered in
November, he says : "I have not hitherto seen any disposition
on the part of the Government of the U. S. to close it (the war)
of which I could avail myself consistently with a due attention to
the interests of his Majesty's subjects."

This declaration of the Regent must refer to, and reject, the
project offered by the U. S. to Admiral Warren, equally with that
of the Russian Mediation ; neither manifesting in the Regent's
opinion, a disposition to close the war, of which he could avail
himself consistently with the interests to which he alludes.

Placing the pretensions of our Government on one side, the
Letters of Lords Castlereagh & Cathcart, together with the Regent's
Speech on the other, and adding Mr. Monroe's letter accepting
the offer of a direct negotiation at Gottenburgh, it will scarcely
be doubted that the President is prepared to receive the Law from
England. There is however another view of the subject ; a
negotiation will help to fill the Loan, and to recruit the Army ; it
will also afford time to ascertain the extent and effects of Bona-

I8l4] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 363

Instru? Defeat ; and as weak men prefer a postponement to the
renew jn °^ an important Question, this course maybe considered
agreecise one in the present occasion.

prop'e fading persons in Congress have probably been consulted ;
U„< the Cabinet it is said that Armstrong's voice was for war,
JVtonroe & Jones for negotiation.

If Peace be made, securing not one thing claimed, and abandon-
ing some interests of which we were in possession, the various
branches into which the democracy is now divided, will proba-
bly unite in throwing the blame of failure upon the weakness &
incapacity of Madison and his Ministers, and upon the opposition
of the Federalists, who, it will be said, paralyzed the measures of
the Government.

With great esteem & Regard, I am &c.

Rufus King.

G. Morris to R. King.

Morrisania, Jan. 17, 1814.
Dear Sir :

While I thank you for your favors of the fourth and ninth, I
must entreat your Pardon for delaying an Answer so long. When
the first arrived I was preparing to meet our Board of Commrs.
in Town, where I continued several Days, so that the other lay
till the 15th in our Post Office.

I believe the President to be mistaken in his notion that Bona-
parte will be pestered by Insurrections. Neither Frenchmen nor
any other men are prone to rise against so severe and so crafty
a Chief as Napoleon. Moreover that Nation, which consists now
chiefly of old Men, Women and Children, is disarmed. Admit-
ting, however, that Insurrections should happen, I see no serious
Results. The Dethronement of his Imperial Majesty is not
desired by the Powers at War with him, for most of them have
a direct Interest in his Establishment. England cannot wish to
see again a Connection of Blood between the Sovereigns of France,
Spain, Portugal and great Part of Italy. Austria can have no
Desire to turn her Daughter out of Doors ; and still less to
aggrandize a Family which held in Check her Greatness ever
since modern Europe was civilized. The German States, Prussia

364 RUFUS KINL [1814

included, while they cling for Support against Austrian C
and Pretensions, to the Power of France, would see with 3814.
eye that Power so great that she could again dictate to th
Subjects rather than persuade them as Allies and pay tht Mr.
Subsidiaries. To Russia it is a matter of Indifference who Srs
on the French throne, provided there be, in that quarter, a Mast
sufficient to keep Austria in Check and preserve the Anarchy of
Germany ; a Condition which leaves the South of Europe open
to the Action of her Policy and the Weight of her Arms.

I think the President is also mistaken in supposing that Russia
is the greatest Power in Europe, and especially that she will
exercise her Greatness in our Favor. Russia, acting on the de-
fensive, is indeed a prodigious Power. Her Back to the Arctic
Circle, her left covered by the Tartarian Desert, her right by the
Gulph of Finland and the Baltic Sea, her Front from the Carpa-
thian Mountains to the Black Sea, by the barbarous Regions of
Moldavia, Wallachia and the Country of the Cossacks, she is assail-
able only on the Side of Prussia and Poland. Even there she is
covered, in a great Measure by the vast Morasses of an unsettled
Domain and has in her Favor those Circumstances of Space and
Time which neither Lovers nor Princes can annihilate for the
Gratification of their Wishes. But these very Circumstances, and
that other little Circumstance called Finance, which will, I ap-
prehend, begin now to cramp the Energy of our aspiring President,
must for a long Time to come render the offensive operations of
Russia less dangerous to her Neighbors than, from the Mass of
her Force, might otherwise be apprehended.

But admitting the Russian Greatness to be whatever Mr. Madi-
son may choose to represent it, and admitting also, what I do not
doubt, that the Emperor, with all his Justice and Generosity and
Love for his English Ally, would see with Pleasure a Shackle put
on the British Maritime Power ; I, nevertheless, cannot persuade
myself that he would sanction a Doctrine so inconsistent with
Reason, and so abhorrent to the Feelings of every Sovereign as
Mr. Madison's notion about Expatriation.

The Acceptance of Lord Castlereagh's Proffer is unquestion-
ably an abandonment of the Ground on which this hopeful War
is waged and should the American Negotiators attempt to re-
occupy it, they will, I presume, be requested to look at their

1814] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 365

Instructions, and be told it is incredible that the Presidt. should
renew a Claim directly opposed to the Terms on which he had
agreed to treat. But if, indeed, he entertains such an Idea, it is
proper again to assure him, thro' them, that Great Britain cannot
listen to Propositions inconsistent with the Maxims of picblic Law
and her Maritime Rights.

From Mr. Monroe's Epistle, it is manifest that our Administra-
tion have reluctantly accepted his Lordship's offer. They have
reserved as much Ground for future Cavil as they conveniently
could. They refer to the Desire they have already ma?iifested
and express the same Willingness to terminate the Contest on
Conditions of perfect Reciprocity consistent with the Rights of both
Parties, and calculated to provide against future Collisions. And
their Negotiators will be instructed to set off their qualified ac-
ceptance against the Explicitness of Lord Castlereagh's Proposn.

Before I received the Information contained in your letter, I
conjectured a Division in the Cabinet from the Stile of Monroe's
uncourteous Letter. That Mr. Armstrong should urge the Con-
tinuance of a War, in which his Plans have proved so lamentably
deficient, is strange, and only to be accounted for by the good
opinion he entertains of his own Powers, and by that " vaulting
Ambition which overleaps itself." His Scheme of a Lieutenant
Generalship will probably bring forth that Dignity for Massa Billy
Harrison, as the Blacks in his native Country used to call him.
But Mr. Armstrong, were he skilled in Chaldean Dialect, would
understand the Mene tekel written on the Walls of the War Office.
He must, I think, go down maugre his Intrigues with Western
Men, the Intrepidity of our Governor, the Sagacity of our Lieu-
tenant Governor and the Fidelity of his Friend Ambrose.

In the Debate on our President's humane plan of Retaliation,
an opportunity will present itself for testing the Sincerity of his
Conduct in accepting Lord Castlereagh's Offer. The Division
of the Party, on that subject, may then, I should suppose, be
brought into broad Day, by taunting them and tormenting them
for giving up their Ground to obtain an inglorious Peace, while
they maintain it to shed innocent Blood. Perhaps, to avoid such
shocking Inconsistency, they may be driven to declare that the
Point on which the War turns is not to be given up. This will
defeat the Project of filling their Coffers and their Ranks by the

366 RUFUS KING. [1814-

delusive appearance of Peace. I say delusive, for altho I ac-
knowledge that in fair Construction, Mr. Madison's acceptance of
the British offer is so compleat an abandonment of his claim
that no man who feels as he ought, would afterwards renew it,
yet I am convinced that our rulers, as they were not prevented
by Motives of Humanity from shedding the Blood of their fellow-
citizens in Support of that unfounded Claim, so they will not be
deterred by a Sense of Shame from declaring (should circum-
stances render it convenient) that in acceding to the proposed
Negotiation for Peace they never meant to go beyond the Terms
contained in their Reply to Admiral Warren's Proposition.
My wife joins with respectful compliments to Mrs. King.

yours, Gouv. Morris.

Charles King to R. King.

Thursday, Jany. 20, 1814.

Dear Sir :

You will, I imagine, have learnt from the letters I sent you,
that there exists every disposition in England to make an equal
& honorable peace with us. It was declared to me from the mo-
ment I reached London, that they never would consent to mingle
the questions of maritime right between themselves & us with
the politics of Europe : they had taken a ground which they
never could nor would abandon, while they were blessed with the
means of maintaining it, & least of all would they permit Russia
to interfere in its decision.

The Law passed by us last session concerning seamen, they did
not allow us much credit for, believing it out of the power of the
Government to cause its strict execution ; tho' I do think the
British ministry would suspend the practice of impressment in
order to give us a fair trial of it. As to the men now in our ser-
vice, of British origin, they possess a willingness to enter into any
arrangement that can be made, by which without renouncing on
their part the right to reclaim their men, our claim to them as
naturalized citizens may be respected ; in short they say " Keep
out of our way & we will not go to look for them."

Upon the whole, I feel quite satisfied that if we are sincerely
disposed to make a peace, the present moment is as favorable for

1814] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 36 7

it, as any other, notwithstanding England's triumphant situation.
Their magnanimity has kept pace with their success. If we are
not disposed to close the temple of Janus, England will make no
effort to do so. The liberation of Germany, indeed of Europe,
has opened a market for her manufactures & colonial produce,
which is insatiable in proportion to the time it has been without
supplies, & leaves no regret & barely the recollection, of the
American war. If therefore the gentlemen to be sent to Gotten-
burgh, go there with the least expectation that England will recede
one tittle from the ground she has taken, or consent to modify in
any way the right of search & impressment, they will assuredly
go on a fruitless errand. Reciprocity, as the Regent says, in his
speech, is all we offer or ask. " Damus patimurque vicissim "
was the conclusion of every conversation I held with the gentle-
men of the administration on this subject, — and the nation re-
echoes the sentiments. I wish and hope we may meet them in it.
I am, dear Sir, Yours &c Chas. King.

R. King to G. Morris.

Washington, Jany. 26, 1814.
Dear Sir :

I received in due course your letter of the 17th, and agree in
your opinions respecting France. Our Administration change
their views from month to month, shifting their measures accord-
ing to the vicissitudes of public occurrences, the causes and conse-
quences of which they seem equally incapable of justly appreciating.

If one could believe the Declarations of an intention to adhere
to what is called our Rights, in opposition to the Maritime Claims
of G. Br. we might without hesitation predict the failure of the
proposed negotiation at Gottenburgh. But I conjecture that the
intention is to obtain if possible from G. Br. some stipulation,
which, while it shall not impair their Rights, may serve to give
something to us, that may be used as an apology for the war. I
send you enclosed an extract of a letter that I received by my
son Charles from Sir William Scott. You know his character,
and public station — it is hardly therefore necessary to remark,
that in the mode public affairs are managed in England, no ques-

368 KUFUS KING. [1814

tion effecting the maritime Rights of Nation is decided without
his Opinion.*

From the tone of this Extract, I should derive little hope, that
the project of excluding by our Laws British seamen from our
service will be accepted as a means of obtaining what the exer-
cise of the Practice of Impressment has been deemed necessary
to secure. If this project offered in 1812 was not accepted, what
reason have we to believe that it will now be agreed to ? ...
With entire Respect & Esteem, &c, Rufus King.

G. Morris to R. King.

Morrisania, Jan'y 27, 1814.
Dear Sir :

I am to thank you for the Documents in your late Envelope.
It seems to me that our Friends in pursuing a parliamentary
Course, do not allow for the Difference between British and
American opposition and Administration. Without going after
the causes of such difference, which may easily be discovered, it
is sufficient to notice Facts. In Britain, it is understood that the
Administration are so strictly bound by Honor and Truth, that
perfect Reliance may be placed on what they say ; whereas the
opposition are not to be restrained by Principles of any Sort
from making every Sort of Assertion, nor by Regard to Consis-
tency or Decency from Motions for any kind of Information.
When they can shew probable cause to apprehend that Ministers
have been playing a foul Game, they can easily carry their Point,
because among the Ministerialists are always to be found a num-
ber of high minded men who scorn to aid in concealing mean or
dirty business. Moreover Motions for Information there, if car-
ried, are sure to bring out the Truth, because the Administration,
should they be detected in Falsehood or Prevarication, are lost.

Were Federalists in Power, this Country would resemble that,
but as Matters now stand, the Case is reversed. If a Charge of
Inconsistency, much less of Duplicity, can be established it will
injure, if not ruin, our opposition, while the Administration, like

* Extract of a Letter dated London Oct. 8, 1813, to

Private. " To the unfortunate state of affairs that has taken place between
our two countries &c, &c, see further p. 306 of this Volume."

1 814] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 369

their Model Napoleon, not only practice but glory in Deceit. In
moving a Resolution to obtain Information, you are certain that
it will pass or be rejected according to the Nature of the Informa-
tion ; which will be granted if it can do you mischief, but if
good, withheld. It seems to me therefore that in making these
Motions you place yourself in a Condition which permits your
Adversaries to play old John Carpenter's Game of tossing up —
— Heads I win, Tails you lose. Would it not be safer to entrench
yourself in Doubt and claim a Right to deny, on the Ground of
Doubt, every Fact not established. This might force out as
much Information as you can obtain in any other way ; perhaps
more.

I am as ever yours

Gouv. Morris.

G. Morris to R. King.

Morrisania, Jan. 31, 1814.
Dear Sir :

I receive this moment your Favor of the twenty sixth, for which I
pray you to accept my thanks. It confirms my opinion respecting
the Conduct which Britain will pursue. I have said on that Sub-
ject, more than a year ago, that if her Ministers act otherwise,
they deserve to be hanged here and damned hereafter. I will
now tell you that I considered the Flag with Lord Castlereagh's
Letter as full Proof of what your Letter contains. It speaks the
Language of the Lord of the Ocean " So far shalt thou go and
no farther."

Your Sentiments of our Rulers are just. I ask a serious Ques-
tion, what Chance is there of better Rulers if the Union be pre-
served ? When you have turned that well over in your mind
consider this other, what Chance is there that better Rulers could
do better and not forfeit the Support of the many headed mon-
sters whose barking annoys us from the Head of Kennebeck to the
Mouth of Mississippi ?

As ever yours

Gouv. Morris.

CHAPTER XX.

King — Memorandum relative to Armstrong — Armstong on Terms of Peace —
Jefferson's Views as to the Power of Virginia — King, Examination of Plan
of Finance relative to the twenty-five million Loan — Debate in the Senate
— King's Objection — Absence of a special funding Provision to pay Interest
and Principal.

Jany. 1814. — Col. Swift on the part of Gen. Armstrong held re-
peated conversations with Mr. Mason, N. H., the real object of
these interviews had reference to the next Presidency. Their
tenor was that the Virginia Dynasty must be broken ; that State
must not furnish the next President. The policy has been to
divide the Eastern States, to exclude from every pubc. office of
distinction Eastern men. There was no doubt of the influence of
France upon Jefferson and Madison. Any man acting an inde-
pendent part as Minr at Paris would be cut down. Jefferson sent
Col. Coles, his secy, to France while he, Armstrong, was Minister
there. Coles was charged with and delivered despatches to the
French office of For. Affrs. from Jefferson, in which, the extracts
of Armstrong's letter to the Dep. of State, which expressed disad-
vantageous opinions respecting the French Govt., or communi-
cated information of an unfavorable nature concerning the admn.
of France, were sent to the French office of for. Affrs.

Col. Coles was the bearer of a letter from Gallatin to the French
Min. of for. Affairs, in which he informed him, in case the opin-
ions and conduct of Armstrong were disagreeable to the Emperor,
that upon a request or intimation of a wish on the part of the
Emperor, Armstrong would be recalled.

The minister of foreign affairs being absent with the Emperor,
Hauterive who held the port-feuille, gave up to Armstrong these let-
ters. Swift said Armstrong was decided to have his just weight in
the Cabinet, or to throw up his office ; that an understanding with
1 8 14] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 37 1

the Federalists in Congress was his wish ; that he desired nothing
on their part in respect to himself ; that he was willing to co-op-
erate agt. Virginia, leaving men and things to take their course
when the Presidential Election comes on.

Genl. Armstrong speaks respectfully of Mr. King, wishes to
open himself upon these topics to the Federalists. Mason recom-
mended that he should do so to Mr. King and believes that as he
is on a poise whether he is to have the fair support of the Pr. or
not, that he will call on Mr. K. in a few days : he condemns the
Generals — when Hull is disposed of, Wilkinson and Hampton
will be brought to trial and crushed.

1814 — Feby. 25.* Armstrong told me that the overture by the
Bramble, was laid over at the first meeting of the Cabinet ; on
that occasion he urged the absence of the Ministers' (Gallatin &
al.) despatches. They were referred to by Castlereagh, no copy
was sent : before the proposal to treat at Gottenburgh was ac-
cepted, they ought to have the letters of our Envoys. It was
accordingly determined to wait. Unexpectedly however he was
called to another meeting, when he found that a new Resolution
had been adopted, and his presence was wanted to witness the
adoption of the Letter to Castlereagh, accepting the overture to
treat at Gottenburgh.

Armstrong said that there would be Peace ; they would give up
everything. Something like the arrangement of Monroe and
Pinkney, a mere informal Provision would be accepted. Gallatin,
he said, to his knoivledge \ would have made Peace on these terms
under the Russian mediation.

Feby. 28, 1814. Granger, speaking of the Virginian views, in-
formed Mr. Mason, N. H., that he was particularly intimate with
Jefferson, who urged him to remove to, and settle in, Virginia —
offered him a portion of the Monticello Estate at 5. Doll, the
acre ; and to engage him to settle there, said Virginia ivas the head
of the Slave holding States, would always direct their politics ;
that the New England States would be discontented and aim to
govern the Nation ; that the primary object of Virginia must be

* In R. King's handwriting.

f This was said after the receipt of the late despatches, sent by Dallas to
England, and received from thence by Anne Alexander, Russian Shp. arrived
at Boston. The despatches, therefore, it is probable, contained this information.

372 RUFUS KING. [1814

to secure Pennsylvania, as with that State on her side she would
always rule the Nation.

Among the measures proposed in the 12th Congress to
provide means to carry on the war was one to borrow
twenty-five millions of dollars. A Bill for that purpose
was passed by the House of Representatives on March 4,
1 8 14, and sent to the Senate asking their concurrence. On
the 7th it was referred to a select committee consisting of
Messrs. King, Giles and Roberts, and on the 10th Mr. King
reported back the Bill with Amendments, which report was
discussed for several days. The speeches are not to be found
in the Annals of Congress * ; but among Mr. King's papers
are portions of the speeches he delivered during the debate.
As will be seen this hinged upon an amendment brought in
by the special committee to create a special Sinking Fund
for the payment of the interest and final extinguishment of
the debt by setting apart for the purpose enough of " the in-
ternal duties imposed during the last Session of Congress "
instead of charging those payments upon the existing Sink-
ing fund, which was no more than sufficient to pay the claimes
under previous loans for which it had been specifically
pledged. It will be seen that though Mr. King " had a desire
to aid the loan," he could not do so without this pledge.

Loan Bill.

Substance of R. K.'s speech (in his handwriting).

It becomes my duty to state to the Senate the reasons which
have led the Commtee to report the amendment on the Loan Bill.

The Bill from the House of Representatives proposes to borrow
25 millions of dollars, and pledges the Sinking Fund of 8 millions
of dollars for the payment of the interest and the reimbursement
of the capital of the proposed Loan.

Upon a reference of this Bill to a Committee of the Senate,
the Committee have made a Report, recommending that the sec-
tion of the Bill which pledges the Sinking Fund for the payment

* 13th Congress, 1813-14, p. 650 to 674.

18x4] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 373

of the interest and the redemption of the principal of the proposed
Loan should be struck out of the Bill, and that two new sections
should be inserted in its place, appropriating so much of the in-
ternal Duties, imposed during the last Session of Congress, as
should be sufficient to pay the annual interest of the Loan, with
a further sum equal to one per centum upon the whole capital of the
Loan to be annually applied towards the redemption of the princi-
pal thereof — and providing that the said internal Duties, subject to
such modifications as may hereafter be found advantageous,
should be continued and remain pledged for the payment of the
interest and the redemption of the Principal of the Loan, until
the same be fully reimbursed.

Altho' the Report of the Committee would be fully supported
by shewing that the Sinking Fund, which is charged with the
payment of the interest and the redemption of the principal of
the new Loan, is already overcharged ; and that the internal
Taxes, proposed to be established in lieu of the Sinking Fund,
have not been appropriated and are sufficient to pay the interest
and redeem the principal of the new Loan ; the subject is so in-
timately connected with the state of the public Finances, the
extent of the public engagements, and the security of the public
Credit, that a more enlarged support of the proposed amendment
may with propriety be offered. It is proposed to present to the
Senate a view of the Finances, under the following heads.

1st. A statement of the aggregate amount of the Debt of the
U. S. including the Loan authorized by the Bill, and distinguish,
ing the Debt incurred before the War from the Debt created
since the War.

2d. An estimate of the Taxes receivable in the years 1814 &
1815 — together with an estimate of the annual charges upon such
Taxes, shewing the insufficiency of the Taxes to carry into effect
the war plan of Finance.

3d. A statement of the amount of the actual charges upon
the Sinking Fund, and shewing the exceedings of these charges
above the amount of the Fund.

War Plan of Fi?iance.

A plan of finance to be observed during the War, was brought
before the H. of Representatives by the Committee of Ways and

374 RUFUS KING. [1814

Means. According to this plan, a sum sufficient to defray the
expenses of the Peace Establishment, estimated at seven millions
annually, together with a further sum which should be sufficient
to pay the annual interest, including that upon the new Loans,
payable by the U. S., is required to be raised by Taxes within
each year — Government depending upon Loans, for money to
meet and defray the extraordinary expenses of carrying on War.
To determine how far this plan, defective as it is in the omis-
sion of a Sinking Fund, will be adhered to in the current year, it
is necessary to ascertain, in addition to the seven millions for the
Peace Establishment, the amount of the annual interest that will
be payable by the U. S., and then to compare the amount of these
sums with the amount of the Taxes.

In ascertaining the amount of the annual interest, there can
be no difference of opinion respecting any of the items, unless it
may exist in regard to the annual interest payable to the Commis-
sioners of the Sinking Fund. By the law of May 1792 it is en-
acted that the interest of so much of the Debt of the U. S., as
has been, or shall be purchased or redeemed for, or by the U. S.,
or as shall be paid into the Treasury thereof in satisfaction of
any Debt or demand, shall be and hereby is appropriated and
pledged firmly and inviolably for and to the purchase and re-
demption of the said Debt.

By the Law of March 1795. In addition to the money before
appropriated to the S. F., this Act appropriates to it the neat
proceeds of the sales of Lands belonging to, or which shall here-
after belong to, theU. S. in the Western Territory thereof. And
the ninth section of this Law declares that the monies (including
the interest on the redeemed Debt) thus assigned to the Commrs
of the S. F. shall be and continue to be, appropriated to the said
Fund, and vested in the Commissioners thereof in trust — to be
applied to the reimbursement and redemption of the then exist-
ing Debt ; And the Faith of the U. S. is pledged that the monies
and funds aforesaid shall inviolably remain and be appropriated
and vested as aforesaid, to be applied to the reimbursement and
redemption in manner aforesaid.

These provisions of the Laws creating the Sinking Fund have
never been repealed, and the following principles are established
by them.

1814] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 375

i st. That every portion of the funded Debt that is reimbursed
or redeemed, must be transferred to the Comrs. of the S. F., and
the interest thereof must be annually paid by the Treasury De-
partment to the said Commissioners, who are required to apply
the same to reimburse or redeem further sums of the principal of
the Debt.

2nd. That the proceeds of the annual sales of public Lands are
also annually payable to the Commrs. of the S. F., to be by them
in like manner applied towards the redemption as aforesaid of the
principal of the Debt.

As the Debt, to redeem which the S. F. is established, is not yet
paid off, and as the Comrs. of the S. F., equally with individual Cred-
itors are entitled to receive the annual interest payable upon the
stock standing in their names, to ascertain the amount of interest
annually payable by the U. S., it is necessary to add the sum pay-
able to the Commrs. of the S. F. to the sum payable to other per-
sons. The following statement shows the sum payable by the
U. S. in the year 1814 out of the Taxes to be raised within that
year.

To defray the annual expenses of the peace estab-
lishment 7, 000, 000. CO

Interest on the loans, including that on stocks
standing in the name of the Com. S. F. 1,971,-
316.67 & \ yrs int. on New Loan, of 28,328, ace.
at 6f0, 562,000 6,911,764.42

Aggregate amount 13,911,764.42

Estimate of Taxes receivable in the year 1814.

from Custom House Bonds 5.500,000

from duties reed, in Cash 500,000

from Land Tax and internal duties .... 3,500,000 9,500,000.00

leaving a deficit in the Taxes of 18 14 to satisfy

all charges 4,411,764.42

In the estimate laid before Congress from the Treasury De-
partment during the present Session, the Deficit of the Taxes in-
stead of the 4,411,764 dollars, is estimated at something less than

376 RUFUS KING. [1814

one million dollars. This important difference arises from the
erroneous increase of the amount of Taxes of the year 1814, by
the addition of 1,180,000 dollars of former appropriations remain-
ing in the Treasury at the end of last year, by the further addi-
tion of 600,000, the estimated proceeds of the annual sales of pub.
Lands, and by the withholding, from the annual charges upon the
Taxes of the year, the sum of 1,971,316, being the interest annu-
ally payable out of the Taxes to the Commissioners of the S. F.

There is no propriety in bringing forward the unapplied sur-
plus of the appropriation of a former year in aid of the Taxes re-
ceivable within the current year, because the war plan of finance,
the observance of which is under consideration, project is to raise
within each year the whole sum chargeable upon the Taxes of the
year. Besides this surplus is conjectural and may be, and proba-
bly will be, wanted to satisfy outstanding claims for past services,
and if not so wanted, ought to be applied in aid of the new Loan
to defray the war expenses of the current year.

There is still less propriety in adding to the Taxes of 1814,
which are applicable to the payment of interest and to the support
of the Peace Establishment, the 600,000 expeeted to be received
from the sales of pub. Land ; because this sum is inviolably ap-
propriated, under the sanction of the faith of the U. S. to the
S. F., and the same is required to be by the Comrs. of that Fund,
annually applied in the redemption of the principal of the pub.
Debt.

The Laws which require the payment to the Comrs. of the S. F.
of the annual interest upon the redeemed Debt standing in their
names, have already been stated : and none can doubt that the
interest so payable is an annual charge upon the Taxes of the
year, and ought so to appear. The conclusion is also estab-
lished that the deficit in the Taxes of the year will exceed Four
millions instead of falling below One million.

Should the war continue another year, as no additional Taxes
are proposed, as the land Taxis laid for only one year, as the Em-
bargo and System of commercial restriction will be as necessary
next year as they are this, and as the revenue from foreign trade
will be reduced still lower, the Deficit in the Taxes, alarming as
it may be this year, must be still greater. The following is an es-
timate of the sums which will be payable by the U. S. in the year

T814] life and correspondence. 377

1815, out of the Taxes to be raised within that year, pursuant to
the War plan of finance.

For the Peace Establishment and for Interest,

the same as in 1814, deducting 562,081,28, being

\ years Int. on the 25, Mills., Loans the whole " I3»349.663-I4

year's int. being charged below J

Int. on 28,328, 611 dolls., Loan of 1814 1,699,716.66

Int. on loan of 1815, supposing its amt. and terms

the same as in 1814. \ year's interest 562,081.28

15,611,461.08

Estimate of the amount of Taxes receivable in 1815.
From Custom House Bonds & duties of import

& tonnage 3,500,000.00

From arrears of Land Tax & Internal Duties of 1814 1,500,000.00
From Internal Duties 2,000,000.00

7,000,000.00
leaves a deficit of the Taxes of 1815 to satisfy the

charges thereupon 8,611,461.08

The sure symptom and forerunner of the explosion of the pub-
lic credit in every country has been the continued and increasing
Deficit in the Taxes. Loans are the extraordinary resource of a
Nation, and are only resorted to on extraordinary occasions. The
enormous expenses of modern war cannot be defrayed by con-
temporaneous Taxes. But Taxes must be levied sufficient to
maintain the ordinary Government, to pay the interests of the
Loans, and to enable the S. F. to redeem the Debt.

If instead of levying Taxes sufficient to meet these objects,
Loans are resorted to, not only for extraordinary services, but to
pay the Civil List, or the interest of former Loans ; and especially
if no Sinking Fund be provided, by the operation whereof the
price of the stocks shall be kept up, an object of not less import-
ance to Government than to the stockholders, we may be certain
that the difficulty in obtaining Loans will be greater and greater,
that their terms will become harder and harder, until finally they
cannot be obtained on any terms.

378 RUFUS KING. [1814

The Deficit in our finances is great — will become greater — and
if war continues the only remedy is to be sought for in Taxes.
The evil is not to be prevented by refusing to look at it ; Congress
must impose Taxes, or consent to become answerable for the con-
sequences of their not doing it.

When the Debt of the U. S. was funded, it was thought to be
essential to the solidity and stability of the public credit, not only
to provide and pledge adequate funds to pay the annual interest,
but moreover to provide and vest in certain Commissioners an
annual Fund, afterwards denominated the Sinking Fund, to be
inviolably applied to reimburse the Principal of the Debt.

It cannot be requisite to repeat the arguments employed to es-
tablish the principles of public credit then adopted. It must
suffice to say that not only their truth and importance are at this
day everywhere acknowledged ; but that without their strict ob-
servance, any extensive system of funding the public Debt will
prove pernicious to the Nation that adopts it.

Without enumerating the sums, which from time to time were
appropriated to the S. F., it may be stated, that before the year
1802 this Fund principally consisted of the annual interest upon
the redeemed Debt, standing in the name of the Commissioners,
and of the annual proceeds of the sales of the public Lands. In
the year 1802 a Law was passed to enlarge the duties of the
Commissioners of the S. F., which had before been confined
to the paying off and redeeming the principal of the public
Debt. By this Law, the Commissioners are constituted Agents
to pay the interest of the public Debt, which had before been
paid by the federal Commissioners of the Loan offices, and by
the Department of the Treasury ; and so much of the duties
of import and tonnage, as with the monies belonging to the S. F.,
should together make 7,300,000 dollars, was appropriated to the
Sinking Fund. Afterwards in the year 1803, when the interest
upon the Louisiana stock became payable, a further sum of 700,
000, dollars, to be taken from the duties of import and tonnage,
was appropriated to the S. F., which was thereby increased to the
annual sum of eight millions of dollars, and this Fund is pledged
to redeem the existing Debt. It is not obvious why the original
plan of the S. F., was in this manner changed. The purpose of
its establishment was to confirm the national Credit, by the grad-

1814] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 379

ual redemption of the principal of the public Debt ; and notwith-
standing the additional funds appropriated to the S. F., and the
new duties required of the Commrs, the original provisions and
pledges of the S. F. made and enacted by the Loans of 1790
and 1795, st^l remain unimpaired, and in conformity to them,
the public Debt which has been redeemed, has been transferred
to, and stands in the names of the Commissioners of the S. F.,
and is held by them in trust to apply the annual interest thereof,
together with the neat proceeds of the annual sales of the public
Lands, to the redemption of the principal of the old Debt of the
U. S. and to no other purpose. Moreover, in pursuance of the
original plan of the S. F., the Laws of 1802 and 1803, with equal
precision and force with those of 1790 and 1795, appropriate the
whole S. F., consisting of the annual sum of 8 millions to the
payment of the interest and the reimbursement of the principal,
the three per cents excepted, of the then existing Debt of the
U. S. ; and the S. F. is vested in the Commrs thereof to be by
them applied accordingly.

Notwithstanding these Laws and the solemn pledge of the pub-
lic Faith, notwithstanding that more that 40 mills, of the old Debt
remains unredeemed, immediately on the breaking out of the war,
when the preservation of the public credit could alone enable the
Govt, to meet the extraordinary expenses of the war, Congress
broke in upon the S. F., and in the year 1812, the principal and
interest of the Loan of Eleven millions were charged upon the

S. F.

In 1813, the interest and principal of the Sixteen million Loan,
and the interest and principal of the Seven and a half million
Loan, were also charged upon the S. F. In addition to which
sums, the interest and principal of the temporary Loans, together
with the interest and principal of an average annual Sum of Five
Millions of Treasury Notes are in like manner charged upon the
same Fund. And it is now proposed by the Bill before the Sen-
ate, to charge this Fund with the interest and principal of the
Stock of the new Loan of 25 Millions. These great additional
charges have been made since the War, and without any addition
having been made or even proposed, to the Sinking Fund.

By recapitulating the charges upon the S. F., it will be mani-
fest that it is insufficient to satisfy them.

380 RUFUS KING. [1814

The various stocks redeemed by the Commrs.

of the S. F. and standing in their names Dec.

31, 1813, amounted to $33,873,453

The annual interest on which stocks is

1,971,316.67
Estd. The annual proceeds of sale

of pub. Lands 600,000.00

2,571,316.67

This sum of 2,571,316.67 must according to the provisions of
the Laws establishing the S. F. be annually paid by the Treasury
Department to the Commissioners of the S. F., who are obliged
to apply the same to redeem the principal of the old Debt of the
U. S.

The S. F. of Eight millions of dollars is already charged to pay
in the course of the year 1814
Towards the redemption of the Principal of the old

Debt 1,971,316.67

Amount of the annual proceeds of sales of pub.

Lands 600,000.00

Interest upon 59,463,763.07, 6$ stock 3,567,824.16

Annuities of 1813, upon 16. Million Loan 7,968.00

Interest upon 16,158,177.34, 3 per cent Stock.... 484,655.50
Interest upon 5 millions Treasury notes at 5f pr. ct. 270,000.00

Reimbursement of temporary Loans 750,000.00

Reimbursement of 5 millions Treasury notes 5,000,000.00

12,651,764.33

being a surplus of 4,651,764.36 dollars above the amount of the
Fund.

Upon this Fund already overcharged more than Forty percent,
the Bill sent from the H. of R. proposes to charge the principal
and interest of the new Stock of the 25 million Loan ; the annual
interest of which Stock will be not less than 1,680,000 ; in other
words, the Fund, out of which the interest and principal of the
new Loan are proposed to be paid, is unable to pay one cent of
them.

In private concerns, such an attempt would be hopeless ; and
Congress should in time reflect, whether they consult the interest

[814] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 38 1

and honor of the Nation, whether they will worthily discharge
their own duty by hazarding what they must hazard in attempting
to obtain a Loan in this exceptionable manner. If the Loan fail,
because the offered security is defective, who ought to be, who
will be responsible to the Nation ?

Anticipating the calamitous consequences, private as well as
public, of a failure to fill the Loan, let Congress attempt to avert
this great calamity by those means which are within their power,
means that it may be hoped may be sufficient to ensure success.
Let them provide and pledge Funds, adequate to pay the inter-
est and to redeem the principal of the new Loan. Let them
moreover engage that the Funds so provided shall continue to be
so applied until the Debt be redeemed.

The product of the internal Taxes, which have not yet been
appropriated, will be sufficient for this purpose — possibly in the
commencement, the proceeds of these Taxes may be less than
hereafter they will become. But with such modifications as
experience may suggest, this Fund will be adequate to fulfil the
object of its appropriation.

There is another object of great importance connected with the
establishment of a permanent system of internal Taxes. The rev-
enue derived from foreign trade is dependent upon the laws, the
justice, the moderation and the policy of foreign Powers. It is
not therefore a resource upon which Nations can rely in extra-
ordinary occasions ; and certainly ought not in these circumstances
to be the only resource.

Altho' war between other commercial Nations has the effect to
increase our own neutral commerce, and the revenue derived from
it ; yet war in which the U. S. are a party, curtails our trade, and
diminishes the revenue received from it. Moreover as commerce
is considered and employed by our national authorities as an in-
strument to compel other Nations to change their measures, and to
pursue a policy more agreeable to us, the insecurity of trade and of
the revenue which it affords, are not only dependent upon foreign
Powers, but upon the foreign policy of our own Government.

Debate on the Loan Bill continued.

Friday, 18 March. Mr. Bibb of Georgia — Objectio7i. — Mr. K's
Estimate of Debt erroneous — because 2 millions of debt will be

382 RUFUS KING. [1814

paid off in 1814 : this therefore should be deducted from his Es-
timate of the aggregate of the Debt at the end of 1814.

Answer. The war plan of finance is now stated to be to raise
within the year enough to defray 7 mill, on acct. of the Peace Es-
tablishment, and the whole interest upon the Debt, including that
of new Loans — unf finding the Sinking Fund in its operation to re-
deem the Debt during the war and effecting the stipulated redemp-
tion of pub. Debt by contracting new Loans.

It is plain from this statement of the plan of finance, that such
redemption of ten millions of the principal of the Debt cannot
diminish the Debt ; because for every two millions redeemed the
money is obtained by borrowing, and contracting new Debt of
equal amount — in other words an equal Debt is contracted. If a
man owes 5000 dollars, for which he has given 5 different Bonds
of 1000 dols. each, and his purpose be to pay them off, and he
does pay off one Bond annually, and out of his income, he will
reduce his Debt twenty five per cent yearly, and in five years pay
off the whole Debt. But if, to enable him to pay off this Debt,
he annually borrows 1000 dol. upon a new Bond and with this
pays off an old Bond for the same sum, will any one say he has
lessened his Debt ; if he will, the problem is a curious one, in
how many years, at this rate, will he be able to pay off the whole
of his Debt ? The operation is a delusion, it is downright staring
folly, and very ill comports with the sincerity of the profession of
respect for the intelligence of our fellow Citizens which we so
often hear repeated.

Mr. Bibb of Georgia. 2d. Objection. — The comparison of the
annual income and the charges which are made upon it, accord-
ing to the war plan of finance — inasmuch as the plan includes the
proceeds of the annual sales of pub. land as a branch of income,
and it is excluded from the statement offered by Mr. K.

Answer. — All will allow that the proceeds of the Lands are in-
violably appropriated, and under the sanction of the pub. faith,
are alone payable to the Comrs. of the S. F., to be applied to
redeem the principal of the old Debt.

In the comparison of the income and the charges upon it, the
proceeds of the Land neither appear as a branch of the income,
nor does the reimbursement of any part of the principal of the
debt appear as a charge upon it, the income. If the proceeds of

1 8 14] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 383

Land sales be added to the income, a correspondent additional
charge must be made upon the income to enable the Commrs. to
payoff so much of the principal of the old Debt, as such proceeds
would redeem. Hence it is manifest that the result is the same
which ever way the account is stated. The deficit in the cur-
rent year exceeds 4 mills., instead of falling short one Million.

But the question is not whether there be a deficit or not ; that
is admitted by all ; the only enquiry is whether it be one or four
millions.

Bibb. Geog. 3d. Objection. — The charges upon the Sinking
Fund, by which they are made to exceed the amount of the Fund
by more than four millions are erroneous. First by the charge of
750,000 dol. temporary Loan upon this Fund ; which is to be re-
imbursed by money to be borrowed or by creating an equivalent
and new Debt. And secondly, by the charge of 5 mil. of Treasury
Notes ; which tho' in fact charged by Law upon the S. F., ought
not to have been so charged, and which are not an incumbrance
except for a single year, after which the Fund will be adequate.

Answer. The inquiry is not what ought to have been charged,
but what is charged upon the S. F. The payment of the tempo-
rary Loan of 750,000 dols. and of the 5 mils, of Treasury Notes is
by Law charged upon the S. F. ; and the question, therefore,
whether the Fund be sufficient, is a simple one of arithmetic. By
this rule it is ascertained that the fund is this year deficient more
than four millions.

But there is a still more conclusive answer which may be given
to the doubts whether the Sinking Fund be sufficient to satisfy
the charges already made upon it, and moreover to pay the inter-
est of the proposed Loan of 25 millions.

By the Law of 1803, which increased the Sinking Fund to the
sum of 8 millions, the whole of the S. F. is vested in the Comrs. and
appropriated to the payment of the interest and principal of the
Debt of the U. S., existing at that time. More than Forty mil-
lions of that Debt still remains unredeemed ; and the faith of the
U. S. is pledged to the holders of this stock to apply this sum,
this identical Fund, annually in the payment of the interest, and
reimbursement of the principal of the Debt.

By what principle of honest policy, by what rule of justice or
of honor, can Congress now divert this Fund ? Congress may

384 RUFUS KING. [1814

repeal the Laws of the U. S. but can they repeal their Contracts?
Congress may pledge the public faith and the President may
pledge the honor of the U. S. but can either withdraw the pledge,
until that be performed for which faith and honor are the security ?
I address myself to the Senators of the U. S. ; I put this question
to honorable men.

You have charged upon the Sinking Fund the interest of the
war Loans already made ; and you now propose to add to this
charge more than a million and a half, on acct. of the 25 mil.
Loan ; in case the S. F. should become insufficient to discharge
these additional burthens upon it, the Bill pledges the faith of
the U. S. to make up such deficiency.

Thus you propose to the money lenders to advance their money
upon the security of the Sinking Fund, supported by the pledge
of the pub. faith ; you do this, forgetting that the entire Fund
is pledged, and that by offering to pledge it afresh, you violate
the pub. faith. Why has this device been resorted to ? why has
it been attempted to withdraw from the Sinking Fund so much
thereof as stands pledged to the Creditors to be applied annually
in paying off the principal of the old Debt, as may from year to
year be required to pay the interest upon the new Loans ? Why
has it been resolved that the public faith should be violated for
this purpose ?

According to the war plan of finance, as now explained, for
every reimbursement of the principal of the old Debt, the money,
instead of being taken from the Fund provided for that pur-
pose, is to be borrowed, and so much of the S. F. as may there-
by be liberated, is to be applied to pay the interest of the new
Loans.

Why not preserve the pub. faith by suffering the S. F. to pro-
ceed according to the provisions of Law, and borrow to pay the
interest of the new Loans ? the effect as regards the increase of
the Debt would be the same in either course. The only imagin-
able reason is that the public credit might be, as it ought to be
and will be, affected by a system of borrowing, in which money
is borrowed not only for the extraordinary service of war, but
to pay the interest of former Loans. But does the device resorted
to conceal the truth ? Money lenders are among the keenest
and most sharpsighted men in society. They understand their

1814] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 385

business, and examine most critically your Laws and your prac-
tice under them.

Instead of gaining in point of interest, by an expense of char-
acter, we shall be certain to lose in both ; we shall lose in character
by a palpable and unnecessary violation of the public faith ; we
shall lose in interest. To show this requires a short illustration
of the nature and salutary influence of a Sinking Fund.

The ultimate purpose of a Sinking Fund is to pay off in a given
time a public Debt. Thus one per cent of the capital of any
Loan, annually applied, interest being 6 per. cent., would pay off
any Loan or Debt in about 34 years. The effect of this regular
demand and gradual redemption is to keep up the value or price
of the stock ; so that the stockholder may at any time sell out
at the price he bought in. This stability in value induces per-
sons, having money on hand, to invest the same in the purchase
of stocks, knowing when the money is wanted to provide for his
children, to improve his estate, or to engage in business, that he
can sell out of the stocks without loss. Not only is the stability
of the price of the stocks advantageous to the stockholder, but
Government itself is deeply concerned therein ; and at no time
so much concerned as in time of war, and especially in a war, the
expenses of which are to be wholly defrayed by a series of Loans.

As the borrowing by a Government, is nothing more than sell-
ing its Bonds, or certificates of stock, it requires no proof to
show, that the higher the price of stock, the more money will
Govt, receive on the sale of its certificates or stock. If the 6 per,
cents were now at 98 or 99, as they were at the declaration of
war, Govt, would receive 98 or 99 dollars for every certificate of
100 dollars ; instead of receiving only 88 and a fraction dollars,
as it did upon the last Loan. The Sinking Fund, instead of being
violated, should have been suffered to continue in full opera-
tion ; every new Loan should have been accompanied by the
provision of an increase of the S. F. sufficient to pay off such
Loan in a given time, and taxes sufficient to pay the expense of
the Peace Establishment and the interest of the Debt, including
the new Loans, should have been raised within each year. Had
this been done, the stocks would have maintained their value ;
Individuals would more readily lend, and the Govt, would effect
their Loans with greater certainty and on better terms.

VOL. V. — 25

386 RUFUS KING. [1814

Indeed without adding to the 8 million Fund, which may
properly be called part of the S. F., as the same existed at the
declaration of war ; if the 8 million Fund had been annually
increased by a sum sufficient to pay the interest of the new
Loans, it would have had great influence in maintaining the
price of the stocks, and would be moreover, sufficient to redeem
the whole Debt, including the new Loans, in a limited time.

A Nation cannot carry on a war by Loans, unless it have an an-
nual income equal to the annual interest upon its Debt, and more-
over sufficient to apply an annual sum towards the redemption of
the principal of every Loan ; nor can this be done in our own
country unless the system of commercial restrictions and Embar-
goes be absolutely and forever abandoned.

Endorsed by R. K. Loan Bill debate continued Mar. 18, 1814.

Remark — The division of the Sinking Fund, by making Loans
to redeem Loans, ill policy ; bad economy, because as you pay off
at the nominal amount of the Debt, and sell new stock to raise the
money, you are losers by the operation of the amount of discount
upon the sale ; and the Debt is increased by as much more, as the
new stock sold under par, exceeds the old stock redeemed. Thus if
the stock be 90, or at a discount of 10 pr. ct, you must sell 1100
dollars to redeem 1000.

Report of Debate on Loan Bill.
(Not in R. K.'s writing)

Mr. King said he would, notwithstanding the inducement to
retort and criminate, to do which he did not feel himself incom-
petent, confine himself to his original purpose. He said the
Honorable Gentleman, Mr. Bibb, Georgia, on the present occa-
sion and all others set an example of decorum, which all ought
to imitate. He then examined the constitutional sample set up
by Mr. Brown. Mr. King felt no difficulty as it regarded the
privileges of the other Branch ; it would be competent to protect
its own rights. Mr. King replied to the observations of Mr. Bibb
of Kentucky, more repugnant than any oration delivered in fifty
years. He had not supposed any gentleman so informed. If moral

1814] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 387

sense was as obligatory, why a bond ? Why establish courts of
Law ? If men be morally honest, lawyers may learn other trades.
It seems to be held that if a man doubt the obligation and force
of morality, he is an assassin. If enlightened jurists be necessary
to coerce contracts of moral individuals, what will be necessary to
coerce Congress ? Corporations have no conscience. For the
reason Congress cannot be sued, is a strong reason why a public
Creditor wishes something equivalent to the agency of courts.
Ask in what case, in which funds had not been set apart for Loans
and a war conducted on such principles, an explosion in the pub-
lic credit did not follow. If he wished to advise the measure,
that would sooner overthrow the government than any other, he
would recommend proceeding without pledging funds.

Mr. King then replied to the remarks of Mr. Bibb, of Kentucky
relative to the Laws of the Confederation to pledge. Moral hon-
esty existed then as much as it does now ; but the States did not
furnish their Quotas. An illustration of my ideas of the efficacy
of moral sense.

Can any man doubt that with a designated and pledged Fund,
you can borrow on better terms ? Which would most likely suc-
ceed a Bill with or without a sufficient pledge ? He replied to the
inconsistency of Mr. Bibb, that a former administration had put
its hands too deeply into the people's pocket. Compare the econ-
omy of the present and former. As to the power of Congress to
pass a law which a future Congress cannot repeal, Mr. King made
a few very irresistible observations.

Mr. King replied to Mr. Bibb, of Georgia, as to the amount of
the public Debt. He apprehended the several charges then will
be a deficit of 4 millions. Here Mr. King stated Mr. Bibb's idea,
and then quoted from the Laws to establish his own hypothesis —
90-95 — Comment — a process in law by which a Nation may be
made to do justice. Mr. King stated the operation of the Sink-
ing Fund, as working a security to the Creditors. Have I not
made out a case? And is not this revenue, the Sinking Fund al-
ready pledged ?

Here Mr. Bibb, of G, explained —

Mr. K. said he was not aware that the correction changed his
ground. To apply the Sinking Fund in the mode spoken of is
following a fraud. The advantages of the Sinking Fund. It

388 RUFUS KING. [1814

would allow the Creditor to exchange your stock in market for his
money when he wanted it. The ludicrous idea of a Sinking Fund
furnished by borrowing illustrated by a promising himself, without
an undertaking to the Creditor, to appropriate a certain sum to
discharge his Debts — finds it inconvenient and revokes. The
Sinking Fund is an addition to the original obligation. What
will be the consequence, if progressing in this way ? Consult the
true state of the finances. He pressed an attention to the impor-
tance to the public Credit. He hoped we should come out of this
war with credit — and the attainment to a reasonable extent of the
object for which it is prosecuted.

Mr. K. stated the estimates of the money required for 1814, and
then the ways and means ; can gentlemen then expect that they
will not fail when their expenses exceed ? He concluded by a
simple and different view by way of a reply to Mr. Bibb of Georgia.
The Sinking Fund is pledged for the Debt antecedent to the war ;
if any man will deny it, I will sit down. You offer a pledge of
faith by a violation of faith. He had not the power nor the in-
clination to deceive. He had a desire to aid the Loan. If this
Loan fails we are degraded not only in our own eyes, but in the
eyes of our enemy. I hoped all would cooperate. I disdain the
insinuation of being influenced by scorching ambition. Mr. King
here enlarged in an emphatic and energetic manner, in which he
asserted his motives &c.* He was pleased with the annunciation
of Mr. Jefferson, but he had not acted up to his promises. He
begged gentlemen to look at the proposition on its own merits.
He did not claim greater sagacity or experience ; but he had
some years and had seen what had happened in other countries.

* See Appendix IV.

CHAPTER XXL

Morris to King — Where in God's Name is this to end ? — King — Conversation
with the Secy, of War — About Conquest of Canada — With Col. Monroe —
Relative to the Bank-Bill — Is an Armistice probable — Has the Admiral
Power to make it ? — King to Morris — Wishes he could console him in the
present State of Affairs — National Bank — Is Armistice probable ? — King
to Gore — No Peace in Europe till Bonaparte receives Coup de Grace —
The Impressment said not to be of pressing Importance now — Peace on
any Terms — Jay to King — Morris' Address on Overthrow of Napoleon,

King To Believes Peace will be made, England and the Maritime

Powers want it — Drain of Specie — Proposed Coalition of N. Y. and South-
ern Banks — Remarks on it — King to Gore — Advises no Association with
Southern Banks — Farther Remarks on the financial Condition — Gore to
King — Boston Bank — Specie going to Canada — Do not consider the New
Loan satisfactory Security for Loans — King — Memorandum of State of
Negotiations.

G. Morris to R. King.

Morrisania, March 23, 1814.
Dear Sir :

I have to thank you, tho' late, for Favors long since received.
The Report of the Secretary at War will do no Credit to the
Administration or to the Country. That of the Commissioners
of the Sinking Fund is shocking. Where, in God's name is all
this to End ? Men without Talents, administering the Powers
of a conventional Government over Communities which boast
of Freedom, exercise a Tyranny which would drive the Slaves
of Asia to Despair, and no Man is hardy enough to raise a finger.
Am I awake or do I dream ? Is this the People that resisted a
mere Claim of arbitrary Power ? It seems to me I was once a
Member of Congress during a revolutionary War ; but is it certain
there was such a thing as a Congress ? Was there a revolution-
ary War ? If I venture to groan aloud I am told to be patient —
to wait ; — and what are we to wait for ? Must we wait till the
390 RUFUS KING. [1814

Claws of a human Tiger rake our stinking Bowels to look for a
Heart ? We once had Hearts — Hearts that beat high with the
Love of Liberty — But tis over, Adieu — I will not plague my
friends with the Expression of my Anguish — God bless you.

Yours,

Gouv. Morris.

Endorsed, Conversation Between the Secy, of War and

R. K.

April 5, 18 14.

Secy of War — Wilkinson having scented the intention to
bring him before a Court of Enquiry, has demanded a Court
Martial. This will be granted, but as the requisite number of
Generals cannot be spared to try W. he will remain in service :
probably he may be ordered to take the command at Washington
and generally upon the Chesapeake. Porter will be nominated
Brig. Genl. to command at Norfolk, where Parker, whom the
Senate negatived, was to have commanded. An officer other
than a Virginian required, on the score of economy.

R. K. How are you going on with the recruiting service ? and
will you invade Canada this year ? S. W. — If we are in earnest
the recruiting would proceed well — but new views are enter-
tained— pains are taken to impress upon the Western States, that
Canada is a fertile and desirable country, — if acquired by the
U. S. that the surplus population of the East will go to Canada,
and not as now to the Western States — that the consequence
will be to check their population and prosperity — this will endure
until Canada be filled — hence it will be expedient to defer the
acquisition of Canada until the Western States are fully populated
and their vacant lands taken up and settled — There will be no
Peace. R. K. You have then changed your opinion which was
lately favorable to the expectation of an early Peace.

S. W. I have altered my opinion. I think the late and great
success of the allies will indispose G. Br.; their terms will be too
hard, and a war pulse will be excited upon the failure of the mission
to Gottenburgh. In this case we must take Canada and Nova
Scotia.

R. K. Are you not mistaken about your expected war pulse ?
What reason have you to conclude that your Cabinet will not

1 8 14] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 39 1

descend as G. B. rises ? And in case of a failure at Gottenburgh,
is it not probable that another mission will be despatched to sue
again for Peace ?

S. W. It cannot, or rather ought not to be expected. R. K.
One other view of the subject — Do you believe, and if you do,
are you not deceived, that you or any other man of talents from
the East will be permitted to acquire the credit of conquering
Canada, or of rendering any other important service to the
country ? I do not wait for a reply, but express my own opinion
that the Virginia Dynasty will never allow to you an opportunity
to take Canada. Peace is the order, and the object, of the day.
It is to be sought for, and accepted upon the best terms which
can be attained. But Peace must be had upon any terms. R. K.
was at no loss to interpret the feelings of the S. W. and broke
off the conference.

Col. Monroe.

April 6, 1814.

K. Will the Bank Bill pass ? M. I do not know, but the
juncture is favorable. K. Will the President consent or refuse
the bill ? M. I am not able to say with confidence ; but I think
he might regard the measure as expedient ; and if the Legislature
pass a Law for a Bank, notwithstanding his former doubt he might
suffer the Bill to become a Law without his signature. K. Will
not the relinquishment of the restrictive system occasion great
difficulty and vexation in the importation of Eng. Goods ? they
can come only as neutral property, but will be liable to seizure
and detention by both Eng. and Amer. Cruizers and officers, as
American or English property. Would it not be expedient by
Law to Vest in the President extensive powers relative to the im-
portations and exportations of the U. S. ? All other Governments
leave this power in their Executives. It may be equally the dis-
position, and the interest, of G. B. and of the U. S. to mitigate
the Laws of war, and to give from time to time to their respective
Cruizers instructions to permit a regulated intercourse between
the two countries. M. I perceive that the difficulties to which
you refer will exist. The merchants and ships of the U. S. will
derive little advantage from the removal of the restrictive system.
Neutrals only will be benefitted. Perhaps it will be advisable that

392 RUFUS KING. [1814

a pretty extensive power should be vested in the hands of the
President. K. If there be a reasonable hope of Peace, why pro-
ceed immediately to fill up the army — Why invade Canada, when
the Status quo ante bellum will restore it, should you have taken it ?
M. If Congress remain two or three weeks in session, something
important from Europe may be expected. The Bramble sailed

from this Country and must have long ago arrived in Eng. If

ministers be immediately appointed to proceed to Gottenburgh,
and evidence shews itself of the expectation of an early Peace, we
shall learn it ; we shall know it shortly ; moreover despatches
from the Continent may be soon expected. K. Do you believe
that the Br. Adl. has any power to conclude an armistice ? M.
I know he has power. K. That is extraordinary. I recollect
no example of Eng. ever having granted any such power, except
to Warren — She has constantly declined a truce upon the ocean in
all her modern wars. The offer of an Armistice to America was
I suspect without precedent. (Mr. M. appeared to be shook in
his opinion, or as he said knowledge, that the Adl. on this station
has a power to conclude an Armistice.) K. I hope that if Peace
be expected the evils of war may be diminished as much as
possible. M. distinctly insinuated that they expected informa-
tion which would change our affairs, and that Congress would be
wanted to adjust the laws to such expected change.

U^gr0 An Armistice is possibly expected ?

K. Has Crawford made any progress ? M. He has pressed
the claim of compensation with strenuousness. The Duke of
Vicence used general assurance. Crawford returned to the
charge and again pressed the claim. The Duke in answer ad-
mitted the justice of the claim for compensation and engaged to
submit the subject to the Emperor. Crawford again pressed the
subject, and the Duke left Paris to appear at the Congress of
Chatillon.

R. King to G. Morris.

Washington, April 10, 1814.
Dear Sir :

Owing to my confinement for nearly a fortnight by an inflam-
mation of one of my Eyes, I have not been able, more seasonably,

1 8 14] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 393

to thank you for one or two letters that I have received from you
during this time.

I wish I could console you, by disproving your representation
of the degraded and dangerous condition of the country. Where,
and in what, the disorder of our Affairs will end no one can pre-
dict.

The entire derangement of the Finances, joined to the late news
from France, drove the President to abandon the restrictive sys-
tem. But so long as the Enemy keeps up the Blockade, altho'
English Goods may come in, the Produce of the Country not
being suffered to go out, the Payment for Eng. Goods must be
made in Specie, and thereby the difficulties which the Govt, al-
ready feel, will be increased, not lessened, by the new attitude, as
it is called.

Mr. Astor, for himself, Parish & Girard, has been here rec-
ommending to the administration the immediate Establishment
of a National Bank, and has assured them the measure would en-
able the Govt, immediately to borrow of the Bank 15 Millions of
Dollars. An effort to incorporate such a Bank was made, but has
been abandoned, in the H. of Reps.

A Judge Moers, or some such name, was in Canada some three
months since, where he and Adjutant Genl. Baynes talked about
an armistice ; Baynes expressing himself favorably about it. Judge
Moers, who lives in the N. E. part of New York, reported this
conversation to a Mr. Winter, a Representative from that Quarter,
in Congress; he communicated it to Genl. Armstrong, who
authorized Genl. Winder (who lately returned from a visit to his
family, to his Prison in Quebec) to confer with Sir Geo. Provost
concerning it, alluding to the subject as an overture made by
Baynes. Sir George not admitting that Baynes was authorized to
hold any conversation with Moers, said an armistice was a good
thing, and that he should not object to make an armistice upon
the Nova Scotia and Canada frontier, including the Lakes. He
was asked if he could extend it to the maritime frontier ; he
answered ambiguously or negatively ; and being asked whether
the admiral on this station possessed power to give to an armis-
tice this Extension, he recommended the enquiry to be made of
the admiral. Such is understood to be Winder's communication
lately received by Government. The Cabinet has taken measures

394 RUFUS KING. [i#l4

to ascertain from the Admiral, whether a maritime armistice will
be consented to by him ; and as there is some reason to believe
that the Admiral has lately arrived in the Chesapeake, the enquiry
will be likely to receive an early response. Our Rulers would
most gladly now accept what they refused when Warren offered
it. But I have no belief that the Admiral has any power to con-
sent to a maritime truce, or to unblockade our ports. I there-
fore have little expectation that any relief from the Blockade will
be had, until Peace be concluded. On that subject I cannot but
believe that the mission to Gottenburgh will make Peace upon the
best Terms that they can obtain — because the Administration
must see that they cannot carry on the war another year.
With great regard & Esteem I am, &c.

Rufus King.
P. S. The Rumour of an armistice is expected to help the
Loan. Congress have agreed to adjourn on the 18th instant.

R. King to C. Gore.

Jamaica, L. I., May 24, 1814.
My Dear Sir :

. . . The next news from Europe, as I hope, will be still
more decisive than that reed, by the late arrivals — I shall not
think the work done, nor can I expect Repose in the world, until
the Tyrant receives the coup de Grace. Any treaty with Bona-
parte would be insecure — I care nothing about the Bourbons, but
by their reestablishment there may be and probably will be a
Peace of considerable duration — I therefore earnestly hope that
the Allies will persevere until Bonaparte be expelled from France.

Of our Negotiators I know nothing but what was equally
known to you before we left Washington, except that a letter
from Beasley (Corny, of Prisoners London) to Charles, reed, by
the latter lately arrived, mentions, that Gallatin & Bayard, were
in Holland, that the former had applied for Passports to come to
England, that he Beasley having, thro the Bermuda News Paper,
ascertained that Gallatin was appointed to negotiate at Gotten-
burgh, had sent him notice thereof, and concluded that he would
proceed thither — so that there is no doubt that the Gottenburgh
negotiations will be assisted by Gallatin.

1814] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 395

Of terms I can suggest no new thought — except that, should a
continental Peace have been concluded, or its conclusion believed
to be near, our Envoys wd. say the Question of Impressment had
ceased to be of present importance. Peace might be concluded
upon the Status quo, and the Discussion respecting Impressment
taken up after the Conclusion of the War. This would be but a
poor Escape ; but if I mistake not, would be preferred to the Con-
tinuance of the War. Wise and intelligent as we are, does any
one doubt that the Country wd. still adhere to, and approve such
a Device of the Administration ? I am persuaded that those who
approved the Embargo, &c, and who approved also its Repeal,
after approving the war for Sailors' Rights, will approve of a
Peace that takes no care of them.

Democracy honored & loved Louis XVI. — it loved & honored
Robespierre & Company who murdered him, it loved and honored
Bonaparte who overturned them, and should it happen that Louis
18th expels Bonaparte, and reigns in his Place, he will succeed to
the good will, favor, & partiality of our Democracy.

And there is no inconsistancy in all this, because it is not attach-
ment to France but hatred of England which occasions these
apparent changes. What becomes of Jacob's 5 Mil. of the Loan,
I know not ; he applied in the city for 1^ Mil. to pay his first
Instalment due to-morrow, could not obtain a cent — went to
Albany came back without success, and has returned I believe to
Washington. Miserable administration to be reduced to seek the
aid of such men. Our Legislature is democratic, so that I fear
German will lose his seat. I hear nothing of a successor, who
will succeed German ? I have reed, half a Doz. applications for
my vote for a successor to poor Otis. But have answered none.

R. K.

John Jay to R. King.

Bedford, June 23, 1S14.
Dear Sir :

I this morning ree'd your obliging Letter of 20 Inst. I sin-
cerely rejoice in the events to which you allude and should be
happy to join our Friends in the proposed Celebration of them.
. . . The oration will doubtless correspond with the acknowl-
edged Talents of the Author. The subject certainly has Bear-

396 RUFUS KING. [1814

ings on and towards Topics which prudential Considerations
render delicate ; and which it is desirable should be treated ac-
cordingly. I presume it will be committed to your consideration
and that, under a joint Revision, it will be freed from any Idea or
Expression of doubtful Expediency which in the Haste of Com-
position may have escaped uncorrected. *

Circumstanced as I am, I can only thank my Friends for think-
ing of me and express my Regret that I cannot be with them on
so joyful an occasion.

Unless I regain more Health and strength than I at present
enjoy, I cannot promise myself the satisfaction of seeing my
Friends any where but here, and here it will always give me
pleasure to receive them. It cannot be necessary to say that I
number you among them ; so that I am with the best wishes for
your Health and Prosperity

Dr. Sir your obt. Servt.

John Jay

R. King to C. Gore.

Jamaica, L. I., July 11, 1S14.
Dear Sir :

I am obliged to you for more than one unacknowledged Letter.
I scarcely know what authority to give to Mr. B. & G. opinions
concerning Peace — Without communication with those, who only
could impart correct information concerning the Views of the
Eng Govt., they could form no better opinion in England than in
Russia — Neither of these Gentlemen, in the present situation of
the two Countries, had any business in England. Had they felt

* " On Thursday, the 16th of June, the diary of Gouverneur Morris mentions
a large party at Mr. Gracie's, where a plan was made for a federal celebration of
the European peace settled ; and on the 20th June Morris says " Mr. Coles and
General Clarkson come to ask that I will pronounce an oration at a meeting to
celebrate the restoration of the Bourbons. Promise."

"Go, between eleven and twelve (June 20th), to a church where, after a
prayer from Dr. Mason, I pronounce an oration of triumph to celebrate the
downfall of Bonaparte and the restoration of the Bourbons, with the conse-
quent peace to Europe. This oration, tolerably well written, was, in part,
well delivered. The audience were well satisfied. Dine with some of them
afterwards at the Washington Hall ; a number of tolerable toasts ; Mr. King in
the chair."— Diary 6° Letters, II p. 565.

1 814] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 397

upon this point as they ought, they wd. not have appeared in
England, where they are liable on mere suspicion to be confined,
or to be sent with ignominy out of the Country.

It is manifest that the democratic Party are disappointed, and
confounded, by the overthrow of Bonaparte — they affect to be,
and perhaps are, alarmed at the Politics of England, and assert
that she will be indisposed to Peace with us.

I am of a different opinion, and still believe that we shall have
Peace, provided that the Envoys are not limited in their powers
— I mean Peace consistent with the just Rights of the Country.

I cannot desire peace on other terms, — We must not relinquish
Territory (the Louisiana Boundary is an open question), we
must not yield any maritime Rights appertaining to the Sover-
eignty ; we must therefore retain the Right to use the Ocean for
Navigation and Fishery — The Coasts, Bays & Shores of other
countries are their coasts, bays & shores, and like our own to us,
subject to their Control.

The Ministers before this Date are met at Gottenburgh, or else
where — a long time cannot be wanted to ascertain whether a
Peace can be made — so that the Result will, in all probability be
known here before October.

I think England as well as the Maritime Allies must desire
Peace between America and England — the Market of the U. S.
is of more value to England than that of all Europe. The Con-
tinent is impoverished and cannot pay for the supplies England
could furnish — on the other side, tho' we have wasted our oppor-
tunity to grow more rich, we are still able to purchase and pay for
the supplies the Country may require. Spain, Portugal, France,
Holland, Russia and perhaps others will want our ships and ser-
vices in resuming their Trade, into which at least temporarily we
should immediately enter, were we not involved in a foolish &
unprofitable war. The President must now be convinced that he
can gain nothing by prosecuting the war ; his tone may continue
to be lofty, but his terms will lower. Not only can nothing be
gained by prosecuting the war, but the present administration
cannot go on with it if they would, because they have omitted to
lay Taxes, and will be unable to make Loans. On this head,
affairs are at the present moment highly critical, the Drain of
Specie continues to exhaust the Bks here and to the south.

398 RUFUS KING. [1814

Smith, Cashier of one of the Baltimore Bks, Parish, Girard, &
Astor lately made a provisional contract, to take 7 mil. of the re-
maining 15 of the 25 Mil. Loan. — the reduced Treasure of the
Baltimore & Philadelphia Bks has discouraged them, and they
have declined the Contract at 85 pCt.

Smith and a person with him from one of the Philadelphia
Bks are at N. Yk ; desiring to bring about a coalition of the
NYk. Phil. & Bait. Bks in order, that by mutual succour they
may mutually uphold each other. Fresh Drafts from your quar-
ter are said to hang over the City — when brought forward, the
City Bks will draw upon Philad. & Bait, and there is reason to
fear that they may be compelled to follow the Example of the
New Orleans Bank.

I have been conversed with upon the Subject of this Project. —
My observation has been to this Effect.

That to the security of this association, the Business of all the
Banks shd. be conducted by a common Rule or Principle, and
moreover that previously to its adoption, the Condition of each
Bank shd. be known to all.

The current of the removal of Specie has been from the west-
ern & middle States, to the eastern ones — whence it has gone out
of the country, or is hoarded by Individuals. The Boston Bks
are better off than those in this quarter, tho' not so much so as
is believed : the discrimination in their favor has arisen from the
contraction of their business, which has left the power over
their vaults more entire.

The value of specie in Europe is such that a great profit is
made by sending it out of the U. S. to that market ; no restraint
can effectually stop it. Besides there is great Reason to believe,
that Br. Gov. Bills, to a great amount are sold among us, and paid
for in specie, which finds its way to Halifax, Quebec and the West
Indies.

Loans to our own Govt, by some of the Bks (whether made di-
rectly or indirectly is immaterial) throw large quantities of Bk
notes into Circulation, which facilitate the means of Individuals
to draw the Specie from the Bks.

The Result of this State of things cannot be mistaken — the
specie before long will be so diminished, that the Bks will be un-
able to answer the Demands upon them by paying Specie — the

1814] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 399

proposed association may defer a little, not long, the crisis, — but
it cannot prevent it.

It has been suggested that the Bks in the Middle states shd.
explain their situation to the Boston Bks. and obtain with them a
credit, which shd. enable them to draw upon the Boston Banks to
relieve themselves. To this project the objections are strong —
even if the Boston Banks would redraw, like all the attempts to
preserve credit by merely drawing & redrawing, the scheme
would fail ; and the amount of the Credit would be drawn in
specie out of the Boston Banks — besides if the Boston Bks have
curtailed their Business, and others have enlarged theirs, the
proposed Credit wd. put them all on a footing.

Another plan has been suggested, viz, to extend the association
or compact of mutual support, so as to include the Boston Banks.
To this also all the objections which lie against the partial
association are applicable.

The decisive objection is, that a few months continuance of
the actual course of things will exhaust all the Bks, if united in
common support, and compel them to refuse payment in specie —
The Remedy adopted in England cannot be adopted here — so
numerous are the Bks. — so much more numerous their Directors
— so independent of each other, and so incapable & little worthy
of Trust that, remove the limitation of specie Payments, and
the Country will be flooded with Bank Notes or depreciated
paper money.

Peace, and that speedily, is the sole Remedy ; even that with-
out a System of Taxes will not save, the Explosion of Credit —
If the evils to be apprehended wd. fall upon our Bad Rulers, one
would have less solicitude — but it will fall upon the Property,
and Prosperity of the Country — and altho' in warding it off, we
seem to be helping our miserable administration, we must still at-
tempt to save the Credit of the Country — all losses from its fail-
ure must be borne by those who have Property — those who have
nothing can lose nothing. R. K.

400 RUFUS KING. [1814

R. King to C. Gore.

Jamaica, L. I., July 15, 1814.
Dear Sir :

Since the date of my last letter I have been in town, and in-
formed myself as well as I could upon the topics that I touched
upon in my letter. Smith, the Baltimore Cashier, had gone out of
town to Long Branch on the Jersey Shore, is expected to return
in a day or two, and as I hear is to proceed to Boston — Smith is
a federalist, was at Washington last winter — is reported to be
skillful in money matters, has made money, and probably wd. like
to make more.

I recommended to our N. Y. Bank to decline any association
with the southern Bks, but as the Dealers of each, are also to a
considerable extent dealers of all our Bks, they must mutually
support each other, provided all will agree to use circumspection,
and to do business upon a common Principle.

The Drain of Specie that is imperceptible, has the effect to
lessen the cash at the Bks throughout the U. S. But the con-
siderable Drafts (Drafts for large sums) which are occasionally
presented on the part of your Bank, and particularly the New
England Bank, excites alarm and dissatisfaction.

It is said that the New England Bk makes it a Business to col-
lect the notes of our Bks (giving in lieu thereof their own, and
perhaps some advantage as an Encouragement for the Exchange)
in order to send them on here to be cashed. In ordinary times
this wd. not be regarded ; most likely would not be practised, in
the difficult condition of the present times. It is I think very
much to be regretted. It is not only a Business which excites
odium among Political Parties, but one that creates meanness and
Disapprobation among a very numerous class of Men, whose
interest would be deeply affected by any serious Difficulty that
shd. arise in our monied Companies.

As this collecting the Notes of other Banks either to curtail
their Circulation, or in order to substitute the notes of the Bank
making such Collections, is not among the ordinary Duties of a
Bk, is not of a liberal character, and on the whole is a mode of
making Profit, neither Customary nor altogether creditable, I
cannot avoid expressing a wish that the Practice may be discon-
tinued ; since I am confident that the effect is contrary to their

1 814] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 40 1

Interests, the security of which, is without doubt of more conse-
quence to the Gentlemen of the N. Engd. Bank, than the Profits
derived from this extraordinary mode of business.

We hear or rather see articles in the Papers concerning an
earlier meeting of Congress than we expected, perhaps the Pr.
may convene us on the first of Oct. — tho' I doubt it and should
reluctantly attend at that early and unhealthy Season. ... *

R. K.
* Memorandum in R. King's Handwriting.

Messrs. Smiths, cashiers of the Baltimore and of one of the Philadelphia
Banks had proposed in conversation at N. Y. (July 9, 18 14) with Mr. Gracie and
others an association between the N. Y., Phil, and Baltimore Bks to answer
the Dfts. from Boston or elsewhere for specie : the subject was mentioned to me.
My reflexions are :

That to the security of this association, the business of all the Bks should be
conducted upon a common principle, and the state of the affairs of each should
be known to all.

The demand for specie arises from its value in Europe. If British Bills of
exchange to a considerable amount are sold here, and paid for in specie which
will be removed from the country, the Bks will with difficulty support the drain.
If loans to our own Gov. by some or all the Bks be made, whether directly or
indirectly, is immaterial ; the power of individuals over the vaults of the Bks
will be stronger than the associated Bks can meet. Their loans, whether to our
own or to the British Gov. (for the purchase of Brit. Gov. Bills is in its nature
a loan) operate disadvantageously upon the Banks by withdrawing the specie
from their vaults ; the loans to Govt, throwing into circulation a surplus of Bk
Notes, which facilitate the drawing of specie out of the Bks — the sale of
British Gov. Bills having the like operation.

It is probable that the Eastern Banks are better off than those of the Middle
States ; tho' perhaps not so much so, as has been supposed. This discrimina-
tion can arise from no other cause than that their Bks do little business, so
that they retain the command over their specie. If the proposed association be
so extended as to include the eastern Bks, its ability to ward off the appre-
hended drain of specie wd. certainly be increased. But the objections sug-
gested agt. the association of the Bks of the Middle States would apply to
this extension. Those who have been extremely cautious and limited in their
loans, may be unwilling to make common cause with others who have dispensed
with these restraints upon their business.

The same objection, with increased force, would exist against the project of
eastern Bks giving to the other Bks a credit which would enable them to confirm
draft.demands upon these Vaults by drafts upon the eastern Bks, as the effect
would be to empty the vaults of the eastern Bks to the amount of such credit.

The danger to the public and private credit of the country, so far as the same

depend upon specie payments, is great ; and an explosion cannot for any length
vol. v. — 26

402 RUFUS KING. [1814

C. Gore to R. King.

Waltham, July 28, 1814.
My Dear Sir :

I have hitherto omitted to reply to your two Favors of the nth
& 15th, because I had not been able to ascertain the Views &
Practice of the Boston Bnks, in relation to the Subject of your
Letters.

The New England Bank is the only Institution that collects &
sends forward to New York the Paper of their Banks for Specie.
The Directors set out with a Determination to collect money, for
any one, in all Parts of the Continent, and to receive in Deposit
the Paper of all Banks. This with the double View of obtaining
some small Commission, and of inducing Custom to their Bank —
By these Means they drew Custom from the other Institutions,
& were enabled from this Circumstance, & their Commission as
Brokers, to make a considerably larger Dividend, than any other
Bank — This has exalted the value of their stock as well as their
own Conceit of their superior Wisdom. Most of the Directors
are industrious & shrewd men but of a very limited View. — Their
great demand on New York Banks does not at present arise so
much from their taking Bank Notes, as from taking Drafts on
that City. — I rather believe from the Conversations I have had
with them that their Practice is not without considerable Hazard
to themselves, and is certainly not free from certain injury to
their own, and the other Banks here, as it occasions a great Influx
of the New York Paper, which in some measure supplies that Cir-
culation which would otherwise be filled with their own Paper.
It must be in a Degree advantageous to the distant Banks to have
one here to receive their Paper & exchange it for that which
circulates at Home, yet when these Directors send forward

of time be prevented, should the war continue. Peace alone can preserve the
credit of the Bks.

Conference and concert among the Bks, including those of Boston, may be
beneficial. Tho' from the independence of these conferences of each other,
from the great number of persons concerned in their direction and other con-
siderations, these conferences even, unless managed with great prudence, may
prove mischievous.

How much to be regretted the dissolution of the Bank U. S. Had it been
renewed and its capital doubled, great assistance might have been given to the
credit of the Country — and the other Bks made much more secure.

1814] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 403

a large sum & receive Specie, which is brought to Boston, it ex-
cites odium, & should a misfortune happen to any Bank of whom
it is received, from any Cause, the Evil will be imputed to this In-
stitution— Although several of the Gentlemen, with whom I have
conversed assent to the justice of these Remarks and would be
willing to refrain from the Practice, I much fear whether they
will be able to do so until compelled, by the Diminution of their
own Specie, to contract their own Business of every Kind. — The
Mass'ts, Boston, & I believe the Union Banks, do not discount
to the amount of their Capital ; of course, They do not divide
more than 4 or 5 per Ct.

The Specie is constantly going in Cart Loads to Canada, be-
tween which country & the Eastern States, especially this, there
is an uninterrupted trade in Bills of the British Gov't — from two
Banks in Boston there have departed 1,800,000 Dollars since the
first of June. The State Bank sent its Specie, or a considerable
Portion of it, to Worcester, to save it from British Invasion and
has been obliged to borrow, from their Neighbours Specie to an-
swer demands, — They were told the Week before last, that they
must bring their own Specie back, for no future accommodation
would be granted them — Should any application be made to
these Banks, for a Coalition with those South of them, it will not
succeed. Great Attempts have been made to obtain Credit here
for the Subscribers to the last Loan. The Massts. Bank was
formally applied to for a Loan of two hundred thousand Dollars
in unquestionable Security ; the answer was prompt, that if the
Security was Satisfactory the amount could be had. The Pledge
offered was any Quantity of the last Loan, and the Reply as
prompt as the other, that they should not consider themselves
secured for one thousand Dollars, by a Deposit of the whole
Loan.

The whole of our Country on the seaboard is most dreadfully
disturbed. In Newburyport the Rich have become poor, & those,
who were in comfortable Circumstances, are Mendicants — There
were formerly not more than 20 Persons, who used to receive
Support from the Town, out of the Almshouse — The Number is
now 244 — Most of them but a few years since good Livers.
This was from one of the Overseers and is but a Sample of all
the Towns on the Coast. The accounts from Eastport are, that

404 RUFUS KING. [1814

the British have taken that Island with the Intention of retaining
it as within the Bounds of the English Territory as settled by the
Treaty of Peace.

We are rejoiced to hear that Mrs. King has recruited. I think
within a few days Mrs. Gore appears to be recovering, and I am
not without hopes that she may be in good health before the time
arrives for commencing our journey.

I have never had any fear of our being summoned at an earlier
Day, than the first of October — This I have sometimes thought
probable. Appearances indicate that we could not reside at
Washington without Perturbation at the present. . . .
I remain as ever faithfully yours.

C. Gore.

By the Olivier, French Corvette sailed 6th July recd.

by Envoys, 18. Augt.

Yesterday Bayard and Gallatin's Letter was recd. from London.
The conclusion of the Continental War has elevated the national
feelings and pride. The prosecution of the Amer. War highly
popular, and pretentions are made to restrain our commerce and
fisheries, to curtail our boundaries, to exclude us from the Lakes
and even to dismember the country.

Gallatin and Bayard however are of opinion, that Peace may
be made " by foregoing, for the present, to assert our rights as
respects a principal object of the war." Ministers however will
in their opinion prefer the adoption of regulations of abuses to an
entire omission of the subject in the Treaty.

From other intelligence, we learn that a great Force is coming
agst. us from G. B. ; and also that a large Spanish army is to
proceed to Florida, Louisiana, or some of the Southern States.
And moreover that a great concert exists between Sp. & G. B.

We have no evidence that Russia has interposed her good offices
to prevent the prosecution of the war agst. the U. S. by G. Br. ;
altho' Russia is interested in all questions of neutral Rights.

The Vienna Gazette asserts (as the Eng. Gazettes declare)
that an agreement has been made between England and the other
allies, to which France is said to have acceded, that none of them

1 8 14] LIFE' AND CORRESPONDENCE. 405

shall interfere in the war between her and the U. S. If so the
experiment of another campaign will be made and the negotiation
delayed on that account.

There are several papers containing the points of a speech,
of which the date is not given, in favor of endeavoring to
obtain peace. No continuous report is made, but there is a
general arraignment of the administration for its neglect to
prevent the declaration of the war, its failure to accept the
offers of an armistice and of other means to bring it to a
close, its prosecution of a system of foreign invasion instead
of making preparation to meet the enemy on the ocean, where
alone she was truly vulnerable, and the deranged financial
condition. Mr. King claims that the right of opposition to
such a course is inherent in every freeman. He says :

" The charge that opposition encourages the enemy and injures
the cause, has at all times been made as an excuse for the failure
and defeat of a weak administration. ... If war suppresses
opposition, the public liberties could not endure. Whether the
present war was intended to put down opposition I do not know.
This has, tho' I hope erroneously, been alleged. It should have
been foreseen. Men are to be taken as they are, not as theorists
say they should be. In this view whether the opposition is reason-
able or not is immaterial, as the fact alone should have been con-
sidered. It should have been foreseen ; not only so, but the
rejection of the armistice would unite the enemy and confirm and
increase the opposition. Neither the administration nor its sup-
porters will doubt, what no one can do, that the friends of Peace,
including the Federalists and not a few of their political oppo-
nents, have as much honor and integrity and as deep a stake in
the preservation of the liberties and just rights of their country,
as any other description of citizens, however arrogant may be
their exclusive pretentions — and that in defence of these rights,
on every proper occasion, none will be more profuse of blood or
treasure than the men who, while they obey the laws, openly pro-
fess to have no confidence in the measures or the ability of the
present weak and dangerous administration. . . .

" The prosecution of the war is to be continued, by creating

406 RUFUS KING. [1814

such a pressure upon the resources of the enemy as to compel him
to subscribe to reasonable terms. It is difficult to discuss this
topic with patience. Comparing the uninterrupted and prosper-
ous condition of the commercial affairs of the enemy, his triumphs
and his resources with the coerced and ruinous condition of our
navigation and trade, with the result of our campaigns and accounts
of the state of our armies, and with the impoverished and ill con-
conducted finances of our country, how extraordinary, how ex-
travagant to talk of a pressure upon the resources of our enemy.
Is it not the fact that the prosecution of the war, if conducted as
heretofore, by the suspension of navigation and commerce, by the
failures of the army and by the entire want of system in the
finances, cannot operate a pressure upon the enemy, on the con-
trary must end in the disgrace of the country and the ruin of its
prosperity ?

" If you prosecute the war you must place at the head of the
finances an able man. When before was this department at a
crisis like the present abandoned to clerks, and merely nominal
directors ? You must abandon the project of free conquest, and
preparing to defend your frontiers, cast your whole strength upon
the ocean : here, if anywhere you will make your power felt.
With twenty-five Ships of the line, a general blockade of your
coast could not be made ; with a hundred frigates and sloops of
war you might materially affect the commerce of your enemy and
afford great protection to your own navigation. This is the natu-
ral bias of your people ; it will be to advance the high destiny of
your country, destined to become the first maritime power.

" As but a single subject occasions your extension of the war,
and as that is to become the subject of negotiation agreed to by
both nations, I think it inexpedient to enter into any discussion
upon that head. I cannot avoid, nevertheless, from the materials
which are before the people to express my apprehension that the
conclusion of their negotiation will neither redound to the security
of our rights, nor to the honor of the country."

CHAPTER XXII.

King, Home Life — Battle of Lundy's Lane — King to Gore — Destruction of
Washington — Advises the Governor of New York to call out the Militia
and the Corporation to pledge Assistance to defend the City — Where will
Congress meet ? — Armstrong to King — Condition at Washington — King
to Gore — Preparations against Attack in New York — Condition and Acts of
the Banks — Specie Payments stopped — King to J. Mason — Cannot tell
where Congress will meet — Public Credit has failed — Banks agree to be
careful — Will go to Washington as soon as Congress meets — Effect of
Changes in Europe upon Negotiations with Great Britain — King to Morris
— Negotiation probably failed — Lord Hill's Expedition — King to Morris
— Treasury Empty — Army could not defend the Cities — England's Condi-
tions for Peace — Rulers cannot make War nor conclude Peace — King — In-
structions to Commissioners at Ghent examined — English Demands ought
not to be acceded to — King to Morris — Question of Removal from Washing-
ton— King — Course agreed to be pursued by the Federalists in Congress,
1814, 1815.

The return of Mr. King to public life changed to a very-
considerable degree the quiet and home routine to which he
had been for so many years accustomed and which gave him
so much occupation and pleasure. His house, which was
always open to his friends and to his own family, had been
enlarged so as to give him ample room for entertainment,
and every arrangement known in that day ministered to the
comfort of his country-life. His large and well-selected
library, filled with books of every department of literature
and history, was the family room, and at the same time the
sanctuary where he drew in the stores of knowledge with
which his mind was filled and where, in converse with the
wise and learned of former days, and with those who were
then on the world's stage, his hours passed with ever-re-
408 RUFUS KING. [1814

newed pleasure and profit. An active and vigorous consti-
tution was maintained by exercise in fishing along the trout
streams, and in shooting the various kinds of game which
then abounded about his very home on Long Island. In
these sports he had a worthy companion in one of his neigh-
bors Mr. Cornelius I. Bogart. Both were good horsemen
and enjoyed their rides through the country, dressed in the
olden style — short breeches and long boots with broad
leather tops.

The care of his farm, which he sought to keep in high
cultivation, gave him variety in his daily life ; his cattle were
carefully bred and of the best kind, and everything about
him indicated that his personal supervision was the secret of
success. But where his love of nature was most clearly
shown, was in the plantations of fruit and shade trees and
shrubbery about the house. Native plants found a tender
care and a fitting, congenial home among the many foreigners
which adorned the grounds. Each year an almanac, with
blank leaves, is marked with times of the flowering of
plants, the return of seed-time and harvest, the coming back
of birds to their homes, so carefully guarded, among the
trees and shrubs — and indeed with every indication that he
loved these minute but deeply interesting facts.

With the exception of short excursions, visits to the sea-
shore, eight miles distant from his house, and not very
frequent jaunts to New York, twelve miles from Jamaica,
but where he met his friends and personally mingled among
business men, he was satisfied with the enjoyment of the
pleasure of a happy home, and most reluctantly left it to
engage in the more active duties to which his senatorial life
called him, amid the discomforts of a large village, which the
City of Washington was at this time. It was always a great
happiness to him to return to the quiet life and pleasant
surroundings to which he had accustomed himself.

But as has been seen in the letters which have been and
are to be given, the affairs of the Country, — troubled by an
unnecessary, and with its embargoes and mercantile restric-

1814] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 409

tions, ruinous war, — required most careful and prudent
handling and absorbed the deep attention of all who could
influence and possibly direct the issues. Mr. King, though
representing those opposed to the administration of Mr.
Madison, and in a minority in the Senate, entered earnestly
upon the duties of his office, and sought to prevent the evil
effects of much proposed legislation, and to bring back those
sound principles in diplomacy and finance which he believed
were best for the Country ; and while deprecating the war,
deemed it right to put in the hands of the executive the
means of bringing it to a close with honor.

The Country had recently been cheered with the glorious
achievements of the Army at Chippewa and Lundy's Lane,*
and with the destruction of the British fleet on Lake Cham-
plain by Macdonough ; and the offer of Russian mediation
with England opened a way to a peace which all longed for.
Though this was rejected by Great Britain, it led to a
proposition for a direct negotiation between the two States,
which at this time was about to be entered upon, and upon
the results of which great hopes were entertained. The
administration had abandoned all the points for which the
war was proclaimed, and Great Britain seemed willing to
waive all questions which did not propose to abridge what
she claimed as indefeasible rights.

* The Editor cannot refrain from recording here an interesting anecdote told to
him by his father, John A. King, relative to the battle of Lundy's Lane.
While he was in England in 1825-6, as Secretary of Legation to his father and
afterwards as Charge" d'affaires, he frequently met the Marquess of Tweedale,
who had been an aide to the Duke of Wellington in Spain, and was one of those
who met the charge of the American soldiers at Lundy's Lane. He always
spoke in high terms of the gallantry of those to whom he was there opposed and
particularly of Col. Miller. He said he never could forget his voice and the
solid step of the soldiers he commanded, as they ascended the hill. The night
was dark, and the storming force could only be seen when the artillery was
discharged ; but the tramp of the steadily advancing men was distinctly heard,
broken only by the sound of the guns, and after each discharge of these against
the coming foe, the calm voice of Col. Miller called to his men : " Steady,
boys, close up." Not another word was heard ; there was no stop in the
steady tramp, and the hill was taken.

410 RUFUS KING. [1814

In the meantime the financial condition at home was
causing great anxiety and a want of confidence which
interfered with the borrowing of money by the government,
thus crippling all operations. The correspondence will show
how this trouble was viewed and how it it was proposed to
remedy it.

R. King to C. Gore.

Jamaica L. L, Aug. 30, 1814.
Dear Sir :

I have been with Mrs. King during the last week to the Sea
side, where she has bathed for her health, but the disgraceful loss
of the Capital and the agitation it has excited brought me to
town ; where the effect upon the Populace is such as might be
expected. The Govr., who is there, the Genl. charged with our
Protection, and the Comtee of Defence appointed by the Corpora-
tion, are alike alarmed and undecided.

My object was to induce the Gov. to call forth and bring to
N. Y. 20,000 Militia, and as the U. S. have no funds, and have
deserted our, as well as their own, protection, to stimulate the
City Corporation to pledge themselves to provide the means of
subsistence for these Troops. I am encouraged to hope that both
will be done ; in which case we shall not be attacked.*

* " The citizens of the City of New York, greatly alarmed for the safety of
the city, organized themselves into military corps and volunteered to attend at
regular hours for the purpose of drilling.

" Mr. Clinton as mayor, by his public addresses and by his influence with
the city corporation, did much to keep alive a spirit of patriotism, and to aid
the national government, with funds to sustain its sinking credit.

" Money was wanted. The banks would not loan their bills without better
security than the stock or treasury orders of the United States. It was, how-
ever, understood that if treasury notes were deposited, endorsed by Gov.
Tompkins, they would advance some four or five hundred dollars to be
expended in erecting fortifications for the defence of the port of New York.
Mr. Rufus King, on being informed of this, called upon the governor and stated
to him that the time had arrived when it was the duty of every man to put his
all at the requisition of the government, and that he himself was ready to do
this. Mr. Tompkins replied, he should be obliged to act on his own responsi-
bility, and should be ruined. ' Then,' said Mr. King, ' ruin yourself if it
becomes necessary to save the Country, and I pledge you my honor that I will

1 8 14] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 411

Where Madison and his Ministers are, nobody knows, and but
few enquire.

Whether the Enemy will be satisfied with the Eclat of the
Destruction of W. or will attempt other Places on the Chesapeake,
or come this way, I can form no satisfactory conjecture. I am
inclined however to suppose that the Campaign will probably close
in the Chesapeake.

From the Canada frontier we have no late News ; Izard's
Position is becoming critical, and I do not understand how the
Army at Fort Erie are to effect with safety their Retreat : whether
Madison will issue a new Proclamation founded upon the Destruc-
tion of the public Buildings at W. (which was contrary to the
usage of modern war) and recommending to Congress to meet at
Lancaster or elsewhere, we can only conjecture. I shall not be
surprised if he suffers the Members to assemble at W. and
adjourn to some other Place ; this will save him from deciding ;
if he had any character he wd. convene Congress at Phila., but
this he will be afraid to do.

I shall wait until the last, to hear what is likely to happen con-
cerning the Residence of Congress, and will endeavour to inform
you of my views. In the present alarm I feel unwilling to be
absent when the session opens, and if I could contribute any-
thing to bringing Cong, to Phila. I shd. be anxious to do it. If no
Place be fixed upon by the Pr. I may decide to go on in the Stage,
leaving Mrs. K. to follow at her leisure with one of her sons.

R. K.

If our Corporation issue these Bonds at 7 pc. payable half
yearly, your Parkmans and others could not do better than to
loan their money. The loan will probably be half a Mil.

The Corporation is not only rich, but probably the richest pri-
vate corporation in the World.

support you in whatever you do.' These sentiments are the more honorable to
Mr. King, when we consider that he was then the prominent leader of the
opponents to Mr. Madison.

" Gov. Tompkins endorsed the notes and the money was advanced by the
bank."— Hammond, Polit. Hist, of N. Y., ii., p. 378.

412 RUFUS KING. [l8l +

J. Armstrong to R. King.

Washington, Aug. 30, i3r4.
Dear Sir :

Your letter of the 20th inst. has been received. From our
negociators or either of them, we have nothing later than the 2nd
of June. I think with you that the result of the negociation will
not be known here till October. The finances present a subject
of most urgent character, but which will probably be made to
give place to one growing out of the late disaster of the Capitol.*

You will best determine, how far this should affect your move-
ments, under the family circumstances you mention. We are busy,
or rather bustling to make head against a new attack from some
frigates which have ascended the Potomack and put Alexandria
under contribution.

Yr. respectfully & truly

J. Armstrong.

In consequence of the financial embarrassments the
Southern banks had been obliged to suspend specie pay-
ments. A meeting of the merchants of New York was held
on August 25th to consider what the banks should do, and a
committee was appointed to report upon the subject. In
the meantime the Philadelphia and New York banks sus-
pended the payment of specie, and on September 1st, the com-
mittee above-mentioned reported to a meeting, presided over
by Genl. Ebenezer Stevens, resolutions sustaining the New
York banks in taking this course.

The New York Evening Post of September 2d, says:

" After the resolutions were read and previous to their adoption,
the Hon. Mr. King rose and addressed the Chairman in a short,
but very eloquent and impressive speech on the subject before
the meeting. He stated that, in such a time of peril and danger
as the present, it was the duty of all well disposed citizens to join
in the defense of each other and of the country; that he was
satisfied, after examination, of the stability of our banking insti-
tutions, and that the directors would confine the issue of paper

* Aug. 25th.

. ii4] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 413

within safe limits ; that they had been driven to adopt the
measure they had taken on account of the distress of the times
and that therefore it was our duty to support them. He said this
was not a time for recrimination and division among ourselves,
nor was this a fit occasion to discuss the causes of our present
troubles. We are in a critical situation, and it is therefore our
duty to get out of it the best way we can. The enemy is at our
doors and it is now useless to enquire how he came there : he
must be driven away and every man join hand and heart, and
place shoulder to shoulder to meet him.

" We cannot pretend to give Mr. King's own words, nor to do
justice to a speech in a sketch ; but the above is the substance of
it as near as can be collected. It was received with shouts of
applause. The sentiments were unanimously approved and the
resolutions were passed without a dissenting voice."

R. King to C. Gore.

Jamaica, L. I., Sept. 2, 1814.
My Dear Sir :

. . . I wrote to you a few days past — since then I have no
further information respecting the place of our next meeting — it
is very extraordinary that we receive nothing from Govt, by wh. we
may know they have not abdicated, and thrown up their charge.
In effect, so far as regards the common defence, this abandonment
actually exists ; and for some days past I have been busy in the
City to raise up the means of protecting ourselves, 'in default of
the interposition of those who ought to provide for our safety.
We shall immediately assemble in and abt. the City 20,000 militia —
the corporation supply a million for subsistence — and by this
array of means, my best hopes are that the enemy may be dis-
couraged to come, in case our City has been among the objects of
attack. . . . Yesterday I was in town to assist on the occasion
of the Stoppage of the Specie Payments of the Bks. — I found
everybody well inclined to adopt any measures, which those in
whose knowledge or prudence they had confidence, recommended
— the Bks have by Concert resolved to limit the amount of their
Discounts, or in other words their Debts, to a sum, that I am
inclined to believe will entitle their notes to nearly, if not quite,

414 RUFUS KING. [1814

the same Credit, as if they were exchangeable for Specie — In
confidence, and on the presumption that this Contract will be
faithfully observed, the merchants and others met for the pur-
pose, approved of what all regret, and unanimously resolved to
support the credit and assist the Circulation of the Notes of our
City Bks.

I presume that yr Bks will be obliged to follow this example —
the same alarm will prevail at Boston as has appeared at N. Y. —
after a constant drain of Specie during the war to satisfy the
Bal. of our for. Trade, no Bank can stand the Effect of that
Distrust which the fear of Invasion is sure to create. . . .
Farewell I am faithfully yr. ob. Sr.

Rufus King.

R. King to Jeremiah Mason.

Jamaica, L. I., Sept. 2, 1814.
Dear Sir :

Hitherto we hear not a syllable from the Government ; where
they are, or what they are about nobody knows, and few enquire.
So far as regards the common defence, the Genl. Govt, has de-
serted its duties. Without money, without soldiers & without
courage, the President and his Cabinet are the objects of very
general execration. Where Congress will meet next no one knows,
some believe that the President will recommend Lancaster, more
that he will do nothing : Philadelphia should be the place, but
lest its accommodation should prove too agreeable, and so operate
against the rebuilding of Washington, it is likely that a majority
will be found in favor of some inconvenient temporary residence.

What we feared has come to pass ; the Public credit has failed.
The Banks in this quarter are obliged to stop the payment of spe-
cie and I presume the same causes will have the same effect at
Boston and with you.

In New York the Banks, I mean those of the city, have unani-
mously agreed to limit their Buisness, so that the aggregate of
their debts shall not exceed a certain amount. Specie payment
is the ordinary convenient & Salutary Restraint upon the issue of
Bank Credits ; this check being no longer practicable, the next
and a nearly equal security may be found in retaining the issue

1814] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 415

of the Banks within certain ascertained, and proportionate limits.
A measure to this Effect, the observance of which is to be subject
to constant inspection, has been communicated to the body of
merchants, who have in consequence thereof engaged to support
the credit & circulation of Bank notes.

The Destruction of the Capitol has alarmed our city. — At length
we have the expectation of the assembling in and about it of
20,000 Militia ; the city advances a million by way of subsistence
and I am in hopes that this array of means will discourage the
enemy from making any attempt upon us.

We have no tidings from the Envoys, nor have I better means,
than when we separated, to predict the issue of their Mission. I
had wished to delay my attendance until the first week in Oct.,
but from the late disaster which I am fearful will not be the last,
I am now thinking of going on in season to be present when Con-
gress meets. Should this be the case I hope you will not be absent.

Very faithfully Yr. ob. Servant

Rufus King.

* Without knowing the views and instructions of either the
American or British Cabinet, no inference concerning the Result
of the negotiation at Gottenburgh, can be made except it be drawn
from general considerations, and from an acquaintance with the
interest and advantage of both to be derived from Peace.

It is not extraordinary that men should be doubtful of the
effects of the late wonderful change that has taken place in
Europe. These events have been so sudden, and to the mass of
our countrymen so wholly unexpected. They are so entirely the
reverse of all the calculations of our Cabinet and their numerous
friends, that the shock has not been more unexpected, than its
effects have been embarrassing.

As the presumed basis of the policy which has involved the
Country in War, is not to be discovered in the able and correct
estimate of the interest of the Nation, we may presume that the
Cabinet will find little difficulty in changing its measures, seeing
the foreign state of things, upon the continuance whereof they
relied, has undergone so total a change. The War having been

* In R. King's handwriting.

416 RUFUS KING. [1814

declared in the belief that Bonaparte would conquer Russia, es-
tablish his Continental System and in the end dictate a dishonor-
able and insecure Peace to England, and these events having
failed, it must be the earnest desire of Mr. M. and his Cabinet to
withdraw from the War as soon as possible. This is a topic upon
which we are unwilling to enlarge : but we cannot avoid calling
the public attention to the dangerous folly of the political course
adopted by our Rulers. The Washington policy, rightly esti-
mating the character of the War and anticipating its termination,
firmly adopted the system of neutrality as the only safe and honest
one that could be pursued by America. Whether the Washington
Cabinet ever threw the question open so as, without the restraint
of duty, to examine what would be most advantageous, what
course would best conduce to the interest and power of America,
is a point on which we have no particular information. Had they
done so, we cannot preserve our respect for their sagacity and at
the same time believe their decision would have been that which
our present Cabinet adopted.

In the European Convulsion it was manifest that England and
France would in all its stages be found on opposite sides. If the
war was to be prosecuted to the destruction of one or the other,
Nations who could lay aside the merits of the struggle and look
only to the question how its interests would be affected by the
ruin of Eng. or of France, might have formed different decisions.
Their circumstances and local situation would naturally influence
this decision. But can any intelligent American now, or could
he at any stage of the war, hesitate which, if we were to take a
part, it would have been our interest to join. If England pre-
vailed, it is certain that France could afford us no aid or resources
against the Conqueror. Her situation on the other side of the
Ocean, the dominion which the Fleets of England in this event
possessed, preclude any help from that quarter, if France be even
disposed to bestow it.

But if France prevailed, if she had overthrown and conquered
England in the struggle, the fleets of Great Britain she could not
have overcome. These with her seamen, a large portion of the
wealth, of the arts, of the artificers, of England would have come
hither and here the struggle might have been renewed with the
highest prospect of success.

1814] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 417

R. King to G. Morris.

Washington, Oct. ir, 1814.
Dear Sir :

Enclosed I send you the President's message of yesterday-
communicating the late Dispatches from Ghent. It would appear
from the Dispatch of the 19th of Augt. that the negotiation has
failed. Some persons, however, entertain an expectation that a
Treaty with a provisional arrangement respecting an Indian
Boundary, may have been concluded.

If Lord Hill's Expedition should be directed to Louisiana,
there will be little opposition to the occupation of the new
State of Mississippi. Some apprehend that this Expedition is
intended agt. New York, or to take Possession of Rhode Island
— According to such accounts as I have seen, it is not sufficiently
strong to take and retain during the winter either of those places.
I enclose under another cover the National Intelligencer, contain-
ing a marvellous Project for the supplies of the next year !

On this subject, indeed upon all others connected with the
administration of the present men, one scorns to express what
the pub. so generally feel. Crawford writes from Paris that Eng.
influence pervades all the States of Europe; that none are dis-
posed to listen to our Representatives agt. England, and that not
a finger will any where be raised in our favor.

With Sincere Respect & attachment I am, dear Sir,

Yr. faithful Ser. Rufus King.

R. King to G. Morris.

Washington, Oct. 13, 1814.
Dear Sir:

The Conferences at Ghent are probably at an end, and the
expectation of immediate peace given up. No plan for prosecut-
ing the war, none for the restoration of the Pub. Credit are
thought of or proposed. Congress must feel the difficulties of
our situation, proceeding from the general want of confidence in
the Administration. But the excitement expected from the Pub-
lication of the Dispatches, it is believed will authorize the
President and his miserable assistants, to call upon the Nation
for their blood & money, reserving to themselves the exclusive
direction of the expenditure of both.

VOL. V. — 27

4l8 RUFUS KING. [1814

You have seen in the News Papers the Report of the Commit-
tee of Ways & Means ; indeed I sent you a copy of it — but the
Treasury is empty and owing to the deranged condition of the
Banks, the trifling aid obtained can be applied to the public ser-
vice only in the particular Districts, within which their respective
notes have a circulation. Various estimates are made of the force
coming out under Lord Hill ; conjectures likewise vary respect-
ing the object of this Expedition. If the army does not exceed
14,000 men, it is said, it will be unable to occupy, with the expec-
tation of retaining the same during the war, either Rhode Island
or the City of New York and Long Island, or any other position
upon the Maritime frontier of the Middle States ; but that it will
enable the enemy to seize and retain the possession of New
Orleans & the contiguous Country.

The last Note from the Br. Commissioners at Ghent intimates
an expectation of such acquisition in the progress of the war, as
could authorize an extension of British Demands at the conclusion
of Peace. — Taking into view the Dissatisfaction of Spain, the
Demand of an Indian Barrier in the north, the exterminating
war prosecuted against the Indians of the South (the whole
Choctaw Nation which has been hitherto at Peace is said to be
now in motion to destroy the remnant of the Creeks, who have
taken refuge in Florida) no acquisition would seem to be more
important for such purpose than the new State at the mouth of
the Mississippi. By the treaty of Grenville, concluded with
the Indians in 1795, the whole of the country, with a few and
inconsiderable exceptions, north of the Ohio and west of an
irregular line from the River Cuyahoga falling into Lake Erie,
to the confluence of the Kentucky & Ohio was reserved to the
Indians. Subsequent Treaties with the Indians have ceded con-
siderable Portions of this region to the U. S., and two territorial
Governments are established within it, viz the Michigan & the
Indiana.

The enemy now demand that the whole of this Region should
constitute an Indian Reservation or Barrier, between their & our
Territories. Should a like Demand be hereafter made in favor
of the Creeks, Cherokees, Choctaws and Missouri Indians, inclu-
ding the two territorial Governments of the Mississippi and
Missouri, it would in Effect deprive Congress of the power of

1 8 14] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 419

admitting new States, since these Territories alone remained out
of which to form them ! ! !

In a word, the Condition of the Country is dangerous, and
every Day becomes more so — the administration possess neither
the Confidence of their own nation, nor that of any other. Even
Mr. Madison lately complained that the Ears of every Court in
Europe were closed against us ; such, as he says, have been the
intrigues and misrepresentations of England, that no power will
raise a finger in our favor ; indeed, and strange to tell, adds the
President, they have succeeded in causing a general belief that
the U. S. entered into this war to assist France !

Our rulers can neither make war, nor conclude Peace. What
are the minority to do ? The Country is invaded ; it is threat-
ened with waste and Destruction — must we not unite to defend
it, must we not join in granting supplies ; ought we not to hold a
language firm & which cannot be misunderstood concerning the
Rights and honor of the Nation ? And ought we not to tell
them, after doing all this, that it is our solemn conviction that the
present administration is incapable of carrying on the war, or of
bringing it to a safe or honorable conclusion. How is this to be
done, by mere speeches, or by a more authentic and solemn
address. How often do I regret that you are not here, and
that the Country remains deprived of your Talents and great

Experience.

very faithfully yrs

R. K.

Commissioners at Ghent*

According to the Instructions given to the Commissioners at
Ghent, f they are instructed to accept Peace upon the state of
things before the war, including maritime equally with territorial
rights. In other words every object for which the War is said to
have been declared is abandoned. Compensation for alleged
wrongs under the Orders in Council, the establishment of new
limitations in the maritime Code of Nations, the security against

* In R. King's handwriting.

f Annals of Congress, 1814-15, p. 13 10 et seq. These instructions were sent
by the President to the Senate, October ro and 14, 1814, and referred to a
select committee, of which Mr. King wras one — Mr. Bibb, chairman.

420 RUFUS KING. [1814

visit and search upon the Ocean for the purpose of impressment,
each and all are given up. They are set forth in the Declaration
of AVar as the causes thereof. A Treaty of Peace is solicited in
which they will be explicitly or tacitly renounced. By the Law
of Nations a Treaty of Peace is an extinguishment of the causes
for which the war was made. It is in this sense that the Peace is
declared to be perpetual. Not that for other and new causes,
War shall not be made ; but that no future war shall be made for
the same cause.

On account of Orders in Council, impressment of British Sub-
jects out of American Vessels, or for any other reason assigned
for the present war, our Envoys are authorized to sign a perpetual
release and Treaty of Peace and oblivion.

But notwithstanding the entire failure and abandonment of the
professed objects of the War, (its real object failed at the Capit-
ulation of Paris and the dethronement of Bonaparte) the Enemy
may finally refuse to give us Peace, unless those, who have
humiliated themselves by renouncing all their lofty claims, con-
sent to humiliate their country by consenting to terms which
must weaken and disgrace the nation.

The privilege of fishing within the territorial jurisdiction of
G. B. and of drying and curing fish upon their uninhabited
Shores, is of little advantage to us. The renewal of this privilege
would be of no disadvantage to G. B. Its refusal discloses a
temper unworthy of a nation. We may acquiesce in this denial
without much inconvenience and without any dishonor.

The course of human affairs is in no way affected by a pettish
diplomacy of a nation, alike capable of a wise foresight and an
enlightened policy. The Coast of Labrador and the Shores of
the Gulph of the St. Lawrence are in the neighbourhood of the
U. S., whose consistency and growth can leave none to doubt,
that at no distant period, the dominion of G. B. upon the Ameri-
can Continent must cease when others may deny to her what she
now illiberally refuses to them.

The demand of a cession of territory in the District of Maine
is altogether different in its importance from that of the refusal
of the Fishery upon the Coasts. So long as Maine, according to
its present boundary, belongs to the U. S., and especially so long
as the N. E. angle of it remains unsettled, a passage between

1 8 14] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 42 1

Quebec and the Province of Nova Scotia & New Brunswick will
be impossible. Troops and supplies can be moved from one to
the other only by the long and dangerous, and for half the year
impracticable, passage by sea.

Cede the required portion of Maine, and a direct military road
will immediately be opened between them ; which at all seasons
may be safely and conveniently used to march troops and trans-
port military supplies from one to the other. Halifax may be at
any time reinforced from the W. Indies ; these troops may be
speedily marched by this route to Quebec, and the forces in both
may with ease and expedition be united in either.

The Islands of Passamaquoddy Bay are of small importance,
except that should Moore Island be retained by G. B., it may
give colour to the refusal of a passage north of Moore and Campo-
bello Islands to the Bay of Fundy. As mere territory, Moore
Island is not an object worth disputing on either side ; but there
being no safe passage for ships between the Continent and Moore
and Campobello Islands, its annexation is on this account of con-
sequence.

That the U. S. should neither maintain a naval force upon the
Lakes, nor keep up military fortresses upon the shores thereof,
while G. B. shall be at liberty to do both, is a demand, the mere
statement whereof insures its rejection. The want of reciprocity
in the arrangement would make its acceptance dishonorable.
That neither party should maintain a naval force, or only an
equal and regulated force, might be acceded to ; perhaps good
policy recommends this arrangement ; but neither can consent,
certainly the U. S. cannot do so with safety, that the Fortresses
on the Borders of the Lakes shall be dismantled, and none kept
up. Without considering the subject on the side of the enemy
we must recollect that the progress of settlement, from its begin-
ning in Mass. and Virginia, has been protected by Blockhouses,
Fortresses and Garrisons. The frontier inhabitants are scattered
over a great extent of country and rely for protection and refuge
against Indian incursions upon these Garrisons. If the enemy
maintains Fortresses on their side, and if they moreover possess
the naval dominion of the Lakes, they will be considered by the
Indians as the only formidable power near them. With them will
be the chief intercourse and trade of the Indians, who may be

422 RUFUS KING. [x8l4

readily excited to fall upon and to destroy the frontier settlements
of the U. S.; Indian wars, and if G. B. and the Indians are to re-
main allies, future wars between the U. S. and G. B. would be
speedily kindled by this unequal, unsafe and degrading stipula-
tion.

The arrangement would be moreover ruinous to the revenue of
the U. S. Having neither garrisons upon the shores, nor naval
power upon the Lakes to guard and enforce the revenue laws,
they would be violated with impunity and thro' Canada Br. goods
to any amount would be brought into the U. S., in contravention
of these Laws, the Fortresses and armed vessels serving as the
channel and the security of this illicit trade.

R. K. to G. Morris.

Washington, Oct. 14, 1814.
Dear Sir :

I have been confined by a cold and fever for some days ; to-
day I am doing better. Yesterday I wrote you a hasty letter
which I have not, even now, health to revise. I therefore send it
you in the rough. The subject of Removal will I hear be called
up again on Monday. Whether an adjournment to Philadelphia
will take place is uncertain. A majority is believed to exist in
favor of removal, but they are not united in the Place. Unless
we go to Philadelphia, we might as well remain where we are.

Very truly yr. ob. sert.

R. K.

(The following paper is endorsed by R. K. as follows:)

October, 1814.

Early in this month, the Federalists of the two Houses of Con-
gress met at Crawford's to consider of the course which they ought
to pursue during the Session. Mr. Gore was called to the chair.
The conversation was very general. A committee consisting of
Mr. Gore, Mr. King, and Mr. Dagget of the Senate, Stockton,
Pickering, Pearson and Oakley of the House were appointed to
consider the subject and make a Report. The enclosed paper was
agreed to by the Committee, and circulated among the Federalists,
and formed the basis of their Proceedings and votes during the
important session.

1814] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 423

Altho' the Declaration of war was unnecessary and highly in-
expedient, the manner in which it has been prosecuted by the
enemy, and the avowed purpose of waste and destruction that he
proclaims have so changed the character of the war, that it has
become the duty of all to unite in the adoption of vigorous meas-
ures to repel the invaders of the country and to protect its essential
rights and honor.

Congress should therefore grant supplies of both men and
money, provided the same be done pursuant to the provisions of
the Constitution, and according to an impartial estimate of the
relative ability of the several States. In respect to the Army, no
scheme of conscription for the purpose of raising it, can be ap-
proved. Concerning the Navy, a steady policy in favor of its
gradual increase must be pursued, and numerous vessels, not ex-
ceeding the size of sloops of war, should be equipped to cruize
against the Enemy.

As political power and direct taxes are apportioned by the Con-
stitution among the several States, by the same ratio, although in
ordinary and peaceable times the latter has not been exacted in
compensation for the former, the extraordinary demands of war
require, and will justify, a free recourse to this constitutional sup-
ply of the Treasury ; more especially as commerce, heretofore the
only and abundant source of revenue, has by the folly of our
Rulers, and the power of the Enemy been entirely destroyed.
Hence the expediency, that a large portion of the supplies should
be now obtained by a direct Tax, to be apportioned among the
States, according to the Constitution.

Of indirect taxes, that upon the distillery of ardent spirits
should be increased, and beyond the rate which is recommended
by the Committee of Ways and Means. The Stamp Duty may
also be extended, and other articles recommended by the Com-
mittee may be adopted as objects of Taxation. Some of these,
such as furniture, leather in the extent proposed, and the products
of the infant manufactures should be exempted.

On account of the unequal operation of the taxes in the several
States, it is not expected that gentlemen will be unanimous in the
choice of the various objects of Taxes. It is only in the general
Principle, that supplies ought to be granted for the defence of
the essential rights of the nation, that such unanimity is hoped for.

424 RUFUS KING. [1814

The Federalists have at all times been ready and at every haz-
ard to defend, and will be the last to consent to give up, the rights
of Soil and Sovereignty belonging to the Nation. They will there-
fore concur in the grant of supplies upon equal and constitutional
principles, whereby these rights may under wiser counsels and with
the aid of divine Providence, be vindicated and preserved.

But witnesses, as they have been, of the incapacity of the Exec-
utive Government, invariably manifested at home and abroad,
whereby the public credit is deeply impaired, and the objects of
the war, as well as of negotiation, have been alike abandoned ;
they cannot entertain any reasonable expectation, whatever be the
further means entrusted to these men, that the same will be so
used, that the public confidence will be reunited and the public
credit restored, or that Peace will be concluded on terms of safety
and of honor. Nothing short of an entire change of the Heads
of Departments will be likely to attain these important objects.

CHAPTER XXIII.

C. King to R. King — Proposed Changes in military Arrangement in New
York — J. Taylor to R. King — In Favor of National Banks — Morris to
King — Recommends a Refusal of Supplies of all Sorts — Does not Believe
the Enemy will attack New York — Believes the Chesapeake will be Centre
of Operations — King to Morris — Commissioners authorized to make Peace
upon Status ante-Bellum — Govr. Tompkins to relieve Gen. Lewis — King
to Morris — Monroe proposes to fill the Army by Conscription — Van
Rensselaer to King — Character of the War changed — Distrusts the pro-
posed Hartford Convention — C. King to King — Proposes entering a new
Regiment of U. S. Army — Morris to King — Probable Basis of Negotiation
— Plan of Finance — Jay advises support to the Government when right —
King — Speech on 3-million Loan — Administration's Treatment of eastern
Men — C. Wilkes to King — Objections to a national Bank — Wilkes to
King — Resumes the Subject.

Chas. King to R. King.

Camp at Stuyvesants, Oct. 15, 1814.
Dear Sir :

. . . There is great reason to fear that Genl. Lewis has it in
contemplation, to transfer from our corps of infantry into his more
favored corps of artillery and uniformed volunteers, all such, as
owing to the stricter discipline and more exact subordination ob-
served in the infantry corps, or from any other cause, may wish
such transfers. The effect of this in the first instance will be so
to reduce the infantry battalions as to render a reconsolidation
necessary & a consequential reduction in the number of officers :
by which measure a number of meritorious and aspiring young
men, who have with great zeal and success labored hitherto in
the discipline of their companies will be cut adrift at the moment
when they began to derive credit and satisfaction from their
efforts. The next and more serious effect will be, to produce
426 RUFUS KING. [1814

such a jealousy between these corps, as to render hopeless any
prospect of union in their endeavors when required : beside
which the esprit de corps, without which no officer or man ever
was good for anything will be so entirely destroyed, by a step so
degrading as the one contemplated to the infantry, that the few
officers who will consent to remain in the service upon such
terms, will lose all pride, and with it, in my opinion, all usefulness.

Without however going any farther into detail on the subject, I
must refer you at once to Mr. Wm. Irving for full information on
it ; and if he and every other person from this city, who has an
opportunity of judging, does not say that the infantry corps (par-
ticularly Mapes' brigade) are more efficient, better disciplined
and better officered bodies than Genl. Morton's artillery, I will
consent that you should take no steps in the request which I now
proceed to make, and which is that you will, if you can with pro-
priety, ask Mr. Monroe to direct Genl. Lewis to abstain from all
such transfers.* Genl. Mapes at my request wrote some time
since to Mr. Monroe on this subject, & he has, I believe, been
spoken to by others and been made acquainted in some measure
with our "griefs," for such I consider them. Your voice will I
think be not lost, if raised in our behalf : that you will not, on
enquiry into these circumstances, find it improper so to raise it, I
sincerely think.

We are all well in health ; but Mr. Grade's mind is not at all at
ease. I should extremely like to hear your opinion of the chance
of peace. If there were a reasonable hope, I would not hesitate
to do what I think Mr. Gracie wishes me to do, and go back to
Europe ; but if war is to continue, I should be most unwilling to
leave home.f With love to Mama yours ever

Chas. King.

* General Lewis was removed from the command, as the following shows :
"Governor Tompkins, with Adjutant General Solomon Van Rensselaer his
aide, arrived in the steamboat from Albany to take command of the United
States and State troops in this district (New York City) in place of Genl.
Lewis."— Ev'g Post, Oct. 20.

fAn opportunity is afforded by this letter to state, that the sons of Mr.
King, though they adopted his views in relation to the declaration of the war,
did not hesitate to follow the example he had set them, to give their personal
services to promote its successful issue, and especially for the defence of New
York. John A. King was a Lieutenant of a cavalry company, Charles King

1 8 14] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 427

John Taylor (Lieut Gov) to R. King.

Albany, Oct. 17, 1814.
Dear Sir :

I received under cover from you the Message from the Presi-
dent with the accompanying Documents from our Ministers at
Ghent. The propositions on the part of the British are in my
opinion inadmissible ; and I am happy to learn that this senti-
ment pervades every class of our citizens. Our next object will
be to prosecute the war to an honorable termination. To effect
this, the means will be required, and how to obtain them is the
important desideratum. The manner in which the last loan was
taken up did not add much to the credit of the nation. To cen-
sure is easier than to remedy ; I will therefore make no observa-
tions on that subject ; but will hazard an opinion, which if not
approved by you, will, I am convinced, be imputed to no improper
motive. I could wish that a National Bank was instituted. In-
deed, I always doubted the propriety of suppressing the former
one : but will a Bank afford the required relief ? I presume that
it may in time afford some aid, but cannot answer the end. Ex-
chequer Bills bearing an interest from experience will be in a
great measure ineffectual, as the community requires a circulating
medium. Will it not therefore be of more general use to issue
paper of small as well as large denominations declaring it to be
a lawful tender, and receivable in all payments to the United
States, at the same time pledging a certain specific fund for its re-
demption, say land, redeemable in six years. The country, at
least this part of it, approve of this mode. The interest saved by
this medium will be a considerable fund for its redemption. The
Taxes will create a demand for this paper, and the Banks who
now refuse paying Specie for their Bills, will be relieved from
the embarrassments they may experience by having this paper in
their possession. I have hazarded my opinion ; at the same
time, I feel confident that this subject is intrusted to persons, who
from a full view of the whole ground, will be more capable of

was a captain in a volunteer regiment, and James Gore King was selected as an
Assistant Adjutant General by Genl. Ebenezer Stevens, who commanded the
militia of the city, under the United States general officer. They all continued
in the service, except Charles, who was obliged to go to England on the
business of his mercantile house, until the conclusion of the war in 1815. — Ed.

428 RUFUS KING. [1814

deciding than I can possibly be. We have passed in the Sen-
ate a Bill directing the raising of 12000 men ; and a Bill in-
corporating any number of persons not less than five to carry on
privateering is become a Law. I believe we shall adjourn Satur-
day next. Yours most respectfully

John Taylor.

G. Morris to R. King.

MORRISANIA, Oct. l8, 1814.

My dear Sir :

I receive this Moment your favors of the 13th and 14th. The
Condition of the Finances was and is remediable, but will soon
be desperate. The Plan of the Committee of Ways and Means
is, in my opinion, inefficient. It would be impertinent to assign
Reasons for that opinion to you.

I wrote yesterday to Wells and Pickering, who will no Doubt
communicate my Letters. In Reply to your Question, what is to
be done, I answer decidedly, and without the Slightest Hesitation,
refuse Supplies of every Sort. Should the Grand Signior ask for
Men and Money to invade Persia, you would tell him we want
both to defend ourselves. Tell Mr. Madison the same thing, and
let him shew what Interest we have in the Conquest of Persia or
Canada.

There is, thank God, good Sense in Massachusetts. Should
the Rest of New England join her, I shall have Hopes of my
Country.

In answer to your Question, I feel myself bound in Duty and
Honor to declare that any thing like a Pledge by Federalists to
carry on this wicked War, strikes a Dagger to my Heart. Who-
ever shall utter a word of that Sort will repent it. The Passions
of honest men are played on by Contrivers who laugh at their
Credulity. How often, in the name of God, how often will you
agree to be cheated ? What are you to gain by giving Mr Madi-
son Men and Money ? Has he not told you distinctly that he
will not defend you ? How are you to defend yourselves when
you have parted with the Means ? If you go on at this present
Rate you will, in six months, be incapable of Exertion, for you
wage war at an Expence which no Nation can bear. Patriotism
is one thing, but Food is another, and tho* Patriotism may turn

1 8 14] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 429

out Soldiers it cannot buy Bread. As to any Protestations you
may make after giving Men and Money, they are mere Wind, and
put them in what Form you may, they will make no more Im-
pression than mere Wind. If you withhold Supplies your oppo-
nents will call you Enemies of your Country ; And what of that ?
These also are mere words. Hard words if you please, but they
break no Bones. Withhold Supplies and they hate, but grant
Supplies and they despise you.

I have never believed that the Enemy intended to attack New
York. If he should he will, I think, carry it and covering his
Flanks with his Ships, the Fortifications you have raised and
which he may avoid, will serve him much better than they can
serve you. But cui bono ? What will they gain by it ? Or cui
damno ? what shall we lose by it ? The Expedition, unless con-
nected with a strong Party in the Eastern States, would be if suc-
cessful useless, if unsuccessful pernicious to them. In all Events,
of little Consequence to us and therefore a Piece of Folly on
their Part.

I have always supposed that their main Effort would be in the
Chesapeake and not seriously commenced until the sickly Season
is over. The Conquest of Louisiana, which will doubtless form
a Part of their Plan, cannot require so great a Force as that un-
der Lord Hill. Moreover an Invasion of Virginia will operate
effectually on the Fate of Louisiana. An Army of twenty thou-
sand Men landed at Annapolis will march without serious Im-
pediment to the Point of Florida and oblige the Country to

Maintain them

Yours truly,

Gouv. Morris

P. S. yours of the nth just received as I am making this up.

R. King to G. Morris.

Washington, Oct. 19, 1814.
Dear Sir :

A day or two since I sent to you a copy of the instructions given
to the Commissioners authorized to treat with England ; as several
material portions of these Instructions were communicated to
Congress in Confidence, and are therefore not published, you
have but an imperfect view of the Pretensions and Expectations

430 RUFUS KING. [1814

of our Cabinet, enough however is before you, to shew that every
object for which the war was professed to have been made, is
given up ; and that the Commissioners were authorized to conclude
a Peace, upon the " Status ante Bellum," including maritime as
well as territorial Rights.

I understand that the war men are dissatisfied, and that this
Disclosure has not had the effect of satisfying them. Herewith I
send you a copy of our new Secretary's Report upon the Finances ;
as well as upon the expediency of creating a Bank.

I also understand, in consequence of applications on the Part
of the City, that Genl. Lewis is removed from his command ; and
that Govr. Tompkins has been requested to repair immediately
to the City to command the Forces. It will be quite in character,
if the respective Governors of the Eastern States be called upon
to take measures to defend their Territory and repel the Invader,
with assurances that the expenses shall be defrayed by the U. S.
Very faithfully yr. ob Sert.

Rufus King.

R. King to G. Morris.

Washington, Oct. 21, 1814.
Dear Sir :

I send you a report respecting the Taxes wh. we have reed,
this morning.

We have nothing extraordinary to communicate — a late News
Paper from New Orleans speaks of recent intelligence reed, from
Mexico ; according to which, the Rejection of the Spanh. Con-
stitution by Ferdinand has produced the highest Dissatisfaction
in Mexico ; where a disposition to cast off the Dominion of the
mother Country, extensively manifests itself.

Monroe proposes to fill the regular army to 62 thousand, by
conscription, and further now to raise 40 thousand local troops
for the defence of the several States.

I hear that the military Comrs. are somewhat intractable and
that poor Monroe is at the end of his poor Resources.

Yrs &c.

R King

l8i4l LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 43 I

S. Van Rensselaer to R. King.

Albany, Oct. 25, 1814.
Dear Sir :

I had the pleasure of rec'g your letter & the documents — the
demands of G. Britain evince a disposition to continue the Con-
test. I can not persuade myself yet, that they are serious. I
concur in sentiment & I am glad of your sanction that the char-
acter of the war is changed and that our Soil & Sovereignty must
be defended, notwithstanding the incompetency of our Rulers.
Our Legislature have passed a Conscription Law, 12000 Infantry
2000 St. fencibles & 2000 Negroes — the Genl. goes this morn-
ing to take the command : he is Lt. General his friends say.
Your taxes & our Militia I think will work a change, or an insur-
rection. Judge Benson is here, begs to be remembered ; he says
he has half a mind to go to New England to get them right ; he
fears they will at their Convention not take the federal course.
I think their game will be a difficult one & what their object is I
cannot divine.

With great regard &.

Your friend

S V Rensselaer

Chas. King to R. King.

New York, Oct. 31, 1814.
Dear Sir :

The change of command in this district has taken place and
General Lewis has gone to Washington for the purpose, I sup-
pose, of resigning his commission and settling his old accounts.
He is very sore at being displaced. You will have seen in the
papers probably the high character Mapes' brigade has obtained.
Lewis said rather too much in his general order on the subject ;
yet not a word that was not true. It is undoubtedly the best
militia brigade in this State and probably any other. I have just
given up my command to Col. Rensselaer, who has returned. I
have gained some information and some credit by this tour of camp
duty. If the war is to last, of which I think there are strong
appearances, I feel much disposed to go into the army, and of
course, of preference, into the United States Army. I observe

432 RUFUS KING. [1814

the Secretary at war contemplates an additional force of 40,000
men ; and one of these regiments, I should like very well to com-
mand. I should not willingly take an inferior commission. What
do you think of the project ? The force of 12,000 men voted by
this State depends as to its being raised, upon the voice of
Congress, as to whether they will receive and keep them in pay —
to which, as the force is to be officered and organized by the State
authority, I presume there will be strong objections. . . .

Of Lord Hill and his myrmidons we hear nothing — and I trust
shall see nothing : for brave and skillful as we presume ourselves,
12,000 men under his command would possess themselves un-
doubtedly of this City. . . .

I am, Dear Sir, Chas. King.

Endorsed by R. K. :

Ansd. Nov. 6 — that until the plan to raise the new military
force was understood, I could not decide.

G. Morris to R. King.

MORRISANIA, Nov. I. 18 14.

Dear Sir :

I am to acknowledge your Favors of the 19th & 21st of last
month, which by Reason of a short Visit to New York, did not
reach me in due Course. Accept now my thanks for them.

The British Commrs, mentioned very slightly the alleged Ground
of Quarrel as one which would probably make a Point in the ne-
gotiations. It may be disposed of in two ways, the first and most
eligible in my opinion, is to make, on our Part, a frank avowal of
the contested Right and then ask of them to insert such Modifi-
cations in the Exercise of it as the Sameness of Language and
Similarity of Manners require, when one of the Parties may be
at War and the other at Peace. The Second way to dispose of
it, and that which the British Comrs may prefer, is to say nothing
about it. This will, in Effect, be a full acknowledgment on our
Part and Spare them the delicate Task of arranging reciprocal
Modifications of the Exercise to suit John Bull in the double
Hypothesis of belligerent and Neuter. The Publication of these
Instructions places the Ball at the Foot of our Enemy who will,
of Course, kick it in the manner most agreeable to him.

1814] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 433

I was surprised at the Fire and Fuss made about this negotia-
tion when it was first published. Next to the folly of our Rulers is
the Madness of our Friends, who rashly pledge themselves to
fight for Sailors' Rights on the Frontiers of Canada ; because,
forsooth, Great Britain will not, abandoning her Allies, sign seal
and deliver a Declaration of her own Perfidy.

Pray make my respectful Compts. to your name Sake in the
House of Representatives, whose Speech I have read with singu-
lar Satisfaction. The Pretext that if we do not grant Supplies
we shall be conquered and colonized is so futile that I wonder to
hear it from Men of Sense. This Nation is not to be conquered
by twenty or thirty thousand Soldiers. Neither would our Inde-
pendence be, at all, endangered tho' a more powerful Army
should march from Maine to Georgia and from Georgia to
Maine.

Your Scheme of Finance will not answer. The People are
unable to pay such heavy Taxes in real Money, and the general
Interest to depreciate your Paper will take Effect notwithstanding
the Struggle of monied men. The Project of putting a world on
an Elephant's Back to stand on a Tortoise and he on nothing,
will have the Success to be expected from so rational a Device,
Immediate Peace, or the Destruction of Money Capital. Take
your Choice.

As to Mr. Monroe's 60,000 conscriptive men in Kendal Green,
his 40,000 in Buckram, they are worthy of Mr. Dallas' Bank
Stock. Your Enemy will not be deceived by such a Paper
Machinery of Force and Finance, but pursue his plans of Hos-
tility with a Confidence of ultimate Success. An Union of the
commercial States to take Care of themselves, leaving the War,
its Expense and its Debt to those choice Spirits so ready to de-
clare and so eager to carry it on, seems to be now the only rational

Course.* Yours truly

Gouv. Morris.

* In answer to a letter from Mr. Pickering of Oct. 22, 1S14, saying that he
had sent to him " the despatches from our Ministers in Ghent, their instructions,
and the statement of the New Secretary of the Treasury of his plan of taxes and
his project of a national bank," Mr. Jay writes on Nov. 1, among other matters,
" Things being as they are, I think we cannot be too perfectly united in a de-
termination to defend our country, nor be too vigilant in watching and reso-
lutely examining the conduct of the administration in all its departments,

VOL. V. — 28

434 RUFUS KING. [1814

C. Wilkes to R. King.

New York, Nov. 3, 1814.
Dear Sir :

We are all extremely anxious here, upon the question of the
proposed bank of the U States,* which I hope you will permit
me to plead as an excuse for giving you the trouble of this
letter. I venture to ask your opinion whether such a measure

candidly and openly giving decided approbation or decided censure, according
as it may deserve the one or the other. ... I have just read Mr. King's
speech ; they who complain that it exhibits too little of the snaviter in modo, can-
not also complain that it exhibits too little of the fortiter in re." \

\ Corresp., etc., of John Jay, 1893, iv. , 379. It is probable that the Mr. King
alluded to is Cyrus King, in the House of Representatives from Massachusetts,
who made a very earnest speech against the increase of taxes, in which he
warmly arraigned the administration and its followers.

A gentleman in Washington writes to the New York Evening Post, on Nov.
4th.

" Mr. King, on the subject of the bill to borrow three millions of dollars
yesterday in the Senate, came out with his usual ability. How cutting are his
remonstrances ; at the same time how wise and parental his admonitions.
' However discouraging the present of the country,' said he, 'with a depre-
ciated, degraded currency, embarrassed and sunken by the war, I will vote the
men and the money to the administration, suck as it is, to defend the Country.
Be the application with them. But let me remind gentlemen that conviction is
now abroad in the land, conviction produced by experience, that they wrill be
held responsible for the violation of those maxims which prudence and success
have confirmed.'

" I have long observed here that a certain political regimen is observed, cal-
culated to break down the pretension of every man who makes his appearance
on this great political theatre from the eastward, and who is at all qualified to
draw the attention of the public to him. No matter what may be his talents,
his acquirements, or his virtues, two questions only are asked. Is he of our
party? Is he willing to submit to the dominion of Virginia? . . . Hence
it is that in your State you have Clinton proscribed, German spurned because he
dares to remember that he represents the great State of New York — Fisk and
Taylor kept on the footing of mere voters, when the executive decrees are
to be registered, and Rufus King hated. King's lustre is so dazzling, his worth
so sparkling, that they cannot obscure him. They therefore hate him." %

\ Evening Post, Nov. 10, 1814.

* On Sept. 30, 1814, the petition o fDavid M. Clarkson and others, citi-
zens of New York, was presented to the Senate by Mr. German, praying for the
establishment of a National Bank and on Oct. 31st it was referred to a special
Committee, of which Mr. King was chairman. Mess. Smith, Taylor, Bibb, and
Mason were the other members. On Dec. 2d Mr. King reported a bill to in-
corporate one.

1814] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 435

is likely to be adopted upon the plan of the new Secretary. I
have found no person here who thinks the measure practicable
at present, or at all likely to give much relief to the government. It
appears impossible that six millions of specie should be obtained ;
but if they could be, they would not, by any means, secure the
payment of the notes of such a bank in specie for a month, &
if restricted from paying in specie I do not see how the
notes can possibly be kept from depreciation for a week. In
short it appears to me most evident, that an issue of Treasury
notes, bearing a low rate of interest but fundable at eight p. cent
interest whenever the holder pleased, & not payable at any def-
inite period, would be an infinitely better remedy for the present
distress of the government than a bank beginning almost in bank-
ruptcy, and urged, as it will necessarily be, to press out its notes
without measure. Such a bank, I own, appears to me a mere job
to serve a few persons who hold very large sums of stock & hope
in this way to get rid of it by changing its form. I beg pardon
for this detail to you who know the subject as well as any person
& will only add that at our weekly meetings of the banks, there
seems to be an universal opinion that the proposed plan will be a
bad one for the public & for the administration ; & if you thought
it would be of any use, I think it very probable the banks might
be induced to join in any measures of remonstrance against it.
There would be some danger to be sure in such a measure, as we
should probably be asked to loan money, but perhaps it would be
better even to do that, rather than see carried through a bank,
which in our opinion will only make the state of paper credit still
more desperate than it already is. May I beg the favor of your
opinion whether it is worth while to stir the question at our meet-
ings, and whether in any way, we can do any thing here which
may be useful ? I would fain reserve a bank of the United States
as a remedy, in better times, to recover the wretched state of our
currency. I am Dr. Sir with the greatest respect, your obt Servt.

Chas. Wilkes.
P. S. As a proof of what the difficulty would be to collect
specie, I will just mention that I have information from the most
unquestionable authority that the notes of our bank, sold at pub-
lic auction at Boston a few days ago at fourteen p Cent discount
& I know that our notes are in better credit there than those of
any of our fellow banks.

43^ RUFUS KING. [1814

C. Wilkes to R. King.

New York, Nov. ir, 1814.
Dear Sir :

I have just received yr. favor of the 8th. I am very happy to
find that you see no objection to a memorial on the part of the
banks here against the proposed bank. When I received yr.
favor of the 3rd, giving the heads of the bill, I thought it well to
lose no time in getting as well as I could the opinion of our
general committee on the subject, & I found them so much dis-
posed to oppose the measure, that I proposed a memorial which
was at the general meeting on Wednesday, referred to a com-
mittee to report again next Wednesday. I am persuaded all the
banks will agree to it except possibly the City bank where Mr.
Few's influence, as President, may prevent it. I have however
seen him & read the memorial to him & he has not expressed any
opinion unfavorable to it. I think it not unlikely that we may
conclude upon it next week. I wish very much that we could
have the benefit of your advice as to the matter of it. I fear it
may be found too long, altho' I have as much as possible endeav-
oured to shorten it. We express it as our firm belief ;

That the capital will be found too large, that six millions of
specie cannot be obtained by any inducements which can be held
out, altho' a less sum in specie than six millions, will not afford a
proper security to the public.

That even if six millions could be procured, the payment of
the notes in specie, could not be continued for any long period.

That if the notes are not paid in specie, they will infallibly
depreciate.

That if they depreciate, the present banks cannot without ruin,
take them either in payment or on deposit, &

That if the Banks throughout the country generally do not take
them, they will not answer as a general medium of circulation ;
which is used as a great argument for the necessity of a bank.

These different propositions we have endeavoured to shew the
truth of, as well as we can in a short compass, & we end by a
positive declaration that so far from opposing a national bank,
one of our principal reasons for thinking the present plan should
not be adopted, is that it would be to throw away the best remedy
for a disordered state of finance & credit, which in our opinion a

1 8 14] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 437

national bank, upon proper principles & at a more auspicious
moment, would prove. We add also that we think Treasury bills
issued in the way proposed by the Committee of Ways & Means,
with some slight alterations, would be a better resource for the
government, a much better medium for general circulation &
much less liable to depreciate.

I should be happy to hear if any of these topics appear to you
improper to be introduced. Not the slightest objection was made
to any of them at the general meeting & the truth of them all was
admitted ; indeed before I read the memorial at all, I had pro-
posed for discussion the different arguments.

I am astonished to find that the banks in Baltimore have de-
termined, at least we are told so, to take the notes ; it appears to
me quite evident that no bank can take them, if they depreciate,
without absolute ruin as a Bank, and that they must depreciate, I
think as demonstrable as that two & two will make four, if the gov-
ernment borrows from the bank even twenty millions. We are
told that the banks in Philadelphia are likely to follow the example
of Baltimore.

As the main objection, in my opinion to a national bank, is the
utter impossibility of paying specie for its notes, and as that
reason has only existed a short time, is it not a little curious that
the persons who have so long opposed a national bank should
choose the moment to advocate it when, the first time, there has
been really a sound argument against it ? As I take it for granted
that a less capital than the proposed one, would not suit the views
of the government or enable the bank to lend the necessary sums,
I presume there is no danger in urging that the present capital is
too large. Nearly all the same arguments will apply, at present,
to a capital of even ten millions ; but I do really think that the
proposed amount very much increases the chance of permanent
mischief. With the greatest respect I am yr obt. Sevt.

Chas. Wilkes.

CHAPTER XXIV.

C. King to King — New York Banks will send Memorial against the National
Bank — New York Troops — Wilkes to King — Sends Memorial — Some
Banks object to it — Has read the Bill — Gives his Objections — Prefers
Treasury Notes to Bank Notes — King to J. Adams — Announces Gerry's
Death — Mason on Gerry's Death — Choice of President pro tern. — Adams
to King — On Death of Gerry — C. King to King — Regrets he must go to
Europe on Business — The Governor gave him a Lieut. -Colonel's Com-
mission— Mason on Speech of King — King to Sir William Scott — Former
cordial Relations — Regrets the War with England — Hopes for speedy
Peace — King on the Hartford Convention — Advises Prudence in its Acts —
King's Speech on the Land-Tax Bill.

Chas. King to R. King.

New York, iSth Nov., 1814.
Dear Sir :

. . . On the subject of the great bank, there prevails here a
singular degree of indifference. The banks will, however, with
the exception of the City Bank and perhaps the Manhattan, agree
to transmit a memorial against it, drawn by Mr. Wilkes, I think,
with considerable ability.

The Conscription bill is, I presume, relinquished, as Mr. Giles
has introduced one of so different a nature in the Senate. Accord-
ing to his plan, the troops voted by this State will come very ac-
ceptably. You will see by the papers, that we have been successful
in our Election — which has been rendered more important than
Charter Elections usually are, by the exertions of the democrats to
displace " per fas et nefas " the present incumbents. . . .

Yours truly Chas. King.

C. Wilkes to R. King.

Bank of New York, Nov. 19, 1814.
Dear Sir :

I send herewith the memorial, which I am desired by the Com-
mittee to request you will present to the Senate when you think

43S

1814] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 439

best. A similar one has been sent to Mr. Irving to be pre-
sented to the House of Representatives. You will perceive that
it is only signed by committees from five of our banks, the Man-
hattan, Mechanics & City Banks declining to authorise their com-
mittee to sign it. I am disappointed at this result, because there
never was the slightest opposition made at the general meeting,
either to the resolution to present a memorial, or to the arguments
used in it, & all the members of the general committee were pres-
ent except Mr. Few, whom I saw two or three times on the subject
& he agreed perfectly in the truth of all the statements. Whether
their interest, as holders of 6 <$> C. stock, prevails over their stake
as holders of bank stock, whether they were afraid of displeasing
the administration or whether (which I think the most likely) it
arose merely from party spirit, it equally shews how impossible it
is to hope for unanimity upon any subject. We have endeav-
oured to use only such arguments as were of a general nature &
not applicable to ourselves as bankers, & we have refrained from
any reasoning to shew that the interest of the proposed stock-
holders is almost entirely under the control of government by the
bill as it stands ; yet I am afraid our memorial is too long to be
heard with attention. We have no hopes of its doing any good,
except as it gives the opinion of a few practical men.

I am very much obliged to you for your goodness in sending
me the act & for your favor of the 14th. It is melancholy to see
in what hands we are placed at a moment requiring so much
talents — I have read the bill over & see many things in it I do
not like — in fact, I doubt whether a bank can ever be made, upon
what I think good principles, when it is so much under the con-
trol of the government. I think the pledge to lend thirty millions,
whenever the government shall pass a law to require it, particu-
larly exceptionable, not only to the bank, but as it affects the
public ; inasmuch as there being no choice left to the bank, the
government may, under this act, force a loan from the bank with-
out providing adequate funds for the payment of either interest
or principal — nor does it seem a very improbable conjecture that
under various pretences, a majority may be found in Congress,
ready enough to raise 30 millions without the unpopularity of lay-
ing adequate taxes.

Altho' I have no idea that either Treasury notes or Bank notes

440 RUFUS KING. [1814

can supply the necessary means to carry on the war twelve months
longer without being made a legal tender or something approach-
ing to it, yet I think it quite clear that Treasury notes have the
less chance. I can see no advantage on the side of the Bank
notes & many disadvantages, & 1 firmly believe that Treasury
notes will be less mischievous, indeed I think their depression is
not a whit more hurtful than that of 6 ^ Cent, stock.

I am Sir with the highest esteem yr obt Ser.

Chas. Wilkes.

R. King to John Adams.

Nov. 23, 1814.
Dear Sir :

Another of the patriots of the revolution is gone ; the Vice
President was dressed as usual to attend the Senate this morning,
went in his carriage to call upon Mr. Nourse of the Treasury de-
partment, complained while there of feeling unwell, was helped
by Mr. Nourse into the carriage to return to his quarters, distant
not more than a quarter of a mile, was senseless when he arrived
there & being taken out & laid upon a bed immediately expired
without a groan or a struggle. Knowing your long & constant
friendship for Mr. Gerry, I have thought it to be my duty to im-
part to you the melancholy information.

With the highest respect I remain &c.

Rufus King.

Jeremiah Mason to Rev. Jesse Appleton.*

Wash., Nov. 24, 1814.
Yesterday Gerry died very suddenly. . . . The President
is often subject to bad health and is now sick, though not dan-
gerously. This gives considerable importance to the election.
[President pro tempore of the Senate.] The federalists and a few
others will vote for Mr King. Two on our side, one from Dela-
ware and one from N. Carolina, are absent. Were they present
we might probably elect him. As it is I do not expect it. Today
the administration party think of choosing Mr Taylor of S. Caro-
lina. They are not, however, very well agreed. Their chief
reason for setting him up is to prevent his voting for Mr. King,
which it is said he is inclined to do. . . .

* Memoir and Corresp. of yeremiah Mason, p. 107.

1814] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 44 1

On November 25th an election was held, resulting in the
choice of Mr. Gaillard, who received on the second ballot
16 votes; Mr. King had 10, Mr. Chase 5, Mr. Anderson 1.

John Adams to R. King.

Quincy, Dec. 2, 1814.
Dear Sir :

I am very much obliged to you for the information, melancholly
as it is to me, of the death of Mr. Gerry.

A Friendship of forty years I have found a rarity though not a
singularity.

I am left alone. While Paine, Gerry and Lowell lived, there
were some that I seemed to know, but now not one of my Con-
temporaries and Colleagues is left. Can there be any deeper
damnation in this Universe than to be condemned to a long Life,
in danger Toil and anxiety ? to be rewarded only with Abuse In-
sult and Slander and to die at Seventy, leaving to an amiable
Wife and nine amiable Children nothing for an inheritance, but
the contempt, hatred and malice of the World ?

How much prettier a thing it is, to be a disinterested Patriot
like Washington and Franklin, live and die among the Hozannas
and Adorations of the Multitude and leave half a Million to one
Child or to no Child.

Do you wonder at Tacitus and Quintillian ? I do but not at
the profoundness of their Philosophy. I am astonished at the
Shallowness of it, I am amazed at their Vanity and Presumption
in pretending to judge the government of this all. Their only
true Philosophy should have been submission and Resignation.
I am, Sir, with much respect and real Esteem

your obliged humble Servant,

John Adams.

Chas. King to R. King.

New York, Dec. 9th, 18 14.
Dear Sir :

. . . When I had decided to go [to Europe on business of

his house] I waited on the Governor to ask a furlough. He

granted it, but as he said with great regret, at the necessity of my

departure ; he, however, tendered me immediately a Lieut.

442 RUFUS KING. [1814

Colonel's commission, which, he added, " as you are going away
can only be complimentary, tho' it may perhaps be a good travel-
ling name in Europe." He expects my return in the Spring,
should the war continue ; and I shall endeavor, at any rate, not
to delay it beyond the summer. If peace be made this winter
my regret at leaving here will be diminished — but if not, tho' I
feel the propriety of the measure, I shall feel it as very hard. . . .

I am ever your

Chas. King.

J. Mason to Rev. Jesse Appleton.*

Washington, Dec. n, 18 14.
. . . We have had an interesting discussion on a bill to es-
tablish a National bank, in which I took part. . . . On that
occasion Mr. King of the Senate spoke in his best manner and
greatest power. He is the most eloquent man I ever heard.

In the Federal Republican of December 7th there is a
comment on this speech, which follows:

" It was then [after the speech of Mr. Smith, of Maryland, in the
debate on the National Bank] that Mr. King arose and addressed
the Senate in opposition to the bill and in behalf of Mr. Mason's
motion to reduce the capital to twenty millions of dollars. Those
who know Mr. King will at once judge how incompetent we can
be to give a just and adequate description of his powers on a
great subject like this. He displayed much learning and great
feeling on the occasion and created an interest that we could
hardly believe the subject of a bank would admit of. We forbear
now to make quotations of any of his sentences, as disconnectedly
they must lose their force and necessarily be tarnished by a sec-
ond rendering. The Senate and as numerous an auditory as the
apartment would admit, was chained down for an hour, with the
deepest interest and undivided attention, and we can justly say
no audience was ever more charmed, no statesman ever more
admired."

* A/em. and Cor. of J. Mason, p. 1 12.

1 8 14] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 443

R. King to Sir William Scott.

Washington, Dec. n, 1814.
Dear Sir :

I received with very great satisfaction the letter which you gave
in charge to my son for me. To know that those for whom, and
for whose virtues, we cherish a cordial Respect and Admiration,
likewise preserve their Esteem for us, is a solace worth much at
all times and especially in times of difficulty and public anxiety.
It has been the source of much comfort to me, to recollect the
consolation which I derived from the frequent comparison of our
hopes & fears, concerning the disordered and dangerous condition
of Europe, during the period that I passed in England. It has
been the decree of Providence that these evil and alarming con-
ditions should pass away. I have rejoiced in this event, and I do
still rejoice, that Europe is not only restored to Peace, but that
the great Disturber of the world is, as I hope, reduced to a con-
dition in which he can no longer torment & devour his species.

But you will be at no loss for my feelings, nor those of my
Countrymen, who, abhorring the Power that has desolated Europe,
and hoping for the final triumph and security of his enemies, and
especially of England, are now, strange to relate, afraid lest Eng-
land meditates to employ her whole force, freed as it is from the
European struggle, to divide, dismember and waste our happy
Country.

I cannot, it would on no account be fit that I should, touch
upon the cause of this wretched war ; but I may, perhaps with-
out indiscretion, observe, that on our side, we are all desirous, and
I think sincerely so, to put an end to it, by restoring things to the
condition in which they were before the war commenced. What
consequences may ensue, should the war be continued, I cannot
foresee. However much we may have differed among ourselves
respecting the declaration of war, should England refuse to put
an end to it on the basis we have offered, its character will be
changed and all will be called upon to unite in defending our
Country against what will be represented to be the rooted and
vindictive animosity of England.

I have considered the principles and conduct of England, mani-
fested in the late Treaty of Peace as disinterested & magnanimous,
and I have believed that the motives & maxims of this policy

444 RUFUS KING. \\i

*i3l4

were not peculiar to that extraordinary juncture, but of an en-
lightened, universal & unchangeable nature. We have therefore
extolled the wisdom & forbearance of your policy and spoken of
it as worthy of the applause and admiration of all men. What
must, my dear Sir, be our disappointment and regret, if we have
committed an error, in these opinions, and our Country should in
any way be disadvantageously affected by our mistake ?

But I will not pursue the painful topic ; My son will have the
honor to deliver this letter to you & on my part to renew to you
the assurance of my unaltered Respect & Regards. I beg of
you to receive him kindly and to allow him to ask your protection
while he remains in England. The same reason that heretofore
deterred me from even giving my son a letter introducing him
to you, prevents my now saying anything to you respecting the
business which, in these unhappy times, compels him to revisit
England.

Since my return from London, I have lived on Long Island
near to the Ocean and but a little more than an hour's drive from
the city ; my books, a little farm, with the amusements of the
country have occupied my time, which I have passed in good
health, in the bosom of my family & free from public cares. Mrs
King has enjoyed but indifferent health, tho' I am encouraged to
hope that it is becoming better. My three elder Sons (we have
five) are married and have families each of them. The two
youngest, one of whom was born in Westminster, are in the
course of their education. Soon after the war broke out, I was
appointed a member of the Senate of the U. S., where I earnestly
endeavour to promote the re-establishment of Peace between our
respective Countries, on terms mutually honorable and advanta-
geous to both. With distinguished consideration &c

Rufus King.

The Hartford Convention assembled on Dec. 15, 1814.
Among Mr. King's papers is the following, in his handwriting,
giving his views respecting it.

Hartford Convention
Public attention is directed with uncommon earnestness to-
wards this assembly. The difficulties of the Country and the

1 4] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE.
entire loss of confidence in the executive Government, have
eminently contributed to create this uncommon concern. From
the character and patriotism of the gentlemen who are members
of this body, there is no ground of apprehension, but on the con-
trary, much confidence may be placed in the prudence of their
proceedings. None who have proposed the means of obtaining
correct information can be ignorant that feelings of deep dis-
satisfaction and of pretty strong resentment exist, and were rising
to such a pitch, in the Eastern States, that without great pre-
caution there was danger of an open resistance to the measures
of the General Government.

Singular as it may appear, it would seem that there is but little
difference, and not much to choose, between the voluptuous and
indolent possessor of a despotic throne, and the obstinate,
inexperienced and visionary man, who by chance, or the blind
force of faction, may be placed in the Presidential chair. Neither
knows the true condition of his Country ; neither examines into
the State of Agriculture, Manufactures or Commerce. Both are
ignorant of the bearing and force of public opinion, the only
decisive power in a free government. Both rely upon informa-
tion and counsel received from those and only those, who have
an interest in deceiving, and who therefore do invariably deceive
them.

Mr. Madison, as it seems to us, has in this way become the
willing instrument of corrupt and wicked men. By what bonds
he may be bound, we know not ; but this we do know, that he not
only systematically declines to avail himself of the means of cor-
rect information, which the presence of enlightened and impartial
men put within his reach to obtain, but instead of consulting,
studiously excludes them from the opportunity of imparting to him
facts and opinions of which he ought not to be ignorant, and which
they have too much patriotism to withhold. The same errors have
been committed by Mr. Madison — the consequences may likewise
resemble each other — as were practised by George the Third.
The King, like the President, was ignorant of the true opinion of
New England, depending upon the reports and advice of his
Governors, Custom-house officers & others, who either held places
under him, or hoped to obtain places — faithless men, who by in-
spiring jealousies against everyone, who, as they apprehend, may

446 RUFUS KING. [1I14

give different information from their own, effectually exclude or
discredit their opinions : not only is the truth concealed, but
those dangerous men, knowing that the Administration desires to
succeed in its measures, and feels displeasure towards such men
as are supposed to oppose them, communicate false accounts of
the influence and numbers of the friends and opponents of the
Executive, ascribing to the latter selfish or dishonest views, and
to the former, not only greater strength but more purity and
higher influence than they possess. It is a fact that is' notorious
throughout the States east of Pennsylvania, that the men selected
for office by the national Executive, the Commissaries, the District
Attornies, Loan Officers, Marshals, Contractors & Navy Agents,
Post Officers, Officers of the Customs, Tax Gatherers, are not
only taken from one class of citizens only, but that the persons,
so chosen, are men who have little reputation either for intellect
or integrity ; and if Congress were to call for an account of the
losses by unfaithful agents, altho' the aggregate sum would be
found to be great, the number of dishonest agents would astonish
the Country. These things are not looked into. The President's
friends, who annually vote immense sums for contingencies in
every Department, an expenditure which has increased as our
morals depreciate, never stir this subject. Their opponents, civil
men, decline the trouble of doing it.

No men have ever been placed in a situation of higher respon-
sibility, very few have been surrounded by greater difficulty.
Angry and powerful impulses press them from without, while an
influence that some may call mere pride or vanity, altho' un-
observed, perhaps unsuspected, will stimulate them, as it is sure to
do other men who have been called to difficult and ostensible
stations, to devise and propose plans, which shall be answerable
to the crisis and that may satisfy the public expectation. It is
from this quarter more than any other that the danger of prema-
ture measures may be apprehended, as no explicit remedy from the
complications of the mischiefs can now be devised. As important
results may soon occur, which must, and ought to have, a bearing
upon the subjects which engage the attention of the Convention,
prudence will recommend further deliberation, more time, more
extensive information, fuller evidence of common sentiment and
more complete concord of opinion, concerning the great interests

1 8 14] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 447

which will be affected by anything of a positive character that can
now be proposed.

The proceedings of the present session of Congress will have
an extensive and powerful influence upon the Country. If the
laws that shall be passed, instead of reviving and sustaining public
and commercial credit, as they ought to do and could do, should
have the effect of bringing down private & commercial credit
to the level of the public credit ; should designedly put into cir-
culation a depreciated and depreciating paper ; should it be the
purpose that Taxes & Dividends & Debts should be paid in this
paper, either by the fraudulent agency of a Bank or by unchecked
issues of Government, such measures ought to be received as full
evidence, that after wasting the navigation and destroying the
commerce of the country, domestic as well as foreign, our Rulers
are resolved upon further weakening the middle and northern
States, by the abolition of Debts.

Delay will moreover put us in possession of the issue of the
apprehended invasion of N. O ; an invasion which ought not to
have furnished a moment's anxiety. Government were seasonably
notified of the Enemy's intention. They possessed abundant
means to protect that important city ; and, if it falls, they ought to
be, and ultimately will be made accountable to the Nation for
its loss. Should the enemy be repulsed, we shall probably have
peace in the Spring ; and being freed from a ruinous war, may then
direct our whole attention to the re-organization and re-establish-
ment of our affairs. If N. O. passes under the dominion of the
enemy, the war will be continued for many years.

Altho' New England may have been more deeply humiliated
and a greater sufferer, than other States, they cannot be igno-
rant that deep and extensive dissatisfaction prevails in every State
of the Union ; that the secret proofs of folly and weakness which
occur without interruption, are producing their just and natural
effect. The evils that we feel, are working their own cure.
Patience, prudence, time are the only resources to which wise
men can look for remedies.

Partial measures will disappoint their authors. They may do
more, they may put at hazard measures of a comprehensive and
permanent character. A deliberation, uniting in it the wisdom,
the courage and the experience of the whole Nation may at no

448 RUFUS KING. [1814

distant day be required ; whether it can be accomplished is uncer-
tain ; the character of our country has materially changed since
the year 1786 ; but no hasty or sectional proceedings should em-
barrass the attainment of this object. The real patriots, the men
of sound principles, are dispersed over the whole nation. They
have the same pride of country, the same devotion to the princi-
ples of freedom, the same desire that the Government of the
Nation should afford equal protection and distribute its honors
with an impartial hand among the respective members.

The Administration.*

Immediately after the Bladensburgh Races, all the world knows
that General Armstrong was turned out of office and that Colonel
Monroe soon after descended from the rank and emoluments of
the Department of State to those of the War Department office.
Since this period, the very important office of Secretary of State
has remained, and still continues to be, vacant.

The Treasury Department having remained for a long time
without a Head, pursuant to an engagement understood to have
been made with Mr. Gallatin, Mr. Campbell of the Senate was
named to that distinguished and arduous station : the short and
confused career of this Cabinet Minister was terminated about the
same time with that of his colleague Genl. Armstrong. How far
the causes which removed the latter, influenced the retreat of the
former, is matter of conjecture only. Neither were in good
odour with the Pretender to the succession. Mr. Dallas who has
the double merit of foreign origin, and that suppleness of char-
acter which knows how so well to wind his way among hesitating
and ill informed Statesmen, was called from a profession in which
he held a respectable standing, but the pursuits of which have
never been supposed to have any special relation to, or as being
likely to afford much help in, administration of the national
finances.

If temerity be wisdom, if the recommendation of plans which
cannot fail deeply and vitally to impair the public credit, if the
multiplication of taxes, without regard to their bearing upon
the employments, the habits, the prejudices, or the ability of the

* In R. King's handwriting.

1815I LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 449

People to pay them, be evidence of the talents and qualifications
of a financier, then is Mr. Dallas an able and eminent Minister of
Finarce.

Mr. Rush to be sure is in statu quo — but of nothing nothing
need be said — though we might intimate that he passes more time
with, and since the death of the Vice President is more consulted
by the President than any other personage.

From the " Federal Republican."

In one of their late papers, Messrs. Gales and Madison have
graciously condescended to publish a word or two in praise of
some sentiments which fell from Mr. King in the senate, when a
tax bill was on its passage in that body.* What fell from the hon-
orable gentleman, who has had the misfortune to be applauded by
the court paper is no more than we have several times heard him
express ourselves ; and if we mistake not, in much stronger lan-
guage on some occasions, with the exception of that part of his
remarks, which divides the blame of the people's wrongs and
sufferings between Mr. Madison and his majority in congress. It
was this equitable distribution of responsibility among the authors
of our calamities, that so pleased his majesty, as to draw forth a
complimentary notice in his journal. Crime and misery love

* " A debate of some interest took place on its passage, in the course of which
we were much gratified at the accidental opportunity of hearing some honor-
able sentiments uttered on the occasion by Mr. King of New York. Much as
he deprecated the state of war in which the nation was placed, he said he should
contribute his vote, by all constitutional means to make it effective, by afford-
ing to the Executive men and money to any item. It might be and no doubt
was, true, that blame was in a degree imputable to the executive department,
as well for the fiscal as the military conduct of the war ; but it behoved Con-
gress, he justly remarked, to examine how far they were culpable of omissions
to furnish the means to enable the Executive to act. It was their duty to raise
armies, to provide the ways and means to support them. It was well worthy
of consideration, he said, how far the omission or delay to perform these duties
had disabled the Executive from performing his duty in the most efficient man-
ner. These are generally the ideas very handsomely expressed by Mr. King.
If so liberal a course had always been pursued by that gentleman, we should
not have had occasion to withhold from his conduct the tribute of our respect.
On this occasion his observations gained additional force from the vivid contrast
which they exhibited to the arguments of his political friends, who had preceded

him in debate." — Natl, Iutdlr., Jany. 5, 181 5.
vol. v. — 29

450 RUFUS KING. [1815

company, and Mr. Madison really seems so delighted to hear
others accused of being not less guilty than himself, that he is
willing to be brought to the bar, tried and convicted himself, if
he can only have his abettors in crime in both branches of con-
gress swung off on either side of him.

To prevent any misconception which the paragraph in the Intel-
ligencer might otherwise occasion, we now invite the reader's
attention to an accurate sketch of the proceeding in the Senate
referred to.

In Senate.*

On the passage of the land tax in the senate, Mr. Gore delivered
a speech of great ability, in justification of the vote he gave against
the passage of the bill. Mr. Gore admitted a direct tax, as a
branch of the system of taxes sent from the house of representatives,
to be not only expedient, but necessary to equalize the operation
of the taxes, and to be due from certain states by way of compen-
sation for their otherwise disproportionate number of representa-
tives.

Mr. Gore then proceeded to state in a clear and concise
manner, the facts, respecting the calling out of the militia of
Massachusetts, vindicated the proceedings of Governor Strong,
and exposed the unconstitutional and impolitic conduct of the
President of the United States, in requiring that the militia should
be separated from their own officers, and placed under the com-
mand of regular officers, sent into the state without regular troops.
He observed that large detachments of militia had been called out
and done duty in the public service ; that the general government
which called them out had refused to pay them ; and that the
state, out of its limited resources had been obliged to pay them ;
that the state was unable to continue these expenditures in future,
and at the same time to pay their quota of taxes to the general
government ; and as according to past decisions no portion of
these taxes, when collected, would be applied for the protection
of Massachusetts, he should feel himself bound to vote against a
bill for laying and collecting a direct tax in that state.

Mr. King of N. Y. observed, that as the passage of the tax bill

* January 5, 1815.

1815] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 45 I

afforded an opportunity for a great range in debate, the circum-
stance would account for a variety of topics which had been urged
on the question, whether the bill laying a land tax, should pass
the senate.

That he considered the able speech of his hon. friend from
Massachusetts, (Mr. Gore) for he said it was a speech of great
ability and precision, in the nature of a protest, against what he
deemed the unwarrantable and impolitic decision of the national
executive in respect to the service and command of the militia of
that state. His hon. friend had made no special objection to the
tax bill before the senate ; on the contrary he admitted, that a
portion of the revenue ought to be collected by a direct tax. He
appeared to have some doubts whether the aggregate of taxes was
not too great, but he rested his vote against the land tax upon the
ground that no part of it would be applied for the defence and
protection of Massachusetts.

No man, said Mr. King, has from the beginning entertained a
more decided opinion than he himself had done, respecting the
declaration of war. He had always considered it as unnecessary,
improvident, and contrary to every maxim of prudence. That
much of censure had been justly urged, not only against the de-
claring of the war, but against the executive, for the omission of an
early opportunity to put an end to it, as well as for the defective and
disastrous manner of carrying it on — that much more, in his opin-
ion might, without injustice, be charged against the executive ;
but that the executive was not alone responsible for the present
condition of the country ; and he called upon honorable senators
to lay their hands upon their own breasts, and to answer whether
the congress had done their duty ?

The war being declared, not only the raising and providing of
armies and navies belonged to congress, but the means to main-
tain and support the army and navy could only be furnished by
congress. Hence the finances and the public credit were objects
of their peculiar care ; these demanded their early and undivided
attention. The moment when war was resolved upon, that mo-
ment a system of taxes and of rigorous economy should have
been devised and adopted by congress. From that moment the
public credit should have been guarded, cherished and strength-
ened, as the precious and principal resource, by means whereof

452 RUFUS KING. [1815

the country could hope to be enabled to bring the war to a safe
and honorable conclusion.

Instead of performing this duty, the congress which declared
the war, took no measures to increase the revenue which was
daily sinking : gave no attention to the dangers which awaited the
public credit. Within the first year of the war, the department of
the treasury was deserted by its head. The superintendance of
the finances, the preparation of a system of taxes, and the cus-
tody and care of the public credit were devolved upon clerks and
job men and undertakers.

The President committed a great fault in sending the secretary
of the treasury out of the country, without naming a successor,
(and Mr. King might have added, that he committed a greater
fault in expelling from his presence, as he did, a committee of the
senate deputed to expostulate with him upon this subject) but the
congress committed a much greater one, in suffering the treasury
department, the object of their special charge to be thus aban-
doned, without an adequate effort on their part to correct the
abuse ; or to make those provisions, without which all reflecting
men foresaw the derangement of the finances, and the failure of
the public credit, which have since occurred.

These opinions, said Mr. King, were not then for the first time
avowed by him — honorable senators would do him the justice, to
acknowledge that from his first taking his seat among them, he
had repeatedly presented them to the senate, and earnestly pressed
their importance upon their consideration.

That hitherto, little had been done by congress, and that little
had not been advantageously employed in support of the public
credit. That now, late as it was, and increased as the public dif-
ficulties were, by past omissions, so all important did he deem it
to be, to make the utmost exertions the country could do, to re-
vive the public credit, that he should not withhold his support
from any constitutional measure, which he thought capable of
promoting this object.

He therefore should vote for the land tax, as the basis of a sys-
tem of taxes, which if prudently administered, promised to revive
and support the public credit. He was not sure that congress
were not now going too far ; and that the amount of the proposed
taxes might not exceed the present ability of the people to pay,.

1 815] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 453

but so dangerous did he consider the condition of the nation, that
with all his apprehensions arising out of past failures, he should
vote for those supplies of men and money without which the
country could not, in his judgment, be defended. — From the New
York Evening Post, January 13, 1815.

CHAPTER XXV.

Action of Maryland's House of Delegates, thanking King, by Name, and other
Members of' Congress, for their Agency in stopping the Militia Bill — King's
Answer — Morris to King — National Bank — Failure of Conscription Law —
Fears Hartford Convention will not take strong Ground — King's Remarks
on Bill to lay a direct Tax — Approves — Morris to King — Strictures on the
Support of the Government — King to C. King — On current Actions of
Congress — King to C. King — Battle of New Orleans — King to Morris —
Answers his Strictures — Union in Defence of the Country only Way to
Peace — King to Morris — Treaty of Peace arrived — Morris to King — Con-
jectures relative to the Treaty — Democrats will probably go for Abolition of
the direct Tax.

By the House of Delegates of Maryland.

January 6, 1815.

Amidst the impending sufferings and multiplied disorders of
war, brought upon the American people by their misplaced and
abused confidence in the wisdom and virtue of their rulers, there
has been no evil of a more alarming and fatal tendency in the con-
templation of this House, than the inordinate grasp of power and
undisguised spirit of encroachment on the sovereign rights of the
States and the personal liberties of the citizens, so repeatedly and
unequivocally manifested in the acts of the General Government.

Under this impression and in the maintenance of those rights
and privileges, it was considered as a prompt and paramount duty
on the part of this House to evince a faithful and firm determina-
tion of purpose, the moment that intelligence was recently re-
ceived of the progress of a Bill * in both Branches of the National

* On Nov. 5, 1814, Mr. Giles, from the Committee on Military Affairs,
reported a bill to the Senate authorizing the President of the United States to
call upon the several States and Territories thereof for their respective quotas of

thousand militia, for the defence of the frontiers of the United States On

Nov. 22d, after amendments, and a discussion, in which Messrs. Gore and
1 815] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 455

Legislature, whose palpable object it was to convert the free
militia of these United States into train-bands and cohorts of an
odious despotic force. This decision was rendered the more in-
dignant by a view of the gross sophistry and arbitrary pretensions
promulgated in the Report of the Secretary of War at the com-
mencement of the session, designed to reconcile the repugnant
sentiment of the free people of this land to the principle of the
several schemes and projects of invasion on their birth rights and
liberties, and suggested in that Report for the acquiescence of
Congress.

To the sensibility of this House thus seriously awakened by the
threatened pressure of a system so immediately calculated to
make " confusion worse confounded," and to produce a dread
collision of authority between the National Government and the
authority of the individual State, it is therefore now a matter of
lively gratification to learn, that the passage of the proposed Bill
has been eventually arrested in the Senate of the United States.
And the gratification is enhanced by the circumstance, that this
happy issue has been effected at the instance of an illustrious
Statesman and Jurist, whose opinion, worthy as it is on all sub-
jects of the most attentive consideration, is entitled to peculiar
regard on any question touching a construction of the powers
imparted by the Federal Constitution, because it is the opinion of
a surviving member of the convention of sages and patriots,
by whom that constitution was planned and originally recom-
mended for adoption.

Wherefore in order more fully to display the solemn interest
which the occasion has inspired throughout the community of this

Gouklsborough opposed the bill, the Senate passed it, 19 to 12, the title of
the bill containing the clause " for the defence of the frontiers against invasion."
Mr. King was absent owing to sickness.

The bill was sent to the House of Representatives for concurrence, and was
passed by it on Dec. 21st with amendments. The Senate refused to accept
all the amendments, and the matter was referred to a Committee of Conference
between the two Houses. Their report was made to the Senate on the 2Sth,
and, there being still disagreement, on motion of Mr. King, the bill with the re-
port was postponed to the second Monday in March next, after the final adjourn-
ment of Congress, 14 to 13.

It is to this action that the House of Delegates of Maryland refers. — Ed.
Annals of Congress, 1814-15, pp. 38, 95 el seq.

456 RUFUS KING. [1815

State, and more especially for the purpose of rendering a just
meed of public applause for eminent service in the defence of
public liberty,

Resolved — That the thanks of this House, in behalf of the
Freemen of Maryland, be and they are hereby presented to the
Honorable Rufus King, of the Senate of the United States, for
the reasonable and successful interposition of his experienced wis-
dom and elevated influence of character in averting the meditated
operation of a measure, hostile to the immunities of constitutional
freedom, offensive to the pure genius of independence, and fraught
with consequences baleful and appalling to the social order, tran-
quillity and well being of this united Republic.

And the House would accompany the respectful tribute which
is thus specially offered, with a general expression of the grateful
sense which it also entertains of the distinguished merit of the
other members of the minority, who so steadfastly and ably co-
operated, at every renewal of the struggle, in both Branches of
Congress, in combatting against the insidious introduction of an
authoritative conscript establishment, more specious in the form
of its approach, but not essentially different from that whose in-
tense oppression has just vanished from the Continent of Europe,
with its guilty author the blood stained usurper of France.

Ordered that the Honorable the Speaker of this House be re-
quested to transmit to the Honorable Rufus King an authenti-
cated Copy of this present proceeding

By order — Upton L. Reid Clerk,

House Deleg. Maryland.

Annapolis, Jany. 6, 18 15.
The Honble. Rufus King.
Dear Sir :

In obedience to the direction of the House of Delegates of
Maryland, I have the honor, herewith, to transmit to you a Copy
of their proceeding on the subject recognised by the enclosed
Resolution. I beg you to be assured of the high satisfaction I
take in the discharge of this duty, and to believe me with senti-
ments of esteem and respect

Yr. very obedient Servt. Henry H. Chapman
Speaker of the House of Delegates of Maryland.

1815] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 457

R. King to Henry H. Chapman, Esq.
(Speaker of the House of Delegates of Maryland).

Washington, January S, 1815.

Sir :

I have had the honor to receive your letter of the 6th inst.,
transmitting to me a copy of the Resolution of the House of
Delegates of the State of Maryland of the same date.

Permit me, Sir, thro' you to express to the House of Delegates
the high sense that I entertain of the honor of their approbation
of my conduct as a member of the Senate, in opposing a Bill,
which required of the Militia of the several States, to furnish
recruits for the regular army, under the penalty of being them-
selves drafted to serve in the prosecution of the war.

At the same time that I offsr my acknowledgments to the
House of Delegates, I am bound in justice to others, to disclaim
any particular merit on this occasion ; the failure of the Bill must
be ascribed to the strenuous and able opposition, which it received
in both Houses of Congress, sustained as this opposition has been,
by the voice of the country.

I ask your indulgence to add, that while I have resisted the
Progress of a Bill, professing to have for its object, to provide for
the common defence, by means which the Constitution does not
in my judgment authorize, I have thought myself obliged by a
faithful regard for the general safety, at a period of great public
difficulty, without reference to the past, to vote for supplies of
men and money and for other important measures within the pale
of the Constitution, that are deemed necessary to revive the pub-
lic credit, to protect the several States against invasion and to
defend and save from dismemberment the Territory and Sover-
eignty of the Nation — objects, to the attainment of which no
efforts that can be made by Freemen will be deemed too great.

With distinguished consideration, I have the honor to be

Sir, your obt. Servant

Rufug King.

458 RUFUS KING. [1815

G. Morris to R. King.

Morrisania, Jan. 7, 1815.

My dear Sir :

I have seen, with Concern, that your health has been feeble,
and am the more obliged by your Attention in forwarding sundry
Documents. I learnt yesterday that your Bank Bubble has burst,*
on which, if the Union is to be revived, I congratulate every
Friend to our Country ; for it would have hung a millstone round
our Necks and rendered a sound System of Finance almost, if not
altogether, impracticable. A thing of this Sort is more pernicious,
in its immediate Effects, and far more dangerous, in its remote
Consequences, than Paper Money of the old Stamp. Whether to
congratulate or condole with you on the Failure of your Con-
scription Scheme I know not. Had it passed and attempts been
made to execute it, the People might have roused from a Leth-
argy boding Death to our Rights. If not resisted, many precious
Rights enjoyed under the British Government, which their Claim
of Supremacy had not jeopardized, would have been destroyed.
We shall I suppose soon learn what the Hartford Convention has
done. As far as my Information goes, they will not come up to
the point which would have insured Success. An opinion gen-
erally exprest, tho' not perhaps entertained, that the Union must
be preserved may, by enfeebling their Decisions, lessen the Mo-
tives for adherence. Should they cause it to be well understood,
not only that no Men or Money shall be drawn from, and, in
Case of Separation, no Part of the War Debt be Paid by New
England, that the Execution of Ofhces held under the Union is
suspended, and that honorable Conditions of Peace shall if pro-
posed on the Part of Great Britain, be immediately accepted,
this State would, I believe, adhere by an almost unanimous Vote.
Because Office holders being appalled, Office Hunters put on a
new scent, the People paid, with their own money, to abandon a

* The bill for the charter of the National Bank, which had been passed and
sent to the President for his signature, was returned to the Senate on January
30th, with his objections. The Message was read, and on February 2d its con-
sideration was engaged in, when Mr. King made a careful examination of the
objections (which will be found in Appendix II.). The bill was put upon its
passage and failed to receive the sanction of the Senate,— Mr. King voting in
the affirmative.

1815] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 459

sinking Ship, and the Traders and Consumers of foreign Mer-
chandise— I had written thus far when a Pamphlet containing the
Acts of the Convention was brought to me They have fallen
short, not only of the ideas just exprest, but of general Expecta-
tion, and will be laughed at by many. Nevertheless the Business
will, I am persuaded, go all the Length they look to. If Mr.
Madison & Co. close with their Propositions (it will be difficult
to adjust the terms) a Separation will be acknowledged ; and
should those terms be rejected it must ensue. While you sit de-
liberating, the Union withers in the opinion of those who think
they are thinking Men. For my own Part, I considered the Con-
stitution as dead from the Repeal of the judiciary and the Union
as dissolved when the national Executive declared they could
not defend the States, and would not abandon their Scheme of
conquering Canada. A new Order of things must arise when the
actual Disorder shall be generally felt. A Government without
Force, without Money, without talent and generally despised
cannot stand. If not over thrown it must tumble down, and the
Convention have, out of pure Malice perhaps, left [illegible] as
being the more humiliating alternative.

Yours truly

Gouv. Morris.

G. Morris to R. King.

Morrisania, Feb. 2, 1815.
Dear Sir :

I have received the Papers and Report you had the Goodness
to send. Mr Secretary's Defence of his taxes will not bear him
out, for some of them are unwise and some unjust ; but I shall
not attempt to point out Defects ; Taxes are sufficiently unpala-
table even when correctly and judiciously imposed. It would
therefore be unnecessary, in any Case, but improper now to ex-
pose Defects in the Plan adopted ; seeing that it was supported
by many of our Friends. This support has delighted our Foes.
A Gentleman, speaking on the subject yesterday, said that shortly
before he left Home, he inveighed in Conversation with one of
them, against the Impositions occasioned by this wicked war.
This Antagonist replied " I am surprized, Sir, that you should

460 RUFUS KING. [1815

say any thing against taxes voted for, in Congress, by your own
Party." The same Reason which prohibits Strictures on what is
done, requires Silence on what remains to do. You my Friend,
standing on an elevated Stage and viewing, of Course, an exten-
sive Prospect may see your way thro' Difficulties, daily accumu-
lating, which appear to me insurmountable; you may have Reason
to believe that money lavishly granted, will be prudently applied.
It may be expected therefore that you and those who think and
feel like you, will go on, piling up one_ oppressive tax on the top
of another to support the Measures of Mr. Madison. We who
think differently of him and them, are compelled to believe that
this Mode of defending our Country must reduce it to a Condi-
tion not worth defending ; but I am far, very far, from blaming
those with whom it is my great misfortune to differ in opinion ;
on the contrary, I pray God that my Views may be as false as
they are limited, that federal support of a jacobin Administration
may not ensure its Continuance ; that peace may be as near as
wiser Men than I am believe, and as honorable as more sanguine
Men than I am expect. The taxes already laid will not, I think,
be paid (unless in worthless Paper) because great Part of the
Community cannot pay having neither money nor means to pro-
cure it. Paper Currency, therefore, of some sort or other will, I
presume, issue and (depreciating) destroy the just Relations of
Life. The vast Treasure of Britain would be insufficient for
Defence, much less Conquest, on the wild Principles and ex-
travagant Practices adopted and pursued. Having no doubt
that our Want of funds and of Force must encrease, I prepare to
meet Consequences which appear inevitable. God bless you.

Gouv. Morris.

R. King to Charles King, England.

Georgetown, Feby. 7, 1815.
Dear Sir :

I wrote to you from the Senate today, informing you of the
promise that in a few days we shd. have the nomination of a new
Secry. of the Treasury ; nothing having transpired which enables
me to conjecture who will be named, I can add nothing satisfac-
tory upon this point. If ever any Country wanted a person of

1815] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 46 1

abilities, knowledge & firmness in the department of its finances
more than we do, its condition must have been deplorable in the
extreme.

By the destruction of Commerce, the Revenue has been de-
stroyed ; and during the current year money must be borrowed
to pay the interest of the pub. Debt, or the ordinary expenses of
the Peace Establishment ; the Product of the Taxes being defi-
cient nearly two millions for both these objects. Mr. Gallatin's
Plan of Finance for the war, was to raise by Taxes within the
year sufficient to support the Peace Establishment, taken at 7.
mills., and to pay the interest upon the old & new Debt, which
allowing about half a million payable in the current year on ac-
count of Interest upon the new Loan, amounts to upwards of 5
millions, making together something more than 12 millions — to
defray this expense the estimated Receipts of Taxes are about 10
millions, or a little more, leaving the deficit I have mentioned.

The full interest upon the large Loan of this year will be pay-
able next year in addition to a further sum on account of a fur-
ther Loan, which, be it Peace or war, will be requisite. To meet
this increased expenditure, instead of an increase of Taxes, the
Product of the current year will be lessened. The internal Rev-
enue may be increased by a million of Dollars, but the Customs,
instead of Six Millions* receivable in the current year, will (slid,
the System of Restrictions continue) be reduced to half a million:
so that while the Peace Establishment & Interest on ye pub.
Debt in the year 1815 will amount to nearly 14 Millions, the
Revenue, shd. no further Taxes be imposed, and the restrictive
System continue, will not exceed six millions, leaving the defi-
ciency Eight millions — Of the credit of a Country, which man-
ages its affairs in this manner, nothing need be said. Mr. Barker
& others from New York, & persons of Philadelphia, whose
names I do not recollect, are applying to Congress to make a
National Bank. Scruples respecting the power of Congress stand
in the way. To get over them, it is proposed to create a Bank
within this District (over wh. Congress have exclusive legislation)
with a capital of 30 mils., and a power to establish Branches in
such States as shall permit them. The Projectors say that half

* 5| millions of wh. will arise from the Bonds upon the last year's importa-
tion.

462 RUFUS KING. [i8t.

the Capital shall be lent to the U. S., and that, with the help of
the Bank, future Loans will be readily effected, and great facility
afforded in the management of the Revenue.

What degree of countenance may be given to this Project, I
know not ; I dislike it. In respect to the Projects to which you
allude, where you are, I commend your resolution to keep your-
self clear of them. Your own sense of justice and of honor,
giving them fair play, will keep you where you shd. be. I
therefore repeat my earnest hope, that you will hold yourself
aloof, and not permit any man to discuss with you a subject, which
an honorable man cannot hear proposed without losing half his
integrity.*

Very affectionately yrs

R. K.

P. S. Of Peace I can say nothing with any sort of confidence.
It is very difficult to form a safe opinion of the views of men
whose principles are so very different from your own. Upon the
whole it seems to me that not only our own affairs, but those
of France are in so wretched a state, that our Rulers must be anx-
ious of Peace ; whether they form a correct estimate of what
England will do, is my chief difficulty. The danger is that they
may believe that England will be more accommodating than they
will perhaps find her.

R. King to Charles King, England.

Georgetown, Dt. of Columbia,
Feb. 11, 1815.

Dear Sir :

On the 14th of December the first Gun Boats, which were sta-
tioned in Lake Ponchartrain, and had been dispatched to carry
supplies from N. Orleans to Mobile, were met upon the return
near to the Entrance of Lake Borgne, and attacked by a great
number of Barges & Launches, from the British Squadron which
had arrived with a considerable army to attack N. Orleans — The
open waters, — the small boats not having yet reached the narrow

* There is nothing to show to what this alludes.

1 815] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 463

Passes into the Lake, — enabled the Enemy to apply a great num-
ber of Boats, which after a severe contest, the particulars of
which have not been received, captured or destroyed all the Gun
Boats — These being the only guard upon the Lake, the enemy
entered Lake Borgne with his Boats, and vessels of light draft,
and succeeded in landing about 2000 troops on the 23rd of Dec.
at a Plantation about Seven miles below N. Orleans upon the Left
Bank of the Mississippi. — General Jackson who had charge of
the Tennessee troops in the Creek war, had been ordered to pro-
ceed from Mobile to N. Orleans, and his militia, as well as that of
Kentucky and Louisiana, including the Mississippi Territory,
were also ordered to be marched to that Station — In the first
week of December Jackson without his Militia reached N. O.,
where were the remains of two Regular Regiments consisting of
450 Men together with about 200 artillery. The City Militia of
all colours and tongues, together with such as could be called in
from the neighbourhood, added a few Hundred more to the
Forces. — His force was only this handful, until the Day of the
Disembarkation by the Enemy ; in the forenoon of which a
Body of 12 or T400 Tennessee mounted Militia arrived in the
neighbourhood of the City. Jackson called in a portion of his
Reinforcements, leaving the residue to guard the City from an at-
tack on the north, and at about 7 oC'k. at Night with about 1500
Men attacked the Enemy in Camp. — After doing more injury, and
creating great alarm, Jackson recalled his men and retired Back
to within a few miles of the City. So confident were the Enemy
that the People of the Country would join them, and that N. O.
was without Forces to protect it, that he encamped on the night of
the 23rd without posting centinels towards the City ; and Jackson
was in the Camp before he suspected his approach. The Effect
of the bold attempt created apprehension that Jackson's forces
were very large & strong. The Enemy altho' reinforced on the
following morning by the Disembarkation of 2000 more Troops,
carrying his forces to 4000, hesitated & waited for more Rein-
forcements. In the mean Time Jackson was reinforced, and en-
abled to raise a work extending from the Mississippi to a Cypress
Swamp reaching to Lake Borgne ; there having been a Mill Race
entirely across from the River to the Swamp nothing but the
Parapet was wanting and a little deepening of the Ditch. — About

464 RUFUS KING. [18 15

the 28th of Dec. the Demonstration of an assault upon this work
was made by the Enemy, but was not pressed ; in the first day or
two of January similar advances were made ; in which affairs be-
tween the Pickets occurred, and in which the Riflemen with Rifles
carrying balls, 60. to the pound, punished the Enemy severely.

Further Reinforcements from Kentucky & Tennessee reached
New Orleans during the first week of January. The Movements
of the Enemy's Camp on the 6 & 7 were correctly interpreted by
Jackson, who arranged his Militia upon the Left next the Cypress
morass, and the few Regulars with other Militia upon his right
adjoining to the River. The attack was expected during the
night. The Riflemen, for the Militia were generally armed with
hunting Guns or Rifles, were placed four deep behind the Parapet ;
the ablest and most active and skilful composed the two front
lines, the older and less skilful composed the two last. — The two
front ranks alone were to fire, the two rear ranks, to receive, load,
and return the Rifles to the front Ranks. The artillery was placed
& served advantageously. Soon after daylight the Pickets were
driven in by the Enemy's advance. The fog clearing away the
Enemy was discovered at 400 yards distant in columns — they
halted, threw off their knapsacks, gave three cheers & rapidly
advanced. The cannonade had commenced on both sides and
the Troops were preceded by Rockets 8z hand Grenades — as soon
as the Enemy came within 100 yards a murderous fire commenced
from the Riflemen each man taking deliberate aim, and with un-
erring certainty giving Effect to his fire. Each man discharged his
Piece & without moving his eyes from the Enemy handed back
his Gun and received a loaded one ; and in this manner without
any order than to be cool and sure of their mark, the two first
lines repeated an uninterrupted and most destructive fire for an
hour and a half ; during which the Enemy, often renewing his
attempts, persisted in his assault. — He finally gave up the attempt,
retreated in confusion, having in killed and wounded the flower
of his army including many, and a disproportionate Number, of
Officers upon the field ; nearly two thousand muskets were taken
by our people, in front of their lines, thrown away or left by the
Enemy ; a supply of great importance as owing to the Detention
of the Boats carrying the arms, between one & two thousand of
the Militia were without arms. The dead and wounded were

1 8 15] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 465

many of them perforated by from two to four Rifle Balls. Paken-
ham, Comr in chief, was killed, Gibbs also the second in command,
and Keene badly wounded. The correspondence between Jack-
son & the Enemy, who asked & rec'd permission to bury his dead,
was carried on by Lambert said to be 4th in command. The
Enemy passed over the Mississippi the morning of this attack
about 600 men in boats which were dragged thro' a canal which
they dug from Lake Borgne to the Mississippi. The Militia on
the right bank behaved ill & fled. — A Reinforcement was sent
over by Jackson, but before they advanced agt. the Enemy, he
reembarked, recrossed & joined the Enemy after his defeat. At
50 miles below N. O. is a Fort on the left Bank of the River
called St. Philips, a strong closed work, with casemates, and
bomb proof magazines. The Enemy crossed the Bar with their
Bomb vessels, attacked the Fort, and after two Days incessant
bombardment, during which they threw more than 1000, 13^ inch
Shells into the Fort, with the loss of only two men, they aban-
doned the attempt to pass it, never having come within the range
of the 32 Pounders, which were prepared with proper furnaces,
and under the command of Major Covington with about 500
Regulars, to have made them feel the Power of his Fortress.
This Day week we received the official account of the repulse of
the Enemy on the 8th of January but nothing from Fort St Philips
except accounts from N. O., that an incessant Cannonade had
been heard for two or three days in that Quarter. The injury
sustained by the enemy in his attempt to carry Jackson's works
was so great that we had no apprehension of his repeating it, or
if he sh'd that he wd. succeed; but if the Bomb Ketches and other
armed vessels shd. pass the Forts, and come up, so as to attack
the City, some anxiety existed still for the safety of the City. To
day all further anxiety has been removed. Dispatches from
Jackson are received, stating the failure of the attempt to pass
Fort St. Philips, and the reembarkation of the mutilated Remnant
of the British army. Here-with you have a copy of a letter from
Jackson to a member of the Senate announcing this important Con-
clusion of the British Expedition. We hope that this failure will
hasten the conclusion of Peace. Since you left us no other impor-
tant Event has occurred. The offer of our Ministers to make
Peace upon the Status ante Bellum, laying aside every maritime,

VOL. V. — 30

466 RUFUS KING. [1815

or other Subjects on account of which the War was declared ; and
the refusal of this offer & demand of a Portion of our Territory
by the Enemy, produced a union and Decision which no other
Event would have effected. Many among us were dissatisfied with
the Declaration of War, but when the Govt, offers to return to
Peace upon the terms which have been stated and these are refused
by the Enemy, who attempts to dismember us, we all say war
must be continued until more just and moderate — and as we also
think — who have no unreasonable opinion about England, — a more
politick Policy prevails there. If England continues the War on
this ground, I am at no loss to foresee events which she has not
anticipated ; if from our peaceful habits she converts us, as she
will do, into a Military People — and perhaps on the earth no
People could more easily be converted into a Soldiery actuated by
the highest Military Enthusiasm, — neither our neighbors on the
East, nor the West will remain in security. I have heard that
150 or 200 Vacancies in the lowest Military Grade of the army
exist at this time, and so extended is the passion, that between
two and three thousand applications have been made, including
all the States and, as is said, the best educated youths of the
Country to obtain appointments. Perhaps the applications for the
Station of Midshipman is comparatively equally, or more, numer-
ous. But we desire Peace, and tho' we may lament the loss of the
brave Enemy who fell before our gallant Peasantry, we have
some Consolation in hoping that the Discomfiture will hasten the
Return of Peace.

Your family were all well on the 9th ; your mother has had
more, & better health this winter, than she has had for several
years. We are now beginning to experience some relaxation of
the unusual & intense Frost that has prevailed here, indeed it
seems to have been extended over all the States, for such was
the intensity of the Frost even in N. Orleans towards the close
of the year, that the Creeks were frozen over, and the two
Regiments of Black Troops, which came with Pakenham and
landed on the Island of N. Orleans with the Enemy, are said to
have suffered severely, so much so as to be almost incapable of
service.

Farewell my dear Sir I am &.

1815] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 467

R. King to G. Morris.

Washington, February 12, 1815.
Dear Sir :

I am indebted to you for more than one friendly Letter, the
Receipt of which I have hitherto omitted to acknowledge. This
has in part arisen from my having been of late a good deal en-
gaged in the business of the Senate, and in part from the great
importance of the subject of your last Letter. Here we have
been struggling without avail to defeat a dangerous Bank Project,
which, after all our efforts, yesterday by force of Executive Influ-
ence passed the Senate by a majority of two votes ; one of our
friends being casually absent, the real majority was only one.
The Fate of the Bill is uncertain in the H. of R.

I am sensible, truly sensible of and deeply regret the difference
of opinion existing between good Men, respecting the leading
course of Policy, which ought to be pursued by the Federalists.
Concerning the views and character of the men, who have brought
the Country into its actual difficulties, we are all agreed ; it is
about the course, which should be followed to extricate us from
these difficulties, that we disagree.

If by a strenuous opposition, ending in the refusal of supplies
of every kind, our Rulers could be driven from their posts, and
abler men called to fill them, a practical and intelligible object
would be before us ; and provided it could be accomplished,
without exposing the Country to the vengeance of the Enemy or
to the danger that by our divisions, he might be able to dismem-
ber and degrade us, united and persevering opposition would be-
come an obvious duty. But with the present Executive, with a
Senate composed as the Senate is & will be for years to come ;
and with such a House of Reps, as we have & shall have during
the next Congress, there can be no expectation of driving these
men out of their offices. The Press even is not in such hands,
nor is it likely to be so, as will do much in effecting a change of
popular prejudices.

In England a majority of the House of Commons can remove
the Ministry — in effect, can change the Executive Government.
There the refusal of supplies immediately produces a revolution
in the Executive Government — not so here. According to our
theory, all political power is in the hands of the people, and until

468 RUFUS KING. [1815

they choose to dismiss their Chiefs, no considerable change can
be made. Reason and wisdom can do little to effect this object.

The People must feel the inconvenience, & suffer the punish-
ment, of their own folly, before they will consent to renounce it.
The ruin of their business and the burthen of Taxes, which their
favorites have accomplished, may prove a salutary corrective,
which may weaken their attachment to one set of politicians and
their aversion to another. Until this case be effected, we shall
go on as we have done, or plunge still deeper, as we are likely to
do, should the country hold on in its present course.

Moreover the Enemy is guilty of the utmost folly. His war-
fare is licentious, and he discloses objects, in respect to our Ter-
ritory, which furnish our Rulers with arguments against the
opposition, and in favor of their supporters, which, when ad-
dressed to the People, are irresistible.

In these circumstances & with these views, after careful de-
liberation, in which the dissenting opinions of able men were
allowed the respect and deference to which they are always en-
titled, it has appeared to me, that I had but one course ; which
was to avow a firm purpose to defend the Country against the
invasion of the Enemy, and to concur in granting the necessary
supplies for this object. By doing so, we establish a right to
hold the Executive and its Departments answerable for the degra-
dation of the public credit, the failure of the military expendi-
tures, and above all for declaring a war, whose objects are
abandoned, and the expenses of which, can only be defrayed by
heavy and durable Taxes upon the People.

Furthermore that course which exhibits union in defence of the
Country, has seemed to me to be more likely than any other, to
influence the Enemy to consent to a speedy and equal Peace.
An honorable Peace we cannot demand — having already aban-
doned every object, for the attainment of which we declared the
war : but a Peace leaving to us the same Rights of Soil and Sov-
ereignty, which we possessed before the war — will be a safe Peace
& one that will not humiliate us.

Entertaining these views in common with the principal men of
our Party here, I have deemed it to be expedient to be open and
unreserved in the avowal of them. I explain myself to you my
Dear Sir, not to invite discussion upon the Subject, although I

1 8 15] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 469

am always benefitted by your opinions and habitually cherish for
them an unfeigned respect, but for the purpose of opening to
you my reasons for the course of policy which I am pursuing in
these critical times.

With sincere attachment & Regard, I am Dear Sir,
yr. friend & faithful Servt.

Rufus King.

R. King to G. Morris.

Washington, February 15, 1815.
Dear Sir :

We have received the Treaty of Peace * : it will be considered
by the Senate tomorrow. As the Instructions sent to Ghent re-
nounced, or did not insist upon, any Provision in favor of the
objects for which war was declared, no one is authorized to ex-
pect more than the Status ante Bellum. Should the Enemy con-
sent to evacuate and restore the whole terra firma of the District
of Maine, Massachusetts will not perhaps complain if in the end
she loses Moose Island — in one sense only is it of much conse-
quence— should the Enemy keep it, there will be left to Mass. no
practicable Channel from St. Croix to the Ocean, except for small
vessels. It is said the Coast Fisheries, according to the Eng. in-
terpretation, were not vested Rights, but merely Privileges of the
First Peace, and lost by the following war.

If a Treaty be concluded making no provision about impress-
ment, and other Maritime rights, about which so much has been
said & written ; and especially if the security of these interests
were the object of the war ; some persons would infer that no
future complaint or war could be made respecting them : the Law
of Nations being, not that a Peace is perpetual as respects future
causes of war, but that it is so concerning every interest or claim,
to obtain or secure which the war is made.f

I am very faithfully yr. ob. sr.

Rufus King.

* The news of the signature of a treaty of peace was received on February
nth, and the treaty was sent to the Senate on the 15th.

f The treaty has been approved by the Senate. Your conjectural remarks in
the Post of the 13th, as to the contents of the treaty, are most likely correct.
There is no stipulation saving to the United States the privilege of the fisheries —

470 RUFUS KING. [1815

G. Morris to R. King.

Morrisania, Feb. 16, 1815.

Dear Sir :

I thank you for yours of the 12th just arrived. I should not
discuss the Subject of it even were the present Circumstances such
as those under which you wrote. That would be worse than use-
less. As matters now stand, whatever has been done is done and
the Consequences will follow in their own Course without Impedi-
ment or Deviation from what we may do or attempt. I think the
Administration will lay another Trap ; for I calculate, alike on
their Craft and Immorality. The treaty of Peace was I suppose
laid before the Senate on the 14th or 15th and agreed to, of
Course, whatever may be the Terms. No important Cession of
Territory has, I presume, been made or seriously demanded ; it
being a Matter understood among the great Powers that Britain
should not acquire additional Strength in this Hemisphere. For
Reasons of a similar Kind she will not have withheld the Permis-
sion formerly granted to fish on the Great Bank ; neither is it
improbable that the Privilege of fishing along her Coasts may be
continued on certain Conditions. Lord Castlereagh may have
supposed, from what passed in the Boudoirs of Vienna, that Sel-
den's Mare Clausum is a treatise too pedantic for the taste of
fashionable people. Should there unfortunately, be any Clause^
Matter, or Thing in the Treaty liable to objection, and should
federal Senators have objected, we shall be charged with a desire
to prolong the war ; or should they not have objected, with the
Sacrifice of National Honor : but this Dilemma is not the Trap to
which I allude. Be not surprized at a Proposal to relinquish the
direct Tax. It comports with southern Interest and Policy.
Federal opposition will be a deadly weapon in the Hands of

no stipulation saving to the British the navigation of the Mississippi, nor any-
thing relative to the causes for which the war was declared. It is understood
that when the treaty was under consideration in the Senate Mr. King, in a
speech of about forty minutes, pointed out the great blessings of the present
war in a style of biting satire scarcely ever equalled. Every sentence was
Cantharides to the already blistered feelings of the administration. — Corre-
spondent of N. Y. Evening Post, Feb. 14, 181 5.

1 815] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 47 1

their Adversaries. Say what you will of public Faith, moral
Right and constitutional Policy ; Talk if you please in Latin
Greek or Hebrew ; publish Discourses in English Syriac or Cop-
tic Characters, No one will listen, no one will read. But all will
eagerly catch and greedily swallow the plain democratic Propo-
sition " Gentlemen Electors, it was with extreme Reluctance, un-
der the Pressure of dire Necessity, that we laid a direct Tax ; and
as soon as that Pressure was removed we proposed to take it off ;
but those accursed Federalists, who delight in oppressing the
People insisted on its Continuance." This plain Proposition, I
say, will be understood felt and acted upon, any Cause Matter
or thing to the contrary thereof in any wise notwithstanding.
Adieu

I am as ever truly yours

Gouv. Morris.

CHAPTER XXVI.

Emott to King — Rejoices at the Peace — Troubles in New York Legislature —
King to Gore — Inability to do Good suggests Wisdom of retiring from pub-
lic Life — Gore to King — Wishes to leave the Senate — Conversation with
Cabot on the Hartford Convention — Peace in Boston — Gore to King —
No Plan by Parties in Massachusetts — King to Trumbull — Affairs at Home
and Abroad — King to Gore — Hanson's Paper and Affairs — Accommoda-
tions for Winter at Washington — Opinion relative to Dartmoor — What
the Fate of Bonaparte — Harison to King — Compares Case of Mettus Tuf-
fetius with that of Napoleon — C. King to King — Account of the Dartmoor
Investigation — Gore to King — Dartmoor Report — Gratified by the manly
Character and Decision of the Statement — Changes of Men at Washington
— Lafayette to King — Introducing St. Jean d'Angely.

James Emott to R. King.

Albany, Feb. 19, 1815.
Dear Sir :

I have now the honor of acknowledging the receipt of your
letter of the nth of February. It will be gratifying to me to hear
from you as frequently as your other avocations and your leisure
will permit, for to say the truth to you, my other friends at Wash-
ington are so much engaged, or have become so idle, that I can
learn nothing but at second and third and fourth hand. We were
prepared to hear of the retreat or the capture of the British at
New Orleans after their terrible discomfiture on the 8th of Janu-
ary. Now that the expedition is over it appears to have been
commenced and carried on in folly. The notice given, the delay
and the want of prompt measures had a mutual and a strong ten-
dency to a disastrous termination. I confess that what I have seen
of the British in our war has lessened the government and the
people in my estimation. It is no more to me a dreadful and
dreaded nation. They can be met and they can be conquered.
They have terminated the war at a point when this has become
the sentiment of our Statesmen and nation, and they have given
1815] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 473

a direction to public opinion on the subject of a navy which will
bear it up. I rejoice at the peace because we wanted it ; but I
plainly foresee that at no very distant time we shall have another
English war, when with a more vigorous administration and an
army and navy in fact, and to commence with, the British must
be driven from the continent, if not from this quarter of the globe.
The President I presume is highly delighted with the peace, as it
will allow him to slumber out the residue of his term in a state of
comparative ease and quiet ; but how do the wildmen of the west
relish a treaty that is not garnished with free trade and sailor's
rights and withal does not provide for the extinction of the In-
dians and the assumption of the "uppermost" Canadas ? The
southerners I presume have had enough of the war for this time.
Is it possible to conjecture how the peace is to affect the great
parties in this country ? The opinion here appears to be, among our
friends of course, that the first effect of the news will be to para-
lize both parties but that in the end it will aid the good old cause.
The democratic party commenced the session in passion, I
mean among themselves, and they have progressed in passion.
The first measure of importance, and it became really a ques-
tion of importance, was the election of a continental Senator.
Spencer had secretly, for some time, been a candidate to further
Armstrong's views on the Presidency and Sandford was finally
fixed on as the Tompkins candidate, for he, God help us, has also
an eye on the Presidency. After several caucusses by the mem-
bers, Spencer grew timid and declined, but he remembered the
opposition and the two parties are now in a steady course of op-
pugnation. Van Buren who opposed Spencer was kept in great
doubt about the office of Attorney General, on which he had
fastened his wishes, and finally was appointed by the casting vote
of the Governor. Young, the Speaker who was promised and ex-
pected the office of Secretary, but which he was by no means
entitled to, was completely thrown out and Porter, who was not
known as a candidate, was appointed. The Council have not yet
touched New York, and an opinion is prevailing that Clinton will
keep his place, the Tammany men to the contrary notwithstand-
ing. The Council are known to stand two and two.
I am with unfeigned respect

Your obed. Sert. James Emott.

474 RUFUS KING. [1815

J. Emott to R. King.

Albany, February 22, 1815.
Dear Sir :

We join with you and with all good men in thanks to the

Almighty for restoring peace to the country. We are indeed the

brand plucked from the fire. Another year of war and misrule

might have brought our tottering edifice to the ground. As it is,

it may last a little longer and perhaps through our day. The

Treaty is such a thing as was to have been expected from men

who made war to keep themselves in power and who went suing

for peace for the same purpose. The country and its character

and interest are nothing to them as long as they can preserve

place and patronage. Had Madison and Monroe the feeling of

honorable men their blood would tingle to their fingers' ends ;

they would clothe themselves in sackcloth and ashes for the

sufferings and situation of the nation. But they have not such

feelings. If they can persuade our countrymen to banish from

their councils, and their hearts the men who would guide them to

prosperity and happiness, and prevail upon them to continue

their misplaced confidence in the men who lord it over us, they

will be satisfied come what will to the country. The articles in

the treaty for settlement of our boundaries will I think in future

times be referred to as curiosities not precedents. Two adverse

commissioners are to be appointed, who will of course disagree

and then we are to have the umpirage of a friendly power who is

to decide on a case to be stated. What friendly power is to be the

power is a subject for another Treaty to be made by five more

commissioners, and of consequence we are as we were. Nothing

is doing here of any consequence and the Session will probably

be one of little interest, tho' if the war had continued we should

have gone into high matters and done strange deeds. Tomorrow

it is understood the council will proceed to appoint a Mayor for

New York when I have no doubt Ferguson will succeed to Clinton

by the casting vote of the governor. As a nursery and schc

for our navy, I should have no objection to an Algerine, o-

Japanese war. But when the maritime nations of Europe will 'd

sent to pay what our people are pleased to call tribute, and d.

a naval armament, to be kept up in the Mediterranean, whf me

have no possessions, will amount to so much more than thven

1 815] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 475

we have been in the habit of paying, the wisest course appears to
be to continue to pay on the principle which induces other nations
to pay. But if we have no other war, we shall have a war with
experience, and prudence.

With great respect, I am yours very truly,

James Emott.

R. King to C. Gore.

Jamaica, L. I., Mar. 21, 1S15.
My dear Sir :

. . . Having had a quiet, and uninterrupted day or two here,
I have endeavored to revise, and pass over again, the occupations
in which during the three last sessions we have been engaged — and
I am obliged to confess, that the result of this process is dis-
couragement, and humiliation — We have had a full opportunity to
observe and to approach the course and character of our political
System, — and when the question is asked, to what good purpose
do a few impartial and worthy men toil and weary themselves in
the public service, does the only Reply that can be given afford
encouragement to them to persevere ? — rather does it not admonish
them to retire from scenes, which they cannot improve, and where
they behold more clearly the degradation, and the shameless
corruption of their Country? But enough of this. . . .

I am my Dr. Sir. faithfully yrs.

R. K.

C. Gore to R. King.

Waltham, Apr. 11, 1815.
My dear Friend :

. . . It appears that Governor Strong will be elected by a hand-
some Majority, tho' considerably diminished from that of last year,
kihe Senate will possess but a bare Majority of Federalists. The
touvt. of the State will be federal this year, but appearances indi-
kee* another Result, the succeeding year — This, with the Difficulty
ing. •ocuring suitable accommodations, although at an enormous
ise, leads me to question the obligations, or prudence of an-
visit to Washington. — I know no inducement, to risque the

476 RUFUS KING. [1815

chance of being obliged to go there more than one Session, and
should the Legislature be democratic another year, the obligation
to prevent the election of a Senator of that Party would be con-
sidered by others, if not by myself imperious. ... I have
been in town only twice since my return & have had no particular
conversation with any one. The chief, you know, is at N. Hamp-
ton. I know no time when every one appeared to receive me with
more respect or cordiality. Mr. Cabot, so soon as he knew I was
at Mr. Payne's Office, came to me, and laughed very heartily at
his going to Hartford, and says he was prevailed upon to take the
journey, merely because they declared an absolute determination,
in all men of any standing in the community not to go, unless he
went, and that a measure of the Sort, was necessary to allay the
ferment and prevent a crisis, in the hope of something occuring
to change the state of affairs. He expressed his unaltered con-
viction, that the worst of evils would be a dissolution of the Union,
and all the good which could arise from the Convention would
be, in case of a total failure of all the powers of the Federal Govt,
that a sort of organized body would be in existence, which might
attempt to provide for the exigencies of the moment, and that all
their endeavors were to avoid doing anything. This Conversa-
tion was frequently interrupted by persons coming in & entering
into the talk, and on the whole my reflection is, at present, that
they had no views, but to avoid immediate peril, in the possibility
that chance might relieve them. He thought ill of sending the
Commission to Washington, and this, as I inferred, from the idea
that the measure was calculated to hasten, & promote what wis-
dom & prudence would delay & repress. It is not impossible,
some one at least of the actors imagined a state of things had
arisen, which might be improved to waft him into places of great
power &: distinction and that these phantoms were continually
playing before his imagination. I think it probable that future
opportunities will afford a more distinct view of their plans & ob-
jects if they had any — To obtain peace on any terms seems to
have been the great desideratum, and I think it not unlikely, if
the war had continued, some rash and unadvisable step would
have been taken — The evening before the news of Peace reached
Boston there was a meeting of several of the influential leaders
in the Legislature, at the house of the Chief, to discuss & consider

1815] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 477

the propriety of adopting some legislative resolution, declaring
the willingness of the State to accede to the desire of G. B., for a
road between N. B. & Quebec. — Fortunately no conclusion was
adopted. The people of Maine have it constantly sounding in
their ears, that the Federalists were willing to cede their Country
to the Enemy, and, however disposed to such an Event were the
inhabitants, & especially the Democrats, the odium of such a
Disposition will be thrown altogether on their opponents, and will,
I fear give them, the Democrats, the ascendancy. The Demo-
crats affect to consider the Peace as the fruit of Madison's wis-
dom, and every occurrence of the war, which was honourable to
the character of the individual and the more so, as having been
produced without the aid of Government, as entirely resulting
from the abilities & exertions of the Admon.

Yours truly, C. Gore.

C. Gore to R. King.

Waltham, Apr. 24, 1815.
My dear Sir :

. . . I hear nothing from Georgetown or Washington, relative
to our Accommodations next Winter. I should not be satisfied to
go to one of the mixed lodging Houses & make a joint mess with
the multitude, and I do not perceive, where we are to pitch our
tent. If I decline, it ought to be this June and as I know noth-
ing, that will tempt me to risque incurring the obligation to visit
Washington every Session until 182 1, I shall, unless the prospect
be very clear of a federal Majority, in Massachusetts, next election,
resign before the close of the Session of the Legislature which
will end in March next — Under existing circumstances, I should
prefer to go the next Winter if we can be accommodated tolerably
well.

The Newspapers say Virginia will be as bad as the last Congress,
and all of the old Delegation, who chose to be reelected, will be
gratified. North Carolina will probably follow in the same course.
The policy & measures of the Government will, therefore, continue
as for years past.

I do not perceive any strong reason for believing in any great
& immediate changes in Massachusetts. The Election for Rep-

478 RUFUS KING. [1815

resentatives, which will be soon taking place, will show more
distinctly the bearing of Parties, on the doings of last Winter.
I am forced to this conclusion, that no definite view or plan, was
either conceived or marked out by any one. A general dissatisfac-
tion was prevalent, and the leaders knew not how either to direct
or oppose it, and were yet desirous of keeping a hold on this
temper, that, if occasion occurred, it might be improved to
advantage. Their conduct appears to have been inconsequential
&, in some instances, contradictory to what little of plan they
seem to have entertained. They wished for and expected the
destruction of the ruinous policy of the Govt, and considered
what would follow either a continuance of the war, or a disgrace-
ful Peace ; yet they urged the making Peace on any terms, and
by Legislative Resolutions would, within a few days, had they
not received the Treaty, have avowed a willingness to have Peace
at the sacrifice of a portion of this State's Territory.

Many think if the war had continued, we should have been
cured of our follies, yet all see & feel the relief that Peace affords —
No great business is doing, but the little which is done gives an
appearance of life where stillness and death seemed alone to
triumph. — Stores are wanted at the Peace prices, and a new wharf,
is to be immediately built between Indian and Long Wharf, and
the stores, fifty in number, are all engaged, — whether this be a
fortunate speculation, time alone can show. . . .

Yours faithfully,

C. Gore.

R. King to J. Trumbull.

Jamaica, L. I., May 22, 1815.
Dear Sir :

It is a long time since I have heard, or reed, letters from you.

As I have reed, no letters from Charles, I know not whether you

have relinquished your thoughts of visiting us, or still persist.

Since about the middle of March we have been peaceably at home.

The season hitherto has been cold and the progress of vegetation

uncommonly retarded. Today it is warm. Having been in town

and heard that a vessel sails tomorrow for England, I cannot omit

the opportunity of recalling ourselves to you and Mrs. Trumbull's

1 8 15] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 479

recollection. In public affairs since peace again has been restored
to us, as I have reason to hope not again soon to be exiled, we
must look to the old world for extraordinary events ; in which
it seems to be yet fruitful. We are ignorant of the course which
the allies will pursue. If Bonaparte continues at the head of the
French nation, Europe must expect the repetition of the same
deeds that have desolated her during the last twenty years. As
you will conclude we are all solicitude for decisive information of
the course that Eng. and the other allies shall pursue.

Of the opinions in France, I scarcely think it worth while to en-
quire, France is ruled by the sword ; and those whose profession
is plunder and violence call for rulers and leaders who are
attached to, and masters of, the business. The poor Bourbons
were without the means, as they seem to have been without the
talents, to rule the country.

That the chief should have been disposed of, as he was ; that
he was placed in a situation quite convenient to hold the necessary
intercourse with France, and to keep alive the hopes of his
associates there, was not the measure of the Bourbons. They
neither chose it nor could they change it.

You can be at no loss to decide upon our opinions and wishes
in this country. Those who desire peace and the enjoyment of
national independence, the progress of the arts and the extension
of human happiness, regret an event which menaces these inestim-
able blessings.

But I relinquish these topics and with best respects to Mrs.
T., in which we all unite, I remain, my dear Sir, with sincere
attachment, yr. faithful Servt.

R. K.

R. King to C. Gore.

Jamaica, L. L, July 22, 1815.
My dear Sir :

. . . I have reed, as I believe I have before mentioned to
you, a letter from Hanson* on the subject concerning which you

* The reference in this letter is to Mr. Alexander Hanson of Maryland, who
was the Proprietor and editor of the Federal Republican, a newspaper of which
the publication was begun in Baltimore in 1812, and in which he had fearlessly
denounced the Government for declaring war. This course had caused the

480 RUFUS KING. [1815

had one or two conferences with him — He is very much mortified
and dissatisfied — appears to entertain strong resentment agt.
Mason, suspects Webster & Easton, conceives that he has been
unfairly treated, that his standing and character are struck at, and
that his own & family's ruin is aimed at. It is more than probable
that his pecuniary affairs have been neglected ; that while his ex-
penses have been certain and great in circulating his paper, the
income has been far short of what it shd. have been, and would
have been under the direction of a man, who understood the value

riots in Baltimore in July, 1812 (see p. 352 of this volume). Driven away from
there, he resumed at once the publication in Georgetown, D. C, and continued
a strong and outspoken opponent to the measures of the administration. Dur-
ing the last session of Congress the opinions he advocated had caused dissen-
sions between him and many of his political associates in that body, of which
he also was a member from Maryland. As a consequence he deemed it advis-
able to dispose of his paper, " to preserve concord and harmony," though he
would not like it " to pass into hands which might misapply such an engine."
Among others consulted as to the advisability of selling it, he wrote to Mr.
King, a warm personal friend, who in a letter of May 28th to him, while assur-
ing him of a hearty concern in all that affects him & his estimable family, says :

" Of your zeal, your disinterested views and correct principles I have the most
entire conviction : of your devotedness to these principles no proofs are want-
ing ; for the honor of our country they are already too strong. The injury
done to your property has been great ; and further sacrifices, should they be
necessary, no one seems to have a right to call upon you to make. I know that
you can never compromise your well settled opinions, and I am mistaken if, at
this period of your life, you can much abate in your laudable zeal to explain
them ; still the interest of your own independence and the comfort of a beloved
family ought not to be neglected. I am not insensible to the personal esteem
and confidence which you have so obligingly manifested towards me, and on
this account, had I no other or more laudable motive, I should be unwilling
that my opinion should for a moment retard the adoption of any measure that
should in your opinion be likely to prove advantageous to you.

" If I do not misread the future, new public difficulties are soon to occur ; and
unless they shall be properly met and disposed of, the consequences may be
ruinous to the country. Dallas' management of the Treasury is alarming.
Projects seem to be contemplated which in any state of our foreign affairs will
be dangerous to public and private credit.

" Poor Thomas' death would at any period have been thought a great public
loss ; in the present crisis it is a national calamity. God grant that it may not
prove the forerunner of still greater afflictions.

" With great respect & esteem &c,

" Rufus King."

[815] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 48 1

of money, and who would bestow the proper care on the money
department. Any one who knows Hanson, must know that he
has feelings and sentiments which disqualify him for that sort of
attention wh. is indispensable in collecting the annual subscrip-
tions. Since the death of Thomas, Hanson thinks his political
friends in his own State have been shy of him. To a meeting of
the leaders held some time since, preparatory to the fall Election,
Hanson alone of the fedl. members of Congress, was omitted in
the invitation ; this has increased his dissatisfaction ; he talks of
declining a re-election, and of selling his paper at auction &c &c
&c. In my answer to his Letter, I took pains to soothe his feel-
ings, but declined any agency respecting the disposal of his paper.
From all this we can expect nothing respecting quarters from Han-
son, who has not been in Washington or Georgetown since he
left it soon after us. I thought of writing to Mr. Senator Ander-
son ; but to have what you want, those you employ shd themselves
require like accommodations ; I therefore have written to Mr.
Bowie of Georgetown, explaining what we want, expressing a pref-
erence for Georgetown, and of a private house to a public one —
two good bed rooms, with fire places, drawing & dining rooms,
separate table for four persons, accommodations for four or five
white servants, coach house & stable for ten horses — coal fires
preferable to wood one, &c &c. Fire, candles, horsefeed, every-
thing, excepting liquors to be supplied — I desired Mr. Bowie to
give me the result of his enquiry, with the price which would be
required of us per week. Not recollecting Bowie's name, I in-
closed the Letter to Anderson, saying that we had thought of
troubling him to make inquiries which we had requested Bowie to
make. As I understand that the National Intelligencer is per-
mitted to animadvert upon the Report * made by Mr. Larpent &
Charles, I added "that some Legislators have thought the Law a
severe one, that visits the sins of the father on the children, but it
seems that at Washington the Jewish rigor in this respect deserves
approbation." On the subject of this Report I have no Letters
from Charles — nor have we any other information except what has
appeared in the News Papers — we ought not perhaps to be
obliged to Messrs Clay & Gallatin for their selection ; had they

* Relative to the Dartmoor prison transactions.

VOL. v. — 31

482 RUFUS KING. [1815

employed one of their Secretaries I shd have been as well satis-
fied. Charles is of too generous a nature to have suspected any
fraudulent purpose ; perhaps none was meditated ; the truth is, it
was not an affair of Government discussion — it strictly belonged
only to the criminal jurisprudence of England. With more years
and greater caution Charles wd. perhaps have assented only to a
special Report of facts, leaving the rest to inference : this how-
ever wd. have defeated the object of the Commission — the occur-
rence like that of ye. 5th of Mar. is to serve in future times as a
topic to criminate Engd. and enflame popular and party feelings :
those who are most noisy are least sorry, that the unfortunate men
were killed & maimed. Charles left England about the 1st of
May for Portugal, and probably did not return to London before
the middle of June — of his business no authentic information is
reed.; nothing had been decided before he went to Portugal.
Each successive arrival increases our solicitude respecting the
state of Europe. If France does not submit to all the rigors,
which her perilous condition calls for, she must be conquered —
in other words Bonaparte & the army will be crushed. In case
the allies succeed, what is to be Bonapart's fate ? What that of
his Marshals and the great Leaders who adhere to him ? Whither
can they escape, except to this Country ; and can they escape still ?
I concur in your sentiments respecting the condition of the Try.
Dept. The more confusion and disorder in the currency, the
stronger the case, and the more powerful the arguments agt. the
issue of a Bank paper money — Should the war in Europe be
speedily concluded, I shd. have hopes that we may again defeat
a mischievous and cheating National Bank. I look forward with
disinclination to the residence at Washington — independent of
the inconveniences of the place, my health also has lately suffered,
and the attack has been of a sort to make me uncertain respecting
its true character — whether it was inflammation of the Kidney,
Gravel, or the commencement of those assaults which gradually
and painfully finish our course is a matter of uncertainty and of
some solicitude. . . .

Faithfully and always yr friend.

R. K.

1815] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 483

Rich. Harison to R. King.

New York, July 24, 1S15.
Dear Sir :

The case of Mettus Tuffetius, alluded to by Mr. Mason, is in
the 27 & 28th Chapters of the first Book of Livy. It is a strong
case, and should be considered in connection with the Treaty
stated in the 24th Chapter of the same Book. This Treaty pre-
ceeded the celebrated Battle between the Horatii and the Curiatii
& contained the following Terms. " Cujus Populi Cives eo Certa-
mine vicissent, is alteri Populo cum bona Pace imperitaret." The
Inhabitants of Alba, therefore after the Victory of the Horatii,
became Subjects of Rome : and the punishment of Mettus appears
to be founded upon that basis — not upon the Principle of public
Law, as between distinct Nations, — Mettus was considered & pun-
ished as a traitor & Livy himself treats of the Subject in that
Light. How far the Case may be applicable to the existing Case
of the great Criminal, is certainly a nice question. He once owed
Allegiance to the French Monarchy — He had renounced all pre-
tensions to the Crown, & he entered France with the avowed pur-
pose of dethroning the Monarch — why then is he not a traitor
& liable to ultimate punishment ? Believe me, Dr. Sir, with the
most sincere Respect your obed Servt. &c.

Rich. Harison.

Charles King to R. King.

Liverpool, 14th Aug., 1815.
My dear Sir :

. . . James informs me that he had read to you on your sick
bed, my report of the transaction at Dartmoor,* & that you were

* When the Treaty of Peace was made, there were several thousand American
prisoners confined in the prison at Dartmoor in England. They naturally be-
lieved that they would soon be released, but were disappointed, and, without
blaming their own Government for the delay in this matter, they showed very
decided animosity to Mr. Beasley, who was the Commissary of Prisoners. His
answer was that the Government had not provided vessels for their transporta-
tion home and he had no alternative but to leave them where they were. On
the 6th of April there was an attempt on their part, as was charged, to force
their way out of the prison ; at any rate what appeared to be a mutiny took

484 RUFUS KING. [181 5

satisfied with it. I need not say that no approbation can ever be
so valuable to me, after that of my own heart, as yours ; and my
gratification therefore at learning your opinion on this subject, was
in proportion to the value it has in my estimation.

The agency I had in this business was rather forced upon me,
than courted by me. Mr. Clay & Mr. Gallatin both reiterated
their requests on several occasions, that I would take up the
enquiry ; adding that, as I was a commercial man & from the
northern States, my decision would be most likely to satisfy those
more immediately connected with the sufferers on that disastrous
occasion. Thus invited, and feeling that perhaps the investiga-
tion might be committed to less unbiassed persons, I decided at
once to act in the business and trust (the more confidently since
you approve) that in the course of it, I neither forgot the loyalty
of an American, nor the impartiality of an honest man. In these
views I was most amply and honorably seconded by my colleague,
Mr. Larpent, whose conduct throughout was most frank and
manly and unmarked by either passion or prejudice. As to the
report itself, my own judgment and the advice of Mr. Clay pointed

place, the guard was called out, and the prisoners, continuing their riotous pro-
ceedings, were fired upon ; several were killed and many more wounded.

It was necessary for the British Government to make an examination into the
circumstances connected with this sad transaction, and a joint commission,
English & American, engaged in the examination. Mr. Larpent and Mr.
Charles King were the Commissioners, who, after what they believed to be a
faithful investigation of the case, agreed upon a report which sustained the
authorities of the prison, under the apparently threatening state of the case.
The prisoners denounced this report as untrue in its conclusions as to their in-
tentions or acts, and certainly as to the measures taken to restore quiet. Mr.
King in his letter to Mr. Adams, Minister from the U. S. in London, giving a
report to him, says {Natl. Intellr., July 14, 1815) : " I cannot but express it as
my settled opinion, that by conduct a little more temporising, this dreadful
alternative of firing upon unarmed prisoners might have been avoided. Yet as
this opinion has been the result of subsequent examination, and after having
acquired a knowledge of the comparatively harmless state of the prisoners, it
may be but fair to consider, whether in such a moment of confusion and alarm,
as that appears to have been, the officer commanding could have fairly estimated
his danger, or have measured out with precision the extent and nature of the
force necessary to guard against it. There was no plea or shadow of

excuse, for the general firing which took place afterward, except the personal
exasperation of the soldiers." He says he and Mr. Larpent agreed upon this.
See Annals of Congress, 1815-16, pp. 1506-1600.

1815] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 485

out a joint report, if the respective commissioners could agree
upon one, as the most proper mode of presenting the business to
our Govts., and pending that, the opinion of Mr. Larpent, as well
as the instructions he had received from Lord Castlereagh, con-
templated the same result. I had no hesitation, upon finding how
entirely we concurred in opinion, to adopt that mode ; and we,
accordingly drew up conjointly the relation, or rather digest of
evidence, which you have seen. I am induced principally to men-
tion this, from having been informed, tho' not directly, that Mr.
Adams to whom the report was addressed by me, has said, that
such a document was wholly uncalled for on my part ; that my
sole duty was to have taken the examinations and submitted them
without any comment to the Government. I cannot help adding
my persuasion that Mr. Adams has been led to make this remark
from disappointment at not finding in the report itself, as I fear
he both wished and expected, any coloring of animosity or
prejudice.

As to the style, in a literary sense, of the paper, our aim was to
make it short & perspicuous and simple ; tho' if we had taken
more time and employed more hands to write, for our own were
completely tried with taking down innumerable folios of evidence,
we could have rendered it more polished, without diminishing
either its strength or its simplicity. . . .

Yrs most truly

Chas. King.

C. Gore to R. King.

Waltham, Aug. 20., 1S15.
My dear Sir :

. . . Democracy seems to have lost her great high Priest, and
I cannot but feel some surprize, that the Leaders, at the seat of
Government, should as I understand they do, express so openly,
& strongly their regret at the downfall of the Tyrant. Hatred to
England seems to be one of the fundamental injunctions of their
political constitution, and, on this subject they observe neither the
maxims of prudence nor decorum. Their behaviour, as appeared
from the Government paper, on the Report relative to Dartmoor
Prison, was shameful. Common decency claimed from the Ad-
ministration, not only an acquiescence, but an unqualified support

486 RUFUS KING. [1815

of what the two Gentlemen subscribed. Probation can ever be
ingly gratified, with the manly character \ as yours ; and my
Statement. Hanson in his letter, discoverecon this subject, was
Dissatisfaction with his federal friends. I rrm.
pecuniary affairs are in a bad State. He is un forced upon me,
in his conjectures, that the gentlemen to whom \. both reiterated
discontented with the manner in which his Pape Id take up the
last Winter. Giles, we understand, is connecting m & from the
association, to make a purchase and settlement of so. satisfy those
border on waters, which communicate with the Mobile, disastrous
he resigns his seat in the Senate, and intends an early ivestiga-
for that country. Crawford, I observe takes the place ot^ed at
tary, and from this circumstance I infer, perhaps erroneously, ice
by one Party he is intended as a Candidate for the Chair of GOV
ernment — Monroe I presume will be the Virginia Candidate.

R. Goldsborough writes me, that the Democratic party in Mary-
land made overtures to Gen. Smith, for his support, in the ensuing
Election. He was disposed to enter with them, provided they
would make him some Consideration, by assigning an Office for
him. But not considering his services worthy of reward, they
declined — He is for sale, but no one is willing to pay the pur-
chase money — Golds, thinks the Federalists will succeed, but the
contest supported, as it will be, by the whole force of the Adminis-
tration, at Washington, will be little short of a civil War. . . .

Ever & faithfully your Friend,

C. Gore.

Lafayette to R. King.

Paris, August 21, 1815.
My dear Sir :

Permit me to introduce you to my former and late Colleague,
at 26 years distance, in the French Representative Houses, Reg-
nault-de St. Jean d'Angely. He has in this interval acted an
able and eminent political part, chiefly under the imperial govern-
ment, where he has professed himself my personal friend. Now
he finds his name on a Royal list of Proscription and since the
chamber of Deputies Has taken in Consideration the kind of im-
peachment published Against him, he is going to Visit the U. S. —

1815] LIFE? AN& CORRESPONDENCE. 487

out a joint report, if of Conspiracies to recall Napoleon from the
upon one, as the mof-I who for one have been opposed to his Gov-
our Govts., and pen allowed to say the Royalists have proved the
as the instructions ators against themselves — Had their Conduct
templated the san^enial to the progress of knowledge and the Spirit
entirely we cone aever would it have been possible for Bonaparte to
accordingly drc- of his former power — permit me to entreat your

evidence, which s in favour of the Bearer and friendly remembrance

tion this, fron st of these lines, who shall ever be bound to you by

Adams to v ament of regard, gratitude and attachment.

such a dr Lafayette.

sole duf

with-

mv

CHAPTER XXVII.

King to Gore — Commercial Treatywith England — C. King to King — Condition
of France — England said to be about taking Florida — W. King to King —
Treaty unfavorable to the W. India Trade — King to J. Mason — Condi-
tion and Course of Banks — Excessive Issue of Notes destructive to them —
King to Gore — Count Survilliers's proposed Residence in America — King
to his Son Edward — To practise Law in Ohio — Advice as to his Life and
Studies — King to E. King — Commercial Treaty with England — King to
E. King — New Year's Letter with Advice — King to E. King — Branch of
National Bank better at Chillicothe — Henderson to King — Harbor on
Lake Ontario — Dallas's Plan of a Bank not approved — C. King to King —
Commercial Treaty liked in England — Van Ness to King — Affairs in
Albany — Irregularity in Election Returns gives Majority to Democrats in
the Assembly — Dwight to King — Federalists must secure New York —
Coleman's Sketch of King.

R. King to C. Gore.

August 29, 181 5.
My dear Sir :

. . . From him [his son Charles, then in London] we learn
that the treaty of Commerce provides for the Equalization of
Duties, by which I understand that Goods imported or exported
shall pay like Duties in the Ships of both Countries ; that
no prohibition of the Goods or Manufactures of one shall be
made by the other unless such prohibition extend to the like
Goods & Manufactures of all other Countries ; in other words
that we shall pass no non-importation Laws. The East Ind.
Trade to be as heretofore j voyages to the E. Ind. to be circuitous
or direct. — The Wt. Ind. Trade to be also as heretofore subject to
proclamation of admission & exclusion — whether, by "as hereto-
fore" in respect to the East Ind. Trade, be meant according to
Mr. Jay's treaty, I am at a loss. — No provision whatsoever about
captures, spoliations &c, or concerning impressment, is contained
1815] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 489

in the treaty. — Whether it contains articles concerning blockades
& contraband is not mentioned in Charles' Letter. If existing
Duties on Goods imported into the Br. Dominions remain, I fear
that New Hampshire & Maine will be great sufferers. When I
adjusted the countervailing Duties under Mr Jay's treaty, the
Duties on Potash, Lumber, Masts, Timber, &c. were the same as
these articles imported from Canada & Nova Scotia. You know,
that they have, since we commenced our war of commercial regu-
lations, been increased, and as I recollect are higher than the
Duties on the like articles imported into G. B. from Norway,
Sweden & elsewhere. If these Duties remain these articles can-
not be carried to English Markets either in Br. or Amer. Ships —
the Treaty is limited to four years. If I recollect the expression
in one of Charles' Letters the difference of Duties on cotton &c
is to cease as soon as Laws shall be passed in the two Countries
abolishing all discrimination — perhaps our Law on the subject,
passed the last session, may dispense with the convening of Con-
gress earlier than the constitutional day ; but in this case, a session
of the Senate will be necessary at an early day. I suspect our
Envoys have made a miserable Treaty ; but we must wait to see
it, before we condemn it — Dallas is every day shewing his rash-
ness & incapacity — the subject of our Currency is a most seri-
ous one.

Affectionately yrs
Rufus King.

C. King to R. King.

Liverpool, 3d Oct., 1S15.
My dear Sir :

. . . France is a prey to every sort of division in parties
& interests, and altho' it is for the present, I believe, decided that
her territory shall remain entire, the allies retaining for a certain
number of years her frontier towns, I fear if the discordant
feelings of her various population are not soon moulded into
something like union, that the greedy powers of her neighbour-
hood, and above all, Prussia, will effect a partition of her Terri-
tory. G. Britain has uniformly, it is understood, opposed any
such partition ; and upon the whole, this nation has acquired

490 RUFUS KING. [1815

great credit, since the decisive battle of Waterloo, for the modera-
tion, as well of her military, as of her diplomatic, agents. Towards
us alone, I think, there exists no great feeling of amity ; at least
in the people ; and I do not understand what object this country
can have in taking possession, as it is said she is about to do, of
the Floridas, unless it be for the purpose of retaining an undue
influence over the Indians bordering our territory ; and to have a
sort of command upon the commerce of the bay of Mexico. If
it shall, as I presume it will, be deemed necessary for us to acqui-
esce for the present, in such a surrender, on the part of Spain, of
this territory, we must, I think, at some not distant period, appro-
priate it to ourselves. It is impossible to form any idea for the
present of what may be the result of the insurrection into which
the execrable tyranny of Ferdinand, has driven a portion of his
suffering people. But all honest men, I believe, hope here for one
result, the total overthrow of such a bigot as Ferdinand has proved
himself to be. . . . Ever with great truth &c.

Chas. King.

W. King to R. King.

Bath, Oct. 9, 1815.
Dear Sir :

. . . It was expected on the part of the Merchants generally
in this section of the Country, that the Senate would have been
convened by this time to consider the treaty ; and it is as gen-
erally a subject of regret that it has not been the case. I fear we
shall not be as well situated in relation to the Lumber Business as
we formerly were ; it is not expected that there has been any
stipulation in relation to the West India trade, in which case the
English calculate to do the whole business themselves — this must
be prevented, it has already got up quite an excitement ; the
Merchants will not rest satisfied to have this business exclusively
conducted by the British — I wish this subject to have your usual
consideration, and that you may be prepared when Congress meets
to bring forward such measures as will have a tendency to place
this Colonial business on an equitable and satisfactory footing. I
will state to you very concisely my impressions on this subject.
No article the growth, produce, or manufacture of any Nation or

1815] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 49I

Colony should be imported into this Country, from which place
an American Vessel could not import the same article. A meas-
ure of this kind would I think open the English W. India Colo-
nies to the Americans. If it did not I should think all foreign
Vessels on leaving this Country with Cargoes should give Bonds
that no part of their Cargoes should be landed at any place where
an American Vessel could not land the same articles. . . .

W. King.

R. King to Jeremiah Mason.

Jamaica, L. I., Nov. 2, 1815.
Dear Sir :

I last evening reed, your letter of the 12th. I have some ac-
quaintance with the Conditions and views of the Bks. in our city
and though I have no particular information concerning the Bks.
southward of us, my apprehensions are much the same as respect
them all. Mr. Burke has remarked that all men professing un-
limited and discretionary power tending to their own advantage
abuse it, and we are not to expect a miraculous interposition to
alter the laws of nature. To be sure there has been a commenda-
ble moderation which would have been more considerable in the
administration of our City Bks. if they had unitedly rejected the
projects of Dallas. In Penn., Maryd. & the Dist. of Columbia
the Bks. seem to have imposed no restraint on themselves ; their
issues have been excessive and their profits indispose them to
resume a better course. By an agreement between our City Bks.,
they are pledged to each other and to the Public that their Debits
shd not exceed their respective Capitals and sixty per Cent,
additional ; that such of them as owed more than this sum should
reduce their debts within that limit and that the Debtor Bks.
should pay to the creditor Bks. six per Cent, interest on their
weekly balances. The interest is paid but I doubt whether the
Bks., which at their stoppage owed more than the limited Ratio,
have diminished their Debt, and have some reason to believe that
the aggregate debt at the foregoing epoch has been increased,
though not exceeding five or six per Cent. According to a sup-
plement and late agreement the Debtor Bks. are severally pledged
to reduce their Debts to the Creditor Bks. to $400,000 each before
the first of January. To effect this they must sell funded Debt

492 RUFUS KING. [1815

or Treasury notes, exceeding a million and a half of Dollars.
This would depress the stock market, and be attended with loss
to the settlers, a circumstance sufficient to deter them from doing
it. Some of the Bks. desire to return to the old system, others of
them do not wish it even, and I think I risk nothing in expressing
an opinion, that the Paper circulation will be persisted in. If its
discontinuance be left to the Bks., wh. do not pay their notes
in specie, Congress may arrest the mischief of this State of things,
by passing laws to establish a Bk. on the only correct Principles
and providing that the Revenue shall be receivable only in specie,
or the notes of Bks. which pay their notes in specie, the Paper
system vanishes. The currency, bad as it is, cannot preserve its
present credit ; unless the public have satisfactory evidence of
the probable Resumption of Specie Payments it will become
worse and as the States can pass no laws protecting the Bks.
against their Creditors, the further depreciation of their notes will
stop their circulation. Suits will be instituted ag't the Bks. ; one
decision had and the bubble bursts. Whether Congress will
establish a National Bk. on the only true plan you are as able as I
am to determine ; if they do not, I am pursuaded that the exces-
sive issue of Bank notes must put an end to their circulation. I
have no expectation of leaving home for Washington before the
6th or 7th of Deer. By late accts from Mr. Gore I am uncertain
whether his health will be such as will allow him to undertake the
journey. I should like well enough to be present at the Discus-
sion of the commercial Convention with Engd. If those who
made it so far as it is made are gratified, let it become a law.
The Currency is in my opinion the most important subject that
will require our attention and exertions — and we shall be there in
time to hear and be heard concerning it.

With very sincere respect & esteem I am my Dr. Sir yr. ob. &
faithful

Rufus King.

R. King to C. Gore.

Jamaica, L. I., Nov. 4, 1815.
My dear Sir :

. . . Our family is all well — On Wednesday Mr. Gracie gave
a Breakfast to the Count Survilliers, alias J. B.; the Count St. Jean

1815] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 493

D'Angely and three or four young Frenchmen came with the
great Personage, — John & James, with one or two Gentlemen of
the City were invited. I also was present — he appeared to be
under 50 yrs of age, mild in his manners and discreet in his con-
versation— He expects his wife & daughters in the Spring — is
making enquiries respecting the Country with the view of select-
ing a situation for an Establishment — asked me a few Questions
on this subject concerning situations that had been recommended
to him. I replied that it seemed to me that the expedient course
wd be to defer any present decision, to see for himself, to pass
some time, at least the four seasons, before he fixed himself. He
spoke of the distracted state of Fr. ; the elements were there con-
founded ; the Duke d'Artois & the Duchess D'Angouleme were
Bigots, and earnest to restore absolutely the antient Regime ; the
King, the best of his family, but without the men about him who
could supply the defect of 25 years absence. So far as we can
ascertain the new Legislative Body will be of the stamp of the
Duchess D'Angouleme — if so the proscribed list will have but
little chance of being allowed to return to France. Certainly the
condition of France is most humiliating — and the King, whose
return is identified with the present mortification of the Nation,
must wear a Crown of Thorns. A day or two after the arrival of
the Ct. S., he made a little excursion in the neighbourhood of the
City, and strolled into Mr. Gracie's Grounds. The family invited
him into the house without knowing who he was, in this way Mr.
G., John & James, who were at Mr. Gracie's, became known to the
Ct., who preserves his incognito and declines entering into Society.

Mr. King's fourth son, Edward, who had been educated
in New York, passed two years in the study of law in Mr.
Reeve's law school at Litchfield, Connecticut. As he had
expressed a desire to practise his profession in one of the
Western States, his father considered that it would be wiser
for him to pass the last year's study in the State in which
he proposed to live (Ohio) and thus familiarize himself with
the modes of practice of law there and become acquainted
with the members of the Bar. In May he had written to
Governor Thomas Worthington at Chillicothe, Ohio, asking

494 RUFUS KING. [1815

him to assist him in making arrangements for his son's
studies and residence in that city, and to introduce him to
those who would help him in his work and admit him to
social intercourse with their families. The Governor promptly
responded with every promise to do what he could to render
his son's residence profitable and agreeable to him, and as
the sequel will show, faithfully fulfilled his promise.

In October Edward began his journey westward, and his
father wrote to him on November 12th, that he hoped

" that without having suffered any unnecessary delay you are en-
gaged in settling yourself down to the finishing of your prepara-
tory studies. Not a day, not an hour of postponement should be
suffered, for the influence of suspense and of unprofitable occu-
pation is as injurious as early decision and the steady prosecution
of your studies would be advantageous."

Again on December 16th he writes to his son giving him
advice as to his daily life, and relative to the position he
should aim to attain in his profession, and in the good
opinion and respect of those whose estimation was most
desirable.

"... One great point you have to study is economy ; with
it you may succeed to acquire reputation and property ; without
it you will fail in both respects.

" You must also beforehand well understand, that you must have
much & enduring patience ; as it will be by industry, regularity,
and sober & unexceptional habits, that you may expect, in due
time, to obtain a portion of the business, which now belongs to
others.

" To be a Lawyer of reputation, your punctuality, industry, ac-
quirements & talents, bottomed upon the purest integrity, must
be seen and understood by others ; and until a favorable opinion
in these respects is established, you cannot and must not expect
employment. As to jumping at once into fame and fortune, it
would be more than folly, to even hope you will be able to do it.
You must have a beginning before you can make any progress,
which will be slow, or rapid, exactly in proportion to your merits.

1 8 15] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 495

"Your present object is not immediate acquisition of fortune,
but to acquire character, standing, & public consideration ; the
obtaining of which will call for the exercise of all the virtues —
habits of order, industry and uninterrupted perseverance must be
strictly observed — rise daily, at the same, and an early hour —
pursue the same course of industry tomorrow as today — whatever
interruption is indulged in, let it be at the same hour every day ;
and whether you read, write, study, eat, sleep, or amuse yourself
in society — let each be done at the same hour daily. Method is
the parent of order and the first law in education & business —
one day shd. be the copy of another. In this course you cannot
fail. Something added daily to your stock of knowledge, will in
proper time become a treasure above price. I recommend to you
to keep a journal, in which with fidelity you make a short entry
of every day's work — noticing current events — and rigorously
marking down the omissions of order, application, and the ob-
servance of your prescribed course, which happened in the pre-
ceding day. This will be calling yourself to account, &, if
impartially practised, will have the effect to exclude bad habits
and confirm good ones.

"We left home on the 4th and arrived here on the 12th. . . .
Congress are not yet fairly at work : the Senate have the com-
mercial Convention with Eng. before them ; it will probably be
ratified on the 18th or 20th. — . . ."

R. King to E. King.

Washington, Dec. 23, 1815.
Dear Edward :

As the morning Paper contains the commercial Convention
with England I send it to you. The Senate with almost unanimity
advised the President to ratify it ; not because it will do much
good, but because it can do little harm : in truth it is scarcely
worth the wax of its seals, and leaves every point of dispute and
disagreement unsettled.

The West Ind. trade is retained under the colonial System of
G. Br., and the intercourse with Canada and Nova Scotia is left
without adjustment by the Parties & of course subject to the

496 RUFUS KING. [1816

ex parte Regulations of each ; Mr. Jay's Treaty opened to us the
navigation of the St. Lawrence as low down as Quebec ; from this
we are to be excluded hereafter. On the Subject of Impress-
ment, Contraband, Blockade, Trade to Enemy-Colonies, and
Orders in Council, the fruitful topics of past misfortunes, con-
troversy and war, the Convention is entirely silent. It provides
agt. our future embargoes & non-intercourse Laws — and the act
of Ratification seems by indirect means to make us Parties to
Bonaparte's confinement.

Altho' I make mention to you of these subjects, I may add, that
I have no desire that you shd. engage in their discussion where
you are. It is likely that most persons about you think well of
whatever is done under the actual Administration, and as your
true object is to establish yourself in your profession, and not to
dispute political Questions, it will be the part of prudence to de-
vote your mind and all your exertions to your own personal pur-
suits. You will not infer from this suggestion, that I recommend
to you to impair your own independence, by an improper con-
cealment of your real sentiments ; but prudence may enjoin an
abstinence from controversy, which might disadvantageously
affect your permanent welfare.* affectionately yrs.

R. K.

R. King to E. King.

Washington, January i, 1816.
My dear Edward :

In sending you my wishes for a happy new year, I anticipate
the common return on your part ; and the occasion awakens all
the anxious concern that I have felt on your account, while it
permits me to recall to your consideration, how much of the hap-
piness of my future years, which cannot be very many, & may be
few, will depend on you.

Laying aside the amusements, the occupations & pursuits of
the past, it behoves you to adjust your condition, employment &
expectation, and to fix your whole mind to the scene that sur-
rounds you ; and where by studying the manners, habits, business
and modes of thinking, you will be able to acquire the standing,

* He was only 20 years old.

1816] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 497

and hereafter the influence, that will gratify yourself and be use-
ful to the public. You will however understand, that I do not
recommend this course without cautioning you carefully to dis-
criminate between good and bad manners, & emphatically between
good and bad habits — vulgarity in manners, language and habits
exists everywhere, and is everywhere to be avoided.

Altho' I have no particular knowledge of the State of society
in Chillicothe, and have believed it to be exempt from many of the
impurities that are found elsewhere ; I should be wanting in af-
fection towards you, as also deficient in the duty of a father, were
I to omit touching on a few points of cardinal importance. It is
matter of regret as well as mortification that habits of intemper-
ance dishonor and destroy the reputation and usefulness, of not
a few of the men of education and public standing among us.
You know that I have never permitted, except in extraordinary
cases, the use of ardent spirits in my family. This regulation
arose from my observation, that the habitual use of ardent spirits,
as a common beverage, is extremely dangerous ; and from the
knowledge that prevention is more to be relied on than correction,
I earnestly caution you against the use of ardent spirits in any
form. Beer, cider and, better than either, water are the safest and
most healthy drinks. Gaming of every sort, is inconsistent with
the acquisition and security of property. Borrowing and con-
tracting debts, for present expenses, are inconsistent with personal
independence, lead to meanness, & even dishonesty. Regularity,
order, in small equally as in great affairs, early rising, with in-
dustry, and the prudent regulation of passions as well as discourse,
not only conduce to health and wealth, but are the infallible
agents, by which great results are produced. Don't read this
new year's gift as the churlish expressions of one, whose age im-
pairs the relish for indulgence, but accept them as the fruits of the
experience of an affectionate father. R. K.

R. King to Edward King.

Jany. 6, 1816, Georgetown.
My dear Sir :

From Mr. Morrow I have heard that you were on your way to
Philadelphia. On the object of your mission the Senators of Ohio

VOL. V. — 3a.

498 RUFUS KING. [1816

are divided in opinion. Having regard to the wishes and con-
venience of the State, Chillicothe has a preference over Cincin-
nati ; but it will probably be urged, that on other considerations,
especially that of affording to the Indiana-State a facility of
making their Land-Payments, or rather to the collectors a facility
in making their remittances of such Payments, Cincinnati is more
eligible than Chillicothe. But you will not omit to remark, that
instead of leaving it optional with the Bank to establish or not
a Branch in each State, the Law obliges the Bank to establish such
Branch in each State that owns two thousand shares ; provided
Congress on application of the Legislature of such State shall re-
quire the same.

There can be no doubt of the requisition being made by Con-
gress, on the application of any State, whose inhabitants own
Bank Capl. amounting to 200,000 Dollars ; nor do I think it can
be long before this portion of property in the Bk. will be owned
in Indiana, and a consequent application made for a Branch.

Indeed the public will have no small interest in placing a Bk.
in Indiana. The intention has been with a view of aiding the
Revenue, and its collection, that Branches should be established
through't. the U. S., and the increased Capital above that of the
former Bk. of the U. S, manifests the expectation of the Con-
gress on this #head. If Indiana be placed out of the question,
which it soon will be by the interest and demand of the State,
then Cincinnati becomes an inconvenient place for the estab-
lishment of the Ohio Branch ; which, looking to the important
interests of the State, as well as the permanent advantage of the
Bk. U. S., should be placed at Chillicothe or some other more
central position. . . . Yrs. &c.

Rufus King.

Wm. Henderson to R. King.

New York, Jany. 19, 1816.
Dear Sir :

I am very much obliged to you for your attention to the sub-
ject of the Harbor in which I am interested on Lake Ontario.
Commodore Chauncey is now at Washington. I have reason to
believe that if he is consulted, his opinion would be in favor of
the permanent naval establishment being at the Town of Hender-

1816] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 499

son. Genl. Brown is also in favor of it. He spoke to me last
Summer respecting land for military purposes. He said it would
be proper for the U. S. to obtain 500,000 acres near the Naval
station, and so situated that the Troops might be prevented from
mingling with the people of the Country. Any land that belongs
to me, I shall be willing to sell to Government at a price that will
be deemed reasonable.

I do not find that Mr. Dallas's plan of a Bank has any advo-
cates here. He and Mr. Burrall correspond. Jonathan has told
him that such a Bank would not fill. Subscribers to it could not
expect more than 5 prct. dividends per ann. &c. &c. I have
seen a letter of the Secy's, to him in which he appears to be highly
displeased with the conduct of the Banks here ; considering five
of them at least as hostile to the Govt, from party motives. Mr.
B. defends the Banks for refusing Treasury Notes ; and to show
that party was out of the question, informs him that in the Bank
of America where six or seven of the directors are administration
men (two of them appointed by Govr. Tompkins) the vote against
receiving Treasury Notes was unanimous. If Mr. Dallas is anx-
ious for Banks to resume specie payments, he ought to fund the
Treasury Notes now in circulation on the best terms he can ; and
not issue in future more than 4 or 5 millions of dollars in a year,
which sum might be kept in circulation at par. The quantity
of foreign merchandize now in this City is so great, that if the
duties are suddenly reduced to the extent proposed, many mer-
chants will suffer severely. A large addition of revenue next
year will arise from importations from beyond the Cape of Good
Hope. From Europe our market will not bear one half the
amount of last year, without ruining the importers.

Owing to death and disease among the Democratic Members, it
seems certain the feds, will have the majority in the State Assem-
bly. This may produce a Council of Appt. which may produce a
great deal of trouble.

I am with sincere respect & esteem, your hum. Servt.

Wm, Henderson.

500 RUFUS KING. [1816

Charles King to R. King.

Liverpool, 3d Jany., 1816.
My dear Sir :

. . . The new commercial Treaty is l:ked here, for except-
ing the farmers, there is no class of persons in this country whose
interests have suffered more by the peace than Shipowners ; and
they are glad of the opportunity of running with us upon equal
terms ; and from the extreme pressure under which they now
labour, I have no doubt they will be enabled, by the almost nom-
inal freights, which they prefer taking to letting their ships be
idle, for a time to carry off from us a share of the trade ; but
eventually I think we shall not be losers by this arrangement. . . .

Peace has not realized here any of the golden hopes with which
such an event is usually hailed. The commerce of the country is
diminished, its agriculture deprived of the market which large
armies abroad & great consequent waste produced ; the Navy re-
duced has thrown hundreds of hungry and unprovided officers
& thousands of men upon the world, to increase the general
clamor ; the gradual reduction of the army is adding to this list ;
the country banks, which had extended themselves, as tho' the
hour of reckoning was never to come, are breaking, or by their
sudden retrenchments, causing their customers to break, & finally
it is evident from preludes which the ministerial papers are sound-
ing, that it is the intention of ministers to continue the income tax
at half its present rate and all the other war taxes or equivalents
to them. In this state of things every one complains, tho' none
suggest remedies, and I have no doubt this session of Parliament
will be unusually stormy ; and yet, tho' I confess myself wholly
unable to say how, I feel persuaded the evil will be remedied
without any convulsion. The system, after being wound up to
such a height as it has been, is indeed exhausted ; but there was
a vigor in its former efforts & there is still such evidence of it, in
its inanimate state, that one cannot but anticipate the happiest
results.

In France the ultra Royalists seem to me to be driving all who
took any share in the revolution to utter despair, and by their late
efforts to restore to the Clergy all the lands & endowments they
formerly possessed, and to enable them to receive legacies &c
from " dying sinners whom they shrive," to be bent on throwing

[8i6] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 501

away all the benefits which, amidst its numerous evils, the resolu-
tion had produced ; and determined to rival even Ferdinand in
their base submission to bigoted & ambitious priests. Hyde de
Neuville is said to be the most furious of these white yacobins, as
the constitutionalists call them. He is lately appointed Minister

to the U. S. . . . believe me yours

Chas. King.

W. VV. Van Ness to R. King.

Albany, 31 Jany., 18 16.
Dear Sir :

You no doubt are desirous to know what has been done, and
what is doing here, and I therefore take the liberty of communi-
cating it.

The Assembly, in consequence of a certificate given by the
Clerk of Ontario most corruptly and flagitiously to one Allen a
Democrat, stood 64 Dems. to 62. Feds. Two Democrats are not
here, one being dead and another having gone to Charlestown
(S. C.) on account of indisposition. The House then stood 62 to
62. Governeur Ogden, the federal member for St. Lawrence, is
dangerously ill, indeed is probably no more, and we now stand 61
Fed. to 62 Dem. To-day the house met and we of course lost the
Speaker by the vote of Allen. Our friends then moved to vacate
Allen's Seat, in order to admit Fellows without a previous refer-
ence to the Committee of Elections. I will briefly explain the
grounds upon which this course is considered justifiable. By our
Election law the inspectors are directed to make duplicate re-
turns, one to be filed " of Record" in the Town Clerk's office, and
the other in the office of the County Clerk. In the case before
the House, the return of one of the Towns, filed in the County
Clerk's office in Ontario, stated that Hen : Fellows had 49 votes ;
the duplicate field in the Town Clerk's office stated 49 votes were
given to Henry Fellows, & the Inspectors all swear the letters
" ry " in the first mentioned return were omitted through inadver-
tence. The federalists contend that both returns being equally
matter " 0/ record," and the return in the Town Clerk's office being
conclusive evidence that all the votes were intended to be for
Henry Fellows, there is no necessity to refer this case to the
Committee of Elections. There are no facts which that Commit-

502 RUFUS KING. [1816

tee can report, that are not already before the House, and which
cannot be controverted and which indeed the sitting member does
not call in question.

What disposition the House will make of this question, I do not
know, but should the Democrats be vile enough to postpone a
decision of Fellows' application until after a Council of Appoint-
ment is chosen ; our next Spring's election will most undoubtedly
be lost.

We have resolved, if we have the power, to put two federalists
and no more in the Council, and if this can be accomplished, I
have very strong hopes we shall make this State permanently
federal. Our opponents fear this measure very much and I shall
not be surprised if they persevere in excluding Fellows from his
seat until they have defeated it.

There is doubt that Tompkins is seriously bent upon being

President. His friends here are active and apparently confident

of success. They join the cry "Virginia has ruled long enough."

These very men four years ago would have crucified Federalists,

if they had possessed the power, for uttering such a sentiment —

When the Council is chosen you will hear from me again — Very

respectfully your obt. Servt

W. W. Van Ness.

T. Dwight to R. King.

Albany, Feb. io, 1816.
Dear Sir :

You will probably have learned from the papers, & from other
sources, the history of the proceedings of the House of Assembly,
since the commencement of the present session of the Legisla-
ture. The leaders of the democratic party, those of the highest
pretensions, it is said, goaded Allen to his task, & now openly
boast of their success, as the result of an ingenious, well exe-
cuted political measure, in which they outwitted the federalists.
It is a lamentable fact, that men holding high offices, and claim-
ing much consideration from the stations they occupy in the com-
munity, can boast of a transaction, which I believe cannot be
equalled in the history of political depravity.*

The federalists are in some measure disconcerted by this
* See Hammond's Political History of N. ¥., Chapter beginning i., 402.

1816] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 503

manoeuvre, by being obliged to change their candidate for gover-
nor. Judge Van Ness cannot be persuaded to leave the Bench
exposed to be filled with a man of that party, in the possible event
of a federal election, & is, I presume, to be considered out of
the question. There is to be a State Convention here next week,
for the purpose of fixing on a candidate. I presume their wis-
dom will direct them to the best man, under all circumstances,
that can now be had.

A great effort, certainly, is necessary to redeem this great State.
Without the force & aid of New York, federalism cannot expect
to make any serious advances. The present appears to me to be
a crisis with us. If we cannot get the command of this State, we
cannot expect to have any effectual agency in the presidential
election. If we cannot make any impression upon the presi-
dential election, this time, I see no hope for the future. The first
step, then, must be, to secure the State & the second, to do as
much towards the United States as possible.

I think the politicians here, wise & able as they are, want all
the help they can possibly obtain from their friends, in every
quarter of the country — and especially from those who are at
Washington, and who understand the interests, & character of
the State. With regard to the candidate for Governor, he will
probably be fixed upon next week. But as to the general scheme
of operations, & the sources from whence topics are to be drawn,
to influence the great body of the people, their friends at the seat
of government may be able to render them essential service.

The transactions of the House of Assembly, it is tho't, are
making some favorable impressions abroad. The nakedness of
the case & the avowed object of the course pursued by the demo-
crats appear to remove every possibility of imposition from it :
that a Council of Appointment should be chosen by the vote of a
spurious member, strikes some minds with considerable force.

I am endeavouring to contribute my mite to aid a cause, which
I have much at heart. If I do no good, I do not intend to do any
hurt ; I should stand a much better chance of being useful, if my
friends would instruct me, & above all give me the benefit of their
wisdom, and experience. I am willing to beg for the public
good. With great respect, I am you very obt sert.

T. Dwight.

504 RUFUS KING. [1816

W. Coleman s Sketch of Rufus King.

" Mr. King, although he has past the sixty first year of his age,
enjoys, in an uncommon degree, the blessings of a hale constitu-
tion, unimpaired by sickness or excesses ; and his love of retire-
ment, combined with a taste for elegant literature, which an
extensive and well chosen library enables him to indulge, and a
well cultivated taste for botany and agricultural pursuits, have
led him to exchange the feverish tumult and enervating routine
of cities, for the healthy activity and rational pleasures of a
country life. In person he is rather above the middle size ; per-
fectly symmetrical, but somewhat athletic. His countenance is
manly and bespeaks intelligence of the first order. The portrait
prefixed gives an uncommonly near resemblance.* He possesses
naturally a cheerful disposition, with a large portion of sensibility
and much generosity of character. His self command is so per-
fect, that he is very seldom, if indeed ever, thrown off his guard
either in debate, or in discourse, by open attack or ensnaring
artifice. On subjects of real importance he bestows much time
and thought, and does not decide until after a very thorough
investigation, but when his mind is settled, his judgment is irrev-
ocable. At times his manner is strongly marked with reserved-
ness ; by which is not meant a want of frankness, for no man has
more of that quality, but the absence of those lively sallies of hu-
mour and pleasantry, which, on other occasions display themselves
in his conversation. By assiduous study, he has acquired large
funds of information on almost every subject. His conversation
and writings are remarkable for conciseness, force and simplicity.
A constant adherence to the point and an attentive pursuit of the
thread of his argument, leave no opportunity for excursions in
search of a figure of rhetoric which might not adorn, and could
not illustrate. And this habit of closeness in reasoning, gives a
general character to his style, which prevents him from being dif-
fuse, even in familiar narrative.

" Mr. King was the intimate friend, both personal and political,
of Hamilton. With that great man, he was many years in habits
of unreserved familiarity, and it is asserted, on the testimony of
several of his friends now living that Hamilton considered

* The portrait by Wood in the third volume of this work.

1816] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 505

Mr. King not only the most finished orator amongst the moderns,
but conceived him to possess a capacity better qualified to
take a wide and comprehensive view of his subject, and of judg-
ing correctly of results, than any other American.

" For his speeches, however great or interesting the occasion,
he makes no verbal preparation. Having studied his subject
well, and made himself familiar with it in all its bearings, he
trusts entirely to the immediate resources of his mind to supply
him with words which never fail to flow in a steady and copious
stream.

" In fine, as a profound statesman, intimately conversant with
the laws and constitution of his country, and familiarly acquainted
with its various interests, foreign and domestic, — as a civilian,
well read in the laws of nations, — as an excellent classical scholar,
both in ancient and modern literature, — as an elegant writer, and
a consummate orator, — as a finished gentleman in his deport-
ment,— and, as the last key-stone that makes the arch, as a pro-
fessor of religion, whose duties he performs with an unostentatious
yet exemplary punctuality, Mr. King may be said to rank with
the first of his contemporaries."

Sketch of Rufus King, by W. Coleman, in Delaplaine's
Repository, 1816, vol. i., p. 185.

CHAPTER XXVIII.

H. Bleecker and Others to King — Announcement of his Nomination as Gov-
ernor of New York — J. R. Van Rensselaer to King — Urging his Accep-
tance of the Nomination — Kent to King — Acceptance absolutely necessary
— J. Morris to King — Choice without consulting him — Duer to King —
Dwight to King — Oakley to King — All urging his Acceptance — Ogden to
King — Van Ness not being Candidate wishes King to be — S. Van Rens-
selaer to King — W. Henderson to King — Duer to Henderson — Z. R.
Shepherd to King — Van Ness to King — All pressing him to accept the
Nomination — J. A. King to King — State of Opinion — Tompkins' demo-
cratic Nominee — S. Van Rensselaer to King — Division among the Demo-
crats— Hopes for King's Success — King to Bleecker Committee — Accepts
the Nomination — Mrs. King to E. King — His Father's Nomination —
Affectionate Messages.

H. Bleecker and Others to R. King.

Albany, 16 Feby. 1816.
Sir:

We have the honor to inform you that in a Convention of Dele-
gates from the several Counties of this State, called for the Pur-
pose of nominating federal Candidates for the offices of Governor
and Lieutenant Governor, at the ensuing election, you were nomi-
nated unanimously as a Candidate for the office of Governor. As
the Committee appointed by the Convention to make this Com-
munication to you, permit us to express their earnest desire, that
your views of the publick good will so far coincide with theirs, as
to induce you to consent to be the federal Candidate for the office
of Governor of this State. We believe that your consent to serve
in the Office, to which the Convention have nominated you, will
have a most happy effect on the Politicks of the State, and enable
it to obtain that Influence over the Policy of the general Govern-
ment, to which our Wealth, Population and Importance give us
so strong a claim.
1816] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 507

It will be evident to you, Sir, that in a Convention of Delegates
from different and remote Parts of the State, held in this city,
your previous Consent to the Nomination could not be obtained.
We hope this will be a sufficient apology for a Nomination, of
which any previous Intimation was altogether impracticable.

In addition to the Considerations above suggested, we feel it our
Duty to add, as the unanimous opinion of the Committee, that your
Acceptance of the Nomination is essential to preserve the Har-
mony and Unity of the federal Party in the State.

With the most ardent Wish that your Views of your Publick Duty
will correspond with those of the Members of the Convention.
We are with great respect your very obedt. Servants,

H. Bleecker,
Peter Augustus Jay,
J. G. Lansing,
Jno. Duer,
J. Rutson Van Rensselaer.

J. R. Van Rensselaer to R. King.

Albany, February 16, 1816.
Sir:

An ardent desire to promote the prosperity and happiness of
my native State, and to give her an elevation in point of charac-
ter above her Sisters, must plead my apology for addressing you
on this occasion. As a political man I know you well and in that
character I write to you. It is doubtless known to you that, for
some time past, our friend Judge Van Ness has been contemplated
as the Candidate for Governor of that State at the approaching
election. In consequence of the turpitude of our political ad-
versaries, a state of things has been produced, which in the opin-
ion of himself and several of his friends jeopardized the bench
of the Supreme Court, in consequence of which he has totally de-
clined being considered as the Candidate. As might have been
expected, several gentlemen were immediately proposed as Candi-
dates by their friends. The inevitable consequence would have
been the destruction of the party and inevitable ruin must suc-
ceed, if fortunately our eyes had not been cast on one who would
unite all in his favor and satisfy not only the persons named as

508 RUFUS KING. [1816

candidates but their friends, that an acquiescence in favor of that
person would be not only a duty, but a source of pleasure and
pride. You were proposed in a Convention consisting of about
one hundred persons from almost every part of the State, con-
vened for the purpose of nominating our Candidate and unani-
mously approved. I am persuaded that a spirit exists in the party
in favor of your nomination, which I hope and believe will be irre-
sistible at the approaching election, if you will do the party the
favor of accepting the nomination ; and you will allow me to add,
that I most sincerely believe the existence of the federal party in
this State depends on the decision you shall make. " Under this
impression I persuade myself you will forego all private consid-
erations and yield yourself to your political friends. I have not
the honor of a personal acquaintance, but write freely because I
believe I know your character and that you will consider every-
thing I write as proceeding from a pure motive. I have the honor
to be, Sir, your obedt. Servt.

J. Rutson Van Rensselaer.

James Kent to R. King.

Albany, Feby. 16, 1816.
Dear Sir :

You will learn by the time this arrives, of your nomination as
Governor. I have nothing to do actively with meetings or nomi-
nations, but my wishes for the honor and success of the federal
Party (as containing more virtue and juster views than any other
Party) are ardent and unceasing. I take the liberty by this merely
to apprize you that a singular anxiety prevails here that you should
consent to be a Candidate, that on this consent depends essentially,
and I apprehend absolutely the courage and success, or the despair
and ruin of the Party ; that nothing could be more soothing, or
nattering or animating to the whole Party, than the signification
of that consent, and you may be assured that they will bestow
upon you, in return, the warmest tribute of their affections. The
causes that have led to this crisis I have not a fit opportunity to
detail, and I hope you will not deem this spontaneous communi-
cation impertinent. I only wish that you should truly know what

1816] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 509

I conscientiously believe to be the important consequences of
your consent or refusal, and I am persuaded you have a strong
and a much more enlightened zeal for the welfare of our common
Country.*

I am with great Respect your obedt. Servt.

James Kent.

Jacob Morris to R. King.

Albany, Feby. 16, 1S16.
Dear Sir :

A Convention of Delegates from almost every part of the State
for the purpose of nominating suitable Candidates to be offered
to the choice of the electors of the State at the ensuing election
for Governor and Lieut. Governor, assembled in this City on the
14th inst, and broke up yesterday.

Having deliberated on the momentary question before us, we
unanimously determined that the great weight attached to your
character and high standing in this State would justify the liberty
we have taken to select your name for the first mentioned office,
without consulting you previously, on the subject.

The breaking up of the Convention without a nomination, would
have been fatal to that cause and those principles in which we
are proud to see you so prominent : we therefore fondly wish and
humbly hope, that you will attribute the step we have taken in
this particular, to the true and only motives that governed (I
trust) every member of that assembly, to wit, attachment to your
person, and a regard for the interest and welfare of our beloved
Country and of this great and respectable State in particular.

Your name at the head of our ticket bids fair to restore this State
to the glorious course pursued by the immortal Washington, and
nothing will be more gratifying to our wishes and flattering to our
hopes than your approbation of the measures we have taken.

I remain with the most respectful and affectionate regard
Dear Sir, yr. obedt. humble servt.

Jacob Morris.

* Endorsed — "Ansd. 24, that Van Ness ought still to be our Candidate."

5IO RUFUS KING. [1816

W. A. Duer to R. King.

Albany, Feby. 16, 1816.
Dear Sir :

As a member of the Convention, by which you have been unani-
mously nominated as our Candidate for the Government of this
State at the ensuing election, it is, in some measure, incumbent
upon me to explain to you the reasons, which induced me to con-
cur in making this appeal to your patriotism and public spirit,
at the hazard of interfering most materially with your private
wishes and convenience.

The Convention, which has just adjourned, was composed of
the leading and most active men of the party from every part of
the State, and assembled under strong impressions that Judge
Van Ness was to receive the nomination. They were not all
aware of the condition under which he had originally consented
to serve, if elected ; and were not in the least disposed to regard
it. You, my dear Sir, were not at hand to be consulted, and the
Convention resolved to nominate Mr. Van Ness notwithstanding
it was understood that he had determined not to risque the appoint-
ment of a Democratic successor on the bench of the Supreme
Court in case of his being elected Governor ; and that therefore
he had determined to decline. Judge Van Ness, upon receiving
this nomination, acted with firmness and declined, his resolution
against it being unalterable. The Convention was then upon the
point of adjourning without making any nomination. But this
was most fortunately prevented, and they endeavoured, if possible,
to prevent the evil consequences which they apprehended from
the declining of Judge Van Ness. After many repeated experi-
ments, it was found absolutely impossible to come to an agree-
ment upon any person but yourself, whom they had only been
deterred from naming in the first instance by motives of the high-
est respect and delicacy.

Our situation was such as to overturn all other considerations
but for the existence of the party and the safety of the State ;
and as the only measure to preserve the one, and insure the other,
it was determined to put you in nomination, without having pre-
viously consulted you. Had it not been understood, until too late,
that Judge Van Vess had been fixed upon as our Candidate, we
should not have been reduced to the necessity of hazarding any

1816] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. S11

injury to your feelings ; and I trust the situation in which we have
been individually placed, and the motives by which we have been
actuated, will be deemed sufficient to justify us in your good
opinion. For my own part, I am perfectly convinced that the
salvation of Federalism and its resuscitation in this State, depend
upon your acceptance ; and never should I have given my voice
to your nomination, had I not entertained a confident, and, as I
believe, well grounded assurance of your success.

Excuse, my dear Sir, the haste in which I am compelled to
write, and believe me

With great respect your obliged and faithful humble Servant,

W. A. Duer.

T. Dwight to R. King.

Albany, Feby. 16, 1816.
Dear Sir :

The federalists of this State have taken a step in which you
must necessarily feel deeply interested, and however deep that
interest may be, I am convinced it cannot exceed that which the
party feel on the occasion. By the loss of the Council of Appoint-
ment, Judge Van Ness tho't it his duty to decline being the can-
didate for governor, as, in the event of his election, the Council
would have it in their power to fill his place on the Bench with
some Democrat, who would be a lasting scourge to the State.
This event reduced the federal Convention to a dilemma, from
which it was by no means easy for them to extricate themselves.
They could not agree on a gentleman, who, it was tho't, would
unite and call out the strength of the party. They were under the
necessity of either breaking up without making any nomination,
or to take the course they have pursued. Had they dissolved
without making a nomination, nothing can be more apparent than
that it would entirely defeat the election and break down the
party. The Democrats here are considered as greatly divided —
not having less than three or four persons in view as candidates
for governor. The most intelligent gentlemen that I have seen,
feel strong confidence, with the present nomination, of success.
I am too recent a settler here, to be considered a judge. But I
am perfectly well persuaded, that with any other they can make,

512 RUFUS KING. [1816

they will be unsuccessful — if for no other cause, for want of
confidence.

Should this State remain in the hands of the Democrats, it seems
to be clearly settled, that there is no hope of a federal president ;
whether there is any, in any event, is more than I can pretend to
say. But I am perfectly convinced, that the only chance to re-
deem the State and the Nation, is now. It is taxing your patriot-
ism pretty heavily, to call upon you to sacrifice so much to the
cause. But the cause must be sacrificed without it I am afraid.

I presume you will hear from all your friends on this interesting
subject. I hope it will be in your power to gratify them all and
to do what we all think indispensably necessary for the salvation
of a great cause and perhaps of the country.

With the highest respect, I am most sincerely, etc

T. Dwight.

Thos. J. Oakley to R. King.

Albany, Feby. 16, 1816.
Sir:

You will, no doubt, have learned before this reaches you, that
you were unanimously nominated last evening by the general
Convention of Federalists convened here, as a Candidate for the
office of Governor at the ensuing election. It was no doubt known
to you that during the last fall and early winter, the attention of
our political friends was generally turned to Judge Van Ness, as
their Candidate. Circumstances have occurred, since the com-
mencement of the session of this Legislature, to induce Judge V.
N. to decline the nomination.

In this state of things, the Convention were unable to agree
upon any Candidate from the number of those gentlemen who
had been previously named as Candidates, and the display of
opinion was such, that serious apprehensions were entertained
that the Convention would separate without making any nomina-
tion. The effect of which would have been extremely disastrous
to the party generally. Your name had frequently been suggested
in the course of our deliberations, and a general disposition mani-
fested to nominate you. But the idea was at length laid aside
under the impression that you would not assent to the measure.

When however it was discovered that no other man in the State

1816] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 513

could unite the views and opinions of the party, we felt impelled by
a sense of duty to the State, to put you in nomination, and at the
hazard of your declining.

It does not become me to undertake to urge to you any consid-
erations, which I might think calculated to influence your deci-
sion in this case. I can only say that it is the sincere and universal
wish of your friends here, that you should assent to the measure
they have adopted ; and this wish is entertained by no one more
warmly and sincerely than by myself. I consider the success of
the party at the ensuing election as, in a great measure, depending
on the decision that you may make. Feeling this conviction very
strongly, I have ventured to write this letter, a liberty perhaps
that my limited acquaintance with you does not authorize me to
take. But I hope you will attribute it to the anxiety I feel, in
common with many others, for the prosperity and success of the
Federal party, with which I consider the essential interests of the
country as inseparably connected.

I am with great respect your humble servt.

Thos. J. Oakley.

D. B. Ogden to R. King.

New York, Feby. 17, 1816.
Dear Sir :

To my utter astonishment I have seen by the newspaper of this
evening, that a Convention of Federalists, which have been as-
sembled at Albany from all parts of the State, for the purpose of
nominating a Governor and Lieutenant Governor, have nominated
you as our Candidate for Governor, and George Tibbets for Lieu-
tenant Governor. I have had no communication from any indi-
vidual in Albany upon this subject, nor have I seen any of our
friends here, since I saw the nomination. I am left therefore to
conjecture for the causes which have led to it. As I suppose you
will not be less surprized than I have been, at this step taken I am
sure without any consultation with you, I have thought that you
would excuse me for begging you not to decide upon the course
you will take in relation to it without full consideration.

You know that Judge Van Ness was the Candidate talked of,
and indeed fixed upon, had our friends in the Legislature been
able to have chosen a Council of Appointment, that would not

vol. v.— 33

514 RUFUS KING. [1816

appoint a democratic Judge. As they have not been able to do
this, he is out of the question. It will never do to have any more
stupid or unprincipled democracy on the Bench of the Supreme
Court, if it can be avoided. In this state of things, I presume, it
has been found extremely difficult to fix upon a man who would
not excite local and individual jealousies and rivalship ; until at
last your name has been mentioned, which has at once put an end
to all rivalship and competition.

Against Judge Van Ness there were objections which I have no
doubt you have heard of, and which, altho' in my mind they were
weighty, were not insurmountable, but which might and probably
would by many gentlemen have been considered as of greater im-
portance. When his name was withdrawn there were so many
with equal claims, and against many of whom the same objections
would have been urged as against Judge Van Ness, and without
the same reasons for overcoming them, that I really am at a loss
to know what would have been done.

Now, my dear Sir, although your nomination never entered
into my brain for a variety of reasons, I am not sure but that
it may be upon the whole a most fortunate event. There is such
a cloud over the characters of several gentlemen, who may now
be considered as the leaders of the party in this State, that I have
long feared that the most respectable men of the community
would withdraw in disgust from taking any interest in our politics,
and any part in our Elections. Your name would, as it were,
erect a new banner under which every man in the party would
rally, because they would do so with pride, and without any of
those misgivings which they would feel in supporting almost any
other prominent man of the party. Your Election would be a
new sera in Federal politics, and men of high character and honor
would feel as they ought.

There are, I am aware, several objections against your con-
senting to be the Candidate, and I feel and acknowledge the full
force of them ; nor do I mean to be presumptuous enough to
pretend to advise you upon this occasion. My intention in
taking the liberty I have done in writing this letter, was merely
to ask you not to decide without due reflection.

With great respect & esteem, your humble servant

David B. Ogden.

1 8i 6] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 515

S. Van Rensselaer to R. King.

New York, Feby. 19, 1816.
Dear Sir :

I address you on a subject in which I feel a lively interest.
You doubtless have been informed of your nomination by a
convention at Albany for the chair of State. Knowing your
desire of retiring from the bustle of politics, I feel a delicacy in
asking you to make a sacrifice, which would be grateful to all
our friends and particularly to myself. Therefore all I request is,
and that with deference, that you would at least deliberate well
before you determine.

An effort would be made for your election which no other
Candidate can expect. The respectability of the party depends
on your decision, and I may add, its salvation if you allow us the
use of your name. I promise my warmest support and will
immediately make arrangements in our part of the State to merit,
if not ensure success.

With great respt. &c

S. Rensselaer.

W. Henderson to R. King.

New York, Feby. 20, 1816.
Dear Sir :

I yesterday received the enclosed letter from Duer at Albany.
I send it to you because it shows the State of affairs there,
which led to your nomination as a Candidate for Governor. I
have seen Judge Ford from St. Lawrence, who was one of the
Delegates to the Convention. He is decidedly of opinion that
your declining at this time, would break up the party in this
State ; as no other man can be named in whom all will unite. He
farther declares his firm conviction that your election is sure, if
you consent to serve. He agrees with Mr. Duer that the Demo-
crats at Albany are very much distracted and divided. Clinton is
now there ; and there is no doubt of his friends attempting a
nomination, if there is the least prospect of success. Mr. D. B.
Ogden informs me he has written to you on the subject ; his
opinion being that of an intelligent honest man will have its due
weight with you. Indeed you can have no hesitation in believing

516 RUFUS KING. [1816

that it would be extremely gratifying to all your friends that you
should accept the nomination. The communications you will re-
ceive of all the circumstances that produced the nomination, will
enable you to determine (and I am persuaded, correctly) the
course you ought to take in an embarrassing situation.

I am with respect and esteem your very humb. Servt.

W. Henderson.

W. A. Duer to Wm. Henderson.

Albany, Feby. 16, 1816.
Dear Sir :

You can have no conception of the agitation which took place
upon the assembling of our Convention, in consequence of Judge
Van Ness's declining. Notwithstanding the explanations which
were given by his friends, they insisted upon passing an unani-
mous resolution for his nomination, and the appointment of a com-
mittee to urge upon him its acceptance. This was done and he
remained firm in his determination ; it was then with the greatest
difficulty that the most judicious men amongst us could dissuade
the body from adjourning without making any nominations. But
it was at length agreed to proceed to a ballot after passing a res-
olution that any candidate who should be elected by a majority
of the whole number of votes, should be unanimously adopted.
After several ballots it was found that none succeeded in obtain-
ing a majority, although Emott, upon the last ballot, came within
one of it. The Convention was then once more upon the point
of adjourning without making a nomination, or of what would
have been infinitely worse, to have nominated Judge Van Ness
again after his positive refusal : and this was only prevented by
the nomination of Mr. King ; and in my mind nothing but his
acceptance can save the party and rescue the State. And this
will do it. It is impossible to describe the enthusiasm with
which this nomination was received, when it was strongly urged
to the Convention — that under present circumstances we had
every reason to hope that Mr. King would not decline. Were
there not a strong hope, or rather almost a confidence of succeed-
ing with him, the expedient of nominating him without previously
consulting him, would not have been resorted to. A Committee

l8i6] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. $l7

has been appointed to announce his nomination to him in proper
terms. But it has been thought necessary to urge it upon him
more strongly through the medium of every one of his personal
friends who can be engaged, to write to him. Let me therefore
take the liberty of requesting that you will write to him, and that
you will engage Mr. Gracie to write also, entreating him as he
has the cause of Federalism at heart, not to blight all its present
promise by refusing to yield to the unanimous call of its advo-
cates in this State.

The Democrats affect to believe the whole a manoeuvre in-
tended to promote the success of Mr. Clinton, and they have
made some impression upon our weaker brethren. Both Madison-
ians and Tompkinsians declare their convictions that the plan is
all arranged : that Mr. King will of course decline and that the
Federalists, being then without a candidate, will be under the
necessity of supporting Mr. Clinton, whom a strong section of the
party are anxious to nominate — a much stronger section than those
usually called Clintonians. This belief should not be discouraged
among this set of men : but Federalists need not give it the least
countenance among themselves : and it ought to be used as an
additional argument with Mr. King, that he do not, by declining,
seem to confirm its reality.

Our adversaries are divided and distracted beyond all example,
and I see no means by which they can proceed except by making
Tompkins stand again ; and in that event it is probable that a
nomination would be got up for Clinton. We never entered
the field with such strong foresight of Victory. The course the
opposite party is pursuing — the Council of Appointment — the
Presidential struggle — the Taxes &c, &c, are all strongly acting
auxiliaries to our success ; and if we do not lose the only man
who can now unite the exertions of the whole party, we must be
triumphant : without him, defeat and all its consequences for
years and years to come, is almost certain. . . .

Believe me, dear Sir, very truly yours

W. A. Duer.

5 18 RUFUS KING. [1816

Zebulon R. Shepherd to R. King.

Granville, Feby. 20, 1816.
Dear Sir :

Before the receipt of this letter, you no doubt will learn the
proceedings of our State Convention. The nomination of your-
self for the chief magistracy of the State was a measure rarely
matched and never exceeded for the unanimity of the members,
and also for the solicitude that you will condescend to accept the
nomination. All eyes of the federal party are turned to the in-
teresting object and importune your acquiescence in their wishes.

Feeling in common with many fellow citizens a strong desire
that you should be our Candidate, and yielding to the earnest
importunity of my friends, I have presumed to address you on the
subject, and if my confidence exceeds the humble station allotted
me in life, your magnanimity will veil the fault and doubtless
accord forgiveness.

Our situation is peculiar, and should you decline there can be
but little doubt of a complete triumph of our enemies with the
addition of ruinous and mortifying contentions among ourselves;
for entre nous there are men respectable for talents and virtue who
upon the turf would fail, and who could they succeed, seem not
to possess all the requisites to subserve our best interests, concili-
ate their foes and unite their friends, and who unconscious of
their defects fondly wish and probably have expected to be nomi-
nated. I say men, because there are several, who while they will
seek no competition with yourself, and cheerfully acquiesce in
your nomination, should you decline there can be no doubt but a
scene of bickering discussion, and, I should fear hostility would
be the consequence.

If enough, we are barely enough federal to succeed in our elec-
tion when united ; any schism would be certain defeat ; and with
great confidence I can say no man will more effectually unite us
than yourself. All our prudence and united exertion and perfect
cooperation being necessary, to be deprived of our favourite
object, is to be deprived of our hopes, and languor, despondency
and torpor will ensue.

I am not insensible how great a sacrifice, we ask you to make
and how little we have to offer you as an equivalent. We ask
you to expose yourself to the slanders of calumniators and the

1816] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 519

infamous fabrications of a licentious, furious, unprincipled party ;
but believing your feelings are as much above them as they are
above being flattered with any honours we can tender you, and
that your regard for the interests of the State will triumph over
every other consideration, we cannot but hope we have a friend
in your breast that will be our advocate and secure our wishes.

Should you yield to these wishes we shall not despair of suc-
cess. The strong motive to vigorous exertion will exist and what
can be achieved by the party will be accomplished. I am not so
vain as to believe, I ought to influence your mind in fixing your
ultimatum. No Sir, I feel humbled and tremble as I offer you a
single motive, but the object is paramount to diffidence and com-
pels me to avow not merely my own, but the wishes, the feelings,
the earnest desires of thousands. Was it otherwise, I would be
silent ; and your repose would not be disturbed by the pen of
your most

obed friend & very humble Servant

Zebulon R. Shepherd.

Judge Van Ness to R. King.

Albany, Feby. 19, 1816.
Dear Sir :

I wrote to you on Friday last, but having reason to believe that
several of my late letters have been stopped, I take the liberty to
repeat what I then said.

Before this reaches you, you will have heard of your nomination
as the Federal Candidate for Governor, and of the peculiar
circumstances which produced it. I lament exceedingly that
there was not time to consult you on this subject before your
nomination took place, and I can easily imagine how sensibly
you are affected by the extreme delicacy of the situation in which
you are placed. My object is not to state the various reasons
which exist to induce you to yield to the wishes of your friends.
This has already been done by others, but I must be permitted
to say that if you decline, there is an end of the federal party in
this State.

We are waiting for your answer with trembling anxiety. If
you consent to be our Candidate, I firmly believe we shall suc-
ceed, and I beg to assure you that no individual in the State will

520 RUFUS KING. [1816

labor more constantly, faithfully and zealously to promote your
election than myself. I shall hail your election as the return of
the reign of honest men, and I will venture to say that you will
find yourself surrounded and supported in your administration
by as resolute, high-minded and honorable a set of men as ever
existed in any community. I beg you to think long and dis-
passionately before you say " No."

I have received both your letters and thank you for them.
The Democrats here say that the Presidential question is settled
and that Monroe is to be the man. You would be astonished at
the bitterness of the divisions in the Democratic Party in this
State. They will never cordially unite in any nomination for
Governor, except that of Tompkins, who beyond all doubt is out
of the question.

I am very respectfully and truly your obedt. Servt.

W. W. Van Ness.

John A. King to R. King.

New York, Feby. 19, 1816.
Dear SiR :

. . . D. B. Ogden told me that he had written to you yester-
day on the subject of your nomination at Albany. I imagine
that this new honor was as much unexpected by you, as it was
by all your friends here. It seems that to satisfy the feelings of
Judge Van Ness and of his friends an offer to support him was
openly made ; but what previous arrangements had been entered
into in consequence of which he was to decline, do not appear.
Mr. Van Rensselaer is very desirous that you should consent to
enter the lists ; he says that in case of your acquiescence, he will
set out immediately for Albany and electioneer for you with all
his zeal & ability ; he said he should write to you upon this
subject by today's mail. . . .

Yours sincerely John A. King.

John A. King to R. King.

New York, Feby. 26, 1816.
Dear Sir :

We have for the last two days been expecting letters from you,
particularly on the subject of your late nomination at Albany.

1816] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 521

Since that event Tompkins has been set up by the Republican
party as your opponent. DeWitt was at Albany at that time
endeavouring, as I learn from his friend Dr. Hosack, to rein-
state himself in the confidence of his old friends, and through
their influence to have become again a Candidate for popular
favor ; his ambition was less grasping than it was wont to be ;
he could have been content to have entered the lists for the Gov-
ernment of this State, but it would seem that in this intrigue he
has been foiled, and a preference given to Tompkins, who stands
again for his third consulship. . . .

Yours affectionately

John A. King.

S. Van Rensselaer to R. King.

New York, Feby. 29, 1816.
Dear Sir :

I yesterday received your favor of the 24th inst. upon the sub-
ject of the late nomination for Governor. I am well aware of
your sentiments and inclination in relation to this business, and
can easily conceive that your standing as regards the Federal
party must create embarrassment.

I cannot presume to advise you, as to the decision you ought
to make, altho' I think your decision of great importance to the
party as also to the country. As to the course Judge Van Ness
has thought proper to pursue, his friends say it was in consequence
of the certainty in case of his election, that an improper person
would by the present Council be placed on the bench. Possibly
it may have arisen from some other cause, and I think he was
right.

There is great division among our opponents. Clinton's friends
intended to have procured his nomination as the Democratic
Candidate for Govr., and are mortified at their disappointment.
I should not be surprised if Clinton is at last nominated by his
friends, counting upon Federal support if we have no Candi-
date. Many of our friends, it is to be apprehended, will support
him, and in that event many will believe that your nomination
has been made to make room for him.

Whether any man can prevail against Tompkins, I doubt ; yet
the accounts from the country induce me almost to believe in

522 RUFUS KING. [1816

your success. Great enthusiasm is evinced everywhere upon
your nomination being known, and I am convinced no other
person would run as far. If you were the Candidate, our best
characters everywhere would be Candidates for the Legislature
and with such men I think you could be of great service to the
Country. Our friends everywhere represent your consent as
essential almost to the existence of the party. They state the
embarrassments were such, that they had no resort left but to
throw themselves on the man, to whom they look as the leader
and with whom there can be no competition. I do not think V.
Ness ought to be urged to be the Candidate — there are objections
against him which would jeopardize the election, and do him
lasting injury. I want the Government to be in better hands.
With great regard & respect, your friend &c

S. Rensselaer.

R. King to the Bleecker Committee.

Copy.*

Washington, March 2, 1816.
Gentlemen :

I have had the Honour to receive your letter of February the
16th, informing me, that by a Convention of Delegates from the
several Counties of the State, I had been nominated a Candidate
for the office of Governor ; and I desire you to be assured of the
great value, which I place on this Token of their Esteem and
Confidence.

As the measure was wholly unexpected, I may claim to be ex-
cused in having taken time for Deliberation before my Reply ; I
continue to regret that Mr. Van Ness declined to be the Candi-
date ; his consent would have given Satisfaction, and relieved me
from Embarrassment.

After repeated Consideration of the Subject, I have concluded
to signify to you my Consent to the Nomination. I do so never-
theless with Hesitation ; and having Regard to the Peculiarity
and Force of the Circumstances, of my absence from the State, and
of the separation of the Convention, after having made the Nom-

* Sent by mail of Sunday Night, 3d. March, under cover to Chancellor Kent.

R. K.

1816] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 523

ination, without my knowledge, I indulge the Hope that I may
not have erred in believing that no other Decision was left to my
choice. With great Respect

I have the Honour to be, Gentlemen,

Your obedient and faithful Servant

Rufus King.
H. Bleecker
J. G. Lansing
J. R. Van Rensselaer
P. A. Jay
Jno. Duer, Esquires.

Committee of the Convention.

Mary King to E. King.

Washington, 6th March, 1816.
My dear Edward :

Were it not for my invincible objection to writing, I might in-
undate you with my Epistles at the publick Expence, and thereby
interrupt your grave and learned studies ; but fortunately for you
there is no apprehension on that score, for I will very frankly
acknowledge that this is the first time that I have taken my pen
to write to you. There is less cause of regret on this account, as
your father has become so regular a correspondent, and keeps
you well informed of all that is important in State affairs. I do
not know whether he has communicated one very important piece
of information as it regards his encreasing honors ; and lest you
should not have timely notice of this event, I will take it upon
myself to announce it — that is his nomination for Governor of the
State of New York ! ! ! don't laugh I beg. This step was taken
without any previous consultation with him, for he believed with
others, that Judge Van Ness was to be the Federal Candidate, &
was much surprised and somewhat indignant at seeing his name
in the papers as Candidate for Governor without ever having
heard one word upon the subject. However in a day or two the
mystery was unravelled and a sufficient explanation given of the
causes that led to this choice, without having an opportunity of
conferring with him on the subject. The papers will give you the
particulars ; and after mature deliberation he has yielded a re-

524 RUFUS KING. [1816

luctant consent to become the candidate, and to this he was driven
by the urgent entreaties of his friends who thought he was the
only man that, in their own language, could rally & save the fed-
eral party in the State. I must confess my patriotism is not suffi-
cient to induce me to congratulate or wish him success. He
probably has or will mention the subject himself.

And now, my dear Son, I should be glad to know with more
particularity than your letters express, how you are, what you do,
and what prospects for the future. I hope & trust the answer will
be satisfactory to all these questions. With the exception of
Governor Worthington's family, you say nothing about the female
society of Chillicothe ; are there many females whose manners &
conversation will compare with those you have been accustomed
to ? For I like female society for young Men. It softens &
polishes the manners even if the Ladies themselves are not very
refined. Have you many amusements, such as dances, not to
dignify them with the name of Balls, tea parties, &c ? . . . John
has leased his house for five years to Mr. James McEvers, the
Partner of LeRoy & Bayard. He is going to try a country life,
but he has not decided as yet, whether it shall be near Jamaica
or Greenwich. He would prefer the former, if he could purchase
Captain's Motley's place, but I do not know if that is for sale ;
however he must soon make his decision, as the first of May is
not far distant.*

Before this reaches Chillicothe you will have attained your
twenty first year, and with it I trust, an increase of wisdom &
prudence. I congratulate you with the most heartfelt sincerity
on the arrival of man's estate and wish you may live to see many
and prosperous anniversaries, and that you may be enabled to
fulfill all the wise and good resolutions which you have formed
for your own government, ever walking in the paths of rectitude
and virtue is the ardent prayer of your affectionate mother

M. King.

* He bought Mr. Motley's place and removed there soon after.

CHAPTER XXIX.

King to E. King — Nomination — King to Morris — Accepted the Nomination —
Morris to King — Pleased with Candidacy — Oakley to King — Tompkins
nominated — State Politics — J. A. King to King — Abuse in Papers of C
King for Dartmoor Business — Letter to H. Clay — Satisfactory Answer —
King's Vindication of his Course towards Irish State Prisoners — Irish Emi-
grant Association to King — Asking his Support in certain Measures for the
Relief of Irish Emigrants to the U. S. — Kingto Gore — Defeat of Federalists
in New York — King to Gore — Personally satisfied with the Result of the
Elections — Gore to King — Satisfied he was a Candidate — Life at Warm
Springs, Va. — King to E. King — Return Home — E. King's Engagement
— King to E. King — Federalists must adhere to their Integrity — Gore to
King — Sent to the Legislature his Resignation of Senatorship.

R. King to E. King.

Washington, Mar. 9, 1816.
Dear Edward :

. . . You may have heard that I have been nominated at
Albany a Candidate for the off. of Govr. This was quite a sur-
prize, and in no sort desired by me ; but I have been placed in so
peculiar a Situation, as to give my consent to the nomination ;
yielding to the opinion of others and without much support from
my own.

Present my compliments to Governor Worthington, tell him
that Congress in imitation of his Legislature, are employed in
raising their own Pay. A Bill has probably passed the House of
R. to allow in addition to Travelling Compensation an annual
Salary of 1500 Dollars to the Members of Congress. . . .

R. K.

R. King to G. Morris.

March 9, 1816.

Dear Sir :

. . . My nomination at Albany, as you will have believed,
was a surprize to me : my mind felt no doubt of the decision I
526 RUFUS KING. [1816

should make, when I first heard of the measure. But delay and
the occurrences belonging to it, have brought me to a different
conclusion. I have assented to the nomination — in doing so I
have yielded to the opinion of others and without the full support
of my own. . . .

G. Morris to R. King.

Morrisania, March 15, 1S16.
Dear Sir :

. . . I have received yours of the ninth, and am pleased to
learn that you stand a Candidate for the Government. The of-
fice, could it be restored to what we made it by the constitution,
is of great Dignity. But cut down by Mr. Burr's convention,
from a seventy four to a razee, it is not worth your acceptance.
I feel, therefore, and applaud your self-denial, convinced that
your experience, your self-command, your coolness and discretion,
will be of great use. They perhaps may raise the office to its
original worth. . . .

Thos. J. Oakley to R. King.

Albany, Mar. 29, 1816.
Dr. Sir :

. . . You ask whether Tompkins will accept the nomination
for V. P. and continue to be candidate for Gov. ; I think he will
— He is urged to this by several considerations — the principal of
which is, that his party would not unite cordially on any other
candidate — Can the friends of D. W. C. have become partizans
for T. in the expectation, and as many say, with the express un-
derstanding, that, if T. is elected V. P., C. is to be the candidate
of Democratic Party a year hence ? If the circumstance of T.'s
being a candidate for the two places at the same time, will operate
at all in our favor, it will be by exciting the apprehensions of
that portion of the democratic party who are irreconcilably hos-
tile to D. W. C, that the occurrence of an election of Governor
next spring will have a tendency to restore him to his standing
in that party — Many of them would prefer the success of even
the Federal Candidate to any prospect of C.'s restoration to
power.

1816] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. $27

Our election is approaching under circumstances as favorable
as we could have anticipated — The exertions of our friends here
are directed chiefly to the west — where we have hitherto been
defeated more by the fraud than the number of our opponents —
You may never have adverted to the fact, that at the last Govern-
er's election, the majority of T. in the County of Genessee and I
think one other western county, was greater than the zuhole num-
ber of electors in the county,-according to the census. To pre-
vent a recurrence of such gross fraud, we are adopting all the
measures, that seem to us calculated to produce this effect.

I cannot forbear to express to you the deep sense of obligation,
which the party feels towards yourself personally, for yielding to
their wishes in relation to this election. It will stimulate them
to exertions which will deserve, if they do not command success.

I am with entire respect

Your obt Ser.

Thos. J. Oakley.

John A. King to R. King.

N. Y., Apr. 5, 1816.
Dear Sir :

. . . As the time approaches for the Election, the papers
increase in the virulence of their abuse ; Charles' unfortunate re-
port * furnishes the materials for the most unworthy insinuations
against his character & conduct ; neither are you exempt from
your share of censure on that head, for they say that the feelings
& prejudices which dictated that report were an honest inheritance
fostered and cherished at the Paternal Board. In consequence of
the numerous and violent attacks of this kind, after being much
urged on all hands, I at last consented to write a letter to Mr. Clay,
a copy of which I enclose. The Paragraph alluded to therein was
of a most violent and inflammatory complexion ; in it Charles was
stigmatized as the apologist of the murderer Shortland ; that they
had heard that Mr. Clay & Gallatin, however, approved of his
conduct, that they did not believe it ; if it were so, why had not
the friends of Mr. C. King published their approval ? that they
judged alone from the evidence which was before the public ; that
by that he was clearly guilty of deserting his country and of boldly

* Dartmoor Prison.

528 RUFUS ICING. [1816

vindicating the murderer of his countrymen; that it was melancholy
to reflect that this country could have given birth to such a mon-
ster &c, &c. I sent my letter to Mr. Clay about 3 days ago. . .

Very sincerely yours,

John A. King.

Copy of letter above referred to.

The reports which have been for some time past in circulation
to the disadvantage of my brother, Mr. Charles King, in relation
to his conduct in the Dartmoor investigation, have at last found
their way into the prints and are at this moment made subservient
to the vilest purposes. That you may be enabled to judge of their
character and dye, I have taken the liberty of enclosing for your
perusal an extract from an Albany Paper. No one knows better
than yourself, Sir, how to estimate the feelings and attachment of
Mr. C. King towards the Country which gave him birth. You
were both in England at a period which was eminently calculated
to call forth and give strength to their warmest effusions. To no
one then could I apply with more justice, and I trust with more
propriety, than to yourself for a vindication of those feelings, and
in a particular manner of his conduct in relation to the Dartmoor
affair, more especially as it was at your instance and solicitation
that he was induced to undertake the investigation, which is at
this moment furnishing the materials for a most venomous and
unprincipled attack upon his character and reputation. To you
therefore I appeal in the utmost confidence that you will afford
the means of repelling these attacks by vindicating his conduct in
this behalf from the unworthy insinuations which have been lev-
elled against it. Your intimate acquaintance with the circum-
stances of that unfortunate event, the high station which you were
filling at that moment in England, enable you to speak with that
confidence and authority which cannot fail in a great degree to
correct and control the popular prejudice. Feelings of the strong-
est attachment to my Brother, an earnest desire that his standing
and integrity should remain unimpaired in the estimation of hon-
orable men, the sentiments of regard and friendship for him which
you were good enough to express to me, when you were in New
York & when speaking of him in relation to the Dartmoor affair,
must plead my apology for thus enlisting you, Sir, in the defence

1816] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 529

of an injured and an absent Brother,* and I trust, Sir, that your
reply to this letter will enable me to put forth a vindication of his
character and conduct, which shall be at once honorable to your
friendship and fatal to his calumniators.!

Copy of a letter from R. King vindicating his course to-
wards the Irish. It is not known to whom it was addressed,
nor is the date given :

I duly received your letter of with the number of the

Register, containing a sketch of the characters of certain mem-
bers of the Senate.

You have done me both more and less than justice. You have
overrated my talents and acquirements — while you have ascribed
to me, as a party man, sentiments and opinions, and a want of
liberality wh. I must disavow.

I was, and am, and shall never change — a Federalist : the sense
in wh. Washington, Hamilton, and Madison for a time, were
federalists.

I used my best exertions to obtain the establishment of the
Constitution, and to put it into operation, agt. the strong and per-
severing opposition of its opponents. Before the death of Genl.
W. and during his Presidency, I went abroad, where I resided in
the public service during Mr. A.'s administration and for more
than two years of that of Mr. Jefferson. After my return home I
remained in absolute retirement, having no part in political or
public affairs, until my appointment to the Senate in 1813.

The angry temper of politicians had not risen up to its height
until I was out of the country. I, of course, perhaps more than
any other pub. man of my age, was less affected by this excited
state of parties.

It is true I took a part while abroad in a critical posture of our
affairs, when we had become involved in a war with France, and
when the Leaders of the Insurrection in Ireland who were inti-

* Mr. C. King was in Europe.

f Mr. Wm. Coleman in a letter to Mr. King, April 21, i3i6, says: " Mr.
Grade told me yesterday that John had received a satisfactory response from
Mr. Clay — but that he should make no use of it until after the election. I
confess I do not comprehend this." This letter cannot be found.— Ed.

VOL. V. — 34

530 RUFUS KING. [1816

mately connected with France, and had failed in their attempts
in Ireland, were about to emigrate to this country, to remonstrate
agt. their being permitted to do so — not because I was unwilling
that the U. S. should be the refuge of political exiles, but by
reason of the peculiar character and connexions of these men,
and the State of war between us and France.

I have been uniform in my opinions, that a free country shd.
receive and protect the political fugitives or exiles of other nations
— but this is a general opinion, and subject to the control of
special and peculiar circumstances.

I incurred naturally the disapn. of these exiles, and being of
the fallen party in our political divisions, this displeasure was
likewise felt and expressed by those of my political opponents
who disapproved of my political or party opinions.

These times are past — circumstances have changed — the old
political division is no longer debated, no longer a question to be
decided. This has been done by those from whom there is no ap-
peal. The federal party in the sense of a party aiming at political
power no longer exists — Victrix causa diis placuit, sed victa Catoni.
If individuals of the Irish Exiles have suffered inconvenience,
that can be ascribed to my interference, while I may regret the
same, I can have nothing to reproach myself with for the part I
took which was from the sole sense of strict duty, &c. —

There is an envelope endorsed as follows :

Letter from Rufus King Esquire — April 19, 1816

Contains an explanation of his motives in preventing the Irish
Rebels from emigrating to this country. This was sent to me by
Mr. King for publication, at the time he was the Federal Candi-
date for Governor of New York. Thinking it better not to make
the publication, I wrote to Mr. King advising him against it. He
replied acquiescing in my opinion and the publication was never
made. D. B. Ogden.

The letter of Mr. King to Mr. Ogden, inclosing the ex-
planation is as follows :

Washington, April 19, 1816.
Dear Sir :

The perseverance with which I am censured for having inter-
fered to prevent the emigration of the Irish chiefs to this Country,

i8i6] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 53 1

has induced me to think that a little explanation might be useful.
I have, therefore, drawn up the enclosed paper, addressed to the
Editor of the National Advocate,* and request that you would
present it to him for publication.

Should, however, anything occur to you by way of objection to
this publication, you may suspend it, until you can give me in-
formation.

The common opinion has been, that I felt personal animosity

towards Mr. Emmet and his associates ; than wh. nothing could

be more erroneous : for I really knew so little of Irish affairs,

and had heard so little of the chiefs of the Insurrection, that

until I saw their examination, I had never seen the names of any

of them.

I am Dr. Sir

yr. ob. & faithful

Rufus King.

D. B. Ogden, Esq.

I presume that the Ed. of the N. Ad. will not object to this publi-
cation. Shd. he delay or refuse, and you deem it expedient,
desire Coleman to publish it.

To the Editor of the National Advocate.

The publications recently made in your paper concerning my
interference while Minister of the U. S. at London, to prevent
the emigration to this country of the Irish State Prisoners, are of
a character so extraordinary and so calculated to excite the anger,
the resentment and even the animosity of the numerous body of
Irishmen amongst whom I live, that I think it due to them, as
well as to myself to say a few words in my own vindication.

Towards Ireland and Irishmen I have not, I never had either
ill will or illiberal prejudices. Any attempt, therefore, that has
been or shall be made to excite a contrary opinion is doing me
manifest injustice. My interference to prevent the emigration of
the Irish State Prisoners, ought not to be regarded as extending to
other persons ; because the measure was confined to them and
embraced no others. Of them even I had no personal knowledge,
and towards them, therefore, could feel no personal antipathy. I
was a public man, placed as a centinel on a distant post and bound
* In which paper the charges were published.

53- RUFUS KING. [1816

in fidelity to ward off as far as might be in my power, whatever
appeared to me likely to be injurious to my country.

A great effort had been made in Ireland to establish its inde-
pendence. France had been engaged to co-operate in the attain-
ment of this result. The persons at the head of the Irish affairs,
and who had secured this co-operation of France, were men of
distinction, possessing the confidence of the French Govern-
ment.

The effort to make Ireland independent failed ; and the Irish
Chiefs became the State Prisoners of England ; an arrangement
having been afterward concluded, between them and the English
Government, that they should emigrate from Ireland and reside in
some foreign country, not at war with England, a portion of them
made their election to come to the United States.

At this juncture our Ambassadors in France had been dis-
honored, our relations of friendly intercourse with that nation
had been abolished by Congress, and the war did not terminate
till September 1800. Of the policy of this war I have nothing to
observe except that the country was much disunited concerning
it, our political divisions on this occasion having been more ani-
mated and more extensive than at any antecedent period. In
these circumstances it was my deliberate opinion, that it would be
injurious, if the Irish State Prisoners, connected as they were with
France, should be received in the U. S.; their character, their con-
nexions and their influence would serve to increase our internal
divisions and to weaken the measures of the Government.

In this conviction I did request, in September 1798, not that
the Irish State Prisoners should be detained in confinement, not
that they should be precluded from proceeding to any other for-
eign country ; but solely that they might not be allowed to pro-
ceed to the U. S. — and in doing so, I did no more than I should
have felt it my duty to do, in respect to individuals under like
circumstances and belonging to any other nation. The answer
which I received from the English Government was, that they
should not be permitted to proceed to the U. S. without the con-
sent of our Government.

I immediately apprised my own government of what I had
done, and of the answer which I had received. The President
approved of my interference and persisted in keeping up the bar

1816] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 533

against the emigration of the Prisoners. A letter to me from the
Department of State of Feby. 1799, contains the following para-
graph.

" Your timely interference to prevent the emigration of the
Irish State Prisoners to this country is extremely acceptable to
the President ; but if removed to any other country, many of
them will find their way hither ; and therefore not only a list of
their names, but descriptions of their persons and their ages would
be very useful to us if attainable."

I took no farther step on this subject — applications were subse-
quently made to me, tho' I never understood the same to have
been made at the instance of the State Prisoners, to withdraw the
impediment to their emigration to America — this I was restrained
by my instructions from doing.

This statement is now made for the purpose of correcting any
misunderstanding, which may exist, concerning the extent and
motives of my interference ; and of showing it to have been the
dispassionate performance of a public duty, which was approved
and maintained by my government.

Rufus King.

Washington, April 19, 1816.

It may be interesting to conclude this summary with
the following letter addressed to Mr. King in the U. S.
Senate.

New York, Jany. 29, 1818.

Sir :

The undersigned are directed to address you on behalf of
the Irish Emigrant Association of New York and to acquaint
you with the humane and patriotic objects of this Association
as well as to request your support and patronage in Congress
of the measure to be proposed to that Honble Body by the
same and other similar Associations from various parts of the
Union.

You will find all our objects and motives detailed in a Mem-
orial to Congress and we trust you will judge them to be no less
calculated for the present relief of the Emigrant and his family
than the lasting interests of the United States ; as such we flatter

534 RUFUS KING. [1816

ourselves they will receive the approbation of a philanthrophic
and enlightened Legislator.

We have the honor to be

with very perfect consideration and respect

your obedient servants

Thomas Kirk

Wm. J. McNeven

James Megher

John W. Mulligan

Rufus King Esquire.

R. King to C. Gore.

Wed. 8th May, 1816.

Dr. Sir :

. . . Duane says the N. Y. City election closed on Thursday
the 2nd. The Repub. Ticket (I presume for Cong. & the Assem-
bly) he says succeeded by a large majority. Of the 10 Wards the
Repubs. have carried 6, so that the Corporation has passed out of
the hands of the Feds. Probably this result will in the main cor-
respond with that of the other Counties. So that there is no like-
lihood that the Federalists have succeeded, except in the election
of some Members of Congress & of the State Legislature.

Ca ira — the first imposition, says Aristotle, is to flatter the peo-
ple and is naturally followed by violence. Liberty is too dear to
be voluntarily parted with ; it must therefore be gradually weak-
ened by making the People jealous of its wisest and most sincere
Defenders ; so that open force may in the end be used to destroy
it. But why touch on this subject to you, who have so often and
so impartially considered it ? We have been the visionary men,
who have believed, as many have, that mere Paper Constitutions,
without those moral and political habits and opinions, which alone
give solidity and support to any Government, would be sufficient
to protect and preserve the equal Rights of the weak against the
strong, of the honest agt. the dishonest, of the wise and faithful
friends of free Govt, against the wicked and ambitious men, who
disregard every thing that stands in the way of their criminal de-
sires : but enough !

With affectionate regards

R. K.

1816] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 535

R. King to C. Gore.

Jamaica, L. I., May 15, 1816.
My Dr. Sir :

. . . I have seen a few friends, who confirm the result of
our late Election. As was anticipated, the effort made by the
Federalists had the effect to unite the several sections of the
Democrats, and they have, as I learn, succeeded in all Branches
of the Election.

As regards what I deem the best policy of the Country, as well
as the purity and duration of our Institutions, I ought to regret
this manifestation of public opinion. Personally I am satisfied ;
no event would have been less agreeable than to have been elected
Governor of the State. I presume that the failure will, as I think
it should, discourage the Federalists from maintaining a fruitless
struggle. It has probably become the real interest & policy of
the Country, that the Democracy should pursue its own natural
Course. Federalists of our age must be content with the past. It
would be most unworthy to affect to have changed our opinions.
I would not suffer the self humiliation & reproaches of the change-
lings, I could name, for the highest offices & applauses, that could
be given them. . . .

Pray write to us & tell us the state of your health, the Roads &
Inns you have met with, the accidents, if any, that have happened
to your Horses, or Carriages, the accommodations you find at the
Warm Springs, and the effect of the waters. These and especially
the last are all interesting to us — and we must complain a little
that you have given us no information respecting anything which
has happened to you since crossing the Potomac.

Yrs. affectionately

R. K.

C. Gore to R. King.

Warm Springs, May 24, 1816.
My Dear Friend :

. . . The last National Intelligencer is only to the 8th & the
Richmond Enquirer to the nth. By the last, however I, per-
ceived the Democracy of N. Y. has prevailed, and afforded new
Evidence of the Popularity of extravagant and disgraceful meas-

536 RUFUS KING. [181 6

ures, when executed by weak &z imprudent men. I am, notwith-
standing the event, quite satisfied, that you consented to the
Nomination. Had not this been permitted, all the blame of the
defeat would have been imputed to the want of a proper Candi-
date. In this County a Majority of the Electors are Federalists,
a strange thing in Virginia. . . . The manner of living here is
not of the most pleasant kind. It is the fashion of the place and
of most of those we have passed through to dine, breakfast & sup
with the landlord, his wife, boarders and travellers — and our fare
is principally ham &z eggs. The potatoes were frozen the last
Winter and of course ruined. Peas are not to be obtained before
July. Asparagus none, some Greens. The Innkeeper and his
Wife very obliging. The House old & in a state of dilapidation.
At the Hot Springs we found the house more commodious, but
altho* the people appeared well disposed, they are not so agreeable
as those of this place. On the whole the bathing is excellent, and
that constitutes the amount of all, that is so here, at least in our
Estimation. . . .

I remain truly & faithfully your friend

C. Gore.

R. King to Edward King.

Jamaica, L. I., May 19, 181 6.
My Dear Sir :

We reached home on the 15th. As I have informed you we

accompanied Mr. Gore to Frederic, Mard. ; here we parted, he

crossing the Potomac at Harper's Ferry on his way to the Warm

Springs, Va., and we crossing the South Mountain to Hagers-

town, whence we proceeded thro' the Valley Conococheaque

to Harrisburgh, on the Susquehannah, & thence to Easton on

the Delaware, & so thro' Morristown N. J. home. The valley

from the Potomac to the Delaware is a fine tract of land, and

generally is well cultivated. Last evening we received your letter

of the 7th., having before reed, those which you wrote before &

after your admission to the Bar. We earnestly hope that your

proposed connexion * may prove to be the source of Happiness

and Contentment. You must both begin the world with habits of

* The connection referred to must have been his engagement to Sarah
Worthington, daughter of Gov. Thos. Worthington, of Ohio.

1816] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 537

economy and Diligence ; with them you cannot fail to succeed in
establishing your Independence, without them you will be certain
to become, and to continue, dependent on others. Frederic * we
found quite well & much grown. He is the head of his Latin
Class, doing Tully's Orations, but in Greek, he is third only. I
have not yet examined him, it being the Holidays.

Farewell I am affectionately yrs.

R. K.

R. King to Edward King.

Jamaica, L. I., May 21, 1816.
Dear Sir :

. . . We are here quiet, content, and much inclined to stay
at home, which has additional charms by reason of our Comfortless
Residence at Washington. I have, I believe, already told you,
that the Result of our late State Election has been favorable by
an increased majority to the good Patriots. So certain are the
Effects of the requisite Arts of the Democracy, and so effectually
prostrate is Federalism, that I have no kind of Expectation, that
the latter can be again in Favor.

The course remaining for Federalists, is to adhere to the
integrity of their Principles ; and they being out of the ques-
tion as a rival Party, and the Republicans, so soon as this is un-
derstood, being sure to divide among themselves ; the Federalists
will be able to assist the true interests of Freedom & of Justice,
by giving their influence to the least wicked Section of the
Republicans.

Except this service, and it will be a valuable, as well as disin-
terested and honest one, I know of none, which federalists can
render.

With sincere & affectionate Regards, I am

R. K.

C. Gore to R. King.

Warm Springs, June 6, 1816.
My Dear Sir :

. . . The New York Election shows a more depraved state

of the public mind, than I had anticipated, altho' I never felt

* R. King's youngest son.

53§ RUFUS KING. [1816

sanguine of a right Termination, considering the Defection of N.
England. I can not perceive any advantage to the Public, as In-
dividuals, from any further struggle of Federalists. I have sent
my Resignation, as Senator, to the Mass'ts. Legislature,— This
will afford them an opportunity to elect either at their May or
Next Session. My Health would not admit of my attendance, if
I were inclined, but if I had the Strength of Sampson I should
have no Inclination, and I know no Duty, that calls me to go
against my Inclination. . . .

Your faithful Friend,

C. Gore.

APPENDIX I.

ESSAY ON STATE OF THE FOREIGN RELATIONS, l8lO.

Instead of Resolutions expressive of any Opinion respecting
the French & English Decrees and orders, would it not be more
expedient to contrast the present condition of the Nation with its
condition at the period when the Administration passed into the
hands of our present Rulers.

In doing this reference might be made to the Embarrassments
at home and abroad with whh. the former admn. were encom-
passed ; 1 st. Distress arising out of the waste of capital, the defect
of credit and the want of Revenue at the conclusion of the Revo-
lution ; 2nd. Embarrassments proceeding from the reciprocal
claims of the U. S. &: G. B. relative to the provisions of the Treaty
of Peace ; 3rd. Embarrassments relative to the Navigation of the
Mississippi and aggravating all such as before existed that arose
out of the French Revolution, and which were followed by exten-
sive Depredations upon our Commerce by England, by France &
by Spain.

With these Obstacles to contend with, the Peace & neutrality
of the Nation were impartially asserted & maintained, its credit
revived, its Capital enlarged and its Revenue established. With
England ancient Controversies were satisfactorily adjusted, the
Posts were surrendered, Indian wars extinguished, adequate Com-
pensation for the Depredations on our Commerce were obtained
and the national faith redeemed by provisions for the settlement
of the Debts. By Spain our Right to the navigation of the Mis-
sissippi was recognized and Indemnity secured for ye. illegal cap-
ture of our ships. With France a new Treaty was concluded,
annulling her unjust Decrees, granting us Security, so far as the
faith of Nations may be so considered, against their future re-es-
tablishment and containing her Submission to the Act of Congress,
540 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

which declared the old Treaties void by reason of their unjust
violation.

Thus our antient Controversies with foreign Nations were ad-
justed, and those of a more recent date, and which had grown out
of a fierce and unexampled war, were likewise composed, and the
Navigation & Commerce of the U. S. were encouraged, protected
and greatly encreased. At Home, Agriculture, Manufactures, the
Fisheries, Navigation and Commerce were encouraged, protected
and greatly extended. The Credit of the Nation was revived, its
Capital enlarged & its Revenue established. The public Arsenals
were replenished, a naval force created, and the American name
upheld and revered throughout the world.

In this state of unexampled prosperity at home, and of peace &
reputation abroad, our present Rulers were called to the admin-
istration of the public Affairs, and what has been the fruit of their
Labours ? Let the following Facts answer:

Our Agriculture is discouraged,

The Fisheries abandoned,

Navigation forbidden,

Our Commerce at home restrained,

Our Commerce abroad cut off, &
Our Navy sold, dismantled, or degraded to the service of Cutters
& Gun Boats. The Revenue extinguished, the course of justice
interrupted, the military power exalted above the civil, and by
setting up a standard of political Faith, unknown to the Consti-
tution, the nation is weakened by internal animosity and division,
at the moment when it is unnecessarily and improvidently exposed
to a War with Eng. Fr. & Sp.

So great a change accomplished in so short a time is unexam-
pled in the history of weak & unfaithful Administrations, and can
have proceeded only from the want of that Capacity, Impartiality
& Prudence, without which no Government can long preserve the
prosperity or confidence of their Country. The dawn of this Ad-
ministration promised an impartial and patriotic Course, and we
anticipated a Continuance of the public & private Enjoyments
wh. distinguished our Country. But their Expectations were
soon disappointed by the avowal of a System of political persecu-
tion wh. has disturbed the union & subordination of families, in-
terrupted the harmony of good neighbourhood, and gone far to

APPENDIX. 54I

destroy the happiness of social Intercourse. The conclusion of
the war in Europe in 1801 afforded a favourable opportunity
to enter into negotiations for the purpose of establishing such
maritime Provisions, as in the event of future wars, might secure
the navigation and Trade of the U. S. from the repetition of the
injuries they had so recently sustained. This opportunity was
wholly neglected, and the commercial and maritime Treaty with
a great naval power was suffered to expire without a single at-
tempt that we ever heard of to obtain its renewal. In 1803 the
war in Europe recommenced and our Navigation became exposed
to interruptions upon the Ocean. These served as matter of inef-
fectual remonstrance until in 1806, when France passed the decree
of Berlin, thereby violating the provisions of her Treaty with the
U. S., infringing the Law of Nations & prostrating the Rights of
all Neutral States. This Decree in substance, and almost in
letter, is the same as that passed by the Directory in 1798, and
which the President of the U. S. in December following, in his
Speech to Congress, declared to be an unequivocal act of War,
which interest as well as honour called upon the Nation firmly to
resist. Congress accordingly proceeded to pass Laws, dissolving
the Treaties with France, prohibiting all communication and pro-
viding for the equipment of a naval force for the defence of our
just Pvights.

The Country cannot have forgotten the protection afforded to
our trade by these measures, so honourable to the Nation, meas-
ures by which our Flag was respected on every sea, and the skill
and courage of our Officers & Seamen displayed in battle with
the ships of France. It was in consequence of these decisive
acts that an early communication was made to our Government
of the desire of France to return to the relations of Peace and the
authority of public Law ; and the Convention which was soon
after concluded with the person, who now wears the Diadem of
France, accomplished these important objects.

Had our Rulers, after the promulgation of the Decree of
Berlin, followed the example of their predecessors, the English
Orders would not have been issued, the embargo would not have
been imposed, nor should we now have to deplore the distress
that afflicts the Country.

If these evils might have been avoided by imitating the ex-

542 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

ample in 1798, may they not yet be removed by retracing the
erroneous steps which have been taken, and by resorting now
to those measures which then proved efficaceous ? To this end
let Congress repeal the Embargo, annulling the Convention with
France ; forbid all commercial intercourse with the French
Dominions, arm our public & private vessels again and unfurl
the Republican Banner against the Imperial Standard. This
done, the English Orders would cease to operate, we should hear
no more of the unparalleled folly of contending at the same time
with all the great powers of Europe & our Trade to every region
of the Globe, except France and her Dependencies, will again
revive & flourish ; our Agriculture will feel the influence of the
emancipation of trade and, hand in hand with the general pros-
perity, the Revenue of the Nation would once more exceed its
Expenditures.

APPENDIX II.

THE PRESIDENT'S MESSAGE, NOV. 4, l8l2.

It is not to be contested, that the President's Message taken in
just connection with the whole of the Correspondence that accom-
panies it, is of a pacific character. The overture thro' Mr.
Russell was certainly placed on too lofty ground ; England
could not with reputation accede to it, inasmuch as it demanded
of her to give up during the Armistice that of which she was in
possession, and concerning which alone the war is now carried
on. Such a demand is not conformable to the practice between
Nations in similar circumstances.

The second Despatch from Mr. Monroe to Mr. Russell is
materially the same as the first. It varies the manner but retains
and insists upon the substance of the condition precedent of the
Armistice.

Lord Castlereagh's answer, declining to accede to the proposed
Armistice, as on various grounds absolutely inadmissible, an-
nounces " that the British Government, as heretofore, is ready to
receive and discuss any proposition, — professing to have in view,
to check abuse in the exercise of the practice of Impressment, or
to accomplish by means less liable to vexation the object for
which Impressment has hitherto been found necessary."

APPENDIX. 543

The object of Impressment is the recovery of British seamen
from foreign service. If effectual Regulations, excluding them
from our service be stipulated by Treaty, this object is accom-
plished, and the motive to Impressment is removed.

The refusal of the armistice proffered by Admiral Warren was
proper, if for no other reason, because the only end of it was to
give effect to the revocation of the Orders in Council. The con-
cluding paragraph of Mr. Monroe's reply to the Admiral is very
important. It meets the overture made by Lord Castlereagh, and,
without proposing an Armistice, offers to proceed to the adjust-
ment of the subject of Impressment by a Convention, in which
the exclusion of British seamen from our service, shall be provided
for by such Regulations as may be mutually deemed effectual.

This is all that England can or does require. If her seamen
are thus excluded, she can no longer under any pretence continue
the practice of Impressment. Lord Castlereagh declares that she
is ready to receive and discuss any proposition professing to have
this object in view. Mr. Monroe declares that the proposition he
makes has this object in view. The President says Mr. Monroe
is willing that England should be secured against the loss of her
seamen, and to that end he offers to negotiate a Convention by
which effectual Regulations shall be agreed upon for their ex-
clusion from the pub. and commercial service of the U. S.

As no precise Regulation for the effecting this object is in-
timated, and as therefore every means by which it can be accom-
plished may become matter for discussion, the proposition must
become the subject of negotiation. There can be no doubt of
this conclusion ; and as adequate Regulations can be devised to
afford security against the employment of British seamen, there is
just ground to expect that a definitive settlement on this point
will be made. If Adl. Warren be clothed with sufficient powers,
it may be done immediately ; if not, the adjustment must wait till
authority be sent from England. Upon the whole the Orders in
Council in the President's opinion no longer stand in the way of
Peace, as there is no other important difficulty except that of
Impressment, and as there is a reasonable probability that this
can be adjusted, with advantages to both parties, it would seem
that the early conclusion of the War may be confidently
expected.

544 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

APPENDIX III.

ON IMPRESSMENT AS A CAUSE OF WAR.
(In J?. King's handwriting.)

Admitting the doctrine that every Nation has a right to the
services of its citizens at all times, and more especially in time of
war — admitting that the right may be enforced in all places where
national jurisdiction may be exercised — admitting that the ocean is
such a place ; it nevertheless is true that this right must be so exer-
cised as that the rights of others may be secure. We are so to use
our own rights as not to infringe upon the rights of another. This
is a principle and a rule of natural justice, not a law which obliges
because it has been enacted by a competent authority, but a law of
a nature arising out of those innumerable relations and duties
which are inseparable from our condition. If therefore from any
circumstance one nation cannot exercise the right of reclaimng
her citizens without violating the rights of another nation, it must
abstain from the exercise of such right. A nation has a right
to the service of her people, but a portion of them withdraw and
reside in a for. country : the right becomes a merely naked one
and cannot be exercised because in attempting to enforce it the
jurisdiction or rights of another nation wd. be violated. So upon
the ocean — if from any circumstance it becomes difficult or im-
practicable to distinguish her own citizens from the citizens of
another country in whose employ they may be, the right seems to
become in like manner a naked one, because it cannot be exer-
cised without violating the right of another nation. The right of
one nation to the service of her citizens is not stronger than the
right of another. If the similitude be such that citizens of two
countries cannot be distinguished, it may be said that the nation
employing such foreign citizens thereby injures the nation to
which they belong ; and therefore that it should make laws ex-
cluding from its service the citizens of the other ; it may be added
in case this is not done, that the nation whose citizens withdraw
from their homes, may exercise the right to recover them, not-
withstanding the injury which maybe done to the nation employ-
ing them by taking their citizens instead of their own.

It is not to be denied or questioned that a nation may restrain

APPENDIX. 545

their citizens from going abroad, and to this end may pass laws
with sufficient penalties to prohibit and prevent the same. But
no nation is at liberty to exclude foreigners. Every one may re-
fuse to them political privileges. The practice of all times has
sanctioned this doctrine. If therefore nations have a right to
restrain their citizens from migrating, but do not enact laws to pre-
vent the same, they ought not to exercise their right of recovery
at the expense of other nations.

Nations may forbid and restrain emigrations, but they must not
refuse to receive strangers claiming refuge. It cannot therefore
be reasonable that those who omit to do what they might have
done, shall ask redress for losses proceeding from their omission
from those who have done only what might justly be done. A
nation has a right to restrain emigration, or it has not such a
right. If it has no right to do so, the citizens are free to depart,
may be freely received and adopted by another nation : in which
case the parent nation can have no right to recall or recover back
such emigrant ; for if it has a right to restrain and does not do it,
but by its laws regulates the manner in which the citizen may
depart or emigrate, and thus impliedly consents to the same, it
can have no just ground of complaint against other nations who
receive and employ their emigrating citizens.

Notwithstanding these reflexions may fail to convince us that
the conclusion to which they lead is just and incontestible, they
at least give a colour of justice to the opinions of those who deny
the right of recovery as exercised by England; they therefore
justify the U. S. in requiring England to desist from the impress-
ment of her seamen out of American vessels, whenever the Ameri-
can Govt, shall offer and be ready by mutual consent to establish
such regulations as shall afford reasonable security against their
employment in the American service.

Absolute security is probably unattainable. Such provisions
upon this head as shall not in their execution create too unneces-
sary embarrassment or penalties, to the Navigation and commerce
of the U. S. must satisfy England. As the subject stood at the
breaking out of the war, altho' the practice was injurious, still
the cases of impressment of American citizens were rare. Besides
the condition of the world is a disordered one ; instead of law
and the rights of peace, war and violence everywhere prevail.

vol. v. — 35

546 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

It was too much to expect that the only peaceful nation should
escape without some share of the general calamity.

Perhaps no nation had stronger motives than the U. S. to tem-
porise and to continue the policy which has so much increased
their wealth and strength. So long as our rights, be they what
they may, are not relinquished, they remain to be asserted when
times and circumstances permit. The practice of impressment
existed and prevailed in a greater degree under the Presidency
of Washington than at any time since. He remonstrated against
it, but did not think it sufficient cause of war. Neither was it in
1 812. But the war is made and the practice of impressment is
the only remaining cause assigned for making the war. Is the
exercise of the right of England to search for her seamen on
board our vessels, and to take such of our crews as her Officers
decide to belong to her, to be submitted to ? Is a peace to be
made without any security in favor of our own seamen, and are
we, explicitly or by silence, implicitly to consent to the Brit,
practice of impressment from our vessels ?

Altho' I would not have put the question to the issue of the
sword, yet it has been done ; altho' I lament the want of pru-
dence of those who made this great fault, the fault is nevertheless
committed. The question then is, what is now to be done ? One
nation has as entire right to the service of its citizens as another ;
and neither, in recovering its own, may take those of the other.
If there has been omission in not restraining emigration, if there,
moreover, has been an implied consent to such emigration, Gr.
Br. ought to use great moderation in the means she employs to
recover back her emigrants. Her right in such case is perhaps
doubtful ; other nations, whose interests may be affected by her
course of proceeding, may look into and examine the same, and
may either oppose her practice, or, if from any motive they be
disinclined to such opposition, may offer to enter into arrange-
ments to adjust their reciprocal rights or interests upon terms of
equity.

If, therefore, the U. S. proposed to Eng. to devise and with
her concurrence to settle a plan for the exclusion of her seamen
from our service, she, on her part, is bound to consent to it and
also to agree to a reciprocal plan in our favor, and moreover to
abstain from impressment out of our ships. Admitting the right

APPENDIX. 547

of Eng. to the service of her seamen, we have an equal right to
the service of ours ; she therefore must not violate our rights in
vindication of her own. In case Eng. shd. decline to attempt to
devise and settle such a plan, the prosecution of the war would
be unavoidable.*

APPENDIX IV.

R. king's course in sustaining the vigorous prose-
cution OF THE WAR.

Although it would seem to have been of a later date
than the report of Mr. King's speech, of which an abstract
is given on page 338 of this volume, this paper, in his hand-
writing, covers the ground of defense of his course in using
his influence to sustain the government in a vigorous prose-
cution of the war:

I may be calumniated, but I still remain unshaken in my integ-
rity and in my principles. I will not say that I never have seen
cause to change any opinion that I may have formed ; but I will
say that no such change has ever been made but in order to con-
form my opinions to political principles wh. I had adopted and
which I never have changed. Here I remain immoveable. While
the General Government pursued a course of administration con-
trary to those principles, which in my conviction was adverse to
the welfare, the prosperity and the liberties of the Union, I op-
posed the same. I was in other words in opposition ; but since
all the great measures that the Federalists, the true founders of
the Union and liberties of the States and of their citizens are ap-
proved, adopted and made the rule of administering the General
Government, I cease to be in opposition. I support and applaud
the administration, it being in a very great degree indifferent to
me who are our Rulers : my chief and almost only concern being
what are these principles of administration and the measures

* " If Great Br. will not be satisfied to arrange the subject fairly, so as to
exempt us from the abuse of impressments out of our vessels, when such secur-
ity as is in our power to give, and such as she ought to require is given, then
we shall have a cause of war, and be united in it, more worthy of the en-
ergies of the nation." — Pierson's speech on Seaman's Bill, 1813.

548 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

which they maintain ? If these meet my approbation, no personal
considerations, no political friendships, no desire of office, or of
distinction for myself or friends impede or divert my best efforts
to promote the measures which have received my approbation ;
because they satisfied my mind that they were calculated and
adopted to promote the welfare and happiness of our country.

Who ever heard of my aspiring or wishing for any employment
under the Fedl. Govt, either for myself or my connexions ? For
whom have I asked employment and who that holds office re-
ceived it by my influence ?

Why then have I supported the Genl. Administration ? Merely
because I thought it deserving of support, not for my own, but
the public benefit. I disapproved of the war made under the late
Presidency of Mr. Madison, and it was my earnest wish to bring
about an early Peace : but the principles of prosecuting the war,
proclaimed by the enemy, changed its character in my eyes ; and
I resolved to go as far as any man in providing and putting into
the hands of even a weak administration, the means of defending
and protecting the country agt. the desolation, wh. was menaced,
and as far as in their power carried into effect by the enemy.

In this I changed no opinion. I disliked the war, because it
was unnecessary. I disapproved of those who made it, because
they omitted to provide the means of prosecuting it ; and thereby
exposed the country to the waste and desolation of the enemy ;
but when the efforts for peace were rejected and a barbarous
warfare proclaimed agt. us, it became the duty of all to resist, and
thereby preserve the country from ruin. I opposed the war be-
cause for the cause and the want of preparation, I considered it un-
necessary and dangerous, and I afterwards supported it, because
without resistance, we should have been laid waste and the Union
destroyed.*

* " In i3i3, he was again chosen by the Legislature of New York, a Senator of
the United States. The nation was, at that time, at war with Great Britain,
and it ought to be recorded to the eternal honour of Mr. King, that he was one
of those whom no habit of opposition to administration, and no arbitrary clas-
sification or supposed claims of party could induce to a forgetfulness that the
United States was his country ; and that the rights and honour of that country
he ought to support and maintain. It has been observed that the conduct the
enemy exhibited in their destruction of Washington, tended to unite all parties
in America. The speech of Mr. King in the Senate, on this occasion, while it

APPENDIX. 549

APPENDIX V.

STATUS OF THE INDIANS AFTER THE WAR OF 1812-15.

Among the propositions on the part of the British Com-
missioners at the first conference with those of the United
States relative to a Treaty of Peace was one * that " the
Indian nations should be included in the pacification,
and a definite boundary be settled for their territory."
The answer to this was "that the proposition to define, in
the treaty between the United States and Great Britain, the
boundary of the Indian possessions within our own terri-
tories was new and without example." The British Com-
missioners asserted that "the Indians must in some sort be
considered as an independent people," as both countries
had made treaties with them ; and the answer was that
there was an obvious and important difference between
treaties with them " in our territory, and such a treaty
as was proposed to be made respecting them with a foreign
power."

After stating what had been the liberal and humane policy
of the United States, which had enabled them to live in
peace with the Indians, the American Commissioners asked
" whether the pacification and the settlement of a boundary
for them were both made a sine qua non ? Which was an-
swered in the affirmative." To further questions one of
the British Commissioners said " that the Indians would
not be restricted from selling their lands, but that the
United States would be restricted from purchasing them."
Another stated " that it was intended that the Indian terri-
tories should be a barrier between the British dominions and
those of the United States; that both Great Britain and the

may compare favourably with any of his former efforts, in eloquence, has the
rare and enviable distinction of being approved and applauded for its senti-
ments also, by the entire Nation." — W. Coleman, in " Sketch of Rufus King,"
Delaplaine's Repository, 1816, v. i., p. 184.

[The Editor has not been able to find any report of the speech above alluded
to, although similar testimony as to its character is given in other notices.]

* Annals of Congress, 18 14-15, pp. 13 14 tt seq.

5$0 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

United States should be restricted from purchasing their
lands; but that the Indians might sell them to a third
party." This was considered by the American Commis-
sioners as " nothing less than a demand of the absolute
cession of the rights both of sovereignty and of soil " ; and as
they stated in their despatch, it was deemed "that any dis-
cussion would be unprofitable until it was admitted as a basis."

At future conferences the British Commissioners reiterated
their demand ; but on the 24th of August the Americans an-
swered that so far from being instructed or authorized to yield
" both the rights of sovereignty and soil over near one third
of the territorial dominions of the United States to a number
of Indians, not exceeding twenty thousand . . . they as-
sure the British Commissioners that any arrangement for
that purpose would be instantaneously rejected by their Gov-
ernment." It is not necessary to extend this examination
further, as it was ably argued by the American Commis-
sioners, and resulted in the abandonment of the demand
made ; a clause, No. IX., in the Treaty of Peace, pledges both
countries immediately after the ratification of the treaty to
engage to put an end to hostilities with the Indians with
whom they may be at war, and to restore to them the posses-
sions, rights and privileges they had enjoyed or been entitled
to before hostilities commenced.

Mr. King, as it is supposed in a speech upon the Treaty,
carefully examines and sets aside the claim made by the
British Commissioners, as new and erroneous :

The required arrangement upon the subject of Indian pacifi-
cation and Indian Boundary suggests an enquiry of what has
been the practice in like cases between other nations. When the
territorial limits are settled, as those of the U. S. and G. B. are,
it is believed that no instance of a like foreign interference in be-
half of persons, in the situation of the Indians, has occurred. No
principle seems better understood, or more universally admitted
than that the Dominion or Sovereignty of every nation is exclu-
sive and co-extensive with its Territory. All within such limits
whether men or things being subject to such Dominion.

APPENDIX. 551

Thus the Indian Tribes within the U. S. by different Compacts
or Conventions have all admitted themselves to be under the
Dominion of the U. S. It is true that they are included within,
not subject to their ordinary Jurisdiction, having their own laws,
customs and government, which are acknowledged and allowed
by the U. S. It is also true, that, according to these privi-
leges, they may pass out of the U. S. into the territories of the
neighbouring powers, and may allow other Indians of remote
tribes to come into their cantons and hold intercourse with them.
But their subordination is such that they may not enter into
Conventions with the sovereign of a neighbouring territory ; and
it is an infringement of the Sovereignty of the U. S. for another
sovereign to form Compacts or Conventions with them.

No such interference is known to have occurred. When France
possessed Canada, and England the U. S., they made war and
peace without stipulations concerning the Indians — except that
in the Treaty of Utrecht, provision is made by the XV Article
thereof, that the Indians might pass and repass from the territory
of one to that of the other — France engaging not to molest the 5.
cantons of Indians, subject to the Dominion of G. £., nor other
nations of America who are friends to the same.

It may be true that the treatment of the Indians by the U. S.
is inequitable and injurious as well to them, as to the character
of the U. S. ; but does this give a right to G. B. or any other for-
eign nation to interfere ? Will not the sovereignty of the U. S.
exclude such interference ? They are responsible to the tribunal
of public opinion, and their reputation will be affected by this as
by any other act of Injustice ; but they are the sole keepers of
their own reputation and rights, and from the very nature of
sovereignty are not accountable to others.

The Spaniards wasted the population of their American Terri-
tories. The English have overrun and destroyed as well the
governments as the inhabitants of the E. Indies. The Caribbee
Islands, in modern times, have been some of them depopulated
and the spared remnant of the Caribs, but a few years since,
were removed entirely from the Islands on which they were born.

The Settlement of the Colonies, now the U. S., was by gradual
encroachment upon the Indians, who by war and other causes
arising from the society of the whites, have been, from numerous

552 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

and populous tribes inhabiting the whole maritime frontier of
the U. S., driven back during the colonial Govt, of G. B., in like
manner as they have since been obliged still further to retire by
the U. S. Much of hardship, of injustice, and not unfrequently
of cruelty has been in this way inflicted upon persons in the
circumstances of the Indians actually within the U. S.

But no foreign nation has ever claimed to interfere in favor of
the Indians of So. America, or of those of the E. Indies, or of the
inhabitants of the W. India Islands, or of the American Indians,
while the territory of the U. S. belonged to G. B. or that of
Canada to France. Why should G. B. now insert herself into
affairs, for the good or ill direction whereof, she is in no manner
responsible, and over which we have the exclusive power of de-
cision ? With what right could she make an alliance with Indians,
who were under the dominion of the U. S. — or how does she
derive a right to enter into stipulations with the U. S. respecting
them ? The Indians and the U. S. may, as they before have
done, settle their own concerns ; and it imports the safety of the
U. S. to exclude the interference of G. B. — Indians are tiot citizens
of the U. S., but perpetual inhabitants living in Tribes independent
of each other, and possessing by occupancy title to the soil where
they inhabit. Those natives west of the Mississippi are now, as
they probably were at the discovery by Columbus, independent
Tribes.

Discovery gave no dominion over the Indians, except in cases
of Conquest ; for the sake of peace among the discoverers, it was
established as a principle or Law between themselves, that Dis-
covery gave title to the country discovered, not against the
native inhabitants, but against each other — a title capable of
being consummated by possession. This title gave to the re-
spective discoverers, the exclusive right to acquire the soil occu-
pied by the natives and of establishing settlements upon it.

As between the discoverers and the natives, the relations
between them remained to be regulated by themselves. The his-
tory of the Eng. discoverers, demonstrates that in regulating the
relations between them and the native Tribes, the rights of the
primitive Inhabitants were not overlooked, tho' they were some-
what impaired ; they were considered to be the rightful occupants
of the soil, with a just claim to retain and use the same, according to

APPENDIX. 553

their own discretion. But their right to the soil, as independent
nations, was diminished by the denial to the natives the power to
dispose of the soil at will to whomsoever they pleased ; it being
assumed that in virtue of the Discovery, the discoverers acquired
a title to the soil, subject to the Indian right of occupancy.

This principle seems to have been recognized throughout
America from the earliest Discovery. Eng. derives her title by
discovery from the Cabots, who discovered the continent of N.
A., as far South as Virginia.

The country west of the Mississippi ceded by G. B. to France ;
of France south of the actual boundary of Canada ceded by Fr.
to G. B. — after a cession by France to Spain and a retrocession
by Spain to France of the territory west of the Mississippi ; the
latter power ceded the same to the U. S., who hold that country
in full right, subject only to the Indian right of occupancy, the
exclusive power to extinguish which is vested in the U. S.

They hold that Discovery gives them the exclusive right to
extinguish the Indian title of occupancy by purchase or conquest
— possessing such a degree of Sovereignty, as the rights of the
natives will allow them to exercise, the U. S. have an absolute
right to the soil, subject to the Indian right of occupancy, and also
the absolute right to extinguish that right. This division includes
a complete title to the soil either in the U. S. or the Indians. The
sovereignty of the U. S. is therefore limited not absolute.

The claims of the U. S. have been established as far west as
the Mississippi by the sword — beyond we have had no war and
few treaties. The limits of Conquest are prescribed by the
conqueror ; but humanity and justice call upon us to prescribe
limits to conquest.

APPENDIX VI.

NATIONAL BANK OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

Mr. King's Speech upon the President 's Veto.

The proposed bank would have a capital of thirty five millions
of dollars, composed of five millions specie, ten millions six per
cent, stock, funded since the commencement of the war, fifteen

554 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

millions Treasury notes and five millions to be held by the United
States and paid for in four per cent, stock, to be created for this
purpose.

The President of the United States objects to the bill.

ist. Because the amount of stock to be subscribed to the bank
is insufficient to raise and sustain the public credit.

2nd. Because no adequate public advantage will arise from the
subscription of Treasury Notes.

3rd. Because the full aid and cooperation of the bank, in the
furnishing of permanent aid by temporary loans, is not secured
to Government during the war.

4th. Because the bank cannot be relied upon during the war
to provide a circulating medium.

How the public credit could be raised and sustained by the
transfer of any sum of war stock from one citizen to another, or
from the present holders to the proposed bank, is not obvious.
If the war stock be taken at fifty millions, a demand for one
fifth, or ten millions of it, to be united to the bank capital,
would have a temporary influence upon the stock market ; and if
any except stockholders become subscribers to the bank, this in-
crease of price would be advantageous to the sellers. But the
advantage would be a private one, no part of which would ac-
crue to the Government. As soon as the requisite sum is transferred
to the bank, the stock will be precisely as valuable, and no more
so, as it was before such transfer. Government will be obliged
to make the same annual provision to pay the interest after the
transfer as before. The public credit, which, after employing all
the cabalistic words and manoeuvres of stock jobbers, always did
and always will depend upon the ways and means, or the ability
of Government to fulfil its engagements, or to pay its debts in
equivalent values, will be little if at all affected by a transfer of
stock from individuals to a corporation within the country,
especially as these transfers are to be made at different times and
at periods of considerable distance from each other. The same
debt would continue to exist, yielding the same dividends and
representing the same sum of American capital as it now rep-
resents. No addition to domestic capital would be made by this
operation. If it releases the capital of A. who sells the stock,
it will employ the capital of B. who purchases it ; and the only

APPENDIX. 555

difference will be that A. becomes the owner of a disposable
capital, which before belonged to B.

The raising of the price of stocks may prove beneficial to a
Government in two ways, if it wants to borrow ; the permanent,
not the casual raising of the price of the stock market, will enable
it to sell new stock dearer. If foreigners come into the market,
the raising of the price increases the money which must be
brought into the country to purchase stocks. It was to meet the
latter case, that an operation was undertaken by Colonel Hamil-
ton which proved to a limited degree advantageous. But although
Government desires to obtain loans, it is not probable that any
permanent application of the public credit would have been
produced by the transfer of a given sum of the war stock to the
bank, especially when the deep wound given to the public credit
by the extraordinary terms upon which the late loans were
negotiated is considered. More favorable times ; a revival of
industry and of commerce ; an improved state of the finances,
with a public income commensurate to the public expenditures,
are necessary to the revival and re-establishment of the public
credit.

The discrimination which is proposed to be carried still further
than the bill carries it, in favor of the war stock, is impolitic.
Were Government at liberty, for its own advantage (a case not
now existing) to make such discrimination, the holders of war
stock ought not now to desire it in their favor, as the example
might hereafter be cited as a precedent against them, and in favor
of the now postponed though equally meritorious stock of the
Revolution.

There should be no discrimination ; the public faith knows no
favorites ; the holders of the war stock ought not to contend for
preferences. They ought to be satisfied that the public faith,
whether formerly or recently pledged, is equally precious to an
honest Government. If there still remains a doubt concerning
the correctness of the first objection contained in the President's
message, can there be any respecting that of the second ? Will
no adequate public advantage arise from the subscription of
Treasury notes ?

Public credit as has already been observed depends on the
ability and inclination of the Government to fulfil its contracts.

556 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

Treasury notes are contracts, promising to their holders, the sums,
and at the times, mentioned in them. The bill provides that
fifteen millions of dollars, in these notes, shall be receivable as a
part of the bank capital, and when received shall be converted
into fifteen millions of six per cent, stock. If not received by
the bank and converted into six percent, stock, this sum of fifteen
millions of Treasury notes will fall due, and must be paid off, in
the beginning of the next year. To this end money must be
borrowed ; and assuming the rates of the last loans, to borrow
fifteen millions of dollars Government must give eighteen millions
and three quarters of a million of dollars of six per cent, stock.
So that the difference between paying them off, or allowing them
to be subscribed to the bank, would be a clear saving to the
public three millions seven hundred and fifty thousand dollars six
per cent, stock.

Moreover by this conversion of Treasury notes into an equal
sum of six per cent, stock, room would be made for a further
loan of Treasury notes — the finances would also be relieved by
releasing the Government from the obligation to pay off their
notes at a fixed day, and the ways & means, whether from loans
or taxes, to the amount of fifteen millions, which would have
been required for this purpose, would be left at the disposition of
Government. Is then the objection correct which alleges that no
public advantage will arise from the subscription of Treasury
notes to the bank ?

The third objection alleges that the bank is under no legal
compulsion to afford that full aid and co-operation to Govern-
ment, which the Message declares to be both indispensable and
necessary in the administration of the finances, it being neither
obliged to make temporary nor permanent loans to Government.

Temporary loans to Government, in advance or anticipation of
the taxes, are without doubt among the chief advantages that
Government derives from a National Bank ; as portions of the
annual expenditure are required to be made before the taxes are
collected, the bank, with mutual advantage to itself and the Gov-
ernment, is commonly able to make the advances wanted for this
purpose, waiting for the repayment until the taxes come in. In
ordinary times every bank of circulation finds its interest in afford-
ing to the Government this accommodation ; which is made pur-

APPENDIX. 557

suant to the correct maxims of commercial credit, being a loan
made upon " good pledges," or undoubted security, which at a
fixed, and no distant, period will repay it.

But it must be evident that such advances in anticipation of
the taxes, and which are to be repaid by them, can be made only
upon the faith that the currency in which the taxes are paid will
be of equal value with that in which the bank made its advance.
If, as in the instance of this bank, its notes are convertible into
specie, and the taxes are payable either in them or a Government
paper, which is at a discount, no one will suppose that the bank
can, in such case, make advances to the Government, and receive
in payment thereof the depreciated paper in which the taxes are
paid.

If the bill pass, the bank must redeem its notes with cash ;
the taxes will be receivable in bank notes or Treasury notes ; the
latter being at a discount, the taxes will be paid in them. Ought
any one to expect that the bank will advance to Government a
million of dollars in its notes, as an anticipation of the land tax,
and receive in payment a million of dollars in Treasury notes,
which may be at a discount of ten or fifteen per cent. ? Is it not
plain that, instead of receiving compensation for the loan, the
bank would in such case suffer a positive loss equal to the depre-
ciation of the Treasury notes ? It results that neither this bank,
nor any other, whose notes are of greater value as a currency, than
Treasury notes, can make advances in anticipation of taxes, pay-
able in Treasury notes.

The objection, therefore, against the bank amounts to this, that
it cannot do what can only be done by a bank which is released
from those indispensable restraints, without which no bank can
with safety be established.

This objection goes further, and urges the rejection of the bill
because the bank is not obliged to make permanent loans to Gov-
ernment. No bank doing business, upon securities of short dates,
can make permanent loans, and all banks of circulation are
obliged to require such securities. If any exception to this rule
exists, it can only be for moderate sums. Banks, acting upon the
principle, that cash advance must be upon a security or pledge,
which, at a short date, enables the bank to recall its advance, are
called commercial banks. Those which make loans of long dura-

558 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

tion, or of a permanent character, do so with a reliance solely upon
the public credit ; and without the specific pledge, demanded by-
banks of circulation, and which enable them to recover their
money, in all cases of failure. These are called financial or gov-
ernmental banks. So long as banks confine their business,
whether with Governments or with individuals, to the maxims of
commercial credit, receiving for their advances notes and bills of
undoubted credit, and payable at early periods, or pledges of spe-
cific funds or effects— so long are they of advantage to Govern-
ments, as well as to individuals employed in any business requiring
the aid of credit.

But all experience has proved, and the examples are numerous
throughout Europe, and, as is believed without a single exception,
that whenever banks become what is called financial banks, with-
out making permanent loans upon the mere pledge of the public
faith, when they become the mints employed by Governments to
fabricate paper to such amounts as often, and for such periods,
as their wants frequently recurring, and always urgent, demand,
they never fail to accomplish an extensive revolution in personal
property, sometimes produce the abolition of debts, and after
preying upon the credulous and unprotected, end in their own, and
the nation's bankruptcy.

It has been supposed that the Bank of England is a financial
bank, and an exception from this conclusion ; it would require time
and detail to give a correct idea of the operations of this bank ;
all that will now be said in reply to this suggestion is, that who-
ever takes the requisite pains to understand the origin, progress,
maxims and manner of conducting the business of the Bank of
England, whether with Government or individuals, will be satis-
fied that it transacts its business strictly upon the principles and
rules of commercial credit ; and that because it does so, and for
that reason only, it has been enabled to afford the aid, which it
has done to the public, private and commercial credit of the
nation.

It would therefore seem that it is no sufficient objection to this
bill that it does not oblige the bank to make large loans to the
Government ; since to compel a bank to make such loans, upon
the pledge of the public faith, or upon depreciated public securi-
ties, especially when the bank is relieved from the obligation to

APPENDIX. 559

make specie payments, would be to require it to repeat the ex-
periment so often made in different forms, both at home and
abroad, which has everywhere and always failed, and which en-
lightened economists will all unite to condemn.

Lastly it is objected that the bank cannot be relied upon during
the war to provide a circulating medium. No bank, which is
obliged to redeem its notes in specie, can in the present state of
commerce, credit and alarm, issue the same beyond a very limited
sum.

If to the distrust which the war and a real or supposed scarcity
of specie create, be united an unusual demand for specie to be
hoarded, or sent abroad for security or to compensate unfavorable
balances of trade, in lieu of the produce usually exported for this
purpose, and if at the same time a considerable depreciation of the
public credit takes place, a case will exist in which banks of cir-
culation are reduced to the necessity of either a total suspension
of business, or such an abridgment of it, as to render them in-
capable of circulating their notes in quantities commensurate to
the public demands.

The objection, therefore, is not against the structure of the
bank, but against the condition of the country, and the state of
the public credit, which may compel the bank to curtail its circu-
lation.

In effect the objection amounts to the confession that no bank
which confines its business to the only safe and practical test of a
paper circulation will, or can, afford important aid in the furnish-
ing a circulating medium in times and circumstances like the
present ; that no bank, except one which is released from the
obligation to pay its notes in specie, can now afford a circulating
medium ; in a word that none but a bank which could circulate
a depreciated currency and which it would be dangerous to create,
ought now to be established.

It might suffice to have shown that the President's objections
ought not to prevent this bill from becoming a law ; but a few
words may be added concerning the bill. The amount of the capi-
tal of the bank has already been mentioned. Its duties and gen-
eral provisions are conformable to those of the late Bank of the
United States ; they have had a fair trial and been approved ;
whatever that bank would have done, this would be able to do ;

560 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

and advantages such as it afforded to Government in the manage-
ment of the finances, this bank would in due time be equally or
more capable of affording.

It has not been contended that at this time, owing to the condi-
tion of the finances and credit of the United States, as well as to
the general stagnation of trade, and the distrust of every kind of
credit, any safe bank that might now be established, could afford
to Government, or to individuals, much or important assistance
by loans, even of a temporary kind.

But the agency of this bank would now be of service to Gov-
ernment ; whatever it should be able to do would be well done.
Its operations would be all solid and of standard character ; its
business must be limited, but it would be safe and exemplary ;
and with regard to every other moneyed institution, conducting
its affairs honestly, it would cherish and sustain it.

Moreover, by the establishment of this bank upon sound and
improved maxims, although it may not now do what no safe
bank can do — much good — it will do no injury. It will not con-
tribute still further to depreciate public and private credit ; and
during the time of its charter, it will prevent, a circumstance
worth much, the establishment of a bank upon false and dangerous
principles. On the return of peace, the agency and influence of
this bank will become invaluable in the recovery and establish-
ment of the credit and finances of the nation.

For these reasons which had their influence in the passage of
the bill by the Congress, and the force of which remains not only
undiminished, but the latter of them is increased by the objec-
tions made by the President, it is earnestly to be wished, although
scarcely to be hoped, that the bill may become a law.

The concluding paragraph of the Message of the President is
incomparably the most important. It is this which opens and in-
terprets the object desired to be attained by the rejection of this
bill. Congress are here admonished by the President to make
haste to " substitute " (in lieu of the bill) " a more commensurate
and certain provision for the public exigencies." The President
of the United States, after alluding to the exigent and perilous
condition of the country, after insinuating to Congress in lan-
guage not to be misunderstood, that the resources of the Treas-
ury were exhausted, that extraordinary succor from loans was no

APPENDIX. 561

longer attainable, that a bank created upon safe and approved
principles could afford no public assistance, plainly intimates
that paper money, and only paper money, will, or can, assist the
nation in the further prosecution of the war. If this be so, if by
the neglect and mismanagement of the finances and profusion
in the public expenditures, the country is already reduced to this
situation, and the President announces the same to Congress,
will they prove themselves the faithful friends of the people, un-
less they reasonably apprize them of the fact, however humiliat-
ing ? If paper money be necessary, avow it, prepare it, issue it ;
but under every caution and guard which can be devised to miti-
gate its evils. All experience, public and personal, demonstrates
that every object is attained with more certainty and greater ad-
vantage by a direct than by an indirect course.

Why, then, will Congress by the creation and employment of a
bank attempt to conceal their actual condition and real object ?
Why establish a bank which, dealing only in paper, will fabricate
and lend as many millions as Congress may desire to borrow ?
Why pay to this bank an interest of six per cent, for the loan of
their notes, which in no single ingredient will, or ought to be
thought, to be of greater value than Treasury Notes ? The peo-
ple of this country have much natural sagacity, and will not long
be deceived by this or any similar contrivance. Rather devise
an improved scheme for the immediate issue of Treasury Notes,
let them be converted at pleasure into a public stock, bearing
a high interest ; fund this stock by pledging specific taxes to pay
the interest ; the credit of this currency will be better than that
of the notes of such a bank as it is desired should be created.

If a paper circulation alone will enable us to defend the coun-
try, prepare and make use of it ; but spare us the expense of
paying interest for it to a company, whose faculties, without our
contributions, will enable them to make dividends equal to their
utmost desire.

APPENDIX VII.

COMMERCIAL CONVENTION WITH ENGLAND.

Recollecting as some of us are able to do the great sensibility
that was shewn in respect to the navigation and trade of the

VOL. V. — 36

562 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING.

country when Mr. Jay's Treaty with England was concluded, and
which it was confidently asserted was grossly defective in just pro-
visions for their advantage, there is some difficulty in accounting
for the apathy, not to say disregard, which are so manifest at this
time in relation to the same important and necessary interests.
The system of a passive commerce, like that of China, resting
solely on the theory of selling dear and buying cheap, has at all
times had its advocates among us. But of late, and especially
since the late war, an opinion that a Navy is our best arm of de-
fence, as well as aggression, has become general, and is nowhere
more cordially approved than in Virginia and other quarters
where the theory of a passive commerce has found its most able
advocates.

The late Commercial Convention with England is the fruit and
trophy of the late war — a war which is creditable to our arms on
land and ocean, but which has added nothing to our political
reputation or national character ; since no single object has been
attained for which great waste of blood and treasure have been
made, increased as the latter was by the sacrifice of our enriching
commerce for a series of years, before the declaration of war.

When we look back to the prosperous condition of our naviga-
tion and trade in the year 1795, an<^ compare what it probably
would have been at this day, without restriction, embargo and
war, with what is now actually is, it would really seem that there
could be no difference of opinion respecting the administration
of our pub. affairs, and that all would agree that a course
altogether the reverse of that which has been followed, would
have been our wise course.

He must possess an unenviable temper and unworthy princi-
ples who does not prefer a free Govt, to an arbitrary one : but no
honest man who has lived in a free democratic Govt., if his mind
has been lifted above those pursuits and occupations which ren-
der men in a great measure indifferent about the forms of Govt.,
can have shut his eyes upon the tendency of such Govts, to fac-
tion and to a sort of political compulsion which obliges men to
do and to permit what is neither honest nor beneficial to the
public.

No free democratic Govt, has ever existed without faction ;
and every such Govt, which is subject to the action and influence

APPENDIX. 563

of it, approves & adopts, or disapproves & rejects, regulations &
measures, not because they are beneficial or injurious to the Pub-
lic, but because they affect advantageously or otherwise the views
and interest of the faction that rules.

Had the Govt, of the U. S. of late years been administered with
an exclusive regard to the welfare and prosperity of the Nation,
disregarding altogether the struggle between the two parties wh.
has warped our public counsels and so extensively deranged our
public and private affairs, how different would have been our
present condition in morals as well as riches. The great and
honest body of the People have little interest in these political
struggles ; it is those who seek for office and its emoluments who
are benefitted by these struggles ; it is they who excite the People
to engage in them, & who present and urge a thousand different
motives to rouse and persuade the People to follow their advice.

These reflexions are not offered with a hope that they will
change a course of proceeding which is inseparable from our
scheme of Govt., but as in some manner explanatory of our actual
situation. With all the causes of complaint, and they are almost
wholly political, we have great and most extensive reasons of sat-
isfaction— altho' all is not right, yet so comparatively small is the
portion of what is wrong, that we would not consent to exchange
condition with any other nation.

So long as the political struggle is nearly equal, it wd. be idle
to attempt being heard in favor of moderation & a wise policy, or
to expect that any counsel except of a mere party complexion
would be favorably received — but when the ascendency of one
party is established and the other is so small a minority as to ex-
cite little or no apprehension of their being able to overturn their
rivals, the counsels of wisdom and experience may be listened to,
& the welfare and prosperity of the nation may be consulted
without fear of endangering the interests of the Rulers.


===== Rufus King - The Life and Correspondence of Rufus King (ed. C. R. King, 6 vols, PD) (vol. 6) =====
Source: https://archive.org/download/lifecorresponden06king/lifecorresponden06king_djvu.txt

I^^^^P^fc^^^^aMtahgw 

jntoerstta of d* 
4d California « 

/ 

THE LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

OF 

RUFUS KING 

VOLUME IV. 

1801-1806 

Of this Letter-press Edition 
750 Copies ha ve been Printed for Saie 

No. Jo 

August, 1897 

.CALIFQB^ 

(fcuftASl /6ny> 

Kur 

Rufus King 

From a painting by Gilbert Stuart, 1820 

THE LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

OF 

RUFUS KING 

COMPRISING HIS LETTERS, PRIVATE AND OFFICIAL 

HIS PUBLIC DOCUMENTS AND 

HIS SPEECHES 

EDITED BY HIS GRANDSON 

CHARLES R. KING, M.D., LL.D. (Trin.) 

FELLOW OF THE COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS, PHILADELPHIA, AND 

MEMBER OF THE NEW YORK AND PENNSYLVANIA 

HISTORICAL SOCIETIES 

VOLUME IV. 
1801-1806 

NEW YORK 
P. PUTNAM'S SONS 

&\t Ihtuktrboeher ^mss 
1897 

ffc.i. 

:^ 

COPYRIGHT, 1897 
BY 

CHARLES R. KING 

Ube "ftnCcfeerbocfeer Qveee, "Hew Kortt 

PREFACE TO THE FOURTH VOLUME. 

^ This fourth volume presents the correspondence to the 
time of the close of Mr. King's mission to Great Britain, 
and gives an account of several interesting events which 
occupied attention, and in which he was an interested actor. 
He returned to the United States finding the friends with 
whom he had been closely associated before his departure 
for Great Britain out of power, the political principles upon 
which they had founded the government discredited and 
supplanted by others of which they saw the dangerous 
tendency ; a condition of things which made many loyal 
men suggest disloyal expedients. Mr. King was not of 
these but was, indeed, an earnest opposer of their plans; and 
when he came home untrammelled by personal connection 
with the political animosities which prevailed, he was put for- 
ward by the leaders as the representative of the old Federal 
Party, but only to be defeated. The circumstances connected 
with these efforts to recover power will be found explained 
in the correspondence. The relations with his friend Alex- 
ander Hamilton ; his connection with the duel which de- 
prived the country of its leading statesman ; his interest 
in seeing provision made to relieve the family, whose head 
had been taken away ; are all clearly stated, showing the 
warmth of his friendship, and the earnestness with which he 
sought to avert the consequence of this sad event. 

The threatened attempt of some of the New England 
men to seek relief from the political troubles of the time by 
severing the Union, received, as will be seen, his positive 
rebuke, as it had received that of Hamilton and of other 
sound men of the Federal party. It was not in that way 

100285 

VI PREFACE TO THE FOURTH VOLUME. 

that relief was to be found, but by a steadfast adherence to 
their principles and earnest appeals to the patriotism of the 
people. Without going into detail to show the events of the 
period covered by the correspondence, it may be proper to 
say that the Louisiana purchase occupies a considerable 
space, in which Mr. King in his letters to Mr. Livingston 
lays down clearly, in reference to the pending negotiation 
with France, the principle, since named the Monroe doctrine 
— that the United States would look with disfavour upon the 
attempt of any European nation, but Spain, to colonize on 
its borders. There is another subject which enlisted the 
warm sympathy of Mr. King during his residence in England, 
the liberation of the Spanish American colonies from the 
parent state. Full correspondence relative to this will be 
found in this volume, extending over several years, and in 
which its projector Genl. Miranda earnestly sought his help, 
especially, when, despairing of the often promised help from 
the British Government he came to the United States to en- 
list, if possible, the assistance of the Government and of indi- 
viduals to enable him to carry out his plans. Mr. King, much as 
he desired to help him, could not do so, because the expedition 
could only be carried out by an infringement of the laws of 
the United States. The result proved his wisdom ; the 
parties who were instrumental in sending it out were, in- 
dicted, though not convicted, and the venture disastrously 
failed. 

In all the matters adverted to in the following paper, are 
evinced the intelligent understanding, sound judgment, wise 
foresight and prudent counsels which mark the life of Mr. 
King and the love of his country which was never shaken 
however much its welfare was threatened. 

CONTENTS OF VOL. IV. 

CHAPTER I. 

PAGE 

Affairs in the U. S.— Ames to King— Federal Views— King to Gore— 
peace_King to Madison— Detention of Vessels charged with break- 
ing Blockade of Havre— King to Madison— Public Sentiment about 
the Peace— Patience in conducting Negotiations with England— Con- 
versation with Addington regarding them — The Latter thinks the 
Peace will be permanent— Mr. Otto— His Integrity and Discretion 
—King to Addington— Statement relative to 6th Article— King to 
Madison— Diplomatic Changes— Cabot to King— Looks for Storms, 
others more hopeful— King to Lord Hawkesbury— Vessels detained 
for breaking Blockade— G. Morris to King— On the Peace— King 
to Lord Grenville— Statement of Latter in H. of Lords, charging 
Misrepresentation and Perjury by a Foreign Minister— Lord Gren- 
ville to King— Said it did not reflect on his Character or Conduct- 
King to Secretary of State— Spain ceded Louisiana to France^-No^ 
Allusion to Louisiana in the Negotiations between France and Eng- 
land—L. Littlepage to King— Louisiana^King— Conference with 
Lord Hawkesbury, relative to 6th Article— French Expedition to St. 
Domingo — Also concerning Louisiana./ 1 

CHAPTER II. 

Dinner at Addington's— Otto and Talleyrand— Wilberforce on Slave 
Trade and on Pitt— Anecdote about Expedition to Egypt— Lord 
Molesworth in Denmark— King to Lord Pelham— Complaint against 
McDonough, English Agent at Tripoli— Inciting War against the 
U. S.— Lord Pelham's Answer— His Conduct unauthorized— He is 
to be removed— King to Lord Hawkesbury— Presses for a Settle- 
ment of Negotiations— King to Secretary of State— Expeditions to 
^ St. Domingo— Otto to be Minister to the U. S.— King to R. R. Liv- 
ingston—Congratulations on his Arrival at Paris— Troup to King- 
Depressing Effect of the Peace— Duel of Hamilton's Son— Anecdote 
of Talleyrand and La Foret— Gambling in English Stocks— Genet 
wrote his own Instructions— Sir William Parker instead of curbing, 

vii 

Vlll CONTENTS. 

permitted Depredations by his Officers on American Commerce — 
King to Eaton — Presents to the Bey — King to Addington — Delays in 
Negotiations — J. Q. Adams to King — The Peace will cause Incon- 
venience— King to Hamilton — Letter of Condolence — Sedgwick to 
King — Democratic Influence increased in New England — Jefferson's 
Removals have not hurt his Influence — Rupture with England feared 
by Jefferson's Friends — They aim at the Destruction of the Judiciary 
— King to Lord Eldon — Presses for a Settlement of Negotiations. . 20 

CHAPTER III. 

Hale to King — Comments despondingly on the President's Message — 
Ames to King — On the Message — Virginia to Control — The Peace 
will not calm Agitation in U. S. — King to Secretary of State — Ves- 
sels detained for breaking Blockade of Havre released by Executive 
Interference — Lord Dunmore's outrageous Conduct in Virginia — 
Conversation with Lord Hawkesbury-^French Expedition to St. Do- 
mingo-^Louisiana — French desire to colonize to get rid of per- 
turbed Spirits — Bonaparte an extraordinary Character — King to Sec- 
retary of State — St. Croix Boundary — Prize Courts in the West Indies 
— Impressed Seamen — Peace has stopped Impressments — Outrages 
against Commerce continue — W. Pinkney's Congratulations on sign- 
ing Convention relative to 6th and 7th Articles — Gore to King — On 
his Trials while negotiating — King — Signature of the Convention — 
King to Secretary of State — Sends the Convention — Mode of paying 
Claims — Maryland Bank-Stock Claim soon to be settled — King 
to Madison — History of the Negotiation — Discouraging Delays — 
Looked only to his Duty — King to Secretary of State — Congress at 
Amiens probably result favorably to Peace — Mutiny in the Fleet for V' 
the W. Indies. . 38 

CHAPTER IV. 

King to Madison — Asks Permission to travel on the Continent — King to 
J. Adams — Sending a Copy of the Convention just signed — King to 
Marshall — Explanation of the Convention — King to Secretary of 
State — Cession of Louisiana — Lord Hawkesbury's Views — King to 
R. R. Livingston — Cession of Louisiana — Not to be referred to at 
Amiens — Great Britain does not wish it — King suggests a temperate 
Statement against it with France — J. Q. Adams to King — Discus- 
sion of the President's Message — Treasury Report pleasing — Prob- 
able Action of the Administration — Aim for Popularity — King to 
Secretary of State — Conference with Lord Hawkesbury relative to 
the Footing of our Navigation on Return of Peace — To discontinue 
countervailing Duties — Harmony of England and continental mari- 

CONTENTS. 

IX 

time Nations will not be re-established by the Peace— King to Lord 
Hawkesbury — Expediency of abolishing alien tonnage Duty — King 
to Secretary of State — Treaty not yet signed— Fleet from Brest not 
yet sailed for St. Domingo— Sweden acceded to Convention of Pe- 
tersburg—Probable Change of Ministry unfounded— Madison to King 
—Appointment of G. W. Ewing as Consul— King to Parker— Send- 
ing his Son James to School at Paris 53 

CHAPTER V. 

King to Vansittart, Secretary of State, and Madison— Discriminating 
Duties on commercial Intercourse — England prepared to abolish 
them— Commission under 7th Article resumed their sittings— Sedg- 
wick to King— Condition of Affairs in the U. S. as affected by Jef- 
erson's Election— Ames to King—View of the Future not cheering— 
King to Madison— Delay of Negotiations at Amiens— Believes Peace 
will be concluded— Napoleon at Lyons appointed himself President 
of the Italian Republic— King to Secretary of State— McDonough, 
British Agent at Tripoli, exculpates himself from Charges against 
him — Debate on Bill to suspend tonnage and countervailing Duties 
— Definitely settled by France to send a Colony to Louisiana, unless 
Affairs in St. Domingo prevent— King to Secretary of State— Ardor 
for Peace abating in England— Fleets to be put in Order.— Still be- 
lieves there will be Peace chiefly advantageous to France— King to 
Secretary of State— Erving's Appointment— King to Secretary of 
State— Negotiations at Amiens still unsettled— Public Opinion in 
England seems to favor Rupture 68 

CHAPTER VI. 

Presents to Bey of Tunis sent — King to Livingston — Louisiana — To pre- 
vent the sailing of the French Fleet — Iron or Gold—Former impos- 
sible— Gold might buy Louisiana by fair Purchase with Cash — 
Would the People consent ?— Suggests other Means — Nothing will 
be done at Amiens — General Suggestions — Monroe Doctrine — King 
to Livingston — Explains the Convention between United States and 
England — Spaniards have fifteen Millions of Dollars in West Indies 
to buy Provisions for the combined Fleets— Hawkesbury to King- 
Announces the Signature of the Definitive Treaty — Lord Lansdowne 
on Louisiana — In the Discussions relative to it before the Treaty of 
Peace of 1783, he wished England to retain it— Cabot to King- 
Congratulates him for the Convention — Murray to King — Return 
Home and Reception — No Chief among the Federalists — Recom- 
mends him to stay Abroad — King to Troup — Does not feel any Fear 
of Reception of Convention by intelligent and reasonable Men — Con- 

CONTENTS. 

trasts France and England in Ability to raise Money— King to Sec- 
retary of State— Definitive Treaty conforms in the Main to the Pre- 
liminaries—If no secret Articles, Indemnity to the Prince of Orange 
not given— Effect of Treaty in England— King to Secretary of State 
—Has suggested the Appointment of Mr. Merry as Successor to Mr. 
Liston 

CHAPTER VII. 

Troup to King— Congressional Acts— G. Morris on Judiciary Bill— Burr 
has lost Ground-Toast at a Dinner— Jefferson the Idol-Business 
dull— Cabot to King— Distrusts French Fleets-Does not fear French^ 
Settlement in Louisiana— Ames to King— France's Project of getting, 
Louisiana can only do Good— Joy at Adjustment with Great Britain 
of the Negotiation about the Debts— J. Hale to King— Glad he will 
remain in London— Federalists more confident— Louisiana Project 
will operate well— King to Lord Hawkesbury— Cession of Louisa 
ana Effect on the Navigation of the Mississippi— How far is Eng- 
land concerned in the Cession-McHenry to King-Effect of Peace 
on the United States— Measures of the Administration criticised— 
King to Vansittart— United States should pay no higher Duties to 
export British Manufactures than other Nations— King to Secretary 
of State— Definitive Treaty ratified— Sweden joins Russia and Eng- 
land in annulling the System of armed Neutrality-King to Secretary 
of State, United States Funds— Means taken to secure their Safety 
and proper Disbursement, especially in Prize Cases— The Govern- 
ment having now made other Arrangements, he shall no longer re- 
gard the pecuniary Affairs under his Control— J. Marshall to King 
—Congratulates him on his Settlement of the Debt Claims. . 

CHAPTER VIII. 

King to Secretary of State— Bill imposing Duties on Exports and Im- 
ports passed-King to Secretary of State-Has asked Lord Hawkes- 
bury for a confidential Statement of Views of the British Govern- 
ment about Louisiana Cession— Lord Hawkesbury to King— Confi- 
dential Answer— King to Hamilton— Louisiana Cession— Troup to 
King— American Politics— Cabot to King— Sees Danger in the Euro- 
pean Peace— France ambitious, restless— King to Low— His Opinion 
of Samuel Williams-King to Secretary of State-Debate on the 
Peace— Convention between Great Britain and Russia— King to Sec- 
retary of State-Embarrassment with Trade through French Laws 
—Affairs of Bird & Co. embarrassed— King to Dr. Drury— Wishes 
his Sons advanced as much as possible— Drury to King— Does not 

82 

102 

CONTENTS. XI 

PAGE 

advise pushing them — Course at Harrow — Hamilton to King — He 
should return Home — Reasons given — General Opinion of Affairs in 
the United States — Troup to King — Affairs in United States, espec- 
ially relative to Burr 119 

CHAPTER IX. 

King to Secretary of State— Received President's and Senate's Approba- 
tion of the Convention — Sedgwick to King — Glad he will return 
Home — Federalism improving — District of Maine— King to Low — 
Confidence in Government Funds — King to Madison — Thanks for 
Permission to visit France, etc. — Will leave Mr. Gore Charge with- 
out Expense to the Public — King to Secretary of State— Commis- 
sion under 7th Article proceeding satisfactorily — Has postponed 
Discussion of the Repeal of countervailing Duty on Tobacco — King 
to Erving — Claims of Seamen for Relief — King to Lord Hawkesbury 
— Has received the Convention ratified, etc. — King to Secretary of 
State — Loan by Holland paid in Part to France to release Claims of 
the Prince of Orange — King to Lord Hawkesbury — Demanding Re- 
lease of impressed Seamen — King to Livingston — Floridas possibly 
not ceded — Free Navigation of the Mississippi essential to United^ 
States— Floridas must belong to us— Interesting Suggestion relative 
to them — Should not enter into a Guaranty as to their Possession by 
Spain — King to Secretary of State — Ratifications of Convention ex- 
changed— King to Secretary of State — Morocco declared war against 
the United States — Agricultural Prospects in England bad — King to 
Troup — Going to the Continent — King to Secretary of State — In- 
forming him of his Expenditure relating to the Publication of Robin- 
son's Admiralty Reports and why incurred 137 

CHAPTER X. 

King to Livingston — Has sent in his Resignation — King to Marshall — 
Plan of Settlement by the Convention completed before he received 
the Views of the new Administration, though approved by it — Has 
resigned his Office — King to R. Southgate — Has resigned his Office 
—King to Secretary of State— Resigns his Office and asks to return 
Home in the Spring in a Frigate— King to Madison — Desires to re- 
turn in a public Vessel, etc. — King to Secretary of State — Conference 
with Lord Hawkesbury on Maryland Bank-Stock and West India 
Trade— Hoped to settle these before he left— Louisiana, etc.— Gore V 
to Lord Hawkesbury — Boundaries between Territories of United 
States and Great Britain — Troup to King — Burr ruined in Politics 
and Fortune — Sedgwick to King — Politics — Burr 152 

Xll CONTENTS. 

CHAPTER XI. 

PAGE. 

Journey of King to the Continent of Europe — Few Details of it — Gore to 
King — Correspondence, and about the Latter's Sons — King to Caze- 
nove — Complaint of Livingston against Talleyrand — King to Erving 
— He had received no Faculty to grant Passports to American Citi- 
zens— Mr. Gore has — How Slaves captured after an Insurrection in • 
Virginia in 1800 might be disposed of — President Jefferson to King 
— Suggesting sending them to Sierra Leone, Africa — Also expressing * 
his Satisfaction with Mr. King's Course in England — And his Desire 
for peaceful and friendly Relations with Great Britain — Gore to the 
President — Answers the Letter to King, giving the Refusal of the • 
Company to receive the Blacks — J. Q. Adams to King — Condition 
of Affairs in the U. S. — Strength of the Administration increasing. . 163 

CHAPTER XII. 

George III. to King — On his not being presented to Bonaparte in Paris 
— Also Precautions taken when riding on cold Days — Cabot to King 
— Affairs in Massachusetts — Murray to King — Talk of King as Can- 
didate for the Presidency — Democrats blame him in Maryland as 
neglecting the Bank-Stock. — T. Paine — Hotels refused to receive 
him — W. Hindman to King — Proposed Presidential Nomination — 
Maryland Bank-Stock — King to Livingston — Insecurity of the Peace 
— King to Secretary of State — War might be renewed — No Concert 
with Austria and Russia — Cabinet sees no material Change in Con- 
tinental Powers to warrant War — Difficulties relative to Malta and 
unsettled commercial Intercourse with France, etc — King to Eaton 
— Hargrave's Charges for Commission in purchasing Jewels, etc. , for 
Bey, not Right — Wilberforce to King — Distrusts the Ministry — 
King to Addington — Urges Settlement of Maryland Bank-Stock 
Question — King to Secretary of State — France the Arbiter of Peace. 179 

CHAPTER XIII. 

Troup to King — State of Parties — King to be run for President or Vice- 
President — King to Parker in Paris — Inquiry about Schools for his 
elder Sons — King to Secretary of State — In new Bill to be intro- 
duced in Parliament Duties will remain the same except on foreign 
Oils — Change in Corn Laws — King to Erving respecting Charges — 
King to President of United States — Resumes the Subject of Trans- 
portation of Slaves to Sierra Leone — Little Hope of Success in ob- 
taining Permission to send them there — Thanks him for his Apprecia- 
tion of his Services, etc. — King to Erving — No Danger that Mr. 
Williams will embarrass him or injure the Public — King to Madison 

CONTENTS. xiii 

—Acknowledging Refusal of a public Vessel for his Return and ask- 
ing for Letters of Recall before April ioth— Madison to King- 
Cause of Refusal— Reasons given by the President for this Refusal— 
The Decision really a wise one. ...... 102 

CHAPTER XIV. 

Troup to King— Spanish Officers at New Orleans violating the Treaty—*' 
Jefferson's Message an Opiate— King to Vansittart— Duty on Oil 
proposed would materially injure U. S. in withdrawing skilled Sea- 
men—King to Wilberforce— Urges granting Permission to send 
emancipated Slaves to Sierra Leone— Wilberforce to King— Import- 
ance of cultivating Friendship between their two Countries — Mary- 
land Bank-Stock— King to Lord Hawkesbury and Sir Stephen Cot- 
trell relative to contagious Fever on Board of Vessel to carry Ameri- 
can Seamen to the U. S.— King to Erving, on the same Matter- 
King to Gallatin— Exchange with Holland and England— How best 
to make Remittances— King to Lord Hawkesbury— Claims equal 
Participation in the West India Trade— King to Governor of Mary- 
land, relative to Communications about the Bank-Stock— J. Jay to 
King— Domestic Afflictions have prevented writing— Sedgwick to 
Hamilton— Federalists should hold the State Governments— King 
for Governor of New York— King to Secretary of State— No further 
Progress in Settlement of pending Questions— French Troops pos** 
sibly going to Louisiana— King to Lord Hawkesbury— His Govern- 
ment wishes Settlement of Questions with England— King to Secre- 
tary of State— Failure of Bird, Savage, and Bird— King to Gallatin 
— Same Subject— Propositions to Sir Francis Baring. . . .203 

CHAPTER XV. 

King engages a Country House near New York— King to Vansittart— 
Demands Restoration of Wines and Spirits, Remains of Stores on 
Merchant Vessels seized by the Customs' Officers— King to Bird, Sav- 
age and Bird— How Balances to be settled— King to Sir F. Baring- 
Terms of Money Arrangement— Baring to King— Answer— King to 
Livingston— Monroe appointed Envoy, etc., to France— King to 
Gallatin— Arrangement with Sir F. Baring as Financial Agent of the 
U. S.— King to Secretary of State— Northeast Boundary Line — King 
to Livingston— Relative to the Closure of the Port of New Orleans7 
—King to Livingston— The King's Message to Parliament looks to 
War— Measures taken— Effect on the U. S.— Especially with refer- 
ence to Louisiana— King to Lord Hawkesbury— Vessels of U. S. 
from New Orleans denied Entry because a Spanish Port*-Asks him 
to remove this Impediment— King to Secretary of State— Expedition 

XIV CONTENTS. 

PAGE 

to Louisiana will not proceed — King to Secretary of State — War 
more probable — France's Demands — England's Preparations — King 
to Secretary of State — England's Answer — Malta — Cabot to King — 
Affairs in U. S. — Regrets King's Return — King to Secretary of 
State — France's Answer to England — War inevitable. . . . 220 

CHAPTER XVI. 

King to Livingston — France's Alternative War or Evacuation of Malta 
— For Latter England requires Security — King's Successor not yet 
named — King to Secretary of State — Question before the Commis- 
sioners under 7th Article relative to awarding Interest during its Sus- 
pension— King to P. Sansom — Acknowledges Kindness from Ameri- 
can Merchants — King to Secretary of State — France's Answer to 
Lord Hawkesbury — Vindicating Conduct of France — England will 
continue to occupy Malta — War will probably ensue — King to Liv- 
ingston— Neither France nor England would care to begin the 
Assault — King to C. Abbot — How to preserve Public Records — 
King to Secretary of State — No Change — War inevitable — England 
without Ally — In Case of War, England should seek to benefit Neu- 
tral Commerce — Mr. Addington said England might attempt to oc- 
cupy New Orleans — King objected — Might involve Misunderstand- 
ing— King to Livingston — England will not Evacuate Malta — Affairs 
so critical, hopes his Successor will arrive before his Departure — 
King to Secretary of State — French Answer called Evasion — De- 
cision for War remains for France 233 

CHAPTER XVII. 

King to Lord Hawkesbury — Convention for Boundaries — King to Liv- 
ingston— Notes between England and France — Hopes he has definite 
Principles respecting Louisiana in Case of War — Gallatin to King — 
Arrangements with Barings satisfactory — King to Secretary of State 
— Maryland Bank-Stock — Ownership settled — King — Memorandum- 
Book — Taking Leave of the King — Conversation with Lord Hawkes- 
bury respecting Contraband — Notes and Negotiations between Eng- 
land and France — Ambassadors of each receive their Passports — 
Early Information communicated by King to English Government — 
Dinner at the Duke of Portland's — Not England but Bonaparte has 
shown bad Faith in the non-Execution of the Treaty — Conference 
with Addington — England would be satisfied with the Cession of 
Louisiana to the U. S. — Russian Offer of Mediation refused — Con- 
ferences with Lord St. Vincent relative to Impressment — No satis- 
factory Result obtained — Last Conferences between England and 
France — Ambassadors of each receive their Passports — King to Earl 

CONTENTS. XV 

PAGB 

St. Vincent— Regrets the Failure of Negotiations to put an End to 
Impressment— Gore to King— Confirms this Failure— King to Secre- 
tary of State — Condition of Negotiations relative to Impressment 
— Neutral Flag — Colony Trade— South America — King to Lord 
Hawkesbury — Communicates Purchase of Louisiana*-Lord Hawkes- 
bury to King — Response to above — The King's Pleasure at the In- 
telligence— Complimentary Remarks on the whole Course of King's 
public Mission 245 

CHAPTER XVIII. 

King sails from England— Reasons for asking Permission to return Home 
— Suggested to Madison the Revision of the Commercial Treaty 
with Great Britain— No Notice taken of it— No new Work entrusted 
to him — King to Hamilton, asking his Opinion as to his return — 
Hamilton to King — Thinks it advisable — Presence Home useful — 
Party in Power hostile to the Interests of the Country — He may suffer 
in their Disrepute, holding Office under them — King to J. Marshall 
and to Dr. Southgate, announcing his Resignation — King continues 
to press pending Questions for Settlement — N. E. and N. W. Boun- 
daries of the U. S. — Impressment — The State of Maryland's Bank- 
Stock — King left without appointing a Charge d' Affaires, not having 
been instructed to do so — Gore to Madison — Will look after the 
Affairs of the U. S. until King's Successor arrives — Gore to King — 
Explains his Reasons for this Conduct — Gore to King — Defends him- 
self from a Charge of delaying Proceedings of the Convention — Re- 
fuses to grant Passports — Monroe has received his Commission — Boys 
well— King to John Adams— State of Affairs when he left London, 264 

CHAPTER XIX. 

Arrival in New York and Reception by Citizens— Cabot to King — Wel- 
come Home — Confidence in England — Louisiana's Cession a goocT 
Thing for France — Madison to King — Not Necessary as a Tribute of 
Respect — Written Communications sufficient — Gallatin to King — 
Baggage free from Duty — Thanks for his Manner of transacting the 
Business of his Department — Jay to King — Congratulations on his 
Return— Hale to King— Congratulations, etc.— J. Q. Adams to King 
— Thanks for Favors rendered in London — Cabot to King — Pleased 
with Firmness of British Government— J. Adams to King— Thanks 
for sending Papers— His Conduct in England satisfactory to him and 
honorable and beneficial to his Country — King to Gore — Cession of 
great Importance giving Control of the Mississippi — Offer to go to 
Washington — Sedgwick to King — Wishes to see him Governor of 
N. Y. — Gov. Mercer to King — Thanks him for Zeal, Ability, and 

XVI CONTENTS. 

Perseverance in Maryland's Behalf— Gore to King — State of Com- 
mission's Work — Monroe expected — Public Dinner to King — King 
to Gore — Does not yet know his Successor — Gore to King — Rebellion 
in Ireland — English Confidence rises — Monroe arrives in London — 
King to Gore — Livingston or Monroe to succeed him — The Papers 
say Doubts arise as to the Utility and Prudence and Constitutional- 
ity of the Louisiana Purchase — King to Gore — Hears Nothing more 
of his Successor — Washington not a safe Residence in Summer — Yel- 
low Fever in N. Y. — Objections to certain Articles in the Louisiana 
Convention 27§ 

CHAPTER XX. 

Gore to King— Congratulates him on his Arrival in N. Y.— Boys well- 
Affairs in Europe— Monroe knows little that passes in London — Gore 
to King— Miranda desires to quit England for Trinidad— Affairs in 
Europe — Trouble with Ewing— King to Gore— Astonished by Eng- 
land enrolling the Militia— No reliable Opinions of Congress rela- 
tive to Louisiana — Search for a Farm — Gore to King — His Boys in 
England — Livingston's Memorial — South America — St. Domingo — 
Gore to King — Boys' Behaviour excellent — Anticipates a gloomy 
Winter — England duped by Spain — Monroe has received no Dis- 
patches since his Arrival in London — Gore to King — Wishes he 
might settle near Boston — Miranda— Gore to King— Merry sails un/ 
instructed relative to St. Domingo — Monroe thinks it a good Place 
for emancipated Negroes — Threatened Invasion of England — Liv- 
ingston to King — Has as yet no Advices from U. S. of Reception of 
the Convention by the Government — Regrets that it has not yet been 
considered— State of Europe— Has not yet received his Cong/. . 296 

CHAPTER XXI. 

Gore to King— Miranda to be dispatched to Trinidad— Breach between 
Monroe and Livingston— Monroe in England— English Fears of Ful- 
ton's Boat — Colony Trade — King to Gore — Approves of Gore's Con- 
duct in Connection with his Commission — Light in which Louisiana 
Treaty is viewed in the U. S. — Livingston's Memorial indiscreet — 
Monroe should have explained the Sentiments of his Government — 
Gore to King— Schools in France for his Boys— Volunteers in Eng- 
land training— Russia may interfere for Spain— Louisiana— ^Monroe 
—Madison does not notice his Communications — Maryland Bank- 
Stock— Miranda not permitted to sail— No new Treaty with G. B. at 
Present — King to Gore— Louisiana Treaty ratified — Conduct of Spain 
causes much Speculation— He knows little of public Affairs— King 
to Pickering — Slavery in Louisiana, should not Effort be made toj 

CONTENTS. xvii 

prevent it ? — Would alter the Constitution to confine Representation 
and Taxation to free Inhabitants — King to Gore — Proceedings in 
Congress — Jerome Bonaparte in America — Account of their Friends 
— King to Gore — Government will take Possession of Louisiana — "^ 
Gore to King — Claims an Outfit — Alarm of Invasion subsiding — ^ 
Monroe presents a Memorial on Impressment of Seamen. . . 313 

CHAPTER XXII. 

Boundaries Convention with England — Madison to King — King to Madi- 
son— Answer removing Objections — Madison to King — Mr. Merry's 
etiquette Claims — Gore to King — Personal — Louisiana — Bonaparte's 
Invasion of England — Livingston's Position — Ingersoll to King — 
House in New York — King to Ingersoll — House rented and occu- 
pied— Gore to King — Cornwallis watching Brest — King's Views rela- 
tive to Louisiana — King to Gore — Invasion of England — Louisiana 
Convention — Col. Burr and the Federalists — Miranda — Merry — Gore 
to King — Merry and sombre Dispatches — Lord Hawkesbury's Opin- 
ion— Government seem to consider this a studied Affront — Erving 
told Memorials were not received from Consuls — Gore to King — 
The King's Sickness — Maryland Bank-Stock adjusted — Gore about 
returning Home 329 

CHAPTER XXIII. 

Grievances and Suggestions of certain Federalists for a Separation of the 
New England States — Proposal to nominate King for Governor of 
the State of New York — Hamilton to King — Urging him to allow 
himself to be nominated — King to Hamilton — He declines — Plan of 
Separation of the Northern States — Pickering — Cabot — Wolcott — 
Conversation with King about a Separation — J. Q. Adams — Conversa- 
tion with King on the Same — Hamilton's Views adverse to the Plan 
— Pickering to King — Louisiana— «Judge Pickering's Trial — Picker- 
ing to King — Plan of Separation — King to Pickering — Protection of 
Seamen — Cabot to King — Experiment of Separation of the States. . 346 

CHAPTER XXIV. 

Settlement of the Accounts of King during his Mission — Letters from the 
Secretary of Treasury, A. Gallatin — Secretary of State, J. Madison 
— Auditor of Treasury, R. Harrison — R. King 372 

CHAPTER XXV. 

Burr disappointed — Sought Revenge by Death of Hamilton — King's Con- 
nection with the Duel between them — Charges against him of Cold- 

XVU1 CONTENTS. 

ness of Heart and of not endeavoring to prevent the Duel examined 
and disproved — King to C. King, denying a Statement by Dr. Mason 
— C. King to R. King — Interview with Dr. Mason — Report Incor- 
rect— W. Wallace to King — Result of the Duel — Pendleton to King 
— Hamilton mortally wounded — Correspondence with Gen. Clarkson 
relative to the Duel — Pitcairn to King — Deplores the Death of Ham- 
ilton 389 

CHAPTER XXVI. 

Embarrassment of General Hamilton's pecuniary Affairs — G. Morris's 
Statement — King to Friends in Boston — They proposed giving Lands 
bought of T. Pickering to the Heirs of General Hamilton — Deed 
for them to be given by the Purchasers — King to Cabot — Statement 
of the Debts and Subscription in New York — Gore to King — Deeds 
made out — J. A. Hamilton's Account — Letter to Major Popham — 
King to Gore — Plan to purchase Hamilton's Estate — Gift of Land 
by Gen. Schuyler to his Daughter — Share of her Father's Estate — 
Charge against King in the Alexandria Expositor — King's Letter to 
Editor — Copy of the Article — J. Crowe, England, to King — Denies 
the truth of the Article — Dinsmore, Editor, to King — Will publish a 
Refutation — King to Dinsmore — Wishes no Apology, but the Truth 
published. 403 

CHAPTER XXVII. 

King's Journey to Boston and District of Maine — Dinners at Salem and 
Newburyport and Portland — Return to Boston — Public Dinner there 
— Elections of Presidential Electors and for a Senator of the United 
States from New York — King defeated in Both — W. L. Smith to 
King — Friendly Wishes — Livingston to King relative to French 
Negotiations — Lafayette to King — Introducing General Moreau — 
Miranda's Project. 417 

CHAPTER XXVIII. 

Gore to King — About Pinkney of Md. — King to Gore — Personal — J. A. 
Smith to King — Mission to Russia — On public Affairs in U. S. — 
C. King to King — Hard Winter — Personal — Pickering to King — 
Trial of Judge Chase — King to Pickering — Judge Chase — Senate 
Business — Pickering to King — Arguments of Chase's Counsel — Ran- 
dolph's Speech on Georgia Claims — St. Domingo Bill-*Pickering to 
King — Acquittal of Judge Chase — Pickering to King — Nomination 
of Attorney General — Burr's retiring Speech — King to W. Hope — 
Desires to place his Second Son in his House — King to Samuel 

CONTENTS. xiX 

Chase — Congratulations on the Result of his Trial — Chase to King — 
Thanking him and stating Points in the case and the Attack on the 
Judiciary — Gore to King — Federalism will soon disappear — Living- 
ston to King — With Letter from Talleyrand relative to a Collection 
of Works of Art to be placed in the Museum at N. Y. — King to Gore 
—Current Events — Lord Suffolk to King — British Affairs — Gore to 
King — Commercial Ventures ........ 436 

CHAPTER XXIX. 

King to Gore — Miranda about to sail — Monroe's Failure in Spain — Yellow 
Fever in N. York — King at Rockaway — His Son James — Pitcairn to 
King — Seizure of American Vessels — Gore to King — British Interfer- 
ence with Trade of U. S. — Would it have been so, if King had been 
in England? — W. Vaughan to King — War in Disguise — Neutral's 
Rights — King to Gore — New Coalition in Europe — Effect on Ameri- 
can Trade — Wilberforce to King — Sends War in Disguise — Acting 
on the System recommended indispensable to England — Miss O. 
Southgate — Opinion of King — King to his Sons in Paris — King to 
Morris — Celebration of 25th November — Pickering to King — Treaty 
with Tripoli — Gore to King — Miranda cannot expect Help — Boston * 
Merchants fear Depredations on Commerce — Suggest King as Minis- 
ter to England — Gore to King — President's Message — Breck to King 
— Bank of U. States — Pickering to King — No great Measures before 
Congress — King to Gore — Merchants alarmed — Proposal to urge his 
Appointment to England — King to Pickering — President's Foreign 
Policy 454 

CHAPTER XXX. 

Gore to King — Negotiations with England — King as Minister — Pickering 
to King — Logan's Motion relative to St. Domingo Trade — Parker 
to King about his Sons — Napoleon's change of Rulers in Europe — 
King to Gore — England's Pretensions about Colonial Trade — Affairs 
in Washington — Troup to King — Clinton carries the Council — Tracy 
to King — Report on Spoliation — King to Pickering — Desires to 
know the Plan of Government — Public Anxious — Pickering to King 
— Might as well search for Plan in Chaos — Detail of Opinions in 
Washington, relative to Florida Purchase — Pickering's own Views — 
Objected on Ground of the Immorality and Impolicy of the Measure — 
Pickering to King — Arguments against the Purchase of Florida as 
proposed in the secret Appropriation Bill — Jefferson incapable of 
managing Affairs in Trouble — Negotiations with Great Britian — 
King to Pickering — Disclaims the Authorship of the Answer to War 
in Disguise — Troup to King — Coalition of Clinton and the Burrites . 475 

XX CONTENTS. 

CHAPTER XXXI. 

Pickering to King — Answer of "War in Disguise" by Morris — Anecdote 
relative to and Criticism of Answer — Tracy to King — Speculations 
about Answer — Fatal Effects of Democracy — King to Pickering — 
Miranda — Denunciations by the President's Friends — Tracy to King 
— Armstrong elected — Pickering to King — Sends Capt. Lewis' Nar- 
rative— Remarks thereon — Smith's Bill to encourage Shipping and 
Navigation — Asks King's Views — King to Pickering — European 
News — Estimate of England — Pickering to King — Caramelli — Mir- 
anda— King to Pickering — Sundry Subjects — Pickering to King — 
Death of Pitt — Relaxation of British commercial Regulations — 
Might make satisfactory Arrangements with G. B. — Speculations 
upon Monroe and Madison, as to the next Presidency — King to Pick- 
ering— Disapproves of Bills on Non-importation of British Products — 
Gore to King — Animadversions against the Government — Gore to 
King — Reasons for re-entering public Life — Pickering to King — 

"y Armstrong's Application of the Louisiana Fund — N. Webster to 
King — Should Legislatures express Opinions on the Conduct of the 
Government ........... 49° 

CHAPTER XXXII. 

Miranda to King — Expects to embark for Trinidad — Asks for Help — King 
says unauthorized — Further Communications — King to Madison — 
Communicates confidentially Miranda's Plans — Miranda sails for N. 
York — Vansittart to King — England's Dealings with Miranda — Pre- 
sent Views of public Men in England — King to Secretary of State — 
Sends him Vansittart's Letter for the President to read — Miranda to 
Gore — Account of his Preparations to sail for Trinidad — Urging him 
to assist him — King to Gore — Miranda's Arrival in N. York and his 
Plans — Madison to King, acknowledging Receipt of his Letters — 
Miranda to King, urging him to ask his Friends to contribute Money 
for him — Declined by King — Miranda to King — He sails — Estimate 
of Mr. King's Action in the Matter — Help in Congress invoked by 
Miranda's Friends against Prosecution — King to Gore — How his 
Name mixed with the Enquiry — King to Vansittart . . . .5*7 

CHAPTER XXXIII. 

Tudor to King— Carrying Ice to the W. Indies— Dr. Romeyn to King — 
Election as Manager of the American Bible Society— King to 
Romeyn — Declines the Office, though approving the Object of the 
Society — Action of the Episcopal Church to circulate the Bible with 
the Common Prayer Book — Gore to King — Pinkney to London to 

CONTENTS. XXI 

PAGE 

assist Monroe — King receives Degree of LL.D. from Dartmouth, 
Williams, and Harvard Colleges — Trustee of Columbia College — S. 
Smith to King — Death of his Son — Tudor to King — Failure of 
Application relative to Ice Monopoly — Speculations on European 
Affairs — Williams to King — British and American Commissioners 
said to have made a Treaty — King on an Outrage against personal 
Liberty, in the Case of Alexander, a Lawyer in N. Orleans arrested * 
by Gen'l Wilkinson .......... 533 

Appendix I — Bribery in Politics 551 

Appendix II — Interview between Gallatin and King — 1803 . . .553 

Appendix III — Mary King to C. King 556 

Appendix IV — King to Hamilton 558 

Appendix V — Louisiana. Rights under the Convention of Purchase . 559 

Appendix VI — Louisiana. Value of the Acquisition and Effect on the 

Political Union 567 

Appendix VII — Cession of Louisiana. The Price, Merits of Negotiating 

Ministers, and Policy of Purchase 571 

Appendix VIII — To page 407. Hamilton's Estate .... 575 

Appendix IX — To page 485. Miranda and the Sailing of the Leander . 577 

Appendix X— Review of the Foreign Relations of the United States . 586 

THE LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF 
RUFUS KING. 

CHAPTER I. 

Affairs in the U. S.— Ames to King— Federal Views— King to Gore— Peace- 
King to Madison— Detention of Vessels charged with breaking Block- 
ade of Havre— King to Madison— Public Sentiment about the Peace- 
Patience in conducting Negotiations with England— Conversation with 
Addington regarding them— The Latter thinks the Peace will be perma- 
nent—Mr. Otto— His Integrity and Discretion— King to Addington— 
Statement relative to 6th Article— King to Madison— Diplomatic Changes 
—Cabot to King— Looks for Storms, Others more hopeful— King to Lord 
Hawkesbury— Vessels detained for breaking Blockade— G. Morris to 
King— On the Peace— King to Lord Grenville— Statement of Latter in 
H. of Lords, charging Misrepresentation and Perjury by a foreign Min- 
ister—Lord Grenville to King— Said it did not reflect on his Character or 
Conduct— King to Secretary of State— Spain ceded Louisiana to France- 
No Allusion to Louisiana in the Negotiations between France and Eng- 
land—L. Littlepage to King— Louisiana— King Conference with Lord 
Hawkesbury, relative to 6th Article— French Expedition to St. Domingo— 
Also concerning Louisiana. 

At the beginning of this fourth volume it is well to look 
over the state of affairs in the United States, tho' perhaps 
this has only an indirect interest in shaping the actions 
of Mr. King abroad, for his now long residence in England 
prevented him from taking any personal share in the cur- 
rent events at home. His correspondence with old personal 
and political friends, however, kept him well informed on 

VOL IV— I 

RUFUS KING. [1801 

what was passing among them, and he was thus enabled to 
understand the changes in political matters that were daily 
taking place, and especially with regret to learn that the 
principles of the government, which he had so faithfully 
sought to establish, were gradually changing under the new 
administration in a way that boded no good to the country. 
Among these most valued and intelligent correspondents was 
Fisher Ames, who gives, in the first letter presented below, 
a clear statement of the affairs in the country and a well- 
considered view of the opinions of their old federal friends 
under the changes which were taking place, which they 
deprecated but could not check. 

F. Ames to R. King. 

Boston, October 27th, 1801. 
Dear Sir : 

While Mr. Gore * is on the Continent, I may be allowed to 
address a letter to you, and if I could give either clear or comfort- 
ing information about our affairs I might hope that my letters wd. 
be acceptable to you without that excuse. But Democracy rides 
the high horse. Bradley is chosen a Vermont Senator, yet they 
say the assembly of that State is federal. Others say that all 
goes there by barter and that offices are trucked off to Feds & 
Jacobins without much discrimination, provided the high-con- 
tracting parties find their individual amount in it. Royal Tyler is 
a Judge of their Supreme Court, Israel Smith Ch. Justice. A 
motley bench which ought to try per mediatatem. 

N. Jersey is said to be democratic. Delaware has a demo. 
Governor chosen by the people. Connecticut still shews a bold 
face, and vaunts of its Federalism which I fear is losing ground — 
yet so slowly that the pendulum may swing back again before the 
Demos get the majority. N. Hampshire still chuses Gilman, yet 
their " intriguans " intend to run Langdon as soon as the full- 

* During the suspension of the sitting of the Commission under the Seventh 
Article of the Treaty with Great Britain, Mr. Gore, a member of the Commit- 
tee, made a visit to the Continent of Europe. 

i8qi] life and correspondence. 

ness of time has come — which is expected to be next spring. 
Here, Govr. Strong will be rechosen, but the most zealously fed- 
eral parts of the state are leavening and souring with the same 
fermentation that in other parts has passed beyond the vinous 
almost to the putrid. Where Jacobinism triumphs, it is probable, 
it's numbers do not increase— but it's insolence does,— and the 
Feds in those places yield the ground to them with less contest 
than formerly. So that on a fair calculation of force, we are weak 
indeed. New England ought to be roused and all our efforts 
ought to be directed to saving the remnants of federalism ; our 
life and being would be lost, if the skill of our masters had been 
equal to the felicity of the conjuncture when they conquered us. 
They had only to promise well— indeed they did— and to keep on 
promising smoothly, which they have not done, easy as the task 
was. Instead of it, they write foolish letters of excuse for them- 
selves and inculpating the Feds as a Sect. There is hardly any- 
thing that a skilful statesman may not do, but there is very little 
he can say. This prating vain letter* has certainly alarmed the 
Feds, who consider it as a manifesto announcing a violent 
Jacobin administration. And the knowing ones among the 
Jaco'. think it stiff. Already they whisper that little B. alone 
has the needed energy of character, and party for him will 
be form'd whenever it can be employed with effect. In the 
mean time he will push his Captain forward to do obnoxious 
things, and when resentments are concentered on him, then per- 
haps he will think the Feds despairing of victory will' only seek 
revenge. To secure which, he will be wanted. It is indeed evi- 
dent that a govt, too democratic in it's structure, or a people too 
democratic in their notions to support any energetic form, will 
breed endless factions. We have hoped that our system was, as 
Mr. Jefferson says very sagely, the strongest in the world and that 
we are the people the fittest in it for such a system. I presume 
not to decide so grave a question. I think however our experi- 
ence soon will. In New York the rights & the property of the 
city and state are subject to the vice and folly and poverty of the 
society. The like will be brought about in every other state as 
in Pennsylvania unless the quill shall be found a weapon of power 

* Probably Jefferson's New Haven letter. 

RUFUS KING. [180: 

enough to counteract the progress we have commenced. Even 
that weapon will be wielded by champions who do not think all 
is at hazard. The popular consolation still is as much as ever 
that all goes well — Prosperity smiles on everybody — Wealth in- 
creases, and the New men promise to make great savings. The 
displacing a few exasperates a few hundreds, who soon forget 
their anger and the circumstances and occasion of it. Those 
who affect great concern for the people will be the men to have 
popular power committed to them and newspaper writers will fail 
as formerly in the attempt to make the understanding of those 
who will not reason an overmatch for the blind impulses of those 
who can only feel. Accordingly as I see the propensities of 
things, as I estimate the feebleness of the means to hinder their 
further and fatal decline, judge whether I am sanguine as to the 
effect of Federal Gazettes. Yet I think despair ought not to be 
confessed — still less circulated. Soon if the evil apprehended 
should be deemed inevitable, which is rather more than my belief 
— yet a certain manner of meeting it is necessary — otherwise it 
will come with aggravation. We must openly and zealously and 
with all our skill labor to prevent it. We must honestly and 
faithfully cling to the Govt and Constitution and to the rules of 
virtue and real patriotism to the last ; so that our fall, if fate de- 
crees it, shall be incontestibly due to our political adversaries, 
not to ourselves. As what is best and what is practicable are 
points depending on events, and not to be foreseen or decided 
before they happen, we shall thus stand ready to act as may be 
proper — we shall keep ourselves united with the public sentiment 
and when danger is obvious, the good and able will feel an im- 
pulse as strong as we vainly wish to inspire beforehand. There- 
fore the Gazettes are now of importance and the Feds are 
preparing this kind of ammunition in Pennsylvania, N York & 
Boston. Such gazettes will keep alive all the yet surviving respect 
for principles, and if the Jacos. in Congress are not callous may 
check their most outrageous designs. It is however obvious to 
me that charges of violating the constitution affect the Jacos. very 
little, while you know that the Feds when in power were exceed- 
ing affected by them — even when palpably false and frivolous — 
as if the Feds were rather cowards who feared to be indicted for 
breaking the Constitution, not really lovers of it who will not 

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 5 

suffer any others to do it. The bold liberties taken with the 
power of displacing and appointing are abuses if not infractions — 
yet as the Jacos. care little for principles and as the Feds are 
averse to making a great clamor for what to most persons will 
appear a little thing, I do not expect much check from that 
source. On the contrary, I expect a repeal of the late Judicial 
Law and an ousting of the new Circuit Judges will be received 
with patience by all, and with approbation with some federalists. 
If repealing a law will deprive a Judge of his office and salary, 
there will be no independence of the Judiciary on the Legislature. 

As to the views and plan of politics of the ruling party in re- 
spect to foreign nations and to their own ultimate objects all is 
but conjecture. Probably one great man is a Democrat and 
thinks the extremes of Democratic principles are wise principles. 

Madison certainly knows better and yet there ever was a strange 
vein of absurdity in his head. But the second has no such non- 
sense, Jacobinism now uses and urges Democracy, as it did in 
France — We are now in the Roland & Condorcet act of our 
Comedy — Whether we go on to the Danton and Robespierre acts 
depends on time and accident and not on the discernment energy 
or force of the Feds. This I sometimes hope ; Jacobins will not 
hold power contentedly only for fair honest purposes and they 
cannot proceed to use it to any very profitable extent for any 
other, without rousing a late opposition that would delay if not 
prevent the crisis — They cannot oppress and rob without our 
knowing ; and the oppressed will not be coaxed. Excuse my 
running on thus into infinite space. I stand again on old firm 
ground when I assure you of my cordial regard with best respects 
to Mrs King — 

Yours &c. 

R. King to C. Gore, Paris. 

London, Oct. 30, 1801. 
. . . The K.'s speech & the addresses you will see in all the 
papers. Sheridan has in a sentence expressed a very just notion 
of the public opinion ; " the peace everybody is glad of, but no- 
body proud of." There will be an animated Debate in both 
houses on Tuesday next. ... In respect to our affairs here, 

RUFUS KING. [1801 

they remain as they were when I last wrote to you. At present 
we cannot gain a hearing — every one is armed with weapons of 
attack or defence for the Battle of next week. This over, per- 
haps we may again find a moment for our affairs. . . . 

R. K. 

R. King to Mr. Madison. 

Private. 

London, Oct. 31, 1801. 
Dear Sir : 

It is confidently believed that a considerable Expedition com- 
posed of land and sea forces is preparing in France and will soon 
proceed to St. Domingo and perhaps to the Mississippi. Should 
Toussaint resist, our commerce may experience fresh embarrass- 
ments in the West India Seas. On this account among others 
the presence of our Minister at Paris, becomes more and more 
desirable. 

To my surprise the Ship Frederick of New York, the first of 
our vessels detained upon the charge of having broken the 
Blockade of Havre de Grace, was two days ago tried and con- 
demned in the High Court of Admiralty. I had been assured 
that the trial of these vessels should stand over, until the Cabinet 
should find time to consider the subject, and I had, moreover, 
reason to expect that an intimation would be given to the Judge, 
that under all circumstances these vessels, at least such of them 
as had not been warned, ought to be discharged. As soon as I 
heard of this sentence, I called on Sir Wm. Scott (to whom I had 
already sent a copy of my correspondence with Lord Hawkesbury 
concerning the Blockade of Havre) who told me that not having 
received the communication he had expected from the Govern- 
ment when the case of the Frederick came on, he intimated the 
expediency of suffering it with such other cases as were in similar 
circumstances, to stand over ; that the King's advocate who on a 
former day had stated an expectation that he might receive par- 
ticular instructions respecting these cases, signified his readiness 
to acquiesce, but that the claimant's counsel pressed for a trial, 
and he could do no otherwise than condemn the vessel and cargo. 
The other vessels will not be tried before the Cabinet has decided 

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. J 

whether it will interfere ; and that this decision may no longer be 
delayed I have required Lord Hawkesbury explicitly to inform 
me whether it is intended to make the cases of these vessels a 
subject of ministerial consideration. Should the Cabinet inter- 
fere, the vessels will be discharged with their cargoes ; if it de- 
cline, or delay to do so, I shall put my correspondence with Lord 
Hawkesbury into Mr. Erving's hands with directions to deliver it 
to the advocate of the claimant to be used on the Trials. 

With great respect &c. 

Rufus King. 

R. King to James Madison, Esq. 
[Private.) 

London, Nov. 2d, 1801. 
Dear Sir : 

The Newspapers, among which is the Porcupine, the paper of 
the new opposition, which Mr. Dawson's repeated disappoint- 
ments enable me to add to those I had before delivered to him, 
afford a pretty just view of the public sentiment concerning the 
Peace. Mr. Sheridan in a single sentence has happily expressed 
this sentiment — " It is a Peace everybody is glad of, and nobody 
proud of." Of the old Ministry Mr. Windham (the friend of 
Burke, and the Legatee of his opinions respecting the French 
Revolution) in one house, and Lord Grenville in the other, will 
censure the Preliminaries ; but a very large majority of both 
houses will approve them : there are notwithstanding some able, 
reflecting and influential men, both in and out of Parliament, who 
behold with deep concern the decided superiority that France has 
obtained over all her adversaries, and which in their opinion en- 
dangers the repose and independence of every State in Europe. 
The Peace according to these gentlemen is only the end of the 
first Punic war ; and tho' they may not live to see the last, they 
make no secret of their apprehension that it will prove fatal to 
the independence of their country. I have this morning seen 
Mr. Addington, and had an opportunity of explaining to him the 
extraordinary situation of the negotiation respecting the 6th Arti- 
cle. The light in which he sees the subject, encourages me to ex- 
pect that the business will yet take a satisfactory turn ; in the 

RUFUS KING. [1801 

meantime I am pressing Lord Hawkesbury for a definitive 
answer. 

I am no stranger to the feelings which would be gratified by a 
more peremptory mode of discussion ; but having from a pretty 
thorough acquaintance with the subject, become strongly im- 
pressed with the policy of our getting rid of a controversy which 
nobody seems willing to examine and in which we have to en- 
counter much interested misrepresentation ; I am led to doubt 
the suggestion of every measure that would afford a Pretext to 
decide the Question, upon which we are at issue upon any other 
than its true principles ; and it is to considerations of this sort, 
that I must refer myself, for the justification of the yet unex- 
pected stock of Patience, with which I have pursued the settle- 
ment of this unpleasant discussion. 

With sentiments of sincere Respect &c. 

Rufus King. 

On the 2d of November a conversation * upon the state 
of the American negotiations was held with Mr. Addington, 
which was followed the next day by a private note to him 
from Mr. King presenting the steps by which it had reached 
its present condition. This note is dated on the 3d, and 
follows. Mr. King states that the conversation then turned 
to politics. 

Mr. A. was evidently contented with the state of parties. The 
King was at first staggered but finally acquiesced by saying as he 
had no allies upon the Continent the best must be done that 
could be. The Prince of Wales had written to him that he 
should have his full support, and Lord Camden, who some days 
ago appeared decided to oppose, had just written to him, to say 
he shd. go out of town on Tuesday when the Preliminaries are to 
be discussed and that he shd. give Mr. Addington his support. 

Speaking of Windham, he did credit to his integrity, sincerity 
and disinterestedness, and added that he shook hands with him at 
court with the observation of Sir Wm. Temple " friends here but 
enemies at Breda," alluding to the debate upon the Preliminaries, 
to which Windham replied enemies nowhere. 
* Memorandum Book. 

l8oi] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 

Of Ld. Grenville Mr. A. spoke with displeasure, and was willing 
to impart his and the Marquis of B.'s opposition to factions and 
interested views. Lord Grenville was already tired of retirement 
&c. ; but he miscalculated & his views are understood. It was 
utterly inconsistent that he who negotiated at Lille should censure 
the minister who had concluded the Peace. Lord Radnor was a 
particular man, he shd. a priori have inferred his opposition. 
Lord Carnaervon was a wild and irregular character. The whole 
Bench of Bps. with the exception of Rochester would support 
him. He felt that he deserved support. If the war had gone on, 
could he have abridged the power of France, could he have de- 
livered any of the Dominions which had fallen under its govern- 
ment ? If not, why prolong the war, especially when he found he 
could not make another campaign without bringing upon his 
country an additl. permanent burthen of two millions annually. 
Add to that, the probability that France wd. have completely 
overrun Spain and Portugal and made irruptions into other 
States. For it wd. have been necessary even for Bonaparte to 
have employed his army abroad in order to get rid of the expence 
of maintaining it at home. 

That on the whole, he was in hopes the Peace wd. be perma- 
nent, and he did not perceive anything in the relative condition 
of the countries wh. made it more likely than on former occasions 
to be of short duration. If it shd. not continue wd. not G. Br. 
be better able to measure herself apart with France, than she wd. 
have been had the war continued another year or two, which wd. 
have enormously increased the public burthen and weakened and 
exhausted those resources upon wh. the public safety must depend 
in the event of a future war. 

Speaking of the Negotiator, he thanked me for the character I 
had early given him of Mr. Otto, and said he had found it to be 
perfectly merited. That the King had lately expressed himself 
favourably respecting him and intimated a wish that he might be 
the Ambassador here. Mr. A. then said two circumstances re- 
specting him were highly creditable to his integrity and discretion 
—one that he certainly did not gamble in the stocks and the other 
that he had not any intercourse with the discontented people of 
G. Britain. Jos. Bonaparte he expected wd. be the Ambassador. 

IO 

RUFUS KING. [1801 

R. King to Mr. Addington. 

Private. 

Nov. 3, 1801. 

Mr. King sends him a statement of the " Origin, Changes 
and present state of the Negotiation concerning the 6th 
Article of the American Treaty of 1794-" 

1799, December. As soon as the Commission in America under 
the Sixth Article of the Treaty of T794, discontinued its meetings, 
the American Government proposed to that of Great Britain an 
explanatory Article for the regulation of its future Proceedings. 

1800, April. The British Government declined agreeing to the 
proposed explanatory Article, but offered to accept a Sum of be- 
tween one and two millions in satisfaction of the Debts contracted 
before the Peace of 1783 ; to abolish the American Commission, 
and take upon itself the distribution of the Money among the 
British Creditors. This offer was not accompanied by a proposal 
in like manner to convert the American Claims under the Seventh 
Article of the Treaty of 1794 into a definite sum ; on the contrary, 
it was explicitly declared that the Commission in London, charged 
with the examination of these Claims, should be suspended only 
until a settlement could be made respecting the Commission in 
America. 

1800, August. The Government of the United States declined 
the proposal of giving a sum in satisfaction of the Debts, and 
offered a Sum in satisfaction of the Claims of the Creditors upon 
the American Government, leaving the Creditors to pursue the 
recovery of their debts in the ordinary Course of the Judiciary. 

At this Stage the British Government inquired if the American 
Minister were authorized to convert the American Claims upon 
the British Government into a definite Sum, and abolish the 
Commission in London in like manner as it was proposed to 
abolish that in America ; and on receiving an explicit answer in 
the negative, a discussion was immediately commenced for the 
purpose of ascertaining the Sum to be given in satisfaction of the 
Claims upon the American Government, and most certainly with 
the mutual expectation that, this Sum being agreed upon, the 
Commission in London would be free to proceed in ascertaining 
the amount of the American Claims upon the British Govern- 
ment. 

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. \\ 

1801, August. After a tedious discussion, this sum has been 
mutually ascertained and settled, as well as the Terms of its Pay- 
ment ; It follows, therefore as a matter of course, and good faith 
requires, that the Commission in London should be at Liberty to 
proceed in the execution of its duties. 

R. King to James Madison, Esq. 

Private. 

London, Nov. 5, 1801. 
Dear Sir : 

The War having ended has given occasion to a review of the 
diplomatic Corps of this Country, but few of which have lately 
been in service ; and I hear that Mr. Liston will be sent to Hol- 
land, instead of returning to America. Mr. Jackson, who was 
Secretary of Legation at the Hague and at Madrid before the 
war, and who was named Ambassador to the Porte soon after its 
commencement, but did not proceed to Constantinople, has been 
appointed Min. plenipo. to France and will reside at Paris during 
the Congress at Amiens. 

As soon as the definitive Treaty shall be concluded, Lord 
Whitworth (formerly in Russia) will go as Ambassador to Paris, 
and Mr. Jackson as Mr. Liston's successor to America. 

With great Truth &c. 

Rufus King. 

G. Cabot to R. King. 

Nov. 6, 1 801. 
My Dear Sir : 

Perhaps there never were six months of more perfect tran- 
quillity than we have last enjoyed ; yet like the Seaman who 
calls a Summer day in the winter Season a weather breeder I look 
for Storms. I am however less solicitous than formerly about all 
these things. While I hoped, & believed it possible, to save our 
country from the terrible evils of Democracy I was full of anxiety, 
but perfectly convinced as I am now, that no human means cou'd 
have prevented them I reconcile myself, as Nature kindly dis- 

12 

RUFUS KING. [1801 

poses us, to all unavoidable events. — We are going the course 
decreed by the Author of man for every popular State. . . . 

Our friend A. lately put into my hands a letter for you which 
I thought so good as to deserve transcribing that it might have 
two chances of arriving — my son therefore made a copy which I 
now enclose. — You will see by it that he adheres to the good old 
maxim of never despairing of the Commonwealth yet if you observe 
his details I think you will determine that his faith is not only 
without evidence but in fact against it. Indeed I sometimes 
believe that a few hundred of such men as he is, properly dis- 
tributed thro' our Country, might save it, but we have only one 
in this quarter & not many elsewhere. After all I have said to 
chill your hopes I ought to say that the more enlightened part of 
our society think more justly & more alike than at any former 
period & from thence some good expectations are formed. 

Yours truly, 

G. C. 

R. King to Lord Hawkesbury. 

Great Cumberland Place, Nov. ii, 1801. 
My Lord : 

I had the honour on the 28th ulto. to recall to your Lordship's 
recollection the several representations which I had before made 
to you in behalf of the American Ships and Cargoes, detained in 
their passage to the Port of Havre de Grace ; the greater part of 
these vessels has been nearly three months in the Ports of Eng- 
land, during which time the Crews, tho' engaged on war wages, 
have been kept together in daily expectation of an answer from 
your Lordship to my repeated applications in their favour. 

As I cannot consistently with a due regard to the Interest and 
Rights of the Owners of these Ships and Cargoes, recommend to 
their Masters to remain here with their respective Crews, at the 
enormous expence which attends their detention, without a cer- 
tainty that their cases will be examined without farther delay, I 
take the liberty again to request your Lordship's answer to the 
representations I have made on their behalf. 

With great consideration &c. 

Rufus King. 

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 3 

G. Morris to R. King. 

MorrisaniA 13 Novr., 1801. 

Dear Sir : 

I am much oblig'd by yours of the twentieth of last December 
which I ought sooner to have acknowledged but my Hermitage 
offers nothing to communicate to a Man in the Great World. 

I never believed that the Northern League would last long. 
Indeed I ventured to predict the speedy Dissolution of it and to 
ground some Reasonings as to our affairs on that Position. I do 
not now believe that Peace will soon be made. Necessity, or the 
Feebleness of Soul which calls Difficulty by that Name, may pro- 
cure the assent of the British Ministers to an armed Truce under 
the Semblance of Peace ; but if they leave France in Possession 
of her present Dominion and Authority they reduce their Country 
to the Rank of a secondary, perhaps a dependent Power. This 
seems so evident that it is wonderful Buonaparte did not propose 
an uti possidetis as the Ground Work of a Treaty. If it be said 
that War is necessary to him, one would think he might turn his 
Arms North Eastward : for if Austria, Russia and Prussia have 
not the Good Sense to aid England in restoring the Ballance of 
Power, the two first might be induced to agree with the first 
Consul on eating up the last. No more convenient Morsel could 
be found nor any which would better cut up into Indemnities. 
But whether the War shall now continue or the Parties agree to 
take a short breathing Time ; one of two things seems inevitable ; 
either that a Grand Alliance be formed against France, as at the 
Beginning of the last Century, or that all other Powers submit to 
her Domination. The part we may act must depend much on 
Circumstances, but I question whether our present Administra- 
tion (tho' quite as able as the last) be equal to the Business, 
which they will probably have to manage. I hope they may, and 
rely much on the scriptural Assurance that Heaven tempers the 
Wind to the shorn Lamb. . . . 

Believe me ever and truly yours 

Gouvr. Morris. 

14 RUFUS KING. [1801 

R. King to Lord Grenville, &c. &c. 

Gr. Cumberland Place, Nov. 14, 1801. 
My Lord : 

In the Morning Chronicle of to-day your Lordship is stated to 
have said in the debate of last evening in the House of Lords, 
that while you were in his Majesty's service " a foreign Minister 
had by misrepresentation, and the most flagrant perjury, been in- 
structed to complain of the conduct of a British official of high 
reputation, and on enquiry it was found to be most grossly false, 
and the charge scandalous." It having been my duty during my 
residence in this country, as the Minister of the United States, to 
prefer various complaints founded upon proofs of delinquency 
against certain of the King's naval officers, I take the liberty of 
requesting your Lordship to inform me, whether the complaint 
alluded to by your Lordship, in the House of Lords, was made by 
the Minister of the U. S. and if so, that you would have the good- 
ness to mention the date of the complaint, and the Tribunal be- 
fore which the falsehood and perjury ascribed to it were 
established. 

With high consideration and respect, &c. 

Rufus King. 

Ld. Grenville to R. King. 

Camelford House, Nov. 14, 1801. 
Dear Sir : 

If an accurate report were made of what I said last night in the 
House of Lords, you would, I am sure, see, what I trust you would 
readily believe even without this assertion of it, that no part of 
my speech did, or could, in the smallest degree reflect on your 
character, or conduct, to both which I have always borne, both in 
public and in private, the testimony of that sincere esteem and 
respect which I feel towards you. 

Having said this, which was no less due to my own feelings 
than to your's, you must allow me to add that I cannot think it 
consistent with my duty as a Peer of Parliament to enter into any 
particular explanations with a foreign Minister, respecting an un- 

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 5 

authorized publication in a newspaper, of opinions supposed to 
have been delivered by me in my place in the House of Lords. 
I have the honor to be with sincere respect & regard 
Dear Sir your most faithful & most obedient humble Servant. 

Grenville. 
Rufus King Esq. &c, &c, &c. 

This letter is thus endorsed in R. King's handwriting. 

Lord Grenville, Nov. 14, 1801 — In consequence of this 
answer I deemed it expedient to consult with my corps, and after 
stating the subject to Count Woronzow, who was of opinion that 
this Reply was satisfactory and that I could not require of Ld. 
Gr. to enter into fuller explanations, I concluded to suffer the 
Business to stop here — purposing however to express any opinion 
to Ld. Gr. of the unfitness of his Language when I next meet 
him. 

Having myself heard his Speech, I know it to have been as 
exceptional as stated in the Morng. Chronicle. 

R. King to Secretary of State. No. 42. 

London, Nov. 20, 1801. 
Sir : 

If the annexed copy of the Treaty * between France & Spain, 
respecting the establishment of the Prince of Parma in Tuscany, 
be genuine, of which I have no reason to doubt, you will perceive 
the value which these Powers seemed to have placed upon 
Louisiana ; the cession whereof to France is confirmed by the 
5th article of this Treaty. 

I am in hopes that I shall be able to obtain and send you a 
copy of the Treaty ceding Louisiana to France ; this would 
enable us to determine whether it includes New Orleans and 
the Floridas. 

There is doubtless an understanding between England and 
France in respect to the expedition now nearly ready to proceed 
to Saint Domingo ; and I think I am not mistaken in the belief, 
whatever may be the intentions of France in respect to the 
occupation of Louisiana, that no part of the Forces now collect- 
* See p. 19 of this volume for Article 5. 

1 6 RUFUS KING. [1801 

ing, and which are going to St. Domingo, will be employed for 
this purpose. 

It is not a little extraordinary that during the whole negotiation 
between France and England, not a word was mentioned on 
either side, respecting Louisiana, though this Government was 
not ignorant of the views of France in this quarter. 

With perfect respect & Esteem &c. 

Rufus King. 

R. King to Lord Eldon, &c. 

Great Cumberland Place, Nov. 22, 1801. 
My Lord : 

With view of explaining the origin and progress of the discus- 
sion in which I have now for upwards of two years been engaged, 
on the subject of the Sixth Article of our Treaty of 1794, I have 
drawn up the enclosed Paper,* which I ask the favour of your 
Lordship to peruse. 

I wished to have made it shorter, but could not without omit- 
ting what appeared to be material to the elucidation aimed at. If 
I be not altogether mistaken the Point upon which the Business 
continues to be delayed, will appear to your Lordship, from the 
perusal of this Paper, in a light somewhat different from that in 
which you have before seen it, and I am willing to hope that it 
may have some influence in bringing the affair to a satisfactory 
conclusion. With perfect consideration & respect &c. 

Rufus King. 

P.S. I shall be obliged to your Lordship to put the Paper into 
Lord Hawkesbury's hands after you shall have read it. 

Lewis Littlepage to R. King. 

Private. 

Philadelphia, 28th of Novbr., 1801. 
Dear Sir : 

I have never forgotten the important conversation which passed 
between us the last time we met in St. James's Park. In a con- 
versation which I had with the President about a week past, I 

* The paper alluded to above, covers nearly six pages of folio. 

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 7 

mentioned the affair in question to him. He told me he had been 
informed of it for four months, that it would be unfortunate, but 
what were the means of prevention ? That question you may- 
suppose, I was ill prepared to answer, totally ignorant as I am, of 
the politics and resources of my own County. I have here met 
with our Vice President Col. Burr, with whom I spoke a little on 
the same subject. He assured me that he had long studied it, 
had conversed upon it with Toman and Talleyrand, in this 
Country, had his opinion irrevocably fixed upon it, but could not 
declare to me what that opinion was, except in presence of the 
President. So far for external politics. With respect to our 
internal affairs the President thinks himself sure of a Majority 
in both houses. With respect to changes he is less precipitate 
than many expected. I believe he does not mean to descend to 
the lower offices. I was happy to hear him speak in high terms 
of you, and can assure you his opinion of you is general in this 
Country. I am surprised at the conditions of Peace between 
England and France. For Heaven's sake let me know how it 
came to pass. 

I have the honor to be with high respect &c 
Sir, &c 

Lewis Littlepage. 
Endorsed by R. King 

" Ans'd Mar. 22nd private ; (probably 1802) 
Subject generally state of Exped'n to Louisiana — in wh. Eng. 
will not interfere and concern'g wh. the public welfare must be 
promoted or risqued by our own Exertions or omission." 

Mr. King having asked for a conference with Lord 
Hawkesbury it took place on Nov. 25, 1801.* 

I began by saying I had desired to see him chiefly with regard 
to the negotiation about the 6 & 7 articles ; stated my solicitude 
for its conclusion, and that I must present a note upon the subject 
in case it was not likely soon to be again taken into consid'n. 

He said the Chancellor was much engaged in his Court, but 
that he hoped soon to have an opportunity of conversing with 
* Memorandum Book. 

VOL. IV.— 2 

1 8 RUFUS KING. [1801 

him, &c ; and then repeated what Hammond had before men- 
tioned to me, that Lord Grenville said he had agreed to nothing 
wh. committed the Government, and moreover that the Commis- 
sion under the 7 art. going on was a circumstance wh. wd. natu- 
rally have an influence (which it had not had as Lord H. 
observed) in deciding upon the sum for wh. the 6 article shd. be 
commuted. 

I told his Lordship that I had drawn up a paper upon this sub- 
ject wh. was in the Chancellor's hands with a request that it shd. 
be sent to him, & that I felt persuaded that it w'd shew the 
business in its true light and prove that the discussion upon the 
6 art. proceeded upon the basis of that article's being commuted 
and the 7 article's being executed. 

I then enquired concerning the Expedition to San Domingo, 
preparing in the French Ports. Asked if it wd. proceed before 
the definitive Treaty ; if its object were approved by Eng. and 
whether Louisiana formed a part of it. 

He replied that an understanding existed with respect to the 
Expedition to St. Domingo ; intimated that the Expedition cd. 
not wait for the defin. Treaty. On the subject of Louisiana not 

\a word had passed during or since the negotiation with France 
abo. Louisiana — he would not speak positively and what he did 
say was confidential, but he shd. rather conclude that no part of 
the Expedition now preparing was destined for Louisiana. Spain 
had certainly ceded Louisiana. But he did not exactly compre- 
hend the Territory included under that Term. 

I said by Louisiana without other words one wd. understand 
only lands west of the Mississippi ; but we apprehended the 
Floridas and New Orleans likewise to be ceded. We then turned 
to a map and I pointed out to L. H. the boundaries of Louisiana 
as I understood them making the Mississippi on the East and the 
River Norde on the West the limits. He asked where New 
Orleans was and I pointed it out to him, and also explained the 
ancient claim of the Limits of Louisiana and such as was ad- 
vanced before the 7 years' war — adding that the Treaty of Paris 
in 1762* gave the countries east of the Mississippi to England, 
leaving Louisiana solely on the west of that River. I then 
enlarged upon the value and importance of Louisiana to Fr., 
provided New Orleans & the Floridas were added. His Lord- 

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 1 9 

ship seemed to have never considered the subject, and remarked 
that it must be a very long time before a country quite a wilder- 
ness could become of any considerable value. 

I observed that we saw the subject in a different light and were 
desirous that this region shd. remain in the quiet hands of Spain, 
and then asked if Spain shd. continue to desire it, as well as we, 
and we shd. employ such influence as we might have to engage 
France to relinquish the cession, whether England wd. cooperate 
at Amiens by using her influence in favour of the restoration of 
this country to Spain. Lord H. said he wd. give me no answer 
on that point, adding what he had before asserted that they had 
taken no notice of the cession & he would not think that it wd. 
soon become of importance. 

Speaking of the act of cession, he said that they had seen a 
copy of it & on my asking for a copy he said he wd. give it to me. 
(He sent me the copy of a Treaty between Fr. & Sp. of March 
1801, securing Tuscany to the Prince of Parma, and wh., re- 
ferring to the cession of Louisiana, confirms it * 

* Traite signe a Madrid le 21 Mars 1801 par le Prince de la Paix et Lucien 
Bonaparte. 

The fifth Article of this Treaty reads thus : " Ce Traite etant en consequence 
de celui deja conclu entre Le Premier Consul et S. M. E. par le quel le Roi cede 
a la France la Possession de la Louisiane les Parties Contractantes conviennent 
4'effectuer le dit Traite et de s'arranger a l'egard de leurs Droits respectifs." 

CHAPTER II. 

Dinner at Addington's — Otto and Talleyrand — Wilberforce on Slave Trade 
and on Pitt — Anecdote about Expedition to Egypt — Lord Molesworth in 
Denmark — King to Lord Pelham — Complaint against McDonough, Eng- 
lish Agent at Tripoli — Inciting War against the U. S. — Lord Pelham's 
Answer — His Conduct unauthorized — He is to be removed — King to 
Lord Hawkesbury — Presses for a Settlement of Negotiations — King to 
Secretary of State — Expeditions to St. Domingo— Otto to be Minister to 
the U. S. — King to R. R. Livingston — Congratulations on his Arrival 
at Paris — Troup to King — Depressing Effect of the Peace — Duel of Ham- 
ilton's Son — Anecdote of Talleyrand and La Foret — Gambling in English 
Stocks — Genet wrote his own Instructions — Sir William Parker instead of 
curbing, permitted Depredations by his Officers on American Commerce — 
King to Eaton — Presents to the Bey — King to Addington — Delays in Ne- 
gotiations— J. Q. Adams to King — The Peace will cause Inconvenience — 
King to Hamilton — Letter of Condolence — Sedgwick to King — Demo- 
cratic Influence increased in New England — Jefferson's Removals have 
not hurt his Influence — Rupture with England feared by Jefferson's 
Friends — They aim at the Destruction of the Judiciary — King to Lord 
Eldon — Presses for a Settlement of Negotiations. 

Nov. 27. 1801. 
Nov. 27. 1801.* Dined at Mr. Addington's with eight or ten 
individuals, his personal friends he called them ; Otto & myself 
the only strangers. In my morning ride I fell in with Mr. Addi- 
son ; we rode together and conversed on different subjects. . . . 
He said, speaking of Mr. Otto, what he had before told me that 
his conduct had been most excellent and correct ; for him and 
his colleagues to have acted with fairness in respect to the funds 
was precisely their duty : but Otto had not been precisely in the 
same situation, yet he was persuaded that he had abstained with 
as much discretion and as entirely as they themselves had. I 
* Memorandum Book. 
20 

1801J LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 21 

observed that it was certainly very creditable to Otto, but that it 
had surprised me that Talleyrand had not made use of his knowl- 
edge to job in the Eng. funds. Without replying, Mr. Addington 
in a sort of ejaculation, said he was glad Lord Cornwallis had left 
Paris for Amiens ; as he believed things wd. do better at a dis- 
tance from that Man ! (Talleyrand) 

One of two inferences may be made from these words — either 
that Talleyrand was not trusted by Bonaparte in the negotiation 
carried on by Otto in London and might not be in that to be 
entered upon at Amiens ; or that the ex-Bishop had already 
gained an influence over Lord Cornwallis. Sitting by Wilber- 
force at Dinner I glanced at the latter interpretation which I 
thought he assented to — and in a loose conversation- with Ham- 
mond I perceived the same idea was admitted by him. But Otto 
some time since told me that certain of his dispatches were sent 
with unbroken seals to Bonaparte. 

Wilberforce told me that he had not much hopes, that the 
Article abolishing the Slave Trade would be inserted in the de- 
finitive Treaty. Lord Cornwallis knew & cared little about it, 
but wd. act fairly, whereas Malmesbury, knowing the King's opin- 
ion, like a mere courtier as he was, wd. be sure to defeat any 
hopes wh. might exist in its favour. Addington was well enough 
disposed, as well as others of his colleages, but Hawkesbury par- 
took of his Father's sentiments on this topic and he had fairly 
told him that so long as he entertained these principles he W. 
would never look upon him with the friendship he desired to do. 
Wilberforce seemed to think (in wh. I believe he is quite mistaken) 
that Bonaparte was disinclined or lukewarm, on account of his 
wife, who is a Creole ! 

MR. PITT. 

Wilberforce spoke in high terms of Mr. Pitt and especially with 
regard to his disinterestedness and support of the new Ministry — 
adding that before he went out of office, he sent for him W. and 
explained his intentions, as well in regard to his own resignation 
as the forming of one new Ministry, asking him what he thought 
of his project. W. replied that he approved of it and encouraged 
him to persevere. Pitt replied that he was glad to receive his 
approbation especially as others had told him the new min. wd. 

22 RUFUS KING. [1801 

not do, and desired him to counteract that opinion. Mr. P.r 
said, Wilberforce, is the only one of the old ministry who wd. 
have made the Peace the new Ministry has done and he has acted 
nobly in supporting them. 

Speaking of the Expedition to Egypt he lamented that they had 
been so misled by Canning's foolish Book (referring to the 
Preface and Notes to Bonaparte's intercepted Letters). Had 
Menou been an able instead of a weak General, they shd. have 
been defeated & disgraced at Aboukir : and after all Providence 
had saved them, for poor Abercrombie (who was certainly brave 
and whose gallant death shd. cover all his errors) was most com- 
pletely surprised by the French in the morning in which he was 
mortally wounded ! 

Anecdote. 

Lord Molesworth, the Eng. Envoy in Denmark, wrote an acct. 
of that Country which unveiled the tyranny of its Government. 
Scheel, the Dan. Envoy in Eng., complained to King William of 
this Publication and demanded reparation &c. The King who 
was attached to Lord Molesworth evaded the complaint of Scheel 
who renewed his representation and added that for such like 
offense committed by the Dan. Envoy in England, his Dan. 
Majesty wd. cut off the offender's head and send it to the offen- 
der's ally. 

King William good humouredly expressed his acknowledgments 
and said that such were not the laws of England and that he wd. 
command Lord Molesworth to put in his book what were the 
laws of Denmark upon this subject. 

King to Lord Pelham. 

Great Cumberland Place, Nov. 28, 1801. 
My Lord : 

It seems not the least extraordinary of the wonderful things of 
the age in which we live, when reforms of almost every sort, and 
in every direction, have been aimed at, and powerful Leagues to 
effect them have been formed and dissolved on all sides, that no 
one has thought of a confederacy to repress the piratical practices 

i8oi] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 

23 

of the States of Barbary, which, at the very doors of the great 
Nations of Europe, have for so many Centuries laid them with the 
rest of the commercial world, under Contribution. 

It is true Great Britain, on account of her naval superiority, 
feels this Evil but lightly ; but were it permitted to others to ex- 
press an opinion on this head, it might be said, that the reason 
why she does not feel it more heavily is precisely that which 
should free her, as well as the rest of the World, from feeling it 
at all. 

For these Reflections, I ought, however, to crave your Lord- 
ship's indulgence, though in Truth they are not altogether foreign 
to the particular object of this Letter, which serves to communi- 
cate to your Lordship the enclosed complaint against the British 
Agent residing at Tripoli. The Bey of Tripoli has lately declared 
War against the United States, which, in consequence thereof, 
have been compelled to send a squadron of Frigates into the 
Mediterranean to protect their Commerce and curb the cruisers 
of this Regency. 

Bryan McDonough, the British Agent at Tripoli, has, as we are 
informed, materially contributed by his misrepresentations and 
influence over the Bey, to engage him to make war upon the United 
States. In addition to the information derived from the American 
Consuls at Tripoli and Tunis, Commodore Dale, Commander of the 
American Ships in the Mediterranean, after particular inquiry 
confirms, in the fullest manner, the complaint against McDonough. 

It will naturally occur to your Lordship, that this complaint, 
from its nature, does not admit of exact Proof, since it is from 
various and connected circumstances only that we are enabled to 
satisfy ourselves, in cases of this sort, that our suspicions are well 
founded : in the present instance, however, although we cannot 
accompany the complaint against his Majesty's Agent at Tripoli, 
with such Proofs as would judicially establish his Guilt, it is my 
duty to state to your Lordship that the evidence of delinquency 
is such as to convince us that the war in which we are engaged 
with Tripoli has been excited by the false and unfriendly represen- 
tations of this agent, if not chiefly produced by his mischievous 
influence over the mind of the Bey. How far his malignant 
views may have been promoted by his abuse of his public charac- 
ter is matter of conjecture ; but there can be no doubt that his 

24 RUFUS KING. [1801 

influence, whatever it may have been, must have arisen principally 
from his official situation. 

Relying, as we do, upon his Majesty's friendship and Justice, 
I flatter myself that this complaint will meet with a ready and 
impartial consideration ; and that his Majesty will not only mani- 
fest his displeasure at this highly criminal and injurious Proceed- 
ing, but that he will moreover give explicit instructions to his 
Consuls and agents throughout the States of Barbary, to pursue 
for the future a conduct in respect to the United States and their 
affairs, conformable to the harmony and good understanding that 
so happily subsists between our respective Countries.* 

With the most perfect consideration &c &c 

Rufus King. 

Lord Pelham to R. King. 

Whitehall Dec, 5, 1801. 
Sir: 

I have received the honor of your Letter, dated 28th. ulto., in- 
closing a Copy of one from Mr. William Eaton, Consul for the 
American States at Turin, to Mr. Magra, his Britannic Majesty's 
Consul General at the same place, in which the conduct of Mr. 
Bryan McDonough at Tripoli is stated as highly reprehensible. 

It is, I should hope, unnecessary to assure you that any con- 
duct observed by Mr. McDonough hostile to the interests of the 
American Government in the Barbary States is totally unauthor- 
ized, and that every possible disposition is felt by the British 
Government to preserve in every quarter that harmony and good 
understanding, which so happily subsists between it and the 
United States of America. 

Were Mr. McDonough likely to continue in his present station, 
the circumstances of the charges against him (although the 
authenticity of them rests merely on the assertion of Mr. Eaton) 
should certainly undergo a full investigation, but as he is almost 
immediately to be superseded, such investigation is unnecessary. 
Lest, however, from any accidental cause, his supercession should 
not take place as soon as it is intended, a Letter shall be imme- 
diately written to him, cautioning him against persisting in the 

* To this is appended a report from Com. R. Dale, stating the charges 
against B. McDonough. 

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 25 

conduct he is charged with, and his successor shall be fully ap- 
prized of the friendly sentiments, entertained by the British 
Government towards the American States. 

I have the honor to be &c 

Pelham. 

R. King to Lord Hawkesbury. 

Private. 

Great Cumberland Place, Nov. 30, 1801. 
My Lord : 

If your Lordship will advert to the really unpleasant situation 
in which I am placed by the great and continued delay of the 
settlement concerning the 6th article of our Treaty, I am per- 
suaded you will be disposed to do justice to my encreased solici- 
tude upon the subject. Preserving always a due confidence in 
the assurances which have given me reason to expect a satisfac- 
tory conclusion of this affair, I have from month to month and 
from year to year (for it is near three years that the business has 
been depending) endeavored to satisfy my Government in respect 
to this unusual and inconvenient Delay. 

Having nothing to add, or to alter upon a subject we have so 
fully considered, and as I thought settled, I may without further 
apology, appeal to your Lordship's impartiality for my justifica- 
tion in claiming, as it is my duty to do, a final decision of this 
affair. The season of the year offers but few opportunities to 
America ; the regular mail for New York will be made up in the 
course of this week, and I am anxious to give to my Government 
positive and explicit information upon this subject. I will only 
add, that I shall be happy to be enabled to say, that the business 
is finally and satisfactorily closed. 

With perfect respect &c, &c, 

Rufus King. 

26 RUFUS KING. [1801 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. 43. 
Sir: 

London Nov. 30 1801. 

It is understood that Lord Cornwallis will leave Paris for 
Amiens in the course of a day or two, and as soon as the Minis- 
ters of France, Spain, Portugal and Holland shall arrive there, 
that the negotiation of the definitive Treaty will be commenced. 
As the principal Points were settled in the Preliminaries, and 
those of inferior note have been since discussed at Paris, the pre- 
vailing opinion seems to be that not much time will be required 
to bring the negotiation to a conclusion. 

The expedition to St. Domingo has not yet sailed ; but as Eng- 
land has really a squadron of ten or twelve ships of the Line, 
which is to be sent immediately to the Jamaica station, it is sup- 
posed that the French Expedition will proceed as soon as it shall 
be ready and without waiting for the definitive Treaty. 

Mr. Otto has received notice that he will be sent as Minister 
Plenipotentiary to the United States, tho' in consequence of Mr. 
Jackson's appointment as Minister Plenipotentiary of England at 
Paris during the Congress at Amiens, Mr. Otto may receive a 
corresponding appointment here, so that neither he nor Mr. Jack- 
son, who will probably succeed Mr. Liston in America, will be at 
liberty to leave Europe before the spring. 

Nothing decisive has yet taken place respecting the 6th and 7th 
Articles of our Treaty with this Country ; I shall, however, be 
able to send you more explicit, and, I am willing to hope, more 
satisfactory information upon this subject, in the course of the 
next month. 

I have called Lord Hawkesbury's attention to the subject of 
the Trade between the English West Indies and our Ports, which, 
without timely regulations, may be liable to great embarrassment 
upon the return of Peace ; but he is at present so engaged, that I 
have not yet been able to bring the subject fairly under consider- 
ation : I shall resume at the first moment I perceive a favorable 
opening to do so. 

Notwithstanding the fine and abundant Harvests of this Coun- 
try, Corn continues to be dear and in the opinion of all judges 

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 2J 

will so far maintain the high price that the ports will be open 
throughout the year. 

With perfect Respect & Esteem, &c, &c. 

Rufus King. 

R. King to Robert R. Livingston, &c, &c. 

London, Dec. 3, 1801. 
Dear Sir : 

The French papers having announced your arrival at L'Orient, 
in the early part of the last month, I conclude that you have be- 
fore this time reached Paris, and therefore avail myself of the 
earliest opportunity to offer you my cordial congratulations on 
your mission, and to express my earnest hope that its success may 
in every respect correspond with the favourable anticipations, in 
which the public, as well as all those who have the satisfaction of 
knowing you, have beforehand indulged themselves. 

The return of Peace will serve to render your residence in 
Europe more agreeable, not only by the good humour and polite- 
ness it may be expected to reestablish, but by relieving you from 
the endless detail of business, in which you would have unavoid- 
ably been engaged by a continuation of the war. 

The distance between us is so inconsiderable, that I promise 
myself the pleasure of frequently hearing of your welfare ; and 
Mrs. King, who unites with me in sincere regards to Mrs. Living- 
ston, likewise joins me in the offer of our services in any way in 
which they may be made useful to you or any part of your family. 
With great Respect & Esteem, &c, &c. 

Rufus King. 

R. Troup to R. King. 

New York, 5th December, 1801. 
Dear Sir : 

. . . We received the account of peace between Great 
Britain and France in this city on the 20th ulto, via Boston. It 
instantly operated almost like the hand of death upon all busi- 
ness. I had two auctions on that day on hand at the Coffee 
House : one of Sir Wm. (Pulteney's) real property in this city ; 

28 RUFUS KING. [1801 

the other of lands in my hands as an executor of an insolvent 
estate. There were several other auctions depending. All was 
knocked up, instead of being knocked down ! Not a hid was 
given ; every thing was buzz and confusion in the Coffee House. 
Ships have fallen. Wheat, corn and flour have been constantly 
on the fall ! In short all business dull and nearly at a stand. I 
hear however, of no bankruptcies, and much serious mischief does 
not seem to be apprehended. . . . 

For twelve days past the city has been much agitated with a 
duel * between Hamilton's oldest son Philip and a Mr. Eacher — a 
brother lawyer of mine and a violent and bitter democrat. . . . 
Young Hamilton was mortally wounded and soon after died. 
Never did I see a man so completely overwhelmed with grief as 
Hamilton has been. The scene I was present at, when Mrs. 
Hamilton came to see her son on his deathbed (he died about a 
mile out of the city) and when she met her husband and son in 
one room, beggars all description ! Young Hamilton was very 
promising in genius and acquirements, and Hamilton formed high 
expectations of his future greatness ! ... At present Hamil- 
ton is more composed and is able again to attend to business ; 
but his countenance is strongly stamped with grief. Eacher has 
not since made his appearance at the bar. There is a general 
current of opinion agt. him, except amongst the violent demo- 
crats. Very truly yours, 

R. T. 

Talleyrand and La Foret. f 

London, Dec. 7, 1801. 
Otto called upon me in the evening to mention that he had 
received credentials as Min. Plenip. to this Court, and to make 
inquiry respecting the mode of dress, presentation, &c. After 
going over this subject we talked of various others and among 
them I spoke of the reputation he had established by keeping his 
secret so well and not gambling in the Eng. funds during the 
negotiation, and then observed that tho' I understood him well 
enough and could account for his discretion, which was so very 

* See vol. iii., p. 33. f Memorandum Book. 

l8oi] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 29 

commendable, I could not tell how Talleyrand & La Foret, 
especially the first, were kept back and restrained, for they must 
have known all that was doing. Otto made no scruples about 
Talleyrand's character and likewise admitted that La Foret was 
fond of money and liked speculation, &c. In America he was 
always engaged in little bargains and calculating. Indeed it must 
be owing to something of this sort that he had been sent to 
Munich as minister — a place no ways equal to that he held in the 
Post office. But he was Talleyrand's man and agent and very 
likely had been engaged in some affair wh. made it expedient to 
send him away from Paris. As to the negotiation here it was 
curious, early at the time of the proposed armistice. The first 
proposition which he received from France to be made to the 
Brit. Govt, arrived at 3 o'clock p.m.; before 8 o'clock it was 
known in the City, or rather he knew it was there known as soon 
as 8 o'clock, and might have been sooner known, & the purport 
of it appeared in the Morning Post ; all this before he had made 
his communication to the Brit. Govt. In his very next dispatch, 
Otto said, he took notice of this circumstance, justified himself 
and expressed surprise how the intelligence should have got air. 
In a future stage of the discussion, the purport of an important 
dispatch was actually known on the Exchange of London and 
produced a rise of 2 per cent in the funds before he, Mr. Otto, 
received it. In his next dispatch to his Govt, he stated this ex- 
traordinary fact and protested against the injury to his own char- 
acter, wh. wd. immediately proceed from it. In reply he was told 
that there could have been no disclosure thro' any of the officers 
of the Bureau, as the dispatch was written by Mr. Talleyrand 
himself and not trusted to any of his Secretaries. After this 
complaint, Otto remarked, an attempt was immediately made and 
persisted in to take the business out of his hands, and that under- 
standing the motive, he had to employ the best means in his 
power to prevent the success of the intrigue. 

During the late negotiation the Parties were doubtless re- 
strained by the resistance they had before met with ! ! ! Otto 
said he had been offered a share in a concern by wh. Talleyrand 
was to gain ^200,000 Stg, himself ;£ 100,000 Stg, and the English 
concurred, he knew not how much, but he had peremptorily 
refused. 

30 RUFUS KING. [1801 

Genet. 

Otto told me that Genet was the author of his own instructions, 
wh. he published in America ; being a favorite of Brissot, who 
with the Commee. of his day was engaged in a thousand affairs, 
he was desired to draw a sketch of his own Instructions, wh. were 
brought at a late hour of the day, read over with haste & signed. 
Besides Genet was a known Royalist and in all his conduct in 
America played a part ! ! ! 

Admiral Sir William Parker. 

This Admiral was sent to Halifax, as Lord Spencer told me, 
because he was believed to be a prudent officer and would curb 
the plundering spirit of the squadron stationed on our coast. 

Instead of his conduct corresponding with this character, he 
turned out to be an avaricious and disobedient Commander — and 
during his command increased, instead of curbing, the depreda- 
tion on American trade. Captain Pelew of the Cleopatra was one 
of the most vexatious of those under Parker's command. On my 
complaint, Lord Spencer recalled Pelew, but Parker instead of 
obeying and sending him home, gave him leave to make a cruise 
after Spaniards in the West Indies and Gulf of Mexico, where he 
ran the Cleopatra ashore and was obliged to return to Halifax, 
where her repairs cost upwards of ^8,000 Stg. 

Parker also under the pretence of sending seven or eight re- 
fractory soldiers who were condemned at Halifax to serve in the 
fields as convicts or slaves in Jamaica, sent the America, a 74, 
with them to the West Indies with orders to cruize for Spaniards 
in the Gulf of Florida, where she was lost. Parker for these in- 
stances of disobedience and for sending the America off her 
station, was lately brought to a Court Martial at Portsmouth and 
acquitted ; owing as Nepean told me to the base spirit of gain, 
with wh. the majority of the court was influenced— a spirit, said 
he, which has done us more mischief than can be imagined, wh. 
not only excited the resentment of for. and neutral States, but 
occasioned the Mutiny wh. well nigh ruined the Brit. Navy. 

The system of secrecy as to the votes of the members of a 
Court Martial must be done away with as it serves to protect 

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 3 1 

base men and cover base principles. An Act of Parliament 
must be made for this purpose and Sir Wm. Scott had engaged to 
go into a thorough reform of the Prize Courts in order thro' them 
to check these depredations. 

R. King to William Eaton, Tunis. 

London, Dec. 10, 1801. 
Sir: 

The Jewels for the Bey being finished, and Mr. Hargraves pur- 
posing to embark in an English Frigate, which sails in a day or 
two, for Algiers, I have concluded to send them to you by him, 
without waiting for the arms, which, though in great forwardness, 
will not be completed in less than two months. Randall & 
Bridge, the King's Jewellers, who have executed this commission, 
have assured me that the Jewels should be most carefully and 
securely packed, so that I hope you will receive them speedily, 
and in good condition ; the invoice of these articles you have 
enclosed. As soon as the arms are finished, they shall likewise 
be forwarded to you. The Cloths, as I have before advised you, 
have been shipped and will, I expect, reach you before Mr. 
Hargrave's arrival. 

The Cloths and Silks first sent, tho' unsuitable for the purpose 
for which they were purchased, may sell for sufficient to reimburse 
their cost and charge, especially as the silks were supplied at 
reduced prices. 

Mr. McDonough will no longer remain at Tripoli ; his succes- 
sor will be instructed to observe in respect to the United States 
and their affairs a conduct conformable to the good understand- 
ing and harmony subsisting between the United States and Great 
Britain. With great respect &c &c 

Rufus King. 

R. King to Mr. Aldington. 

Private. 

Gr. Cumberland Place, Dec. 11, 1801. 
Dear Sir : 

Will you do me the favour to inform me whether the business, 
concerning which I have but too perseveringly resorted to you, 

32 RUFUS KING. [1801 

has yet been decided by the Cabinet ? The delays which have so 
long prevailed, are doubtless such as belong to, and are usual in 
affairs of this nature. Experience has taught me that I had 
formed erroneous estimates of these matters, and I am now con- 
vinced of what I suspect others have long since been, that I con- 
sulted my zeal rather than my prudence, when I was prevailed 
upon to engage in a service, for which every day of my life shows 
me my own incapacity. I however console myself that a little 
more time and patience will bring me my relief. I entreat you, 
my dear Sir, to pardon these observations, which are by no means 
designed to draw from you the slightest notice of the occasion of 
them, but merely to excuse myself in your good opinion for the 
endless trouble that it has been my misfortune (for such I shall 
always think it) to give you. 

I am, Dr. Sir, your obliged & faithful Svt. 

R. K. 
Note. Ansd. There had been a decision of the Cabinet, which 
Lord Hawkesbury would communicate. 

J. Q. Adams to R. King. 

Quincy, 11 December, 1801. 
Dear Sir : 

Since I wrote you last, (13 October) I have been to the city of 
Washington, and brought home my wife and child — We have 
spent a fortnight here with my father, and in a few days expect to 
get settled in Boston. 

At New. York, on my return home, I first heard of the peace 
concluded between France and England, which was very unex- 
pected here, as it appears to have been, even in London. Its in- 
fluence upon our affairs public and private will no doubt be 
important and not in every respect favourable. Much partial 
inconvenience is to be foreseen ; but if the enterprise and in- 
dustry of our country is checked in one quarter, I believe it will 
soon make its way in another. The prices of goods have gener- 
ally fallen, and some unremunerative stagnation of commerce must 
ensue. Our merchants and ship-builders, however, anticipate a 
temporary advantage from the want of vessels in France, where 

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 33 

they hope to find a good market for many of their supernumerary 
ships. 

Our internal affairs continue to present an aspect of great tran- 
quillity. The Session of Congress must have commenced, but we 
have not yet received the President's speech. 

About a fortnight since, General Hamilton's eldest son was 
killed in a duel with a Mr. Eacker. He is said to have been a 
young man of great promise.* 

Faithfully your's 

John Quincy Adams. 

The letter of condolence of Mr. King to his friend, Gen- 
eral Hamilton, written on January 12, 1802, is here given, 
though out of date. 

R. King to Hamilton. 

Both as a friend and a father I do most unfeignedly partici- 
pate and condole with you in the heavy affliction that has fallen 
upon your family. It would be altogether vain for me to have 
recourse to the usual topics of consolation. In so severe a 
calamity it must be sought for among the treasures of your own 
mind, which nature has so eminently endowed ; and after a while 
it will likewise be found in the promising branches of your 
family which remain, to recall to your remembrance as well as to 
console you for the loss you have suffered. 

With most faithful regard & attachment, &c. 

T. Sedgwick to R. King. 

Stockbridge, 14 December, 1801. 
My Dear Sir : 

. . . I am retired to private life and as yet I am rejoiced 

that I am so. The little prospect of benefit which I saw from 

any thing that I could do, the injury which my private concerns 

* In the Life of Hamilton, vol. vii., p. 499, an account of this duel, with the 

circumstances which led to it, is given. The young man was only nineteen 

years of age, but warmly interested in the political questions of the day, the 

discussion of which involved his father's name and character, and brought on 

the quarrel which resulted in his death. 
VOL. iv — 3 

34 RUFUS KING. [1801 

sustained by my absence, and the importance of my presence to 
the welfare of my family, at the same time afforded cogent motives, 
& justified, in my opinion, a conformity of conduct to them. 

I confess to you, my dear sir, that I have been disappointed in 
the effect produced in New England by the election of Mr. Jef- 
ferson. I did believe that his known hostility to the federal 
measures, which are essential to its prosperity, & not less so his 
enmity to those institutions which habit, and as I supposed prin- 
ciple had endeared to the people, would, at the same time, have 
checked the progress of democracy, lessened the number of its 
adherents, and infused into the well disposed a spirit of union 
among themselves, & of exertion against their adversaries ; but, 
instead of this, democratic influence has increased, as I believe, 
in every state. This, as I think, is owing, more than to any other 
cause, to the spirit of avarice, which has been fostered not only 
by the general course of public events, but by the measures of 
the government, and the addresses which have openly & con- 
stantly been made to this odious, degrading & sordid passion. 
Every puny prater who talks much of the interest of the people, 
the necessity of public economy, and the importance of calcu- 
lating every public measure on the principle of taking the least 
portion possible of " the fruits of labor from the mouth which 
earns it," is sure of an affectionate reception from the people. 
Even well meaning men, perceiving the effects of these delusive 
professions, have employed them, as instruments to acquire popu- 
larity. Hence every warm, and generous, and manly sentiment 
is stifled ; and hence national degradation on one hand, and the 
glory of our country, on the other, have become unmeaning & 
unintelligible expressions. The decrease of public burdens is 
represented, as certain, from the election of Mr. J. 

There is another circumstance which is equally discouraging. 
The aristocracy of virtue is destroyed ; personal influence is at 
an end. No length nor degree of popular service, neither the 
most shining talents, nor the most and disinterested conduct, give 
anything like weight and authority to character. What means 
are there, then, of regaining power by the federalists ? When- 
ever the federal systems shall be broken, and the feebleness which 
must result from a complete relaxation shall be felt, the people 
may remember those men whose wise counsels have once saved 

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 35 

them from ruin & again place the government in their hands. . . . 
But should the blunders & folly of the Philosophers consign them 
again to insignificance, how long will the federalists be able to 
defend themselves against those means which have been found 
sufficient for the destruction of their influence ? . . . 

I do not think that Mr. J n has lost any influence by his re- 
movals from office. There is nothing more mischievous & mon- 
strous than the principle, and it is avowed, on which this conduct 
rests. It is, palpably, rendering the aggregate of the emoluments 
of all the offices, holden at the pleasure of the president, a mass 
of electioneering corruption. And yet there is a wonderful tran- 
quillity prevailing on the avowal and practice of this conduct. 
There was a time when the resentment of the people of Connecti- 
cut would have been roused, almost to frenzy, by removing such 
men as Chester, Goodrich and Whittlesey, from important offices, 
to fill them with such as Thirley, Bishop and Wolcott, let the 
motive have been whatever it might ; but on this occasion, tho' a 
most detestable motive is declared, no great degree of sensibility 
seems to be excited among even good men ; and so far from 
ruining the President's influence, the number of Jacobin voters at 
the last congressional election, in that state, was greater than at 
any former election. 

Amidst all the unpleasing reflections which are presented to 
the mind there is one which, to me, affords consolation. You 
will not be removed. There is nothing, unless I am greatly de- 
ceived, that the leaders of that party, a certain little great man 
excepted, view with more horror than a rupture with G. Britain. 
Yet do they consider that dreaded event as not improbable. 
They will, therefore, avoid everything that may furnish evidence 
to charge them with an intention to produce it. They will not, 
therefore, remove a federalist from, to send a democrat to, the 
court of London. And I do most sincerely hope, tho' there is 
not on earth a man whom I more wish to see, that it may not be 
too disagreeable to you to continue there. 

But what will be the course of conduct which this administra- 
tion will pursue ? As I have told you heretofore it will be the 
object of Mr. Jefferson's ambition to reduce in practice the 
administration of this government to the principles of the con- 
federation. . . . 

36 RUFUS KING, [1801 

The revenue is so abundant that, even, should all our expenses 
be continued, it will probably be supposed that some of the most 
unpopular taxes may be repealed. Perhaps the salt duty will be 
considered as the most grateful sacrifice. . . . 

There is nothing which the party more anxiously wish than the 
destruction of the judicial arrangements made during the last 
session, because of the impediments which that throws in the way 
of their rapid progress to the ultimate goal of democratic reform. 
It is certain that a demolition of this system is contemplated by 
the President ; for the Secy, of state has written to the. marshals 
or clerks of all the eastern districts, & I suppose of all the dis- 
tricts, to report to him, the number of actions which have been 
determined in those courts, & the number now depending — the 
object undoubtedly is to show how much money is paid for how 
little business. Yet it is said, with what truth I know not, that 
some of the party are of opinion that the Judges who are ap- 
pointed cannot be displaced by a repeal of the law. This, I 
believe, is certain that a repeal will not be attempted, unless it 
can be assured beforehand that a majority in both houses can be 
obtained, in favor of the measure. I am not, myself, satisfied 
that a repeal of the law would be unconstitutional, for that would 
imply that a rational reform of the judicial, under circumstances 
which might reasonably be expected, would be impracticable ; 
but I shall be happy if such doubts, however founded, shall pre- 
vent so inauspicious a procedure. . . . 

What will be the result of peace in Europe I know not — in 
this country the effect must have a considerable influence on 
almost all descriptions of persons. Except those whose depen- 
dence for support is on salaries, there will be a general decrease 
of the means of expense, and a consequent reduction of the prices 
of all property. How far this will create discontent, and what 
will be the direction of it, you can conjecture. 

I am ever sincerely yours. 

R. King to Lord Eldon. 

Great Cumbd. Place, Dec. 17, 1801. 
My Lord : 

I take the liberty to send you enclosed a Draught of the pro- 
posed convention as it was settled in our former Conferences 

l8oi] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 37 

with the addition of a new article founded upon the demand that 
the payments on your side should be made by Installments corre- 
sponding with those to be made in America. 

With perfect Respect &c. 

R. K. 

R. King to Lord Eldon. 

Great Cumbd. Place, Dec. 21, 1801. 
My Lord : 

I called in Downing Street today in hopes that Lord Hawkes- 
bury would be prepared to give me a definitive answer concerning 
the Draught of the Convention which by your Lordship's permis- 
sion I took the liberty to send you. But as he had not seen it he 
could say nothing upon the subject. Will you have the goodness 
to send the Draught to Lord Hawkesbury, with such alterations 
as you may think proper to make upon it. 

Being desirous to finish this affair before the interruption of 
the Holidays, I pray you to pardon the solicitude with which I 
pursue it. 

With great Respect & Esteem, &c, &c. 

Rufus King. 

CHAPTER III. 

Hale to King — Comments despondingly on the President's Message — Ames 
to King — On the Message — Virginia to Control — The Peace will not calm 
Agitation in U. S. — King to Secretary of State — Vessels detained for 
breaking Blockade of Havre released by Executive Interference — Lord 
Dunmore's outrageous Conduct in Virginia — Conversation with Lord 
Hawkesbury— French Expedition to St. Domingo — Louisiana — French 
desire to colonize to get rid of perturbed Spirits— Bonaparte an extra- 
ordinary Character — King to Secretary of State— St. Croix Boundary — 
Prize Courts in the West Indies — Impressed Seamen — Peace has stopped 
Impressments— Outrages against Commerce continue— W. Pinkney's Con- 
gratulations on signing Convention relative to 6th and 7th Articles — Gore 
to King— On his Trials while negotiating— King— Signature of the Con- 
vention—King to Secretary of State — Sends the Convention— Mode of 
paying Claims— Maryland Bank Stock Claim soon to be settled— King to 
Madison— History of the Negotiation — Discouraging Delays— Looked only 
to his Duty— King to Secretary of State— Congress at Amiens probably 
result favorably to Peace — Mutiny in the Fleet for the W. Indies. 

The two following letters will show the views of leading 
Federalists inspired by the Message of President Jefferson 
to Congress, and are therefore full of interest, conveying, as 
they did to Mr. King, the gloomy forebodings that filled 
their minds as to the future of the country under its new 
rulers. 

Joseph Hale to R. King. 

Boston, Dec. 19, 1801. 
Dear Sir : 

We yesterday received the enclosed message. This mode of 
testifying his homage of respect to the National Legislature, the 
President has preferred to that which custom & habit had already 
sanctioned. Would to God ! that in this manner only his admin- 
istration were distinguished from that of his predecessors ! 

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 39 

The Genevan & American Philosophers you will find more bold 
in experiment than wise & intelligent as statesmen. In their 
visionary brains the amount of our revenue by import is calculated 
even to a cent for preceding years. Its surplus is to astonish the 
citizens. The armistice lately signed at London is to produce 
general & perpetual harmony between Nations. Our government 
is only to state its claims upon other nations to have them at once 
recognized & improved. The wild principles of uproar & misrule 
which have given elevation & political consequence to our exist- 
ing administration are philosophically speaking to produce tran- 
quillity & subordination in an inverse ratio to their tendency 
towards anarchy & confusion. Our nation is to derive conse- 
quence from being stript of every national attribute & from the 
sovereignty & independence of the several estates. Our National 
credit is to be supported by withdrawing the sources of revenue 
by which alone it can be maintained. The independence of our 
Judiciary is to be confirmed by being made wholly subservient to 
the will of the legislature & the caprice of Executive visions. 
The farmer at the toil of his ploughshare is to learn military tac- 
tics & when diking his meadows the principles of fortification. 
To crown all, a National character is to be derived from freely 
admitting to the rights of citizenship the " unhappy fugitives " 
from law & justice of every other nation upon earth. Such is my 
brief comment upon the inclosed text. Gloomy apprehensions 
may have rendered me unfit to give an opinion upon the subject. 
Your knowledge & experience will, I hope for the welfare of our 
country, enable you to entertain more agreeable reflections than 
at this moment irresistibly impress my mind. As under adverse 
prospects we are inclined to seek consolation, so in the present 
instance I am disposed to repose with a degree of confidence on 
the habits & principles of New England & the virtue, intelligence, 
& patriotism of men of talents & influence throughout our coun- 
try. Their temperate, still voice may for a time be drowned in 
the clamours of democratic frenzy, but their energies must & will 
eventually impress & correct the public sentiment & acquire ad- 
ditional momentum from the unreasonable tho' natural checks & 
opposition of weak & unprincipled men. 

Your friend & obed servt. 

Joseph Hale. 

40 RUFUS KING. [1801 

•F. Ames to R. King. 

December 20th, 1801. 

My dear Sir : 

The new President's speech is out, he calls it a message. This 
difference is pretended to be important to save time, money and 
ceremony. Is not this philosophy, dignity &c &c. The message 
announces the downfall of the late revision of the Judiciary ; 
economy, the patriotism of the shallow and the trick of the am- 
bitious— It proposes that Congress shall legislate in every case to 
the very rim and outside edge of its power — lest executive dis- 
cretion should take its place and usurp its powers. Therefore 
the items for appropriation are to be designated specifically. In- 
stead of laying down rules of conduct, Congress is to apply these 
rules in detail and is to be president, as to army, navy and taxes, 
the U. S. Gov't has little to do, and is to be dismantled like an 
old ship. For it is evident that the state gov'ts are to be ex- 
hibited as alone safe and salutary. Thus Congress is to do every- 
thing instead of the heads of departments. Committees instead 
of Cong. The sovereign people are to be excited to controul 
these and Virginia is to be as strong as the union is made weak. 

I am full of commentary on this ample text, but you will not 
need my help to make your own. Those who lean for support on 
one state, and on exciting the passions of the people to weaken 
every obstacle to the domination of that state, will understand 
their part. You will see a broad hint about the carrying Trade. 
Expect Madison's resolutions over again and the pretty plan of 
the Report on the privileges and restrictions of our Commerce. 

You will see perhaps by some of the Mass'tts papers that the 
Farmer, alias Atty General U. S., alias Lincoln is outrageously 
agt. the federalists and the whole body of the Clergy and 
denounces the wrath of The People unless they abstain from 
their evil ways. The peace (between France and England) will 
not calm the agitations of this country : its terms present France 
as an object both of terror & admiration. Unless Buonaparte 
shd. die, her exorbitant power will be consolidated so as to over- 
turn Europe first, then the World. But his life is precarious. I 
am surprised at the kind of admiration lavished by wise men on 
this adventurer ; allow him heroism — allow him genius — yet his 

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 4 1 

admirers invest him with qualities which he has given little evi- 
dence that he possesses. Political sagacity is ascribed to him as 
if he excelled Pitt and Thugut and all the old statesmen of old 
Govts. The vis major requires very little of it. . . . I can- 
not conceive of a long duration of peace, when all that exists is 
prodigious and out of nature. Ambition sees no obstacles and 
it's victims can have no shelter. Is not Europe as much a prey 
as Italy was to Rome after the war with Pyrrhus ? Spain, Portu- 
gal, Holland and Italy are so many provinces of France. 

This state affords no matter of news. It is quiet, but soon to 
be agitated by the intrigues to bring in Gerry Governor. The 
National Egis, a paper at Worcester, is set up for that end. 
Lincoln is said to have formed, as well as promoted, the plan, but 
when there was a call for money, he was off. It is hoped by print- 
ing frothy nonsense in that county to revolutionize the state. 
What sense we have is no match for our prejudice and nonsense, 
and soon or late, the contest will turn against us. I omitted to 
say that the Farmer in his Egis modestly and consistently rails 
agt. the Palladium as a gazette that is supported by the Federalists, 
and the Clergy. 

Yrs &c 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. 45. 

London, Dec. 23, 1801. 
Sir : 

In consequence of a letter written by lord Hawkesbury to Sir 
John Nicholl, the King's Advocate, a copy of which is annexed, 
a sentence of restitution has been given by the High Court of 
Admiralty in favour of all the American Ships and Cargoes, de- 
tained on their passages to Havre de Grace, except the Ship 
Frederick and Cargo, of New York, whose Agents, contrary to 
my instructions, brought on her trial before the interference in 
her favour, which we had reason to expect on the part of this 
Government. As an appeal has been made in this case, perhaps 
the sentence of condemnation may be reversed in the Court of 
Appeals. 

These cases are not more remarkable on account of the Execu- 

42 RUFUS KING. [180I 

tive intervention, by which a restitution has been attained, than 
for the singular circumstance that the Claimants' best interests 
and wishes have been against their own success ; inasmuch as a 
recurrence to the insurance offices would have been a less loss 
than will now attend the adventures from the fall of markets in 
consequence of the Peace. 

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c 

Rufus King. 

To His Majesty's Advocate General. 

Copy. 

Downing Street, November 23, 1801. 
Sir : 

Mr. King, the American Minister at this Court, having repre- 
sented to me that several American Vessels, destined for the Port 
of Havre, have been recently captured off that Port, and that the 
Owners of these Vessels and their Cargoes were from special cir- 
cumstances ignorant of the Blockade of the Port and of the 
notification thereof, at the period of their departure from the 
Ports of the United States, and of their respective captures ; I 
have it in command to desire you to signify to the Judge of the 
High Court of Admiralty, that considering the ignorance of the 
Blockade of Havre de Grace (notwithstanding the notification 
thereof) under which the American Vessels lately taken, were 
going to that Port, and the special circumstances which have 
occasioned such ignorance ; and considering also the communi- 
cations which had passed upon the subject between Mr. King, 
the Minister of the United States and his Majesty's Servants 
previous to the capture of those Vessels, it is his Majesty's 
pleasure that all the Rights and Interests which may belong to 
him in such captured Vessels and their Cargoes shall be given up 
and released, and that the proprietors thereof, who were really so 
ignorant of the Blockade shall be relieved as far as by law they 
may from any penalties to which their property would otherwise 
be exposed on account of its being destined to a Blockaded 
Port. 

I have the honour to be &c 

Hawkesbury. 

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 43 

Lord Dunmore.* 

Sir Andrew J. Hammond, who commanded the naval force on 
board of wh. Lord Dunmore, with Gov. Eden of Maryland, took 
refuge told me that not 4 Genn. of the Country joined Lord 
Dunmore, indeed he said he remembered none but Warmely ; 
that the negroes carried off were about 700 ; that those who 
adhered to Lord Dunmore were chiefly Scotchmen from the 
shores of Virginia. When he left the Chesapeake on Sir Wm. 
and Lord Howe's arrival at N. York, he had near 150 transports 
with Lord Dunmore and his adherents on board ; that Dunmore 
wished to have burned and destroyed the country ; that he re- 
sisted it and proposed to him the plan to leave the Chesapeake 
and to send his Lps. adherents to St. Augustine, Bermudas & 
Halifax, wh. he did. 

That owing to the attacks of the Provincials he cd. not water 
the Transports and was obliged to go up the Potomac with all the 
empty casks he cd. collect to take in fresh water. It was on this 
expedition, which was solely for water, that Dunmore wanted to 
land and burn Brent or Brett's house on the Potomac. This he, 
Hammond, resisted till the Provincials assembled on the shore 
and fired upon & wounded two or three of his men and killed one 
as they passed in their boats from ship to ship. Dunmore then 
renewed the proposal of landing, to wh. he consented, & Lord 
Dunmore landed with about 1000 men, drove the Provincials 
killing 18 or 20, burned Brent or Brett's house, &c, and laid 
waste the country for five miles round, reembarking in the evg. 
with a trifling loss. In the night a boat came to them from 
Alexandria, offering to pilot them and serve as guides to burn 
Alexandria & Gen. Washington's house. Dunmore was eager to 
embark at 12 o'clock that night ; he opposed, said the burning of 
houses & towns wd. not serve to reconcile America & Engd., and 
to Dunmore's great mortification informed him that so far from 
permitting the expedition agt. Alexandria, he wd. the next morn- 
ing weigh anchor and return down the Chesapeake, wh. he said 
he did tho' not more than f of the water casks had been filled. 

Afterwards he said that Genl. Washington whom he knew per- 
sonally & had before passed a week or more with him at Mount 
Vernon, sent his Aid de Camp Hamilton to thank him for his 
forbearance and moderation when near Alexandria. 
* Memorandum Book. 

44 RUFUS KING. [1801 

Hawkesbury.* 

Dec. 26, 1801. 

Called on Ld. Hawkesbury and delivered to him the draught of 
a Convention including the articles before settled concerning the 
6th. Article of the Treaty of 1794, & an addl. one respecting the 
Commission under the 7th. Article. I had before sent him this 
last article, but now delivered the entire draught. He said he 
wd. take the earliest opportunity to see Ld. Eldon, and on my 
explaining the objections to the awards being paid into the Bank 
&c, as had been proposed, he appeared to acquiesce and approve 
the modification I had suggested. 

The conversation took a turn towards general politics. He 
asked my opinion of the success of the Fr. Exp. to St. Domingo, 
wh. gave me an opportunity to speak of the force sent ; wh. he 
said they were told by the Fr. Govt, would be 15 ships of the line 
and 20,000 troops. I said the best hopes of success were placed 
in managing Toussaint, who was ignorant, superstitious and as 
far as one cd. judge a suitable character for the experiment ; un- 
less the Fr. went this way to work they wd. fail, &c. Lord H. 
said that there were difft. opinions among their best informed 
men ; Maitland & he believed a majority of opinions inclined to 
this conclusion. ' 

He asked me if I had heard any thing farther from Paris re- 
specting Louisiana. — I answered in the negative, except that I 
had heard the Govt, had been offered to Massena at the same 
time that the Embassy to Petersburgh and Constantinople were 
offered to him. 

Ld. H. said that the French wd. make great exertions to im- 
prove & extend their colonies ; that during the negotiations 
they always insisted upon the necessity of their having extensive 
colonies at the close of the war, as Eng. had at the close of her 
civil war ; and whither they might send their perturbed spirits, 
&c. Lannes had been sent to Portugal, Macdonald to Copen- 
hagen and doubtless Massena wd. be persuaded to go to Con- 
stantinople, &c. Ld. H. then enquired if I thought Otto wd. 
remain here, adding if Bonaparte was sincere for peace, &c, it 
wd. be the best proof he cd. give to leave Otto here. Besides 

* Memorandum Book. 

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 45 

London wd. not be a proper place to send Massena or any others 
of wh. he may be jealous, as from its proximity it wd. be convenient 
to carry on, and with the utmost safety, any conspiracy agt. him. 
It was impossible to say what the situation of France is to be ; 
whether the old family would be restored or a new dynasty estab- 
lished. Bonaparte was as strong and as well prepared as he or 
any one could be. St. Cloud which was repairing was one of the 
strongest military posts about Paris. All Europe at present held 
the same language ; all are rejoiced at peace ; it is popular every- 
where and the minds of men in every Cabinet and State, fatigued 
with the cares and efforts of war, are anxious for repose, so that 
from without Bonaparte has nothing to apprehend. . . . 

Bonaparte was certainly an extraordinary character ; he has 
satisfied his ambition as a warrior, and was now aiming at repu- 
tation as a statesman. His views were turned to commerce, 
manufactures, finance &c ; success in these pursuits peace. At 
present he has great difficulties on acct. of the state of credit, 
public and private ; and his most pressing labour must be to 
overcome these difficulties ; they certainly were formidable and 
one must wait to see the effect of his plans. 

William Pinkney to R. King. 

Bath, J any 9, 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

I have had the pleasure to receive your letter of yesterday and 
have communicated the gratifying intelligence contained in it to 
Mr. Trumbull. 

I offer you my sincere congratulations on the successful close 
of the business, the whole course of which must have been to 
you a trial of patience,* for which nothing but the actual issue 
could compensate. 

* Mr. Gore, who was in Paris awaiting the decision as to the reassembling of 
the Commission under the 7th Article, had written to Mr. King, Oct. 15, 1801. 
I have known too intimately the trials which your patience has experienced in 
this unnecessarily protracted negotiation, and your repeated sacrifice of per- 
sonal feeling to public duty, not to appreciate the weight of this new disap- 
pointment, the more aggravated as it could not have been suspected by the 
most jealous distrust. Should the business fail now, it will display such a 
character in one party as to leave no doubts in the other of its future conduct, 
& of the relation, which the two countries must ever bear to each other. 

46 RUFUS KING. [180 1 

As it is stipulated that the Commission under the 7th Article 
is to recommence immediately, I presume that it will be proper 
that the absent members of the Board shd. repair with as little 
delay as possible to London. My own wish, indeed, wd. have 
been to remain here a few weeks longer for the benefit of the 
waters. . . . 

Will you allow me to enquire whether it has been found practi- 
cable to introduce into the Convention a clause relative to the 

Bank Stock ? 

With unfeigned Esteem. 

Wm Pinkney. 

January (probably 8th) 1802. 

* Ld. Hawkesbury, having notified Mr. King that the 
draught of the Convention, having been agreed upon, shd. 
be engrossed and ready for signature the next day, he de- 
sired him to meet him then at his office for the purpose of 
signature. Mr. King says : 

On my arrival at the hour assigned, Mr. Hammond desired me 
to go into the room of Mr. Rolliston, the first Clerk, who had 
prepared two copies, & Lord Hawkesbury being engaged, I 
collated the copies with Mr. Rolliston, who put Lord Hawkes- 
bury's & my seals to them. As he was about to affix the seals I 
asked him if he had received any instructions how to place them, 
he answered no, but that they should be placed on a line. I ac- 
quiesced and the seals were so placed. Mr. Hammond then joined 
us and we went into Lord Hawkesbury's room, where we signed 
in the presence of Hammond, his Lordship signing first. I then 
mentioned that it was of no consequence, but I was not sure that 
the signatures and seals had not, as on former occasions, been 
one above the other & not on a line. Hammond immediately 
turned to the Treaty of 1794 and found that such had been the 
mode of execn. Lord Hawkesbury did not appear to think the 
difference of consequence, & I immediately said it was an affair 
of no importance — as between us and them there cd. be no dis- 
pute about questions of this sort, any interference of Pretensions 

* Memorandum Book. 

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 47 

wd. doubtless relate to more interesting concerns. Lord Hawkes- 
bury treated the subject as of no significance— and the third and 
fourth copies, which were not signed until two or three days 
afterwards, were executed in like manner as the first. 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. 48. 

London January 9, 1802. 
Sir: 

At length I am able to send you a Convention which I yester- 
day signed with Lord Hawkesbury, respecting the 6th & 7th 
Articles of our Treaty of 1794. The Commutation of the 6th 
article of the Treaty of 1794, and the confirmation so far as it 
respects the future operation of the 4th Article of the Treaty of 
Peace remain as they were settled in October last : and I have 
nothing to add to my former reports upon these Points. The 
Claim upon us to consent to a commutation of the 7 th Article 
has been given up, and it is agreed that the Commissioners shall 
reassemble and proceed in the execution of their duties, accord- 
ing to the provisions of the Article, except only that instead of 
their demands being made payable at such times as they should 
appoint, the same shall be payable in three equal instalments, 
corresponding with those to be paid in America. 

As our Claims are to be ascertained by the Board of Commis- 
sioners, which has heretofore added interest up to the day on 
which its awards were made payable, and which is at liberty to 
do so in respect to their future awards, the payment by instal- 
ment's may not be thought a material disadvantage, the main 
point, that of ascertaining the amount of our claims being satisfac- 
tory secured. Having already burdened my correspondence 
with pieces and reports upon these Subjects, which I fear have 
been thought both tedious and uninteresting, I do not add, by 
way of supplement, a particular account of what has passed since 
the date of my No. 40, especially as the discussion has related 
solely to the Commission in London, the agreement respecting 
which is too explicit to stand in need of explanation. 

48 RUFUS KING. [1801 

Two Copies of the Convention have been executed, one of 
which will be enclosed with the original of this Letter ; two more 
copies are preparing and will in like manner be executed as 
originals, and endorsed with the Duplicate and Triplicate hereof. 
I shall likewise send you copies of Lord Hawkesbury's full 
powers as soon as they can be prepared ; those which I made 
use of are dated June 10, 1796. 

Lord Hawkesbury has agreed to send a copy of the third 
article of the Convention to the British Commissioners ; in like 
manner, I shall send a copy of it to the American Commissioners ; 
and as they are all upon the spot, they will be at liberty to resume 
their business without farther delay. It will perhaps be thought 
most convenient that the Ratifications should be exchanged here. 

The Lord Chancellor has assured me that the Maryland Claim 
shall speedily be decided in his Court ; a measure, it seems, 
deemed necessary to enable the Crown to signify its pleasure 
respecting the Bank Stock. Although the disappointments we 
have met with on this Subject must weaken our confidence in the 
course we have been pursuing, I think it would be impolitic at 
present to change it ; the claim, which in my conviction is most 
just, shall continue to receive my unremitting attention. 
With Perfect Respect & Esteem &c. 

Rufus King. 

R. King to James Madison, Esq. 

Private. 

London January II, 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

Although for the reason suggested in my official correspondence 
I have omitted to send you an account of what passed respecting 
the Viand VII Articles of the Treaty of 1794, subsequent to Mr. 
Dawson's departure, I have on reflection thought it might be satis- 
factory and perhaps useful that I should in this way supply the 
omission. 

Lord Grenville on being consulted by Lord Hawkesbury having 
given an explicit opinion that he had in no respect pledged the 
Government concerning the settlement of the 6th & 7th Articles 
of the Treaty of 1794, and that the execution of the latter article 

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 49 

according to its provisions would be a measure which ought to 
have a material influence on the ascertainment of the sum to be 
accepted for the abolition of the former, I prepared and sent to 
Mr. Addington a concise view of the origin, progress and present 
situation of the Negotiation, corresponding with a more detailed 
Statement which I likewise sent to the Lord Chancellor, and a 
copy of which is annexed. Special considerations induced me to 
prefer this manner of making the representation, to one that 
would have been more regular, and which I remained at liberty 
to make, should circumstances require it. In subsequent con- 
versations with Mr. Addington, I had reason to be satisfied with 
the steps I had taken ; for he told me that he saw the subject in 
its true light and was ready to admit that to those who were 
ignorant of personal characters, the objection if persisted in, 
would unavoidably have the appearance of a mere expedient. To 
him as well as Lord Hawkesbury I took pains to explain the 
mutual advantages of a friendly settlement, and the impossibility 
that I could consent to change the footing upon which the ques- 
tion was now placed. 

The business remained in this situation until the middle of 
December, when Lord Hawkesbury informed me that having 
again been considered by the Cabinet, it had been decided to 
close the affair of the Convention upon the Terms which had 
already been settled, and to agree that the Commissioners under 
the 7th Article should proceed, provided their awards instead of 
being payable as they should appoint should be payable by 
instalments corresponding with those to be paid in America ; and 
the money deposited in the Bank of England, to be applied on 
account of the American instalments, which, to an equal amount, 
should be converted into a fund to satisfy the awards in favor of 
American claimants. 

After taking time to consider this communication, it appeared 
to me to offer the means of bringing the business to a conclusion ; 
taken together it amounted to this proposition, that they would 
accept ^600,000 payable by instalments in lieu of the 6th Article, 
in the execution of which they had a majority of voices, and con- 
sent to the execution of the 7th Article according to its Pro- 
visions, in which we have a majority of voices ; provided the 
payments to be made by them should be at the same time as 

50 RUFUS KING. [1802 

those to be made by us. The two Commissions having been 
considered as reciprocal checks upon each other in the hands of 
the respective Governments, the converse of this arrangement 
will test its merits and determine whether we ought to have re- 
jected it. I thought not ; but disliked the mode in which the 
end aimed at was to be attained, and therefore prepared an article 
which, by making the awards payable by instalments to the 
Claimants, should attain the same end in a more convenient 
manner. The sum of the awards would be greater or less than 
^600,000 ; for it was not likely to be precisely that sum ; if less, 
a balance must still be remitted from America ; if more, in every 
instalment of every award, the American Claimant would have to 
receive part of his instalment in America and the balance in 
England. Besides the trouble of the accounts which must be 
kept upon this plan, it would create considerable inconvenience, 
and perhaps injustice ; for all the American Claimants had been 
called upon to execute Powers of Attorney and appoint Agents to 
conduct their claims in England, and with much trouble and some 
expence had complied with this demand. These Claimants, in 
some cases, had deceased ; in others, become insolvent ; and in 
not a few instances (including perhaps cases of insolvency) having 
anticipated the awards in their favour, had authorized their attor- 
nies to reimburse their advances out of the monies which might 
come into their hands from the awards ; besides the plan con- 
tained no provision in respect to awards in favour of British 
subjects. 

Upon stating these objections to the Lord Chancellor, he ex- 
pressed his preference of the article which I had prepared, and 
which was finally adopted. Another objection, which it was not 
necessary for me to mention to the Chancellor, had its influence 
upon my mind ; I mean the appearance which this arrangement 
would have produced, that the two countries had mutually re- 
leased each other and had agreed to pay their own Sufferers, an 
appearance that might have encouraged the Sufferers by French 
Depredations to call upon Congress to indemnify their losses. 
What Congress would be inclined to do upon such application it 
is in every respect unfit for me to conjecture ; tho* in forming a 
contract in behalf of the public, it was my duty to take care that 
its deliberations should not be embarrassed by even the appear- 
ance of a Precedent, should the supposed case arise. 

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 5 1 

I take the liberty of adding a word or two to my former com- 
munications concerning the II. Article. What is to be deemed a 
bona fide Debt, in the sense of the last clause of that Article, will 
not depend upon a reference to what was once so, but is a judicial 
question within the competence of our Tribunals to determine, 
and which must consequently be decided by those general and 
acknowledged Principles, by which the Decisions are in similar 
cases uniformly governed. If I be not mistaken, it is here under- 
stood and expected that the affairs of the old Debts is finally 
settled as between the two Governments, and with that share of 
Prudence which it behooves the Tribunals of every country to 
observe in questions affected by national stipulations, I am per- 
suaded that we shall hear no more of them. 

Having for many years thought the settlement now accom- 
plished to be a measure of national importance, and one that had, 
in some degree, become indispensable to do away prejudices that 
interested and disappointed men had raised against our public 
faith, I may, I hope, be permitted, in a private letter to you, to 
observe that I have pursued this negotiation with zeal and per- 
severance, notwithstanding the mass of misrepresentation, preju- 
dice and error with which it has been encumbered. I have done 
so in circumstances often discouraging and sometimes apparently 
desperate ; cheering myself always with these reflections, which I 
have somewhere met with, that it is the duty of every one en- 
trusted with what concerns the welfare of his country, in the 
midst of Despair to perform all the offices of Hope. How far 
what is done has been well done remains to be determined. If 
the President and Senate approve, I shall have nothing to regret. 
With sincere regard and esteem &c. &c. 

Rufus King. 

Mr. King, having finally accomplished the work which he 
had so sedulously sought, under so many difficulties and dis- 
couragements, to bring to an end, naturally closes his private 
letter to Mr. Madison with a reference to these difficulties, in 
the overcoming of which he had been so patient and had been 
encouraged by a deep sense of duty. Those who have fol- 
lowed the correspondence on the subject will see how ably, 
clearly, and yet courteously, Mr. King met and finally over- 

52 RUFUS KING. [1802 

came the studied delays interposed by the British Ministers, 
and the frivolous pretexts for postponing action. It cannot 
be doubted that the personal respect in which he was held 
contributed largely in bringing about the result. 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. 49. 

London, Jan. 12, 1802. 
Sir: 

. . . There is reason to believe the business of the definitive 
Treaty is going on in a conciliatory way, and as soon as the 
variety of inferior points, brought forward by the Parties to the 
Preliminaries, shall have been discussed and decided, that the 
definitive Treaty will be completed. The consent of this Govern- 
ment to the sailing of the French expedition to St. Domingo is 
in itself a measure of such importance, as can leave no doubt of 
its opinion respecting the issue of the Congress at Amiens. 

It is true that an English squadron of equal force to that of 
France was to have proceeded to the West Indies about the same 
time, that the French squadron sailed, and that it was prevented 
only by a Mutiny of the crews of several of the ships, which had 
been ordered upon the Service. This Squadron which had been 
collected upon the Western coast of Ireland, has returned to 
Portsmouth, where a Court Martial is now sitting for the trial of 
the Ringleaders of the Mutiny. These to the number of ten or 
twelve will probably suffer ; after which the Squadron will pro- 
ceed to Jamaica whither a number of other ships have been sent 
in consequence of the Mutiny, and which will be relieved upon 
the arrival of those originally destined for that Station. The 
Mutiny is said to have arisen from an aversion to the West Indies, 
as an unhealthy service, joined to the desire of being paid off and 
discharged at the end of the war. It is somewhat remarkable 
that the Ringleaders in the revolt are all Englishmen, a distinc- 
tion that in the former Mutinies, belonged as exclusively to the 
Irish. . . . 

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c. 

Rufus King. 

CHAPTER IV. 

King to Madison — Asks Permission to travel on the Continent — King to J. 
Adams — Sending a Copy of the Convention just signed — King to Marshall 
— Explanation of the Convention — King to Secretary of State — Cession of 
Louisiana— Lord Hawkesbury's Views — King to R. R. Livingston — Cession 
of Louisiana — Not to be referred to at Amiens — Great Britain does not 
wish it — King suggests a temperate Statement against it with France — 
J. Q. Adams to King — Discussion of the President's Message — Treasury 
Report pleasing — Probable Action of the Administration — Aim for Popu- 
larity— King to Secretary of State — Conference with Lord Hawkesbury 
relative to the Footing of our Navigation on Return of Peace — To discon- 
tinue countervailing Duties — Harmony of England and continental mari- 
time Nations will not be re-established by the Peace — King to Lord 
Hawkesbury— Expediency of abolishing alien tonnage Duty — King to 
Secretary of State — Treaty not yet signed — Fleet from Brest not yet sailed 
for St. Domingo — Sweden acceded to Convention of Petersburg — Proba- 
ble Change of Ministry unfounded — Madison to King — Appointment of 
G. W. Ewing as Consul — King to Parker — Sending his Son James to 
School at Paris. 

R. King to James Madison. 

Private. 

London, January 12, 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

From the month of May till September or October, including 
what is here called the long vacation, very little business can be 
done in London, it being the custom of almost all official char- 
acters to pass the Summer in the Country and to visit London as 
seldom as they can. 

I am not aware that anything very pressing will in the course 
of the Summer, especially if the Peace be definitely settled, be 
likely to require my Services ; and I should like, if I could do so 
without interfering with my official duties, to employ the time in 
seeing a little of France and some parts of the neighbouring 

53 

54 RUFUS KING. [1802 

Countries. This I should not think of doing, if my visit to Wash- 
ington shall be thought advantageous nor in any event without 
the permission of the President. 

With Sincere Esteem, &c. 

Rufus King. 

R. King to His Excellency John Adams. 

London, January 12, 1802. 
Sir: 

I have the honour to send you enclosed the copy of a Conven- 
tion which I have signed with Lord Hawkesbury concerning 
the 6th & 7th Articles of the Treaty of 1794. As the discussions 
which have led to this result were begun and conducted under 
your instructions, I feel it to be my Duty, as well as a mark of 
Respect that is due to you, to send you this Copy by the same 
opportunity that I avail myself of to transmit the original to the 
Department of State. 

No one knows more thoroughly than you do the source of those 
Difficulties, often discouraging, & sometimes disgusting, which 
continue to encumber our negotiations with this Government ; 
the affair of the Debts of all others was the most likely to revive 
feelings and prejudices not yet extinguished, and which have been 
suffered to do so much real disservice to both Countries ; I have 
notwithstanding persevered and waded through — whether meri- 
toriously or otherwise, is a question that I must refer to those 
whose Province it is to decide. 

With entire respect and the most sincere attachment &c. 

Rufus King. 

R. King to Chief- Justice Marshall. 

Private. 

London, J any. 12, 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

It was more than six months after you left the Department of 
State before I received your last official letter, which was accom- 
panied by a private one of nearly the same date. I ought sooner 
to have acknowledged its receipt but I have been waiting in hopes 
that I should be enabled to inform you, which I have now the 

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 55 

satisfaction of doing, that the difficulties respecting the execution 
of the 6th & 7th Articles of the Treaty of 1794 had been settled. 
I have signed a Convention with Lord Hawkesbury by which 
England agrees to accept ;£ 600,000 payable in three equal instal- 
ments of one, two and three years next after the date of the Ex- 
change of Ratifications, in satisfaction of her claims under the 
6th Article, which is abolished ; and moreover consents that the 
Commissioners under the 7th Article shall immediately reassemble 
and proceed in the discharge of their duties according to the 
Provisions of the Article, excepting that instead of the awards 
being made payable at such times as they might appoint, the same 
shall be payable in three equal instalments corresponding with 
those to be paid by the U. S. The Second Art. of the Conven- 
tion is in these words, "Whereas it is agreed by the 4th Article of 
the definitive Treaty of Peace, concluded at Paris on the 3d day 
of September, 1783, between his B. M. and the U. S. that 
creditors on either side should meet with no lawful impediments 
to the recovery of the full value in Sterling money of all 
bonafide Debts theretofore contracted, it is hereby declared that 
the said 4th Article, so far as it respects its future operation, is 
hereby recognized, confirmed and declared to be binding and 
obligatory on his B. M. & the said U. S., and the same shall be 
accordingly observed with punctuality and good faith, and so as 
that the said Creditors shall hereafter meet with no lawful impedi- 
ment to the recovery of the full value in Sterling money of their 
bonafide Debts." 

This Article was inserted for the purpose of enabling the Eng- 
lish minister to meet the complaints of the creditors against the 
sum we are to pay, by referring them to their judicial remedies. 
We could have no objection to it, provided it was so drawn up as 
not to enlarge the legal operation of the Article it recognizes. 
Upon this point I have no doubt. It confirms the future opera- 
tion of the 4th Article, or in other words, limits its operation to 
what is now a legal subject for it to operate upon ; what is now a 
bona fide Debt, that is what is a legal subject, will not depend 
upon a reference to what once might have been so, but is a ques- 
tion of judicial competence, and must consequently be decided 
by those general and acknowledged Principles by which similar 
cases are decided. Here it is understood and expected that the 

$6 RUFUS KING. [1802 

affair of the Debts is finally settled as between the two Govern- 
ments ; and with that share of Prudence which the Tribunals of 
every country are disposed to observe in questions affected by 
National stipulations, I am persuaded we shall hear no more of 
them. Being pressed for time to complete my official Dispatches 
in season for the Packet, I will only add to this hasty communi- 
cation the assurance of sincere regard & respect, with which 

&c, 

Rufus King. 

P.S. I have sent to the S. of S. a full and exact report of 
every material occurrence which happened in the course of a 
difficult and tedious discussion respecting this settlement. 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. 50. 

London, Jan. 15, 1802. 
Sir : 

I have before mentioned to you that the cession of Louisiana 
(of which it seems to me, we can have doubt, notwithstanding 
what may be said to amuse us) was not once a topic of Enquiry 
or discussion in the negotiation of the Preliminaries ; and for the 
same reason that it was not heard of on that occasion Lord 
Hawkesbury has * recently informed me that it had not been and 
could not be mentioned at Amiens. It is impossible for me to 
suspect collusion in this affair and my persuasion, after the most 
careful attention, is that England abstains from mixing herself 
in it, precisely from those considerations which have led her to 
acquiesce in others of great importance to the Balance of Europe, 
as well as her own repose, and upon which she has been altogether 
silent. 

The expedition to St. Domingo did not sail without previous 
explanations between London and Paris ; its destination was 
understood to be exclusively to that colony ; at present it is 
conjectured should the situation of St. Domingo not require the 
whole force, that a part of it will be sent to take possession of 
New Orleans. 

* Italics in cipher. 

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. $? 

I have sent to Mr. Livingston a Copy of the Paper enclosed in 
my No. 42.,* and shall give to him whatever information upon 
this and other interesting subjects it may be in my power to do. 

As the object and words of the 2nd Article of the Convention 
will be sought for and examined with care and attention, it occurs 
to me upon the revision of my former communications to suggest 
a single observation in addition to those heretofore made. If the 
second article of the Convention had been entirely omitted, the 
4th Article of the Treaty of Peace would have remained in full 
force and operation ; the adoption of the second article of the 
Convention limits its force and operation in respect to subjects 
upon which it once might have so operated, but upon which from 
various causes it can and ought not in future to operate ; this 
reflection pursued in its detail will place the article in its true 
light. 

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c. 

Rufus King. 

R. King to R. R. Livingston. 

London, Jan. 16, 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

If you have received my letter of the 5 th, the enclosure, the 
authenticity whereof I have no reason to doubt, will cast some 
light upon the subject of your last. During the negotiation of 
the Preliminaries, I conversed again and again with the Prime 
Minister and Secretary of State for Foreign Ajfairs concerning 
the cession of Louisiana, who f assured me that the measure was in 
their view of much importance, and one which they could not see 
but with great concern ; nevertheless that they were unable to 
interfere respecting it, for the same reason which compelled them 
to silence concerning other important objects, affecting the equi- 

* Vol. iv., p. 15. The Copy of the Paper referred to was in some way 
omitted on page 15. The 5th article of that Treaty is in these words : 

" Ce Traite etant en consequence de celui deja conclu entre Le Premier 
Consul et S. M. E. par lequel Le Roi cede a la France sa Possession de la 
Louisiane les Parties Contractantes conviennent d'effectuer le dit Traite et de 
s'arranger a l'egard de leurs Droits respectifs.'' 

The previous treaty to which reference is made was signed Oct. 1, 1800. 

f Italics in cipher. 

1/ 

58 RUFUS KING. [1802 

librium of Europe, and the welfare of Great Britain j and I am 
disposed to credit the assurances made to me that the cession was 
neither a subject of enquiry nor discussion during the negotiation 
of the Preliminaries. 

I have since more than once conversed with the same Persons, 
with the view of impressing upon them the great importance in a 
variety of respects of this cession, especially as it will affect the 
security of their colonies, and offers the means of rearing up and 
extending the commercial marine of France, the only sure foun- 
dation upon which she can raise a navy that will be able to cope 
with that of England. Reflections and views of this sort have 
produced a revision of the Question, but with no other effect than 
to confirm the decision before made ; and you may infer with 
confidence that not a word has been or will be said upon the sub- 
ject at Amiens. 

In the explanations which took place concerning the Expedi- 
tion that has lately sailed from France, it was here understood 
that it was to be wholly confined to the West Indies : the answer 
to my Enquiries was to this effect ; lately however an opinion 
gains strength that a part of the force, should the situation of St. 
Domingo permit, will be sent to New Orleans. I have been ex- 
plicitly told that no such authentic information has been here re- 
ceived, and that it is not likely to happen before the definitive 
Treaty is concluded. On the whole I am persuaded that G. 
Britain will see with much concern the accomplishment of this 
cession ; that it is her interest, and that therefore she will be dis- 
posed, to throw impediments in the way of its being completed, 
but that she will use no open measure of opposition, nor such as 
would afford a Pretence to involve her in new difficulties. 

Unless Spain is besotted and blind indeed she must desire with 
anxiety to avail herself of every assistance to get rid of the cession 
of Louisiana. Mr. P — y has without doubt taken the earliest 
opportunity to explain the light in which the measure is viewed 
by us and he might with confidence infer the disinclination re- 
specting it of G. Britain. 

Whether it can now be prevented is a question of considerable 
difficulty ; but in whatever concerns the welfare of one's country, 
we are called upon even in circumstances of despair to perform 
the Duties of Hope. My principal reliance would, I confess, be 

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 59 

placed upon a temperate, plain, and explicit representation to the 
French Government, which should expose without reserve, and, if 
the first essay should authorize it, in great detail the extent of the 
mischiefs, which we may be made to suffer from the completion 
of the cession, accompanying the same by assurances of our earnest 
desire to live in friendship and harmony with France, and to cul- 
tivate and extend commercial relations between the two Coun- 
tries, and concluding with a direct insinuation that foreseeing as 
we do the pernicious influence of the measure upon our political 
and social happiness, it will be impossible for us to see it carried 
into operation with indifference ; or afterwards to preserve unim- 
paired the Confidence we wish to do, in the friendship of a 
Nation, towards which we cherish the grateful Remembrance of 
important services. 

If France value our friendship, or if she care nothing about us, 
except as her own interest requires, to prevent our too intimate 
connection with her Rival, the development before hand, of what 
we believe will be the consequence of measures in the accomplish- 
ment of which she is engaged, may have the effect to prevent them. 

But I have to entreat your Pardon for any suggestions on my 
part upon Subjects which your superior Judgment and experience 
are much more capable than mine to conduct. 

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c. 

Rufus King. 

J. Q. Adams to R. King. 

Boston, January 18, 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

. . . Our political atmosphere still remains serene. Since 
the meeting of Congress, it appears there is a large majority in 
the House of Representatives, and a decided, though small one 
in the Senate, favourable to the views of the Executive. The 
measures recommended by the President at the opening of the 
Session, are all popular, in all parts of the union — But they are 
all undergoing a scrutiny in the public newspapers more able and 
more severe than they will probably meet in either house of Con- 
gress. A writer in the New-York evening post, said to be General 
Hamilton, has undertaken particularly to point out great and 

60 RUFUS KING. [1802 

comprehensive errors of system in the message, and his doctrines 
find great approbation among the federalists, and among all those 
who consider themselves as the profound thinkers of the nation. 
These papers, will without doubt be transmitted to you by your 
friends at New York, and they, with the President's Message and 
the Report from the Secretary of the Treasury, will give you the 
fairest view of what our Administration and our opposition are at 
this time. As to Congress there has yet been no subject of de- 
bate before them, which has called forth any energy of opposition, 
The apparently leading ministerial members are General Smith, 
Mr. Giles and Mr. Randolph. The Vice-President has not yet 
made his appearance, being detained by necessary attention to 
his private concerns at New York. 

The report from the Treasury exhibits a pleasing view of the 
present state of our finances. It is merely a statement, and 
avoids with caution the proposal of any measures. The Presi- 
dent however has drawn from it the inference that our internal 
taxes ought to be repealed. This measure will probably be 
carried into effect. The established system of naturalization, and 
the judicial courts will have the same fate. Of all these changes 
the advantages are immediate, obvious, popular, and trifling. 
Their probable inconveniences are remote, are therefore not dis- 
cernible to the short sight of the million ; and are of the most 
weighty consequence. As popularity is the fundamental principle 
both of our legislature and Executive, they will be satisfied to 
provide for the occasions of the day, and leave the future times 
to take care of themselves. 

With the highest regard and esteem, I am, dear Sir, faithfully 

yours, 

John Q. Adams. 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. 51. 

London, Feb. 5, 1802. 
Sir : 

Having carefully examined what would be the footing of our 
Navigation with the British Dominions upon the return of Peace, 
I was quite prepared for, and indeed by several conversations 

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 6 1 

with Mr. Addington, and other members of the Administration, 
had already brought under consideration, the Subject of your 
Letter, of the ioth of December, which I received a few days ago. 

Immediately after its receipt, I intimated to Lork Hawkesbury 
my desire to confer with him, respecting the points to which it 
relates, and upon his naming a day for this purpose, I prepared 
and sent him the paper a copy of which is annexed. Yesterday 
I received a duplicate of your letter of December 22nd, which has 
enabled me to be more explicit than I otherwise should have 
been, in my conference of this morning with Lord Hawkesbury. 
I began it by observing that during the continuance of the war, 
which had the effect to procure to our vessels some preference 
over others, we had not called their attention to the inequality of 
their Laws in respect to the Commercial intercourse between the 
two countries : but as the war was now at an end, we could not 
delay calling upon them to revise these Commercial Regulations, 
in order that they may be made comfortable to the respective 
Rights of the two Countries. 

The revision of certain Branches of these Regulations being 
more urgent than that of others, and the countervailing Duties 
upon articles imported into Great Britain in American Vessels 
appearing to be the most urgent, I confined my observations 
chiefly to this point ; explaining to Lord Hawkesbury my mo- 
tives for doing so, and after suggesting some further reflexions in 
addition to those contained in the paper I sent to him, I proposed 
that they should agree 

either 

To discontinue the countervailing Duties on Articles imported 
from the United States in American Vessels, as soon as the differ- 
ence of Duties on articles imported into the United States in 
American and British Vessels shall be abolished, 

or 

To repeal the countervailing Duties upon imports and impose 
Duties upon all articles exported from Great Britain to the United 
States in American Vessels, corresponding with the difference of 
Duties, payable upon the importation of the like articles into the 
United States in American and British vessels. 

Lord Hawkesbury admitted that the only legitimate purpose of 
the countervailing Right reserved to Great Britain, was to equal- 

62 RUFUS KING. [1802 

ize the advantages and disadvantages of the vessels of the two 
countries in their commercial intercourse ; he said not a single 
word in vindication of the manner in which this right had been 
exercised ; and after intimating a preference of the first of the 
two propositions which I had made, he said he would submit the 
subject immediately to the Cabinet, and apprize me of its decision 
with as little delay as possible. 

The American Mail was to have been despatched to-morrow, 
but upon my expressing to Lord Hawkesbury my hope that a few 
days only would be requisite to enable him to give me an answer 
upon the subject of our Conference, and my solicitude to trans- 
mit it to you by the Packet, he said he would order the Packet to 
be detained. 

The few words which I said concerning the Tonnage Duty were 
in every respect conformable to the observations on that subject, 
in the paper sent to Lord Hawkesbury ; and the more I con- 
sider it, the more am I satisfied we shall find the advantage of 
establishing Light-house Duties so as to be distinct from the 
public Revenue. 

Lord Hawkesbury assured me that the subject of the West 
India Trade should be immediately put in a train for examination. 

I have but one observation to add ; it is this, that the return 
of Peace will not reestablish cordial harmony and good humour 
between this Country and the Maritime Nations of Europe, 
among which a general opinion prevails, whether correctly is 
another point, that the commercial and financial Prosperity of 
England is in too great a degree at the expence of her neighbours. 

These sentiments may lead to restrictions and embarrassments 
upon the European commerce of this country, which will not fail 
to make its Trade with us an object of still greater value and im- 
portance than it is already known and confessed to be. 

Difficulties of this sort are anticipated, and the Government 
consoles itself with the expectation of a progressive increase in 
the sale of its Manufactures in America. 

The inference from these remarks is, that the present time is a 
favourable one to press for the consideration and admission of 
our past claims to a fair and equal share of the advantages 
to be derived from the Navigation and Trade between the two 
countries. 

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 63 

The Regulations upon this subject should in the first instance 
be temporary and ex parte ; in this way they may be adjusted to 
the reciprocal Rights of the Parties, and then become matter of 
national Stipulation. 

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c 

Rufus King. 

R. King to Lord Hawkesbury. 

Great Cumberland Place, Feby. 9, 1802. 
My Lord : 

On revising my letter from the Secretary of State, I perceive 
that the same idea has suggested itself there, which your Lord- 
ship intimated to me yesterday, I mean the expediency of abol- 
ishing our Alien Tonnage Duty as well as 10 per cent upon our 
import Duties on goods imported in foreign vessels, the counter- 
vailing Duties here being likewise abolished ; and I therefore take 
the liberty of suggesting to your Lordship the expediency, that 
your act be so drawn up as to authorize the repeal of either or 
both of your countervailing Duties, upon due notice of a corre- 
sponding act on our part. 

I have reason to conjecture that such has already been the 
tenour of the Act of Congress, and on the presumption that an 
entire abolition of all discrimination is mutually our true policy, 
I beg to express a wish that your Act may be prepared in con- 
formity with the suggestion now made. 

With perfect Respect &c 

Rufus King. 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

London, Feb. 9, 1802. 
Sir : 

The definitive Treaty is not yet signed, but the preparations 
which are here making to reduce the war establishments, suffi- 
ciently evince the expectation of the Government upon this sub- 
ject. The virtual annexation to France of the Italian Republic, 
notwithstanding the manner and character of the measure, will 
not be an impediment to the conclusion of Peace on the side of 

64 RUFUS KING. [1802 

England, and Austria and the residue of Italy have no voice at 
Amiens. 

I do not learn what the Peace establishment of this country is 
likely to be ; the point can scarcely yet be decided, though every 
one agrees that it will be larger than formerly, and especially at 
Sea. There will be a squadron of from 20 to 25 Sail of the Line 
at Jamaica, during the continuance of the French land and naval 
forces in that quarter ; The expedition from Brest sailed on the 15 
of Deer., and on the 28th it had encountered three successive Gales 
without being able to clear the Bay of Biscay. Admiral Gravina, 
who put into Ferrol, parted with the fleet on the 28th, when only 
13 of 32 sail were together. Another ship has since reached 
Cadiz in distress, and the naval officers here believe that the ex- 
pedition must have suffered very considerably. 

The Fleet is said not to have been provisioned for more than 
four months, indeed considering the number of soldiers it carried, 
it could not well contain provisions for a longer period. Whether 
Toussaint submits or resists, it seems probable that the greater 
part of these Ships must proceed to the United States for repairs 
and provisions soon after they reach St. Domingo ; and possibly 
a detachment of the English Fleet may follow them ; of this you 
will before hand be able to judge from the preparations that will 
have been made for their reception. 

Denmark, as I have already informed you, has acceded to the 
Convention of Petersburgh : Sweden at first hesitated, then 
ordered her Minister here to notify to this Court her intention to 
accede, afterwards hesitated again, and instructed her Minister 
to ask certain explanations of England in respect to the seizure 
of her Convoy, and the catalogue of Contraband ; and upon re- 
ceiving for answer that her accession to the Convention of Peters- 
burgh must precede all discussion upon these points, it is now 
said, she will accede. Prussia has not acceded ; and having 
nothing to gain by it, will not be likely to do so. 

You may perhaps have observed in the late Continental, as well 
as in the English Papers, paragraphs stating a concert between 
England and France to repress the piratical practices of the Bar- 
bary Powers ; but there is not the smallest foundation for these 
reports, and I have reason to be satisfied that so far from a 
change of former views in this respect, not an intimation even 

802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 65 

upon this subject has been made by either Government to the 
other. 

The rumours circulated in the English Papers, of another 
change of Ministers appear to be equally unfounded ; the present 
administration continues to be popular ; as yet they have imposed 
no new burthens upon the country, and although the ardour 
which was so general in favour of Peace has somewhat abated, 
and men begin to speak with freedom of the great uncertainty 
of its duration, still those, who made it, did so with honest views 
and in compliance with the public wishes, and on this account are 
thought deserving of applause and support. It is doubtless true 
that the Peace, joined to the prolonged negotiations at Amiens, 
has produced a great stagnation of business in all the commer- 
cial Towns of the Country, and it is said that the last Quarter's 
Revenue will fall considerably short of its former sum ; but these 
embarrassments may prove to be only temporary, and after a 
while men may resume and adjust their affairs, according to the 
new order of things which Peace may establish. 
With perfect Respect & Esteem &c 

Rufus King. 

R. King to Daniel Parker, Paris. 

London, Feby. 12, 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

Our friend Mr. Gore having explained to you my desire to send 
one of my sons to a school in the neighbourhood of Paris, about 
which he took much pains to inform himself, I feel particularly 
grateful to you for the permission to place him under your imme- 
diate care. It has been my endeavour to impress upon his mind, 
that he is in every respect to regard you as he would me, and to 
use the same freedom in communicating to you whatever he 
ought and has been accustomed to communicate to me. My 
object is that he should obtain a solid education, and as I am 
pursuing the same plan with his two elder brothers here, I shall 
be enabled to compare and judge of their respective progress. 

Mr. Des Cassaignes, who does me the favor to take the charge 
of my son in his journey to Paris, will conduct him to your 

VOL. IV.— 5 

66 RUFUS KING. [1802 

house ; and it is my desire, after you shall have permitted him to 
go and pay his duty to Mr. Livingston and Family, that he may 
.without loss of time be sent to school. As he knows but little 
French and his school fellows and masters may know as little 
English, he will for a few weeks suffer some embarrassment, and 
on this account I take the liberty of begging you occasionally to 
call & see him. 

In respect to clothes, pocket money and whatever else regards 
the economy of the school, my wish is that he may be put upon a 
footing with his companions, and in no respect beneath them. . . 

With unfeigned regards, 

Rufus King. 

It would appear that the journey to his school at Bag- 
neux was a pleasant one and that he immediately deter- 
mined to study his surroundings, for the following letter, 
the first he wrote to his father, shows that he certainly was 
curious. He was not then eleven years old. 

Bagneux, ce 9 Ventose, 1802. 
Dear Papa : 

I hope you and Mamma are both pretty well, as I am. 

I came here on Thursday and begin to like it very well. For 
the two first days we had but soup and eggs for dinner with some 
bread and wine and water, and after dinner five walnuts ; but 
to-day we had meat and eggs and after dinner we had each a 
cake. To-day we went to church (the protestants do not go). 
I turned myself catholic and in going into the church I dipped 
my finger in the Holy water, and touched my forehead and then 
my belly and then my two breasts, then I went into the church 
and the parson preached in French and Latin, and throwed 
frankincense about the church and the parson took a sponge 
upon a stick and throwd Holy water upon all in the church, 
and then on going out of the church we put our fingers in the 
Holy water, which was in a brass bowl in the beginning of 
the church. Give my love to Mamma (who I hope is well) and 
Edward and the little boy. 

I remain, Dear Papa, your affectionate Son 

James King. 

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. §j 

The tone of his letters, of which many are preserved, give 
evidence that he at once entered cheerfully upon his new 
situation among strangers, whose language and habits were 
so different from those he had been accustomed to, and his 
father had the gratification to learn from friends in Paris and 
his teachers that his conduct and diligence were all that 
could be desired. 

CHAPTER V. 

King to Vansittart, Secretary of State, and Madison — Discriminating Duties 
on commercial Intercourse — England prepared to abolish them — Com- 
mission under 7th Article resumed their sittings — Sedgwick to King — 
Condition of Affairs in the U. S. as affected by Jefferson's Election — 
Ames to King — View of the Future not cheering — King to Madison — 
Delay of Negotiations at Amiens — Believes Peace will be concluded — 
Napoleon at Lyons appointed himself President of the Italian Repub- 
lic— King to Secretary of State — McDonough, British Agent at Tripoli, 
exculpates himself from Charges against him — Debate on Bill to suspend 
Tonnage and countervailing Duties — Definitely settled by France to send 
a Colony to Louisiana, unless Affairs in St."TJomingo prevent — King to 
Secretary of State— Ardour for Peace abating in England — Fleets to be put 
in Order. — Still believes there will be Peace chiefly advantageous to 
France — King to Secretary of State — Erving's Appointments — King to 
Secretary of State — Negotiations at Amiens still unsettled — Public Opin- 
ion in England seems to favor Rupture. 

R. King to Nicholas Vansittart, Esq. 

Private. 

Great Cumberland Place, Feb. 12, 1802. 
Sir: 

It will probably require three months to exchange the com- 
munications upon which our respective Governments can found 
their definite acts abolishing the discriminating Duties upon our 
commercial intercourse. It unfortunately so happens that these 
months will exclude the season, in which a considerable portion 
of our annual crops of Tobacco are shipped for a market ; and 
as a great number of our vessels are now out of employ, it will 
increase the embarrassments of their owners, if they are unable 
to engage in the carriage of Tobacco, as will be the case if your 
countervailing Duty upon this article be continued. 

While the war lasted, we did not complain, although we enter- 

68 

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 69 

tained the same opinion as I have expressed to you concerning 
the inequality of these Duties. If our acquiescence has been in 
some small degree beneficial to you, we have on that account no 
motive to regret it ; but it would in return be a considerable 
relief to us in the present situation of our navigation, if a clause 
could be inserted in the Bill proposed to be brought into Parlia- 
ment immediately repealing so much of the countervailing Duties 
as regards the article of Tobacco. There can be no doubt that 
the whole of these discriminating Duties upon our respective Im- 
ports will be done away, and I am' persuaded that we shall 
receive the anticipated repeal of the Duties on our Tobacco as 
another and liberal proof of your disposition to promote a friendly 
and harmonious intercourse between the two Countries. Should 
any difficulties arise in the execution of our present views, of 
which I have no apprehension, the subject will always remain 
under your control. 

With perfect Respect &c, 

Rufus King. 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. 53. 

London, Feb. 13, 1802. 
Sir : 

I am authorized to inform you that the British Government 
will without hesitation accede to a proposal for the abolition of 
all discrimination of Duties, affecting the Navigation and com- 
mercial intercourse between our and their Territories, and in 
consequence of what has passed upon this subject, a motion has 
already been made in the House of Commons by Mr. Vansittart 
of the Treasury to bring in a Bill authorizing his Majesty, at any 
time after the passing of the act, by an order of Council, or by 
Proclamation, to cause the countervailing Duties upon American 
Vessels and upon Articles imported on American Vessels, or 
either of them, or any part of the same, or of either of them, 
wholly to cease, or to be suspended for such period or periods as 
may be deemed expedient. We may count with certainty upon 
the passage of the Bill to a Law, and that the extent of repeal 
will be made to depend upon our own choice. 

I have suggested the equity and importance of an immediate 

JO RUFUS KING, [1802 

suspension of the countervailing Duty upon Tobacco, and the 
Bill is so drawn up, as leaves the Government at liberty at any 
time to take it off, in particular cases by an order in Council, or 
to suspend it generally by proclamation. I have however re- 
ceived no assurance that this will be done, and we consequently 
must not be disappointed if it should be refused. I will resume 
the subject should a favourable occasion offer to do so ; in the 
meantime, individuals may, upon the circumstances of their cases, 
ask for a remission of this Duty. 

Perhaps a future day will be named in our Law, or in the 
proclamation which the Law may authorize, upon which our dis- 
criminating Duties shall cease ; due notice of such measure 
would become the grounds for a correspondent abolition of the 
Duties here. 

I annex the Copy of a Letter sent by Lord Hawkesbury to the 
British Commissioners under the 7th article of the Treaty of 
1794. A copy of the Convention which I have lately signed with 
his Lordship, has in like manner been communicated by me to 
our Commissioners ; in consequence of these communications, 
the Board will immediately reassemble and proceed to business. 
With perfect Respect & Esteem &c 

Rufus King. 

Copy. 

Downing Street, nth Feby., 1802. 
Gentlemen : 

I herewith transmit to you the copy of a Convention concluded 
by me and Mr. King on the 8th of January last, explanatory of 
the 6th-& 7th articles of the Treaty of Amity, Commerce and 
Navigation with the United States ; and I have to signify to you 
his Majesty's pleasure that you propose to the Commissioners on 
the part of the United States of the Board of which you are 
members, to reassemble and proceed with you in the execution 
of the Duties imposed upon you by the provisions of the 7th 
article of the said Treaty and by the third article of this Conven- 
tion. 

I am, &c 

Hawkesbury. 
To Maurice Swabey, LL.D. ) 
and John Anstey, Esq. S 

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. fl 

R. King to James Madison. 

Private. 

London, Feb. 13, 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

I may and perhaps ought to say to you that I have found very 
proper dispositions in conversing with the different persons con- 
nected with the subject respecting the abolition of the discrimi- 
nating Duties upon our Navigation and Commerce. No .one 
defends the unequal operation of the present Law. All prefer 
abolition to revision. But the proposition to transfer their 
countervailing Duties from the imports from, to the exports to, 
the United States has no friends, notwithstanding the exact 
equality of the measure in reference to the object for which 
equality is sought ; if they impose the same discrimination upon 
the Exports as we place upon the Imports, the operation in 
regard to Navigation would be equal : if we carry, they would 
receive the Duty, if they carry, we should receive it. Two objec- 
tions are made to this transfer : the first, that it is against their 
ordinary policy to impose Duties on their Manufactures ; the 
convoy Duty was an exception justified by peculiar circumstances 
and has ceased with the war ; the second, it would load their 
book of Rates with mere fractional proportions of a foreign 
Tariff, and moreover embarrass not only the business of the 
merchants, but that of the Custom house more than the sum of the 
Duties would justify. In respect to the abolition of discrimina- 
tions on both sides, it will depend upon us whether it be complete 
or partial. Perhaps it will merit to be well considered whether 
we ought not to impose Light-house Duties according to the 
usage of other nations, and preserve our Tonnage Duties, at least 
until something shall be ascertained in respect to the West India 
Trade.* Of this, however, I flatter myself I need have no serious 
apprehension, since the more I have considered the Question, the 
more I am satisfied of the justice and ultimate success of our 
claim. 

With sentiments of very sincere Respect &c 

Rufus King. 

* Upon this subject, I mean the West India Trade, I am solicitous to under- 
stand the views of the President, least I should happen to cross them by being 
ignorant of them. 

J 2 RUFUS KING. [1802 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. 54. 

London, Feb. 18, 1802. 
Sir: 

I annex a copy of the Bill which has been prepared and 
brought into Parliament by Mr. Vansittart concerning the 
countervailing Duties upon our Ships & Cargoes : and I now 
have reason to expect that the Privy Council will issue an order, 
suspending the countervailing Duty on Tobacco for six months as 
soon as the act is passed impowering them to do so. I shall not 
omit sending you the earliest information in my power of the 
decision of the Privy Council upon this point. 

The Commissioners under the 7th article of the Treaty of 
1794, have reassembled and are proceeding in business. 
With perfect Respect &c 

Rufus King. 

T. Sedgwick to R. King. 

New York, 20th. Feby., 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

. . . In the letter which I wrote you before the close of the 
last session I ventured to predict that you would not be recalled, 
partly because, I thought, and I do still think, that our rulers 
like you best at a distance, and partly because they deem your 
presence at the court of London a shield of the party, in the 
event of a rupture, which, I know, they, then, thought probable, 
and dreaded. The same motives, will, I think, continue to in- 
fluence their conduct. 

There are several of the measures of the administration which 
have been injurious to their influence, and, in fact stayed its pro- 
gress in the eastern states, and I think have had, tho' in a less 
degree, a similar effect in this state. Among these are their re- 
movals from office which in some instances have been extremely 
injudicious. The officers removed in Connecticut were among 
the men the most popular and respectable in that state ; the sub- 
stitutes had nothing to recommend them but a noisy activity 
against the federal administration. 

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 73 

. . The repeal of the judicial act of the last session will, 
I am confident, have a more extensive effect. You know the 
character of Mr. Lansing & Mr. Lewis the chancellor & ch. 
Justice of this state. They are both zealous, and one, at least, 
a malignant supporter of Democracy. They have declared, and 
seem not to wish to have their opinions kept secret, that the re- 
peal, without providing a substitute, is unconstitutional. The 
opinion of these gentlemen must have considerable influence. 
Indeed all men who have been misled by an attachment to re- 
fined theory, and who really wish a security of property and per- 
son, will be shocked by the establishment of a precedent which 
renders the judiciary, the only instrument of this security, de- 
pendent on, and subservient to, the prevailing faction in the 
legislature : and the more so when they reflect that this measure 
is in direct violation of the constitution, & not only so but estab- 
lishes a principle of complete consolidation of all national & 
state authority. For if the legislature may do this there can be 
no established defence against legislative usurpation. Establish 
this principle, and at the same time an executive practice of ren- 
dering the emoluments of all the officers in the U. S. a mass of 
corruption at elections, and there is nothing left which can ren- 
der the government an object of affection to virtuous and 
intelligent men. 

The Democrats are in considerable degree indebted for their 
success to their address to the sordid & despicable passion of 
avarice ; and the President was not unmindful of his obligation 
to it, in his address to the legislature — to alleviate the burdens 
of his beloved constituents forms a prominent feature of his Mes- 
sage ; but he is rather unlucky in the means which he recom- 
mends for that purpose ... In his desire to abolish the 
internal revenue he has two principal objects i. a particular re- 
gard to the interest of the southern & western states, & 2. chiefly 
breaking down all the internal Machinery of the government, 
which, I presume, he considers as destroying the "lilliputian 
ties," as he predicted in that very decent letter which he wrote 
to his friend Mazzei. The cant expressions of the party now are 
the external and mutual relations of the states, which they seem to 
consider as the objects, exclusively, of national regard. This 
Theory will, I presume, decrease the number of their partizans 

74 RUFUS KING. [1802 

in New England. I am persuaded, and, principally, from my 
knowledge of the people of that country, that Democracy will, 
there, become less and less powerful during the present ad- 
ministration. 

I have the best evidence that Burr is completely an insulated 
man at Washington ; wholly without personal influence. Had 
he any influence it would be exerted to prevent a repeal of the 
internal taxes — an impoverished treasury is inconsistent with the 
vast objects which he has contemplated. It is a measure to 
which Gallatin, from his official situation, must be opposed, but 
he is too cunning to oppose, openly, the ardent wishes of his 
Master. The measure is hostile to the interests of the eastern 
states & I therefore doubt whether the repeal will take place, 
tho' our friends in Congress seem to entertain no doubt on the 
subject. I most sincerely wish the jacobins success, upon this 
occasion, because I am persuaded that it will prove injurious to 
their influence. 

Should the internal revenues be repealed I am apprehensive 
that, under the present management, it will be found that the 
import and tonnage duties will be inadequate to the public exi- 
gencies. The value of exported produce must measure the 
amount of expenditure ; the pressure which will take place, re- 
sulting from the establishment of habits which can no longer be 
gratified, will increase emigration to the frontiers, and emigrants 
contribute almost nothing by the consumption of imports. Hence, 
I think, there will be some decrease of revenue, & if there be, a 
deficit is inevitable. Should this event happen I know they rely 
on obtaining loans which they suppose may be effected with 
great facility, by the accumulation of capital and the difficulty of 
employing it profitably. . . . 

From the whole view which I am able to take of the political 
state of our country, and the past conjectures I can form of 
future probabilities, I am induced to believe that Mr. Jefferson 
will not be re-elected. But whether his successor will be abetter 
or a worse man is to me doubtful. The popular tide as far as I 
am able to discern it, seems to set towards that description of 
men who have heretofore possessed the public confidence. Be- 
fore the present rulers got into power, they and their adherents 
assured, with great confidence, the people, that the public records 

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 75 

would afford complete evidence of the peculations of the feder- 
alists. They are now in possession of those records. Reports 
have been received, by the legislature, from the heads of all the 
departments, and not a single fact has been exhibited to ground 
a charge either of folly or wickedness, agt. their predecessors. 
As nothing of this sort has appeared it is concluded nothing will, 
because it is obvious that any pretext of this kind would have 
been seized on with avidity as well to justify their own malignant 
charges, as to ruin forever, their adversaries. . . . 

I am sincerely & affectly. yours. 

F. Ames to R. King. 

Boston, February 23, 1802. 
My dear Sir : 

. . . That, the ascendancy of France, we are told, is to be 
displayed on our borders, and that in exchange for \ St. Domingo, 
she is to have Louisiana. Our Southern brethren are expected to 
wince when this happens. I deduce no hopes from the event. 
Factions always hate & dread their domestic rivals more than 
foreign enemies. \ Virginia has the spirit of domestic restlessness 
and arrogance that abhors restraint, and of state ambition that 
wd. impose it, of laziness that will not earn, of luxury that will 
not retrench, of a debtor that will not pay. Great states are 
strong factions, and a feeble govt, is of course their victim and 
their instrument — at present their trophy. 

To repeal the Judicial Law to save a small sum shocks many 
who could swallow the claim of a constitutional right to repeal it. 
It is understood to be the declaration of the bellum inter- 
necionum agt. the best institutions of the late administrations. 
Gouv. Morris's speeches are justly admired and have had effect 
on thinking men — i. e. on 600 of 6 millions. 

Truth however niters through the stone & reaches the folks 
standing below, drop by drop. The mint is voted out. Govt, 
seems to be clearing the ships for action, by throwing every thing 
of value overboard 

Our General Court has rejected a motion in one house by 
Hichborn in the other by Morton for an address to the Presi- 

y6 , RUFUS KING. [1802 

dent. The majority was so small it shows an unsound state of 
the public opinion in this state. Still as it clearly proves the 
Jacobins to be a minority, this disclosure of their weakness tends 
to keep them weak. On inquiry I cannot find that they are gain- 
ing ground. Still it is to be supposed that those who address the 
popular passions will in the end prevail against those who pre- 
sume on their sense & virtue. Gov. Strong's re-election is 
probable, though of course the virtuous Gerry will contest it. 
Robbins is the most conspicuous candidate for the Lt. Governor's 
place, vacant by the death of Mr Phillips. We make turnpikes 
and busy ourselves with local objects. Virginia rides the great 
horse. . . . 

No doubt you are a watchful and anxious spectator of our 
affairs. It is beyond human foresight to predict the events that 
await us. We are hastening towards changes, which forebode 
other changes and so on to the end of the Chapter. We are not 
at present under a Theocracy, and if we were, our propensity to 
worship strange Gods would involve us in trouble. 
I am with esteem & affection 
Yrs 

R. King to James Madison. 

Private. 

London, Feb. 27, 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

Hitherto it has been confidently asserted and generally believed 
that the Negotiations at Amiens would end in a definitive Treaty ; 
but within the last ten days some persons have imagined that 
they perceive symptoms of doubt and hesitation upon this sub- 
ject. These however ought not to induce an opinion that the 
peace will fail to be concluded. The prolongation of the nego- 
tiation, besides being disadvantageous to this Country by retard- 
ing its plans of Finance, and creating embarrassments in its com- 
mercial affairs, expose it to all the casualties which may in the 
mean time happen, and which may be of a nature to have an in- 
fluence upon its results. The News Papers which copy from 
each other, and propagate every sort of error, pretend to enlighten 
the Public in respect to the points which occasion this delay. 
Altho' I can do no more than deal in conjectures as to the dis- 

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 7 f 

cussions at Amiens, I feel pretty confident that I run no risque 
in assuring you that they bear no resemblance to the Reports of 
the News Papers. It is no more true that France has any 
thoughts of ceding Martinique for the advantage of Spain, than 
that England has acquiesced in, opposed, or said a word about 
the cession of Louisiana and the Floridas. My persuasion still is 
that the Treaty of Amiens will be concluded, tho' I am by no 
means confident that it can be of long duration. 

It is time to have heard from Vienna concerning the late trans- 
actions at Lyons ; but probably they will wait till they have 
sounded the sentiments of Petersburgh before they disclose their 
own. A little Time must remove the Veil, which it has been 
attempted to throw over the proceedings at Lyons and, if what is 
confidently asserted to have passed there, be true, the whole is 
worthy only of the highest reprobation. For what other senti- 
ments can we feel should it turn out, so far from Buonaparte 
having been chosen President of the Italian Republic, that he 
placed himself in that office as he had before done in another, by 
the use of his Bayonets. The Fact is believed to have been that 
the Italian Deputies proceeded to the election, and actually chose 
for their President their countryman Melzi and not Buonaparte, 
who so far from being the object of their preference had not as 
many votes by 30 as Berthier : the moment the scrutiny was fin- 
ished, and the result pronounced within the Consulta, a body of 
Buonaparte's Guards, prepared for the occasion, marched into the 
Hall and remained there until this choice was annulled and 
Buonaparte appointed in the place of Melzi, who was then named 
and called upon to accept the office of Vice President ! 
With great esteem &c, 

Rufus King. 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. 55. 

London, March 5, 1802. 
Sir : 

. . . Lord Pelham a few days ago shewed me a letter from 
Mr. MacDonough, the British agent at Tripoli, exculpating him- 
self from the charge of having excited the Bashaw of that Regency 
to make war upon the United States. He explicitly denies the 

78 RUFUS KING. [1802 

charge and encloses a certificate to the same effect, signed by the 
Bashaw himself. Mr. MacDonough having thought it necessary 
to solicit this certificate from the Bashaw, will serve to shew him 
that his hostility to the United States may not be agreeable to 
Great Britain. 

The Bill authorizing the Crown to suspend the Tonnage and 
Countervailing Duties upon American Ships & Cargoes is still 
before Parliament, but will without doubt pass in a few days. 
The Debate to which it has given rise, so far as regards General 
Gascoigne, one of the members from Liverpool, appears to have 
been for mere electioneering purposes ; and with respect to Dr. 
Laurence and Mr. Wyndham the occasion however unconnected 
was made use of as an opportunity to talk about the negotiation 
at Amiens and the dangerous Dominion of France. 

I have seen a letter dated Paris, Feb. 26, which says it is defini- 
tively settled to send a colony to Louisiana and Florida. General 
Bernadotte is to have the direction and command of it ; prepara- 
tions are making for the first expedition, whose departure will 
perhaps depend upon the accounts expected from St. Domingo. 
It is asserted that the Indian Nations adjoining to Florida have 
agents now here for the purpose of making Treaties with this 
Country to unite themselves with the troops and settlers that may 
be sent from hence. The Establishment of this Colony is a 
darling object and will be pursued with ardour and upon a great 
scale, unless the affairs of St. Domingo shall for the moment de- 
range the plan. Louisiana, Guiana and the Desert Island of 
Tristan d'Acunha are each spoken of as places to which the 
rebellious and intractable Negroes and people of Color may be 
sent from St. Domingo and the other French Colonies. 
With perfect Respect & Esteem &c. 

Rufus King. 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. 56. 

London, Mar. 8. 1802. 
Sir: 

It is ascertained that Austria is highly dissatisfied, as justly 
she may be, with the issue of the meeting at Lyons, where Buona- 
parte is said to have employed the same means to carry his pur- 

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 79 

pose, as has before proved efficacious at St. Cloud. Here too 
the ardour in favour of Peace has a great deal abated, and its 
security become the subject of increased solicitude and Doubt. 
The obstacles which have delayed the conclusion of the defini- 
tive Treaty, and which have been accompanied by an unexampled 
stagnation of the Trade of this Country, have much contributed 
to this temper of the public mind. Every one ascribes these in- 
conveniences to France, whose Chief is asserted daily to disclose 
views inconsistent with the repose and independence of every 
part of Europe. 

In this state of dissatisfaction and uncertainty, instructions 
have been sent to all the Naval Arsenals to prepare the Ships of 
war for actual service ; the Channel Fleet will immediately sail, 
and in order to bring the Negotiation to an immediate issue, 
these demonstrations are accompanied by an explicit Demand on 
the part of England that the definitive Treaty on the Basis of the 
Preliminaries be signed without any further Delay ; if this be not 
done in a week, it is believed that Lord Cornwallis will leave 
Amiens & the war recommence. 

I have all along believed, as even in the present critical pos- 
ture of affairs I am still disposed to do, that Peace will be con- 
cluded ; because I have not supposed that England would depart 
from the Preliminaries ; and France, whatever may be her future 
views, has the most powerful inducement to conclude a Treaty 
that will require her to restore nothing ; but will oblige England 
to evacuate Egypt and Malta, to make restrictions in Spain and 
Holland, and to give back to France all her colonies with 20.000 
Seamen now in her possession. 

The advantages seem indeed to be all on one side, and so con- 
siderable as to leave no doubt concerning the decision of France, 
unless the Tone and Circumstance of the Demand on the part of 
England shall be such as to put all consideration of interest out 
of the question. 

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c, 

Rufus King. 

80 RUFUS KING. [1802 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. 57. 

London, Mar. 9, 1802. 
Sir: 

As your Letters * to me concerning Mr. Erving's appointments 
do not explicitly state the President's intention in respect to his 
being employed as an Assessor to the Commission under the Seventh 
Article of the Treaty with this Country, I desired him to send to 
the Board an Extract of his Instructions, which define his Duties ; 
and which would be sufficient to shew the President's expecta- 
tions on this point. I at the same time wrote a letter to the 
Board copies of which and their answer you will find annexed. 
With perfect Respect & Esteem &c 

Rufus King. 

These copies are omitted ; but the Commission declining 
with all proper respect to receive Mr. Erving as an assessor 
in their board, " the nature of that appointment and its 
Duties as prescribed and required by the Board " being 
incompatible, in their judgment, with " the office of agent 
for claims and that of their mercantile assessor," in answer 
to their notification of this decision, Mr. Erving replies: 
" I feel it proper, expressing an acquiescence in your deter- 

* J. Madison to Rufus King. 

Department of State, 

Washington, 27th July, 1801. 
SIR : 

G. W. Erving, Esquire, who will have the honour to hand you this Letter, is 
the Gentleman who, as I informed you sometime ago, has been appointed our 
Consul for London. The President has also assigned him to be the successor 
of Mr. Williams in the agency relative to claims and appeals, and to act in the 
character formerly filled by Mr. Cabot in connexion with the Board of Com- 
missioners under the 7th Article of the British Treaty. For his services in 
those two agencies, with the eventual addition of that held by Mr. Lenox, in 
case it should become vacant, he will be allowed at the rate of two Thousand 
Dollars per annum after the resumption of business by the Board of Commis- 
sioners, and until that event happens, only half the sum. He will communi- 
cate his instructions to you, and I must request you to afford him such informa- 
tiou and advice to facilitate the execution of his various Trusts, as may be in 
your power. 

With highest consideration &c 

James Madison. 

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 8 1 

mination, to withdraw from your further consideration my 
Pretensions to the office in question." 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. 58. 

London, Mar. 13, 1802. 
Sir : 

We have no farther intelligence concerning the Negotiations at 
Amiens since the date of my last. The same degree of uncer- 
tainty with the same apparent indifference, in respect to the issue 
of the discussion continues to exist. Mr. Addington in a pretty 
free conversation told me that* during the last fortnight his mind 
had balanced whether to wish the conclusion or rupture of the 
negotiation j that he was every day receiving Letters expressive of 
the same indecision from all parts of the kingdom j that they should 
continue to act with good faith and were ready to sign a definitive 
Treaty, on the Basis of the Preliminaries, provided it be done 
without any further Delay. 

The Fleets are prepared and preparing for sea, and if the nego- 
tiation fail, the war will on both sides be resumed with increased 
activity & zeal. I am not sure that my former reasoning in re- 
spect to the decision of France may not be in some degree erro- 
neous. In ordinary times and in a more settled condition of 
things it would be correct, but it is quite possible, notwithstanding 
the advantageous terms of Peace upon the basis of the Prelimi- 
naries, that the First Consul may believe, that war will afford more 
efficacious means of promoting and securing his personal views 
and authority than can be derived from Peace. This Country too 
may believe that war is preferable to the only Peace now to be ob- 
tained. In either case there will be no Peace. 

From the very great body of Forces both by Sea and Land in 
the West Indies, we may apprehend the most serious interruption 
of our Trade in those Seas, should the war be renewed. I have 
made this subject the topic of conversation with the Ministry, 
and should the negotiations fail, will do all in my power to procure 
to our Navigation a just and friendly treatment from this country. 
With perfect Esteem & Respect &c 

Rufus King. 

* Italics in cipher. 

VOL IV— 6 

CHAPTER VI. 

Presents to Bey of Tunis sent — King to Livingston — Louisiana — To prevent 
the sailing of the French Fleet — Iron or Gold — Former impossible — Gold 
might buy Louisiana by fair Purchase with Cash— Would the People con- 
sent ? — Suggests other Means — Nothing will be done at Amiens — General 
Suggestions — Monroe Doctrine — King to Livingston — Explains the Con- 
vention between United States and England — Spaniards have fifteen Mil- 
lions of Dollars in West Indies to buy Provisions for the combined Fleets 
— Hawkesbury to King — Announces the Signature of the Definitive 
Treaty — Lord Lansdowne on Louisiana — In the Discussions relative to it 
before the Treaty of Peace of 1783, he wished England to retain it — 
Cabot to King — Congratulates him for the Convention — Murray to King 
— Return Home and Reception — No Chief among the Federalists — Recom- 
mends him to stay Abroad — King to Troup — Does not feel any Fear of 
Reception of Convention by intelligent and reasonable Men — Contrasts 
France and England in Ability to raise Money — King to Secretary of 
State — Definitive Treaty conforms in the Main to the Preliminaries — If no 
secret Articles, Indemnity to the Prince of Orange not given — Effect of 
Treaty in England — King to Secretary of State — Has suggested the Ap- 
pointment of Mr. Merry as Successor to Mr. Liston. 

Allusion has been made * to a treaty with the Bey of 
Tunis which required certain presents to be given to him. 
These, at the request of Mr. Eaton, the United States Agent 
at Tunis, were procured in London by Mr. King, the Govern- 
ment having sanctioned his doing so. In a letter to Mr. 
Eaton of March 12, 1802, notifying him that the presents 
have been sent to him, Mr. King says they are 

" of superior skill and richness . . . which Mortimer who is at 
the head of the trade assures me are beyond any thing of the sort 
ever before made ; and so indeed they ought to be considering 
the sum of money which they cost us. You will doubtless be in- 

* Vol. iii. , pp. 246-52, 256, 329, 337, 355. 
82 

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 83 

clined to allow us all the consideration and favour which the 
lustre and value of the presents give us a claim to expect ; at 
any rate these properties ought to have the effect to wipe away 
any suspicion, or unpleasant conjectures which the time required 
to prepare them may have excited." 

It is of these articles that Mr. King writes in the follow- 
ing letter: 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. 59. 

London, Mar. 20, 1802. 
Sir: 

Mess. Bird, Savage & Bird will send to the Department of the 
Treasury the several accounts of the Persons who have prepared 
the Present for Tunis, and in order that you may be fully ap- 
prized of the manner which I have adopted to forward the articles 
to Tunis I take the liberty of annexing copies of my letters upon 
the subject. We have no accounts from Mr. Hargraves since he 
left Algiers, where he arrived safe in the English Frigate which 
carried him from this Country. Early in February Mr. Eaton 
was at Leghorn, whither he had gone on account of his health, 
but he expected soon to return to Tunis. 

Nothing decisive has occurred since the date of my last respect- 
ing the negotiations at Amiens ; it is however understood that the 
discussions are drawing to a close ; and the public opinion (espe- 
cially since the arrival of the accounts of Toussaint's opposition 
in St. Domingo) seems to be that the definitive Treaty will be 
speedily concluded. 

The Bill respecting the Countervailing Duties has passed the 
House of Commons in the shape in which it was introduced ; it 
is going through its stages in the other House, and will be com- 
pleted in a few days. 

With perfect Respect & Esteem, &c, 

Rufus King. 

The rumors relative to the cession of Louisiana by Spain 
to France had been reported by Mr King, as has been seen, 
as early as March 29, 1801, to his Government in a letter in 

84 RUFUS KING. [1802 

which he expressed his regret that the country had not in 
France " a minister of talents and entitled to confidence " to 
make "a plain and judicious representation on this subject 
to the French Government." From time to time more 
positive information was sent by him, and finally, on No- 
vember 20, 1 801, he transmitted to the Secretary of State 
the text of a secret treaty between France and Spain, made 
in March, 1801, and confirmatory of another secret one made 
on October 1, 1800, ceding Louisiana to France, and also 
the fact that the British Government objected for many 
reasons to such a transfer. 

The appointment of Mr. R. R. Livingston as Minister to 
France, and the instructions given to him on September 28, 
1801, before sailing for his post, indicated the anxiety of the 
Government to prevent, if possible, the consummation of 
this transfer, of which it was not yet certain ; but saying, if 
the cession had been made, that 

" sound policy will require, in that state of things, that nothing 
be said or done which will unnecessarily irritate our future neigh- 
bours, or check the liberality which they may be disposed to 
exercise in relation to the trade and navigation through the mouth 
of the Mississippi ; every thing being equally avoided, which may 
compromit the rights of the United States beyond those stipulated 
in the treaty between them and Spain." 

Mr. Livingston, in writing to the Secretary of State, Jan- 
uary 13, 1802, speaks of 

" the secrecy and duplicity practised relative to this object (the 
French minister denied that the cession had been made) as an 
evidence to him that they apprehend some opposition, on the 
part of America, to their plans. I have, however, upon all occa- 
sions, declared that as long as France conforms to the existing 
treaty between us and Spain, the government of the United 
States does not consider herself as having any interest in oppos- 
ing the exchange." * 

* Annals of Congress, 1802-3, p. 1020. This whole correspondence rela- 
tive to the Louisiana Treaty will be found in an Appendix to the Annals of 

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 85 

With such views, with the continued refusal on the part 
of France to declare herself upon the matter, and the silence 
of his own Government,* Mr. Livingston could not be ex- 
pected to act with much vigor; and on March 24, i8o2,f 
he writes to the Secretary of State that : 

" I have but one hope left as to defeating this cession ; it con- 
sists in alarming Spain and England. The Spanish Minister is 
now absent ; but I have not failed to show, in the strongest light, 

Congress, 1802-3, on P- 1003, and subsequent ones. It contains the President's 
message to the Senate, communicating the Convention with France and the ac- 
companying correspondence. 

* It may be interesting in this connection to see what were the views of the 
Government at Washington, July 24, 1801, as shown in the instructions of 
that date in the following letter to Mr. King, copied from the Instructions to 
Ministers. 

Department of State 

Washington, 24th July, 1801. 
Rufus King, Esq. 

&c. 

Sir : y 

The cession of Louisiana from Spain to France, as intimated in your letter 
of March 29 had been previously mentioned from several quarters, and has 
since been repeated from others as an arrangement believed to have taken 
place. Although no official or regulation confirmation of the fact has been 
received, it is more than a probability and has been the subject of instructions 
to Mr. Pinckney the Minister of the United States at Madrid, as it will also be 
to Mr Livingston the Minister going to Paris. They will both make use of the 
proper [sic] to prevent a change of our Southern and Southwestern neighbours, 
that is to say the means of peace and persuasion. Should Great Britain inter- 
pose her projects also in that quarter, the scene will become more interesting, 
and require still greater circumspection on the part of the United States. You 
will doubtless be always awake to circumstances which may indicate {sic} her 
views, and will lose no time in making them known to the President. Consid- 
ering the facility with which her extensive Navy can present itself on our front, 
that she already flanks us on the North, and that if possessed of Spanish coun- 
tries contiguous to us, she might soon have a range of settlements in our rear, 
as well as flank us on the South also, it is certainly not without reason that she 
is the last of Neighbours that would be agreeable to the United States. 

With sentiments etc. 

James Madison. 
f Annals of Congress, 1802-3, P- 1024. 

86 RUFUS KING. [1802 

to the Minister of Britain the danger that will result to them from 
the extension of the French possessions into Mexico, and the 
probable loss of Canada, if they are suffered to possess it. I 
have requested Mr. King to press this subject, also, as opportunity- 
offers." 

Mr. King had been fully possessed of the views of the 
British Ministry, which had never favored the cession, but 
yet had been unwilling to permit it to enter into the dis- 
cussions at Amiens. Uninstructed as he had been by his 
own Government he had, however, formed positive opinions 
as to the complications which must arise under the changed 
condition of affairs, and in the following letter to Mr. Liv- 
ingston, March 23d, expresses them clearly and with the 
firm conviction that in some way the threatened complica- 
tion of our relations with France must be averted. 

R. King to R. R. Livingston, Paris. 

London, March 23, 1802. 
Sir : 

We cannot doubt that the acquisition of Louisiana has for a 
long time been an object with France, nor that the cession had 
been made, and the projected expedition resolved on before you 
left America. Supposing this to have been the case, without 
being quite sure that it was so, after again and again considering 
its injurious effects upon our political and social happiness, and 
how we ought to meet it, I long since satisfied my own mind of 
the course which I have ventured to suggest to you, believing 
that it would be alike suitable to either condition of the Business ; 
since, if undecided, it would be the most likely means to procure 
its announcement, and if resolved upon, the best calculation to 
lessen and defeat its mischiefs. It would be to little purpose 
that I should recapitulate the views in which I have seen the 
subject, and which have led me to the conclusion that I have 
embraced, especially as your mind seems to me to have taken the 
same range with my own. I prepared a letter to you upon this 
subject, which has lain by me some time for a convenient oppor- 
tunity to Paris, but which on revision I do not now think worth 
the trouble of your perusal. 

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 87 

The sole questions which remain are, can the expedition be 
prevented and if not, how should we treat it ? Perhaps the only 
unconnected and ex parte means, of Protection in our Power, are 
Iron and Gold. Notwithstanding the sanction to be derived from 
the example of almost every nation, as well as from justice and 
reason, which so far from refusing to States the faculty of inquir- 
ing concerning the dismemberment and increase of the Terri- 
tories of their neighbours, make it their duty to do so, I suspect 
that the first of these means, if deemed even expedient, would be 
thought defensible only upon Principles too metaphysical and un- 
ascertained, and therefore, that it may be laid out of the question. 

Although we may have no contemptible opinion of the efficacy 
of the latter means, there are considerable, and, perhaps, insupera- 
ble difficulties in the way of its employment. I should not ap- 
prove, nor tolerate for a moment any underhand measure, or such 
as could not be openly avowed, and explained to our own people 
as well as to the rest of the world ; but we may, if we deem it our 
interest, without impropriety attempt to acquire the legitimate 
Title to Louisiana and the Floridas. If these belonged to us, we 
should, I hope, be as ready to defend them with arms in our 
hands, if necessary, as we should be to defend Charleston, New 
York, or Newport. But shall we be willing to pay down a sum of 
money large enough to acquire them ? For if the Title can be 
obtained in no other way than that of a direct purchase, a large 
sum of money will alone procure it. No set off of claims ; no 
balancing of accounts ; no prospect of future advantage will have 
any beneficial influence in our favour ; it must be actual money 
and a great deal of it which can serve our purpose. Great as the 
benefit would be to us of uniting to our Territories New Orleans 
with the entire left bank of the Mississippi and extending our 
Southern frontier to the ocean, I confess that I see little in the 
principles, to which we propose to devote ourselves, and by which 
our affairs are to be regulated, which authorises us to expect that 
a measure of such magnitude, and which would impose imme- 
diate and considerable Burthens upon our People, would be likely 
to be received with favour. It cannot be denied that economy is 
wisdom in States as well as individuals ; but by the former as well 
as the latter, it requires to be rightly understood, not to become 
a vice instead of a virtue. 

88 RUFUS KING. [1802 

If we can succeed by neither of these means, our Government 
may perhaps think it worth consideration, whether the new State 
of things in the West Indies may not lead to the accomplishment 
of its wishes. The settlement of Guadaloupe and St. Domingo 
seems likely to call for more men and money than were at first 
thought necessary, and may occasion the suspension of the expe- 
dition to Louisiana. France can more easily supply men than 
Money or Provisions ; the last must be purchased from the United 
States ; but how are they to be paid for ? I can imagine but two 
ways, either by the dollars accumulated in the Spanish Colonies, 
or by Bills upon France. Spain with great reluctance will open 
her coffers to her allies and will invent a thousand devices to 
avoid it ; tho' if no other resource exist she will be obliged to do 
so. Our merchants will not sell their Provisions for Bills on 
the French Treasury without a satisfactory Guarantee ; and our 
Government will not become the guaranty unless it promote our 
interest in doing so. Is it too visionary a speculation for us to 
think of obtaining the cession of New Orleans and the Floridas 
from France by assisting her to obtain the supplies she wants for 
her Fleet in the West Indies ? or is there any thing in the nature 
of the war that should restrain us from doing so ? 

A Project of this sort would deserve to be received with favour 
at Madrid as it offers the only means of sparing the Spanish 
Treasure in America, and preventing what must there as else- 
where be the subject of apprehension. I mean the occupation of 
Louisiana by France. To the French too, it holds forth the 
means of immediate and important relief in circumstances of 
difficulty and without any other inconvenience than that of giving 
a new and different direction to their colonizing enterprizes. 

I am obliged to you for your reflections upon the subject of 
Louisiana ; they ought to be received with all the consideration to 
which their justness and importance entitle them. But what I 
have before informed you upon this subject, and which I con- 
firmed in a short letter of yesterday, I have no reason to believe 
has been in the least degree ill-founded. The consequences of 
the cession were fully explained before the signature of the Pre- 
liminaries ; and have been more than once restated and pressed 
since the meeting at Amiens, but the answer has been uniformly 
the same, and such as gives us not the slightest occasion to hope 

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 89 

even that anything has been or will be done concerning it at 
Amiens. We must, therefore, depend upon ourselves and upon 
our own exertions, and in case they do not prevent the measure, 
the next enquiry, is how we should treat it. 

On this subject, I have heretofore * expressed to you my opinion, 
which I do not perceive sufficient reason to induce me to change. 
France is one of the Great Powers which influence and in some 
sort control the affairs of the whole earth ; and on this account 
it seems to be the Duty of those, who have any part to act in the 
concerns of other States to study the Genius and endeavour to 
understand the character of this restless & powerful nation, 
which can only be opposed with success, when openly opposed. 
I do not mean an opposition of force, but that moral resistance 
which consists in the frank explanation of the injuries we foresee 
and apprehend, and the declaration beforehand of what we con- 
ceive to be our own Rights and Duties, should it become neces- 
sary to assert and perform them. No policy in my opinion has 
so often proved to be pernicious as that of shutting our eyes upon 
what we cannot avoid seeing, and of putting off exertions to pre- 
vent injury, and thereby leaving the public welfare either to the 
government of chance, or in the hands of the adversary ; a 
mode of administration which always amounts to a confession of 
weakness, and which places the public safety not in the safeguard 
of the public virtue and courage but in the moderation of 
ambition and power. 

With this way of thinking, I would lose no time in telling 
France our apprehensions, at the same time that I assured her of 
our earnest desire to live in harmony and friendship ; I would 
inform our own People that I had done so ; and I would more- 
over endeavour by all suitable means to familiarize them with 
those measures to which the defence of the public welfare may 
compel us to resort. The Truth should not be disguised from 
ourselves or others ; that we are the first Power in our own hemi- 
sphere, and that we are disinclined to perform the part of the 
second. Sentiments of this sort openly and unostentatiously ad- 
vanced and propagated would, if I mistake not, have the double 
effect to check measures to divide us, from whatever quarter they 

* January 16, 1S02, vol. iv., p. 59. 

90 RUFUS KING. [1802 

may proceed, and to enable us to defeat them, should they be 
attempted. 

I have to crave your indulgence for this unreserved and confi- 
dential communication of opinions which are, I apprehend, 
somewhat at variance with those that are entitled to our respect 
and obedience. I should however add that I have been too 
often disappointed in things I have most firmly believed, to be 
over confident in my own opinions ; and I should rejoice should 
the course marked out to you, and from which I should not 
deviate, were I in your place, prove more advantageous than I 
can at present believe it will do. 

With Perfect Respect & Esteem, &c. 

Rufus King. 

It will be seen that Mr. King in his free communication 
with Mr. Livingston had entered into a discussion of the 
methods by which the interests of the United States, result- 
ing from this cession, could be secured either " by Iron or 
Gold," as the new arrangement must be broken up. But 
more important and noteworthy is the alternative he sug- 
gests as a method by which the French Government may be 
influenced to listen to our claims. Not a disposition to 
avoid offending them, but a positive declaration of a de- 
termination to prevent the dangers, not apprehended from 
Spain's possession of Louisiana, but probable from its trans- 
fer to a more active, enterprising, and restless country. In 
other words, a declaration of the principle upon which rests 
what is now called the Monroe doctrine. Upon a careful 
reading of the portion of the letter, beginning with the 
words, " On this subject I have heretofore expressed to you 
my opinion," etc., it will be found clearly and positively 
suggested that the French Government shall be told that 
the United States being 

" the first power in our own hemisphere, we are disinclined to 
perform the part of the second. Sentiments of this sort openly 
and unostentatiously advanced and propagated would, if I mis- 
take not, have the double effect to check measures to divide us, 

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 9 1 

from whatever quarter they may proceed, and to enable us to 
defeat them, should they be attempted." 

It does not appear that this view was taken either by the 
Minister or his Government, but it shows what Mr. King 
would have done had he been in the position to act, and 
the estimate he placed upon the bold assertion of the in- 
trinsic power of the nation to make itself felt in the decision 
of questions relating to its own interests, — a power which 
he felt was stronger and better recognized than when he 
entered on his mission. Nor was he mistaken, though it 
took many years before Mr. Monroe distinctly avowed the 
principle on which the whole country now, in 180^6, unani- 
mously insists. 

It is not a little curious, that Mr. Monroe was the negoti- 
ator with Mr. Livingston to make the Conventions with 
France for the purchase of Louisiana, and that the chief 
overt act to interfere with the principle was made in France's 
attempt to conquer Mexico, while the United States was 
engaged in the civil war of the Rebellion — an attempt 
nearly successful at the time, but checked and positively 
settled by the Mexicans themselves. 

R. King to R. R. Livingston. 

London, Mar. 24, 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

I have omitted to return you my thanks for your congratula- 
tions on the subject of the Convention concerning the Debts. 
Your construction of the II article is unquestionably the true one. 
As I am not aware that any opinion has prevailed that either the 
execution of the 6th article of the Treaty of 1794, according to 
its Provisions, or a commutation of our Engagements under it, 
(into a definite sum of money) would have exempted the Debtors 
from the suits of their Creditors, I cannot suppose that any dis- 
appointment can arise from the limited recognition of the IV 
article of the Treaty of Paris. The United States engaged to 
pay the Debts which could have been recovered at the close of 
the war had there been no lawful impediments, and which, by 

\S* 

92 RUFUS KING. [1802 

reason of such impediments, were not recoverable at the conclu- 
sion of the Treaty of 1794. In respect to all Debts recoverable 
at the conclusion of this Treaty, the Creditors were at liberty to 
pursue their judicial remedy, and had no Claim before the Com- 
missioners, their cases being expressly excepted. In respect to 
these Creditors, therefore, it was no more than justice to declare 
that the Provisions of the Treaty of Peace in their favour, so far 
as regards their future operation, shall remain in force. The 
Terms of the recognition of the IV article of the Treaty of Peace, 
limits its operation so as to exclude all claims which once might, 
but now cannot according to the course of the Judiciary, be le- 
gally established ; for these claims, we make compensation, and 
for the others, leave the Creditors to their judicial Remedies. 

This Government has communicated the Convention to the 
Creditors, who have met and, as I am informed by their Chair- 
man, determined to petition Parliament for the difference between 
the ^600,000 and the 5 millions which they assert to be the 
amount of their Claims ; and in order to pave the way for their 
Petition, they use no reserve in saying the settlement has been a 
political one on the part of Government and at their expense, 
and that they have a just demand to be indemnified out of the 
public Exchequer. I observe that meetings are held among our 
merchants to petition Congress for compensation for Losses by 
French Captures, and I conjecture that these Petitions will meet 
with much the same reception as those of the British Creditors to 
their Parliament. 

I have lately learned, and from good authority, that the 
Spaniards have 15 Millions of Dollars embarked at the Havanna 
and Vera Cruz which I am inclined to conjecture will be ordered 
to St. Domingo, under the pretext of being sent to Europe with a 
detachment of the combined Fleet. When they reach St. Do- 
mingo such will be the necessities of the army and navy that the 
Dollars will be taken to buy Provisions and in lieu of their 
Draughts given upon the National Treasury. . . . 

We are in expectation that the definitive Treaty will be com- 
pleted in a very few days ; nobody seems now to apprehend its 
failure. 

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c &c 

R. K. 

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 

93 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. 60. 

London, Mar. 20, 1802. 
Sir: 

I have the satisfaction to send you the annexed copy of Lord 

Hawkesbury's note announcing the Signature of the Definitive 

Treaty, and have the honour to be, 

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c 

R. K. 

Copy. 

Lord Hawkesbury presents his compliments to Mr. King, and 
has the honour to inform him that Mr. Moore is arrived with the 
Definitive Treaty of Peace, which was signed at Amiens at 4 
o'clock on the 27th instant by his Majesty's Plenipotentiary and 
the French, Spanish and Batavian Plenipotentiaries. 

Downing Street, March 29, 1802. 

Louisiana.* 

March 26, 1802. 

Lord Lansdowne, to whom I some days ago spoke concerning 
the cession of Louisiana & the Floridas, told me that it was his 
desire to have retained the Floridas and New Orleans : that with 
this view, in the preliminary articles first prepared in 1783, he 
agreed to give up Gibraltar and to receive in lieu of it Minorca, 
Martinique or Gaudaloupe and the Floridas ; that the stipula- 
tion in favour of Great Britain for the free navigation of the 
Mississippi was made in reference to the project of retaining the 
Floridas, but that a cry arose agt. the cession of Gibraltar, the 
King refused his sanction to it and it was therefore retained and 
the Floridas, Martinique and Minorca given up. 

The stipulation about the Mississippi, being included in a dif- 
ferent article, was retained when that to wh. it related was struck 
out. 

Jay & Franklin wished Eng. to seize the Floridas after the sig- 
nature of the Provisional Articles and before the Preliminaries ; 
* Memorandum Book. 

94 RUFUS KING. [1802 

but objected to troops being sent from N. York on this service as 
Fr. & Spain would deem it collusive. 

Franklin threatened Oswald to retain and sell the German 
prisoners unless the negroes were restored or paid for, saying 
they had carried off & sold the negroes we had bought and that 
it would be as just to sell the Germans they had bought. 

Geo. Cabot to R. King. 

March 27, 1802. 

My dear Sir : 

I have seldom received so much pleasure from news concerning 
you as that which is just now arrived. Your silence had been un- 
usually long & from various circumstances I was led to believe 
that you were in some sort of perplexity which prevented you 
from giving me the pleasure to which I was accustomed. As I am 
totally uninformed of the terms of your Convention & as I shou'd 
always desire to be informed of the instructions under which you 
acted I can make no observations of any worth on the subject ; 
yet I see much evidence that you have done what very few, if any 
other man, cou'd have done for us ; that you have done better 
than the Country had a right to expect after its ungenerous & 
capricious conduct ; that you have done so well as to gratify all 
your friends & confound all our Enemies. But will your Conven- 
tion be ratified ? this is a question my jealousy asks of me. I 
answer that probably it will, notwithstanding it tends to a final ex- 
tinction of all the animosities between the two Nations ; because 
at this moment our Master dreads & detests the Master of the 
French who despises him in turn & therefore no business of fra- 
ternity can proceed. Such at least is my opinion, lit would be a 
useless labor for me to attempt giving you a minute account of 
our affairs — or indeed any account, for you probably know more 
of them than I do. We make a constant progress in the way we 
are destined to go, yet I must say that the Leaders outrun their 
Followers. The very able discussions of the Judiciary Question 
& great superiority of the Federalists in all the debates & public 
writings have manifestly checked the career of the Revolutionists. 
Six months ago I trembled for the coming Elections in N E — but 

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 95 

it appears that N. H. has recovered a little of its old good poli- 
ticks & chosen Oilman by a great majority, & we think in Massa- 
chusetts the public opinion is much meliorated. These checks if 
only temporary are of great value. T\. . 

I was in hopes that the blacks in St. Domingo wou'd long occupy 
& finally defeat the french arms, but appearances indicate that 
they will be beaten. The armaments like all others from France 
must be supported by other Nations. Force & Fraud will draw 
from Spaniards & Americans }th of the supplies. 
Your faithful & affte friend 

G. C. 

William Vans Murray to R. King. 

Cambridge, E. S. Maryland, 5th April, 1802. 
My dear Sir : 

. . . We arrived after a passage of eleven weeks at Wash- 
ington, where I was civilly & coldly received. My outfit paid me 
& no questions asked me ! So the flutter which my intended 
Tableau de la negotiation had put me into was kindly spared. 
Wl. & G. behaved to me in all the business I had with them in a 
fair & candid way. 

The principle of proscription goes on searching its game even 
in the smallest X road post offices. The principle of depletion 
& disorganizing in all things connected with the most ancient 
opinions, the constitution & its out works & the well settled 
system of the past administrations goes on with a destructive 
zeal. Internal Taxes — Judicial Sanctity — all are to be handled 
& overset, but as I write to you I ought to restrain myself from 
invective — whatever may be our opinions mutually. 

There is an abundance of imitation, but it is in the small way 
& cannot afford a cure. There is a hope & it seems to me the 
only one well founded, that they will divide & quarrel. Already 
it is believed that B. gives umbrage to the Philosopher by his as- 
piring temper. So we ought to expect a division in your State of 
which the Feds., if not themselves miserably divided, may avail 
themselves & the nation. It may be hoped that the Feds, will 
gain wisdom by suffering. To be in a minority is a new situa- 
tion to them. Hitherto they have been a majority & have had a 
Chief & that Chief in Power ; now in the minority. I do not 

g6 RUFUS KING. [1802 

know that they, as a united party, acknowledge any Chief ; & yet 
have more need than ever of the energy which a Chief gives. It 
is true there are some strong men in Congress, but a chief should 
not be there — & there is none there. I saw but few of the public 
men at W. It is such a Town-in-country that there is not prop- 
erly Society & contact ; but I assure you that I have not heard of 
any one man since my return as Chief. It will always happen as 
it did after the death of Alexander among his Captains. In fact 
we are in a strange situation. 

It will give you pleasure to know that by allowing me my outfit 
to Paris (which I claimed) my situation is greatly bettered, as my 
estate is in land & bad rents & it would have been a terrible 
thing for me to sell near the whole to pay my debts, which 
the outfit nearly did. I live with my brother in the Country & 
mean to build this autumn on a farm. My friends of this county, 
which is Federal, wish me to go into public life. This I decline : 
for I feel as if I had precisely escaped ruin ; and all my embar- 
raisments were a suite of 13 year's public life, of one sort or other, 
in which my affairs became turned upside down. 

What can you expect from a man placed in so very active a 
place as I am, but useless repinings at the present degraded state 
of public affairs ? and yet my dear Sir I wish to hold some little 
converse with you, & to show you by a letter that I am grateful 
for your remembrance of so sterile a correspondent. 

We all rejoice that Govt, has, united with the claim your 
country has upon you, kept you at your post. If I expect it, it is 
because they have great credit among all the enlightened men for 
this forbearance from the evil we believe they would do by your 
removal. So I beg you — as I once before did, to stay where 
you are, at least for some few years. 

Affectionately yrs. 

W. V. Murray. 

R. King to R. Troup. 

London, April 6, 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

. . . There is a rumour, may it prove to be well founded ! , 
that a motion to repeal the internal taxes has been negatived in the 
H. of R. Should they be continued and an independent judiciary 

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 97 

preserved, I shall not despair of the public welfare. In four or 
five weeks we shall hear of the arrival of the Convention concern- 
ing the Br. debts, as well as whether the same be approved by 
Congress. In respect to the opinion of intelligent and reasonable 
men, I have no concern, but we cannot be sure that their opinion 
will be the general one, and I am therefore solicitous to hear how 
the settlement is thought of by those whose province it is to judge 
of its merits. 

Peace is definitively made and will be ratified in a few weeks. 
The new ministers continue to stand well with Parliament and the 
country ; and such are the Resources, and confidence of monied 
men, that the new loan of 25 millions has been made on as low 
terms as the loans of the first year of the war, when enthusiasm was 
high, and the first Debt and Taxes not a moiety of their present 
amount. Singular indeed in this respect is the contrast between 
France and England : in one any considerable loan cannot be 
raised on any Terms, in the other the minister has but to ask and 
receive. In the former, mistress as she is of the greater part of 
Europe, the 5 pr. cents are at 55, while here after a long expensive 
and unsuccessful war the 3 per cents are at 75 and will probably 
soon reach 80. 

Yrs. &c, 

R. King. 

P. S. Mrs. Ludlow's Baggage not having reached town I have not 
seen the opinions of Kent and her brother. I shall read them 
with attention before I say anything upon the subject, except 
that I have contended and with effect and advantage that the 
sentence of a foreign Tribunal in matters of Prize, is not in all 
cases conclusive. 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. 61. 

London April 7, 1802. 
Sir : 

The Moniteur of the 26th past contains the definitive Treaty 
dated the preceding day. Lord Hawkesbury's Letter to the 
Foreign Ministers says that it was signed on the evening of the 
27th. By reason of the urgent manner in which the Negotia- 

VOL. IV. — 7 

98 RUFUS KING. [1802 

tion was pressed to a conclusion by England, or some such cause, 
the several articles were settled on the 25th, and the respective 
Plenipotentiaries signed on that day an agreement that they 
would sign the Treaty, the articles whereof had been so agreed 
upon, as soon as copies could be prepared. The French Govern- 
ment has chosen to consider this first signature as the conclusion 
of the Treaty, and dated the copy inserted in the Moniteur 
accordingly. 

In the main the definitive Treaty seems to adhere pretty closely 
to the Preliminaries ; in such articles as have undergone modifi- 
cations, it is not obvious that the alteration is favourable to the 
views of this country. Malta, notwithstanding the string of propo- 
sitions relative to its constitution, will be liable to the influence of 
France and open to her enterprize. The clause which authorizes 
France to prefer a claim for the support of Italian, German and 
Russian Prisoners enables her to balance the claim of England 
for the maintainance of French Prisoners : this is however an 
article of form rather than of substance, as I do not find that 
there is any instance of money being paid or received on similar 
occasions. 

If there be no separate article, which is not believed to be the 
case, designating the manner in which the Prince of Orange is to 
be indemnified, the article of the Definitive Treaty relating to 
that subject, differing as it does from the Treaty of Basis, seems 
more likely to prove prejudicial than advantageous to this country ; 
and the more so, as it is understood that in the very room where 
the Definitive Treaty was signed, and immediately afterwards, the 
French and the Dutch Minister signed a separate Convention by 
which the Batavian Republic is declared to be exempted from 
contributing anything towards the indemnities to be paid to the 
House of Orange. 

But the principal objection which Lord Grenville, and those 
who think with him, will be likely to urge against the Definitive 
Treaty is the omission so contrary to former usage to recognize 
and confirm in a manner accommodated to the present state of 
Europe those antient Treaties which are asserted to be the 
Foundation of its public Law. 

* 786 and others are likewise much dissatisfied with the cession 
* Not deciphered. 

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 

99 

of Louisiana to France ; speaking with me concerning it a day or 
two ago he said Ceylon, Trinidad and the Cape were as nothing 
in comparison to Louisiana and the Floridas ; and on my ex- 
pressing my surprise that 128. 55. 28 should have known of the 
cession and yet advised the Peace, he said that 128. 55. 28 viewed 
the cession in the same light that he did, but that he knew 
nothing of it until after the conclusion of the Preliminaries. 

The Minister lost no time, after the signature of the Definitive 
Treaty, in making his Loan and opening the Budget. 25 millions 
have been borrowed at the moderate interest of ^3.18.2 per 
centum. The Income Tax, which with certain exceptions re- 
quired the tenth of each man's income, is to be repealed, and the 
56 millions for the redemption of which it stands pledged will be 
funded. The new Taxes, taken at Four Millions, are to be levied 
thus — an addition to the Duty on Malt, Hops and Beer of two 
millions : an addition to the assessed Taxes, one million ; and a 
Duty on the Imports and Exports of Great Britain of one million. 
Coupled with these measures are two others worthy of particular 
attention ; one a proposition to give a new shape and direction 
to the Sinking Fund of 1786, as well as to abandon the principle 
adopted during the late war, of providing a fund equal to the 
hundredth part of every new Debt, to be invariably applied in 
redeeming it ; the other, a motion by the Minister to continue 
the Law authorising the suspension of Cash payments by the 
Bank. The funds have risen considerably, and there seems to 
be very little opposition to the new Taxes. I shall not be inat- 
tentive to those which may affect our Trade ; tho' so far as re- 
gards the Tax on Exports our Treaty is entirely silent. 

The Law respecting the Countervailing Duties received the 
King's assent on the 24th of last month ; as it finally passed in 
the form of the Bill of which I sent you a copy, it is not necessary 
that I should send you a copy of the Law. From the uncertainty 
whether Congress will be inclined to repeal the discriminating 
Duties paid in our Ports, I shall not press for the order of Coun- 
cil, taking off by way of anticipation and immediately the counter- 
vailing Duty on Tobacco, in the Ports of this country. 
With perfect Respect & Esteem 

Rufus King. 

100 RUFUS KING. [1802 

R. King to Secretary of State. 
No. 62. 

London, April 10, 1802. 
Sir: 

Some months ago I informed you that Mr. Jackson* would 
probably be sent to the United States as Mr. Listons successor ; 
Mr. Merry had been previously thought of and indeed named 
for this mission. As I have had the opportunity of knowing both 
these Gentlemen during my residence here, it was not without some 
regret that I heard of the intention to appoint Mr. Jackson in 
lieu of Mr. Merry. From this information I have been led to 
make further Enquiry respecting their reputation and the result 
has served rather to encrease than lessen my solicitude. Mr. 
Jackson is said to be positive, vain and intolerant ; he is more- 
over filled with English prejudices in respect to other countries, 
and as far as his opinions concerning the United States, seems 
more likely to disserve than benefit a liberal intercourse between 
them and his own country. 

On the other hand, Mr. Merry appears to be a plain, unas- 
suming and sensible man, having lived for many years in Spain, 
is in almost every point of character the reverse of Mr. Jackson, 
who were he to go to America would go for the sake of present 
employment, and with the hope of leaving it as soon as he could 
receive a similar appointment in Europe while Mr. Merry wishes 
for the Mission with the view of obtaining what he believes will 
prove to be an agreeable and permanent residence. 

With these sentiments I have believed it to be proper to en- 
deavour in every unexceptionable way in my power to discourage 
and throw impediments in the way of the mission of Mr. Jackson, 
and in a late conversation with Lord Hawkesbury, he offered me 
what I thought a fair occasion of expressing my sentiments upon 
this subject. His Lordship received my observations in good part 
and promised to consider what I had said to him before any defi- 
nite step should be taken in the Business. I have followed up 
the opposition in other quarters which I thought likely to have 
an influence with decision, and am not without Expectation that 
Mr. Jackson will be relinquished. 

* Italics in cipher. 

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 101 

As the explicit designation of a particular character, who would 
be agreeable, is matter of greater delicacy than to object to an 
Individual who might have been spoken of, I have rather confined 
myself to the latter course, in doing which, however, I was enabled 
indirectly and by way of contrast to Mr. Jackson's disqualifica- 
tions to describe qualifications which seem to be almost peculiar 
to Mr. Merry. 

Annexed I send you copies of my letter to Lord Hawkesbury, 
and of his answer declining to recognize Mr. Lewis as Consul of 
the United States at Calcutta. A like answer has in a similar 
case been lately given to the Envoy of Portugal. Conversing 
with one of the Directors of the East India Company concerning 
Mr. Lewis' appointment, he told me that before the late war 
France had been solicitous to place a Consul at Calcutta ; that 
from a persuasion that a Consul would be employed as a political 
instead of a commercial agent, they had declined his admission ; 
that the request would, however, probably be renewed, and in 
case an American Consul should be admitted, a French one could 
not be refused. 

With perfect Respect & Esteem, &c 

Rufus King. 

CHAPTER VII. 

Troup to King — Congressional Acts — G. Morris on Judiciary Bill — Burr has 
lost Ground — Toast at a Dinner — Jefferson the Idol — Business dull — Cabot 
to King — Distrusts French Fleet — Does not fear French Settlement in 
Louisiana — Ames to King — France's Project of getting Louisiana can only 
do Good — Joy at Adjustment with Great Britain of the Negotiation about 
the Debts — J. Hale to King — Glad he will remain' in London — Federal- 
ists more confident — Louisiana Project will operate well — King to Lord 
Hawkesbury — Cession of Louisiana, Effect on the Navigation of the Mis- 
sissippi— How far is England concerned in the Cession — McHenry to 
King — Effect of Peace on the United States — Measures of the Administra- 
tion criticised — King to Vansittart — United States should pay no higher 
Duties to export British Manufactures than other Nations — King to Secre- 
tary of State — Definitive Treaty ratified — Sweden joins Russia and 
England in annulling the System of armed Neutrality — King to Secretary 
of State, United States Funds — Means taken to secure their Safety and 
proper Disbursement, especially in Prize Cases — The Government having 
now made other Arrangements, he shall no longer regard the pecuniary 
Affairs under his Control — J. Marshall to King — Congratulates him on his 
Settlement of the Debt Claims. 

R. Troup to R. King. 

CNew York, 9th April, 1802. 
My dear Sir : 
- . . . The federal party is still completely down ; though some 
think it in the attitude of rising. Every corner of the govern- 
ment has been ransacked to find out an officer to be removed in 
order that his place might be filled with one of Jefferson's sect ; 
and as things now stand that sect is in full possession of the 
government. 

The repeal of the judicial bill, for the purpose of getting rid of 
our friend Judge Benson and others, has excited a very powerful 
sensation in the minds of the leading federalists throughout the 
union. . . Some of our friends in Congress have much distin- 

102 

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 103 

guished themselves on this subject. Mr. Gouverneur Morris is 
much celebrated for his eloquence. The democratical paper at 
Washington pronounced his speech to be the grandest display of 
eloquence ever exhibited in a deliberative assembly ! Mr. Bayard of 
Delaware, Mr. Hemphill of Penna., Mr. Dana of Connecticut and 
several other federalists in the House of Representatives have 
also been much eulogized. Giles and Randolph of Virginia are 
the leaders of the House of Representatives, and their speeches 
develop the views and motives of Jefferson's sect more than any 
others. . . Congress are now engaged in repealing almost all the 
internal taxes, and the whiskey drinkers particularly will be in 
spirits. Virginia literally dominates. Jefferson is the supreme 
director of measures — he has no levee days — observes no cere- 
mony— often sees company in an undress, sometimes with his 
slippers on — always accessible to, and very familiar with, the 
sovereign people. Madison is in a deep decline, and it is thought 
he will soon quit his office. 

Burr has lost ground very much with Jefferson's sect during 
the present session of Congress. He played a cunning and ridicu- 
lous game whilst the repealing of the judicial bill was before the 
Senate. A few weeks ago whilst the federalists were at a public 
entertainment, celebrating General Washington's birthday, he 
made his appearance among them — asked whether he was an 
intruder — he was answered in the negative, and treated with 
becoming civility. Soon afterwards he asked for permission to 
give a toast— it was granted — and he gave " The union of all 
honest men:' This was generally received by the federalists as an 
offer on his part to coalesce. It has been attempted to be kept 
secret ; but it has got into circulation, and it has created heart 
burnings with some of Burr's party. Hamilton says there is a 
cabal going on at Washington between Burr and some of the 
federalists. Latterly it is represented that Burr has run to the 
other side again and is manifesting great violence. He has been 
not a little abused in the course of the winter in the democratic 
prints. It is said there is no cordiality or concert between him 
and Jefferson, and that they are not in the habit of approximating 
each other. 

Jefferson is the idol to whom all devotion is paid ; and Burr 
will doubtless be dropped at another election, if they can do it 

104 RUFUS KING. |_l8°2 

without endangering Jefferson. In this state all power and all 
the offices are also engrossed by the democrats. No opposition 
is likely to be made for some time to come. Our system is just 
where it is by nature destined to be — in the hands of demagogues, 
and I think it will not be an easy work to rescue it from them. 
Hamilton is in utter despair of the system ! and he looks forward 
to a serious commotion, and that at no very remote period ! 
There is a deadly enmity between Burr and the Clintonians. If 
Burr should be taken up by the federalists, and brought forward 
for any conspicuous office, Hamilton and many of us will secede 
from the federal party and remain passive spectators. We think 
there can be no coalition with him without a desecration of all 
that is virtuous and all that is honorable in character. . . . 

There is great complaint here of the dulness of all kinds of 
business, owing to the peace. We have had very considerable 
failures in Baltim., Philadelphia, and some not inconsiderable 
ones here. More are likely to follow. It is a consolation amidst 
the calamities that are befalling the merchants, the lawyers in the 
circle of your friends are doing well, altho' of late they have 
suffered, with other classes, a diminution of business. Hamilton 
is closely pursuing the law, and I have at length succeeded in 
making him somewhat mercenary. I have known him latterly to 
dun his clients for money, and in settling an account with me the 
other day, he reminded me that I had received a fee for him in 
settling a question referred to him and me jointly. These indi- 
cations of regard to property give me hopes that we shall not be., 
obliged to raise a subscription to pay for his funeral expenses. . . \ 

R. T.— l 

G. Cabot to R. King. 

April 13, 1802. 

My Dear Sir : 

Our people distrust the French, & the Armament at St. Domingo 
will not be easily supplied by fair means ; still however they 
must be supplied as all french Armaments are by the people of 
the Countries to which they come & such of their Neighbours as 
dare not resist them ; they will get something by finesse & ma- 
neuvring, something by gross fraud & the remainder of their 
wants they will supply by force. Our intelligence has been gen- 

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 105 

erally that the Army of Le Clerc made progress, & was confident 
of success, but knowing as we do the policy of the French to put 
the best face on such affairs until they are obliged to abandon 
them, it is not impossible or improbable that the Blacks will main- 
tain their liberty. 

The meditated expedition to Louisiana causes some anxiety to 
the great men of the South who guide our national affairs, but 
after some thought I am of opinion that more good than evil will 
ultimately come of it. Moral good & I may say political so often 
springs from physical evil & political troubles that these may be 
often ascribed without superstition to the kindness of a Guardian 
Providence We must suffer all the miseries internal discord, dis- 
union & anarchy inflict if we are not irresistibly combined by the 
superior iufluence of a common interest in repelling an external 
Enemy. It may therefore be a blessing to the United States to 
have a french Establishment in Louisiana as strong as France can 
make it. All the local & relative circumstances consider'd, it is 
demonstrable that we have nothing to fear from mere force. — I 
admit thz possibility of another sort of influence which might work 
irreparable mischief, but on a calculation of chances I see such a 
preponderance of those which are favorable that I look to the end 
of this project with great confidence that it will (after much suf- 
fering perhaps) promote our permanent good. 
( You will see with pleasure the state of our Election in this 
Quarter. I have no great reliance on a steady correctness of 
public opinion but undoubtedly Jacobinism has declined a little 
for the last six months. The superiority of the Federal char- 
acters in Congress & the Newspapers evidently depresses & some- 
times silences their opponents who have the national government 
absolutely in their hands. How far those now in power will be 
able to carry the people is more doubtful than was thought a few 
months ago. It is perfectly understood that the principle of the 
Admin, is the popular passion ; whatever mischief this will sanction 
may be expected ; but where this can not be had they will stop. 
We are men and acting on french principles, but as we are not 
french men, the French Philosophers make some mistakes con- 
cerning us. . . . 

Yours with aff & fidelity 

G. C. 

106 RUFUS KING. [1802 

F. Ames to R. King. 

Dedhem, April 13, 1802. 

Dear Sir : 

. . . I do not despair of G. B. and of course I trust some- 
what in the chances of the world's escaping from the fangs of 
french domination. The ambitious project of getting Louisiana 
can do nothing but good. We need as all nations do the com- 
pression on the outside of our circle of a formidable neighbor — 
whose presence shall at all times excite stronger fears than dema- 
gogues can inspire the people with towards their govt. The 
object of popular aversion and dread has been only govt. France 
if she could float here and anchor on our coast has no terrors 
equal to our near prospect of anarchy first and then Jacobin 
despotism. We ought to rejoice in a new position of things in 
which courage toil and suffering might avail to extricate us from 
imminent evils — instead of that smooth and swift descent down 
the precipice that we have been making for a year past. . . . 

Great joy is felt here on occasion of the adjustment made with 
G. Britain of the spoliation and treaty debts. It is well known 
and truly felt and acknowledged that your and Mr Gore's resi- 
dence in London has been infinitely serviceable to the U. S. 
This consideration ought to keep you both quiet a little longer in 
a situation that the newspapers have said you were weary of and 
about to quit. God bless you when you return with the sight of 
a country grateful, free and secure of it's freedom on fixed 

principles. 

With great regard &c 

Yrs 

Fisher Ames. 

J. Hale to R. King. 

Boston, 13 April, 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

. . . In mine advising you of the patriot Erving's appoint- 
ment I believe I indulged gloomy & indignant feelings & 
even urged your return home. My indignation at that & many 
other measures of the philosopher is not & I hope never will be 
abated. Your continuance however in your present important 
station for twelve or eighteen months to come, more mature 
reflection induces me seriously to hope. The London papers 

802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. \QJ 

advise of your determination to resign. The paragraphs upon 
this subject I feel confident have not been authorized by you. 
On the other hand my conjecture has fixed their source in the 
aforesaid patriot E. 

_The philosopher's message at the opening of the session I 
transmitted to you. His recommendations have been very implic- 
itly followed. The results hitherto have been grateful to the feel- 
ings of the wise & virtuous. In New Hampshire & Massachusetts, 
particularly the latter, the sect have been utterly confounded by the 
emphatic voice of the people against them. Even the Chronicle 
after stating the votes (as far as ascertained) to be 20,000 for 
Strong & 13,000 for G., piously ejaculates, " the will of the people 
be done " ! The confidence & impudence of the sect prior to 
the 1 st Monday of this month you would scarcely credit. Their 
present chagrin & mortification you may easily conceive of. We 
are creditably informed that right principles & correspondent 
feelings are not confined to New England & that in Maryland a 
most happy change has taken place in the public minljj The 
Louisiana project must operate much good. If you see the fed- 
eral papers at the northward handling that project as of little 
moment ; if you find them puffing Bonaparte & even the Gen- 
eral Bernadotte, be not alarmed. Should matters come to a 
serious issue, upon yankees principally will the nation depend for 
its support, and you know they will not be wanting in spirit & 
energy. But when called upon for exertions in favor of the 
Nation, they expect to be treated in other respects as part of the 
Nation, whose rights & interest they are ever ready to maintain. 

It is more to be hoped than expected that the delays attending 
the settlement of the definitive treaty will give more stability to 
the peace. The present state of the Continental powers however 
promise no more upon this head, than their suffering & exhausted 
state will necessarily induce. The sect & even the philosopher 
openly inveigh against Bonaparte. They are chagrined beyond 
measure that he shows so little gratitude for their past attachment. 
One source of apprehension is therefore removed, and at present 
there is not much reason to fear that we shall be thrown into the 
arms of France, should the present European armistice end. 
Your friend & obed. Servt. 

Joseph Hale. 

108 RUFUS KING. [1802 

R. King to Rt. Hon. Lord Hawkesbury. 

Confidential. 

London, April 91, 1802. 
My Lord : 

By the Treaty of Alliance concluded at Paris in 1778, between 
the United States of America and France, the latter renounced 
forever the possession of every part of the Continent of America, 
lying to the East of the course of the Mississippi. This renuncia- 
tion confirming that which had been previously made in the 
Treaty of 1763 between Great Britain and France, authorized the 
expectation that France, content with her widely spread domin- 
ions, would abstain from seeking an extension of them in this part 
of the American Continent : an expectation that appeared the 
more reasonable inasmuch as the motives to such extension 
could not be satisfactorily reconciled with a just regard to the 
Rights and security of those Powers between which this portion 
of America is divided, and by which the same is at present 
possessed. 

Contrary nevertheless to expectations which have been enter- 
tained on this subject, if credit be due to uniform and uncontra- 
dicted Reports, the Government of France has prevailed upon his 
Catholic Majesty to cede to France both the Provinces of Lou- 
isiana and the Floridas, and having thus acquired a station at the 
mouth and on both sides of the Mississippi, may be inclined to 
interfere with and interrupt the open Navigation of the River. 

By the Treaty of Peace concluded at Paris in 1783, between the 
United States of America and Great Britain, it is mutually stipu- 
lated that the Navigation of the River Mississippi, from its source 
to the ocean, shall forever remain free and open to the subjects 
of Great Britain and the citizens of the United States of America. 
Without enlarging upon the great and peculiar importance of this 
Navigation to the United States, a large and increasing portion 
of whose people can conveniently communicate with each other 
and with foreign countries by no other route, I take the liberty 
thro' your Lordship to request that the British Government will 
in confidence explain itself upon this subject ; and especially 
that it will explicitly declare whether any communication has 
been received by it from the Government of France or Spain 

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. IO9 

respecting the said cession ; or whether his Britannic Majesty has 
in any manner acquiesced in, or sanctioned the same, so as to 
impair or affect the stipulations above referred to concerning 
the free navigation of the Mississippi ; In a word, I intreat your 
Lordship to open yourself on this occasion with that freedom 
which, in matters of weighty concern, is due from one friendly 
nation to another, and which in the present instance, will have 
the effect to do away all those misconceptions that may otherwise 
prevail in respect to the privity of Great Britain to the cession in 
question. 

With the highest consideration and respect &c, 

Rufus King. 

J. McHenry to R. King. 

Baltimore, April 27, 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

Perhaps, for the present, it may be as well to suspend doing 
anything relative to the engravings of the Indian Medals, that I 
took the liberty to request you to have executed for me. My 
object was, to have used them in a collection of my own public 
papers, that I had contemplated throwing together, in a small 
volume. I have not relinquished this design, but as some of the 
pieces may require notes, and as the publication is intended more 
for private than public gratification, I am in no hurry to carry it 
into effect. Mr. Jefferson, I am told, ordered a new set of 
medals for the Indians, with new devices and emblems. Would 
to God that he had confined his revolutionary genius to things of 
no greater importance, we should have had less, to-day, to appre- 
hend for the fate of the Constitution and our Country. 

The ultimate effects of peace, upon our Merchants and the 
Country at large, are not yet fully developed. There have been 
several failures in most of our trading Cities, and there is a dimi- 
nution of foreign trade everywhere visible. We calculate upon a 
decrease in our importations from the East Indies, proportionate 
to the articles we received from that quarter, and exported during 
the war. We calculate upon the total loss of that part of our 
trade, with the French and Spanish Islands and the Spanish 
main, which arose out of, and had its existence in, the late war. 
In short, we calculate upon the commerce of the U. S. rapidly 

HO RUFUS KING. [1802 

and with few exceptions reverting to, and flowing only in those 
channels in which it flowed previous to the war ; of course the 
excess of our shipping, beyond what this trade will require, if not 
purchased by Europeans, must rot in our ports, and our com- 
merce in foreign products and manufactures, be confined, princi- 
pally if not wholly, to what we shall want for our own use or 
consumption, and our exports, to such part of our productions 
and industry as shall be wanted by foreign nations. If you can 
open new or other sources of trade to our merchants, you will be 
a greater benefactor to your Country, than were you to teach our 
farmers to raise two blades of grass from a stem which at present 
produces but one. Perhaps more correct reflections upon her 
interests may induce Great Britain to favor your operations, 
should they be directed (as I presume they are) to liberalize (if I 
may so express myself) the trade of this Country with her various 
foreign possessions. According to my humble conceptions, it 
would be wisdom in Great Britain, were she to open the doors of 
her Colonies, to our trade, much wider than her system of 
restraints and monopoly would advise or dictate. But no person 
understands this subject better than yourself, or is better qualified 
to make upon others, the proper impressions. I shall only observe, 
that a good commercial treaty, at this juncture, when our trade is 
either annihilated or stranded, in almost every quarter, in which 
it has so lately flourished, would come most opportunely to the 
American merchant and people. 

[jjmust refer you to your other correspondents for a general 
view of the state of politics, and complexion of public opinion as 
relative to the capacity of the existing administration, to manage 
wisely the affairs of this Country. Here and there, in this State, 
may be observed symptoms of incipient distrust in the adminis- 
tration, and disappointment of some of the acts and proceedings 
of Congress. I do not however augur, from these partial appear- 
ances, any sudden change for the better in the democratic part of 
our representation in Congress, or check to the career of the ad- 
ministration, altho' the probability is, that there will not be want- 
ing matter, to encrease the bulk of these discontents until they 
become instrumental in the production of good. 

Connecticut in this great and trying crisis has behaved nobly, 
both in and out of Congress. Massachusetts is slowly resuming 

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. Ill 

her ancient consequence and imposing posture. Rhode Island 
begins to inquire, whether she is in the right path. Tho' little 
favourable to federalism can be predicted relative to New York 
and New Jersey, these states must not be considered as irretriev- 
ably lost. Pennsylvania still clings to democracy ; she is said to 
be not quite content with some of her demagogues, but at the 
same time, not sufficiently dissatisfied with them, to dismiss them 
from her councils or confidence. Of the Southern states, I can 
say little. Accounts from them_are various. I believe the safest 
rule is to look to the Eastward. \ . . 

Your faithful & humble servant 

James McHenry. 

R. King to Nicholas Vansittart, Esq. 

Great Cumberland Place, Ap. 29, 1802. 
Sir : 

As several points upon which we have touched in our conver- 
sations respecting the Bill before Parliament, imposing certain 
Duties upon Exports and Imports and the Tonnage of Vessels, 
were the subject of discussion when the Convoy Duties were im- 
posed, I take the liberty to send you the copy of the Report 
which I made to my Government of the conference which on 
that occasion I had with Mr. Pitt, thinking this as satisfactory a 
mode, as any that I could adopt, of communicating to you the 
objections then made against certain of the Provisions of the 
Convoy Duty, and which so far as respects the Principle of the 
Export Duties, now proposed to be laid, are equally applicable 
to the present as to the former Bill. 

Without repeating what has been already said, I will beg of you 
to give all the weight which it deserves to the obvious and just in- 
fluence to be deduced from the Spirit and Tenor of our Treaty 
of Amity &c, and according to which, as we think, we are not 
liable to pay a higher Duty for Permission to export your manu- 
factures than is paid by your other customers. Agreeably to the 
proposed Tariff, the consumers of British manufactures, living in 
Europe, will pay only half per cent for permission to export the 
same, while we who live farther off, and who consequently pay 
higher freight and Insurance, are required to pay double that rate, 
or one per cent for the like Permission. 

112 RUFUS KING. [1802 

It is true that the difference will not be as considerable as 
under the Convoy Law ; but it is not against the greater or less 
degree, but against discrimination altogether that we contend. 
When the objection was formerly pressed, it was replied, as you 
will perceive by the enclosed Report, that the Duty being taken 
in reference to Convoys, which would cost more in long than in 
short voyages, was for this reason not inequitable. Whatever 
force there might have been in this reply, it must be admitted to 
have no influence whatever in reference to the discrimination 
now proposed, the effect of which in regard to American and 
European Purchasers of British manufactures is, that each having 
purchased goods upon the same terms and of the same amount, 
the former is called upon before he leaves the Warehouse to pay 
for the Government Permission to carry away his Purchase, double 
the sum demanded of the latter for a like permission ; and if the 
Americans be supposed to purchase British manufactures of the 
value of Six Millions annually, and it be likewise admitted that 
the Europeans purchase to the same amount, the former will an- 
nually pay according to the proposed discrimination ,£30,000 
sterling more than the latter ; or in other words, for permission 
to export the same quantity of Goods, the British Government 
will require the European purchaser to pay only £30,000, at the 
same time that it obliges the American Purchaser to pay Sixty 
Thousand. 

This discrimination is at the same time too plain to leave any 
doubt of the sentiments which it must unavoidably excite ; and I 
cannot but flatter myself that, upon a reconsideration of the sub- 
ject, it will be thought both just and prudent that every sort of 
discrimination and preference should be abolished. 

With great Consideration & Respect &c. 

Rufus King. 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. 63. 

London, Ap. 30, 1802. 
Sir: 

The definitive Treaty having been duly ratified, Peace was 
yesterday proclaimed with the accustomed formalities. Measures 
are already taken to reduce the Army and Navy to a peace estab- 

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 13 

lishment ; and as the warrants and orders to impress Seamen have 
been recalled, we may expect the discontinuance of farther appli- 
cations from American Seamen, detained against their consent in 
the British Service. 

Mr Lenox has closed his agency, and according to your in- 
structions delivered over to Mr Erving the Papers of his office. 
As this Agency arose out of the Transactions of the war, it will, 
I presume, cease with the war. The Consuls being authorized to 
afford during Peace the Relief due to our deserted and distressed 
Seamen within their respective Consulate, a special Agency for 
the purpose will be unnecessary. 

Sweden has finally acceded to the Convention concluded in 
June last between Great Britian and Russia. Lord St. Helens, 
the English Ambassador at St. Petersburgh, after communicating 
this intelligence in a letter to Lord Hawkesbury of the 2nd in- 
stant, an extract whereof has been published by this Government, 
adds, "I have moreover the satisfaction of being enabled to 
assure your Lordship that the Swedish Ambassador, Baron de 
Stedingk, has been distinctly informed by the Count de Kots- 
chonbey, the Russian Minister for Foreign Affairs, that as the 
motives which had occasioned the late revival of the System of 
the Armed Neutrality were now happily done away with, that 
System is considered by this Court as completely annulled and 
abandoned, not only as a general code of maritime Law, but 
even in its more limited meaning of a specific engagement between 
Russia and other Confederates." 

Lord Hawkesbury has recently informed me that Mr. Merry, 
and not Mr. Jackson, will be sent to the United States as Mr! 
Liston's Successor. Mr. Merry has taken Mr. Jackson's place as 
Minister Plenipotentiary at Paris for the purpose of exchanging 
the Ratifications of the Definitive Treaty ; and I understand that 
he will probably be sent to Madrid on a particular service before 
he embarks. 

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c. 
vol. Iv.-8 RuFUS KlNG* 

114 RUFUS KING. [1802 

R. King to Secretary of State. 
No. 64. 

London, May 3, 1802. 
Sir: 

In order that the pecuniary affairs of the United States might 
be managed with economy and that I myself might be free from 
unnecessary accountability in respect to the public money dis- 
bursed in this country, I settled an arrangement with Mess. Bird, 
Savage & Bird, who were recommended to me by my Predecessor, 
which I communicated to the Department of State immediately 
after my arrival here. 

By this arrangement these Gentlemen agreed to receive all such 
public money, and to apply the same according to the directions 
which should from time to time be given to them. For the col- 
lection, custody and disbursement thereof, they were to charge no 
commission, but in case they should be occasionally called upon 
for advances, exceeding the money in hand, they were at liberty 
to charge interest at the rate of five per cent from the date of 
such advance till its reimbursement ; and in order that we might 
not be paying interest for advances in one branch of the public 
Expenditures, while another was in Cash, no loans were to be 
made, nor interest paid, except for such sum as the aggregate of 
the whole Expenditures exceeded the total amount of the money 
in hand. These loans were reimbursed as soon as farther re- 
mittances were received ; and by this course on the one hand 
the public service was liable to no disappointment from the fail- 
ure or want of punctuality in Remittances, and on the other this 
security and accommodation were obtained upon terms both 
reasonable and convenient. No part of the public Funds, in any 
instances, remained in my possession, the Bills of exchange, as 
soon as received, having in all cases been sent to Mess. Bird, 
Savage & Bird for collection. According to my Instructions, as 
well as from the nature of the case, a superintendence and con- 
trol over these Funds, were annexed to my office, and hitherto 
the duty has been duly discharged. 

Although I have received no particular Instructions upon the 
subject, I had no sooner looked into the business of the Prize 
cases depending in the Tribunals of this country, and with the 

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 15 

prosecution whereof the public had charged itself, than I per- 
ceived the expediency of adopting immediate measures for the 
purpose of securing the money which might be recovered for the 
several Claimants, and of obtaining a reimbursement of the Ex- 
penses, which the Government had already incurred, and would 
be liable to incur, in the prosecution of the claims. 

With respect to the first ; as the public Agent received a salary 
it appeared to me unfit that he should charge the claimants 
with a Commission ; and as many disagreements existed not only 
in relation to the several proportions of claims belonging to more 
than one person, but disputes of a still more difficult nature in 
cases of Bankruptcy and Insolvency, and in which the money was 
liable to be, and in some instances had been, attached in the 
Agent's hand, to await the decisions of the English Tribunals, I 
instructed the Agent in no case to charge the Claimants a Com- 
mission and took measures that all monies recovered from the 
Captors or the British Government (after deducting the costs 
which had been advanced by the United States) should be paid 
directly into the Bank of England and placed to my credit in 
my official capacity. This precaution put an end to all further 
suits, as by reason of my office I could not be made a party to 
them. I executed a Power of Attorney authorizing the public 
Agent to draw for the money thus standing to my credit in the 
Bank of England in order that the same might be paid over to 
the claimants, and prepared and sent him special Instructions 
concerning the discharges which he should require of them. 

In regard to money standing on account of Costs, which had 
been incurred by the public, I ordered that the same should in all 
cases be paid over to Bird, Savage & Bird, and credited to the 
funds for the prosecution of appeals. 

This arrangement had the advantage of being a convenient 
check upon the important accounts of the public Agent. The 
Bank account will show that no part of the money thus placed 
to my credit has been drawn for except by the Agents, nor by 
them except in favour of the claimants. Messrs. Bird, Savage & 
Bird's accounts joined to that of the Agent will likewise shew the 
sums which have been detained on account of Costs incurred by 
the Public, as well as the manner in which such sums have after- 
wards been disposed of. 

Il6 RUFUS KING. [1802 

I have thought it proper to trouble you with this communica- 
tion instead of referring you to my early correspondence with the 
Department of State upon this subject ; and I am led to do so 
principally in consequence of an embarrassment which has 
lately happened by the refusal of Messrs Bird, Savage & Bird 
to advance to Mr. Lenox the money requisite to enable him to 
reimburse the advances which have been made for the relief and 
protection of our Seamen up to the first day of this month. 
According to his Instructions, Mr. Lenox furnished me with a 
statement of the money wanted for this purpose ; and agreeably 
to my Instructions and the plan which had been settled with 
Messrs Bird, Savage & Bird, I wrote a letter to them requesting 
that they would pay to Mr. Lenox ;£8oo., the amount of his 
Estimate. These Gentlemen paid to Mr. Lenox ;£ 250., being the 
amount of the last year's Remittances for this service, but refused 
to advance the difference in pursuance, as they allege in their 
letter to me, of direct instructions from the Department of the 
Treasury, which require them to limit their disbursements, by 
the sums remitted to them, and forbid them on any occasion to 
make advances on the public credit. 

As these Instructions have had the effect to transfer the 
superintendence and control of the public Expenditures in this 
country from the Minister to the Agents of the Treasury, without 
enquiring whether the reform is likely to prove advantageous 
to the public, there can be no hesitation on my part in 
acquiescing in it, and accordingly I shall not in future, without 
special instructions, regard our pecuniary affairs here, as in any 
sort under my control and direction. 

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c. 

Rufus King. 

J. Marshall to R. King. 

Richmond, May 5, 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

This fortunate accomplishment of the long & difficult negotia- 
tion with which you were charged, is peculiarly gratifying to those 
who unite a knowledge of the embarrassing circumstances attend- 

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 11/ 

ing it, to a real wish that your embassy may be as honorable to 
yourself as it has been useful to your country. 

You have effected what, in America, has been heretofore 
deemed impracticable. You have made a treaty with one of the 
great rival Nations of Europe, which is not only acceptable to all, 
but the merit of which is claimed by both parties. The advocates 
of the present administration ascribe to it great praise, for having, 
with so much dexterity & so little loss, extricated our country 
from a debt of twenty-four million of dollars in which a former 
administration had involved it ; while the friends of the ancient 
state of things, are not slow in adding the present happy accomo- 
dation to the long list of their Merits. 

Yet amidst this universal approbation so correctly given to an 
adjustment of differences which unquestionably deserve it, the 
mortifying reflection obtrudes itself, that the reputation of the 
most wise & skilful conduct depends, in this our capricious world, 
so much on accident. Had Mr. Adams been reelected President 
of the United States, or had his successor been a gentleman 
whose political opinions accorded with those held by the preced- 
ing executive, a very different reception, I still believe, would 
have been given to the same measure. The payment of a specific 
sum would then have been pronounced, by those who now take 
merit to themselves for it, a humiliating national degradation, an 
abandonment of national interest, a free will offering of millions 
to Britain for her grace & favor, by those who sought to engage 
in a war with France, rather than repay, in part, by a small loan 
to that republic, the immense debt of gratitude we owe her. 

Such is, & such I fear will ever be human justice ! 

When I recollect the advantage actually gained by Great 
Britain, in having obtained the fifth commissioner, I am truly 
surprized at the sum agreed on. I believe it is as much, & not 
more than, in strict justice, ought to be paid, but, after the im- 
pressions made by the late board of commissioners I really appre- 
hended strict justice to be unattainable ; & I think, not only, that 
great credit is due to the American Negotiator for having reduced 
this enormous claim to a reasonable amount, but that, all circum- 
stances considered, some sentiment of respect should be felt for 
the moderation & equity of the English Minister. 

The national tribunals, I hope will continue to manifest, in the 

Il8 RUFUS KING. [1802 

exposition of the treaty of peace, " that share of prudence," which 
is required by justice, & which can alone preserve the reputation 
of the nation. 

Public opinion in this quarter of the union has sustained no 
essential change. That disposition to coalesce with what is, now, 
the majority in America as well as in this state, which was strongly 
display'd by the minority twelve months past, exists no longer. 
It has expired. But the minority is only recovering its strength 
& firmness. It acquires nothing 

Our political tempests will long, very long, exist, after those 
who are now toss'd about by them shall be at restj 

Your obedt. Servt. 

J. Marshall. 

CHAPTER VIII. 

King to Secretary of State— Bill imposing Duties on Exports and Imports 
passed— King to Secretary of State— Has asked Lord Hawkesbury for a 
confidential Statement of Views of the British Government about Louisi- 
ana Cession— Lord Hawkesbury to King— Confidential Answer— King to 
Hamilton— Louisiana Cession— Troup to King— American Politics— Cabot 
to King— Sees Danger in the European Peace— France ambitious, rest- 
less—King to Low— His Opinion of Samuel Williams— King to Secretary 
of State — Debate on the Peace — Convention between Great Britain and 
Russia— King to Secretary of State— Embarrassment with Trade through 
French Laws— Affairs of Bird & Co. embarrassed— King to Dr. Drury — 
Wishes his Sons advanced as much as possible — Drury to King — Does not 
advise pushing them— Course at Harrow— Hamilton to King— He should 
return Home — Reasons given — General Opinion of Affairs in the United 
States— Troup to King— Affairs in United States, especially relative to 
Burr. 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. 65. 

London, May 5, 1802. 
Sir: 

The Bill imposing Duties on Exports and Imports and the 
Tonnage Duties has passed the House of Commons, and will 
doubtless go through the House of Lords, and receive the Royal 
assent, without alteration : if it be yet printed, I will enclose a 
copy thereof with this Letter. 

In respect to the Duties on Imports, the Bill, in effect, revives 
the correspondent Provisions of the Convoy Act, with the addi- 
tion in most cases, of a fifth to the Duties imposed by that act. 
The Tonnage Duties as well as the Duties upon Goods exported 
to any part of Europe are the same as under the Convoy Act : 
the Duties upon Goods exported to America and other places out 
of Europe are reduced to half the rates imposed by the Convoy 
Act ; and with regard to articles excepted from the payment of 
Duties inwards and outwards, as well as to the regulations for 

119 

120 RUFUS KING. [1802 

warehousing certain Goods, and allowing Drawbacks in case of 
re-exportation, the like provisions are contained in the present 
Bill, as were inserted in the Convoy Act. 

In consequence of the large quantity of Cotton lately imported 
from the United States and the superior quality of a portion of 
the Georgia Cotton, it was proposed to put a higher Duty upon 
our cotton than upon that of Turkey, which is of an inferior 
quality. But on conferring with the officers charged with the 
settlement of these Duties, the discrimination has been given up, 
and without distinguishing between Sea Island and other cotton 
of the United States, as had at first been proposed, the duty is 
reduced to the lowest rate or to that imposed upon the Cotton of 
Turkey : and as all other Cotton will pay higher Duties than that 
of the United States and Turkey, ours will stand upon a compar- 
atively good footing in this market. 

As the proposed Tonnage Duty upon our Vessels is as low as 
upon the Vessels of any other country, and applies to British 
equally with foreign Vessels, so far as respects discrimination 
there is nothing to complain of. 

With regard to the proposed Export Duty, after several confer- 
ences with Mr. Vansittart of the Treasury, to whom I was referred 
by Lord Hawkesbury to discuss the subject, and in which I 
urged, but without success, the abolition of all discrimination 
between the Purchasers of British Manufactures, I thought it my 
duty to write him a letter * upon the subject, a copy whereof is 
annexed ; if his answer should be received in time, a copy of it 
shall also be subjoined. 

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c 

Rufus King. 

R. Troup to R. King. 

New York, 6 May, 1802. 
My dear Sir : 

, . . Burr has gone south on an ostensible visit to his 

daughter, who married a man named Alston, and is settled in 

Charleston. The real object of the visit is well understood, and 

it is supposed to occasion at least a sigh to Jefferson. I think, 

* Letter 29th April, p. in. 

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 121 

however, and such is the general opinion, that Jefferson has not 
a formidable rival in Burr. The Clintonian party, which is 
warmly attached to Jefferson, in this State is much more influen- 
tial than Burr's party ; and the Clintonian party hate Burr as 
much as the Jacobins in France hate Bonaparte. In this city the 
Clintonians and Burrites are at dagger's points. Their feuds at 
our late election were a subject of no small gratification to our 
zealous federalists. The Clintonian and democratic printer in 
this City during the winter has blackguarded Burr without re- 
serve. At Washington it is understood he has played a little 
cunning and trimming game. Jefferson and his friends think 
they know him profoundly. . . . 

In this State federalism begins to rise from its tomb, as evi- 
denced by the recent election. . . . The violence of Clinton 
and his adherents and the violence also of Jefferson in removals 
from office have excited a powerful public sentiment against their 
administration. By the bye, Mrs. Montgomery^cajls Jefferson's 
administration a philosophical experiment. . . . \ 

Your convention is ratified. A few days ago Congress was 
occupied with a bill to carry it into effect. It is very grateful to 
all parties. Mrs. Montgomery says the chancellor writes in very 
strong terms of approbation of your conduct. There is not the 
least probability of your recall. The democrats are changing 
their tone with respect to France, and particularly with respect 
to Bonaparte. It is certain that the chancellor has not been 
pleased with his reception. I should not be surprised if violent 
hatred was to succeed the violent love for the Great Nation. 
Bonaparte is universally cursed. Louisiana and the Islands are 
a subject of great heartburning with Jefferson and his adherents ; 
at length their eyes are beginning to open. Our captains of ves- 
sels and merchants have been most infamously treated by Le 
Clerc at St. Domingo. The general opinion here is that the con- 
quest of Toussaint and his followers will be a lengthy, expensive 
and bloody job. If the war in Europe should recommence, Le 
Clerc will be defeated, and probably compelled to quit St. Do- 
mingo, if he can. 

w Mr. Jay is in the deepest retirement and his name is scarcely 
ever mentioned. . . . Hamilton is devoted to the law — is 
making money faster than ever. . . . Mr. Rensselaer, the 

122 KUFUS KING. [1802 

Patroon, is to be married in the course of two or three weeks 
to Miss Paterson, a daughter of Judge Paterson of New 
Jersey. . . . ~^ 

Yours 

R. T. 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. 66. 

London, May 7, 1802. 
Sir: 

Among the few great principles of national policy worthy 
of fixing the attention of our Statesmen, I am willing to hope 
there is not one, concerning which there is greater unanimity of 
opinion than in that which enjoins upon us all to do our utmost 
in every way and upon all occasions, to maintain and perpetuate 
the union of our country. 

With this persuasion, though the subject may not be thought 
to be included among the duties of my mission, I have not been 
able to remain inattentive or indifferent to the cession of Louisi- 
ana and the Floridas to France, because I have viewed it as a 
measure calculated, and possibly intended, to weaken and divide 
us, I have already communicated to you what passed between me 
and the Ministers of this Country in relation to this cession, dur- 
ing the negotiation for Peace ; but as these communications were 
merely verbal, and as it appeared to me to be of some importance 
that they should be distinctly and formally confirmed, as well as 
that they should be ascertained of the sentiments of this Govern- 
ment in respect to this cession, I prepared and sent to Lord 
Hawkesbury a confidential Letter * upon the subject, a copy 
whereof, together with a copy of his answer, is annexed. I will 
only add that I have reason to be satisfied that the cession of 
Louisania and the Floridas is considered by all the late Ministry, 
as well as by all other men of influence in this country, as a 
measure of the greatest consequence, and which must have an 
unavoidable influence upon the duration of Peace. 

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c 

Rufus King. 

* April 21, 1802, page 108. 

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 123 

Lord Hawkesbury to Rufus King, Esq. 

Confidential. 

Downing Street, 7th May, 1802. 
Sir : 

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your confiden- 
tial Letter of 21st ultimo. 

It is impossible that so important an Event, as the cession of 
Louisiana by Spain to France, should be regarded by the King in 
any other light than as highly interesting to his Majesty and to the 
United States ; and should render it more necessary than ever that 
there should subsist between the two Governments that spirit of 
confidence which is become so essential to the security of their 
respective Territories and Possessions. 

With regard to the free Navigation of the Mississippi, I conceive 
that it is perfectly clear, according to the Law of Nations, that in 
the event of the District of Louisiana being ceded to France, that 
Country would come into the possession of it, subject to all the en- 
gagements which appertained to it at the time of cession, and that 
the French Government could consequently allege no colourable 
pretext for excluding his Majesty's subjects, or the citizens of the 
United States from the navigation of the River Mississippi. 

With regard to the second Question in your Letter, I can have 
no difficulty in informing you, that no communication whatever 
has been received by his Majesty from the Government of France 
or Spain, relative to any Convention or Treaty for the cession of 
Louisiana or the Floridas, and I can at the same time most truly 
assure you that his Majesty has not in any manner, directly or in- 
directly acquiesced in or sanctioned this cession. 

In making this communication to you for the information of the 
Government of the United States, I think it right to acquaint you 
that his Majesty will be anxious to learn their sentiments on 
every part of this subject, and the line of policy which they will 
be induced to adopt in the event of this arrangement being car- 
ried into effect. 

I have the honor to be with great consideration 

Hawkesbury. 

124 RUFUS KING. [1802 

R. King to General Hamilton. 

Secret and confidential. 

London, May 7, 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

As I know of no measure from abroad which is capable of such 
extensive and injurious effects as the cession of Louisiana and the 
Floridas to France it has been a subject of my unremitting solici- 
tude and attention from the moment of our first suspicions con- 
cerning it. Its importance was fully and frequently developed to 
the ministers of this country before the conclusion of the Pre- 
liminaries and during the negotiation at Amiens ; but no expla- 
nation was demanded of France, lest it should embarrass the 
conclusion of Peace. 

Mr. Pinckney absurdly enough is offering to purchase the Floridas 
of Spain, which has already disposed of them. Mr. Livingston 
can obtain no answer whatever to his repeated notes on this sub- 
ject at Paris, while we learn for a certainty that an Expedition to 
be commanded by Bernadotte is already prepared in the Ports of 
France, and will go directly to the Mississippi unless the bad 
state of the affairs of St. Domingo should alter its destination. 

In these circumstances I have thought it prudent to ask this 
Government to explain itself upon this important measure, and I 
send you in entire confidence Copies of my Letter and of the 
answer which I have received and transmitted to the Department 
of State. 

In Thornton's last Dispatches which I have seen, he repeats a 
conversation between him and the President, in which the latter 
is represented to have said that this cession would inevitably 
change the political System of the United States in respect to 
their foreign Relations ; inasmuch as it would lead to jealousies, 
irritation and hostility ; and, alluding to the northwest boundary 
of the United States, suggested the expediency of an immediate 
settlement of it by an agreement to close the boundary by taking 
for that purpose the shortest line between Lake Superior and any 
part of the Mississippi. 

With sincere regards &c. 

Rufus King. 

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 25 

G. Cabot to R. King. 

May 11, i3o2. 
My dear Friend : 

I congratulate you on the success of your Convention which is 
approved by men of all parties. We are this moment told that 
the Definitive Treaty is signed at Amiens but many of us see as 
much danger in the peace as we apprehended in the war ; for 
myself I decided early that there cou'd be no security in paper 
promises against a nation of conquerors — with the power which 
France possesses she cannot possibly be at rest j all experience of 
human nature forbids the expectation that she will cease from her 
exertions until she is compelled by force or shall conquer the 
remains of civilized States. It might be very troublesome to us 
but wou'd probably be happy for other nations if France shou'd 
assail us so rudely as to unite us internally in a determined re- 
sistance— we cou'd not injure her by any force of our own but we 
cou'd defend ourselves with certainty if united & cou'd do so 
much toward sustaining those who are able to injure her that she 
cou'd have no hope of success. 

\^The Sect " which now governs has lost much reputation since 
the meeting of Congress ; the want of principle has not been 
more manifest than the want of talents & weight of character. 
So much time & labor has been employed in search of faults 
without finding any in the Members of the old administrations 
that men are irresistibly led to the conclusion that the charges 
against them were false which were circulated while they were in 
power.— From Maryland to New Hampshire inclusively the 
career of Jacobinism is arrested & in most places the tide of 
opinion sets the other way. You know we were all deteriorating 
last year, the progress is everywhere checked, in most places 
stopped, & in many the course changed. There has never been 
a period when the Federal Cause was maintained with more good 
sense and dignity than since its leaders & advocates have been 
in the minority. I am fully persuaded that the Federalists have 
a more salutary influence than they cou'd have had if the Presi- 
dential Election had issued according to their wishes — they can- 
not effect a positive act but they prevent almost every bad one 
that is meditated & those which pass in spite of opposition still 
have one good effect that of strengthening the federal cause — all 

126 RUFUS KING. [1802 

this needs no further explanation, so I pray God to preserve you 
many years !~\ 

G. C. 

R. King to N. Low. 

London, May 15, 1802. 

Dear Sir : 

. . . I am glad you happened to ask my opinion respecting 
Mr. Samuel Williams, who has been removed from the orifices of 
Consul and Agent for the prosecution of claims and appeals. 
Indeed I almost reproach myself for not having mentioned him 
to you after I heard of his removal. I am inclined to hope that 
the public as well as individuals, whose concerns were entrusted 
to Mr. Williams, may be faithfully served by his successor ; but 
sure I am they are not likely to be better served : for I am con- 
vinced the public has not had in its employ a more attentive, 
intelligent and faithful Officer than Mr. Williams. I have known 
him well for more than twenty years (or, as our friend Genl. 
Knox would say, upwards of a quarter of a century). He was 
my contemporary at College, has been known to me ever since, 
and was removed from Hamburgh to London at my request, on 
account of his peculiar fitness for the employ, and I would con- 
fide my business and property to him, as I am persuaded you and 
others may do, with the most unreserved confidence in his In- 
tegrity and Talents. 

He is a man of property, has been regularly bred to business 
and is established in London. I may add that he has the unani- 
mous testimony of the Board of Commissioners, which his late 
colleague, Mr. Cabot, also possessed, of having neglected nothing 
in performing his duties in connection with them. I think it no 
more than mere justice to Mr. Williams to say thus much, and to 
add my consent that you should communicate the same to any 
person who may desire to be acquainted with his reputation. 
With perfect Regard & Esteem 

Rufus King. 

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. \2J 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. 67. 

London, May 17, 1802. 
Sir : 

As Lord Grenville's speech against the Definitive Treaty of 
Peace, and Lord Hawkesbury's in vindication of it, will both be 
printed under their respective correction, and as these will con- 
tain more exactly than I could give them the arguments made use 
of in the two Houses of Parliament when the Treaty was under 
consideration, it is unnecessary that I should do more than state 
the division which was strong in both Houses in support of the 
Treaty ; the opposition had only 16 in the Lords, and 20 in the 
Commons. As soon as these discourses are published I will take 
care to send you copies of them. 

Herewith you will receive a copy of the Convention and ad- 
ditional articles between Great Britain and Russia, together with 
the acts of accession of Denmark and Sweden. The explanatory 
article, concerning the Colony Trade, taken in connection with 
Lord Grenville's speech, which I formerly sent you, on the Rus- 
sian Convention, is worthy of attention ; as the article consenting 
to as free a Trade between the Colonies and the North of Europe 
as may be carried on between them and the United States, is a 
departure from a contrary system which it has been the view of 
the past administration to establish and may become the founda- 
tion of doing away the discrimination in favour of direct trade 
between the United States and Great Britain, sanctioned by the 
last Treaty between Great Britain and Russia. 

I likewise enclose a copy of the Law just passed, imposing Duties 
upon Imports and Exports, and upon the Tonnage of Vessels. 

Mr. Eaton, who returned to Tunis on the istof March, informs 
me that the Tagan, cloths and Jewels had all arrived in safety, 
and proved highly acceptable to the Bey ; and Mr. Gavino in a 
letter dated on the 5th ultimo, acknowledges the receipt of the 
arms prepared by Mortimer and Company, which arrived at 
Gibraltar on the second of the same month, and were to be put 
on board the first American Frigate touching there and bound up 
the Mediterranean. 

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c. 

Rufus King. 

128 RUFUS KING. [1802 

R. King to Secretary of State. 
No. 68. 

London, May 26, 1802. 
Sir: 

Considerable solicitude has prevailed among the British manu- 
facturers and merchants concerning their Trade with France, and 
her late Allies, founded upon the Belief that France would ex- 
clude either wholly, or in a very great degree, the Manufactures 
of this country. The prohibitory laws of France, passed during 
the war, have been declared to be in force, and were it not for a 
recent and extraordinary Law, which puts into the hands of the 
Chief Consul, provisionally, the whole Regulation of Commerce^ 
as well in respect to the Imports, as to the admission and exclu- 
sion of foreign Manufacturers, no English Fabrics could be, as at 
present very few are, imported into France ; the want of some- 
thing ascertained and uniform upon this subject has operated to 
discourage all regular and advantageous Commerce between the 
two Countries. 

This inconvenience has without doubt been already felt on both 
sides, and in consequence thereof we are told that France has 
made an overture, not to enter into a commercial Treaty, but to 
digest and agree in certain understood and reciprocal Regulations 
to be established by Law, and according to which the Trade be- 
tween the two countries should be carried on for a limited time. 
A Proposition of this sort is under consideration here, and seems 
likely to become the foundation of a new experiment to regulate 
the mutual Dealings of these Rival Countries. Unless, however, 
a Law be immediately passed vesting in the Executive here, as 
has been done in France, the power of regulating the commercial 
intercourse between France and Great Britain, the subject must 
be referred to a new Parliament, as it is believed that the present 
Parliament will be dissolved in the course of three weeks, in order 
that the General Election may take place without interfering with 
the Harvests. 

Circumstances have lately occurred in addition to the refusal 
of Bird, Savage and Bird to advance to Mr. Lenox the money to 
enable him to clear off his public accounts, which have created in 
my mind a suspicion that their affairs may not be altogether free 

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 129 

of embarrassment, altho' their fortune may turn out to be solid 
and ample, and the disappointments, incurred at the close of the 
war, may not ultimately and materially affect them, I think it my 
duty to apprize you in confidence of my apprehensions that pos- 
sibly this may not be the case. 

With perfect Respect and Esteem, 

Rufus King. 

R. King to Dr. Drury. 

Dear Sir: London, June 3, 1802. 

My confidence in the discipline and course of education ob- 
served at Harrow leaves me nothing to desire in this respect, and 
I ought perhaps to beg your excuses in expressing to you a wish 
that may possibly appear to interfere with the regularity of this, 
course ; but as my sons are advancing towards an age in which it 
would suit my views in respect to the completion of their educa- 
tion, that they should advance in the school as fast as their ac- 
quirements will permit (to hurry them faster, I know would be 
disadvantageous), I have thought I might without impropriety 
take the liberty of intimating this reflection to you, in doing which 
I persuade myself that I shall not be understood, either as sup- 
posing my sons to have more pretensions than their companions 
in general, or as being behind where they might have been ex- 
pected to be. My wish is that they should receive all the advan- 
tages to be received from going through Harrow previously to 
their leaving England, which it is my intention that they shall 
do when they separate from your instruction. 
< Whether they will then be sent to a University upon the Con- 
tment * or only pass a year or two abroad and afterwards return 
to America to complete their education, will depend upon circum- 

*The following from a note book, with extracts from Gibbon's Memoirs 
shows Mr. King's views about the English Universities of that day : 

"Mr. Gibbon has written much to prove the danger, as well as the inutility 
of sending young men to the English Universities. His sentiments, joined to 
the opinion of Knox, which agree with my own reflections, have decided me 
against sending any of my children there. I must make diligent enquiry con- 
cerning the Universities upon the continent." See also vol. iii n «0 

VOL. IV. — 9 ' t" JJUl 

130 RUFUS KING. [1802 

stances of which I am not at present master. As they are Amer- 
icans, their education must not be entirely abroad, and were I not 
desirous of giving them an opportunity to obtain the modern 
languages at an age most convenient and safe for this acquisition, 
I should send them home immediately from Harrow. 
With most perfect respect 

Your obliged & obedt. Servt. 

Rufus King. 

Dr. Drury to R. King. 

Harrow, 4th June, 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

It will always afford me the sincerest pleasure to fulfil the 
wishes of those parents, who honour me with their confidence, to 
the utmost of my power and to take care that their children have 
that degree of attention to their morals and improvement, which 
duty prescribes ; and a sufficient stimulus to industry and com- 
petition to call forth the powers of their minds. But we must be 
cautious how we push them beyond their strength. Your sons 
possess most amiable and docile minds, their understandings are 
sound and good, but neither of them have shown as yet that supe- 
riority of genius wh. would allow me to place them higher in the 
school with any probable advantage to themselves. The younger 
is more forward for his age than many who are below him, and it 
is fortunate that his apprehension is so far quicker than his broth- 
er's as to enable him to proceed with him in the same class, 
[there was only little more than one year between them] and of 
course of the same employments. At Xmas next they will be in 
the same remove in which most of those authors are read, which are 
used in the sixth or head Form. If I could carry my own ideas 
always into execution, no boy should attain this situation before 
the age of fourteen [they were 14 & 13]. But this I have found 
impossible, the different ages at which the young people are sent 
to Harrow and the very different state of their proficiency, when 
they come, as well as the variety of their capacities have proved 
obstacles to my design ; but the experience of more than thirty 
years has convinced me that this rule, as a general one, would 
prove more safe than an earlier elevation to the higher Forms of 

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 131 

the school. . . . With regard to your sons, I could wish 
when they leave Harrow, if they choose to pursue classical stud- 
ies, they may want no aid beyond their own industry to perfect 
this branch of study, and this they will accomplish if your con- 
venience and engagement will allow them to conclude their school 
education at Harrow. 

Most respectfully and faithfully yours 

Joseph Drury. 

On April 8, 1802, Mr. King wrote to his friend General 
Hamilton a letter, of which the following is the concluding 
portion, showing at that time his desire to return home.* 
This letter is here given in connection with the answer. 

R King to A. Hamilton. 

London, April 8, 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

. . . I do not enter upon the situation of Europe since the 
peace. It would be too long a labor to do so. While the war 
lasted, constant and endless occasions presented themselves to 
employ myself here in the benefit of our countrymen, and I flat- 
ter myself for the public advantage. 

The revision of our commercial treaty has been a service to 
which I have all along looked as the conclusion of my mission, f 
As, however, I have no reason to suppose it likely soon to take 
place, I am not much inclined to remain here a mere figurant, 
and am therefore seriously thinking of my return. Without de- 
ciding anything on this point, I confidentially ask your opinion 

* Works of A. Hamilton, vol. vi., p. 538. 

f In a private letter to Mr. Madison, Secretary of State, Oct. 8, 1801 (vol. 
iii., p. 522), Mr. King had expressed his desire " to assist in the revision of our 
treaty with this country " and said, as it might require conference, with refer- 
ence to treaties with France also, " should the President confide the negotia- 
tion here to me, might there not be considerable advantage in my receiving 
permission to pass a fortnight with you at the Seat of Government or with Mr. 
Livingston here or at Paris ? " 

To this suggestion, no answer had been sent to him, indicating clearly that it 
was not the President's intention to confide the negotiation to him. 

132 XUFUS KING. [1802 

respecting it. This I have not done except in the present 
instance. 

Very faithfully 

Rufus King. 

Before returning, I am desirous to pass a few months upon the 
continent. 

A. Hamilton to R. King. 

New York, June 3, 1802. 
My Dear Sir : 

I have been long very delinquent towards you, as a correspond- 
ent, and am to thank you that you have not cast me off altogether 
as an irretrievable reprobate. But you know how to appreciate 
the causes, and you have made a construction equally just and 
indulgent. 

In your last you ask my opinion about a matter delicate and 
important both in a public and in a personal view. I shall give it 
with the frankness to which you have a right, and I may add that 
the impressions of your other friends, so far as they have fallen 
under my observation, do not differ from my own. While you 
were in the midst of a negotiation interesting to your country, it 
was your duty to keep your post. You have now accomplished 
the object and with the good fortune not very common of having 
the universal plaudit. This done, it seems to me most advisable 
that you return home. There is little probability that your con- 
tinuance in your present station will be productive of much positive 
good. Nor are circumstances such as to give reason to appre- 
hend that the substitute for you, whoever he may be, can do 
much harm. Your stay or return therefore, as it regards our trans- 
atlantic concerns, is probably not material : while your presence 
at home may be useful in ways which it is not necessary to par- 
ticularise. Besides it is questionable whether you can continue 
longer in the service of the present administration with what is 
due as well to your own character as to the common cause. I am 
far from thinking that a man is bound to quit a public office 
merely because the administration of the Government may have 
changed hands. But when those who have come into power are 

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 33 

undisguised persecutors of the party to which he has been at- 
tached and study with ostentation to heap upon it every indig- 
nity and injury — he ought not in my opinion to permit himself to 
make an exception or to lend his talents to the support of such 
characters. If in addition to this, it be true that the principles 
and plans of the men at the head of affairs tend to the degrada- 
tion of the Government and to their own disgrace, it will hardly 
be possible to be in any way connected with them without sharing 
in the disrepute which they may be destined to experience. 

I wish I had time to give you a comprehensive & particular map 
of our political situation. But more than a rude outline is be- 
yond my leisure, devoted as I am more than ever to my profes- 
sional pursuits. 

You have seen the course of the Administration hitherto, espe- 
cially during the last session of Congress, and I am persuaded 
you will agree in opinion with me that it could hardly have been 
more diligent — in mischief. What you will ask has been and is 
likely to be the effect on the public mind ? 

Our friends are sanguine that a great change for the better has 
been wrought and is progressive. I suppose good has been done 
— that the Federalists have been reunited and cemented — 
have been awakened and alarmed. Perhaps too there may be 
some sensible and moderate men of the adverse party who are 
beginning to doubt. But I as yet discover no satisfactory symp- 
toms of a revolution of opinion in the mass. 

Nor do I look with much expectation to any serious alteration 
until inconveniences are extensively felt or until time has pro- 
duced a disposition to coquet with new lovers — Vibrations of 
power, you are aware, are the genius of our Government. 

There is however a circumstance which may accelerate the fall 
of the party. There is certainly a most serious seism between the 
Chief and his heir apparent ; a seism absolutely incurable, be- 
cause founded in the breasts of both in the rivalship of an insa- 
tiable and unprincipled ambition. The effects are already 
apparent and are ripening into a more bitter animosity between 
the partizans of the two men than ever existed between the 
Federalists and Antifederalists. 

Unluckily we are not as neutral to the quarrel as we ought to 
be — You saw how far our friends in Congress went in polluting 

134 RUFUS KING. [1802 

themselves with the support of the second personage for the 
presidency. The Cabal did not terminate there. Several men, 
of no inconsiderable importance among us, like the enterprising 
and adventurous character of this man, and hope to soar with 
him to power. Many more through hatred to the Chief and 
through an impatience to recover the reins are linking themselves 
with the Vice-Chief, almost without perceiving it and professing 
to have no other object than to make use of him ; while he 
knows that he is making use of them. What this may end in, 
it is difficult to foresee. 

Of one thing only I am sure, that in no event will I be directly 
or indirectly implicated in a responsibility for the elevation or 
support of either of two men, who in different senses, are in my 
eyes equally unworthy of the confidence of intelligent or honest 
men. 

Truly, my dear Sir, the prospects of our Country are not bril. 
liant. The mass is far from sound. At headquarters a most 
visionary theory presides. Depend upon it this is the fact to a 
great extreme. No army, no navy, no active commerce — natural 
defence, not by arms but by embargoes, prohibitions of trade, &c. 
— as little government as possible within — these are the pernicious 
dreams which as far and as fast as possible will be attempted to 
be realized. Mr. Jefferson is distressed at the codfish having 
latterly emigrated to the southern Coast lest the people there 
should be tempted to catch them ! and commerce of which we 
have already too much, receive an accession. Be assured this is 
no pleasantry, but a very sober anecdote. 

Among Federalists old errors are not cured. They also con- 
tinue to dream though not so preposterously as their opponent. 
All will be very well (say they) when the power once more gets 
back into Federal hands. The people convinced by experience 
of their error will repose a permanent confidence in good men. 
Risum teneatis ? Adieu. 

Yrs. ever — 

A. H. 

P. S. The bearer our acquaintance — Wm. Bayard continues 
worthy of high esteem & regard. 

A. H. 

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 135 

R. Troup to R. King. 

tNEW York, June 6, 1802. 
Dear Sir : 
- . . . The fatigue occasioned by the constant sitting of our 
courts exhausted us all very much. I find that Hamilton's health, 
notwithstanding the quickness and enormous strength of his mind, 
is impairing, as well as mine. This man's mind, by the by, seems 
to be progressing to greater and greater maturity ; such is the 
common opinion of our bar ; and I may say with truth that his 
powers are now enormous ! and the only chance we have of suc- 
cess is now and then when he happens to be on the weaker side : 
and yet he is always complaining that he does not get his share of 
judgments and decrees ! Our new Chancellor (Lansing) is at- 
tentive and honest, but his mind is narrow and piddling ; and he 
is utterly destitute of those liberal and comprehensive views, 
which are suited to the Court over which he presides. It is a 
great source of consolation, however, to such as do not admire 
(and I confess myself of this number) the republican system, that 
our Supreme Court and Court of Chancery respect the rights of 

property. 

We are now in profound tranquillity. The peace has drawn 
after it a diminution of business of all sorts. . . The fall of 
our produce and our late open water have not affected the prices 
of lands, but they have materially injured payments. . . . 

We poor fallen federalists are indulging our expectation that 
the sun of federalism is beginning to rise again. In Massachu- 
setts and Connecticut larger majorities for the federalists appeared 
at the State elections than in those of last year. In this State we 
have also gained— but in my opinion not more has appeared than 
demonstrates the existence of life ; what two or three years will 
produce is beyond conjecture. ... 

The Clintonians and Jeffersonians are at open hostility with 
the Burrites. This will be evident from the pamphlet accompany- 
ing this letter. Burr is now at Savannah doing what he can to 
render Jefferson more popular and promote his re-election. That 
you may understand the pamphlet better, I have also sent you 
herewith the history of Adams' administration. The rancour be- 
tween these parties is indescribable. The cant of the Clintonians 
and Jeffersonians is that we have coalesced with Burr— which is 

136 RUFUS KING, [1802 

an infamous falsehood — as far as our friends in this State are con- 
cerned ; though we have reason to think that Burr has been 
caballing with some of our friends to the southward. The high 
probability is that Burr is a gone man, and that all his cunning, 
enterprise and industry will not save him. The pamphlet ex- 
hibits a just picture of Burr's character. The history of Adams' 
administration is a paltry and rascally thing ; the author is a 
British renegade. . . . 

Coleman is very zealous and devoted to the federal cause ; but 
his paper is that of the scholar and the gentleman. . . TV 

Yours 

Rob. Troup. 

CHAPTER IX. 

King to Secretary of State— Received President's and Senate's Approbation of 
the Convention — Sedgwick to King — Glad he will return Home — 
Federalism improving — District of Maine — King to Low — Confidence in 
Government Funds — King to Madison — Thanks for Permission to visit 
France, etc. — Will leave Mr. Gore Charge without Expense to the Public — 
King to Secretary of State— Commission under 7th Article proceeding 
satisfactorily — Has postponed Discussion of the Repeal of countervailing 
Duty on Tobacco — King to Erving — Claims of Seamen for Relief — King 
to Lord Hawkesbury — Has received the Convention ratified, etc. — King 
to Secretary of State — Loan by Holland paid in Part to France to release 
Claims of the Prince of Orange— King to Lord Hawkesbury— Demanding 
Release of impressed Seamen — King to Livingston — Floridas possibly not 
ceded — Free Navigation of the Mississippi essential to United States — 
Floridas must belong to us — Interesting Suggestion relative to them — 
Should not enter into a Guaranty as to their Possession by Spain — King to 
Secretary of State — Ratifications of Convention exchanged — King to Secre- 
tary of State — Morocco declared war against the United States — Agricul- 
tural Prospects in England bad— King to Troup— Going to the Continent 
— King to Secretary of State — Informing him of his Expenditure relating 
to the Publication of Robinson's Admiralty Reports and why incurred. 

R. King to Secretary of State. 
No. 69. 

London, June 10, 1802. 
Sir : 

I have duly received your Letter of Ap. 7th, communicating the 
President's approbation of the Convention respecting the 6th and 
7th Articles of the Treaty of 1794 ; and by private accounts of a 
later date, we have the farther satisfaction to hear that the Senate 
has likewise added its sanction. 

In respect to the Countervailing Duties, I have nothing to add 

137 

I38 RUFUS KING. [1802 

to my former communication ; their continuance or repeal is a 
question submitted to the decision of Congress. The press of 
Business towards the close of the Session of Parliament employs 
the whole time of the Ministers ; at present therefore I do not 
think it expedient to resume the subject of our West India Trade. 
As soon as a convenient opening offers I will recall it to Lord 
Hawkesbury's attention. 

By this opportunity I send you a copy of the Report of the 
Committee of the House of Commons, respecting the vaccine in- 
oculation, a discovery of the highest interest to humanity ; also a 
statement of the national Debt together with the calculations con- 
cerning the late modification of the Sinking Fund. By the first 
ship bound to the Chesapeake, I will send you a copy of the late 
Enumeration of this Country, so far as it has been completed ; 
the Supplement shall be forwarded as soon as it is printed. As 
our Census is a subject of much enquiry, I shall be obliged to you 
to send me a dozen copies of the former as well as of the late 
Census, some of which I wish to deposit in the public Museums 
and Libraries. 

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c. 

Rufus King. 

T. Sedgwick to R. King. 

Wiscasset, in Maine, 15 June, 1802. 
My dear Sir : 

I have just now had the pleasure to receive your letter of the 
6th of April for which I am much obliged to you. No part of it 
has given me more pleasure than the intimation it gave of your 
intended return. As the convention you made is ratified, I am 
of opinion your presence will be more useful here than in Eng- 
land. Strange as it might appear to a superficial observer, it is 
nevertheless true that an adjustment of all differences with G. B. 
was ardently desired by J n and his friends, even before the ces- 
sion of Louisiana afforded additional motives to it. I never had 
a doubt, therefore, that any reasonable terms would be accepted. 

In my last letter, as well as I can recollect, I predicted that the 
policy of the President would weaken his adherents in New Eng- 
land. This prediction is verified by the elections, at least in this 

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 39 

state ; our legislature being more federal than it has been since 
the adoption of the constitution, and as far as I am informed 
composed of better materials. In New Hampshire, it is true that 
Governor Gilman was elected by a smaller majority than this the 
preceeding year, but I am assured that the defection was owing 
more to local than national causes. 

Till now I have never been in this district, and have been 
astonished at the progress of improvement which is everywhere 
apparent. The increase of population has everywhere been con- 
siderable, but the accumulation of wealth incomparably greater. 
Portland, Bath, this place, & several others, have become flourish- 
ing trading places, but none more so than the village of Kenne- 
bunk. I have indeed been astonished at the appearance which 
every part of the country that I have seen exhibits. But among 
all that I have seen here none has been more pleasing than two 
of your nieces ; of the name of Southgate, whom I saw at Port- 
land, and one of whom is now here. 

I would never have abandoned the govt, personally but from 
the most complete conviction that the people would make an 
experiment of democracy. Under this conviction I could per- 
ceive no reason for sacrificing my comfort to objects of the 
attainment of which I despaired. On my retiring I was certain 
that inaction would render me unhappy, and therefore began 
anew the practice in my profession. This soon became disgust- 
ing to me, and I was inclined to accept the office of Judge 
merely to avoid the evils of idleness. Whether I shall continue 
in it is as yet uncertain. Should I quit it I shall never again 
return to the bar but try what I can do in the cultivation of land. 

Farewell, 

Theodore Sedgwick. 

R. King to N. Low. 

London, June 15, 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

... I observe your doubts in respect to the funds : but my 

confidence is not yet lost and I therefore desire you to continue 

your investments on my account. The funds may be less secure 

than they ought to be, and the prices such as to yield but little 

140 RUFUS KING. [1802 

more than 6 per cent. Nevertheless Property invested in the funds 
requires so little trouble and the annuity is paid with so much 
regularity, and the capital is at all times so easily converted into 
money, and in portions suiting one's convenience, that to people 
disliking business and the care of managing property, the funds 
will with us, as everywhere else, in general be preferred to other 
property. . . . 

R. King. 

R. King to James Madison, Esq. 

Private. 

London, June 16, 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

I am much obliged to you for your Letter of Ap. 7. and beg of 
you to present my respectful acknowledgments to the President 
for the permission he has given me to visit France and some of 
the neighbouring Countries. 

As yet I have not formed any plan upon this subject, and shall 
wait for the return of the Convention before I do so ; perhaps I 
may pass a few weeks at Paris, in July or August, but do not 
think it probable that I shall go farther from my post. 

It is some months since the return home of my Secretary Mr. 
John Pickering ; I have expected as his successor my nephew 
Mr. H. Southgate, who will probably arrive in the course of the 
summer. Since Mr. Pickering left me, Mr. John Munro of Scot- 
land, who has been employed in my office for several years, has 
done the duties of my Secretary ; and as I have been fully satis- 
fied with his fidelity and attention, I have allowed him the pay. 
If I avail myself of the President's permission to extend my 
voyage beyond Paris, or for more than three or four weeks, I 
shall leave my friend Mr. Gore, (one of the Commissioners under 
the 7th Article of the Treaty of 1794) Charge des affaires during 
my absence ; in this case you will understand that his agency 
will be attended with no expence to the public. 

With very great Respect & Esteem &c. 

Rufus King. 

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 141 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. 70. 

London, June 20, 1802. 
Sir : 

I have duly received the duplicate of your Letter of May the 
first ; the original has not yet reached me, owing probably to the 
Packet's detention at Halifax on her way to Falmouth. As soon 
as she arrives, I will take immediate measures to complete the 
Convention by exchanging the Ratifications. 

The Commission under the 7th Article of the Treaty of 1794, 
is proceeding in a satisfactory manner ; upwards of fifty cases 
which were prepared for hearing soon after the suspension of the 
Commission, have been so far decided since the recommencement 
of its business that they wait only for the date of the Exchange 
of the Ratifications of the Convention in order that their respec- 
tive Sums maybe computed and fixed. The question of Interest, 
about which nothing has been said since the reassembling of the 
Board, will occur when these computations are to be made. As 
the claims preferred by British Subjects for captures alleged to 
have been illegal amount altogether to a considerable sum, and as 
it is conjectured that many of these claims are destitute of any 
just foundation, it is desirable that they should receive an early 
consideration and decision : this will also happen as soon as the 
Ratifications are exchanged. 

Mr. Cabot's assistance will, I am persuaded, prove a material 
advantage to the American Claimants, and, at the same time, no 
small relief to the Commissioners ; as his knowledge of the course 
of our Trade, and of the peculiar manner in which certain 
portions of it are carried on, enable him to give explanations that 
are familiar to mercantile men, but without which there would be 
some difficulties in deciding many of the cases before the com- 
mission. 

Although I understand that the Board has been apprized of the 
annual allowance to be received by Mr. Cabot, during his service 
in connexion with the Commission, I purpose to write a letter to 
the Commissioners communicating to them agreeably to your 
letter to me, that to induce Mr. Cabot to return and resume his 
functions in this country, the President has been pleased to allow 
him an annual salary of 1500 Dollars. 

142 RUFUS KING. [1802 

In respect to the Countervailing Duties upon our ships and 
Cargoes entering the Ports of Great Britain, I can only repeat 
what I have already remarked to you that their discontinuance 
partially or wholly having been entirely, and as I thought liber- 
ally submitted to the decision of Congress, I do not perceive that 
I can with propriety resume the subject until Congress shall have 
come to some decision concerning it. The intention of suspend- 
ing immediately the countervailing Duty on Tobacco was upon 
the idea that the discriminating Duties had been or certainly 
would be repealed in America : but as soon as I perceived that 
such repeal had become doubtful on account of the unexpected 
opposition the proposal met with, I thought it due to a candid 
course of Proceeding, to intimate my doubts upon this point to 
the British Minister ; and in consequence thereof it was deter- 
mined by the Treasury to postpone the suspension until more 
precise information of the views of Congress should be received. 
With Perfect Respect and Esteem, 

Rufus King. 

R. King to George W. Erving, Esq. 

Great Cumberland Place, June 21, 1802. 
Sir: 

As the answer invariably given to former applications respect- 
ing Seamen, representing themselves to be American Citizens, but 
who have no document to prove their citizenship, would without 
doubt be repeated in answer to any further and formal demands 
in their favour, I doubt of the expediency of making the applica- 
tion suggested by you in favour of the seamen, whose discharge as 
Americans has been refused, but who have been released in con- 
sequence of the late reduction of the naval forces of this country. 

Mr. Lenox informed me that he delivered to you a List of 
detained Seamen of this description ; by comparing the names of 
those who have applied to you for succour with the List, you will 
be enabled to ascertain how many of the applicants are of this 
class. I request you to make the comparison, and inform me of 
the result : as in case the number is very considerable, I would 
take an opportunity of informally speaking to Lord St. Vincent 
upon the subject. I am, Sir, 

Your obedient Servant, 

Rufus King. 

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 43 

R. King to G. W. Erving, Esq. 

Randells, Surry, July i, 1802. 
Sir: 

To guard against unfounded claims for relief, as well as to 
check the Repetition of those which are correct, it has heretofore 
been deemed indispensable to keep an alphabetical and descrip- 
tive list of all seamen representing themselves to be Americans 
and claiming succour from the U. S. The Description should at 
least express the town and State, and if foreign born, the place of 
their nativity, together with the proof of Citizenship, and the 
name of the man of war from which they have been discharged. 
Such a list, if collated with that left with you by Mr. Lenox, 
would without trouble and immediately supply the information I 
wished for, to enable me to determine upon the expediency of the 
application you have advised to be made to the Admiralty ; and 
I request that you will in future keep such a list. Without greater 
precision in respect to the number and national character of the 
persons, representing themselves to be American Seamen, lately 
discharged from the naval service of this Country, I am not 
inclined to apply to the admiralty for the purpose of engaging it 
to defray the expence of their passage to America ; but if you 
should continue to be satisfied of the citizenship of these persons, 
and the means designated for their return home be insufficient, I 
recommend to you to call upon Mr. Nepean and confer with him 
upon the subject ; this being in my opinion a better course, 
whether we regard the success or failure of the attempt, than to 
make the application in writing. It will however be advantageous 
that you should ascertain, as far as practicable, the number of 
American Seamen who have been lately discharged and who 
desire to return home ; and if you could make out, even with a 
little trouble, a List of their names, I am persuaded it might 
promote the accomplishment of your object. 

With due respect &c, 

Rufus King. 

R. King to Lord Hawkesbury. 

Leatherhead, Surry, July 5, 1802. 
My Lord : 

I have the Satisfaction to inform your Lordship, that 1 have 

just received the Convention, which we signed in January last, 

144 RUFUS KING. [1802 

duly ratified on the part of the President of the United States, 
together with Instructions to exchange the same for the like Rati- 
fication on the part of his Majesty. 

It affords me additional pleasure to be authorized to add, that 
although the Subject might have been deferred to a future Session 
of Congress, the President conceiving that its immediate Con- 
sideration would be a satisfactory Evidence of the disposition of 
our public Councils, lost no time in laying the Convention before 
Congress, which has made the requisite appropriations to carry 
the same into effect. Whenever it shall be convenient to your 
Lordship, I will wait upon you to complete this Business by ex- 
changing the Ratifications. 

With perfect Consideration, &c, 

Rufus King. 

R. King to Secretary of State. 
No. 71. 

London, July 5, 1802. 
Sir: 

The loan lately obtained by the Dutch Government, and for 
which a rate of profit is secured to the Lenders hitherto unknown 
in that frugal and industrious Country, and which it is thought may 
have a disadvantageous effect upon its money operations in future,, 
has for some time past excited a good deal of curiosity, the public 
being at a loss to conjecture the purpose to which so considerable 
a sum could be destined. It is now believed that Fifteen Mil- 
lions of Guilders, part of this loan, have been paid to procure 
from France a release of the claims of the Prince of Orange, 
which he himself would have given up for half the sum : this pay- 
ment explains the separate engagement signed at Amiens by the 
French and Dutch ambassadors relative to these Claims. 

The plan of indemnities about which the Princes of Germany 
have been so long amused, is supposed to be settled, between 
France, Russia and Prussia, and without the assistance of Austria. 
We are told that the Prince of Orange is to receive his indemnity 
in Germany, and that Austria will consult her prudence and 
acquiesce in a statement made under the influence of France,, 
and sanctioned by her most powerful neighbours. 

802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 

145 

The commercial Negotiation between this country and France 
has hitherto made very little, if any, progress, and at present it 
seems altogether uncertain whether any arrangement upon this 
subject will be completed. In the meantime France is active in 
extending and strengthening her influence in every quarter, as 
well as in concerting projects, and executing plans both at home 
and abroad, which do not seem capable of being explained in a 
manner consistent with the sincerity of her professions concerning 
the Peace of Europe. 

Mr. Otto is still here, waiting for his successor, who is not 
expected to arrive before the middle of September : this delay will 
probably operate to postpone Mr. Otto's journey to America till 
the ensuing Spring. 

With perfect Respect & Esteem, &c, 

Rufus King. 

R. King to Lord Hawkesbury. 

Great Cumberland Place, July 12, 1802. 
My Lord : 

I have received the orders of the President of the United States 
to lay before your Lordship the enclosed Evidence of the mis- 
conduct of O'Brien, Esq., Commander of His Majesty's 

Frigate Emerald, in the impressment on board the American 
Schooner Sea-flower, of Philadelphia, and upon the high seas, of 
William Munro and Lindsay Addison, Citizens and Seamen of the 
United States. Referring to the reflexions upon the Subject, 
which I have heretofore submitted to your Lordship's considera- 
tion, and which derive new force from the reestablishment of a 
general peace, I take the liberty to request your Lordship's im- 
mediate interference in order that the said Munro and Addison 

may be forthwith discharged, and orders given to the said 

O'Brien, Esq., as well as to all others, his Majesty's Naval Officers, 
carefully to abstain from the like irregularities in future. 

Acknowledging, as I am instructed to do, the equitable and 
friendly sentiments of his Majesty's Government towards that of 
the United States, and which are fully and sincerely reciprocated 
by the latter, I flatter myself that your Lordship's influence will 

146 RUFUS KING. [1802 

not be wanting in favour of a regulation which, without injury to 
Great Britain, is due to the rights of the United States as well as 
essential to the Security of their Commerce. 

With great Consideration & Respect, &c, 

Rufus King. 

R. King to Robert R. Livingston, Esq. 

London, July 12, 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

I have had the honour to receive your letter of June 30th. 
Whether either or both the Floridas have been ceded seems alto- 
gether matter of inference and conjecture, as no document we 
have seen offers any direct evidence upon the subject. The 
same reasons which have led me to suppose it probable that the 
Floridas would not be reserved by Spain after Louisania passed 
into the hands of France, induce me to think that West Florida 
would not be kept if East Florida be ceded with Louisiana. The 
chief object, and almost the only one, which has made the Floridas 
of any value to Spain, must cease with the cession of Louisiana, 
and as the Floridas in themselves are rather a burthen than a 
benefit to Spain, I cannot but think, whether they have or have 
not been ceded, that France, being mistress of Louisiana, will 
acquire, whenever she chooses to do so, a Title to the Floridas 
also. If so France, and not Spain, is the Power with which every 
efficient discussion should be made concerning these Provinces. 
As the free Navigation and use of the Mississippi is a Right above 
all computation to the United States, New Orleans and the 
Floridas would on this account, as well as others, prove a most 
valuable acquisition ; and according to my creed they must and 
will ultimately belong to us. If so, every step we take should 
have a reference to this negotiation, and notwithstanding we 
cannot at all times advance towards the attainment of our object, 
Prudence should restrain us from whatever may serve to obstruct 
or defeat the accomplishment of our purpose. Upon these princi- 
ples we ought to give no explicit sanction to the transfer of these 
Provinces from Spain to any other Power, nor enter into any 
engagements jointly with others concerning them ; for altho' we 
may at present be content that they should remain in the posses- 

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 47 

sion of Spain, it is by no means plain that it would be consistent 
with sound policy for us to give money in order that they may be 
left in this situation. If doubts may however exist upon this 
point, there surely can be none that it would be repugnant to 
every principle of policy which might, or is likely to, influence 
our Government to form a Guaranty jointly with France or any 
other Power, to secure the possession of these Provinces to Spain 
or any other Nation, inasmuch as such Guaranty might not only 
prove an impediment to our acquiring them ourselves, but proba- 
bly would involve us in a disadvantageous war on that account. 
If these Provinces remain in the possession of Spain, as we wish 
they may, it cannot be long before all the continental Colonies of 
that nation will imitate the example we have given them. Having 
had the means of a good deal of information upon this subject, 
concerning which so little is known, and so much concealed, I feel 
confident that this crisis cannot be at a great distance. Aware 
that such is the situation of the Colonies, Spain has been solici- 
tous and pressed the point with zeal, tho' unsuccessfully, upon 
Mr. Pinckney in the year 1795 t0 procure from us a Guaranty 
of her American Possessions. Should another war break out 
between England and France, as we cannot doubt will be the 
case in the course of a few years, Spain as heretofore will become 
a party of it, and it is quite probable that England may succeed 
in the attempt to take possession of New Orleans and the 
Floridas ; either of these events would constitute the casus 
foederis, and we should consequently be called upon to fulfil our 
Guaranty. 

On account of the peculiar situation of these Provinces, and 
independent of our views as to the acquisition of them, we should 
therefore abstain from entering into any Guaranty concerning 
them ; a species of stipulation it can never be our interest to 
enter into with any of the great commercial Powers of Europe, 
since it is one rarely, if ever, to be formed except by a Power in 
a condition not only to construe, but to enforce the observance 
of her construction of the engagement. 

From the tenor of these observations, which, tho' hastily writ- 
ten, are so far as regards their principal object the fruit of much 
consideration, you will infer my dislike of a purchase, except for 
ourselves, as well as my repugnance to a Guaranty under any 

148 RUFUS KING. [1802 

circumstances. As I write to you without any reserve and upon 
a subject whose limits are not yet fully explored, and concerning 
which opinions may therefore be supposed to vary, you will I am 
sure excuse the little ceremony which I have observed in the ex- 
pression of my sentiments, the justness whereof, I shall on all 
occasions be inclined to distrust, if they happen to be in opposi- 
tion to your more weighty opinion. 

With great and sincere Respect, &c. 

Rufus King. 

R. King to Secretary of State. 
No. 72. 

London, July 16, 1802. 
Sir : 

As soon as I received from Mr. Fenwick the President's Ratifi- 
cation of the Convention, I gave notice thereof to Lord Hawkes- 
bury, and we yesterday exchanged the Ratifications, and mutually 
executed the usual Certificates thereof. Two original Copies of 
the British Ratification have been delivered to me together with 
duplicate Certificates of the exchange. I shall commit them to 
the charge of Mr. Christie, late a Representative in Congress from 
Maryland, who will deliver them to you in Washington. The 
duplicate Ratification and Certificate of Exchange shall be for- 
warded by the next good opportunity. I have taken the liberty 
to ensure Mr. Christie that whatever expence he may incur in the 
performance of this service will be readily reimbursed by you. 
With perfect respect and esteem, &c, 

Rufus King. 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. 73. 

London, July 19, 1802. 
Sir : 

I yesterday received a letter from Commodore Morris, dated 
United States frigate Chesapeake, Gibraltar Bay, June 25, 
announcing the unexpected declaration of war against the United 

802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 

I49 

States by the Emperor of Morocco. I have given notice of the 
event to our Consuls in this country, to the end that all American 
Vessels in the Ports thereof may make use of such precautions in 
favour of their security, as those having the charge of them may 
deem expedient. Whether this unjust Proceeding has arisen out 
of the civil commotions which for some time past are understood 
to have prevailed in Morocco, or from some other cause, I am 
altogether ignorant, having no exact information either concern- 
ing the internal condition of Morocco, or of the State of our Rela- 
tions with this Power. The declaration, however, will serve as 
another proof, if another be wanting, that our security against the 
Barbary Powers must depend upon Force and not upon Treaties, 
upon Ships of war instead of presents and subsidies. 

The early part of the Summer having been uncommonly dry, 
the crop of Hay will be very short ; and the weather during the 
last four weeks (the Hay season for the South of England) having 
been cloudy and wet, the Crop which has been cut is not only short 
in quantity but ill cured. Old Hay has in consequence thereof 
risen in the London market from five to eight Guineas the load of 
eighteen hundred ; and altho' the Wheat and other Grain have 
promised a plentiful Harvest, the continuance of rainy weather 
begins to excite serious concern lest the Corn should suffer from 
mildew and other injuries to which it is exposed. 
With perfect Respect and Esteem, &c. 

Rufus King. 

R. King to R. Troup. 

London, July 19, 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

. . . Mrs. King and I think of going for a few weeks to 

France. . . Though I have not fixed upon any precise time, I 

am much inclined to return home. My children too are growing 

too old to remain abroad. After visiting Paris, I must come to a 

decision on this subject. 

Adieu, yours &c, 

Rufus King. 

150 RUFUS KING. [1802 

R. King to James Madison, Esq. 

Private. 

London, July 21, 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

As an item in my contingent account relates to the Publication 
of Robinson's Admiralty Reports, it may be thought proper that 
I should say a word or two in explanation of this expense. 

It has not, as you may well know, been the practice of this 
country to publish Reports of the decisions of its prize Tribunals ; 
and while a pretty general opinion has prevailed that England 
administers the Law of Nations in matters of prize with great 
rigour, Englishmen have uniformly asserted that these Tribunals 
have manifested greater moderation in that respect than those of 
any other Nation. So long as the decisions of the English prize 
Courts remained unpublished, this Disagreement would continue 
to exist, and so long likewise foreign States would remain without 
precise notion of the maxims of Public Law by which these 
Tribunals profess to regulate their Decisions. 

Upon Sir William Scott's appointment as Judge of the High 
Court of Admiralty, being alike distinguished for Learning and 
Integrity, and desirous of extending his reputation beyond the 
limits of his own country, it occurred to me that the opportunity 
was a favourable one to endeavour to promote the publication of 
the Reports of his Court, the natural effect whereof upon such a 
mind as Sir William Scott's seemed likely to be in favour of a 
mild interpretation of the Laws of War and Peace, and what 
appeared to me of much importance, such a publication would have 
a Tendency to procure for this important branch of public Law 
a fixed character in place of the uncertain and contentious Repu- 
tation it has hitherto possessed : by going into the hands of mer- 
chants and men of business, these Reports would moreover enable 
them to avoid such adventures as might be liable to interruption. 

I accordingly conversed with Sir William Scott upon the sub- 
ject ; at first the proposal encountered difficulty chiefly on account 
of the contrary usage ; this objection was finally yielded, and Sir 
William Scott acquiesced, provided Government would consent 
and a suitable Reporter could be found to undertake the work. I 
then applied to the Minister and suggested such arguments as 
seemed to me likely to engage his attention, and, after a time, the 

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 151 

Government gave its consent and nothing remained but to find a 
Reporter. 

As these Reports were not expected to be called for by profes- 
sional men, who are the principal purchasers of the Common Law 
Reports, it was apprehended that the demand might not be suf- 
ficient to reimburse the expenses of publication, and to obviate this 
objection, recourse was had as usual in cases of this character to 
last subscriptions. Considering the utility of the publication and the 
part I had taken to promote it, I thought it expedient to subscribe 
for Fifty Copies. These have been sent from time to time, and 
in the order of their publication, to the Department of State, 
except the five copies which I have distributed among the Ameri- 
can Ministers in Europe and some other public Characters. 

Upon this explanation which ought to have been, and I believe 
was, given to your Predecessor at the time of the subscription, I 
flatter myself the President will not disapprove of this small Ex- 
pense. As but few cases remain undecided in the High Court of 
Admiralty, which expects, as I hear, to get through the whole of 
its Business in the course of a few weeks even, I presume that 
these Reports will not be extended far beyond their present size. 
I have suggested the advantage of adding to them an appendix, 
containing the Form of all Instruments used in the process of 
the Prize Courts ; and as Sir William Scott has given Direction to 
the Registrar to supply Doctor Robinson with all such copies as 
he may require for this purpose, I am in hopes this useful addi- 
tion will be made. 

These Reports are supposed to undergo the revision and cor- 
rection of the Judge before they are put to press. 

With Sentiments of Sincere Respect & Esteem &c. 

Rufus King. 

CHAPTER X. 

King to Livingston — Has sent in his Resignation — King to Marshall — Plan of 
Settlement by the Convention completed before he received the Views of 
the new Administration, though approved by it — Has resigned his Office — 
King to R. Southgate — Has resigned his Office — King to Secretary of 
State — Resigns his Office and asks to return Home in the Spring in a Frig- 
ate— King to Madison — Desires to return in a public Vessel, etc. — King to 
Secretary of State — Conference with Lord Hawkesbury on Maryland 
Bank-Stock and West India Trade — Hoped to settle these before he left — 
Louisiana, etc. — Gore to Lord Hawkesbury — Boundaries between Terri- 
tories of United States and Great Britain — Troup to King — Burr ruined in 
Politics and Fortune — Sedgwick to King — Politics — Burr. 

K. King to R. R. Livingston. 

Private and personal. 

London, Aug. 4, 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

Although I had nothing of interest to say, I should have writ- 
ten to you by Mr. V. R. Livingston had he not left us a day or 
two sooner than he expected. Having ever since the conclusion 
of the war thought seriously of returning home, 1 have lately de- 
cided to do so, and in my official letter of this date, have resigned 
my office, and requested to be relieved in season to embark early 
next Spring. As I think it possible that you may be inclined to 
pass some time in this country before you return to America, and 
in that case might consent to be transferred from your present 
Residence to this country, I take the earliest moment to inform 
you of my determination to return home, in order that you may 
be apprized of the vacancy, which my resignation will create. 
Mrs. King and I availing ourselves of the leave of temporary 
absence which I have received, propose in the course of next 
week to embark for Holland, from whence we may pass entirely 

152 

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 153 

thro' the Low Countries on our way to Paris, where we think of 
spending five or six weeks in September and October. 
With Sentiments of great Regard & Esteem &c. 

Rufus King. 

R. King to John Marshall, Esq. 

Private. 

London, Aug. 5, 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

I have duly received and beg you to accept my acknowledge- 
ments for your obliging Letter of May 4. Notwithstanding I do 
think the settlement of the British Claims, circumstanced as they 
were, honourable and advantageous to us, as well as the evidence 
of a conciliatory disposition on the part of the English adminis- 
tration, I am with you entirely persuaded that it would have 
met with a different reception at home, had the administration 
remained in the hands of those from whom it has been lately 
removed. 

In a private letter to you, connected and influential as you have 
been in the promotion of this adjustment, I may without impro- 
priety say that if there be any merit in this settlement, it is in 
every respect due to those who projected and approved the plan 
which led to it. For not only every material point of the negotia- 
tion was completed, but the precise form finally accepted had 
been offered as an ultimatum before I had any knowledge of the 
opinion of the present Administration. I would not insinuate 
that any sentiments, unfavourable to the settlement which has been 
made, were entertained by the present Administration ; on the 
contrary, it approved of what had been done here, and I think 
sincerely desired to see the Business closed upon the terms 
which had been offered. I earnestly wish that on other and still 
more important concerns, its sentiments had been equally correct, 
as they have been in respect to this Business ; but I must disre- 
gard opinions formed with solicitude, and after careful reflexion, 
not to hesitate in believing this to have been the case ; and it is 
for this reason, among others, that upon mature consideration of 
my duty to the public, as well as of what I owe to myself, I have 
thought it incumbent upon me to resign my Mission and ask leave 
to return home. 

154 RVFUS KING, [1802 

Although I am quite sensible that this is a measure of no sort 
of importance in a public view, the interest which you have so 
kindly taken in what personally concerns me, induces me to make 
you this communication and not without the hope that it will 
receive your approbation. 

With Sentiments of the highest Respect & Esteem &c. 

Rufus King. 

R. King to Robert Southgate, Esq. 

London, August 5, 1802. 
My dear Sir : 

. . . I had continued to expect the arrival of my nephew 
Horatio. I rather inferred from what he (Mr. Boyd) told us, 
that both he and you had relinquished the plan of his coming to 
England. 

I engaged only a temporary secretary, and now shall not think 
of looking for another, as I have in my official letter of this date 
resigned my mission and requested to be relieved in season to 
return home early next Spring. 

It was my wish to have returned some time ago, but being en- 
gaged in a negotiation of considerable difficulty and importance, 
I have not been able until now to do so with propriety. The 
negotiation which detained me being completed, and nothing of 
importance remaining in the discussion whereof I can hope to be 
useful, I think myself free to resign my office ; a measure that 
will I hope receive the approbation of my friends. . . . 
I remain with Sincere Esteem &c. 

Rufus King. 

R. King to Secretary of State. 
No. 74. 

London, Aug. 5, 1802. 
Sir: 

It is now six years that I have resided in this country. When 
I left America it was not my expectation to be absent more than 
four years. So long as the war continued I did not think of re- 
turning home, believing that my residence here might be of some 

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 55 

public advantage. When the preliminaries of peace were signed, 
I found myself engaged in a negotiation of considerable Difficulty 
and importance which restrained me from asking the President's 
leave to resign my mission. The negotiation being since com- 
pleted, and nothing very material remaining to be discussed in 
which I can flatter myself with being able to render any important 
service, I have to request that the President would be pleased to 
accept the resignation of my office and permit me to return home. 
The season is already too far advanced to leave time to receive 
the President's permission before the commencement of the long 
nights and stormy season of the present year. I am not there- 
fore solicitous to be relieved before the month of April next as 
my family is large and I am moreover desirous to carry home 
with me my library, furniture, carriages and other bulky articles, 
it would be a great accommodation to me if the President would 
allow me a passage in a frigate or other national vessel, which at 
the same time would relieve my family from any concern in re- 
spect to the cruizers of Morocco, or any other piratical state, and 
save me from the heavy charges which I must otherwise incur in 
returning home after seven years' residence in the most expensive 
Country of Europe. 

With perfect Respect & Esteem, 

Rufus King. 

R. King to James Madison, Esq. 

Private. 

London, August 5, 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

In my official letter of this date, I have taken the liberty to 
ask the accommodation of a passage home for myself and family 
in one of the public ships. Should the President consent, the 
same Vessel might bring out my successor, and carry me back. 
At first I thought, that a frigate returning home from the Mediter- 
ranean might without inconvenience receive orders to touch here 
and take me on board ; but upon inquiry I find, that, coming 
from that quarter, she might be liable to perform quarantine, 
which would occasion a long detention, as well as great expence. 
The chief purpose of this letter is to request the favour of you, 

156 RUFUS KING. [1802 

to inform me, as early as you can with convenience, of the Presi- 
dent's determination in order that I may be able seasonably to 
make my arrangements concerning my baggage, which I must 
endeavour to diminish in case I shall be obliged to hire a vessel 
to carry me home. I have likewise to ask the additional favour 
of you, to apprize my Agent, Mr. Nicholas Low of New York, of 
the President's decision, so that in case I cannot be accommo- 
dated by a Passage in a public ship, he may execute a provisional 
order I have given him to prepare and send from New York a 
Vessel to carry me and my family home. 

With Sentiments of great Respect and Esteem, 

Rufus King. 
P. S. In case I go home in a public ship, I should like to be 
allowed to carry in her a few sheep of the Breeds most esteemed 
here, and perhaps my carriage and horses ; the latter are free 
and I have reason to believe that I should find no difficulty in 
obtaining permission to export a small number of the former 
whose properties are certainly superior to those of our country. 

R. King to Secretary of State. 
No. 75. 

London, Aug. 10, 1802. 
Sir : 

As I am about to avail myself of the President's permission to 
pass a few weeks upon the Continent, I have thought it expedient 
to endeavour previously to ascertain the sentiments of this Gov- 
ernment concerning the Trade and Navigation between the 
United States and the British Colonies in the West Indies, as well 
as to press for a final decision respecting the Maryland Bank 
Stock. For these purposes I asked a conference of Lord Hawkes- 
bury in a note, the copy whereof is annexed. His Lordship 
received me at the time I had proposed, but I regret that I am 
not able to send you a more satisfactory Report of what passed 
on this occasion. 

In respect to the Bank Stock Lord Hawkesbury said he had 
lately received a communication from the Chancellor concerning 
it, and that measures should be taken to effect a transfer of the 

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 57 

Stock to the Crown, when it would be in a situation that would 
enable him to receive the King's pleasure respecting it. He 
intimated that he had understood there were other claims beside 
that of the State of Maryland, but so far as he expressed any 
opinion, it seemed to be that there would be no difficulty of 
importance in the way of a satisfactory settlement; after the 
Stock had been transferred to the Crown. I repeated to his 
Lordship arguments which had been urged upon his Predecessor, 
and tried, tho' without success, to obtain from him an explicit 
engagement, that the Stock should be transferred to me after its 
transfer to the Crown. 

Respecting the West India Trade, his Lordship said after a 
short conversation explanatory of our expectations, that he could 
give me no explicit information whether, or how far, they should 
be able to accede to our claims ; the fact being, as he observed, 
that not only on account of the constant succession of more 
pressing concerns, which his Majesty's Ministers had been called 
upon to decide, but from the unsettled as well as uncertain Con- 
dition of the West India Colonies, they had not been able to go 
into the consideration of the Regulations which it might be 
deemed expedient to adopt ; that they were yet also to learn the 
real Situation of Saint Domingo, as well as of some other impor- 
tant Colonies ; and that as any change in their former system 
would in some sort depend upon the probable condition not only 
of their own but of other Colonies, they must wait a little longer 
before they could form a safe opinion upon this important 
subject. 

I remarked to Lord Hawkesbury, that on account of our just 
claim to an equal participation in a Trade as necessary to them as 
to us, as well as from the tenor of the article agreed to by England, 
but refused by America in the Treaty of 1794, we had not ex- 
pected that a recurrence would be had at the end of the war to 
the exclusive system which had prevailed before ; that any con- 
siderable delay in the decision of this point would operate in the 
same way as a decision in favour of the old system, which, as his 
Lordship must know, we considered as unequal and injurious ; 
that my apprehension, therefore, was in case of such delay, we 
should think ourselves obliged to meet the disadvantages to which 
our Navigation is liable under the former System by Regulations 

158 RUFUS KING. [1802 

which would impose the like Disadvantages upon the British 
Navigation : these Countervailing Regulations would prove mutu- 
ally, tho' I could not admit that they would be equally, incon- 
venient, and might moreover have the effect to disturb the 
harmonious and beneficial intercourse it was the common interest 
of the two Countries to promote. 

His Lordship made no distinct answer to these Remarks, con- 
tenting himself to repeat in substance what he had before observed, 
concerning the pressure of affairs of greater Interest, and the 
uncertain Situation of the West India Colonies. 

As I found that I had not obtained any precise assurance upon 
the subject, which probably has not yet been discussed in the 
Cabinet, I observed that notwithstanding the question might not 
appear to be of equal importance with others which continue to 
engage the attention of the English Ministry, it nevertheless had 
excited, and might again excite, a lively interest in the United 
States ; that the subject had employed much of my attention ; 
and I had sometimes flattered myself with the hope that I should 
during my residence here, be enabled to assist in the equitable 
and satisfactory settlement of it ; that I expected to terminate 
my mission and return to America early in the next Spring and 
that it would afford me some satisfaction to be authorized to 
inform you that both this Business and the other regarding the 
Maryland Bank Stock should be decided before my departure. 

Lord Hawkesbury replied that he could not officially assure me 
that this should be done ; but that according to his personal view 
of the subjects, he foresaw no reason likely to delay the Decision 
of them beyond the time I had mentioned. This vague reply, 
and which binds to nothing, ended our Conference upon these 
Topics. 

Lord Hawkesbury then enquired of me if I had received any 
late intelligence concerning the Expedition to Louisiana ; on my 
answering in the Negative, he said, according to their advices the 
French Expedition was in preparation and that it would certainly 
proceed. I, in turn, asked his Lordship, how far he gave credit 
to the rumour which had of late been circulated that France was 
preparing a formidable Expedition against Algiers ; he answered, 
that the project existed, and that the army would be marched into 
Spain, and embarked in the Spanish Ports, and that Spain, tho' it 

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 59 

was understood that she has recently concluded Peace with 
Algiers, would nevertheless be expected to aid the French with 
Provisions, Ships and perhaps money. I did not ask whether 
England was likely also to be embroiled with Algiers in conse- 
quence of the late capture of one or two English Vessels by the 
Cruizers of this Regency ; having understood that it is here 
admitted that the Papers of these Vessels were irregular, and 
that the demand of England would be confined to the liberation 
of the Crew, leaving the Vessels as forfeited to the Captors. 

Before leaving Lord Hawkesbury, I took occasion to observe 
that although my absence would be only for a short time, to 
guard against any inconvenience which it might possibly occasion, 
I would take the liberty before my departure of introducing to 
him, Mr. Gore, one of the Commissioners under the 7th Article 
of the Treaty, who wd. act as our Charge des affaires during my 
absence. His Lordship replied that he should be happy to receive 
Mr. Gore, and I shall accordingly present him in that character 
to Lord Hawkesbury before I leave town. My plan is to embark 
at Harwich about the 15 th instant for Holland, from thence to go 
to Brussels, and then either directly to Paris, or turning to my 
left and travelling a few days on the Borders of the Rhine, to 
proceed to Paris thro' some of the more Eastern Provinces of 
France. As it is the invaluable Specimens of the fine arts more 
than the men and manners of Paris, which I am desirous to see, a 
few weeks residence there will satisfy my curiosity. I do not 
therefore think of prolonging my absence beyond the middle of 
November, when the New Parliament will meet, and my return 
hither may be a fortnight sooner. 

With perfect Respect & Esteem, 

Rufus King. 

C. Gore to Lord Hawkesbury. 

Great Cumberland Place, Aug. 24, 1802. 
Sir : 

Mr. Gore presents his compliments to Lord Hawkesbury, and 
has the honour to inform him, that since the departure of Mr. 
King, he has received for this Gentleman Instructions and a full 
power from the President of the United States to adjust by ami- 

l6o RUFUS KING. [1802 

cable Negotiation with the Government of his Britannic Majesty 
whatever remains unsettled as to the Boundaries between the 
Territories of the two Nations. 

Mr. Gore takes the liberty of proposing to his Lordship to com- 
municate to him, whenever he shall be at leisure to attend thereto, 
the views of the President of the United States, in order that his 
Lordship may give to the subject such consideration as he may 
think its importance requires, and that having a distinct knowl- 
edge thereof, his Lordship may, on the return of Mr. King, be 
enabled to concur in such measures for defining and settling the 
Boundary lines between the two countries, as shall appear most 
conducive to their mutual interests and future harmony. 

Mr. Gore flatters himself that Lord Hawkesbury will see, 
in this Proposal of the President, a new Proof of the sincere and 
earnest desire of the Government of the United States to live in 
friendship with that of his Majesty, inasmuch as it invites to an 
adjustment by amicable negotiation of not only whatever may now 
be the occasion of inquietude between the Parties, but also of 
everything, as far as can be foreseen, which may interrupt in 
future that good understanding so essential to the interests and 
happiness of both Nations. 

R. Troup to R. King. 

New York, Aug. 24, 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

. . . Burr in my opinion is acting a little and skulking part. 
Although Jefferson hates him as much as one demagogue can 
possibly hate another who is aiming to rival him, yet Burr does 
not come forward in an open and manly way agt. him. On the 
contrary Burr still attempts to cause it to be believed that he is a 
sincere supporter of Jefferson and administration ; and this we 
are told is to be the complexion of Burr's intended paper. The 
duel between Clinton and Swartout has been a precious morsel to 
us poor fallen — and hungry federalists.* 

We calculate generally that Burr is ruined in politics as well as 
in fortune. Saving a few particulars not interesting, the view of 
* See Hildreth's Hist, of United States, 2d ser., vol. ii., p. 468. 

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. l6l 

his political conduct is a just one. His manceuvering for the 
Presidency is past a doubt with us all ; and was so before the 
view made its appearance. Hamilton has often said he could 
prove it to the satisfaction of any court and jury. No mortal can 
yet calculate the present state of public opinion. Federalism is 
looking up. At the last 4th of July the toasts everywhere given 
prove that Hamilton is regaining that general esteem and confi- 
dence, which he seems to have lost, and his standing is very much 
our political thermometer. Was an election now to be held either 
for Governor or President, it is my opinion we should lose. What 
may be the progress of opinion towards a new order of things, it 
is impossible to calculate with even tolerable precision. . . . 

Yours, 

Robt. Troup. 

T. Sedgwick to R. King. 

Stockbridge, 24 Aug., 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

. . . The last letter which I addressed to you was from 
Wiscasset. Maine has improved, is improving, and will, I think, 
continue to improve, beyond what you can easily imagine. The 
gentlemen of that country may be compared, without disgracing 
them, to those of any other part of New England. In politics 
they have good principles and a good spirit. In Massachusetts, 
generally, the political tide, is setting, strongly, in a right direc- 
tion, and I have no doubt will, for some time, continue and in- 
crease. . . . 

As well as I can conjecture from the best information I have 
been able to obtain, the measures of the administration have not 
increased, but, on the whole, impaired the popularity of the Presi- 
dent and his friends. With the better part — those whom we 
esteem — from facts, which you understand, there exists a most 
profound contempt of his understanding and a perfect abhorrence 
and detestation of his morals. The opinion which, among this 
class of people universally prevails, that he is hostile to the chris- 
tian religion has produced a firm union among the clergy, who 
possess an influence in New England that will be felt. In this 
part of the U. S. it is not to be feared that either democracy or 

VOL. IV. — II 

l62 RUFUS KING. [1802 

Jacobinism will prevail. In New York, I am inclined to believe, 
that, at least, the progress of Clintonianism, for as far as that fac- 
tion prevails it is neither democracy nor jacobinism, is brought to 
a stand. But the great line of division by which parties are 
separated in other states is more obscurely marked there than any- 
where else — the people are more under the dominion of personal 
influence. And it is impossible at present to predict in what the 
rupture between Burr and the Clintons will ultimately terminate. 
Burr's intentions, the means he possesses, and the instruments 
which he will employ are at present unknown. But it is known 
that many active and ardent spirits are enlisted in his service, and 
servilely devoted to him ; and that his party comprises in it 
nearly all the needy and desperate adventurers in the community. 
Such a party, so united, and with such a leader, is not to be de- 
spised, however inconsiderable the number at present. The 
breach between Burr, the Clintonians & the Livingstons, is, in all 
probability, irreparable. What direction Burr will take will depend, 
wholly, on the opinion he shall form of the means of promoting 
his present aggrandizement . . . You will receive a warm wel- 
come from your friends, and from no one more than myself. I 
am sensible that your residence where you are may be of much 
benefit to our country. I know, too, that your presence here 
would be of immense importance. Where you will render the 
best service, you are the most competent judge. Of this, I think, 
you may be certain that your return will depend on your own 
pleasure. You will not be recalled. . . . 

Your sincere friend, 

Theodore Sedgwick. 

CHAPTER XI. 

Journey of King to the Continent of Europe— Few Details of it— Gore to King 
—Correspondence, and about the Latter's Sons— King to Cazenove— Com- 
plaint of Livingston against Talleyrand— King to Erving— He had received 
no Faculty to grant Passports to American Citizens— Mr. Gore has— How 
Slaves captured after an Insurrection in Virginia in 1800 might be disposed 
of— President Jefferson to King— Suggesting sending them to Sierra Leone, 
Africa— Also expressing his Satisfaction with Mr. King's Course in 
England— And his Desire for peaceful and friendly Relations with Great 
Britain— Gore to the President— Answers the Letter to King, giving the 
Refusal of the Company to receive the Blacks— J. Q. Adams to King- 
Condition of Affairs in the U. S. — Strength of the Administration 
increasing. 

Availing himself of the permission granted to him by the 
President, Mr. King prepared to visit the Continent of Eu- 
rope and pass through its western portions until he reached 
Paris. At no other period during his residence abroad as 
Minister to Great Britain could he have left his post in Lon- 
don, for the state of war between that country and France, 
and the hostile aspect of the latter towards the United 
States, would have prevented his visiting those States 
which were more or less involved in the active operations of 
the war. Peace had now, however, been declared between 
the rival nations and intercourse was again free. His press- 
ing work in England had been accomplished to the satisfac- 
tion of his government ; and although there was much to be 
done to arrange the still unsettled questions between the 
United States and Great Britain and to strengthen the good 
feeling between the two countries, it was not probable that 
for some months anything could be effected, for the public 

163 

164 RUFUS KING. [1802 

men of England were accustomed at that time of the year 
to take a period of rest and relaxation from business. Be- 
sides these considerations, the relations between France 
and the United States were on a better footing, although 
France had recently consummated what seemed an un- 
friendly act, and one by which the future welfare of the 
United States might be endangered, in accepting the cession 
of Louisiana from Spain. 

Under these circumstances Mr. King felt that he could 
properly and satisfactorily carry out his wish to see the 
western countries of Europe before his return home, and en- 
joy the pleasure he was so fitted to receive of spending a 
few months in lands celebrated for their beautiful scenery, 
in studying the habits of the people with whose history he 
was so familiar, and in examining the works of art and monu- 
ments in their cities, terminating his journey by a short 
sojourn in Paris, where so much was to be seen, so many 
distinguished men were assembled, and where the First Con- 
sul had firmly established himself. 

He first provided for the conduct of the business of the 
United States in London by appointing his friend Christo- 
pher Gore, one of the Commissioners under the 7th Article 
of the Treaty of 1794, as Charge d' Affaires during his ab- 
sence, having notified the Secretary of State that this " would 
be without expense to the public." Having thus arranged 
his affairs, he started from London and embarked at Harwich 
on August 15th, in a vessel for Helviotsluys, which place 
he reached the next day after a short and comfortable pas- 
sage. His party consisted of " Mrs. King, Smith and Inger- 
soll,"* with two servants and travelling carriage," as he says 

* Mr. Charles J. Ingersoll of Philadelphia, then a young man, had for some 
time been on intimate terms with Mr. King and his family in London. A 
warm attachment sprang up among them, due largely to Mr. Ingersoll's bright- 
ness of manner, intelligence, and at that time congeniality of views with those 
of Mr. King, who had a sincere regard for him. These kind feelings continued 
during Mr. King's life, of which there are many evidences in his Correspon- 
dence. In his Recollections, p. 16, in the prefatory chapter, Mr. Ingersoll says : 
"After Rufus King, American Minister in England, performed his initiatory 

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. l65 

in a Diary which, though meagre in details, was kept only 
until he left Brussels. Though it records little that would 
be particularly interesting to reproduce here, the pages show 
the interest he took in the new scenes, in habits so different 
from those of his own country and of the English people 
whom he had so recently left, and in the buildings and 
works of art in Holland, with the latter of which he was not 
much impressed. We have nothing of the Rhine along 
which he travelled, nor of Switzerland with its alpine scenery 
and its sturdy liberty-loving people, nor of Eastern France 
through which he journeyed to Paris, where he arrived about 
the 15th of October and which he left in the middle of 
November, reaching London on the 17th. He and his party 
seem to have enjoyed their tour, to have met with no inter- 
ruptions or mishaps, and to have returned to England in 

health. 

During the whole period of his absence a constant corres- 
pondence was maintained between Mr. Gore and himself, 
but unfortunately few of Mr. Gore's letters are preserved 
and none of Mr. King's. The former kept him informed 
about the business of the Legation, consisting of communi- 
cations with the British Ministry, especially relative to the 
boundaries of the United States, for the adjustment of which 
a commission was sent to Mr. King during his absence, and 
for the early settlement of which Mr. Gore made an earnest 
plea, as likely to promote mutual benefit and the future peace 
of the two countries. 

But the most interesting portions of his letters to Mr. and 
Mrs. King were those relating to the boys, whom they had 
left in England at school and under the loving care of Mr. 
and Mrs. Gore. They had not been blessed with children, 
but they always seemed to look upon the children of their 
old friends as if they were their own and took them to their 

and important accessorial part in the attainment of Louisiana, I went in his 
diplomatic family from London to Paris in 1802, . . . returned with Mr. 
King from England to America, with the first intelligence of its (Louisiana's) 
acquisition." 

1 66 RUFUS KING. [1802 

hearts as they had taken their parents before them. Nothing 
that interested the boys escaped their care and attention and 
every little incident of their lives at school or during the 
holidays, which were passed with Mr. Gore, was treasured 
up to be reported to their absent friends as accounts they 
would be anxious to receive and which would cheer them 
during the separation. 

Writing of the Harrow boys, who were with him, he says : 
" They recite sixty or seventy lines of Virgil every morning — 
billiards, shooting and riding occupy the residue of the day. 
Their health is perfectly right, & both a la physique & a la morale 
they are in every respect, as we or you would desire them to 
be. . . . Frederick (the baby) whom I have just been tossing 
in the air and spanking, for he is literally a sans-culotte, daily 
improves in strength, good humour and smiles." 

In a note to one of Mr. Gore's letters the Harrow boys say : 

" We have been out to day shooting Moor Hens ; we killed 
three and by the first of September, if we had dogs, we should be 
able to shoot even partridges." 

Having procured a dog, Mr. Gore writes that on their first 
going out for game, September 2d : 

" John shot a partridge & a pigeon & Charles a partridge & 
pigeon ; there seems some question whether the latter's partridge 
had not been dropped before, but on the whole, after fair discus- 
sion & mature deliberation it is concluded that Charles is justly 
entitled to the merit of having killed a partridge & pigeon." 

The following quotations will show the way in which Mr. 
Gore continued to write about the children and to comfort 
their parents : 

" The children are all well. Mrs. Gore who came to town last 
night (Oct. 15th) saw Edward, en passant, and takes him to Ran- 
dalls (their country place) to-day. Frederick's teeth in front, 
that is to say two, are very distinct & apparent. His health is firm 
& he will soon walk. He is quite an aspiring youth, for he is ever 
on tiptoe to attain a commanding view — to humble himself to the 

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 167 

level of his feet is all that is necessary for him to move like other 
boys. If you do not return soon it is not absolutely certain that 
we shall not have him in jacket and breeches. John & Charles 
say they study hard and expect to be in the Shell at Christmas 
when they shall have a fag. I doubt whether enough has been said 
to convince you how very properly the boys conducted during 
the vacation. They are entitled to every mark of remembrance 
which their mother promised & she will not, I am sure, forget to 
bring all and more than they expected, as tokens of her regard 
and satisfaction in their good behaviour." 

The object in giving these extracts is to show that the 
home life of Mr. and Mrs. King was one which manifested an 
affectionate and cheerful intercourse, that showed itself in 
the manner in which their children were taught obedience 
to them, confidence in their parents, and respect to those 
about them. It could, therefore, and must have been a 
source of satisfaction to know that their absence produced 
no change, and that the same docile and winning manners 
won the warm commendation of their friends as they had 
among their teachers. 

It has been said that there are no letters of Mr. King's 
during his tour on the Continent giving an account of his 
journey. There are, however, two which, though a little out 
of date here, and written while in Paris, relate to public 
matters, and are here given. 

R. King to Mr. Cazenove, Paris. 

Paris, Oct. 23, 1802. 
Sir : 

It was my purpose to have gone last evening with Mrs. King to 
pay our Compliments to Mr. and Mrs. Talleyrand, and at the 
same time to have said a word or two to you concerning the affair 
you communicated to me on the part of Mr. T. Unfortunately 
we were detained till too late an hour by some friends who called 
upon us in the early part of the evening. 

I have just been at Mr. Talleyrand's office, but he has not 
arrived in town, and I must therefore send you this note to say in 

1 68 RUFUS KING. [1802 

regard to the communication you made to me on Thursday, that 
as I do not perceive that my interference would be likely to prove 
beneficial, I must ask the favor of you to regard what has passed 
between us as though it had never happened. 

With unvaried Sentiments of Esteem &c. yours 

R. K. 

At the head of this letter Mr. King writes as follows, to 
explain the matter to which the letter refers : 

" Mr. Livingston being twice postponed, and others who came 
later to the audience chamber of Talleyrand received before him, 
wrote a note complaining of this indignity and notifying his 
determination to confine himself to written communications with 
the Department of for. affairs. Talleyrand draughted an answer 
in wh. he complains of the captious compt. of Livingston, wh. he 
ascribes to his want of Experience and having begun late in life 
the diplomic. career, and expresses a hope that the Pr., whose 
knowledge of diplomacy he foresees, wd. see no reason to justify 
his minr. This letter Talleyrand gave to Cazenove to show to 
me, with a request that I wd. interfere to persuade Livingston to 
recall his complt. &c. I communicated this overture to Mr. L., 
and it was our joint opinion that I should decline any inter- 
ference." 

R. King to G. W. Erving, Esq., Consul of the United States 

at London. 

Paris, Oct. 17, 1802. 
Sir : 

I have just received your Letter of the 19th instant and lose no 
time in sending you my reply, to say that you appeared to have 
misconceived the nature and object of your Correspondence with 
the Alien office, which neither required, nor gave to you any, 
much less the exclusive, faculty of granting Passports to Ameri- 
can Citizens upon their entry, and residence within, or their de- 
parture from the limits of your Consulship. Indeed the late 
modification of the Alien Law, the purport whereof was commu- 
nicated to the several American Consuls, especially changed the 
measures of Police respecting Aliens which had before existed, 

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 69 

and in a great measure, if not altogether, dispensed with your 
farther interference. It will doubtless be sufficient to prevent the 
steps you have supposed yourself authorized to adopt in respect 
to the Passports which may have been granted by Mr. Gore, that 
you should know that Mr. Gore is charged with the affairs of the 
United States in England during my absence, and that he finds 
of course among the ordinary authorities of this character that of 
granting Passports to American Citizens. 

I am, Sir, with due respect &c. 

R. K. 

The admirable letters of Mr. Gore to Mr. King and his 
communications with Lord Hawkesbury and Mr. Madison 
might well find a place here, but as they are long, and gen- 
erally relate to matters which, though then brought into 
notice, were not settled at that time, they must be passed 
over. There was, however, one subject of deep interest 
with reference to which, during Mr. King's absence, he had 
to take an active part. Mr. Jefferson, in a letter to Dr. 
Rush, September 23, 1800,* had written, "you will hear of 
an attempt at insurrection in this State (Virginia). I am 
looking with anxiety to see what will be its effect in our 
State. We are truly to be pitied." The insurrection was 
put down, and the leaders were captured and imprisoned. 
A question arose as to what should be done to them, and 
the Legislature had brought before them some resolutions 
relative to the matter, but postponed them until a future 
time. They were, however, referred to Gov. Monroe, who, 
on June 15, 1801, communicated them to the President, Mr. 
Jefferson, and again, on November 17, called his attention to 
them. In the answer to this letter, Mr. Jefferson, Novem- 
ber 24, 1 80 1, wrote :f 

"That the publication of these resolutions might have an ill 
effect in more than one quarter. In confidence of attention to 
this I shall indulge greater freedom in writing. Common male- 

* Jefferson? s Works, vol. iv., p. 336. 
f Ibid., vol. iv., p. 419. 

1 70 R UFUS KING. [ 1 80 2 

factors, I presume, make no part of the object of that resolution. 
Neither their numbers, nor the nature of their offences, seem to 
require any provisions beyond those practised heretofore, and 
found adequate to the suppression of ordinary crime. Con- 
spiracy, insurgency, treason, rebellion, (among the description of 
persons who brought on thus the alarm, and on themselves the 
tragedy of 1800) were doubtless in the view of everyone ; but 
many perhaps contemplated, and one expression of the resolution 
might comprehend, a much larger scope. Respect to both 
opinions makes it my duty to understand the resolution in all the 
extent of which it is possible." 

Without following him in the details of the letter, it may 
be stated that he suggests that in some way these persons 
might be placed in colonies in lands at home, or even 
abroad, and discusses various plans by which they might be 
removed, with the objections that might be urged against 
them. Among places proposed, he writes : * 

"On our western and southern frontiers Spain holds an im- 
mense country, the occupancy of which, however, is in the Indian 
natives, except, a few insulated spots, possessed by Spanish 
subjects. It is very questionable, indeed, whether the Indians 
would sell ? Whether Spain would be willing to receive these 
people ? and nearly certain that she would not alienate the sov- 
ereignty, &c." f 

He speaks also of the West Indies, and finally says that 
"Africa would offer a last and undoubted resort, if all others 
more desirable should fail us." 

With this statement of the serious question which was 
troubling the people of Virginia, and incidentally the other 
States where slaves abounded, we are prepared for the fol- 
lowing letter, which the President wrote to Mr. King on 

* Jefferson's Works, vol. iv., p. 420. 

f Mr. Jefferson, at this time, evidently ignored or thought little of the infor- 
mation of the reported cession of Louisiana and, as it was supposed, of the 
Floridas to France, sent to him by Mr. King on June 1 and August 24 of 1801. 
—Editor. 

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. \J\ 

July 13, 1802, asking his co-operation in obtaining from the 
Sierra Leone Company permission to transport " the slaves 
guilty of insurgency " to their colony, and giving his views 
upon this interesting matter ; at the same time, affording 
him an opportunity " to assure you (Mr. King) of his perfect 
satisfaction with the manner in which you have conducted 
the several matters confided to you by us." * 

T. Jefferson to R. King. 

Washington, July 13, 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

The course of things in the neighboring islands of the West 
Indies appear to have given a considerable impulse to the minds 
of slaves in different parts of the United States. A great dispo- 
sition to insurgency has manifested itself among them, which, in 
one instance, in the State of Virginia, broke out into actual insur- 
rection. This was easily suppressed ; but many of those con- 
cerned (between twenty and thirty, I believe) fell victims to the 
law. So extensive an execution could not but excite sensibility 
in the public mind and begat a regret that the laws had not 
provided, for such cases, some alternative combining more mild- 
ness with equal efficacy. The Legislature of the State at a sub- 
sequent meeting took the subject into consideration, and have 
communicated to me through the Governor of the State, their 
wish that some place could be provided, out of the limits of the 
United States, to which slaves guilty of insurgency might be 
transported ; and they have particularly looked to Africa as offer- 
ing the most desirable receptacle. We might, for instance, enter 
into negotiations with the natives, on some part of the coast, to 
obtain a settlement ; and, by establishing an African Company, 
combine with it commercial operations, which might not only 
reimburse expenses, but procure profit also. But there being 
already such an establishment on that coast by the English Sierra 
Leone company, made for the express purpose of colonizing 
civilized blacks to that country, it would seem better, by incor- 
porating our emigrants with theirs, to make one strong, rather 
than two weak colonies. This would be more desirable because 

* Jefferson's Works, vol. iv., pp. 442-44. 

172 RUFUS KING. [1802 

the blacks settled at Sierra Leone having chiefly gone from the 
States, would often receive among those we should send, their 
acquaintances and relatives. 

The object of this letter therefore is to ask the favor of you to 
enter into conference with such persons private and public as 
would be necessary to give us permission to send thither the per- 
sons under contemplation. It is material to observe that they are 
not felons, or common malefactors, but persons guilty of what 
the Safety of Society, under actual circumstances, obliges us to 
treat as a crime, but which their feelings may represent in a far 
different shape. They are such as will be a valuable acquisition 
to the settlement already existing there, and well calculated to 
co-operate in the plan of civilization. 

As the expense of so distant a transportation would be very 
heavy, and might weigh unfavorably in deciding between the 
modes of punishment, it is very desirable that it should be les- 
sened as much as practicable. If the regulations of the place 
would permit these emigrants to dispose of themselves, as the 
Germans and others do who come to this country poor, by giving 
their labor for a certain time to some one who will pay their pas- 
sage ; and if the master of the vessel could be permitted to carry 
articles of commerce from this country and take back others from 
that, which might yield a mercantile profit sufficient to cover the 
expenses of the voyage, a serious difficulty would be removed. I 
will ask your attention therefore to arrangements necessary for 
this purpose. 

The consequences of permitting emancipations to become ex- 
tensive, unless the condition of emigration be annexed to them, 
furnish also matter of solicitation to the Legislature of Virginia, 
as you will perceive by their resolution enclosed to you. Al- 
though provision for the settlement of emancipated negroes might 
perhaps be obtainable nearer home than Africa, yet it is desirable 
that we should be free to expatriate this description of people 
to the Colony of Sierra Leone, if considerations respecting either 
themselves or us should render it more expedient. I will pray 
you therefore to get the same permission extended to the recep- 
tion of these as well as the first mentioned. Nor will there be a 
selection of bad subjects ; the emancipations, for the most part, 
being either of the whole slaves of the master, or of such indi- 

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 73 

viduals as have particularly deserved well ; the latter is most 
frequent. 

The request of the Legislature of Virginia having produced to 
me the occasion of addressing you, I avail myself of it to assure 
you of my perfect satisfaction with the manner in which you have 
conducted the several matters confided to you by us ; and to ex- 
press my hope that through your agency we may be able to re- 
move everything inauspicious to a cordial friendship between this 
country and the one in which you are stationed ; a friendship 
dictated by too many considerations not to be felt by the wise 
and the dispassionate of both nations. It is therefore with the 
sincerest pleasure I have observed on the part of the British gov- 
ernment various manifestations of just and friendly disposition 
towards us. We wish to cultivate peace and friendship with all 
nations, believing that course most conducive to the welfare of our 
own. It is natural that these friendships should bear some pro- 
portion to the common interests of the parties. The interesting 
relations between Great Britain and the United States are certainly 
of the first order ; and as such are estimated and will be faith- 
fully cultivated by us. These sentiments have been communi- 
cated to you from time to time in the official correspondence of 
the Secretary of State ; but I have thought it might not be unac- 
ceptable to be assured that they perfectly concur with my own 
personal convictions both in relation to yourself and the country 
in which you are. I pray you to accept assurances of my high 
consideration and respect. 

This letter of the President was received by Mr. Gore, 
who upon ascertaining its contents, under his authority as 
Charge d'Affaires during Mr. King's absence, immediately 
took steps to obtain the information asked for in it, and in 
a letter to the President explains the result of his inves- 
tigations. 

C. Gore to His Excellency Thomas Jefferson. 

London, io Oct. 1802. 
Sir: 

In consequence of being left by Mr. King in charge with the 
affairs of the United States, and of his desire that I should inspect 

174 RUFUS KING, [1802 

all letters directed to him, I opened that from yourself under date 
of the 13 of July, and which was received on the 13th ultimo. 

This, sir, I must pray you to accept as an apology for having 
broken its seal, and if my subsequent conduct shall appear an 
intrusion, you will do me the justice, to impute it to the most 
respectful motives, combined with an earnest desire to promote 
the object of the Letter, if in no other way, at least in obtaining 
and forwarding all such information as could be procured here, 
and might help to advance the wise and humane plan, you have 
so benevolently contemplated of opening a path for the emanci- 
pation of the Blacks, on such terms as may prove beneficial to 
themselves and not injurious to others. I was the more induced 
to act in this business from the belief that Mr. King would not be 
here to attain any information in season to reach the United 
States until late in the winter. 

Lord Hawkesbury, to whom I thought proper first to mention 
the subject, professed a warm desire to do everything in his 
power to promote your views, but at the same time the affair 
must rest entirely with the Directors of the Sierra Leone Com- 
pany and that he was really fearful their late experience had been 
such as to deter them from the admission of characters like those 
alluded to. 

I then took an opportunity of conferring with Mr. Thornton, 
Chairman of the Court of Directors, and stated to him the Reso- 
lution of the Legislature of Virginia, and your idea of the best 
mode of carrying the same into effect with such arguments, so 
far as I could think of any, in addition to those contained in 
your letter, to show that the admission of the Blacks from the 
United States might under such regulations as wisdom and 
prudence should prescribe, prove an addition and strength and 
benefit to their colony. But the establishment has suffered much 
from the maroons, who have been permitted to go there from 
Jamaica, and the Directors consider that the rise of their colony 
has been rather impeded than advanced by the Blacks from Nova 
Scotia. They have been lately obliged to apply to Parliament 
for pecuniary aid, and to ask assistance of troops, to keep in 
check the restless and disturbed spirits already there. The mili- 
tary force is not so great as they wish for, and they entertain seri- 
ous apprehensions if it be sufficient to protect the well disposed, 

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 75 

and repress the constant disposition manifested in many of the 
Colonists to revolt and overturn the existing Government. 

These reasons appear to have great weight in Mr. Thornton's 
mind against the policy of admitting such settlers, as would be 
most likely to come from the United States. He has however 
come to no determination against the measure, but promises to 
advise with his friends and see if any expedient can be devised 
by which the danger to be feared from acceding to the proposal 
may be guarded against. 

It is possible that on Mr. King's return he may be able to sug- 
gest such reasons as shall induce the Directors to lend a favour- 
able ear to the plan. He is intimate with some of the most influ- 
ential of them, and if aught can be added to the strong motives 
they profess, and I have no doubt sincerely, to do every thing 
acceptable to the exalted character, at whose instance the propo- 
sition has been made, it may be expected from the personal 
influences of this gentleman. Although from the considerations 
mentioned, which with others are to be seen in the State of the 
Colony, as described in the memorial to Parliament, and the 
report of the Committee, I do not think there is much reason to 
hope, that an incorporation of the Blacks of the United States 
with those of Sierra Leone, can be reconciled in the minds of the 
Directors to the Safety and prosperity of the Establishment. 

I am indebted to Mr. Thornton for the Papers referred to, and 
which you will find gave an accurate statement of that colony, the 
evils most to be guarded against, with the means thought neces- 
sary for its security, and the expenses of the Establishment. As 
these Papers are scarce and contain information which may be 
valuable on this subject, I have taken the liberty to enclose them 
with this letter. 

Should an occasion occur which may promise advantage to the 
proposal from any endeavours of mine, you may rely on their 
being cheerfully and faithfully exerted to that end, and if farther 
information can be procured which in my judgment may be use- 
ful in this interesting business before the arrival of Mr. King, I 
pray you, sir, to be assured that I shall derive great pleasure in 
forwarding it. 

I have the honour to be with perfect Respect, 

C. Gore. 

176 RUFUS KING. [1802 

J. Q. Adams to R. King. 

Boston, 8 October, 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

We have enjoyed during the summer an extraordinary degree 
of tranquility, and since the session of Congress terminated in 
May, no public event of material importance has happened. The 
newspapers have been chiefly rilled with personal attacks upon 
the President and Vice-President, coming from different and per- 
haps opposite quarters ; all arising originally from divisions in 
their own party. These divisions have occasioned animosities of 
no small inveteracy between individuals. You have doubtless 
been better informed of the transactions at New York than it 
would be in my power to inform you. The warfare there has 
been between the friends of Mr. Burr, and those of the Clinton 
family. In Virginia the principal batteries have been pointed 
at Mr. Jefferson, by a Scotsman, named Callender, of whom you 
have probably heard heretofore.* He writes under the influence 
of personal resentment and revenge, but the effect of his publica- 
tions upon the reputation of the President has been considerable. 

What the consequence of these internal feuds in the ruling 
party will be is not yet apparent. But independent of them and 
considered as a single party in opposition to the federalists, the 
strength of the present administration is continually increasing. 
It has obtained and preserves an irresistible preponderance 
in thirteen of the sixteen State legislatures, and the resistence 
in the three others scarcely maintains its ground. In both 
houses of Congress the majority is already decisive, but at 
the ensuing Congress, will be much larger. The division in the 
Senate is now nearly equal. But for the next two years, there 
will be nearly two thirds of the partizans of the present govern- 
ment. In the State of Pennsylvania their ascendancy is so great 
that the federalists have scarcely dared to name a candidate in 
opposition to Governor McKean's re-election ; federalism is 
indeed in that state so completely palsied, that scarcely a trace of 
it is to be discovered except in here and there a newspaper edited 
by New England men. 

This party triumph is not enjoyed with moderation. The basis 

* For an account of Callender and his work see Hildreth's Hist, of the United 
States, 2d ser., vol. ii., p. 453 et sea. 

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, iyy 

of it all is democratic popularity, and the leaders are all sensible 
how sandy a foundation it is. Strong as the fabric appears they 
are constantly trembling lest its corner stones should fail : and as 
their principal alarm is lest the old administration should recover 
favour in the eyes of the people, the great engine of party, with 
which they endeavour to fortify themselves, is slander upon their 
predecessors. This they continue under every shape and on all 
occasions. Nor are these exertions unsuccessful. They carried 
the system to such a pitch that even a Committee of the National 
house of Representatives, called a committee of Investigation, at 
the close of the session made a report, the manner and form of 
which were both highly exceptionable to every maxim of common 
justice and honour. This report was hurried through the house 
with as little regard to decorum as it was made. It has since 
been analysed and refuted by several publications in various parts 
of the Union, but most effectually by a pamphlet of Mr. Wolcott, 
which will doubtless be sent you by some of your friends ; and 
which will shew you a fair specimen both of our Administration 
and its Opposition. 

The concern of the Republicans, as they stile themselves, is the 
result of consciousness, rather than of real dangers. The power 
of the Administration rests upon a support of a much stronger 
majority of the people throughout the Union than the former 
administrations ever possessed since the first establishment of the 
Constitution. Whatever the merits or the demerits of the former 
administrations may have been, there never was a system of 
measures more completely and irrevocably abandoned and 
rejected by the popular voice. It never can and never will be 
revived. The experiment, such as it was, has failed, and to 
attempt its restoration would be as absurd, as to undertake the 
resurrection of a carcass seven years in its grave. The alarm of 
the pilots at the helm is therefore without cause. What they take 
for breakers are mere clouds of unsubstantial vapour. The only 
risque to which they are exposed is the shallowness of their 
waters. Their system is so short sighted, and so contracted, that 
it will never stand a popular test even of twelve years, and the 
people whom almost unbounded prosperity could not attach to 
their predecessors, will not learn from adversity to be better 
pleased with them. 

VOL IV — 12 

178 RUFUS KING. [1802 

The yellow fever made its appearance at an earlier period than 
usual, in many of our cities. It has not hitherto spread so exten- 
sively, as upon former occasions ; but it has been as malignant in 
the cases which have happened as it was ever known. A Dysen- 
tery of extreme violence has likewise prevailed in the western 
part of this Commonwealth and the neighbouring part of Con- 
necticut. The approach of the Winter season gives us hopes of 
relief from these scourges. But the summer has been so long 
protracted that at the moment I write this, Fahrenheit's thermo- 
meter stands at 82 and has been higher in the course of the day. 
The harvests throughout the Country have been plentiful. 
Your very obedt. Servt. 

John Quincy Adams. 

CHAPTER XII. 

George III. to King-On his not being presented to Bonaparte in Paris-Also 
Precautions taken when riding on cold Days-Cabot to King-Affairs in 
Massachusetts-Murray to King-Talk of King as Candidate for the Presi- 
dency-Democrats blame him in Maryland as neglecting the Bank Stock.- 
T Paine-Hotels refused to receive him- W. Hindman to King-Pro- 
posed Presidential Nomination-Maryland Bank Stock-King to Living- 
ston-Insecurity of the Peace-King to Secretary of State-War might be 
renewed-No Concert with Austria and Russia-Cabinet sees no material 
Change in Continental Powers to warrant War-Difficulties relative to 
Malta and unsettled commercial Intercourse with France, etc-Kmg to 
Eaton-Hargrave's Charges for Commission in purchasing Jewels, etc., for 
Bey not Right— Wilberforce to King-Distrusts the Ministry-King to 
Addington-Urges Settlement of Maryland Bank-Stock Question-King 
to Secretary of State— France the Arbiter of Peace. 

In Dr. Lieber's Letters there is an anecdote about Mr. 
King, which indicates his prudence during his stay in Paris. 
His journey to the Continent, and Paris particularly, was not, 
as he tells us, to see men and manners but to enjoy the invalu- 
able specimens of the fine arts collected in that city. It is 
evident, however, that the high position he held as the rep- 
resentative of his country in England, opened to him an 
entrance to the society of the most distingushed men in 
France, of which his correspondence gives us no hint, farther 
than that he and his wife were guests at Talleyrand's house 
and that he met Lafayette while in Paris. There is nothing 
to show the conferences which he must have had with Mr. 
Livingston, especially relative to the cession of Louisiana— 
which was a matter of deep interest and anxious considera- 
tion, and which must have been discussed between them. 
He did not seek to come in contact with the First Consul, 

179 

l8o RUFUS KING. [1802 

and indeed, as the anecdote here given shows, declined to be 
presented to him. 
Dr. Lieber says:* 

" I give you an anecdote which will be interesting to the Chair- 
man of Foreign Affairs. President King tells me that when his 
father Rufus King was American Minister in London, he paid a 
visit to Paris after the peace of Amiens, where Fox likewise went. 
Fox went to see Consul Bonaparte. The latter desired that King 
would have himself presented, or the Chief Officers of the Consul 
told King that they would gladly present him. King, who was 
then engaged in making a treaty with England, declined because 
he knew that Bonaparte was very disagreeable to George III. and 
he thought he had no right to do anything that could interfere 
with his relation to the British court or ministry. When he 
returned to England and went to court, George III. went up to 
him and said, ' Mr. King I am very much obliged to you ; you 
have treated me like a gentleman, which is more than I can say 
of all my subjects.' 

" I give the words exactly as President King gave them to me 
and he says he gave the words to me exactly as he could remem- 
ber them, the anecdote being in lively remembrance in the family. 
He thinks he can now repeat the very words in which his father 
told the affair immediately after his return from court and that 
they are the tpissima Verba of George III." 

It will not be out of place to reproduce here another 
anecdote of George III. which was often spoken of in Mr. 
King's family. It was more particularly mentioned by his 
son, Gov. John A. King when on a very cold day on 
November 25th he had come from Albany to New York to 
review the troops there. He had been out all the morning 
in his uniform without an overcoat, and when one of his 
aides expressed his astonishment at this, he said to him, " I 
remembered King George's advice to my father and have 
put on an extra shirt," as he was accustomed to do when he 
went out on horseback on cold days. 

* Extract from a letter from Dr. Lieber to Charles Sumner upon a diplomatic 
question in 1863, — Dr. Lieber's Letters. 

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. l8l 

G. Cabot to R. King. 

Nov. 6, 1802. 
My dear Sir : 

The failure of the Federalists in the Election of J. Q. Adams 
may be attributed to negligence or rather weariness. They were 
sufficiently numerous in the District to have given 500 majority : 
but the failure of Mr. Pickering proves the decline of good influ- 
ence in that district. On the whole I think it certain that Democ- 
racy gains strength in number & loses or rather has lost much 
among the sensible. 

. . . Some of our Jacobin writers have abused you & 
charged you with avowing monarchical sentiments in letters to 
me : they are systematic in all these labors to render odious every 
man who they foresee may rise to important stations & is not of 
their sect. . . . 

I am glad you concluded to pass over to France & see for 
yourself what remains to be seen. I want you to see the disgust 
which must prevail there at everything Democratic after having 
made the world mad with the love of it. I want to see if weary 
of Bonaparte's power they are ripe for new changes : tell me what 
you see & think on these subjects when you return to England. 

Ever faithfully yours, 
G. C. 

Wm. V. Murray to R. King. 

Baltimore, 12 Nov., 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

We know of your intention of returning — of the policy of that 
I say nothing. Your last negociation on the debts gave a satis- 
faction which had nothing surprising in it but that it should please 
both parties. The leading Demos, even spoke, I learn, in high 
terms of it. For some time the Feds, have talked of running you 
& Genl. Pinckney as P. & V. P. fairly & side by side. It is be- 
lieved that this has alarmed the Demos. : for lately at Annapolis, 
where our Legislature is now in Session, some of the subalterns, 
echoes of the chiefs, have undertaken to blame you on account 
of the Bank Stock which they say you neglect. We know better. 
Their object is to prejudice you I presume in this state, where I 
may be allow'd to assure you that you are in great esteem. As 

182 RUFUS KING. [1802 

this letter may reach you before your taking of Leave I thought 
it right to tell you this, that no formality of proof on your part 
which wd. enable the Feds, to give an answer to such a report, 
shd. it be stirred next election, might be omitted and out of 
reach. 

Our papers will show you to what an excess abuse runs — The 
Louisiana affair staggers many of the more thinking Demos. & 
materials seem to accumulate in favour of the Fed. Side. 

Smith lately informed me that you were on your way to Paris 
— I rejoice that before you return you will have seen that singu- 
lar people at home — I am too unwell & weak to write to G. by 
this ship which sails I learn early in the morning. 

Tom Paine arrived here 12 days since — few of the respectable 
Demos, visited him — He was arrested for 50 Louis lent him by a 
very respectable Irish gentleman (O'Mealy) of this place while 
Tom was confined by Robespierre — He went on a week since to 
the Fed. city where the boarders of the Tavern where he alighted 
refused to remain in the house if Tom were admitted to the 
public table. The Tavern where I am, Evans, the best in Town 
I hear, refused to admit him because the frequenters of it mani- 
fested the same spirit — He will do no harm — & perhaps some 
good. 

He was I learn civilly received by the P. whom I suspect he 
will much embarass.* 

Yours respectfully, 

Wm. V. Murray. 

Wm. Hindman to R. King. 

Baltimore, Nov. 21, 1802. 
My Dear Sir : 

Inclosed is the Speech of our Governor to the Legislature in 
which You will discover Yourself implicated — From the Informa- 
tion I have collected, it appears to Me that the present ruling 

* One of the first acts of the President is the permission given to Paine in a 
letter to him, March 18, 1801. He writes : " You expressed a wish to get a 
passage to this country in a public vessel. Mr. Dawson is charged with orders 
to the captain of the Maryland (which had carried Mr. Dawson to Havre with 
the newly signed Convention with France) to receive and accommodate you with 
a passage back." — Jefferson's Works, vol. iv., p. 371. 

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 183 

Party in the United States, dreading your Return before the 
ensuing presidential Election (altho some Time ago lavish in 
your Praises, & highly approbating your ministerial Conduct) are 
determined as far as in their Power to destroy You in the good 
Opinion of your Countrymen, and particularly in the State of 
Maryland, (which may hold the Balance at the next Election for 
President,) where You heretofore stood very high, & in which I 
hope there will be no Change ; for the Purpose of accomplishing 
their diabolical Purpose, They are now industriously circulating 
a Report, " That You have not exerted Yourself to procure the 
Bank Stock for the State of Maryland, that You have neglected 
its Interest, & if You had used Your Endeavors the Stock would 
have been secured long ago." — This I am persuaded is not true — 
It would be extremely desirable to your Friends, who are anxious 
that you should be the next President, & at the same Time 
greatly promote the Federal Interest, if this Party could be put 
down by a Communication to the Secretary of State proving this 
Report to be altogether without Foundation either by obtaining 
the Stock or making it appear that every Exertion had been 
made by You for that Purpose. 

I hope You will excuse the Liberty I have taken in this Busi- 
ness, I have been actuated by a Love to my Country & Yourself. 

I wish You and your Family a happy Return to your native 

Country. 

Yr. very Hble. Servt. 

Wm. Hindman. 

R. King to His Excellency Mr. Livingston. 

London, Nov. 24, 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

I cannot write to you with confidence respecting the critical state 
of public affairs ; in a few days I may be able to do so. The 
speech and addresses of the two Houses pledge the country to 
nothing precise, tho' they are sufficient evidence of the insecurity 
of Peace ; if to these be added the orders which have been sent 
in every direction to retain such of the Conquests made during 
the late war, as have not been surrendered, and the military and 
naval preparations making throughout the country, the proba- 
bilities seem to be greater in favour of War than Peace. 

1 84 RUFUS KING. [1802 

In relation to our affairs, so far as we may suppose the war 
would affect them, the chance in favour of its happening is such 
as should lead us to suspend all measures, the conclusion of which 
might be advisable upon the supposition of the continuance of 
Peace. I shall repeat the observation with which I began, that I 
have not yet had sufficient opportunities to form as correct an 
opinion upon this most interesting and important subject as I 
hope to be able to do very shortly. Knowing your solicitude, I 
have, however, thought it prudent to send you these observations 
together with the renewal of the assurances of 

Esteem and Respect with which, &c. 

Rufus King. 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. 76. 

London, Nov. 26, 1802. 
Sir : 

Mr. Gore has acknowledged the receipt of such letters from the 
Department of State as have been received during my absence, 
and his correspondence will have given you exact informa- 
tion of all that has hitherto been done towards the accom- 
plishment of the several objects of the President's instructions. 
I shall immediately resume the business that has been so well 
commenced, and as well from the nature of the subject as from 
the temper and disposition that are understood to prevail in re- 
spect to America, I am inclined to hope that we shall experience 
no material difficulty in effecting a final and satisfactory adjust- 
ment of our Boundaries. 

At the date of Mr. Gore's last letter there seems to have been 
much solicitude on the subject of Peace ; the sympathy of the 
nation was at that time strongly excited by the conduct of France 
toward Switzerland, and a verbal insinuation was made by the 
English Minister at Paris, that the King would not see with indif- 
ference the interference of France in the internal affairs of that 
country. This step was accompanied by orders to stop the 
farther reduction of the land and naval forces, and, as is believed, 
to retain provisionally instead of giving up, according to the Treaty 

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 85 

of Amiens, the conquests which England had made during the 
war. These measures, which little pains were taken to conceal 
or explain, were supposed both at Paris and London to have been 
adopted in consequence of a concert formed with the two Imperial 
Courts, and therefore occasioned serious apprehensions lest Europe 
should again and immediately be involved in a new and disastrous 
war. 

Things remained in this situation till the meeting of Parlia- 
ment, and the King's Speech, which it was expected would re- 
move or confirm these apprehensions, was waited for with much 
impatience. On the one hand it offers no assurance of the con- 
tinuance of Peace, while on the other it is too vague to authorize 
a conclusion that England desires or may expect an early renewal 
of the war. Neither the speech nor the addresses give any satis- 
factory explanation of the measures which had been adopted ; 
but the Debates of Parliament, which I attended, though 
cautiously managed by the Ministers, cast some light on the 
subject ; and from them combined with other circumstances, it 
appears that no concert has been established either with Austria 
or Russia ; that although the State of the Swiss is matter of deep 
regret, it will not influence England, unsupported as she is by a 
single ally, to engage in a war that could not rescue the Swiss 
from the power of France ; and that moreover no such material 
change has, in the opinion of the Cabinet, taken place in the 
relative condition and strength of the Powers of the Continent 
since the Treaty of Amiens as would justify England in renewing 
the war. 

Upon the supposition that such are the opinions of the Cabinet, 
it is to the Treaty of Amiens, and not to certain political events 
that have since occurred, that we must seek for an explanation of 
the conduct of England in the increase of her Forces and in the 
orders which she is said to have dispatched to retain such of her 
Conquests as have not been surrendered. 

There are several points connected with the Treaty of Amiens, 
some or all of which may have had an influence in producing the 
measures alluded to ; these are the Government of Malta, the 
commercial intercourse which it was expected the peace would 
restore between Great Britain and France, and the indemnity 
promised to the Prince of Orange. 

1 86 RUFUS KING. [1802 

As the difficulties which have arisen independent both of 
France and England in carrying into effect the Article respecting 
Malta, are such as to render farther time or stipulations neces- 
sary to secure the purpose aimed at by the parties, it is natural 
that things should remain as they are until these difficulties can 
be adjusted ; there is therefore nothing extraordinary in England 
continuing to occupy Malta ; still, however, France may press 
for a literal performance of the engagement of England, and this 
joined to other motives may induce England to increase rather 
than diminish her Forces. 

Though the Definitive Treaty did no more than restore peace, 
it was generally expected, as incident to a state of peace, that a 
commercial intercourse would be opened between the two coun- 
tries subject to duties as well as partial exclusions. So far as 
regards the Trade from France to Great Britain, peace has replaced 
the same upon the footing it stood before the last commercial 
Treaty, while in France the Laws passed during the War, prohib- 
iting the importation of every sort of Goods of the Growth or 
Fabric of the British dominions, and making them liable to con- 
fiscation if found within the French Territories, are not only- 
maintained, but enforced with so much Rigour that a number of 
British Vessels, driven into the Ports of France in distress and to 
escape the perils of the Ocean (such is the English account) have 
been confiscated together with their Cargoes ; and the only answer 
given to the complaints of the English Minister at Paris has been 
that in these, as in other cases of Judicial cognizance, the Laws 
must have their course. This evidence of the views of France, 
whose interference has produced a similar, tho' not equally ex- 
tensive, prohibition of English Manufactures in Spain, has excited 
much discontent ; and in a Nation so highly commercial as Eng- 
land, cannot fail of having an effect upon its public councils : yet 
neither these tokens of inhospitality, nor the business of Malta 
would justify the provisional Detention of the Conquests which 
England had agreed to surrender. 

The preliminaries were severely censured by the Grenville 
opposition, as in no respect more deficient than in the entire 
omission of a Proviso for the Prince of Orange. The Definitive 
Treaty contains an express stipulation in his favour ; and the hon- 
our of England is perhaps bound to enforce its due observance. 

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 8? 

It will be remembered that France entered into an engagement, 
(as it is believed for a sum of money received from Holland) on 
the very day of the conclusion of the Definitive Treaty to release 
the Dutch from contributing towards the indemnities of the Prince 
of Orange. England, without doubt, remonstrated against the 
bad faith of this Transaction and probably was assured that ample 
Indemnities would be found in Germany ; instead whereof the 
Compensation that has been offered by the Diet, under the recom- 
mendation of the initiating Powers, falls far beneath the just 
claims of the Prince of Orange, and, in the opinion of most per- 
sons, does not exceed a tenth even of their amount. It is there- 
fore natural enough to conjecture that seeing the inexecution of 
the Treaty in a point of much importance to an ancient and fallen 
Friend, as well as material to her own honour, England may have 
given notice of her having resolved to suspend the farther execu- 
tion of the Treaty on her part, until she sees a just and faithful 
performance of it on the part of France and her allies ; a Suppo- 
sition the more probable by the orders being made to exclude the 
Dutch colonies, which alone were likely to be affected — Martinique 
and St. Lucie being already surrendered. 

You will perceive that this Speculation goes upon the idea that 
orders have really been given to arrest the farther execution on 
the side of England — a fact tho' generally believed, not yet 
acknowledged. If the manifest ill-humour that exists, arises 
alone or principally from this cause, well grounded hopes ought 
to be entertained that Justice will be rendered to the Prince of 
Orange, and the Treaty of Peace suffered to go into complete 
operation. 

With perfect Respect and Esteem &c. 

Rufus King. 

R. King to His Excellency Mr. Livingston. 

London, Nov. 29, 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

I have duly received your Letter of the 17th ; a Note I wrote 
to you from Calais will have acknowledged the receipt of your 
Letter dated the day after we left Paris. 

My sentiments in regard to the continuance of Peace are some- 
what changed since my Letter of the 24th, which went by a 

1 88 RUFUS KING. [1802 

Messenger ; and notwithstanding I still find it difficult to recon- 
cile the Discourses of Ministers with the Fact mentioned in that 
Letter I am more inclined than I was to believe that the views 
here are pacific. . . . 

I have seen and conversed with the Bearer of your Letter of 
the 17th ; the situation of St. Domingo may give us farther time ; 
nothing else seems likely to delay the measure we have so much 
at heart to promote. 

Faithfully & with great Esteem &c, 

Rufus King. 

R. King to Mr. William Eaton, Tunis. 

London, November 29, 1802. 
Sir: 

My absence from England for the last three months has delayed 
my answer of your letter of July 6, respecting Mr. Hargraves' 
claim of a commission upon the cost of the articles prepared in 
this country, and sent as a Present to the Bey of Tunis. So far 
as relates to the personal care and assistance of Mr. Hargraves in 
the transportation of the Jewellery from Algiers to Tunis, he has 
undoubtedly a claim to be compensated ; for the transportation 
of the cloths and arms, the residue, and by far the greatest portion 
of the present he can have no such claim. In regard to the order- 
ing the articles here, and the superintending their execution, I am 
not a little surprized at Mr. Hargraves' pretension, which most 
certainly he never could have thought of making to me, who had 
put the whole business in Train, under the most exact Instruc- 
tions, before his arrival in England. It is true, on the refusal of 
the Bey to accept the cloths first sent by Mawhood & Co., and 
our determination to send cloths of the first instead of inferior 
quality (which was likewise resolved upon before Mr. Hargraves' 
arrival) I desired Mr. Hargraves to call at the Store of Mawhood 
& Co, and give his advice in the choice of the cloths ; as these 
were to be superfine, this advice could be of no service, except in 
the selection of colours, a matter of some though not of great 
importance. He did, I believe, occasionally visit Mortimer and 
Rundell and Bridge, who prepared the arms and Jewels, but I 

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 1 89 

think you may with safety refer to Mr. Hargraves for the fact, 
that his advice and instructions were in no sense of any im- 
portance. Mr. Hargraves certainly manifested a disposition to 
be useful to us in any way that his knowledge and aid should be 
wanted ; but I really never had a notion that he thought himself 
entrusted by you or me with the superintendence or charge of 
this business ; and my finally entrusting him with the Jewels, 
was on his repeated solicitations and an alteration of my first 
intentions. 

On the whole if Mr. Hargraves receives one hundred Guineas, 
I should think him liberally paid ; had he intimated to me his 
expectation of being paid for his advice and assistance, I should 
have entirely excluded him from any concern in the Business ; 
the Jewels might have been sent by a different route, and with 
very little, if any, addition to the premium of Insurance. 

With much Respect &c. 

Rufus King. 

W. WlLBERFORCE TO R. KlNG. 

Bromfd., Tuesday, Dec. 6, 1802. 
My dear Sir : 

I believe you are an early man (which my Health does not 
suffer me to be) & perhaps you would breakfast with me some 
morning on your way to town. I never breakfast before J after 
10, and seldom go from home before 12. So that if you should 
do me the favor of calling on Wednesday morning, you would 
find me here. ... I but too much concur with you concern- 
ing ye probability of the renewal of ye war, & for that very reason 
am anxious that preparations should be made for it. It is here (to 
speak openly) that I distrust our Minrs. I fear they are not 
acting up to the gt. exigencies of our situatn. It may be strong 
language ; but if they were I should have no great fears as to the 
Issue — as it is, my Expectations are very gloomy. 

Believe me always, my dear Sir, with cordial esteem & regard, 

Yours very sincerely, 

W. WlLBERFORCE. 

I90 RUFUS KING. [1802 

Right Honourable H. Addington. 

Private. 
Randalls near Leatherhead, Surry, Dec. 7, 1802. 

Dear Sir : 

Upon the Experience I have had of the Efficacy of your 
interference of bringing to a decision Questions which had been 
long depending, I may I hope be allowed to ask your assistance 
to hasten the conclusion of an unsettled affair, that justice, and, 
if I may be permitted to say so, good policy require should be 
finished without farther delay. 

I refer to our claim of the Maryland Bank Stock, a subject 
with which you are not wholly unacquainted, and which has been 
depending, sometimes as a judicial and at others as a diplomatic 
question ever since the year 1783. The title to the stock may be 
stated in a few words : it was purchased by the Colony of Mary- 
land with money levied by a tax upon its inhabitants, and placed 
in the names of agents in London, who before the American war 
received and applied the Dividends according to the instructions 
of the Colony : the war interrupted the correspondence between 
Maryland and its Agents ; in the Treaty of Peace, by which the 
Independence of Maryland and the other colonies, the King 
" relinquished all claims to the Government, Property and terri- 
torial Rights of the same (i.e. the Colonies) and every part 
thereof." Before the Treaty the stock was the Property of Mary- 
land, and by the Treaty, which consents to the dissolution of the 
Colony Corporation, or in other words to the Independence of 
Maryland, the King in express words relinquished all claims to 
whatever was the Property of Maryland, and consequently to the 
stock in question. How it has ever been supposed that this 
stock accrued to the King upon the Dissolution of the Corpora- 
tion of Maryland, when he not only consented to this Dissolution, 
but in the act of consent transferred to Maryland any claim he 
had to the stock, is to me utterly incomprehensible. 

I have thought, sir, that you would excuse me for troubling you 
in this business, especially when I assure you that it has been the 
occasion of Dissatisfaction in an important part of my country, as 
well as the subject of such reiterated application on my part, as I 
never could have reconciled with my respect for others or myself, 

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. I9I 

to have made, but from a strong conviction of its peculiar im- 
portance. I expect soon to return to America, and it is no 
affectation on my part, when I tell you that I shall feel some 
embarrassment with the sentiments and opinions which I have 
sent before me, if this stock should not be transferred before 
my Departure. 

With sincere Respect and Esteem &c. 

Rufus King. 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. 77. 

London, Dec. 18, 1802. 

From whatever cause the Language and measures of the Eng- 
lish Ministers in the month of October proceed, it is now evident 
that they produced no beneficial effect upon the Government of 
France, and that the Temper then manifested, had it been per- 
sisted in, would have involved the Nation in a new War. But 
the tone was soon lowered ; the orders supposed to have been 
given to retain certain possessions that were to be surrendered 
have been recalled, and with the exception of Malta, concerning 
which farther negotiations are said to be requisite to give effect 
to former Stipulations, every thing will be delivered up according 
to the Provisions of the Treaty of Peace. The Discourses of the 
Ministers, together with all that has transpired in the Debates in 
Parliament manifest the pacific wishes of the Nation, and France, 
in regard to this country, continues to be as exclusively the Arbiter 
of Peace, as she was of the continuance of War. The augmenta- 
tion of the land and naval forces of Great Britain will not regain 
her influence upon the Continent, and the measure has probably 
been adopted to secure the Dominion of Ireland, which recent 
information proves to be as extensively disaffected as at any 
period of the war, rather than to promote the object referred to in 
my last Dispatch. 

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c. 

Rufus King. 

CHAPTER XIII. 

Troup to King — State of Parties — King to be run for President or Vice-Presi- 
dent— King to Parker in Paris — Inquiry about Schools for his elder Sons — 
King to Secretary of State — In new Bill to be introduced in Parliament 
Duties will remain the same except on foreign Oils — Change in Corn Laws 
— King to Erving respecting Charges — King to President of United States 
— Resumes the Subject of Transportation of Slaves to Sierra Leone — Little 
Hope of Success in obtaining Permission to send them there — Thanks 
him for his Appreciation of his Services, etc. — King to Erving — No 
Danger that Mr. Williams will embarrass him or injure the Public — 
King to Madison — Acknowledging Refusal of a public Vessel for his 
Return and asking for Letters of Recall before April ioth — Madison to 
King — Cause of Refusal — Reasons given by the President for this Refusal 
— The Decision really a wise one. 

R. Troup to R. King. 

New York, 12 Dec. 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

. . . The papers contain proofs thus far exhibited of Burr's 
manoeuvres for the Presidency. A new pamphlet containing 
farther proofs against him is on the tapis and will be out as soon 
as Burr turns his back on this city on his way to Washington. 
. . . The democratical party is gaining strength through the 
Union generally. The late election for members of Congress in 
Massachusetts shows an evident growth of democracy. ... In 
Pennsylvania federalism seems to be annihilated. In Jersey the 
parties in the Legislature are upon a tie. ... In this State, 
it appears to me, that democracy since the last election has not 
decreased. The quarrel between Clinton and Burr will not mate- 
rially divide the party. Burr is a gone man ; he is expelled from 
the Jeffersonian party, and I believe he never will possess any 
material weight in the political scale. Jefferson is really in the 

192 

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 193 

dust in point of character, but notwithstanding this, he is looked 
up to and venerated as the Gog and Magog of his party. Things 
are according to the natural destiny of the government and I see 
no reason to suppose they will alter. . . . 

The project on foot here seems to be to run you at the next 
election for Vice-President or President — which of the two is not 
determined. You will therefore have to prepare yourself for fur- 
ther political contests. . . . 

I delivered your message to Benson, but he declines visiting 
Paris till Bonaparte is made either King or Emperor. He does 
not like the democratical title of First Consul. 

God bless you. 

R. King to Dan'l Parker, Paris. 

London, Dec. 13, 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

As you will naturally suppose that I am solicitous concerning 
the education of my children, you will, I am persuaded, excuse 
the trouble I am about to give in requesting that you will have 
the goodness to pursue the enquiries we proposed to make respect- 
ing the plan of education lately submitted to the public by M. 
Thurot and associates. . . . My object is to endeavour to 
unite as far as practicable the peculiar advantages of English and 
French education, each good as well as deficient, but united 
probably nearer than anything else is a perfect system ; and the 
enquiries I am now making are for the purpose of enabling me to 
decide whether such an establishment exists at Paris as would be 
likely to fulfill my expectations in regard to French instruction, 
and as would moreover consent to receive my two elder sons upon 
the terms on which alone I should be willing to send them there. 

In a few months they will respectively have completed their 
15th and 14th years. Their standing at Harrow, a public school 
near London, corresponds with their ages, and in about two and 
a half or three years, they will probably be at or near the end of 
the school, or in other words will have laid the foundation of a 
classical education. My belief is that they would be able to at- 
tain this station by being at Harrow only one half of each of these 

VOL. IV.— 13 

194 RUFUS KING. [1802 

years ; that is to say, during the two terms which include the six 
months commencing the middle of January ; the remaining six 
months from the middle of July to the middle of January, of 
which fourteen weeks are included in two vacations at midsummer 
and Christmas, I could send them to Paris. Although they have 
some knowledge of French and can read it without much difficulty, 
they would require the first half year to become sufficiently familiar 
with the language to proceed with ease and advantage in some 
branches of instruction ; in the meantime, however, they would be 
taught music, drawing, and, what is more important, mathematics ; 
they could likewise continue their Greek and Latin exercises and 
might begin with Spanish, which I wish them to know early and 
thoroughly. 

* Not only the instruction but the discipline is an object of much 
importance, both as regards the cultivation of morals and the 
protection of the pupils from the vices and habits to which their 
age exposes them. With this explanation of my views, will you 
confer with Mr. Barlow and ask him to unite with you in making 
such enquiries of M. Thurot or any better establishment, as will 
enable you to give me your opinion and advice. I would send 
my sons in July next. 

With sincere regards, &c, I am yours, 

Rufus King. 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. 78. 

London, Dec. 19, 1802. 
Sir: 

In the Bill that after the holidays will be brought into Parlia- 
ment for the consideration of the Customs, the Duties upon 
articles imported from the United States will stand nearly as they 
do at present, except that it has been proposed to raise the Duty 
upon Oil coming from any foreign Country from ^28.3.1 to 
^31.10. I have had one or two Conferences upon the subject 
with the Department of the Treasury, and am now preparing a 
Representation upon which their Lordships will decide before 

802] 

LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 195 

the Draught of the Bill is completed. The British St. Malo 
fishery produces more oil than is consumed in the country, and 
fhe proposed augmentation of duty is vindicated by alleging that 
Spermaceti oil having of late years considerably receded mpnce 
it has become requisite to raise the Duty upon .t m order that .t 
may be, according to its first intention, prohibitory 

Until recently there has been no discrimination of Duties upon 
foreign fish oils ; notwithstanding the Spermaceti Oil is so much 
better and dearer than the brown oil, the duty has operated to 
exclude the latter, while the former, by reason o its superior 
quality and price has found here a precarious market Foreign 
oTs are not only meant to be excluded from the British Market, 
but the Bounties given to the British whale Fisheries mus hke- 
wise secure them a preference in the foreign Markets The con- 
ferences with the Treasury have therefore embraced these several 
Regulations ; and tho' I have not much expectation of any 
such reduction of the Duties as will allow our Oils, except in ex- 
traordinary circumstances, to be consumed m Great Britain I 
have the satisfaction to inform you that foreign Oils of every sort 
will hereafter be allowed to be deposited here under similar Reg- 
ulations to those which regard our Rice and lobacco. This 
system will likewise be made to comprehend our F our, wheat 
and other species of corn, as well as some other articles such as 
Furs Lumber &c. of inferior importance. The deposit of the 
chief articles of our Exports upon safe and convenient Terms in 
the Ports of this country, a system altogether different from that 
of Importation and Exportation under Duties and Drawbacks, 
will afford a considerable advantage to our Merchants, who may, 
thro' their correspondents here, distribute as before their Cargoes 
throughout the different markets of the continent ; and if the 
state of the English market admit it, they may on payment of the 
Duties, likewise dispose of them for the consumption of this 

C°Therynew regulation of the Corn Trade, which * connected 
with this system, will likewise merit our attention. When wheat 
is under 5 4, the quarter, the duty on Importation will be 24/3- 
When 5 i and under 54, the duty will be 2/6 ; and when 54 and 
upwards, the duty will be /«. If the Foreigner does not choose 
to import and pay the duty, he may deposit his wheat in the pub- 

I96 RUFUS KING. [180 2 

lie Warehouses for exportation or home consumption ; in the 
latter case it will be liable to pay the second rate of duties, altho' 
the price may be 54/, or above, unless the King, by Proclamation 
permits the same to be taken out of the Warehouses and sold on 
payment of the lowest Duty. 

As yet the notice specifying the countervailing Duties upon 
goods imported in American vessels, has not been formed, and is, 
I understand, delayed to learn whether it is likely that our dis- 
criminating Duties will be repealed. There has been no intima- 
tion of an intention to extend the countervailing Duties to the 
System of Deposits. I have not yet examined, tho' you may think 
it worthy of consideration, how far the extension of this plan of 
depositing instead of importing our Productions may have an 
influence upon the question of the Expediency of the repeal of 
the discriminating Duties on our side and the countervailing. 
Duties on the side of this country. 

With great Respect & Esteem &c. 

Rufus King. 

R. King to Geo. W. Erving, Esq. 

Randall's, Surry, Dec. 20, 1802. 
Sir: 

As I shall stay in town on Tuesday night, I request that you 
will call upon me between 9 and 10 o'clock on Wednesday 
morning, in order that I may understand with precision what 
proportion of the money received by Mr. Williams in the 
Mart'que Cases you think yourself authorized according to former 
usage to claim for the United States. My Letter to you on this 
subject was founded upon the representation you had made to 
me that the deductions, according to former usage, ought to ex- 
ceed 1 per centum ; but as Mr. Williams states explicitly that it was 
not the usage to deduct more than one per centum in addition 
to the taxed costs and average sum allowed by the Board of 
Commissioners, I desire you will furnish me with Evidence that 
a larger proportion was retained by your Predecessor. 
I am, sir, your ob. St. 

R. K. 

802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 

197 

R. King to His Excellency, the President of the U. S. 

London, Dec. 20, 1802. 
Sir : 

Mr. Gore having during my absence acknowledged the receipt 
of your letter to me, and at the same time transmitted to you 
copies of his Correspondence with the President of the Sierra 
Leone Company, I have only to resume the subject where he 
left it. 

The idle and disorderly character of the slaves, who deserted 
their Masters and joined the British army in America, and who 
constitute the greater part of the Inhabitants of Sierra Leone, has 
produced an unfavorable opinion of our slaves in general, which 
it is not easy to correct, and which unfortunately operates against 
the adoption of the Plan we have offered to the African Company. 

Hitherto the colony has done but little towards defraying the 
Expenses of its Protection, which are so considerable that the 
Company feels the burthen and is unwilling to consent to any 
measure that may chance to increase it. I have taken some pains, 
but hitherto without success, to do away what has appeared to me 
an unfounded apprehension on this subject and to engage the 
company to adopt our Proposition. I have not yet pressed for a 
decision, having reason to believe that it might be in the negative. 
At present I am recommending a modification of the plan to be 
tried in the first instance as an experiment and upon a small scale, 
and ultimately adopted upon a larger one, if found to be free 
from the inconveniences that are apprehended. Though I cannot 
encourage the expectation that the Company will agree to the 
Proposal upon any terms, I am not without hope that it may consent 
to receive a limited number of our negroes by way of experiment. 

There is no prospect whatever of our being able to combine 
the Transportation of these slaves with any beneficial plan of 
Trade. It would be an important point gained could we obtain 
permission to send them to Sierra Leone, and the Expense of 
their passage would be small in comparision with the advantage 
of their banishment. 

I cannot close this Letter without begging you to be assured 
that I am truly sensible of your obliging appreciation of the 
manner in which I have performed the Duties of my office in 

I98 XUFUS KING. [1802 

this Country. The like zeal and industry will continue to be 
employed during the residue of my mission, and I shall, more- 
over, be ready after my return home to give to the Department of 
State any such information as it may be supposed my residence 
here has enabled me to acquire. 

With distinguished consideration &c. 

Rufus King. 

R. King to Geo. W. Erving, Esq. 

Great Cumberland Place, Dec. 22, 1802. 
Sir: 

It having been the practice of your Predecessor to retain only 
one percentum of the sums recovered in the Martinique cases, 
there seems to be no good reason for claiming more, and I there- 
fore recommend to you to receive from Mr. Williams at this rate 
in the Martinique Cases referred to in your Letters of the 13 and 
20. instant. 

In regard to the ascertainment of the former usage in reim- 
bursing the Public advances in these and other Cases, concerning 
which you repeat your apprehension that Mr. Williams may, as 
the private agent of the claimants, pursue a course embarrassing 
to you, and injurious to the public, it does not appear to me that 
the public interest is in any degree likely to be disregarded by the 
American Commissioners with whose assistance the measures to 
procure this reimbursement were concerted and who will have it 
in their power to enforce their observance. I think it moreover 
due to Mr. Williams to add, what a knowledge of the capacity and 
zeal with which he served the public as your Predecessor author- 
izes me to do, my full persuasion that so far from embarrassing 
your agency, he will continue to afford you such information and 
aid as his Experience and knowledge of the business enable him 
to do, and as will materially contribute to the discharge of your 
agency with satisfaction to yourself, and advantage to the public. 

With much respect &c. 

Rufus King. 

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 1 99 

R. King to James Madison, Esq. 

Private. 

London, Dec. 31, 1802. 
Dear Sir : 

I have duly reed, your letter of Oct. 9. and am obliged to you 
for the early reply you have sent me, as well as for the like com- 
munication you were good enough to make to my agent in New 
York. As I expect the Vessel coming to me from America, will 
be here and ready for me and my family to embark by the 10th. 
of April, I am making the requisite preparations, and hope I may 
not be disappointed in receiving my Letters of Recall in season, 
to enable me to leave England immediately after that date. 
With sentiments of Respect & Esteem &c. 

R. K. 

On January 3, 1803, to anticipate a little, Mr. Low writes 
that he has made an arrangement for a ship of which the 
captain is to provide such provisions and stores as may be 
required, with the permission, if Mr. King desires it, for other 
passengers than his family. The contract was that the vessel 
shall be ready on the 10th of April, " to receive his family 
and servants with his furniture, carriages, horses, sheep, cow 
and other articles/' 

On August 5, 1802, Mr. King wrote to Mr. Madison a 
private letter saying that in his official letter to the Secre- 
tary of State of the same date, resigning his office and re- 
questing permission from the President to return home, he 
had asked for the accommodation of a passage home for 
himself and family in one of the public ships, which might 
be returning home or which might bring out his successor 
and carry him back. It is to the answer to that letter, by 
Mr. Madison, privately, on October 9, 1802, which contains 
the refusal to grant this request of a public conveyance that 
Mr. King refers above. Mr. Livingston * had been sent out 
recently in the Boston Frigate to Havre, and it was natural 
for Mr. King to think that a similar privilege might be ex- 

* See letter of R. Troup, vol. iii., p. 526, for the reasons. 

200 RUFUS KING. [1802 

tended to him, who had so long and satisfactorily served his 
country and who supposed that his successor would be ap- 
pointed before the next April, the time he named for the 
termination of his embassy. What reasons were assigned 
in this letter for the refusal of the request cannot be here 
given, for the letter cannot be found. But in the official 
files of the Department of State there is a letter from the 
Secretary of State, which follows, and gives the reasons. 

Washington, Department of State, Dec. 16, 1802. 

Rufus King, Esq.: 

Having in a private letter under cover of one to Mr. N. Low of 
New York * communicated the result of yours on the subject of 
your return to the United States in a national ship and having 
had nothing to add to my last several letters on other subjects, I 
have thus long delayed an official answer to your letters numbered 
from 64 to 75 inclusive, I now acknowledge the receipt of them 
and inclose the permission which you ask to return to the United 
States. Your successor is not yet named. 

The satisfaction which the President has derived from the 
manner in which you have pursued the several objects committed 
to you, and which I am authorized to repeat to you on this occa- 
sion, makes him the more regret that the particular accommoda- 
tion you wished for the repassage of your family could not be 
afforded. Considering the actual situation and calls for the pub- 
lic vessels not laid up, the only chance of such an arrangement 
lay in the returns from the Mediterranean and that chance is 
frustrated by the Quarantine regulations in Great Britain to 
which vessels from that quarter are subject. . . . 
With Great Respect &c. 

James Madison. 

* " Mr. N. Low, Mr. King's Agent in New York, writes to him on Oct. 23, 
1802, that, having been absent from New York, he finds on his return a letter 
from Mr. Madison of 9th inst. with one inclosed for you (which you have 
herewith) from which I learn that a Government ship will not be sent for you ; 
and as you depend in this event upon one being sent for you from hence, you 
may be assured that it shall be done upon the best terms that may be, . . . 
to be ready to receive you and your baggage at London on the 10th of April 
next." 

1802] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 201 

The appointment of a successor to Mr. King* was not 
made, as stated above, or even suggested during this year, 
and thus the contingency of one being sent out in a public 
ship, on which Mr. King might return, did not occur. But 
the President's own views of such an employment of a 
public ship may be learned from a letter f addressed by him 
to Gov. Monroe, January 13, 1803, informing him of his 

* Mr. C. J. Ingersoll, in his Recollections, p. 353, writing of the appoint- 
ments of foreign Ministers under Mr. Jefferson, says : 

" But no step was taken for the appointment of another Minister to England, 
superseding Rufus King, although differing entirely from the President's poli- 
tics, and having been six years resident in London as American Minister. I 
believe Mr. Jefferson has left, now published, his opinion that four years is 
about the proper duration of an American Mission in Europe ; with Mr. 
King's, when his had lasted six years and he considered seven a reasonable 
period, President Jefferson never interfered to put an end to it, but left the 
time to Mr. King, whose valuable services, particularly in the Louisiana acqui- 
sition, were officially avowed by Mr. Livingston in his correspondence with 
their government." 

f "lam particularly concerned that, in the present case, you have more than 
one sacrifice to make. To reform the prodigalities of our predecessors is under- 
stood to be peculiarly our duty, and to bring the government to a simple and 
economical course. They, in order to increase expense, debt, taxation and 
patronage, tried always how much they could give. The outfit given to min 
isters resident to enable them to furnish their house, but given by no nation to 
a temporary minister, who is never expected to take a house or to entertain, 
but considered on the footing of a voyageur, they gave to their extraordinary 
ministers by wholesale. In the beginning of our administration, among 
other articles of reformation in expense, it was determined not to give an outfit 
to ministers extraordinary, and not to incur the expense with any minister of 
sending a frigate to carry or bring him. The Boston happened to be going to 
the Mediterranean, and was permitted, therefore, to take up Mr. Livingston 
and touch in a port of France. A frigate was denied to Charles Pinckney, and 
has been refused to Mr. King for his return. Mr. Madison's friendship and 
mine to you being so well known, the public will have eagle eyes to watch, if 
we grant you any indulgences out of the general rule : and on the other hand, 
the example set in your case will be more cogent on future ones, and produce 
greater approbation to our conduct." — Jefferson's Works, vol. iv., p. 455. 

That the decision of the President was a correct one, though not for the 
reasons given in this letter, can hardly be questioned : the Government was 
relieved from the necessity and embarrassment of deciding such a question in 
the future, and left it to those appointed to make such arrangements as each 
might desire. 

202 RUFUS KING. [1802 

nomination and confirmation of it by the Senate, as Envoy 
Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary to France and 
Spain to assist Messrs. Livingston and Pinckney in their 
negotiations about Louisiana. He earnestly pressed his 
acceptance of the mission, and deprecated his refusal, telling 
him at the same time that he could not send him in a public 
ship. 

CHAPTER XIV. 

Troup to King— Spanish Officers at New Orleans violating the Treaty— Jef- 
ferson's Message an Opiate— King to Vansittart— Duty on Oil proposed 
would materially injure U. S. in withdrawing skilled Seamen — King to 
Wilberforce— Urges granting Permission to send emancipated Slaves to 
Sierra Leone— Wilberforce to King— Importance of cultivating Friendship 
between their two Countries — Maryland Bank Stock — King to Lord 
Hawkesbury and Sir Stephen Cottrell relative to contagious Fever on 
Board of Vessel to carry American Seamen to the U. S.— King to Erving, 
on the same Matter— King to Gallatin— Exchange with Holland and 
England— How best to make Remittances— King to Lord Hawkesbury — 
Claims equal Participation in the West India Trade— King to Governor 
of Maryland, relative to Communications about the Bank Stock— J. Jay to 
King — Domestic Afflictions have prevented writing — Sedgwick to Hamil- 
ton—Federalists should hold the State Governments— King for Governor 
of New York— King to Secretary of State— No further Progress in Settle- 
ment of pending Questions— French Troops possibly going to Louisiana- 
King to Lord Hawkesbury — His Government wishes Settlement of Ques- 
tions with England— King to Secretary of State— Failure of Bird, Savage, 
and Bird— King to Gallatin— Same Subject— Propositions to Sir Francis 
Baring. 

R. Troup to R. King. 

New York Jan. 8, 1803. 
Dear Sir : 

. . . Congress have not yet engaged, so far as the papers 
inform us, in any important measures. It is said that a few days 
ago they were deliberating with close doors, and it is conjectured 
that the violation of our Spanish Treaty by the Spanish officers 
at New Orleans was the subject.* Jefferson's milk and water 
communication on this subject is not generally liked. From ap- 
pearances the nation would not be opposed, and particularly the 

* See Hildreth's Hist, of U. S.y 2d Ser., v. ii., p. 471. 
203 

204 RUFUS KING. [1803 

Kentuckians and Tennesseans, to prompt and strong measures. 
What the government will do is a problem. 

Jefferson's message to Congress at the opening of the session 
is an opiate to the nation. There is as yet no promising appear- 
ance of his declension in popularity ; and as he and all his 
satellites continue in their demagoguish career I have little doubt 
that they will retain their places ; and there seems to be little 
reason to conclude that it will be wise at the next election to 
attempt to disturb them. By the by, they begin openly to avow 
that it will probably be our interest to draw still closer our 
ties of amity with Great Britain. 

Our merchants are rising up pretty generally against our meet- 
ing Great Britain on the ground of abolishing the countervailing 
duties ; and it is said that remonstrances will go to Congress 
against the measure. . . . 

God bless you and grant you and your family a short and pleas- 
ant passage home, where your friends will be very happy to meet 
you again, and amongst them none will be happier than, Dear 
Sir, 

Your very humble servt. 

Robt. Troup. 

R. King to Nicholas Vansittart Esq. 

Randalls, Surrey, Jan. 8, 1803. 
Sir: 

After the conversation we lately had upon the subject, I will 
not trouble you at much length respecting the proposed augmen- 
tation of Duty upon foreign Spermaceti Oil. Under the Old 
System of Duties our whale fishery has not increased, while yours 
has extended itself so as to be able to supply more than your own 
consumption, which our united fisheries a few years back were 
unable to do. Under these Circumstances it is proposed to raise 
the duty on foreign Spermaceti Oil from £22. 3.1. to .£31.10 the 
Ton. The obvious effect of this measure will be to depress our 
whale fishery by the entire exclusion of our Spermaceti Oil from 
your market, where it sometimes finds in small quantities a pre- 
carious sale : the proceeds of these sales are laid out in the pur- 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 205 

chase of British manufactures. Live and let live is a maxim in 
Trade, and in the present case may mean a little more than it 
usually does, for I cannot persuade myself, with the connexion 
that naturally exists between us, and seeing as we must the efforts 
that France is making to acquire a control over the maritime 
strength of the North of Europe, as she already has done over the 
South, that the Decrease of American Seamen can be indifferent 
to Great Britain ; and if it be not, I should hope for the sake of 
a common interest that you would not from light motives be 
willing to sanction any measure that would produce this effect. 

I will not recall to your recollection by way of complaint, the 
various modes of encouraging your whale fishery, which, with 
whatever views adopted, have had the effect to withdraw from 
our service numbers of our most intelligent and useful ad- 
venturers. 

As we have no laws prohibiting the transfer of their skill and 
persons to a foreign State, they were free to accept your invita- 
tion and we could only regret their preference. 

But it would be matter of greater concern, should these meas- 
ures be followed up by a Regulation which would still farther de- 
press our whale fishery, that cannot be beneficial to your Revenue, 
and which is not wanted as a Protection to a Branch of Industry, 
that has already not only established itself, but continues to thrive 
under an encouragement that has brought it to maturity. 

With sentiments of Respect & Esteem &c. 

Rufus King. 

R. King to William Wilberforce, Esq. 

Randalls, Jan. 8, 1803. 
Dear Sir : 

Will you give me leave to recall to your recollection my request 
that you would converse with your neighbor, Mr. Thornton, con- 
cerning the permission we have applied for to send certain of our 
negroes to Sierra Leone. Although I really cannot suppose the 
plan in its full extent liable to the objections that I understand 
have been made to it, and which are founded upon the presumption 
that our negroes are all of the same idle and disorderly charactei 
as those who joined the English army in America, and who were 

206 RUFUS KING. [1803 

afterwards abandoned to, and infested by, the vices of a succes- 
sion of garrison towns, yet I am not disposed to urge a project 
upon merely speculative reasons. Instead therefore of the first 
proposal, suppose the Company should consent to our sending to 
its colony a limited number of negroes by way of experiment. 
If benefit instead of injury should be the result of the Experi- 
ment, the Permission would be continued ; if otherwise, it would 
be refused. The Negroes we may send are only such as may 
hereafter be manumitted by their Masters, and those who shall be 
detected in attempting to excite Insurrections among their fellow 
slaves. The former will include our most meritorious slaves, and 
the latter will not be the idle and the vicious, and these would not 
possess sufficient influence over their associates to become Leaders 
in Schemes of Insurrection. 

I don't think it requisite, since I know your way of thinking in 
this respect, to enlarge upon the advantages to our respective 
Countries that may be derived from those occasional good offices 
and tokens of regard which, in small as well as important con- 
cerns, have so much influence in extending the intercourse and 
strengthening the friendship of Nations ; these are reflexions 
with which your mind is familiar and which I am persuaded you 
will apply as far as may be reasonable to the object of this letter. 

With great truth and regard &c. 

Rufus King. 

W. WlLBERFORCE TO R. KlNG. 

Private. 

Broomfield, Tuesday, nth Jan., 1803. 
My Dear Sir : 

Your letter having been written on Saturday, did not reach 
London until yesterday, and owing to a mistake, I have only this 
day received my letters of yesterday. I lose no time in assuring 
you that I will not fail to impress in the strongest manner I am 
able on Mr. A. the extreme Importance of cultivating that friend- 
ship betwn. the two countries so desirable, on all accounts, for 
both. I will endeavour to enforce the same consideration on 
Lord H.y, but I am not on the same confidential terms with him 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 207 

as with Mr. A, and cannot so easily create an opportunity for 
full and unreserved Discussion. I have a natural and fair plea to 
urge in vindication of my Solicitude on this Subject besides the 
Interest I take in it on general grounds as an English M. of 
Parlt. anxious abt. the welfare of his country. The commercial 
connection betn. the American and Yorke. merchts. has long 
called my particular attention to the state of America and to what- 
ever may tend to cement our union with her. 

Before I heard from you I had been thinkg. of requestg. you 
to refresh my Memory on the affair you mentioned to me in wh. 
the State of Maryland was principally concerned. In the multi- 
tude of topics we discussed during your kind Visit, I did not 
recollect what you stated on that Head with sufficient distinct- 
ness to enable me to reason from it satisfactorily — at ye same 
time being a matter in its nature public, it furnishes on that ac- 
count a peculiarly fit instance of the course of proceeding which 
ought to be pursued by our Govt, with a view to the effect before 
stated as so desirable. May I beg you to let me have a Statement 
of the Maryland case either in writing or verbally. . . . 

I cannot conclude without assuring you that I am gratified by 
every mark of your confidence and that you may be assured of 
my bearing in mind the Secresy and ye Discretion which that 
confidence may justly claim & of my endeavouring to turn it to 
good account by promoting that end which in common we have 
in view. . . . 

With cordial Esteem and Regard, yours very sincerely, 

W. WlLBERFORCE. 

R. King to the Duke of Portland. 

Great Cumberland Place, Jan. 12, 1803. 
My Lord : 

I lose no time in making my acknowledgments to your Grace 

for the Communication that I have just received thro' Sir Stephen 

Cottrell concerning the vessel employed to carry a number of 

American Seamen to the United States, and which has been for 

some time detained at Falmouth on account of a contagious fever 

that broke out among the Passengers. Sir Stephen has engaged 

208 RUFUS KING. [1803 

to send me Copies of the Report of the Physician, together with 
such other Papers as will explain the malignant character of the 
Disease : these being forwarded to the U. S. will enable the Gov- 
ernment to adopt timely precautions against the Contagion, 
should the fever again break out during the Passage. 

With Sentiments of the highest Respect &c. 

Rufus King. 

R. King to Sir Stephen Cottrell. 

Great Cumberland Place, January 13, 1803. 
Sir: 

I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your Letter of 
yesterday, respecting the Ship Mary employed to carry American 
Seamen to the United States, and at present under quarantine at 
Falmouth. In addition to the Reports of the quarantine Physi- 
cian, I have endeavoured to inform myself of the actual condi- 
tion of this Vessel, as well in respect to her ability to perform the 
voyage, as to the quantity of Provisions remaining for the sub- 
sistence of the Passengers and Crew ; and am sorry to learn from 
Mr. Erving, the American Consul in London, and who engaged 
the Vessel to perform this Service, that although he has doubts 
of the sea-worthiness of the Ship, as well as of the sufficiency of 
the Provisions, he is unable, by reason of the present situation of 
the Vessel, to obtain such information on these points as both 
humanity and justice seem to require. In these circumstances I 
take the liberty to request thro' you the interference of his 
Majesty's Council for the purpose of obtaining exact information 
upon these two points, so necessary to be ascertained previously 
to the Mary's being permitted to proceed on her Voyage. The 
same motives which recommended the communication on this 
subject that his Grace the Lord President so obligingly directed 
to be made to me, will I am persuaded approve the measure it is 
the aim of this application to accomplish. 

With perfect Respect &c. 

Rufus King. 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 20O 

R. King to Geo. W. Erving, Esq., Agent for Seamen. 
Great Cumberland Place, January 13, 1803. 

OlR \ 

Pursuant of our conversation of last Evening, I have sent a 
letter to Sir Stephen Cottrell, for the purpose of obtaining an 
order of Council to prevent the Ship sailing until her sea-worthi- 
ness and the sufficiency of her Provisions can be ascertained ; 
this will without doubt be done. 

But I infer from a conversation I have had with Sir Stephen 
Cottrell that the Council will be likely to do no more than to give 
orders to the Quarantine Officers at Falmouth to allow the Ship 
to be visited by such persons as shall be employed to make the 
proposed Survey ; and that it will be expedient that Mr. Fox 
should engage a suitable person to perform this service. I apprise 
you of this circumstance, in order that you may write to Mr. Fox 
to have the Survey made. 

I am, Sir, your obedt. servt. 

R. K. 

R. King to Albert Gallatin, Esq., Secretary of the 
Treasury, U. S. 

« % London, Jan. 13, 1803. 

I have duly received your Letter of Nov. 16, together with one 
from the Treasurer of the 18. of the same month, enclosing Mr. 
Glassford's Bill of Exchange upon the Lords Commissioners of 
the Treasury of this Country for Seventy thousand Pounds Ster- 
ling. The Bill was presented on the 10th instant, has been dul)r 
accepted, and shall be disposed of according to your direction. 

The Exchange between London and Amsterdam has for some 
time been growing more favourable to the former, and bills on 
the latter, as you will perceive by the annexed note of the rate of 
Exchange, are at this time above par. 

In addition to the ordinary Remittances from Holland to Eng- 
land, in payment of the manufactures of the latter, considerable 
sums are, and will continue to be, remitted to the English Pro- 
prietors of Estates in the Dutch Colonies ; the produce whereof 
is now obliged to go to Holland, and this circumstance among 

2IO RUFUS KING. [1803 

others has had its effect in turning the Exchange in favour of 
England. 

I shall have sufficient time before the Bill upon the Treasury- 
falls due to make such enquiries as may be requisite to enable me 
to engage a House of Reputation to transact our money concerns 
in this country. In doing this it will be my aim to reduce the 
compensation to the lowest rate at which we can expect our busi- 
ness to be done, by a House whose solidity and credit are above 
all doubt. 

You are doubtless apprised of the embarrassments of the Bank 
of Amsterdam during the late war, whose stock in consequence 
thereof suffered great depreciation : that all foreign Bills of Ex- 
change were acquitted in current Guilders instead of Bank money 
as had been the usage. Towards the close of last September the 
city of Amsterdam published a Paper founded upon a Report of 
the commissaires of the Bank, announcing that the deficit had 
been entirely supplied by a Tax for this purpose paid by the city 
of Amsterdam ; that the Guaranty of the city being thus satisfied 
and the Bank completely re-established, it had become expedient 
to re-establish the ancient Law respecting the acquittance of Bills 
of Exchange and therefore that it had been resolved : 

" Art. I. That the value of every Bill of Exchange which shall 
be drawn or negotiated in this city of the 30th of the month of 
October approaching, upon places situated out of the Republic, 
and the amount of which shall be 300 florins and upwards shall 
be acquitted in the Bank of this city. 

" II. That all Bills of Exchange upon, or payable in this City 
of the value of 300 florins and upwards, drawn from places situ- 
ated in the French Republic, Great Britain, Spain, Portugal and 
Italy, shall be paid in Bank after the 31st Jany, 1803. 

" III. That every Bill of Exchange which conformably to the 
Articles I. and II., is to be acquitted in Bank, and shall be proved 
to have been done so in any other manner, shall be held to be ac- 
cepted, and each of the two contravening Persons shall pay a fine 
of 3 per cent, upon the total sum of these payments made out of 
the Bank. 

" IV. That payments of Bills of Exchange will not be consid- 
ered good but conformably to the 1st and 2d Articles, the usage 
introduced for some time of writing in Bank to oneself for 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 211 

another, as well as that of regulating the payment of it in current 
money, shall cease at the periods mentioned in the said Articles : 
the Resolution of the Council of Commerce of the 6th of October 
1796 being in that respect revoked by the present." 

The Bank florins in which Bills from this Country are now 
payable have risen and are now 5 per cent, above the current 

money. 

With great Respect,&c, 

Rufus King. 

R. King to Lord Hawkesbury. 

Great Cumberland Place, Jany. 18, 1803. 
My Lord : 

Referring to the observations transmitted to your Lordship in 
my Letter of the 3d of Feby past, explanatory of the principle 
upon which we claim an equal participation of the Trade between 
the United States and the British West Indies, I take the liberty 
to recall the subject to your Lordship's recollection as one that 
has been long under consideration, and upon which I have 
received orders to require the Decision of his Majesty's Govern- 
ment. 

If contrary to the maxims by which the Trade of the Colonies 
was formerly regulated, new circumstances have rendered it ex- 
pedient to open an intercourse between them and foreign States, 
it is this measure and not the admission of such foreign States to 
a share in the Trade, which breaks in upon a system that could 
no longer be maintained with advantage. 

Such intercourse being opened, each party is alike competent 
to make Laws for its Regulation, and as neither can claim or ex- 
pect to do so exclusively of the other, such Regulation becomes 
fit matter for mutual Explanation and agreement. 

In conformity with this principle, an Article respecting this 
Trade was prepared and inserted in the Treaty of 1794, although 
afterwards excluded at the instance of the United States by 
reason of its inequality. 

Should the United States in imitation of the example set them 
by Great Britain pass a Law applying the same rule to British 
Vessels, which the law of Great Britain applies to those of the 
United States, the effect would be that neither British nor Amer- 

212 RUFUS KING. [1803 

ican vessels could carry on the Trade : but on Flour, Corn, Timber, 
Staves and other articles, of first necessity to the Colonies, which 
must be received from the United States, the American vessels 
would carry them to some Port or Island in the West Indies, 
belonging to a third Power, whither the British vessels would go 
to receive the same ; carrying thither to purchase them such 
articles of Colonial produce as are allowed to be exported to the 
United States. In this way an Entrepot would be established in 
the West Indies for the mutual sale and purchase of these com- 
modities, and as the Question principally regards the Navigation 
of the two Countries, it is evident that the effect of these exclusive 
Regulations would be more beneficial to the United States than 
to Great Britain, inasmuch as the voyage from the United States 
to the Place of Deposit in the West Indies would be longer and 
consequently would afford more employment than between the 
said place of Deposit and the British West Indies. 

Notwithstanding the Equity of such a Law on the part of the 
United States and the probable advantage it would secure to their 
navigation we have no hesitation in preferring an amicable and 
equal participation of the Trade, to the certainty of even acquir- 
ing an unequal share of it, by a measure of retaliation, which, 
being resorted to in one branch of Trade, may by one or both 
sides be extended to others, and in the end might have the effect 
to disturb the harmony, as well as the extensive and mutually 
beneficial intercourse between the two countries. 

Whether it may be deemed more convenient to alter the exist- 
ing Law on the part of Great Britain, so as to allow the Trade 
in question to be carried on equally by American and British 
Vessels, or to enter into a compact for this purpose, as was in- 
tended by the Treaty of 1794, is not a point of material difficulty ; 
tho' in the nature of the subject, a preference seems due to an 
adjustment by mutual stipulation : in either mode as a security 
against the Extension of this Trade beyond the Limits, which it 
may be*desired to give it, it might be provided that the return Car- 
goes of American vessels should be carried directly to the United 
States, and that they should moreover be purchased as well as 
limited by the proceeds of Cargoes imported in American Vessels. 
With distinguished Consideration &c. 

Rufus King. 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 213 

R. King to His Excellency, the Governor of Maryland. 

London, Jan. 18, 1803. 
Sir: 

Having lately seen your Excellency's Message of November 
last to the General Assembly of Maryland, I was a little surprised 
at that part of it which refers to a verbal message stated to have 
been delivered by Mr. Christie from me to the Executive of 
Maryland ; and I think it alike due to your Excellency and 
myself to take the earliest opportunity to correct a representation 
that has arisen without doubt from a misapprehension of the 
object and perhaps the tenour of the communication that I made 
to Mr. Christie. Not having had the honour of a direct corre- 
spondence with the Executive of Maryland concerning the State 
interest in the Bank of England, I might have doubted the pro- 
priety of my commencing it, especially as the subject had been 
repeatedly given me in charge by the President, and my commu- 
nications respecting it had been regularly made to the Department 
of State, and, I presume, thro' it to the Executive of Maryland. 
Knowing however the solicitude which existed in Maryland 
respecting this property, so long, and I may add, so unreasonably 
detained, I thought it probable that Mr. Christie's friends, upon 
his return from England, would make enquiries of him concern- 
ing it, and therefore took an opportunity before he left London 
to explain to him its precise situation ; but without any expecta- 
tion that the explanation would or could assume the shape of an 
official communication to the Executive of Maryland. Being 
unacquainted with the purport of Mr. Christie's communication, 
I can say nothing of its accuracy, and the sole object of this 
Letter is to beg you to be assured that I should have made a 
direct and written communication to the Executive of Maryland, 
had it been my intention to have made any direct and written 
communication whatever. With great Respect &c. 

Rufus King. 

John Jay to R. King. 

Bedford, 20 Jany, 1803. 
Dear Sir : 

I ought to have written to you long ago, but a series of occur- 
rences have for two years past left me little Leisure for epistolary- 
correspondence. I allude to Mrs. Jay's long and painful Illness, 

214 RUFUS KING. [1803 

and (when she appeared to be fast recovering) her unexpected 
Death. The Vicissitudes in my own Health, the Removal of my 
Family to this place, and the many things to be done for their 
Accommodation, the gradually increasing Indisposition of my 
Son, who is now on the Ocean going to Italy to avoid the Winter 
here, &c, these are afflicting Circumstances ; but considering 
where and what we are, Troubles of one kind or other are to be 
expected and to be borne with Patience and Resignation. 

My Expectations from Retirement have not been disappointed ; 
and had Mrs. Jay continued with me, I should deem this the most 
agreeable part of my life. 

The post once a week brings me our Newspapers, which, with 
those you are so kind as to send me, furnish a History of the 
Times. By this History, as well as those of former times, we are 
taught the Vanity of expecting that, from the Perfectibility of 
human nature and the Lights of Philosophy, the Multitude will 
become virtuous & wise, or their Demagogues candid and honest. 
As G. Morris says " what is, is " and we must make the best of 
it. For the present they probably reason so in France. It would 
not however surprize me if future Irruptions from that Volcano 
should again desolate some of the neighbouring Countries. View- 
ing the French Revolution as a Tragedy I am inclined to think, 
that we have only seen the first act concluded. You may live to 
see the next j but I shall doubtless by that time be removed to a 
Theatre of a different kind. 

Not having had leisure to visit New York since my Removal 
from Albany to this place, I cannot give you any particular Infor- 
mation relative to our mutual Friends there. Judge Benson is 
again at the Bar, and I regret it. If these are not upside down 
Times, they certainly are up and down Times — but Athens the 
City of Philosophers, and Rome the City of everything, saw and 
felt much worse. With great Esteem and Regard I am 

Dear Sir 

Your most obt. Servt. 

John Jay. 

Mr. Sedgwick, January 27, 1803,* writes to General 
Hamilton among other things : 

* Hamilton's Works, vol. vi., p. 553. 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 215 

It is very important that the federalists should retain and 
acquire the possession of the State governments wherever in their 
power. For this reason, and indeed for many others, I am glad 
Mr. King is about to return home. With wisdom and prudence, 
I think it is probable that he may be placed at the head of the 
government of New York. He may there do infinitely more 
good than in the inefficient office of Vice-President. General 
Pinckney must in all events be considered as our candidate for 
the first office. I have been inexpressibly disgusted with some of 
our friends who have suggested that we ought to consider him 
only as designed for the second. There is, however, another 
consideration on the subject which ought to be considered as 
conclusive. We shall most certainly not succeed at the next 
election, nor is it, in my mind, desirable that we should. Should 
Mr. King be holden up for this office, it would lessen at least the 
probability of his success for the government of New York. 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. 79. 

London, Jany. 28, 1803. 
Sir : 

No farther progress has yet been made in the discussion of the 
Boundaries : from one or two conversations that I have had with 
Col. Barclay, who has returned to town, I perceive that his opinion, 
whatever influence it may have, will be favourable to such a 
settlement of the Eastern Boundary as would be satisfactory to 
us : the chief difficulty in the Settlement that I foresee at present, 
respects the Island of Campo Bello which to avoid questions of 
interfering jurisdiction arising from its being Westward of the 
suitable Boundary-Line, should belong to Massachusetts. If it 
should be ceded, I shall have no hesitation to agree to a confir- 
mation of the Titles of the Settlers, derived from Nova Scotia. But 
the Minister may hesitate about a cession. Lord Hawkesbury 
some weeks ago sent an Instruction to the Attorney General to 
take measures to effect the Transfer of the Maryland Bank Stock 
to the King, in order that his majesty might be enabled to dispose 

2l6 RUFUS KING. [1803 

of it in such a way as he should think fit ; and as Hilary Term 
has commenced, I presume the transfer will shortly be made to 
the Crown. On this subject I have lately seen in the News Papers 
the Message of the Governor of Maryland to the General Assem- 
bly of that State, and take the liberty to annex to this Letter the 
copy of one that I thought myself called upon, in consequence of 
this Message, to write to Governor Mercer. 

In my last conversation with Lord Hawkesbury respecting the 
intercourse between the United States and the British Colonies 
in the West Indies, he desired me to write him a Letter upon that 
subject, in order that he might submit it to the consideration of 
the Cabinet, and I accordingly sent him the Letter, a copy of 
which is adjoined.* 

Although I have received no answer to the Letter to Mr. Van- 
sittart, a copy whereof is likewise annexed,* respecting the pro- 
posed augmentation of Duty upon Spermaceti Oil, he told me a 
few days ago that unless they found stronger opposition from the 
Board of Trade than was expected, the Treasury would be dis- 
posed to abandon the proposed increase of Duty. . . . 
With perfect Respect & Esteem &c. 

R. K. 

P. S. At Paris, they say Victor will proceed with his troops 
directly to Louisiana ; here it is believed that the General with 
the Etat Major and a few troops may go to Louisiana, but that 
the greater part of the forces will be landed in St. Domingo. 

R. King to Lord Hawkesbury. 

Private. 

London, Feby. 1, 1803. 
My Lord : 

There are three subjects upon which I have received orders to 

press for the final determination of his Majesty's Government 

before I leave England. These are the Maryland Bank Stock, 

the Boundaries and the Intercourse between the U. S. and the 

British Colonies in the West Indies. As I expect to embark in 

* The length of these letters prevents their insertion here. — Ed. 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 2\*J 

the Month of April, your Lordship must be sensible that no 
further time is to be lost in taking measures to bring these points 
to a decision, if it be intended that they shall be adjusted before 
my departure. 

With perfect Respect &c. 

R. K. 

R. King to Messrs. Bird, Savage, and Bird. 

London, Feby. 7, 1803. 
Gentlemen : 

I received at a late hour last Evening a Letter from your Mr. 
H. M. Bird, communicating the information that your House 
will be obliged to stop payment this morning and that the U. S. 
are your Creditors for a considerable sum. 

Having casually heard from the late American Consul, Mr. 
Williams, that he had lately accepted Bills for several Thousand 
Pounds payable to your House on account of the U. S., I cannot 
doubt that you will be of opinion with me that these Bills, being 
held in Trust, should be delivered to me in order that they may 
be collected and applied to the Service of the U. S. and I there- 
fore request you to deliver the same to the Bearer, John Munro. 

With due Respect &c. 

Rufus King. 

R. King to Secretary of State. 
No. 80. 

London, Feby. 7, 1803. 
Sir : 

Last Evening (Tuesday) I received a note from Mr. Bird, in- 
forming me that his House would be obliged to stop payment 
this morning, and that the United States are Creditors for a con- 
siderable sum. The former Consul, Mr. Williams, having casu- 
ally informed me that he had lately accepted Bills for several 
Thousand Pounds, payable to Bird, Savage & Bird, for the service 
of the United States, I have written them a Letter requiring that 

218 RUFUS KING. [1803 

they would deliver up to me all Bills of Exchange that have been 
remitted to them and which they hold in trust for the United 
States. I have not yet received their answer but as they have 
without doubt been pressed in their affairs, I fear there is little 
probability of recovering these Draughts, which may have been 
already discounted. 

In consequence of this failure, I shall be under the necessity of 
making the best arrangement in my Power with some other House 
for the payment of the appointments of the several agents of the 
United States in this country. 

Mr. Livingston in a Letter dated at Paris the 3rd instant, 
informs me that he had just received accounts from Mr. Graham 
at Madrid that the Spanish Government has passed a most extra- 
ordinary decree by which all American Vessels coming from the 
United States are denied entry into any of the Ports of Spain 
until they shall have duly performed Quarantine in some foreign 

Port. 

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c. 

Rufus King. 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. 81. 

London, Feb. 9, 1803. 
Sir: 

As I apprehended might be the case, Bird, Savage & Bird have 
answered my demand for the surrender of the Bills of Exchange 
lately remitted to them, by saying they were unable to deliver 
them up, as they had been discounted before their failure. I 
have requested them to prepare and send me their accounts, 
including all receipts and payments up to the day on which they 
stopped, and I hope to receive them in season to forward by the 
mail of this month which will not be dispatched before the 12th. 

Having understood the assigned reason for the failure to be 
the delay that has attended the Remittances on account of large 
debts due in America, I shall direct Mr. Erving, the Consul to 
attend the first meeting of the Creditors, when a State of the 
affairs of the House is to be exhibited. By this means we may 
ascertain the names and debts of the American Debtors, and by 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 219 

the priority due to the United States, I presume the Treasury 
will be able to secure the speedy and full recovery of the Debt 
due from this House. 

With great Respect & Esteem &c. 

Rufus King. 

R. King to A. Gallatin, Esq. 

London, Feb. 9, 1803. 
Sir: 

My Letters to the Secretary of State will apprise you of the 
failure of the House of Bird, Savage & Bird, and their accounts 
which I expect to forward by the mail of this month, will enable 
you to take immediate measures for the recovery in America of 
the considerable balance that I understand to be due to the 
United States. 

It is fortunate that the large Bill upon the English Treasury 
was sent to me instead of this House. The Bankers in Holland 
recommend to me to invest its amount when received in a Bill at 
3 months. I am making inquiries here upon this subject and 
shall adopt what may appear to me the most advantageous mode 
of remittance. 

I have had several conversations with Sir Francis Baring with 
the view of settling the Terms upon which his House (which is 
perhaps the most solid House in England) would undertake our 
money agency in this Country. He will receive and collect Bills 
of Exchange and remit the proceeds to Holland for one half per 
centum ; this is as low as the Business could be done by inferior 
Houses. I have pressed him to receive and sell our funded stock 
and to remit its proceeds upon the same Terms. This he declines 
doing, but would transact this part of the Business for one per 
centum. The proposition I last made him, and which he has 
under consideration, is to allow one per centum on the sale of 
stocks and the remitting of the proceeds, including the Brokerage 
upon the sale of the Stocks, which I understand to be as much as 
a quarter per centum. 

With great Respect &c. 

Rufus King. 

CHAPTER XV. 

King engages a Country House near New York — King to Vansittart — Demands 
Restoration of Wines and Spirits — Remains of Stores on Merchant Vessels 
seized by the Custom's Officers — King to Bird, Savage & Bird — How 
Balances to be Settled — King to Sir F. Baring — Terms of Money Arrange- 
ment— Baring to King — Answer — King to Livingston — Monroe appointed 
Envoy, etc., to France — King to Gallatin — Arrangement with Sir F. 
Baring as Financial Agent of the U. S. — King to Secretary of State — 
Northeast Boundary Line — King to Livingston — Relative to the Closure 
of the Port of New Orleans — King to Livingston — The King's Message to 
Parliament looks to War — Measures taken — Effect on the U. S. — 
Especially with reference to Louisiana — King to Lord Hawkesbury — 
Vessels of U. S. from New Orleans denied Entry because a Spanish Port 
— Asks him to remove this Impediment — King to Secretary of State — Ex- 
pedition to Louisiana will not proceed — King to Secretary of State — War 
more probable — France's Demands — England's Preparations — King to 
Secretary of State — England's Answer — Malta — Cabot to King — Affairs in 
U. S. — Regrets King's Return — King to Secretary of State — France's 
Answer to England — War inevitable. 

Mr. King, in anticipation of his return home had written 
to Mr. N. Low to procure for him a ready furnished house 
in the country to which he might go on his arrival at New 
York. He had received an answer, that one ready furnished 
was out of the question. " You seem to have forgotten the 
state of things in this country, when you direct a ready 
furnished house to be engaged." Search, however, was 
made and on Feb. 2, 1803, Mr. Low wrote to him. 

" I have succeeded beyond all calculation in obtaining for you 
a ready furnished country house . . . with the privilege of 
making it your first winter residence, which it is mine and the 
opinion of your friends here that you will do." 

220 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 221 

The house was situated in Greenwich about two miles 
and a half from the City Hall, belonging to a Mr. Andrew 
Smith, who was about to make a voyage, with his family, to 
India. 

R. King to Nicholas Vansittart, Esq. 

Great Cumberland Place, Feb. 16, 1803. 
Sir : 

I take the liberty to sd. you enclosed a letter that I have re- 
ceived from the Master of the American Ship Iri$% a regular 
Trader between New York and London, complaining of the seiz- 
ure of several small quantities of wine and spirits, being the 
remains of Sea-stores provided for the use of the passengers and 
crew. I likewise enclose the copy of a letter which I wrote to 
Mr. Rose in the year 1799 upon this subject ; on this occasion 
Mr. Rose assured me that he would either by a clause to be in- 
serted in an Act of Parliament, or in some other way take 
measures to prevent a repetition of their Proceedings. The ships 
employed as regular Traders between the United States and Great 
Britain, derive no small portion of their earnings from the passen- 
gers who pass and repass in the prosecution of their commercial 
concerns ; and it seems as reasonable that the requisite stores for 
their accommodation should be provided in America where they 
are cheaper than in England, as that the Provisions for the crew 
should be there laid in. 

If the captains be held to report all such stores, the quantity of 
which may be limited and to deposit them on his arrival at the 
Custom House, they might be delivered back previous to his sail- 
ing and the Revenue thereby secured against fraud. 

I ask the favour of you to give an order for the restoration of 
the Stores of the Iris, and moreover to procure the establishment 
of some safe and convenient Regulations upon this subject, appli- 
cable to further cases, not only in the Port of London, but in that 
of Liverpool and others with which we have frequent intercourse. 

With great respect, &c. 

R. K. 

P.S. — Since writing the above I have received a second letter 
from the Captain of the Iris, asking my interference to relieve 

222 RUFUS KING, [1803 

him from the embarrassment to which he may be liable in conse- 
quence of the discovery of some Chocolate and other articles in 
the possession of the Ship's Steward. On this subject I can say 
no more than that I have reason from the good character of the 
Master to believe him ignorant and innocent of this transaction, 
and therefore flatter myself that he may not be made liable to ex- 
pense or embarrassment. 

R. King to Messrs. Bird, Savage, and Bird. 

Great Cumberland Place, Feby. 13, 1803. 
Gentlemen : 

It is quite indifferent to me whether you balance my private 
account by a transfer from the Diplomatic Fund on account of 
the current quarter's salary, or allow me to pay you the Balance 
in Cash, which I am ready to do. Perhaps it will be most cor- 
rect, because it will correspond with the fact, that you should 
balance my account as well as those of the other agents of the 
United States by suitable transfers for this purpose from the pub- 
lic accounts to which they respectively belong. 

In regard to Mawhood & Co's claims, as you took no discharge 
from them (which if you were in Cash, I think you ought to have 
done) it remains to be paid : but the transaction should appear 
by proper entries in the Debtor and Creditor sides of the account. 

I agree with you in opinion that it will be proper to bring the 
balances of the several accounts into a general account which may 
show the real Balance due to the United States. 

Be good enough to send me my Book with these accounts duly 
entered, in order that I may be able to examine them before they 
are finally made up. 

I remain, Gentlemen, your obed. servt. 

Rufus King. 

R. King to R. R. Livingston. 

London, 23 Feb. 1803. 
Dear Sir : 

Having just seen a Letter from Mr. Thornton, the British 
charge- des affaires at Washington dated January n, which states 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 223 

that the President had just nominated Mr. Monroe, Envoy Extra, and 
Minister Plenipotentiary to France and Spain to treat with either 
or both concerning the Mississippi. No mention is made of my 

Successor. 

Yours faithfully 

Rufus King. 

R. King to Albert Gallatin, Esq. 

London, Feb. 25, 1803. 
Sir: 

The annexed copy of my correspondence with Sir Francis 
Baring & Co., will sufficiently explain the Terms upon which 
I have in your behalf agreed with this House to transact such 
Business as may be committed to it by the Department of the 
Treasury or any other Branch of the Government of the United 
States. 

My Letter of the 9th instant is erroneous in stating that this 
House would consent both to sell the funded Debt and remit the 
Proceeds for a commission of one per cent. This error arose 
from a misconception, on my part, of the tenour of a conversa- 
tion on this subject that I had with Sir Francis Baring, and which 
was corrected by subsequent conferences ; the offer having been 
confined to the mere Sale of the funded Debt, exclusive of Bro- 
kerage and the Commission for remitting the Proceeds to the 
Continent. 

I have taken pains to inform myself of the Terms upon which 
similar Business is done between our Merchants and those of this 
Country ; and the result is a persuasion that this arrangement is 
not only safe and reputable, as it regards the solidity and charac- 
ter of the agents (points of considerable importance) but more- 
over that the Terms are as low as the like Business has been done 
between individuals ; the more general custom appearing to have 
been a charge of half per cent on remittances from America and 
half per cent more on remitting the Proceeds to any part of the 
Continent ; and in respect to the Sale of Stocks, I have not found 
that it has in any instance been done for less Commission than 
one per cent, exclusive of Brokerage, and in most cases the Com- 
mission has been from two to two and a half per cent. One half 

224 RUFUS KING. [1803 

per cent is understood to be the regular and common charge for 
making remittances from this Country to the Continent. 

The failure of Mess. Bird, Savage and Bird made it requisite 
to have recourse to some other House to receive and pay the ap- 
pointments of the public agents of the United States in this 
Country. I received offers from several respectable Commer- 
cial and Banking Houses to transact the Business on the same 
Terms as had been done by Bird, Savage and Bird ; but as Sir 
Francis Baring & Co were willing to do it upon the like Terms, 
and were moreover to be employed as the Bankers of the United 
States in a more important concern, I had no hesitation in giving 
them a preference. . . . 

With great respect &c. 

Rufus King. 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. 82. 

London, Feb. 28, 1803. 
Sir: 

I have duly received your Letters of the 16 and 23 December. 
By Lord Hawkesbury's desire I have conferred with Col. Barclay 
respecting the continuation of the Boundary thro' the Bay of 
Passamaquoddy, who has made no objection to the line we have 
proposed, tho' he appears to think that it would be improper to 
cede to us the Island of Campo Bello unless the cession should 
be desired by the Inhabitants. No objection has been made to 
our Title to Moose Island and at present I foresee nothing to 
impede a settlement of this Boundary, except the difficulty of 
engaging the Ministers to bestow upon the Subject sufficient time 
to understand it. With regard to the line between the Source of 
the St. Croix and the North West corner of Nova Scotia, I have 
no reason to suppose there will be any objection to its being 
ascertained in the way we have proposed. 

Not having been able to fix the attention of Lord Hawkesbury 
upon the Subject, I am not able to give you any information con- 
cerning the line between the North West corner of Nova Scotia 
and the head of the Connecticut River, or between the Lake of 
the Woods and the Mississippi. 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 22Z 

As soon as I have informed myself of the practical interpreta- 
tion of the Law, which it is supposed impedes the importation of 
the cotton and other produce of the Western Country, I will make 
such application to the Government as may be proper to remove 
the impediments. . . . General Victor is still detained in 
Holland, and it is said the Expedition will proceed to Louisi- 
ana in a few weeks. 

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c. 

Rufus King. 

R. King to R. R. Livingston. 
Dr Sir . London, Mar. 4, 1803. 

I have seen a letter from one of the Senators, dated Washing- 
ton Jan'y 10, that says a message had been sent to the H. of 
Reps., but not to the Senate, which was received with closed 
doors, and was understood to communicate the answer of the 
Gov'r of New Orleans to Gov. Claiborne's Letter. 

The answer insinuates that the shutting of the Port by the in- 
tendant was not in compliance with an express order of the King 
of Spain, but a measure resulting from general Instructions for 
the Government of the Colonies on the return of Peace ; that be- 
ing shut, it would not be proper, nor in his power, to open the 
Port without the express orders of the Crown; and as the 
deposit would be inconvenient to the Colony, that it would be unjust 
to construe the Treaty so vigorously as to claim it as a Right. 
The writer observes that he has not seen the letter which is 
kept secret, but that he has rec'd good information as to its 
purport. 

I do not learn that any communication has been made to Con- 
gress of the Representations or Exertions you have made upon 
this Subject, an omission that seems to me, in several respects to 
be of much importance. 

We have newspapers from New York to the 28 Jan'y. The en- 
closed scraps were sent me in a letter ; when I receive my Papers 
I will forward them to you. A Gentleman of New York in a 
lettevoL0IvhiSI5C°rreSp0ndent here' says the Vice President will visit 

226 RUFUS KING. [1803 

the western country and the Mississippi Territory next Spring, and 
insinuates that it is not improbable that he may hereafter reside 
there. Yrs. most sincerely, 

R. King. 

R. King to R. R. Livingston, Esq. 

London, March 11, 1803. 
Dear Sir : 

The Newspapers will have given you the message of Tuesday 
from the King to Parliament ; the two Houses have without dis- 
sent offered in reply the usual assurances of support which are 
made at the commencement of a war. I attended the House of 
Commons, but the conversation which passed, for there was no 
debate, cast no light upon the discussion depending with France. 
The Mins'r merely said that a full disclosure shd be made in case 
no satisfactory settlement shd not be attained. The Message has 
been followed by a general Impress of Seamen, the calling out of 
the Militia, and by Proclamation recalling all Br. Seamen in for. 
service, and offering bounties to such as shall voluntarily enter 
into the Navy. 

Without puzzling oneself to discover the exact points in dis- 
cussion, the temper manifested on both sides, and the Eclat which 
each has chosen to give to its measures, will make it difficult to 
accomplish a Reconciliation. It seems to me that the Ministry 
here cannot go back, if so the decision rests with Bonaparte. 
From the reference which the message has made to the arma- 
ments in Holland, it is pretty natural to conclude that a fleet of 
observation will immediately appear in the Channel, and that de- 
tachments, or small squadrons will watch the arsenal Ports of 
both France and Holland ; if so, the Expedition to Louisiana 
must remain in Port, until the questions in discussion are decided. 
How far our affairs will be beneficially effected by this unex- 
pected, tho' very natural course of things, is more than I am able 
to determine, and I shd be thankful for the assistance of your 
Sentiments to enable me to form a satisfactory opinion respecting 
this Point. Should we like to see the English in N. O. not with 
the view of keeping it, but to prevent its going into the hands of 
France ; or perhaps to assist us in acquiring a title to, and the 
possession of it ? If you are authorized to negotiate a purchase, 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 227 

would not the occupation by the English benefit your bargain, it 
being well and previously understood, that if we obtain the Title, 
they would give us the Possession ? All this is mere speculation, 
and more, it is very hasty and occurs as I write. But crude as it 
is, it may be worth consideration. You see I write in confidence 
and without the least reserve ; I need not say that it is merely be- 
tween you and me. Most faithfully, 

R. K. 

R. King to Rt. Honorable Lord Hawkesbury. 

Great Cumberland Place, Mar. 12, 1803. 
My Lord : 

The Cotton, Flour, and other Articles, the produce of the 
Western States of America, and which are brought down the Mis- 
sissippi, are according to a Treaty between the United States and 
his Catholic Majesty, deposited at New Orleans from whence the 
vessels of the United States receive and carry the Same to 
the Ports of America or to those of some foreign State. 
American Vessels laden with Cotton, and other Articles, the pro- 
duce of these Western States, and which were taken on board at 
New Orleans have of late, upon their arrival in this Country, been 
denied an Entry upon the ground that they came from a Spanish 
Port. 

Without objection to the Law, which forbids a foreign Ship to 
import into Great Britain the produce even of her own country 
except the same be brought directly from the Ports of the country 
to which she belongs, it is evident that the Prohibition does not 
in its principle or object apply to the Case of Vessels in the cir- 
cumstances of those just mentioned ; and without detaining your 
Lordship with Reflexions to elucidate this truth, I take the liberty 
of submitting the case to your Lordship's consideration and of re- 
questing your interference in such way as may be proper for the 
purpose of removing the Impediments which prevent the entry of 
American Vessels coming from New Orleans and laden with 
Articles of the growth and manufacture of the United States. 
With great consideration, &c. 

Rufus King. 

228 RUFUS KING. [1803. 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. 84. 

London, Mar. 16, 1803. 
Sir: 

Couriers last evening arrived at the French Ambassador's from 
Paris, and at the same time a Messenger from Lord Whitworth ; 
they left Paris after the communication of the King's Message to 
Parliament of the 8th inst. had been received there. General 
Andreossi and the Dutch Ambassador both told me to-day that 
for the purpose of taking away the pretext of war (as they ex- 
pressed themselves) arising out of the Colonial Expeditions, 
prepared in the Dutch and French Ports, the Expedition to 
Louisiana has been countermanded and will not now proceed. 

The answer from Paris, it is understood, possesses a sincere 
desire of Peace, demands the immediate fulfilment of the Stipula- 
tions of the Treaty of Amiens, and precise explanations why the 
Evacuation of Malta has been hitherto delayed. It likewise 
alludes to the King's Message, and insinuates that it is impossible 
to imagine that it can be here believed that the proposed arma- 
ments can have any influence upon the determination of France. 
With perfect Respect & Esteem, &c. 

Rufus King. 

G. Cabot to R. King. 

Boston, March 10, 1803. 
My dear Sir : 

My spirits sink when I look upon the picture you have given 
of Europe in your several letters of 3d & 4th January. I scarcely- 
recollect a period in the course of the war when the destructive 
power of France was so much to be feared. It seems to me that 
only two nations remain whose aid would be effectual if it cou'd 
be directed to the support of the British Empire against the 
dangers that assail it. I mean Russia & the U. S.; the former 
has less powerful motives for giving it than the latter, for Russia 
is not only invincible but almost invulnerable from the want of 
Civilization. 

It ought to be the policy of England to refrain from the Com- 
bat (if she can safely) until some substantial cooperation can be 
secured. I hope you won't think me extravagant if I say that 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 229 

this Country wou'd be a competent ally if we were once fully 
engaged ; but we shall not engage if we can avoid it : we shall 
rather pay tribute for being permitted to remain neutral while 
others are destroyed whose safety is necessary to our own. Such 
at least must be the conclusions which every man will draw from 
the measures of our Govt. & especially the mission of the french 
hearted Monroe. 

All good men regret that you are about to leave the place you 
have filled so well for seven critical years ; few however wonder 
at it & not many can disapprove your determination. From 
something you said I infer that you contemplate a visit to this 
part of the Country after your arrival ; I pray ardently that this 
may be realized as I am persuaded you will receive some pleasure 
& communicate a great deal ; I hope you will come early & 
allow yourself ample time to see your well-ripened friends lei- 
surely. The Louisiana business interests the public very much 
but I have long ago settled my opinion upon it & endeavored to 
propagate it, which is that " France will not push us to a war at 
this time." I ground this upon the obvious policy of avoiding to 
create for G. B. the only important ally she needs & can hope 
for, & on the other side the certainty that we shall take no part 
against France if we can avoid it, but may be foolish & even base 
enough to favor the views of France against the only power in 
the World able &, from interest, necessarily disposed to assist 
in defending us. If however it shou'd happen that France has 
grown too arrogant to make these calculations & shou'd treat us 
as she does her neighbours, she may provoke us to a resistance 
which wou'd be happy for this Country & perhaps for many 
others. I pray you to receive my best wishes for a favorable 
passage home. I remain always your sincere friend 

George Cabot. 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. 85. 

London, Mar. 17, 1803. 
Sir : 

War seems more and more probable, and it appears to me in- 
evitable. Holland will be immediately involved, and Spain and 
Portugal must obey the commands of France. The day after the 

23O RUFUS KING. [1803 

King's Message to Parliament was communicated to the French 
Government, Bonaparte delivered to Lord Whitworth a Paper (a 
copy of which I have seen) stating 

1st. That the Expedition preparing in the Dutch Ports was, as 
all the world knew, destined for America, but, in consequence of 
the Message, that it had been recalled and would not proceed. 

2d. That if the armament announced in the Message be not 
satisfactorily explained, or if it take place, that France would 
march 20,000 men into Holland. 

3d. That the forces debarked in the Ports of Holland would 
be reinforced and assembled on the coast of Flandres. 

4th. That the French army will be immediately put on a war 
establishment. 

5th. That camps will be formed on the coasts of France 
between Dunkirk and Boulogne. 

6th. That an army would enter Switzerland. 

7th. That an army would march into Italy and occupy Tarento. 

8th. That England must not expect, under the cover of an 
armament, to avoid the execution of the Treaty of Amiens. 

The greatest activity continues to prevail in the military and 
naval Departments ; it is understood that the Squadrons in the 
West and East Indies & in the Mediterranean will not immediately 
require reinforcement, and that a respectable fleet will soon 
appear in the Channel and on the Coast of Ireland. The regular 
Army on foot in Great Britain (exclusive of the forces in Ireland, 
Egypt, Malta, Gibraltar and the Colonies) consists of 27,000 In- 
fantry and 12,000 Cavalry, and it will be reinforced immediately 
by 37,000 of the militia which have been called out. 

I don't yet hear of Mr. Monroe's arrival, tho' I learn from Mr. 
Livingston that he is daily expected in France. Mr. Merry is 
preparing to embark for the U. S. and is pressed by his Govern- 
ment to be ready to leave England the first week in April. 

With perfect Respect. R. K. 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. 86. 

London, Mar. 19, 1803. 
Sir : 

Orders are sometime past given to evacuate Egypt and the 
English forces have at this time probably left that Country. The 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 23 1 

independence of Malta, by the Treaty of Amiens is placed under 
the protection and guarantee of Great Britain, France, Spain, 
Austria, Russia and Prussia. Austria has acceded, Russia con- 
sents to accede, provided the Maltese language be abolished, to 
which France agrees, and Prussia is ready to assume the guaran- 
tee, when that alone is wanted to give effect to the Stipulation 
respecting Malta. This view is necessary to enable you to form 
a correct opinion of the demand which the French Ambassador 
has just made for the Evacuation of Malta, and of Lord Hawkes- 
bury's answer which was received by the French Ambassador on 
the 15 th, and as soon as it could be translated sent to Paris, 
where it is expected to have arrived last evening or this morning. 

The answer begins by laying down the maxim of the Law of 
Nations that " Conventio omnis intelligitur rebus sic stantibus,"" 
and after declaring that the consideration of things, as settled by 
the public Treaties of Europe, and the restitutions to be made 
pursuant to the Treaty of Amiens, was a principal and essential 
reason with his Britannic Majesty for entering into that Treaty, 
and without which it would not have been made, it enumerates 
the changes that have since happened without the privity and 
consent of Great Britain, and which have so materially altered the 
relative condition of the Powers that are Parties to the Treaty of 
Amiens : this recapitulation is followed by a reference to the 
publication of Sebastiani's Report of his Mission to the Barbary 
Powers, Egypt & Syria as well as to the Exposition of the affairs 
of France, sent by Bonaparte to the Legislative Body, both of 
which are stated to contain sentiments injurious to the Reputa- 
tion and Honour of the British Nation. The answer concludes 
by insinuating that Great Britain, in these circumstances, might 
justly refuse to proceed in the farther execution of the Treaty of 
Amiens, instead whereof his Majesty desirous of the continuance 
of Peace, and willing to offer to France still farther proofs of his 
moderation, is ready to enter into such mutual discussions and 
explanations with France, as in the present posture of affairs may 
be calculated to secure the just Rights of the two Nations and to 
maintain the Repose of Europe. 

Instead of a mere discussion, respecting the interpretation of the 
Treaty of peace of Amiens, or the execution of any of its articles, 
this answer renders the subject so intricate that even in a different 
Temper from that which now exists, the Parties would find great 

232 RUFUS KING. [1803 

difficulty in adjusting their respective Pretensions. The French 
Ambassador expects to receive the Reply of his Government on 
the 22. The military preparations proceed here without the 
smallest relaxation, and every appearance indicates to my mind 
the Expectation of War. 

I have the honour to be &c. 

R. K. 

CHAPTER XVI. 

King to Livingston — France's Alternative War or Evacuation of Malta — For 
Latter England requires Security — King's Successor not yet named — King 
to Secretary of State — Question before the Commissioners under 7th Article 
relative to awarding Interest during its Suspension — King to P. Sansom — 
Acknowledges Kindness from American Merchants — King to Secretary of 
State — France's Answer to Lord Hawkesbury — Vindicating Conduct of 
France — England will continue to occupy Malta — War will probably ensue 
— King to Livingston — Neither France nor England would care to begin 
the Assault — King to C. Abbot — How to preserve Public Records — King to 
Secretary of State — No Change — War inevitable — England without Ally — 
In Case of War, England should seek to benefit Neutral Commerce — Mr. 
Addington said England might attempt to occupy New Orleans — King ob- 
jected— Might involve Misunderstanding — Hopes his Successor may arrive 
before his Departure — King to Livingston — England will not Evacuate 
Malta — Affairs so critical, hopes his Successor will arrive before his De- 
parture— King to Secretary of State — French Answer called Evasion — De- 
cision for War remains for France. 

R. King to R. R. Livingston, Esq., Paris. 

London, Mar. 23, 1803. 
Dear Sir : 

I have received your Letters of Feb. 24 and March 8 & 15. 
Except the last I think I have written to you by every Messenger, 
since my Letter of the nth the words of the Communication 
respecting the Expedition for Louisiana were, " the message (of 
the King) speaks of the expedition of Helveotsluys ; all the world 
knows it was destined for America, and about proceeding to its 
Destination, mais d'apres le message de S. M. l'embarquement et 
le depart vont etre contremandes." 

Bonaparte gave Lord Whitworth the alternative of war or the 
Evacuation of Malta on the 13th instant. I refer to the scene at 

233 

234 XUFUS KING. [l8o3 

the Drawing Room.* Lord Hawkesbury's note of the 15 in 
answer to General Andreossi's demand of the Evacuation of Malta, 
states that Sebastiani's Report and other information disclose the 
views of France upon the Turkish Empire and "that the King 
cannot consent to evacuate Malta unless substantial security be 
provided for those Objects which in present circumstances would 
be endangered by that measure " — in other words the King will 
evacuate on the provision of such security ; if the Turkish Empire 
be those objects which wd. be endangered by the Evacuation of 
Malta and the possession of this Island . . . by G. Britain 
be deemed security against the danger, would not the possession 
of it by some other Power who would be able to defend it, and 
be likely to resist the views of France, afford the substantial 
security that the note requires ? if so, would not the possession 
by Russia fulfil this purpose ? The only material doubt which 
offers, arises from the presumed fact that France would at Amiens 
have agreed to this arrangements had England proposed it. Still 
as the holding of Malta by England is thought a security against 
the views of France upon Turkey, and the note in effect offers to 
evacuate upon the provision of substantial security against the 
dangers with which the Turkish Empire is threatened, it is diffi- 
cult to imagine any other security than that of giving Malta to 
Russia and obtaining her Guarantee of the Integrity of the 
Dominion of the Turk. 

The tenour of the note as here cited may be depended upon ; 
the reflexions which follow are of less importance, and I have 
submitted them to you, as the grounds upon which I am less san- 
guine than I have been that the present discussion would end in 
war. 

With great Truth &c. 

Rufus King. 

I have a letter from the Secy, of State of Jany. 29, which in- 
forms me my successor had not then been named and that the 
time fixed for my leaving England might arrive before any ar- 
rangements for the vacancy can have their effect ! 

* See letter of R. R. Livingston to the President, March 12, 1803. Annals of 
Congress, 1802-3, App. P« ni5. 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 23$ 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. 87. 

London, Mar. 25, 1803. 
Sir : 

It is now nearly a fortnight since Lord Hawkesbury informed 
me that he had lately ascertained that the American Commission- 
ers under the 7th article of the Treaty of Amity and Commerce, 
with the concurrence of the 3d Commissioner, conceived them- 
selves authorized to allow Interest upon the Claims before them 
for the time during which the Proceedings of the Comn. had been 
suspended ; that as the Suspension had taken place in conse- 
quence of that of the Commission in America, it did not appear to 
him that the Board here had authority to allow Interest for this 
portion of time ; that he made me this Communication in hopes 
that we might agree in the just interpretation of the Powers of 
the Commissioners, as it would be disagreeable particularly at the 
juncture of affairs when he was speaking, again to arrest the Pro- 
ceedings of the Commissioners. I replied that the Subject was 
both unexpected and new ; that it should receive my immediate 
consideration, and that I would take the earliest opportunity in 
my power of conversing with him respecting it. 

After maturely reflecting upon the objection which originates 
with and was entertained by Dr. Swabey before the conclusion of 
the Convention, in virtue of which the Board has resumed its 
Proceedings, I informed Lord Hawkesbury that I was ready to 
meet him ; but owing to the discussions going on with France he 
has not yet appointed a day to receive me : in the mean time the 
Commission proceeds in examining and deciding the cases before 
it, leaving open the ascertainment of the amount of the respective 
Claims. As the first instalment of the ^600,000 to be received 
by Great Britain is payable in July, and as from the nature of the 
Negotiation with France I may not be able to meet Lord Hawkes- 
bury soon, it has appeared to me proper to apprise you of this 
objection to the Powers of the Commissioners which may be fol- 
lowed up by a suspension of the Proceedings. 

With perfect Respect &c. 

R. K. 

236 RUFUS KING. [1803 

R. King to Philip Sansom, Esq. 

Great Cumberland Place, Mar. 28, 1803. 
Sir : 

Being much pressed for time between my public engagements 
and the objects to which I am obliged to attend before I leave 
this country, I am afraid it may not be in my power immediately 
to wait upon all the members of the Committee of American mer- 
chants ; tho' I shall endeavour to do so before my departure. 

In the mean time I take the liberty of presenting to you and 
them my respectful acknowledgments for the distinguished kind- 
ness and honour the Committee have conferred upon me, and I 
avail myself of the opportunity likewise to thank them for the in- 
formation and assistance that on various occasions I have received 
from them during my residence in this country. 

With sentiments of great personal Esteem and Respect, &c. 

Rufus King. 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. 88. 

London, Mar. 28, 1803. 
Sir : 

My No. 86 communicated the tenour of Lord Hawkesbury's 
note of the 15th to the French Ambassador : the conclusion of 
the note refers to the demand of France for the Evacuation of 
Malta and declares " that the King cannot consent to its Evacua- 
tion unless substantial security be provided for those objects 
which in present circumstances would be endangered by that 
measure." 

Yesterday morning the French Ambassador received a Courier 
with the answer of his Government which was delivered to Lord 
Hawkesbury in the course of the day. It contrasts the blessings 
of Peace with the miseries of war, and professes on the side of 
France a sincere desire to maintain the enjoyment of the former ; 
it denies the existence of any such naval and military preparations 
as are spoken of in the King's Message to Parliament, and in re- 
spect to the changes which are said to have taken place in the 
relative condition of France since the Treaty of Amiens, it affirms 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 237 

that the Forces and influence of France have not been increased. 
With regard to Sebastiani's Report, the answer justifies its publi- 
cation as a necessary vindication of the reputation of the First 
Consul against the false and criminal imputation cast upon it in 
the History of the Campaign of Egypt published in London by 
Sir Robert Wilson, an officer in the service of his Britannic 
Majesty. 

The answer seeks no Explanation of the substantial security 
upon the provision of which Lord Hawkesbury's note offers by 
implication to Evacuate Malta, but concludes with saying the first 
Consul does not take up the Gauntlet thrown down by his Britan- 
nic Majesty, and in respect to Malta, the Treaty of Amiens has 
definitely provided for its Evacuation by England and its Re- 
stitution to the Order of St. John. 

It is natural to infer from this conclusion that the French Am- 
bassador has orders to reiterate his demand upon this point ; the 
English Cabinet will refuse as before ; and as the English Forces 
occupy Malta, the war will probably be declared and commenced 
on the side of France. 

The first Consul has given notice at Berlin, in case of war with 
Great Britain, that he shall take possession of Hanover, occupy 
Hamburgh and close the Elbe. 

With perfect Respect, &c. 

R. K. 

R. King to R. R. Livingston, Esq. 

London, Mar. 29, 1803. 
Dear Sir : 

The essential clause of Lord Hawkesbury's Note of the 15, and 
which is cited in my last Letter, by implication declares that Eng- 
land is ready to evacuate Malta upon certain conditions, which 
are not however explained ; in other words the Note insinuates 
that altho' it has become impossible to execute the Provisions of 
the Treaty of Amiens, England is nevertheless willing to discuss 
with France the Terms upon which the Evacuation shall be 
made. 

Whether the Reflexions contained in my last letter are well 
founded in respect to the Terms must now remain matter of mere 

238 RUFUS KING. [1803 

conjecture, inasmuch as the answer of the French Government 
which has been just delivered, declines all inquiry and discussion 
concerning them and refers itself to the Treaty of Amiens, as 
marking out the only course to be pursued on that subject. 

The Parties seem therefore to be at issue ; but as England 
possesses the object of disagreement will France follow up her 
demand that it should be surrendered by a declaration of war 
to enforce it ? If not, will England do more than continue to re- 
tain Malta and go on with preparations to meet the consequences. 
This doubt suggests a curious state of things, but one that could 
not be of long duration : both Parties would expect War while 
each would prefer to receive rather than to give the assault ; in 
this situation the commencement of the war would be an affair of 
accident, as well as Malta of mutual recrimination. 

I am not sure that it may not now be the Intention of France 
to proceed as tho' the armament of England had not been made. 
The first Consul is not obliged to renew or enforce his demand 
respecting Malta. The English armament may proceed without 
danger to France, which may continue to dispatch Expeditions to 
the Colonies, leaving it to England to begin the war, should she 
choose to do so by interrupting them. 

This speculation, for it is no more, agrees with the Rumour of 
yesterday and to-day from Holland, that the Expedition for 
Louisiana is again resumed, notwithstanding it was declared, as I 
have explained to you, that it was countermanded in consequence 
of the King's Message. 

Yours faithfully, 

R. K. 

P. S. I entreat you to observe great caution on this subject, as 
a conjecture that your information comes from me would place 
me in delicate circumstances. 

R. King to Right Honble. Charles Abbot. 

Great Cumberland Place, March 31, 1803. 
Sir: 

Enquiring of Mr. Planta of the British Museum the best mode 
of preserving public Records, he gave me the first information I 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 239 

had received of the Report on this subject drawn up under your 
direction and lately printed by order of the House of Commons. 
As we are beginning already to suffer in America from negligence 
and want of care in preserving our Records and public Reports, 
and as the subject at this Time engages the attention of our Gov- 
ernment, it would be of great advantage to us to possess the in- 
formation contained in this Report : but as it is not published, I 
hope you will pardon my taking the liberty of asking you to per- 
mit me to receive two copies of this Report. 

I have to make you my best acknowledgments for the Pieces re- 
specting the population act, with which you were kind enough to 
supply me. Unfortunately during my absence last summer my 
Secretary sent some of these pieces to America, so that my set 
wants the Enumeration of Scotland, the Parish Registers, and the 
observations on the Result of the Population act. 

I am almost ashamed to trouble you again upon this subject 
and the more so as it is out of my power to make you a return of 
equivalent value. I take the lib'ty, however, to send you a copy 
of the last census. I hope to receive in a more convenient form a 
few copies of this and the former census, one of which, by your 
permission, I will send to you. 

P. S. I have found and added the first census. 

With great Respect & Esteem, &c. 

Rufus King. 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. 89. 

London, April 2, 1803. 
Sir : 

Nothing farther has occurred since the date of my last ; no 
answer has yet been given to the note of the French Ambassador, 
whic hdeclines all discussion respecting Malta. Lord Hawkes- 
bury's answer will probably be delivered to-day ; it will without 
doubt persist in the Determination communicated in his first note, 
and may disclose new and additional reasons in its support. If, 
as is said to be the case, the First Consul has lately made an over- 
ture to Russia for a partition of the Turkish Empire, the facts 

240 RUFUS KING. [1803 

may be urged on this occasion notwithstanding the refusal of 
Russia to listen to the Proposal. 

I still continue to believe the war unavoidable, in which Eng- 
land can have no expectation of a single ally. The System of 
Russia is pacific with less attachment, however, to France than to 
England. Austria is not yet recovered from the blows by which 
she was driven from the contest ; and Prussia will be inclined to 
adhere to her past Policy. Although Denmark and Sweden have 
been much dissatisfied with England, France contrary to her 
usual policy, has done nothing to secure their confidence ; while 
England has been endeavouring to reestablish her ancient friend- 
ship with these States ; for this purpose, she has given assurances 
that what is called the two Swedish Convoys shall be restored or 
paid for. The first which consisted of 17 Vessels was condemned, 
and the Envoy of Sweden has given in his claim for compensa- 
tion, which amounts to sixty thousand pounds sterling ; the 
claim for the second consisting of 21 Vessels, and which I think 
is not yet presented, will be about ninety thousand pounds sterling. 
By cultivating the friendship of these Powers, England expects with 
the good will of Russia to keep the Baltic open, against the efforts 
that France will again make to close it. Portugal will be com- 
pelled to exclude the English trade, and Spain with all Italy must 
obey the orders that shall be given her. 

I have sought occasion both with ministers and other leading 
men, since the discussion with France, to indicate the disadvan- 
tage which England has heretofore brought upon herself by the 
system of warfare she has been accustomed to pursue, and which 
has been chiefly directed against the Colonies of her enemy, 
which after being acquired at the expense of much blood and 
treasure in addition to the vexation of the commerce of Neutral 
Nations, have been commonly restored, enriched by English 
capital, at the conclusion of Peace. Instead of a warfare, liable 
to these objections, and which has moreover furnished an oppor- 
tunity to France to appear as the friend and Protector of Neutral 
States, a system might be suggested that would not only avoid 
these disadvantages, but would materially contribute to the future 
prosperity of Great Britain. No Neutral Commerce would be 
interrupted by it, on the contrary it would serve to encrease and 
extend it, and when the object was once obtained, no Treaty of 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 24 1 

Peace could restore things to their former state. This conversa- 
tion has been everywhere understood and well received, and it is 
my firm belief, if the war break out, that Great Britain will im- 
mediately attempt the emancipation and independence of South 
America. 

In a late conversation with Mr. Addington* he observed to me, 
if the war happen, it would perhaps be one of their first attempts 
to occupy New Orleans. I interrupted him by saying, I hoped 
the measure would be well weighed before it should be attempted ; 
that true it was we could not see with indifference that Country 
in the hands of France, but it was equally true that it would be 
contrary to our views, and with much concern that we should see 
it in the possession of England. We had no objection to Spain 
continuing to possess it ; they were quiet neighbours, and we 
looked forward without impatience to events which, in the 
ordinary course of things, must, at no distant day, annex this 
Country to the United States. Mr. Addington desired me to be 
assured, that England would not accept the Country, were all 
agreed to give it up to her ; that were she to occupy it, it would 
not be to keep it, but to prevent another power from obtaining it, 
and in his opinion, that this end would be best effected by its 
belonging to the United States. I expressed my acquiescence in 
the last part of his remark, but observed that if the country should 
be occupied by England, it would be suspected to be in concert 
with the United States, and might involve us in misunderstand- 
ings with another Power with which we desired to live in Peace ; 
he said if you can obtain it well, but if not, we ought to prevent 
its going into the hands of France, tho' you may be assured, con- 
tinued Mr. Addington, that nothing shall be done injurious to the 
interest of the United States. Here the conversation ended. 

I have lately received your letter of January 29th, and as soon 
as Lord Hawkesbury shall have named a time to receive me, 
which I have requested him to do, I will explain to him, in con- 
versation, the President's views relative to the Mississippi. 

Considering the critical state of affairs, it is much to be wished 
that my successor may arrive before my departure. I shall delay 
taking my leave to the last moment ; and should the posture of 

* Italics in cipher. 
VOL. iv.— 16 

242 RUFUS KING. [1803 

affairs in my opinion require it, I will risk the expense of detain- 
ing my vessel beyond the time in which I have engaged to em- 
bark ; in any event, I shall not leave London before the last week 
of the present month. 

With perfect Respect, 

R. K. 

R. King to His Excelly. R. R. Livingston. 

London, Ap. 8, 1803. 
Dear Sir : 

I have duly received your letter of the first instant. Notwith- 
standing the vagueness of Lord H's note of the 15th, a defect 
sometimes received as proof of diplomatic prudence, the result 
will probably shew that the note contained a fixed determination 
not to execute the Treaty of Amiens, so far as respects Malta ; 
for I am more and more persuaded that in the opinion of the 
Cabinet, Malta itself is the only security for those objects that 
would be endangered by the evacuation. In my last letter, I 
alluded to a verbal communication which has been probably suc- 
ceeded by a written one to the same effect, and there is reason to 
think, that in the conversation it was plainly insinuated that the 
keeping of Malta by England was the only security she would 
receive for the objects of her solicitude. If so, and Bonaparte 
adhere, as you suppose he will, to his purpose not to permit any 
discussion respecting Malta, " puis que la Traite d' Amiens a 
pourvue £ tout," the die may be regarded as thrown, and the 
results cannot be delayed many days. The reply of Bonaparte 
may be war, if it be to gain time, it will be war from hence. Lis- 
ton writes that in his opinion, the Expedition for Louisiana will 
not proceed in the present uncertain state of affairs ; and I am 
inclined to believe, should it attempt to proceed, that it might 
meet with opposition ; England would interrupt the expedition to 
Louisiana, if she believe the war inevitable : and if instead of 
Louisiana it should be bound to Martinique, the garrison whereof 
is too weak to defend it, she ought likewise to stop it. 

I have sent frequent and, as far as I have been able, faithful 
and full accounts to our Govrt. of the tenour and probable issue 
of the discussions between this Country and France, and shall con- 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 243 

tinue to do so until my departure, respecting which I am a little 
embarrassed, as I have broken up my establishment, shipped my 
effects, and in a few days shall be under a heavy demurrage if I 
detain my ship. On the whole so critical and important is the 
state of affairs that I shall probably detain my vessel a short time 
in hopes my successor may arrive, or in the interim that Recon- 
ciliation or war may put an end to the present uncertainty.* 

It is much to be regretted that my successor has not been more 
seasonably named and at his post, as it would have been more 
easy to have entered upon the duties while I remained, than after 
my departure. Besides the commencement of a new war is most 
important in respect to our Trade which shd be the object of 
earnest attention by our Minister here in order to prevent the 
mistakes which interest or omission may supply in the orders & 

instructions to the naval officers. 

Faithfully yrs. 

R. K. 

p.S. — I think you may with confidence act upon the opinion 
that England will not evacuate Malta. I am deceived, or their 
point is decided ; all must therefore depend on the First Consul 
who must abandon the Treaty of Amiens so far as respects Malta, 
or take war. Respecting the change of Ministers, which is spoken 
of as ignorantly and inconsistently as the question of War and 
Peace, I don't think anything has been settled ; if it be war, I am 
of opinion that Pitt, perhaps Lord Melville, but neither Grenville 
nor Windham, will be employed. Addington and Hawkesbury 
will remain, and who also may be more of a Problem : that is a 
mere personal speculation, as I really have no clue, if one even 
exist, to lead me to the last. 

I wish to explain to you an interesting conversation I have 
lately had respecting New Orleans, but I am really pushed by so 
many personal concerns, joined to some few of a public nature, 

* Mr. Livingston in a letter to the Secretary of State of April II, 1803, writ- 
ing of the probability of the renewal of the war and of the possible effect upon 
the negotiation relating to Louisiana of the interference of Great Britain, says : 
" I have written to Mr. King, pressing him to stay until a successor is ap- 
pointed. The moment is so critical that we cannot justify being without a 
Minister in England, and he is a very useful one." Annals of Congress, 
1802-3, Appendix, p. 1127. 

244 RUFUS KING. [1803 

that I scarce find time to write to you the scraps, which always 
in haste I send to you, but with which I should not embarrass you, 
except that from all I know and conjecture, it is of considerable 
importance that you should know all that is passing. 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

No. 90. 

London, April 9, 1803. 
Sir : 

The Question of Peace or War may at this moment be decided. 
Lord Hawkesbury's note in reply to the refusal of France to ad- 
mit of any discussion respecting Malta, is dated the 3d & was dis- 
patched the 4th instant. 

It expresses the King's regret that the French Government 
had declined giving the satisfaction and explanation he had de- 
manded, and that it had accompanied this Evasion by a renewed 
demand of the Evacuation of Malta. In these circumstances, the 
note states that the King had deemed it expedient to order his 
Ambassador at Paris to ascertain whether the French Govern- 
ment persists in its refusal, or whether it will without delay give 
the satisfaction and explanation that may be calculated to main- 
tain Peace between the two Nations. 

Lord Whitworth's note to Mr. Talleyrand is probably now before 
the First Consul, who must recede from the ground he has taken 
with so much eclat, or receive a declaration of war. 

With perfect respect, etc., 

R.K. 

CHAPTER XVII. 

King to Lord Hawkesbury— Convention for Boundaries— King to Livingston- 
Notes between England and France— Hopes he has definite Principles 
respecting Louisiana in Case of War— Gallatin to King— Arrangements 
with Barings satisfactory— King to Secretary of State— Maryland Bank Stock 
— Ownership settled— King— Memorandum Book — Taking Leave of the 
King — Conversation with Lord Hawkesbury respecting Contraband — 
Notes and Negotiations between England and France— Ambassadors of 
each receive their Passports— Early Information communicated by King 
to English Government— Dinner at the Duke of Portland's— Not England 
but Bonaparte has shown bad Faith in the non-Execution of the 
Treaty— Conference with Addington— England would be satisfied with 
the Cession of Louisiana to the U. S.— Russian Offer of Mediation refused 
—Conferences with Lord St. Vincent relative to Impressment— No satis- 
factory Result obtained— Last Conferences between England and France- 
Ambassadors of each receive their Passports— King to Earl St. Vincent- 
Regrets the Failure of Negotiations to put an End to Impressment— Gore to 
King— Confirms this Failure— King to Secretary of State— Condition of 
Negotiations relative to Impressment— Neutral Flag— Colony Trade- 
South America— King to Lord Hawkesbury— Communicates Purchase of 
Louisiana— Lord Hawkesbury to King— Response to Above— The King's 
Pleasure at the Intelligence— Complimentary Remarks on the whole Course 
of King's public Mission. 

R. King to Rt. Hon. Lord Hawkesbury. 

Great Cumberland Place, April 10, 1803. 
My Lord : 

I have the honour to send you enclosed the Draught of a Con- 
vention concerning the Boundaries of the United States, drawn up 
according to the Tenour of our Conferences on this subject, and am 
With great consideration &c. 

R. King. 

The Draught covers nine pages of foolscap paper. 

245 

246 JZUFUS KING. [1803 

R. King to R. R. Livingston. 

London, April 12, 1803. 
Dear Sir : 

I have before communicated to you the two last notes exchanged 
between France and this country ; the French note dated Mar. 
29. concludes en resume, " que le premier Consul ne veut pas 
retirer le defit de la guerre fait par l'Angleterre (referring to the 
armament) et qu'il ne peut y avoir discussion sur Malte, puis que 
la traite* d'Amiens a pourvu a tout." The English Reply dated 
the 3d instant declares u that his Majesty perceives with great 
regret that the French Govt, continues to withhold all satisfac- 
tion and explanation on the points respecting which he had com- 
plained, and at the same time it evades all discussion concerning 
the same, that it repeats the requisition that Malta be forthwith 
evacuated by his forces. In duty to himself and to the interest 
of his People, his M. has in these circumstances deemed it expe- 
dient to give Instructions to his Ambassador at Paris to ascertain 
distinctly whether the fr. Gov. is determined to withhold all satis- 
faction and explanation on the subject of his Complaints, or 
whether it is disposed without delay to give the satisfaction and 
explanation that in the present state of affairs shall be calculated 
to lead to an arrangement in respect to the disagreements sub- 
sisting between the two countries." Possessing these extracts, 
you will judge as well as I am able to do of the probable issue. 
General Andreossi last evening received a courier with Dispatches 
acknowledging the receipt of L. H's. note of the 3d, and saying 
only that they were dans un pourparler with Lord Whitworth for 
the purpose of hearing what he had to say. 

Should the war take place, as I still think it must if the first 
Consul persist in respect to Malta, it is to be hoped you will have 
authority to assume a principle in regard to Louisiana which at 
all times, but more easily in time of war between England and 
France, we can and ought to assert and maintain. To the coun- 
try West of the Mississippi we have no claim ; from the country 
East of it, in virtue of the irrevocable renunciation of France and 
the duty we owe to ourselves and posterity, we have the Right to 
exclude her forever ; and it is only by adhering to this principle, 
that we shall be able to preserve the Union and protect the 
Independence of our Country. Yours &c. 

R. King. 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 247 

Albert Gallatin to Rufus King. 

Treasury Department, Washington, April 28, 1803. 
Sir: 

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your favors 
dated 9th & 25th Feby. & 4th March 1803. 

The terms upon which the House of Sir Francis Baring & Co. 
have consented to transact the business of this Department in 
London, as stated in your correspondence with them, annexed to 
your letter of February 25, are satisfactory ; and I fully approve 
of the agreement made by you in my behalf, and communicated 
to them in your letter of 23. February. 

Permit me to express my acknowledgments for the trouble you 
have taken in effecting this negotiation, and for the favorable issue 
which has resulted from your attention to the remittance of the 
;£ 70,000 to Holland. . . . 

With great respect your obed. Servt. 

Albert Gallatin. 

On May I, 1803, Mr. King addressed a letter to the Sec- 
retary of State1 giving an account of the state of the Nego- 
tiation relative to Bank of England stock, belonging to the 
State of Maryland, and which he said at that time, with 
accrued interest, amounted to £187,507.12. He writes : 

" I have now the satisfaction to send you the copy of a letter 
that I have received from Lord Hawkesbury, in which the King 
engages, in the event of its being decided that the title to this 
stock has accrued and belongs to the Crown, that the same shall 
be transferred to the State of Maryland, together with the accumu- 
lations proceeding from the re-investment of the dividends." 

He states, however, that as late as the 27th April, though 
all the other claims had been settled, objections still were 
maintained by Mr. " Harford, devisee of Lord Baltimore, 
claiming as Lord Proprietor of the Province of Maryland, 
and, as such, entitled to all forfeitures." Mr. King says that 

Annals of Congress, 1802-3, App. p. 999. 

248 RUFUS KING. [1803 

a settlement might then have been made had he been willing 
to have " engaged to transfer to Mr. Harford ten thousand 
pounds bank stock." This, for reasons he gives, he declined 
to do, and therefore suggests that Mr. Chase, the agent of 
Maryland, be instructed how to proceed to settle all the 
claims, 

though it may require some time to complete the business ; but 
it is a satisfaction that we hitherto have not enjoyed, that no 
future change in the Court of Chancery, or in the Ministry can 
alter the decision of the one or precise engagement of the other. 

It would have given me great pleasure to have seen the close 
of a business that is of great importance to the State of Mary- 
land, and which has so constantly as well as zealously engaged my 
attention ; but the entanglements of an intricate suit in chancery, 
early and unfortunately thrown into an embarrassing situation, are 
reached with difficulty by diplomatic means ; there have, more- 
over, been some difficulties in our way which neither patience nor 
industry has hitherto been able to surmount. We may now, I think, 
put our opponents at defiance, as we at length stand on secure 
ground, and with a little more patience may reckon with confi- 
dence upon the attainment of the object. I shall leave with the 
papers of the Legation such a view of the subject as I hope may 
enable my successor with little trouble to hasten the conclusion 
of this long protracted business. 

There is here an interruption of the correspondence of Mr. 
King, but a memorandum book supplies much interesting 
matter during the closing days of his mission, which is here 
given as it was written from day to day. 

London, May 4, 1803. 
Taking Leave. 

Having sent a copy of my letter of recall to Lord Hawkesbury 
and requested him to apprize the King of my intention to take 
my leave ; and Sr. Stephen Cottreli having by direction of Lord 
Hawkesbury waited upon me to settle the mode of my going to 
St. James, I had my audience of leave after the levee of to-day — 
The Spanish Envoy had his audience to deliver his credentials 
before my audience. 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 249 

The Ceremony on entering the King's closet was the same as 
at my first audience. My harangue was in these words : 

u Sir, Having received the permission of my Govt, to return 
home, as will be confirmed to your Majesty by my letter of recall, 
I am instructed to avail myself of this occasion to renew to your 
Majesty the assurance of the continued and sincere disposition of 
the U. S. to cherish and perpetuate the good understanding and 
harmony happily subsisting between your Majesty and them. 

" It is the purpose of my Govt, to continue the residence of a 
Min. Plenipotentiary near your Majesty, whose arrival may soon 
be expected, and who will confirm to your Majesty the assurance 
that I have just now repeated. 

" Accustomed as I had been to view with respect the British 
nation, its laws and its monarchy, my residence here has served 
to enlarge and strengthen this sentiment, and I shall return to 
my country with increased veneration for a Government which, 
under your Majesty's guidance, fulfills the obligations of good 
faith and justice towards other nations, while it secures in the 
highest degree to your Majesty's people those civil and moral 
advantages, the enjoyment of which constitutes the chief end of 
human society. 

" I have a word more to add, which so far as regards myself 
requires your Majesty's indulgence, I have to offer your Majesty 
my respectful acknowledgments for the manner in which on all 
occasions you have received and considered me : and I should be 
unwilling to omit the opportunity of expressing to your Majesty 
my obligations to the noble personage (Lord Hawkesbury) who is 
present as well as to his noble and honourable colleagues for the 
candour, good faith and liberality with which they have dis- 
cussed and decided whatever has concerned the interest of my 
country." 

The King heard me with attention and replied : 

" I must say, Mr. King, that I am sorry for your departure. I 
know nothing of the character, indeed I do not know the name, 
of your successor ; but be he who he may, I fear I shall have 
reason to regret your absence ; for your conduct here has 
been so entirely proper, both as it regarded the interest of your 
own Country and of this, as to have given me perfect satisfaction. 
In regard to the assurance you make me in behalf of the States, I 

250 RUFUS KING. [1803 

receive it in good part ; and declare to you in return that on my 
side I wish for friendship and a constant good understanding with 
America. I have never had but one opinion on this subject since 
the event which separated us and I assure you now, that I will 
never change it. It is to our mutual advantage to be friends, and 
I foresee nothing that is likely to make us otherwise." 

The conversation which followed was relative to the present 
critical posture of affairs with France. The King showed great 
firmness as well as confidence ; said that his first duty was to 
ascertain the justice of his cause ; and being satisfied on this 
point, he should have no uneasiness for the event. 

It may have been during this conversation or some other 
about this time, that the king, in speaking with Mr. King 
relative to his return home, asked him what he intended to 
do with his boys, who were at Harrow ? The answer must 
have been one stating the course he adopted of leaving them 
to finish their studies at Harrow, and then send them to 
Paris to learn French, mathematics, etc., for the king an- 
swered him, "All wrong, Mr. King; boys should be edu- 
cated in the country in which they are to live." 

Mr. King reports the following conversation as having 
occurred on May 4, 1803: 

Conversing with Lord Hawkesbury respecting the Swedish 
Convoy and the Treaty between Sweden and Great Britain, Lord 
Hawkesbury said it was certainly expedient to revise the article 
concerning contraband, which as it now stands makes naval 
Stores and Provisions contraband. 

In respect to naval Stores he certainly did think them contra- 
band, while he was clearly convinced that Provisions were not so, 
except in case of blockade or siege, when they became with all 
other goods contraband. But though he considered naval Stores 
contraband, still in a case like that of Sweden, whose staple 
articles were naval Stores it was a rigorous interpretation to con- 
fiscate naval Stores and he sh? therefore think it a reasonable 
practise to make use of the milder doctrine of pre-emption. I 
expressed my approbation of his opinions and remarked that 
what created the greatest embarrassment, in Treaties relative to 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 25 1 

contraband, was their want of precision : the description should 
be minute and every article should be named, as the rule is one 
of practise among unlearned men, who should be under no diffi- 
culty in distinguishing the lawful from the unlawful or contraband 
goods. Lord H. assented. 

Memorandum, May 6, 1803. 

The ultimatum delivered by Lord Whitworth required him to 
leave Paris on Tuesday evening May 2d, unless France should 
have signed a minute by which she agreed : 

1. To the military possession of Malta for 10 years by Eng- 
land ; 

2. To the cession to England of the Island of Lampedosa ; 

3. To the complete evacuation of Holland by the French 
forces. 

On Tuesday forenoon Talleyrand answered Lord Whitworth's 
demand by a note declaring : 

1. That the Island of Lampedosa not belonging to France, 
the First Consul could neither object nor consent to the cession 
of it to England. 

2. That the occupation of Malta for 10 years being contrary to 
the Treaty of Amiens was inadmissible. Were it not so, the con- 
sent of Holland and Spain, parties to the Treaty of Amiens, would 
be requisite ; and even after they should have consented that the 
guarantying Powers should be consulted. 

3. Holland would be evacuated as soon as England shall have 
executed the Treaty of Amiens, &c. 

Before this answer of Talleyrand was delivered, a messenger 
was dispatched to Andreossi the French Ambassador in London 
for the purpose of apprizing him of its purport, and moreover to 
state, if Lord Whitworth should not be satisfied, as it was sup- 
posed he would not be, with the answer, that at the last hour and 
when according to his Ldp's. previous demands his passports 
would be delivered to him, Talleyrand would send him a note 
requesting a meeting on the next (Wednesday) morning, when 
Talleyrand would offer the First Consul's consent that the mili- 
tary possession of Malta (notwithstanding the departure from the 

252 RUFUS KING. [1803 

Treaty of Amiens) should be given either to Russia, Austria or 
Prussia at the choice of England. The same messenger brought 
orders to Andreossi to demand his Passports grounding the 
demand upon Lord Whitworth's having done so at Paris ; but to 
say he should not use them unless Lord Whitworth quitted Paris, as 
he had intimated his intention of doing on the evening of the 2d ; 
in that case Andreossi was instructed to leave London and be at 
Dover by the time Lord Whitworth should reach Calais. 

After Andreossi had received the Messenger which was on 
Friday morning he sent a note demanding his Passports and ex- 
plaining the occasion as well as the manner in which he should 
obey them. The note stated also that Portalis, the Secy, of 
Legation, would remain to assist the French in returning to their 
country and in taking the charge of the Ambassador's effects. 

At 4 o'clock I called in Downing Street, where a Cabinet coun- 
cil was sitting in consequence of Andreossi's note. Hammond, 
whom I saw, told me they had received no messenger from Lord 
Whitworth and were ignorant whether any answer has been given 
to their ultimatum, having no dispatch from him later than Mon- 
day. I then communicated to them the purport of the answer as 
well as the intention of detaining Lord Whitworth with a new 
proposition. He assured me they were entirely ignorant of these 
transactions and views, and then asked me to allow him to 
communicate in confidence to Lord Hawkesbury what I had 
communicated to him to which I consented. This he did and 
afterwards brought me Lord H's thanks, saying I had done him 
the greatest kindness that it was possible for him to have received. 
The opinion manifestly as regarded the new proposition was, that 
Lord W. would follow his orders and disregard it. Both 
Andreossi and Schimmelpenninck thought so and regarded the 
proposition as an indescretion useless and destructive of the 
principle upon which until now the Treaty of Amiens had been 
maintained. 

Mr. Addington's communication to Parliament on Friday 
evening of Andreossi's having demanded his Passports and of his 
expectation that he should make them a communication respect- 
ing the negotiation on the following Monday (May 9.) was 
accompanied with a manner which proved his expectation that 
the war had been decided upon. 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 2$$ 

Mr. Addington moved an adjournment on Friday, May 6th, 
over Saturday to Monday, May 9, when he expected to make his 
communication. This was opposed by the old opposition, as well 
as the new, and the House divided 185 for and 95 against the ad- 
journment. 

On Saturday, May 7, a messenger arrived at 4 o'clock a.m., 
with Lord Whitworth's dispatch, communicating Talleyrand's 
last proposition, which Lord W. had thought sufficient to divert 
him from the execution of his orders to leave Paris on Tuesday 
evening. A Cabinet council was held immediately, and another 
messenger dispatched with the result — which was an adherance to 
the former demand, except that instead of requiring the explicit 
consent of France that England should keep Malta 10 years, the 
stipulation should be that she should keep it till measures should 
be concerted for its complete independence, with a limitation in 
a secret article that this possession should not exceed 10 years. 

Lord Whitworth was ordered to leave Paris in 36 hours after 
receiving this dispatch, unless the terms were complied with. 

Duke of Portland's Dinner. 

May 8, 1803. 

The Duke, Mr. Addington, Lord Pelham, Lord Hawkesbury, 
Lord Eldon, Lord Rosselyn, Sir Wm. Scott, Mr. King, Mr. Ham- 
mond, Young Mr. Ingersoll & myself and Mr. Merry. 

Mr. Addington & Lord Hawkesbury both told me that in the 
event of war, instead of exposing the King to the charge of bad 
faith, they should be able to show that Bonaparte had resolved 
to break his engagements made at Amiens, and that their de- 
mands were justified as the necessary means of compelling him to 
observe his stipulations. 

They should be able to prove, on their side, a sincere and solici- 
tous disposition, as well as corresponding endeavours, to execute 
the stipulations respecting Malta, and on the side of Bonaparte 
not only a disinclination, but a series of efforts by dispersing the 
langues,* sequestering their property in France and promoting its 

* One of the conditions of Russia under which she would consent to a joint 
occupation of Malta was "provided the Maltese language be abolished, to 
which France agrees.— Life and Correspondence ofRufus King in his letter to 
the Secretary of State, March 19, 1803, vol. iv., p. 231. 

254 RUFUS KING. [1803 

sequestration elsewhere effectually to defeat and render of no 
importance the execution of this article of the Treaty. Not only 
these facts would be fixed upon him, but their aim and object 
would be demonstrated, for Bonaparte himself, in a conference 
he had demanded and held with Lord Whitworth, had observed 
to him that he judged it proper himself, in order that he might 
not hear the same thing from any other, to state to him that 
France must have Egypt ; that he had no wish nor hope to go to 
war to obtain it, preferring a peaceable acquisition of it ; but that 
Egypt must be acquired by France was not to be disguised. He 
should hope that England would not renew the war, but in case 
she did, that nothing short of invasion would be resorted to ; 
that undoubtedly the chances were against success — they might 
fail 99 times in a hundred, but the last would be fatal. 

This avowal coupled with the opposition given to the execution 
of the Treaty of Malta (Amiens, relative to Malta ?) by endeav- 
ouring to defeat the end of the stipulations, coupled with the 
practices which could be fastened on Bonaparte in respect to 
the Ionian Islands, and coupled with Sebastiani's Report, demon- 
strated a settled intention and plan of bad faith, already begun 
to be put in execution, not less dangerous to the repose of Europe 
and the essential interest of England than it is calculated to de- 
preciate and degrade the character and station of England in the 
face of the rest of Europe. 

Both H. & A. intimated an opinion that Lord Whitworth ought 
to have left Paris on the preceding Tuesday. Hawkesbury was 
more reserved than Addington on this point : the latter said the 
true course for Lord Whitworth would have been to have 
answered Mr. Talleyrand's proposition by saying, your courier, 
sir, will travel faster than I shall be able to do, I therefore pro- 
pose to you to forward your new proposal to your Ambassador at 
London ; it not being a compliance with our demands I must 
obey my orders and leave Paris. 

Russian Mediation. 

May 10, 1803, Tuesday. 
A Russian messenger arrived today — also an English messen- 
ger from Petersburgh. 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 255 

May 11, 1803, Wednesday. 
The Russian Ambassador had to-day a long conference with 
Lord Hawkesbury. The object was to offer the mediation of his 
court between England and France. Ld. Hawkesbury replied 
that England having taken precise ground in the negotiations, 
which upon a well considered view had appeared essential to the 
national honour and interest to be maintained, in this state of 
affairs there seemed little prospect of any advantage to be ex- 
pected from the interference of any other Power, though it would 
be satisfactory if such interference would have the effect to en- 
gage France to yield to those terms without which there would 
be no security for the continuance of peace. 

Conference with Addington. 

May 12, Thursday. 

Met Mr. Addington by appointment : who after disclosing the 
state of the negotiation (a messenger having arrived, who left 
Paris on Tuesday, the day after Ld. W. had received his last in- 
structions) and expressing his surprise that Ld. W. had not left 
Paris in the first instance on the 2d of May, said he would posi- 
tively leave it in 36 hours after the delivery of his note unless 
their terms were yielded. 

I then spoke to him respecting the probable cession of Louisi- 
ana by France to the U. S. He declared his hope that it had 
been done. I alluded to the provisional expedition to occupy N. 
Orleans. He said that would be wholly out of view if we ac- 
quired it, and on this point was very explicit that England would 
be satisfied if the U. S. obtained Louisiana. 

I mentioned the embarrassment of our navigation arising out 
of the want of sufficient clearness and precision in the orders 
given to the Br. men of war and privateers, as well as from the 
incapacity of the W. India Courts of Prize. He replied that 
both these subjects should be carefully attended to in case of 
war. I discussed fully the subject of the impressment of seamen 
on the high seas. He seemed to agree with me and said he 
would confer again with Lord St. Vincent who hesitated in agree- 
ing to my proposal that no such impressment should be made by 
either side. 

256 RUFUS KING. [1803 

Conference with Lord Hawkesbury. 

1 2th May, 1803. 
Most of the points discussed with Mr. Addington were touched 
upon with Lord Hawkesbury, who expressed similar opinions con- 
cerning them which were entertained by Mr. Addington. Signed 
with L. H. the Convention relating to the Boundaries of the U. 
S. L. H. seemed pleased with the prospect I held out to him that 
Louisiana would be ceded to the U. S. 

May 13th, Friday. 

Conference with Lord St. Vincent respecting the impressment 
of seamen on the high seas ; went over the various topics calcu- 
lated to shew to him first the little importance of the principle as 
not more men than would man a single ship are procured in this 
way during a war, and the practice is one which creates irritation 
and bad humour in the U. S. and tends to indispose them tow- 
ards England, &c. &c. 

He stated various qualifications and among others that the 
search and impressment should be made only when a vessel 
last sailed from a Br. Port. 

I replied that they might make such laws as they liked and in- 
stitute the means of enforcing these laws, to prevent their seamen 
being carried out of their country by for. vessels, and if so it 
would not be requisite to search for them on the ocean ; they 
might forbid any seaman to be shipped in the Br. Dominions by 
a foreign vessel except with the privity and consent of some 
proper officer, who might be charged to prevent the shipping of 
Br. subjects. The officers of a for? merchant might be liable to 
penalty and the ship herself infected by taking away Br. seamen. 
In a word so far as respects their being carried away they might 
become prohibited like certain goods, &c. 

Lord St. Vincent promised to think further on the subject and 
to confer with Lord Hawkesbury again. He assured me no new 
prize commissions should be issued to the W. Ind. judges and that 
measures should be taken without delay to organize the two new 
courts. He also promised to watch over the new orders for the 
purpose of rendering them as clear and precise as possible. He 
expressed his satisfaction at the probability that Louisiana has 
been or will be ceded to the U. S. 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 2$? 

WAR. 

May 14, 1803, Saturday. 

At xii o'ck to-day a messenger arrived in 40 hours from Paris 
with dispatches from Lord Whitworth, who had on the evening 
of the 1 2th received his Passports and was to leave Paris imme- 
diately after the messenger. 

The French Ambassador likewise received a courier and will 
probably leave London to-morrow. 

Sunday, May 15, 1803. 
The messenger dispatched by Lord Whitworth on the day he 
left Paris was charged with the communication of the Russian 
mediation which had been before announced here. 

In the course of the day Andreossi received two or three 
couriers. One of them was charged with a dispatch instructing 
Andreossi, in case no act of hostility had taken place to insinuate 
thro' the Batavian Ambassador, who might make the suggestion 
as merely a speculation of his own, that the First Consul might 
perhaps leave Malta in the hands of the English for 10 years pro- 
vided France should be permitted to occupy Tarento, Otranto, 
and such positions in the Kingdom of Naples as she possessed 
at the signature of the Treaty of Amiens. 

If Hawkesbury listened to the overture, Andreossi was to then 
appear, and, not as instructed to do so, but presuming on the 
desire of the First Consul to avoid the war, to take on himself to 
sign a convention the draught whereof was sent him and which 
corresponded with the insinuation to be made by the Dutch 
Minister— but in case Ld. Hawkesbury rejected the overture, 
no trace was to remain of the overture. 

Schimmelpenninck (the Batav. Ambass.) accordingly opened 
the subject under the strictest engagements of privacy to Ld. 
Hawkesbury, who said it was nothing new, having before been 
insinuated to Ld. Whitworth by Jos. Bonaparte, and that it was 
quite inadmissible : that he would, however, communicate with 
Addington, and in case he differed from him, it should be laid 
before the Cabinet ; in which event Schimmelpenninck was to be 
informed of it. As he received no such information, it is pre- 
sumed that Addington and Hawkesbury agreed and no reference 
was made to the Cabinet. The last French courier that arrived 

VOL. IV.— 17 

258 RUFUS KING. [1803 

to-day brought a letter from Ld. Whitworth who was on his 
journey and intended to reach Calais to-night — where he will 
probably await for Andreossi's arrival at Dover, in order that 
they might both cross the channel at the same time. 

Monday, May 16, 1803. 
Andreossi left London this morning at 5 o'clock. At midnight 
last night a messenger arrived from Lord Whitworth with a note 
sent after his departure from Paris and received on his route offer- 
ing Malta on the same terms which the Dutch Ambassador had 
insinuated as his own suggestions. A Cabinet council was 
assembled to-day, which refused the offer on the same ground 
which France had done in respect to Lampedosa, and a messen- 
ger was dispatched to meet L. W. either at Calais or this side 
with the answer. 

R. King to Earl St. Vincent. 

Private, 

Great Cumberland Place, May 15, 1803. 
My Lord : 

It seems that the die is cast ; and as the war is now unavoid- 
able, I should return to my country with additional satisfac- 
tion could I carry with me the proposed Agreement of England 
relative to the impressment of Seamen on the High Seas. Did I 
not know that the object in itself is of small, very small impor- 
tance to this Country, I should hesitate in urging it, notwithstand- 
ing the great embarrassment it has produced, and will continue 
to create in America. 

It would be indiscreet in me to press these Reflexions in favour 
of a liberal policy between two countries, whose best Interests, 
like their Language and Laws, are the same : but as I must leave 
London on Tuesday, I take the liberty to ask your Lordship in a 
private Note, to inform me whether it be probable that the 
arrangement I have so much at heart can be made ? 

With sentiments of the most sincere respect & Esteem 
I have the honour to be &c. 

Rufus King. 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 259 

C. Gore to R. King. 

London, Great Cumberland Place, 

20 May, 1803. 
Dear Friend : 

We have nothing new in London. Hammond says he is in 
hourly expectation of hearing of some captures, and that nothing 
can be done at present relative to the Convention about Seamen. 
This he told me yesterday afternoon. He thinks the Govern- 
ment here has not made so strong a case as he expected, but 
when questioned as to the defects of the case he could not specify 
them : he will doubtless be more precise after he has seen his 
noble neighbour. He does all that belongs to his political char- 
acter in not siding with the Administn. On Monday night we 
(R. Pinkney & myself) go to the House, where it is presumed 
the debate will occupy two nights. But before then I hope and 
trust you will be on your way rejoicing with a fair wind & safe 
ship. . . . Yours ever, 

C. Gore. 

The following letter, though written in New York at a 
later date than those among which it is placed, relates to 
events which occurred before Mr. King sailed, and therefore 
properly belongs here. 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

New York, July, 1803. 
Sir : 

I take the liberty to add a few miscellaneous articles by way 
of supplement to my last dispatch. 

As soon as war appeared to me inevitable, I thought it advis- 
able to renew the attempt to form an arrangement with the British 
Government for the protection of our seamen ; with this view I 
had several conferences both with Lord Hawkesbury and Mr. 
Addington, who avowed a sincere disposition to do whatever might 
be in their power to prevent the dissatisfaction on this subject 
that had so frequently manifested itself during the late war. With 
very candid professions, I, however, found several objections in 
discussing the subject with the first Lord of the Admiralty. Lord 
Hawkesbury having promised to sign any agreement upon the 

26o RUFUS KING. [1803 

subject that I should conclude with Lord St. Vincent, I en- 
deavored to qualify and remove the objections he offered to 
our project : and finally the day before I left London, Lord St. 
Vincent consented to the following regulations : 

1. No seaman nor seafaring person shall, upon the high seas 
and without the jurisdiction of either party, be demanded or 
taken out of any vessel belonging to the citizens or subjects of 
one of the parties, by the public or private armed vessels or men 
of war belonging to, or in the navy of the other party ; and 
strict orders shall be given for the due observance of this engage- 
ment. 

2. Each party will prohibit its citizens or subjects from clan- 
destinely concealing or carrying away from the territories or 
colonial possessions of the other, any seamen belonging to such 
other ports. 

3. These regulations shall be in force for five years and no 
longer. 

On parting with his Lordship I engaged to draw up, in the 
form of a convention, and send him these articles in the course 
of the evening, who promised to forward them, with his approba- 
tion, to Lord Hawkesbury. I accordingly prepared and sent the 
draught to his Lordship, who sent me a letter in the course of 
the night, stating that on further reflection he was of opinion that 
the narrow seas ought to be excepted, they having been as his 
Lordship remarked, immemorially considered to be within the 
dominions of Great Britain ; that with this correction, he had 
sent the proposed convention to Lord Hawkesbury, who, his 
Lordship presumed, would not sign it before he should have 
consulted the Judge of the High Court of Admiralty, Sir William 
Scott. 

As I had supposed from the tenor of my conferences with Lord 
St. Vincent, that the doctrine of mare clausum would not be re- 
vived against us on this occasion, but that England would be 
content with the limited jurisdiction or dominion over the seas 
adjacent to her territories, which is assigned by the law of nations 
to other States, I was not a little disappointed on receiving this 
communication : and, after weighing well the nature of the prin- 
ciple and the disadvantage of its admission, I concluded to 
abandon the negotiation, rather than to acquiesce in the doctrine 
it proposed to establish. 

1803J LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 26 1 

I regret not to have been able to put this business on a satis- 
factory footing, knowing as I do its very great importance to both 
parties ; but I flatter myself that I have not misjudged the inter- 
ests of our own country, in refusing to sanction a principle that 
might be productive of more extensive evils than those it was our 
aim to prevent. 

Neutral Flag. 

As it is possible that another attempt will be made during the 
present war to establish the rule that free bottoms make free 
goods, I ought not to omit the communication of the following 
anecdote : 

Soon after the British armament in March past, Bonaparte sent 
his aid-de-camp-du-roi to Berlin, to announce his determination 
to occupy Hanover, and close the Elbe against England, in the 
event of war. The Prussian Cabinet, a thing very rarely done, 
immediately dispatched a courier with orders to Baron Jacobi, 
the Prussian Ambassador at London, to apprize the English 
Government of the views of France, to impress the dissatisfaction 
with which Prussia had learned them, and to offer to protect 
Hanover and the North of Germany, provided England would 
give her consent to the principle that free ships should make free 
goods. The English Cabinet immediately replied, that the Ger- 
man Empire is bound to protect the rights of its several members ; 
that Hanover must therefore look to Germany, and not to Eng- 
land, for support ; and, in respect to the proposed rule that free 
ships should make free goods, that no advantage nor service 
could be named which would be sufficient to engage England to 
give it her sanction. In any circumstances this would be the 
opinion of England ; in the present instance, if I mistake not, the 
proposition was believed to have come, indirectly, from Paris. 

Colony Trade. 

In a very late conversation with Mr. Addington respecting the 
colony trade, he insinuated the probability that events might 
happen in the course of the present war, alluding, as I under- 
stood, to South America, that would enable England to form with 
us such commercial arrangements as would be satisfactory. As 

262 RUFUS KING, [1803 

Mr. Addington meant to be obscure, I could only conjecture his 
meaning ; and my inference was, in case of the independence of 
South America, that the colony system must everywhere be aban- 
doned— an opinion not peculiar to Mr. Addington, but one that 
is entertained by the principal members of the late English 
Ministry. 

South America. 

When the preliminaries of the late peace were signed, an expe- 
dition, fully prepared, was in readiness to set sail for the purpose 
of assisting the inhabitants of the province of Caraccas in throw- 
ing off obedience to Spain. Trinidad was retained by England, 
chiefly with the view of furthering this revolt ; and if Spain be 
drawn into the war, which she will be unable to avoid, the expe- 
dition to the Caraccas will be revived. No probable change of 
the Ministry of England will change this intention, for it is known 
to be the opinion of the first men of the nation that the secondary 
object of the present war, and one that must give England cour- 
age as well as resources to go on with the struggle, is the entire 
independence of South America. 

With perfect Respect & Esteem &c. 

Rufus King. 

R. King to Lord Hawkesbury. 

London, May 15, 1803. 
My Lord : 

In the present critical posture of affairs, I lose no time in com- 
municating to your Lordship, for his Majesty's information, that 
a treaty was signed at Paris on the 30th of April past, by the 
Plenipotentiaries of America and France, by which the complete 
sovereignty of the town and territory of New Orleans, as well as 
of all Louisiana, as the same was heretofore possessed by Spain, 
has been acquired by the United States of America. 

In drawing up this treaty, care has been taken so to frame the 
same as not to infringe any right of Great Britain in the naviga- 
tion of the river Mississippi. 

I flatter myself that this communication will be received with 
satisfaction, and regarded as a new proof of the disposition of the 

i8o3l LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 263 

United States to observe towards His Majesty a spirit of amity 
and confidence, important at all times, and more especially so in 
present circumstances, to the harmony and mutual prosperity of 
the two countries.* 

Lord Hawkesbury to Mr. King. 

Downing Street, May 19, 1803. 
Sir : 

Having laid before the King your letter of the 15th of this 
month, in which you inform me that a treaty was signed at Paris 
on the 10th of last month by the plenipotentiaries of America and 
France, by which the complete Sovereignty of the Town & 
Territory of New Orleans, as well as of all Louisiana has been 
acquired by the U. S., I have received his Majesty's commands 
to express to you the pleasure with which his Majesty has re- 
ceived this intelligence, and to add that his Majesty regards the 
care which has been taken so to frame this Treaty as not to in- 
fringe any right of Gr. Britain in the Navigation of the Mississippi 
as the most satisfactory evidence of the disposition on the part of 
the Government of the U. S., correspondent to that which his 
Majesty entertains to promote and improve the harmony and 
good understanding which so happily subsists between the two 
countries and which are so conducive to their mutual benefit. 

I have it also in command to assure you, Sir, that the senti- 
ments which you have expressed in making this communication 
are considered by his Majesty' Government as the additional 
proof of the cordiality and confidence which you have uniformly 
manifested in the whole course of your public mission, and which 
have so justly entitled you to the Esteem and Regard of his 
Majesty's Government. I desire you to accept of the assurances 
of distinguished consideration with which I have the honour to 
be, Sir, yr. mo. ob. Servt. 

(Signed) 

Hawkesbury. 

* Annals of Congress, 1802-3, App., p. 11 50. 

CHAPTER XVIII. 

King sails from England — Reasons for asking Permission to return Home — 
Suggested to Madison the Revision of the Commercial Treaty with Great 
Britain — No Notice taken of it — No New Work entrusted to him — King 
to Hamilton, asking his Opinion as to his return — Hamilton to King — 
Thinks it advisable — Presence Home useful — Party in Power hostile to the 
Interests of the Country — He may suffer in their Disrepute, holding Office 
under them — King to J. Marshall and to Dr. Southgate, announcing his 
Resignation — King continues to press pending Questions for Settlement — 
N. E. and N. W. Boundaries of the U. S. — Impressment — The State of 
Maryland's Bank Stock — King left without appointing a Charge d' Affaires, 
not having been instructed to do so — Gore to Madison — Will look after 
the Affairs of the U. S. until King's Successor arrives — Gore to King — Ex- 
plains his Reasons for this Conduct — Gore to King — Defends himself from 
a Charge of delaying Proceedings of the Convention — Refuses to grant 
Passports — Monroe has received his Commission — Boys well — King to 
John Adams — State of Affairs when he left London. 

The following brief memorandum records the close of 
Mr. King's mission to England, though he did not sail until 
the 2 1 st of May. 

"May 1 8th. Left London for Cowes this morning. Lord 
Whitworth arrived at Dover and Andreossi crossed from there to 
Calais." 

It was a momentous date in the history of Europe, mark- 
ing as it did the absolute rupture of the peace of Amiens by 
the return of the Ambassadors of England and France to 
their respective countries, an event in which the United 
States were deeply interested in many ways. France had 
just sold Louisiana to them, and England was to renew her 
commercial Treaties with a power which was not only her 
rival but had shown, even under adverse circumstances, a 

264 

1801] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 26$ 

determination to demand for herself a fair share of the com- 
merce of the world, and especially of the islands of the 
West Indies, which lay so near to her. How earnestly and 
in many respects successfully Mr. King had exerted himself 
to establish the rights and claims of his country the corre- 
spondence which has been given will clearly show. But it 
may not be amiss here to review somewhat the work he had 
done and to advert to the reasons which led him to ask for 
permission to return home at a time when his country 
seemed most to want the services of an able and experienced 
Minister. 

Having served in several capacities in the early history of 
his country after the establishment of its Independence, in 
the Continental Congress, the Convention for the formation 
of the Federal Constitution, and the Senate after the forma- 
tion of the Government, by which services he became thor- 
oughly informed as to the history of his country, and was 
largely instrumental in establishing the Government on a 
firm basis, Mr. King felt a desire to employ his talents on 
another field in which he believed that he might benefit his 
country. The Treaty made by Mr. Jay with Great Britain, 
excellent as under the circumstances it was, had defects 
which it was felt and decided must be met and removed, 
and other questions which must necessarily arise between 
two commercial nations, one of which had long enjoyed 
almost absolute control and the other seeking for its own 
people to share some of the profits of commerce, had to be 
discussed and placed upon an amicable footing. 

Under the circumstances, Mr. King intimated to his friend 
General Hamilton that he thought he could be of use to his 
country in a Mission to Great Britain if the President should 
see fit to appoint him Minister. President Washington, 
though at first objecting, not on account of any doubt as to 
his qualifications for the position, but because he was un- 
willing to name one who had been accused of holding what 
were called monarchical opinions, finally made the appoint- 
ment of Mr. King as Envoy Extraordinary and Minister 

266 RVFUS KING. [1801- 

Plenipotentiary to Great Britain. It is only necessary, as 
has been said here, to recall the zeal, ability, and firmness with 
which he performed the duties of his office to the entire satis- 
faction of Presidents Washington, Adams,and Jefferson, to the 
great advantage of his country, and with the confidence and 
respect of the Government of Great Britain for the courtesy 
and great ability with which he discussed the serious ques- 
tions that constantly presented themselves. Conscious that 
he would be able to meet intelligently the new aspects of 
international relations, and perhaps to settle for many years 
the policy of the two countries in their commercial inter- 
course, he had, at an early date, reminded the adminstration 
of Mr. Jefferson of the approaching time for a revision of 
the Commercial Treaty between the two countries. 

On October 8, 1801, he wrote a private letter to Mr. 
Madison, then Secretary of State,* saying among other 
things : 

" It was my earnest hope, when I came hither, that I should 
have had, before this period, an opportunity to assist in the revi- 
sion of our treaty with this country. We have sufficiently seen, 
and become acquainted with its operation during war ; and the 
time is come when it is to be tried as a rule of mutual conduct in 
peace. If I be not mistaken, it will be found our interest on 
every account to aim at its revision as soon as possible. The 
Treaty with France may also require to be revised : ought we not 
to lay down a common basis for these Treaties and endeavour to 
form them so as to act upon common and not interfering Princi- 
ples ? To do so will require concert in the projects, as well as in 
the negotiations. Should the President confide the negotiation 
here to me, might there not be a considerable advantage in my 
receiving his permission to pass a fortnight with you at the seat 
of Government, or with Mr Livingston here or at Paris ? If the 
subject have not been fully discussed with Mr. L. before his em- 
barkation, the conferences in America would be most useful. 
Upon the supposition that our affairs still depending here be 
satisfactorily closed, I might embark in March directly for the 

* Rufus King's Life, etc., vol. iii., p. 522. 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 267 

Chesapeake, pass a fortnight in Washington, and returning by New 
York be here again in July." 

It does not appear that any answer was ever sent to this 
suggestion, and therefore Mr. King must have been satisfied 
that, with the exception of pending questions, his services 
would not be called for. As an evidence of this he wrote 
to his friend, General Hamilton, on April 8, 1802*: 

" The Revision of our commercial treaty has been a service to 
which I have along looked as the conclusion of my mission. As 
however I have no reason to suppose it likely soon to take place, 
I am not much inclined to remain here a mere figurant and am 
therefore thinking seriously of my return. Without deciding any- 
thing on this point, I confidently ask your opinion respecting it. 
This I have not done except in the present instance." 

This opinion General Hamilton gives on June 3, i802,f 
as follows : 

" In your last, you ask my opinion about a matter delicate and 
important, both in a public and in a personal view. I shall give 
it with a frankness to which you have a right ; and I may add, 
that the impressions of your other friends, so far as they have 
fallen under my observation, do not differ from my own. While 
you were in the midst of a negotiation, interesting to your coun- 
try, it was your duty to keep your post. You have now accom- 
plished the object and with the good fortune, not very common, 
of having the universal plaudit. This done, it seems to me, most 
advisable that you return home. There is little probability that 
your continuance in your present station will be productive of 
much positive good. Nor are circumstances such as to give 
reason to apprehend that the substitute for you, whoever he may 
be, can do much harm. Your stay or return, therefore, as it re- 
gards our transatlantic concerns, is probably not material ; while 
your presence at home may be useful in many ways which it is 
not necessary to particularize. Besides it is questionable whether 
you can long continue in the service of the present administration, 
consistent with what is due as well to your own character, as to 
* R. Kings Life, etc., iv., p. 135. \Ibid., iv., p. 136. 

268 RUFUS KING. [1801- 

the common cause. I am far from thinking that a man is bound 
to quit a public office merely because the administration of the 
Government may have changed hands. But, when those who 
have come into power are undisguised persecutors of the party to 
which he has been attached and study with ostentation to heap 
upon it every indignity and injury, he ought not, in my opinion, 
to permit himself to be made an exception or to lend his talents 
to the support of such characters. If, in addition to this, it be 
true that principles and plans of the men at the head of affairs 
tend to the degradation of the Government and to their own dis- 
grace, it will hardly be possible to be in any way connected with 
them, without sharing in the disrepute which they may be destined 
to experience." 

He was thus confirmed in the decision, which he had an- 
nounced to Mr. Sedgwick on April 6, 1802, but he does not 
appear to have taken any steps to make it known until in 
his official letter to the Secretary of State on August 5th. 
In this he says * : 

" It is now six years that I have resided in this country. When 
I left America it was not my expectation to be absent more than 
four years. So long as the war continued I did not think of re- 
turning home, believing that my residence here might be of some 
public advantage. When the preliminaries of peace were signed, 
I found myself engaged in a negotiation of considerable difficulty 
and importance, which restrained me from asking the President's 
leave to resign my mission. The negotiation being since completed 
and nothing very material remaining to be discussed in which I 
can natter myself with being able to render any important service, 
I have to request the President to accept the resignation of my 
office and permit me to return home." 

On the same date, August 5, i8o2,f Mr. King wrote to 
John Marshall that though the present administration ap- 
proved and desired the business settled by the convention 
closed upon the terms which had been offered, and of which 
every material point was completed before he knew the 
opinion of the present administration, 

* R. Kings Life, etc., iv., p. 155. \ Ibid., iv., p. 153. 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 269 

" I earnestly wish that on other and still more important con- 
cerns, its sentiments had been equally correct, as they have been 
in respect to this business ; but I must disregard opinions formed 
with solicitude, and after careful reflection, not to hesitate in be- 
lieving this to be the case ; and it is for this reason, among others, 
that upon mature consideration of my duty to the public, as well 
as of what I owe to myself, I have thought it incumbent on me to 
resign my Mission and ask leave to return home," 

an action which he hopes will receive Mr. M.'s approbation. 
To Dr. Southgate, his brother-in-law,* August 5, 1802, he 
also communicates his decision : 

" It was my wish to have returned some time ago, but being 
engaged in a negotiation of considerable difficulty and importance, 
I have not been able until now to do so with propriety. The 
negotiation which detained me being completed, and nothing of 
importance remaining in the discussion whereof I can hope to be 
useful, I think myself free to resign my office." 

In all of the letters the same reason is given by Mr. King, 
showing that though not now recalled, as the President's 
advisers \ had urged that he should be, he understood that 

*R. King's Life, etc., iv., p. 144. 

f Mr. J. C. Hamilton in his Life of Alexander Hamilton, vol. vii., p. 584, 
makes the following note : 

11 Monroe to Jefferson, Richmond, April 30, 1801. ' On my return I found 
Col. Taylor and some other respectable characters attending the Courts, and 
from him and one or two others, who spoke of it, I understood it was in their 
opinion generally expected and wished, that our present Envoy at London should 
be withdrawn. They think nothing is done unless that is done ; that as every 
calamity foreign and domestic we have experienced from Great Britain, a per- 
son known to be friendly to her interests, acquainted with our interior, able to 
guide her councils and plan her measures against us ought not to be left there 
under the present Administration.' This letter, in Monroe's autograph, is 
stated not to have been sent. Giles also wrote to Jefferson from the same place, 
June 1, 1801. ' The ejected party is now almost universally considered as 
having been employed in conjunction with Great Britain, in a scheme for the 
total destruction of the liberties of the people. . . . The continuation of 
Mr. King in London, it is apprehended, may be attended with unpleasant 
effects.' He then urged an absolute repeal of the whole judiciary system, ter- 
minating the present officers, and creating an entire new system." 

270 RUFUS KING. [i8oi~ 

the administration of Mr. Jefferson did not intend to confide 
to him the discussion or settlement of any other questions 
between the two countries than those already pending, and 
that, therefore, he not only could be of no further service 
abroad, but felt that he was not in harmony with the Presi- 
dent and his advisers, and, therefore, he resigned his 
position. 

It may be said, however, that as he had promised in his 
letter to the President, expressing his sensibility of the Pres- 
ident's "obliging appreciation of the manner in which I have 
performed the duties of my office in this country," " that the 
like zeal and industry will continue to be employed during 
the residue of my mission," Mr. King continued to be 
actively engaged in bringing to a conclusion the matters en- 
trusted to him. Among others was the business of endeav- 
oring to determine with the British Government the 
Boundaries of the Northeastern and Northwestern parts 
of the United States. After many conferences with Lord 
Hawkesbury, he sent him a draught of a convention on the 
subject, which was signed by him and Lord Hawkesbury on 
May 12, 1803, and communicated by the President to the 
Senate on Oct. 24th, with the papers relating to it, for their 
advice and consent as to its ratification. This was not given 
until February 9, 1804, excepting, however, the 5 th Article.* 
They refused to remove the injunction of secresy, as to its 
publication. 

The most serious question remaining open was that of the 
Impressment of American seamen by authority of the Brit- 

* The 5th Article related to the Northwest point of separation between the 
two countries. By the Treaty of Peace this was agreed to be the northwest cor- 
ner of the Lake of the Woods. In the official despatch, No. 98, May 15th, 
1803, communicating to the Secretary of State the fact of the Signature of the 
Boundaries' Convention, Mr. King says relative to the 5th Article : 

" The Source of the River Mississippi nearest to the Lake of the Woods, 
according to Mackenzies* Report, will be found twenty nine Miles to the 
Westward of any part of that Lake, which is represented to be nearly circular. 
Hence a direct line between the North Westernmost part of the Lake and the 
nearest source of the Mississippi, which is preferred by this Government, has 
appeared to me equally advantageous with the Lines we had proposed." 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 27 1 

ish Government in the ports of Great Britain and from 
vessels on the high seas. From the first day of his entering 
upon his mission, Mr. King, under his instructions, had 
urged the removal of this serious grievance and had at vari- 
ous times earnestly, but unavailingly, pressed the British 
Ministry to put a stop to these proceedings, which threat- 
ened to destroy the harmony and good-will between the two 
nations. Upon the establishment of peace between England 
and France, by the Treaty of Amiens, the demand for sea- 
men to man the British navy being less pressing, there had 
been less complaint made of this unwarrantable action. But 
Mr. King, ever alive to the interests of his country and fear- 
ing that a renewal of the war between England and France 
might be attended with a repetition of those outrageous 
proceedings, determined to endeavor, before he sailed for 
home, to make a convention with Great Britain by which 
she might renounce the claim she made to search for and 
take her native citizens and those she claimed to be such, 
wherever she might find them, whether in the commercial 
or naval service of the United States. 

He accordingly, as has been seen, called the attention of 
Lord St. Vincent to a careful consideration of the subject 
and seemed to have brought it to a satisfactory conclusion, 
for a period of five years at least, believing firmly that his 
mission would be crowned with this most gratifying result. 
But at the last moment before he sailed, his lordship inter- 
posed an objection to even that settlement by claiming that 
there should still be a right of search " in the narrow seas " 
about Great Britain. With this restriction, Mr. King pre- 
ferred to abandon further proceedings as his own judgment 
was opposed to such a partial settlement.* Indeed, though 

* Mr. Jefferson in a letter to the Secretary of State says : "With respect 
to the impressment of our seamen I think we had better propose to Great Britain 
to act on the stipulations which had been agreed to between that Government 
and Mr. King, as if they had been signed ; I think they were, that they would 
forbid impressments at sea, and that we should acquiesce in the search of their 
harbors necessary to prevent concealments of their citizens. Mr. Thornton's 
attempt to justify his nation in using our ports as cruizing stations on our 

272 RUFUS KING. [1801- 

several years after, the exercise of this claim was the main 
ostensible cause of the War of 1812 with Great Britain, peace 
was made without obtaining the abandonment of the alleged 
right by that Government although the practice was discon- 
tinued and finally abandoned. 

Mr. King had made frequent and persistent demands upon 
the British Government for the surrender to the State of 
Maryland certain shares of the Bank of England, which had 
belonged to that Colony before the War of the Revolution, 
which had been held by trustees in England, but which were 
finally claimed to belong to the crown, escheated when the 
charter of the Colony was dissolved by the war. He ob- 
tained from Lord Hawkesbury the promise that they should 
be paid over to the State of Maryland as soon as certain 
claims of Lord Baltimore's trustees were settled by law. 
Mr. King sailed before the decision, declaring them to be 
invalid, was rendered, after which the Government paid the 
money to the State of Maryland. 

Not having been instructed by his Government, and in 
daily expectation of the arrival of his successor as minister, 
Mr. King made no appointment of a Charge d'Affaires, so 
that until the arrival of Mr. Monroe, there was really no 
official representative of the Government in London except 
the Consul who had received no authority to perform other 
than the ordinary duties of his orifice. Mr. Gore explains 
this action in a letter to Mr. Madison, the Secretary of 
State. 

London, June 4, 1803. 
Sir: 

Your letter of the 6th April last came to hand on the 26th 
instant, a few days after the departure of Mr. King, who, you will 
have learnt, not conceiving it to be the intention of the President, 
did not name any charge d'affaires on leaving the court. 

friends and ourselves, renders the matter so serious as to call, I think, for an 
answer. That we ought in courtesy and friendship to extend to them all the rights 
of hospitality is certain, that they should not use our hospitality to injure our 
friends or ourselves, is equally enjoined by morality and honor." — Jefferson's 
Works, iv., p. 501, August 25, 1803. 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 273 

Perceiving however from the estimate of expenses that it was 
possible several months might elapse before the arrival of a 
Minister, I thought it suitable to mention to Lord Hawkesbury, 
that it was to be inferred from your communication to me, that 
the President had contemplated Mr. King's naming some person 
to take charge of our affairs here, and that I feared a longer time 
might pass before the United States would be represented than 
was expected by their government. This I did with a view of 
preventing any misconception that otherwise might, by possibility, 
arise from the absence of the usual Representative of our Gov- 
ernment in this country, and also to inform him that under these 
circumstances, I should, until the arrival of a person authorised 
to act in a character of a Minister, take the liberty of making to 
him such Representations in behalf of our Government, or citi- 
zens, as the affairs might require, in cases where delay would be 
materially inconvenient. 

To which he replied in terms of great civility and professed a 
perfect readiness to receive every communication I should make 
on these subjects and to give the same all the attention that their 
nature and importance might require. . . . 

The salary of Mr. Munro and the contingent charges incident 
to the business, will be all the Expense to which the U. States will 
be liable ; these I flatter myself will be approved by the Presi- 
dent, whom, Sir, I pray you to assure that my Endeavours will be 
faithfully exerted to diminish as much as possible the incon- 
venience to the Government and Citizens of the United States, 
arising from this vacancy in the legation, which it would seem, by 
your letter, was not contemplated by the Government. 

With perfect respect &c. 

C. Gore. 

C. Gore to R. King. 

London, June 5, 1803. 
My Dear Friend : 

A few days after your departure, I received a letter of the 6th 

April from Mr. Madison, directed to myself, relative to measures 

adopted by himself and Mr. Gallatin to supply the deficiency in 

the diplomatic fund occasioned by the failure of Bird's house ; 

VOL. IV. — 18 

274 KUFUS KING. [1801- 

and enclosing an estimate of the expenses &c, under the follow- 
ing head, " Remittances to be made to London computed for 9 
months" (here followed the details). In part of the letter he 
says " to enable the person left in charge of our affairs on the de- 
parture of Mr. King to apply to the British Government for reim- 
bursement of what we paid towards the expenses of the late Board 
at Philadelphia beyond our proportion I enclose," etc. . . . 

Several letters also on the subject of these remittances came from 
Mr. Gallatin and one from Mr. Madison on the 19th of April, 
directed to you, and in case of your absence to me. This latter 
one from M. also contained the estimate before referred to. I 
enclose you a copy of my letter to Mr. M., which will explain to 
you the course I concluded, after some reflection, to pursue. My 
brother Pinkney from whom as you know I had something to ap- 
prehend, had it been thought advisable to accede to your pro- 
posal, was consulted and he approves of the conduct thought 
proper to adopt. He imputes this fa$on, as the french would 
say, of acting in the Government to a promise either express, or 
so strongly implied as to amount to the same thing, from the 
President, or Mr. M., or both, to name Erving charge here, on 
your taking leave ; which, on more mature consideration, they 
had thought proper to abandon, and thus have involved them- 
selves in a dilemma, that possibly they had hoped might have 
been avoided by your naming me ; though this event they cer- 
tainly had no reason to expect. I learn from another quarter 
that E., in contemplation of your naming me and my undertaking 
to act, had prepared a regular protest, which he had intended to 
publish against such unwarrantable assumption of a character by 
you and me contrary to the will and disposition of the Government 
•of the U. S. 

The course I have adopted appears to me under all the exist- 
ing circumstances it was my duty to pursue, and which I do not 
think the Government or my friends can censure. If they do, I 
feel justified myself, and that is a consolation to be secured at all 
events. It was stated to me that if I chose to assume the char- 
acter, there would be no objection here. But I absolutely de- 
clined, and prayed it to be so distinctly understood. This forms 
no part of my communication to Mr. M., and you will of course 
suffer it to rest with you, who know all my feelings and inclina- 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 27$ 

tions on this and every other subject. Lord Hawkesbury invited 
me to his dinner yesterday and I attended that after having first 
paid my respects at court. In the line of etiquette and ceremony, 
this is all I shall probably ever feel it necessary to do. To some 
people it might be matter of , great importance to know that the 
King and Queen made very particular enquiries after them and 
professions of good will ; you may estimate them at what rate you 
please, but this was the fact. 

Pinkney and myself heard the debate on the proposed address 
in answer to the King's message informing the house of the 
departure of Ld. W. from Paris. Mr. Pitt was brilliant and exceed- 
ingly delighted the house. Hammond thought if you could have 
entertained an idea how great it was, you certainly would have 
remained to hear it. Fox did not speak till the second night, 
and it was by far the best speech I ever heard him deliver, and in 
my opinion the most pernicious that he or any other man could 
have uttered. No doubt remains that the Doctor intends to carry 
on the Government without Mr. Pitt, who, as far as I can judge, 
does not seem to me to have injured the present administration, 
or to have benefitted his own party by the debate on Friday 
night. Lord H. evidently advanced himself in the public opinion 
by his reply. . . . 

The following extracts from a letter from Mr. Gore to his 
friend Mr. King will show something of the condition of 
affairs in London after his departure and before the arrival 
of a successor. 

C. Gore to R. King. 

London, July 2, 1803. 

. . . We have nearly finished our awards ; I mean all that 
will be ready for us before the 15th of July ; which will comprise 
the whole of the cases, except about 20., and I do not yet despair 
of completing these and returning this autumn. Eustis has given 
me to understand that my character has been culumniated at 
Washington for the disposition I have manifested to protract the 
commission ; that it would have been earlier closed had it not 

276 RUFUS KING. [1801- 

been for me, and that Pinkney was determined to get through the 
Southern cases & return home. In some philippic, which he 
made at the Board, I did say that I felt it my duty to remain & 
close the commission, at the same time saying that it was unnec- 
essary for me to remark that no diligence or exertion of mine 
would be wanting to bring the business to as speedy a termination 
as possible. I do not believe that such a base and unfounded 
slander as this could have intentionally originated in him. You 
know better than any man, but no one can tell all the contest I 
have had in my own mind for the last five years, between a sense 
of duty which, according to my judgment, constrained me to 
remain and endeavour to perfect what I had undertaken, and a 
desire to return, a desire prompted by the strongest interests, 
which called me home, and rendered extremely ardent by con- 
stantly experiencing the mortification and disgust of so inglorious 
a station. I do not know on reflection, a single thing I could 
have attempted, which has not been to expedite the business, & 
least of all did I expect such an imputation ; however it gives 
me no pain, so perfectly satisfied am I not only of its falsehood, 
but also that no man of common honesty will ever give it currency 
& that none of common sense can give it credit. . . . 

Lord H. sent me notice some time since that passports would 
be granted at the alien office to such of our citizens as desired to 
go to France, on receiving one from me. On this I requested 
Hammond that the alien office might be directed to grant them 
on Erving's, & informed him, H, explicitly that I could not and 
should not grant any. When Lord H. sent me notice of the 
blockade of the Elbe, he included a desire that I would notify the 
same to our consuls, which I accordingly did. Erving replied to 
me that he should receive no official communication whatever from 
me, & that he had written to Lord H. requesting his Lordship to 
signify to him if this was a communication from his Majesty's 
Govt. I understand from P. that such was his determination, 
had I been left charge d'affaires by you. 

Young Mercer informs me he has a letter from Govr. Monroe, 
informing him that the Governor has received his commission as 
Minister &c. to this court, and that he will be here in a few days ; 
and that Livingston is also about to pay a visit to this coun- 
try. .. . 

803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 2J7 

The boys from whom I received letters yesterday, are perfectly 
well. We shall go to their Speechday, which is next Thursday. 
James, from whom we heard about ten days since, was then in 
good health & spirits. London is become quite empty ; to us it 
has been so ever since your departure. My wife writes to Mrs. 
King, and I pray you to offer to her and Edward my affectionate 
regards & to believe me 

Ever your assured friend 

C. Gore. 

R. King to John Adams. 

At Sea, 22 June, 1803. 

Sir— 

On the 16th of last month the King of Great Britain sent 
a message to Parliament announcing the termination of the dis- 
cussions with France, and calling on them to support him in his 
determination to employ the power & resources of the nation in 
opposing the spirit of ambition and encroachments of the Govern- 
ment of France. Letters of marque had been issued against 
France, and I conjecture that orders have likewise been given to 
detain the Ships of Spain & Holland, until it be ascertained 
whether these powers would be able to maintain their neutrality. 
The King's Message was ordered to be taken into consideration 
on the 23d. We sailed from Cowes on the 21st so that I can give 
no account of the sense of Parliament. I take the liberty to 
send you the English declaration and a copy of the correspon- 
dence which was laid before Parliament. 

With great respect I remain &c 

Rufus King. 

P. S. The English Ambassador had returned to London from 
Paris, & the French Ambassador had left England before we did 

CHAPTER XIX. 

Arrival in New York and Reception by Citizens — Cabot to King — Welcome 
Home — Confidence in England — Louisiana's Cession a good Thing for 
France — Madison to King — Not Necessary as a Tribute of Respect — 
Written Communications sufficient — Gallatin to King — Baggage free from 
Duty — Thanks for his Manner of transacting the Business of his Depart- 
ment— Jay to King — Congratulations on his Return — Hale to King — Con- 
gratulations, etc. — J. Q. Adams to King — Thanks for Favors rendered in 
London — Cabot to King — Pleased with Firmness of British Government — 
J. Adams to King — Thanks for sending Papers — His Conduct in England 
satisfactory to him and honorable and beneficial to his Country — King to 
Gore — Cession of great Importance giving Control of the Mississippi — 
Offer to go to Washington — Sedgwick to King — Wishes to see him Gov- 
ernor of N. Y. — Gov. Mercer to King — Thanks him for Zeal, Ability, and 
Perseverance in Maryland's Behalf— Gore to King — State of Commission's 
Work — Monroe expected — Public Dinner to King — King to Gore — Does 
not yet know his Successor — Gore to King — Rebellion in Ireland — English 
Confidence rises — Monroe arrives in London — King to Gore — Livingston 
or Monroe to succeed him — The Papers say Doubts arise as to the Utility 
and Prudence and Constitutionality of the Louisiana Purchase — King to 
Gore — Hears Nothing more of his Successor — Washington not a safe 
Residence in Summer — Yellow Fever in N. Y. — Objections to certain 
Articles in the Louisiana Convention. 

Mr. King reached New York after a long voyage on the 
last day of June, as we are informed by the announcement 
in the Evening Post of Friday, July I, 1803. 

" The honourable Rufus King, our late Minister to the Court of 
Great Britain, arrived yesterday with his family in the John 
Morgan from London. He came on shore in the afternoon and 
was met, on landing, by a large number of our most respectable 
citizens, who had assembled to welcome his safe return to his 
native country. No expressions of respect towards this gentleman 
can do justice to his eminent talents and the unremitted attention 

278 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 279 

with which he has so assiduously guarded the rights and watched 
over the interests of our nation. May he long enjoy in the grati- 
tude of his fellow citizens the reward of his great and useful 
services." 

Among the gratifying evidences of welcome to America, 
none could have given Mr. King more pleasure than the 
following from his old friend and constant correspondent : 

George Cabot to Rufus King. 

Boston, July 1, 1803. 
My dear Friend : 

We hear from New York that Mr. King is arrived and confirms 
our accounts of war ; the first gives me unmingled pleasure — the 
last excites a mixed sentiment of joy and anxiety. I have con- 
stantly believed that the struggle between France and England 
must continue until the power of the former is effectually 
abridged, or the latter falls. 

You can judge best of the issue, but after every allowance for 
the immense advantages of force on the side of France, with all 
continental Europe at her disposal, and the wishes of all the fools 
and knaves throughout the universe on her side, I entertain great 
hopes and confidence in the final success of England. She has 
means and motives sufficient which I trust will not be unavailing 
for want of talents to employ them. . . . The cession of 
Louisiana is an excellent thing for France. It is like selling us a 
Ship after she is surrounded by a British Fleet : it puts into safe- 
keeping what she could not keep herself, for England could take 
Louisiana in the first moment of war without the loss of a man. 
France could neither settle it nor protect it ; she is therefore rid 
of an encumbrance that wounded her pride, receives money and 
regains the friendship of our populace. 

I pray you to make my best regards acceptable to Mrs. King. 
I think you too wise to seek public honors, & I hope you are too 
patriotic to shun them if they seek you. 

Your faithful and affectionate friend 

George Cabot. 

ir 

280 RUFUS KING. [1803 

P. S. An expression which I well remember in a letter from 
you after your visit to Paris, leads me to expect the pleasure of 
seeing you here — I know nothing of the objection which may 
exist to your executing such an intention, and I can assure you it 
would give infinite pleasure to a great many people here & 
especially to me. 

Mr. King, as a letter to Mr. Gore informs us, wrote on 
July 2d to Mr. Madison, the Secretary of State, informing 
him of his arrival and offering to go to Washington if re- 
quired to report to the Government. He received a reply 
which is here given and in consequence of it did not make a 
visit to the capital. It is quite probable that he did not par- 
ticularly desire, under all the circumstances, to go to Wash- 
ington, and he certainly felt relieved when he found that he 
was not required to make the visit there. 

Jas. Madison to R. King. 

Private. 

Washington, July 5, 1803. 
Dear Sir : 

I reed, by the mail of last evening yours of the 2d instant. I 
do not know that any rule has been established which requires 
public ministers on their return to the U. States, to repair to the 
seat of Government. Where no public considerations make such 
a visit important, and it would be inconvenient to the individual, 
it could not reasonably be exacted as a mere tribute of respect. 
In your case it is readily conceived that your time must be claimed 
by private arrangements ; and altho' personal explanation might 
not be without a value, it does not occur that they would turn on 
any points, on which your written communications are not, or 
will not be sufficient. The ideas of the President on the subject 
accord with those here expressed, and I have the pleasure to add 
that he appears to be too well satisfied of your respectful dis- 
positions, by manifestations already given, to need any farther 
testimony which might be afforded by a trip to the seat of 
Government. 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 28 1 

I have seen the Secretary of the Treasury as you wished. He 
will take into consideration the subject referred to him, with 
every favorable disposition, which his construction of the law will 
permit. 

Very Sincerely & respectfully I remain Dr. Sir 

yr. most obedt. hble. servt. 
James Madison. 

Your letter of June 22, with the several other letters & papers 
forwarded at the time have been duly reed. A letter from Havre 
of May 15, promises, by a vessel which was to sail for N. York a 
few days after, despatches from our Minister at Paris, by a confi- 
dential Bearer. The 19th of April is the date of the last which 
have yet come to hand. 

It is evident from this that Mr. King prepared, while on 
board ship, a report of the final days of his mission, which 
he forwarded to Washington at once upon his landing in 

New York, and to which on the July he added the 

supplement which appears on the 259-262 pages of this 
volume. 

Albert Gallatin to R. King. 

Treasury Department, July 6th, 1803. 
Sir : 

I had the honor to receive your letter of the 2nd instant, and 
have directed the Collector to permit the entry of your baggage 
&c, as free from duty. Although some doubt was at first enter- 
tained on that subject, I feel a conviction that this decision is con- 
sistent with the spirit, & not forbidden by the letter, of the law. 

Permit me to embrace this opportunity of returning my sincere 
thanks for the manner in which you transacted the business of 
this Department, with which, foreign as it was to the duties of 
your mission, I was obliged to trouble you. 

I have the honor to be with great respect 

Sir, your obedt. Servt. 
Albert Gallatin. 
The Honble. Rufus King 
New York. 

282 RUFUS KING. [1803 

John Jay to R. King. 

Bedford, July 6, 1803. 
Dear Sir : 

By the last post we were informed that you and your family had 
arrived at New York in good Health. I congratulate you very 
sincerely on this agreeable Termination of a long absence from 
your country. From the Recommencement of Hostilities in 
Europe, I fear you have left London too soon ; but that consider- 
ation loses a part of its weight from the Reflection that if proper 
counsels prevail, your Presence here will not be unproductive of 
advantages. 

A series of circumstances, not very important and yet not unin- 
teresting, have ever since my Removal to this place, made it in- 
convenient for me to leave it. Many inducements urge me to 
visit New York & the pleasure of seeing you is now added to the 
number. I hope and expect the circumstances alluded to will not 
be of much longer duration. 

Be pleased to present my best Compts. to Mrs. King. 

With great Esteem & Regard I am, &c. 

John Jay. 

Joseph Hale to R. King, N. Y. 

Boston, July 7, 1803. 
Dear Sir : 

Permit me to congratulate you on your safe return to New 
York ; although the existing state of Europe requires on our part 
a different representation at the Court of St. James than I appre- 
hend we shall possess, presuming upon the probable character of 
your successor there. In wealth & in various improvements you 
will find the U. S. to have made great advances since you left us. 
I wish it could be added that they had equally advanced in politi- 
cal wisdom. Our retrograde movements in that respect are the 
more to be regretted when we contemplate the actual state of 
Europe. 

By this Post you will receive from me our Anniversary Oration 
by a Son of Judge Sullivan. We think well of the performance, 
although it recommends uniting with England against France ; it 

1803I LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 283 

is even in that view more correct than the memorial imputed to 
our Minister at St. Cloud. If the Oration reaches you, the post- 
age will not be expensive, as one side of the package is left open. 
Its sentiments in general you will not disapprove. 

Be pleased to present my best respects to Mrs. K., and believe 
me, Dear Sir, 

With the highest respect and attachment &c. 

Joseph Hale. 

Mr. Payne is married & gone with his Lady to Balls-town 
Springs. 

J. Q. Adams to R. King. 

Dear Sir : Boston, 8 July, 1803. 

I have just received your favour of the 5th inst, inclosing two 
letters from Lord & Lady Carysfort, for your care of which and 
the parcels which accompanied them, please to accept my best 
thanks. The parcels may wait for a convenient and safe oppor- 
tunity ; and one of them being a brittle article, will require care 
in the conveyance. 

I enclosed some weeks since, a letter from you enclosing a list 
of the debtors to Bird, Savage & Bird, in this country ; and in- 
formation of the great obligation for which I was indebted to you, 
with Mr. Gore and Mr. Williams, in taking up for my honour the 
bills I had drawn upon that house. About two months ago, I 
made a remittance to Mr. Williams, adequate to discharge the 
whole of his advances for me on that occasion. Whether it will 
ever be in my power to repay his and your act of friendship, in 
taking the heavy charge of the bills, and saving me from the ad- 
ditional burthen of protest damages I know not ; but that I shall 
ever retain a grateful sense of your kindness I do know, and hope 
you will never have reason to doubt. 

I am happy to have this occasion of congratulating you upon 
your return to our native country, where I hope you will find a 
residence still more agreeable and satisfactory than that of the 
period you have past in Europe. With my best regards to Mrs. 
King, I remain, 

Dear Sir, faithfully yours 

John Quincy Adams. 

284 RUFUS KING. [1803 

G. Cabot to R. King. 

Boston, July 9, 1803. 
My dear Sir : 

I received from you at the beginning of this week, the Decla- 
ration of the British Government & their correspondence with 
France, and I take great pleasure in observing that so much dig- 
nity & firmness as well as moderation, has been displayed by the 
British Ministry. Had I known the secrets however I shou'd have 
trembled lest matters shou'd have been given up, which would 
have been of more consequence than all the conquests of Great 
Britain and 20 sail of the line besides. Malta is the spot intended 
by Providence, for G. B. to enable her to cover Egypt, the Levant 
and Adriatic — to watch Toulon and observe the whole Mediter- 
ranean. Nothing should tempt G. B. to yield it to France, while 
France remains so formidable. . . . 

Our jacobins have already indulged their French feelings — they 
allow that the success of England — at least in defending herself — 
is necessary to keep France from troubling us ; yet such is their 
profligacy and their hatred that they would rather risk the liberty 
of our country, than see the English beat the French. 

I hear very seldom lately from our friend Hamilton, whom you 

know I love excessively ; when you see him, I pray you tender 

him my affectionate regards, & believe me ever with sincere 

attachment 

Your faithful, 

George Cabot. 

John Adams to R. King. 

Quincy, July 10, 1803. 
Dear Sir : 

I duly received his Britannic Majesty's Declaration and a List 
of Papers presented to Parliament, with the kind Letter you did 
me the Honor to write me on the twenty-second of same. With 
great sincerity, I thank you, Sir, for this instance of your polite 
attention to me, and for a great number of others of a like kind 
during your Embassy in England. I was so situated that I could 
not acknowledge the Receipt of many Pamphlets of an interesting 
nature, which you were so good as to send me. 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 285 

Your conduct during your whole residence in England, so far 
as it ever came to my Knowledge, was so entirely satisfactory to 
me and so highly honorable and beneficial to your Country, that 
I cannot but regret the necessity you found yourself under to re- 
turn. This however does not prevent Mrs. Adams from joining 
with me in most cordial Congratulations with you and Mrs. King 
on your fortunate voyage and perfect health. 

I ought not to conclude this Letter without expressing to you 
my most hearty Thanks for your Friendship to my son. With 
great Esteem, 

I am, Dear Sir, your obliged Friend &c. 

John Adams. 

R. King to C. Gore, London. 

New York, July 10, 1803. 
My dear Friend : 

We are not yet removed to our own house owing to the diffi- 
culty and delay in receiving our baggage, &c. from the ship ; but 
as Mr. Gallatin has given an order that all our effects shall be 
delivered free of duty, and we expect the ship will be discharged 
of her cargo tomorrow, we shall in a few days, as we expect, be 
in our own house. I regret to have sold my house in town, as I 
cannot buy a smaller and less convenient one for the money I re- 
ceived and as I want it to put my furniture in ; we have put 
every thing in a fire proof store, where it must remain till I settle 
myself. I adhere to the project of a country establishment and a 
small house in town ; but I will not be in a hurry about either. 

The glass is above 80, and we are very sensible to the heat, 
more so than formerly. ... As yet the city is healthy and 
we hear nothing of yellow fever here or elsewhere. 

Govt, has not yet received any despatches from Paris relative 
to Louisiana — the last dates from thence are April 19. My im- 
perfect Report is all they know of the Business in this Country. 

As far as I learn the opin. of our friends here, they regard the 
Cession as an event of gt. importance, especially as it gives us 
the control of the Mississippi. I don't perceive that any impor- 
tance is annexed to the acquisition west of the River ; the subject 
is little understood and the pour and the contre not yet discussed 

286 RUFUS KING. [1803 

— on the whole it seems agreed on all sides that the measure 
will operate in favour of the present administration ; whose au- 
thority and popularity extend themselves in every quarter. In 
this State, I understand that the federalists failed everywhere in 
the late Election ; and even in Connecticut & Massachusetts they 
are gradually losing credit — at least such is here the opinion 
among even our friends. . . . 

I offered to go on to Washington if required, and I received a 
civil answer wh. leaves me at liberty to stay at home. So far as 
regards myself personally they are desirous to receive and treat 
me with kindness and even distinction. 

Once more yrs. 

Rufus King. 

T. Sedgwick to R. King. 

Boston, July 12, 1803. 
My dear Sir : 

Among the congratulations which you will receive, on your ar- 
rival, none are more sincere than those I have the pleasure to give 
you. Many public as well as private considerations conduce to 
render this a pleasing event ; and among them the expectation, 
and I am confident it is well founded, that I shall enjoy the satis- 
faction, within twelve months, of saluting you as Governor of 
New York. However improbable this event may appear to you, I 
have no doubt that it is in the power of your friends, or in other 
words the friends of sound principles, to secure it ; and to men 
of that description, there is nothing which they ought to deem 
more desirable. Perhaps the station may not be an object of 
your wishes, tho' I think there is none in our country which can 
afford to a disposition such as yours so many sources of gratifica- 
tion. Whatever may be your own feelings, I hope you will think 
that you are so much of public property that your friends have a 
right to dispose of you at their pleasure. 

When I began this letter, I had intended only to have given 
you, what indeed you cannot want, assurances of the continuance 
of my esteem & friendship, and I insensibly expressed my senti- 
ments on a subject, on which I have long & anxiously reflected. 
I am now on my way from the eastward where I saw two of your 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 287 

brothers, and was much pleased with both. Assure Mrs. King 
that I cordially sympathize with her in the pleasure she enjoys in 
returning to her native city & in seeing the improvements which 
have taken place in her absence. 

I am sincerely & affectly. yours 

Theodore Sedgwick. 

Gov. John T. Mercer to R. King. 

In Council Chamber, Annapolis, 
July 12, 1803. 
Sir : 

The Letter you did me the honor to address to me of the 10th 
of May last, enclosing a Copy of your Communications to the 
Secretary of State, under the 1st of May, has been duly received 
and communicated to the Council ; and permit me to offer to you 
my sincere thanks for the zeal, ability and perseverance which 
you have manifested in prosecuting the just claims of the State. 
Your communication will be submitted to the Legislature at the 
commencement of their next Session — from the expression of 
their sentiments, those acknowledgments can only be derived, 
which coming from the immediate Representatives of the People, 
must prove most satisfactory to yourself. 

I have the honor to be with much respect 

Your obedient Servant 

John T. Mercer. 

C. Gore to R. King. 

London, July 13, 1803. 
My dear Friend : 

. . . We were at Harrow on the 7th, Speech day, and found 
the boys in perfect health & spirits. They come to London a 
fortnight hence. I have not heard from James for a long time. 
Barlow, whose cause is now decided and favourably for him, will 
go for Paris shortly, that is to say, when he receives his award, 
which may be within ten days, & by him we shall write. 

Our awards are made to the number of 291, and to-morrow we 
shall execute those that are ready, which are 13 more. These 

288 RUFUS XING. [1803 

will bring the amount of cases awarded on beyond 300. The 
number of awards will be about 500 ; and the remaining cases 
will be about thirty : of these all are decided by the Board and 
referred to the merchants excepting eight. Some of them, though 
only provisionally, not being yet reported on by the Registrar and 
merchants. The aforementioned eight will be referred within a 
few days. The British cases are to be acted on next week. We 
want about seven or eight reports from the Courts, and there are 
five or six cases only pending. The money will be ready & paid 
at the treasury either on the 15th, or within a day or two after. I 
sometimes have strong hopes of being able to quit this autumn, 
and have bespoke the refusal of the Galen's cabin ; but the objec- 
tion to closing are in reality considerable, and there is not every- 
where a strong disposition to remove them. 

Monroe is expected here daily as your successor. Pinkney has 
received instructions and authority to act as agent of the Mary- 
land Bank Stock Concern, from the State of Maryland, and 
credentials from the Prest. of the U. States to act also in his 
name on this behalf. P. tells me as his belief, that M. is to come 
here, be received, appoint a charge d'affaires & then go to Spain. 
The papers tell you all, at least as much as I could about the 
Russian mediation &c. The Spirit of the country is evidently 
and generally rising ; and it is already much beyond the temper 
of the administration — Mrs. Gore enjoys her health tolerably 
considering that we are confined to London. We miss you and 
Mrs. King more and more every day. We are in many respects 
alone — I can truly say that in many things & on many topics I 
have none to communicate with, for though with these that are 
here I agree in part, yet not in all, & for a free communication on 
many subjects this is necessary. I am heartily tired, and never 
felt more anxiety to be away than at this moment. My wife de- 
sires her affectionate regards, and I pray you present mine and 
hers to yours & Edward. 

Yrs. truly 

C. G. 

Miss Burnley is dead. 

The expression of welcome made to Mr. King on his 
arrival at New York was renewed some days afterwards by 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 289 

a public dinner in his honor, of which the following account 
was given at the time : 

New York, July 13, 1803.* 
A select company of the most respectable citizens, without re- 
gard to political distinctions, principally merchants, amounting to 
about 200, gave a public dinner to our late Ambassador at the 
Court of Great Britain as a mark of respect. 

Mr. King gave as a Toast " The City of New York— Prosperity 
and harmony to its citizens." — After his retiring, Mr. Varick 
offered the following toast, which was drunk with six cheers. 

Rufus King— May foreign nations ever recognize in the 
American Envoy the firm Patriot, the able and dignified 
Statesman. 

R. King, New York, to C. Gore, London. 

July 22, 1803. 
Dr. Sir : 

To day & yesterday the heat, which has been excessive since 
the beginning of the month, has moderated and we cease to be in 
the fluid state in wh. we have been during the last fortnight. Al- 
though we have been a week at housekeeping, we are not yet 
settled, and another week will be requisite before we shall begin 
to feel at home. As the coloured woman we brought with us, and 
who was to cook for us, very soon rebelled, and has been dis- 
missed, we have taken a French cook, who is to go to market and 
cook our dinners. His soups are good and should no grave ob- 
jections on the score of finance arise, we may do very well with 
him, we give him $20. a month &c— Every one tells us that the 
real difficulty proceeds from the ill manner in which you are 
served by your servants, and from what I have already seen it is 
plain that servants are not only worse here than with you, but 
much worse than 10 years ago here. 

Edward & Frederick are well ; the latter has suffered a little 
from the heat, but is now recovered. Mrs. K. also is well and 
already growing fat. I have been very sensible to the heat, but 
by keeping at home and quiet as much as possible, I have been 
well. 

* The Evening Post, July 13, 1803 

VOL. IV.— 19 

29O RUFUS KING. [1803 

I find a little embarrassment for the want of my books, &c. and 
as my term where I am is short, I think it not prudent to open 
my trunks, and the more so, as I have no room or place to put my 
books up, and looking round for houses and enquiring their prices 
and rents, I feel sorry that I sold my house ; tho' I did not like it, 
yet it would have been very convenient for me on my first return 
and until I could have actually set myself down more to my mind. 

I can send you no news, except that it is known that the 
Louisiana purchase is to cost us 15. mill. Dol. — 3,750,000 
whereof is to be paid to our own people. Our friends say the 
money is no object. But I am sure that the Govt, may feel not a 
little embarrassed with this part of the Business — the view we 
entertained of the acquisition in England seems to be that wh. 
our friends here have adopted ; that we do not want Territory 
over the River & that the Floridas and New Orleans ought to 
satisfy us. . . . 

Gen. Smith of Baltimore was here a few days ago, and assured 
me that he had no knowledge who is to be my successor at Lon- 
don : This is the case with all those I meet with. But a common 
persuasion seems to destine Mr. Livingston or Mr. Monroe for 
the Mission to London. I hear nothing further of our friend 
Pinkney's appointment. ... I wrote a private letter to 
Madison saying I did not know the usage, whether our Minstrs. 
were expected to visit the seat of Gov. on their return, intimated 
that I desired not to be deficient in respect, and that I wd. cheer- 
fully proceed to Washington, if he was of opinion that my omit- 
ting to do so wd. be thought in the slightest degree disrespectful 
— I reed, a very satisfactory answer, which dispensed with my 
journey. 

Yrs. 

R. K. 

C. Gore to R. King. 

London, July 29, 1803. 
My dear Friend : 

It is with real sorrow that I have to inform you of the rebellion 
breaking out in Ireland, and at a time the most unexpected. All 
persons had flatter'd themselves, that the country was radically 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 29 1 

mended ; even the old opposition, that was fond of exaggerating 
rather than diminishing the evils England had to contend with, 
was constrained from the evidence of their friends, who visited 
that island, to believe that Irishmen were gratified with the 
change, and were sincerely & heartily disposed to resist the com- 
mon enemy. The newspapers give you the particulars of the 
tragical scene of Dublin, and rumour leaves no room to doubt, 
that the first accounts will be found short of the real horrors, that 
disgrace these wretched people. 

The true English spirit continues to rise, and I have a confi- 
dence that this and their resources will prove equal to the tre- 
mendous conflict they are entering upon. The northern powers 
are remonstrating with acrimony, as I learn, against the shutting 
of the Elbe, and Monroe told me yesterday that the Weser was 
also blockaded, but I see no account of it in the papers, neither 
do I learn that it is true from others. 

This gentleman arrived here about a week since. Before his 
arrival I received a letter from Parker, saying M. had a strong 
wish to live in the house you occupied, that he might be near us, 
and of his great respect and warm desire to live on the most cor- 
dial terms &c, &c, &c. All this I trust was duly estimated. The 
day after I learnt that he was in town, I paid him my respects, 
stated to him what I knew of the business of the Legation &c, 
and the next day sent him the letters, which had been received 
since your absence, and apprized him that all the papers belong- 
ing to the embassy, and left by you, were here. The day before 
yesterday he returned the visit, & on the same day we dined to- 
gether at Mr. Hope's. Sir T. B. was there. He said that Bing- 
ham, who was at Tunbridge Wells, had written to desire that they 
would be particularly attentive to M. An answer was returned 
that they always were to Americans of distinguished character, 
whatever was their party. B. came to town yesterday to pay his 
respects. He did not, till he met M. in Paris, know he was so 
able & so moderate a man. I cannot waste a sheet of paper on 
this son of Wealth, but suffice it to say, he admires France & 
Frenchmen, thinks England weak and foolish in the extreme in 
going to war, and that nothing but the earnest desire of the 
present administration to unsheath the sword, occasioned the 
contest. 

292 RUFUS KING. [1803 

The boys are here in perfect health & good spirits. They are 
not yet absolutely settled at the Abbe's,* but will be next week ; 
they have already slept there and will take their beds with him 
to-night. We wrote to James today — Mrs. Gore sends to Mrs. 
King his last letter. 

I ought to have told you what you will know without, though, 
that if Mr. M. asks for any information which I can afford, it will 
be cheerfully given — if not, I shall by no means intrude myself, 
or my opinions upon him. I most seriously feel your absence. 
There is not in England a man with whom I can talk confiden- 
tially, and even on subjects that perhaps do not admit of any 
great difference of opinion, one is obliged to be on their guard, 
lest misconstructions should be made. Our board must adjourn 
to the first Monday of December. There are a few cases yet be- 
fore the courts ; and our brethren will not consent to act on them 
until that process is ended. We have sent a list of the awards to 
the Govt., and every individual in whose favor they are made, and 
submitted to them the propriety of printing it. The number of 
awards is 467 — of cases 300. The amount of these is ;£ 1.083.990. 
3.8. ; forty two cases remain to be acted upon, all of which, except 
about half a dozen have been referred to C. & P. for report : such 
as are perfect in relation to the judicial remedy, absolutely ; and 
such as are not, provisionally. 

I may possibly go to France. After the motive of gratifying 
my wife, I have very few to go there, but then none exist to de- 
tain me here, and many make me desire to be absent. The Brit- 
ish treasury paid on the day, viz. 15. July, and the few we have 
to make I entertain no doubt will be paid, the first instalment on 
presentation & the others when due. 

My affectionate regards to Mrs. King & the children, ever 
Sincerely yours 

C. G. 

R. King to C. Gore, London. 

Dear Sir: New York, Aug. 12, 1803. 

. . . I have satisfactorily ascertained that Mr. Livingston or 
Mr. Monroe, as may be settled between themselves is to succeed 
* They were here during the vacation to study French. 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 293 

me at London. . . . Monroe is authorized to buy the Flori- 
das of Spain or whoever is the owner, provided he can make the 
purchase in a certain sum in 6 pr cents. It is expected as I hear 
that the Impost will be sufficient to pay the Interest of this adn. 
to the public Debt without new Taxes. — A loan will be made to 
raise the money to pay the Debt owed by France to our own peo- 
ple and which we have assumed. It is matter of speculation why 
this Debt was not payable in 6 pr cent stock instead of money. 
It was without doubt the expectation of Govt, here that such 
would have been the arrangement, and the creditors would have 
had no ground of complaint. 

I am so little in the way of hearing what pub. opinion is that I 
can tell you nothing precise respecting the Purchase of Louisiana. 
In the papers that I see, I observe some doubts are beginning to 
arise both as to the utility and prudence of the measure, and it 
would not surprise me if a considerable difference of opinion 
should exist in the Senate & H. of Reps. 

The measure must be the subject of very extensive future ex- 
amination, provided, as I understand to be the case, an amend- 
ment of the Constitution will be requisite to enable Congress to 
receive the ceded territory into the Union. . . . 

R. K. 

Rufus King to C. Gore, London. 

New York, Aug. 20, 1803. 
My dear Sir : 

. . . I do not think you could, without impropriety, cer- 
tainly not without public inconvenience, have declined to act as 
far as you have consented to do — if your own feelings had not 
forbidden it, I should have seen nothing remiss in your assuming 
the character which the Gov. supposed you to fill. I hear noth- 
ing more of my successor * — tho' as I have before informed you, 
I do conclude that Livingston or Monroe will go to London. 
Since the indiscreet publication of the unsound as well as unwise 
and impolitic memorial of the former (I allude to the memorial 
respecting Louisiana presented to Bonaparte in September 

* This seems very extraordinary, as Mr. Monroe was actually in London, 
acting as Minister, on the 18th of July. See Mr. Gore's letter, August 24, 1803. 

294 RUFUS KING. [1803 

last) his situation there will be less agreeable than otherwise it 
might have been ; and in regard to Monroe, P. Porcupine will 
make him uneasy & in some degree put him out of good com- 
pany, by republishing with comments an article from his unwise 
and stupid performances. If Mr. Jefferson would do as he 
ought, he would appoint you as my successsor. . . . 

Washington is at this season deserted — from the fixed opinion 
that no one from the North or from the high country of the 
South, can pass the months of August and September there with- 
out intermittent or bilious fever. Mr. Gallatin informs me that 
no considerable progress is made in building the City, and were 
the Govt, in New York or Phil, it would not think of moving to 
Washington. To leave it, however, is another matter. Our City 
continues to be scourged with the yellow fever : it is probable 
that upwards of 20.000 of the Inhabitants have retired to the 
country & the quarters of the city, where the influence is sup- 
posed to have most prevailed, are evacuated, and in consequence 
of their Removal, fewer cases happen than otherwise wd. take 
place — hitherto not more than 18 new cases, nor more than 9 
deaths have taken place any one day ; but from the severity of 
the attack in a plurality of cases, the Effects of the Disease are 
more and more alarming than formerly. Men in perfect health to 
all appearance, and who are engaged in their business as usual, are 
seized and die in the course of 40 hours. The same disagree- 
ment & hesitation, as to the mode of treatment which have here- 
tofore existed among our physicians, continue to prevail, & the 
patients unhappily have less confidence of recovery in conse- 
quence of this bad state of things. I have no hope of the fever 
ceasing before the frost ; but as the City will daily become less 
populous, I am in hopes that the total mortality may not be very 
great, tho' we have many weeks of suffering to endure before the 
setting in of the frost. Our other cities are healthy and free from 
fever. . . . 

R. King. 

P. S. So far as I hear little is said abt. Louisiana. The article 
wh. secures to French & Spanish produce & manufactures arriving 
in French or Span. Bottoms the Privilege of paying no higher 
Duties than the like Articles wd. pay, if imported in Amer. Bot- 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 20,5 

toms, confirms the Privilege to the Ports within the ceded coun- 
try, and limits its duration to twelve years ; it moreover restrains 
the U. S. from giving the same advantages during the twelve 
years to any other Country. Perhaps the article is as impolitic, 
as I believe it to have been an unnecessary, one, but I cannot 
think an unjustifiable one, since the Treaty with Eng. must be 
supposed to refer to the Territories of the U. S. at its date, and 
since, moreover, the Privilege must be regarded as a part of the 
Price to obtain the cession ; it wd. have been more wise to have 
communicated the article to G. B. in the first instance, but I am 
persuaded she will see it in its true light. . . . 

CHAPER XX. 

Gore to King — Congratulates him on his Arrival in N. Y. — Boys Well — Affairs 
in Europe — Monroe knows little that passes in London — Gore to King — 
Miranda desires to quit England for Trinidad — Affairs in Europe — Trouble 
with Ewing — King to Gore — Astonished by England enrolling the Militia 
— No reliable Opinions of Congress relative to Louisiana — Search for a 
Farm — Gore to King — His Boys in England — Livingston's Memorial — 
South America — St. Domingo — Gore to King — Boys' Behaviour excellent — 
Anticipates a gloomy Winter — England duped by Spain — Monroe has re- 
ceived no Dispatches since his Arrival in London — Gore to King — Wishes 
he might settle near Boston — Miranda — Gore to King — Merry sails unin- 
structed relative to St. Domingo — Monroe thinks it a good Place for eman- 
cipated Negroes — Threatened Invasion of England — Livingston to King — 
Has as yet no Advices from U. S. of Reception of the Convention by the 
Government — Regrets that it has not yet been considered — State of Europe 
— Has not yet received his Cong/. 

C. Gore to R. King. 

London, August 24, 1803. 
My dear Friend : 

We rejoice sincerely that you arrived safely and in so short a 
passage. From the winds here, apprehensions were entertained 
that your patience would have been put to a greater trial. Our 
weather has been extremely hot, and since the middle of June, we 
have had scarcely any rain. The Boys are quite well ; they are 
at the Abbe" Ruffini's. They with Williams & Cabot dine here to- 
day, and Cabot sails in the morning. They do perfectly well, and 
really merit the esteem & regard of all who know them. They 
dined here in company with Monroe & his family a few days 
since, and afterwards accompanied us to Vauxhall. 

M., you will see, is determined to quit this country. I think 
there can be no doubt that Spain & France completely dupe this 
wise administration. Bernadotte is assembling troops on the 

296 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 297 

frontiers of Spain, & this latter power announces that unless 
France arrests these measures, she will raise 80,000 men, and 
formal notice of this threat is given here. The Spanish money 
arrives, and Mr. Addington really fears that some portion of it 
finds its way into France. A Fleet is said to be fitting out at 
Ferrol, supposed to be destined to Ireland. Yet England is de- 
sirous to keep Spain neutral, who lulls this Government by saying, 
if she is compelled by Bonaparte to furnish the succours con- 
tracted for by treaty, she will do that & nothing more ; and 
that she will not commute this obligation for money, which has 
been requested ; so I presume she will have the ships, men and 
money. We hear that Spain has sold Porto Rico to Denmark ; 
doubtless with the consent, if not at the instance, of France. 
Hopes are indulged that Russia may be induced to take a part 
against France, but whether on good grounds I do not know. 
France is preparing to seize the Grecian isles and Turkey is her 
object. Austria has hitherto refused to lend herself to the views & 
desires of the Consul, in respect to her ports in the Adriatic ; but 
whether she will be able to persist in her refusal is quite uncer- 
tain. If she do, it may serve as a pretence for the withdrawal of 
the French army from the channel and the coasts on the North 
Seas ; and it is not impossible that this mighty chief may need 
some apology for such a measure, considering the force and front 
that G. Britain is determined to display. The insurrection in Ire- 
land was undoubtedly of French manufacture, and there are great 
causes for alarm in that quarter. There are some accounts to-day 
of a new plotting discovered in Paris, — you have the story in the 
papers. 

Our Board has decided all the British Complaints except one, 
which is continued for evidence. What we have awarded against 
the U. S. will amount to about 100,000 dollars. There are about 
8 or 9 cases, waiting for exports from the Admiralty, & three de- 
pending in the courts. These will be awarded on, or dismissed in 
December, and in February or March, the Commission will be 
finally closed, and we shall return home in the Spring and my 
most earnest wishes would be gratified if we were to live within a 
dozen miles, if not in the same town with you & Mrs. King. You 
can have no conception how much we miss your society, and how 
completely insulated I am becoming, if nothing worse. The 

UN1VE 

298 RUFUS KING. [1803 

Monroes receive our civilities & he appears, when in his company, 
disposed to be attentive and kind. We dined yesterday at Pink- 
ney's, but the Minister's connections will be entirely different 
from ours. He has seen Hawkesbury twice, once on his arrival 
and on his introduction to the King. He has also seen Ham- 
mond once. His arrival here was 18th July, I suspect he knows 
nothing that passes here, and appears to have a sort of creed that 
it is improper to know what is passing in relation to the European 
powers, unless the U. S. are directly interested. He will there- 
fore have a quiet time in England, for you know they do not press 
their knowledge, no more than their civility on any man. Bid well 
saw James well a few days since. The obstacles to quitting 
France & coming to England are so many, that I think we 
shall remain in London until we embark for Boston. Mrs. Gore 
unites with me in affectionate regards to Mrs. King & the boys. 

Ever yours 
C. Gore. 

C. Gore to R. King. 

London, Aug. 30, 1803. 
My dear Friend : 

Hammond, whom I saw yesterday, tells me it is not true that 
Porto Rico has been ceded to Denmark, that a negotiation was 
on foot between Spain and another northern power for such a 
cession, but it is now at an end. He thinks that Bonaparte is bad 
with most of his Generals, and that his opponents increase upon 
him. But as you know, incredulity on some subjects is not the 
greatest defect of certain men, you may judge what weight to 
give to such accounts, they doubtless have their emissaries in all 
parts of France, and some who are very obnoxious to Bonaparte, 
even in Paris ; and they believe that his efforts to prepare for the 
invasion are much slackened. Spain convinces England, that 
she intends to remain neuter & endeavours, perhaps not without 
effect, to produce a belief that she is capable of maintaining this 
character against France. Miranda saw Vansittart and H. Ad- 
dington yesterday, and it was agreed then that the former should 
write a letter, merely professing his desire to quit England on 
their paying him five years pension, which, for that consideration, 

803] UFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 299 

is to be renounced forever. Some Captain of a frigate is to offer 
him a passage for himself, & two friends to be landed at Trini- 
dad, where he is to take his people and go wherever he pleases. 
He hopes to find two vessels from the U. S. with musquets &c. 
&c. I told him that to procure the men he talks of will not be 
easy, to obtain the articles is very sensible, provided he has some 
mercantile friends there to make the speculation. He writes you 
again having already written by our friend Cabot. When he was 
yesterday with Vansittart & Healy, they had received the extract 
from Mr. Livingston's memorial, which speaks of the tyranny of 
G. B., and the union of France and America to form a maritime 
code, which should depress this evil spirit of England. They were 
outrageous, according to his account, against the U. S. for giving 
vent to so odious a sentiment. But he had in his pocket the 
Philadelphia Gazette, containing the memorial and some strictures 
on this offensive paragraph, & availed himself of the occasion, 
which it proffered, of showing that the same opinion was enter- 
tained in America, as in England, of what they complained — and 
this, as he thinks, much abated their wrath. So he believes that 
his having borrowed from me this paper and making such use of 
it, has really done great good to the U. S. H. on Saturday, men- 
tioned it to me, and we read the paper together. His expressions 
of the writer were such as you would suppose, but he very wisely 
refrained from attributing any importance to it, & I assured him 
it would be as unpopular with us as here. I must tell you one 
anecdote, though you will be careful not to mention it, — Ful- 
ton wrote to Boulton & Watts for one or two steam engines to be 
shipped to Brockholst Livingston in New York, who would pay 
for them, the engines to be made according to directions of Joel 
Barlow. The Government here took it into their heads to believe, 
these were intended for Fulton's diving machines, that are to blow 
up the British Navy, the dockyard &c. &c. at Portsmouth of which 
they have some, certainly not strongs apprehensions ; and Boulton 
& Watts do not ship the machines, lest the destination of N. 
York should be only a trick, and so soon as the vessel carrying 
them should be in the channel, they might be transhipped for 
France and affixed to these terrible instruments of destruction. 
I told him that L. & Fulton were jointly concerned in the con- 
struction and patent for constructing and using a boat, that was 

300 RUFUS KING. [1803 

designed to work against the stream, and I entertained no doubt 
that this was the real purpose of the engines desired. He said, 
however, B. & W. had orders not to ship them. Their suspicions 
will be increased on reading the memorial. Barlow sailed for 
France about a week since & carried some letters for James. 

A gentleman told me to-day he had seen a letter from Gentz, the 
author, now at Vienna, which says that if E. had had a skilful man 
at Berlin, when the French troops marched for Hanover, they might 
have been stopt by Prussia ; that in the Cabinet it was absolutely 
decided one evening to resist the French by an army of 50,000 
men, that the King went in the night to some chateau to sleep and 
altered his disposition before morning ; that a clever Englishman 
at that court might have prevailed on this power to have inter- 
fered in the preservation of Hanover. Gentz says that he has 
travelled over all the northern parts of Europe ; that England is 
every where unpopular ; and an universal stupor prevails among 
all the powers of the continent, which is created by the vigour 
and quickness of the Consul's motions. The spirit which is 
awakened in the people at large will do much agt. the imbecility 
of the ministry. Dumourier and Pichegru are here ; & there is 
some reason to believe an attempt will be made to invade France. 
Dumourier, I learn, is disgusted with the want of spirit in the ad- 
ministration, and I think whatever may have been their original 
intention, it would be so unpopular that they will not dare to em- 
ploy him. Miranda declines to see Dumourier. 

I enclose you herewith a statement which in a great measure 
explains itself. My principal reason for troubling you with it is 
that it is not improbable that Erving may, among his friends at 
least, circulate some stories about this business. You will readily 
conceive that my wish is only to correct any false impressions he 
may attempt to impose, & will of course never make any other 
use, than to such ends, of this statement.* . . . 

Truly, & ever yours 

C. Gore. 

* The statement written by William Pinkney, the associate of Mr. Gore in 
the Commission of claims under the 7th Article of the Treaty with Great Brit- 
ain, is a long one, and although in some points other than those immediately 
referring to Mr. Gore it also concerns Mr. King's relations with Mr. Erving, 
it is not possible to print it here, nor even that furnished in the letter of Mr. 
Gore himself, which covers many pages. They were sent to Mr. King by his 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 3OI 

C. Gore to R. King. 

London, August 31, 1803. 
My dear Friend : 

Since writing the letter that accompanies this I have thought 

you would expect a more detailed account of the affair, to which 

the inclosure alludes, than is contained therein. Notwithstanding 

the reflection that this is due from me to you, and that I am sure 

you take a deep interest in whatever concerns my character & 

conduct, it is not without some pain I again bring this loathsome 

subject to my mind, as it presents to me the Maryland worthies 

and Captain Lewis, who it seems are the advisers of this man 

& by whose advice, contrary to that of Monroe & Pinkney,,he 

thought himself bound to act. . . . 

friend not to vindicate the line of conduct he had adopted, but to give him a 
true statement of the facts and of what he had done, of the correctness and 
propriety of which Mr. Gore had no doubt, nor did he suppose his friend would 
have, as he was well aware of the animus of Mr. Erving towards him and 
others. Mr. Erving, disappointed in not receiving the consideration and influ- 
ence which upon his arrival in England he had expected, had shown himself 
antagonistic to Messrs. King, Williams, and Gore, whom he had not been able 
to make to yield to his pretensions — possibly warranted on his part by the 
belief that the administration would look favourably on his pretensions and 
acts. 

With Mr. Gore in particular he had reason to feel himself somewhat ag- 
grieved, who, with the other members of the Commission, had refused to allow 
him to interfere, in a way which his instructions from home would seem to war- 
rant ; and because that gentleman had been appointed charge des affaires during 
Mr. King's absence on the continent, when he asserted his right to act for the 
U. S., he being Consul in London ; and now that Mr. King had left England 
without appointing a charge des affaires, as it afterwards appeared that the 
Government at home expected him to do, he was ready to take umbrage at any 
act of Mr. Gore's indicating a desire to look after the interests of the country 
in England and to give to or receive information from the ministry which 
might under the circumstances seem proper. Mr. Erving having received some 
communications from friends in the U. S., stating that Mr. Gore had calumni- 
ated him in letters written to his correspondents in America, was greatly 
incensed, demanded an explanation, and finally sent a challenge to Mr. Gore 
through the parties named in Mr. G.'s letter, contrary to the advice of Messrs. 
Pinkney & Monroe, which he promptly declined under the obligation of the 
position he held, as well as for other reasons. This is an outline of the matter 
which is given here chiefly as due to Mr. Gore's high character and as calling 
forth from Mr. King, as will be seen in his letter, high encomiums as to his 
integrity, ability and manliness. 

302 RUFUS KING. [1803 

R. King to C. Gore, London. 

New York, Sept. 6, 1803. 
My dear Sir : 

. . . We have papers to the 2 2d July, which announce Mr. 
Monroe's arrival in London : I make you my compliments on 
being relieved from the employment which might have detained 
you in London more constantly and longer than you would have 
desired. 

. . . I am staggered with the general arming which appears 
to be making in England. I don't see clearly that this mob of an 
army will be able to resist the enemy agt. whom it is to be put in 
motion ; a regular army of 200,000 or 150,000 wd. in my poor 
opinion be more to be relied upon than the nation en masse : in 
point of economy the army would likewise be preferable, for if all 
the men of the nation are to be drilled and trained, as the news- 
papers state it to be the project that they shall be, I should appre- 
hend the manufacturers would suffer and the agriculture be 
neglected. In so complicated a machine, its ordinary movements 
should be changed with infinite caution, since what may seem the 
remedy of one inconvenience, may become the cause of a still 
greater and more alarming one. There may be a militia, includ- 
ing the whole people in America and I believe such to have been 
once the situation of Switzerland ; but these would be no author- 
ities to justify a universal militia in England : and my greatest 
fear is, if the nation be armed, that the unavoidable consequence 
will be the change of the monarchy for a Republic — two armies 
of 60,000 each, with an army of Reserve of 30,000 would defeat 
and destroy any body of French that can be landed in England ; 
and were I responsible, I shd. feel more safe with this force than 
with the whole nation in arms. We here wish the attempt to 
invade may be made, because we believe it will certainly fail, and 
that the failure will increase the confidence, reputation and 
security of England. 

Owing to the continuance of the fever which continues to pre- 
vail in our unfortunate city, we are cut off from the usual inter- 
course with our neighbours, so that I see but few persons & 
those my neighbours. Hence I cannot send you any opinion wh. 
can be relied upon respecting the probable sentiments of Congress 
concerning the Louisiana cession. An intelligent Connecticut 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 303 

man told me some time since that the cession would be disliked 
by New England, and I shall not be surprised if the Eastern Dele- 
gates or Senators oppose the Ratification. I understand that the 
President has no thoughts of opening the western side of the 
River for settlement, tho' past experience has taught us, that 
nothing but a cordon of troops will restrain our people from 
going over the River and settling themselves down upon the west- 
ern bank. This has, as I hear, been already done, there being as 
many as 4,000 Inhabitants settled upon the Missouri 40 or 50 
miles west of the Mississippi. These will increase and after a 
while set up a new State. The Plan is to persuade the Indians 
which remain within the U. S. to exchange their present territo- 
ries for Lands to be assigned to them over the Mississippi, and 
perhaps a suitable spot may be marked out as the Sierra Leone 
for the negroes. Notwithstanding the satisfaction of the negotia- 
tors with their performance, I believe the Govt, is and will be 
embarrassed with the cession, which may become the immediate 
cause of very important political events among the states. 

I don't make much progress in the purchase of a farm. The 
fever has turned the attention of many persons toward the neigh- 
bouring country and the farmers who are in easy circumstances 
raise the price of their lands — a farm of 270 acres, of which 200 
are ploughed land and meadow, & the residue woodland, with 
such buildings as wd. be sufficient for a farmer, but upon which I 
should be obliged to build for my family residence &c, is valued 
at 30,000 dol. ; three years ago it might have been purchased for 
25000, or 22500 dols. The situation is good,* being on the Sound 
19 miles from New York on the Postroad, which is but a short 
mile from the Farm house. I have not been to see it, and con- 
sidering the price do not know that I shall. . . . 

I am not only unsuccessful in finding a farm or wintry retreat, 
but have equal difficulty to obtain a house to suit us, tho' to say 
the truth this is a moment quite unfavourable to search for 
one. . . . 

Yours very truly, 

R. K. 

* Hunter's Island on Long Island Sound. 

304 RUFUS KING, [1803 

Mr. King wrote a letter to Mr. Vansittart in London, 
Sept. 8, 1803, which gives his opinions on several topics 
among which in his memorandum Book are the following. 

U. S. will be neutral and impartial — no doubts of this policy — 
Eng. an interesting spectacle — an invasion desirable, as its defeat 
will give confidence and reputation at home and abroad. 

C. Gore to R. King. 

London, Sept. 6, 1803. 
My dear Friend : 

We yesterday received yours of the 2 2d July, whereby we learnt 
you were at housekeeping, and meeting the usual troubles of all 
countries, but probably much greater with us than in any other, 
where there is equal wealth and luxury — I mean that of servants. 
It is clear that I shall regret having sold my house, for not only 
it will be difficult to purchase to my mind, but by what they 
write me from Boston, building is nearly double what it was in 
1800, when I was there. My intention is to take nothing home, 
but what is absolutely necessary, and which will form part of my 
baggage. . . . 

The boys are perfectly well & happy & behave well. The 
Abbe* goes with them to plays, to the circus, &c. & amuses him- 
self as well as them. They were with us on Saturday, and we 
took them to the little theatre in the Haymarket that evening. 
The rule is that they dine here on Saturday, stay that night & 
Sunday to dinner, & return to Holborn in the evening, on 
Wednesdays, also dining with us, and whenever else we have any 
company, as I wish to mix them in good society, as much as is 
convenient with their studies ; though I consider the great object 
of their being at the Abbe's in the holidays is that they may be 
amused, if not profitably, at least without injury. The project 
will attain this end and probably give them some taste for French 
& Spanish, and drawing. Williams is affectionate towards them, 
and treats them with attention, and I have a firm persuasion that 
their morals will remain pure & their minds be improved. I 
am sorry to be confirmed in my opinions of the education of our 

l8o3] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 

305 

youth. The only chance for a happy result to the political conflicts 
our country is destined to undergo, before she settles down into a 
permanent government & established character, is in the moral 
habits, sober & just views of the rising generation— and unless 
the basis of these be laid in early youth, they are scarcely ever 
attained. 

Livingston's memorial occasions much disgust here : but possi- 
bly this may be received with pleasure by, at least, one man, and I 
am told he will be given up by the adminis'n, but it is difficult 
for me to see whom they intend to set up as V. P. unless it be 
him. Sumpter acts as Secretary to the minister— of course any 
cause of difference between these wise negotiators is not likely to 

be allayed. I learn through that Livingston made another 

memorial, wherein he proposed a scheme by which the U. S. 
should provide a certain number of ships of the Line, to be under 
the control of France and fight for the freedom of the seas. This 
may be the mere creature of S's imagination, or it may have been 
an indiscretion of L. It is, however pretty evident that a portion 
of the followers of the present Government intend to ruin L. 
The gentleman here assumes no merit to himself, but ascribes all 
to the superior wisdom and discernment of the President, whose 
plans they very humbly executed. I have thought that this 
admin, will endeavour to bargain away the lands west of the Mis- 
sissippi for those which Spain holds east of that river, and obtain 
some money also. This would certainly free them from the evils 
of this purchase both as respects the lands owned & the cash to 
be paid, and give to the U. States all they want. I thought the 
other day to sound M. as to S. A. and observed to him that it 
could not be long before that country would throw off the yoke 
of Spain. He considers this not improbable, but seems impressed 
with the idea, that they have not sense enough to form a free 
government, and thinks Spain will be quite willing to grant us ex- 
clusive privileges in trade to her settlements, and prepare herself 
by degrees for the dropping of S. A. from her dominions. Perhaps 
one may conjecture from these hints the views of the Govn. in 
this respect, and how easily some men may be duped. 

I could not refrain from conversing with him on the new state 
of things, which the possession of St. Domingo by the Blacks 
would produce in the U. States, and suggested to him whether it 

VOL. IV. — 20 

306 RUFUS KING. [1803 

would not be wise that there should be a concurrent effort on this 
subject, so important to both. He received my remarks, or ap- 
peared to receive them with some interest, but from what I per- 
ceive and hear of him, and what we know of the English character, 
there is no great probability of their conferring much together. 
You understand, for I think I before told you, that our negotia- 
tors consider Louisiana as running E. of the River M. to the 
Rio Perdido, and so taking all the coast from that E. boundary to 
the river M., and of this they notified Spain. From what I learn 
the Government is more in fear for Ireland than of an invasion 
here. All the French, Italian, and Swiss are to be sent off accord- 
ing to the proclamation of the King. You will see a curious 
paragraph by the printers of the London Courier, in which it is 
stated that some person offered to become a fellow labourer, pro- 
vided Bonaparte's character could be supported. 

My affectionate regards to Mrs. King and the boys. I am pur- 
chasing books & preparing to return home — and this is all my 
occupation. I have done walking & in this great city am almost 
literally without society & certainly without friends. 

Yours, 

C.G. 

C. Gore to R. King. 

London, Sept. 18, 1803. 
My dear Friend : 

The boys went to Harrow on Thursday morning in good health 
and spirits, having passed their holidays very much to their own 
& our satisfaction. Their behaviour has been altogether such 
as we could have wished. I shall consider it due to the friendship 
that subsists between us, to give you information, if I observe any- 
thing amiss or of a wrong tendency in them ; so that you may 
Test perfectly satisfied with the truth of my report. They have 
promised that should any misfortune occur, of any sort or kind, 
the same shall be communicated to me directly, and I have the 
pleasure of believing that they will in any event, have an entire 
confidence in me. We are (now the boys have gone to Harrow) 
literally alone. Sometimes we see the Pinkneys. Mrs. Gore has 
been unwell and confined to the house for ten days past with a 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 307 

cold, that has affected her like the influenza. The M.s are in 
Wigmere street, and them we never see except by an accidental 
meeting. The Trumbulls are at Brighton or Worthing. If Mrs. 
Gore can muster strength and spirits enough, we shall probably 
make an excursion, for some days, into the country, before the 
winter sets in. This will, I am sure, be the most unpleasant & 
gloomy season that we have ever passed in Europe, and I every 
day regret more & more that we could not return this autumn. 
On ten thousand occasions we shall miss you & Mrs. King, and 
we shall be continually reminded of the happiness we enjoyed, by 
feeling the want of your society and the utter impossibility of in- 
demnifying ourselves by any new connections. My great occupa- 
tion now is in increasing my library, and rendering it as complete 
as my means will allow. 

It is generally believed, and by the Government, that an at- 
tempt will be made to invade this country and at no very distant 
day. Any diversion in favour of England, on the part of any of 
the Continental powers, is not expected. Great apprehensions are 
entertained for the safety of Portugal, and the ministry here 
probably begin to feel that that they have been duped by Spain. 
. . . The Spanish messenger, that went from hence with some 
new project, was not permitted to pass through France. He 
landed at Calais but was ordered to reimbark & was relanded in 
England. So that if the declaration of war is to depend on the 
return of this messenger, a considerable time must yet elapse, be- 
fore that event takes place. But it is hardly possible that B. 
should refrain from compelling S., even if she be indisposed, to 
take some step directly & openly hostile, before the delivery of 
any project from this Government. 

. . . Mr. Monroe has received no dispatches from Washing- 
ton since his arrival here ; * and I learn through P. that he has 
seen Lord H. only at his first visit, when presented to the King, 
and at the Levee, and when he wanted to introduce him (Pinkney) 
to his Lordship, as agent for the Maryland Bank Stock. Ques- 
tions relative to the impress of our seamen constantly arise, and, 
it is said, some violences have been committed on our citizens in 
the Thames. How they intend to regulate the commerce between 
the two Countries after October does not appear. One would 
* He arrived in London July 1 8th. 

308 RUFUS KING. [1805 

think there should be a harmony as to the measures to be pursued 
by G. B. in relation to St. Domingo, but no doubt our Govern- 
ment will be indisposed to take any step in concert with G. B., 
lest it should give umbrage to France — although their own safety 
is directly concerned in the manner in which E. shall arrange 
with the Blacks on the Island. Mr. M. will probably be in- 
structed to ask some explanation of our admin, on the offensive 
paragraphs of L's memorial. 

Our affectionate regards to Mrs. K. 

C. Gore to R. King. 

London, Sept. 22, 1803. 
My dear Friend : 

I yesterday received your favour to 2nd August, and though I 
do not see the probability of our living so near together, as I trust 
would conduce to the mutual happiness of ourselves & family, I 
do assure you that your wishes to that end afford me the highest 
gratification, and there is no object to attain which I would sacri- 
fice so much. The little I saw when at home — my knowledge of 
the pursuits and occupations, the attainments and objects of am- 
bition of those with whom I must be associated on my return, 
afford me some idea of the reflections, which cannot fail to crowd 
on my mind. While I have not the means, I assure you, I have 
as little desire to vie with my neighbours in their modes of enno- 
bling themselves, or pursuing enjoyment. The great eating par- 
ties with all the accompaniments of conversation & amusement, 
that attend them in any great town, never had, at least since I 
was thirty years of age, any charm for me ; and now they would 
be a task, at which I am very unwilling to labour. On the other 
hand, the society of a few friends, who have had considerable 
converse, both with the world and with books, is the most en- 
viable pleasure of life. Had other men filled the chair of gov- 
ernment, I should have been gratified to have represented it at 
this court for a few years, at the end of which term, I could have 
retired to my farm at Waltham, with what would to me have been 
an independence, though very far from what our monied aristoc- 
racy deem a competence. As the case is, I shall take my place at 
the Bar for a few years in the expectation of maintaining myself, 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 309 

while I am building my house at Waltham, and procuring one at 
Boston, which shall be small. This does not suit all my feelings, 
but on the whole I believe it the best course for me to pursue. 
My Library will be rather more than double what it was when 
you left us, and with such additions as I shall make during my prac- 
tice for four or five years, I hope to have a comfortable resource for 
age. Now we have land in plenty, and rather reasonable in the 
neighbourhood of Boston & in my neighbourhood, and did not 
political considerations, and what I know is more, considerations 
in regard to your children, fix you immovably in N. York, I 
should hope to prevail on you to remove to us, before you pur- 
chase. You should have any of my lands and we could be within 
a quarter of an hour's walk of each other, and the education of 
your younger children would be better in Massachusetts, I trust, 
than in N. York. The Commission being closed, and as I never 
shall undertake another business with such a variety of embar- 
rassments, & where the certainty of being responsible only for 
evils & disappointments, and of deriving no credit from success 
was so clear, I shall in future be without solemn looks or depressed 
feelings. . . . 

Portugal bends to France, as does every part of the Continent, 
and you may be assured the Govt, here expects to have the contest 
singly to bear against the accumulating power of Bonaparte & 
that they also believe an attempt at invasion will soon be made. 
M.pranda], who writes you by this oppor'y has renewed assurances 
from Govt., that he shall go out in a frigate within a month, and 
have advanced to him cash to prepare himself ; before that time 
they expect to be at war with S. 

Mrs. Gore who is yet quite indisposed unites with me in affec- 
tionate regards to Mrs. K. & the children. You say nothing of 
Hamilton, Jay or Benson. Are they yet in your vicinity ? 

Yours truly &c. &c. C. Gore. 

C. Gore to R. King. 

London, Sept. 30th, 1803. 
My dear Friend : 

Mr. Merry sailed from Portsmouth on the 28th instant, and 
my letters by him you will probably receive before this. I some- 

3IO RUFUS KING. [1803 

time since suggested to him the propriety of his knowing the 
views and intentions of the administration in regard to St. 
Domingo, and whether the measures they might adopt for the 
purpose of restraining or limiting the evils that threaten'd their 
colonies from the existence of a settlement of free blacks near 
them, would not be most likely to produce the effect desired by 
the concurrence of our Government, so far as it could concur. 
He opened the subject to Lord H. who told him that he thought 
it important now it was suggested, but really it never before en- 
tered his mind. Monroe, as I believe I mentioned to you, told 
me in a conversation I made with him, that he thought it would 
be a good place for the Southern States to send their free negroes, 
and those whom they thought fit not to punish capitally. This 
latter gentleman has received no letters from the Government 
since his arrival here ; and of course has no instructions relative 
to the renewal of the treaty or proposing any substitute. Merry 
goes out without any instructions on the subject, but is directed 
to ask of our Government some explanation of Livingston's 
memorial, so far as it relates to checking their tyranny on the 
seas. For two days past a squadron of small ships have been 
bombarding Calais and attempting to destroy some boats which 
are there, or are endeavouring to pass to Boulogne, but with 
what success we do not learn. It is certain, in the mind of all 
persons, that Bonaparte will make an attempt to throw a body of 
troops on this Island, but the nation is so well prepared, that per- 
haps it might be advantageous not only for G. B., but for the 
world, that he should succeed in debarking 30 or 40,000 men, 
especially if a like number were destroyed in the channel. The 
nations of the Continent seem to view the struggle without in- 
terest, certainly without any on the part of this Kingdom. The 
changes that have been made in Portugal, have all been in favour 
of France ; and little doubt is now affected by any that all the 
resources of Spain & Portugal in Europe will soon be at the com- 
mand of Bonaparte. An expedition is believed to be fitting at 
Ferrol for Ireland, & it is supposed that Augereau will have the 
command. It is said that there is a general expectation on the 
Continent that England will be conquer'd — and yet they expect to 
preserve their independence ! It is certainly a time when bravery 
and wisdom seem to have deserted all cabinets but the French. 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 3II 

You observe I am speaking of Europe — what you say is reported 
of Bonaparte's making grants prior to the cession, is certainly 
very much in character. 

Yours affectionately, C. Gore. 

Robt. R. Livingston to R. King, New York. 

Paris, 14th Oct., 1803. 
Dear Sir : 

I did not receive your last letter from England till about one 
month ago ; the receipt of it gave me the more pleasure as I was 
somewhat hurt that you should quit your harbour without giving 
me a farewell shot. You know that Mr. Monroe has taken your 
station ; the intercourse being interrupted I hear very little from 
him & I am sorry to add that I hear as little from the United 
States. The high opinion that is here entertained of our treaty, 
& the compts. I receive would make me vain enough to believe 
that silence at home gave consent, were I not happily roused from 
my golden dream, by the kind offices of the Boston floppers (for 
their's are the only papers I have lately reed.) who tell me that I 
am a fool, a lunatic, a minion & a great many other things equally 
well calculated to cure me of vanity, & to raise the reputation of 
the country which has for upward of thirty years successively 
employed me in high and confidential offices. I am sorry the 
sense of the country in their legislature has not been taken upon 
this important question of the treaty at a much earlier day ; for 
such are the fluctuations of European politicks, that if the treaty 
secures advantages, which I trust it does, the sooner we put 
ourselves in possession of them the better. Things remain here 
much as you left them ; the most active preparations still go on 
for the attack on England and Ireland & there is every reason to 
believe that they are sincerely intended, with whatever hazard 
they may be attended. Perhaps prudence would direct this 
government to content themselves with appearances, since the 
expenses to which England puts herself in preparation are im- 
mense & must be ruinous in the long run ; but on the other hand 
France has to fear changes in the state of Europe — for no nation 
can be indifferent to the fate of England in which that of many 

312 RUFUS KING. [1803 

others must be involved. Russia has renewed her proffered 
mediation ; the Court of St. James say they are ready to accept 
it, but that no mediation founded on the basis of the treaty at 
Amiens can be admitted. France is more moderate in her reply 
and appears disposed to accept any reasonable modifications of it. 

From Mr. Gelston, to whom I have written, you will learn that 
we are at war with the Emperor of Morocco, & that Capt. Bain- 
bridge has taken one of his corsairs of 22 guns. The Turkish 
Empire seems crumbling into dust, the mamlukes have driven the 
crescent out of all Egypt except Alexandria, & they are in their 
turn likely to be driven out by Abd-el-hahal, who is at the head 
of 400,000 men overrunning Asia and alike destroying Jews and 
Mahometans & Christians in the name of the one living God, 
whom alone he professes to worship, independent of all forms or 
creeds heretofore received. As he makes converts wherever he 
goes, either by the word or by the sword, there is no calculating 
the extent of his powers. 

This, my dear Sir, is an eventful age, and I think we are very 
ungrateful if we do not thank God for having placed us out of 
the reach of fires that are scorching and consuming the rest of the 
world. But man is not perhaps made to be perfectly happy here, 
& for this reason where he has no real evils, he has the address to 
form imaginary ones, in which, I think, our countrymen are not 
behindhand with the rest of the world. ... I have not yet 
obtained my conge, but as an office forms a contrast to hell, at 
least in one point, I presume I shall find no difficulty in getting 
out of it. 

With much esteem & regard &c, 

Rob. R. Livingston. 

CHAPTER XXI. 

Gore to King — Miranda to be dispatched to Trinidad — Breach between Monroe 
and Livingston— Monroe in England— English Fears of Fulton's Boat- 
Colony Trade— King to Gore — Approves of Gore's Conduct in Connection 
with his Commission — Light in which Louisiana Treaty is viewed in the 
U. S. — Livingston's Memorial indiscreet — Monroe should have explained 
the Sentiments of his Government — Gore to King — Schools in France for 
his Boys — Volunteers in England training — Russia may interfere for Spain — 
Louisiana — Monroe — Madison does not notice his Communications — Mary- 
land Bank Stock — Miranda not permitted to sail — No new Treaty with 
G. B. at Present— King to Gore— Louisiana Treaty ratified— Conduct 
of Spain causes much Speculation — He knows little of public Affairs — 
King to Pickering — Slavery in Louisiana, should not Effort be made to 
prevent it — Would alter the Constitution to confine Representation and 
Taxation to free Inhabitants — King to Gore — Proceedings in Congress — 
Jerome Bonaparte in America — Account of their Friends — King to Gore — 
Government will take Possession of Louisiana — Gore to King — Claims an 
Outfit — Alarm of Invasion subsiding — Monroe presents a Memorial on 
Impressment of Seamen. 

C. Gore to R. King. 

London, 21st Octr., 1803. 
My dear Friend : 

. . . Our acounts from N. York, which are to the 8th Septem- 
ber, painfully convince us of the ravages of the yellow fever, and 
that no abatement can be expected during the coming season. 
I have heard that some hopes were entertained of a return of Con- 
gress to N. York or Philadelphia. Should such an event have 
been calculated on, the sickness of your city at the present will 
be a powerful argument against the choice of that. The acquisi- 
tion of Louisiana takes from Washington its character of central, 
and probably the Southern gentlemen may carry us deeper into 
the ancient dominion ; though I confess it is not very important 

313 

314 fiUFUS KING. [1803 

to my mind, for at the rate we are proceeding it is not certain we 
shall remain united much longer. 

It is said an Embargo is imposed on all vessels bound to 
Portugal or Spain, and I presume the ministry is at length driven 
to the necessity of accepting the war against the latter of these 
powers. J/ [iranda] has absolute assurances from the Govern- 
ment that he shall be dispatched shortly to Trinidad. I saw a 
note from Vansittart to M ; saying that they only waited for 
Nepean to recover a little strength (he is quite sick) four vaguer 
vos affaires. The administration has applied to Sir Francis 
Baring to be the medium, thro* whom every thing is to be arranged, 
prepared & shipt for the expedition. Fullarton is here. M. was 
to see him again last evening ; he has already had one conversa- 
tion with him, F. visiting him before he saw the ministers. When 
every thing is settled, M. will write you, and this will be in a few 
days. 

The breach, I think, widens between Monroe & Livingston. 
The former supposes the latter detains his letters in Paris and 
assumes all the merit of the Louisiana Convention, while he 
humbly refrains from appropriating any to himself, but every thing 
to the superior wisdom, determined yet prudent conduct of the 
President. He however is said to deny that any other causes 
than these had the least influence on Bonaparte and that peace or 
war in Europe, the result would have been the same ! ! Ham- 
mond, whom I see frequently, and who always receives me kindly 
and confidentially, told me a few days since that neither he nor 
Ld. H. had seen Monroe, but twice since his arrival in England, ex- 
cept at the Levee, and that all his time was passed in sucking in 
wisdom from Consul E., and a few other democrats. He has no 
secretary now. Alston, the young painter, visited him for a pass- 
port : he replied that being without a secretary & so extremely 
pressed for time, he could not conveniently attend to making out 
one, and desired him to go to the Consul. But as the young man 
is going on the continent, he is informed that one from the Minis- 
ter is at least more useful, if not absolutely necessary to his 
safety. Indeed I believe they take & detain the Consular certifi- 
cate at the Alien office on embarking. So far as I learn any thing 
of M., I am satisfied he has neither the inclination, nor capacity to 
do the smallest good here ; neither do I believe it consistent with 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 315 

his idea of propriety that he should even know what is passing in 
E. or on the Continent. I do not express these opinions to any 
one else, for besides it being otherwise improper, they would be 
imputed to very different motives than the real ones. 

I think Hammond has some very odd fears relative to Fulton's 
boat & its power of blowing up the British Navy. H. says he has 
learned from several quarters that L. and his family received 
very large grants of land prior to the sale, but I do not believe it. 
Bingham (who, by the way, thinks his conversations with Talley- 
rand effected the Convention) does not suppose that conveyances 
of land were made to any individuals prior to the cession, but you 
know he gives himself credit for full as much knowledge as the 
world thinks him entitled to. Alexr. Baring, who is now with you, 
will be more likely to know than any one here. The Commission 
at^Paris is at a stand, the Commissioners not being able to con- 
strue the convention, and waiting for instructions from the 
Government. The cause why our citizens are to be paid in specie 
rather than in stock, may be found in the character & connections 
of the creditors — at least a censorious world will say so. 

I am now filing my opinion on the colony trade, and having 
come across an old paper of yours with some remarks on this 
subject, I shall take the liberty to offer them as my own, they 
concurring with my sentiments & better expressed than I could 
expect to do myself. 1 sent you the Times by a ship lately bound 
for N. York, and when opport. offers, will send you a further file. 
The Editors of this paper have become outrageously ministerial. 
The pieces on the late negotiations shall likewise be forwarded. 
With affectionate attachment to Mrs. King & the children, I 

Remain faithfully yours. 

C. Gore. 

R. King to C. Gore, London. 

New York, Oct. 24, 1803. 
My dear Friend : 

. . . I congratulate you that your Business is so nearly fin- 
ished that you are able to look forward with confidence to your 
return early in the Spring. ... In regard to the insinuation 
that it seems has been made at Washington, that you were inclined 

316 RUFUS KING. [1803 

to prolong your residence unnecessarily in England, and wh. 
could have proceeded only from the malignity and envy of some 
falsehearted Jacobin, I wonder that you suffered it to engage a 
second thought. The truth is, my Dr. Sir, that you are too honest 
& too virtuous, that you have too much regard for your own repu- 
tation and your duty to the Public, not to be the object of Jacobin 
hatred and persecution ; and I am only surprized that you do not 
consider the proofs of this hatred, as the highest evidence of your 
own integrity rather than as that sort of attack agt. which a good 
man feels impelled to defend himself. Be persuaded that we live 
in times, when it behooves a man to make his election between the 
upright performance of his duty to God & his Country, with the 
persecution of triumphant Jacobinism, and the corrupt and de- 
grading violation of these sacred duties, with the Hosannas of this 
abominable sect. No man who knows you or whose good opinion 
is an object of desire, wd. believe this insinuation. 

Here as far as I am able to judge, those who know anything of 
the Proceedings of your Board, consider them as highly honour- 
able to yr. character and, except that your prudence has naturally 
contributed to remove Jacobin complaints agt. England, even the 
privileged cast do not revile you in my hearing. . . . 

I don't enclose the President's message, as it will have reached 
Engd. before my letter. The prominent point respects Louisiana ; 
the cession whereof is ascribed to " the just Discernment of the 
Enlightened Government of France " instead of that posture of 
things which wd. have prevented its occupation by France until 
she shd. have first acquired the consent of England. As § of the 
Senate are of the faithful sect, there can be no question abt. the 
Ratification, unless some scruple shd. arise abt. the constitutional 
powers of Congress to admit a new State (which the Treaty re- 
requires) including territory not within the limits of the U. S. 
But this scruple, if it exists, will be so managed that France may 
have no occasion to be dissatisfied. As the Treaty has not been 
published, the Public know little of its Provisions, and hence the 
newspapers have (as I am informed for I see but one or two) been 
on all sides pretty silent. Little and indeed less has been said in 
its favor than agt. it. I believe that I have before insinuated a 
doubt whether the Govt, has seen this treaty in the advantageous 
light in which it has been regarded by the Envoys ; tho' this 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 317 

hesitation will not prevent its acceptance, any more than the claim 
of merit that will be bottomed upon its being concluded. There 
is no doubt that parts of the Govt., if not the whole, think a 
better bargain might and ought under existing Circumstances to, 
have been made, and it is quite possible that the chief agt. on our 
part may not receive those testimonies of satisfaction that he may 
think his almost exclusive due. Whether this may be so or not, 
it is understood that he has asked leave to come home next spring 
and from the manner in which the family here is treated by their 
chiefs, it wd. not be surprizing shd. he return dissatisfied and that 
he and his name might shew a disposition to return to their former 
Party. Should this be the case, if I mistake not, the ruling party 
wd. give them up willingly, feeling themselves strong enow to 
shake them off ; and rid themselves of their numerous claims for 
office. 

I don't know what important object, if any, is to engage the 
attention of Congress during the present Session. It seems that 
the proposition to amend the Constitution so as that the votes for 
President & Vice President may be distinguished, is to be sub- 
mitted to the several State Legislatures without delay, and I am 
told that such is the composition of these Legislatures that it is 
likely that this alteration will be approved by the constitutional 
proportion of them. . . . 

The memorial to which you refer in a late letter, was to say the 
least, a most indiscreet effusion — and considering the avowed 
opinion of our own Govt, relative to the principles of the Northern 
confederation as well as the decision wh. G. Britain has shown in 
opposition to these pretended Rules or Principles, prudence must 
condemn the utterance of sentiments so false and obnoxious as 
some of those contained in Mr. Ls. memorial. 

If Monroe has done his duty, he has anticipated all complaint 
by such observations, authorized by the tenour of the instructions 
of the Present Govt, to the Legation at London, as would without 
a formal disavowal, satisfy the Eng. Cabinet that these exception- 
able expressions and sentiments were not dictated by his Govt. 
If he has not done this, it wd. not surprise me if our Gt. were 
called upon for an explanation upon that head. I hope this may 
not happen, as it wd. involve the Govt, in a dilemma from which 
it wd. be extremely difficult to extricate itself, and shd. the sub- 

318 RUFUS KING. [1803 

ject be pushed too briskly, it is possible that the Govt, might 
think itself forced to avoid what it wd. never attempt to enforce, 
if left to itself. 

I have some thoughts of going on to Washington this autumn, 
but shall know so few people there, and have so little pleasure in 
hearing the croakings of those I do know, that I think it proba- 
ble that my natural indolence will prevail. Were you snug at 
Waltham, I do really believe that the earnest desire we have to 
see you and Mrs. Gore would overcome all my indolence and that 
we should post off without a week's delay to embrace you. Our 
family is well and we all write in affectionate regards to you and 
yours. 

Faithfully and always yr. 

R. K. 

C. Gore to R. King. 

London, Nov. i, 1803. 
My dear Friend : 

Our last letters from you are of the 6th Sept., and then the 
yellow fever was continuing its ravages. Since then we learn of 
it at Philadelphia and Alexandria. You will see by the papers 
that the vaccine inoculation is supposed by some to prevent 
any one taking the plague. For this year I hope the country by 
the present day is free. Here the weather is extremely cold & 
without rain. We have scarcely known twenty-four hours rain 
since July came in, & some accounts say the wheat is light, 
which certainly was to be expected from the dryness of the 
season. . . . 

The Volunteers are training and those of London have been 
reviewed, as P. Porcupine says by the King & Mr. Sheridan. 
They amounted to upwards of 30,000, and I have no doubt that 
these and the other volunteers about the country, should Bona- 
parte be enabled to execute his threats of invasion, would fight 
well and bravely for their King & their own independence : 
but should he not soon come, the spirit will flag & they be- 
come sick of their new trade. Ulterior consequences, and cer- 
tainly of a very serious nature are to be apprehended, as you justly 
remark from such an immense body, though the system, you will 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 319 

see, is materially changed from what it was on Mr. Addington's 
introduction. There are now probably somewhere about 400,000 
volunteers in this Kingdom, and of this number it is not impossi- 
ble many may have, on some future day, very different views 
from the Monarch, the Nobles & the rich commoners. This is 
an evil, however, entirely overlooked at the present day in the ex- 
treme hour of a French invasion. Yet, I think the temper of the 
nation is now sanguine & confident of success. The merchants 
here are really, I believe, desirous of the attempt being made, but 
it is very much, I fear, in the mercantile idea — horce momento 
cita mors venit aut victoria laeta. They are uneasy at the embar- 
rassments thrown in the way of their commerce, and think that, 
should Bonaparte be defeated in his projected invasion, their 
manufactures & the produce of their colonies would find a sure 
market, & the returns flow regularly back. When we calculate 
the chances against him, it is scarcely possible to believe he will 
attempt crossing the channel, yet every thing indicates this to be 
his intention. From Brest & Ferrol it is expected he will make 
the attempt to throw a large force into Ireland. 

Vessels were prohibited sailing to Portugal & Spain for some 
days. It was then said, this was merely to prevent their sailing 
without convoy, & the restriction has been taken off. Probably 
on reflection it was found nothing Spanish or Portuguese could be 
detained here, while the measure would be ground of a retaliation, 
that would be extremely injurious to the British subjects, who 
have considerable property there. I rather suspect there was 
some gaucherie in the business. Accounts are daily expected 
from Spain & Portugal which will no longer leave to England an 
option in her relative state to these two powers. The papers this 
evening, just come in & which you will have, seem to render it 
possible that Russia may interfere in behalf of Spain. If so, I 
pity M. [iranda], for in such case my belief is this Govt, could do 
nought. . . . 

Our friends are now busy on the great subject of Louisiana ; 
a subject which I am sure will soon change, and in a very material 
view, the relations of the different States. I have already under- 
stood, that the Eastern States are now contemplated as of no 
weight in the scale, and of course not entitled to any influence. 
Every thing that the present administration wishes to effect may 

320 RUFUS KING. [1803 

be done through the Western States, now fast bound by the ties 
of gratitude. The wealth of the Southern & Western States will 
soon leave us far in the rear on that score, as we already are on 
that of population. 

A deep misfortune undoubtedly will be felt from the rude & 
uncultivated minds of those, who will soon have such a prepon- 
derating influence in our federal politics. Wise men should turn 
their thoughts to what is to be the next chapter in our ever vary- 
ing systems : for I really believe that the present is nearly read 
through, a few, but very few verses remain ; and those, probably 
like some of the old testament ones, full of hard names. Mr. 
Monroe, I hear for I never see him, is without a Secretary. 
Your former Sec. has much leisure now and could assist the 
Minister & himself too, but nothing I presume would induce him 
to take the man you or I employed. I frequently am told of the 
complaints he makes at being obliged to fill a few passports — it is 
only a few, for most of those who require them, unless going on 
the continent, are taught to confide in the Consuls. 

Notwithstanding I wrote Mr. Madison several letters, giving to 
the Government an exact state of what was passing here & on the 
continent, so far as I knew, which accounts have all proved true, 
also in answer to several things committed by them to my charge, 
yet I have received not a line from any member of the adminis- 
tration. This was in some measure the more necessary, as Erving 
here wrote me an impertinent letter on my communicating to 
him, by desire of Lord Hawkesbury, the blockade of the Elbe, 
and also one to L? H. to know whether he might rely on the in- 
formation which Mr. Gore had pleased to communicate. A copy 
of this letter, as well as those impudent notes he wrote you & me, 
last autumn, on the subject of passports, I am told, he sent to the 
Government. Civility, I think, would have dictated to the Secry. 
the fitness of some reply to my letters, all these circumstances 
considered ; I am further told that he was prepared, had you left 
any person charge d' affaires, to have made a formal & public pro- 
test against the act, and against the pretension of such charge. 
These are trifles, but among friends, they are interesting. They 
show the impudence of some men & the strange opinions of others, 
for P. told me he thought the minister on quitting had no authority 
to name a charge* d' affaires ; so it is presumable this intention was 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 32 1 

duly reflected on, advised and determined. The Govt, of the 
United S. & of Maryland have united in empowering P. to nego- 
tiate & settle the Bank Stock business, leaving him no discretion 
to offer more for the settlement of the claim of the man who re- 
fuses to acquiesce, than the amount of Russel's demand, which 
sum the State is willing should be appropriated to this object, as 
it is relieved from that. No answer has yet been obtained from 
the discontented man — I forget his name — and they have not 
been able to see the Atty. Genl. P. in his new character has been 
formally introduced to Lord Hawkesbury by Monroe. His 
powers were received before M's arrival. I trust he will see 
reason, why greater progress has not been made in the business 
in time past. ... 

Yours ever & faithfully, 

C. Gore. 

Trumbull has returned to Bath, where he purposes remaining 
until Dec. He has written me, making very affectionate enquiries 
after your health, &c. He is a good fellow & worthy of a better 
fate, but when a man arrives at years of discretion, & chooses for 
himself, he can blame no one. 

2 1 st Nov. Mr. Addington declines, for the present, giving his 
permission to the expedition of M., but promises that so soon as 
Spain makes the war, it shall proceed. Nepean shews him letters 
by which it appears, that several ships of the Line are fitting out 
at Carthagena, for the purpose of joining the French at Toulon ; 
and others, from whence it amounts to an high probability, that 
an armament is preparing at Ferrol to make the attempt from 
thence for the invasion of Ireland. But he, A., mistrusts all in- 
formation from the admiralty relative to Spain, because the Navy 
is anxious for a Spanish war. Things therefore are at a stand 
in regard to S. A. . . . Davidson prepares all that is necessary 
for the expedition & Nepean says in a very few weeks after 
Mr. A. shall give his sanction, the business shall proceed, and 
news is anxiously looked for from Spain, which shall even con- 
vince the incredulous Doctor. It is understood that a large 
sum was raised in Lisbon, and chiefly from British Merchants 
there, by which Lannes was induced to pledge his master's word 
that Portugal should not be invaded for six months. Miranda 

VOL. IV.— 21 

322 RUFUS KING. [1803 

desires me to say to you that he has agreed to the suspension 
of his project ; and remains here, because he supposes such a de- 
rangement has taken place in N. York, owing to the yellow fever, 
that no dependance can be made on anything from thence ; and 
that he hopes to hear from you. On the whole I think he can 
depend on no effort in his behalf here until Spain makes the war, 
or some opposition shall drive the minister from his pacific pur- 
poses. Spain has sent 1600 men to reinforce her troops either at 
Carthagena or La Vera Cruz. 

You will see Cobbett in his last paper goes upon the idea that 
there was some foundation for the communication in some of the 
papers relative to the discussion on the subject of a new treaty 
between the U. S. & G. B. . . . I saw H. on Saturday ; he says 
they never see or hear of M., & so far as regards their office, he 
might as well be in Virginia. He thinks that if our Govt, have any 
wishes relative to the commercial relations of the two countries, 
it becomes them to make the proposal. Every one must know 
that E. is now too much occupied with what is much more inter- 
esting, to advance any propositions. He supposes some Jacobin 
made those insertions in the newspapers to answer some purpose. 
Cobbett, you see, presumes that this Govt, did for the purpose of 
preparing the country for great sacrifices or a rupture. I under- 
stand from another quarter, that it is supposed to be exceeding 
wise policy, to let France see that we suffer our treaty with 
G. B. to die, & that we have no wish of making another, so we 
may attain favour in the eyes of Bonaparte. H. has information 
that Hayley is about sailing from N. York with a vessel, fitted for 
a privateer, with guns in her hold, and, after she is out, to place 
her guns on deck & cruize against the English. As he is going to 
France, Tom Paine is to be his passenger. They are in great 
hopes of taking him in which all good men will wish them success. 
English goods now find a market on the Continent, & large quan- 
tities are shipt thither. Many Frenchmen come to London & 
purchase largely with cash. Mrs. Mallet yesterday informed Mrs. 
Gore that the minister was certainly going home this ensuing 
Spring. He will not come here previous to his embarking, I pre- 
sume. Some person reports from Paris, that he denies all merit 
in the gentleman here in obtaining the late convention, and this 
very publickly, & assumes the whole to himself, imputing it 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 323 

entirely in his superior address and wisdom. Merry, as I told 
you, had orders to remonstrate against his famous memoire. 
Lord H. directed him to communicate the reply to you. . . . 
My affectionate regards to Mrs. King. 

Yrs. truly & ever, 

C. Gore. 

R. King to C. Gore, London. 

New York, Nov. i, 1803. 

My dr. Sir : 

There being a large and willing majority of both Houses of 
Congress of the true sect, the measures of the Ex. will receive no 
impediment. Great is the Prophet, and in the whole earth there 
is none to be likened unto him, is the language of the faithful ! ^ 
The Louisiana Treaty has been ratified and the H, of R. is 
engaged in preparing such laws respecting it as are called for by 
the President, and this in contempt of the Remonstrance of the 
Spanish Minister, who declares that the Conditions on wh. Spain 
promised to cede not having been performed, the Country is still 
her property. 

The Conduct of Spain is the occasion of various and unsatisfac- 
tory speculations. Some believe that France having the offer of a 
better price from Spain is at the bottom of the Opposition ; others 
allege that Spain is encouraged by G. Br., while the majority, not 
regarding Spain as an independent power and looking on the 
French Govt, as enlightened, honest & powerful, rely upon it that 
the opposition will not be persisted in. 

As I know nothing about it, the subject engages no part of my 
attention ; and, to say the truth, I consider the state and tendency 
of the Country such that an upright and prudent man, to be 
happy, shd. know little of our public affairs. You and I cannot 
alter certain opinions which we entertain and wh. are confirmed 
bv experience, as well as by those authorities which our educa- 
tion and habits enable us to consult. With those opinions we are 
proscribed by those whose best interests and happiness wd. be 
promoted by their observance ; hence the course which a wise 
man shd. in these circumstances pursue is too clearly marked out 
to be neglected. 

324 RUFUS KING. [1803 

It is our Duty to seek those models with which past time 
abounds, and to imitate their Conduct in retirement, rather than 
to engage in the desperate strife of factions. . . . 

Our fever is nearly or quite over. The Bankers, public officers, 
&c, are returning to town, and in the course of the week the town 
will be full again. We remain where we are some weeks longer, 
and until we can open and put up our furniture. 

Yr. assured Friend, 

Rufus King. 

R. King probably to Col. Pickering. 

New York, Nov. 4, 1803. 
Dear Sir : 

Congress may admit new States, but can the Executive by treaty 
admit them, or, what is equivalent, enter into engagements binding 
Congress to do so ? As by the Louisiana Treaty, the ceded terri- 
tory must be formed into States, & admitted into the Union, is it 
understood that Congress can annex any condition to their ad- 
mission ? if not, as Slavery is authorized & exists in Louisiana, 
and the treaty engages to protect the Property of the inhabitants, 
will not the present inequality, arising from the Representation of 
Slaves, be increased ? 

As the provision of the Constitution on this subject may be re- 
garded as one of its greatest blemishes, it would be with reluctance 
that one could consent to its being extended to the Louisiana 
States ; and provided any act of Congress or of the several states 
should be deemed requisite to give validity to the stipulation of 
the treaty on this subject, ought not an effort to be made to limit 
the Representation to the free inhabitants only ? Had it been 
foreseen that we could raise revenue to the extent we have done, 
from indirect taxes, the Representation of Slaves wd. never have 
been admitted ; but going upon the maxim that taxation and 
Representation are inseparable, and that the Genl. Govt, must re- 
sort to direct taxes, the States in which Slavery does not exist, 
were injudiciously led to concede to this unreasonable provision 
of the Constitution. On account of the effect upon the public 
opinion, produced by alterations of the fundamental Laws of a 
Country, we should hesitate in proposing what may appear to be 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. $2$ 

beneficial ; but I know no one alteration of the Constitution of 
the U. S. which I would so readily propose, as to confine repre- 
sentation and taxation to the free inhabitants. . . . 

Yr. obt. & faithful Servt. 

Rufus King. 

R. King to C. Gore, London. 

New York, Nov. 20, 1803. 
My dear Friend : 

. . A day or two since I saw one of the members of the 
H. of R. who is here on leave of absence ; he is of the ruling sect, 
and says all is going on well, that the Spanish Ambassador's re- 
monstrance will retard nothing in the measures for occupying 
Louisiana, and that the Ambassador himself says no opposition 
will be made by the Govt. ; if so this business will produce no im- 
mediate Embarrassment. 

We yesterday had a Rumour that Mr. Dawson is named Govr. 
of the new acquisition ; but whether this be so, I know not. 
Already as I hear in Connecticut as well as the upper part of this 
State, they are beginning to talk of moving to Louisiana, the 
country which will produce sugar & cotton & corn, &c. &c. ! ! ! 
and there can be no doubt that the project of reserving the Lands 
west of the Mississippi tor posterity will be defeated by the Emi- 
grants of the Eastern and Western States. 

The proposed amendment to the Constitution respecting the 
Election of President & Vice President has passed the House, 
and is before the Senate where its fate is sd. to be doubtful. Mr. 
Adams is supposed to approve the alteration, with an alteration 
the purport whereof is not mentioned. Mr. Dayton proposes to 
abolish the office of V. President, & what other schemes may be 
proposed is more than I know. 

In the order of important communications I shd. inform you 
that citizen Jerome Bonaparte arrived here last Evening : he has 
passed some months at Baltimore, a fortnight at Philadelphia, and 
how long he is to honour us with his residence is not foretold. 
At Baltimore he was on the point of being married to a daughter 
of Mr. W. Patterson, but fortunately the young lady was persuaded 
to make a visit to Virginia. The young Prince is said to spend a 

326 RUFUS KING, [1803 

great deal of money which the Span, ambassador is good enough 
to supply. 

To pass from trifles to what is really interesting, I have a word 
to say respecting some of our friends, Mr. Jay lives retired upon 
his farm at Bedford, W. Chester, 50 miles from Town, which he 
has not visited these last two years. We expect to see him here 
this winter. Excepting the solitude of his situation I hear he lives 
much at his ease and enjoys tolerable health. . . . 

Benson is the same man I left him, except a little older, he 
has been at Boston during the fever, says all our friends are well 
there except Ames, of whom he gives but an indifferent acct. 
Having himself formerly reed, advantage by a voyage to Amster- 
dam, he recommends to Ames to go to the E. Indies for his 
health ! 

Hamilton is at the head of his profession, and in the annual 
rect. of a handsome income. He lives wholly at his house 9. 
miles from town so that on an average he must spend three hours 
a day on the road going and returning between his house and 
town, which he performs four or five days each week. I don't 
perceive that he meddles or feels much concerning Politics. He 
has formed very decided opinions of our System as well as of our 
administration, and as the one and the other has the voice of the 
country, he has nothing to do but to prophecy ! 

G. Morris, who has laid out over 50 or 60 M Dollars in build- 
ings and alterations at Morrisania lives much to his own taste en 
garfon, receives his friends on Sundays, keeps a good look and 
can talk as decidedly and agreeably, provided you have no theory 
to defend or suggest, as anyone. . . . 

Owing to the fever, which has wholly disappeared, we have 
seen very little of the manners and society of our city since 
our return ; but I think I have such a glimpse already as by 
a sort of anticipation enables one to form a pretty correct opinion 
of them. Jay is a recluse, a rigorous one, and tho' not precisely 
from the same motives, I am not sure that I shd. not prefer the 
like Retreat in preference to the enjoyment of our City Society. . . . 
With affectionate regards &c 

R. K. 

1803] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. Z27 

R. King to C. Gore, London. 

New York, Dec. 7, 1803. 
My dr. Sir : 

Our last letters from you were by Mr. Merry, who after a rough 
passage over the ocean and a tedious one up the Chesapeake, 
reached Washington last week. I wish he may find himself tol- 
erably comfortable there, as otherwise his reports will be shaded 
with the discontents he may himself feel. 

The Spanish minister delivered a memorial respecting the sur- 
render of Louisiana, expressing the disinclination of his court 
to comply. The Govt, has notwithstanding determined to take 
possession and a force sufft. to do so, even in case of opposition, 
is ordered to march. I, however, understand that it is not probable 
that any opposition will be made. Except the occasion and con- 
versation that one hears respecting this cession, we have no domes- 
tic object which engages the pub. attention. "Whether you are 
invaded in Engd., or will be invaded during the Winter, is a fruitful 
source of dispute. I arn a believer that you have not been invaded, 
and that it is not the purpose of Bonaparte to invade England, but 
that his real object is Ireland. 

Our commerce and navigation are checked rather than in- 
creased by the war. The shutting up of Hamburgh and the Reg- 
ulations of France abt. Eng. Manures & Produce, are embarrass- 
ments to our trade. Freights are very low. . . . 

Your faithful friend 
R. K. 

C. Gore to R. King. 

London, December 7, 1803. 
My dear Friend : 

... I have a friendly letter from Col. Pickering, in answer 
to one written him on the subject of our outfit * and it has relieved 
my mind from the only anxiety it has suffered, on that subject ; 

* In a previous letter Mr. Gore had written that at the instigation of Mr. 
Pinkney an application would be made to the Government by the Commissioners 
under the 7th Article of the Treaty of Peace for the payment to them of an 
outfit. He had joined in this particularly because of the wants of Mr. P. who 
44 had been encouraged to believe the Government would acknowledge its 
propriety and accede to the request." Mr. G. would of course benefit by it if 
granted. 

328 RUFUS KING. [1803 

for all my fears were, that our own friends might disapprove of 
the application. As to the final issue of the claim, or the manner 
in which the Government & its friends shall please to regard and 
treat it, I have not the smallest concern. Pinkney would never 
have forgiven me, had I not joined in the request, and thinking 
as he did upon the subject, he might have had just cause to blame 
my declining to submit the justice" of the claim to the Govern- 
ment. I enquired of Mr. Hammond to-day, if there were any 
reason to believe that Russia*was about to change her politics ? 
His reply was that they had not the least intelligence from which 
they could draw any inference. The alarm of invasion seems fast 
subsiding, though no doubt is entertained of the intention to in- 
vade Ireland from Brest, should Admiral Cornwallis be blown off. 
The manner in which this Admiral has kept his station does not 
afford Bonaparte a very" good j prospect, and perhaps he is now 
raising a pretext by the levy 'of 'contributions in the Northern 
States and petty powers,|for the diversion of his forces from the 
sea. . . . 

Mr. Monroe has lately presented a very temperate memorial on 
the subject of seamen impressed. Not a word has ever passed 
relative to a renewal of the oldjtreaty,"or the making of a new one. 
This I understand not from M., whom I have seen only once, 
though we are on very good terms these three months. M was here 
this morning, and desired Mrs. G. to tell me that his affairs were 
in good train, but I know nothing further — undoubtedly every- 
thing depends on thejdetermination that may be made, whether 
peace shall continue to subsist between the two countries. . . . 

Ever yours 

C. Gore. 

CHAPTER XXII. 

Boundaries Convention with England — Madison to King — King to Madison — 
Answer removing Objections — Madison to King. Mr. Merry's etiquette 
Claims — Gore to King — Personal — Louisiana — Bonaparte's Invasion of 
England. Livingston's Position — Ingelsoll to King — House in New York 
— King to Ingersoll — House rented and occupied — Gore to King — Corn- 
wallis watching Brest — King's Views relative to Louisiana — King to Gore 
— Invasion of England — Louisiana Convention — Col. Burr and the Feder- 
alists— Miranda — Merry — Gore to King — Merry and sombre Dispatches — 
Lord Hawkesbury's Opinion — Government seem to consider this a studied 
Affront — Erving told Memorials were not received from Consuls — Gore to 
King— The King's Sickness— Maryland Bank Stock adjusted— Gore about 
returning Home. 

The Convention for the eastern and northwestern boun- 
daries which had been negotiated by Mr. King with the 
British Government, was laid before the Senate for advice 
and consent as to its ratification. Some doubt was felt in 
that body as to whether it conflicted with the Louisiana 
treaty, the signature of which was of an earlier date than 
that of the Boundary Convention. Mr. Henry Adams gives 
an account of the facts concerning this hesitation which the 
following letters will show to be incorrect so far as Mr. King 
is concerned. Speaking of Mr. Merry, he says : 

"At the moment when he was, as he thought, socially mal- 
treated, and when he was told by Madison that America meant 
to insist on her neutral rights, he learned that the Government 
did not intend to ratify Rufus King's boundary convention. The 
Senate held that the stipulations of its fifth article respecting the 
Mississippi might embarrass the new territory west of the river. 
King knew of the Louisiana cession when he signed the treaty ; 

329 

330 RUFUS KING, [1803- 

. : 

but the Senate had its own views on the subject, and under the 
lead of General Smith preferred to follow them, as it had done in 
regard to the second article of the treaty with France, Sept. 30, 
1800, and as it was about to do in regard to Pinckney's claims 
convention, Aug. 11, 1802, with Spain. Merry was surprised to 
find Madison, instead of explaining the grounds of the Senate's 
hesitation, or entering into a discussion of the precise geographi- 
cal difficulty, contented himself with a bald statement of the fact. 
The British Minister thought this was not the most courteous way 
of dealing with a treaty negotiated after a full acquaintance with 
all the circumstances, and he wrote to his government to be on its 
guard, &c, &c." 

Mr. Madison could not give the reasons why the Senate 
refused to ratify the Convention, because that body refused 
to withdraw the injunction of secrecy, and therefore they 
were unknown to him. As regards Mr. King's knowledge 
of the cession of Louisiana at the time when he signed the 
Convention, his answer to the Committee of the Senate, of 
which John Quincy Adams was Chairman, inquiring about 
the fact, explicitly denied it and thus removed that objec- 
tion to its ratification. 

James Madison to R. King. 

Washington, Dec. 4, 1803. 
Dear Sir : 

I cannot better fulfill the object of the Committee of which Mr. 
Adams is chairman, than by enclosing you his letter to me accom- 
panying it. Writing from my house, where a copy cannot be con- 
veniently taken, I am induced to avoid delay by sending you the 
original which I ask the favor of you to return with your answer. 
With great esteem I remain 

Your most obedt. servt. 

James Madison. 
[Endorsed by R. King.] 

Copy of letter referred to : 

Sir: 

Some difficulty having arisen in the Senate, in considering the 
expediency of advising and consenting to the ratification of 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 331 

the Treaty of limits, between the U. S. & G. B., signed on the 
1 2th of May, 1803, a comtee. of that body has been appointed to 
enquire and report upon the subject. 

The difficulty arises from the circumstance that the Treaty 
with the French republic^containing the cession of Louisiana, 
was signed on the 30th of April twelve days earlier than that 
with G. Br. and some apprehension is entertained that the Boun- 
dary line contemplated in the 3rd art. of ye. latter, may by a 
possible future construction be pretended to operate as a limita- 
tion to the claims of territory acquired by the U. S. in the former 
of these Instruments. 

But as the Ratification, if it can be effected, without unneces- 
sary delay is a desirable object, it has occurred to the committee 
that Mr. King, may possibly have it in his power to give informa- 
tion which might remove the obstacle ; I have therefore in behalf 
of the comtee. to ask whether from any information in possession 
of your Department, or wh. may be obtained, in such manner as 
you may deem expedient, it can be ascertained whether the 3rd 
art. of the Treaty with G. Br. was concluded with any reference 
whatsoever to that with the Fr. Rep., or with any Right or claim 
wh. the U. S. have acquired by it. 

I am, etc., 
[Signed.] J. Q. Adams. 

Copy of a letter from Mr. King : 

New York, Dec. 9, 1803. 
Sir : 

The draft of the convention with Great Britain respecting 
boundaries, having been settled in previous conferences, was 
drawn up and sent by me to Lord Hawkesbury on the nth of 
April ; on the 12th of May the convention was signed without the 
alteration of a word of the original draft ; and on the 15 of May 
the letter of Messrs. Livingston & Monroe (a copy of which was 
annexed to my No. 100) announcing the treaty of cession with 
France, was received and communicated by me to Lord Hawkes- 
bury. At the date of the signature of the convention with Great 
Britain, I had no knowledge of the Treaty with France and have 
reason to be satisfied, that Lord Hawkesbury was equally unin- 

332 RUFUS KING. [1803- 

formed of it. It results that the Convention was concluded with- 
out any reference whatsoever to the Treaty of Cession with 
France. With much respect &c. 

[Signed.] Rufus King, 

Secretary of State. 

James Madison to R. King. 

Private. 

Washington, Dec. 18, 1803. 
Dear Sir : 

I have reed, and communicated to the Committee of the Senate 
the information contained in your favor of the 9th which clearly 
shows that the Convention of May 12, with G. Br. is not to be 
construed by any reference to that of April 30, with France. 

I am mortified at troubling you on a subject which more than 
any other is in itself unworthy the attention of either of us, but 
which is obtruded on mine by sensibilities in others which neither 
public prudence nor social considerations will allow to be dis- 
regarded. Since the arrival of Mr. Merry & his lady,* several 
points of ceremony have started up, with respect to which it will 
be convenient to learn the usage abroad, particularly in England, 
where your station must have involved some acquaintance with 
it. Will you allow me then to ask the following questions : 

1. On the arrival of a foreign minister, is the first visit paid by 
him or the ministers of the country ? 2. To which is the prece- 
dence given in scenes of a more public ceremony and of ordinary 
hospitalities ? 3. Is the order of attention precisely the same in 
the case of ladies, as of their husbands ? 

* " The President's contempt of courtly niceties caused some trouble in dip- 
lomatic circles. Merry, the new British Minister, took deep offense at the 
President's republican humors. Proceeding in full dress at an appointed hour 
to make his first official call, in company with the Secretary of State, he found 
the hall of audience empty, and instead, came upon the President in a narrow 
entry, from which he had to back out in order to get introduced ; Jefferson, 
appearing, to his amazement, in a slovenly undress, with slippers down at the 
heel and Connemara stockings. When he and his wife dined afterwards at the 
White House Jefferson took to the table, not Mrs. Merry, but the lady nearest 
him, the wife of the Secretary of State. This he conceived to be a new insult 
and, notwithstanding Monroe's wife was similarly treated at London, he de- 
clined further social hospitalities from the President, and when the latter made 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 333 

Our wish would be to unfetter social intercourse as well as 
public business as much as possible from ceremonious clogs, by 
substituting the pell mell ; but this may be rendered difficult by 
the pretentions & expectations opposed to it. And as it is proper 
that we should not be behind other nations either in civility or 
self-respect, it is well to know the manner in which other nations 
respect both us and themselves. This information will be per- 
tinent, whether a reciprocity in the object, or the right possessed 
in every country be exercised of establishing a practice for itself. 

To enable you to give the apter shape to your answer to the 
third enquiry, it may be proper to remark, that it refers among 
other particulars to that long used at the President's as well as 
elsewhere, of selecting the lady first handed to the table. In 
general this mark of civility has been shown to the ladies of for- 
eign Ministers ; but was it seems disapproved of and at one time 
varied by the last President. The practice of the present has 
been different, without however adverting to precedents, or rather 
supposing it to be conformable to them, and without an intimation 
of discontent anywhere, till the late occasion, which has produced 
it from several quarters. 

I will thank you not to delay your answer longer than you con- 
veniently may require. I would have preferred waiting till I have 
the promised pleasure of seeing you here, but that you make the 
weather a condition of your visit, and that some occasion may 
in the mean time arise, on which the information asked may be 
apropos. With great respect & esteem I am, Dear Sir, 

yr. mo. obedt. Servt. 

James Madison. 

overtures to arrange the difficulty administered an airy rebuke. D'Yrujo, who 
had acquiesced nearly three years in the President's practice, made common 
cause with Merry on this point. An explanation to the British Ministry fol- 
lowed. Merry's wife was thought to be the chief agent in producing what was 
a mere misunderstanding." — Note in Schouler, Hist, of U. States, vol. ii., p. 81. 

Mr. Henry Adams, Hist, of U. S., vol. ii., pp. 360 et sea., gives a full 
account of these matters and of the effect of his treatment on Mr. Merry, who 
deeply resented the slight which he considered had been put upon him, and it 
will be seen that his dispatches to his government reflected his feelings and 
gave an idea that the administration of Mr. Jefferson was determined to make 
more decided demands upon England for the settlement of pending questions. 

See also Mr. Madison's letters to Mr. Monroe, Letters, &c.t of James 
Madison, vol. ii., pp. 188, 195. 

334 XUFUS KING. [1803- 

Mr. Henry Adams, Hist, of U. States, vol. ii., p. 365, after 
quoting Mr. Jefferson's " Canons of Etiquette to be observed 
by the Executive," says: " Such according to Rufus King, 
whose aid was invoked on this occasion, was the usage in 
London." It is hardly probable that this is correct, and the 
Editor is at a loss to know from what source Mr. A. derived 
his information. A careful search for an answer by Mr. 
King to the letter of Mr. Madison, has been made but none 
can be found in the public correspondence or in that in the 
Editor's possession. As Mr. Madison's letter is marked 
private, the answer was probably also private. 

C. Gore to R. King. 

London, December 20, 1803. 
My dear Friend : 

. . . The Minerva arrived from Boston about a week since, 
and it is almost settled that we embark in her. She will probably 
quit this the beginning of March. . . . We exceedingly re- 
joice at your promise of visiting us next summer, and be assured 
we shall not rest satisfied without a performance. There are no 
persons whom it would afford us such sincere pleasure again to 
meet, and my own affairs & professional pursuits will not permit 
me for a year or two to move far from town. It is unnecessary 
for me to say that nothing would tempt me to engage in public 
life, under those who now rule our country, for nothing is more 
certain than that they would not employ me. Yet I may be 
permitted to remark, that so different are all their notions & con- 
duct from what I conceive wise & honest, that were their dispo- 
sitions towards me exactly the reverse of what I know them to 
be, mine could not change, and of course I could not move in 
their train. . . . 

It is to me inconceivable how men, entertaining a proper sense 
of duty, could proceed with such intemperate haste in ratifying 
the Louisiana treaty. That with Spain was, without any question, 
executory, so far as related to the cession of the country to 
France, and surely, they, who were about to oblige the U. S. to 
the payment of a large sum & the performance of other stipula- 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 335 

tions, ought to see that France had the right to convey. One 
would expect that such rash & imprudent measures could not 
fail to discover to the people, whose affairs they thus mismanage, 
their utter incapacity to preside over the concerns of a great 
nation. 

The expectation of Bonaparte's attempt to invade England 
daily lessens. The papers, which I send by this ship will (besides 
showing you, in the Courier, the opinion entertained of the Presi- 
dent's message) communicate the intelligence of a misunderstand- 
ing between Bavaria & Austria. Nothing more is yet known than 
the simple fact, as related in the papers. Whether it proceeds 
from the hasty & imprudent temper of the Elector, or from the 
intrigues of France to occasion a quarrel between those powers, 
and avail herself of this occasion to find plunder for her troops 
on the continent, and an apology for quitting the coast, is all 
matter of conjecture. It is said by some who pretend to know, 
that the character of England is rising and that of France falling 
in the eyes of Europe ; that these nations begin to see the justice 
of the British cause, and that the war is entirely owing to the 
ambition of the Consul. If such an alteration of sentiment has 
really been produced, in my opinion it is owing to a conviction 
on the part of those, who have changed their judgment, that 
Bonaparte can not execute his threats on England, & is therefore 
determined to turn his arms on them. . . . 

A letter came here a few days ago from Swan to young Mr. 
Higginson whom you know, saying that the Virginia faction 
thwarted all Mr. L's views ; that never was anything more abomi- 
nable than the attempt of M. to assume any share of the merit in 
gaining Louisiana ; that the Government only supported the 
claim of the latter to avoid the charge of misspending the public 
money in sending him out ; and, finally, that the Federalists 
ought to support him L. as Vice President at the next election, 
and begging him H. to write out so to his friends in America. From 
what is said in another quarter here, I have little doubt but the 
present administn. intend to discard him & his connections. It 
will rely entirely on Southern & Western influences for continuing 
in power and leave the Northern & Eastern States to perish for 
their ingratitude in poverty & disgrace. . . . 

Truly yours C. Gore. 

33^ RUFUS KING. [1803- 

A letter from Mr. Charles J. Ingersoll, who had been on 
very intimate social relations with Mr. King and his family in 
London during the former's residence in Europe, shows that 
he had not forgotten those from whom he had received much 
kindness. It is dated Dec. 6, 1803. 

" I am told you have bo't a house and are settling down in the 
Broadway. As you may suppose I often look towards you with 
pleasure and gratitude ; and for some weeks past I have been 
about enquiring of you and yours. 

" J'espere que madame se trouve a son aise dans la nouvelle 
maison, et qu'elle l'a meuble' et garni a son gout. I tender the 
homage of my most respectful consideration to Edward who I 
hope has found a Vauxhall in New York. Little Master Gore by 
this time, I guess, can ask for his bread and butter. 

" I am jogging along my professional path ; my father nudges 
me along, and the Governor has given me a publick room adjoin- 
ing the Court, where I have established my desk and armchair ; 
so that they say I do tolerably well. The U. S. Government looks 
to me like a salt monster, 180 miles too big ; * if it don't vanish I 
flatter myself it must dissolve. 

" Our State rulers threaten to toss away that excrescence on 
civilization, the bar ; and Counsellor Ingersoll declares he '11 go 
to New York — all the eminent lawyers have their eyes on one city 
or another to remove to in case of extremes." . . . 

R. King to Chas. J. Ingersoll. 

New York, December 21, 1803. 
Dear Sir : 

When we have but little to do, we are prone to lose our habits 
of regularity, and I can offer you no better excuse for my delay 
in replying to the obliging letter that I lately received from you. 
I am glad to hear that you have seriously taken an office and en- 
gaged in business, as I am firmly persuaded you will succeed to 

* A thought probably prompted by the publication by the President about 
this time of the existence of a mountain of pure rock-salt in Louisiana " 180 
miles long & 45 wide and 400 feet high," as one of the precious benefits derived 
by the purchase of that Province. 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 337 

your satisfaction and acquire distinction, if you have patience and 
will persevere. 

During our fever, we resided at Greenwich : about three weeks 
ago I gave up my house there and removed to town, having taken, 
not purchased as you had heard, Mr. Peter Livingston's house in 
Broadway. My lease will expire on May day, before which I 
must seek another habitation. Mrs. K. enjoys her health as she 
was accustomed to do before we went abroad, and better than at 
any period during our absence. Little Fritz bore the summer 
well and will, we hope, carry his rosy cheeks thro' the winter. 
Edward, who has for want of something better been a day 
scholar in a French school near my house in the country, is just 
preparing to go to Mr. Harris, a clergyman of good education 
and accustomed to the instruction of boys, who will receive him 
into his family. He lives a few miles out of town, so that I should 
have no apprehension in his remaining with him in the event of 
another fever. 

We often hear from our sons in England, who are, I flatter my- 
self, doing as well as I have any right to expect. From James 
(in Paris) we do not receive frequent accounts ; our last letter 
was written in September when he was well and happy. I had 
thought of bringing him home next spring, but I am so little satis- 
fied with our academies here, that I have determined to leave him 
abroad some time longer. 

As no one is more out of politics than I am, you must expect 
nothing from me on this interesting topic : I have talked about 
going to Washington in the course of the winter, but as I am snug 
by my fire side, with my books about me, I suspect my voyage 
will begin and end in talk. 

With sincere regard &c &c 

Rufus King. 

C. Gore to R. King. 

London, December 23, 1803. 
My dear Friend : 

. . . Col. Livingston left there (Paris) but not having given 
his address, it is very probable I may not see him. Notwithstand- 
ing what the papers chose to say on the subject, there is no 
probability that Talleyrand has confided anything to him. On, 

VOL. IV.— 22. 

338 RUFUS KING. [1803- 

Wednesday, Hammond did not believe that he was in England ; 
the papers said he arrived on Monday. The Courier will an- 
nounce the arrangement of the misunderstanding between Austria 
& Bavaria. Some of the gales have been tremendous, but, with 
the persevering spirit of a true Eng. Bull-dog, Cornwallis keeps 
his station off Brest. An idea is entertained that should the fleet 
come out, the British will waste their time and powder on the 
armed ships & that in the mean while the transports will be able 
to proceed with their troops. It is, however, said, that the in- 
tention is to pay the principal, if not their whole, attention to 
destruction of the transports. Occurrences daily happen, which 
go far to support an idea of the utter impracticability of crossing 
the channel hostilely in these flat bottom boats. 

Affectionately yours 

C. Gore. 

Dec. 29. . . . It is understood that some of Cornwallis* 
squadron have been obliged to come into port. The storm on 
Christmas day was extremely violent. I do not know the grounds, 
but by the appearances abroad, it would seem that the Admin, 
really expect the attempt at invasion will be shortly hazarded. 

yours as ever 

C. G. 

With this letter of Mr. Gore's, the correspondence for the 
year 1803 closes. Mr. King, as he says, was out of politics 
and was quietly enjoying the pleasure of social intercourse 
among the friends about him and the company of his books. 
But he seems to have been interested in the discussion of 
the different points suggested by the acquisition of 
Louisiana. Several papers are found among his manuscripts, 
which are given in an appendix. They appear to have been 
written for publication, but if they were published, they 
-cannot be traced. As however they present his views rela- 
tive to the extent of the Territory purchased, based upon a 
critical examination of its history, and to the question of 
the wisdom of the purchase, they will be given as they are 
found. 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 339 

R. King to C. Gore. 

London, Jany. 4, 1804. 
My dear Friend : 

. . . I am a little sceptical concerning the invasion of Eng- 
land although Bonaparte would play a deep game by doing nothing 
except to garnish the coast with his Battalions, & to build flat 
bottom Boats. I do not think this Fabian mode of war is in his 
character, and therefore conclude that a grand Project will some- 
where be attempted. Perhaps when the Eng. fleets are driven off 
the Enemy coasts, the Dutch & French & Ferrol fleets will 
attempt a combined operation by the invasion of Ireland. Per- 
haps the show is in the West, and the real efforts are making in 
the East to pass an army into the Morea by crossing the Adriatic 
. . . These are however mere Speculations and of the worst 
sort as they are not founded upon any kind of information. 
. . . I can only hope as I earnestly do, that no sinister Event 
may endanger the security of the nation where you are, which 
may be regarded as the principal and almost the sole Barrier 
agt. an Evil that menaces every Country. 

Things here go on in the order which those who direct them 
wish, and are pleased with. The Louisiana Business will be 
carried into effect according to the provisions of the Treaty. 
Already we have accounts of the delivery of the Colony to the 
French Prefect, who has notified the inhabitants that he expects 
the American Commissioners at N. Orleans and shall surrender 
the Country to the U. S. This will be done and we shall enter 
peaceably into the Possession & Government. 

You will see in the news papers the debates respecting the 
Constitutionality of certain of the Articles of the Treaty. 
Whether the Govt, will admit the force of the objections, and 
submit an amendment to the States, by which Congress may be 
authorized to carry the Treaty into effect or recommend to 
Congress to do so as the Constitution stands, is more than I am 
able to decide, and is a question if I mistake not with which those 
who have to determine it are not a little embarrassed. 

In our quarter, the western acquisition, by which I mean the 
Territory over the River, is not liked and I think it seems to be 
pretty generally wished that the Govt, would exchange it for the 
Floridas. This in my view would be the best mode of avoiding 

340 RUFUS KING. [1803- 

the otherwise great Difficulties of various kinds which will be sure 
to arise. From the tenor of the President's message at the open- 
ing of Congress, this will not be done, as he talks of the uses of 
this Region to which our Posterity are to apply it. If our Govt, be 
even willing, the consent of France must be had, before we can 
make this Exchange, or in any way dispose of this Country ; 
a Right inconvenient to us and of no honest value to France, and 
reserved therefore for mischievous ends. 

As to the next Election, there can be no doubt that the Pr. 
will be re-elected — a Vice President of the same Politics is also 
sure to be chosen, if the amendment of the Constitution takes 
Place of wh. there can scarcely be doubt. Whether it will be 
Col. Burr or some other Person is not mentioned. The former 
Genan. is in a deep minority with his Party here, and is making con- 
siderable efforts to better his situation, as the London servants 
say ; but if the Federalists are steady he must fail ; on this point 
however after what happened at the election at Washington 
one can never feel at ease. I sent you the Examination : the 
object of which is to repel the charge that Col. Burr intrigued 
with the Federalists to become President — or in other words to 
reconcile himself to the Democrats who have suspected him. It 
is curious that at the moment of this publication, and ever since, 
the friends of Col. Burr are making overtures to the Federalists 
to elect him Governor of this state in opposition to Gov. Clinton. 
Such are the inconsistencies that some men can practice and such 
the intellect of the Community which they must despise. . . . 

We hear that there is some Buzz at Washington concerning 
Merry's Reception. The day and hour were appointed for his 
first audience, and he was attended by the Sec'y of State. Mr. 
Jefferson rec'd him in his slippers, and altogether in an undress ! 
— at least such is our report. . . . 

I write to the boys, who are now at the Abbe's, and shall again 
propose to them to talk with you concerning their future profes- 
sions. I should like, were it practicable, to decide immediately 
which of the three boys I shall put into the House of Sir F. 
Baring, as in this case I should wish you to converse with Sir 
Francis respecting the subject before your embarkation. Genl. 
M (iranda) has I conclude left England before this date. If the 
question is at length settled with Spain, as it shd. have been 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 34 1 

months ago, he may yet see his wishes accomplished. He & you 
know my sentiments on this subject, which nothing can alter. I 
do not write to the Genl., because I am expecting to hear of him 
in another quarter. Should he make a beginning, the news wd. 
electrify this country, which contains an immense number of indi- 
viduals who would be ready to take up their Bed and walk. 

Yrs. affectionately, 
R. K. 

C. Gore to R. King. 

London, February 8, 1804. 
My dear Friend : 

Since I last wrote we have received your favours of Nov. 20 & 
Dec. 7 and January. 4. The boys left us about a fortnight ago for 
Harrow. They were perfectly well, and so conducted themselves 
during the vacation. John at present seems inclined to the pro- 
fession of law, & Charles, so far as he has any predilections, to 
that of a merchant. . . . 

What you feared has certainly come to pass. M's dispatches 
are truly of a very sombre hue. The reception of the Prest., the 
details of leading into dinner, &c. &c. were as particularly re- 
counted, as the wounded pride of the Lady, or the injured dig- 
nity of the Minister could possibly require. The want of 
accommodation there, high prices, bad 01 rather no markets, lead 
them to view the seat of our philosophic empire, if not the 
philosophers themselves, with great disgust. The Convention 
you subscribed here, the President declined for a time to ratify, 
making a reservation of Louisiana. Now it is said, he will ratify, 
making a reservation of any rights that may have accrued to us, 
by the cession of this country. H. says he hopes to God the 
admin, here will not take the ratification so made. It is fur- 
ther believed, that Monroe has orders to propose an arrangement 
of the business of seamen, by a convention, in which G. B. 
shall agree, that the American Flag shall protect all persons who 
sail under it. The Under-Sec. is outrageous, but his superiors, 
operated upon much as are some other great men in the West, may 
act according to existing circumstances, though my persuasion is 
that they will not yield that point. 

Feb'y 9. Yesterday Pinkney & myself dined at Ld. Hawkes- 

342 RUFUS KING. [1803- 

bury's. His Lordship there took me aside & mentioned the 
unpleasant accounts they had received from Washington. I de- 
clared my regrets that anything should arise to afford occasion 
therefor, that it would be a pity if circumstances, in themselves 
really trifling & of no public consequence, should be suffered to 
produce a coolness between the Govt, of the U. S. and the Rep. 
of his Majesty ; that without pretending to judge as to the real 
weight or importance, that should be ascribed to what he alluded, 
I was sure he would concur with me in the opinion, that wisdom 
dictated a total disregard of personal considerations & trivial cir- 
cumstances in weighing the just and important relations of two 
countries situated as were the U. S. & G. B., especially at this 
highly interesting & convulsed state of Europe. While he agreed 
with me in these reflections, he said Mr. M. (erry) had taken 
particular pains to enquire of Mr. Liston & Mr. Hammond, what 
was the etiquette observed when they were in the U. S., that he 
might neither claim nor expect more respect or attention than 
was the custom. I only replied that surely Mr. M. did appear to 
me to go out with a disposition favourable to the harmony & inter- 
ests of the two nations, and that I hoped that if Mr. M. saw that 
whatever course had been adopted was alike to all the foreign 
ministers, both himself & his Majesty's Govt, would not feel in it 
any particular cause of dissatisfaction, & at least not to suffer it 
to have more influence than its intrinsic importance demanded. 
I was sorry to find however that it has &• will have considerable 
weight in the minds of this Govt. Without particularising, it is 
certain he principally referred to the leading into dinner & seating 
at table. In this silly business, they probably see here a disposi- 
tion to affront England, and it will with others, increase a grow- 
ing discontent with us. He then remarked to me about your 
convention, and said explicitly that the Government, if it came 
back as they had reason to fear, would not consent to a ratifica- 
tion. Dinner was announced and we parted, he saying that he 
would ask another opportunity of conferring further on these sub- 
jects before my departure. If he should I will surely do every- 
thing in my power to soften & diminish the growing prejudice 
against our Government, the effects whereof we shall feel when- 
ever G. B. is more at her ease in her European relations. After 
dinner, at which were several of the foreign Ministers, and two or 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 343 

three of the nobility, he called on me to take some wine & said 
he would give one toast, by my consent, which was Mr. King. 
This was drunk & such remarks made afterwards on the subject 
of it, as were gratifying to all (how relished by P. I cannot say) 
but they were such as would insure your condemnation by all 
the Democrats of our country. 

Some few weeks ago, Erving, as Consul, sent a memorial to 
Lord Hawksbury relative to a vessel that was here in distress, 
with a request that the cargo, which was oil & in a leaky state, 
might be unladen &c, &c, and saying that the parties had applied 
to Mr. Monroe for his interference, who after examining the sub- 
ject & finding it purely commercial, referred them to the Consul. 
A note was returned saying that it was the invariable usage of the 
office to receive no memorials from Consuls, that if Mr. Monroe 
would make any application relative to the interests of his Gov- 
ernment, or its citizens, it would be attended to with all "the 
promptness that its nature required, and especially in the case al- 
luded to. Monroe made no application, and the man's oil, I 
presume, goes on wasting. They conceive here that it is Jeffer- 
son's intention to disgust all foreign ministers at Washington, and 
by degrees insinuate Consuls into the business at foreign courts, 
and when these Genln. shall retire from our Government, leave all 
affairs to be transacted by Commercial Agents. This may be his 
scheme, especially as it would be cheaper & by multiplying certifs., 
he might impose all the expense on the merchants trading to the 
different countries. 

Genl. M. is still here, waiting the decision of the Government 
in relation to Spain. Possibly an original error in not consider- 
ing it as a party in the war, is the cause of the present delay & of 
all the subsequent errors. 

. . . We shall probably sail in the beginning of March. We 
are to execute our last awards on Saturday next. Two cases yet 
hang in the Courts, one in the admir'ty, & the other before the 
Lords : these Swaby has consented to decide that I may not lose 
my passage. . . . 

Ever & affectionately yours 

C. Gore. 

344 RUFUS KING. [1803- 

Thomas Jefferson to R. King. 

Washington, Feby 17, 1804. 
Sir : 

I now return you the M.S. History of Bacon's rebellion with 
many thanks for the communication. It is really a valuable mor- 
sel in the history of Virginia. That transaction is the more 
marked as it was the only rebellion or insurrection which had ever 
taken place in the colony before the American revolution. Neither 
its cause nor course have been well understood, the public records 
containing little on the subject. It is very long since I read the 
several histories of Virginia, but the impression remaining in my 
mind was not at all that which this writer gives ; and it is impos- 
sible to refuse assent to the candor & simplicity of his story. I 
have taken the liberty of copying it, which has been the reason 
for the detention of it. I had an opportunity of communicating 
it to a person who was just putting into the press a history of Vir- 
ginia, but still in a situation to be corrected. I think it possible 
that among the antient MSS. I possess at Monticello, I may be able 
to trace the author. I shall endeavour to do it the first visit I 
make to that place ; and if with success, I will do myself the 
pleasure of communicating it to you ; from the public records 
there is no hope, as they were destroyed by the British, I believe, 
very completely, during their invasion of Virginia. Accept my 
salutations and assurances of high consideration and respect. 

Th. Jefferson. 

C. Gore to R. King. 

London, February 19, 1804. 
My dear Sir : 

By the newspapers which I have put on board the Oneida Chief 
you will see that the King is seriously indisposed. I learn that 
the stories about his having the dropsy are altogether untrue, but 
he is violently mad. It has been coming on for some time, and 
said to have been occasioned at first by drinking cold water, when 
very warm. The night before last he slept seven hours, awoke 
perfectly collected, took his medicines & eat his food as he should 
do. From this some hopes are entertained that he may recover, 
but I doubt if they be very strong. . . . 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 345 

The Maryland Bank Stock is through the Chancery & the costs 
adjusted. So it only remains to pass from the crown, which will 
be impeded by the King's malady. We execute our last awards 
to-day & close next week. . . . 

Yours ever & affectionately 

C. Gore. 

C. Gore to R. King. 

London, February 29, 1804. 
My dear Friend : 

I have only time to say that we expect to leave town on Satur- 
day for Gravesend, where we embark. Our commission closed 
with perfect harmony on the 23d inst. I can only say that per- 
sonally I have been treated by Ld. H. & Hammond with great 
kindness & attention. The King is better ; this, I understand 
from those who wish it, and those who think the public good may 
be promoted by a different dispensation of Providence. . . . 

C. Gore. 

CHAPTER XXIII. 

Grievances and Suggestions of certain Federalists for a Separation of the New 
England States — Proposal to nominate King for Governor of the State of 
New York — Hamilton to King — Urging him to allow himself to be nomi- 
nated— King to Hamilton — He declines — Plan of Separation of the North- 
ern States — Pickering — Cabot — Wolcott — Conversation with King about 
a Separation — J. Q. Adams — Conversation with King on the Same — Ham- 
ilton's Views adverse to the Plan — Pickering to King — Louisiana — Judge 
Pickering's Trial — Pickering to King — Plan of Separation — King to Pick- 
ering— Protection of Seamen — Cabot to King — Experiment of Separation 
of the States. 

At the close of a letter from Mr. King to Mr. Gore, Sep- 
tember 6, 1803, p. 303 in this volume, he remarks: " Not- 
withstanding the satisfaction of the negotiators with their 
performance, I believe that Govt, is and will be embar- 
rassed with the cession [of Louisiana], which may become 
the immediate cause of very important political events 
among the States." It was not long before the correctness 
of this opinion was manifested by the debates in the Senate 
and House on the provisions for carrying out the Conven- 
tions and by subsequent events. 

The constant troubles with the Spanish authorities at New 
Orleans, interfering with the navigation of the Mississippi 
and the commerce of the western portions of the United 
States, induced Mr. Jefferson to endeavor by purchase to 
become possessed of New Orleans and the adjacent districts, 
and thus secure the free navigation of the river. Mr. Liv- 
ingston, who was sent to France as Minister, when he found 
that Louisiana had been transferred to that country, en- 
deavored to accomplish the purchase ; but to his astonish- 
ment he was in the end offered the whole of Louisiana, with 

346 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 347 

New Orleans, at a price which seemed not too large. The 
First Consul's necessities suggested the offer, the treaty of 
purchase was made and, when received in the United States, 
was accepted by the President and ratified by the Senate. 
So far all seemed well, although the objections made to the 
ratification by the Federalists showed that the action was 
hasty and that the provisions of the Conventions were such 
as involved serious constitutional questions. The President 
himself had believed that an amendment to the Constitution 
would be required to make this addition, with its peculiar 
provisions, to the territory of the United States ; but his 
friends in the Senate had set aside the scruples and ratified 
the agreement. 

When, however, it became necessary to make the appro- 
priations for the payment and to provide a government for 
the new territory, the objections to the Conventions were 
again brought forward, and a stern opposition was made by 
the Federalists on the broad constitutional question, and 
especially upon the clause in the Convention that " the in- 
habitants of the ceded territory should be incorporated in 
the Union of the United States " with all the rights and 
privileges of the citizens of the United States. They con- 
tended that there was no power which " was competent to 
such an act of incorporation " ; that therefore " this could 
not be effected without an amendment of the Constitution," 
an amendment which would require " the assent of each in- 
dividual State and all of them to admit " a foreign country 
as an associate in the Union." Besides they contended 
that the New England States by the admission of this 
territory, with the government of it in the control of the 
administration and its friends, chiefly in Virginia, would be 
cut off from their proper influence in the affairs of the nation. 
Their opposition was of no avail ; the money was appropri- 
ated, the territorial government established, no constitutional 
amendment was adopted, and Virginia and the republican 
party carried their measures. 

But the end was not here. Another amendment to the 

34^ RUFUS KING. [1804 

Constitution had been passed through the same Congress, 
providing for a change in the manner of electing the Presi- 
dent and Vice-President. Two candidates for the office of 
President had hitherto been voted for: the one receiving the 
highest vote was to be President and the other Vice-Presi- 
dent. The election of Mr. Jefferson had been placed in 
jeopardy by this provision, and his friends, who had de- 
cided upon his re-election and a possible succession of 
other Virginians, determined, if possible, to prevent any in- 
terference with their plans, and brought forward the amend- 
ment by which the candidates for each office should be 
designated and the choice of President could only be made 
from among those voted for as such. 

To this strong and earnest objections were made by the 
Federalists, who contended that by this provision it would be 
impossible ever to elect a Federal president,* as by a com- 
bination of the larger States, they could control the election 
and thus the smaller States would have their privileges cur- 
tailed, privileges which under the existing balances of the 
Constitution they might enjoy. This and other reasons 
were ably presented as objections to the proposed change, 
but it was passed by the same dominant party through 
Congress, and was ratified by a sufficient number of the 
States to make it valid. Its wisdom has not yet been proved 
though it still continues to be the law. 

As if to rouse the Federalists still more and to make them 
afraid that every balance of the Constitution might be de- 
stroyed, the attempt to tamper with the judiciary and to re- 
duce it also to a political machine was the next step adopted 
by the friends of the administration. In the debates which 
took place in the impeachment of two of the judges of the 
U. States Courts, it was openly suggested that even the 

* Indeed, Mr. Cooke of Tennessee avowed that this was one of their objects. 
He said " that the majority of the Republicans might obtain the man of their 
choice, and, with certainty, prevent the election of either a President or Vice 
President from the Federalists." Mr. Taylor of Virginia suggested that the 
proposed amendment would finally destroy the minority. 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 349 

Supreme Court, the only department the administration 
could not control, the buttress of the Constitution, should 
be subjected to the power of Congress, by changing 
the tenure of office which made the judges independent of 
the other departments. Happily the threatened change 
was averted and that court still maintains its high and inde- 
pendent character. 

A considerable number of the leading Federalists, Messrs. 
Pickering,* Tracy, Griswold, and others, who had already 
been outraged by the removal of their friends from office, 
saw danger in these various movements and endeavored to 
arouse their friends to resist further encroachments upon the 
Constitution by the party which now dominated the country. 
They truly loved their country, and were among those who 
had laid its foundations so as to secure, as they believed, its 
prosperity, but they thought it best that the New England 
States, to which they belonged, should, for self-protection, 
separate themselves from those who were threatening, by 
other measures also, to destroy their proper share in the 
benefits of the Union. They, therefore, took measures, by 
correspondence and concert of action, to endeavor to brings 
about a separation, but felt that without the assistance of 
New York, they could not hope to succeed. They, therefore, 
sought the assistance of Aaron Burr, who had been re- 
jected by his party f and offered himself to them, to accom- 
plish their object. He had been nominated as a candidate 
for the office of Governor of New York and it was hoped by 
many Federalists, that with their help he might be elected 
and thus be ready to forward their schemes, which he seemed 

* See T. Pickering's letter, March 4, 1804, R. King's Life, p. 363. 

f Schouler, Hist, of U. S., vol. ii., p. 59, says: "At a dinner in honor of 
the event [the peaceful acquisition of Louisiana] on January 27, 1804, at 
Stelle's Hotel, Capitol Hill, which the Republican Members of Congress and 
high officials generally attended, ' the general applause indicated that Jefferson 
would be put forward for a second term, while Burr, who was one of the guests, 
would be dropped. Not long after, at a caucus of the Republican Senators and 
Representatives (February 28th), Jefferson was nominated for President unani- 
mously, with George Clinton as his associate for Vice-President." 

350 RUFUS KING. [1804 

inclined to do. Happily he was defeated and the hope of 
assistance through him by the plotters was destroyed. 

But this was not the only drawback to the success of their 
plans. They found positive objections and a refusal to 
entertain their propositions by those Federalists, Messrs. 
Hamilton, King, Cabot, and others, whom they looked upon 
as the head of that party, and whose assistance it was neces- 
sary to obtain, and as a consequence the whole scheme fell 
through. 

Before proceeding with the correspondence relative to the 
details of the proposed separation of certain States from the 
Union, it may be well to bring forward the narrative of cer- 
tain events, which, to a certain extent, have been hinted at. 
In a letter of January 27, 1803,* addressed by Mr. Sedgwick 
to General Hamilton, in anticipation of Mr. King's return 
home, he spoke strongly of the advisability of holding the 
Federal control of the State governments and recommended 
the nomination of Mr. King to the office of Governor of the 
State of New York, to which he thought it possible he 
might be elected, and in which he might " do infinitely more 
good than in the inefficient office of Vice-President. Gen- 
eral Pinckney must in all events be considered the candidate 
for the first office. . . . Should Mr. King be holden up 
for this office (the Vice-Presidency), it would lessen, at least, 
the probability of success for the government of New York." 

The friends of Mr. King continued, however, to desire his 
election to the office of Vice-President, for at a public 
dinner of the Federalists in Washington on February 22, 
1804, at which Mr. Pickering presided, Messrs. Pinckney 
and King were by consent nominated as their candidates 
for the Presidency and Vice-Presidency, but without desig- 
nation as to which should have the precedence ; though at a 
subsequent and much later meeting Mr. Pinckney was 
named for the first office. 

In the meantime, Mr. Clinton having been chosen as the 
Republican candidate for the Vice-Presidency, Mr. Burr was 

* R. King's Life, vol. iv., p. 215. 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 35 1 

left out in the cold. The New York Governorship was still 
unsettled, and he hoped, as had been said, by the help of the 
dissatisfied Federalists, to succeed in reaching it. The Fed- 
eralists who remained loyal to their party views desired, as 
had been suggested by Mr. Sedgwick a year before, a candi- 
date upon whom they could unite and bring back those who 
were wandering away to the support of Mr. Burr. It would 
appear from the two following letters, that Mr. King, un- 
consulted, was proposed as their candidate. 

The letter of General Hamilton was written from Albany, 
where he was engaged in defending the liberty of the press 
against the construction of the judge that he alone could 
decide whether an article was libellous or not, and the jury 
could only determine the question of publication. He con- 
tended that the dictum " the greater the truth, the greater 
the libel," was contrary to the " genius of our civil institu- 
tions and manifestly a palpable outrage on human rights, 
common justice, and even common sense, . . . that the 
liberty of the Press consists in publishing with impunity the 
Truth with good motives and for justified ends, whether it 
related to men or measures. ... If the intent be a 
subject of enquiry, the giving of the Truth in evidence is 
requisite as a means to determine the intent." 

While this important trial of an editor was going on, the 
canvass for candidates for Governor occupied the minds of 
those assembled in Albany and it was carried on with great 
warmth : the letter given shows how earnestly Hamilton 
sought to avert the calamity which was threatening in the 
nomination of Burr by the aid of the Federalists. 

A. Hamilton to R. King.* 

Albany, February 24, '1804. 
My dear Sir : 

! You will have heard before this reaches you of the fluctuations 
ancT changes which have taken place in the measures of the reign- 
ing party, as to a candidate for Governor ; and you will probably 
also have been informed that pursuant to the opinions expressed 
♦See also Hamilton's Works, vi., 559. 

352 RUFUS KING. [1804 

by our friends before I left New York, I had taken an open part 
in favour of Mr. Lansing. 

It is a fact to be regretted, though anticipated, that the federal- 
ists, very extensively, had embarked with zeal in the support of 
Mr. Burr ; yet an impression to the contrary and in favour of Mr. 
Lansing had been made & there was good ground to hope that a 
proper direction, in the main, might have been given to the cur- 
rent of federalism. The substitution of Mr. Lewis has essentially 
varied the prospect ; and the best informed among us here agree 
that the Federalists as a body could not be diverted from Mr. 
Burr to Mr. Lewis by any efforts of leading characters, if they 
should ever deem the support of the latter expedient. 

Though I have no reason to think that my original calculation 
was wrong, while the competition was between Clinton & Burr, 
yet from the moment the former declined, I began to consider the 
latter as having a chance of success. It was still however my re- 
liance that Lansing would outrun him ; but now that Chief Justice 
Lew\s is the competitor, the probability of success in my judg- 
ment inclines to Mr. Burr. 

Thus situated two questions have arisen ; 1st, whether a federal 
candidate ought not to be run as a means of defeating Mr. Burr, 
and of keeping the federalists from becoming a personal faction 
allied to him ; 2nd, whether in the conflict of parties as they now 
stand, the strongest of them disconcerted and disjointed, there 
would not be a considerable hope of success for a Federal candi- 
date. 

These questions have received no solution in scarcely any one's 
mind ; but it is agreed that if an attempt is to be made, you must 
be the candidate. There is no other man among us, under whose 
standard either fragment of the democratic party could as easily 
rally. It is enough to say, you have been absent during the time 
in which party animosities have become matured and fixed, and 
therefore are much less than any other distinguished federalist an 
object of them. 

To detach the Federalists from Burr, they must believe two 
things — one, that we are in earnest as to our candidate, and that 
it is not a mere diversion ; the other, that there is some chance of 
success. All believe, & some leading democrats admit, that if 
either of the two democratic rival parties should come to expect 
a defeat, they would arrange themselves under your banners. 1 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 355, 

Reflect well on all these things and make up your mind, in case 
you should be invited to consent. I have not time to enlarge. 

Yrs very truly 

A. Hamilton. 

Mr. King's letter was written on the same day as the above 
in New York, and explains itself.* 

R. King to Genl. Hamilton, Albany. 

Feby. 24, 1804-.. 

Dr. Sir : 

Mr. D. B. Ogden called upon me a few minutes past, and as I 
understood from him that he purposes writing to you by the mail, 
of this Evening, I think it proper, in order to avoid any miscon- 
ceptions of the tenour of our conversation, to repeat to you the 
purport of what I said to him, viz — " Whether it will be expedient 
to offer a federal candidate for the Govr. is a point upon which,, 
from the want of information concerning the relative strength, 
and disposition of parties, and the consequent probability of suc- 
cess, I professed myself (to Mr. D.) quite unable to judge. 

"With respect to my being the fedl. candidate, altho' I would 
not say that my mind was absolutely decided, as I had never con- 
sidered the subject, the objections to my consenting appeared to> 
me to be unsurmountable." 

faithfully &c. 

Rufus King. 

In resuming the consideration of the plan proposed by- 
some of the leading Federalists in Congress to bring about 
the making of a northern Confederacy, the intention is to- 
state only the facts which connect the name of Mr. King- 
with it and to show that he would have nothing to do with 
the movement for a separation of the States. 

* Mr. J. C. Hamilton in Hamilton's Life, vii., 778, with his usual unwilling- 
ness to give Mr. King credit where he can avoid it, says — " the nomination of 
a federal candidate, in the person of King, was thought of, but the idea was 
not pursued." He does not say that he declined allowing his name to be used 
notwithstanding the strong appeal made to him. 

VOL. IV.— 23 

I 

354 RUFUS KING. [1804 

It would seem that the first knowledge of it was from a 
letter of Timothy Pickering, March 4, 1804,* m which after 
showing that the acquisition of Louisiana and the legislation 
consequent upon it, would throw the power of the Govern- 
ment forever in the control of the Southern and slave-hold- 
ing States and thus shut out New England from its proper 
influence in the Union, he therefore urged that steps 
be taken without delay to counteract this danger and form, 
with the addition of New York and New Jersey, a separate 
government. 

Without expressing any opinion as to the wisdom or feasi- 
bility of the measure, Mr. King on March 9th, f acknowl- 
edged the receipt of his letters with the remark that " the 
views they disclose ought to fix the attention of the real 
friends of liberty in this quarter of the Union, and the 
more so as things seem to be fast advancing to a crisis." 

In a letter from Mr. Cabot, Boston, March 17, 1804,^: to 
Mr. King, he says : 

" An experiment has been suggested by some of your friends to 
which I object that it is impracticable, and, if practicable, would 
be ineffectual. The thing proposed is obvious and natural, but 
it would now be thought too bold and would be fatal to the advo- 
cates as public men : yet the time may soon come, when it will be 
demanded by the people of the N. & East, and then it will un- 

* R. King's Life, iv., p. 363 ; given also in Lodge's Cabot, p. 447. 

See also letter of Pickering to King, March 3d, p. 359. 

f R. King's Life, iv., p. 366. 

Henry Adams, History of the United States, ii., p. 178, says: "Of all 
Federalist leaders, moderate and extreme, Rufus King, who had recently 
returned from London, stood highest in the confidence of his party. He was 
to be the Federalist candidate for Vice-President ; he had mixed in none of 
the feuds which made Hamilton obnoxious to his former friends, and while 
King's manners were conciliatory, his opinions were more moderate than those 
of other party leaders. . . ." Rufus King was as cautious as Pickering. 
He acknowledged this letter in vague terms of compliment, saying that Picker- 
ing's views "ought to fix the attention of the real friends of liberty in this 
quarter of the Union, and the more so as things seem to be fast advancing to 
a crisis." 

% R. King's Life, iv., p. 369. 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 355 

avoidably take place. I am not satisfied that the thing itself is 
to be desired. My habitual opinions have been always strongly 
against it and I don't see in the present mismanagement motives 
for changing my opinion." 

There does not appear that any answer was given or pre- 
served to this letter, but on March 19, 1804, the following 
papers are found in the handwriting of Mr. King, endorsed 
"O. Wolcott, Conversation Spring 1804." 

" March 19, 1804. 

u The opposition or at least the dissimilitude of Interests be- 
tween the Northern & Southern States is such, and the present and 
increasing preponderance of the power of those of the South is 
such that the balance between North and South, which secured 
to the former an equal share of influence & honours, an equal 
encouragement of industry, and the like Protection of Property, 
with the latter, is altered and permanently settled in favour of the 
Southern States. As in all similar cases power will be increased 
for the benefit of the Possessors, and the Northern States are des- 
tined to be ruled, and not only so but ruled unjustly and for the 
advantage of the Southern States. 

" Hence the necessity of a division of the confederacy. Patience 
wd. lead to delay— the mercenary character of the Northern Peo- 
ple, fearful for their commerce, timid for their money in the funds, 
recommend Procrastination. In the mean time Jacobinism ex- 
tends itself and the means of successful opposition to Virginia is 
lessened. Commerce wd. be equally successful & the pub. Cred- 
itors wd. be equally secure. In July 1803 the public Debt due 
east of Pennsylvania amounted to $32,160,000 & to this a proper 
proportion of the Dutch Dt. shd. be added, & assumed. The 
Louisiana Dbt. shd. be left to those for wh. benefit it was made. 

" Means have been taken to rouse the three N. En. States M., 
N. H. & Conn, to begin — but they are slow, cautious &c. ; the 
Demos, in Cong, from the North are dissatisfied but obedient to 
Virginia, and so they will be until they are from home told to do 
otherwise. They are also destitute of Talents, and incapable of 
influence. Eustis & Bradbury may be attached to Burr ; but 
both of them more attached to their own projects. Eustis has lost 
reputation with all sides : his object is to be collector of Boston. 

35^ RUFUS KING. [1804 

Bradley profligate &c. — Burr's views unknown — believed to be 
supported in N. Yk. by Persons hostile to Virginia : if so, and he 
becomes Govr., N. Yk. may be united with the Northern States 
in the Project of Separation : his sentiments on this point un- 
known (met him accidentally in the Nat. Library, an interview 
proposed by him at N. Yk.) altho' a bad man perhaps the Feder- 
alists shd. support him, as the evil daily extends itself & his 
Election seems the only chance of rescuing N. Yk. from Virginia — 
but if Burr gains N. Yk. merely to gain the Presidency— the 
support and success wd. be subject of Regret for the southern 
power being as stated, the occasional possession of the Presidency 
wd. do no good, might do harm. 

" The only remedy is separation — will Burr agree and pledge 
himself to this object. 

"April 5 

" According to the proposal of the Library Mr. Griswold visited 
Burr April 4 : the purport of the Conversation was that he must 
go on democratically to obtain the Govt. — that if he succeeded, 
he shd. administer the Govt, in a manner that wd. be satisfac- 
tory to the Federalists — no particular explanation was made on 
this head — in respect to the affairs of the Nation, Burr said that 
the Northern States must be governed by Virginia, or govern Vir- 
ginia, and that there was no middle mode — that the Democratical 
members of Congress from the East were in this sentiment, some 
of those from N. York (Phelps, Thomas, Paterson & Root) and 
some of the Leaders in Jersey and likewise in Pennsylvania. 

" Griswold said the Federalists to the Eastward would be solici- 
tous to understand the policy of N. Yk, they might be active or 
passive according to the opinion they should form on this point — 
it was to this enquiry, that Burr replied, that he shd. administer the 
govt, in a manner satisfactory to the Federalists ! I could not 
learn that Griswold engaged anything on his side, limiting himself 
as I was given to understand, to mere enquiry : but according to 
what has been told me, I conclude that Griswold wishes Burr 
success agt. Lewis, believing by his means to rescue N. Yk. from 
the Jeffersonian Politicks ! ! ! " 

"April. 5. 1804 

" Informant. O. W. Before Congress adjourned Phelps and one 
or two other of the democratical members of Congress from 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 357 

N. Yk went to the President to know of him whether he regarded 
Burr as a Republican ; & referring to the pending Election of 
N. Yk for Govr., whether the Presidt. wd. disapprove of Col. 
Burr's being supported by the Republicans ; or in other words 
whether those who shd. support Col. Burr for Govr. wd. be re- 
garded favourably ; or entitled to the favour of the President ? 
Jefferson replied that he considered Burr to be a Republican, that 
it was a division among republicans and that therefore Republicans 
might with Equal Propriety support or vote for either Candidate. 

" Yesterday, Ap. 4, an interview took Place between Phelps and 
DeWitt Clinton ; Phelps recited the opinion of Jefferson respect- 
ing the candidates for Govr. Clinton stated that Gen. Jno. Smith 
having heard of the interview between Phelps and Jefferson, had 
gone to require a farther Explanation — that Jefferson in this in- 
terview admitted that in substance he had stated what Phelps had 
reported ; but added that this. Opinion was given upon the idea 
of a mere division among the Republicans — that if the federalists 
took a part, it wd. materially alter the case and that the candidate 
opposed by the Feds shd. be supported by the Republicans ! ! ! 

" The interview between Phelps & DeW. C. broke up with 
mutual recriminations and dissatisfaction." 

Informt. O. W. 

"Ap. 5. 

" Genl. Varnum, one of the Demo, members of Cong, from Vir- 
ginia has been surrounded by the Burrites on his way thro' N. Yk 
to Mass. Concerning the caucus held at Washington to agree on a 
Vice President, the Genl. stated that during the session a corre- 
spondence was opened between Dawson and another member 
from Virginia and DeWitt Clinton — that one or two of the New 
York members were privy to this correspondence — the object 
whereof was to engage Gov. Clinton to become the Vice Presi- 
dent— his consent was in this way obtained, without any previous 
communication with the Eastern demo, members ; when a meet- 
ing of all the demo, members was called to agree in the Choice of 
a V. Pr. — when met this consent of Gov. Clinton was announced, 
— the Eastern members complained that the business had gone 
thus far without their having been consulted, and moved to ad- 
journ the meeting. The Virginians opposed it, and the assembly 
took a Ballot ; the result whereof has been published. 

\ 

358 RUFUS KING. [1804 

" Some days after the Eastern Demo, members (those East of 
N. Yk) met and deputed Varnum to the Virginians to express 
their disapprobation of the Proceedings which had taken place 
without their privity, and to declare that as the Engagement had 
been made without their consent, they left the contract to be ful- 
filled by the Virginians who had formed it." 

In the reply of Mr. J. Quincy Adams to thirteen citizens 
of Massachusetts, in 1829, the following remarks are found : * 

" The information concerning the project communicated to me 
at Washington, in the spring of 1804, corresponded in the main 
with that detailed by Mr. Plumer. . . . The session closed 
on the 4th of March, 1804, and I shortly afterwards returned to 
spend the summer at Quincy. On my way thither, I was detained 
several days at New York, during which I frequently visited Mr. 
Rufus King, who had recently returned from his first mission to 
England. On the 8th day of April, I called and passed great part 
of the evening with him in his Library. I found there, sitting 
with him, Mr. Timothy Pickering, who shortly after I went in, 
took leave and withdrew. As he left the house, Mr. King said to 
me, ■ Colonel Pickering has been talking to me about a project 
they have for a separation of the States and a Northern Confeder- 
acy : and he has also been this day talking of it with General 
Hamilton. Have you heard anything of it at Washington ? ' I 
said I had, much, but not from Colonel Pickering. 'Well,' said 
Mr. King, ■ I disapprove entirely of the project ; and so, I am 
happy to tell you, does General Hamilton.' I told Mr. King that 
I rejoiced to hear that this was his opinion, and was equally grati- 
fied to learn it was that of General Hamilton, — that I was utterly 
averse to the project myself and much concerned at the counte- 
nance I had heard it was receiving at Connecticut and at Boston. 
It was the acquisition of Louisiana which had been the immediate 
incentive to the plan. I had much conversation with Mr. King 
on that subject ; and I found his opinions concerning it concur- 
ring with my own ; and, I understood from him, not differing 
from those of General Hamilton. We agreed, and lamented that 
one inevitable consequence of the annexation of Louisiana to the 
* New England Federalism, by H. Adams, p. 147. 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 359 

Union would be to diminish the relative weight and influence of 
the Northern section ; that it would aggravate the evil of the slave 
representation, and endanger the Union itself, by the expansion 
of its bulk and the enfeebling extension of its line of defence 
against foreign invasion. But the alternative was — Louisiana and 
the mouths of the Mississippi in the possession of France, under 
Napoleon Bonaparte. The loss of sectional influence, we hoped 
and believed, would be more than compensated by the extension 
of national power and security. A fearful cause of war with 
France was removed. From a formidable and ambitious neighbor, 
she would be turned, by her altered and steadily operating inter- 
ests, into a natural ally. Should ever these anticipations fail, we 
considered a severance of the Union as a remedy more desperate 
than any possible disease." * 

Such was the position of affairs, when the New York 
election took place on April 25th and Burr was defeated. 
Henry Adams says : f 

" Pickering & Griswold saw their hopes shattered by the New 
York election. They gained at the utmost only an agreement to 
hold a private meeting of leading Federalists at Boston in the 
following autumn J ; and as Hamilton was to be present, he prob- 
ably intended to take part only in order to stop once for all the 
intrigues of these two men. Such an assemblage under the com- 
bined authority of Cabot, King, and Hamilton could not have 
failed to restore discipline." 

The history of this unwise project, so far as General Ham- 
ilton is concerned, is summed up in a conversation, five days 

* Mr. John Quincy Adams (p. 227, New England Federalism) further says : 
" So secret was it (the project) that, although during that session of Congress 
I was sitting at the side of Mr. Plumer in the Senate of the United States and 
contracted with him an intimate friendship which continues to this day, yet I 
never knew that he had been made acquainted with the project at the time, far 
less that he had favored it, until after the note of preparation sounded last 
autumn in the Boston newspapers, preliminary to the summons of the Confed- 
erates addressed to me." 

\Hist. U. S., ii., p. 186. 

\ Life of Plumer, p. 299. 

3.60 RUFUS KING. [1804 

before his duel, with Colonel Trumbull, who had been dining 
with him. Mr. J. C. Hamilton * says : 

" After dinner, when they were alone, Hamilton turned to Trum- 
bull, and, looking at him with deep meaning, said: ' You are going 
to Boston. You will see the principal men there. Tell them from 
me as my request, for God's sake, to cease these conversations and 
threatenings about a separation of the Union. It must hang 
together as long as it can be made to.' " 

In his celebrated letter to Sedgwick, written on the eve of 
iiis duel, Hamilton says : 

" I will here express but one sentiment, which is that Dismem- 
berment of our Empire will be a clear sacrifice of great positive 
advantages, without any counterbalancing good ; administering 
no relief to our real disease which is Democracy ; the poison of 
which, by a subdivision, will only be more concentrated in each 
part, and consequently the more virulent. 

" King is on his way to Boston, where you may chance to see 
him, and hear from himself his sentiments." 

The death of General Hamilton seems to have arrested 
further attempts to enlist the sympathy of leading Federal- 
ists. There is no report of what took place during Mr. 
King's visit to Boston, nor whether any general conference 
was held there as had been proposed. 

T. Pickering to R. King. 

Washington, March 3, 1804. 
Dear Sir : 

As long ago as the 4th of November last, you were so obliging 
as to notice my Letter concerning Louisiana. The ruling party 
— * <io not now pretend that the Louisianians are Citizens of the U. 
States. They do not venture to say — they have never said — that 
the Government had a Constitutional power to incorporate that 
new & immense Country into the Union ; yet they will not give 
* Life of Hamilton , vii., 822. 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 36 1 

themselves the trouble to alter the Constitution for that purpose. 
It appears very evident that in a few years, when their power shall 
be more confirmed, and the implicit obedience of the people has 
been habitual, they will erect States in that Territory and incor- 
porate them into the Union. Mr. Adams had not arrived when 
the Treaty was ratified, but he approved of it and of the conse- 
quent appropriation for the purchase-money ; fondly believing 
that an amendment to the Constitution, to embrace that new ob- 
ject, would have been a mighty easy thing. He presented a Reso- 
lution really for that purpose ; but after lying some time, it was 
called up and even contemptuously rejected ; his own, Mr. Hill- 
house's and mine being the only votes in its favour. It is further 
evident, that the Constitution will henceforward be only a con- 
venient instrument, to be shaped, by construction, into any form 
that will best promote the views of the operators. In the name of 
the Constitution they will commit every arbitrary act which their 
projects may require ; or they will alter it to suit their purposes. 
I begin to think it would be better if we had none. * The leaders 
of the populace wanting the sanction of a constitutional power 
might then be more cautious in their measures. 

We have commenced the consideration of the Impeachment of 
Judge Pickering of Portsmouth (I presume you know that he is 
not a relative of mine) for high crimes and misdemeanors. Proc- 
ess was served upon him in January and he was summoned to 
appear at the bar of the Senate yesterday. Mr. Harper delivered 
to the President (Mr. Burr) a letter from himself, and a petition 
(admirably drawn) from Jacob L. Pickering the Judge's son. In 
his letter Mr. Harper suggested Judge Pickering's insanity, and 
that he appeared not as his attorney, and could not enter an ap- 
pearance for him, but at his son's request, to support the facts 
stated in his petition ; which described Judge Pickering to have 
been insane at the times when he held the district courts men- 
tioned in the articles of impeachment ; and as still insane and so 
infirm in body as to be utterly incapable of being brought at this 
time, in person, to the Bar of the Senate, and tendered affidavits 
to substantiate these facts : praying also that the trial of the im- 
peachment might be postponed. Mr. Harper asked if he might 
be permitted to speak in support of the petition. 

The managers on the part of the House of Representatives ob- 

362 RUFUS KING. [1804 

jected. They wished the non-appearance of the Judge might be 
recorded as a default. The Senate retired (conformably to a pre- 
vious arrangement) to an adjoining room to consider this point. 
After near an hour spent in loose debate, they came to this con- 
clusion only, that they would return to their Chamber, and that 
the President should inform the managers, that the Senate had not 
come to a determination ; and that when they had they would 
give due notice thereof to the House of Representatives. 

To-day we met again, and with closed doors, discussed the ques- 
tion. All the Jeffersonians who spoke were for denying the prayer 
of the petition and the hearing of counsel in support of it, declar- 
ing that Judge Pickering ought to plead, or that his friends should 
put in a plea for him, if not guilty ; and that under this plea, all the 
evidence they proposed to offer, to prove his insanity, might be 
given. Some of them supposed, or pretended to think, that if he"7 
was proved to be insane, he might be found guilty. Mr. Tracy re- 
plied, with a poignancy which would have excited a proper feeling 
in men unhackneyed in the measures of a party malignant and 
cruel as death. He remarked that intelligence was essential to the 
commission of a crime, and that no court would pronounce an in- 
sane person guilty of high crimes and misdemeanors, who were 
not themselves insane. Still, however, they all persisted to argue 
against the hearing of counsel on the petition until near four 
o'clock when the court adjourned. 

In this debate (I am sorry it was not public) there were mani- 
fested a virulence and rancour which shocked every man, who had 
any feelings of justice or humanity. Let this party progress in 
the course they have travelled for two years past, and before Mr. 
Jefferson's second Presidency expires, I shall not be surprised, if 
I live so long, to see bloody victims of their ambition, inexorable 
malice and revenge. One or two Marats or Robespierres, with 
half a dozen congenial spirits, would carry along enough of the 
half moderates to make a majority in the Senate to concur in any 
measures ; and by similar means they would be forced through 
the House of Representatives, ftould Senators vote by ballot, 
Judge Pickering would not, being proved insane, be convicted of 
any crime ; but voting viva voce, many have not honest fortitude 
enough to say nay to any measure which is supposed to involve 
popularity, and I do not know what will be the result. The late 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 363 

amendment to the Constitution would hardly have been adopted 
by a majority ; much less by two thirds of the Senate, if their votes 
had been given by ballots^ 

The British Convention for settling Boundaries, which you 
took some pains to negotiate, and which was signed the 12th of 
May, you would naturally suppose must have been readily ap- 
proved by the Senate ; seeing it conformed to your instruction ; 
and was, in fact, made by our own Government ; and especially 
after the President, in his message at the opening of the Session, 
had informed Congress and the world, that the terms of the Con- 
vention were entirely satisfactory to both parties. But the Presi- 
dent altered his mind ; the Senate followed of course ; and the 
advice to ratify was, with the exception of the fifth article, which, 
you will recollect, respected the Northwestern boundary. And 
yet in a paper which he sent me, (occasioned with an accidental 
written correspondence between us) speaking of the Treaty of 
Cession of Louisiana, to the U. States, he said expressly " But 
this Treaty was not known to the negotiators of either party at 
London nor could the rights acquired by it be affected by arrange- 
ments instituted and compleated there merely for the purpose of 
explaining and supplying provisions in the Treaty of 1783." 
Why then suspend the 5th Article ? why not ratify absolutely ? 
Mr. Jefferson is not contented with the immense extent of Louis- 
iana as held by the French. Its northern boundary not having 
been explicitly defined (tho' undoubtedly it reached to the utmost 
range of the Mississippi and Missouri) he wants to carry it to the 
parallel of the 490 of North Latitude. To effect this end, he 
certainly supposes the suppression of the 5th Article will contri- 
bute. For this object your entirely satisfactory convention is put 
in jeopardy. He thinks, however, or pretends to think, that G. 
Britain will readily agree to the other articles ; and he doubtless 
supposes they will negotiate to his wishes relative to the northern 
boundary of Louisiana. Some of his magnanimous partisans in the 
Senate have openly avowed the propriety of pushing G. Britain 
now on any points we desire to gain ; because her present critical 
situation will dispose her to yield (as they imagine) what in a time 
of peace she might refuse ! This avowal was made this week, 
when we were discussing Sam. Smith's wise bill for the protection 
of the seamen of the U. States ; and which the Senate (doubtless 

364 RUFUS KING. [1804 

on the hint from the oracle) had the grace to reject, by postpon- 
ing it to next December. A like bill before the House of Repres. 
must meet the like fate. It is understood the President is negoti- 
ating on this Subject. 

In this debate S. Smith told us that you were once on the point 
of signing a convention relative to American seamen — or rather 
seamen on board of American vessels ; when it was suddenly de- 
clined by the British Ministry. In a former debate, he said that 
the British Ministry had consented to renounce all impressments 
from our vessels, except within the narrow seas. Apropos. What 
do the British mean by the words " narrow seas " ? 

I shall be much obliged by your giving me any information 
which it may not be improper to communicate on the subject of 
impressing our seamen ; or, if any part be confidential, you will 
so mark it. The Act of Congress, presenting the certificates to 
be given to seamen, is defective. I have had some thoughts of 
offering a bill for amending it ; and to introduce some guards to 
prevent the disreputable modes of obtaining proofs of citizenship, 
whereby all certificates, even of our native seamen, are rendered 
suspicious. Any hints on this head will be gratefully received. 

Faithfully yours 
T. Pickering. 

T. Pickering to R. King. 
Dear Sir • Washington, March 4, 1804. 

I must request you to consider this as a continuation of my 
letter yesterday. 

\ I am disgusted with the men who now rule us and with their 
measures. At some manifestations of their malignancy I am 
shocked. The coward wretch at the head, while, like a Parisian 
revolutionary monster, prating about humanity, could feel an in- 
fernal pleasure in the utter destruction of his opponents. We 
have too long witnessed his general turpitude — his cruel removals 
of faithful officers, and the substitution of corruption and base- 
ness for integrity and worth. We have now before the Senate a 
nomination of Meriweather Jones of Richmond, Editor of the 
Examiner, a paper devoted to Jefferson and Jacobinism ; and he 
is now to be rewarded. Mr. Hopkins, Commissioner of Loans, a 
man of property and integrity, is to give room to this Jones. The 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 365 

Commissioner may have at once in his hands thirty thousand dol- 
lars, to pay the public creditors in Virginia. He is required by 
law to give bond only in a sum of from five to ten thousand dollars ; 
and Jones' character is so notoriously bad, that, we have satisfac- 
tory evidence, he could not now get credit at any store in Rich- 
mond for a suit of clothes ! Yet, I am far from thinking if this 
evidence were laid before the Senate, that his nomination will be 
rejected ! I am therefore ready to say "come out from among 
them and be ye separate." Corruption is the object and instru- 
ment of the Chief, and the tendency of his administration, for the 
purpose of maintaining himself in power & for the accomplish- 
ment of his infidel and visionary schemes. The corrupt portion 
of the people are the agents of his misrule ; corruption is the 
recommendation to office ; and many of some pretentions to 
character, but too feeble to resist temptation, become apostates. 
Virtue and worth are his enemies, and therefore he would over- 
whelm them. ) 

^The collision of democrats in your State promises some amend- 
ment. The administration of your Government cannot possibly 
be worse. The federalists here in general, anxiously desire the 
election of Mr. Burr to the chair of New York ; for they despair 
of a present ascendency of the federal party. Mr. Burr alone, 
we think, can break your democratic phalanx, and we anticipate 
much good from his success. Were New York detached (as un- 
der his administration it would be) from the Virginia influence, 
the whole Union should be benefited. Jefferson would then be 
forced to observe some caution and forbearance in his measures. 
And if a separation should be deemed proper, the five New Eng- 
land States, New York and New Jersey would naturally be united. 
Among those seven States there is a sufficient congeniality 
of character to authorize the expectation of practicable harmony 
and a permanent union ; New York the centre. Without a sepa- 
ration, can those States ever rid themselves of negro Presidents 
and negro Congresses, and regain their just weight in the political 
balance ? At this moment the Slaves of the middle and southern 
States have fifteen Representatives in Congress ; and they will 
appoint 15. Electors of the next President & Vice President ; and 
the number of slaves is continually increasing. You know this 
evil. But will the Slave States ever renounce this advantage Y 

366 RUFUS KING. [1804 

As population is in fact no rule of taxation, the negro representa- 
tion ought to be given up. If refused, it would be a strong 
ground of separation ; tho' perhaps an earlier occasion may oc- 
cur to declare it. How many Indian wars, excited by the avidity 
of the western and southern States for Indian Lands, shall we 
have to encounter? and who will pay the millions to support 
them ? The Atlantic States. Yet the first moment we ourselves 
need assistance and call on the western States for Taxes, they 
will declare off, or at any rate refuse to obey the call. Kentucky 
effectually resisted the collection of the excise ; and of the $37,- 
000 direct tax assessed upon her so many years ago, she has paid 
only $4,000, & probably will never pay the residue. In the mean 
time we are maintaining their representatives in Congress for gov- 
erning us, who surely can much better govern ourselves. When- 
ever the Western States detach themselves they will take Louis- 
iana with them. In thirty years, the white population in the 
Western States will equal that of the 13 States, when they declared 
themselves independent of G. Britain. On the Census of 1790, 
Kentucky was entitled to two Representatives ; under that of 1800 
she sends six.j 

The facility with which we have seen an essential change in the 
Constitution, proposed and generally adopted, will perhaps re- 
move your scruples about proposing what you intimate respect- 
ing Negro representation. But I begin to doubt whether that or 
any other change we could propose, with a chance of adoption, 
would be worth the breath, paper and ink, which would be ex- 
pended in the acquisition. Some think Congress will rise in 15 
or 20 days * * * 

Ever your faithful and obedient 

T. Pickering. 

I do not know one reflecting Nov. Anglian, who is not anxious 
for the great event at which I have glanced. They fear, they 
dread the effects of the corruption so rapidly extending ; and 
that if a decision be long delayed, it will be in vain to attempt it. 
If there be no improper delay, we have not any doubt but that 
the great measure may be taken without the smallest hazard to 
private property or the public funds ; the revenues of the North- 
ern States being equal to their portion of the public debt. Leav- 
ing that for Louisiana on those who incurred it. 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 367 

R. King to T. Pickering. 

New York, Mar. 9, 1804. 

Dear Sir : 

I have duly received, & beg you to accept my acknowledg- 
ments for your letters of the 3d & 4th instant — the views which 
they disclose ought to fix the attention of the real friends of 
Liberty in this quarter of the Union, & the more so as things 
seem to be fast advancing to a crisis — to save the post I can do 
little more than acknowledge the receipt of your letters — by the 
mail of tomorrow or Monday I will send you a copy of my De- 
spatch to the Sec'y of State respecting the effort I made to con- 
clude a convention concerning seamen. 

Perhaps you will recollect a long letter from Lord Grenville to 
me, pointing out the defects of our Law for granting Protection 
to seamen : it was sent to the Dept. of State while you were in it, 
and according to my Recollection, was so very particular as to 
shew the only ex parte regulations that the Br. Govt, would be 
likely to respect. 

As to our native seaman, there would I suspect, be little diffi- 
culty in framing such rules as might effectually protect them — 
and if nations alone were in question, the Northern States would 
find little embarrassment, as they do not depend upon for- 
eign seamen to carry on their trade. 

But the Southern States could not carry on their trade without 
the aid of foreign seamen ; and Great Britain will not consent 
that our naturalization of her seamen shall exempt them from 
being recalled & obliged to serve & defend their native country. 

Were I in your place, I should leave it to the friends of the 
present Govt, to do what they can to obtain what we were unable 
to accomplish — it is perhaps all that the federalists can do, to op- 
pose improper acts ; leaving the origination of all Laws, especially 
those which affect the Executive Power & Responsibility to the 
Legislative Agents of the President — The packet brings us no 
news from Engd. Monroe, towards the close of Novr. presented 
a temperate memorial on the subject of seamen : no answer has 
been given : except this Comn. the Department for For. af- 
fairs knew nothing of Monroe — no negotiation is on foot respect- 
ing the old treaty, and I conjecture that this memorial about the 

368 RUFUS KING. [1804 

impressment of seamen is the only act of our minister at London 
since his arrival. 

faithfully yr. obt. ser* 

Rufus King. 

P. S. ' I am unable to give you any correct opinion respecting 
the election of Govr. The Federalists with the exception of cer- 
tain individuals, will pretty generally vote for Burr — this will not 
be enough — and what portion of Demos will join him, I know not 
— pray how did it happen that he had not a single vote at Wash- 
ington for Vice President. 

R. King to T. Pickering. 

New York, Mar. 10, 1804. 
Dear Sir : 

Enclosed I send you the extract promised in my last, and I 
likewise add copies of my letters to the Secy of State in answer 
to an enquiry that your colleague Mr. Adams in behalf of a Comee. 
of the senate requested Mr. Madison to make of me. The pro- 
ject of a Convention respecting seamen had it taken effect, 
would have been beneficial but less extensively so than we may 
be apt to suppose ; inasmuch as a large, by far the larger pro- 
portion of seamen taken out of our employ, are impressed within 
the territorial Limits of G. Br. — which instead of being restrained 
by the convention wd. have rec'd an implied sanction. 

That allegiance is unalienable, and seamen liable to impress- 
ment are two points about which English Lawyers & Statesmen 
entertain no doubt — and I shall be disappointed if the Eng. 
Govt, even consent to limit its authority, or tie up its hands in 
these respects, within its own proper jurisdiction. 

The late Bill will I fear have a mischievous instead of a benefi- 
cial effect : and joined to other circumstances may produce to 
our trade greater embarrassment than of late it has suffered. 
Very much depends upon the existence of good humour between 
G. Br. & the U. S. Many hundred naval officers are intrusted 
with the power of the nation ; these all look for favor & promo- 
tion, and are careful to find out the sentiments & temper of their 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 369 

government towards Foreign Nations — & the opinions they form 
in this respect have a material influence in the exercise of their 
several powers. Circumstances therefore of apparently small im- 
portance, but which are of a nature to produce irritation or dis- 
turb a satisfactory state of things, may lead to mischievous conse- 
quences— and tho' England has too powerful an interest to involve 
herself seriously with the U. S. yet the difference between a favour- 
able & temperate exercise of her Rights as a Belligerent, and a 
vigorous and harsh one, would be most terribly felt throughout 
our Commercial Cities. Nothing will be obtained by menacing 
because nothing ought so to be obtained from a great Nation. I 
have somewhere seen a very precise definition of what the English 
mean by the narrow seas, at this moment I do not recollect the 
exact limits — they include however the sea according to my 
memory, between the Continent and Great Britain, and the claim 
is, I think, extended north almost, or quite to the northern point 
of Norway — St. George's channel which is carried far southward 
is likewise within the narrow seas, so that a vessel arriving from 
America with the purpose of entering the Baltic by the route of 
the Br. Channel, would be within the narrow seas, according to the 
Eng. construction of their limits, from the time of her making 
soundings till she reached the Categat. When Ld St Vincent 
proposed to me the addition by which the narrow seas should be 
excepted so as that within these limits our vessels might be visited 
& searched for British seamen, I remarked to him that all parts 
of the high seas within the territorial jurisdiction of G. Br. had 
been excepted in the proposed article, and that the narrow seas 
were or were not within their jurisdiction ; if they were not, the 
exception ought not to be made. His reply was that the express 
exception of them would remove doubts which might otherwise 
be raised. 

As this exception would have subjected our vessels trading 
with the North of Europe as well as those trading with Holland 
& some parts of France to the most embarrassing visits in search 
of British seamen, I preferred leaving the subject on its present 
footing to a Convention which wd have afforded no little protec- 
tion to our seamen. 

Very faithfully yr obtd sert. 

Rufus King. 

370 RUFUS KING. [1804 

G. Cabot to R. King, New York. 

Boston, March 17, 1804. 
My dear Sir : 

In reply to your inquiry respecting the opinion of our Legisla- 
Nl V ture on the subject of Louisiana, I cou'd only speculate. The 
~"^ session is ended & no one attempted to discover what was thought 
or what might be done. We add thousands to our possessions, 
but have long since discarded the idea of security. The many do 
not think at all, and the few think only to despond. Indeed 
most men are compelled to admit that our evils must be borne until 
their intoler ability generates their cure. Most of those which we fear 
must therefore happen before a remedy can be prescribed. An 
experiment has been suggested by some of our friends to which I 
object that it is impracticable, and, if practicable, wou'd be inef- 
fectual. The thing proposed is obvious and natural, but it would 
now be thought too bold and would be fatal to the advocates as 
public men ; yet the time may soon come when it will be de- 
manded by the people of N. & East, and then it will unavoid- 
ably take place. I am not satisfied that the thing itself is to be 
desired. My habitual opinions have been always strongly against 
it, and I do not see in the present mismanagement motives for 
changing my opinion. 

J It is doubtless true that we are not so perfectly mad in N. E. 
as the people in some other States, especially those of the South ; 
but here we are altogether democratic in our principles ; and those 
principles of necessity place power in the worst hands. If the 
favourable aspect of our State Politics seems to contradict my 
opinion, I confess that those principles have not yet produced all 
the mischief to which they tend ; but at the same time I insist 
that our appearance is deceptive, being better than the reality 
and the reality better than can be well maintained. You see 
good men in high office here contrary to the natural operation of 
democratic elections ; but those men hold their powers upon the 
sole condition that they will not use them, and the moment they 
shall dare to exercise them with vigor, they will cease to be popu- 
lar, and of course cease to fill the high offices they now hold. 

There is an unusual apathy among the Federalists here. They 
have lost more of their vivacity than of their numbers ; I fear 
they lose some of these. Our national admintn. may destroy 

804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 371 

Judiciaries and Constitutions and make new ones without exciting 
much sensibility ; but if they had involved us by their folly and 
baseness in a war with G. B. I believe N. E. might be roused to 
do anything which her leading men shou'd recommend. Some 
distinct general cause of evil like this and fairly imputable to the 
wickedness or ignorance of those who govern wou'd be fatal to 
their power or to the Union of the States. We are loyal to the 
National Govt., and can bear every species of public dishonor, 
but the moment our loyalty appears to be made the instrument of 
our impoverishment, we shall be disposed to act with effect in de- 
fence of all that is dear to us. . . . 

We are now going on according to the course of nature and 
shall follow those who have gone before us from bad to worse 'till 
suffering or the fear of suffering, generally and deeply felt, stimu- 
late us to do better. Indeed I expect no essential improvement 
in our systems, but from suffering, from fear, or from force. I 
think no material change can be made, except by those whom 
we call Jacobins. Good men wou'd not, if they had opportunity, 
establish any system of sufficient force to protect itself : the vio- 
lent and unprincipled are more likely to make a govt, independent 
of popular consent than their betters?) 

I beg you however not to infer that because I think we cannot 
do things impossible, that I would not attempt every possible 
good, or that I do not think any great good can be accomplished. 
So far would that be from the truth, that I firmly believe we owe 
much of what we enjoy and of what we hope for, to the influ- 
ence of the federal party. We are a minority and unable to con- 
quer the vast body which keeps the field, but we are so powerful, 
that he is compelled to confine his movements to a narrow com- 
pass, lest he should give us an advantage over him. We have 
therefore the most commanding motive to preserve to our party 
all the weight we can by adhering to the principles on which it is 
formed and keep it well combined and well informed ; prepare 
to think and act alike on every important occasion. In this way 
we prevent some mischief entirely and mitigate what we cannot 
wholly avert, and shall be able to soften every catastrophe in the 
political Drama, which must happen, and turn them to the best 
account. . . . 

Your faithful & affec. friend. 

G. C. 

CHAPTER XXIV. 

Settlement of the Accounts of King during his Mission — Letters from the Sec- 
retary of Treasury, A. Gallatin— Secretary of State, J. Madison — Auditor 
of Treasury, R. Harrison — R. King. 

On March II, 1804, Mr. King wrote the following letter 
to the Secretary of State, which explains itself. 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

New York. 
Sir: 

As my mission abroad had no other connection with the money 
department of our Government than what arose from the pay- 
ment and receipt of my annual appointments, I made it a point, 
carefully, not to have the custody or to become accountable for 
any money belonging to the public. Hence I have concluded 
that I have no accounts to settle with the Treasury. As, how- 
ever, this Department keeps its accounts in such manner as it 
may deem expedient, I am not sure that it may not have accounts 
with my name. On this subject I took the liberty to speak to the 
Secretary of the Treasury, when he was in this quarter during the 
last summer, and he was so obliging as to say that he would look 
into the question on his return to Washington. From the variety 
of his engagements I apprehend the subject has escaped his recol- 
lection, and I am therefore under the necessity of begging you to 
inform yourself and me whether there is any unclosed account 
with me, either in your Department or that of the Treasury. 
With sentiments &c. 

Rufus King. 

The Secretary, on March 29, 1804, writes that this letter 
was received and sent to Mr. Gallatin, who promised to at- 

372 

1804I LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 373 

tend to the matter, and communicated the result of his 
examination as follows : 

A. Gallatin to R. King. 

Treasury Department, April 20, 1804. 
Dear Sir : 

I did not forget that I had promised to attend to the situation 
of your public account, if, upon enquiry I found that any charges 
existed on the Treasury books against you. But the pressure of 
business during the session of Congress and a wish to obtain Mr. 
Baring's accounts which were necessary to give a full view of the 
subject have prevented an investigation until this time. 

It appears that there are two accounts opened against you ; 
one, called the general account, includes all the payments made 
to you or on your account either at the Treasury or by Messrs. 
Bird, Savage and Bird, and by Sir Francis Baring and Co. ; the 
other relates to the payments to or on account of Major General 
Lafayette.* . . . You have, as yet, received no credit on either 
of those two heads, it being the usage that the party should state 
an account and transmit it to the Auditor with such vouchers and 
explanations as he may possess and think necessary. The items 
of salary need only be stated and the Secretary of State will in- 
form whether the dates and allowances claimed are the proper 
ones. In respect to the items of postages, stationery or other 
contingencies each should strictly be accompanied with receipts 
or other vouchers, but Mr. Harrison informs me that they are not 
very strict on that subject with foreign Ministers, from the 
impracticability in most cases to obtain on their return home 
those receipts, &c, which are demanded in the settlement of 
domestic accounts. Such as you may have you will of course 
transmit ; but I apprehend no difficulty whatever in the imme- 
diate settlement of that first branch of the account as soon as you 
shall have stated and transmitted it. 

In respect to the second division of that general account, and 

* Mr. Gallatin here gives the items of these two accounts, upon which he 
comments in the letter. The first amounted to $78,978.32, and the second to 
$2698.18. Two of these items — the payments to Wilson and Chisholme — he 
does not see ** to what appropriation to charge them." They amount to 
j£i02.7 sterling. 

374 RUFUS KING. [1804 

which consists of payments made by your order, it appears to me 
that from the face of the accounts it results that the money did 
not go through your hands, unless it be for the first item, . . . 
and even in these it is probable that it did not. If so, no receipts 
are necessary nor any other voucher, but to show the authority 
under which, or the reason why you directed the payment. All 
the items composing that branch of the account are charged 
provisionally, as requiring explanation. . . . 

The other account of disbursements for Lafayette is settled 
and you stand charged with $4,895.09, being the amount paid, by 
your orders, beyond the sum granted by Congress. You may on 
that subject give any explanation you may think proper : but I do 
not perceive the possibility of giving you credit for the sum with- 
out the special interference of Congress. Whether or how an 
application should be made for that purpose will be a matter of 
future consideration. . . . 

With sincere Respect & Esteem &c. 

Albert Gallatin. 

In the course of the letter, Mr. Gallatin says : 

" I only mean to point out the manner in which you should 
state your account and claim credit ; the receipts and vouchers 
should be transmitted to the Auditor, with such explanations as 
may be wanted, but in the course of the settlement I will with 
great cheerfulness assist in removing difficulties and in explaining 
to you what objections are made, and what may be required from 
you to remove them." 

In accordance with the suggestions of this letter Mr. King 
transmitted, May f, 1804, to the Auditor of the Treasury 
an account specifying the items due to him and claimed by 
him — amounting in all to $94,136 (being £18,981.15.4,) in 
dollars at 4.44 cents to the pound sterling " according to 
which he received and paid out." By this account he 
claimed as due to him $856.30. 

On the original paper, retained by Mr. King (a copy he 
says was sent to the Auditor) is the following Remark, sent 
most probably as an explanation : 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 375 

" Remark — By turning to the accounts of Messrs. Bird, Savage 
and Bird and of Sir Francis Baring and Co, it will be perceived 
that the credit side of this accouut (with the exception of nine 
thousand dollars received from Mr. Pickering *) is wholly taken 
from a transcript of these accounts ; the same is likewise the fact 
in respect to the whole contingent account on the Debtor side : 
the fact being that the only account which Mr. King has, either 
of the contingent account or of the payments made to him by the 
Bankers, is his Bankers' book." 

There is a letter to the Auditor of the Treasury (in the 
copy of which the date is not given), in which Mr. King ex- 
plains his mode of providing for the care of the public 
money during his mission in England : 

Sir : 

The Secretary of the Treasury has been good enough at my re- 
quest to furnish me with copies of several accounts in my name 
from the Books of your Department. Before I submit to your 
consideration any observations upon the items of these accounts 
it may be proper that I should state to you how far I consider 
myself personally accountable in respect to the public money ex- 
pended in England during my mission to that country. As the 
custody of public money formed no part of my official duty, and 
as for this reason, as well as others, I was unwilling to be its 
keeper, my earliest attention after my arrival in England was 
directed to the choice of a Banker, who would receive, keep and 
disburse whatever money should be remitted for the public ser- 
vice in that country. 

Messrs. Bird, Savage and Bird having been employed as Bank- 
ers of the United States during the time of my Predecessor, Mr. 
Pinckney, upon his recommendation I settled with them the terms 
upon which their agency should be continued. This agreement 
was reported by me to the Secretary of State in my dispatch No. 
4, Sept. 7, 1796, and sanctioned by letters to me dated Sept. 30 
and Oct. 26, 1796. 

According to this arrangement all remittances on account of 
the public service in England were immediately upon the receipt 
of the Bills put into the hands of the Bankers for collection, who 

* His outfit. 

376 RUFUS KING. [1804 

kept and paid out the money so collected to the persons author- 
ized to receive the same. On the failure of Bird, Savage and 
Bird, the house of Sir Francis Baring and Company, with the ap- 
probation of the Secretary of the Treasury, was substituted in 
their place ; and by strictly adhering to this system, I myself 
never had the custody of a shilling of public money during my 
residence abroad. In common with the Commissioners under the 
seventh article of the British Treaty, and other persons in the pub- 
lic employ, I applied for, and received from the Bankers, my 
quarterly appointments, and for these receipts and these only can 
I with any justice admit myself to be personally responsible. 

By my direction money was advanced by the Bankers for the 
prosecution of appeals in the Prize Courts, for the purchase of 
presents to the Barbary Powers, in payment for military stores, 
Military Books, and Indian Medals, for copper supplied to the 
mint, for the support of General Lafayette and for other public 
purposes. In some cases these disbursements were made pur- 
suant to express instructions, in others by virtue of the discretion 
which was supposed to appertain to my office. 

At the same time that with all deference to the opinion of 
others I think myself bound to decline all accountability for 
money that I never received. I am ready to afford every expla- 
nation in my power concerning any payment made by the 
Bankers upon my recommendation. . . . 

In carrying this out, Mr. King then enters upon a con- 
sideration of certain specific charges made by him and of 
which he claims the payment.* 

* Payments to General Lafayette. 

It will probably be recollected that General Lafayette, after being imprisoned 
by the Prussians at Magdeburgh, was turned over to the imperialists and 
confined in an Austrian dungeon. As soon as this information reached 
America the President General Washington wrote a letter to the Emperor of 
Germany (which was sent to the American Minister in London, and delivered 
to the Imperial Ambassador there, who forwarded it to the Emperor) soliciting 
that Lafayette should be released and allowed to come to the U. S. Toward 
the autumn of J797 the Imperial Minister at Hamburg by order of his Court, 
gave notice to Mr. Williams, the American Consul there, that Lafayette would 
be released, that he would be escorted to Hamburg and delivered over to the 
American Consul, on condition of his embarking for America in eight days. 
Coming out of prison and being wholly destitute of means to provide for him- 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 377 

After examining the account, the Auditor of the Treasury 
sent a communication to the Secretary of State, Mr. Madi- 
son, specifying certain charges made by Mr. King, and 
asking whether or not they were to be allowed. The Secre- 
tary, on June 20th, answered the inquiry, saying that certain 
of these were to be admitted as proper, but that others 
could not be admitted to his credit. Among them was the 
payment of money to Genl. Lafayette beyond the appro- 
priation by Congress, one to Philip Wilson to enable him to 
return home, and certain payments for contingencies, post- 
ages, &c, and a change of a few days relating to the term 
on which his mission expired. The letter says : 
self and family a passage to America, the General ordered his aide-de-camp 
Cardignan to apprize me of his situation, and to ask for money to enable him 
to convey himself and family to the United States. 

Considering the General's connexion with the U.S., the application of the 
President to the Emperor for his release, and his discharge and delivery to 
the American Consul on condition of his proceeding to America, I did not 
hesitate in consenting to give orders to the Bankers of the U.S., to advance 
the sum requisite for this purpose. When General Lafayette arrived at Ham- 
burg, the season was so far advanced that he concluded to remain with his 
family during the winter in Holstein, and Cardignan in his behalf applied to 
me that the proposed advance to enable Lafayette to proceed to America 
should be made and applied for his subsistence in Holstein during the winter. 
This was agreed to with an intimation that the whole sum to be advanced would 
not exceed a thousand or twelve hundred pounds sterling. 

Lest I might act under an erroneous impression in respect to the proper limits 
of discretion on this occasion, my dispatch no. 47 dated Sep. 5, 1797, nearly 
four months before the first advance was made to Lafayette, I acquainted the 
Secretary of State with my intention and after it was decided that the General 
and family would pass the winter in Holstein, I wrote a private letter to the 
Secretary of State, of which the following is an extract : 

1 4 There remains only about ,£200, of the fund destined for the use of La- 
fayette : this is already called for, and the necessities of this unfortunate char- 
acter will require advances (to what extent I cannot ascertain) for the subsistence 
of himself and family during the winter. I have before mentioned to you that 
I should, if required, make such advances as may be requisite for this purpose, 
as well as to enable him to remove to America ; and I think I am not mistaken 
in my belief that the President will approve this exercise of discretion." 

Receiving no instructions upon the subject between Christmas 1797 and the 
middle of May 1798, several advances were made by the bankers to General 
Lafayette, amounting to about .£1200. sterling. The paper marked D. is a 
Voucher for these advances — General Lafayette's receipt. — See R. King's Life, 
ii., 223 et seq. 

378 RUFUS KING. [1804 

" From the above it follows that some of the charges under the 
head of contingencies are inadmissible and it will therefore be 
necessary to specify the latter so as to exclude the inadmissible 
charges. Mr. King may also be requested to specify them with 
as much more minuteness as he finds it in his power to do." . . 

R. Harrison to R. King. 

Treasury Department, Auditor's Office, 
June 22, 1804. 

Sir: 

In order that you may be fully informed of the present situa- 
tion of your accounts which were returned to me yesterday, I 
have now the honor to enclose three papers marked A, B, & C. 
The first contains a statement of the points it was judged proper 
to refer to the Secretary of State. The second his decision on 
these points, and by the last you will perceive that, before a 
settlement can be effected, it has become necessary that you 
furnish another account of your contingent expenses with all the 
minuteness your materials will permit, and, more especially, so as 
to exhibit distinctly the amount of each payment for Stationery, 
Presentation fees and Christmas presents ; or so as to exclude, in 
a word, everything except Postage, Newspapers, Pamphlets and 
the printing of necessary papers ; these being the only charges 
which can be allowed consistently with the regulations long since 
established. 

With respect to the overpayment to General La fayette, it is 
totally unconnected with the accounts now under consideration ; 
and I presume it must stand as it does until relief shall be af- 
forded by an Act of Congress. 

Expecting to hear from you as soon as your convenience will 
permit, I have the honor to remain with sentiments of high con- 
sideration &c. &c. R. Harrison. 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

New York, June 27, 1804. 
Sir: 

The auditor of the Treasury has sent me a copy of your opinion 
concerning several questions, which it seems have arisen in the 
examination of my account with the United States, and I take 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 379 

the liberty of enclosing to you my answer to the auditor with a 
request that you will be so obliging as to send it to him after you 
have read it. I must and do feel real concern in dissenting from 
your sentiments on this occasion, especially as my own may be 
thought liable to the influence of personal interest. But as we 
form as well as act upon our opinions respecting our own affairs, 
equally as concerning those of others, and as it is within the 
President's competence to allow the charge, I flatter myself that 
I may rely upon his and your impartiality to give to the following 
observations respecting the presents made to the under Officers 
and Servants of the Court the weight to which they may be en- 
titled. 

It is the custom at the Court of London, on the first presenta- 
tion of a foreign Minister, as well as at every Christmas during 
his residence, to make presents in money to the amount of about 
^30 sterling on each occasion to the under Officers and Servants 
of the Court. This contribution no foreign Minister declines 
giving ; and it is not a personal, but official tribute, on the pay- 
ment whereof there is no option as in the case of ordinary ex- 
penses ; I may safely add my conviction that there is not a single 
foreign Minister to whom this extra charge is not allowed by his 
Government. I enclose a list * of these Pensioners of the Corps 
diplomatique in London and submit it to the President's equity 
to determine, whether I shall be required to reimburse to the 
Public the payments which I made to them. 

Whether these charges were made by my Predecessor is more 

* List of persons lo whom the present against their respective names is given 
by all foreign Ministers on their first presentation at St. James. 

The King's Valets de chambre, in the Levee rooms, 4 Guineas. The King's 
footman, 2 do. — The Sergeant porter of the Court. 1. do. — The 7 Gentlemen 
porters-i. do — The six Marshalmen, 1 do — The underporters at St. James, 1. 
do— The yeomen of the Guards 2. do.— The Queens porter and underporter. 
1^ do. — The Queen's footman 2. do. — The Prince of Wales porter and footman 
i\ do. — The Grooms of the King's bedchamber, who give notice of Court 
mournings, 1. do — The chamberkeepers at the Secretary's office 2. do — The 
porter at do. 1 do — The servants of the Master of Ceremonies 1. do — The ser- 
vants of the assistant Master 1. do — in all, ^26.5. 

The same persons receive Christmas presents in one or two instances less 
than those named on the presentation, but Christmas presents are given to the 
servants of the Prime Minister, and of the Secretary of State, so that the 
Christmas present exceeds by 2 or 3 Guineas the present on presentation. 

380 RUFUS KING. [1804 

than I know, but admitting they were not, his omission should not 
prejudice his Successors. It may be recollected Mr. Pinckney 
was absent on a mission to Spain, during which his expenses were 
paid and his regular appointments as Minister at London con- 
tinued. Besides the expenses of the Mission during my time 
were increased at least by a quarter beyond what they were in the 
time of my Predecessor. These reflexions are made not solely 
for my own sake, but for the sake of any gentlemen, who with the 
present salary may be my Successor, and their object is to estab- 
lish the just distinction that exists between official and personal 
expenses, and to prevail upon the President to free me and my 
Successors from the former. 

With perfect Consideration & Respect &c, &c, 

Rufus King. 

R. King to R. Harrison, Auditor. 

New York, June 27, 1804. 
Sir : 

I have had the honour to receive your letter of the 22nd in- 
stant, together with the opinion of the Secretary of State concern- 
ing the several points which were referred to his consideration. 
As I am to infer from the tenour of your letters that your Depart- 
ment possesses no discretionary power in respect to these points, 
I ought not to waste your time by any observations concerning 
them. I may however be permitted to observe that the diplomatic 
account, which always included my contingent account, was every 
year, according to my instructions, transmitted by the Bankers to 
the Secretary of State, and for the purpose, as I always supposed, 
of being annually examined and settled. No observation was 
ever made to me concerning the items of, or manner of stating 
this account, and I therefore concluded, especially as every item 
is within the President's competence to allow, that from year to 
year it had received the approbation of those whose province it 
was to judge of it. 

Had the slightest intimation been given to me that the particu- 
lars now asked for would be expected, I should have endeavoured, 
however inconvenient, to obtain and preserve as far as practicable 
the means of enabling myself to comply with the demand. As I 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 38 1 

have before stated to you this account was faithfully made out and 
examined by me once in every year, but as no care was taken to 
preserve the memoranda from which the same was drawn up, it is 
not now in my power to specify the amount of each particular 
article, or to furnish a separate statement of my yearly expense 
for copy-books, paper, pens, wax, wafers &c included under the 
name of stationery. 

The charges for presentation and Christmas presents to the un- 
der officers and servants of the Court, which are official expenses, 
that no foreign minister can with credit decline, are already sepa- 
rately stated in the account transmitted to you. If it be deemed 
fit that I should put my hand into my own pocket to reimburse to 
the public money that without advantage to me has gone into the 
pockets of others, there will be no difficulty in ascertaining the 
amount. As the money advanced for poor Wilson's passage has 
no relation to my private account, I will only add that since the 
allowance of Wilson's expenses from Lisbon to Norfolk, for he 
was obliged to put into Lisbon on his passage, it may seem that 
this change should be disallowed. 

Very faithfully and with great Respect &c 

Rufus King. 

To finish this subject the following letters, though some- 
what out of sequence as to date, will show that a settlement 
of Mr. King's accounts was reached without any material 
change. 

J. Madison to R. King. 

Department of State, July 13, 1804. 
Sir : 

I have had the honor to receive your letter of the 29th ult., 
enclosing one to the Auditor which was handed to him. The 
President having directed that your charges for presentation and 
Christmas presents and for stationery be admitted to your credit 
in the books of the Treasury, the letter of which a copy is en- 
closed was transmitted to the Auditor as his guide. The enclosed 
extract from the accounts of Messrs. Bulkleys, late Bankers at 
Lisbon, will evince that no charge for the relief afforded to Philip 

382 RUFUS KING. [1804 

Wilson and his family was admitted to their credit, for the same 
reason which operates against that claimed by you.* 
I have the honor to be &c &c 

James Madison. 

As stated in the letter, the auditor was directed to allow 
these claims. The Secretary's letter was answered by Mr. 
King as below. 

R. King to Secretary of State. 

Waltham near Boston, July 24, 1804. 
Sir: 

Owing to my absence from New York, I had not the honour 
of receiving your letter of the 13th before yesterday. Although 
the suspended items in my account are in my judgment equitable 
charges, yet as they seem not to be included within the contingent 
expenses heretofore allowed, I feel myself duly sensible of the 
President's liberality in the direction which he has authorized to 
be sent to the Treasury Department on this subject, and beg the 
favour of you, Sir, to present to him my respectful acknowledge- 
ments. In regard to the allowance that I supposed to have been 
made at the Treasury on account of Ph. Wilson's expenses, I have 
probably misapplied the information given to me by the late Sec- 
retary of the Treasury, Mr. W. who, on my speaking to him re- 
specting the advance made for Wilson in London, told me that 
there was a precedent for its payment, as he well remembered that 
on Wilson's arrival at Norfolk, certain expenses attending his pas- 
sage were allowed and paid. Whether this payment was to the 
Master of the ship, or to enable Wilson to get on from Norfolk to 
Philadelphia, or on some other account, I am ignorant. Knowing 
of the Lisbon expenses, I concluded it was to them Mr. Wolcott 
referred. 

But I have already given you too much trouble on this unim- 

* " That there is no existing provision in America by which our advances 
can be reimbursed." This claim for ^52. was based upon a subscription to a 
fund to enable Philip Wilson & family, who had been impoverished in unsuc- 
cessfully prosecuting a claim in London, to return home. The minister, as 
such, subscribed the above amount for that purpose. His vessel was driven 
into Lisbon. 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 383 

portant point. I will only add that should this small disbursement, 
as well as the more considerable one to General Lafayette appear 
to the President to have been made from motives that merit his 
approbation, I should hope that he will not think it inexpedient to 
recommend to Congress to cover the same by a suitable appro- 
priation. 

In cases of private persons, it behoves them to petition Con- 
gress for relief ; but officers of the United States and accountable 
to and removable by the President naturally look to him for pro- 
tection in all cases of expense, when without authority they may, 
nevertheless, have exercised a sound discretion. 

Yours &c 

Rufus King. 

Thos. T. Tucker, Treasurer United States, to R. King. 

Treasury of the United States, Washington, October 6, 1804. 
Sir : 

Enclosed you will find my Draft No. 7138, on Jonathan Burrall 
Esq for 339.-^ Dollars, being the amount of Warrant No. 32, 
Issued by the Secretary of the Treasury, on receipt of which be 
pleased to favor me with an acknowledgment. 

I am with great respect Sir, your Obedt. Servt. 

Th. T. Tucker, Treasurer Un. States. 
Rufus King Esq. 

Boston, Oct. 17, 1804. 
Sir : 

I have duly received your Letter of Octr. 6 enclosing your 
Draft No. 7138 on Jonathan Burrall Esq for 339tW Dollars 
payable to my order, stated to be the amount of Warrant No. 32, 
issued by the Secretary of the Treasury, and being I presume a 
Balance due to me upon the settlement of my accounts in the 
Department of the Treasury. 

I have the honour to be with great Respt. 
Sir, your ob. Servt. 

Rufus King. 
Th. T. Tucker, Treasurer U. S. 

384 RUFUS KING. [1804 

On the original account sent to the Auditor of the Treas- 
ury, there is the following in R. King's handwriting : 

Nov. 7, 1804 — Allowed balance . $339.51 

Suppd. deduction P. Wilson . . 233.32 
Salary from 23d inst of 20th May to 

18th ins of 20th say 5 days a 24.65 123.25 696.08 

Unknown disallowances . . . 160.72 

The amount sent to him by draft is thus accounted for. 
It is therefore probable that the disbursement to Lafayette 
was allowed by the President. 

The three letters which follow, though somewhat out of their 
order as to dates, are in several ways interesting and are here 
inserted : 

F. Baring to R. King. 

London, i March, 1804. 
My dear Sir : 

I cannot suffer our friend Mr. Gore to leave the country with- 
out conversing with you by the only means in my power ; indeed 
I have long felt a propensity to begin a correspondence which 
was in a great measure superfluous whilst Mr. Gore remained. I 
am just returned from Bath & from paying my last respects & 
duty to our friend Bingham ; a melancholy task & still more 
melancholy reflexion that such a man should be cut off in the 
prime of life. I never saw a more firm manly mind, nor (if I may 
use the word) more stern integrity ; solely occupied with the con- 
sideration of what was correctly right, without suffering the 
slightest bias or partiality to operate upon his mind. And though 
my sons do not enjoy some advantages which the Customs both 
of America & of England sanction, yet I can say most sincerely 
that they as well as myself are perfectly satisfied and that we shall 
ever hold his memory in the highest respect & reverence. He 
was surrounded by the families of his two daughters & Lord 
Lansdowne, whose attentions to him were incessant ; indeed noth- 
ing was omitted that could have been supplied. 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 385 

I am returned to a most busy, anxious, I may say a most 
gloomy scene both at home & abroad — both indeed are so bad 
that it is with reluctance I touch upon either. You know per- 
fectly well the carte du pays of things as they are, or rather were. 
Some, who were tired of the system of divide et impera, formed a 
coalition upon general principles of opposition to the Minister, 
but of equal reserve as to the consequences. Windham & Gren- 
ville, who are for war, unite with Fox & Grey, who are for peace. 
Windham, whatever we may think of his head, has character. But 
we now find the stern, austere Grenville will bend to anything for 
the sake of peace. Every man must lament that Fox with the 
best talents should yield so easily to a connexion which can neither 
be satisfactory nor reputable to himself. Grey embarks from 
friendship for Fox, for every great pugilist must have his bottle- 
holder. Sheridan is at sea & I fear his necessities, more than 
anything else, have governed his conduct. The Prince has given 
him a place which is about a single drop of water, in the ocean. 
I have no confidence in this union ; it will neither do for the 
Court or people, and cannot stand alone. 

In what manner this junto will try their strength remains to 
be ascertained, as existing circumstances will shut many mouths 
most probably will prevent any distinct plan from being formed. 
Pitt keeps aloof of connection, but is always on the ground and is 
much beyond the other competitors in sagacity. Since the King's 
illness the prince has only consulted with Thurlow, whose rough 
outside may easily be mistaken for what it is not : he will make 
no such mistakes as Roslyn did on a former occasion, which is so 
far safe. L. Moira commands in Scotland where he has distin- 
guished himself by talents both civil and military ; he will no 
doubt act a conspicuous part under a new head. L. Lansdowne 
is on his road from Bath, but will not arrive till the end of the 
week ; of course he has not made up his mind. In 2 or 3 days 
the whole must develop itself, but I must write en avance or I 
shall lose the opportunity. 

With regard to Invasion, I cannot think it will pass away & un- 
der such tremendous preparation guided by such a Man ; it is 
folly to be presumptuous. It is true the french will have great, 
very great obstacles to encounter ; but it is too much to say these 
obstacles will not be forced ; it is equally so to say they may not be 

386 RUFUS KING. [1804 

evaded under a combination of favorable winds & circumstances. 
If you think I am nervous, I will freely confess to you that I wish 
the attempt should be made ; for if it shall not be made, the military 
force assembled is so enormous that the whole of the North of 
Europe is in danger, & I think it essential for the safety of the 
World, that Europe should enjoy more repose & have longer 
time to recruit before the flame burst out on the Continent, & 
which it must do ere long. When I urged the safety of the world 
to Bingham, he never would admit that America under any cir- 
cumstances could possibly be in danger ; my opinion is, as it al- 
ways has been, that Britain was the bulwark to America, & that 
the downfall of one would be followed by the destruction of the 
other. Indeed I cannot discover in what manner Universal Em- 
pire is to be prevented, if the power of France, say the unity of 
that power, remains intact, for its impulse is irresistible. 

You will perceive what interesting events are on the point of 
developing themselves at the moment I write. — The internal 
government of this Country — Invasion or no Invasion — & on the 
latter circumstance depends continental war. In every event I 
hope we shall remain at peace with America. I shudder as much 
at a war with Scotland or Ireland, as with America. I only fear 
too much influence on the part of the people, whose passions con- 
stantly absorb & make them forget their interest, or even common 
sense. I am thoroughly confident in the pacific disposition of the 
rulers on your side, but in America, as well as in England, our 
Sovereign Lords & Masters, the Mob, must be obeyed. I could 
travel over much more ground with you, but I think to have 
stated the multum in parvo in times so pregnant with events, & 
yet at the moment so completely uncertain in every description 
or point of view whatever, I therefore shall conclude with the 
assurance of my being with great regard 

My dear Sir, your most truly faithful humble Servant, 

F. Baring. 

C. Gore to *R. King. 

Boston, April 17, 1804. 
My dear Friend : 

L'd. H., I mentioned to you before had invited me to a con- 
ference previous to my departure, proposed by a note to me to 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 387 

call at his office one day. As he said nothing further of Merry's 
rank &c, I was of course silent. It is their determination to keep 
things on the same footing with us, as the Treaty placed them, 
unless any commercial regulations of ours should render a different 
account necessary on their part, which I think they apprehend 
more than they have reason for. As to the war, he seemed to 
think it was impossible for Bonaparte to avoid making an attempt 
to invade England after the immense means he had collected, 
and the enormous expence he had incurr'd, although he believed 
that his only hopes of success were in Ireland, and to that end 
probably were intended his preparations ag't. England. It is 
thought (said by him to be known) that no powers on the conti- 
nent would engage in the contest, unless France should make an 
attempt on the Morea, or on Egypt, in which case Russia had 
declared she would resist with all her force — and in this declara- 
tion & a conduct conformable thereto G. B. confided. I passed 
an hour & a half with him, and at the latter part of the time, the 
L'd. Chancellor entered, who assisted at the conversation. By 
them I was treated with great kindness and apparent confidence. 
The latter gentleman visited me before I quitted. They both 
desired their Regards & Respects to you. A coalition has been 
formed between Mr. Fox, L'd. Grenville, Windham, &c, which, 
however, does not embrace Mr. Pitt. The only object of this coali- 
tion, as I was told by Mr. Coke, was to oppose the present 
administration & to endeavour to attain their dismissal from 
office. . . . 

J. Madison to R. King. 

Department of State, Washington, 24 May, 1804. 
Sir: 

An occasion has occurred, in relation to a demand set up by 
the proctors, who have conducted the American suits, in London, 
on account of captures, to request the favour of your stating how 
far they are supported in it by any promise made by you. It seems 
that suitors in the Prize court have a right to cause their proctor's 
bill to be taxed, which produces a deduction, supposed to average 
about fifteen per cent ; but they allege that by way of encourage- 

388 RUFUS KING. [1804 

ment to their attentions, you promised them that they should be 
paid the full amount of their bills in the American causes, in 
which the Government of the U. States are responsible to pay 
them, without resorting to taxation. Mr. Ewing being about to 
make a final settlement with them has referred the determination 
of this part of their claims to instructions from the Department 
of State. Requesting an answer as soon as your convenience 
will admit. I have the honor to remain Sir your most obed't 
Serv't, 

James Madison. 

R. King to J. Madison. 

New York, May 29, 1804. 
Sir: 

In answer to your letter of the 24inst, I have the honour to 
state that no engagement was ever made by me that the long bills 
of the Proctors' should be paid. In consequence of an instruc- 
tion that I gave to the agent Mr. Bayard to require that the Proc- 
tors' bills should be regularly taxed, several of them came to me 
to represent what they called the usage on this subject, and to urge 
me to authorize or promise them payment on their long or un- 
taxed bills. My answer was explicit that I could make no en- 
gagement to this effect, but that the demand must be referred to 
the Govt, of the U. States, whose decision would perhaps be 
influenced by the satisfactory or unsatisfactory adjustment of 
the American Claims. 

With great Respect &c. 

Rufus King. 

P. S. The payments from time to time made to the Proctors 
were on account, leaving the question concerning their long bills 
open for the President's decision. I do not recollect whether the 
taxed or long bills were admitted by the Commissioners. My 
impression is that the taxed bills only were received. Mr Gore or 
Mr. Cabot can ascertain this point. 

CHAPTER XXV. 

Burr disappointed — Sought Revenge by Death of Hamilton — King's Connect- 
ion with the Duel between them — Charges against him of Coldness of 
Heart and of not endeavoring to prevent the Duel examined and disproved 
— King to C. King, denying a Statement by Dr. Mason — C. King to R. 
King— Interview with Dr. Mason — Report Incorrect — W. Wallace to King 
— Result of the Duel — Pendleton to King — Hamilton mortally wounded — 
Correspondence with Gen. Clarkson relative to the Duel — Pitcairn to King 
— Deplores the Death of Hamilton. 

Aaron Burr, who had been the recipient of his party's 
favors, and had nearly reached the office of President, found 
himself deserted, as has been seen, by his former friends, and 
moved by his ruling passion, . ambition, sought to obtain 
through the agency of a large portion of the federalists, who 
believed themselves outraged by the acts of the President and 
his friends, a return to that power from which he hoped 
much in the future. It was very evident to him, when 
again defeated, that the leading opponent he had was Alex- 
ander Hamilton. There can be no doubt that he felt that 
he could not overcome or destroy his influence and that he 
stood in the way of any political advancement. There was 
but one way in which he could get rid of this obstacle to his 
success and that was to remove it by a duel, which would put 
an end to one or the other, and as history records he took 
means to insure the death of his adversary by careful 
practice. 

Mr. Jabez Hammond in his History of Political Parties in 
New York{\., 210), presents very clearly the effect upon Mr. 
Burr of the result in the election of Governor in that State.* 

* " The result of the New York election [that of Mr. Lewis by a very large 
majority] had entirely prostrated the political prospects of Col. Burr. He was 

389 

390 RUFUS KING. [1804 

It is not proposed to present a full and particular account 
of the circumstances and correspondence relative to the 
duel which removed the leading statesman of the day from 
the sphere of usefulness in which his energy and consum- 
mate ability had so long benefited his country, and which 
brought upon his adversary the universal scorn of all parties 
and a bitter retribution which he little looked for. As the 
name of Rufus King, the warm and trusted friend of 
Hamilton, has been connected with history of this event, 
and at times with a criticism which he did not deserve, it 
is due to him that a true statement of his position should 
be given. 

irrevocably cast off from the republican party in the nation ; and the event of 
the contest in this State had proved that his friends were not sufficiently numer- 
ous when connected with the federalists, or so many of them as would join his 
standard, to sustain him here. Should the federalists as a party ever gain the 
ascendency, the prospect of which was extremely unpromising, he knew by 
what had recently occurred, that he would have no hopes of promotion from that 
party. His political fortunes therefore seemed totally wrecked and irretrievably 
ruined. In reflecting upon the cause of that ruin, he undoubtedly regarded 
Gen. Hamilton as the principal agent. If at any time he had expected the 
aid of the federal members of congress to elect him president in preference to 
Mr. Jefferson, he had there met the opposition of Mr. Hamilton ; for on that 
occasion Mr. Bayard of Delaware and Mr. Morris of Vermont, two of Mr. 
H's friends, had given the election to Mr. Jefferson. In the late contest 
when his political life was at stake, the same opponent had there stood in his 
way ; and to his denunciation and great and commanding influence, Mr. Burr 
charged the defection and desertion of so large a portion of federalists from 
their party. These considerations must have produced in the gloomy and 
despairing mind of Mr. Burr a settled determination that he would have 
revenge — a revenge that nothing short of the life of Hamilton would satiate. 
It is impossible for me to account for the duel which took place after this 
election, between Burr and Hamilton, upon any other principle. It is true, 
that had the answer of Gen. Hamilton to the first communication of Burr been 
more guarded and more conciliatory in its tone and manner, it might have put 
Burr more clearly in the wrong, and furnished positive and decisive evidence 
that from the commencement he premeditated and determined on a mortal 
contest. But he knew that Gen. Hamilton from youth had been a military 
man, and that he was sensitively alive to his honor as a soldier ; and a careful 
review of the correspondence as it was actually conducted will convince all 
candid men that Burr, when he wrote the first note, was resolved that the issue 
should be nothing less than the death of one of the parties." 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 39 1 

In the Life of jfosiah Quincy by his son Edmund Quincy, 
published in 1868, p. 84, there is given an extract from a 
Journal of Mr. J. Quincy while in New York in November, 
1805, on his way to Washington to take his seat in Congress. 
He mentions the hospitable entertainment he received 
there and speaks of a number of eminent men he met. 
Among them was Mr. Pendleton, who was General Hamil- 
ton's second in the duel, and whom he questioned about it: 

" I asked Mr. Pendleton * whether in the opinion of Mr. 
Hamilton's friends Mr. King had conducted with propriety in 
leaving New York, previous to the duel, after having been par- 
ticularly consulted by Hamilton on the subject. Mr. Pendleton 
answered that the facts were that Hamilton did consult King 
and that early. He was that 'judicious friend,' of whom Ham- 
ilton speaks in one of his letters. After having thus been con- 
sulted some time previously to the time fixed for the duel, King 
commenced a journey. I know that this conduct of King 
has been considered as indicating great coldness of heart in King. 
It certainly does nothing else. A man who had felt deeply the 
public and private stake which was put at risk, could not, it has 
been said, have left the vicinity until the final decision, particu- 
larly after the marks of confidence he had received from Ham- 
ilton. On the contrary, Mr. King says he could have done 
nothing by staying— that the duel was inevitable. From politi- 
cal considerations, he might wish to be at a distance from the 
scene." 

In this statement, published sixty-three years after it was 
recorded, it would seem as if the family of General Hamil- 
ton censured Mr. King for taking his journey, arranged for 
sometime before the duel, and that Mr. Pendleton remarked 
that it " has been considered as indicating great coldness 
of heart. It certainly does nothing else," because he left 
the vicinity while the affair was still pending. It does 

* " I was led to this inquiry because a brother-in-law of mine, Washington 
Morton, a young man of strong passions, who had married Miss Schuyler 
(sister of Mrs. Hamilton) had spoken very indignantly of the conduct of King, 
giving the impression that such was the feeling of his wife's family." 

392 RUFUS KING. [1804 

not appear that the feelings of the family upon the matter 
were indicated by anything but the opinion of his brother- 
in-law, who had married Mrs. Hamilton's sister, " a young 
man of strong passions, who had spoken very indignantly 
of the conduct of King." It may have been true, and yet 
what constitutes " coldness of heart " is a matter of opinion ; 
and the fact might have been that Mr. King, finding his 
remonstrances could have no effect, preferred not being 
present — but not, as Mr. Pendleton suggested, that he might 
" from political considerations, wish to be at a distance 
from the scene" Mr. King never showed an unwillingness 
to meet any responsibility, and no personal or political con- 
siderations as to the future would have been entertained 
for a moment. 

The facts are that Mr. King, who had not visited his 
friends and family in Massachusetts since his return from 
Europe, had decided to do so in the summer of that year, 
and to follow out a suggestion made to him on April 22d 
by Mr. Gore. 

" We sincerely regret your suffering under the ague and fever, 
and most truly hope it has now left you. We shall anxiously 
await your coming hither, which we pray you not to delay longer 
than the season renders necessary. June and July are pleasant 
months here. In August you can visit your family and friends 
at the Eastward and return to us in September and to New York 
in November." 

There can be no doubt that his arrangements, when 
travelling was not so expeditious or comfortable as in these 
days, had been somewhat in accordance with this plan, 
which he carried out. In the meantime the trouble arose 
in which he was consulted by General Hamilton. The deci- 
sion to accept a challenge was made by the latter, and 
when it was given on the 27th June and accepted on the 
28th the time for the duel was not fixed. In the Re- 
marks, which were offered by Mr. Pendleton to Mr. Van 
Ness as from General Hamilton, but not accepted by him, 
the closing paragraph is in the following words : 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 393 

" If the alternative alluded to in the close of the letter (of the 
27th) is definitely tendered, it must be accepted ; the time, place 
and manner, to be afterwards regulated : I should not think it 
right in the midst of a Circuit Court to withdraw my services from 
those who may have confided important interests to me, and ex- 
pose them to the embarrassment of seeking other counsel, who 
may not have time to be sufficiently instructed in their cases. I 
shall also want a little time to make some arrangements respecting 
my own affairs." * 

There was, therefore, as this condition was explained by 
Mr. Pendleton and accepted, no certainty when the duel 
would take place. In fact it did not occur until the nth of 
July. With this uncertainty before him, having it is pre- 
sumed arranged his journey, and with the feeling that noth- 
ing more could be done to avert what he deprecated, it is 
not necessary to believe that there was no anxiety on the 
part of Mr. King, or unconcern as to the result that would 
warrant the accusation of "great coldness of heart." It 
cannot be supposed that there was not entire sympathy and 
understanding between the two men, for Hamilton in his 
last letter to Sedgwick speaks of King as on his way to Boston. 

But whatever some may think about his absence from 
New York at the time of the duel, there is another charge 
against Mr. King, " that he was blamed for not endeavoring 
to prevent this fatal duel," made in the Autobiography of 
Charles Biddle, published in 1883.+ ft mav De sa^ tnat 
Mr. Biddle held Aaron Burr in high regard, as this record 
shows, while on the other hand he had few kind words to 
say of his political opponent, Alexander Hamilton, except 
as to his great abilities. He says, p. 309 : 

" If General Hamilton had not opposed Colonel Burr, I have 
very little doubt he would have been elected Governor of New 
York, and if he had it would have been a fortunate circumstance 
for the country, as well as for themselves and their families. 

* Life of Hamilton, vii., 815. 

f An examination of this charge and refutation of it were made and published 
by the Editor of the present Life, in the Magazine of American History, vol. 
xi., p. 212. This account will be freely used here. — Ed. 

394 RUFUS KING. [1804 

" In this unfortunate affair, Mr. Rufus King was blamed, I 
think deservedly, for not endeavoring to prevent this fatal duel. 
He is the moderate judicious friend General Hamilton alludes to 
in the paper enclosed in his will." 

This was not written at the time of the duel, " but some 
years after, when time had softened bitter feelings," mani- 
festing that there were even then some who still entertained 
the opinion that Mr. King might have prevented the duel, 
that he did not exert his influence with General Hamilton, 
and that he suffered in the minds of honorable men in 
consequence. 

As this was the first publication, in a work of acknowl- 
edged character, of the charge, it is due to Mr. King that it 
should be corrected and refuted. He certainly was the 
warm and faithful friend of General Hamilton, a friendship 
dating from before the days when they sat together in the 
Convention for the formation of the Constitution of the 
United States, and, apart from personal esteem and friend- 
ship, he too well knew and prized the valuable services and 
the ability of that distinguished man to leave unused any 
influence he might have to avert the calamity, which he 
must have anticipated as the result of a hostile meeting ; 
and it is known that he had been consulted. General 
Hamilton has stated this fact in the paper left by him. 

Happily Mr. King has, in a paper which will be found 
below, made a statement, in his own handwriting and signed 
by him, which gives an account of his agency in the matter 
and shows how shocked he was, at the time it was written in 
1819, that the charge above referred to was made — a charge 
he appears never before to have heard. 

R. King to Charles King.* 

Jamaica, L. I., Ap. 2, 1819. 
Dear Sir: 

To my surprise and regret, I have been informed that Dr. 
Mason in a late conversation at a dinner table stated in reference 

* His son. 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 395 

to the duel between Genl. Hamilton and Colonel Burr, in which 
the former was mortally wounded, that it was in my power to have 
prevented the duel, and that evidence of this fact could be pro- 
duced ; a statement which had the effect of creating the belief 
that I approved of and promoted the duel. 

I request that you will take an early opportunity of calling on 
Doctor Mason and in my behalf assuring him that the reverse of 
the alleged fact is the truth, and that so far from approving and 
promoting the duel, I disapproved of it and endeavoured to pre- 
vail on Genl. Hamilton not to meet Col. Burr. 

Ask Doctor Mason to furnish you with the evidence to which 
he referred and upon which he thought himself justified in mak- 
ing the foregoing statement. Say to him, moreover, on my part, 
that I willingly believe, after receiving this communication, that 
he will take greater pleasure in correcting than he could have ex- 
perienced in stating a charge that is wholly unfounded. 
With affectionate Regards, I am faithfully yrs. 

Rufus King. 

On the margin of a copy of the letter given above is writ- 
ten by Mr. King : 

" Remark. Mr. Bogert gave me this information, which he 
received from a gentleman present at this dinner, who was im- 
pressed by Dr. M.'s statement that I encouraged the duel. Mr. 
Bogert more than once conferred with this person, in order accu- 
rately to understand the tenor of Dr. M.'s charge, and the im- 
pression of it upon the person in question. Mr. Bogert has seen 
and approves of this letter as correct in its recital of what was 
communicated to him. R. K." 

On the reverse of the original letter appears the fol- 
lowing : 

C. King to R. King. 

Wednesday Ev'g, April 7, 1819. 

I received this letter on the 5th of April and in the course of 
that day called at Dr. Mason's house and was informed by Mrs. 

396 RUFUS KING. [1804 

Mason that the Dr. was in the country, arranging his library. 
Being engaged on the 6th, I deferred repeating the call 'till this 
afternoon (the 7th) when I saw Dr. Mason, and informing him 
that I called on the part of my father, who had heard a report 
which was very unpleasant to him, presented him with this letter, 
as the best mode of explaining the object of my visit. He 
read it attentively and returned it to me with the observation, 
" that there was no truth at all in the report to which it referred." 
He then went on to explain " that at the dinner table of Mr. 
Richards, Mr. H. W. Warner alluding to the duel of Genl. Ham- 
ilton and Col. Burr mentioned Mr. Pendleton as the calm and 
judicious friend, to whom Genl. Hamilton referred, as having 
taken his advice previous to the duel. Dr. Mason remarked here- 
upon that he understood that friend to be Mr. King — but that 
this remark was unaccompanied with any other, or any comment 
— that Mr. Warner had within a day or two called upon him in 
much agitation, that they had talked over the subject, and Mr. 
Warner had left him prepared to give Mr. Bogert such an expla- 
nation of what really passed at the dinner already alluded to, as 
would do away the unjust inferences that appeared to have been 
drawn from it. I expressed the pleasure I felt at this statement 
and entered into a detail of what really took place between my 
father and Genl. Hamilton at their interview on the subject of this 
unfortunate duel, specifying particularly that the only point, upon 
which Genl. Hamilton asked my father's opinion was whether he, 
Genl. Hamilton, was bound to give a definite answer to Burr's 
enquiry, as to whether he, Hamilton, had at any time or in any 
place expressed opinions unfavourable or derogatory to Col. 
Burr ; to which my father answered decidedly, No ; that if Mr. 
Burr would specify any particular fact, then and then only, it 
would be proper for Genl. Hamilton to deny or affirm it — that 
such should be the tenor of Genl. Hamilton's reply to Burr. 
That preparatory to and during the discussion of this question, 
the main one, of whether Genl. Hamilton should under any cir- 
cumstances accept a challenge from Mr. Burr arose, and that my 
father decidedly advised that he should not ; but that Genl. Hamilton 
having stated that his mind was made up on this subject, as also 
to throw away his fire, if they should meet, my father then en- 
deavoured to prove to him, that if he, Mr. H., would persist in 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 397 

fighting, he owed to his family and the rights of self-defence to 
fire at his antagonist. 

Dr. Mason replied that these circumstances were new to him, 
but that the letter I had shewn to him, communicated what he 
did not know, but what he was rejoiced to find, that my father 
dissuaded Genl. Hamilton from fighting — as his letter stated he 
did. I hereupon rose, to take my leave, expressing the pleasure 
I felt that a report which could not but be disagreeable to my 
father and unjust to Dr. Mason, had been so satisfactorily ex- 
plained— to which Dr. Mason rejoined that he was also well 
pleased at it ; and that no man in the country would rejoice 
more than himself to see my father occupying that station in the 
country which was justly due to him. 

I immediately returned home (about half past six o'clk P.M.) 
and committed the result of this interview to writing. 

Chas. King. 

On the back of the rough copy of a letter to General Clark- 
son, p. 399, is the following, either sent or proposed to be sent, 
to some intimate friend and in R. King's handwriting : 

" You cannot my Dr. Sir, hold in greater abhorrence than I do 
the Practice of Duelling. Our lamented friend was not unac- 
quainted with my opinion on the subject, but with a mind the 
most capacious and discriminating that I ever knew, he had laid 
down for the gov. of himself certain rules upon the subj. of 
Duels, the fallacy of which wd. not fail to be seen by any man 
of ordinary understanding ; with these Guides, it is my delib- 
erate opinion, that he could not have avoided a meeting with Col. 
Burr, had he even declined the first Challenge." 

On the same page also in R. King's handwriting is the 
following : 

I regard it as a violation of our civil, our moral and our relig- 
ious Duty. I go farther and do not consider it as even proof of 
Courage. 

It cannot be necessary to search for other proof of the 
falseness of the charge, to which allusion has above been 
made, of indifference to the welfare of his friend, and that 

398 RUFUS KING. [1804 

at the solemn moment of deciding what course should be 
pursued, Mr. King, when friendship could speak with such 
commanding voice, was wanting in the counsel he should 
give. 

There are several other letters, bearing upon the subject 
of the duel, which will present some interesting features 
and are given below. 

Wm. Wallace, New York, to R. King, Hartford, Conn. 

July 11, 5 p. m., 1804. 
My dear Sir : 

This morng. we were all alarmed at a report of Col. Hamilton's 
being killed in a duel with Col. Burr. Knowing that such a re- 
port would interest you, I seize the present opportunity to say 
" a meeting took place between those gentlemen this morng., the 
cause said to be political, the consequence a wound (supposed 
mortal) on Col. Hamilton. He received the shot of his antago- 
nist, it is said with the determination of not returning the first 
fire. He was brought to Mr. Bayard's at Greenwich, where Mr. 
Low and I were at 12 o'clock. He was still alive but I conceive 
there is nothing further than a possibility of his recovery. We 
have not heard from him since that time. A general sense of 
regret prevails. We have nothing else since your departure. 

Yours &c &c, 

Wm. Wallace. 

Nath. Pendleton to R. King, Boston. 

N. Y., Thursday, July— 1804. 

My dear Sir : 

Before you receive this our dear and excellent friend Hamilton 
will be no more. He & Col. B. met yesterday morning at seven 
o'clock on the Jersey shore. Genl. H. persisted in the resolution 
he had taken before you left us to receive & not return the first 
shot. Unhappily Mr. B's first shot was fatal. It passed between 
the two lower ribs of the right side, and lodged near the spine, 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 399 

and in its passage, the surgeons say, it must have passed through 
the lungs or the liver. He was brought over to Mr. Bayard's 
where he continues. I have just left him, and the Doctors say 
he cannot outlive the day. 

I have not time now to communicate any of the reflections 
that crowd upon my mind on this most extensive public and pri- 
vate calamity. It has occasioned a strong public sensation which 
will be much increased when he is dead. 

I am my dear Sir with esteem 

your obedient servant, 

Nath. Pendleton. 

Gen. M. Clarkson to R. King. 

New York, August 20, 1804. 
My dear Sir : 

Since the late melancholy event which has deprived us of our 
friend Hamilton, a report has reached me, that yourself in con- 
junction with Mr. Pendleton and myself had given it as an opin- 
ion that a duel was unavoidable ; a report of this nature (as I 
abhor the practice) has occasioned me great uneasiness, and as I 
was only a hearer of what you related to me and had no other 
agency in the business, you will much oblige me by a line to this 
effect. I promise you that no other use shall be made of the let- 
ter but only to show it to two persons from whom I received the 
information — who I am very solicitous should be rightly informed 
on the subject. Previous to the fatal event the silence you im- 
posed on me was most scrupulously attended to ; but which agi- 
tated my mind exceedingly ; immediately upon my hearing of its 
having taken place, I directly went to our friend, who I found 
had already requested that I should be sent for. The scene 
which I witnessed has almost been too much for me, and the idea 
now suggested has not contributed to my repose. Let me re- 
quest, my dear Sir, to hear from you as soon as possible. 
Your sincere friend & obedt. Servt., 

M. Clarkson. 

P. S. We are endeavoring to obtain by subscription some 
property for the children of our friend ; is anything of a similar 
nature likely to be done in Boston ? 

400 RUFUS KING. [1804 

R. King to Gen. Clarkson. 

Waltham near Boston, Aug. 24, 1804. 
My dear Sir : 

I lose no time in replying to yr. letter of the 20th which I 
received last Evening — considering the reserve that I have ob- 
served on this subject of national affliction, I was truly surprized 
that any such Rumour as that you mention should have got into 
circulation upon my authority. No persons can be justified by 
any observation that you ever made to me, or that I ever made 
to another, in reporting that you had given an opinion that a 
Duel between our lamented friend and Col. Burr was unavoidable. 

It was not until the challenge had been given and accepted, 
that I mentioned the affair to you and that under an injunction 
of secrecy. Knowing our friend's determination to be passive, 
my mind was agitated with strong forebodings of what has hap- 
pened, and tho' the Correspondence was closed by an agreement 
of the Parties to meet each other, I nevertheless mentioned the 
subject to you, and asked if you could perceive any mode of 
interference. Your answer, expressive of much sorrow, was in 
the negative. I did not however, infer from this answer that in 
yr. opinion our friend might not have declined a meeting with 
Col. Burr, but merely by the acceptance of his adversary's chal- 
lenge, that the interference of third persons was precluded. 
With sentiments of Resp. & Esteem &c. 

(Signed) R. King. 

P. S. You are at liberty to make any use of the above that you 
may deem proper. 

2nd P. S. There exists in this quarter a difficulty that may disap- 
point our hopes of pecuniary succour for the family of our lamented 
friend. I allude to the misunderstanding that existed between him 
and Mr. Adams. Should we fail in procuring money, I understood 
that certain persons who purchased a tract of land in Pennsyl- 
vania of Col. Pickering and for which they paid him $25,000, 
will be disposed to convey the lands to the family of the de- 
ceased. This would be a valuable property at a distant day, but 
cash only will pay debts. 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 401 

This letter, of which only a copy is preserved, was prob- 
ably written to Genl. Clarkson, as it refers to Mr. King's 
letter to him of Aug. 24. 

Dear Sir : 

Mrs. Hamilton having written to Mr. Cabot to endeavour to 
procure for Alexander a situation in a respectable commercial 
house, Mr. Higginson has readily consented to take him ; and 
until a suitable family can be found to take Alexander as a 
boarder, Mr. Higginson will receive him into his own family. 
This will give to the young man an opportunity of becoming ac- 
quainted with the respectable persons of the town, and with such 
young men as are of the best reputation. 

In my answer to your letter of the 20th, I omitted to say any- 
thing concerning either Mr. Pendleton or myself in respect to the 
report to which your letter alludes. I have no recollection that 
Mr. Pendleton ever expressed to me any opinion whether General 
H. could, or ought to, decline a meeting with Col. Burr. I very 
well remember that he entirely agreed with me of the inconsistency 
of the General's determination to receive the fire of his adversary 
and to throw away his own. 

No person can view with deeper abhorrence than I do the prac- 
tice of duelling, and our lamented friend was not unacquainted 
with my opinion upon this subject. 

With sincere Regards yr. ob. & faithful Servt. 

(Signed) Rufus King. 

J. Pitcairn* to R. King. 

Hamburg, Sept. 25, 1804. 
We hear from America, that Genl. Armstrong succeeds Mr. 
Livingston, so that in pleasing the Virginians, the family may be 
preserved to the party. All men acquainted with America 
learned with sorrow & indignation the death of General Hamil- 
ton— few in any age had richer gifts from nature, and none ever 
made a more diligent & effectual use of them for the benefit 
of his Country. Times were favourable ; they showed his manly 
integrity, his disinterested character, and various Genius, in fair 

* Mr. Pitcairn had been for many years U. S. Consul at Hamburg. 

VOL. IV-26. 

402 RUFUS KING. [1804 

views, and considering him as an important labourer in rearing 
the new Constitution and in founding public credit, he takes high 
rank among the ornaments and benefactors of mankind. His 
murderer must be wretched ; no civilized land is to him an 
asylum ; should the laws hunt him from America, he would find 
abhorrence & Contempt meet him on every European shore. 

Your very obedient Servant 

Jos. Pitcairn. 

CHAPTER XXVI. 

Embarrassment of General Hamilton's pecuniary Affairs — G. Morris's State- 
ment— King to Friends in Boston — They proposed giving Lands bought of 
T. Pickering to the Heirs of General Hamilton — Deed for them to be 
given by the Purchasers— King to Cabot— Statement of the Debts and 
Subscription in New York — Gore to King — Deeds made out — J. A. Ham- 
ilton's Account — Letter to Major Popham — King to Gore — Plan to pur- 
chase Hamilton's Estate— Gift of Land by Gen. Schuyler to his Daughter 
— Share of her Father's Estate — Charge against King in the Alexandria 
Expositor — King's Letter to Editor — Copy of the Article — J. Crowe, 
England, to King — Denies the truth of the Article — Dinsmore, Editor, to 
King — Will publish a Refutation — King to Dinsmore — Wishes no Apology, 
but the Truth published. 

The last years of the life of General Hamilton had been 
devoted to the more diligent pursuit of his profession, in 
order that he might be able to make provision for his family. 
And yet when an examination into his affairs was made after 
his death, it was found that his estate was seriously embar- 
rassed. In the Diary and Letters of Gouverneur Morris, 
vol. ii., pp. 458-9, he writes, July 14, 1804: 

" Mr. Hammond, who dined with us, desired me to think of 
some means to provide for poor Hamilton's family. Mr. Gracie 
and Mr. Wolcott called for the same purpose. I had already 
mentioned the matter to Mr. Low, who seems to think a subscrip- 
tion will not go down well, because the children have a rich 
grandfather. . . ." 

Together with others of General Hamilton's friends, Mor- 
ris spent much time endeavoring to arrange his affairs, which 
were in sad disorder : 

" Our friend Hamilton [he wrote to Robert Morris] has been 
suddenly cut off in the midst of embarrassments which would 

403 

404 RUFUS KING. [1804 

have required years of professional industry to set straight : a 
debt of between fifty thousand and sixty thousand dollars hang- 
ing over him, a property which in time may sell for seventy thou- 
sand or eighty thousand, but which, if brought to the hammer, 
would not, in all probability, fetch forty ; a family of seven 
young children. We have opened a subscription to provide for 
these orphans, and his warm-hearted friends, judging of others 
by themselves, expect more from it than I do." 

M. Clarkson to R. King. 

" New York, Aug. 20, 1804. 
" . . . P. S. We are endeavoring to obtain by subscription 
some property for the children of our friend. Is any thing of a 
similar nature likely to be done at Boston ? " 

Whether or not this intimation was the first that Mr. 
King received of the purpose of General Hamilton's friends, 
he writes as follows to some friend in New York asking him 
to act for him : 

R. King to 

(Copy of a Letter.) 

" Waltham near Boston, July 23, 1804. 
"My dear Sir : 

" Being detained on the road, we did not reach this place till 
yesterday. The same cause that retarded our journey prevents 
my proceeding at present on a visit to Boston ; having been 
severely attacked by an intermittent, I am compelled to give an 
exact attention to the restoration of my health. I hope however 
in three or four days that I shall be able to venture into town. 
In the mean time I have delivered your letter to me to my friend 
Mr. Gore, who has gone this morning to town with Judge Ben- 
son. They will confer with Cabot, Higginson and Otis upon the 
subject. At present I can give no opinion concerning the be- 
nevolent object that is aimed at. It is, however, on every account 
fit that I should authorize you, as I now do, to do in my behalf 
at New York as you may think suitable and to this I give you 
carte blanche. " 

It is altogether probable that when he was able to go to 
Boston and during the month or more he remained there, 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 405 

Mr. King took occasion to speak of, and urge a co-operation 
of the Boston friends of General Hamilton in, raising money 
for the benefit of the children of one whom they all loved. 
There is in the postscript of the letter to General Clarkson, 
of the 24th August, an evidence of this, and of the generous 
gift of lands by Mr. Cabot and other citizens of Boston, 
should it be impossible to raise money. 

" . . . 2d P. S. There exists in this quarter a difficulty that 
may disappoint our hopes of pecuniary succours for the family of 
our lamented friend. I allude to the misunderstanding that 
existed between him and Mr. Adams. Should we fail in procur- 
ing money, I understand that certain persons who purchased a 
tract of land in Pennsylvania of Col. Pickering, and for which 
they paid him $25,000, will be disposed to convey the lands to 
the family of the deceased. This would be a valuable property 
at a distant day, but cash only will pay debts." 

Not long after this Mr. King left Boston for a visit to his 
family in Maine, and during the time he passed with them 
the suggestion of the gift of lands was acted upon. The 
history of this gift is connected with a previous act of esteem 
for a political as well as personal friend. Mr. Timothy Pick- 
ering had become interested in certain lands in Pennsylvania, 
and not very long before, in 1801, had determined to go and 
live upon them, having little or no other means of support. 
Gratitude for the work he had done in connection with the 
early years of the Government of the United States, the 
desire to enable him to continue his services, instead of 
burying himself in the wild lands, and personal regard and 
esteem led a number of his friends in Boston to buy his 
lands for a fair price and thus enable him to live where he 
could still exert his influence. The consequence was that a 
subscription was opened and funds in shares of $100 each 
were taken by some thirty or more persons to the amount 
of $25,000, for which the lands were to be conveyed to them. 
The deeds for these lands had not been made out ; and all 
those who had contributed the money 

406 RUFUS KING. [1804 

. j. 

u engaged to pay into the hands of the Honorable George Cabot, 
Thomas Davis and Theodore Lyman, Esqrs., the sums of money 
set against our respective names to be by them applied to the 
benefit of the children or family of General Hamilton in any 
manner they shall judge proper . . . and authorize the said 
Timothy Pickering Esq. to convey by a quit-claim deed to such 
person or persons as shall be named to him for that purpose, by 
the aforementioned gentlemen." 

This was stated to be done " in remembrance of the exalted 
worth and pre-eminent services of the late General Hamilton — 
his extraordinary and truly patriotic exertions, which contributed 
so much to save our country from the greatest impending calam- 
ities ; his able, disinterested and successful efforts to inculcate 
the wisdom, justice and advantage of all those maxims of juris- 
prudence, which render sacred the rights of property and which 
are inseparable from true liberty, and especially recollecting that 
the devotion of his time and talents to these public interests has 
operated to deprive his family of a common share of those pe- 
cuniary advantages, which his labors, if applied to them, would 
have easily made abundant ; we, therefore, whose names are sub- 
scribed, do testify in some degree our sense of departed excel- 
lence and our gratitude for benefits conferred on our country." 

Mr. King evidently received particular information in 
reference to the action of gentlemen in New York, for on 
his return to Waltham he wrote to Mr. Cabot : 

R. King to George Cabot. 

" Oct. 10th, 1804. 
"According to the schedule of General Hamilton's estate, 
drawn up by himself a few days before his death, it appears that 
his property consists altogether of new lands, situate in the west- 
ern part of New York, and of a house, nine miles from the city. 
The new lands cost fifty-five thousand dollars and the country 
house and grounds about twenty-five thousand. The General's 
debts amount to fifty-five thousand dollars ; and as the estate is 
unproductive, and the debts bear interest, it is the opinion of 
judicious persons that, with the most prudent management, the 
estate will be barely sufficient to pay the debts. Mrs. Hamilton 
is a daughter of General Schuyler, who has a family of eight or 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 407 

nine children. The General is supposed to have a good real 
estate, but not much personal property : so that little expectation 
can be entertained of any considerable succor from this quarter, 
either for the maintenance of General Hamilton's family or for 
the education and advancement of his children. To the sorrow- 
that every virtuous mind has felt for this distinguished patriot, it 
is painful to add the reflection that his young and helpless family 
must depend for their support, not upon the earnings of their 
father — for he served the public — but upon the contributions of 
a few individuals who admired his unequalled worth. The sub- 
scription for this purpose at New York amounted to upwards of 
sixteen thousand dollars when I last heard from thence (which 
was before my journey to the eastward) and it was expected that 
a considerable addition would be made to this fund."* 

* Mr. James A. Hamilton in his Reminiscences, published in 1869, makes 
the following statement on p. 78 : 

" At a dinner party in New York, shortly after the close of the Revolution- 
ary War, at which were present Messrs. G. Morris, John Jay, R. Harrison, 
John Delafield, Robert Lenox, Nicholas Low, I. O. Hoffman, and Alexander 
Hamilton, the question was discussed whether the purchase of wild lands or of 
lots in the suburbs of the city would be the more profitable investment. John Jay 
was in favor of New York, and made purchases there, and as his means enabled 
him to hold his lots, his speculation made him rich. Hoffman also bought land 
in the vicinity of the city. Some of the others, including my father, took the 
opposite view, and invested in the lands in the northern counties of the State. 
The wild lands were purchased at a few cents the acre, but they were not settled 
very rapidly. After the death of Hamilton, it was found, as I have already 
said, his means were not equal to the payment of his debts, and several of his 
friends advanced money for that purpose, taking those lands in payment. 

" Having learned that Major William Popham, one of the gentlemen who 
had shown that kindness to my father, was at an advanced period of life in poor 
circumstances, I addressed him the following letter : " 

New York, October 14, 1824. 
My Dear Sir, 

I was this day for the first time informed by a person, who became acquainted 
with the circumstance at the time it occurred, that you advanced one hundred 
dollars to pay my father's debts. The gratitude that is due to you from every 
member of his family for this generous act can never be effaced. You must, 
therefore, believe that I do not send you the enclosed cheque for the same sum 
in the hope of cancelling what is due to you, but in obedience to the sacred in- 
junction of my father, and because under present circumstances it may promote 
your convenience. 

I requested Mr. Pendleton, one of my father's executors, to inform me of the 

UN 

>JTY 

*^U FOR Nibs 

408 RUFUS KING. [1804 

On the 10th of November a letter was addressed to 
Colonel Pickering, by the trustees appointed above, stating 
that 

" the design which was formed to transfer to the heirs of General 
Hamilton the lands purchased of you in 1801 is now accom- 
plished, so far as depended on the acts of those purchasers," 

and that it only remained to make out the conveyances to 
the executors of General Hamilton's will or to other persons, 
as might be agreed on. 

C. Gore to R. King, New York. 

" Boston, November 25th, 1804. 
"The papers that respect the transfer of property to poor 
Hamilton's heirs went on yesterday. After this land was con- 
veyed, Lyman and Davis thought proper to propose to some 
others to subscribe Cash ; I mean those who were not interested 
in the land. Our friend Cabot objected because he thought it 
would be unavailing : but the former gentlemen, thinking it right 

arrangements made to pay my father's debts, for at that time I was young [he 
was 16 years old]. He informed me with reluctance that my father's lands in 
Scriba's Patent had been taken by certain gentlemen in this city, whose names 
he would not mention, at prices wThich, he said, were perhaps more than they 
were worth at the time. These gentlemen hoped with the amount thus raised 
and the sums due my father, to pay his debts and leave the Grange clear 
to his family. 

I mention this to show you that I have not been indifferent to this very delicate 
matter, and that if in my course through life, I should come in collision with 
any of these persons (with you, I am happy to say, I am sure I have not) to 
whom I am indebted for these or similar acts of generous devotion to my 
father's memory, it has been in ignorance, and must always be to me a subject 
of deep and mortifying regret. 

With great regard, your friend and obedient servant, 

James A. Hamilton. 

It cannot be that this is an account of the same transaction which has been 
recorded ; there is not even a suggestion in it of any security or equivalent for 
the money subscribed to pay the debts : it was a free gift so far as can be ascer- 
tained. That there may also have been a transfer to others of the Scriba 
patent lands, which cost General Hamilton "fifty-five thousand dollars," is 
possible, but no account of it appears — unless in the public records, where the 
names of the parties to whom the lands were transferred, could have been found. 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 409 

that these should be applied to made their address to and 

, both of whom refused to give a farthing. Lloyd who 

offered the subscription paper says he is sure that he made such 
remarks to M., as will render his journey to rather un- 
pleasant ; agreed to the merits of the deceased Statesman 

and his claims on the public, but observed his children needed 
his money as much." 

The Trustees on November 26, 1804, addressed a letter to 
the executors of the last will and testament of General 
Hamilton in which they state the circumstances under 
which the conveyance of lands at their disposal was to 
be made, and say, 

" As we are entrusted with the nomination of the persons to 
whom the property shall be conveyed, we cannot hesitate to 
name the Executors of General Hamilton's will, leaving it with 
them to name others, if they thing it expedient, and also to ar- 
range with Col. Pickering the time and circumstances of making 
the conveyance." 

The communication closed with an expression of their 
" poignant sorrow " for the death of General Hamilton, and 
their " strong sympathy for those who were by nature 
attached to him." 

The Executors answered in a letter dated November 29, 
1804, accepting the trust committed to them, with expres- 
sions of their high appreciation of " their act of muni- 
ficence."* 

As a result, the lands were secured to the children of 
General Hamilton, and as Mr. Charles W. Upham in his 
Life of Timothy Pickering says in closing the account of 
this transaction, " the act itself and all the parties to it, 
deserve to be kept in perpetual remembrance." 

The following portion of a letter, though a little out of 
date, speaks of the purchase of the Estate of General Hamil- 
ton in the City of New York. 

* Vol. iv., pp. 36 to 41.— Life and Letters of George Cabot, by Henry Cabot 
Lodge, pp. 304-310. 

4IO AUFUS KING. [1804 

R. King to C. Gore. 

New York, Jany 10, 1808. 

. . . I believe that I some time since mentioned to you the 
plan we had set on foot to purchase at its cost Genl. Hamilton's 
estate. As we have been solicitous to confine the purchase to 
this City, the time that has elapsed without completing it, has 
been longer than we expected. It is, however, nearly completed 
and so far as to be beyond the chance of failure. By this meas- 
ure his family will secure abt. 20.000 Dol., that would have been 
lost without it. The Estate from Genl. Schuyler is less than the 
public expected. From what I hear Mrs. H's share will not in 
its present state yield her an annuity of more than 750 Dols ; 
whether it can be converted into a more productive fund is mat- 
ter for enquiry. After Hamilton's death, Gen. Schuyler (having 
before made his will) executed a Deed of gift, which purports to 
have been signed, sealed and delivered before the subscribing wit- 
nesses of about 7 acres of his homestead to Mrs. Hamilton. The 
Deed was not given to Mrs. Hamilton, but remained in the 
Genl.'s possession, and was found among his papers. The 
Exec'rs have examined the witnesses, who say they were re- 
quested to be witnesses of the execution of the Deed in question, 
that they were so, but that they were not informed of the purport 
of the Deed, and did not see it delivered. — Upon this evidence 
one or two lawyers at Albany have given an opinion that the in- 
strument is a nullity. The property is worth 18 or 20 thousand 
Dollars. The Eldest son has informed Mrs. H. that he will 
release any claim on his part to the 7 acres, Mr. Rensselaer will 
do the same in behalf of his son. What the other heirs will do is 
unknown. 

That the delivery of a Deed is essential to its validity, will not 
be contradicted, but what amounts to a delivery is the question. 
Without much confidence in my own opinion, I am inclined to 
think that a deed executed as this has been, is well executed and 
that it will pass the Estate ; its remaining in the possession of the 
Grantor is immaterial, provided it was duly executed by him. 
Farewell & always affectionately, Rufus King. 

An article appeared in the Alexandria Expositor on 19th 
March, 1804, making a statement from an English corre- 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 411 

spondent of certain opinions expressed by Mr. King shortly 
before his return home from England. The letters which 
follow will show how utterly unfounded it was. 

R. King to Editor of "Alexandria Expositor." 

Waltham near Boston, Aug. 22, 1804. 
Sir: 

By turning to your paper of the 19th of March past, you will 
find the publication to my disadvantage, which was the occasion 
of a letter which I wrote to Mr. Crowe, and to which I have 
lately received the enclosed answer. Being absent from home, 
it is not in my power to send you a copy of my letter, which 
however merely covered the Editorial Article of your paper of 
Mar. 19, and claimed of Mr. Crowe's justice an explicit denial 
of the Comn. I am represented to have made to him. It cannot 
be my desire to draw Mr. Crowe's or any other Gentleman's name 
before the public, nor to give to this affair an air of importance 
that does not on any acct. belong to it, but as men of exact 
notions may have thought unfavorably of me, in consequence of 
this publication, I am persuaded that you will not hesitate, as far 
as may be in your power, to correct the misrepresentation. 

With sentiments of respect, I am, Sir, yr. obedt. Servt. 

Rufus King. 

P.S. Mr. King leaves it altogether to the choice of the Editor 
of the Expositor, to make the correction by an Editorial Article, 
or the publication of this and Mr. Crowe's letter. 

The letter from Mr. King was dated March 29th, 1804. 

R. King to James Crowe — near Norwich, England. 

Sir: 

I take the liberty to send you inclosed the Extract of a letter 
said to have been received in this country from a person in the 
neighbourhood of Norwich, and which has been recently pub- 
lished in the Expositor, a newspaper printed at Alexandria, 
Virginia. 

The object of this publication, so far as regards me will not be 

412 RUFUS KING. [1804 

misunderstood by men of correct sentiments, and I owe it equally 
to them and to myself, to remove the impression to my disadvan- 
tage it is calculated to produce. 

As the observation, said to have been made to you, was never 
made by me to you, or to any other person, I am confident that 
you will take pleasure in doing me the justice to declare that I 
never made to you the observation ascribed to me in this publi- 
cation, nor any other of like import. To guard against accident 
I send you this letter in duplicate ; and request the favour of 
you, for the same reason, to return me duplicates of your answer, 
addressed to Mr. Samuel Williams, 13 Finsbury Square, London, 
who will without delay forward the same to me. 

With sentiments of Esteem and Respect, &c. 

Rufus King. 

Copy of the editorial article of the newspaper called the 
" AlexandriaExpositor (for the Country) March 19, 1804." 

" While the United States, under the fostering influence of a dem- 
ocratic Administration, are hastily progressing to a state of Pros- 
perity and happiness the world never before witnessed, G.Britain 
is feeling the greatest distress. It would seem almost impossible 
for a native citizen of this country to form a correct idea of the 
wretchedness of her state, or the manifold evils arising from the 
profligate frame of her Government. It is the nature of evil to 
increase itself until the mass overcomes human forbearance ; the 
violent passions are let loose, and all the ties of civil society are 
for a period dissolved. Happy will it be for Great Britain, if she 
profits by the examples afforded by the last thirty years, now 
that so large a proportion of her subjects are in arms. She cer- 
tainly may be free the moment she wills it ; and it is not impos- 
sible but the ebullitions of a moment may annihilate her kings 
and her Nobles, her unfrocked and her ermined oppressors, and 
elevate her people into men, who having rights, " know, and 
knowing, dare maintain them." Anxiously we wish for so great, 
so glorious an event. This wish seldom absent, is now more 
deeply impressed, in consequence of letters we received by the 
Princess Augusta Packet ; they are dated the latter end of No- 
vember, some extracts from which we shall lay before our read- 

804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 413 

ers ; they will pretty plainly exhibit the state of the public mind 
in England. It will also be seen that Mr. King was a little san- 
guine in his expectations when there. We imagine he is not 
quite so much so now. Mr. Crowe, the gentleman to whom he 
expressed them, is a man of large fortune, who resides within two 
miles of the City of Norwich, and of a family intimately connected 
with that of the Editor of the Expositor s. 

First Extract. 

(After mentioning the price of corn, the situation of the volun- 
teers, and other particulars relating to England, the extract 
finishes in these words.) 

" In such calamitous times, I have thought it best to have all 
my children around me, that they may want no protection I can 
give them. The scarcity of money is another evil. In taking a 
hundred pounds a man does not receive a single guinea, and to 
crown the whole, the wheat crops were much injured by the 
mildew. I hope Mr. Jefferson continues to possess the con- 
fidence he so justly merits in your nation, though I was a little 
alarmed at hearing that Mr. King, your late Ambassador here, 
told Mr. James Crowe that he was going back to America in 
hopes of being elected President. I understood he spoke as if 
he was sure of his election. I hope, however, he will be 
disappointed." 

Part of 2. Extract to designate the writer. 

" No place is more inconvenient than Norwich by the present 
state of things. The volunteers seem to feel themselves the 
tools of their officers, who expect by their excessive zeal to earn 
some of the good things which Government has to bestow : nor 
do they like to be paraded about for the amusement of the 
Ladies, or to gratify the vanity of their new made Colonels, who 
never shot anything but Partridges ; and at London I assure you 
they do not like to be marched about at 6 o'clock in a morning 
and late at night. Some time since they refused the services of 
many they would now accept. I had that honor when at Nor- 
wich, for declining which I heartily thanked them many times 
since, and I assure them that I never will be so foolish again as 
to offer my services." 

414 RUFUS KING. [1804 

Jas. Crowe to R. King. 

Lakenham near Norwich 9th May 1804. 
Sir: 

I have the honor of your letter of 29th March last enclosing 
an Extract of a letter published at Alexandria in the newspaper 
called the Expositor of 19th same month. I have had them some 
days by me, wishing before I should send you an answer, to 
ascertain, if possible, the means by which the Editor made so 
strange a mistake, and as the printed letter pointed at the person 
from whom it appeared to be derived, I went to him yesterday 
and he readly acknowledged sending occasionally to the Editor, 
intelligence from which sometimes articles had been inserted in 
his paper ; but that he thinks he could not have insinuated any- 
thing which could have conveyed the Idea u that I had heard you 
say, you were going to America in hopes of being elected 
President " nor did he understand from me I ever had any con- 
versation with you on the subject. 

About the time, Sir, you were leaving England, it was reported, 
that on your return from your Embassy, you would probably be 
appointed to a high situation in your own Country, and I re- 
member observing to the person above alluded to — that I was 
glad to hear it, for I thought you worthy even of being elected 
President of the United States, or words to that effect. Nothing 
else passed and certainly I never said to him, nor to any other 
person, that you told me you had any hopes of being President ; 
and I do solemnly and in the most unequivocal manner declare, 
that so far from your having told me you had any expectations 
of being chosen President, I don't recollect ever having heard 
you say one word respecting American affairs ; either as they 
concerned yourself, or any other individual, or any party in that 
State, or anything relative to the Government or political views 
of that Country. 

I beg, Sir, you will make any use you think proper of this 
letter and believe me to be with the highest respect and regard 
Your most obedient humble Servt. 

Jas. Crowe. 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 415 

R. Dinmore to R. King. 

Alexandria, 31 Aug. 1804. 
Sir: 

Your communication enclosing Mr. Crowe's letter of 9th May 
last, I had the honor of receiving this morning. The justice you 
require shall be immediately rendered and the Correspondence 
published in an early Expositor, of which I will send you a 
Copy. 

I sincerely wish, Sir, you had either written me previous to 
your letter to Mr. Crowe, or sent that Gentleman the entire 
Expositor of the 19th March last. It would have prevented an 
application I see Mr. Crowe made to my father, under the im- 
pression that I received the information from him ; for Mr. C. 
says " as the printed letter pointed at the Person from whom it 
appeared to be derived, / went to him yesterday." The letter, Sir, 
from which the extract was given, was not from my father but 
from a relation who lives 21 miles from Mr. Crowe. Consequently 
no information relative to the report could be procured by Mr. C.'s 
enquiry. 

Had you, Sir, first honored me with a line on the subject, I 
would at once have given up my authority which would have 
directed Mr. Crowe's enquiry, had you then thought it necessary 
to write to him ; and as the report was published here during the 
Session of Congress, I would have laid the letter itself before 
any of your friends then in this Neighbourhood. This I shall 
always be willing to do, as I have the letter now by me from 
which the Extract was made. 

Had Mr. C. received the whole article, he would have seen that 
it contained Extracts from letters from three different Correspon- 
dents, & I think from the internal evidence, would have known 
the quarter from whence it was derived ; as he only received the 
Editorial Article, his application was misapplied. 

I am satisfied, Sir, you will expect no apology from me, for the 
insertion into the Expositor, of the Extract alluded to. I con- 
ceived my information correct, tho' I have now no doubt of its 
originating in mistake ; I therefore published it, nor believing, as 
I do, that the welfare and happiness of the Citizens of the U.S. 
are essentially dependent on the re-election of Mr. Jefferson, 

41 6 RUFUS KING. [1804 

should I have felt justified in concealing Intelligence I deemed 
so important. 

I remain, Sir, with sentiments of respect &c, &c. 

R. Dinmore. 

P. S. As it is my intention to publish the above with your & 
Mr. Crowe's letters, I have not identified my authority, which I 
shall now do. The letter was written by my Brother, at whose 
house Mr. C. generally resides, when he visits his Taham Estate. 
As it might injure my Brother in England, was I to publish 
him as my Authority, I prefer doing it in a part of my address 
to you, which I shall not insert in the Expositor ; but I conceive 
you will admit that I had some grounds for supposing my infor- 
mation Correct. 

Should not the above letter prove satisfactory, I will readily give 
you any other which you may think more so. 

R. King to R. Dinmore, Alexandria. 

Portland, District of Maine, Sep. 16, 1804. 
Sir: 

I have duly received your letter of the 31st past. My sole aim 
has been to effect the refutation of the publication to my preju- 
dice contained in your paper of the 19th March, and as this will 
be done by the publication of Mr. Crowe's letter to me, I can 
have no motive to expect an apology from you or the publication 
of anything that might prove injurious to any other person. 

It is however proper that I should correct the error into which 
you have fallen in supposing that only the Editorial remarks of 
your paper of March 19th were sent to Mr. Crowe ; the fact 
being that the entire article, including the whole of the extracts 
of your correspondent's letter, was transmitted ; and the para- 
graph of Mr. Crowe's letter that you have cited shows that these 
extracts were before him. 

As the observation, ascribed to me, is stated by your corre- 
spondent to have been made to Mr. Crowe, it seemed to me that 
it was to him, and to him only, that I could with fitness apply 
for the disavowal that he has so fully supplied. 

I am, Sir, with Respect, &c. 

Rufus King. 

CHAPTER XXVII. 

King's Journey to Boston and District of Maine — Dinners at Salem and New- 
buryport and Portland— Return to Boston— Public Dinner there— Elections 
• of Presidential Electors and for a Senator of the United States from New 
York— King defeated in Both— W. L. Smith to King— Friendly Wishes- 
Livingston to King relative to French Negotiations — Lafayette to King — 
Introducing General Moreau — Miranda's Project. 

Allusion has been made to a journey by Mr. King to New 
England in the summer of 1 804. After many years of absence 
in England, he desired to renew his former relations with 
his friends, especially in Boston, and to visit his family, all 
of whom lived in the District of Maine. He had given an 
intimation of his intention to Mr. Gore, who had recently 
returned from England, and whom he looked upon, justly, as 
his warmest and most confidential friend, as the correspond- 
ence with that gentleman so clearly shows. Mr. Gore had 
suggested to him at what season such a visit could be made 
most agreeably : 

" June & July are pleasant months here (in Boston) ; in August 
you can visit your family and friends at the Eastward, and return 
to us in September, and to New York in November." 

Following these suggestions, he appears to have made his 
arrangements to start on his journey, with his friend Judge 
Egbert Benson, early in July. He passed some days in 
Hartford, Connecticut, where the members of the Alsop 
family, his wife's relations, lived, and he also had many 
political and personal friends. No record of his visit there 
is found ; nor of his arrival in Massachusetts, until we learn 

VOL. IV.— 27 4X7 

41 8 RUFUS KING. [1804 

through a letter, July 23d, from Waltham, Mr. Gore's home, 
to a friend in New York, that, 

" being detained on the road, we did not reach this place till yes- 
terday. The same cause that retarded our journey prevents my 
proceeding at present on a visit to Boston ; having been severely 
attacked by an intermittent, I am compelled to give an exact at- 
tention to the restoration of my health." 

He is announced in the Columbian Centinel as having 
arrived in Boston on July 25th, with Judge Benson ; and by 
a correspondent of the Gazette of the United States, from 
Boston, on July 27th, as having been, with Judge Benson, 
present at the demonstration of respect to Alexander Ham- 
ilton, when Harrison Gray Otis delivered a memorial ad- 
dress. Again, on August 18th, the Centinel says: 

" The School Committee visited the Public Schools of Boston, 
accompanied by Hon. Mr. King, Mr. Gore and a number of offi- 
cial characters ; all of whom were gratified with the exercises. 
Afterwards they were refreshed at an elegant dinner at Fanueil 
Hall." 

These are the only facts connected with this first visit to 
Boston which are recorded, though there were many sub- 
jects to be talked about of the deepest interest. An account 
to interested friends of his life and mission abroad, the very 
serious questions which had been started by former asso- 
ciates relative to the outrageous acts of Jefferson's adminis- 
tration, with the threat that these could be counteracted in 
their influence only by a separation of the Northern and 
Southern States for self-preservation ; the steps to be taken 
to relieve the children of their acknowledged leader, General 
Hamilton, from the pecuniary embarrassment consequent 
upon his death in the midst of his active professional 
career, — these and other topics would occupy many days of 
earnest conversation, and enable those with whom he was 
brought in contact to feel the influence of his calm judgment 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 419 

and clear foresight. It was well known that General Ham- 
ilton and he were both earnestly opposed to even the 
thought of a disruption of the Union as a remedy for the 
evil effects of a rampant democracy, but with many warm 
and able federalists deprecated a resort to such an extreme 
measure ; and when it is remembered that a large portion of 
the federalists were for other reasons alienated from the 
extreme men by personal hostility, the task of counteracting 
a decided though ill-considered plan was at the same time 
one which required firmness and prudence, which Mr. King 
would exercise the more positively, as he had been put for- 
ward as the head of the party by his nomination as their 
candidate for the Vice-Presidency, — an office for which at 
that time leading men were named. 

Besides, he was passing his time at Waltham, the home 
of those to whom he was sincerely attached, Mr. and Mrs. 
C. Gore ; an attachment to the former dating from the 
beginning of his professional career, and which had been 
strengthened as they grew older by constant and confiden- 
tial intercourse, recognizing, as both did, in each other, the 
purity of character, the correct lives, the perfect harmony in 
their political views, the love of the country they both rep- 
resented at home and abroad, an instinctive unity of high 
motives in the conduct of their public and private affairs, 
and the love of a domestic and quiet and family life, where 
affection ruled, and where example influenced. Both, too, 
had loving assistants in their wives to brighten their homes, 
to welcome their friends, and, in Mr. King's case, to help 
him to bring up their children in obedient and willing recog- 
nition of a parent's love and guardianship. To Mr. and 
Mrs. Gore there had not been granted the blessing of chil- 
dren ; but their warm hearts adopted those of their lifelong 
friends, and whenever the opportunity occurred, to the end 
of their lives, they never failed to show to these children, 
even when grown to manhood, the same tender care, earnest 
sympathy, and warm attachment, that they began to exer- 
cise in their childhood. 

420 RUFUS KING. [1804 

Much, therefore, these friends had in common to enable 
them to enjoy the recalling of the persons they had met, and 
of the events which occurred during their residence in Lon- 
don, both in important official positions, often embarrassed 
by circumstances which they could not control, but with the 
consciousness that they had both contributed to sustain the 
dignity of their country and raise it to a higher plane by a 
conscientious and faithful and able performance of the duties 
laid upon them. They had with them also a friend in Judge 
Benson, into whose willing ears and appreciative mind they 
could pour out the reminiscences and suggestions of bright 
and accurate observers. 

Leaving the hospitable home of Mr. Gore, Mr. King ap- 
pears to have made a visit to Salem, for on September 3d, 

"the Hon. Mr. King, late Minister to the Court of St. James 
. . . dined at General Derby's in company with a number of 
respectable public and private characters." * 

On August 29th, the following letter had been addressed 
to Mr. King: 

Newbury port, Aug. 29, 1804. 
Dear Sir 

The citizens of Newburyport learn with great satisfaction that 
you are now on a visit to this your native State, while they have 
a lively conviction of your eminent public services, they cherish 
the most affectionate remembrance of you as their Fellow Towns- 
man. Having learned that you are about passing to the East- 
ward, they solicit the honour of your company at a publick 
Dinner and ask you to name a day for that purpose which shall 
be most accommodated to your convenience. In their behalf, 
Dear Sir, your faithful & affectionate servants, 

Moses Brown, 
Dudley A. Tyng, 
Edward Rand, 
Ebenezer Stocker,, 
William Faris. 

* Columbian Centinel, September 4, 1804. 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 42 1 

It cannot be doubted that Mr. King, touched by the tone 
of tender remembrance, gladly accepted this invitation to 
meet the old friends, among whom his professional studies 
were made under Theophilus Parsons, his first causes were 
tried, and by whom he had been sent, his first political em- 
ployment, to the General Court of Massachusetts. It was 
the city which, when undecided as to his removal from the 
State to New York, he said he loved better than any spot 
on the earth. 

The dinner took place on Tuesday, September 5th, 1804, 
and is thus noticed in the Newburyport Herald of Septem- 
ber 7th. 

" On Tuesday last arrived in town, the Hon. Rufus King, Esq., 
on a journey to the eastward, and on Wednesday the gentlemen 
of the town provided for him an elegant entertainment at Wash- 
ington Hall, where sociality and good humor attended, and 
where a number of patriotic toasts and enlivening songs crowned 
the repast with the most refined and unlimited enjoyment. Far 
is it from us to delineate the virtues of the man, to honor whom 
this entertainment was given ; it would be weakness to attempt 
it, but the love and respect which his presence inspired was so 
great, that every tongue was ready to exclaim, as Franklin observed 
of Washington, — If my country bestowed a sceptre he is worthy 
of it." 

Though evidently on his way to Maine, there cannot be 
found any facts to show how Mr. King passed his time 
among his friends there, until he returned to Boston, a period 
of more than a month, except the following account of a 
reception at Portland : * 

44 The Hon. Mr. King in company with the Hon. Egbert Ben- 
son, has been received at Portland, in his native district, with the 
most expressive marks of affection and esteem. The inhabitants 
on Saturday last gave an entertainment in honor of these eminent 
Statesmen." 

* The Centinel, October 6, 1804. 

422 RUFUS KING. [1804 

On his arrival at Boston, his friends welcomed him with 
what the papers announce as a " Tribute of Respect," a 
public dinner. 

TRIBUTE OF RESPECT.* 

We are happy to learn, that the gentlemen of this town intend 
giving a Public Dinner to the Hon. RUFUS KING, Esq., late 
American Minister at the Court of London, in testimony of their 
esteem for his exalted talents, and public and private worth. It 
has been inquired why this step was not taken previous to his 
visit to the District of Maine ? We can answer, there was no 
place, either suitable or convenient for such a purpose — The 
capacious Rooms at Concert Hall, where Entertainments of the 
kind, can alone be given, were in a state of repair at that time, 
and are now but just compleated. 

The Dinner, we understand, will be given tomorrow. 

A detailed account of this dinner is given in The Repertory \ 
from which the following is copied. The toasts, f which are 

* New England Palladium, Tuesday, October 16, 1804. 

f 1. Our Public k Ministers. In future as formerly, may our first interests be 
confided to our first characters. 

2. The Administration of WASHINGTON and ADAMS. The Morning 
and Evening Stars of our national glory. 

{After his Excellency had retired.) 

3. Governour STRONG. May the excellence of his character silence the 
malice which it cannot appease. 

4. The State of New York. Too respectable to be the Dupe of Virginia, 
may she again associate with those who are faithful to the publick liberty. 

5. The CLERGY. Devoted to the best interests of humanity — may they 
ever feel the calumnies of the impious to be their proudest eulogy. 

6. Our Navy. May its strength protect our Commerce and its glory con- 
found its enemies at Washington and Tripoli. 

7. Our little Army. May it never have to bear reproach from the brave, nor 
always to take it from the base. 

8. HAMILTON. May our Country find indemnity for his loss, in the value 
of his Counsels. 

9. Union among honest Men. If it cannot displace Knaves, may it disarm 
them. 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 423 

here presented in the note, clearly show the tone of opinion 
upon the current events, among a large proportion of the 
old Federalists. 

TRIBUTE OF RESPECT. 

On Wednesday last a sumptuous and elegant publick dinner 
was given at Concert Hall to the honourable Rufus King, our late 
minister to the Court of Great Britain — This welcome to a distin- 
guished citizen was manifested in a style of unusual cordiality 
and splendour. 

The company consisted of about two hundred. Among the 
guests were his Excellency the Governor (who arrived in town 

10. The Country of our Fathers. May its Spirit keep it safe and its justice 
keep it free. 

11. The Press. May it always correct publick opinion, never corrupt it. 

12. Publick Opinion. May it be sufficient shield for Honest men and a 
scourge for knaves. 

13. May those Yankees who cannot endure Federal sunshine, go to Louisi- 
ana for MOONSHINE. 

14. May Slaves cease to be represented by freeman and may the Representa- 
tives of freemen never act the part of Slaves. 

15. The liberty that men seek when they are wise, and respect when they are 
honest. 

16. Gun Boat No. 1. If our gun boats are of no use upon the water, may 
they at least be the best upon earth. 

17. May we cultivate and defend the soil we already possess, without paying 
or fighting for what we can neither cultivate nor defend. 

VOLUNTEERS. 

By the Hon. Mr. KING. The town of Boston, first to assert, may it be the 
last to surrender the rights of freemen. 

By Judge BENSON. The approbation of the worthy, the testimonial of 
worth. 

(After Mr. KING had retired.) 

The Hon. RUFUS KING— whose eminent services have contributed to pre- 
serve peace and amity between Countries naturally allied by sentiment and 
interest. 

(After Judge BENSON had retired.) 

The Hon. Judge BENSON— once the ornament of the bench and always the 
delight of his friends. 

The Louisiana Jubilee. May it not prove to be the celebration of all foots 
day. 

424 RUFUS KING. [1804 

that morning,) his Honour the Lieut. Governour and other publick 
characters. Judge Benson and other strangers of distinction and 
the reverend Clergy — The hon. Stephenson Higginson Esq. was 
president, and the hon. J. C. Jones, Samuel Parkman and J. 
Lyman Vice Presidents — The Hall which has been enlarged and 
repaired was furnished with the most brilliant decorations, and 
the whole entertainment was conducted with a sympathy of sen- 
timent and " flow of soul " worthy " of men " who are conscious 
that the object of their politicks and principles has ever been 
" When leagu'd together, to maintain the cause 
Of true religion, liberty and laws." 

The bitterness of party feeling was shown in the opposi- 
tion papers in Boston, and especially in the Independent 
Chronicle, which on October 22d contained the following : 

" As the Junto cry out ' Washington and Adams,' how comes it 
about that neither Mr. Adams nor his son dined at Mr. King's 
entertainments ? The fact is the old gentleman begins to find 
out how far he has been duped by the Junto." * 

The Yankee section of the Union. May those who began the battle guard 
against being cheated out of the fruits of the Victory. 

British Influence. May those who seek that secret find it, where it alone 
exists — In the Ancient Dominion. 

Mountains of Salt — to pickle Mammoths, and catch gulls in our new Em- 
pire. 

The remedy of impeachment, for obstinate Judges who will neither " die nor 
resign." May the Inventors be obliged to swallow their own Medicine. 

JAMES A. BAYARD. When men in power declare that such worth and 
talents shalt not have place, may the people indignantly respond THEY 
SHALL ! ! 

Our Farmers, on the Sea Coast, may their Cornfields be defended against 
Gun boat No. 3. 

May the grass, on WASHINGTON'S grave never again be blighted with 
hypocritick tears. 

Our brave tars suffering in Tripoli— Alas ! we fear that in the honey moon of 
our connection with Louisiana, our Captive brethren are forgotten. 

BONAPARTE. May he learn justice from the British Government, and 
meekness from ours.1 

* Schouler, in his History of the United States, vol. ii., p. 60, says, " King 
on his return from Europe was honored in Boston by a banquet decidedly Anti- 
administration in character, from which the Adamses took care to absent 
themselves." 

1 The Repertory, Boston, Friday, October 19, 1804. 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 4^5 

Mr. Adams felt himself called upon to deny that his ab- 
sence was intentional, and the answer he had given to the 
Committee who had invited him to be present was pub- 
lished in the Columbian Centinel. 

" J. Adams presents his compliments to the Committee of ar- 
rangements— Friendship for Mr. King and respect for the Com- 
pany would have been more than sufficient to have induced him 
to have accepted with pleasure the obliging invitation to the din- 
ner in honor of a gentleman whose wisdom, independence and 
integrity have done so much honor and real service to his Coun- 
try ; but the present ill state of his health constrains him to deny 
himself and to entreat the gentlemen to accept of his apology." 

With respect to John Quincy Adams he set out for Wash- 
ington on the evening previous to the dinner, for the meet- 
ing of Congress early in November. 

A Kingly FESTIVAL. 

It is a singular apology, that in the whole town of Boston there was no room 
elegant enough to entertain Mr. KING, and that the federalists had to wait 3 
or 4 months after his arrival before they could give him a dinner. The truth 
is, when Mr. King visited the place of his nativity ; a few federalists thought 
fit to honor him with a social festival, and this little domestic circle was noticed 
in the papers, as a reprimand, to the "Junto" for suffering him to remain so 
long in Boston without public notice. The Junto felt the " rap over the 
knuckles," and on his return had no other way to get off, than depreciating the 
town of Boston, by declaring to the world, there was no hall elegant enough to 
entertain him. Now be it known, that in the town of Boston, there is a large 
and commodious Hall, well known by the name of " FANEUIL HALL " — A 
hall sacred to liberty ! The hall in which the constituted authorities of the 
town give their annual entertainment — The hall in which the Governor, Coun- 
cil, and House of Representatives formerly dined on an election day — The hall 
in which WASHINGTON was entertained when he visited Boston. But it 
seems, the Essex-Junto, (who stile themselves Washington federalists^) thought 
that Faneuil Hall was not elegant enough to introduce a man whose appellation 
had any analogy to the title of KING ; a Hall whose walls had often resounded 
in detestation of monarchy, was degrading to the character they were entertain- 
ing. Or rather the Junto were sensible, that their toasts were so different from 
the sentiments inculcated by John Hancock and Samuel Adams, they were 
afraid the very stones and bricks of the building would rise up in judgment 
against them. They were conscious of their apostacy, from first principles, 
and dreaded lest the portrait of FANEUIL should resume a bodily vigor, and 
with a patriotic ire drive from the sanctuary of liberty, the revilers of those sen- 

426 RUFUS KING. [1804 

timents which added to the REVERENCE of the EDIFICE; It is with 

regret we observe, that Mr. King and Mr. Gore have been, through the subtlety 
of the Junto, the vehicles to abuse the present administration. These gentle- 
men it might be supposed, would have seen through the design of this insidious 
party. * 

A public dinner was given at Faneuil Hall in honor of 
Mr. John Adams on October 31st, his seventieth birthday, 
and Mr. King was one of the invited guests. Among the 
volunteer toasts offered was the following : 

" The Hon. Rufus King, whose talents and prudence have pre- 
served the best interests of his country. May he receive ample 
reward in the confidence of its best citizens." 

Such are the only accessible memoranda of the visit to 
the eastward, from which he soon after returned to New 
York. The Legislature of that State met early in November, 
for the purpose of choosing electors for the Presidential 
election, and a Senator of the United States to fill a vacancy 
caused by the appointment of General Armstrong as Minister 
to France. The electors chosen were persons representing 
the friends of Messrs. Jefferson and Clinton ; and the votes 
for Senator were given to Mr. Samuel L. Mitchell, the Fed- 
eralists supporting Mr. King as the opposing but unsuccess- 
ful candidate. Thus in the same year he was suggested as 
the best and most available candidate of the Federal party 
for Governor of the State of New York, for the Senate of 
the United States, and for the Vice-Presidency. The addi- 
tional fact that his long absence from the country had kept 
him aloof from personal engagement in the factional strifes 
of the time, and his known moderate and conservative 
views, rendered him more likely to be a successful candidate 
for those high offices than any other Federalist who could 
be named ; but they had lost their power, and other men 
and other measures prevailed. 

* The Independent Chronicle, Boston, October 22, 1804. 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 427 

Wm. Loughton Smith to R. King. 

Philad., Oct. 18, 1804. 
Dear Sir 

. . . (Referring to his brother, J. A. Smith, then abroad in 
Europe) He will be much disappointed in learning the real state 
of our politics, and the little prospect of an early change ; still, 
little congenial as I am on this head, I am not without hopes of 
one day witnessing the event he so fondly anticipated, & the 
realizing of which will not only afford the greatest joy to my 
brother & myself, but to every true and unprejudiced American. 

In the mean time, we must continue to cherish and inculcate 
good principles, &, while we endeavour to tolerate the present 
things, say meliora spero. The loss of Washington, Hamilton, 
and, I must add, my respected friend, Mr. Izard, endears to me 
still more the few real worthies, who remain. You cannot be 
ignorant that all the respectable men throughout the Continent 
look to you & Genl. Pinckney as their political saviours, and that 
all their measures are predicated on a wish of, and directed to, 
the attainment of your future elevation to the Chief Magistr. 
Great public considerations are thus superadded to those of per- 
sonal regard which have bound me to you ever since I had an 
opportunity of knowing you, and impel me to request you to take 
good care of yourself and keep out of all those scrapes which 
may endanger a life so precious to us. I am glad to find that 
our friend Pinckney is at the head of the Anti-Ludling Memorial- 
ists, and I trust that your sentimts are equally pacific. It was my 
intention to have progressed further north this summer, at least 
as far as New York, but Hamilton's death & your absence, with 
other causes, contributed to change my design. 

With my best respects to Mrs. King and renewal of my warmest 
wishes for your happiness, . . . 

Your affectionate frd. 

Wm. Loughton Smith. 

R. R. Livingston to R. King, N. Y. 

Paris. 22 Oct. 1804 
Dear Sir 

. . . When I come out, which will not be till the next 

Spring as I propose to spend the winter in Italy and shall leave 

428 RUFUS KING. [1804 

this as soon as I can resign our business to Genl. Armstrong, who 
has arrived at Nantz but is not come up to Paris, ... I hope 
to close my mission with an important concession on the part of 
this government, which has always hitherto been refused, that of 
having consuls in their Islands. Mr. Talleyrand & two other of 
the ministers have promised me to use their influence that it be 
granted by the Emperor, and I doubt not that it will be done. 
This will be a great check upon their West India pirates. 

Mr. Monroe was in Holland, & I expect him here today on his 
way to Spain, where I believe our affairs do not stand so well as 
might be wished, but as they will not quarrel with us I think that 
by a little firmness & address they may be re-established. There 
will probably be a change in the Batavian Republick : my friend 
Shimelpenninck will be placed at the head of it. The prepara- 
tions for the coronation are immense ; it will, perhaps be the 
most superb festival that Europe has ever seen. The Pope sets 
out on the 3d. Nov. to perform the ceremony. . . . 

Your most obd. hum. servt. 

R. R. Livingston. 

Gen. Lafayette to R. King. 

La Grange 26 November 1804 
My dear Sir 

While on your European Embassy you were admiring the 
prodigies of General Moreau, or feeling for His Virtues, you 
could neither fear for France the Misfortune, nor expect for the 
United States the Honor of his present Situation. My Senti- 
ments on the Occasion with Respect to Both Countries and to 
Him, I leave you to judge, and I know you will consider these 
few lines By Him as a welcome Expression of the grateful Affec- 
tionate Regard of 

Your Sincere Friend 

Lafayette. 

The probable breaking-out of war between England and 
Spain suggested to Miranda, who was ever hopeful of ac- 
complishing the freedom of the American Colonies from the 
Spanish yoke, that an opportunity was now presented for 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 429 

him to engage the assistance of Great Britain in his work. 
That country was always ready to use any method of crip- 
pling an enemy, but, as the letter from Miranda shows, was 
not inclined to take many risks in doing so. Mr. King had 
evidently been to a certain extent cognizant of Miranda's 
plans, as the following letter will show : 

R. King to C. Gore. 

Jany 4, 1804 

" Genl. M (iranda) has I conclude left England before this 
date. If the question is at length settled with Spain, as it shd 
have been months ago, he may yet see his wishes accomplished. 
He & you know my sentiments on this subject, which nothing 
can alter. I do not write to the General, because I am expecting 
to hear of him in another quarter. Should he make a beginning, 
the news wd. electrify this country, which contains an immense 
number of individuals, who would be ready to take up their bed 
and walk." 

Mr. Gore writes to Mr. King from London, February 10, 
1 804 : 

" Gen1. M. is still here waiting the decision of this government 
in relation to Spain — Possibly an original error in not considering 
it as a party to the war is the cause of the present delay and of all 
the subsequent errors." 

Miranda to R. King.* 

Tres reserve. 

Londres jo (sic) Febr. 1804 
MON DIGNE ET CHER AMI 

C'est avec un plaisir infini que je reeois votre Paragraphe dans 
la Lettre de Mr. Gore date a New York le 4 Janvr. dernier. Ma 
Lettre du 21. Sept. passe est la derniere que je vous ai £crit ; et 
comme ni la rupture avec l'Espagne a eu lieu encore, ni j'avois 

Very Confidential. 
* MY WORTHY AND DEAR FRIEND 

It has given me infinite pleasure to receive your paragraph in the letter from 
Mr. Gore, dated the 4th of January last. My letter of 2 rst of Sept. past, is the 
last that I have written to you ; and as neither the rupture with Spain has yet 

430 RUFUS KING. [1804 

recu aucune nouvelle de votre part, Je n'ai pas cru apropos de 
faire mon mouvement encore. Je n'ai pas besoin de vous dire les 
sotises que Mr. A. — a fait depuis cette epoque, vous en aurez 
juge mieux que personne. — Venons a ce qui nous regarde plus de 
pres. 

Voici l'arrangement que nous avons conclu ce matin avec Mr. 
Vansittart. Vargas (qui est ici) doit partir sous 15 jours pour la 
Trinidad afin de preparer les choses &c et je dois le suivre un mois 
apres, dans un Batiment arm£, portant en meme terns les muni- 
tions, armes et habillemens qui seront necessaires pour cora- 
mencer par nous-memes ; ce pays-ci se reservant de venir a notre 
secours apres. C'est tout ce qu'on peut faire avec des pareilles 
gens, et a moins que nous ne soyons pas boulevers^s dans l'inter- 
mede, par l'invasion dont nous sommes menaces. 

Je compte en tout cas avec vos secours ; et dans cette supposi- 
tion J'ai dressi la notejointe, afin que Mr. Gore a Boston, et vous a 
New York puissent nos envoyer ce qui est le plus essentiel dans le 
commencement, et selon les stipulations qui nous paraitront plus 
raisonables. La Maison de Brown et Cie a Trinidad, m'a £crit 
se chargeant de tout volontier, enfin selon les choses progressent 
vous aurez de mes nouvelles. L'ami G — vous remettra deux 
Livres de ma part, qui ont paru, depuis votre depart ; Tun par 
Volney concernant les E. U d' Amerique 2. v. 8 vo., l'autre avec 
de tres belles vues de Paris, qui amuseront peutetre Mad. King, 
2 v. 4to par Holcroft. 

Vale, 

M . 

taken place, nor have I received any news from you, I have not deemed it fit- 
ting to make as yet my movement. I need not speak to you of the sottises 

that Mr. A has made since that period ; you can understand them better 

than any one else. Let us consider what concerns us more immediately. 

The following arrangement was concluded this morning with Mr. Vansittart. 
Vargas, who is here, is to leave in 15 days for Trinidad in order to prepare 
things &c, and I am to follow him a month afterwards in an armed vessel, car- 
rying at the same time the munitions, arms and equipments which will be 
necessary to commence by ourselves ; this country reserving to itself to come to 
our assistance afterwards. This is all we can do with such people, and pro- 
vided we should not be overwhelmed by the invasion with which we are now 
threatened. 

I count in all events upon your help, and in this expectation I have written 
the joint note, in order that Mr. Gore at Boston and you in New York may send 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 43 1 

Mr. Gore wrote on April 17, 1804: 

" Boston. 

" As to Miranda's affair, I shall not mention a word of it until 
I learn that his friend is gone out, for I think it would be prema- 
ture, and I will thank you not to say anything unless, or before, 
you hear from me again. He ought to have sent another letter 
to me in the Downs, and from his not doing it, I fear some new 
difficulty occurred with the Brit. Gov*. From what I wrote you 
last autumn * you will see how he was deceived ; but as I never 
told him, it could not be reasoned upon." 

Again on April 20th Mr. Gore encloses in a letter to Mr. 
King one from M. Vargas, in which, after wishing Mr. 
Gore a pleasant voyage home, he requests him to send a 
letter which he encloses to a M. Bonaventure Sire, a mer- 

us whatever may be most essential in the beginning, and according to such 
stipulations as may appear to us most reasonable. The house of Brown and Co. 
at Trinidad has written to me as willing to take charge of every thing. Finally 
as matters progress you shall hear from me. L'ami G. will deliver to you two 
books from me, which have appeared since you left ; one by Volney concerning 
the U. S. of America 2. v. 8vo ; the other with very beautiful views of Paris, 
which will perhaps amuse Mrs. King, par Holcroft. 

Vale, M 

The articles wanted are the following — 20,000 good Muskets with Bayonets ; 
gun powder and ammunition for ditto in superabundance — Cast iron Artillery 
& ammunition for ditto, Bar Iron and Sheet Lead and a proportion of steel side 
arms. For which articles payment will be given when landed on the Coast at 
the rate of one hundred or one hundred and fifty per cent over and above prime 
cost, of those articles in the United States of America. 

Advantages offered to the Trade — Every Vessel bringing in the proportion 
of one thousand muskets, (or other of the above articles in lieu thereof) for every 
hundred Tons burthen, shall be entitled to the benefit of paying only one half 
the customary duties on the cargoes they may bring for sale into the country — 
with the advantage also of a deduction of one half the usual exportation duties, 
upon all the articles, the produce of the country, which they may choose to 
carry away. 

All descriptions of Goods to be equally admissible into the country. 

M A. 

London 12 March 1804. 

N. B. The Vessels to be directed to call upon the House of Mess Wm. 
Brown &° Co., at Puerto cTEspagne, on the Island of Trinidad for instruction. 

* R. King's Life, iv., pp. 298, 299, 305, 314, 319, 321. 

432 RUFUS KING. [1804 

chant in New York, who was also to receive certain letters, 
books, and linen articles, and deliver them to Mr. Gore, 
who is requested by M. Vargas to send them a l'lsle de la 
Trinity, addressed to Mr. Vargas, to the care of Colonel 
Rutherford, Surveyor-General of that island. 

Mr. Vargas also says that he had passed in New York, 
where he had been, under the name of Fermin Sarmiento, 
by which name he is to be spoken of there, especially in 
case that it may be necessary to ascertain the address of M. 
Sire through the Spanish Consul, who is under no circum- 
stances to be informed of the place of residence of M. 
Vargas, but to be led to believe he is still in London. 

In his letter Mr. Gore says : 

"Vargas said they (the papers) were very interesting docu- 
ments relating to S. America. Should any be procured, pray 
forward them as desired." 

C. Gore to R. King. 

Boston May 3, 1804 
My dear Sir 

The particular object of this Letter is to enquire, if you have 
chosen to say, or propose to any person, to do anything relative 
to the Business on which M. wrote you. My reason for enquir- 
ing is that I have a prospect of doing somewhat here and possibly 
advantageous to myself. And the Manner or Extent, at least, 
will depend on knowing whether any thing, or what may be 
undertaken from another Quarter. Pray have the goodness to 
answer me by return of Post, and believe me truly & ever yours 

C. Gore. 

C. Gore to R. King. 

Boston May 15, 1804 
My dear Sir 

The most that has passed here, relative to the subject of my 
last letter, has been like what you state to have taken place in 
New York. Mr. S. H. is disposed to enter upon the Business, so 
soon as anything shall have been done to render it certain that 
they, who have so long fed our Friend with Hopes, intend to 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 433 

promote his Wishes by a Conduct suitable to their own Interest, 
& promising an Attainment of the Object. The sailing of V. 
with the promised Supplies would, in my mind be strong, if not 
conclusive Evidence of this Intention ; but I do not know, that 
this would be satisfactory to S. H. ; yet my opinion would prob- 
ably have weight with him. I have an intention, in some degree, 
to be interested in the adventure, though without incurring much 
Risque. I will, however, come to no conclusion, on any part of 
the subject, without consulting with you. 

Williams has sent me Duplicate of some Letters, originals 
whereof he has forwarded, under cover to you, by the Juliana. 
When received, you will please to open them & retain for your- 
self all that relate to this Concern. . . . 

With affectionate Regards &c. 

C. Gore. 

There is an intermission of correspondence on this matter 
until the autumn of 1804, when Mr. Gore writes: 

C. Gore to R. King. 

Boston, Nov. 25, 1804. 
My dear Friend : 

. . . I was rejoiced to read the account of the Spanish war, 
and immediately renewed my conversation with those Friends I 
had before spoken to on the business, and as formerly, they were 
disposed to undertake it with Spirit, and were willing to pay to 
me 25 or 20 per cent of the net Profits, if any should be made on 
the adventure : and I had contemplated making a journey to 
N. Y., if you thought it adviseable, with the view of attempting a 
similar arrangement there. If I could assure myself, free from 
all hazard, enough to build me two Houses, say 50,000 Dollars I 
would go there with the Cargoes, should that be deemed neces- 
sary ; but this I would not attempt, except on the condition that 
such a sum was secured to me before my Departure. However 
all this for the present, at least, is passed by. A Letter which 
was in our paper yesterday and dated in London, says that a 
Merchant told — the Letter writer — that Lord Hawkesbury recom- 
mended to him a Caution in trading to Spain, as the future rela- 
tions between G. B. & S. were very uncertain. The writer of this 
letter was S. Williams. . . . 

Ever, C. G. 

VOL. IV.— 28 

434 RUFUS KING. [1804 

In a letter of January 10, 1805, Mr. King writes this post- 
script in answer to Mr. Gore's letter of November 25, 1804, 
not having written during the interval, as he says : 

P. S. As I must take a second sheet for a cover, I may as well 
say a word or two on a subject touched upon in a former letter 
from you. I refer to the Spanish war and the measures that may 
grow out of it. You have seen the Eng. accounts of the capture 
of the Span. Frigates : since the date of that ace*, we have no news 
from Engd. Unless Spain be advised by Bonaparte to subscribe 
to her own disgrace, which would not surprize me, the war at this 
moment exists. 

I will suppose it so ; and that the Expedition has actually 
sailed for Trinidad, of which we must receive the earliest accounts. 
Yet I do not foresee an immediate state of things that promises a 
golden shower to those who become adventurers. If war has 
been declared, it will have been first known in London, where 
there are individuals ready to accompany and who will be en- 
gaged to accompany the Expedition with a supply of every thing, 
except perhaps provisions, that will be wanted. If so supplies of 
the same sort from this country will be late, and in competition 
with those from England. Besides it seems to me that something 
must be begun before any steps that are not those of hazard, that 
are not parts of the enterprize, can be undertaken. As to arms, 
ammunition and military stores, if the Expedition be set forward 
in time of war, as seems to be the probable case, there will be no 
motive on the part of England to stint supplies of this sort, any 
more than of goods of an innocent character. Any supplies, 
therefore, that in the present want of exact information, may be 
sent from this country, will be sent at a considerable risque of 
loss, instead of gain. From this little sketch you will discern 
the state of my opinions respecting this subject ; but admitting, 
as I am ready to do, that I see the business not in its true light, 
and that great advantages will be gained by the first supplies sent 
from hence, I feel too clearly convinced of the justness of my 
decision in another part of your letter, to express an equal defer- 
ence for even your dissent from me. I allude to your going per- 
sonally, with the supplies that may be sent. 

On no consideration that could be promised, should you con- 

1804] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 435 

sent to go. But I am satisfied that you have, even before now, 
discarded the thought, if it has occurred since it first presented 
itself to you. If, however, you should seriously think of it again, 
before you decide give me an opportunity of being more full in 
support of my opinion. 

Adieu. 

Such, up to the above date, are some of the facts concern- 
ing Miranda's efforts, which indicate Mr. King's interest in 
this plan to revolutionize the Spanish colonies in South and 
Central America, and how little dependence could be placed 
on the promises of Great Britain ; the Ministers holding out 
hopes and arranging plans, but putting off their execution. 

CHAPTER XXVIII. 

Gore to King — About Pinkney of Md. — King to Gore — Personal — I. A. Smith 
to King — Mission to Russia — On public Affairs in U. S. — C. King to 
King — Hard Winter — Personal — Pickering to King — Trial of Judge Chase 
— King to Pickering — Judge Chase — Senate Business — Pickering to King — 
Arguments of Chase's Counsel — Randolph's Speech on Georgia Claims — 
St. Domingo Bill — Pickering to King — Acquittal of Judge Chase — Picker- 
ing to King — Nomination of Attorney General — Burr's retiring Speech — 
King to W. Hope — Desires to place his Second Son in his House — King 
to Samuel Chase — Congratulations on the Result of his Trial — Chase to 
King — Thanking him and stating Points in the case and the Attack on the 
Judiciary — Gore to King — Federalism will soon disappear — Livingston to 
King — With Letter from Talleyrand relative to a Collection of Works of 
Art to be placed in the Museum at N. Y. — King to Gore— Current Events 
— Lord Suffolk to King — British Affairs — Gore to King — Commercial 
Ventures. 

C. Gore to R. King. 

Boston, January i, 1805. 
My dear Friend : 

It is long time since I heard from you by letter, though we learn 
through Mr. Wallace that you & yours enjoy good health. Mrs. 
Gore is as well as I have known her for many years ; & for myself, 
I am more like to die of a plethora than any other disorder. For 
this is quite the season of feasting, and a man, who has his living 
to obtain, cannot refuse the intended kindnesses of his friends, 
although he may perish in the acceptance. As for exercise, that 
is for the present out of the question. The streets and roads are 
covered with ice, and a man walks at the hazard of his limbs and 
perhaps of never walking again. 

. . . Pinkney* sent me the newspapers, which contain the 

* William Pinkney had been his associate on the Commission for the settlement 
of American Claims under Jay's Treaty, and afterwards appointed by the State 
of Maryland to look after its claims for the Maryland Bank Stock, which, after 
many efforts for a settlement made by Mr. King, still remained undecided 
when he left England. 

436 

1805] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 437 

Compliments of Language & Substance, wherewith his Country- 
men regaled his ears & purse. It is impossible to avoid observ- 
ing the studied silence as to him, who really obtained the Boon 
for Maryland and as to everything relative to our Commission. 
The latter, if brought into view, might have reflected honour on 
the last Administration, and to have given the due acknowledge- 
ment, to the Former, might have rendered justice to a Character, 
whom they wished to keep out of sight. . . . 

Affectionately yours, 

C. Gore. 

R. King to C. Gore. 

New York, Jany. 10, 1805. 
My dear Friend : 

Having nothing either personal or public to say, I have for 
several weeks omitted to write to you ; we are happy to know 
from your letter that Wallace brought us that Mrs. Gore enjoys 
such excellent health, and that yours also is better than while you 
were in the course of violent exercise. With the exception of 
Frederick (his youngest son) and myself who have heavy colds, 
we are all well. Mrs. King was never better, notwithstanding the 
inclemency of the season prevents her accustomed exercise. The 
Frost has prevented me from riding, and I begin, or fancy I do, 
to feel the want of exercise. ... * 

I. Allen Smith to R. King. 

Constantinople, January 22d, 1805. 
My dear Sir : 

I have just been favoured with your letters and duplicates of 
the 10th and 2 2d of August & regret that I was so unfortunate as 
to lose that of April to which you allude. The President's resolu- 
tion respecting a mission to Russia is what I always expected ; 
but I should have reproached myself had I neglected in writing 

* The concluding portions of this letter, except some information as to his 
views relative to the education of his younger sons, will be found on p. 410 rel- 
ative to the Hamilton affairs and p. 434 relative to Miranda. 

438 RUFUS KING. [1805 

to you to touch on a subject, which appeared to me of importance 
to my country or to have satisfied, within myself, a sentiment of 
gratitude which I had so much reason to feel. Although per- 
suaded that the Court of Russia would receive with pleasure a 
minister from the U. States, and that no period could be more 
favourable for such a mission than that of the administration of the 
Chancellor Vorontion, I studiously avoided ever expressing my- 
self on this subject to any one, until my arrival at Astracan, 
resolving to return through Russia, I took the liberty of mention- 
ing it in a letter to you, & afterwards to my Brother, on my arrival 
at Constantinople. I have therefore the satisfaction of having 
done nothing more than what appeared to me to be my duty & of 
having been ready to sacrifice my own pursuits and pleasures to 
the service of my Country. . . . 

I read with infinite regret the report you give me of the condition 
of our public affairs. I consoled myself, after having been so long 
a witness of the Evils which reign in Europe, with the idea that I 
should find reason and moderation in America ; and I see with 
great disappointment & sorrow, that a people whom I thought the 
most capable of forming accurate notions on the important sub- 
ject of liberty, have not yet been convinced, even after the ex- 
perience of the French Revolution, that the shortest and beaten 
road of Tyranny, is that which leads through Democracy. I per- 
fectly agree with you, that, however gloomy the prospect, we 
ought not to despair ; but that men of honesty and energy of 
character should redouble their exertions to stem the current of 
revolutionary principles in a country, which above all others has 
enjoyed most the blessings of Justice & of equal laws. We re- 
ceived them by inheritance from England, the only country in 
Europe that possessed them, we had the courage to maintain 
them and it would be folly, wickedness, and absurdity to infringe 
them. 

I cannot too earnestly intreat you, my dear Sir, to continue to 
me the advantage & pleasure of hearing from you, for I have lost 
nothing of that interest which I ought to feel for the welfare of 
our Common Country, or of that profound respect & sincere at- 
tachment with which I have the honour to be 

Your most obliged Humb1 Serv* 

I. Allen Smith. 

1805] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 439 

T. Pickering to R. King. 

Washington, Feby. 15, 1805. 
Dear Sir : 

CX think I lately inclosed to you Judge Chase's answer to the 
articles of impeachment. In that he referred, as you will have 
seen, to several documents. These were this morning laid on our 
tables. In this and one other packet, I enclose a copy. 

The virulence of the party prosecuting and the aggravated evi- 
dence of angry irritated opponents, had thrown some light clouds 
over the Judge's character ; but in the course of the trial, I am 
inclined to think that these will be dissipated. I am now dis- 
posed to believe after hearing the testimony of the witnesses for 
the prosecution, and some of those produced by the Judge, that 
they will not find 23 senators hardy enough to condemn him. 

I think John Randolph's opening Speech, as given in the Wash- 
ington Federalist, is substantially correct. But the words con- 
cerning the four district Judges (Peters, Bedford, Winchester 
and Griffin) were more opprobrious than they appear in that paper. 
Those Judges, he said, were " men of weak and feeble temper, 
and of intellects" (making a considerable pause) "perhaps as 
feeble." And that by pardoning John Fries, Mr. Adams "had 
atoned for marry failings ; for mercy, like charity, covered a mul- 
titude of sins." ; 

With great respect & esteem I am yours 

T. Pickering. 

Rufus King, Esq. 

Cyrus King to R. King. 

Pepperellville, Feby. 17, 1805. 
My dear Brother : 

* . . . The distresses which you mention of the Poor from 
the severity of the winter must be great and afflicting, especially 
in a part of the country where hard winters are not frequent. In 
this inhospitable region (as to Climate), where we are accustomed 

* The blank refers to the receipt of a sum of money, sent by Mr. King to his 
brother Richard. C. King had been educated by his brother Rufus, and was 
his first secretary during the latter's mission to England. 

440 RUFUS KING. [1805 

to a much greater severity of weather, but few ever experienced so 
hard a winter as the present ; storms of snow have been unusually 
frequent and the frost intense. 

I am happy to learn from you the health and welfare of your 
amiable family which will always be dear to me. Our friends in 
this part of the country are in general well. . . . 

In gratitude and affection, I am dear Brother 

Cyrus King. 

Rufus King to T. Pickering. 

N. York, Feby. 18, 1805. 
Dear Sir : 

FT give you many thanks for the copy of Judge Chase's reply, 
which you were good enough to send to me. I have read it with 
great interest and attention ; and I may add with equal satisfac- 
tion. I am gratified that the Judge has prepared his answer in 
the manner he has done, as whatever may be the result of his 
trial, impartial men both now and hereafter will possess the authen- 
tic means of deciding for themselves. We have heard of a rude 
and disorderly debate in the H. of R. concerning the Georgia 
Claim ; & some persons have conjectured that a serious division 
would arise among the Democrats — nay, that it already exists, and 
that Judge Chase's best hope of acquittal proceeds from it. Who 
is to be the Attorney General & what delays his appointment? 
does this indirectly wait for the conclusion of Chase's trial ?) 
What has been the fate of the convention concerning boundaries 
made with England ? has she consented to our proposed omission, 
or does the business rest in the same state, as when the Senate 
dismissed it? What is likely to become of your St. Domingo 
Bill ; concerning which trade I am sorry to see that Mr. Merry 
has intimated even opinions, that the laws & usages of nations do 
not in my belief authorize. England seems to be doing for you 
your business with Spain ; as in case of a war between those two 
nations, we shall have little trouble to adjust our demands with 
the latter. 

With truth & attachment 

I remain, dear Sir, yr. obed*. Serv*. 

Rufus King. 

1805] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 441 

T. Pickering to R. King. 

Washington, Feby. 24, 1805. 
Dear Sir : 

(i have received your letter of the 18th. The trial of Judge 
Chase has progressed so far, that his counsel will finish his defence 
tomorrow ; Mr. Harper closes. Luther Martin, in behalf of his 
" honourable friend " the Judge, occupied the whole of yesterday, 

5 J hours ; and then told the court he was too much exhausted to 
conclude his argument ; assuring them, if the indulgence were 
granted, he would take up but little of their time on Monday. 
The Court (Senate I ought to call it ; Mr. Giles having, in our 
preliminary proceedings, banished the word Court) the Senate 
granted Mr. Martin's request. I regretted very much the appar- 
ent necessity of this indulgence ; fearing he would occupy so 
much of our time on Monday as to mar the defence of Mr. Har- 
per, addressed to a court and audience (I mention the Audience, 
because a numerous body of respectable people may have an 
influence on judges, some of whom, tho' they have not the fear of 
God, yet have the fear of man before their eyes) half-exhausted. 
But I understand that Mr. Martin is enjoined, and has engaged, 
positively to conclude by noon. Mr. Harper, I am told, will 
speak not more than three hours ; but I much doubt the possi- 
bility of his compressing within that space all he will deem im- 
portant on so copious a theme. The two last Articles of the 
impeachment are reserved for him (the proceedings at Newcastle 

6 Baltimore) and he will notice any points which in the dis- 
courses of the other counsel on the six first articles were either 
omitted or too lightly touched. 

There was on the part of John Randolph uncommon rudeness 
in the H. of R., in the debate on the Georgia claims ; but that 
will not have the smallest influence on the impeachment. The 
indecent replication of the H. of R. to Judge Chase's answer was 
subsequent to the abusive, impudent speech of Randolph on the 
Georgia claim ; and in that replication the whole pack united as 
usual. However, I am persuaded they sincerely wish they had 
not meddled with Judge Chase. The testimony of the multitude 
of witnesses has placed the Judge's judicial acts in a fair and legal 
point of view. The managers, with a better cause, would contend 
but feebly with such able counsel as appear for Judge Chase, and 

442 RUFUS KING. [1805 

with so paltry an one, you may rely upon it, they make a very 
shabby figure. For the points of law, Rodney is their Goliath. 
The managers, I learn, expect to make all their speeches in one 
day — say Tuesday ; or at farthest to finish on Wednesday morn- 
ing. I expect the decision of the Senate will immediately follow 
without any discussion. 

We know not who is to be the attorney General, nor why the 
appointment is delayed ; unless it be the difficulty of finding one 
of the orthodox sect of competent abilities. John Thompson 
Mason of Georgetown (brother of Stephens Thompson Mason) 
might have received the appointment, I have heard ; but an 
uncle, without a child, lately deceased, has left him a very large 
estate ; and not enjoying very good health, he declines the office.] 

The British Convention is where the Senate were last year told 
it would be, if they persisted in their idle amendment. Even its 
name has not been lisped during the whole session, either by 
President or Senator. 

The St. Domingo Bill — that is the bill for clearing armed mer- 
chant vessels, passed the Senate last Friday. The first section 
is all that resembles the original bill, which came up from the H. 
of R., and that is ameliorated. The master and owner are to give 
bonds with sureties, in double the value of the vessel and her 
tackle, that her arms shall not be used in any unlawful act, but 
merely in self defence in case of involuntary hostility. The pe- 
nal section, for punishing offences committed abroad, as if com- 
mitted at home, is struck out ; and its continuance is limited to 
the end of the next session of Congress. Samuel Smith intro- 
duced a section requiring bonds of the master and owner, that a 
vessel armed & cleared for any other port than the West Indies, 
should not proceed thither unless from stress of weather. We 
endeavoured to get this expunged, but failed. The Bill passed 
by a great majority — 20 to 8 — . I remarked to S. Smith that the 
bill did not reach the complaint of the French Minister, which 
went to a total discontinuance of the trade to St. Domingo. The 
French (he answered) do not now desire it ; the French Minister 
has told me so ; it was only a point of honour ! — 

Your two Senators voted for the bill. I also was very sorry to 
see Mr. Merry's letter on this subject ; and not a little surprized 
at its apparent imbecillity. 

1805] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 443 

Your Senator Smith has presented a bill to grant to Aaron Burr 
the privilege of franking letters for the rest of his life.* 
With very great regard, &c. 

Timothy Pickering. 

T. Pickering to R. King. 

^~ Washington, March 1, 1805. 

\ Dear Sir : 

I have much pleasure in announcing to you the acquittal of 
Judge Chase, this day. The Senators were called, alphabetically, 
by the President, on which each rose, when the President pro- 
pounded the question, on each article in the forms following. 
" How say you ? Is Samuel Chase guilty or not guilty of a high 
crime or misdemeanour as charged in the article of impeachment 
now (or last read) ? " The Senator answered guilty or not guilty, f 

Your two Senators uniformly said not guilty\ 

In great haste adieu 

T. Pickering. 

T. Pickering to R. King, N. York. 

Washington, March 2, 1805. 
Dear Sir : 

fin your late letter, I think you asked me why the nomination 

of an Attorney General was delayed ? I could not then tell ; 

now it seems apparent. Yesterday, you will find by my letter of 

that date, Judge Chase was acquitted, and at the moment I began 

this letter, Robert Smith was nominated to be attorney general. 

Had Judge Chase been convicted on the articles of impeachment, 

doubtless Smith was to have been placed on the Bench. Crownin- 

shield of Salem was at the same time nominated to be Secretary 

of the Nav^Tj 

The House of Representatives made short work with the Burr- 
postage-Bill — they yesterday postponed it to the first day of De- 
cember next. 

The Vice-President just now took leave of the Senate, in a 
concise & apparently extempore speech, marked by that good 

* This was granted by Congress, after some hesitation in the H. of Reps. 
f The detail of the votes, given in this letter, will be found in the Annals of 
Congress, 1804-5, pp. 665-669. 

444 RUFUS ICING. [1805 

sense which you know he possesses. The Senate have unani- 
mously passed a vote of thanks, in perfectly appropriate terms, 
testifying the impartiality, dignity and ability with which he has 
presided over their deliberations. I presume the Committee who 
are to present the vote of thanks, will ask for his address, and 
that both will be published. 

Very truly yours, 

T. Pickering. 

R. King to Sam. Chase. 

CoJ>y. 

N. York, March 6, 1805. 
Sir: 

We have this morning been made acquainted with the issue of 
the prosecution agt. you by the H. of R., and I cannot suffer a 
mail to be despatched witht. offerg. you my sincere and cordl. 
Congrats, upon the decision wh. has been pronounced. Whatever 
may be due to the zeal and abilities of yr. Counsel, who without 
doubt have acquitted themselves in a manner worthy of the gt. 
charge they were bound to protect, I shall always believe that 
much very much of that influence and authority wh. have over- 
awed and confounded the settled purpose of yr. Enemies, must 
be ascribed to the courageous, able, and convincing ansr. you 
yourself gave to the charges preferred agt. you ; an answer wh. 
not only possesses the highest merit, as a learned and satisfactory 
vindication of the just and necessary power of the judiciary, but 
which must remain an everlasting Record of the unworthy mo- 
tives of yr. Persecutors. 

Accept with my Congrats., the assurance of the distingd. con- 
sidn. & Respect with which I have the honour to be, Sir, your 
most ob. & faith, ser R. K. 

Sam. Chase, Balt., to R. King. 

13th March, 1805. 

My dear Sir : 

I am honored and gratified by your Congratulations on my ac- 
quittal by the Senate of the Impeachment by the House of Repre- 
sentatives. It has ever been my wish to obtain and preserve the 

1805] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 445 

Esteem & Confidence of the virtuous and sensible part of my 
Fellow-Citizens. The approbation of characters like you, Sir, 
affords me peculiar Pleasure and is a great Consolation to Me, 
under the cruel persecution I have suffered. My answer was 
principally intended as a Justification of my official Conduct to 
judicial and professional Gentlemen. I can assure you that the 
Evidence produced on the trial fully supported my answer in all 
its parts ; and disclosed many facts that had escaped my Memory, 
and will, I expect, convince every impartial man of the Rectitude 
and propriety of my conduct, in the very instances charged to be 
criminal. It was not alleged in any article of Impeachment, that 
I had attempted to pack a Jury on the trial of Callender ; but the 
Managers calling a witness for this Purpose, I consented to the 
Inquiry, although I have no doubt the Senate would not have 
admitted such evidence without my Consent. You will find on 
perusing the trial, that this base attempt was entirely repelled. 
fTn support of the 8th Article the Managers examined a Witness 
to prove that in my Charge to the Grand- Jury at Baltimore, I 
made a direct attack upon the present Executive, for Imbecility 
in office ; for, promoting his own Interest in preference to that of 
the public ; and for obtaining his Election by undue means — no 
such fact was stated ; nor had I any notice of it ; but I made no 
objection ; if I had, it would have been said that I was afraid of 
it. I proved that the evidence was not true by a Dozen of Wit- 
nesses of the very first Reputation. The name of the Managers' 
Witness is John Montgomery, a democrat, a leading member of 
the House of Delegates of this State. To my counsel I am 
greatly obliged for the very able legal and constitutional Defence 
they made for me ; for the whole labor rested on them, as I was 
unable from indisposition to take any Part ; and to the Justice of 
my Case and their abilities I impute my acquittal. I am in a 
peculiar Manner indebted to my Friend Mr. Harper for his pro- 
fessional assistance in preparing my answer, and for his Conduct 
of my defence. It affords me great Pleasure to add, that a more 
fair and impartial trial, conducted with greater Dignity, never 
took place in any country. The trial is now in the press in this 
City, & I expect will be the most accurate. I am sure you will 
receive great Pleasure from the perusal of it. 

The conduct of my accusers, in refusing to pay the Expenses 

446 RUFUS KING. [1805 

of the Witnesses summoned by my Direction, you will observe in 
the votes of the House of Representatives 60 agt. and only 18 for 
payment of them. 

You will see by the amendment proposed by Mr. Randolph, to 
the Constitution, that an attempt will be made to make the Judi- 
ciary altogether dependent on a Majority of the two Branches of 
the Legislature ; and by the amendment proposed by Mr. Nichol- 
son, that the Senate are to become a mere diplomatic Corps, de- 
pendant on the several State Legislatures. I can conceive no two 
measures more radically destructive of our Constitution. I can 
only oppose them by my Wishes ; my age, infirmities & the 
wicked Prosecution I have suffered, have determined me never 
to take any Part in any public Measure whatsoever j 

I pray you, Sir, to accept my best Wishes for your Health and 
prosperity & believe, that I am with every sentiment of Respect 
& Esteem 

Your affectionate & most obedient Servant, 

Samuel Chase. 

It was a matter of much anxiety to Mr. King to make 
such an arrangement for the future education of his two sons, 
who had now passed eight years at Harrow, and were then 
in Paris, at the school of M. Thurot, engaged in studying 
mathematics, French, and Spanish. The younger son, 
Charles, had decided that he would prefer the life of a mer- 
chant ; the older one, John, selecting that of a lawyer. The 
first suggestion was to place Charles in the house and under 
the care of his friend Sir Francis Baring; but, as will be 
seen, though this gentleman had willingly consented to re- 
ceive him, Mr. King had thought it better for such reasons 
as he deemed wise, to send him to Amsterdam, under the 
care of Messrs. Hope, and for this purpose he wrote di- 
rectly to Mr. Labouchere in London, asking him to take an 
interest in the arrangement and in the care of his son, and 
to Mr. W. Hope— 

1805] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 447 

R. King to W. Hope. 

New York, March 9, 1805. 
Dear Sir : 

Before as well as since I left England, T have had communica- 
tion with our friend, Sir Francis Baring, concerning my second 
son, who has now nearly completed his 16th year, and whom I 
propose to educate a merchant. At first I thought of placing 
him in London, and Sir Francis consented to receive him into 
his house. But such are the amusements and vices of that great 
metropolis, that I have hesitated in leaving him there, remote as 
he would be from my Superintendence, and by the advice of Sir 
Francis I am led to prefer placing him at Amsterdam, where there 
are fewer amusements, more industry and firmer habits of Busi- 
ness, provided I can there meet with a suitable situation for him. 
In a late letter from Sir Francis, he informs me thro' Mrs. Labou- 
chere, he would consult you and her husband upon this subject : 
but as the intercourse between Holland and England is inter- 
rupted, and considerable time may elapse before I can learn your 
opinion thro' that channel, I have presumed upon our former ac- 
quaintance to address myself directly to you. 

The chief objects of my solicitude are the promotion of the 
health and morals of my son and his education as a merchant. 
Should you consent to receive him into your house, he would be 
where I wish him to be educated, and could I indulge the hope 
that he might be so associated with your sons, as to be admitted 
also into your family, I should think I had attained for him the 
advantage and security which a good father must be sedulously 
anxious to provide. 

In case it should be inconvenient for you to gratify my wishes 
on either or both these points, I am persuaded of your disposition 
to assist me with your friendly opinion and advice concerning the 
best means of attaining my object. My case differs essentially 
from what it would be were I an inhabitant of your City ; for 
altho' the education of my son would then depend on his connec- 
tion with some commercial House, he would live in my family 
and be under my observation and control ; and it is an arrange- 
ment that shall supply this constant care and superintendence 
about which I am most embarrassed. Perhaps Messrs. Willinks, 
or Van Stopworts, whom I know, or some other respectable 

448 RUFUS KING. [1805 

House would consent to receive my son ; but even then I should 
be at a loss where to find that care and protection without which 
a youth is liable to fall into error and misfortune. 

Hitherto I have made no application to any other people on 
this subject, preferring first to receive your answer, which I beg 
the favor of you to send me as early as shall be convenient. Be 
pleased to present my respectful compliments to Mrs. Hope, in 
which Mrs. King desires to unite hers, and be assured that I am 
with sentiments of great Respect and Esteem &c 

Rufus King. 

C. Gore to R. King. 

Boston, March 10, 1805. 
My Dear Friend : 

. . .\_Our election has begun, or rather the preparations for 
it, and an unusual degree of Heat seems to be excited, more 
especially as the moral & official character of one of the Candi- 
dates is most vehemently attacked, which occasioned a cudgelling 
between the son of the Judge & the Printer ; and this Rencounter 
seems to have demanded from the latter a reiteration and justifi- 
cation of what had been before asserted. We have hopes that 
Strong may be again elected ; but this is by no means certain. 
Our House will be probably democratic, and I do not believe the 
Senate will be any better ; and They, who are Federalists, are not 
very skilful or able in supporting their cause. Probably a great 
mistake was made last autumn in changing our Rep. to Congress, 
for although it would not have been proper for the Federalists to 
have supported the existing Member, yet their success has sent 
one, who cannot render any service to the cause, & brought one 
here, who can afford much support to his own Party, and taken 
Him from a scene, where He could not fail of becoming an Op- 
ponent to the Administration, although not a convert to those 
who formerly held their Places. We appear to me to be changing 
very fast, & the little Federalism that is left, will soon be no more. 
We may rise to something else, but not to that. I had a letter 
the other day from Pinkney, who says that He is almost deter- 
mined to settle in Annapolis, that He may be elected into their 
State Legislature, and endeavour to stop the Torrent. From this 

805] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 

449 

and other Parts of his Letter, it is probable he does not side with 
the present Administration. We hear nothing of Trumbull; 
Does He proceed successfully ? . . **"71 

We have been somewhat alarmed here the last week at the Pos- 
sibility of a Peace. Our Merchants are very anxious that Great 
Britain should not impair her Dignity, or hazard her security, by 
any pacific negotiations for the Present 

As ever yours 

C. Gore. 

R. R. Livingston to R. King. 

Paris, 7th April, 1805. 
Dear Sir : 

I have the pleasure to enclose to you an extract of a letter from 
the Minister of foreign affairs written to me by order of the Em- 
peror & King just as he was about leaving Paris for Milan. This 
was accompanied by the work he mentions, and which I shall 
bring with me and deposit in the gallery of the Society for fine 
arts. You will find this a very princely present, which will be from 
its nature I hope not only useful to our young painters and sculp- 
tors, but to such other of our fellow citizens as are occupied in 
works of taste. The architect, the silversmith, the cabinet maker 
&c. will find models in their respective professions that cannot 
fail to impress their taste. It consists in twenty four volumes in 
fol. of prints & a number of portfols. containing paintings in oil 
& water colours, most of them copies from antiques & from Ra- 
phael ; several views of Constantinople, Cairo, &c. I shall have 
them carefully packed & hope they may arrive safe. If this ex- 
tract, which is inclosed, should find its way into the paper, which 
it probably will, I pray you not to suffer it to be perverted & 
mutilated, as everything relative to me from here has been by 
false translations, but to have the goodness to anticipate these by 
publishing the original with such a translation as you shall find 
accurate. Though this present together with a portrait of the 
Emperor very richly set with diamonds was made me on my re- 
turn from Italy, and six months after I had taken leave formally, 
and of course held no office, I have thought myself bound to send 
a copy of the letter (which contains no reference to my former 
public character) to Mr. Madison & to submit the disposition of 

VOL. IV.— 29 r 

450 RUFUS KING. [1805 

these gifts to the Government, if they should suppose they come 
within the spirit, tho' they are certainly not within the letter of 
the constitution. It is under this restriction that you must re- 
ceive that part of it which is d esignedorthe society. 

I hope to sail about the 10th of May & to bring James with 
me. We all beg to be presented to Mrs. King. I am Dear Sir 
with much esteem & regard &c. 

Rob. R. Livingston. 

Extract accompanying this letter : 

" Extract of a letter from his excellency Monsieur de Talley- 
rand ne. Germinal, au 13. 

* J'ai cru qu'il vous serait particulierement agr^able de pouvoir 
favoriser dans votre pays le gout des arts, et dans cette vue, J'ai 
l'honneur de vous envoyer une collection de l'ancienne et de la 
nouvelle calcographie des Peres et Freres Piranesi. Les desseins 
graves et colores seront convenablement places au Museum de 
New York et attesteront l'interet que vous nous avez inspire pour 
tout ce qui peut contribuer a l'instruction et a l'agrement de vos 
jeunes compatriotes. 

Je vous prie Monsieur de recevoir l'assurance de ma haute 
consideration. Sign6, 

C. M. Talleyrand. 
Son Excellence Monsieur Livingston. 

The Evening Post, June 22d, 1805, gives the following ac- 
count of this collection : 

" This rare and valuable collection, which Mr. Livingston brings 
with him consists of 24 vols, with folios of prints, together with 
several Portfolios containing copies in oil and water colours 
from Raphael and from antiques, Views from Constantinople, 
Cairo, &c. &c. The work will not only be useful to painters and 
sculptors, to many others. 

* I have thought that it would be particularly agreeable to you to be able to 
promote the taste for arts in your country, and with that view I have the hon- 
our to send you a collection of the ancient and the new calcographie of the 
Peres et Freres Piranesi. The engraved and coloured designs will be most 
properly placed in the Museum of New York, and will shew the interest you 
have manifested to us for everything that might contribute to the instruction and 
gratification of your young compatriots. 

1805] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 45 1 

R. King to C. Gore. 

New York, May 2, 1805. 
My dear Friend : 

. . . I cannot help regretting that Robbins and Cobb are 
likely to fail in yr. election, in part on their accounts personally, 
but chiefly as their failure may be reed, as certain evidence that 
Strong will follow them into retirement. To you who think and 
feel as I do, it wd. be superfluous to express my sentiments on 
this most interesting subject. I will only say that it wd. be an 
honest consolation to hope even that an amendment is likely 
to happen ; but to do so would be folly. 

I do not very well understand the state of Parties in England, 
still less the views of the Northern Powers ; as to Peace, it can- 
not take place at present, without humiliation to France or Eng- 
land ; and neither is in a disposition to submit to it. I can well 
enough comprehend the views of Bonaparte in making the over- 
ture ; and the answer of England was both discreet and, as I sup- 
pose, decisive. But the affair continues to be talked of, and the 
politics of Russia are to me mysterious ; still I do not believe 
there can be peace in the present relative condition of the Parties. 

Where the secret Expedn. is bound I can't divine ; perhaps to 
So. Amer. ; but from the tenour of the debates in Parliament, I 
hesitate in believing so, tho' where else unless to the Cape of 
Good Hope I cannot conjecture. 

Pray are you about to engage in any venture abroad ? tell me 
your projects, perhaps I may solicit a concern. I must endeav- 
our to do something wh. shall help my Revenue, so fast do the 
disbursements increase. We are here very expensive and the 
passion grows stronger, as well as becomes more diffused. In 
Boston too I suspect you find a difference between the present 
and past times. 

We have no letters from the boys since they arrived at Rotter- 
dam (on their way to Paris), but hope soon to hear that they are 
safe and settled with Thurdt. Livingston intended to embark in 
Apl., but as he was at Rome late in Jan'y, I think he will not leave 
France before May, so that we shall not see James earlier than 
June. I am greatly at a loss what to do with Edward, there being 
no good school near here, and I don't much like to send all my 
children so far from us as we may be forced to do. . . . 

Always yours R. K. 

45 2 RUFUS KING. [1805 

C. Gore to R. King. 

Boston, May 8, 1805. 
My dear Friend : 

I had still some intention of hazarding some adventure abroad. 
My expenses here are considerably greater than the same comforts 
would have cost me a few years since. . . . With this view 
(to increase his means) I have contemplated making some ship- 
ments ... to Holland or England. The last year most 
of the articles shipt from hence, either of West India or E 
India produce, netted a profit of 25 per cent ; and it is not im- 
probable that I may embark in some project of this sort in the 
course of the present or next month. Should this or any other 
scheme have the appearance of being successful, I will communi- 
cate it and shall be happy in your taking any share or part. . . . 

Yours truly 

C. Gore. 

Lord Suffolk to R. King. 

London, May 20, 1805. 
Dear Sir : 

Indisposition for a considerable time, and a wish to have ad- 
dressed my answer to you in that Rank and Station, which I hope 
you will one day fill, have hitherto prevented my answering your 
obliging letter, for the contents of which I was prepaid from an 
answer given by Gen'l Washington on the same subject some 
years since ; for though the Validity of a part of the claim was 
acknowledged by him, he was of opinion that Restitution 
could never be obtained. I was willing to make one more effort 
for the sake of two natural children, whom my brother left be- 
hind him, to whom a considerable share was left by will, if any 
part of the property could have been recovered, but which I shall 
now consider as entirely out of the question. 

In this country we have had a very warm political session with 
most of the great Talents on the side of opposition ; which you will 
be convinced of when I mention the names of Mr. Fox, Mr. Grey, 
Sheridan, Whithead, and a young man who has greatly distin- 
guished himself Ld. Henry Petty, and of Irish members Mr. 
Grattan and Mr. Ponsonby. These are oppos'd by the single 

1805] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 453 

Talent of Mr. Pitt, for as to his coadjutors (such as Ld. Castle- 
reagh and Mr. Canning) they as frequently hurt as benefit his 
cause. In the House of Lords there is equal deficiency, now 
that Ld. Melville is, I believe, on the Eve of Impeachment, he 
has no one that can be compar'd to Ld. Grenville. But political 
Talent seems to me out of the question. I believe it to be the 
wish of Mr. Pitt only to make use of minor characters whom he 
can easily rule and direct. This may go on for some time, but it 
is in my opinion not a system to be permanent. Much will de- 
pend on the health of the King, who certainly looks extremely 
well, but is now so lethargick, that at a review of near 2000 
artillery a few days since, notwithstanding all the noise of cannon, 
&c, he was frequently asleep, and cou'd with some difficulty be 
rous'd. 

Such our internal situation ; as to the external, you are much 
better acquainted with and can much better appreciate it than I 
can pretend to form a Judgment of what will be the Result of this 
eventful war in which we are engag'd. Shall not therefore hazard 
any sentiment how soon, or in what manner it is likely to termi- 
nate ; but with many thanks for the trouble I have given you and 
many wishes for your welfare & happiness 

I remain, Dear Sir, your oblig'd & faithful servant, 

Suffolk. 

All my family join in kind remembrance to you & Mrs. King. 

CHAPTER XXIX. 

King to Gore — Miranda about to sail — Monroe's Failure in Spain — Yellow Fever 
in N. York — King at Rockaway — His Son James — Pitcairn to King — Seizure 
of American Vessels — Gore to King — British Interference with Trade of U.S. 
— Would it have been so, if King had been in England ? — W. Vaughan to 
King — War in Disguise — Neutral's Rights — King to Gore — New Coalition 
in Europe — Effect on American Trade — Wilberforce to King — Sends War 
in Disguise — Acting on the System recommended indispensable to England 
— Miss O. Southgate — Opinion of King — King to his Sons in Paris — King 
to Morris — Celebration of 25th November — Pickering to King — Treaty 
with Tripoli — Gore to King — Miranda cannot expect Help — Boston Mer- 
chants fear Depredations on Commerce — Suggest King as Minister to Eng- 
land— Gore to King — President's Message — Breck to King — Bank of U. 
States — Pickering to King — No great Measures before Congress — King to 
Gore — Merchants Alarmed — Proposal to urge his Appointment to England 
— King to Pickering — President's Foreign Policy. 

R. King to C. Gore. 

Rockaway, Sept. 15, 1805. 
My dear Friend : 

Yesterday I received a letter from M dated . . . July 13. 

"Apres des inconsequences et des retards inconcevables et in- 
supportables, nous voila sur le point de partir — je compte de 
m'embarquer dans le courant de ce mois, et de vous envoyer 
quelqu'un, ou de vous voir moimeme, &c, J'envoye ce meme avis 
a notre ami G " 

Probably you have a letter by the same conveyance. Lest this 
should not be the fact, I send you the above extract. I apprehend 
from the earnestness with which succour is urged, that the means 
with wh. he is furnished are most inconsiderable, — perhaps he is 
merely sent out in a ship going to the Island of Tr., and that his 
chief hopes of assistance are derived from the posture of our affairs 
with Spain. It will soon be better understood, by the further 
communication that is promised, till when, though the affair may 
be matter of reflexion, nothing can be done. We know nothing 

454 

1805] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 455 

except what the News Papers tell us concerning our relations with 
Spain. Monroe has returned to England, his mission having 
totally failed. The objects of negotiation were the enlargement 
of C. Pinckney's Spanish Convention, so that it might include the 
cases of French captures, the sale and condemnation of which 
were had in Spanish ports and the settlement of the limits of 
Louisiana. 

To the first Spain is understood to have answered that she could 
not interfere with proceedings had under the authority of France, 
and to the latter that we had possession of Louisiana already, its 
limits westerly being the ancient French Possessions and easterly 
the Mississippi and eastern shore of New Orleans — backing this 
reply with extracts of dispatches from Talleyrand to Cevallos, 
which show that France agrees with Spain on both points. 

It is likely that Monroe held a lofty language in his communi- 
cations with the Span. Court, but supported as they are by France, 
he has been treated with contempt. What will be the conduct of 
our magnanimous administration remains to be seen. My own 
belief is, notwithstanding the superior value of West Florida, and 
the time that has been made use of, that our present cabinet will 
do nothing. If so, and M. be without adequate succour from 
England, he will do nothing. 

Our afflicted city is nearly depopulated, and we are aprehensive 
that we shall not be able to visit our homes until the 10th of 
Novr. Until yesterday Mclntyre and our other servant have been 
in town ; He is now with us together with our other servants ex- 
cept the Cook, who is a frenchman, not much apprehensive of the 
fever, and who, moreover, has some connexion in the City that he 
does not like to have known. We are all well, and what Mrs. G. 
will think wonderful, Mrs. K. has become a bather ; she has 
bathed three mornings and intends going on. I think it will be 
of service to her general health, especially after the alarm that has 
attended her first attempts has entirely subsided — in a great meas- 
ure it has already left her. 

We received yesterday a well expressed and satisfactory letter 
from James, dated at Dr. Gardiner's.* He seems well pleased, 
and assures me that he is duly sensible of diligence and attention. 
I need not express to you, my dear friends, how anxious we natur- 

* In Boston. 

45^ RUFUS KING. [1805 

ally are concerning the success of our children ; you, who more 
than any others, know our way of thinking, our hopes, and our 
solicitudes, will enter into our views and feelings, and do whatever 
may best conduce to the education of the child we have placed 
near you. He is at present without vice and, with a fine temper, 
is not deficient in understanding. Treat him in every respect as 
your friendship for us may recommend. He will be sensible to 
your kindness ; as well as obedient and respectful to your control. 
We feel none of the anxiety arising from absence, since we are 
convinced that James is in every respect as safe and as advan- 
tageously placed under your observation and instruction as he 
would be under our own. With affectionate regards in which 
Mrs. K. joins me to Mrs. G., I am most faithfully yours, 

R. K. 

JOS. PlTCAIRN TO R. KlNG. 

Hamburg, 25th Sept., 1805. 
Dear Sir : 

The French Minister, de Bourienne, formerly Secretary of 
State and still friend of Bonaparte, has since June ruled here 
with unlimited sway ; he lately caused a ship belonging to Mr. 
Keith of Virginia to be seized and obtained an order from 
Bernadotte to sell her, alleging that she belonged to Reuben 
Smith, another American, whom he accused of enlisting men for 
the British foreign troops. He rejects all proof that the vessel 
belongs to Keith, and has brought her under French colours from 
Cuxhaven to Hamburg, at the time the French evacuated that 
place. Mr. Forbes our consul here has endeavoured to get pos- 
session of her by the ordinary course of Law, and by demand as 
American Agent. To this moment he has not succeeded ; but 
no one will buy her, and they will on the final leaving of Hanover 
be obliged to let her go, or destroy her. As 't is probable this 
matter will come before our Government I thought you would be 
glad to know the particulars. . . . 

With perfect esteem and gratitude, dear sir 
Your obed. Servant 

Jos. PlTCAIRN. 

1805] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 457 

C. Gore to R. King. 

Boston, October 7, 1805. 
My dear Friend : 

. . . The Galen has arrived here from England, and con- 
firms the accounts heretofore received of the Disposition of the 
Brit. Ministry to limit our Trade within very narrow Bounds. 
Indeed the Spirit that was evidenced in the capture of the Essex, 
Orne, with the natural consequences of her condemnation, ought 
to lead our merchants to expect the sending in for Examination 
all their vessels having on board the Colonial Produce of the 
Enemies of England. I do not see that any evidence on board 
the ship can show what the British Courts demand to be proved, 
viz, that it was not the intention of the Importer from the Colony 
to ship the article to Europe. 

Before a Decision had taken place on the Essex's cargo, it is 
possible the thing might have been placed in such lights by an 
intelligent Minister, as to have prevented the Decree. Mr. 
Monroe was not in England then. 

Our Merchants are anxious for their Property, and irritated at 
a Conduct in the British, which they think not only unjust, but 
perfidious. They believe if you had been in London, a different 
State of things would have existed : and they are now sagaciously 
asking if Mr. J. would ask you to go there, and if he did, whether 
you would consent. Perhaps there is a like probability of either. 

Yours truly 

C. G. 

William Vaughan to R. King. 

London, Oct. 9, 1805. 
Dear Sir : 

. . . . I beg your acceptance of a pamphlet that has just 
made its appearance here, that will from its subject and the part 
you took on the question while minister from the United States, 
prove more interesting to you. It is entitled War in Disguise or 
the frauds of the neutral flags. It is attributed to a Mr. Stevens, 
a lawyer of some repute and ability, who has been in the West 

458 RUFUS KING. [1805 

Indies and who has considerable practice in Appeal Causes. It 
may perhaps be rather considered as the brief of an advocate 
than as the decision of a Judge. I do not conceive that Sir 
Wm. Scott will adopt it indiscriminately as his model either as to 
its Temper or its conclusions, though it is probable that the 
Question about the Rights of Navigation of Neutrals in war to do 
what they cannot do in peace will be more narrowed in its prin- 
ciples in this war than in the last. 

Though you are removed from the theatre of war and of infor- 
mation, you will not remain an uninterested spectator as to what 
is going forward on the Continent respecting the new war & 
new coalition. The proclamation of the different powers will 
show their creed or intentions, and may be considered as the 
articles of an immense partnership with the heads at an immense 
distance from each other, and where their capital and enterprize 
must depend on minor agents. All parties are rushing to one 
point rather more equipped for a march than for an engagement 
as yet until every man is at his post. Success will be various, but 
the result is yet to be known. Great hopes are entertained about 
Russia. . . . 

With great respect your mo. ob. humb. servt. 

Wm. Vaughan. 

R. King to C. Gore. 

Jamaica, L. I., Oct. 28, 1805. 
My dear Friend : 

We came hither about a week since, and as the weather has 
been favourable and the health Comtee. have invited us all back, 
have sent a servant or two to town to prepare our house. . . . 

Our latest News from Europe makes it probable that a new 
Coalition has been formed ; it is to be hoped the allies have been 
secret as well as active, for unless Austria be herself well prepared, 
and moreover seasonably as well as vigorously supported by 
Russia & England, she will be sure to suffer severely by the irrup- 
tion of the French Armies. Recollecting the separate views of 
the former Coalition, the want of common object, honourable to 
the Allies, and not humiliating to France, we may expect a mani- 

1805] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 459 

festo from the new Coalition, correcting the former Error and 
such as shall deserve the approbation & good wishes of all other 
nations. If the Coalition are successful this autumn or make any 
serious impressions on the Power of Bonaparte, England will be- 
come haughty and elated, and in this temper I shall fear most 
serious depredations on our Trade. In respect to the late deci- 
sion of the Court of Appeals I have not yet seen so correct a 
Report of it as enables me to form a precise opinion of its Extent ; 
if it go no further than to restrain the Exportation of Colonial 
Produce in the vessel in which the same was imported, unless an 
intermediate voyage shall have been performed by her, the abridge- 
ment wd. not be very important ; but if the negative proof, which 
you mention be demanded, there can be no security in sending 
Colonial Produce from the U. S. to Europe ; this wd. be so ex- 
travagant and so unjust that I cannot suppose the Principle is, 
has been, or will be insisted upon. Another reason why I discredit 
the operation of this Doctrine is derived from the disjointed and 
feeble condition of the Br. Cabinet at the date of the Decision : 
a new Principle of this comprehensive nature w? not be adopted 
by feeble, ill-assorted and recently connected men — and my 
present persuasion is that the mere touching, and passing a 
Colonial Cargo thro* our Custom House, and then proceeding 
with the same ship & Cargo to Europe, has been considered as too 
slight a security ag* Fraud, and that the decision has been such as 
to put an end to this particular mode of trade. . . . 

Always & faithfully yrs. 

R. K. 

Mr. Wilberforce to R. King. 

Umdon House, New Birmingham, Nov. 7, 1805. 
My dear Sir : 

Before I enter upon the Subject, which gives occasion for my 
now addressing you, let me assure you, with perfect sincerity, 
that I retain a lively sense of the pleasure & advantage I have 
often derived from your Society, during your too short residence 
in this country, and that I shall ever continue to feel a warm 
interest in your happiness & welfare. I heartily wish this letter 

460 RUFUS KING. [1805 

may find you in fl. enjoyment of domestic comfort, the best of 
this world's blessings, and of good health ; and while I am on 
this head, let me beg my best respects to Mrs. King and any of 
your younger ones who may remember me. 

The object of my now writing to you, is to recommend to your 
serious perusal a pamphlet lately published in this country en- 
titled War in disguise, or ye frauds of ye Neutral Flags. To 
you, who from personal experience as well as general knowledge, 
are so thoroughly versed in all that concerns this subject, I 
scarcely need go on to state the general tenor of the Pamphlet, 
its very title will make that sufficiently clear. Neither will I 
anticipate any of its contents. I will however state what I know 
will convey to your mind an impression of its being a work of 
ability, and allowing for the bias, to which we are all liable from 
self interest, of its sound principles also, that it has received the 
warm approbation of Sir Wm. Scott. I will frankly confess to 
you that I was strongly prejudiced against the conclusions which 
I understood it was the author's object to establish, from a fear 
lest their practical adoption might at least weaken that cordiality 
between our country & yours, which to you, who know my moral 
as well as my political principles & feelings, I need scarcely say, 
it has been ever, & still is, my earnest wish to cultivate and im- 
prove. But serious Reflection has forced on me the persuasion, 
that our acting (I will not affirm too hastily to what precise extent) 
on the system recommended by the work in question, is, according 
to all human appearances, indispensable & necessary not only to 
our interest, but to our very existence. I happen to know that 
the Pamphlet was written rapidly, tho' by a man long & familiarly 
acquainted with his subject, & the part in which it appears to me 
the most defective, is that wherein it states the consequences of 
ye continuance of ye present system, to our maritime greatness. 
Much more might have been said on that head ; which however 
your acquaintance with History will readily supply. I shall be 
very anxious to hear what reception the Doctrine meets with on 
your side of the Atlantic. The self-interested will of course en- 
deavour to raise a cry ; but if men of sound principles and deeper 
views, men of Judgment, Equity & Impartiality admit that Jus- 
tice warrants and Self Defence enforces our Govt's adopting the 
measures (in ye. main) prescribed by ye writer in question, their 

1805] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 461 

opinion will more, I trust, than counterbalance the sentiments & 
efforts of men of a different description. But how does this very 
state of things bring to my recollection & enforce on my feelings 
the important truth, on which you & I have often expressed our 
concurrence that Govts, which wish to cultivate a friendly con- 
nection between the countries to which they respectively belong, 
would do well to be assiduous in embracing every fair opportunity 
of testifying this Disposition. They would meet with more ready 
& implicit credit when they affirm that they are actuated by simi- 
lar Inclinations, on occasions which are less clear, and where they 
may be supposed to be more likely to be under the influence of 
Self Interest. 

But, my dear Sir, you know us Englishmen, such as we are, 
our good qualities and our bad ones, & I would venture to affirm 
that your Residence in this Country may have produced impres- 
sions concerning the personal character of my countrymen which 
Books alone never would supply & thereby enable you to account 
for instances of conduct otherwise inexplicable. It will give me 
pleasure to hear of your welfare, & if any of your friends should 
visit this country, I should feel a gratification in rendering them 
any good offices in my power & doing any thing I might be 
able to make their stay among us agreeable. Once more I remain, 
my dear sir, with great esteem and Regard, &c. 

W. WlLBERFORCE. 

P. S. You will, I am persuaded, be glad to hear that I have the 
happiness (I thank God) to enjoy great domestic comfort. I have 
now 5 children, but Mrs. W.'s health is but very indifft. since her 
last confinement. Our friend Montague & his nums. flock are all 
well. Lord Harrowby has taken his eldest son with him to Ber- 
lin as an introduction to business. He does great credit to his 
domestic education in every way. . . . 

C. Gore to R. King. 

Boston, 9 Nov., 1805. 
My dear Friend : 

I received from you Extracts of two letters of Genl. M., who, I 
fear, would not find any so well disposed to promote his views 
now, as last year. Losses & Disappointments render our mer- 

462 RUFUS KING. [1805 

chants more cautious & timid & their Sanguine Expectations, in 
the year past, have probably much diminished their means. 

Our last accounts from Europe would incline us to hope that 
Great Britain had foreseen & in some measure prepared for the 
state of things that now exists on the Continent. How far Austria 
may have provided to meet or divert the Forces of France is left 
altogether to Conjecture. Should the Coalition be successful, our 
Trade would undoubtedly feel the depredating Spirit of the 
British Cruizers, and the Fears of our merchants will be dread- 
fully realized. Judge Croke, at Halifax, seems disposed to catch 
at the smallest Pretence, for passing Decrees of Condemnation : 
and many of the Decisions in England go but too far in counte- 
nancing the Rules he seems to have adopted. The Case of the 
Essex was a vessel loaded with the Produce of old Spain, bound 
from the U. States to Havannah. It seemed that she went from 
Salem to Barcelona & bound thence to the E. Indies, meeting 
some accident, or not being able to procure Dollars, she re- 
turned to Salem, landed her Cargo, which was on Shore for 
several months, but not finding a market, the owners shipt it in 
the same ship for the Havannah. Vessel & Cargo condemned 
on the ground, that it was all one voyage, the foregoing circum- 
stances notwithstanding, To say the least, they manifestly require 
different Evidence of the Intentions of the Owner, relating to 
Colonial Produce, shipt from the U. S. in its original Importation 
than formerely— and in case of the Importer into the U. S., 
transhipping it to Europe, they demand Evidence of his Inten- 
tion which, it would seem to me, cannot be on board the Vessel ; 
and I should fear that every Ship having on board Colonial Pro- 
duce, might be lawfully seized by British Cruizers — and indeed 
we have a case stated, if correctly, that confirms this Idea. A 
vessel, bound from Norfolk with Sugars, whh. her owners pur- 
chased there, was seized in the Channel & ordered for London ; 
after she was in Possession of her Captors, she ran against Dover 
Pier & bilged, so that the sugars were all lost. The Vessel was 
tried and acquitted, but no Damages given ; There might have 
been other circumstances in the Case, not related, which may 
have justified the Denial of Damages, but as reported it goes the 
Length I have mentioned. 

Our Government, with the various Claimants on their Spirit 

1805] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 463 

and their negotiating Talents, will have a plentiful Source of Em- 
barrassment. If they could only use some of the Complaints to 
excite and keep up an irritable State of the public mind against 
G. B., it would (be) an excellent medicine for their political Pur- 
poses. But I think the Administration will be fearful of en- 
couraging this Temper, lest it should go beyond their Views, and 
carry them into Scenes, to which their Talents and pecuniary 
Resources, as they have lowered and cramped the latter, should 
prove incompetent. . 

Ever truly yours, 

C. Gore. 

The following letter, though out of place as to date, from 
Octavia Southgate, niece of Mr. King, gives her impressions 
of him on July 1st, 1804.* 

" The family I am now in, however have reconciled me very 
much to this place. I am about 4 miles from New York, at Mr. 
Murray's. You heard me mention this family as uncommonly 
amiable. To me they supply in a great measure the loss of my 
own. I am delighted at having an opportunity of spending a 
week with them in this way. Aunt (King) has been drinking tea 
with us this evening. She tells me they commence their journey 
this week. They are very solicitous for me to go with them ; but 
Elisa will so soon follow them, that I don't think it will be so 
pleasant. . . . Aunt King will suit you exactly. She is a 
charming, easy soul and I am sure she will be your favorite 
among your Aunts. Uncle pleases me more every day. He has 
laid by his accustomed majesty — to tell you the truth, for a long 
time I looked up to him as a superior being ; his presence awed 
and charmed me. I gloried in him and felt a sensible pride 

* The editor is indebted for this letter to Mrs. Emily E. Ford, of Brooklyn, 
N. Y., who thus writes : "Ina letter from Octavia Southgate to her brother 
Horatio, who married for his second wife Mary Webster, my aunt and fourth 
daughter of Noah Webster, I found this passage, relating to her uncle." The 
journey, to which reference is made above, is that which was taken by Mr. 
King to New England and to visit his relatives there. This is another evidence 
of the fact that it was planned before the duel of Hamilton was decided upon. 
See R. Kings Life, vol. iv., p. 390. 

464 RUFUS KING. [1805 

whenever I looked at him, but the idea of loving him never 
entered my head ; He always was attentive to me and appeared 
to be pleased to see me ; but he always called me Miss South- 
gate j but since I went to Long Island with them he is totally 
changed. He speaks to me in the most affectionate terms, calls 
me his daughter and introduces me to all strangers as his niece. 
I now confess him to be when he pleases, a man of the most in- 
sinuating manner I ever knew/' 

Mr. King, who had long desired to make his permanent 
residence in the country, near New York, bought, on the 
20th November, 1805, from Mr. Christopher Smith's estate, 
a farm of about sixty acres of arable land with about 30 
additional acres of woodland near by, at Jamaica, Long 
Island, fronting on the main road between Brooklyn and 
Jamaica, to which he removed with his family on May 20, 
1806. It is probable that his attention was drawn to this 
place by the fact that Mr. Alsop's estate held a mortgage 
upon the property, and also because of the proximity to a 
village where the Episcopal church, good schools, and a 
post office were of easy access and in a healthy part of the 
country. He speaks of these things in his letter to his sons, 
alluding also to the advantages afforded on Long Island for 
those who loved, as he did, hunting and game. It has al- 
ways been believed that his wife's instance decided him in 
making the purchase and residing there permanently. 

It may here be said, though a little before the time, that 
he immediately began to make improvements in the house, 
and in the autumn of the following year to plant trees, fruit 
and ornamental, and shrubs. The pine and fir trees were 
sent to him through his friend Mr. Sheaffe, of Portsmouth, 
from New Hampshire, and are said to be among the first 
planted in that part of Long Island.* 

* Mr. King, as his eldest son wrote of him, was a careful, and therefore a 
successful planter of trees and shrubs, in both of which he took great delight. 
He was also a good botanist, and loved the song of birds, which soon began to 
frequent his thrifty plantation, where they ever found shelter and protection. 
Some large oaks now stand near the house, the acorns of which he planted. 

1805] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 465 

R. King to his Sons, Paris. 

New York, Nov. 24, 1805. 
My dear Sons : 

Within a few days past we have reed, your letters of the begin- 
ning of Sept. : John's letter is dated before the distribution of 
Prizes, Charles' the day after. Today Mr. LeRoy, father of the 
young gentleman of this name, who is with you, sent me the fol- 
lowing extract of a letter from Mr. Cazenove, who resided with 
M. Talleyrand when we were in Paris — viz. 

6. Septembre, 1805. 
" J'ai assiste hier a la distribution des prix a la pension de Mons. 
Thurot : la compagnie etait tr£s nombreuse, presidee par un 
Senateur qui a remis les couronnes aux vainquers, et composee 
des Parens et des amis de cette belle jeunesse, qui etait assise en 
Amphitheatre au fond de la salle. Ceux qui avaint gagne des 
prix sortaient des rangs, et au son de la musique s'avancaient 
vers l'Estrade ou les Maitres et les Professeurs placaient les 
couronnes. Cette Ceremonie tr6s solenelle et attendrissante 
eveille a un haut degre" l'emulation des Etudians. Dites a Mons. 
King (en me rappelent a son souvener) que j'ai eu grand plaisir 
de voir ses fils s'avancer a plusieurs reprises pour recevoir des 
palmes qu'ils avaient merite ; leur noble & agr^able figure et 
maintien £taient remarques de toute l'assemblee : ils joignaient 
au regard assure* et la tete elev^e d'un etre qui se sent, la modestie 
et la douceur que caracterisent tant leur pere. Sans exageration 
le genie et la probity leur sortaient de tous les Pores." 

I am really unable to describe to you the Emotions of Pride & 
satisfaction, which I have received from your letters and the Re- 
port of Mr. Cazenove. We have read them over and over again ; 
and mother wears them in her Bosom ! Go on my deserving and 
beloved Sons, continue to excel, and you will thereby not only 
give to your Parents the richest and best reward of their tender 
and affectionate Cares, but be sure to obtain the success and 
applause among your Countrymen, which good and great men so 
ardently desire. I have communicated to Mr. & Mrs. Gore, and 
to some other of our intimate friends the distinction you have 
acquired, and as Mr. Le Roy will show Mr. Cazenove's letter to 

VOL. IV. — 30 

466 RUFUS KING. [1805 

his friends, I anticipate the Congratulations of my friends and 
acquaintance on the reputation you have gained. 

Within a few days past I have purchased a place in the Coun- 
try. It is about 12 miles from town, at Jamaica on Long Island. 
The house is not fashionable, but convenient, the outhouse good 
and the Grounds consisting of about 50 Acres, sufficient to give 
me Pasture for my Cows and hay for my Horses. In addition 
there is at half a miles distance between thirty and forty acres of 
Woodland. In the village of Jamaica is a Church & Post Office, 
and family supplies are plentiful, good and various. A Stage 
goes & returns every day between Jamaica & Brookline, the town 
on Long Island opposite to New York, between which there is a 
Ferry. Long Island is the finest sporting country perhaps in 
America ; besides which the roads are good & the Rides pleasant, 
& numerous. 

How happy shall we be when the Time arrives of the reunion 
of our family ; how greatly will the pleasure be enhanced, should 
our Sons return with pure morals, cultivated minds and polished 
manners ! 

I shall write to Mr. Parker in a day or two ; in the mean time 
present to him my Regards — if I can find any one going to Paris, 
I will send you such of the vols (I believe 3) of Washington's 
Life as are published. 

Adieu my dear sons, 

(signature burnt). 

P. S. The fever disappeared early in this month — not more 
than 254 died this year of this malady. We returned to town 
about the 10th. having passed almost 4 months on Long Island. 
My new house is well forward and will be finished so that we 
may occupy it next autumn, during the winter we suspend the 
work. Mr. Chs. Williams called on us as he passed thro' town. 
It was a satisfaction to see him, as he had so lately seen you. 

Rufus King to Gouverneur Morris. 

Sunday, 1 o'clk, Nov. 24, 1805. 
Dear Sir : 

I have received and will immediately forward your notes to 
the Mayor & Genl. Morton. The military will be disappointed 
that we have not given their invitation a preference ; they say 
they shd. not have made a dinner but on the appearance that the 

1805] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 467 

Corporation wd. this year decline giving one, and it being proba- 
ble that others have decided as we have, I have intimated to 
Genl. Stevens, who has just left me, that we may, perhaps, have 
it in our power to make him a visit after leaving the Hall * ; 
Moreau is expected this evening, will stay with Genl. Stevens, 
who desires that you & I will dine with him on Tuesday. 

faithfully yrs 

Rufus King. 

P. S. Gore is not returned, I have no room unoccupied, but 
we shall find one for you. Another year we will order things 
better. 

% 

. Gore to R. King. 

Boston, 25 Nov., 1805. 
My dear Friend : 

. . . I am afraid that Miranda will meet with Disappoint- 
ment, if He expect much Assistance from this Quarter. Had he 
been associated, as he hoped, considerable aid might have been 
counted upon here. In addition to the natural want of Confi- 
dence, that arises from his Exertions being single & unsupported, 
there is a general Gloom among mercantile men & indisposition 
to adventurous Speculation, from the severe Losses they are daily 
experiencing by the British Captures. The last accounts from 
England bring accounts of the Condemnation of Property where 
the only Grounds could have been that it had been imported & 
exported by the same Persons ; for the Vessel was changed. The 
goods had been ashore several months, and advertised for sale in 
this Market, and there was not the smallest Pretence that the 
Property was other than neutral. In the Gazette of this Day, 
you will see a statement of the Principles said to have been 
adopted in the Admiralty Court, under an account of the Capture 
& Release of the Ship Three Thomas. This was written by 
Samuel Cabot's son, & is noted in the Letter as a Quotation ; we 
suppose it to have been so stated by S. Williams. 

* Diary and Letters of Gouverneur Morris, ii., 470, November 25, 1805. 

" After dinner, Mr. King and I visit a party to which we were invited — a 
large dinner given to General Moreau. 

" Miranda has been down, and, as we expected, met with no encouragement. 
He is now engaged in a project which would be wise if backed by this country, 
but appears wild in its present form." — Diary and Letters of Gouverneur 
Morris, ii., 470, November 25, 1805. 

468 RUFUS KING. [1805 

Some of our coolest men, such as William Gray of Salem, 
David Sears & the like of this Town, are extremely violent. The 
times are becoming as portentous in our Relations with Great 
Britain, as when Mr. Jay went to England. However, They, one 
& all, say if you were to go there, you could arrange every thing 
satisfactorily. I mention this, for I should not be surprized if 
the Voice were so loud & so general as to impose on Mr. J. the 
necessity of naming you, and on yourself an irresistible Duty of 
complying. It has been suggested here to send on a Deputation 
of Merchants to Washington, for the Purpose of inducing the 
Government to adopt some rational measures of securing our 
Rights, and preventing National Disgrace by the measures, which 
some will be disposed to resort to with the real or pretended view 
of attaining our Ends. If such a Deputation should be deter- 
mined on, the Merchants have requested me to make one to 
represent their case, &c. &c. I have declined and shall continue 
to decline such an Errand, for reasons which must be obvious to 
you ; and I am not aware that any personal considerations can 
be suggested to my mind, or any Prospect of rendering public 
Service, that will or ought to induce me to alter my opinion. I 
offer them, & sincerely, to afford all the Aid in my Power to en- 
lighten their minds, or direct their Views, should the measure of 
sending the Deputation be persisted in. Something must be at- 
tempted here, otherwise the Violence of some of our best men 
will lead them into courses, productive of incalculable Evils to 
the country, and especially to themselves. They will afford a 
Handle to others to do that, which will disgrace our national 
character, offer an apology to G. B. to possess herself of our un- 
protected Property, & Seamen, and finally involve us in War, or 
base and unworthy Concessions. . . . 

faithfully & ever yours 

C. Gore. 

T. Pickering to R. King. 

Washington, Dec. 5, 1805. 
Dear Sir : 

. . . I am told that the President talks boldly ; yet it seems 
to me the expression " which party can do the other the most 
harm " does not look extremely warlike. 

1805] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 469 

We have not yet had any treaties laid before us. That with 
Tripoli must of course be ratified ; yet considering the high prob- 
ability that the operations of Eaton & the Ex-Bashaw would, if 
pursued, have placed the U. States on elevated ground, I am in- 
clined to think that the administration now wish that Mr. Lear, 
by an untimely negotiation, had not stopped their progress. But 
Lear's conduct appears to me perfectly of a piece with the spirit 
of the administration, who tho' not desirous of benefiting by 
Hamet Bashaw's interest and efforts among his countrymen, were 
evidently ready to abandon him to his fate, if the support of 
his claims to the throne of Tripoli, should be found incon- 
venient. . . . 

With respect & esteem &c 

T. Pickering. 

C. Gore to R. King. 

Boston, Deer. 10, 1805. 
My dear Friend : 

. . . We rejoice that you have a Place in the Country, which, 
to the citizens of N. York, seems now a necessary accommoda- 
tion. Had it been consistent with the Interest of your Family 
to have been this way, it would more have gratified us. . . . 

Your letter of the 29th came a Day or two after the arrival of the 
Genl's (Miranda) Friend. I introduced him to those most likely 
to enter into his views, and most capable of promoting them. He 
had several meetings with them, but they declined doing any 
thing, and were probably more averse from reflecting on some of 
the Genl.'s Associates, than even the Hazard of the Enterprise. 

We, this Day, have the President's Message, and while some of 
our Friends conclude, He pledges Himself to the attempt of ob- 
taining, by all means, a disavowal of the Principles, on which G. 
B. interrupts our Trade, others suppose, that He merely intends 
to insist on G. B.'s allowing us to do that which she herself does, 
and that as G. B. will accede to this, He will appear with a great 
Parade of compulsory measures to have forced a compliance with 
his own Propositions from England. They suppose that he limits 
the Grievance to our not being permitted to carry, to the Spanish 
Possessions, that which she suffers to be transported from New 
Providence, Jamaica or Trinidad. 

470 RUFUS KING, [1805 

I cannot but think He has committed Himself further, and 
brings forward what is alluded to, merely as instances of the In- 
consistency & absurdity of the new Principles, as he calls them, 
"founded neither in justice, nor the Usage or acknowledgment of 
Nations" The avowal & Practice whereof impose on us the obliga- 
tion of providing an effectual &r* determined Opposition, by a peace- 
able Remedy, which may lead to Force. 

As to the Spanish affair, it would seem to me, that being well 
assured from the situation of his Cab. & his allies, that some terms 
will be offered, whh. He can accept. He was desirous of having 
it appear that his own Conduct, and not his other Relations pro- 
duced the result He foresees. 

Our merchants are evidently anxious & alarmed ; for they have 
immense Property afloat, and the late Decisions in England afford 
them no grounds of Tranquillity ; although the Gentlemen there 
report from Mr. Monroe, as is said, that Great Britain will not go 
beyond what she did the last War. The Condemnations, how- 
ever, speak a very different Language, & the Insurance offices in 
this Town, suffer heavy losses in consequence of these Decisions. 
I think the sufferers are not so vociferous or wild in their Projects 
of compelling a compliance from G. B. as they were. I am more 
afraid of what the Southern Merchants may wish done, than of 
our People, yet we are not entirely free of those Errors which 
would involve us in Loss, Disgrace, War or mean Submission, or 
both. . . . 

Yours ever & faithfully, 

C. Gore. 

There is no copy of the letter below alluded to. It is to 
be regretted for it would have shown what was the current 
opinion relative to the subject of the Management of the 
Bank. 

Sam. Breck to R. King. 

Philadelphia, Dec. 16, 1805. 
Dear Sir : 
. The letter that you was so obliging as to write to me on the 
1 2th inst. I duly received, and to which I now, with pleasure, re- 
turn an answer. The opinion you offer respecting the Parent 
Bank here, and the Branch at New York, is similar to those which 
have been expressed by other gents, of your City and therefore 

1805] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 47 1 

leave no doubt of the necessity of a change j indeed, as it regards 
the former, it has been a rule of the Stockholders in order to 
strengthen the Bank here, to leave out annually the greater part 
of the Directors required by our charter, that live at a distance, 
& to fill vacancies with others not Inhabitants of this City ; of 
course, at the ensuing election nearly all the Gentn. Directors 
of the Parent Bank, who reside in New York, will be changed for 
others of the City ; a measure that has been found necessary to 
pursue in order to secure a competent number of Directors here 
at all times, but particularly during the summer months, when our 
citizens are so unhappy as to be afflicted with sickness and to 
avoid which many of them retire to their country houses ; thus 
you see from the small number of Stockholders within the United 
States, it will often happen that men out of business, and but 
little acquainted with Bank concerns, are chosen Directors and, 
however unpleasant this circumstance may be, we are positively 
without a remedy ! 

But as it respects Branch Directors, the same necessity does 
not exist ; yet, even there, we have to encounter another difficulty 
not easily surmounted ; for who will inform the Directors of the 
Parent Bank of the individual that ought to be displaced at the 
Branch ? indeed that is a point of such delicacy as to deter any 
Gentn. from involving himself in a dispute with another ; but, 
under the rotation system, I have been told, the Directors were 
named by those of the Parent Bank residing in New York, and 
by our Board generally adopted. How far under present circum- 
stances, they may choose to recommend a change the Gentn. 
soon to be elected will decide. Yet I cannot but be anxious lest 
a serious misunderstanding should take place that may excite an 
opposition to the renewal of our charter, soon to be required 
of the Government, the chief of which, I believe, has not the 
most cordial regard for the Institution, and, therefore, may be in- 
fluenced by its enemies. It is fortunate however, that except at 
New York the greatest harmony prevails & the affairs of all the 
offices of Discount & Deposit are perfectly well managed. 

As our mutual friend Mr. Wolcott has expressed sentiments on 
this subject similar to yours I wish, if you think proper, that the 
contents of this letter may be communicated to him. 
With Sincere regards, 

Sam. Breck. 

472 RUFUS KING. [1805 

T. Pickering to R. King. 

Washington, Dec. 18, 1805. 
Dear Sir : 

. . . No great measure has yet been proposed in Congress, 
or even intimated ; & I am pretty well satisfied that none is 
intended ; the supposed strong language of the President, & the 
vapouring of his Gazette notwithstanding. If Bonaparte's suc- 
cess continue, nothing certainly will be attempted against 
Spain ; and if the latter yield any of her pretensions, it will be 
by command of the former, for an adequate consideration to be 
paid by the U. S. 

Very truly yours 

T. Pickering. 

Rufus King Esq. 

Rufus King to C. Gore. 

Secret. 

New York, Dec. 25, 1805. 
My dear Friend : 

The same commercial solicitude and alarm that sometime since 
manifested themselves with you, have lately taken Possession of 
the body of Merchants here. A memorial is preparing to be 
signed by Merchants of all Persuasions, and which is to be pre- 
sented by a Deputation to the President and the two houses of 
Congress. 

The object, as I understand, is negotation — some of our 
friends have expressed their wishes to me that I would not de- 
cline, if asked, to go to England. I have suggested to them the 
Difficulty that now would probably attend my negotiation, and 
the little Hopes that a satisfactory Result could be obtained — 
that independent of these considerations it was not likely that the 
Extive would adopt any measure which wd. imply a deficiency 
in its own Party : or that should admit that any Person could 
anywhere do more or better than the Gentleman now in England. 

Tho' I have not either assented or dissented, I should feel very 
great hesitation were the measure proposed to me in a manner in 
other respects free from difficulty ( a thing that seems to me very 
improbable ) in consenting to accept the mission. The question 
involves interests difficult to be reconciled, if not in direct oppo- 

1805] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 473 

sition. However possible it might have been at a period of Peace 
when these Interests were less visible, and the Passions less likely 
to be influenced by them, to have marked out and settled a Rule 
that might have been satisfactory ; the situation is totally changed, 
and we must encounter every disadvantage that is incident to the 
subject, in now attempting to effect an arrangement that would 
satisfy us. I have thought I ought to apprize you of what is here 
doing, as well as of the impression of my own mind. The last 
accounts from Washington confirm my first Belief that as nothing 
was intended to be done, so nothing will be done concerning the 
subjects about wh. the message was supposed to say, & mean, so 
much. The Confidential Communication related wholly to Mr. 
Monroe's fruitless negotiations in Spain. Not a word has been 
said, and no communication made, respecting England. 
Very faithfully & always yours, 

R. K. 

G. (ouveneur) M. (orris) is here, having just returned from W. — 
" be ye fed, and be ye clothed," for you are Hungry & Naked — 
was the language used to him, but good wishes and their realiza- 
tion are not the same thing. 

R. King to T. Pickering. 

New York, Dec. 26, 1805. 
Dear Sir : 

I duly received your kind letters of the 5th & 18th together 
with the pieces which accompanied them. Your opinion agrees 
with my first impressions on reading the message, which seems to 
say much without binding to anything. 

The change that occurred after Mr. Monroe quitted Madrid, 
has without doubt influenced Spain to give way in some impor- 
tant point, preserving her adherence to the chief ones. If the 
Policy succeeds, she will lose nothing, but gain time, which is all 
in present circumstances that she desires. How much of Policy 
and national Reputation there may be in acquiescing in this 
course is a Question that you, who have the whole subject before 
you, are best able to determine. 

474 RUFUS KING. [1805 

I am somewhat surprized that you have had no communication 
concerning England ; since it is not to be supposed that our 
minister there has been silent, when Doctrines have been pro- 
mulgated and acted on, which unavoidably lead to the Prostration 
of our foreign commerce and the revenue we derive from it. 

Should any communication be made to you on this subject, I 
should be particularly obliged to you to know it, provided the 
same can be done without impropriety. Our merchants are be- 
coming very uneasy in respect to these Pretensions of England ; 
which are of a nature to render insecure our valuable trade in 
colonial Productions. A pamphlet * lately reed, here from Eng- 
land (a copy of which I have heard was forwarded to Mr. Madi- 
son) the object of which, I cannot doubt, has tended very much 
to increase our commercial solicitude. 

Yours most faithfully 

Rufus King. 

* Entitled " War in disguise." 

CHAPTER XXX. 

Gore to King — Negotiations with England — King as Minister — Pickering to 
King — Logan's Motion relative to St. Domingo Trade — Parker to King 
about his Sons — Napoleon's change of Rulers in Europe — King to Gore — 
England's Pretensions about Colonial Trade — Affairs in Washington — 
Troup to King — Clinton carries the Council — Tracy to King. Report on 
Spoliation — King to Pickering — Desires to know the Plan of Government 
— Public Anxious — Pickering to King — Might as well search for Plan in 
Chaos — Detail of Opinions in Washington, relative to Florida Purchase — 
Pickering's own Views — Objected on Ground of the Immorality and Impolicy 
of the Measure — Pickering to King — Arguments against the Purchase of 
Florida as proposed in the secret Appropriation Bill — Jefferson incapable 
of managing Affairs in Trouble — Negotiations with Great Britian — King to 
Pickering — Disclaims the Authorship of the Answer to War in Disguise — 
Troup to King — Coalition of Clinton and the Burrites. 

C. Gore to R. King. 

Boston, January, 13, 1806. 
My dear Friend : 

. . . We have had the New York Memorial, which is var- 
iously thought of by our Friends : some of whom are not 
very discreet, even if their opinions are correct — to which I am 
not inclined to subscribe. All desire that a negotiation should be 
attempted, and many believe it would succed, if confided to, and 
undertaken by the only man in whom all Parties would be 
satisfied. Though I think it not probable such a measure will 
even be proposed under circumstances that will render it accept- 
able, I have a feeling that it would be successful. It is almost 
certain that in a Coalition formed of such various materials, 
joined to the common accidents of War, many months cannot 
pass in which a wise, discreet and vigilant minister would not find 
an opportunity of pressing American Claims with Effect. . . . 
Our friend Ames, you have seen, was appointed President of 
Harvard College, but notwithstanding the Corporation agreed 
that the Professor of Divinity should offer all the prayers, he 
declines the duties and the honour. 

Faithfully & always yours, C. Gore. 
475 

476 RUFUS KING. [1806 

T. Pickering to R. King. 

City of Washington, Jan. 13, 1806. 
Dear Sir : 

You will have noticed in the papers Dr. Logan's motion for 
interdicting the trade to St. Domingo. This occasioned a call 
(made, if I do not forget, by him) for documents on the Subject. 
This morning the inclosed communication from the President was 
laid on our tables, printed by order of the Senate : whether the 
presentation and short debate on Logan's original motion excited 
Genl. Turreau's attention, or that a hint was given him by Logan, 
I know not ; but the General's second letter is of a date subse- 
quent to the call for papers. The style of his letter as well as 
Talleyrand's, is sufficiently Bonapartean ; and I apprehend there 
is here sufficient pliability to yield whatever the " master " of our 
sister Republic shall demand. 

As the President must have received Talleyrand's letters long 
ago, & Turreau's by the middle of October, why did he not bring 
the subject before Congress ? Why was no answer sent to 
Turreau during a period of two months & a half ? Did he wait 
for such a man as Logan to bring forward a measure that might be 
unpopular with the general mercantile interest? Or had he 
instructed Armstrong to represent to the French Government that 
the interest of France required a continuance of our commercial 
intercourse with St. Domingo ? concluding to wait the result, be- 
fore he made any communication to Congress, should the latter 
be found necessary ? 

Congress have yet absolutely done nothing; the House of Repre- 
sentative are again sitting with closed doors. I find that federal 
members have every day listened to John Randolph with unmixed 
pleasure, in opposition to the mean dastardly democrats of N. 
England ! This will furnish our interpretation of a declaration 
in the Aurora, which arrived here last evening : That a man 
high in office was in conflict with Randolph, and that one or the 
other must fall — or words to this effect. Jefferson certainly 
must wish for a supple leader in the House. Randolph has too 
much pride to follow implicitly his dictates. But no one yet 
appears with abilities to take his place. 

Very truly yours, 

T. Pickering. 

1806] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 477 

D. Parker to R. King 

Paris, Jan. 25, 1806. 
Dear Sir : 

In my letter of the 15 Oct I informed you of the disaffection 
of both John and Charles to the Pension of M. Thurot, and I 
found from the information of M. Thurot that it had become 
absolutely necessary to remove them. Their great dissatisfaction 
arose from the regulations of the school, finding themselves 
obliged to conform to rules which they thought suitable to chil- 
dren and not to young men, who in England had great latitude both 
in time and expences. They became not only dissatisfied, but 
disgusted, and notwithstanding my intreaties and their profession 
to comply with them, I found it was not in their power, and that 
no progress whatever was to be expected from them in any branch. 
Under these circumstances I was extremely perplexed and em- 
barrassed. Your letter of Aug. 10., which I received through 
Mess. Hope & Co on the 10th Deer greatly relieved me. . . . 
Charles arrived in Amsterdam in the beginning of January. . . 
I found John averse to enter any Pension whatever, and he com- 
municated to me your letters to him, in which you informed him, 
that he must enter and pass thro* a College in America previous 
to his entering on the study of the Law. This information 
decided me to recommend his returning immediately to New 
York. I hope you will approve of this determination. . . . 
I hope that under your own eye, both John and James will be- 
come all you can wish. They have talents to fit them for the 
first employments. Charles has a fine genuis, great spirit and 
activity, and will make a fine man. Thus you have everything to 
hope for from your sons, to whom you have been the best of 
fathers. 

The great Political events that have been crowded within the 
compass of four months, have filled Europe with amazement. 
By the Moniteurs which I send by your son for your use and 
that of Mr. Livingston, you will find an historical account of 
these events. Mr. Haugwitz, the Prussian Minister, is expected 
in Paris this day ; the Emperor and Mr. Talleyrand in the course 
of 4 or 5 days ; it is expected that negotiations of great mo- 
ment will be immediately opened in Paris & many well informed 
persons expect a general Peace ; I have not these expecta- 

478 RUFUS KING. [1806 

tions ; I cannot see any probability of a peace between England 
and France at present ; if England can secure the continuance 
of her connections with Russia, she will, perhaps wish to con- 
tinue the War, and seek an indemnity by capturing the Spanish 
Colonies. She must lose her influence on the continent of Europe, 
except with Russia & Sweden. This Government will, in all 
probability control the remainder. The Electors of Bavaria & 
Wirtemberg are made kings, & their Territories much increased. 
Eugene Beauharnois is declared Successor to the Crown of Italy, 
& has married the eldest daughter of the King of Bavaria. It 
is reported that Joseph Bonaparte will be made King of Naples, 
that Lucien Bonaparte has divorced from his wife, & will 
marry the Queen of Etruria, that his brother Louis will be chief 
magistrate of Holland, that Madame Bonaparte, the mother of 
the Emperor, is made a Souverain Princess, & is to receive the 
Duchies of Parma, Placentia & Guastella in Italy, with remain- 
der to the Prince & Princess Borghese. Thus Europe is par- 
celled out, as a private man would divide his own inheritance. 
Such is the astonishing power & greatness of one man. . . . 
With assurance of constant attachment and Respect, 

Dan Parker. 

R. King to C. Gore. 

New York, January 26, 1806. 
My dear Sir : 

The dissatisfaction here & South of us in respect to G. Br, 
increases rather than abates : the losses already sustained are 
considerable, but without a new shape of the Rule, few new 
losses will hereafter occur, as the Business is fitted to the Rule. 
But unless the political Situation of England restrain her Gov. 
the Rule will be new modified and extended so as in effect to 
put an end to a Trade in Colonial Articles between the U. S. and 
Europe. On this subject I had no Opinion to form, having several 
years ago convinced myself that the Pretension of England is 
not justifiable. If it be put on the Ground of self Defence, or 
strict necessity (which consistently with the conduct of G. Britain 
in trading herself with her Enemies cannot be done) even this 
Law is no justification, since it does not authorize the confisca- 
tion of a Friend's Goods — on the contrary, whenever it allows the 

1806] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 479 

Seizure, it enjoins the taker to make restitution or indemnifica- 
tion. But you understand the Question as well as my Sentiments 
concerning it, so that I omit any further observations, except to 
say that I have of late revised my former Reflexions, which has 
in manner changed them ; and being impartial, I the more won- 
der that some of our friends with you, whose Judgments are worthy 
of all respect, should so materially differ from us. 

The Pamphlet printed at Washington, said to be Mr. Madison's, 
shews the unsoundness of the Eng. Doctrine. A reply is here 
nearly finished to " War in Disguise " which has the same object 
in view. The late messages of the Pr. to Congress, disclosing 
the Instructions &c to Mr. Monroe, seems to be a throwing up 
of his hand, and a reference of the Business to Congress. This is 
the more likely to be the real Purpose, as it will shift the Responsi- 
bility from the Ex. to Congress. The House has been in con- 
clave a fortnight and sent the Result to the Senate as a Secret. 
Tho' we do not know what this measure is, we know what it is 
not, and that it does not concern G. Britain. The mandate from 
France to interdict the St. Domingo Trade will be obeyed ; tho' 
the Law will be nugatory unless more efficient than the Bill. 
Spanh. affairs remain as at the beginning of the Session ; and the 
Success of Bonaparte will render the settlement more difficult. 

A Petition is going round the town to the Pr., calling on him to 
disavow the Principal, laid down by Genl. Armstrong in the case 
of Nicklin & Griffith. I hear that all parties sign it. The Bill 
respecting Amer. seamen introduced into the Senate by Mr. 
Wright is too contemptible to pass into a Law, be the Resent- 
ment what it may. . . . 

Always yrs. R. K. 

R. Troup to R. King. 

Albany, 3 Feb., 1806. 
Dear Sir : 

. . . Our State concerns continue to be an object of con- 
sent with the demagogues of the day. Demagogues Clinton & 
Co. by the superiority of their manoeuvres, have carried a council 
of appointment against the wishes & efforts of Demagogues Lewis 
& Co. This council, the partizans of Clinton say, will be a club 
of Hercules in his hands and will enable him to break in pieces 
the Livingston faction. At present, appearances indicate a ma- 

480 RUFUS KING. [1806 

jority in the Senate for Lewis. No doubt is entertained that 
Nicholas has set himself in decided opposition to Clinton ; and 
I have it from private but authentic source that Nicholas has 
given Clinton a severe reprimand for his cabals. Can we be 
otherwise than in the most prosperous and happy condition when 
the patriotism of a Virginia demagogue induces him to attempt 
cooling the ardor of a Northern demagogue whose incessant 
labors are exclusively directed to the public good?] 

With the most sincere regard &c 

Robt. Troup. 

Uriah Tracy to R. King. 

Washington, 6th Feby, 1806. 
Sir: 

Inclosed is a paper,* which you will peruse with interest, be- 
cause of its intrinsic importance & because it has had the sanc- 
tion of a Com. tee of the Senate. 

I make no comments upon any part of the paper, excepting the 
last f containing the non-importation part. This I voted against 
in Com.tee and am most decidedly opposed to its principles. I 
wish to treat with G. Britain, & not to throw any nonsensical im- 
pediments or irritation in the way of treating. If we do anything 
in the meantime, while attempting to treat, I would strengthen 
our defensive strength at least, if not offensive. 

I am, Sir, respectfully your friend obed servt. 

Uriah Tracy. 

R. King to T. Pickering. 

N. York, Feb. 7, 1806. 
Dear Sir : 

We are, as we ought to be, inquisitive & anxious concerning 
the Plan, or system of measures, that the nation may pursue in 

* Genl. Smith of Md., Report of Com. on that part of the Resn. & Message 
Jan. 15th relating to Spoliations &c. 

f " That it is expedient to prohibit by law, the importation into the United 
States of any of the following goods, wares, or merchandize, being the growth, 
produce, or manufacture of the United Kingdoms of Great Britain and Ireland, 
or their dependencies : . . . The said prohibition to commence from the 
day of unless previously thereto equitable arrangements shall be made 

between the two governments, on the differences subsisting between them ; 
and to continue until such arrangements shall be agreed upon and settled." 

1806] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 48 1 

the present posture of our affairs ; for it is scarcely credible that 
the public honor and safety, instead of being well guarded by 
well concerted and prudent arrangements, should be suffered to 
become the sport of the casual, intemperate and inefficient meas- 
ures of inexperienced individuals : and yet the several messages 
of the Pr. look as if every subject were to be submitted to Con- 
gress, without the disclosure of the views of the Executive ; 
which by the letter and spirit of our Govt., is charged with our 
foreign affairs. Your Bill respecting 100,000 Militia, together 
with the Bill presented by Mr. Wright, and the Resolution offered 
by Mr. Gregg, are so far as I am informed justly appreciated in 
this quarter. Some persons here have supposed that Congress 
will be able to agree in no precise measures — that the Executive 
will be undecided and filled with solicitude and that Col. Burr, 
who is always prompt as well as decisive, will avail himself of 
this miserable state of things, to decide for the President, as well 
as to provide for himself. 

If the President and his friends are reduced thus low, they are 
weaker and baser than I could possibly have imagined. 

Always faithfully &c 

R. K. 

P. S. We are upwards of 70 days without authentic European 
news. The posture of affairs at Christmas past will afford Data 
on which to reason, and we must expect news to that date soon. 

Col. Pickering to R. King. 

City of Washington, Feby 8, 1806. 
Dear Sir : 

It was natural to suppose that thinking men would feel, not 
curiosity, but anxiety concerning the measures contemplated by 
the Government, in the present momentous situation of our 
affairs ; and before receiving this evening your letter of the 7th, 
I had determined to communicate to you as full a detail as was 
practicable of what was going on. 

As to a M plan or system of measures," you might as well 
search for it in chaos itself as at the seat of government. About 
three or four weeks ago, I dined at the President's. Adverting 
to subjects before Congress, tho' I believe more especially to our 

VOL. IV. — 31 

482 RUFUS KING. [1806 

disputes with G. Britain, he said there was such a diversity of 
opinions among members, and they had so many plans, he 
doubted whether a majority would agree in any one. I am in- 
clined to think this opinion correct. I feel very confident that 
neither a general non-intercourse, nor a general or specific non- 
importation will be agreed to. The Southern planters will not 
suffer their tobacco, rice & cotton to lie on their hands, when 
Britain presents the fairest & best market. And they are not so 
silly as to suppose (as do some of our honourable legislators) that 
Great Britain will continue to receive into her ports, all the pro- 
ductions of the U. States, while we shut ours against the manu- 
factures & productions of her dominions. This brings into view 
the resolutions reported to the Senate on the 5 th, a copy of 
which I enclose. (Genl. Smith's Resn.) Mr. Gregg's you will 
have seen in the newspapers. Those brought into the Senate 
were laid on our tables on the 6th. . . . but really I have 
not had time to attend to the subject till this evening ; as I meant 
to accompany the communication with a long letter of informa- 
tion on the subjects which have excited your anxiety. 

All America has heard of the closed doors of the House of 
Representatives ; and the fruit of their discussion being a Bill, it 
was sent to the Senate, with a confidential message to declare its 
object — none being expressed in the Bill itself ; except that its 
title stated it to be, to provide for expenses for foreign inter- 
course ; and that the body of the bill appropriates two million of 
dollars to enable the President (at whose disposal the money is 
placed) to commence with more effect (as the confidential mes- 
sage of the House informed us) a negociation for the purchase of 
all the Territory belonging to Spain on the Atlantic & the Gulph 
of Mexico, and eastward of the Mississippi, that is to say the two 
Floridas. I disclose no secret ; for Saml. Smith told us last Friday 
(when the bill was passed) that though the doors of Congress had 
been closed, the subject of their deliberations was well known : 
and here, we all know that the Spanish minister Yrujo is perfectly 
informed concerning it ; and no doubt his letters are now far on 
the ocean for the information of his government. It is full two 
weeks since I was told that he said " We should not get the Flor- 
idas for two, nor for five, nor for seven million of dollars " ; and 
the matter being thus known to Spain, there can be no use in the 

1806] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 483 

attempt to keep it a secret at home — unless it be to conceal from 
the sovereign people the impolitic and unjustifiable projects of 
their beloved chief Servant. 

This bill (or rather the resolution on which it was founded) 
was the subject of John Randolph's determined opposition — sar- 
castic reproaches on its advocates, and of strains of eloquence — 
never before heard from him in that House : such is the report of 
members. Barna Bidwell was the midwife to deliver the Presi- 
dent of this brat & present it to the House. In the course of its 
nursing, it was said that the President had a desire towards it & 
wished it might be fostered & grow to maturity. The like inti- 
mations were given in the Senate by some of the Ministerial 
members. 

Mr. Tracy, Mr. Hillhouse & Mr. Bayard were the principal 
opposers of the bill. They dwelt chiefly on the violation of the 
Constitution by such a pretended appropriation. For, they 
observed, that nothing in the bill being designated, except the 
the expenses of foreign intercourse, the President could not 
apply a dollar of the money to buy land. The words themselves, 
as well as uniform practice, had given a definite meaning to 
" foreign intercourse." It was true, they observed, that a similar 
appropriation had been made three years ago, (act of 26th Feby. 
1803) but the President himself had told us, that not a dollar of 
it had been expended. Tracy & Bayard offered several amend- 
ments, in order to express the object explicitly, or by plain con- 
struction, and render lawful the application of the money 
appropriated. But clear statements and cogent reasons availed 
nothing. For the leaders, met, as it would seem, by an unex- 
pected opposition, held a caucus and fixed a majority to vote 
for the bill, without the alteration of a word ; for they were 
apprehensive, if it went back to the House, that it would now be 
wholly rejected. It was carried there by a majority of about 14 ; 
but many, it was said, had repented. In the Senate 17 voted for 
it ; 3 fled the final question ; and one, who it was understood 
would in the end have voted against it, was gone from the city ; 
eleven gave their nays. So it may be considered as having passed 
by a majority of only two or three. The opposition in the Senate 
delayed its passage for about a week ; altho' one member more 
than once told us that the President wished it to be speedily 

484 RUFUS KING. [1806 

passed and another added that he wanted it to "send off." One 
member said he should advise the P. to let the bill be dropped ; 
for he could go to market better without than with it. The Pres- 
ident thought otherwise ; he had kept himself out of sight (tho' 
the suggestions of his friends showed he was behind the curtain), 
that if the project failed or proved disastrous, he might be screened 
from responsibility. 

Genl. Sumter (whom you will recollect) spoke on Friday (the 
day it passed) against the bill. He spoke like a sensible, military 
man, as one well acquainted with the nature of the country pro- 
posed to be purchased ; with the difficulty of defending it, and 
said that at present " we were better without it." I should wrong 
him, were I not to add, that his sentiments were delivered with 
perfect propriety & modesty, and with a sincerity that could not 
fail to have affected every hearer. But the bill had been decreed, 

Mr. Tracy (I should have mentioned) as well as Mr. Bayard, 
and especially the former, took a view of the actual State of the 
Treasury — the measures for defence to be provided for, — the 
insufficiency of funds, and the probable defalcation of revenue in 
the current year. But back-door influence is generally capable 
of surmounting all obstacles in the Senate. This body, by its 
constitution was (I presume) expected to act with superior inde- 
pendence ; but doubtless it is much more obsequious than the 
House. Its connection with the President is closer, and the 
paucity of members composing it renders it liable to be assailed 
with vastly greater ease and effect. 

As I have not yet committed my own observations, in opposing 
the bill, to paper, I will do it now, while they are within my recol- 
lection ; and I will thank you to preserve this letter ; as I may 
possibly have occasion to recur to its details, and I cannot go 
through the labor of taking a copy. 

I should first mention what leaked out from the President's 
adherents in the Senate, in ordinary conversations. That advice 
had been received from Paris stating, that if our Government 
wished to acquire the Floridas, the Government of France would 
procure the cession to be made. By information from the agents 
of Nicklin and Griffith at Paris, it appeared that a negotiation 
was already commenced : with an intimation that in this way 
only they and others would obtain the arrears due from the 

l8o6] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 485 

French Government. Saml. Smith, speaking of Armstrong's 
letter to Marbois, on the claim of N. & G., said, in my hearing, 
that James Swan had presented a claim for half a million of 
dollars, and Capt. Barney one for upwards of a hundred thou- 
sand dollars : that neither of these two claims were within the 
provisions of the convention ; and yet were admitted. That 
it was known that the Livingston family had early purchased 
a number of good claims and one to a large amount from Barney. 
Reprobating Armstrong's conduct in the case of Nicklin & 
Griffith, Smith said, that as soon as it was known to the Presi- 
dent, he caused the Secretary of State to write to Armstrong 
to correct, or pointedly disapproving, the procedure. 

Mr. Hillhouse, in the course of his observations on the Secret 
Bill, mentioned the information that a negociation for the pur- 
chase of the Floridas had already been instituted at Paris, and 
that in this way, merchants hoped to get their arrears ; and said 
that from the manner in which this business was proceeding, it 
was evident the two millions proposed to be appropriated, were 
to be applied in douceurs. 

Genl. Adair from Kentucky (a new member and apparently 
thoughtful and stable) objected against the bill on the strong 
ground of its unconstitutionality ; because from information he 
had received & relied on, tho' he could not divulge it, he had no 
doubt that the purchase of Louisiana had cost us five millions 
extraordinary in consequence of the previous appropriation of two 
millions, and the like effect would follow that proposed in the 
bill before us ; because he thought it highly improper to pay 
-any money before the treaty, if one should be formed, was ap- 
proved of by the Senate. Suppose, said he, that this bill should 
pass by a small majority, less than two thirds — that the two 
millions should be expended ; and the treaty be finally rejected 
by the Senate ; the two millions would be lost. 

Mr. Tracy, (taking up the suggestion of Adair) expatiated a 
little farther. He said the idea of the French Government pay- 
ing the monies due to American merchants was fallacious ; that 
we had better have undertaken to pay them ourselves ; that 
France undertaking to pay them caused the addition of the five 
millions, and that her stipulating to pay only 3 J millions, occa- 
sioned a loss of one and a quarter million to the U. States ; and 

486 RUFUS KING. [1806 

that the like preposterous course of proceeding, repeated under 
the present bill, would occasion a similar loss. 

I had myself viewed the purchase of the Floridas under the 
same aspect in which they had been presented by General Sumter 
and he had anticipated some of my observations. 

But I must go back a little, one member asked how the money 
could be employed in bribery ? the President would take care 
to whom he entrusted it, and he was to account for it ! another 
member asked, where was the room to admit the charge of 
bribery ? The President would take care to preserve it ; and as 
to the purchase, France would acquire a good title and convey the 
same to us. 

I objected on two principal grounds — the immorality and the 
impolicy of the measure. It was admitted on all hands that the 
purchase was to be effected through the French Government. 
But France was not the proprietor ; why then negotiate with 
Mr. Talleyrand ? — perhaps the ablest, certainly the most corrupt 
minister in Europe ; who possest a princely fortune, acquired in 
a similar way, and by rendering half the princes of Europe his 
tributaries. Gentlemen asked how there could be any bribery 
in this case ? I desired them to recollect the proceedings under 
the convention for paying the debts due by France to our mer- 
chants. The 10th article was ostensibly cautious to prevent the 
admission of improper claims — claims not within the description 
of the convention : and yet, at the close, opened a wide door to 
corruption. That this instrument was doubtless drawn up by 
Talleyrand himself, or at least, this article ; for therein it was 
provided that if any claim examined by the American boardr 
was not approved by them or by our agent, yet if the French 
Bureaux should think it ought to be liquidated, it was, indeed 
to undergo the revision of the American board, be by them 
reported to the American Minister — and by him to the Minister 
of the French Treasury, who was finally to decide. That this par- 
ticular provision was doubtless inserted by Talleyrand, on pur- 
pose to admit unfounded claims on his own terms. I reminded 
them of General Armstrong's extraordinary and disgraceful letter, 
holding out principles which could not be ascribed to error of 
understanding. That if a fair bargain was in this case intended, 
we would go to Madrid to negociate for the purchase — not to 

1806] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 487 

Paris, that hot-bed of corruption. That it was known, however, 
by the uniform conduct of Spain from the first purchase of Lou- 
isiana, that she was extremely averse to let any part of it, or of 
the Floridas come into the hands of the U. States. That she 
had protested against the treaty of 1803 ; and in her opposition 
gave the copy of a note from St. Cyr, the French ambassador 
at Madrid in 1792, in which he, in the name of the first Consul, 
solemnly declared that France would never transfer Louisiana 
to any other power than Spain herself. That altho' she at 
length ceased her opposition, she had not relinquished her claim. 
That we knew from the communication before us, that in case 
of a rupture with Spain, France would take part in the war : and 
hereafter, whenever a convenient opportunity offered to renew 
her claim to the Floridas, Spain would do it, and on the ground 
of duress, under the actual state of things ; which a future monarch 
of France might be well disposed to listen to ; and on our com- 
plaint, might justly retort — you knew it was a corrupt and a 
forced transfer — We knew perfectly well, that if we applied to 
Spain herself, no consideration which we could offer would 
induce her to cede to us those provinces ; and therefore it was 
that recourse was to be had to the authority of France to enforce 
the sale. 

That the value of the Floridas was by no means commensurate 
with the monies they would cost. The President had informed us 
(in a pamphlet accompanying the Louisiana treaty in Oct. 1803) 
that except about thirty miles square in West Florida, next the 
Mississippi, and wholly or chiefly above the isle of New Orleans, 
and some narrow strips on the margins of rivers, the residue of 
both the Floridas was mere sand — with indeed plenty of pine 
trees and some pasturage for cattle. On this I remarked : That 
West Florida, if settled and improved at all, would be almost 
wholly occupied by emigrants from the U. States, and that the 
products of their lands would go to the market at New Orleans, 
and consequently be as beneficial to us as if their territory were a 
part of the U. States. That if at any time the Spanish Govern- 
ment forbade this commerce and sent up vessels to W. Florida, 
on the Mississippi, we might levy a duty upon them equal to 
what they should demand of our vessels going up the Mobille : 
for I had been able to discover nothing in any treaties, which 

488 RUFUS KING. [1806 

would give Spain a right to navigate the Mississippi from the sea 
up to West Florida, seeing we were now the proprietors of both 
banks of the river. In answer to one Gentleman, who had sug- 
gested that the Floridas were necessary for our commerce between 
the Atlantic States & Louisiana, on account of the harbours, I re- 
marked, that the harbours were few, and one only, as far as I had 
been informed, afforded deep water — that was Pensacola. That 
as well by the common duties of national hospitality, as our treaty 
of 1795 with Spain, our vessels, in case of necessity, would always 
find shelter in those ports both in peace and in war — unless that 
war should be with Spain herself ; in which case we should go 
and take possession of those harbours and of the Floridas them- 
selves : and that this would cost fewer lives and less treasure than 
would be necessary to maintain the garrison in time of peace. 
Besides that, if we owned the Floridas, the forts would only 
accomodate small garrisons — for we should not incur the expense 
of large works & numerous garrisons ; and consequently, in the 
first moments of a rupture with Spain or any other naval power 
we should easily be dispossessed. 

I have more to add but the time fails me, and you will not re- 
gret the interruption of a long, & I fear tedious detail, I will re- 
new it without much delay. In the mean time, I hardly need 
intimate to you that this communication is confidential. I have 
made it as a matter of public duty towards one who has sustained 
so great a share in the Councils and diplomacy of our country, in 
the present interesting, perhaps I may say perilous, posture of our 
affairs ; when the men at the helm have neither spirit nor practi- 
cal talents to form & direct those plans and operations, which the 
situation of the country demand for securing its just rights and 
safety. I shall be solicitous to know that this letter gets safely to 
your hands. 

Respectfully yours, 
T. P. 

T. Pickering to R. King. 

Senate Chamber, Feby. 11 1806. 
Dear Sir : 

In my letter of the 8th I mentioned an inclosure of certain 
Resolutions reported by Genl. Smith to the Senate, which, in my 
haste to seal my letter for the mail of the 9th, I omitted. They 

l8o6] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 489 

are now inclosed, together with the motions of Mr. Clay, repre- 
sentative from Philadelphia, of Mr. Nicholson of Maryland and 
Mr. Crowninshield from Salem. With these Mr. Gregg's should 
be connected. The whole manifest the confusion of ideas prev- 
alent in the National Councils ; and confirm a sentiment in my 
last, that you might as well expect to find a system in chaos itself, 
as in our enlightened Government. If the President had any 
plan, which he would assume the responsibility to propose, I 
have no doubt of his securing a majority to adopt it. 

I have not yet found time to resume my narrative of Congres- 
sional proceedings begun in my last. 

With great Respect & Esteem &c 

T. Pickering. 

R. King to T. Pickering. 

N. York, Feby. 14, 1806. 
Dear Sir : 

Though I fear I am too late for the mail, I send you a line to 
say, I have duly reed, and that I am greatly obliged to you for 
your letters of Feby. 8 & 11. Except one friend Wolcott, I con- 
verse freely with no one on these subjects. 

Yrs. always 

R. King. 

T. Pickering to R. King. 

Confidential. 

City of Washington, Feby. 13, 1806. 
Dear Sir : 

I have not until this evening, found an opportunity to resume 
my narrative of occurrences on the passage of the Secret Bill : 
and so many days have elapsed, I do not precisely recollect at 
what point I closed my former letter. I must therefore pray you 
to pardon any repetitions, as well as defects of order in the 
details of both letters. 

General Sumter had anticipated the observations I had intended 
to offer to show that it was not necessary, nor expedient, at pres- 
ent, that we should become the proprietors of the Floridas by 
purchase ; but I had not extended my views so far as Genl. Sum- 

490 RUFUS KING. [1806 

ter, who said "we were better without them than with them." 
But it was evident, & so I expressed my opinion, that their poses- 
sion was not necessary for the present security of our trade to 
New Orleans : that every harbour on the coast of these provinces 
was open to our vessels seeking shelter from storms, or from an 
enemy ; that in time of peace, we should certainly not incur the 
expense of extensive and strong fortifications at the several ports ; 
and consequently these would fall instantly before any naval power 
with which we should be engaged in war ; that it would cost 
fewer lives & less money to attack and take them in a future war, 
if necessary for the security of our commerce ; and if worth taking, 
we should then make adequate provision for holding them : that 
the country in general was nearly a barren sand, excepting the 
margins of some rivers, and a tract of about 30 miles square 
lying on the Mississippi above the Isle of New Orleans : that the 
products of the latter could naturally descend to the town of New 
Orleans, and enter into the commerce of our merchants ; that any 
restraints on the navigation of the Mobille, which the Spaniards 
impose, might be counteracted by equal restraint on their naviga- 
tion of the Mississippi, seeing we owned both banks of the river • 
that in the hands of the Spaniards, the Floridas served, as Genl. 
Sumter had remarked, as a frontier to Georgia and the Mississippi 
Territory. It had been also observed by others in the debate 
that we were rendered feeble by the dispersion of our population, 
and should rather circumscribe than extend our territory. 

I noticed the information we derived from the documents re- 
ceived from the President, showing the designs of the French 
Ministry, to keep open the means of dissension between the U. S. 
and Spain, that their interference might again become necessary. 
In consequence of the pressing applications of Monroe and Pinck- 
ney at Madrid, the Spanish Minister at Paris had presented a 
" querulous " note to Talleyrand, desiring the French Govern- 
ment to declare its interpretation as well of the Treaty of St, 
Ildephonso, as of that by which France ceded Louisiana to the 
U. S. in respect to boundaries ; but that Genl. A. said no answer 
had been given and he believed none would be given : excepting 
in regard to West Florida, to which' Talleyrand said explicitly we 
had no pretence of title : that in fact by the treaty of St. Ilde- 
phonso, Spain had only retroceded Louisiana : and France had 

1806] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 49 1 

in 1762 ceded to Spain only the island of New Orleans on the East 
side of the Mississippi ; that his silence in respect to the western 
boundary of Louisiana (whence the President inferred that our 
claim was not denied) was calculated merely for another job. 
While we claimed to the Rio Bravo, Spain insisted that we had 
no right westward of a line which beginning in the Gulf of Mexico, 
between the rivers Carecut or Carcuse and the Armenta or Mar- 
meatoo, ascends towards the north between the Adulo and Nachi- 
toches, until it cuts the Red River ; and thence the boundary 
remained to be ascertained by commissioners ; leaving us (as Mr. 
Jefferson expressed it in his message) only " a string of land on 
the West side of the Mississippi : " altho' the President two years 
ago informed me that "he had traced the rightful bounds of Lou- 
isiana, by authentic documents so far as Spain was concerned." 
And we knew that these " rightful bounds " extended westward as 
far as the Rio Bravo ; for our Ministers at Madrid had insisted 
on that extention and pronounced the counter-claim of Cevallos 
" absurd " ; while the latter said that he had supported the rights of 
Spain, as far as the line afore described, " by irrefragable argu- 
ments." (By the way tho' the President told us that he had com- 
municated every document necessary to enable us to form a 
correct judgment on this subject, he had not communicated to us 
his instructions to Monroe and Pinckney-^nor the facts or evi- 
dences on which they advanced our claim — nor their arguments in 
its support — nor the counter facts, evidence & arguments of 
Cevallos : to obtain them I offered a resolution to request the 
President to furnish us with them ; but it was negatived). 

In the course of my observations, I said that we had been told 
that the great object in purchasing Louisiana, by extinguishing 
all causes or occasions of collision, was to ensure to us perpetual 
peace j and yet two years had not elapsed before this very pur- 
chase had brought us, apparently, to the verge of hostilities ; and 
I was persuaded that the forced Purchase of the Floridas by the 
authorities of France, which was the object of the Bill, would lay 
the foundation of a future dispute and war with Spain, unless we 
would again buy it off. We know from the close alliance of 
France and Spain, as well as by the explicit declaration of Talley- 
rand, that in case of a rupture France would take part with Spain ; 
and when quite at leisure might even stimulate a rupture for the 

492 KUFUS KING. [1806 

very purpose of aiding Spain in order to resume the possession 
of Louisiana and the Floridas by conquest. St. Cyr, when, in 
1802, at Madrid he assured the Spanish Government in the name 
of the First Consul, that France would never " alienate Louisi- 
ana," gave as a reason — and the sole reason — why France desired 
the retro-cession of Louisiana, that she respected a possession 
which had constituted a part of the French Territory." 

I have now given you the substance of what occurred in the 
Senate upon the Secret Appropriation Bill. As I said in my letter 
of the 8th, I communicate this information to you, as a public duty, 
thinking that under such an administration as we now have 
measures evil and unwarrantable in themselves, and which debase 
the character of the Country and thereby put even its safety in 
jeopardy, ought not to be locked up in the President's Cabinet, 
and in the breasts of a set of men, the greater part of whom have 
neither discernment to see wherein lie the real interest, the honor 
and safety of the country, nor independence and spirit to support 
them. Possessed of the facts I have stated, you will be better able 
to form correct opinions of events. Should these be inauspicious 
— should they threaten great public mischief it is possible you 
may suggest some expedient to divert it. Whoever knows Mr. 
Jefferson, knows that he is utterly incapable of keeping the helm 
in a storm, or even in a merely clouded horizon. Even democrats 
in themselves but just above contempt despise him. His weak- 
ness, timidity and inordinate desire of preserving his popularity 
have, as I expected, induced him to avoid responsibility by asking 
counsel of Congress : or, if dictating any measure, by doing it 
behind the curtain. " Thus low are reduced the President and 
his friends ; " " and therefore weaker and baser than you could 
possibly have imagined." 

I think he will not trust Armstrong with the disposition of the 
two millions. As probably he may place very high confidence in 
Monroe, the latter may be directed to go from London to Paris ; 
and thus give a pleasanter opening to an extraordinary mission to 
negotiate a treaty with the British Government. This hitherto he 
has avoided, (a treaty) : I have supposed lest he should hazard 
popular odium — remembering the baleful effects of Mr. Jay's 
treaty — doubtless excited by him and his partizans to aid in 
pulling down the federal administration. But I little suspected 

1806] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 493 

that this motive would have been avowed by any of his friends. 
Sam Smith however this day made the precious confession ! 

The Senate were discussing the second resolution reported to the 
Senate by Smith, to "request the President to enter into arrangements 
with the British Government, for the purpose of adjusting all our 
differences with that power " The word treaty had been squeam- 
ishly avoided by the Comtee. though that was what they meant by 
arrangements, and Smith repeatedly used treaty in the course of 
his observations in favour of the adoption of the resolution. 
Among other reasons, he remarked, that calling to mind the 
dissatisfaction occasioned by a former treaty, the President might 
feel a reluctance to enter into another with Great Britain ; but 
that the sense of the Senate, deliberately expressed, by adopting 
the resolution, might remove the embarrassment. This was the 
sentiment tho' not given in his words, which I do not recollect : 
but he was perfectly understood and excited a smile among the 
few federal members. I had intended to mention the same reason 
and express my willingness to take that share of responsibility, 
which would fall on a Senator from a great commercial State ; es- 
pecially as its chief merchants, in their memorial, had prayed for 
such a mission to London. I had considered how I should do 
this in the most delicate manner ; but was very happy to be antici- 
pated by General Smith. 

This second Resolution, on different pretences, is much op- 
posed ; and, after being discussed an hour or more, on two 
different days, still remains undecided ; and yet, I believe that 
its opposers desire a negotiation with G. Britain for the objects 
expressed in the resolution. 

My Colleague (who with Tracy, Baldwin, Logan, Mitchell, S. 
Smith and Anderson was the Committee as I believe I mentioned in 
my former letter) is an advocate for the third resolution — the 
non-importation of enumerated articles ! But there are so many 
projects on this subject, I trust none of them will be adopted. 
That many country members (as is the fact) should be advocates of 
the measure, and even shortsighted merchants — may elicit no 
surprise : but really I did not expect that a man of the enlight- 
ened mind of Mr. A. would have entertained such an idea. 
John Randolph, observing my townsmen Crowninshield quite 
fierce for Gregg's motion, said to one of my friends in the House, 

494 RUFUS KING. [1806 

" That he (Crowninshield) was like a hog swimming over a river 
who would cut his own throat." It seems to be a known fact that 
a hog, when swimming, strikes his neck with his hoofs ; and, if 
obliged to swim far, will actually cut through the skin at the 
throat and eventually kill himself. 

Last evening I received, under your cover, an answer to "War 
in Disguise." I hastily ran through it this morning and shall read 
it again deliberately. I presume you did not mean that the 
author should be concealed from me. Some things appeared to 
be placed in a strong point of view, others to demand further, or 
a more expanded elucidation to be well understood by the bulk of 
readers. Authors who have a clear and comprehensive view of 
their subject are apt to presume too much on the discernment of 
their readers. This, in a popular work, must always be unfortu- 
nate. You will not judge it improper if I venture to make a few 
observations upon the pamphlet, — if on second perusal any perti- 
nent ones should occur. 

Very truly yours 

T. Pickering. 

R. King to T. Pickering. 

N. York, Feby. 17, 1806. 
Dear Sir : 

This acknowledges the receipt of your letter of the 13th, those 
of the 8 and 11 have been acknowledged. I make haste, as the 
French say, to correct an impression, if it exist, that I am the 
author of the answer to War in Disguise. I know the author pre- 
sumed the stile would make him known to you : as I sent a copy 
of this pamphlet to Mr. Tracy, and another to Mr. Madison, I 
pray you to take an opportunity of saying, in my behalf to each 
of these gentlemen what I have just said on the subject to you, 
lest from the mere transmission, it sh'd be supposed that I am the 
author, a merit that belongs to another. 

Yrs Rufus King. 

R. Troup to R. King. 

f Albany, Feb. 11, 1806. 

Dear Sir : 
-... We have nothing new here, but a report that the Clin- 
tonians and Burrites have formed a coalition : this report is 

1806] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 495 

generally believed. De Witt Clinton has undoubtedly broken 
peace with the Livingstons and he is preparing for a Bonapartean 
campaign at the next election. The issue of the contest from 
present appearances will be fatal to the Livingstons, as I fear 
Bonaparte's late campaign has been to the House of Lorraine. 
Lewis is as light as the drum in his speech, and he does not 
appear to possess a single talent for managing the corrupt party 
he is connected with. This by the by does him no dishonor. It 
verifies however the remark often made, that no man who aims 
at independence of conduct will long bask in the sunshine of the 
people's majesty. Judge Benson will tell you the precious 
confessions which Lewis is constantly making when alone with the 
federalists. I have listened to them until my contempt for the 
government has been lost in pity for the man ! \ 

With the most sincere regard 

Robt. Troup. 

CHAPTER XXXI. 

Pickering to King — Answer of ' ' War in Disguise " by Morris — Anecdote relative 
to and Criticism of Answer — Tracy to King — Speculations about Answer 
— Fatal Effects of Democracy — King to Pickering — Miranda — Denuncia- 
tions by the President's Friends — Tracy to King — Armstrong Elected — 
Pickering to King — Sends Capt. Lewis' Narrative — Remarks thereon — 
Smith's Bill to encourage Shipping and Navigation — Asks King's Views — 
King to Pickering — European News — Estimate of England — Pickering to 
King — Caramelli — Miranda — King to Pickering — Sundry Subjects — Pick- 
ering to King — Death of Pitt — Relaxation of British Commercial Regula- 
tions— Might make satisfactory Arrangements with G. B. — Speculations 
upon Monroe and Madison, as to the next Presidency — King to Pickering — 
Disapproves of Bills on Non-importation of British Products — Gore to King 
— Animadversions against the Government — Gore to King — Reasons for 
Re-entering Public Life — Pickering to King — Armstrong's Application of 
the Louisiana Fund — N. Webster to King — Should Legislatures express 
Opinions on the Conduct of the Government ? 

T. Pickering to R. King. 

City of Washington, February 20, 1806. 
Dear Sir : 

This morning I had folded a letter to you, written for the sole 
purpose of apologizing for the distant surmise that you wrote the 
Answer to War in Disguise. Afterwards while at breakfast I 
received your favour of the 17th, telling me that you were not 
the author. Mr. Tracy, sitting next to me, I put your letter into 
his hands. 

In fact I had reluctantly yielded to the conjecture that you 
were the author, in consequence of the confident assertion (as I 
had heard) of Dr. Mitchell, and the opinions, or, literally, fears 
of others. The style was so different from yours, I admitted it 
only as merely possible. Very soon, however, we were generally 
satisfied that it was the child of G. M. His features are im- 
pressed on every sheet. With a brilliant and cultivated mind, he 
has a coarseness of sentiment which is incompatible with dignity. 

496 

1806] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 497 

The chasteness of your taste and your diplomatic habits were 
utterly irreconcilable with the production in question. 

We have for a month been at work upon the St. Domingo Bill ; 
during which time it has passed the Senate by ayes 21, noes 8. I 
have heretofore intimated to you the perfect obsequiousness of 
the Senate. Its advocates affected to be influenced merely by 
motives of policy, as well with respect to our own black popula- 
tion, as to France — and good faith : while in fact the terrors of 
Bonaparte's arm, (openly avowed by Wright) undoubtedly influ- 
enced the measure. Should he fall, or be Burgoyned, the Bill 
may die in the House of Representatives. . . . 

Adieu. 

T. Pickering. 

T. Pickering to R. King. 

City of Washington, February 20, 1806. Thursday Evening. 
Dear Sir : 

The call for the mail obliged me to close abruptly my letter o. 
this date. 

Of the character of the humour in the answer to War in Dis- 
guise, perhaps the following anecdote may furnish a pretty correct 
idea. 

I have the pleasure of lodging under the same roof with all the 
Senators and Representatives from Connecticut, as well as a part 
of the Representation from Massachusetts and New Hampshire. 
We had just read, in Coleman's paper of the 8th, his Literary 
Notice of the answer to ''War in Disguise." "The strain of 
ridicule (said he) in pages 63.4. is equal to anything we ever met 
with, and which we defy the greatest of the British advocates to 
read without downright laughter, at the absurdity of the arguments 
here exposed." 

Just then I opened your packets containing the Answer. Im- 
mediately I turned to those pages & read ; expecting a burst 
of laughter, the pleasure, in such cases, being always the more 
poignant when numbers participate. I read ; but no one was 
moved ; each gazed at the other with disappointed expectation. 
I supposed I had not understood the passage & so failed in the 
reading. At that moment Tracy came in. I read it again : and 

VOL. IV.— 32 

498 RUFUS KING. [1806 

still they remained unmoved. " Why don't you laugh ? " said I 
to Tracy : "You did not tell me when to laugh," was his answer ! 

Upon a second reading of the Answer to War in Disguise, 
more exceptionable passages appear than on the first perusal. 
The words and passages, liable to criticism are numerous ; and 
tho' the same expressions might be admitted in conversation, they 
are great blemishes in a work of this kind. It was evidently 
written in haste ; and with a little pains might have been cor- 
rected ; but is not the disposition of the author adverse to a' 
patient examination ? I presume he did not submit the pamphlet 
to the correction of any of his friends. And if he did, to point 
out errors and faults is an ungracious task, which perhaps not 
one in a hundred would venture to perform, unless towards a very 
intimate friend ; and a friend, too, sufficiently ingenuous and 
modest to receive correction without taking offence. 

Does not the author quibble, where he says (p. 12) that the 
" Masterly acquaintance of the Judge (meaning I presume, Ld. 
Mansfield) with the law of Nations, was known and revered by 
every State in Europe," is one thing ; and " that his decisions Were 
celebrated for their equity and wisdom, is another and a very dif- 
ferent thing ? " Is it possible to conceive how his masterly 
knowledge could be (not admired but) revered, unless it was dis- 
played in wise and equitable decisions ? 

p. 19. "Slily," applied to Sir Wm. Scott. It would be impos- 
sible for me, (like the author of the answer) to feel " a high 
respect " for any man, however great his talents, if he were sly or 
meanly artful. If the author meant only that Sir William had 
artfully confounded, he is chargeable with a vulgarism in using 
the word slily. 

pages 22. 23. 24. These pages being simply filled with asser- 
tions and questions do not carry conviction to the mind — at least 
not to mine. I cannot discern any force in the author's reasoning 
from the contraband trade of smugglers, and it is not possible that 
his own fancy was dazzled with the lively (or to preserve the 
metaphor), the sparkling antithesis which, in p. 24, concludes his 
questions. 

" With every superiority at sea his heart could wish" These 
last words are too much in the conversation style to be intro- 
duced into a disquisition on the law of nations. 

1806] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 499 

p. 27, " Yankees," too, being a nickname should not have found 
admission into grave discourse. 

The ludicrous criticism on " possessing a monopoly which had 
been destroyed," might have been spared. When an author's 
meaning cannot be misunderstood, the inaccurate use of a word 
seems not to be a fit subject of ridicule. The British might cor- 
rectly possess a monopoly of which they had deprived their enemy. 

These are specimens of the faults which have struck me. It is 
much to be regretted that so fine a composition as " War in Dis- 
guise " had not received an answer written with equal elegance, 
dignity & precision. 

Very truly yours 

Timothy Pickering. 

Uriah Tracy to R. King. 

Washington, March 12, 1806. 
Sir : 

My health when I passed thro' New York, & ever since, has 
been so frail that I have written scarcely to any person, but to 
my family. I have to thank you for the answer to War in Dis- 
guise, for which I am indebted to your goodness. 

This answer was at first attributed to you, tho' I was not of that 
opinion. I always supposed that Gov. Morris wrote it. There is 
merit in it and I regret that more time was not taken to increase 
its merits. Madison's Book, I suppose you have seen, that was 
written in a hurry, this answer was written in a hurry, and, 
unfortunately for us everything done among us has been done in a 
hurry, which respects Neutral Rights. I had indulged a hope 
that you, or some man equally acquainted with the subject, & who 
was not in a hurry ', would have favored us, either with an answer 
to War in Disguise, or with a dissertation upon our Neutral 
Rights ; with a Statemt., such as the subject is capable of, and 
not composed in a hurry, as to style or argument. 

As the subject is now before the public, it is all adapted to a 
mob ; Neutral Rights are invaded is the cry Sayou must rally round 
our rights. 

500 KUFUS KING. [1806 

I most sincerely wish that the time may come, and that I may 
live to see it, when we shall understand our rights of every 
description, & possess the proper spirit to defend them. Now 
neither the one, nor the other, has any existence. 

Our administration is far behind the people at large, both in 
understanding &in spirit. I mean that distinct understanding of 
the subject, which might be expected from men in an elevated 
station, and that spirit which ought to be the portion of all, or 
our nation is truly in a bad way. 

Sneaking behind, to avoid all hazard to darling popularity ; 
shrinking from all official & reasonable responsibility ; a language 
unintelligible, capable of constructions to meet any event, are a few 
of the leading traits of character of our President, administratn. 
and also of the majority of both the Legislative branches. 

Now, Sir, a Nation, under such circumstances, if the manly, 
independent spirit of former days was predominant, would extri- 
cate itself from such a set of impediments, would indignantly 
spurn from them such leaders & rally round men who were both 
able & willing to behave with propriety. But here is the dis- 
tressing fact : our Country has, by the debauching'force of party, 
by the fatal effects of demoralizing Democracy, by the babyish 
nonsense of peace, peace, the watchword of Democrarcy ; by the 
fatal encouragemt which vice has received by the ruling party 
for five years past, & the discouragement which virtue has, during 
the same time, reed, from the brow-breatings of vicious scoun- 
drels, thus supported & encouraged, by all these and more, our 
country is unhinged, is let down to such a degree, that no manly 
exertion can be expected. 

I know that this is croaking ; but when truth will justify in 
this, & in no other conclusion, ought we to shut our eyes to the 
truth however humiliating ? 

I am a sick man, & allowance must be made for the view I take 
of any subject, as I look thro' a medium, jaundiced not only to 
my bodily vision, but to my mind's eye. If you can set me right, 
you who are in health & see things without the conflicts, in which 
I am daily engaged, I shall most cordially thank you. 

I am now in the Senate Chamber & the Senate are debating 
upon the nomination of John Armstrong, as a Commissr., with 
James Bowdoin, to treat with Spain for territory, boundaries, 

iSo6] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 50I 

spoliations, &c. &c, ; whether we shall midwife him or not, is not 
certain, but as he is proved to be a very great rascal, I think he 
must be appointed ; from the same principle, which induced the 
nomination by that immaculate Executive, who has sent us this 
nomination after knowing every fact, damning fact, which instead 
of a new nomination, ought to have instantly produced a recall. 
" // is a hard winter, my masters, when bear eats bear." This 
moment \ past 3 p.m., the question of John Armstrong's appoint- 
ment is postponed until to-morrow. 

Yrs. Sincerely 

Uriah Tracy. 

R. King to T. Pickering. 

New York, March 13, 1806. 
Dear Sir : 

Mr. Wolcott some days ago told me that he would write to Mr. 
Tracy on the subject of the Leander & Miranda's expedition, and 
as I presume you would see this letter, and preferred for particu- 
lar reasons, not to write myself, I have said nothing to you of this 
Project. 

The late news from Bordeaux, and which you will have seen in 
the N. Papers, and according to which Bonaparte remains master 
of the Continent, has dissipated the Rumours concerning Miran- 
da's views, which have for some weeks engaged the public atten- 
tion. There are Persons here who hesitated in giving credit to 
this French news : but the armistice, if not a most gross fabrica- 
tion, is conclusive ; it cannot be many days before we shall have 
arrivals from Eng. that will give us intelligence down to February, 
including the speech and debates at the opening of parliament. 

Within a day or two we have heard much of your decisions, 
and particularly of the denunciation of the Executive by its former 
friend Mr. Randolph. As to Measures, so far as I can observe 
the public, none are expected, or at least none that will be either 
advantageous or honorable to the Country. Every man you meet 
seems ashamed of the feeble, hypocritcal and mean Proceedings 
of the Executive. With sentiments of sincere esteem & respect 
I remain, dear Sir, your obed. & faithful servant 

Rufus King. 

502 RUFUS KING. [1806 

U. Tracy to R. King. 

Washington, March 17th, 1806. 
Sir: 

Ecce iterum Crispinus — This day the Senate have expended in 
a debate upon John Armstrong's Nomination : as I stated to you 
last week, perhaps no man's character & conduct ever met with a 
more thorough investigation, & nothing is more clear, than that 
the Senate, a very considerable majority of them, are sick, quite 
sick of the man, & really wish the nomination at the devil, and 
many go further, and send the nominator after the nomination ; & 
these good Democrats too. The vote now taken 3 o'clock p.m.> 
and stands thus, for Armstrong fifteen votes, against him fifteen 
votes — so the Vice president had to decide it & he decided it in 
favor of John Armstrong. So John Armstrong is appointed. 

Yours sincerely, 

Uriah Tracy. 

Both New York Senators & the Vice Pres. were in favor of 
Armstrong : so the three votes of New York carried him ! 

T. Pickering to R. King. 

City of Washington, March 19th, 1806. 
Dear Sir : 

Yesterday I sent you, in 5 packets (I think that was the num- 
ber) a pamphlet the subject of which has probably engaged as 
great a share of the President's attention, as all the concerns of 
the " good old States " (as Randolph called them) whether con- 
sidered in respect to their internal or external relations. You 
will see noticed the various Indian languages radically different. 
When I last dined with him (5 or 6 weeks ago) he said he had 
already ascertained about a hundred. When some of my fellow 
lodgers dined with him soon after, that number was materially 
reduced. I believe there are 15 or 16 noticed in Capt. Lewis* 
Narrative. Mr. Jefferson's object (I should say one of his objects) 
in his Louisiana inquiries, I take to be, that, if so many original 
languages exist in America, and if we calculate how many ages 
must elapse before one original language could be radically 
changed ; it will follow that the Mosaic account of the creation 

1806] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 503 

and the chronology founded thereon must be extremely erro- 
neous ! . . . 

I will inclose you a bill brought into the Senate by Saml. Smith 
" For the encouragement of the Shipping & Navigation of the U. 
States." The third reading is to be on the last day of this month ; 
it being postponed for the purpose of gaining information. In- 
dependently of the general knowledge you possess on this subject, 
I remember you had occasion officially to turn your attention to 
our commercial intercourse with England, while you were in 
London. 

I pray you therefore to favour me with your sentiments on the 
provisions of this bill ; and at as early a day as may be. At 
present it can be of little or no consequence, for scarcely a 
foreign ship enters our ports ; and it seems premature to make 
regulations now, to operate on commerce after peace shall take 
place, when in our commercial relations such very material 
changes may take place. Have we not as much carrying trade as 
we can manage ? or if not, would it be expedient to increase it 
largely (if it were possible for this bill to produce that effect) see- 
ing the event of peace might pretty suddenly deprive us of an 
essential portion of it. Besides I take it, what we should most 
desire of England, France and Spain, would be the permanent 
admission of the products and manufactures of our own country 
in our own vessels, into the ports, especially the colonial ports, of 
those nations. 

In explaining the grounds of his bill, Mr. Smith said, that all 
the European nations, excepting England and France, did per- 
mit us to carry to them the products and manufactures of other 
countries, as well as our own. At the present moment all the 
products and manufactures of G. Britain & her dominions are pro- 
hibited an entrance into France & Spain, & I do not know but 
some other dependent countries of France. Have the goodness 
to communicate to me as early as may be, your views of the sub- 
ject. What will be the effects of this measure, if adopted ? what 
its advantages ? what its disadvantages ? 

With sincere respect and esteem &c. 

T. Pickering. 

504 RUFUS KING. [1806 

R. King to T. Pickering. 

New York, March 20, 1806. 
Dear Sir : 

In a few lines I wrote yesterday to Mr. Tracy, I communicated 
the purport of the only important news from England. Yester- 
day by a short arrival from Bordeaux we have later news both 
English and French than had been received from England. I 
inclose to you the morning Paper which announces all I know 
concerning a state of Europe, that, in my view, is the most extra- 
ordinary & menacing to the freedom and Independence of man- 
kind that has existed in modern times. 

As no nation is more reasonable more docile, more loyal than 
England, when wisely governed, so none has greater firmness, 
longer patience, nor higher courage than our ancestors ; and not- 
withstanding it has pleased the Almighty to take from them, 
almost at the same moment, their first Statesman, their most for- 
tunate Admirals, and their ablest General, I feel a strong presenti- 
ment and hope that the high spirit and ancient glory of the Nation 
will enable them to contend against, & finally to triumph over 
their gigantic adversary.* 

* These sentiments repeat the estimate he formed of the English people dur- 
ing his residence in England, as evinced by the following in his handwriting — 

It is equally difficult here as in America to form satisfactory opinions respect- 
ing the events which are passing in Europe ; and the reason is this, that no ex- 
act views, no assured object, no settled system of Politicks, exist in this, or any 
other of the Great Powers of Europe. The whole is a miserable shifting from 
expedient to expedient — a course varying with every new incident, — a struggle 
for an ill understood and inexplicable End. The nearer I see these great na- 
tions, the less respectfully do I consider them. At a distance where informa- 
tion was less accurate, and the space for conjectural interpretation much wider, 
we entertained ourselves in searching for the solution of events which instead 
of being foreseen or influenced by premeditated causes, have been the mere re- 
sult of those blind and ill managed efforts which continue to astonish and de- 
stroy mankind. I am not deceived in my estimate of England. They are a 
nation of immense resources, of ancient pride, of powerful habits in favor of 
their Government, of infinite credulity, of unbounded confidence, and destitute 
of a single mind capable of making a proper use of these National Faculties at 
a period more important and interesting to human happiness than has before 
existed. 

It is certain that the objects, for which the war has been prosecuted have 
varied so often, that those at the helm here can assign no national motive at 
any one period, that will justify the prosecution of the war at another. I had 

1806] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 505 

The new Ministry unites the Strength and Talents, as it does 
the Parties and Confidence of the Nation. 

With sincere regards, I remain, Dr. Sir Yr. faithful Servant 
Rufus King. 

T. Pickering to R. King. 

Washington, March 31, 1806. 
Dear Sir : 

I inclose a Report of the Senate concerning Hamet Caramelli. 
It is drawn, substantially, by Bradley, and agreed to by all the 
comtee. (as Tracy tells me) except Baldwin * A variety of facts 
and circumstances, but which I cannot attempt to enumerate, in- 
duce my belief that Lear's conduct originated in the basest mo- 
tives. His reported treachery to Washington, in communicating 
(withdrawing from their sacred deposit) papers to Jefferson, has 
laid the latter under obligations. Mr. J. in his message on 
Hamet's case, attempted, with much labour, to vindicate Lear ; 
but in vain : he stands condemned by every man who can think 
and act independently. 

Dr. Thornton (whom Wolcott knows) who is charged with that 
breach of duty in the department of State, which relates to the 
issuing of Patents, last December told Genl. Eaton a variety of 
things relating to Miranda's project, and asked Eaton if he would 

believed that England went into the war in order to preserve her own Govt, but 
if there ever existed the danger that we have imagined on that head, which I 
am inclined now to doubt, it has ceased to be worthy of attention. 

The English people are in no danger of imitating the French from choice — 
when I speak of the people, I mean to exclude the efficient body of the nation 
— I equally exclude the philosophers and the indigent. Laying them aside as 
this nation can do, there remain the vigor, the strength and the great Body of 
the nation — inclined to preserve order, interested in upholding their Govt, and 
animated with a generous devotion & courage to defend their country agt. do- 
mestic as well as for. Foes. It is true that the suffrage is far from being equal 
here, and the Election is not in this view an infallible rule to ascertain the pub- 
lic opinion — yet with proper allowances the return of the Members of Parlia- 
ment gives a pretty sure guide whereby we may infer the national sentiments — 
making every possible allowance, the late Election, which we are confidently 
told diminished the opposition, diminutive in members as before it was, the in- 
ference is altogether favorable to the attachment of the nation to the existing 
order of things and demonstrates their disposition amid reverses and misfor- 
tunes to uphold the Authorities of the Constitution. 

* See Annals of Congress 1805-6 for the history of this claim, pp. 48. 185. 

$06 RUFUS KING. [1806 

engage with Miranda in an expedition to Spanish America? 
"Yes (said Eaton) if the Government will give us a commission/* 
Thornton said that several millions of dollars were raised by the 
Spanish Colonists and that a large sum had been lodged in New 
York to meet the expenses of the expedition. That the Colonists 
were prepared and waited only for Miranda to hoist the flag of 
Independence to rise and throw off the Government of the 
mother country. 

Dr. Thornton is not a little of a visionary — and allowances are 
to be made ; but I am persuaded that his testimony would throw 
light on the subject, and be useful to Col. Smith & Ogden on 
their trials — which we hear are to take place next month. 

Respectfully yrs. 

T. Pickering. 

R. King to T. Pickering. 

New York, Mar. 22, 1806. 
Dear Sir : 

I am particularly obliged to you for the President's Message,, 
communicating the Discoveries in Louisiana. . . . 

II The Sty," to use Randolph's phrase, is as I hear very noisy 
on the subject of Armstrong's appointment, which is regarded as 
an avowal and justification of his Conduct. There are several 
subjects on which I should be glad for information. The dis- 
closures that your debate may have made respecting Armstrong 
is one of them. Was it at all explained how Armstrong was au- 
thorized, or what motive induced him, to assume the extraordin- 
ary power he has employed in the distribution of the 4 MiL 
Dollars ? 

We have seen Eaton's letter to the Secy of the Treasy., which 
states that the Treaty with Tripoli contains an article by which 
the Bashaw engaged to deliver up the wife and children of his 
Brother, and that in order to obtain this stipulation, which was 
to satisfy the ex-Bashaw, Lear gave a Defeasance, by which the 
article became void. 

It is also rumoured that the Treaty was submitted to the Sen- 
ate for Ratification, without a communication of the Defeasance. 
On these and other interesting Points concerning our foreign 
affairs, I should be obliged by exact information, as I have it in 

1806] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 507 

contemplation after the close of your Session to make a Review 
of our foreign Relations. 

On examination of the English News, I am not without consid- 
erable Hope that the new ministry will inspire new vigour as well 
as confidence into the Nation. If the ministers can agree in the 
Cabinet, the administration will be more powerful and more pop- 
ular than has existed since the Ministry of Lord Chatham : in 
such event, indeed in any event, the Folly and Rashness of your 
Resolutions and projects at Washington, will be more fully ex- 
posed. 

The men who promote these measures are equally ignorant of 
the character of Englishmen, and the interest of America. With- 
out these miserable provocations Mr. Monroe, if he has abilities,, 
may avail himself of the present juncture ; with them, neither he 
nor any other person can succeed. 

Very faithfully yrs 

Rufus King. 

T. Pickering to R. King. 

Washington, March 24, 1806. 
Dear Sir : 

I have been favoured with your letter of the 20th. We had 
heard of the death of Mr. Pitt. It did not alarm me. For tho* 
I consider the independence of the U. States as absolutely de- 
pendent on the ability of England to maintain hers, against all the 
efforts of Napoleon, yet I have at no time entertained an exalted 
opinion of Mr. Pitt as a Statesman to plan and direct great military 
enterprises ; and to select and in defiance of all opposition to call forth 
the requisite talents to execute them. With an eloquence powerful 
perhaps as his father's, did he not want much of that vigour which 
enabled the latter successfully to execute the bold project he 
conceived ? With great talents, I expect more efficiency in Lord 
Grenville. Perfectly relying on your judgment of the preeminent 
talents, strength and popularity (founded on a personal know- 
ledge of the men) I rejoice that such a ministry has been formed. 
It furnished just ground for the confident hope you express (in 
which I cordially join) " that the high Spirit and ancient glory of 
the Nation will enable them to contend against and finally tri- 
umph over their [and the World's] gigantic adversary." 

508 RUFUS KING. [1806 

But what will be the effect on our commerce ? It is said (by 
the way of Bordeaux) that the British are releasing all American 
vessels. Will this relaxation continue ? I trust not. It com- 
menced prior to Mr. Pitt's decease : probably influenced by the 
Catastrophe of the Continental War. The Captures and con- 
demnations may not instantly be renewed. Lord Grenville* and 
his associates will deeply consider the subject as essentially con- 
nected with a continuance of the War. Doubtless their meas- 
ures may be influenced very much by those of Bonaparte. If the 
latter commands the Ports of the Continent, from the Baltic to 
the Adriatic, to be shut against the commerce of Britain (and he 
has only to command to be obeyed) doubtless the British will 
interdict the commerce of neutrals, at least with all the belliger- 
ent nations. Necessity will be declared to be the ground of the 
interdiction. And will it not be an adequate plea? It will be 
done openly, frankly, boldly ; and such time being given that 
neutrals shall not complain of being taken by surprise. In a 
word the principles of War in Disguise will be adopted : " and if 
we feel no wish to succour our parent State, when fighting for her 
liberty and her existence," shall we not " at least desist from 
wrongs [or measures] which augment her dangers and frustrate 
her defensive efforts " ? I, for one, shall bid her God speed. 
When she is spending, liberally spending, her blood and treasure, 
in fact for our safety and independence, shall we be restive, be- 
cause she denies us an accumulation of profit beyond that which 
arises from our regular, permanent course of Trade ? If we had 
an administration that regarded anything in comparison with its' 
own immediate personal interest and popularity and the indul- 
gence of its hateful passions, satisfactory arrangements, I am 
fully persuaded, might be made with Great Britain. But I do 
not believe these will be attempted thro' any other agent than the 
miserable minister now at that Court. Would you believe it? 
A very few days only had elapsed, after Mr. Pitt's death, and 
when the new Ministers had scarcely taken their seats in their 
offices, before Mr. Monroe applied for his answer to his letter (or 
remonstrance) to Lord Mulgrave ! this is the out-door informa- 
tion.! Yet this is the man who is to be the next President of the 

* You will recollect his Lordship's decided sentiments on neutral commerce 
in his celebrated Speech on the Treaty with Russia in 1801. 

f P. M. This out-of-door report is incorrect. The President sent Monroe's 

1806] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 509 

U. S. ; the man whom Mr. Nicholson lately pronounced (in the 
House of R.) second to no one in the United States, and who 
appears (from all I hear) to be the favourite of Mr. Randolph. 
Hence the contempt with which you will have observed he has 
treated Mr. Madison — the competitor of Monroe for the Presi- 
dency. This I take to be a great, if not a principal cause of the 
schism among the democrats. Bidwell, Varnum and the major- 
ity of the democrats from the great States of Massachusetts, New 
York and Pennsylvania are the friends of Madison. Randolph 
and his special adherents are the friends of Monroe : and while 
these two divisions of democrats are thus early canvassing for the 
next President, the actual President is exploring the wilds of 
Louisiana — its salt plains — its rock or mineral salt — its immense 
prairies — in which he has discovered the earthly paradise — its 
numerous tribes and remnants of tribes of Indians & how many 
languages they speak — the hot springs & the warm mud-puddles 
in their vicinity — and the wonderful phenomena in one of a small 
or " very minute shell fish " in shape resembling a muscle, but 
having four legs ; and in another " a vermes about half an inch 
long, moving with a serpentine or vermicular motion " ! 

Should Monroe be our next P., Randolph, I presume, must be 
his prime-minister, and Nicholson Secretary of the Navy. Gal- 
latin (whom R. lately eulogized) must remain Secy of the Treas- 
ury ; for they have no Southern man of ability and industry to 
fill his place. They would not be much embarrassed to find a 
successor to Mr. Dearborn — Confidential — at present. On Satur- 
day while the doors were closed, Mr. Randolph said, that about 
the middle of December, he called on Mr. Madison, who told 
him that the French Government had forbidden our negotiating 
directly with Spain : that we must negotiate thro1 the medium of the 
French Govt., which wanted money, and that we must give it. Ran- 
dolph added "I had not much confidence in him (Madison) be- 
fore, and from that time I have had none " : at that moment, 
with an indignant motion, throwing his hat across the hall ! 
Adieu T. Pickering. 

You will connect this anecdote with the affair of the secret ap- 
propriation of 2 millions. 

original letter dated Jany. 28 to the two Houses — in which he mentions that he 
shall soon apply for an answer. The letter was returned to the President ; the 
doors were closed ; but nothing important was announced. 

$IO KUFUS KING. [1806 

R. King To Pickering. 

New York, Mar. 25,1806. 
Dear Sir, 

I yesterday received Mr. Gallatin's Report and Genl. Smith's 
proposed navigation Law, which you obligingly sent to me, and 
today I have reed, the Report of the Commn. concerning the 
Tripolitan affairs, and the last part of Mr. Randolph's speech. 

If I may conjecture the conduct of Congress from what in my 
own opinion I think it should be at the present moment, they 
will at once suspend the Resolutions, Bills & Debates, until they 
receive accounts from England of the Temper and views of the 
new ministry towards the U. S. I can suppose a system, which, 
if adopted by the new ministry, would require the best under- 
standing and Harmony with America, and which would therefore 
offer a most favorable opportunity for the satisfactory adjust- 
ment of our intercourse with that country. In this state of things, 
it would be impolitic and extraordinary, if Congress, instead of 
giving the Executive an opportunity to effect such arrangement, 
should adopt any measures that might defeat an advantageous 
settlement of our concerns. 

In respect to the Bill offered by Genl. Smith, were the time a 
proper one for its discussion, I am by no means satisfied that it 
would be advantageous. If, as I conjecture to be the fact, England 
at no time imports into the U. States any Goods not the growth 
or manufacture of her own Dominions, it would be of no effect as 
respects her, and in reference to other countries, whose ships 
sometimes resort to our Ports, if they have no such Regulation, 
our adoption of it might suggest to them the expediency of their 
doing it also ; and should this be done, we, being carriers of 
articles not produced nor manufactured at home in a larger pro- 
portion than they are, should be sufferers in a like proportion. 

Suppose the law generally adopted, the question between us 
and England will be immediately settled ; for we shall not be 
able to import Sugar, Coffee, Teas, India Goods, &c, which now 
make so considerable a share of our exports. I must close, as I 
fear I may miss the Post. 

Yours &c 

Rufus King. 

1806] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 51 1 

C. Gore To R. King. 

Boston, March 26, 1806. 
My Dear Friend : 

I was really gratified by the Receipt of your last Letter, for 
although I had no apprehensions that you had acted incautiously, 
and knew that you had communicated to the Government Intelli- 
gence of Miranda's Plan, yet it was unknown to me that you 
possessed their acknowledgment of having received this infor- 
mation. Their Baseness and meanness seem only to be ex- 
ceeded by their extreme weakness. That any of our Coun- 
trymen can still submit to remain the Dupes of such Imbecillity 
affords new evidence of the Degradation to which Democracy will 
sink its adherents. Another Testimony of the Contempt of our 
Chief for Public Opinion we have in the Appointment of Mr. 
Armstrong. [James Lovel, some time since, wrote Mr. Jefferson a 
congratulatory Letter on the appointment of Austin to the Loan 
Office ; saying it was the highest Evidence that could be offered 
of the Supremacy of the Executive of the U. States ; for a man 
more universally and more deeply despised than Austin, did not 
exist in this part of the Country, and that a Government, which 
could name & keep in Office, a Character, known to be so base, 
must be stronger than any Despotism within his knowledge. 

We are now in the Fever Heat of our annual Election, and 
such are the Charges against Sullivan, & so well supported, that 
no man who has the least Regard to Property or Reputation, one 
would think could vote for him ; and yet he will probably have 
more than 30,000 Votes. 

I shall endeavour to keep out of the Legislature, but I am afraid 
it will not be in my Power. The last year we obliged many to go 
into the House of Representatives, and had we not chosen 26, 
we should have had a Democratic House, of course a Democratic 
Senate and a Democratic council. I do not know that our chance 
is better this year, and that any Reason exists why the same 
means should not be resorted to. 

The Supreme Court is now in Session, and Sedgwick, as usual, 
swearing he will resign : possibly He has declared this so fre- 
quently and so publickly that hewill be compelled to do it, con- 
trary to his more mature judgment?\ 

The dreadful Fate of the Coalition leaves nothing to be hoped 

512 RUFUS KING. [1806 

for from the Continent of Europe, against the Despotism of Bona- 
parte. The Views & Intentions of England, under the new ad- 
ministrations, for any intelligence we obtain, are the mere Subject 
of Conjecture. Our merchants are afraid of a Peace and well 
they may be, for notwithstanding many Losses & Embarrassments, 
their Voyages were generally prosperous. Their Shipments of 
W. India Produce netted them a profit of a sum from 25 to 50 
per cent. . . . 

Ever and faithfully yrs. 

C. Gore. 

C. Gore To R. King. 

Boston, 15 April, 1806. 
My Dear Friend : 

. . . While we endeavour to derive Consolation from reflect- 
ing on some Errors on the part of the Federalists, and attempt to 
impute to those the present gloomy Prospect, it is impossible not 
to perceive, in the existing State of things, under all the circum- 
stances of the Times and the great Difference in the Pretensions 
of the Candidates to the Confidence of Mankind, the most 
damning Proofs of the Triumph of Vice over Virtue, and the 
same Presages of a total Prostration of the Rights of Freedom & 
of Property to the insatiable Lust of abase & cowardly Despotism, 
owing its Origin & Support to the meanest and most degraded 
Passions of the human Heart. 

You may wonder that, with a full view of the present & future 
State of our affairs, I would enter into public Life again. In the 
first Place, I conceived it would be impossible to avoid a Seat in 
the House, if I insisted in declining the Duty of a Senator. If it 
were possible for the Federalists to retain the name and Forces 
of the Government, in the Crisis which cannot be very distant, it 
might be of incalculable Benefit to the Cause of Order : and 
it appeared to me of great importance that Men of Consider- 
ation should not resign the Government into the Hands of a 
different Class, unless they were confident that great Good would 
result from suffering our Institutions to be destroyed by the 
Weakness of our Party, or the Violence of the Democrats. In 
fine, and what was perhaps of more weight in my own mind, it 
appeared to me that we ought not by deserting our Friends & 

1806] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 513 

our Country in the Hour of peril, to surrender a claim to their 
confidence when our Advice & Experience maybe of use to them 
& ourselves, and by such Desertion reserve for a future Day the 
bitter Reflection that had we not shrunk from Exertion, we might 
have prevented or softened the existing calamities. 

We see by the Papers that the Govt, is base & mad enough to 
persist in persecuting the Persons concerned in Miranda's Enter- 
prise. I cannot but think this is one of the Rocks on which our 
Chief and his aids are likely to wreck their Pretensions to Confi- 
dence, and I look with much Interest to the Denouement of the 
Business. Congress affords, as the Stories are told to us, a most 
disgraceful Picture of Imbecillity, Outrage & Meanness ; and what 
is truly unfortunate to our Reputation at least no man appears 
to state to the Public, or on the Floor of the House, the Principles 
on which our Conduct ought to be regulated, and to expose in a 
just & proper manner the flagitious and degrading Behaviour 
of our Government. 

Farewell, ever & truly yours 

C. Gore. 

T. Pickering to R. King. 

Washington, April 19th, 1806. 
Dear Sir : 

Some time ago I promised to give the information you re- 
quested respecting the application of the Louisiana fund by 
General Armstrong. 

It was stated by Genl. Smith (while Armstrong's nomination 
was before the Senate), that our Government knowing, or ex- 
pecting, that the fund would not be equal to all the claims upon 
it, proposed to the French Government that all the claims should 
be examined, and the sums due ascertained, before any payments 
were made ; and that if the whole amount surpassed the fund of 
$3,750,000, the loss should be averaged. To this, he said, the 
French Government would not agree ; insisting that the bills 
should be drawn as fast as the liquidations were made, conform- 
ably to the Convention. This must refer to the 9th Article ; in 
which you will see the English translation is not of the same im- 
port as the French original; this being "a mesure que," &c— 

VOL. IV.— 33 

514 RUFUS KING, [1806 

which is translated " In proportion." In a variety of places you 
will observe it to be a very careless and faulty translation. You 
will also notice the unpardonable negligence of Livingston & 
Monroe in the preamble of this Convention, the object of which 
is declared to be, to comply with the second & fifth articles of 
the Treaty of Sept. 30, 1800, altho* the second was expunged be- 
fore that Treaty was ratified. By the 4th article of the same 
Treaty, it was stipulated that " property captured and not yet 
definitely condemned," should be mutually restored ; but in the 
fifth article of the Louisiana Convention, this stipulation was 
either carelessly neglected, or purposely set aside by this clause, 
"The said 5th Article (of the Treaty of 1800) does not compre- 
hend prizes, whose condemnation has been or shall be confirmed." 

But notwithstanding the refusal of the French Govt, to admit 
the deficiency of funds to be averaged upon all the claims, and 
its determination that the bills should be drawn as fast as the 
liquidations were made, yet our enquiries produced the informa- 
tion, that Mr. Livingston did not draw a. single bill ; and that 
tho' Mr. Armstrong arrived in Paris in the autumn of 1804, yet 
he drew no bills until May 1805. 

Since Armstrong's nomination to Spain has been approved, we 
have had laid on our tables a document exhibiting the draughts 
he has made and the times of drawing. The supplementary 
documents showing the sums allowed for the embargoed vessels, 
you will see was occasioned by the disagreement between Mar- 
bois and Armstrong as to the persons in whose favour the bills 
ought to be drawn ; in which matter Armstrong was doubtless in 
the right ; the original powers being given to Fenwick by the 
masters of the vessels, at the period when the embargoes took 
place ; and who. or whose representations, ought not, at this late 
day, to receive the property of the Merchant owners. An Act has 
recently been passed to authorize the Sec'y of the Treasury to 
pay these claims. . . . 

It is said Wm. Pinkney (late one of our Commissioners in 
London) is to be appointed Minister Plenipotentiary to Great 
Britain — Monroe to return in the Fall. 

4 p.m. Mr. Pinkney has been nominated in conjunction with 
Monroe to negotiate on our differences with the British Govern- 
ment. I have just got the message and will give you the words : 

1806] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 5 15 

Monroe & Pinkney are nominated "to be Commissioners Pleni- 
potentiary & Extraordinary for settling all matters of difference 
between the United States and the United Kingdoms of Great 
Britain and Ireland, relative to wrongs committed between the 
parties on the high seas or other waters, & for establishing the 
principles of navigation & commerce between them." 

5 p.m. The Senate have struck out (on the second reading) 
the two sections of the bill for repealing the duty on salt, and 
allowing a bounty to our fisheries and salted provisions. As the 
bill passed the House so triumphantly (about 84 to 11) I pre- 
sumed it would, on the same popular ground, be passed by the 
"Senate. The votes 16 to 9. 

Very truly yours, 

T. Pickering. 

Noah Webster to R. King. 

New Haven, May 5th, 1806. 
Sir: 

The circumstances of the United States are critical and seem 
to require some union of sentiment & concert of measures among 
the real friends of public safety & National character. I have 
seen the spirited & appropriate resolution of the federal gentle- 
men, on the occasion of the outrage lately committed by the 
British ship in N. York Harbor, but have not yet heard of the 
issue of the election in the city — an issue which I deem important. 

I take the liberty however to request your opinion on the ex- 
pediency of attempting to procure some expression of the public 
sentiments of this State. Our Legislature will meet next Thurs- 
day, & there can be no doubt of their readiness to take any 
step in the present crisis, which on deliberate consultation shall 
be deemed prudent. The federal strength in Massachusetts, if 
not totally overwhelmed, is extremely impaired, & Connecticut 
alone stands firm with a commanding majority. The great ques- 
tion seems to be whether the time has arrived, when the current 
of public opinion in favor of the present administration can be 
arrested & turned. Can the folly, the imbecility, & the corrup- 
tion which have reduced us to a most deplorable condition, be 
made to appear with such evidence as to silence and confound 
the adherents of the present administration ? Is there any thing 

$l6 RUFUS KING. [1806 

now existing which can change or commence a change of the 
confidence of that class of people in their leader ? 

As a general rule it is clear that the Legislatures of the States 
should not interfere with the measures of the national Govern- 
ment. But are there not emergencies when such interference is 
not only right but indispensable ? And to what point of public 
danger & national humiliation must we be reduced before an 
expression of the public will, by the constituent members of the 
confederation becomes expedient or justifiable ? 

I have not time to suggest the views I have of the subject. 
The opinions of gentlemen here are various on this question, & 
it deserves to be considered in all its aspects before any other 
step is taken. I have thought it so important as to ask your 
opinion, &, if you please, the opinions of other influential gentle- 
men in New York, whether at the approaching session of our 
Legislature, it is best to express the opinions of that body on the 
extraordinary measures of the general government, which appear 
to me to have actually yielded up our Independence — in violation 
of the highest duty imposed on the administrators of that Govt, 
by public confidence and the constitution.* Your answer ad- 
dressed to me at Hartford will oblige 

Sir your most obed. Servt., 

Noah Webster. 

* Endorsed by R. K. " Ansd. that nothing should be done without ap- 
proval by Ellsworth, The Govr., &c." 

CHAPTER XXXII. 

Miranda to King — Expects to embark for Trinidad — Asks for Help — King says 
unauthorized — Further Communications. — King to Madison — Communi- 
cates confidentially Miranda's Plans — Miranda sails for N. York — Vansit- 
tart to King — England's Dealings with Miranda — Present Views of public 
Men in England — King to Secretary of State, Sends him Vansittart's Letter 
for the President to read — Miranda to Gore — Account of his Preparations 
to sail for Trinidad — Urging him to assist him — King to Gore — Miranda's 
Arrival in N. York and his Plans — Madison to King, acknowledging 
Receipt of his Letters — Miranda to King, urging him to ask his Friends 
to contribute Money for him — Declined by King — Miranda to King — He 
sails — Estimate of Mr. King's Action in the Matter — Help in Congress in- 
voked by Miranda's Friends against Prosecution — King to Gore — How 
his Name mixed with the Enquiry — King to Vansittart. 

Miranda wrote to Mr. King, August 23, 1803, from 
London : 

" La conduite ou la betise, mon chere ami, va son train ici — 
de maniere que je suis decide a partir par le premier convoi, avec 
ou sans secours (for Trinidad). Leur conduite me parait a cette 
heure suspect, et Dieu scait si elle n'est pas perfide ! Ainsi je 
vous conjure au nom de votre patrie et de la mienne de nous faire 
parvenir des secours au plutdt — Le point ou il faut les diriger 
est l'isle de Trinidad." 

What he asked for were ships loaded with flour and, most 
urgently, four thousand muskets with bayonets, ammunition 
for them, priming powder, pikes — and a hundred or two hun- 
dred brave Americans. On the same sheet under date of 
August 30, he says that he has finally made a definite arrange- 
ment with the Government to transport him in a frigate to 
Trinidad, has received from it a small sum of money, and that 
he has had promised money and men at the Island. He 
therefore earnestly entreats Mr. King to have forwarded to 
him 

517 

518 RUFUS KING. [J8o5 

■. sans faute deux batimens Americains pour le moins, avec 
quelques armes, et quelques dizaines (sinon des Centaines) de 
braves enfans de Colombia." 

He encloses a statement of the cost of 5000 men with 
necessary arms &c, for one year, about 4J millions of 
dollars, &c. 

On the back of this letter, " Rec. Oct. 8th 1803," is endorsed. 
N. B. The writer has no authority to make to me these proposi- 
tions ; nor have I inclination to comply with them. Indeed, I 
could not were I inclined, such supplies being contrary to Law. 
(Signed) Rufus King Oct. 9, 1803. 

Several letters relative to Miranda's affairs both from Mr. 
King and Mr. Gore will be found on pages 429 to 435 of this 
volume. But as nothing new occurred to change the rela- 
tions of Great Britain with Spain, Miranda made no new 
communications to Mr. King until on July 13, 1805, he writes, 
that after " inconceivable and unsupportable delays he was 
about to sail for New York," and asking him to inform those 
who had promised to assist him M that the time for action 
had arrived." In a postscript dated August 8th, he saysr 
"the time for our departure is fixed for the 15th of this 
month." 

Mr. King communicated this letter " in secret " to the 
Secretary of State. 

Copy. 
R. King to J. Madison, Secy, of State. 

Secret. 

Jamaica, L. I., Oct. 15, 1805. 
Sir: 

You will probably recollect that soon after my return to Eng- 
land, I communicated to you the extract of a letter that I had re- 
ceived and which related to an object respecting which we cannot 
be indifferent. For some time past I have heard nothing farther 
on the subject. A few days since, however, I received a letter 
from the same person dated London August 8, the following, 
extract of which I have thought it expedient confidentially to com- 
municate to you. 

:8o5] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 519 

" Apr£s des inconsequences et des retards inconcevables et in- 
supportables, nous voila sur le point de partir. . . . Je compte 
m'embarquer dans le courant de ce mois." " P. S. C'est pour le 
15 de ce mois (A6ut) que notre depart est fixe." 

Whether any adequate succour has been furnished by England 
or favorable expectations are derived from a supposed state of 
things between the U. S. & Spain is what at present I have no 
satisfactory means of deciding. I may, however, shortly receive 
more exact information. 

With sentiments of Respect & Esteem &c. 

Rufus King. 

Miranda, tired, as has been seen, of waiting for the assis- 
tance he had hoped to receive from England, sailed for 
America, to ascertain there what arrangements he could 
make to forward his plans. He arrived in New York on 
Nov. 9, 1805, bringing with him a long letter dated Aug. 14, 
from Mr. N. Vansittart to Mr. King, giving him a general 
view of the past relations with Miranda and of the state of 
ministerial and public opinion in England relative to the 
liberation of the Spanish Provinces. 

N. Vansittart to R. King. 

London, Aug. 14, 1805. 
My dear Sir : 

I have often blamed myself for my long omission in writing to 

you as well as to some other valuable friends who are abroad, but 

have found myself embarrassed, not only by the frequent pressure 

of business and other avocations, but perhaps in a, still greater 

degree by the uncertainty of my own situation. It would have 

appeared reserved and perhaps unkind to have said nothing of 

my own position and views, and yet for the last eighteen months 

I could scarcely have given any account of myself which would 

not have misled my correspondent at the time the letter could 

reach him. I should have been happy in writing to a friend 

whose good opinion I so much value to have entered into such 

an explanation as to show that this uncertainty has not arisen from 

any unsteadiness in my principles, or inconsistency in my conduct, 

520 RUFUS KING. [1805 

but has been the unavoidable result of the circumstances in which 
I have been placed, had not the occasion of my writing been of a 
very peculiar kind and connected with circumstances of much 
greater importance than the fortunes & estimation of any individual. 

This will be delivered to you by our common friend, Genl. 
Miranda, who has at last embarked with scarcely any other means 
than the resources of his own mind in the execution of the great 
plan which for so many years he has meditated for the liberation 
of his country. 

You are, I believe, as well acquainted with the prospects of 
support held out to him long ago in this kingdom as well as on 
some occasions by certain continental powers, as well as with the 
preparations made for that purpose by the English Government 
for a short time preceding the signature of the last peace. But I 
presume you have not heard that soon after the renewal of the 
war, I obtained leave to make a private provision of Arms, Cloth- 
ing & Stores for 5000 men as a preparation in case a rupture 
with Spain should take place. The Government however enter- 
taining a hope (on grounds which never appeared satisfactory to 
me and which I shall not now discuss) that the neutrality of 
Spain might be preserved, directed the articles which had been 
collected to be applied to other currrent services previous to the 
change of administration which took place last year. You will 
learn from Genl. Miranda what has since passed between him and 
the members of the present ministry. He had for some time after 
the commencement of hostilities with Spain reason to hope for 
active & cordial assistance, but the attention of the Government 
has been so much engaged with different, & I fear, unattainable 
objects that he has at last determined in utter despair of their 
taking any decisive steps, to try what can be effected by such 
resources as America can furnish and may be willing to afford 
him either as an enterprize sanctioned by public authority or 
undertaken by individual adventures. 

You will be the best judge what support he will be likely to 
meet with in America, and your influence will be of the utmost 
importance to him. You are also by your long residence in 
England, and your intimacy with men of different sentiments and 
parties, no inadequate judge how far such a plan, supposing the 
execution of it to be successfully commenced would derive en- 

1805] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 52 1 

couragement and aid from this country. But on that subject I 
will shortly state the best opinion I have been able to form. Our 
mercantile body are naturally anxious for an extension of trade 
and look with great anxiety to a removal of the restraints which 
in a great degree exclude them from the rich market of S. Amer- 
ica ; and a great body of our most reasonable and judicious men 
consider a well combined system of independence as the best and 
only effectual security to preserve those immense territories from 
falling, like the mother country, under the dominion of France 
and furnishing resources sufficient to enable that ambitious and 
domineering power to complete the subjugation of Europe. They 
therefore consider this country as bound to support such an 
attempt not only as a justifiable measure of hostility but on the 
strictest principles of self defence. 

On the other hand there are not wanting men of great weight 
and authority, who have such a dread and abhorrence of any 
thing which bears the name or approaches to the semblance of 
revolution that they think all such ideas ought in the most pointed 
manner to be discountenanced, if not directly resisted. It is vain to 
argue with them, that the natural and inevitable course of events 
leads to separation of populous and rapidly increasing Colonies 
from a feeble, decrepit and degraded government ; that we might 
as well attempt to stop the tide, as to stop the progress or long 
secure the subjection of countries so circumstanced, but that it is 
in some degree in our power to select the time and influence the 
direction of their great change, and by rendering it more easy and 
more beneficial to secure the gratitude and attachment of the new 
Power, whose formation we could not prevent, for they will 
answer that the effects of the change are so uncertain, and the 
evils attending may and probably will be so terrible that we ought 
on no account incur the guilt and risque the consequences of co- 
operating to produce it. 

Of the great parties which divide our State, I have good reason 
to believe that the leaders of the present ministry incline to the 
first opinion ; as it appears from circumstances within my own 
knowledge, that they had not long since a serious intention of fur- 
nishing Genl. Miranda with the succours he required, and only 
relinquished the plan from an unwillingness to divert the force 
which they judged to be necessary from other objects which they 

522 RUFUS KING. [1805 1 

considered more immediately important. The sentiments of the 
late Administration sufficiently appear from the conduct they 
pursued at the close of the last war, but I must do them the jus- 
tice to add that on the conclusion of Peace every idea inconsistent 
with the strictest discharge of the duties of amity towards Spain 
was entirely relinquished. 

With the sentiments of the opposition parties I am less inti- 
mately acquainted ; but I have always understood Mr. Fox and 
his friends to be favorable to emancipation of S. America, and 
it seems conformable to the general tenor of their principles that 
they should be so. Lord Grenville not long since took an oppor- 
tunity in the House of Lords to declare vehemently against it, to 
the surprize of many persons who had understood him to express 
different sentiments in private on former occasions. 

But whatever may be the sentiments of particular men previous 
to the attempt, I have no doubt that obvious views of great na- 
tional advantage will occasion nearly a general concurrence in its- 
favor in case of a prosperous commencement, and that unless 
Peace should be concluded and a question of public faith occurr 
the general disposition of the country will in a manner compel 
almost any government to give a vigorous support to the enter- 
prize. 

In one important respect it will derive unavoidable assistance 
from our forces, viz. that both our blockading squadrons in Europe 
and our fleets in the West Indies will be nearly as vigilant and 
useful in intercepting any succours which the Spaniards or French, 
may attempt to send to the Colonies as if they were stationed for 
that express purpose. 

You will perceive, my dear Sir, that I have addressed you 
throughout not only with the freedom of a friend, but the senti- 
ments of an Englishman, from a firm conviction, that in this in- 
stance (and I believe if rightly understood in every other) the 
views and interests of this Country and the United States must 
be indissolubly united. Believe me, my dear Sir, 

With great Esteem, very Sincerely yours, 

N. Vansittart. 

Mr. King has endorsed on this letter 

" Reed, by Miranda Nov. 10th, sent inclosed to Mr. Madison for 
the Pres. Perusal Nov. 25, received from Mr. Madison Deer. 5th. " 

1805] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 523 

Copy. 
R. King to J. Madison, Secretary of State. 

Private. 

New York, Nov. 25, 1805. 
Sir : 

I had the honour to write to you on the 15th of last month, since 
when I have received by General Miranda, who has arrived here, 
a letter from Mr. N. Vansittart, a member of the British Parlia- 
ment, and who was likewise a member of the late Administration 
of Mr. Addington. Mr. Vansittart being a man of distinguished 
probity and in a situation to understand fully the subject on 
which he writes, I send you his letter for the President's perusal,, 
requesting that it may afterwards be returned to me. 

With great respect, &c. 

R. King. 

It will thus be seen that whatever agency Mr. King may 
have had in assisting Miranda, there is no evidence of his 
willingness to engage in an enterprize undertaken against a 
friendly nation without the knowledge of his own govern- 
ment. He was certainly warmly interested in the proposed 
liberation of the Spanish South American Colonies, and had 
been for years ; but it does not appear that he contemplated 
a successful issue without the leadership of Great Britain to 
cripple the resources of her great enemy and, as Mr. King 
thought, of his own country, which France would obtain 
through her power over the Spanish Colonies — Spain being 
then a mere puppet in the hands of France. 

Miranda wrote to Mr. Gore from New York 27 Nov., 
1805, the first direct communication after his arrival there. 

Vous avez appris sans doute, mon cher ami, que je suis arrive 
ici depuis le 9 du courant. Nous avons arrange deja nos affaires 
de maniere que je puisse partir d'ici vers le fin du mois prochain 
sans faute. Deux batimens armes et tres bien equipes sont prets 
pour cet objet ; tout ce qui nous manque (et que j'espere obtenir 
par vos amis de Boston) est le compliment des armes, et un peu 
d'argent pour partir sans delai. Ce dernier article ne sera pas 

524 RUFUS KING. [1805 

meme necessaire si on nous offre le moindre assentiment a Wash- 
ington ; puisque dans ce cas on nous promet dans cette ville ici 
tout les secours pecunieres qui sont necessaires. Enfin pour que 
vous soyez parfaitement instruit de ce que nous avons ici, et de 
ce qui nous manque pour faire notre debut avec succes, nous 
sommes convenus (notre ami d'ici et moi) que le Major Arm- 
strong, porteur de celle-ci et un des cooperateurs, personne mure 
et discrete, passe chez vous pour donner toux les renseignmens et 
toute Tinformation necessaire sur cet objet arm que l'ensemble 
marche avec un accord parfait. 

Comme le risque est plus considerable et le service bien plus 
important dans cette premiere occasion que par la suite, il faut 
aussi que les profits soient en proportion — et je croirai qu'un 
cent pour cent et meme d'advantage, ne serait pas un trop haut 
prix. Vour ferez en tout cas comme vous jugerez apropos. 

Voici une lettre pour mon ami le Genl. Knox, qui pourroit 
peut-etre seconder nos efforts dans le moment actuel ; mais si 
vous croyez cette demarche inutile ou peu necessaire, vous 
pourrez la supprimer. C'est avec l'avis de notre ami commun ici 
que je l'ai ecrite et que je fais tout, desirant que la chose se fasse 
avec sagesse et bonne direction pour que la necessite soit notre 
recompense. Je part demain pour Washington, et vous aurez de 
mes nouvelles sans faute. 

Agissez en tout cas, je vous prie, avec promptitude et energie 
puisque le moment est precieux et les avantages incalculables ! 

Voici le moyen que notre Commodore propose pour envoyer 
les armes de Boston ici* — et pour prevenir l'effet de la loi qui 
exige une caution, &c. 

Yours most sincerely, 

M A. 

*A vessel to be cleared out from Boston for N. Orleans ; pass thro' the Sound, 
come to anchor in the passage before arriving at Hell Gate ; a person dispatched 
from her to N. Y. to inform of her arrival, &c, and then wait further orders. 
No difficulty can possibly arise. She will pass through the Sound when the 
ship leaves the port of N. Y., and join at the Hook. No law exists to prevent 
vessels carrying the articles in question from Boston to N. O. No law exists to 
prevent her passing through the Sound for any reason which may be given or 
asked. 

J.S. 

1805] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 52$ 

Rufus King to C. Gore. 

New York, Nov. 29, 1805. 
Dear Sir : 

Some short time since I reed, a letter from Mr. Vansittart, ex- 
plaining pretty fully the sentiments of the leading men of different 
parties in England concerning S. America. Mr. Addington's 
friends were decided in the event of a Spanish war to afford G. 
M. succour to attempt the long meditated Revolution. Mr. Pitt 
also promised that assistance should be given as soon as a war 
with Spain took place, and the assurances were continued till 
the new coalition was founded, when G. M. was told that such 
were the engagements of England that she was not at liberty to 
divide her attentions or her resources. G. M. immediately de- 
termined to embark for the U. S. Mr. Vansittart believes that the 
Revolution of S. Amer. would be highly popular in England, 
especially among the manufacturing and commercial part of the 
nation, and that if a beginning were made, the Government, 
whatever might be its sentiments, would be obliged to counte- 
nance, and even to support the measure. Mr. Vansittart's reason- 
ing which leads to this conclusion appears to me judicious. 

In this condition of England G. M. has arrived here, altogether 
without means, except his personal knowledge and talents, in order 
to embark in the enterprize he has so long and so maturely con- 
sidered. There are three courses before him one of which he 
seems resolved to pursue. 

1. To make the attempt with the countenance and support of 
the U. S. 

2. To make it with the cooperation of individuals. 

3. To make it without foreign succour wholly depending on 
the disposition and aid of the inhabitants. 

The General left town this morning to sound the administration. 
I have no means of forming a satisfactory opinion in what 
temper he will be likely to find our Chiefs. He yesterday showed 
me the copy of a letter he had written to you, and I have thought 
it due to the occasion as well as to our friendship to lose no time 
in sending you this communication. 

With unfeigned attachment &c. 

Rufus King. 

526 RUFUS KING. [1805 

J. Madison to R. King. 

Private. 

Washington, Deer. 4, 1805. 
Sir: 

I have received your favor of the 25th ulto. inclosing one to 

you from Mr. Vansittart, which I now return as you requested, after 

having submitted it to the perusal of the President. As it is of 

importance to understand the way of thinking in Great Britain 

with respect to Spanish America and what the Government there 

does not at this particular time mean to undertake as well as 

what under other circumstances it may probably undertake towards 

the object pursued by Genl. Miranda, the communication of Mr. 

Vansittart's information relative thereto claims acknowledgments 

which I pray you to accept with assurances of the high respect 

with which I have the honor to be 

Your most obt. Servt. 

James Madison. 

Miranda to R. King. 

Private. 

New York, ce 30 Deer., 1805. 

I'ai vu mes Cooporateurs hier en vous quittant, et je les ai 
trouve tous decides a suivre sans relache cette patriotique entre- 
prise, avec un zele vraiment heroique. 

Mais comme la promptitude, ainsi que V Vendue des apprets, 
tient en quelque sort dans ce moment aux supports que je puisse 
leur procurer de mon cote\ je vous supplie de ne pas negliger 
aujourd'hui la d-marche dont nous sommes convenus hier au 
soir, afin qu 'ils puissent definitivement fixer dans la journee le 
nombre de batimens et la quantite des armes qui doivent etre pretes 
dans 10 jours. 

Je ne vous fais point d'apologie sur mon importunite, puisque 
vous connoissez 1' importance de 1' objet et la presse du terns. 

A vous invariablement 

Miranda. 

P. S. Ci-joint est le maximum de leur demande.* 

Cash 5000, 60 D. 5000.. 90 D. 5000, 12.0 D 5000. 

"* I saw my cooperators yesterday after leaving you, and found them all de- 
cided to carry on without delay this patriotic Enterprize with a zeal truly heroic. 
But as promptness, as well as the extent of the preparations, depends in some 

1806] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 527 

On the back of this letter Mr. King has written 

" Miranda 30 December 1805. Respecting succours ; ansd. 
verbally, that as our Govt, having an opening to do so, had not 
intimated to any of my friends in confidence even that the supplies 
might be made in discretion, and privately, there was a difficulty 
in making the same which would prevent it being done." 

The last letter from Miranda relative to his expedition 
announces his departure. 

Miranda to R. King. 

Off the Hook, 2 of Febr., 9 o'clk. a.m. 
Dear Sir : 

Nous voila hors du port et en compagnie de 180 enfans de Colom- 
bia— une meilleure suite a tous egards que celle qui accompagnoit 
le Vainqueur de Pompe quand Ciceron lui donna a diner dans la 
Ville de Formiae. Que la Providence nous seconde et nous ferons 
mieux peut-etre.* 

Ever yours 

Miranda. 

In an appendix, will be found a paper written by Mr. 
King on March 5, 1806, detailing his intercourse with 
Miranda from the time of his arrival in New York until his 
departure, and also Mr. King's examination before the Judge 
of the District Court of New York by the District-Attorney 
relative to matters connected with sailing of the Leander and 
his connection with General Miranda before the departure 
of the vessel. 

degree at this moment upon the assistance I can provide on my side, I beseech 
you not to neglect today the steps we agreed upon last evening, in order that 
they may be able to fix definitively during the day the number of vessels and 
the quantity of arms that should be ready in 10 days. 

I make no apoligies for my importunity, as you know the importance of the 
object and the pressure of time. 

P. S. Annexed is the maximum of their requirement." 

* " Here we are outside the harbour, with 180 children of Columbia in com- 
pany : a better following in all respects than that which accompanied the Con- 
queror of Pompey when Cicero entertained him at dinner in the City of Formiae. 
May Providence help us and we shall do better perhaps." 

528 RUFUS KING. [1806 

It may be here stated that relying upon the assertion of 
Miranda, that though the Government would not assist, they 
would wink at what was done provided that discretion were 
used in making preparations for the Expedition, friends in 
New York advanced him money ; two small armed vessels 
went out to St. Domingo to enlist men there, and were fol- 
lowed by the ship Leander, in which Miranda and his men 
with arms and munitions of war embarked. Messrs. Ogden 
and Smith, who had been his agents in furnishing the vessel 
and providing the men and arms, etc., were after the sailing" 
of the vessel subjected to a judicial inquiry on the ground 
of an infringement of the laws of the United States ; but 
were acquitted by the jury, as it was not proved satisfactorily 
that the laws of the United States had been broken. While 
the matter was pending in court, the judge refusing to admit 
proof of the connivance of, or the tacitly favoring the expedi- 
tion by the Executive, an attempt was made to obtain the 
interference of Congress to arrest the proceedings, by the 
presentation, in the House of Representatives, of a memorial, 
on the last day of the Session, from Messrs. Ogden and 
Smith, asking for relief from a prosecution in the Circuit 
Court of the United States for the district of New York, " for 
an alleged infraction of the laws of the United States in 
which, if guilty, they have been led into error by the con- 
duct of officers of the Executive Government," etc., thus 
distinctly charging certain officers of the Government with a 
knowledge of the Leanders sailing, time enough to have 
prevented it, meaning more definitely the President. A 
short but sharp debate ensued, the basis of which was a 
denial of the charge, unsupported by evidence and calculated 
not only to incense the country against the administration 
but against the tribunals of justice in which the case was 
pending. Let the case be decided there and not be prejudged. 
If unjustly decided, " then it would be time enough to in- 
terfere." The resolutions below were passed by an over- 
whelming vote. 

" Resolved, That the charges contained in the memorials of 

1806] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 

529 

Samuel G. Ogden and of William S. Smith are, in the opinion of 
this House, unsupported by any evidence, which, in the least de- 
gree, criminates the Executive Government of this country " 
75 to 8. 

" Resolved, that the said memorials appear to have been pre- 
sented at a time, and under circumstances insidiously calculated 
to excite unjust suspicions in the minds of the good people 
of this nation, against the existing Administration of the General 
Government." 70 to 13.— Annals of Congress, 1st Session, 1805, 
1806, p. 1092. 

To close this incident in the life of Mr. King, the details 
of which will be found in the Appendix, the following letters 
are given. 

R. King to C. Gore. 

-- - N. Yk., Mar. 9, 1806. 

My dear Sir : 

Observing the reports contained in the Newspapers respecting 
Miranda's Expedition, and that the equipment of the Leander 
has become matter of judicial enquiry, you may perhaps think it 
irregular that I say nothing to you on the subject, especially as my 
own name has been mentioned in relation to the business. 

It is not new to you that Miranda left England in utter dispair 
of obtaining succor there to enable him to carry into effect his long 
meditated views ; his hopes were that adequate assistance might be 
had here, either directly from Government, or thro' private indi- 
viduals. As soon as I understood directly his object, I at once 
told him that no prudent individuals would engage with him, at 
least that I could not recommend to any of my friends to do so, 
without the countenance and protection of Government, and there- 
fore advised him to proceed to Washington, and to lay his whole 
views before the Govt. This he concluded to do ; and in order 
that the Government might be fully acquainted with the temper of 
England and her Government on the subject of Miranda's plan, 
as well as with Miranda's views in coming to the Secretary, I trans- 
mitted to Mr. Madison a letter that I had received from England 
fully disclosing the same, with a request that after being laid be- 
fore the President, it might be returned to me. This was done 

VOL. IV. — 34 

530 RUFUS KING. [1806 

with acknowledgments, &c, before Miranda arrived at Washing- 
ton. On his arrival there he took an early opportunity of opening 
his whole plan to the Government and concluded by asking their 
assistance, &c. Time being taken to consider the subject, he was 
answered that Govt, could or would not grant the succour he 
demanded, but that private persons might. What is here stated 
of what passed between the Govt, and Miranda rests solely upon 
his report to me, which however I fully credit : my understanding 
being that Govt, would not act, but that it would wink at the 
things being done by individuals. This report being transmitted 
by Miranda to Ogden, Smith and Lewis, the Leanderwas equipped 
and Miranda sailed about the 2nd of February. While the busi- 
ness was going on, he, M., urged me to engage my friends to assist 
by a loan of money, which I decidedly declined, because I be- 
lieved that Govt, would betray those, who should act in the per- 
suasion that they did not disapprove the measure. He wished 
me to converse with his associates, which I also refused. About 
a week before Miranda sailed, he wrote two letters, one to the 
Prest. the other to Mr. Madison, which assure them that he had 
in all things acted according to the intention of Govt, which he 
hoped he had duly or correctly understood &c. Of these letters he 
left copies with me. Three or four weeks after the date of these 
letters, and when Miranda was fairly off, an enquiry has been in- 
stituted and Smith and Ogden have been arrested, as agents in 
this transaction. In the course of the examination, Smith having 
stated to the Judge that Miranda told him that he had communi- 
cated to me his project, as well as what had passed at Washington 
I was called as a witness. My examination was short and pointed 
to Miranda's communication of the expedition. I with others was 
recognized to attend the next court as a witness. The affair has 
created much attention. I understand the general impression is 
unfavourable to the honour of Govt. I felicitate myself that 
the sentiments I entertain of our Chief have kept me within the 
limits of extreme caution. I cannot with honour be a volunteer 
on this occasion agt. Govt., but if I am called as a witness on the 
prosecution they institute, all reserve will be at an end ; the whole 
must be told, and being told cannot leave any doubt of the un- 
worthy conduct of Govt, in this affair. This is entirely confi- 
dential. 

i8o6] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 53 1 

R. King to T. Pickering. 

New York, March 13, 1806. 
Dear Sir : 

Mr. Wolcott some days ago told me that he would write to Mr. 
Tracy on the subject of the Leander & Miranda's expedition, and 
as I presume you would see this letter, and preferred for particu- 
lar reasons, not to write myself, I have said nothing to you of this 
project. . . . 

C. Gore to R. King. 

Boston, March 26, 1806. 
Dear Sir : 

I was really gratified by the receipt of your last letter, for al- 
though I had no apprehension that you had acted incautiously, 
and saw that you had communicated to the Government intelli- 
gence of Miranda's plan, yet it was unknown to me, that you pos- 
sessed their acknowledgment of having received this information. 
Their baseness and meanness seem only to be exceeded by their 
extreme weakness. . . . 

C. Gore to R. King. 

Boston, April 15, 1806. 

. . . We see by the papers that the Government is base and 
mad enough to persist in persecuting the persons concerned in 
Miranda's Enterprise. I cannot but think this is one of the rocks 
on which our chief and his aids are likely to wreck their preten- 
sions to confidence ; and I look with much interest to the de- 
nouement of the business. . . . 

R. King to N. Vansittart. 

Sept. 30., 1806. 
Dear Sir : 

It is a long time since I have had the pleasure of hearing from 
you, tho' I often see your name in the Proceedings of Parliament. 
I wrote to you after Miranda left this Country, acknowledging the 
receipt of your Letter by him, and informing you that I had taken 
the Liberty of communicating it confidentially to the President. 

532 RUFUS KING. [1806 

In consequence, it is believed, of complaints to our Govt, respect- 
ing Miranda's Expedition, a prosecution was ordered to be insti- 
tuted against two persons, charged with having assisted him in 
preparing the same. After a long trial, both were acquitted ; the 
accused are understood to have justified or excused themselves 
by offering to prove that Govt, was privy to their conduct. But 
the Court declared the Statute to be the only Rule for its decision 
and (without enquiring into the allegation of privity) were the 
approbation even of Govt, proved, declared it would neither jus- 
tify nor excuse. Whether the Jury dissented from this interpre- 
tation of the law, or were moved by good-will in favour of 
Miranda's Enterprize, or deemed the proofs insufficient is matter 
of conjecture. The Business has excited a good deal of attention, 
and Govt, has not wholly escaped censure. 

As to the Expedition, after various disappointments, and sev- 
eral unsuccessful attempts, it still continues to be the fruitful 
source of contradictory Rumours. After getting possession of 
Coro, Miranda evacuated it and reimbarked early in August. 
Yesterday we had a Report that he had relanded and was joined 
by a large body of the Inhabitants. The inconsiderable force 
under Miranda's Command, is not sufficient to inspire confidence, 
and however well disposed toward him, the Inhabitants may be, 
they seem afraid to risk the consequences of joining him. If 
your negotiations for Peace fail, I cannot but believe that your 
administration will turn its attention seriously and efficaciously to 
this great object. Were I an English Minister I would not rest 
till the Resources of S. America were wrested from the hands of 
France, for they can no longer be regarded as those of Spain. 
With sincere regard your faithful servt. 

Rufus King. 

CHAPTER XXXIII. 

Tudor to King — Carrying Ice to the W. Indies — Dr. Romeyn to King — Elec- 
tion as Manager of the American Bible Society — King to Romeyn — De- 
clines the Office, though approving the Object of the Society — Action of 
the Episcopal Church to circulate the Bible with the Common Prayer 
Book — Gore to King — Pinckney to London to assist Monroe — King Re- 
ceives Degree of LL.D. from Dartmouth, Williams, and Harvard Colleges 
— Trustee of Columbia College — S. Smith to King — Death of his Son — 
Tudor to King — Failure of Application relative to Ice Monopoly — Specu- 
lations on European Affairs — Williams to King — British and American 
Commissioners said to have made a Treaty — King on an Outrage against 
Personal Liberty, in the Case of Alexander, a Lawyer in N. Orleans 
arrested by Gen'l Wilkinson. 

Wm. Tudor, Jr., to R. King. 

Boston, June 12, 1806. 
Dear Sir : 

Expecting to embark in the course of ten days for England, I 
am very desirous to obtain some letters from you,* of what kind 
and for what purpose I cannot better describe than by asking 
your indulgence while I retail as briefly as possible the motives 
of my voyage. 

About a year since my Brother & myself agreed to attempt to 
transport Ice to the West Indies. Various circumstances had for 
some time previous given rise to this scheme, and we gradually 
convinced ourselves that with proper precautions we might suc- 
ceed. ... It will be readily supposed that no small difficulty 
was encountered in persuading the Governments of the various 
colonies to listen to a plan considered at first as the wildest ex- 
travagance. Indeed I found but three persons in all the Islands 
I visited, who at the first moment embraced the idea and con- 
ceived it practicable. These were Genl. Ennouf, the Gov. of 
* Endorsed, " Ans'd, enclosing letter to W. Windham." 
233 

534 RUFUS KING. [1806 

Guadaloupe, Lord Lavington at Antigua and a planter, a man of 
science, at Jamaica. 

We have obtained from the Govt, of Martinique, Guadaloupe 
& St. Domingo the exclusive privilege of importing & selling Ice 
and fresh provisions packed in the same for the term of ten years. 
In the English colonies we have made only three applications at 
Barbadoes, Antigua & Jamaica. At Antigua ... I had the 
honor of conversing with Lord Lavington fully on the subject ; 
he gave me & the project a flattering reception & told me did not 
doubt I should obtain an act in my favour, but as it must be 
passed with a " suspending clause," coming under the head of a 
" new and extraordinary nature," he would follow it home, to the 
Board of Privy Council, with a particular letter in its favour. 

At Jamaica I conversed with the most influential members of 
the Govt, of the Island. My friends had procured for me, a let- 
ter from Mr. Merry to Sir Eyrecoote, who received me with much 
politeness, though he thought it a "strange thing." As I had 
just received advices, it was in my power to inform him of the 
safe arrival of a cargo of Ice and provisions at Martinique, and 
of course that the experiment was decided. He told me it would 
be a matter of consultation and that he saw no objections. He 
made many enquiries about America and asked me particularly 
after you, telling me he had had the pleasure of dining with you 
frequently in London. 

I saw the most influential members of the Jamaica Assembly 
and they all thought I might confide in the good will of the 
Island towards our enterprise. They doubted, at least one of 
them did, whether I should obtain the act I wanted because it 
could not be passed without the suspending clause, and as the 
Gov't of the Island deny to the mother country the right of con- 
troul, which is given by this clause, they were extremely cautious 
about passing any act that would agitate the question. They told 
me I should without doubt obtain a resolution of the Assembly 
in favour of the enterprise, and a second instructing the agent of 
the Island to back any application I should make at home. . . . 
By the exclusive privilege, I mean exclusion of all individuals & 
vessels except those of the nation by whom it is granted ; so that 
while we open a new branch of commerce to their own subjects, 
we make no interference with their rights, but only ask exclusive 

1806] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 535 

favour as regards all others. We undertook this novel enterprise 
at the hazard of considerable pecuniary loss, and eternal ridicule 
if we did not succeed, and we ask of each Govt, as our reward, a 
privilege for a certain term over foreigners alone. . . . 

From what has been said (I beg leave to add confidentially), 
you know better than myself what would serve me in my applica- 
tion to government. I know I could carry no letters which would 
be of so much service to me. . . . 

With great respect, yr. humb. Servt., 

William Tudor, Jr. 

Dr. Romeyn to Honble. Rufus King. 

New York, July 17, 1806. 

Dr. Sir : 

In compliance with the direction of the Board of Managers of 
the American Bible Society, I have the honour to inform you 
that the Convention which formed that Society elected you one 
of the Managers. 

The Board fondly cherish the hope that this National Institu- 
tion meets with your approbatton, & that you will unite with them 
in their labour of love and work of faith. I need not add that 
your acceptance of the office will be highly gratifying to the 
Board & afford a powerful stimulus to their zeal and activity in 
forwarding the great and good cause of furnishing the destitute 
with the Word of Life. 

I am Dr. Sir your obedt. Servt., 

M. P. Romeyn, Secy &c 

R. King to Rev. Doctr. Romeyn, Sec. 

Sir: 

I have received your letter of the 17th instant, which informs 
me that I have been elected a manager of the American Bible 
Society ; and calls on me to make known whether I accept the 
appointment. The object of the Society's labours well deserves 
and receives my approbation ; but as I am connected with the 
Body of Episcopalians, and the Bp. to whose opinions in matter 
of order and discipline I am inclined to defer, has signified to us, 
that the object whose attainment is the common desire of all 

536 RUFUS KING. [1806 

may be more fitly promoted in the mode he has been pleased to 
indicate, I think it expedient to observe his counsel and to de- 
cline the charge of a manager of the American Bible Society.* 
With great respect & Regards I am, Sir, yr. obed. Servt. 

Rufus King. 

Dr. Romeyn to Hon. Rufus King. 

New York, July 31, 1806. 
Sir : 

The Managers of the American Bible Society most sincerely 
regret that any considerations should have existed to deprive 
them of the aid of your co-operation, & the honour and influence 
of your name, as a member of their Board. Their disappoint- 
ment has its relief, however, in the assurance that " the object of 
the Society's labours well deserves and receives your entire 
approbation." I have the honour to be, Sir your obed. Servt. 

M. P. Romeyn, Sec D. C. 

* In explanation of the above correspondence and of the position taken by 
Mr. King, it may be stated that Bishop Moore was then contemplating and 
urging the establishment of a Society in Connection with the Episcopal Church 
whose purpose should be to print and circulate the Bible and with it the Prayer 
Book. This society was actually formed in 1809, and the First Report of its 
proceedings was made in 18 11. In it occurs the following paragraph : 

" We would beg leave, however, to express the opinion that Episcopalians, 
in their charitable efforts to diffuse the blessings of Christianity, should unite 
the Book of Common Prayer with the Bible. It is certainly the best summary 
of the doctrines and precepts of the Bible that ever was produced : and in the 
spirit of true piety, equally untinctured by enthusiasm on the one hand, and 
lukewarmness on the other, it is superior to all the productions of the human 
mind." p. II. 

In the list of subscribers to this Society, given in this Report is found the 
name of Rufus King, as an annual subscriber of $50. 

Asst. Bishop Hobart in an address before the Auxiliary New York Bible and 
Common Prayer Book Society in March 8th, 1816, says. 

"We, who unite the distribution of the Book of Common Prayer with the 
Bible, advance a step further in this work of Christian Benevolence. We desire 
to make known to all men, not only the Word of God, but the Church of God, 
which we think the Book of Common Prayer sets forth in evangelical and 
primitive purity both in respect to doctrines, ministry and worship. In this 
union of the two objects, so far from being influenced by narrow prejudice and 
illiberal views, we think we follow the method which the Scriptures point out, 
and to which common sense and the natural course of things lead." 

1806] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 537 

C. Gore to R. King. 

Waltham, August 24, 1 806. 

My Dear Friend : 

. . . When Pinckney was named for London, I presumed it 
was merely to assist Mr. Monroe in his Negotiation, but I shortly 
after was told, that He made an agreement with the President, to 
be the resident Minister. Knowing the Number of Dependants 
on him for Subsistence, and having heard, that his Business was 
extremely profitable (some say to the amount of 15,000 dollars 
per annum) I concluded that the motives, which could lead him 
to forego such Claims, in so fair a way of being gratified, for the 
narrow Support of his present Office, must be very strong : and 
probably stronger would not be required to induce an Abandon- 
ment of those Principles & that Conduct which, He must be con- 
vinced, afford the only rational Ground for the Freedom, Honour 
& Interest of the Country. 

I can form no conjecture what the British Ministry will be dis- 
posed to do, under the Circumstances that our weak & pitiful 
Administration have been pleased to place the two Nations. 
Should Mr. Fox adopt the Course, which would seem most natural, 
there can be little Doubt, but our government would as meanly 
retract, as they have unadvisedly hazarded their present system. 
Our Merchants are now trembling at the Expectation of a general 
Peace, which would greatly derange their Plans and Enterprizes, 
as these are founded on the Basis of a continued War in Europe 
for^several years. 

\JThe Conduct of the Democrats in the Legislature, on the 
Governor's Election, was such as to do them some Disservice in 
the public opinion. Sullivan & Austin are endeavouring to avail 
themselves of the Death of the Son of the latter to blacken the 
Federalists and promote their political Views, but I cannot per- 
mit myself to doubt that when a public Trial shall disclose every 
Fact of the Transaction, which led to that event, every man will 
be satisfied, that it was the individual meanness, and base lying 
spirit of old Austin, with respect to Selfridge's professional con- 
duct, wherein Politics or Party were no way interested, that 
produced the Quarrel between these two ; and to the same false 
& dastardly Temper of old Austin, joined to a malignant Desire 

538 RUFUS KING. [1806 

of Revenge at any Expence, but his own personal Safety, will be 
imputed the Destruction of his Son.* . . .~~* 

Your faithful Friend 
C. Gore. 

The Govr. of H. College, on Commencement Day, confer'd the 
Degree of L.L.D. on Judges Marshall, Patterson, & yourself. 

The announcement made by Mr. Gore, that Mr. King had 
had the Degree of L.L.D. conferred on him by Harvard 
College, gives an opportunity here to say that a similar 
honor had been bestowed upon him by the Corporation of 
Dartmouth College in 1802, and by Williams College in 1803, 
as the following correspondence shows : 

Eben'r. Fitch to Rufus King, Esq., L. L. D. 

Williams College, Williamston, Sept. 28, 1803. 
Sir: 

I have the pleasure officially to inform you that the Corporation 
of Williams College, at their late Commencement, conferred on 
you the Degree of Doctor of Laws. Our regulations require that 
a Gentleman on whom a Doctorate in any of the learned profes- 

* C. Gore to R. King. 

Boston, Aug. 5, 1806. 

My Dear Friend : 

. . . Yesterday a Mr. Self ridge, a Lawyer of this Town, having had 
some Difference with Benjn. Austin, in which He had acted with his Charac- 
teristic Baseness and Falsehood, published in the Paper, that this Benj. Austin 
was a Scoundrel, Liar, &c. Austin's Son, a stout young man, armed Himself 
with a Club and went to attack Selfridge ; the latter shot the former through 
the Body, and He died almost instantly. There are various Stories, as you 
will suppose, relative to the Transaction, and unfortunately those only which 
made against Selfridge were detailed to the Jury of Inquest, which were that 
Selfridge fired at Austin before He struck or offered to strike ; while others 
say that Selfridge received two or three blows, and actually retreated to the 
wall, warning his Antagonist, that he would shoot Him, if He persisted, before 
He discharged his Pistol. Endeavour will not be wanting to make this a Party 
Affair, but I think after the first Passions have subsided, it will not be attended 
with the effect expected ; for Ben. Austin's Conduct was base and mean in the 
extreme, and the Son was undoubtedly set on by the Father to beat this man, 
who was feeble and in no degree a Match for the Son at cudgelling. 

Yours truly 

C. Gore. 

i8o6] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 539 

sions is conferred, should have been nominated at a previous meet- 
ing of the Board. You were duly nominated at our Commence- 
ment in Sept. 1802. Soon after it came to our knowledge that 
the Corporation of Dartmouth College had anticipated us in our 
intentions. But the Corporation of this College, duly appreciat- 
ing the eminent services rendered to your Country in your late 
important Embassy to the Court of London, and your acquired 
reputation for general jural and political science, were unwilling 
not to give you this small, but unequivocal testimony of their high 
esteem, repect and friendship. 

With great respect and consideration, I am, Sir, your most 
obedient & very humble servt., 

Eben'r Fitch. 

To this Mr. King responded : 

R. King to Eben'r. Fitch. 

Williams College, New York, Oct. 12, 1803. 
Sir: 

I have had the honour to receive your letter of the 28th, of Sept., 
and I entreat the favour of you to present to the Corporation of 
Williams College my most respectful acknowledgment and thanks 
for the honour it has been pleased to confer upon me : an honour 
which I must altogether ascribe to the indulgent partiality of the 
Corporation, rather than to any acquirements that give to me a 
title to this distinction. 

Be pleased, Sir, to accept my thanks for the polite and friendly 
terms in which you have communicated this act of the Corpora- 
tion, and to be assured of the respect and esteem with which I 
have the honour to be 

Sir, your obedt. & faithful Servt., 

Rufus King. 

The Rev. Dr. Beach wrote to Mr. King, that on August 
4, 1806, he was elected a Trustee of Columbia College. He 
continued to act as such until the year 1824, when he resigned. 

S. Smith to R. King. 

Baltimore, 24 Nov., 1806. 
Dear Sir : 

The shock arising from the loss of my beloved son has been 

severely felt ; indeed, my Dr. friend, I find it difficult to find com- 

540 RUFUS KING. [1806 

fort in my own mind. Your letter has been a balm to my afflic- 
tion. It has afforded that consolation which cannot fail to gratify. 
It gives to my son that character, from a stranger, which his Parents, 
had too fondly cherished as their consolation in their advanced 
age and as the protection to six daughters. They have now only 
one brother, young, lively, amiable, but as all youths of twenty 
are, less steady than when more advanced ; so is he less than his 
brother. 

By the advice of those who have suffered similar losses (for this 
is my first) I am endeavoring to chase away Grief by an attention 
to Business— the mind whenever unoccupied reverts to its loss. 
But I will be comforted, I will find it in the friendship of men 
such as you are, my friend, and in the good qualities of my re- 
maining family. I pray you to present me respectfully to your 
amiable Lady and to believe me 

your friend, 

S. Smith. 

W. Tudor, Jr., to Hon. R. King. 

London, December 3, 1806. 
Dear Sir : 

The letter of introduction you did me the honour to give me 
to Mr. Windham, I left with a card soon after my arrival. The 
apprehension you mentioned in the letter to me, that I should 
find some difficulty in engaging their attention to my application, 
occupied as they were by the events of the war, I have realized 
in some degree. I had one interview with Ld. H. Petty, which 
was attended with a great deal of politeness on his part, but ter- 
minated with the interview. Mr. Windham, I have never heard 
from. I found it necessary to make my application to the Board 
of Trade, and had two or three conversations with Lord Auckland 
and Sir Joseph Banks on the subject and obtained my wish from 
that Board to carry on the enterprise in the form of an order of 
Council. In addition to the events of the war, they have had strong 
contested elections to carry on, so that it would have been un- 
reasonable indeed to have expected their attention to a subject 
of a private nature. 

1806] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 54 1 

W. Tudor to R. King. 

London, December 5, 1806. 
Dear Sir : 

. . . I could not find a person who believed at the begin- 
ning of the war that Prussia would be successful, but that she 
should be overthrown in one battle, that her whole army should 
be captured, her towns taken, her kingdom ravaged and her 
power annihilated in the space of one month, is a calamity that 
no one contemplated. Indeed even for the account of these dis- 
asters, they are indebted to the enemy. Lord Morpeth whom 
they sent to the Prussian headquarters found the army retreating 
after the first battle and he never stopped running not even to 
look behind him, till he got fairly onto the Island. In conse- 
quence they have only had the French Bulletins for information, 
and they have never certainly known to this day, where the King 
of Prussia is, or what are his intentions. As to the King person- 
ally, perhaps no man in Europe pities him, and he furnishes a use- 
ful lesson of what is the result of such conduct as he has pursued 
and such counsels as those of Count Haugwitz and Mr. Lombard. 
The total want of information from the Continent leaves the pub- 
lic nothing but conjecture about the future movements of the 
King of Prussia, of Austria and Russia. In the meantime the 
" Gingerbread Baker," as the caricaturists have called him, is pre- 
paring a new batch of Kings & Knights. 

The dissolution of Parliament has produced a larger majority 
for the Ministry. Mr. Percival and Lord Castlereagh are the 
leaders of the opposition. It is not generally believed that the 
present " broad-bottomed " administration can hold together very 
long. Since the death of Mr. Fox the Grenvilles have had the 
decided superiority. Fortunately this nation are at present war- 
like in their humour. The capture of Buenos Ayres elated them 
excessively. The recent seizure of property at Hamburg has 
made them shrink a little. So long as they continue to keep Na- 
poleon at bay, there are hopes for the future. But in a free 
nation, the materials of faction always exist, and a free and rich 
nation have an unequal contest with the power, the ambition, the 
talents and the despotism of their enemy. They are too easily 
depressed, tho' they are unwilling to allow it themselves, and it 

542 RUFUS KING. [1806 

makes one fearful of the event when so great an effect was pro- 
duced by the late business at Hamburg. If B. dictates a peace to 
them, we must take our turn, and there must be different charac- 
ters at the helm, from what now hold it, to save us from destruc- 
tion. . . . 

With the greatest respect yr. mt. hble. Servt., 

W. Tudor, Jr. 

S. Williams to R. King. 

London, io Dec, 1806. 
Dear Sir : 

I have your letters of 26 & 30 Sep. The Exportation of Grain 
is prohibited, and it is with difficulty that leave is obtained to 
ship seed oats to Ireland ; but I shall endeavour to ship yours in 
2 or 3 of the New York Ships, as Ship's stores or as Clover Seed. 
The Hives &c are not to go at present. I sent Mr. Lyman simi- 
lar Hives a few years ago, which I bought of Wildman in Holborn. 
Mr. L. had them in his Garden at Waltham, one or two years, but 
he found that the Bees ate or stung his fruit so much that he was 
induced to give away the Hives. 

The Newspapers will shew you the rapid Flight of Bonaparte 
to Universal Empire. He may march to China, if he desires it 
and would soon visit you, if John's Ships were not on the route 
or if John would lend him a few, as he intimated to Ld. Lauder- 
dale. Ld. L. was told at Paris that Bonae. wd. furnish soldiers if 
England wd. Ships to conquer the U. S. 

I send you a Pamphlet " The State of the Negotiation," which 
at first was supposed to have been published under the Sanction 
of the Ministers. They say it was not. 

It was reported yesterday that the B. and A. Commissioners 
had agreed upon the terms of a Treaty. They had not on Sunday 
when I saw Mr. Monroe. The B., as you may suppose, do not 
readily consent to a relaxation of the rule of 1756. It is said they 
may relax so far that the landing of colonial produce, securing 
the Duty, & re-shipping it in other bottoms, shall be considered 
as a termination of the voyage, and allow the Importer, or any 
other, to export it to Europe. They may insist upon a Duty 
being laid on the Exports. Entre nous, Mr. M. & Mr. P. asked 

1806] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 543 

me last week whether the Amern. Merchants would be willing to 
pay 2 or 2 J pr. cent, on the Export of Colonial Produce in case 
they could not otherwise agree with the B. Commrs. 

Understanding from them that the Deduction of the Draw- 
back, which amounts to about 1 pr. cent, would not be made if 
Congress chose to discontinue it, I told them that I thought it 
would not be a material objection, as it would be a charge of 
only 1 or 1 J pr. ct. more than the produce now pays on Exporta- 
tion. 

Should they agree to the Duty, Congress will I suspect continue 
the Deduction in order to get as much as they can from the 
Merchants. 

The India Trade may remain as fixed by Mr. Jay. 

The impressment of Seamen & compensation (costs and Dam- 
ages) for the detention of our Ships may rest in statu quo, or be 
reserved for future discussion — a dutch ad referendum. 

The Blockade of the British Isles by Nap's Decrees will have 
no other effect than giving 4 or 5 pr. ct. to the British Under- 
writers. 

If the British can venture to spare so many Troops, they will 
endeavour to take Spanish So. America. You may have to settle 
the Bound, of Louisiana with them. . . . 

I am, Dr. Sir. your faithful Servt., 

S. Williams. 

Aaron Burr's plot to establish an independent government 
west of the Alleghanies, to include a part or all of Mexico, 
was brought to a close by the action of General Wilkinson 
in New Orleans. He had been looked upon as one of the 
leaders and was cognizant of all the plans, but at the last 
moment, whether through fear or loyalty, he caused the 
arrest of Bollman and other agents of Burr. A writ of 
habeas corpus was sued out in the Superior Court, but Gen- 
eral Wilkinson stated that he " had arrested them as a step 
towards the defense of the city, on a charge of misprision of 
treason," refused to give them up and sent them as prisoners 
to Washington. One of the lawyers, James Alexander, who 
had been instrumental in obtaining a writ of habeas corpus, 

544 RUFUS KING. [1806 

by which one of the accused had been liberated, was arrested 
for the act and held as a prisoner.* Under what circum- 
stances, Mr. King was led to express an opinion on these high- 
handed measures, other than as a general disclaimer against 
them, does not appear. But among his papers, is found the 
article which follows, and which clearly shows his view of the 
outrages against personal liberty. 

The baneful effects of Faction are in few cases more manifest 
than in the ease and safety with which the most important prin- 
ciples of a free government may be violated by the Idols of popu- 
lar worship. That unprincipled and ambitious Demagogues 
should endeavour to stir up and alarm the prejudices of the Peo- 
ple, for the purpose of destroying the reputation of their political 
competitors and advancing themselves to Stations of trust and 
honor, is what no man acquainted with the history of past times 
will be surprized at. But that these same men, after attaining 
the object of their immoral ambition, should openly dare to com- 
mit the very offences, which they had falsely imputed to their 
opponents, would seem to be incredible, did we not from day to 
day behold the proofs of the profligate inconsistency. 

All may not, but many will, remember the criticisms and ob- 
jections, the doubts, the anxiety and the fears expressed by the 
Antifederalists, who now call themselves Republicans, on the publi- 
cation of the Constitution of the U. S. In this State, especially, 
the deepest solicitude was manifested lest by the creation of a 
federal city, a federal judiciary, a federal army and other federal 
powers, the civil Rights of the Citizens should be abridged. 
Great and unwearied exertions were made by the Federalists to 
answer these objections and remove these impediments to the 
adoption of the federal constitution, and as the spirit of Faction 
had not at that period acquired the ascendency over men's minds, 
which it now unhappily possesses, these exertions of the Federal- 
ists prevailed and the sober understanding of the American Peo- 
ple approved and adopted the Constitution, which went into 
immediate operation under the auspices of its Framers and 
Friends. To soothe the mortified pride of the Antifederal Lead- 

* Hildreth's Hist, of U. S. 2d Series, vol. ii., p. 612-13. Genl. Wilkinson's 
Affidavits Annals of Congress, 1806-7, p. 1013. 

1806] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE, 545 

ers, to promote harmony amongst the States, sundry amendments 
of the Constitution in the nature of a Bill of Rights were pro- 
posed and afterwards adopted. 

The 5th Article of these amendments declares " that no person 
shall be deprived of his liberty, without due process of Law." 

The 4th Article declares that the persons of the Citizens shall 
be secure from unreasonable seizure ; and that a warrant of arrest 
shall not issue, but on probable cause and supported by an oath." 

The 6th Article declares that in all criminal prosecutions, the 
accused shall enjoy the right of a speedy and public trial by an 
impartial jury of the State and district in which the crime shall 
have been committed, and shall have the assistance of counsel 

transferred the administration from the real friends of Liberty 
and their Country to the men who now so unworthily possess the 
Government. 

It is earnestly desired that the eyes of the motley and stupid 
worshippers of Mr. Jefferson, if for a moment they can be turned 
from the Idol of their false adoration, may be fixed upon the late 
Executive Proceedings, in the arrest, imprisonment, transportation 
and severe secret military confinement of Alexander, Swarthout 
and Bolman ; proceedings of the Executive, unprecedented in the 
annals of a free country, that breaks down the tallest and strongest 
barriers of our Liberties, at the same time that it shews an ineff- 
able contempt for the Constitution, the rights and the under- 
standing of the Citizen, inasmuch as the same has passed at the 
very seat of Government and under the noses of the Representa- 
tives, and Judges of the nation. 

VOL. IV.— 35 

544 RUFUS KING. [1806 

by which one of the accused had been liberated, was arrested 
for the act and held as a prisoner.* Under what circum- 
stances, Mr. King was led to express an opinion on these high- 
handed measures, other than as a general disclaimer against 
them, does not appear. But among his papers, is found the 
article which follows, and which clearly shows his view of the 
outrages against personal liberty. 

The baneful effects of Faction are in few cases more manifest 
than in the ease and safety with which the most important prin- 
ciples of a free government may be violated by the Idols of popu- 
lar worship. That unprincipled and ambitious Demagogues 

For Swarthout read here and elsewhere Swartwout. 

cation or tne Constitution of the U. S. In this State, especially, 
the deepest solicitude was manifested lest by the creation of a 
federal city, a federal judiciary, a federal army and other federal 
powers, the civil Rights of the Citizens should be abridged. 
Great and unwearied exertions were made by the Federalists to 
answer these objections and remove these impediments to the 
adoption of the federal constitution, and as the spirit of Faction 
had not at that period acquired the ascendency over men's minds, 
which it now unhappily possesses, these exertions of the Federal- 
ists prevailed and the sober understanding of the American Peo- 
ple approved and adopted the Constitution, which went into 
immediate operation under the auspices of its Framers and 
Friends. To soothe the mortified pride of the Antifederal Lead- 

* Hildreth's Hist, of U. S. 2d Series, vol. ii., p. 612-13. Genl. Wilkinson's 
Affidavits Annals of Congress, 1806-7, P« 1013. 

1806] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 545 

ers, to promote harmony amongst the States, sundry amendments 
of the Constitution in the nature of a Bill of Rights were pro- 
posed and afterwards adopted. 

The 5th Article of these amendments declares " that no person 
shall be deprived of his liberty, without due process of Law." 

The 4th Article declares that the persons of the Citizens shall 
be secure from unreasonable seizure ; and that a warrant of arrest 
shall not issue, but on probable cause and supported by an oath." 

The 6th Article declares that in all criminal prosecutions, the 
accused shall enjoy the right of a speedy and public trial by an 
impartial jury of the State and district in which the crime shall 
have been committed, and shall have the assistance of counsel 
for his defence." 

These provisions which were already established and recognized 
as law throughout the U. S., if not expressed in the new Constitu-v 
tion, were in no respect impaired by it ; and so long as the Gov- 
ernment continued in the hands of the Federalists, these were 
like every other provision of the Constitution preserved inviolate. 

The present chiefs and favorites of the People, by the aid of 
foreigners, imputed many errors to the federal administration, 
and amongst other false charges, ascribed to them a deliberate 
purpose to abridge, by the sedition Laws, the personal liberty of 
the Citizen. These charges united with others equally unjust 
excited jealousies and fears among the People, who in the end 
transferred the administration from the real friends of Liberty 
and their Country to the men who now so unworthily possess the 
Government. 

It is earnestly desired that the eyes of the motley and stupid 
worshippers of Mr. Jefferson, if for a moment they can be turned 
from the Idol of their false adoration, may be fixed upon the late 
Executive Proceedings, in the arrest, imprisonment, transportation 
and severe secret military confinement of Alexander, Swarthout 
and Bolman ; proceedings of the Executive, unprecedented in the 
annals of a free country, that breaks down the tallest and strongest 
barriers of our Liberties, at the same time that it shews an ineff- 
able contempt for the Constitution, the rights and the under- 
standing of the Citizen, inasmuch as the same has passed at the 
very seat of Government and under the noses of the Representa- 
tives, and Judges of the nation. 

VOL. IV.— 35 

546 RUFUS KING. [1806 

Of right and according to the provisions of the Constitution, 
Alexander, Swarthout and Bolman, admitting even that they had 
committed Treason, could be arrested, tried and punished only 
in the district where the treason was committed. The Federal 
Town is a territory over which Congress have exclusive Jurisdic- 
tion ; its inhabitants are without political rights, being governed 
by laws, in the making of which they have no representation or 
influence. Alexander, Swarthout & Bolman committed no treason 
at Washington and are not liable to be carried from New Orleans 
to Washington for trial, for a crime committed at N. O. As well 
might the inhabitants of New York be taken up by the federal 
officer at Ft. Jay, put on board a Gun Boat and sent by sea to 
Baltimore and from thence to Washington, and be there tried for a 
breach of the Revenue Law, or any other offence against the 
U. S. The one is not a greater nor grosser violation of the per- 
sonal Rights and Liberty of the Citizen than the other ; and any 
argument that would justify the one will justify the other ; none 
however can be offered to excuse, much less justify, either. 

Instead of the persons (charged with treason in a vain, ridicu- 
lous nugatory military declaration) being arrested and pro- 
ceeded against at N. Orleans, where the judiciary is completely 
competent and free from all suspicion of disloyalty, and where 
alone they can be lawfully tried, what has been the course, and 
what have been the sentiments and language of the Centinels of 
freedom on this occasion ? As nearly the same proceedings were 
adopted in all three cases, a statement of the case of Mr. Alex- 
ander, which is the last of the three, will be sufficient to furnish 
an adequate knowledge of them all. It is possible that in some 
immaterial circumstance there may be some inaccuracy, the 
business having been transacted with much secrecy and great 
pains taken to hide it from the public eye. 

Mr. Alexander is a young man of very considerable talents, 
who, if not born, received his education in this City, and is known 
to many of its respectable inhabitants. Being here admitted to 
the Bar, he commenced his practice with reputation and would 
without doubt have arrived at eminence in his profession, had he 
continued to reside in this City ; from which he removed to N. O. 
soon after its cession to the U. S. There his talents and learn- 
ing gave him distinction and he is ranked among the first lawyers 
who practice in the Courts of that District. 

1806] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 547 

Genl. Wilkinson, without the slightest evidence of guilt, but 
with the view, as it would seem of removing this gentleman, who 
was known to be an able lawyer and whose principles would 
oblige him to offer his assistance to protect the civil rights of his 
fellow Citizens against the tyranny and oppression of the military, 
caused Mr. Alexander to be arrested, not by civil process, but by 
the military force acting under a vain, ridiculous, unprecedented 
and illegal military order, and thus having him in his custody 
transported him by sea, and in a course that carried him out of 
the limits of the country, to Baltimore, where by a military force, 
he was precluded from vindicating his rights by an appeal to the 
Laws, and from Baltimore secretly sent in military custody thro' 
the State of Maryland to Washington, and there, by authority 
derived from the President, confined in the Marine Barracks, 
guarded by a military force, and denied all intercourse and com- 
munication with the faithful friends of Liberty and law. While 
this outrageous scene was passing, an effort was made, and it is 
religiously believed at the instigation of the President, to pass an 
act to suspend the Habeas Corpus, not within the District of 
Orleans, not in the Western Country alone, but throughout the 
U. S. — a measure, had it passed, that would have put every man 
in the U. S., who is not ready to fall down and worship the Idol 
of Democracy, in the power of the Executive, which might by an 
order from the Secretary of War, or other automaton Minister, 
have seized any Citizen in any of the States, however virtuous, 
however innocent, transport him to Washington and there con- 
fine him in Barracks or Bastiles, without bail or mainprize — 
without communication with his friends, without any other of the 
supports of life, than those which were scantily afforded to the 
persecuted or to the Mysterious Man in the Iron 

Mask. 

How the Senate of the U. S. could have passed an Act which 
would have permitted such deeds of tyranny, is strange and 
incomprehensible. That body with all its weakness, meanness, 
and subserviency, contains men devoted to the freedom of their 
country and worthy of its highest confidence. The Bill failed 
in the H. of Reps., who in checking this act of tyranny, have 
atoned for much imbecility and folly that had before been exhib- 
ited. 

543 RUFUS KING. [1806 

By some means Mr. Chas. Lee, the late Attorney General had 
become acquainted with Mr. Alexander's situation, and went to 
confer with him in his dungeon ; but the myrmidons charged 
with his custody refused to admit the Minister of the Law to 
visit or speak with the prisoner, and insolently supported the 
denial at the point of the bayonet. These facts were reported 
to the Supreme Court, and being about to become matter of 
investigation, a letter was despatched from the Sec'y of War, by 
whose direction may be guessed, directed to the Officer charged 
with the military custody of Mr. Alexander, and instructing him 
to carry Mr. Alexander before Mr. Justice Ducket, one of the 
Judges of the local court of the federal City. This mandate 
was obeyed, and as the letter contained no charge against Mr. 
Alexander, instead of discharging Mr. Alexander, as it was his 
duty to have done, the complaisant Judge endorsed upon the 
letter that the officer had obeyed his orders ; whereupon the offi- 
cer, well, understanding his part, informed Mr. Alexander that 
since the Judge declined renewing or giving any orders concern- 
ing him, he would no longer be troubled with his custody at the 
Marine Barracks, and accordingly left Mr. Alexander once more 
a freeman. 

The confinement of a citizen without due process of Law is, 
false imprisonment. Due process of Law in cases of imprison- 
ment is a warrant in writing, under the hand and seal of a com- 
petent civil magistrate, expressing the cause of commitment, in 
order that the same may be examined into, if required, by a writ 
of Habeas Corpus. In England by the 31 Chap. 2, C. 2, to send 
a prisoner to Scotland, Ireland, or beyond the Sea, is illegal ; 
and whosoever commits a person contrary to that Statute, is dis- 
abled from bearing any office, incurs the penalties of a premunire,, 
and is incapable of receiving the King's pardon : and the person 
injured has his suit agt. the offender and all his aiders and abet- 
tors ; and shall recover treble costs, besides damages, which no 
jury shall assess at less than ^500. sterling. 

If Mr. Alexander does not pursue his gaolers and all their 
aiders, advisers, and abettors, he merits the scorn of his country 
in addition to all he has suffered. He owes it to himself as a 
freeman, and what is more, he owes to liberty and his country 
the vindictive pursuit of his detested oppressors. For, says the 

1806] LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 549 

learned Blackstone, if once it were left in the power of any, the 
highest magistrate, to imprison arbitrarily whomever he or his 
officers thought proper, there would soon be an end of all other 
rights and immunities. Some have thought that unjust attacks 
even upon life, or property, at the arbitrary will of the magis- 
trate, are less dangerous to the Commonwealth, than such as are 
made upon the personal liberty of the subject. To bereave a 
man of life, or by violence to confiscate his estate, without accu- 
sation or trial, would be so gross and notorious an act of despot- 
ism, as at once to convey the alarm of tyranny throughout the 
whole kingdom ; but confinement of the person, by secretly 
hurrying him to gaol, when his sufferings are unknown, or for- 
gotten, is a less public, or a less striking and, therefore, a more 
dangerous engine of Arbitrary Movement. 

It is evident that this paper must have been written dur- 
ing the discussion in the Senate and House of Representa- 
tives of an act to suspend the writ of habeas corpus for three 
months, probably to meet these cases, an act passed by the 
Senate in secret session, but rejected almost unanimously by 
the House. Messrs. Bollman and Swarthout were dis- 
charged by the Supreme Court on a writ of habeas corpus, 
and Mr. Alexander " without any opposition on the part of 
the government," 

This paper, therefore, properly belongs to the history of 
! 807— as these discussions arose during the early months of 
that year.* 

* Hildreth Hist, of U. S., vol. ii., 2d Series, pp. 625-6. 

APPENDIX I. 

BRIBERY IN POLITICS. 

Although there are no records in the way of letters or 
diary of the time passed by Mr. King in Paris, there are 
some notes which have been preserved and may be found 
interesting. They are taken from Mr. King's Memorandum 
Book, and are headed " BRIBERY IN POLITICS." He says : 

Sir Jno. Dalrymple asserts that Louis 14, by Barillon, his 
Ambassador in England, bribed Sidney, Russell, Hampden and 
other illustrious Patriots of the Reign of Charles II. Mr. Fox 
went from London to Paris in 1802, for the purpose as he avowed 
of examining the Documents in the Scotch College (Barillon's 
Correspondence) to wh. Sir John Dalrymple refers a*nd on wh. he 
grounds his assertions. 

While at Paris he told me that he had examined the corres- 
pondence and was convinced that the Patriots did receive Baril- 
lon's money, and added that he thought them justifiable in doing 
so. Charles II. wished war with France in hopes that this state 
of the nation wd. better assist him in recovering the Prerogatives 
lost in the civil war. The Patriots seeing his views opposed the 
war and the King of Fr. did not wish it. In this state of things, 
it was fair for Barillon to offer & them to take French money to 
be used not for their private purposes, but applied in acquiring 
an influence agt. a war with France. Mr. Fox declared that he 
did not believe that a penny was applied to the private use of 
the Patriots, but that the whole was employed in opposing the 
views of the Crown, and the opposition, being patriotic, he 
thought the receiving French money justifiable. R. K. 

In connection with this, and in corroboration of the re- 
ceived opinion that there was truth in the statements of 

55i 

552 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING. 

Dalrymple, there is an entry in Mr. King's Memorandum 
Book under date of Dec. 28, 1801, which relates to this, 
and also contains a statement of a somewhat similar circum- 
stance in the War of the Revolution of the United States. 
It is headed : 

CORRUPTION — SYDNEY AND BARILLON — Dec. 28, l8oi. 

Dined with Wilberforce — Mr. Otto, myself, with Mr. Wilber- 
force the whole party — Conversation Miscellaneous — Among 
topics, the Papers respecting the time of Charles I. & II. which 
are in the Scottish College Paris were mentioned. Dalrymple 
has given an account of some of these and particularly of Barillon's 
letters and of the money he paid to the great patriots of England. 
Mr. Wilberforce said Mr. Fox was employed in composing the 
history of that period and purposed going soon after the Definitive 
Treaty to Paris to examine these papers. I suggested some 
doubt of the truth of Dalrymple's account. Mr. Wilberforce 
said no doubt was entertained in Eng., that his report was a faith- 
ful one, but some persons doubted whether Barillon, the Fr. 
Ambassador, really paid the money to the persons to whom he 
charged it, thinking it more likely that he put it in his own pocket ; 
that for his own part he was disposed to believe that Sydney and 
the others did receive money from France, not for their private 
purposes, but to support their opposition to the Court, as the 
King certainly did procure money from abroad to enable himself 
to oppose them. Otto said he could entertain no doubt that 
such was the fact ; (addressing himself to me in a low voice as 
Mr. W. slipped into an adjoining room) even some of your 
patriots did the same thing. They applied to us (the Fr. Embassy 
in America) in this way — we can go on no farther without suc- 
cour— our party will fail or lose ground unless supported, &c, 
and what, continued Otto, can a minister do in such circum- 
stances ? he has but one course, he must give money, &c. I did 
not push the conversation any farther, intending to take a more 
convenient opportunity to renew it with Otto. 

It does not appear that this conversation was renewed. 
But it was apparently deemed of credibility — for Mr. King, 
as he has several times said, had a high regard for the in- 
tegrity and trustworthiness of Mr. Otto. 

APPENDIX. 553 

APPENDIX II. 

INTERVIEW BETWEEN GALLATIN AND KING — 1803. 

Mr. Jefferson, writing on Aug. 1803, from Monticello to 
Mr Gallatin* says among other things : 

I hope you will make every possible occasion of getting infor- 
mation from Mr. King as to the views and dispositions of Eng- 
land, and of satisfying him of the perfect friendship of this 
administration to that country. The impressment of our seamen, 
and the using our harbors as stations to sally out of and cruise 
on our own commerce, as well as on that of our friends, are points 
on which he can perhaps give useful advice. 

Mr. Gallatin on Aug. 18, 1803, the same day, not in answer to 
the above,f writes to Mr. Jefferson, giving an account of an 
interview with Mr. King which shows that he was seeking such 
information as was asked for. 

. . . Mr. King seems to think that he might have renewed 
the commercial treaty on conditions satisfactory to America. 
Great Britain has not made any approach of late on that subject ; 
he thinks the Government has not even thought on the limitation 
by which it will expire, and that Mr. Merry will have no instruc- 
tions on the subject. He is of opinion that in the East Indies 
the want of a treaty will not place us on a worse footing ; that 
there is no danger to be apprehended on the subject of provisions 
being considered as contraband ; and that the improvement in 
the West India courts of admiralty will relieve us from many of 
the embarrassments experienced by our trade during the last war. 
The only ground on which he feels any apprehension is that of 
impressments ; and had he not been on the eve of his departure, 
he might, he thinks, have succeeded in making some arrange- 
ment ; the greatest obstacle to this resulted from the prejudices 
of Earl St. Vincent. Mr. King considers the present administra- 
tion in England as the most favorable that has existed or can 
exist for the interests of the United States, but he does not rely 
much on their permanence ; the members who compose it are re- 
spected men of integrity, but have not the perfect confidence of the 

* Writings of Albert Gallatin, by Henry Adams, vol. i., p. 139. 
f Ibid, vol. i., 140-143. 

554 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KINu. 

people, nor particularly of London ; their abilities being consid- 
ered as unequal to the crisis. Mr. King himself, speaking of 
them, whilst conversing of the British manifesto, called them 
" little men." He asked me who was to be his successor ; I 
answered I presumed either Mr. Livingston or Mr. Monroe. 
He said that Mr. L. would do very well, his deafness excepted, 
which was a strong objection. His British Majesty asked him 
twice who would be sent, and expressed satisfaction in case Mr. 
L. were the man ; but when he saw Mr. Monroe's name an- 
nounced in the newspapers for the mission, he inquired particu- 
larly of his character and asked Mr. King whether he had not 
been opposed to him in politics. Upon being answered that 
those differences of politics had only been shades of opinion and 
that Mr. Monroe was a man of great probity and integrity, 
" Well, well, if he is an honest man he will do very well," was 
the reply ; and Mr. Hammond assured afterwards Mr. K. that 
Mr. M., if appointed, would be perfectly received. Yet Mr. K. 
seems to apprehend that there is still some prevention which may 
render his situation less comfortable and his services less useful 
than those of another person. 

I repeated to him verbatim the commercial article of the treaty* 
expressed my wish that it had been communicated to him when 
he made his communication to the British government, and asked 
whether he thought that the article could possibly create any 
difficulty. He answered, without the least hesitation, that it 
could not, that it was perfectly defensible, must be considered 
as part of the purchase money, and expressed his full conviction 
that the British government would not cavil at it. He observed 
that Messrs. Livingston & Monroe had in their letter to him used 
the word "claim " to which, in his letters to Lord Hawksbury, 
he had substituted the word " right." I was almost tempted to 
believe from his conversation that Mr. L. had communicated the 
treaty to him. . . . 

On the subject of Louisiana generally, Mr. King's opinions 
both as relating to New Orleans and the upper Country west of the 
Mississippi, seem to coincide with yours. He hinted, however, 
that more advantageous terms might have been obtained,* and 

*Mr. Cutter in a letter to Dr. Torrey, Washington, Oct. 31, 1803, says 
" The purchase of Louisiana may prove a good thing, and it may be attended 

APPENDIX, 555 

openly said that if our ministers did not think it safe to note 
the object by insisting on a reduction of the price, they had it at 
least in their power to present the mode of payment ; that money 
might have been raised in England on much more advantageous 
terms if the mode had been left open to us ; that Cazenove 
who was Talleyrand's privy counsel and financier must have 
suggested the species of stock which was adopted, &c. He then 
asked me what could have been the reason which induced our 
ministers to agree to make an immediate cash payment for the 
American debts, instead of paying them in stock or more con- 
venient instalments, as the creditors would have been perfectly 
satisfied to be paid that way, and //W object at least did not seem 
to be one on which the French government would insist. I told 
him that I really could not tell, for I knew that mode or some 
similar one had been contemplated by the administration, and I 
had not understood that any explanation on that subject had 
been received from our ministers. On my mentioning that the 
French Cabinet seemed to have believed that the question of 
peace or war was in their power, and that our ministers being 
naturally under a similar impression, might have been induced 
to yield to more unfavorable terms than if they had contem- 
plated war as certain, he observed that on the arrival of every 
messenger from France the correspondence of Lord Whitworth 
and Mr. Talleyrand had been communicated to him by the 
British Ministry, and that by the return of every messenger he 
had communicated its substance to Mr. Livingston, as well as 
his opinion of the certainty of war. We both concluded our con- 
versation on that subject, by agreeing that Mr. Livingston's pre- 
cipitancy had been prejudicial to the United States. And he 
observed that Florida must necessarily fall into our hands, and 
that he hoped too much impatience would not be evinced on that 
subject. 

Mr. King lent me the rescript of the Emperor of Russia offer- 
ing his mediation. It is too long to be transcribed. Although 
he says in one place, " qu'il avait deja charge une fois son min- 
istre de communiquer ses sentiments au Gouvernement Fran- 

with very serious evils. I consider the price much too high, and find that it is 
Mr. King's opinion (our late minister at London) that it might have been 
obtained for a much less price." — Ed. 

556 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING. 

eais sur la n£cessit£ qu'il y aurait de faire diverses causes 
d' inquietude, qui agitaint les Cabinets de V Europe," I should 
think from the whole tone of that document, that he will not 
approve the grounds on which England has placed the renewal 
of the war. 

APPENDIX III. 

This letter would have had a better place among those 
of its date, but it contains a number of interesting details, 
given by Mrs. King, which to her family, at least, will be a 
valuable contribution showing the happy relations of the 
home life. 

Mary King to Charles King, Harrow, England. 

Broadway, New York, December 6, 1803. 
My Dear Charles : 

We yesterday had the pleasure of receiving John's letter of 
17th Sept. written, as I suppose, to come by Mr. Merry, but 
which was probably too late for him and was forwarded by the 
October Packet. I observe that you are again at Harrow and 
continue as well pleased as ever with Dr. & Mr. H. Drury's 
treatment. I hope nothing will occur to interrupt this harmony. 
Pray tell me candidly how you were pleased with the Abb6, and 
whether you think you gained anything while there ; by the con- 
clusion of the approaching holidays, I expect you will be able 
to speak, if not write, French. We often wish that it was among 
the list of possibilities for you to pass the Christmas holidays 
with us, and return again to Harrow. We shall feel your ab- 
sence on this occasion very sensibly, as I may add we do on 
every other. Often indeed in my rambles do I miss the beau, 
who used so patiently and willingly accompany me in my long 
walks to Kensington Garden &c. It is not much the fashion for 
ladies to walk here, and I cause great astonishment in walking 
so much and alone. Pug sometimes goes with me, but thro' the 
summer, it interfered so much with his school hours, and I was 
compelled to walk alone or stay at home. I don't find that your 
Papa's desire of moving has increased much. On an average 
twelve out of the sixteen hours he is up, are generally passed upon 

APPENDIX. 557 

his chair ; as his knee has given him no trouble, I have advised 
his using it a little more, and occasionally he has walked for an 
hour or two, but not often. He has try'd it more while we were 
moving than for a long time before. I believe I mentioned to 
you that we had taken Mr. Livingston's house in Broadway, 
where we removed last Monday week, and are just beginning to 
feel ourselves a little at home. 

Our City again enjoys good health ; the frost, as usual, put an 
end to yellow fever ; and I wish we could flatter ourselves with 
the hope that it would never return. The weather for the last 
two months has been uncommonly fine, and the sun and un- 
clouded sky in the month of November, were rather a novelty 
to me, who from so long an absence had almost forgotten its 
appearance : the Fall in our country is undoubtedly the finest 
season, and more delightful weather could not be experienced in 
any climate than we have enjoyed and are still enjoying at this 
moment; it is more like May than December; very little frost 
and not a flake of snow has yet fallen. Edward has been long 
anticipating the pleasure of a ride in a Sleigh ; for as yet he has 
no idea of what it is. We have had the supreme felicity of a 
visit from Jerome Bonaparte — that is our City — for myself I have 
not had the satisfaction of a single peep at him ; and he was 
pleased to express great delight at the attention he received 
here ; so much so that he intended to make it his residence for 
the winter ; but yesterday I understood he had embarked in one 
of our Merchantmen bound to France. 

Whenever you hear from James pray communicate it to us, for 
I see no other chance of ever receiving any intelligence from 
him ; what the cause is I cannot imagine. Mr. & Mrs. Payne 
are gone to pass the winter at Washington, they did us the favor 
of staying two nights with us in the country on their way thither. 
She is well looking and agreeable and he seems perfectly happy. 
The lady was a widow & had a daughter by her first marriage ; 
she is about five or six years old and a more interesting child I 
never met with. Mrs. Gore's natural fondness is such for chil- 
dren, that I am sure she will attach herself strongly to this little 
girl. 

I have written to Mrs. Gore repeatedly but have not received 
one line from her since July. I intended writing again by this 

558 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING. 

Packet, but I find I shall not have time ; you must therefore 
offer her our most sincere remembrances and best wishes for the 
re-establishment of her health, which with some concern we 
learned had been interrupted by a violent attack of Influenza. 
You cannot confer a greater obligation on me than to evince by 
a scrupulous attention to all Mrs. Gore's requests, a strong sense 
of her maternal kindness ; for in my absence it must be con- 
sidered as such. 

We had thoughts of sending you some apples and cranberries ; 
but on reflection your Papa thinks the latter may be bought in 
Oxford Street for less money than the duty and Custom House 
fees would amount to ; and the great uncertainty of the former 
reaching you good for anything, in addition to the expense 
alluded to above, has prevented our fulfilling that intention. 
You must therefore endeavor to console yourselves with the 
golden pippin instead of those from Newtown. 

Frederick, or little Fitty as he calls himself, has become a great 
chatterbox ; every word he hears, he repeats and he really speaks 
much plainer now than Edward did at three years old. I am 
sure you would give one week's allowance to have a kiss of the 
blessed one ; regularly night and morning he blesses his Uncle 
and Aunt Gore with his dear brothers. Edward talks of finish- 
ing this letter ; but least he should not, begs to join us in the 
most affectionate remembrances to you & John. 

Always unfeignedly your M. K. 

APPENDIX IV. 

By an oversight the following letter has been left out of 
its proper position on page 352. It is important as showing 
that Mr. King positively declined to be a candidate for' the 
office of Governor of New York. 

R. King to A. Hamilton. 

New York, March 1, 1804. 
Dear Sir : 

Since my letter of the 24th (February) I have received yours 
of the same date ; and after maturely reflecting upon the subject, 

APPENDIX. 559 

and consulting one or two of our friends here, I am confirmed in 
the sentiment that I ought not to consent to be a candidate for 
the Governorship, should the federalists think of offering me. 

This being my determination, it is right that I should apprize 
you of it, in order that our friends may not make an offer which 
I should be obliged to decline. 

If you consider to what the office of Governor has been cur- 
tailed, and what in the actual state of parties must be his con- 
dition, if a man of virtue and independence, I cannot but 
persuade myself that you will see insuperable objections to my 
consenting to be thus disposed of. 

With sentiments of Regard, &c, 

Rufus King. 

APPENDIX V. 

LOUISIANA. 

RIGHTS UNDER THE CONVENTION OF PURCHASE. 

In the year 168- Monsr. La Salle coming from Canada em- 
barked at the confluence of the Illinois & the Mississippi, and 
descended the latter River to its mouth. In virtue of this voy- 
age a large tract of Country on each side of the Mississippi was 
claimed and afterwards possessed by France under the name of 
Louisiana. The villages of St. Louis & St. Genevieve on the 
west bank, and Kaskaskia & Kahoka on the east bank of the 
Mississippi were planted in the close of the 17th Century. In 
lower Louisiana, upon the sea coast & its vicinity, French posts 
& settlements were early established as far east as the Apalachi- 
cola, and as far west as Natchitoches. The boundary between 
Florida & Louisiana was for a series of years matter of contro- 
versy between France & Spain, but is understood to have been 
settled between them about the year 1748, by agreeing upon the 
River Perdido & a line from its source to the Alleghany 
Mountains. 

Such was the State of Possessions & claims respecting Louis- 
iana at the commencement of the 7 years war ; In the prelimina- 
ries at the conclusion of which, by the Treaty of 1763, France & 

560 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING. 

Spain ceded & guaranteed to England all the Territories belong- 
ing and claimed by them respectively upon the continent of 
Amer. & East of the Mississippi ; so that in addition to Canada 
& its Dependencies — a subject distinct from that of the present 
investigation — France ceded to Eng. all that part of Louisiana 
wh. was on the East side of the Mississippi (the City and Island 
of New Orleans excepted) and Spain in like manner ceded to 
Eng. Florida. Whatever therefore were the Rights of France 
and Spain in relation to these Territories, and whatever may 
have been their boundaries, England thenceforth became the 
owner & possessor of the whole country (the City and Island 
of N. O., East of the Mississippi excepted). But on the day of 
the date of the Preliminaries, Nov. 3, 1762, by which France 
ceded East Louisiana to Eng., she also by another Act ceded the 
whole country of Louisiana, together with N. O. & the Island in 
wh. the City is placed to Spain. By turning to the Preliminary 
Treaty of 1762 between F., S., & G., it will be seen that these 
cessions to England are correctly stated, and by reading the 
King of Fr.'s, letter dated April 21, 1764, to Mr. D'Abadie, his 
Director Genl. & Commandant in Louisiana, it will also be found 
that the cession to Spain is also correctly stated. This letter will 
be found in the Annual Register Vol. 8., p. 271. 

Suffice it to observe in this place, that the Territories ceded to 
England and to Spain belonged to France on the 3 of Nov. 1762, 
the day of both cessions. All Louisiana was owned & possessed 
by France ; by two acts of the same date, and to each of which 
Spain was a party, France divided Louisiana, ceding and guar- 
antying the Eastern Part thereof clearly & distinctly to England, 
and the Western Part thereof, including the city & Isl. of N. O. 
to Spain. As Fr. owned the whole of Louisiana, if she conveyed 
& with the privity of Spain too, a part thereof by metes and 
bounds to Engd., however vague and comprehensive the Terms 
may have been by which she at the same time conveyed 
Louisiana to Spain, France could not convey nor could Spain 
acquire more than the Residue of Louisiana, after deducting, 
what was contemporaneously conveyed to England. As this con- 
clusion seems too plain to require the production of authorities 
or further illustration, I pass on. The ceded Territories upon 
the East side of the Miss, were afterwards taken possession of by 

APPENDIX. 561 

England. The 4< Special Act " by wh. West Louisiana was ceded 
to France has never been published. According to the letter 
from the K. of Fr. to Mr. D'Abadie, a copy of this Instrument 
was sent to N. O. with orders that it sho. be there enregistered. 
Whether this was done, and whether the Record still remains, are 
matters concerning wh. we have no information ; tho' doubtless 
our Govt, must have ascertained these facts. 

By referring to Hutchins' Historical Narrative and topographi- 
cal Description of Louisiana & West Florida, pub. at Phila. in 
1783, as well as to an extraordinary Publication, entitled Memoire 
Historique & politique sur La Louisiane, (printed at Paris in the 
year 1802, when France had prepared an Expedn. to take Posses- 
sion of Louisiana) it will appear that there was something unusual, 
not to say mysterious, in the delays as well as in the manner in 
which Spain took possession of Louisiana, and one might from 
these circumstances, as well as from the want of publicity 
of the Act of Cession, be lead to entertain Doubts, as it appears 
from Mr. H's. Memoire, that the Inhabitants of Louisiana did, 
concerning the Date as well as the authenticity of this Act of 
Cession. 

Soon after the Treaty of Peace in 1763, and while France still 
remained in possession of New Orleans, and West Louisiana, 
England took possession of all the French Posts upon the East 
side of the Mississippi, as also of the Span. Posts in Florida. It 
was in the Summer of 1763, that East Louisiana & Florida were 
delivered up by France and Spain to England, but it was not 
until Genl. O'Reilley's arrival with 4m. Spanish Troops at N. O. 
July 23 1769, that N. O. and Louisiana were taken possession of 
by Spain ; so that N. O. and W. Louisiana remained 6 years in 
the possession of France after East Louisiana & Florida had 
been delivered up to & possessed by England. These facts are 
established by Hutchins' Narrative, as well as by other authentic 
publications. . 

By the Proc. of Oct. 7, 1762, England established two Provinces 
by the name of E. & W. Florida, Georgia being the northern 
Limits of E. Florida & the 31st degree of lat. the Northern Lim- 
its of W. Florida, and the Apalachicola River the division line 
between them. It may aid the purpose of this Disquisition to 
observe that the Territory of West Florida consisted of that part 

VOL. IV— 36 

562 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING. 

of Louisiana, lying south of the 320 of Lat. and between the 
Mississippi and the waters east of the Island of N. Orleans the 
West, and the River Perdido and a line from its head to the 
Allegany on the east, together with that part of Spanish Florida 
lying between the last mentioned line and the River Apalachicola. 
It may further assist in this Elucidation to remark that the Proc. 
of Oct. 7, 1763, above referred to, restrained the Colonies from 
granting any part of the lands lying upon the East bank of 
the Mississippi and to the North of W. Florida — the same being 
reserved with other lands for the future disposition of the Crown. 

During the American War, Eng. being in possession of the 
Floridas, Gen. Guloeg the Span. Govr. of Louisiana conquered 
the Province of W. Florida, and at the conclusion of that War, 
the Floridas were ceded by Engl, to Spain, & the Mississippi on 
the West & the Floridas on the S. were made the boundaries of 
the U. S. 

It should be here remarked that the Territory on the East bank 
of the Mississippi, once included in Louisiana, ceased, after its 
cession to Eng., to be known or described by that name. From 
that Period New Orleans & the Territory west of the Missis- 
sippi have been called and known as Louisiana ; and no Diplo- 
matic or other public act has from that date given the name of 
Louisiana to any portion of the Territory ceded by Fr. & Sp. to 
Eng. by the Treaty of 1763 ; but on the contrary that since the 
year 1763, an unbroken series of diplomatic and other public 
Acts, comprehending every public Act of the U. S., which has 
had relation to the subject, have uniformly ascribed to Louisiana 
the eastern Boundary assigned to it by the Treaty of 1763, and 
with equal uniformity have recognized & described the adjacent 
Territory east of that Boundary by other names. By the 2nd 
Article of the Treaty between Sp. & the U. S. it is provided 
" that the Southern Boundy. of the U. S., which divides yr. Ter- 
ritory from the Span. Colonies of E. & W. Florida shall be a line 
beginning at the River Mississippi at the 31st degree of No. Lat. 
&c. The 5th Art. again speaks of the boundaries of the two 
Floridas. Furthermore, It is understood (tho' we cannot state 
our information as completely authentic) that the Govt, of the 
Floridas has been confided to the Govr. of Cuba and not to the 
Gov. of Louisiana ; so that not only in name but local Govt., 

APPENDIX. 563 

the Floridas have been maintained as a Territory distinct from 
that of Louisiana. 

How far the Laws of the U. S. may have at any time taken 
notice of or mentioned the Floridas, we have not examined ; but 
there is reason to believe that the Instructions & Acts of the Old 
Congress, as well as the Instructions and other Acts of the Presi- 
dent of the U. S., for a series of years past, have described the 
Territory south of the southern Boundary of the U. S. as E. & 
W. Florida. In a Memoir respecting Louisiana drawn up by 
Chan Livingston, printed in the French language, and presented 
to the French Govt., while he was our Minister at Paris, he ob- 
serves p. 16, " la possession de la Louisiane est neanmoins tres- 
importante pour la France, si elle en tire le seul parti que la saine 
politique semble lui dieter. Je parle de la Louisiane propre, 
dans laquelle je ne comprends point les Florides, parceque je 
pense qu' elles ne font pas partie de la Cession." * 

By the Treaty of 1763 between E. F. & Sp., the navigation of 
the River Mississippi from its source to the ocean was declared 
common to England and France — by the Treaty of Peace between 
England & the U. S. the navigation of the River Miss, was also 
declared common to Eng. & the U. S. ; but as by the Treaty of 
1783, between England & Spain, the former ceded to the latter 
East & West Florida, France having before ceded Louisiana to 
Spain, She became mistress of both banks of the Mississippi, and 
asserted a Right of closing its mouth against the American navi- 
gation. It is needless to do more than merely to recall this sub- 
ject, to the public Recollections, and to add that the Treaty of 
1783 between the U. S. and Spain removed this obstruction & 
secured to the U. S. the free navigation of the Mississippi, to- 
gether with a Right of Deposit at New Orleans for 3 years, and 
afterwards either there or elsewhere on the Banks of the Missis- 
sippi. 

At the Expiration of the Term of Deposit at N. O., new diffi- 
culties arose on that subject & negotiations respecting it were 
confided to Mr. C. P., the Amer. Minister at Madrid. While the 

* " The possession of Louisiana is nevertheless very important to France, 
if she pursues respecting it the only course which a wise policy appears to sug- 
gest to her. I speak of Louisiana proper, in which I do not comprehend the 
Floridas, because I think they make no part of the Cession." 

564 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING. 

Point remained undetermined, Sp. ceded back to Fr. Louisiana, 
including the City & Island of N. O ; and Fr. in the beginning 
of 1802 prepared an Expedition to take possession of the Country. 
Negotiations were now transferred from Madrid to Paris, and Mr. 
Monroe was joined to Chancellor Livingston for the purpose of 
purchasing the City & Island of N. O. This venture was termi- 
nated by the cession of Louisiana to the U. S. ; and the decision 
of the question whether any part of the Territory ceded by France 
& Spain to Eng. by the Treaty of 1763, was ceded by Fr. to the 
U. S. by the Convention of 1802, must determine the validity of 
our claim to West Florida, and the justice of the present pro- 
ceedings to occupy that Country as the Property of the U. S. 

To determine this Question, we must refer to the Act of cession 
from Fr. to the U. S. ; which again refers us, not to the Act of 
Cession of Spain to France, which is not communicated to us, 
but to a paragraph of that Act stated to be dated Oct. 1, 1800, by 
which Spain retrocedes, or cedes back again to Fr. Louisiana 
" with the same extent that it then had in the hands of Spain, and 
that it had when France possessed it, and such as it should be 
after (pursuant) the Treaties subsequently entered into between 
Spain and other States." 

The description of Limits is a triple one, and in order to give 
to it a just and definite interpretation, the several parts must be 
reconciled ; for it is wholly inadmissible that the members of the 
Description of Limits are irreconcilable, or in other words, that 
the extent of one is greater than that of another. This would be 
to assert that Louisiana had two limits, the one greater than the 
other, which would be absurd ; as it would be to assert that a 
Territory may be greater or less than it actually is. Three points 
are then to be ascertained and reconciled. 

1. What were the Limits of Louisiana in the hands of Spain in 
Oct. 1800 ? 

2. What were its Limits when in the hands of France ? 

3. What ought to be its limits pursuant to Treaties between 
Spain and other States after it became her Property ? 

It has been already stated that before the year 1763 Louisiana 
comprehended a large Territory on the east Bank of the Missis- 
sippi, extending from its mouth to the Illinois Country inclusive 
& belonged to Fr — by that Treaty, this part of Louisiana, includ- 

APPENDIX. 565 

ing the Territory of W. Florida, was separated from it & ceded 
by Fr. to Eng. ; contemporaneously with this Cession, Fr. ceded 
Louisiana including the City & Island of N. O. to Spain : taking 
these two Acts of Cession together— wh. we are bound by the 
maxims of Construction to do, both having relation to one sub- 
ject, being of like date and the same parties— it is manifest that 
the Eastern Boundary of Louisiana is established to be the River of 
the Mississippi from its source to the Ocean. Louisiana thus 
denned upon its Eastern Boundary, altho' the Act of its Cession to 
Spain bears the date of Nov. 3, 1762, remained in the possession 
and under the Govr. of France almost 7 years afterwards, Count 
O'Reilley not having arrived until July 1769. At this epoch 
Louisiana thus bounded upon the Mississippi was taken posses- 
sion of and passed under the Govt, of Spain— the adjacent Terri- 
tory to the East thereof being at that time in the possession & 
under the Govt, of Eng., and the southern part thereof having 
been included within the British province of W. Fl. This State 
of possession & of Names continued until the American War, in 
the course whereof Spain conquered W. Florida, and by the 
Treaty of Peace in 1783, England ceded East & W. Florida to 
Spain, the Territory to the Northward thereof and adjacent to the 
Mississippi, having been ceded by Eng. to the U. S. 

Spain took possession of East & W. Florida in the year 
and instead of incorporating them or any part of either of them 
with Louisiana, placed them both under the Havannah. For this 
Fact we refer to a Document in the possn. of our Govt.— a letter 
from the Spanish Minr. Cevallos to Messrs. Monroe & Pinckney. 
This Fact is moreover acquired from other sources of informa- 
tion, as well as from the general Notoriety of the Measure. If 
W. Florida has at no time since its cession by England to Spain 
been reunited to Louisiana— as must be the fact, inasmuch as it 
has been placed under a difft. Govt, and preserved its new name 
—it follows that at the date of its retrocession to Fr. Spain pos- 
sessed it with the same Limits which it had when she first acquired 
it— that is to say, with the Limits assigned to it by the Treaty of 
I763_and consequently with the exclusion of W. Florida. 

The second clause furthermore provides that the Limits of 
Louisiana shall also be the same as it had when possessed by 
France. Nov/ it has been shown that Louisiana while in the pos- 

566 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING. 

session of France had different Limits before the Treaty of 1763 
— Louisiana covered both Banks of the Mississippi, after that 
Treaty it contained nothing except the City Island of N. O. 
upon its eastern Bank. France, as has also been shown, pos- 
sessed & governed Louisiana after as well as before the cession 
of the East Bank to England. 

As no particular period in the possession of France is named, 
according to the Rules of Interpretation in such cases, that time 
of possession must be adopted, by which the two clauses may be 
reconciled. Now as we have shown that the Mississippi formed 
the Eastern Limits of Louisiana at the time of its retrocession by 
France after the Treaty of 1763, it accords with the Rules of 
sound Construction to take this period of the French Possession 
as that referred to in the Act of Cession. By doing so we recon- 
cile the two clauses ; whereas by adopting a Period antecedent to 
the Treaty of 1763, when both Banks of the Mississippi were 
included in Louisiana, we not only render the two clauses incon- 
sistent, but moreover establish a construction by wh. Spain cedes 
to Fr. what does not belong to her, but to the U. S. ; for the 
Kaskaskias & Kahokia, with the Eastern Bank of the Miss, from 
the highest of these Villages to the southern Boundary of the 
U. S. were indisputably within the Limits of Louisiana before the 
Treaty of 1763 — and as indisputably ceded by Fr. to England & 
by England to the U. S. Such a construction would be odious ; 
since we are not at liberty to suppose that one Nation can grant 
what belongs to another. Furthermore the Treaty cedes with 
the same Limits as Louisiana actually had in the hands of Spain, 
and also with the same Limits it had when possessed by France ; 
now, if the Limits are to be in both cases the same, one cannot 
be greater than the other ; this would be to contend that equal 
quantities could be unequal, which is absurd. 

Having given what we have seen to be the just Construction of 
the 1 & 2 clauses of this article, we proceed to examine the 
Import of the 3d clause. The Limits are to be as they ought to 
be according to the subseqt. Treaties between Spain & other 
Powers, France possessed Louisiana till 1769 — the subsequent 
Treaties are the Treaties of 1783 between Sp. and England and 
of 1795 between Spain & the U. S. By the Treaty of 1785 Spain 
acquired W F. : to be as they ought to be according to that 

APPENDIX. 567 

Treaty W F. cannot be included. By the Treaty of 1795 tne 
W. Limits of the U S. are fixed, and the Northern Boundary of 
W. Florida : to be as they ought to be according to this Treaty 
W. Florida is in like manner excluded, both Treaties naming and 
deciding upon W. Florida as a Territory distinct from Louisiana. 
Then as the Treaty of 180 1 did not affect the Rights of the U. S. 
acquired under the Treaty of 1795, in like manner it would not 
affect the Rights of Spain acquired under the Treaty of 1803. 

APPENDIX VI. 

LOUISIANA. 

VALUE OF THE ACQUISITION & EFFECT ON THE 
POLITICAL UNION. 

Nations are not always sensible of those changes which in some 
sort control and fix their destiny : indeed these consequences are 
rarely foreseen or understood, for so limited and imperfect is the 
understanding of even the most enlightened men that it is not 
always easy for them to distinguish events of ordinary import 
from those which overrule and decide the character and fortunes 
of States. Notwithstanding we live in perilous times, and are 
almost indifft. witnesses of the most extraordinary & important 
changes in human affairs, we cannot be wholly inattentive to 
what immediately regards our own immediate interest. Situation 
as well as the Policy adopted by our Govt, clothe with indiffer- 
ence the Politics of Europe, but we all possess a lively regard and 
vigilant attention to what concerns our own country. 

We have recently been informed from the seat of Govt, that a 
Treaty has been concluded with France, by which not only New- 
Orleans but all Louisiana, as ceded by Spain to France, has been 
ceded to us. This information is of greater significance than 
seems to be commonly imagined. The entire and exclusive 
control over the navigation of the Missi. is indispensable to our 
political union ; a treaty which secures this great object is there- 
fore justly regarded with favour. It is proposed to examine the 
merits of the opposite opinions, which have been entertained 

568 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING. 

concerning the best mode of attaining this End. Neither is it of 
importance, in respect to the object of this paper, to inquire 
whether the treaty \vh. has been concluded, has been brought 
about pursuant to the preconceived views and instruction given to 
the negotiators, nor whether it may not have been owing almost 
exclusively to a state of things which could not have been fore- 
seen, and which is altogether foreign and independent of the 
views of our own Cabinet. 

Laying these inquiries wholly aside, it is of importance to look 
at the acquisition we have made and to consider at the outset its 
extent, its use, and its probable effect upon our politi. union. 

i st. The newly acquired Territory, with the exception of the 
Island of N. O., is wholly on the west side of the Miss. & is 
bounded southerly by the Gulph of Mexico, easterly by the Miss, 
in its whole length, and northerly and westwardly by unascer- 
tained lines, separating Louisiana from Canada in the north and 
the Spanish Territories to the west. 

The two Floridas bounded northwardly by the southern line of 
the U. S. and eastwardly and southwardly by the Ocean, and 
westwardly by the Miss. & the Lakes Maurepas & Ponchar- 
train, were never included in Louisiana, were not ceded with it 
to France and still remain Provinces of Spain. As we have now 
added Louisiana to our Territories, the Floridas are now sur- 
rounded by us & the ocean on every side. The Region west of 
the Miss., which has been claimed as within Louisiana is prob- 
ably as considerable as the whole of the U. S. and is reported to 
be superior in soil & climate to the country East of the Miss. 

2nd. The object we desired and were bound to acquire in order 
to maintain the Union of our Country, was the control over the 
mouth of the Miss. ; in other words, we wanted the Dominion of 
N. Orleans. Without this the people living on our Western 
waters must have been under the control of the Masters of New 
Orleans, and to avoid greater difficulties might have been obliged 
to withdraw from our Union & become subjects to another 
Power. If New Orleans and the Floridas had been acquired 
and nothing more, this object would have been attained : in- 
deed the acquisition of N. Orleans wd. have been sufficient, for 
the Floridas would have soon followed, and, without trouble or 
expense, fallen into our hands. It was not Territory for the 

APPENDIX. 569 

sake of Territory, wh. we wanted ; New Orleans in this respect 
is of small consequence, but as the Nation, wh. must possess the 
Domin. over the trade and Navigation of the Miss., its ac- 
quisition by us was indispensable. At a future day the Floridas, 
and especially W. Florida which commands the mouths of sev- 
eral Rivers ascending far within the limits of the U. S., wd. have 
become necessary additions to our Territory. At present the 
acquisition was not wanted, and before it wd. be, Events will 
inevitably occur wh. must change entirely the state of the Amer- 
ican Continental Colonies, and wh. would naturally unite the 
Floridas to our Territories. The inference from this remark is 
that New Orleans alone, or at the most New Orleans and the 
Floridas were all we required to give us the control over the 
Trade and Navign. of the Miss. But we have all Louisiana in 
addn. What is the value or advantage of this acquisition, to 
what use shall we apply it, may it not prove pernicious instead of 
beneficial ? 

The Region is extensive and possesses properties wh. may ren- 
der it more inviting to settlers than the country within our former 
limits. Will you open land offices & sell it or any part of it, will 
you lay it out in new States, will you sell only to yr. own Citi- 
zens, or only to Foreigners, or indifferently to both, will you 
divide the Country into Departments, and appt. indt. Superin- 
tendents and trading houses, will you place Garrisons there to 
protect the settlements wh. have been made since the time of 
Louis, the XIV, will you carry on indian wars with tribes whose 
names and numbers you are yet unacquainted, will you in this 
respect do what neither the Conquerors of Mexico, nor their Pos- 
terity have yet been able to do, reduce to submission the Sav- 
ages within Louisiana, who for more than two Centuries have 
maintained a war with the Spaniards ? Or will you by law pro- 
hibit the migration to and settlement of the People beyond the 
Miss. : are you willing to do so, and if so, will you (be) able to 
adhere to this System ? Will you post a cordon of Troops upon 
the Bks. of the River with orders to stop emigration and to 
remove the settlers who shall pass ? 

It is true that the Proprietors of new Lands in every part of 
the Union may be in favour of this Prohibition, as the opening 
of new and better Lands West of the Miss., and in the vicinity 

570 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING. 

of the Spanish mines, may depreciate the Lands which wd. other- 
wise be sold and settled within the U. S. 

But you encourage emigration, and invite the unhappy of other 
countries to fly hither for repose. Will they be content with 
these prohibitory laws, operating in favor of the few ; will not 
these be joined by others whose voices may be as loud as those 
of the landholders, & will not the spirit of speculation, to which 
neither lands nor seas afford limits, be awakened to fix itself 
upon this Western region ? In short so long as this Region be- 
longs to us, shall we not be engaged in a perpetual conflict con- 
cerning its defense or its settlement ? 

The Territory is of value for settlement or solitude, or we 
ought not to possess it. Of what value can it be as a solitude ? 
As long as it is our Territory we can prevent its settlement, if 
deemed advisable : if it be of no worth to settle, it is an affair 
of importance that we can prevent its settlement by others. If 
the country be such as it is represented, either France or Eng- 
land might plant colonies there deriving the greater part of the 
settlers out of the U. S. Our population would not only be 
drawn away but it wd. contribute to raise up a dangerous Rival 
on our Borders. Two remarks may be made by way of reply : 
first no European Nation will long maintain a Colony on the 
Continent of America ; were it necessary to adduce the grounds 
of this assertion, they could be readily exhibited. 

2nd. Were it otherwise, no colony can be planted upon the 
Waters of the Miss. wh. wd. not be controlled by the Power 
commanding the mouth of the River. The same embarrassment 
wh. we lately experienced wd. be felt by any such colony wh. 
would bear the same relation to the Power, which should be 
Master of N. Orleans, that our Western states wd. have borne 
towards France had she prosecuted her Louisiana colony. 

The result is that little or no danger could have been appre- 
hended from the colonization of Louisiana by any for. Power, 
the U. S. being Masters of New Orleans, and consequently that 
the Dominion of the Country, for the purpose of preventing its 
settlement, is of no value. 

But why should we not settle the country ? A single or simple 
Govn. can exist only over a confined Territory ; but our federal 
system may suit extensive and remote Regions. The experi- 

APPENDIX. 571 

ment has already combined distant Territories and may unite 
regions still more distant ; who can mark the limits of the fed- 
eral system ? Or say it may not be carried far beyond any 
notions that we have entertained in reference to political associ- 
ations of a character materially different ? 

This Enquiry opens too wide a range for present discussion. 
Suffice it to remark that Experience alone is the safe guide in 
human affairs and wanting that, if want we do, prudence should 
restrain us from rash experiments. A little common sense and 
common experience will be our best monitors. These admonish 
us that we have already a sufficiently extensive Empire ; our 
new settlements have been created out of the Resources of the 
old, as well as protected and defended by their power. Perhaps 
we have seen the worst of Indian wars and those Burthens un- 
avoidably incident to these remote and detached settlements — 
nurtured by the old States, the new ones begin to taste the bless- 
ings of order and Govt., and are growing willing, as well as able, 
to contribute to their support : property is acquiring a fixed and 
reasonable value, founded upon the neutrality of supply and 
demand. But if in this promising state of things you throw 
open the acquired Territory of Louisiana, and thereby invite to 
its settlement, the scene is changed ; new lands throughout the 
U. S. will become of little value ; those which have been sold to 
settlers will be given up & never paid for, and the Purchasers 
will, from a spirit that has shewn itself from the earliest settle- 
ment of the Country, march westward in pursuit of Regions 
better than those they leave behind or pass over. Is this no 
injury to the present landholders, will this work no change in 
our social condition ? 

APPENDIX VII. 

CESSION OF LOUISIANA. 

THE PRICE, MERITS OF NEGOTIATING MINISTERS, AND 
POLICY OF PURCHASE. 

Certain reflexions are suggested by the temper with wh. the 
Country has received the information of the Cession of Louisiana 
to the U. S., a measure that in no point of view in which it may 
be considered, can be regarded as indifferent. The Public 

572 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING. 

seems to have stopped short of the most import, considn. in 
relation to the cession and to have employed itself with inquiries 
respecting the Price of the Cession, the respective merits of the 
Ministers employed to effect it and the Policy of the Govt, in 
resorting to negotiation in preference to another course that was 
recommended. These points tho' of secondary consequence 
deserve examination, each of them with a reference to the 
avowed Principles of our Executive. Beginning with the last, 

It is the natural result of a plan, having regard to the existing 
state and probable course of affairs, which ought to decide its 
merits. The interposition of a cause, wholly unforseen, which 
operates favorably, adds no merit to the plan, any more than 
the like cause operating unfavorably wd. detract from it. The 
Peace of Europe had been recently concluded when Mr. Mon- 
roe's mission was projected, and it may with confidence be 
asserted that no expectation was entertained either here or 
abroad, that it wd. be so soon interrupted. On the contrary it 
is known that the whole scope of the Instructions was founded 
upon the presumed continuance of Peace in Europe and the 
opinion that France thus at peace, our Envoys wd. be able to 
affect the Relinquishment of the Project of colonizing Louisiana, 
and the cession of New Orleans and the Floridas to us. 

The question of the merits of the Project being therefore on 
this point, wd. or wd. not the Envoys have obtained the Relin- 
quishment of the Expedition and the cession of New Orleans & 
the Floridas, had the peace between Fr. & Eng. continued ; in 
other words, would the Expedition which was about sailing from 
Holland to Louisiana have remained in Port, had not the fear of 
the Eng. fleet kept it there. 

As some criterion to form a right Judgment on this point we 
may be assured that the mission of Mr. Monroe was known in 
France several months before his arrival there ; the Despatches 
of Mr. Pynchon have seasonably and fully apprised his Govt, of 
its object as well as of the means by which it was expected to be 
attained ; that reiterated and vigourous remonstrances agt. the 
Expedition were made by our Ambassador, Mr. Livingston, be- 
fore Mr. M.'s arrival ; that the memorials and memorialists were 
alike disregarded, and equally so in any former missions to 
France, that the idea of selling Louisiana to the U. S. was treated 

APPENDIX. 573 

with ridicule and contempt and likened to what was termed the 
base conduct of Charles the 2nd who sold Dunkirk to France ; 
that the Expedition was hurried on, Mr. Livingston was plainly- 
told that it wd. proceed and that in regard to our claims of a 
Deposit at N. O., Bernadotte wd. be immediately despatched as 
Envoy to Washington ; and that, as soon as the Prefect of Louis- 
iana and the Envoy had reached their posts, made the requisite 
Enquiries on the spot respecting our claims, and sent their Re- 
port to Paris, an answer would be given to us ; and until the war 
with Engd. became inevitable no single circumstance occurred 
to afford the slightest ground of hope that France would listen 
for a moment to the Proposal of our Envoy. 

Upon these facts all impartial men must perceive that had 
peace continued, the mission would have totally failed, and that 
the relinquishment of the French Expedition to Louisiana and 
its cession to us, is solely to be ascribed to the war with England. 

In regard to the respective merits of the Envoys, in negotiating 
and signing the Treaty, the statement already made seems suffi- 
ciently to point out the influence that prevailed with France to 
give her Consent ; and when it is added that the overture to cede 
Louisiana came from France and not from our Envoys, it can- 
not be difficult to settle the partition of Praise between them. 
Yet it is due to the character of Mr. L., whose zeal upon this 
subject had prompted him to use unwearied and various exer- 
tions to convince France of the impolicy of the Expedition to 
Louisiana, to declare that their business was so far settled before 
Mr. M.'s arrival at Paris, that nothing remained for him to do 
when he appeared there, but to give his consent and signature 
to the contract. 

As to the price, tho' perhaps this also is open to fair objections 
— and to very strong ones on the avowed principles of the Ex- 
ecutive respecting the increase of the public Debt — it must be 
admitted in regard to the Public welfare that these objections 
are inferior to all others that arise in the examination of this 
important transaction. 

If France was compelled by the war with Eng. to suspend or 
relinquish the projected Expedition, this circumstance secured 
to us almost every advantage we could desire in pressing France 
and Spain to consent to such an arrangement respecting New 

574 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING. 

Orleans and the free navigation of the Miss., as we had a right 
to demand. 

The Debates of the Br. Parliament upon the Treaty of Amiens 
had shown the strong aversion of Eng. to the occupation of 
Louisiana by France, and must have satisfied both France and 
America that, unless vanquished, Eng. wd. not consent to 
Louisiana being colonized by her Rival. 

So far as Title was the object, we already had it by the Treaties 
with G. B. & Spain ; for the Right of Deposit at N. O., obtained 
by the Span. Treaty, reserved a power to Spain within a limited 
time to discontinue this Right at N, O., assigning an equivalent 
Deposit at another place, yet the time, within which this change 
might have been made, elapsed without its being done, and in 
consequence thereof the Right of Deposit became absolute and 
unchangeable ; so that France who reed, the cession from Spain 
posterior to the Treaty with us, took it subject to our Rights 
under an elder treaty. 

So far then as respects the Right of Deposit at New Orleans, 
and the navigation of the Miss., the case stood thus : we had as 
complete a title to the enjoyment of these Rights, as to the De- 
posit at New York and to the Navigation of the Hudson ; but 
being menaced with an interruption of the Right of Deposit, we 
sent a mission to effect a removal of unjust Impediments, and 
the question of how much or how little money ought to be given 
upon a mere mercenary calculation — (laying aside wholly the 
principle of honour, the only one worthy of being consulted in 
* regard to the invasion of an important natural Right) is perhaps 
on the view of the subject we have taken not very difficult to be 
determined, as it is believed that very few wd. be found who 
under the known & favourable circumstances of the negotiation 
wd. have consented to a larger sum than Congress deemed suffi- 
cient when those Circumstances were unforseen. 

Whether it wd. not have been more natural as well as econom- 
ical to have given money to France and six per cent, to our own 
citizens whom we are to pay what France owed them instead of 
the inversion of this course, can admit of no sort of doubt : that 
the mode which has been preferred is both bad economy and in 
other respects injudicious might be easily demonstrated. 

The observations made in a former Paper were calculated to 

APPENDIX. 575 

shew that the Cession of Louisiana (regarded as a confirmation 
of our Right to navigate the Mississippi, and as a conveyance of 
New Orleans in Sovereignty instead, as a confirmation of our 
Right to use it as a free Port) ought not to be considered as 
what men of Business call a good Bargain on our side ; that the 
overture to sell came from France, when by reason of the war 
which had become inevitable, she was obliged to relinquish her 
plan of colonization, and consequently that the respective friends 
of the Envoys have no room to contend for an unequal division 
of credit between them ; and that the cession which has been 
made so far from conforming the Policy of the Mission to France, 
may, if considered in reference to the condn. of France at the 
date of the Negotiation, be regarded as proof of the Superior 
wisdom of those who recommended a different course. 

Before we proceed in the examination of the Policy of our ac- 
cepting the Cession of Louisiana it may be proper to enquire 
whether the President's views and Ins. to the Envoys were direct- 
ed to the acquisition of the country beyond the Miss., or whether 
the proposal to annex this immense Region to the U. S. did not 
for obvious or concealed reasons originate with France. Altho' 
we have not seen the Instructions to the Envoys, nevertheless 
sufficient has elapsed to disclose in various ways whatever may 
have been the President's private sentiments (of which we profess 
to be ignorant) that the Envoys had neither Instructions nor 
Power to ask for or receive an acre of Land.* 

APPENDIX VIII. {to Page 4.07.) 

HAMILTON'S ESTATE. 
O. Wolcott to R. King, Hartford. 

New York, July 12, 1804. 
My Dear Sir : 

I addressed a line to you yesterday, but I suppose it to be my 
duty to inform you that our friend Hamilton expired to-day about 
2 o'clock. The feelings of the whole community are agonized 
beyond description ; for the first time Envy is silent ; all remem- 
ber with gratitude the talents and services of the deceased Hero, 

* This ends abruptly — The Sequel is not among the papers. — Ed. 

576 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING. 

and mourn the untimely end of the pride and ornament of our 
Country. 

Our friend fell by the first fire. The ball passed through one 
side and lodged in or near the spine. He was brought to his 
friend Mr. Wm. Bayard's house and the few hours of life and 
reason which remained were chiefly spent in religious Exercises. 

Present my condolence to Judge Benson and rest assured of 
the high esteem and attachment of Dr. Sir 

Your faithful 

O. W. Wolcott. 

O. Wolcott to R. King, Boston. 

New York, Aug. 14, 1804. 
Dear Sir : 

I inclose a memorandum of the subscription here : no person 
has been solicited and many persons who will doubtless subscribe 
are out of town. I have heard it said by those who know the 
opinion of the city that about $30,000 may be expected. 

A diversity of opinion exists in Phila. respecting the course 
proper to be pursued. Mr. Lewis, Mr. Rawle, Mr. Tilghman, Mr. 
Wain, and Mr. Girard are a committee of a select number of gen- 
tlemen to consider and recommend what they ought to do. I 
know nothing of the nature of their difficulties. From Baltimore 
nothing of consequence is to be expected. 

This is certain that it will require considerable management to 
render Genl. Hamilton's Estate Solvent. Genl. Schuyler can 
doubtless borrow money, but of what advantage would it be to 
increase a mass of unproductive property and diminish the sources 
of immediate income ? But it is unnecessary to reason on a 
question of this nature. Those who are to consider it are good 
judges of what is proper. 

I shall leave this place in a few days for Connecticut to attend 
upon Mrs. W. whose health is feeble. If you have occasion to 
write on this subject, a letter to Mr. Gracie or Genl. Clarkson will 
be immediately attended to. 

With high esteem &c, 

O. W. Wolcott. 

In a postscript, Mr. Wolcott sends a list of the subscribers all 
well known New Yorkers, with the amount each contributed — 

APPENDIX. 577 

There are eight for $1000, each, among whom is Mr. King, one 
for $750, eleven for $500 each, a number for smaller sums, 
amounting in all to $16,100. — These names are all of leading citi- 
zens and friends of Genl. Hamilton. 

O. Wolcott to R. King. 

New York, Aug. 14, 1804. 
Dear Sir : 

I wrote you yesterday, but having since had an interview with 
Genl. Clarkson and Mr. Gracie, I am able to state further par- 
ticulars. Genl. Schuyler's property has probably been overrated. 
It is certain he owes money and has no funds at command. Every 
vestige of our friend's earnings will vanish unless the proposed 
contribution is successful. The country seat is secured for the 
indemnity of the endorsers of discounted paper, which amounts 
to $20,000. Mrs. Hamilton's attachment to this country seat you 
well know. The necessity of selling it would excessively distress 
her. I am now assured that the suggestions which some persons 
have made that the family would be offended are utterly without 
foundation : that on the contrary they will consider pecuniary 
assistance under their present circumstances as in justice they 
ought, merely as a manifestation of the gratitude and respect of 
the contributors to the character of the Deed. 

Alexander, son of the Genl. was graduated the first of this 
month. He was destined by his father for a merchant. On many 
accounts it will be best that he receive his education for this pro- 
fession out of the city. I pray you to inquire whether a respecta- 
ble place can be obtained for him in Boston. He is now about 
18 years of age. I make this request on the suggestion of the 
family. 

With highest esteem &c, 

O. W. Wolcott. 

APPENDIX IX. TO P. 485. 

MIRANDA AND THE SAILING OF THE LEANDER. 

There is among Mr. King's papers an account of his relations 
with Miranda, in reference to his plans and conduct in arranging 
for and carrying out his Expedition, which as is well known 

VOL. IV. — 37 

578 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING. 

sailed from New York, and for many reasons, (one of the chief 
of which was Miranda's unfitness to command such a venture) 
failed and was disastrously broken up. There was published in 
Boston, (a second edition in 1810), an account of the Expedition 
in a series of letters, written by a member of the expedition, de- 
tailing the daily events, the causes of failure and the capture of 
most of those engaged in it. Mr. King's account is as follows : 

General Miranda arrived at New York from England Nov. 9th 
1805, and the next day called on Mr. King, whom he had known 
in London, and delivered to him a letter from a respectable Eng- 
lish gentleman dated Aug. 14, 1805, of which the following are 
extracts.* 

The General's communications to Mr. King corresponded with 
the tenour of the foregoing extracts ; and he further stated that 
the Province of Caraccas, his native country, was suffering be- 
neath the most oppressive tyranny, that the Inhabitants, were 
generally disaffected, that they were ready to throw off the Span- 
ish Government and invited him to return and co-operate with 
them in asserting their liberty and independence, and that he had 
come to the U. S. to obtain the requisite succours to enable him 
to effect the Revolution. 

Mr. King told Gen. Miranda that private persons, whatever 
might be their sentiments concerning the enterprize in which he 
was engaged, could not with safety afford him the assistance he 
wanted, as the U. S. was at peace with Spain, and the laws pro- 
hibited the setting on foot of an Expedition of this nature, and 
recommended to him without delay to proceed to Washington 
and lay open his views to the Government. 

At a future interview General Miranda informed Mr. King that 
he had disclosed his object to Commodore Lewis and Col. Smith 
who had made him acquainted with Mr. S. G. Ogden ; that Og- 
den and Lewis owned two or three stout armed ships, that they 
entertained sentiments favourable to his purpose, that if he had 
friends he could soon procure the men ancl arms he wanted, and 
with this succour that he should command a force superior to 
that which Dion possessed when, with Plato's approbation he re- 
turned to Syracuse, his native City, and overthrew the Tyrants. 
Mr. King repeated to Gen. Miranda that he ought to consult the 

* These are omitted as they are from Mr. Vansittart's letter. 

APPENDIX. 579 

Government before he attempted anything ; that however true 
it was, that all Greece applauded the enterprize of Dion, and its 
wisest citizens assisted or accompanied him, neither men, nor 
States, nor the discipline and devotedness of Freedom were the 
same now as then ; that we possessed as little of the purity of 
ancient Patriotism as of its invincible courage aud tho' there was 
a time when it might have been both safe and honourable to 
have erred with Plato, those days were gone, and a mere regard 
to personal safety with the coldest and lowest calculations of 
prudence had become virtues of higher rank than those which 
once animated the Sages of antiquity. 

General Miranda afterwards informed Mr. King that he had 
concluded to go to Washington and to lay open his intentions to 
Government, and asked Mr. King to give him a letter of intro- 
duction to the Secretary of State, which was declined. 

General Miranda having determined to ask the countenance 
and succour of Government, with the view of apprizing the Pres- 
ident of the General's actual situation, as well as of the purpose 
for which he came to the U. S., Mr. King transmitted to the Sec- 
retary of State for the President's perusal, the original letter that 
he had from England disclosing Miranda's views. Mr. King's 
letter was dated Nov. 26, 1805, the Secretary of State's letter 
returning the enclosure after the same had been perused by the 
President was dated Dec. 4, 1805. 

General Miranda left N. Y. for Washington Nov. 28, arrived 
there Dec. 6, left it Dec. 20, and returned to N. Y. Dec. 23, 1805. 
He informed Mr. King that, immediately after his arrival at 
Washington, he visited the President ; after which he visited the 
Secy, of State, and left his address with a letter of introduction 
from Dr. Rush of Philadelphia ; that at the interview which fol- 
lowed he informed the Secy, of State that he had desired to 
make an important and confidential communication to the Gov- 
ernment as soon as the President should permit it to be received ; 
that at a future interview the Secy, of State informed him that 
having consulted the President he had been authorized to receive 
his communications ; that General Miranda then opened to the 
Secretary of State his object in coming to the U. S., exposed the 
condition of the Province of Caraccas, the general discontent of 
its Inhabitants and the ease with which it might become indepen- 

580 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING. 

dent, and concluded by asking the countenance and succour of 
the Government. The manner and tenour of the observations 
made by the Secretary of State on this occasion were considered 
by M. as encouraging and satisfactory. 

That at a subsequent interview the Secretary of State, who" 
seemed more reserved than before, informed Gen. Miranda that 
he had communicated to the President what had passed in their 
preceding conference, that the President's sentiments could not 
be doubted, but that Government could afford neither sanction 
nor succour to the enterprize in which he was engaged. 

General Miranda remarked that without the countenance of 
Government individuals might be unwilling to assist him ; the 
Secretary replied that the U. S. was a free country, where every 
one may do what the laws do not forbid. Genl. Miranda ob- 
served that the Bill then depending, prohibiting the exportation 
of arms and ammunition, might impede his measures. The 
Secretary answered that the Bill might not become a Law. 

General Miranda said he had conferred with certain persons in 
New York respecting his views and if Government would pri- 
vately make him a small advance, he might with their assistance 
find the supplies he wanted. The Secretary replied that the 
merchants would advance money whenever they became satisfied 
that they had an interest in doing so, and enquired what supplies 
he might want, and who were the Persons with whom he had 
conferred. General Miranda answered that he wanted a few 
officers, a small number of privates, together with a quantity of 
arms and ammunition, and that he had conferred with Commo- 
dore Lewis, Col. Smith and Mr. S. G. Ogden. The Secretary 
expressed himself favourably concerning the fitness of these per- 
sons for the Expedition, adding in reference to Lewis and Ogden, 
that it would be better than the St. Domingo trade, and that Col. 
Smith was more qualified for military service than for the Cus- 
tom House, f General Miranda said that Col. Smith would go 
with him, if he could have leave of absence, which he regarded 
should be granted under the pretext of having business at New 
Orleans. The Secretary replied that such permissions were un- 
usual— and the conference ended with an intimation on the part 
of the Secretary of State that whatever might be done should be 
f He was an officer in that at New York. 

APPENDIX, 581 

discreetly done and with the understanding on the part of Mir- 
anda, that altho' the Government would not sanction, it would 
wink at the Expedition. 

Miranda remained at Washington 14 days, dined twice with 
the President ; the second time being after the Secretary of State 
had laid before the President the communication received from 
Gen. Miranda. He also dined with the Secretary of State the 
day before he left Washington — having waited there two days to 
attend the dinner. 

As soon as General Miranda returned to N. York, he settled 
his plan with Commodore Lewis, Mr. Ogden and Col. Smith. 
Commodore Lewis sailed soon after for St. Domingo, with two 
armed ships, the Emperor and the Indostan, with instructions 
from Miranda to engage the mulatto Chief Petion together with 
a corps of persons of colour to co-operate in effecting the Revo- 
lution of the Province of Caraccas. General Miranda, his asso- 
ciates American Officers and Privates, together with a supply of 
arms and ammunition followed in the ship Leander commanded 
by Captain Lewis, brother of the Commodore. 

After Miranda's return from Washington, he stated to Mr. 
King his apprehensions that he should be embarrassed from the 
want of funds, and requested that Mr. King, thro' his friends, 
would endeavour to effect a loan for him, which in addition to 
other means might be sufficient to carry his preparations to a 
pitch that would render his success infallible. 

Mr. King explained to Miranda, in declining his request, the 
reasons why it would be unfit and inexpedient in him to take any 
part in, or in any way promote the enterprize in which he was 
engaged. Mr. King did not however hide from General Miranda 
the cordial interest that he had long cherished in favour of the 
Emancipation of South America, nor did he conceal the hope he 
entertained and which arose out of the posture of public affairs, 
and his opinion respecting the true political and commercial sys- 
tem of this Country, as Spain had given to the U. S. just, cause 
of war, that the power and resources of the nation would be em- 
ployed in breaking asunder the weak and degrading chains which 
for more than three centuries had bound the new world to the old. 
Of funds without which he could not proceed, Miranda re- 
marked, that his chief and best property consisted of the exten- 

582 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING. 

sive and valuable Library with which Mr. King was acquainted, 
and that he would try to raise money upon it. If he succeeded 
in the Enterprize to which he had devoted himself, he should be 
able to redeem this Library ; if he failed he should not want it ; 
he added that on this principle, he would draw Bills for ^.2000. 
Sterg. on persons in London, whom he named, and in whose 
care he left his Library and other effects, and requested Mr. 
King to express his opinion of the value of the Library to any 
person who might call upon him to ask it. Soon after Mr. 
Daniel Ludlow called on Mr. King and enquired of him respecting 
Miranda's property in England, Mr. King answered that he knew 
of no property belonging to him, except a valuable Library that 
he possessed when Mr. King left England. Mr. Ludlow asked 
Mr. King if this Library was worth ^2000. Sterling ; Mr. King 
answered that in his opinion it was worth that sum and more. 
Mr Ludlow asked Mr. King if he knew the persons whose names 
he mentioned on whom Miranda had drawn for ^2000. Ster. Mr. 
King answered in the affirmative, and that they were friends of 
Miranda. Mr. Ludlow then asked Mr. King if he would purchase 
Miranda's Bills were he in want of Bills on London ? Mr. King 
replied that were he in want of Bills he should not trust his own 
judgment but consult with Mr. Ludlow or some other merchant 
respecting such as might be offered to him. 

Mr. King afterwards understood from General Miranda that 
Mr. Ludlow had purchased the Bills, and that the General had 
pledged the Library to the Drawers as a security for the repay- 
ment of the money. 

About this time, or earlier, Miranda told Mr. King that he was 
sending an agent to Boston for the purpose of raising money and 
asked him to furnish the agent with a letter of introduction to 
one of his friends in Boston ; this was declined, and Mr. King 
afterwards understood from Miranda that the mission proved 
ineffectual. 

General Miranda informed Mr. King that in addition to the 
^2000. drawn on the security of his Library, he had drawn on a 
Banker in London for what he had not expended of a letter of 
credit for ^800. Sterling which he brought from England, and 
also for two or three thousand pounds sterling upon a person in 
Trinidad, whose name was mentioned but not recollected. 

APPENDIX. 583 

On the 23d of January General Miranda called on Mr. King 
and showed him two letters which he had written and which he 
said he should send by the mail to the President and Secretary 
of State, both dated January 22, 1806, and added that he would 
as he afterwards did give to Mr. King copies of these letters. 
The Leander left the Hook Feb. 2, 1806. 

The following are copies of the letters from General Miranda 
to the President and Secretary of State.* 

Translation — Copy — Private — 
Fran, de Miranda^to the Hon. James Madison, Esq. &c. &c. 

New York, January 22, 1806. 
Sir : 

On the point of leaving the U. S., allow me to address a few 
words to you, to thank you for the attentions that you were pleased 
to show me during my stay at Washington. 

The important concerns, which I then had the honour to com- 
municate to you, I doubt not will remain a profound secret until 
the final result of that delicate affair. 

I have acted upon this supposition here, by conforming in 
everything to the intentions of the Government, which I hope to 
have apprehended and observed with exactness and discretion. 
The enclosed letter contains a book which I have promised to 
the President of the U. S., and which I pray you to transmit to 
him. 

Have the goodness to present my respectful compliments to 
Mrs. Madison and to believe me with high consideration and 
esteem, Sir, Yr. very humb. & ob. Servt. 

Fran. de. Miranda. 

Translation — Copy. 

Miranda to T. Jefferson Esq., President of the U. S. 

New York, January 22, 1806. 
Mr. President : 

I have the honour to send you with this " La Storia naturale e 

civile del Chile," of which we conversed at Washington. You 

* These letters are in French, which with the translations into English, are 
in this manuscript. But as the translations express faithfully the originals, they 
only are here given, for want of space — Ed. 

584 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING. 

will perhaps find more interesting facts and greater knowledge in 
this little volume than in those which have been before published 
on the same subject concerning this beautiful Country. 

If the happy prediction which you pronounced on the future 
destiny of our dear Colombia is to be accomplished in our day, 
may Providence grant that it may be under your auspices and 
by the generous efforts of her own children. We shall then, in 
some sort behold the revival of that age, the return of which the 
Roman Bard invoked in favour of the Human Race : 

" The last great age foretold by sacred rhymes 
Renews its finished course ; Saturnian times 
Roll round again, and mighty years, begun 
From this first orb, in radiant circles run." 

Dryden.* 

With the highest consideration and profound respect, 

I am, Mr. President, yr. very humb. & very ob. servt, 
(signed) Fran. de. Miranda. 

On the 3rd of March, 1806, Mr. King received the following 
note from the District Judge — viz. : The District Court, which 
is at present sitting at No. 14 Dey Street would wish to see Mr. 
King as a Witness in some important business as soon as pos- 
sible— Monday 3rd March. 

Mr. King immediately attended, and being informed by the 
District Attorney that the enquiry related to the Destination of 
the Ship Leander and the views of General Miranda, was asked 
if he knew the General ? Mr. King asked if any prosecution 
existed against General Miranda ; the Judge replied none at 
present, but that facts might be disclosed that would originate 
one. Mr. King observed that he should think himself bound to 
answer such questions as the Court might think proper to pro- 
pound, but that he knew nothing concerning the Leander, or 
General Miranda's views, except what the General had confi- 
dentially communicated to him, and which he could not there- 
fore disclose, unless in obedience to the injunction of the Court. 
The Judge replied that the Court would expect answers to the 
questions it might ask. 

* Quoted in Latin from Virg. Eclog. 1 1 . 

APPENDIX. 585 

The Attorney General then repeated the question, whether 
Mr. King knew General Miranda ? Mr. King, being first sworn, 
answered that he had known the General many years, and for 
several during his residence in England. Is Miranda a native 
of Caraccas ? Mr. King answered that he had understood so 
from him. When did Miranda arrive at New York ? In Novem- 
ber last. Did he disclose to Mr. King the object of his coming 
to the U. S. ? He did. What was his object ? He represented 
to Mr. King, that his native Country was oppressed by the Span- 
ish Government and was in a condition and ready to throw off 
the yoke ; that he had been invited by his countrymen to return 
and join them in effecting the Revolution ; and, to comply with 
the invitation, he wanted a few Officers, a small number of pri- 
vates and a quantity of arms and ammunition. Mr. King told 
General Miranda that individuals could not with safety furnish 
these supplies, and recommended him to go to Washington and 
make a full disclosure of his business to the Government. 

Did Miranda go to Washington ? He informed Mr. King that 
he did. When did he leave New York for Washington ? Towards 
the end of November. Did he disclose his business to Govern- 
ment ? He told Mr. King he had. What answer did he receive 
from Government ? That Government did not sanction the En- 
terprize, but that it would assist at Miranda's procuring the supplies 
from individuals, provided the same was done discreetly. Did 
Miranda declare who were his associates ? He did. Who were 
they ? Commodore Lewis and his brother, Mr. L. G. Ogden 
and Col. Smith ; he added that he had mentioned those names 
to Government, which thought them suitable persons for the 
business. What quantity of arms and how many men are on 
board the Leander ? Mr. King answered that he did not know. 
Did Miranda mention the destination of the Leander ? He did. 
What was her destination ? A port in St. Domingo and from 
thence to the Coast of Caraccas. Did he mention the purpose 
of his going to Caraccas ? He did. What was it ? To co-oper- 
ate with his countrymen in accomplishing a Revolution. Did 
you understand that force would be used against the existing 
Government ? Most certainly, if necessary to overturn it. 

The interrogatories being finished, Mr. King requested that 
they might be read over together with his answers that the latter 

586 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING. 

might be corrected if misconceived or erroneously expressed. 
This being done, instead of the answer given by Mr. King to the 
Question, " What answer did he receive from the Government ? " 
the judge omitted the latter clause and varied the form so as to 
read "the Government repelled the overture." Mr. King pointed 
out the variance and desired the answer might be set down as he 
delivered it. The Attorney General observed that as Mr. King's 
testimony was material only in respect to the destination of the 
Leander, he doubted whether it would be necessary to take his 
deposition, as he would be recognized to give his testimony in 
Court. The Judge assenting, Mr. King was recognized and the 
paper containing his examination was thrown into the fire. 
March 5, 1806. 

APPENDIX X. 

REVIEW OF THE FOREIGN RELATIONS OF THE UNITED 

STATES. 

Among the papers of Mr. King, the following interesting 
review of the foreign relations of the United States will give 
his opinions on many of the questions which were engaging 
the attention of the Government, and in the proper solution 
of which he differed from the Administration. Though the 
paper begins abruptly with a discussion of certain articles 
of a proposed treaty, it gives a well-considered view of 
their effect upon maritime law, and consequently upon 
our commercial relations, and therefore it is here pub- 
lished as evincing the interest he took in public affairs, al- 
though he was not in public life. When it was written, and 
probably published by him is uncertain, but it may have 
been subsequent to the date of his letter to Mr. Pickering 
on p. 506 of this volume, in which he says : " I have it in 
contemplation, after the close of your Session to make a 
review of our foreign relations." 

The 14th article provides that free bottoms make free goods. 
Every man who remembers the humiliated situation of our 
Country in the years 1794 and 1795, will recollect the fervour 

APPENDIX. 587 

with which that regulation was asserted and contended for, as 
one of the most important provisions of what was called the 
Modern Law of Nations. England was decried because she 
would not admit, France applauded for supporting, it. But how 
far she has conformed her conduct to this Rule, appears in the 
long list of captures before us. We omit the Catalogue and cite 
only the case of the Ship Two Friends, McNiel, Master : a regu- 
lar trader between London and South Carolina, taken with a 
most valuable cargo, by the French Privateers, which blockade 
the harbour of Charleston. The assertion that she had not a 
certificate from the American Consul in London to prove the 
cargo neutral property is a frivolous pretext, circulated by the 
corrupt instruments of our Administration, and from the same 
motives, which led to the base but unsuccessful attempt in the 
to persuade the public that the Two Friends is a British 
and not an American ship. No such certificate was necessary ; 
the ship was provided with a passport in due form proving her 
to be American property ; wherefore according to the Conven- 
tion with France, the bottom being free the cargo was free also. 
It might have been enemy's property or even contraband of war, 
still as the Ship was American and bound to an American, not an 
enemy's port, the capture was repugnant to the Article before us. 
The members of our present Administration constantly mani- 
fested the desire to establish a new maritime code. They have 
in this respect shown as much fondness for French fashions as 
their Wives, and snapped at every hook baited with the phrase, free 
ships, free goods. But it is prudent even for Powers of the first 
order (much more for others) to avoid innovating on the estab- 
lished Law of Nations. Public opinion is of such importance 
that Sovereigns frequently endeavour to conciliate it by labored 
manifestoes. Few are so hardy as to bid it defiance, and fewer 
still can do so with impunity. When a treaty between two na- 
tions is founded on and conformable to the acknowledged public 
Law (which like our common Law has been matured by the wis- 
dom and experience of ages), the violation of it is generally 
acknowledged, and other nations are interested in punishing the 
perfidy. But when new fangled notions are foisted into national 
compacts by the art of a duping Power operating upon the folly 
of its dupe, no sooner is the bargain broken than surrounding 

588 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING. 

nations applaud the breach, because it restores old principles. 
They justly deride the awkward lamentations of those who had 
set themselves up for teachers and models to their superiors. 
We shall not examine the solidity of the favorite position, that a 
free ship makes free goods, because some of our friends have 
wished to establish it, without reflecting that if ever we should be 
at war, it would destroy our best means of aggression. But we 
must notice a difficulty which cursory observers may not per- 
ceive, tho' it ought to be weighed by those who assume the 
character of Statesmen. It is evident that a new principle of 
maritime Law cannot be established against the will of the first 
maritime Powers. It is equally evident that they will not assent 
to a principle which takes from them the advantage of their 
naval superiority : and it is not less evident that such superiority 
can be of little use if an enemy's commerce can be carried on in 
perfect safety under cover of a neutral flag. It is, moreover, a 
wilful blindness not to see that the attempt to make goods of an 
enemy free from capture when on board of a neutral ship, were 
levelled at the naval power of Great Britain, and by necessary 
consequence at her existence. Whether it be our interest that 
she should perish, is a question which shall not at this time be 
considered. But will any man of sound mind pretend that if the 
naval empire of France were established on the ruin of Britain, 
this new principle would be respected by France ? Are we not 
on the contrary warranted by experience to say that she would 
break the cobweb ties of a treaty as freely as any one of her ad- 
mirers can break the Lilliputian ties of an oath. 

We are neither the advocates nor accusers, much less the 
panegyrists or calumniators of any Prince, Power or Potentate. 
Born and educated in America we are bound to this our native 
Country by interest, duty and affection. Our partialities, our 
predilections, our attachments are to her. If we could pretend 
equal love to another, we should hold ourselves as unworthy of 
confidence as any of those who born abroad come canting to our 
shores their dear, dear love for America, and who better to gull 
and dupe this credulous people have the infamy to pretend a 
hatred for the land which gave them birth. But that strict im- 
partiality, which we feel and avow, will not permit us to shut our 
eyes against the light of truth. 

APPENDIX. 589 

We will not indeed look at these reproaches which the nations 
of Europe cast on each other, but we must look at the facts 
which regard ourselves ; and if we respect their evidence, we 
must acknowledge that England has been more faithful to her 
Treaties with us than some other Powers. She has indeed been 
less profuse of promise, but she has been more fruitful in per- 
formance. Treaties made with her do not hold out such prolific 
hopes as those which delight our visionary Rulers but they give 
security. England, who is unquestionably the dominant Power 
at sea, does not restrict us in the exercise of our right as neutrals 
to navigate as freely, as in time of peace, from the ports of one 
enemy to those of another. She will not hold to the novel doctrine 
that a neutral flag shall protect the property of an enemy, and 
which, adopted as a principle, would in practice be exclusively 
advantageous to the inhabitants of the North of Europe ; because 
from the low price of labor and materials, they can carry mer- 
chandize cheaper than we can, and because (their navigation 
laws differing widely from ours) they naturalize a foreign Ship 
with as much facility as we do a foreign vagabond. But tho' 
England makes Prize of her enemies' goods, she does not con- 
demn the neutral ship, which has taken them on board, nor even 
withhold the stipulated freight. With other Powers we have 
made Treaties according to which not only our neutral ship is 
sacred, but even a portion of her sanctitude is extended to the 
iniquitous cargo sufficient for its salvation, and what is the con- 
sequence ? These darling Treaties of high promise are violated 
with as little remorse as that of a schoolboy in drowning a blind 
puppy ; and with as much contempt for our representations as 
his for the howling of its dam, because like the miserable bitch 
we bark, but dare not bite. 

After all, if certain Powers would stop at the mere breach of 
Treaty, those who to get money, or to save it, will submit to dis- 
grace might patiently bear the loss of our national honor. But 
alas the arrogance of one party is generally proportioned to the 
meanness of the other. We have seen decrees to confiscate 
American Ships should a single rope yarn of British Manufacture 
be found on board ; and although the violations are not quite so 
outrageous, they deprive us of advantages to which we are en- 
titled by the Law of Nations, as well as those conceded to us by 

590 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING. 

Treaty, and being submitted to invite, and will excuse if not 
justify such further violations as interest or caprice may dictate. 
And here let it be asked, of what use to make Treaties with 
Powers void of faith ? Is it not better to adhere to the estab- 
lished Law, and exert our force against those by whom it shall 
be violated ? Is it not — but we forbear ; since to mention what 
ought to be done, and what our honorable Nation would do, 
might look like a libel on our wise and virtuous and above all our 
magnanimous administration. 

The 18th Article regulates the manner of visit and search. 
This important stipulation is also shamefully disregarded. Not 
only the masters of American ships are forced to leave their 
vessels and go on board French cruizers with their papers, but 
armed detachments are sent on board of American vessels to 
plunder their cargoes and insult and maltreat their crews. When 
Capt. Pigott of the English Frigate Hermione offered personal 
violence to Jessup, the democratic papers resounded with clamor- 
ous outcry. The federal Administration made a strong remon- 
strance to the British Govt.; enquiry was ordered ; redress was 
promised and would probably have been given, had not the 
murder of Capt. Pigott by his own crew placed him beyond the 
power of human tribunals. But now that we are constantly ex- 
posed to, and daily experience French and Spanish atrocities, 
what have these Gentlemen done with their sympathy in the 
sufferings of their countrymen? Is it asleep, or peradventure 
gone on a journey, to wait a nod of favour from the imperial 
Court ? Their newspapers, once so loud in complaint, are silent : 
we hear of no appeals to the national sentiment, no remonstrance 
by our Government to those of France and Spain. Are stripes 
then less degrading from the hands of a Frenchman or Spaniard 
than from those of a Briton ? 

By the 19th Article, every American vessel under convoy of a 
national ship is exempt from visit and search by French cruizers, 
why then is our commerce unprotected ? Why have we no Frigates 
cruizing along our own coasts ? Why is the property of our 
merchants exposed to plunder and our national character to dis- 
grace? Is there a nation, was there ever a nation with such 
ample means of self defence reduced to a state of such utter 
contempt ? 

APPENDIX. 591 

It would seem as if a plan had been laid to expose us to every 
possible insult, and to torture every nerve and fibre of national 
sensibility. When a Frigate and store ship were destined to the 
Picaroon war of Tripoli they were sent separate, and as if fearful 
that the plunder of merchants might wound only that description 
of citizens, the national property is exposed, so that the whole 
nation might suffer, and every citizen drink of the cup of shame. 
If such was the plan, it has succeeded beyond all reasonable ex- 
pectation. The store ship was taken, and has been retaken ; we 
are to receive her back therefore as a boon of British bounty, on 
paying the price of salvage acknowledging the efficacy of that force 
which we dare not employ. 

We proceed to the Louisiana Treaty, by which French debts due 
to American citizens to the amount of nearly twenty millions of 
Livres are assumed by the United States. It will be remembered 
that the federal Administration with a view to establish public 
credit, and to adjust the State accounts, assumed the debts of the 
several States. This measure was nevertheless loudly censured 
by the exclusive patriots, who are now silent, or ready to approve 
the assumption of French debts. It is true that American citi- 
zens were expected to be benefited by both assumptions. It 
seems, however, a little difficult to explain upon any honourable 
principle the approbation of a measure when it assists the credit 
and finances of a foreign nation, and the condemnation of it 
when beneficial to our own. It will not be alleged that the U. S. 
received an equivalent in one case, and not in the other ; in the 
instance of the State debts, the amount assumed was charged to 
the several States, and liquidated in settling their accounts ; so in 
the other example the sum assumed is discounted in the purchase 
of Louisiana. There are indeed some men so malicious as to say, 
that the assumption of French debts gave no relief to France, 
because regardless of her engagements she did not conceal the 
determination to delay payment so long as might suit her con- 
venience ; and the system of delay once adopted might easily 
have been easily extended so as to be in effect a denial. They 
say too that the real relief was felt by our Administration, who 
were thereby liberated from the irksome task of presenting fruit- 
less claims to citizen Talleyrand, who received and put them in 
his pocket with every circumstance of neglect and indifference. 

592 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING. 

Nay these malicious men go further and pretend that the 20 mil- 
lions of Livres were superadded to the price, in the lumping 
bargain for Louisiana, so that in fact we received no considera- 
tion for paying French debts to our citizens. 

We are, however, far from believing the insinuations of such 
men ; still less will we listen to certain ugly criminating allega- 
tions, which would resolve the public conduct of great officers 
into a mean pursuit of private interest. By the Louisiana 
Treaties two things are incumbent on France. 1st, to assist us 
in settling the boundaries, so that we may possess Louisiana as 
France would have done ; 2nd, to facilitate the liquidation of 
debts she owes to our citizens, so that they may obtain payment 
from their own Treasury. 

Mr. Livingston, who (as we have already observed) had settled 
the terms of the Louisiana Treaty before the arrival of his colleague, 
Mr. Monroe, took care to insert a clause, which if duly observed 
at Washington, would have rendered all negotiation about the 
limits unnecessary. This clause wisely required that France should 
give us actual possession of all Louisiana before she could call 
for payment ; according to the terms of the Treaty, and in con- 
sistence with its true spirit and intent, we justly claimed the 
country between the Mississippi and the Perdido as part of Louis- 
iana (a country of greater value to the U. S. than the whole terri- 
tory lying west of the Mississippi). This as well as New Orleans 
and the western bank of the Mississippi was in possession of Spain 
and occupied by Spanish troops. New Orleans and the western 
bank of the River were, in conformity with the Treaty of St. 
Ildefonso, surrendered to France by the Spanish Commissary and 
then delivered over to us by the French Commissary. But our 
troops were not even permitted to set their feet upon, or pass 
through any part of the country between the Mississippi and the 
Perdido on their way to take possession of Louisiana. The 
Spanish garrison continued to possess it, displaying their flag 
within view of our troops as they passed them. By thus leaving 
this part of Louisiana in the hands of Spain, when we took pos- 
session of New Orleans and the western bank of the Mississippi, 
our Administration indirectly acknowledged the right of Spain to 
the country, and thereby cast such fresh doubt upon our own title 
as could not but operate to our disadvantage. Still, however, the 

APPENDIX, 593 

staff was in our own hands as the money was in our treasury. 
The possession of New Orleans and of the western bank of the 
River being delivered to us, our Adminstration should have de- 
manded the surrender of the country between the Mississippi and 
the Perdido, as a preliminary condition to the payment of the 
purchase money, according to the terms of the Treaty, which 
expressly declared that Possession of Louisiana should be de- 
livered before the money was paid. This was the plain, simple 
course and had it been pursued we should now have been in full 
& quiet possession of all Louisiana. Why this course was not 
adopted, we are at a loss to conceive. But in fact it was not 
adopted. We obtained possession of only a part of the Territory 
we had purchased and though we were not obliged to pay a 
dollar before the delivery of the whole, our administration paid 
every cent, and thereby put it in the power of both France and 
Spain to say, what they do say, that we have received possession 
of all that was intended to be ceded ; nay that our payment of the 
purchase money, which was not demandable till the ceded country 
had been delivered, was a full acknowledgment that we had 
already got all that we considered ourselves entitled to claim. Our 
economical Administration having thus precipitately poured out 
our treasure and abdicated our rights, dispatched in their pro- 
found wisdom their fac-totum Monroe to correct the procedure. 
This facetious, polite and sagacious personage was it seems to 
persuade some of the ablest Ministers in Europe to forego the ad- 
vantages which we had so weakly given them and obtain the sur- 
render of a valuable Territory, which our Government had left 
in their possession by a neglect which, if they were federalists, 
we should call criminal. 

Proceeding from London to Madrid Mr. Monroe took Paris in 
his route, and though it was notorious that his character and con- 
nexions in that metropolis rendered his presence disagreeable to 
the Government, an article found its way into one of the French 
papers, stating that he had been most graciously received by the 
Emperor.* Unexperienced men formed expectations from this 

* In the Moniteur, the official paper of France, after mentioning sundry 

presentations by the foreign Ministers and Ambassadors at the Emperor's 

Levee, it is said, " Mr. Armstrong the American Minister was permitted to 

present Mr. Monroe," etc. A phraseology so extraordinary seems to have been 

VOL. iv. — 38 

594 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUE US KING. 

article (which every American in Paris knew to be false) favour- 
able to the object of Mr. Monroe's mission ; reflecting ones how- 
ever looked a little further, and seeking for Bonaparte's views in 
the calculation of his interest, endeavored to discover how this 
would be affected by the good will of Spain, or that of America — 
if the latter were too profitably employed, too prudent, or too 
remote to be drawn within his vortex, this was not the case with 
the former. The favour of Spain therefore became an object of 
his careful attention, and would of course be more assiduously 
cultivated than that of America. 

Mr. Monroe, however, presented through the American Min- 
ister at Paris a memorandum to the French Government, setting 
forth the limits of Louisiana and claiming the good offices and 
interference of the Emperor Napoleon with the Spanish Court 
in fixing the same. But the memorial was treated with con- 
temptuous silence, so that after patiently waiting for and humbly 
soliciting an answer, the Knight of the Sorrowful Countenance 
was obliged to jog on to Madrid without one. There the claim 
was renewed and answered by a flat denial ; in which, as was 
stated, France fully concurred. We presume that this will be 
decisive and that our magnanimous Administration will in all 
humbleness submit. At a convenient season France and Spain 
may send half a dozen French regiments to Mobile, and our wise 
statesmen, who already have paved the way for it by removing 
their custom house from Mobile to Fort Stoddard, be at once con- 
vinced and easily convince their followers that their Title is 
defective, and that prudence, republicanism, the principles of 
humanity and true economy require that we should advance as 
many additional millions as may be demanded for a second sale ! 
Thus one of the most antient and important parts of Louisiana, 
for which we have paid 15 millions of dollars, is lost, or rather has 
been most weakly and negligently thrown away. But the loss of 
the country and loss of money tho' great, are of little conse- 
quence compared with the loss of reputation ; for when before 
has it happened that a nation has gratuitously given a certainty 
for an uncertainty, accepted the imperfect in lieu of the perfect 

inserted with the double view of counteracting the above publication and of 
apologizing to the courts of Europe for suffering such a man to appear at the 
Tuilleries. 

APPENDIX. 595 

performance of a condition ; or referred to negotiation and the 
consent of those, whose interest was opposed to its own, a point, 
the decision of which was completely within its own power. 

In respect to the assumed debt, notwithstanding the diligence 
of the Board of Commissioners and the appointment of successive 
Ambassadors, the business is still embarrassed by a series of 
frivolous pretexts, and tho' some partial payments have been made, 
the far greater part remains in suspense. 

The creditors become daily more impatient, one day hoping, the 
next in despair, and will probably be kept in that condition, till they 
shall consent to sell their claims for a fourth of their amount. Then, 
and not before, the American Minister will be permitted to draw 
the bills. It is true that in this way our merchants will be robbed 
without shame or remorse, but the sooner they submit the better, 
fof they may easily convince themselves by the neglect they ex- 
perience on other occasions, that nothing effectual will be done 
for their relief. 

We come now to our political relations with Spain, and if the 
importance of discussions with a foreign Power are to be inferred 
from the number and dignity of the Envoys employed, those 
with Spain must be of no ordinary magnitude ; our Administra- 
tion estimating more the pride than the ability of Spain have sent 
her the Titles if not the Talents of our Country. At first, the 
chaste and generous Charles Pinckney, cidevant Governor of 
South Carolina, wh# soon brought the business, as he supposed, 
to a most satisfactory conclusion. His Spanish convention has 
been published, and reflects equal credit on the negotiator, on 
those who approve and on him who ratified it. This notable 
Convention excluding many of our claims from redress, refers the 
greater part to future negotiations ; an expedient for giving them 
up forever, which to every man of common information the refine- 
ment of Courts makes use of in such cases. 

The remonstrance of our merchants against this Convention 
was of no avail ; but our wise Administration having ratified it, 
and thereby sanctioned the surrenders it makes, thought proper, 
as in the case of Louisiana, to negotiate anew for what they had 
so improvidently abandoned : for this purpose another Ex-Gover- 
nor of no little State, but of great dominion, and who had already 
given an earnest of his diplomatic skill was dispatched ; and 

596 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING. 

♦scarcely had this pair of Excellencies commenced the business 
of their mission, when a third Envoy, not himself indeed a Gover- 
nor, but the son of a Governor, was appointed, whether to unite 
with, or to succeed the other two, or as an umpire, we have not 
been able to learn. Mr. Monroe having passed thro' Paris, as 
we have mentioned, opened in concert with Mr. Pinckney his 
negotiation at Madrid for the purpose of revising the Convention, 
and enlarging its provisions, as well as for settling the limits of 
Louisiana. 

It is stated that 240 American vessels, amounting now to 
upwards of seven millions of dollars, have either been seized 
under Spanish authority, or sent by French Cruizers into Spanish 
ports and then condemned by French Consuls. About one third 
of their plunder was made by Spain, the other two thirds by France. 
Mr. Monroe has negotiated with his usual success. Spain, it is 
said, refuses now even to adhere to the Convention made with 
Mr. Pinckney ; but at any rate, as to the enlargement of it, so as to 
include the vessels captured by the French and condemned and 
sold in her ports, she denies that she is at all responsible and 
fortifies her refusal by the extract of a dispatch from Talleyrand to 
Cevallos, which declares that France would see with displeasure 
any interference on the part of Spain, affecting the validities of 
the capture or condemnation of prizes, made under authority of 
France, and that she would not fail to signify to the American 
Government her dissatisfaction at any claim it may set up against 
Spain for matters which had already been adjusted between France 
and the United States. It is presumed that the Imperial repri- 
mand has been, or soon will be, signified at Washington, and if so, 
we shall probably hear no more of this negotiation ; unless indeed 
they can fall on some contrivance to throw the blame of their 
miserable blunders upon the Federalists. 

As to Louisiana, we claim an indefinite western and northern ex- 
tension, and comprise within its eastern limits a great part of west 
Florida. Spain, as we have already observed, denies our claim ; and 
assigns the River that falls into St. Barnard's Bay, about 80 leagues 
west of the marshes at the mouth of the Mississippi, as the boundary 
in that quarter, and runs the line up northwardly along the 
western limits of the old French Settlements : she also assigns the 
Mississippi, and eastern shore of the Island of New Orleans as 

APPENDIX. 597 

the eastern boundary of Louisiana, insinuating at the same time 
that for a suitable compensation Spain might be prevailed on to 
cede the whole of W. Florida to the U. States. This decision of 
Spain, as seen by every man of common sense in the country, 
appears to have surprized and confounded our Envoys, who in 
May last were preparing to leave Madrid, and according to the 
latest account Mr. Monroe has actually left on his return to 
England. 

The boundaries of Louisiana remain undecided ; and Spain, it 
may be presumed, will continue to seize our ships, and to per- 
mit the French to condemn and sell them, in her European and 
West India Ports. Nay should Spain stop here, our magnani- 
mous Rulers may applaud her moderation.* But whenever one 
of the officers, a Governor, an Intendant, or anything else, may 
think proper to interrupt the navigation of the Mississippi, he will 
do so ; for his right and his means are as good as before. Thus 
while Capt. Lewis and Company are so profitably employed in 
catching Magpies, and picking up rams' horns on the banks of 
the Mississippi, our illustrious President finds all his hopes & 
projects blasted by the single stroke of a Spanish pen. Farewell 
lead mines, farewell prairies, and you too, ye mountains of salt, a 
long farewell ! 

* ' ' We have already said that we do not pretend to penetrate the arcana of State 
secrets, and therefore we shall not take upon us to assign the reason why the 
Spanish negotiations have failed. It seems indeed unnecessary, for since no 
man of common sense and information had any hope of success ; none such 
can be surprized at the failure. We however deem it an act of justice to com- 
municate the reason which has been assigned by the confidential friend of our 
Administration in this City. He, it seems, lays all the blame on the Marquis 
Yrujo, Minr. of his Cathc. Maj. to the U. S., and is very wroth at the 
aforesaid Marquis who it appears has given to his Court a circumstantial detail 
of the men and things that govern America. It has been insinuated that he 
presumed to qualify our wise and magnanimous President as a whimsical cox- 
comb, and miserable coward without sense to understand, or spirit to defend 
the interests entrusted to his care ; as one who in the vain pursuit of a little 
pleasing popularity, sacrifices the honour of the nation, to a six penny economy. 
It has also been insinuated that the said Marquis has audaciously declared that 
the ruling Faction, conscious of not having the talents or enough of the con- 
fidence even of their own supporters to manage a war, will give up anything to 
avoid it ; that our nation generally is so immersed in the pursuit of money, and 
so devoid of public spirit, that a Senator of one of the most powerful States de- 

598 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RUFUS KING. 

The next of our foreign relations that present themselves, are 
with Holland, our commerce with which country is subjected to 
unequal and peculiar burthens. By our Treaty no other or higher 
duties are payable upon articles imported into Holland from the 
U. States, than upon like articles imported from all other coun- 
tries. Instead of observing this just and equal stipulation, Coffee, 
Sugar and Cotton, carried from the U. States to any of the Dutch 
European ports, pay between two and three per cent higher duties 
than the same articles imported from any other nation ! ! This 
discrimination is attempted to be vindicated by an ancient law 
that gave to the Dutch West India Company a duty of between 
two and three per cent on certain goods imported from any 
country lying west of a meridian passing thro' one of the Western 
Islands. This law was unquestionably annulled so far as re- 
gards the U. S. by the subsequent stipulation of our Treaty just 
cited, and which stands in contradiction to it ; and there is reason 
to believe that the discrimination would long since have been 
abolished on a proper representation to the Dutch Government. 
Our Administration is informed of this abuse ; but we hear of no 
remonstrance against it, and the injury is permitted to subsist. 
Let any man acquainted with the immense quantities of Coffee, 
Sugar and Cotton, annually imported from the U. S. to Holland 

clared, in a public debate, that the American people will not submit to the pay- 
ment of taxes for carrying on a war. Nay it has been insinuated that this same 
Marquis attributes the power and influence of the ruling faction in America, to 
a compliance with this base disposition, and to the continued sacrifice of honour- 
able principles, to the love of ease and love of money, which are said to form 
prominent features of American character. In short, the Marquis is reported 
to have told his Court, that whatever sounding language the Triad of American 
missionaries might use, if Spain remain firm to her purpose, she might rely on 
it, the American Administration would recede. 

" Spain it appears has followed his advice, and continued firm. The demo- 
cratic Gentleman, above alluded to, thinks this conduct of the Spanish Minister 
abominable ; and indeed, if he has been guilty of falsehood, we think so too. 
But, if he has told the truth, he has done what every able Minister and every 
honest man, in his place would have done. We think therefore the Adminis- 
tration, before they censure the Marquis, should first ascertain what he really 
has written, and if it be what has been suggested, prove by a wise and manly 
conduct that he has told scandalous and malicious Lies ; for they cannot in this 
case, as in that of poor Croswell, take advantage of the maxim that a libel is 
the more a libel in being true." 

APPENDIX. 599 

take the trouble to compute the amount of an ad valorem duty of 
two and a half per cent on the same, which we have paid and still 
pay to the Dutch Govt., which we are not, and never were liable 
to pay, and the aggregate amount of which is therefore a total 
loss to the American Merchants, the sum will astonish the public, 
tho' it may have no influence on our wise and economical Admin- 
istration. 

But it is needless to dwell on this, which has become a trifle, 
now that in imitation, or rather in obedience to France, our 
Treaty with Holland has been wholly set aside, or at least violated 
in so barefaced a manner, as to justify, and perhaps to require the 
rejection of it on our part. On the whole we believe it will be 
impossible to find in diplomatic history, during a similar period, 
such a series of blunders, with a complication of folly and mean- 
ness, as America has presented within the last four years. We 
are already far advanced towards a state in which it may be 
difficult with the best talents of our country to extricate the 
nation from surrounding dangers. Should we point them out, we 
might be treated as alarmists, visionaries and false prophets ; we 
forbear therefore to attempt it but desire when evil betides 
America, it may be remembered that we have shown some of the 
steps, which have led to her ruin. 

HOME USE 

RETURN CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT 

TO— +■ 202 Main Library 

LOAN PERIOD 1 
HOME USE 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

ALL BOOKS MAY BE RECALLED AFTER 7 DAYS 

Renewals and Recharges may be made 4 days prior to the due date. 

Books may be Renewed by calling 642-3405. 

DUE AS STAMPED BELOW 

MlT[)i)ISCSFPn4'C 

JUN161992 

TO DISC CIRC MR. 

JfAJU 

MAR 1 8 199'i 

: 

NOV 1 /' iy98 

fe'tt 

*499S- 

» 

M 

FORM NO. DD6 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, BERKELEY 
BERKELEY, CA 94720 

J 

YC 50819 

/ 

v***-*
